10
SCIENCE
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
Placenta fluid: football’s ‘miracle’ cure
Every time the Aerosmith song
“Pink” springs to mind, I readapt the
two first verses: “Pink, it’s my new ob-
session / Pink, it’s not even a question”
to “Green, it’s our new obsession /
Green, it’s still a question”. Why is this?
Broadly speaking, society has been
pushing forward for a ‘green’ change in
habits and technology; however, many
still question the need to go green.
Also, narrowingly speaking, the issue
of what’s ‘green’ or not is controverse.
Such is the case of bioplastics and bio-
degradable plastics.
Biopolymers have been around way
before humanity, appearing, disap-
pearing, mixing, dispersing, forming
organisms, forming more complex or-
ganisms; even more complex than the
plots of Mexican or Venezuelan soap
operas. In the same way that these
soap operas are full of beautiful people,
biopolymers are full of beautiful mol-
ecules. Look at DNA; how impressive
is that with its long double helix shape?
And multifunctional proteins with
their sensor-actuator characteristics?!
A biopolymer is a polymer (a long
molecule comprised by repeated small
molecules, the monomers) derived
from renewable sources (e.g. vegetable
oil or starch). A bioplastic is a biopoly-
mer with something mixed, such as
pigment to give colour to the mixture.
Biodegradable is a characteristic of
a material being broken down into
smaller molecules or elements by liv-
ing organisms.
Not all bioplastics are biodegradable,
as is the case of Polyamide 11, used in
automotive applications. We can then
divide bioplastics into two main fields:
those that are biodegradable, with the
packaging industry being the main
consumer and those that are not bio-
degradable, mainly found in the auto-
motive and electronics industries.
As with everything in life, everyone
has a different definition of what is a
biodegradable plastic. To address this
issue, the International Organisation
for Standardisation (ISO) released
the standard EN13432, establishing
how fast and in which conditions a
plastic must degrade.
The other issue that generates great
discussion (mostly due to commer-
cial and not scientific or engineering
aspects) is whether bioplastics have
a lower environmental impact than
“petroplastics”. Both sides should
not be dismissed, however, the oppo-
nents of bioplastics generally do not
take into account (many times, con-
sciously) that the technology is new
and that the economies of scale are
still not as developed as in petroplas-
tics, in spite of continuing to show a
promising increase. Statistics vary,
but bioplastics consumption has
been growing at about 17 % per year
and is forecasted to reach 900 kilo-
metric tons in 2013. Now, it’s impor-
tant to have in mind that this is less
than 1 % of the total yearly consump-
tion of plastic.
Leaving Mexican soap operas and
chemistry aside, let’s talk about the
engineering of bioplastics.
Presently, they have 3 main draw-
backs that reduce their utilisation
compared to petroplastics: manufac-
turing difficulty, lower performance,
and higher cost. So, the obvious mar-
kets are those where products have a
short life and/or are reasonably pro-
tected from certain environmental
conditions, and mass-produced. For
these reasons and together with en-
vironmental concerns and marketing
(the ‘look-good-to-others’ factor),
NunoHelder Science Reporter
Are revolutionary bioplastics environmentally sound?
Shupaula Dass Science Reporter
When perusing a footballer’s shopping
list, one would expect to find not much
out of the ordinary. Vitamins, protein
shakes, lean beef steaks, thongs, and
horse placenta. Okay, perhaps shop-
ping for Black Beauty’s placenta is a bit
extreme. But players can receive treat-
ment for their injuries using equine
placental fluid. Just when we thought
these pillars of male finesse could not
transcend any higher levels of bizarre-
ness, they do. Arsenal’s Van Persie is
the latest player to surrender the bread
and butter that is his ankle to Dr Ko-
vacevic for treatment. But this is not
the first time the placenta has been
used, and indeed, is not its only use.
The placenta, from the Latin word
for ‘cake’, is unique to mammals. Con-
necting a fetus to the uterine wall it
delivers oxygen and food, taking away
any fetal waste. As culture has evolved,
so has perception of it. In Nigeria, the
Nibo people view the placenta as the
deceased twin of the baby and con-
duct a funeral for it. Then there are
people spread throughout the world
who eat it. The act of eating the pla-
centa, for anyone who wants to use this
as a dinner date discussion is placen-
tophagy. Humans who tantalise their
taste buds in this activity come from
America, Europe, and Mexico to name
a few places in the world. Animals, in-
cluding herbivores also eat placentas.
Apart from placentophagy being be-
lieved to alleviate postpartum depres-
sion, it is also used as an ingredient in
some Chinese medicines. Medically-
speaking, the placenta contains a lipid
compound named prostaglandin. The
presence of the compound stimulates
the return to normal size of the uterus.
Oxytocin is present in small quantities,
easing stress of the birth process.
So what’s with the recent placenta
craze? Robin Van Persie is the answer
to this. Through the sporting grape-
vine Van Persie heard of Dr Kovacevic’s
miracle cures for injuries. Before he
left he commented that the doctor is
‘vague about her methods but I know
she massages you using fluid from a
placenta.’
Another treated native Serbian play-
er was able to offer a more detailed
explanation. “She uses a combination
of electricity and the miracle gel that
is her exclusive product. The electric
current goes through a stick holding
the gel, which is applied to the injured
spot.”
There must have been something
in that gel. Physiotherapists predicted
Liverpool striker Yossi Benayoun to
be out for up to 5 weeks, healing from
a hamstring injury. After receiving
the placental treatment, he was back
within a week. On the pitch. Not only
was he able to play, but he scored the
equalising goal.
The treatment however does not
seem to work for all players and there
are people who remain skeptical of it
even within the sporting profession.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is
among them claiming that sometimes
it “can be psychological for the players
to feel they can be helped. I'm not a fan,
but I'm not a doctor either. I respect
the freedom of everybody to be treated
in the way they want to be treated.”
Numbers of players considering this
treatment have risen. Almost as high as
the result from the recent Spurs/Wigan
game. Yet the treatment has not been
scientifically supported, thus causing
much uproar. Dr Mariana Kovacevic
has not registered her business under
Serbian law which could cause prob-
lems for her patients. Her clinic will be
shut down until she files the necessary
paperwork to legalise her business,
that is, if officials can find her. Van Per-
sie left for treatment but has not been
reported to have turned up at the “offi-
cial” Kovakcevic clinic. She is shady as
she is notorious. Rumours of her mira-
cle secret formula have spread to other
European teams, such as Real Madrid,
who have asked the Serbian doctor to
divulge her recipe.
Madness. Pure madness is the only
way to describe this placental con-
troversy. Sure it’s a useful organ, full
of goodness, eaten for hundreds of
years. I don’t doubt that. What I ques-
tion is the mental state of ball-kicking,
thong-wearing players that represent
this wonderfully-conservative island.
Victoria Beckham…forget your knick-
er drawer, worry about what’s behind
David’s motivation for you popping out
another one.
Arsenal striker Robin Van Persie after a horrific challenge from a dirty Italian
A massage using fluid from horse placentas? It’s all the rage for the treatment of sport-related injuries
the packaging (e.g. trays, containers,
and bags) and automotive (interior
trim and under-the-bonnet applica-
tions) industries, followed by the elec-
tronics (e.g. laptop and mobile casings)
industry are investing more and more
in these materials.
Not all bioplastics are biodegradable;
they tend to be harder to manufacture
and have lower performance. Due to
this, they are found in particular ap-
plications, mostly in packaging, au-
tomotive and electronics. While their
consumption has been growing about
17 % per year, they still amount for
less than 1 % of the yearly plastic con-
sumption. As they are relatively “new”,
the science and technology involved
is recent, leading to a higher cost and
some controversy regarding sustain-
ability. There is another advantage to
bioplastics...some of them are edible
and yummy.
Who’s up for some starch?
The Honda FC Sport Concept is a hydrogen fuel cell sports car with body panels made from bioplastics

