POLITICS
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
Nobody’s in
power
It has been a tumultuous week in
politics. Firstly the President of Eu-
rope has been elected, the little known
Belgian Prime minister, Herman van
Rompuy, is now set to ascend to the
world stage and represent Europe to
the world; and this appointment has
been causing quite some controversy.
He certainly doesn’t seem to have the
“traffic stopping power” of other world
leaders. Frankly it will look a bit ridicu-
lous at a press conference where he is
representing Europe with other world
leaders such as: Hu Jintao, President of
China and as a result, in charge of the
largest military in the world; Barack
Obama, the man running the coun-
try with the largest economy in the
world; and Herman van Rompuy, the
man who was PM for 11 months of the
country which... has the world’s only
fully lit road network?
Still, on the other side of the argu-
ment, the new position is not the lead-
er of a country like Jintao’s or Obama’s,
his role is mainly to chair meetings of
the European Council. The European
Council is made up of the leaders of
the member states and it is they who
have elected van Rompuy into his new
position. The decision was made be-
hind closed doors at a dinner/meeting
of the Council, where they also div-
vied up the other top jobs created by
the newly ratified Lisbon treaty. One of
these was the new high representative
for foreign affairs and security which
has gone to Baroness Ashton- a British
Labour peer.
This decision seems to be generating
much more controversy, in Britain at
least, than the election of van Rompuy.
While neither has much political clout,
at least not as of yet, van Rompuy has
been widely hailed as a success in Bel-
gium. Van Rompuy has been praised
for the way he has held the Belgian
government together despite difficul-
ties arising partially from separatist
movements.
Baroness Ashton though, is much
less commendable. After failing to get
elected to the House of Commons she
was made a life peer by Labour and
eventually became leader of the House
of Lords. Then, last year, after Peter
Mandelson returned, she took on his
job as commissioner for trade for Eu-
rope. So essentially she has never been
elected by the public and has no expe-
rience with foreign affairs.
Of course it’s no great surprise that
two ‘nobodies’ have been elected into
the new roles. If they were to take on
any real power then it would take away
control from Paris and Berlin, some-
thing unwanted by France or Germany.
The status quo remains- Europe won’t
project the views of Europe but of
France and Germany.
All said and done, I am in favour of
the appointment of a relative unknown
for the top job. If the role had been
filled by a political power-house then
the job would have evolved from be-
ing a chairman of the council to being
a chief, in much the same way as the
President of the US is nothing like the
job laid out in the constitution origi-
nally. This would mean a ‘real’ Presi-
dent of Europe and that needs a ‘real’
country, which has to result in even
less sovereignty in each member state
and as such, a lesser degree of control
by the people as we traipse along the
road to a big centralised government.
Also in the news this week was the
state opening of Parliament which
peaks with the Queen’s speech. Of
course the Queen’s speech is in fact
the government’s speech: all of the bills
that the government plans to bring
into law over the course of the year are
announced normally preceded by “My
government will”. Effectively, at least in
these situations, our monarch is a pup-
pet so frankly, I wish someone would
pull her strings to do something more
entertaining like the dicks, pussies and
assholes speech in Team America.
Unfortunately it would seem that the
government has a much more twisted
sense of humour. Instead they made
her read out a list of things that are
simply never going to happen, which
might also be called the Labour mani-
festo. With the Tories luckily still in
the lead for the next general election
and the Lib Dems saying they won’t
support Labour if the election ends in
a hung parliament, it is extremely un-
likely that any bill proposed by Labour
now will ever make it into law.
This brings to mind having the
Queen do something much more
sensible- dissolving parliament. This
is what King Abduallah of Jordan has
done this week, forcing an ineffectual
government to break up and go to early
elections. Of course nothing is ever as
black and white as that, with the oppo-
sition saying it has been done to force
through proposals that couldn’t be
passed otherwise. In Britain though,
I can’t see a single good reason to let
Labour carry on running the country
with the unelected Gordon Brown at
its head.
A personal highlight of the propos-
als from the Queen’s speech for me
was the idea of writing into law that the
government must cut the deficit in the
next 4 years. Who exactly is going to go
to jail for that?
More sensible ideas are being pushed
by the Tories however, David Cameron
has announced that if they are elected
in then they will hold an emergency
budget within 50 days. The Conserva-
tives are actually slipping in polls at the
moment, with their lead now at the
lowest point since December last year.
Some police are also threatening
to quit over the Conservative plans
to have elected local commissioners.
Which is understandable, you can’t
have a Police state if it’s democratic,
and of course the Police aren’t legally
allowed to go on strike so they would
have to quit.
James Lees Politics Editor
North Korea has had a troubled history for such a young nation
North Korea vs Human Rights
Five North Korean refugees were re-
cently arrested in China after fleeing
their country. They are likely to be for-
cibly repatriated to face ill treatment.
North Korea was officially estab-
lished as the Democratic People’s Re-
public of Korea in 1948 and has been
communist ever since. The guiding
principle of its dictatorship is the idea
of Juche (self reliance). This has re-
sulted in the brutal oppression of the
country’s 24 million strong population.
Democratic only in name, its people
suffer terribly.
Up to a million people are kept im-
prisoned in North Korea. There is no
judicial mechanism whereby North
Koreans can be heard by an impartial
judge, and where allegations of wrong-
doing by authorities can be answered.
Political dissidents (such as Christians
and democrats) are sent to a prison
called a Guryujang which is divided
into two facilities: one for ‘preliminary
examination’ and the other inside the
camp. According to the Citizen Alli-
ance for North Korean Human Rights,
most of those sent to this latter camp
do not survive. The Government also
practices the principle of guilt by as-
sociation. Without a legal basis, up to
three generations – grandparents, par-
ents and children – related to the ac-
cused can also be incarcerated.
According to Amnesty International,
prisoners are forced to undertake phys-
ically demanding work for ten or more
hours each day, 7 days every week. Pris-
oners are punished if suspected of “ly-
ing, not working fast enough or forget-
ting the words of patriotic songs”
.
Due to the combination of forced
hard labour, inadequate food, beatings,
lack of medical care and unhygienic
living conditions, many prisoners fall
ill, with some having died in custody
or soon after release. Torture is regu-
larly used in interrogation facilities,
“sometimes to the point of disabil-
ity, paralysis or death”. Prisoners have
also reportedly been used for medical,
chemical and biological experiments.
A recent report by the organisa-
tion Christian Solidarity Worldwide
(CSW) has found that pregnancy is
not allowed in prison and testimonies
show that, “should efforts by authori-
ties to induce abortion not be success-
ful, babies alive at birth are killed...
some accounts even describe prison-
ers being forced to kill their newly
born child”. Women detained for hav-
ing crossed the border have suffered
similar treatment.
According to CSW, North Korean
defectors give testimonies of execu-
tions both inside and outside the de-
tention and prison system. Inside, the
penalty has reportedly been carried
out for acts such as “foraging for or
stealing food, attempting to escape,
rioting, assaulting guards, refusing to
abandon religious beliefs and criticiz-
ing the country”.
It has also been used as a punish-
ment for those North Koreans, repat-
riated from a neighbouring country,
who have had contact with South Ko-
reans or Christians. Outside the prison
system, the acts subject to execution
are often simple efforts such as those
to secure food.
Human Rights Watch (HRW) re-
ported that North Korean children
face discrimination and punishment
on the basis of the status, activities,
opinions or beliefs of their parents, or
other family members, and that col-
lective punishment of a whole family
is common for political offenses. The
Asia Centre for Human Rights (ACHR)
has found authorities evade reporting
on torture or abuse against children in
prisons or by national agencies.
They have also found that “custody
facilities serving the purpose of pro-
tecting children without parents, or
those forcibly separated from their
parents, resemble rather a detention
facility more than a protection facility”.
Children in these centres are “deprived
of education and exploited for labour”.
The ACHR has also found that, de-
spite the fact that the minimum work-
ing age defined by law is 16 years old, it
is commonly accepted that children are
mobilised for agricultural work from
their middle-school years (12 years
old). In the poverty-stricken North-
ern provinces, children are mobilized
as early as 8-9 years old. Children also
have other “assignments” such as rais-
ing rabbits, but also are mobilised for
heavy labour, such as flood damage re-
covery, railway maintenance and road
paving.
According to the ACHR, there were
reports of “children being sentenced to
death” and that authorities make the
watching of public executions compul-
sory, in the hope of preventing juvenile
crime. The ACHR also found reports
of “11 year-old children sent to forced
labour camps for stealing electric
wires.”
With the world’s focus on North Ko-
rea’s nuclear programme, it is essential
that we remember the immense suffer-
ing of the North Koreans themselves.
They have no one to speak for them;
no natural resources or strategic po-
sition that could be of real interest to
us in London. But we must speak for
them. Suffering on this scale cannot
and must not be ignored.
Organisations such as Amnesty In-
ternational are doing great work in
applying political pressure on the
country via the UN, lobbying our own
ambassadors to intervene and getting
into the country to compile evidence
against the Orwellian regime.
Rory Fenton

