12 felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Scandal at top climate research centre
L
ast week I wrote an article
for felix that briefly outlined
why I am a ‘Climate Change’
sceptic. In that article, I
tried to answer the frequent
question: Do you think it is a conspir-
acy? I said that yes, I do think it is a
conspiracy, because I do believe a few
key individuals are being consciously
deceptive, and that is what defines a
conspiracy.
Less than a day after that article was
published, my suspicions were stun-
ningly confirmed. Someone hacked
into the email database of the climate
scientists at the University of East An-
glia’s Climatic Research Unit (CRU),
arguably the most important climate
science research center in the world,
and published 1,073 emails on the In-
ternet. Schadenfreude aside, I do not
condone this transgression against
privacy. That being said, the work and
correspondence of these scientists is
very much in the public interest, and
I wish to discuss the content of those
emails here.
The first observation is that there are
numerous instances of discussions on
how to utilise various statistical tricks
and omissions of data to exaggerate
warming trends in their results. Many
commentators have pointed out that
this shows that these scientists are
more focused on reaching a precon-
ceived conclusion in their research
than being objective in their judgment.
There are many clear demonstrations
of this lack of objectivity in the emails,
such as “The fact is that we can’t ac-
count for the lack of warming at the
moment and it is a travesty that we
can’t.” (Kevin Trenberth, Oct 2008),
However, I do not believe this is
the big news here. We already know
Edward Townes reviews an email leak story that supports his speculations in last week’s edition
Al Gore has warned against this leak distracting attention from the urgent and
ongoing efforts to find Manbearpig, the biggest immidiet threat to our planet.
of transparency is legally, scientifically,
and morally unjustifiable.
Another aspect of the perversion we
find in these emails is efforts to bully
and eliminate people who may be criti-
cal of their work from the peer-review
process. Examples include efforts to
fire journal editors who approved pub-
lication of papers that they disagreed
with, “I will be emailing the journal to
tell them I’m having nothing more to
do with it until they rid themselves of
this troublesome editor.” (Philip Jones,
Nov 2003). Efforts to undermine en-
tire journals that do not conform to
their manipulation of the peer-review
process, “Perhaps we should encour-
age our colleagues in the climate re-
search community to no longer sub-
mit to, or cite papers in, this journal.”
(Michael Mann, Nov 2003), and “If the
RMS [Royal Meteorological Society] is
going to require authors to make ALL
data available - raw data PLUS results
from all intermediate calculations - I
will not submit any further papers to
RMS journals.” (Ben Santer, March
2009). Even going so far as to make
statements such as, “I can’t see either
of these papers being in the next IPCC
report. Kevin and I will keep them out
somehow -- even if we have to rede-
fine what the peer-review literature is!”
(Philip Jones, July 2004).
You may have noticed that many of
the more damning quotes came from
Philip Jones. Just who is this man ex-
actly? Why, he’s only the head of the
CRU! I’ll leave you with the worst
example of this man’s hubris, “If any-
thing, I would like to see the climate
change happen, so the science could be
proved right, regardless of the conse-
quences. This isn’t being political, it is
being selfish.” (July 2005).
that these scientists are zealots with
an agenda, and it is no surprise that
their research practices mirror this.
The far more shocking and disturb-
ing evidence in these emails is that of
a concerted campaign to pervert and
undermine the peer-review process,
thus rendering the scientific method
virtually impotent.
There are many emails, for example,
where these scientists discuss how to
avoid transparency in their work and
raw data. One email says “If they ever
hear there is a Freedom of Information
Act now in the UK, I think I’ll delete
the file rather than send to anyone.”
(Philip Jones, Feb 2005) – showing us
a willful effort to prevent other people
from being able to review their work.
They seem particularly concerned
with hiding their data from people who
may be critical, thus implying they only
want those who will agree with them
to check their work and demonstrating
laughable insecurity in their research.
This evidence also shines new light on
instances like in August 2009 when
they claimed to have “lost” all the origi-
nal data from which they constructed
their global temperature record, in re-
sponse to a Freedom of Information
request.
You might ask why exactly transpar-
ency on the data is so important. The
reason is simple: the data is not repeat-
able. Collecting data on things such as
global temperature is very expensive,
and only institutions like the CRU have
access to resources, given to them by
the collective people through govern-
ment, to do this. Therefore, it is im-
possible for other scientists to produce
work in this field because they selfishly
and nefariously refuse to allow anyone
else to interpret their data. Their lack
Ron Paul’s Audit the Fed bill, which
would remove restrictions on the abil-
ity of the Government Accountability
Office (GAO) to audited some of the
most secretive activities of the Federal
Reserve has passed committee. The
Fed has spent months arguing that this
could hinder its job of protecting the
value of the dollar, which has fallen by
97% during the Feds reign. It enjoyed
broad stability in the century and a half
before the central bank was chartered
in its present form.
Congressmen who rely heavily on
campaign donations from special in-
terests have been trying to thwart Dr
Paul’s efforts over the last few weeks.
They were joined by “economists” who
wrote open letters in support of the
Fed. Most of these people have since
been found to have strong undisclosed
links with that same institution.
The latest measure against mon-
etary policy transparency had been
Democratic Congressman Mel Watt’s
attempts to water down the bill with
his own amendment. But this week
the text of HR1207 was attached in the
form of the Paul-Grayson amendment
to the House Financial Services Com-
mittee’s upcoming financial regulatory
reform bill. The amendment received
bipartisan support, being passed by 43
votes to 26.
If HR 3996 now passes, blanket re-
strictions on GAO audits of the Fed
that have existed since 1978 will be re-
moved. All items on the Fed’s balance
sheet will be auditable, including all
credit facilities, all securities purchase
programs, and all agreements with for-
eign central banks. The wording of the
bill removes any remaining challenge
that it could allow the legislature to put
undue pressure on monetary policy
as it leaves a 180 day period between
decisions being made, and those de-
cisions then being audited. With 313
co-sponsors of HR1207, who will pre-
sumably now support HR 3396, the bill
can even pass under suspension in the
likely event of an Obama veto. Ironi-
cally, in characteristic fashion, Dr Paul
himself will not be voting for HR 3396
because of the unconstitutionality of
some of the its other parts.
The congressman makes a good
point, as the bill will empower the Fed
to distort the financial sector even
further in the name of its mandate to
enforce price stability, of course based
on its own, ever-changing, definition.
However, many of those in support of
HR1207, including 75% of the Ameri-
can people, viewed it simply as an op-
portunity to get more ammunition in
the fight to end the Fed, as details of
its unacceptable dirty dealings become
clearer.
The demise of central planning for
the money markets, will also send a
clear signal to the Bank of England.
One of its strongest lines has always
been that central banks are neces-
sary as long as all other countries have
them.
It will be interesting to watch this
space and see what will happen with
this legislation, and its effects on the
continuation of central banking in
America and across the pond.
Campaign to audit the Fed passes first of many major hurdles
Congressman Paul has spent 26 years advocating for a Fed audit, but the issue
has only gained mainstream traction after the recent recession.
SinaAtaherian
SinaAtaherian Business Editor

