CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors Caz Knight, Rosie Milton & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Death by
Art
CazKnight Arts Editor
A
pologies for the signifi-
cantly smaller arts sec-
tion this week. The half
way mark of the term
has been reached which
means lowered energy levels and im-
pending deadlines, leaving little time
for writing about life’s more pleasur-
able distractions such as museums, art
galleries, books...
I have had a ten day grace period be-
tween handing in one load of course-
works and being given the next load.
I have made use of this time not by
brushing up on the lectures covered so
far this term, but by devouring as much
of my new book as possible: Cancer
Ward by Aleksandr Solzhenistyn (yes,
the arts section covers books too). This
outstanding novel not only explores in
great detail the unavoidable notion of
death, but gives thorough insights into
the corrupt workings of 1950s Soviet
Russia.
Death: a subject which has made it-
self apparent in many forms to me this
week. Besides reading, I have had to
time to nip round the British Museum,
the National Gallery and the bite-sized
White Cube, all of them teeming with
the idea of mortality. A ten metre long
horizontal cabinet filled with a life-
time’s worth of pills, photographs and
medical records track the birth, life
and death of one man; one is reminded
again of death by the impressive mum-
my collection in the Egyptian wing.
The presence of and relevance of
death to religion is obvious in bloody
realism in the Sacred Made Real at the
National gallery (reviewed here last
week by Bernard Pereira). The sculp-
tures of dead and putrefying Jesuses
bring home death’s inevitability and
also death’s necessity, for it is through
death that life is what it is.
Damien Hirst is a fine example of an
artist who is fascinated by death and
one who finds beauty in it, hence the
multitude of skulls and animal corpses
suspended in formaldehyde. His latest
exhibition at the White Cube showcas-
es his oil paintings, hauntingly similar
to the nihilistic and macabre work of
Francis Bacon and also bringing to
mind the barren landscapes created in
the plays of Samuel Beckett.
Hirst’s blue paintings are messy and
unsightly and lack the beauty of his
previous, more famous works. Watch
this space for the full review of the ap-
propriately named ‘Nothing Matters’
exhibition which is spread between
both the Mayfair and Hoxton galleries.
But for this week the content is
cheerfully devoid of death. Arts editor
Lucy Harrold tells us why she likes mu-
sical theatre genius Stephen Sondheim
in a new feature:_ ‘Why I Like’.
Got someone creative you love and
want to rave about? Email us at
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Why I like: Sondheim
Lucy Harrold spearheads a new weekly feature: Why I Like... This
week she tells us why Stephen Sondheim is so great
S
tephen Sondheim is possibly
one of the most prolific and
innovative musical theatre
writers ever. His works span
from the ridiculous (A Funny
Thing Happened on The Way to the
Forum) to the melancholic (A Little
Night Music). I think this is why he can
be classed as one of the greats; unlike
his contemporaries such as Andrew
Lloyd Webber or Frank Wildhorn, he
is able to turn his hand to anything.
Sondheim has written for film, theatre
and even TV, originally starting as a
script writer for Topper (an American
series I’ve never heard of), and going
on to make a made-for-TV musical
about the night time goings on in a de-
partment store.
The thing I admire most about Ste-
vie-baby is his determination to strive
for something new and different- a rare
feat nowadays.
His influences are wide and var-
ied and input directly into his own
work- who else would write a Japanese
Kabuki musical or a horror operetta
about killer barbers and human meat
pies or even an entire show written
backwards!? Fair enough, not all of his
shows have been financially successful
but that has never stopped the greats
in other art forms- most painters are
not financially viable until after their
deaths.
I guess part of Sondheim’s vision-
ary success is due to his collaborations
with Hal Prince. Most of his artistic
and financial achievements were pro-
duced and directed by Prince. Without
someone to turn his ideas into reality,
Sondheim would just be another pen-
niless writer with untapped potential.
Sondheim’s Best Work:
Company- My favourite of Sond-
heim’s shows, Company is based on a
series of short one-act plays set in the
1970s by George Furth. These scenar-
ios were combined to form a charac-
ter study of New Yorkers. Bobby, the
central character, is reaching his 35th
birthday to discover he is still very
much alone in his life despite his many
friends we encounter. The play ex-
plores Bobby’s alienation and the truth
behind the rose-tinted relationships of
his (almost all married) friends. Sond-
heim’s musicals never try to be happy
for the sake of being happy and Com-
pany is a prime example of this. Bobby
starts the show feeling a bit grumpy
about all his friends being married,
journeys through cocktails, weddings,
weed-smoking and various parties
do discover that, actually, maybe it
doesn’t matter as much as he thinks.
Company’s songs take their influences
from various forms of music but are
all strong melodically, lyrically and in
their place in the musical.
Best Songs:
Company- Sondheim cleverly took
the “beep” tone of an answering ma-
chine as a starting place for this song,
gradually adding in more and more
of Bobby’s friends to culminate in an
epic wall of sound finale. It has to be
listened to in full stereo!
Being Alive- Possibly Sondheim’s
best ballad. Bobby has reached a mo-
ment of realisation right at the end of
the show and expresses this in a heart-
wrenching song about how no one can
be truly alive without having someone
to look after them.
Sunday In The Park With Georges-
another of Sondheim’s arty-farty type
shows but probably his best. Remem-
ber doing pointillism in Art class? (Of
course it’s been a long time for most of
you) ‘That’ dude Georges Seurat who
spent forever painting people by a river
in a park? Yep, that’s him...well sort of.
The first act follows Georges as he
endeavours to finish his painting with-
out losing his girlfriend, and muse,
Dot. Sondheim cleverly echoes the
process of pointillism in the rhythms
of his songs and the characters echo
the people in the painting. The second
act portrays another George; this time
Seurat’s great-grandson who is also an
artist but of a more abstract vein.
The actress who portrays Dot now
becomes George’s grandmother (and
Seurat and Dot’s daughter), thus ex-
ploring a completely different relation-
ship but still of a man who just can’t
finish his work.
Best Songs:
Putting It Together- an ode to lengthy
and stressful process of completing any
form of art. This song explores why we
make art and how the process can be
just as much a part of it as the final
product.
Move On- Dot returns to question
George’s motives and push him along
his creative pathway. A beautifully me-
lodic piece with repeating refrains to
move on and keep creating art.
Assassins- Yes... Assassins... I like it
when Sondheim tries to be edgy. As-
sassins is a musical about every person
who has tried to kill an American pres-
ident. The show is set in a fairground
with The Proprietor inviting the char-
acters to “come shoot a president” as
each of them recounts their story of
fame, triumph or failure. What Sond-
heim does with this less than cheery
premise is present the audience with
an extraordinarily eclectic bunch of
people with one trait that binds them
together. These range from the almost
comedic Samuel Byck, dressed in a
sloppy santa outfit, who failed to kill
Richard Nixon to John Wilkes Booth,
who famously assassinated Abraham
Lincoln at a theatre. The show culmi-
nates in the previous assassins per-
suading Lee Harvey Oswald to shoot
John F Kennedy. Not a high-kick or
jazz hand in sight.
Best Songs:
Everybody’s Got The Right- aah, an a
rousing anthem for killing people; well
not quite. This song sets the tone for
the rest of the show- combining com-
edy and tragedy as Sondheim does so
well.
Unworthy of Your Love- So why do all
the best love ballads have to be about
something unsavoury? Like vowing
to Charlie Manson and Jodie Foster
that you’ll kill Nixon for them? This
is a beautiful duet which just happens
to include phrases like “I would crawl
belly deep through hell” and “You are
wind and devil and God Charlie, take
my blood and my body”. There is a re-
written version without these referenc-
es but that would be like watching Pulp
Fiction without any of the swearing.
Artist, Georges, and his girlfriend/muse, Dot, in ‘Sunday with Georges’
The man himself: New York-born Stephen Sondheim
13
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009

