17
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
FILM
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A very Jewish mid-life crisis
StefanZeeman
The trial of
Mel Gibson
EdKnock Film Editor
Tim Davies
The latest Coen brothers serving A
Serious Man is a dark comedy that’s
light on the comedy and heavy on the
darkness.
It tells the story of Larry Gopnik,
a Jewish physics professor who con-
stantly tries to do the right thing and
be a good man despite the fact that his
life seems to be falling apart around
him. Gopnik has typical middle Amer-
ican problems: his wife is leaving him
for another man, his daughter steals
his money and his son lives in fear of
his marijuana dealer. His misfortune
is unrelenting, and in his desperation
he follows the advice of those around
him and turns to his religion. But
when the Rabbis can’t offer him more
than meaningless parables and empty
words he becomes truly lost. It’s a pru-
dent critique on a modern society in
which people increasingly find religion
incompatible with their problems.
You really feel for Gopnik as he tries
to reach out to the people around him,
only to have them fob him off and say
things like “It’s not always easy, deci-
phering what God is trying to tell you”.
Gopnik often tries to do the right
thing, only to have it blow up in his face.
At one point a student leaves a bribe in
his office expecting it to improve his
grades. However, he hasn’t reckoned
by Gopnik’s excellent moral character,
and finds himself being reported. The
Comparisons to Gran Torino aside, an
OAP vigilante set on revenge-fuelled
killing spree is an interesting idea to
say the least. Harry Brown is Direc-
tor Daniel Barber’s first feature length
production, and a memorable one as
well.
The film starts extremely poign-
antly, following Harry Brown (Michael
Caine) through his gloomy and bleak
life. Brown is an ex-marines pensioner
who has lost it all. The passing of his
wife and his daughter has left him
alone in his shabby council estate flat.
He’s a frequent witness to drugs and
violence on his estate, although the
police apparently do nothing about it.
After the murder of his one remaining
friend, Leonard (David Bradley), he is
left a broken man with nothing left to
lose.
Quicker than you can say ASBO, the
ex-marine within Brown is released-
with inevitable bloody consequences.
Michael Caine is brilliant, and gathers
the best bits of Rambo and Columbo
to form the ruthless Harry Brown.
Brown’s first stop is to acquire a gun
from some ridiculous junky drug deal-
ers, and from then, the heart-of-gold
pensioner’s only concern is the life
of Leonard’s murderer. The film be-
comes more and more over-the-top
as Brown’s journey continues, yet still
manages to keep momentum with sev-
eral heart-stopping moments.
The estate is (somewhat unrealisti-
cally) portrayed as a venomous, hate-
ful place where you can be potentially
stabbed at every corner. At the same
time, it appears to be completely im-
penetrable by any police investigation.
An earnest police detective (Emily
Mortimer) is given the case. She fol-
lows Brown through the film, and is
the only person in the police force who
believes an OAP is capable of killing
student’s dad later visits Gopnik to tell
him he’s going to sue him for defama-
tion. Our instinct, programmed by
years of happy Disney endings, tells us
that Gopnik will be rewarded for his
behaviour, but it just causes him more
problems. It’s a refreshingly honest de-
piction of reality. After all, bad things
happen to good people.
The film’s execution can’t be faulted,
and it feels like a labour of love that a
lot of thought has gone into. It’s a film
that perhaps might slip under your
radar, but still has a lot to offer. The
Coen’s sharp script, and their lack of
concession in portraying a relentlessly
honest life, means this film has a reso-
nance that will leave you thinking for
longer than most films will.
A
s many people were this
summer, I wasn’t so ex-
cited by the impending
Transformers sequel but
more so by Inglourious
Basterds, the return-to-form film by
Quentin Tarrantino we had all been
promised. However it wasn’t the mas-
terpiece we had been anticipating,
with Christoph Waltz’s exquisite per-
formance being diluted by a too ambi-
tious script and ‘ahem’ Eli Roth (which
should distract any director from cast-
ing their friends again). But the most
interesting aspect of the film was the
alternative history plot which became
apparent towards the end of the film.
Along with bad science, Hollywood
is notorious for its rather imaginative
versions of history and it’s inaccurate
portrayals of eras by-gone (especially
biblical and medieval). What makes In-
glourious Basterds different is that Tar-
rantino decided to take this cliché and
run with it setting up an all-American,
guns blazing, Dirty Dozen style climax
oozing with delicious self-depreciating
irony. Unfortunately this was lost on
some people and they left the cinema
scratching their heads; “But I thought
Hitler shot himself!” I, on the other
hand, thought it was brilliant and it got
me thinking how it had taken so long
for someone to ridicule this tradition
of historical butchery which is nearly as
long as the history of Hollywood itself.
U-571 is the most notorious offender.
The story of a brave American sub-
marine crew capturing the German
enigma machine during WWII was
sure to be a big crowd pleaser but there
was one major error - the submarine
was British. There was such an uproar
about this insult to our veterans that
the president Bill Clinton actually of-
fered an apology.
The Americans love to screw with
our history, probably because they
have little of it themselves and there is
one man who can’t resist mixing melo-
drama into antiquity. Let me introduce
public enemy No.1 - Mel Gibson. Mel
has directed a long list of abomina-
tions including The Passion (based on
medieval plays performed to incite
anti-Semitism) and Apocalypto, which
confuses the Mayans with the Aztecs
and completely fabricates their whole
culture. But when it comes to British
history, Mel is at his destructive best. I
imagine him crouched over the Bayeux
Tapestry, spray paint in hand and giddy
with excitement over the prospect of
defacing King Harold and drawing pe-
nises all over William the Conqueror.
I’ll let Mel off the hook for The Patriot,
as he only starred in it but he must
atone for Braveheart. This trial will be
controversial for I am going against
the judgment of the most ‘enlightened’
Academy who thought he deserved an
Oscar. Charged with irreversible dam-
age to British history, will the defend-
ant Mel Gibson please take to the dock:
Prosecutor: Mr. Gibson, do you not
believe your character, William Wal-
lace, would have been insulted as his
portrayal as a peasant?
Defendant: Well, more people can
identifywithhimifhewasacommoner.
Prosecutor: But that’s twisting the
truth, he was a knight and therefore a
noble. And why did you decide to re-
duce Scottish society from a sophisti-
cated network of Medieval towns and
villages to mud huts and drab colours
more atune to the Dark Ages?
Defendant: Well, that’s what people
want to see!
Prosecutor: But it’s detrimental to the
Scottish people as well. Primae Noc-
tis? Most historians agree that never
existed.
Defendant: But I needed the audience
to hate the English.
Prosecutor: I gathered that from the
film. You never made it clear Edward
Longshanks was trying to end centu-
ries of Scottish invasions of Northern
England and secure his borders by oc-
cupying Scotland.
Defendant: I did show Wallace sack-
ing York.
Prosecutor: But that never happened
too. You also managed to confuse the
Battle of Stirling Bridge with the Bat-
tle of Bannokburn, most noticeably by
leaving out the bridge.
Dedendant: I wanted a big battle
scene!
Prosecutor: Why didn’t you do a film
on Bannokburn then?
Defendant: Because Wallace wasn’t at
that battle.
Prosecutor: Of course, he was your
character. Do you not feel guilty turn-
ing him into a paedophile? You have
him impregnating Queen Isabelle of
France in the film, a girl who would
have been three years old.
Defendant: Hello? Sophie Marceau?
Prosecutor: Oh Catherine McCor-
mack wasn’t good enough for you? Her
character didn’t exist either. Your ‘con-
vincing’ Scottish accent, what part of
Scotland does it come from?
Defendant: Erm, Edinburgh?
Prosecutor: But Wallace was born
closer to Glasgow, not in the Highlands
which you decided he was.
Defendant: But Highlanders get to
wear kilts and woad paint!
Prosecutors: The Celts stopped wear-
ing woad a thousand years before and
the tartan kilt wasn’t invented until
the 19th century and probably by an
Englishman!
Defendant: Err well, it looked good...
and blue matches my eyes.
Prosecutor: I rest my case.
I hope now you might understand
my wrath for every time I hear some
say Braveheart was a “well good film”.
It started a dangerous surge of anti-
English feeling in Scotland with sensa-
tionalist crap whilst most Scots didn’t
realise they were being mocked. The
Jury’s verdict? Guilty.
the hoodlums – ridiculous no?
At the intense climax of the film, the
police raid the estate, and cause a riot
which they cannot stop. Despite the
obvious obstructions, Brown man-
ages to shuffle through in an attempt
to claim his final piece of revenge cake.
Caine’s performance is powerful
enough to receive sufficient sympathy
while he tops a load of hoodies and
pretty much anyone else who gets in
his way. The gritty film is captured
well, with some great cinematography.
Overall, the film lacks finesse and real-
ism, but is still a brutally brilliant. Just
think of Kill Bill, with less leggy blond
and more granddad.
Michael Caine plays Dirty (old man) Harry
Jacobs went to the headmaster’s office for a good old fashioned whipping. He came out with a creaming too.

