18
GAMES
Games Editor Michael Cook
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
Special
Infected
T
his week, I am mostly ill.
A cold virus is attempting
to vassalise my body like
some crazy Civilization
player, and I’m slowly suc-
cumbing. This time next week my edi-
torial may just be a series of growls and
moans. And as every gamer knows,
nothing soothes an ailing mind like
running through a whole game in one
bleary-eyed Lemsipped weekend. So
last week, I played Modern Warfare 2.
In retrospect, playing such a game
through in a few long bursts is not a great
plan. It’s such a draining experience that
by the end you’re completely desensitised
to the murderously intense segments that
the game is composed of, and there’s sim-
ply no adrenaline left in you to eke out.
After a few hours, I found myself putting
down hostage situations with the sort of
nonchalance I’d normally afford to mak-
ing toast, and I suppose that’s not entirely
the fault of the game.
WhatIdidfindlacking,though,wasthe
consistencythatCallofDuty2had.There
was a nice sense of peaks and troughs; a
campaign evolved over time and land-
scapes slowly changed. Of course, CoD2
had the benefit of a basis in history, and
many stories of World War 2 would be
unmarketablydullhadtheynothappened
for real. Perhaps Infinity Ward simply felt
that bigger was better when it came to fic-
tional settings, and I think that looking at
the way they’ve marketed MW2 they’re
probably right. For me, this doesn’t make
itasfuntoplay,becausethere’snobreath-
ing space between each blistering engage-
ment. We’ve got an article to come that
gives a great reason why it’s still fun - we’ll
try to fit that in this term.
Still, this week - the Dragon Age review
which never made it into last week’s issue,
along with a chance to win one of four
copies of the game for the Xbox 360. I
may never manage to take a look at DA,
as I just can’t get the hang of those sprawl-
ingRPGs,butourhandsomeMr.Roberts’
tales of his playthrough really do make it
sound like Game of the Year material.
Finally, we’ve got a nice and inflamma-
tory comment piece that we’ve been wait-
ing to run for some time now. Rasheed
has a bone or two to pick with Nintendo,
and feels quite strongly about it indeed.
Reckon he’s wrong? Write and tell us why
- games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor
MichaelCook
Nintendo - Rise or Fall?
Rasheed Islamhassomethingtotellyou-butyoumaywellnotlikeit
N
intendo. A name once
synonymous with qual-
ity, loyalty and persever-
ance amongst gamers
all over the world. They
were a games developer who showed
the competition that when it comes to
games, quality and hard work is what
pays off. Ever since they came into the
home console market in 1983, they
have built a repertoire of well known, if
not legendary characters such as Link,
Samus, Fox McCloud and officially the
most recognised video game character
in the world, Mario.
of Time’, was released on the N64.
Nintendo may have been the under-
dogs in the past two generations of the
consoles, but one thing they always
had was a loyal fan base. These were
not the typical ‘fanboys’ that we see
these days, arguing that Microsoft is
better than Sony and changing sides
as they please. They were true gamers
who valued and appreciated the hard
work and artistic talent that the devel-
opers invested in the games. I myself
am one of these fans and it saddens me
to say that we are a dying species.
In the apocalyptic year of 2006, Nin-
had attracted, the so-called ‘casual gam-
ers,’ are in fact, casual gamers. They
take no notice of the artistic and techni-
cal talent in video games. Games are a
minor part of their lives; it is something
they do as a pastime. Whereas, true
gamers see video games as a lifestyle,
and amidst all the furore of catering for
these casual gamers, Nintendo have lost
their true essence. Quality is nowhere
to be seen in their games. Of course, at
launch the Wii had some quality games
such as ‘The Legend of Zelda: Twilight
Princess’
, followed up with 2007’s ‘Su-
per Mario Galaxy’
, but soon after that a
drought followed. ‘Things’ such as ‘Wii
Fit’ and ‘Wii Sports Resort’ were re-
leased that were equivalent to digitised
faeces. Whatever games were released
on the Wii were not games, they were
gimmicks. Things that are entertaining
for a few months, then get boring. The
‘revolutionary’ motion controls have
turned out to be simple ‘stick waggling’
and any half decent game that has been
released can be played better with a con-
troller. It has been months since a quality
game has come out on the console. All
Nintendo see now is money, and they are
milking that market until it goes dry.
Sadly, the market is going dry. This
month Nintendo lowered their profit
forecasts by $3bn and even their presi-
dent Satoru Iwata has admitted: ‘The
Wii has stalled.’ The casual gamers have
abandoned the Wii as it is no longer
their ‘new toy’ and the true fans are
shocked at the sight of what their belov-
ed developers have become. Worst of
all, Nintendo cannot generate enough
interest for top games developers to
produce quality games because the Wii
is widely perceived as a gimmick. They
know that their games will not sell on
the console because the owners of
said console cannot even differentiate
from a first person shooter to an action
adventurer.
Fortunately, there is still hope for
Nintendo. The names and legends of
the characters that once made them the
great developers they were have been
kept intact. As long as Nintendo can
return to their roots and start produc-
ing quality works of art as they once did,
they can, and will once again, win our
hearts over. I just pray that someone
knocks some sense back into them.
Win Dragon Age!
T
his week, the divine and
manly felix writer Tomo
Roberts gives us his hard-
earnt verdict on Dragon
Age: Origins, a 2009 late-
comer that many are billing to be the
highlight of the year.
Thanks to the delightful, shiny and
generally attractive people at EA Eu-
rope, we’ve got four copies of Dragon
Age: Origins for the XBox 360 to give
away to felix readers.
We know how much you like being
asked to sing for your supper here at fe-
lix, so we’re going to make it as blister-
ingly simple as possible. Bioware, the
Dragon Age developers, have a proud
history of quality role-playing games.
What Star Wars game were they in-
volved in developing?
A) Star Wars Galaxies
B) Knights Of The Old Republic
C) Jar Jar Binks Pinball
Answers on a postcard, then scanned
and attached to an email (or just typed
into an email) and sent to games.felix@
imperial.ac.uk.
Our deadline is next Friday 4th De-
cember, so we can announce the win-
rars in our Christmas issue the next
week.
Are you reading this in the future like
a crazy person? Is the above question
too mentally taxing for someone such
as yourself to answer? (Clue - the an-
swer’s B)
Not to worry, becuase our Christmas
issue will be featuring a mass giveaway,
including a fifth copy of Dragon Age
for the 360 among other goodies in-
cluding some of our favourite games of
2009, so there’s another chance to bag
a copy then, too.
Make sure you pick up a copy in the
last week of term!
When the Famicom was first re-
leased in Japan in 1983, Nintendo
instantly became a household name.
Within two years they broke the glo-
bal market and their games were in-
stant hits. Gamers loved ‘Super Mario
Bros.’ for its challenge, ‘The Legend of
Zelda’ for its depth and sense of adven-
ture and many other games which now
have become classics. Needless to say,
Nintendo crushed the competition.
Through the years to come, Ninten-
do released console after console, from
the ‘Super Nintendo Entertainment
System’ (SNES) to the ‘Nintendo 64’,
and even though the competition was
getting fiercer with Sega and Sony be-
coming major players in the industry,
Nintendo persevered by churning out
the same high quality games that their
fans loved. The highest rated game of
all time, ‘The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina
tendo introduced their newest member
of the family, the ‘Nintendo Wii.’ Hyped
as the most revolutionary console in
gaming, with motion sensing technol-
ogy, they promised that the Wii would
bring gaming to a whole new audience.
Indeed it brought a new audience, 56
million buyers to be precise. People
from as young as newborn babies to
as old as wrinkled grandmothers were
taking up gaming. It was a phenom-
enon. Even though the Wii had the least
horsepower under the bonnet, rivals
Microsoft and Sony were blasted away
by its popularity. Wiis were flying off
the shelves in every continent. It was as
if the credit crunch did not even exist
for Nintendo and they even increased
their forecasts for the 2008-2009 fiscal
year.
However, what Nintendo failed to
realise was that the new audience they
Is this what we endured the Gamecube for? Two pillocks and a urine joke?

