19
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
I
haven’t had my arse kicked this
badly in ages. There was one
recent encounter when I down-
loaded the demo of Ikaruga and
my eyes began bleeding at the
sight of a million round blobs of death
occupying my craft’s personal space,
but that moment aside, it’s been years
since a game really handed my arse to
me on a plate. Dragon Age: Origins is
quite the deviant, however.
After a few hours wandering his
family’s castle, chatting up some tail
and ripping the shit out of his auntie
for not locking her pantry leading to
the dog chomping on whatever he
pleases, Backerons – my warrior’s
name, obviously: take the piss at your
peril – retires to his sleeping quarters
for the night. With a loud thud at the
door, noble Backerons is awoken, bolt
upright. The castle is being overrun,
the castle’s guard is at war and Back-
erons is one of a few remaing warriors
left to fend for his family’s life.
Whack! Thwock! Slash! Slash! Plink!
Ugh… “Load your last save?” the game
asks after about my third or fourth en-
emy encounter with the minions sent
to storm the castle. A baptism by fire
it seems, but baby am I going to quell
these flames.
Dragon Age is an RPG. A pretty
beardy one at that, although not in the
same league as its ‘spiritual’ prequels
Baldurs Gate 1 and 2. It’s got your usual
good versus butt-ugly humanoids plot,
spells based on the elements: earth,
wind, fire and ice, XP, leveling up, loot
– gotta have the loot – and more, but
since Baldurs Gate 2 the difficulty in
RPGs has dropped noticeably. To be
fair, this is an issue across the entire
gaming spectrum, not just confined to
this one genre, but look towards other
recent mainstream Western RPGs and
they have become much easier. Oblivi-
on, Fallout 3, Mass Effect and even the
This massive cretin is an ogre – the first boss you’ll encounter in Dragon Age: Origins. Just you wait
and see the size of the other ones... once you’ve reassembled your bowels after facing this chap
Knights of the Old Republic series pale
in comparison to the isometric forefa-
thers they are so in debt to.
Bioware aren’t pussy-footing around
any more though. Dragon Age is a kick
in the bollocks type of alarm clock. It’s
not for the impatient, and it’s not for
the gamer with an attention span the
length of Marcus Fenix’s vocabulary.
The thing with Dragon Age, however
– and the difference between it and an
exercise in sadomasochism like Ikaru-
ga – is that dying is never unfair. When
you die in Dragon Age, it’s your fault.
Not the game’s, it’s yours. So, get up,
dust yourself off and try again, dam-
mit. And you will if you have any ounce
of resilience within you.
You can be walking through a dun-
geon admiring the gloriously designed
architecture that
puts Oblivion and
Fallout 3’s copy-
and-paste environ-
ments to shame, and
out of nowhere eight
Walking Corpses will am-
bush you, outnumbering your
band two to one. With a group of
party members whose health proba-
bly totals less than your enemies’, every
fight is a battle. Combat happens in
real-time, though you’ll need to make
liberal use of the space bar - your pause
key - to assign orders. Think small scale
Command & Conquer, with knights
for infantry and a stop time button.
Back to Backerons, where I’ve already
had to reload three or four times. By
now I’ve found a few cohorts includ-
ing camp
compadre
Alistair and a rather handy, unnamed
mage, who we’ll call Jasper. Simply
charging at the undead has proved
fruitless. Outnumbered and out-
gunned by some archers lurching in
the background, the brute force ap-
proach hasn’t worked. New play re-
quired. Pause. Jasper paralyses the
archers from afar. Backerons engages
the undead scrappers, keeping them
occupied while Alistair brings up
the rear, for maximum backstabbing
damage. Unpause. Fight, scrap, bosh.
Pause. With the archers incapacitated,
Jasper can go about shooting bolts of
lightning at the Corpses now. Unpause.
Soon enough the Walking Corpses are
back where they belong, lying twisted
and mauled on the cold, hard concrete.
Pause. Backerons, Alistair, Jaspar: de-
stroy archers. Unpause. Throwing cau-
tion to the wind, the remaining undead
are scythed down in an instant. If every
fight is a battle, every boss is a war. The
first encounter with an ogre is a fright-
ening prospect; its name highlighted in
blood red to signify how in a few sec-
onds your party is going to be reduced
to dust.
But you’ll try again and you will
learn, which is why Dragon Age is so
endearing and such a resounding suc-
cess. Combat is an RPG’s most basic
game mechanic. Whether it’s first per-
son, turn-based or real-time you’ll be
spending tens of hours wading through
hordes of monsters in an RPG, so it
had better get the basics right. Dragon
Age’s combat is compelling, varied,
challenging, requires nous, and most
of all, is deeply satisfying. When you
die for the tenth time in a row, you
positively want to go back and try an-
other approach. How many times have
you had that feeling in the past decade
of gaming?
Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got a
save game to reload.
The Hero of Ferelden. The esteemed, noble, courageous and womanising, O surely-Lord-to-be.... Backerons
Tom Roberts ventures to Ferelden to battle demons and dragons but gets served by bandits and skellies
Mustard with your plate of sphincter?

