22
TRAVEL
Travel Editors Olivia Davies & Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
Cambodia: A True Smokin’ (Pol) Pot
Ever wanted to get off the beaten track? Tom Culley has and ended up travelling through one of the poorest
and most corrupt countries on the planet and was shocked and amazed by what he found
I
t might be a bit of a cliché but
it has to be said that Cambo-
dia is a land of contrasts. It
is relatively new to the tour-
ist trail owing to a very cheq-
uered history of violence and grind-
ing poverty, but the stories of wild,
remote, overgrown ruins and beauti-
ful beaches and a thriving city life are
slowly making their way back to the
Western world. On the one hand it is
the home to the world’s most awe-in-
spiring temples, was once the seat of
the Khmer empire and is an emerging
economy which is slowly catching up
with Thailand and Vietnam after the
SE Asian financial crisis. On the oth-
er hand, it is littered with landmines
and Unexploded Ordinance (UXOs)
making much of the country unin-
habitable and it was almost destroyed
as a result of one of the biggest social
experiments in modern times.
Now, for those of you as ignorant of
Cambodian history as I was, we shall
need a short history lesson before I
continue.
In the sixties and early seventies
Cambodia was heavily bombed by
the Americans who were fighting
in Vietnam, which was followed by
a civil war until 1975. That year the
Khmer Rouge took control of Phnom
Penh, and hence the country, and
forced everyone into the countryside.
All the cities, industries and money
were abandoned leaving the entire
population to live in small communes
growing rice. There was no choice in
the matter, regardless of the fact that
most people did not know how to
farm because they had grown up in
the cities. The new government was
attempting social engineering on a
massive scale which involved revert-
ing back to a subsistence lifestyle, one
in which class distinctions did not
exist. This was bad news for anyone
who had an education or access to fi-
nances, and people wearing glasses or
who could speak a foreign language
were executed as parasites. And all
this happened only thirty years ago,
so at least half of the current popula-
tion were directly affected by it.
My journey started by flying from
Kuala Lumpur to Phnom Penh with
Air Asia, Malaysia’s answer to Ryanair
but with cheap and efficient service.
My first port of call was the Lakeside,
where all the best guesthouses were
situated with awesome views across
the lake. However, for some reason
the lake is being filled in with sand in
order to build hotels and casinos for
the nouveau riche of Cambodia, so if
you want to see it you’d better do it
soon because by next summer it will
probably be all gone.
The most famous attractions in
Phnom Penh, if you can call them
such, are situated some way from the
lake, so the only way to get around is
by putting your life in the hands of a
tuk-tuk driver and praying that you
don’t hit another vehicle travelling
the wrong way. The pilgrimage to the
Killing Fields and the notorious S21
detention centre are an essential part
of visiting the country and is almost
an initiation to help you appreciate it
so much more. I was letting myself in
for one of the best, if most horrific,
days of my travels.
The Killing Fields was not much to
look at other than the Memorial Pa-
goda containing 9,000 skulls of the
victims that died there. Signs signi-
fying the mass graves were dotted
around, although I think the Killing
Tree distressed me the most. The
Tree was where the children and
babies were tortured and executed,
mostly by having their heads bashed
in against the trunk. It seemed a bit
surreal, especially considering the
school next door where the children
play in the river as though nothing
special had ever happened there.
I am in fact more surprised by the
lack of respect shown by many west-
erners. Several girls were posing for
photographs next to the grinning
skulls, while one guy I met in Thailand
told me how he had found a tooth on
the ground and kept it as a souvenir,
which is pretty much grave robbing as
far as I’m concerned. But then again,
far worse crimes have been commit-
ted than stealing a tooth.
The next stop was at S21, formerly
the Tuol Sleng School, which was
converted into a torture camp early
on in the regime. Inmates were tor-
tured for information or even just for
fun at the whim of the camp warden,
Duch, and those that were unlucky
enough to survive the torture were
mostly shipped off to the various kill-
ing fields around the country where
they were dispatched with a pickaxe
or shovel to the head, to save on bul-
lets. Coincidentally, Duch is currently
having his own ‘Nuremberg Trial’ and
is likely to be jailed for life. I only
found out it was happening a few days
later so I missed an opportunity to
watch a war crimes trial for myself.
The building is preserved mostly as
it was left by the withdrawing Khmer
Rouge, with many rooms containing
a simple wrought-iron bed and pho-
tographs of people lying on the beds
with their blood covering the floor.
In one room was an exhibition with
the photos of every person that had
passed through the Centre, including
small children, and it was odd looking
them all in the eye and knowing they
all died horrible deaths at the hands
of their peers.
I had spent two hours in the school
before I had even noticed the time,
and having had enough of death for
the day, I headed back to the lake.
Moving onto the rest of the coun-
try seemed a good idea after that, so I
took the first bus to Sihanoukville on
the coast. For those of you that have
not been to Asia, the roads are an ex-
perience in themselves. Road laws do
not exist and so to get around, drivers
The view of Lakeside in Phnom Penh from the Happy Guesthouse
The daily commute in Cambodia back to town at sunset along the estuary in Kampot.
One of the more horrific uses of a tree, just to save on bullets

