23
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
Caption
simply make a lot of noise and expect
others to get out of their way. This par-
ticular bus driver insisted on honking
his very loud horn at least once every
6 seconds for the entire 5 hour ordeal
and once I arrived at my destina-
tion I was tired and pissed off. This
was compounded by the fact that my
backpack had been left in the luggage
compartment next to a giant block of
ice transporting fish, which then be-
came a smaller block of ice with the
excess meltwater and fishjuice soaked
into my bag. I have washed it several
times but even today it still stinks, as
many of my friends will testify.
Off to a good start then. However,
I thoroughly enjoyed Sihanoukville
once I had settled in. My guesthouse
was on the beach next to half a mile of
bars on the sand.
The strange thing about this part
of the country is that the chief of po-
lice actually owns the local marijuana
plantation and hence very little law is
enforced in the area. In fact most bars
sell joints openly for $1 each. This
lack of law enforcement unfortunate-
ly also attracts the bad parts of soci-
ety. After dark it is not recommended
to leave the beach to walk into town
as the road is a magnet for muggers
and carjackers and walking along it as
a westerner is tantamount to suicide.
So of course on the first night, I
ended up in a karaoke bar halfway be-
tween the town and the beach on the
dark road. I spent most of the evening
wondering whether we were about to
be robbed by the group of Cambodi-
ans that had dragged us there, but ap-
parently they were genuine, or at least
genuinely drinking all the dirt-cheap
beer we were buying. At the end of
the night we needed to get home, but
none of the moto drivers wanted to go
back so we had to walk, or rather run
very fast and hide from oncoming ve-
hicles while thinking we were about
to be murdered at any moment.
Having made friends with two hot
Swedish guys, I finally managed to re-
lax, helped by a banana shake of the
happy variety, so much so that I lay on
a sofa on the beach for four hours be-
fore I could be bothered to go to bed.
However, even amongst this laid-
back touristy atmosphere you can for-
get the true world that is Cambodia.
Kids wander up and down the beach
trying to sell you trinkets for a few
dollars; and amputees beg for food
and money while hobbling along on
their arms. There is no social secu-
rity or benefits system and education
is only provided for free up to age
eleven, and even then only 20% of the
population can afford to take advan-
tage of it.
Having stuffed my face with food
and knocking back the drinks with
my friends, an amputee crawled past
and asked for some food. He was quite
persistent even though we didn’t have
anything on us, and I couldn’t help
wishing that he would just move on
and leave us alone to have fun. As
soon thought went through my head I
realised I had become the stereotypi-
cal western tourist that I so despised.
After this startling realisation, I felt
that some good deeds were in order.
To see more of the real country
rather than following the tourist trail
I took a minibus to the town of Kam-
pot, formerly the most lawless area in
SE Asia as it was the last stronghold
of the almost defeated Khmer Rouge.
Only a few years earlier, three tour-
ists were kidnapped from a train by
the KR and then executed when the
ransom wasn’t paid. Even in light of
this recent history, it is one of the
more laid back areas, allowing several
days of simply wandering around and
soaking up the local vibes.
Another essential trip I had to make
was to Bokor Mountain. The journey
consists of a very bumpy 4WD vehi-
cle trekking slowly up the mountain
along 40km of muddy, windy roads
towards the ghost town of Bokor. Old
houses and hotels were left to rot af-
ter the civil war, and even the town
church was used as the KR strong-
hold where they planned their next
invasion. The pièce de résistance was
in fact the casino, built on the edge
of a cliff where the rich and famous
would come to gamble away their
fortunes in better times. The losers
of these fortunes would then throw
themselves over the cliff.
The casino itself is still structur-
ally sound, although years of mould
growth and being open to the ele-
ments makes it all the more disturb-
ing when the storm clouds suddenly
smother the entire landscape and fill
the rooms with fog.
However, due to the ever-resource-
ful Cambodian government, the
entire mountain has been sold to a
South Korean conglomerate who are
going to build a mega-casino and
2000-room hotel, amongst other fa-
cilities, on the site of the old build-
ings, and then build a cable-car from
the summit to sea level to bypass
the road. So again, if you want to see
Bokor, you’d better go soon because it
won’t be there in a year’s time.
I didn’t think it was possible, but
the journey back to Phnom Penh may
actually have been the worst ever.
The bus took a completely different
route to the one I was expecting, trav-
elling along small dirt roads via tiny
little villages, and I spent most of the
journey worried that I was being tak-
en to Vietnam. Most of the road was
unsealed and the dust that was kicked
up by the vehicles in front was sucked
into the ventilation and filled the bus
with a thick orange cloud. However
we had it nowhere near as bad as the
people in the many minibuses de-
signed for 15 but seating 50, mostly
on the roof .
Those people clearly had a far worse
journey than me, but then again you
get what you pay for; I paid $6 for the
whole journey, whereas they probably
only paid 50 cents.
I was glad to be back in Phnom Penh
and began preparing myself for the
temples of Angkor Wat…
To be continued in next week’s felix
The Memorial Pagoda contains over 9,000 skulls that have been excavated so far, but there are still an estimated 10,000
buried just in Phnom Penh. Across the country there are many more killing fields containing even more bodies.
The beach at Sihanoukville, many, many bars to choose from

