24
FOOD
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
In search of good food in Amsterdam
Chris Sim embarked in a bewildering mission through Amsterdam in hope of satisfying his desire for quality grub.
H
aving worked and lived
in Amsterdam for two
months, you would’ve
thought I’d have this
city all figured out. But
no. In fact, the more I think about it,
the more it mystifies me. Or to use a
cricketing phrase, it bamboozles me.
The city has so many contrasts it is
really hard to see how it all manages
to function so well. The serenity of
the beautiful canals and their arched
bridges lie in harmony with the sym-
bolic red lights of one of the world’s
most famous areas for legalised pros-
titution. Cultural marvels such as the
van Gogh museum are just a stones
throw away from parks where scores of
people enjoy the intoxicating effects of
tolerated soft drugs. With all this go-
ing on, the relaxed nature of the city
remains uncompromised by the seem-
ingly dangerous cocktail of tram routes
and cycle lanes.
Equally baffling to me was the food
scene in Amsterdam. It was neither
here nor there, sometimes sublimely
brilliant, sometimes absolutely atro-
cious. Let’s start with Dutch food.
Simple and hearty, their cuisine can
really hit the spot if you can find
the right restaurant. Bear in mind,
however, your wallet will really feel
the pinch no matter where you go.
Moeder’s restaurant (Mother’s) is a
charmingly relaxed little eatery where
every inch of the walls and ceiling is
covered with pictures of, you guessed
it, people’s mothers – don’t worry,
the pictures contain friendly smiles
and it adds to the atmosphere, rather
than making you feel like your every
mouthful is under close scrutiny.
They specialise in home-style Dutch
food, and, whilst I’m no expert, it
didn’t really excite me. Don’t get me
wrong, the central theme of stews
and mash was OK, but for 20 euros?
Questionable. One thing that is out of
the question is trying a Hema sausage.
Oily, bland and a host of nasty adjec-
tives come to mind when I think of
that horrifying component from their
sausage selection dish. On the bright
side however, New Dorrius is one
Dutch restaurant well worth a visit.
Their slogan, ‘Inspiring Fresh Dutch
Food’, summarises the core ideals be-
hind its modern approach to cookery.
Dishes like their pan-fried sea bream,
accompanied by an unctuously rich
risotto packed so full of sweet lobster
flavour that I could write a thesis on
it, are worth every euro cent. Also,
their lively combination of red cab-
bage and apple puree with a moreish
beef hotpot add a twist to what would
otherwise be a rather forgettable dish.
If the native the food of the Neth-
erlands doesn’t get you going, then
cuisine emanating from the coun-
try’s glorious colonial past provides
a satisfying alternative. Indonesian
restaurants, whilst ubiquitous in Am-
sterdam, can vary greatly in quality
and price and thus discretion is well
advised when making your choice.
Popular with tourists and locals is the
renowned Kantjil en de Tijger, whose
busyness has probably made its own-
ers forget that we’ve barely survived a
deep recession. A recommended and
far cheaper alternative to actually eat-
ing at the restaurant itself is to order
from their takeaway menu and to en-
joy your meal beside the beauty of the
canals, (it can be hard to find bench-
es, but sitting with your legs dangling
over the water is equally pleasurable).
The only question mark that hangs
over this restaurant is its authentic-
ity, which is made even more obvi-
ous when you try a rijstaffel at Tempo
Doeloe. A rijstaffel (ricetable) is a tra-
ditional Indonesian banquet compris-
ing up to 25 different dishes. This
meal will entertain you with a multi-
tude of flavours, from hints of aniseed
to peanutty tones, with various curry
embodiments present throughout. It
is also a cleverly constructed meal, for
you are instructed to eat the dishes in
order of increasing chilli heat. Res-
ervations are essential for this res-
taurant, but before you pick up the
phone, please bear in mind that I had
to spend nearly 40 euros for this in-
dulgence. If you are wondering where
the cuisine of Suriname fits into the
picture, then I guess it fits in here.
Heavily influenced by Indonesian
cuisine, Surinamese food is equally
diverse, though finding a good restau-
rant was, disappointingly, one gastro-
nomic mission too far.
Unfortunately for Amsterdam, the
high prices of its restaurants are not
balanced by a cheap selection of street
vendors. The omnipresent hot dog
stands and frites (fries with mayon-
naise) outlets may fill your belly, but
even they are overpriced. Just for nov-
elty’s sake it is worth trying food from
Febo, a chain of fast food stores where
you can obtain your food in a vending
machine-esque manner. In my opin-
ion, the city’s fast food scene is res-
cued by its large Turkish and Middle
Eastern communities, whose falafel
and showarma eateries offer some
satisfying nibbles.
To summarise, I’m not advising you
to leave your tastebuds behind when
you pack your suitcase for Amsterdam,
just to warn them that on this vacation,
only a hefty spend will keep them truly
happy.
Febo. Food from a machine. Surprisingly edible stuff at reasonable prices. And even faster than McDonald’s.
“London restaurants are far too expensive for students”
Chris Sim has a few handy recommendations that go at least some way to dispelling the aforementioned myth
Nestled just off the main street of
Chinatown, this popular fast food
Japanese joint is instantly recognisable
with its long queues of students hud-
dling outside, awaiting their turn for
some great value grub. I don’t need to
mention that unless standing in a long
line of people is your thing, I’d recom-
mend you turn up early.
To squeeze every morsel of value
out of each and every penny, going
for a main meal highly recommended.
Tempura, teriyaki chicken, katsu don
(breaded pork cutlet with egg and
rice) are just a number of flavoursome,
hearty treats which are well worth a try.
Personally, I am a fan of their chicken
katsu curry dish, which comprises suc-
culent pieces of chicken deep fried in
crispily light breadcrumbs, laden with a
slightly sweet and spicy Japanese curry
sauce, accompanied by salad and a bit
of pickled radish. These main dishes
on their own are considerably sizeable,
and that’s without mentioning that a Mt
Everest-sized scoop of rice accompanies
them. I have previously tried to think
about trying a starter or side dish, but
my bulging belly warned me that fur-
ther additions could lead to a disaster of
sorts. So at £6-8, this restaurant’s value
hardly ever comes into question. I guess
my only complaint is that the service is
sometimes a tad slow, or maybe it was
me being sluggish, after all, a meal this
formidable makes for a lethargic, yet
pleasantly satisfied diner.
The flagship restaurant of this Belgian-
inspired chain doesn’t strike you as the
most obvious place of gastronomic
pilgrimage for students, with its stand-
ard prices easily setting you back £20
for a good dinner. But do not despair,
for delicious and wholesome Belgian
food can be available at a price which
corresponds to, well, the time on your
watch.
Let me explain further. From Mon-
day to Friday, from 5pm until 6:30pm,
you pay the price which corresponds
to the time at which you ordered your
meal. For example, order at 5:42pm
and your meal will cost you exactly
five pounds and forty two pennies.
So what do you get for this interest-
ingly low price? There are five choices
on the menu, with the two best being
Belgian classics. A pretty safe bet is a
bowl of perfectly steamed, juicy mus-
sels dressed in a light white wine, garlic
and parsley sauce matched with a size-
able portion of robust frites. Great for
this time of year, now that the cold is
really starting to get cosy in London. If
sea-dwelling creatures aren’t for you,
go for their half spit-roast chicken with
guessed it, a bowl of fries. Moist chick-
en flesh, which oozes rich juices upon
incision, is enveloped by sticky, slightly
caramelised skin laden with a not-
overpowering mustard and slightly
sweet leek sauce. Quality, hearty stuff.
Gone are the days when for the same
price, a glass of beer or wine accompa-
nied the meal. Thanks, Mr Recession.
But still, either of these quality alcohol-
ic accompaniments should keep your
bill per head at just around the ten
pound mark, and with a huge selection
of quality beers on offer, well, in my
opinion, that’s not too bad. And with
a unique Narnia-like interior, equally
oddly dressed waiters whose service
is more than adequate, an early dinner
at Belgo Centraal is well worth rushing
off to after braving the challenges of
another day at uni.
Food: 7.0
Value:9.5
Service: 6
Ambience: 6.5
Overall: 7.5/10
Food: 7.5
Value: 8.5
Service: 8
Ambience: 8
Overall: 8/10
Misato, 11 Wardour Street, W1D 6PG Belgo Centraal (Beat The Clock Deal), 29 Shelton Street, WC2H 9JL

