25
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Google loves your data
How much is too much & is your data safe with Google?
FerozSalam Technology Reporter
Cut through
the crap, get it
sorted on Twitter
I
t’s Friday, time to ditch work and
go party! But what if you’ve got
something busted, some prick of
a Telco is over charging you, or
you’ve got to make a complaint? Tra-
ditionally you’d have to sit there on the
phone for god-knows how many hours
calling a premium rate number just to
get through to some poor bastard in a
call centre that can neither help you
or help himself get out of that hellish
excuse for a job. Well, I’m here to tell
you that no more do you have to suffer
through the rubbish to get the decent
customer service that you deserve.
Twitter is the way forward.
OK, you think I’m off my rocker, what
has Twatter got to do with customer
service? Well, if you didn’t know al-
ready, everything you say on Twitter is
public. Everyone can see it, it’s search-
able and it stays there for quite some
time. Companies have gotten wind that
people like to complain on Twitter and
that their reputation often takes a beat-
ing in a very public and motivated en-
vironment. So their plan to combat all
this bitching is to put customer service
representatives on the microblogging
service that respond to complaints
and try and smooth over any disa-
greements you might have with them.
The thing is that the Twitter customer
service people have to get it right first
time because if they don’t, the com-
pany’s public image gets a bashing as
you berate them on Twitter. Therefore,
they’ve normally got a lot more power
than the poor sod you find on the end
of the phone on the front line of the
call centre. They bend over backwards
to sort out your complaint and placate
you as quickly as possible and in a per-
sonal manner.
In a recent experience with a Telco
that will, for reasons of journalistic in-
tegrity, remain nameless, I found out
that they were trying to overcharge
me by almost 25% for no apparent rea-
son. I thought it would have just been
a clerical error and so contacted cus-
tomer services, only to be told that the
cost of service had gone up without
notice. When I pointed out that their
website stated the price I expected to
be charged, like every previous month
for the last two years, I was told this
was a ‘new customers only’ deal. After
screaming down the phone at them
,they told me there was nothing they
could do.
Of course, the budding journalist
in me decided I wasn’t going to stand
for this crap and I was going to com-
plain in the most effective way I knew,
online. First port of call was Twitter,
which would be promptly followed by
my personal blog and every tech blog I
write for. I was going to drag their name
through the mud for this outrage.
Moments after bitching about
them on Twitter I was contacted by
the customer services ‘Twitter team’
who asked for a few details so they
could check it out. OK, I thought, fair
enough, I’ll hold fire on everything else
and see what they can do for me. I send
them my customer details and thirty
minutes later I get a phone call. Long
story short, they were very apologetic
and sorted it out right there and then.
Gone was the price increase and an of-
fer of compensation should I feel out of
pocket at the end of the day.
Now I don’t have beef with any
customer service representatives, I
couldn’t do their jobs, but I feel the
personal level of service you used to
get has gone. You shouldn’t have to
go to Twitter and publicly complain
just to get decent service, but this kind
of personal, fast and efficient service
doesn’t seem to exist in modern com-
pany strategy, it’s too costly.
Moral of the story, got a complaint?
Head to Twitter and get it sorted.
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Weekly Wrap-up: A quick guide to the best of the rest you might have missed
Another week in Tech has come and
gone but what have we got to show for
it? Well, we’ve got the launch of the
world’s first driverless taxis at Heath-
row. We’ve talked about the tiny little
automated pods that transport you
from the business car park into Ter-
minal 5 in only five minutes before,
but now you too can go have a play in
them. Pity they’re not in central Lon-
don; maybe they would be a cheaper,
safer alternative to the dodgy mini-
cabs on the way home from the Union.
We’ve heard that console gaming
makes you a natural-born UAV pilot,
but now the US Air Force is taking
their love of the PS3 to the next level
and by ordering another 2,200 PS3s to
joing the 300 or so they are using al-
ready. Instead of practising their skills
in Modern Warfare 2, they’ve been us-
ing them for HD video processing and
want to boost the power of their PS3
cluster.
IBM is set to discontinue its current
line of PowerPC-based Cell proces-
sors, the power house behind the
PS3, amongst other things. What this
means for the next generation PlaySta-
tion is unclear. Would Sony take the
Cell chip in house? Never fear though,
the current gen PS3 won’t be affected.
Retail giant, Tesco, announced this
week that it’ll start selling Apple’s gold-
en child, the iPhone, on its MVNO
Tesco Mobile. It’s the fourth carrier to
confirm that the iPhone will be grac-
ing its network, although Tesco Mobile
uses O2’s network so don’t think you’ll
get better 3G coverage. Tesco already
has several relatively cheap unlimited
everything plans with texts, calls and
data all included. If their current price
plans are mimicked on their iPhone
offerings, Tesco Mobile might be the
way to go for the best value iPhone tar-
iffs. Besides, now you can pick one up
whilst you’re getting your soap, toilet
duck and bog roll. How glamorous.
In the 21st century, there are few more
valuable things than information. It’s
what drives the technology revolution,
the ability to transfer and process large
amounts of information.
Of course, if there’s one company
uniquely poised to make the most of
this, it’s Google. With roughly 24 serv-
er farms containing an estimated half a
million servers dotted across the globe,
Google handles 6% of all internet traf-
fic. That’s six times more than any
other one company, with their main
website being the most visited page on
the internet. Google has invested large
amounts of money into maintaining
the current status quo, from their wide
variety of desktop applications to un-
dersea optical fibre cables that main-
tain blazing fast response times.
But how does Google handle the re-
sponsibility of being the world’s largest
repository of private information? The
unofficial company slogan “Don’t Be
Evil” only serves as a reminder of just
how much evil Google could do if it
wished. Thankfully, Google to this date
has not betrayed its user’s faith. It has
been fearless in going up against gov-
ernments, when requested to disclose
user information and hasn’t had mini-
mal embarrassing data leaks that some
of its competitors have suffered from.
All in all, Google has proved itself rela-
tively responsible in dealing with sen-
sitive user information. But how much
are you really willing to let Google
store information about your life?
I decided to write down a list of
Google products that I use. The list
came up to roughly 20 of their prod-
ucts, ranging from mapping services
to webmaster tools. All of which are
free and many of which are the best
products offered in their markets. The
beauty of Google’s business model
is that they can offer free, quality
products to users because they make
money from the information gleaned
from that usage. Companies pay large
amounts of money to show up in Goog-
le’s subtly targeted ads and in exchange
all Google has to do is make sure that
a large enough number of users are
seeing those ads. It would appear that
this is a win-win situation for everyone
involved. Yet as Google grows and at-
tempts to expand into untapped mar-
kets, it’s going to want more and more
of your information in order to target
those ads even better and continue to
generate large advertising profits. The
need for more and more info brings me
back to the focal point of this piece –
how much is too much?
Like 90% of the connected world,
I use Google for searching the inter-
net. I also use Google to handle all my
email accounts, compile and analyse
website statistics, help me get around
town, chat with friends, share photos
and watch videos. Google knows ex-
actly which shows I enjoy watching,
which political issues I find important
and my views on them and the con-
tents of letters back home. They even
know where I am right now, thanks to
Google Latitude, and where I want to
be, thanks to Google Maps for mobile.
If Google were a stalker, it would be
about time for me to file for a restrain-
ing order.
That’s why it’s interesting that Goog-
le seems to be gearing up to offer te-
lephony services. Last week, they pur-
chased a small start-up that specialised
in services similar to the venerable
Skype, Gizmo5. Along with Google
Voice, a service that allows users in
the US to (among other things) man-
age their phone calls and make cheap
international calls, many suspect that
this could be part of a wider strategy to
offer free telephone calls to participat-
ing users very soon. The system allows
Google to make use of the extensive
optical fibre networks it has invested
in while users get free telephone calls.
Yet this will probably involve letting
Google into yet another part of your
life: your private phone calls.
Although in reality what Google
knows is distributed across servers
in multiple locations, probably pro-
tected by complex encryption, it is
still owned by a single entity that can
legally be forced into handing all in-
formation about you to governments.
The issue isn’t really about how much
Google can be trusted, it’s about how
much Google can be forced to reveal.
I’m not going to judge you for googling
NAMBLA (don’t) after watching that
South Park episode, but can the same
thing be said about a law enforcement
official? Google is at the forefront of
the “cloud computing” wave. Their
Chrome OS (scheduled for release in
at the end of 2010) is designed to blur
the lines between desktop and online
applications, with ever more informa-
tion being stored in the cloud. The
question remains whether the flexibil-
ity afforded by keeping private infor-
mation on someone else’s servers can
ever replace the privacy of one’s own
hard drive.
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor emerged, one that steals your ING Di-
rect banking details and one that turns
your pocket pal into a botnet zombie.
Brilliant! Apple’s responce? We told
you it could happen, tough luck, don’t
jailbreak your iPhone. The worms
spread via WiFi or cellular networks
between jailbroken iPhones with SSH
installed and default root passwords. A
rookie mistake not changing your root
password, but if you’re not so au fait
with the whole jailbreak process, you
might not even know that every iPhone
has a default root password that basi-
cally allows someone nefarious to do
anything they like with your precious
iPhone without your knowledge. So
if you’re rocking a jailbroken iPhone
then download mobile Terminal and
change your root password pronto!
Talking about the PS3, I don’t know
whether anyone’s told the USAF but,
Talking of iPhones, the humble rick-
rolling iPhone worm evolved. Two new
malicious variants of the worm have

