26
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
x
Imperial Amnesty join Shell campaign
In a show of direct action after collecting student signatures, Courtney Williams, Thorsten Stechert, Kelly
W
hich are more im-
portant: human
rights or oil rights?
In the Niger Delta
it seems that Shell
and other oil companies have opted for
the latter, generating for themselves
billions of pounds yet seriously reduc-
ing the quality of life for the people of
the Niger Delta. To combat this, Am-
nesty International are currently run-
ning a campaign to convince Shell to
clean up its act.
Shell Oil, a multi-million pound UK-
based company, is the region’s biggest
oil producer, in association with the
Nigerian Government. However, they
have left the area in a catastrophic
state, and Amnesty International has
exposed various ways in which Shell
has violated the human rights of local
people.
Nine million barrels’-worth of crude
oil have poured out of pipelines in the
Niger delta region, killing fish (a major
source of food and income), pollut-
ing rivers and destroying land so that
growing crops is impossible, and leav-
ing seventy five percent of the rural
population with no access to clean wa-
ter. Shell and the Nigerian government
have also refused to provide local peo-
ple with basic information and consult
communities about the work going on.
“If you want to go fishing, you have
to paddle for about four hours through
several rivers before you can get to
where you can catch fish and the spill
is lesser... some of the fish we catch,
when you open the stomach, it smells
of crude oil.” – A Bodo fisherman, vic-
tim of oil spills in 2008 and 2009 which
have still not been cleaned up.
Amnesty wrote a report on their
findings documented over the last ten
years, entitled “Petroleum, Pollution
and Poverty in the Niger Delta”. They
intended to put pressure on the new
CEO of Shell, Peter Voser, and shortly
afterwards, Shell took part in an on-
line dialogue about the report. Over
445 people took part in this dialogue,
including representatives of Amnesty
and Friends of the Earth (some of
whom were based in Nigeria).
Amnesty is now challenging Shell’s
new CEO Peter Voser to change the
situation and right some of the wrongs
caused by the company. They want
Shell and the Nigerian government to
clean up the Niger Delta, be transpar-
ent in their actions and remedy the hu-
man rights abuses they have contrib-
uted to by providing compensation,
rehabilitation, information and access
to justice.
One way in which Amnesty does
this is through raising public aware-
ness; this includes campaigning, peti-
tioning and reporting events. One of
their new campaigns includes turning
a Shell station into a “Hell station”.
This is what Imperial Amnesty did
when they kicked off their campaign
to highlight the abuses of Shell in the
Niger Delta. The local Shell garage
was used and the photos of their ex-
ploits were put on Google Maps. Ac-
tivists all over the world have been
doing the same, and people are en-
couraged to post negative comments
about Shell on the photos.
To raise awareness around campus
Imperial Amnesty ran a stall in the
JCR on Wednesday 28th October. In-
terested students were given the op-
portunity to write messages to Shell
and leave fingerprints on an idyllic
photograph of unspoilt land in Ni-
geria – a slightly more visual way to
register protest over pollution of such
areas. Despite fears of feedback to
Shell, a well-known employer, a peti-
tion asking Shell to take responsibility
for the damage they are doing in the
Delta garnered an extremely positive
response around campus.
After gathering 124 signatures over
lunch for the petition, several mem-
bers of Imperial Amnesty then made
their way down to the careers fair to
confront the Shell recruiters with the
situation in Nigeria. With the petition
and the fingerprint photo in hand they
approached Shell’s stall, fully expect-
ing to be instantly brushed off with the
oh-so familiar “no comment”. Much
to their surprise, one of the employ-
ees, who asked to remain anonymous,
agreed to answer their questions.
Since Shell say they “are totally com-
mitted to a business strategy that al-
ways balances profits and principles.”
the first question, naturally, was to
see whether employees outside public
relations saw their company in a simi-
lar light. For a person drilled into re-
cruiting graduates and thus trying to
present his company in the best light
possible, it was not surprising that
after a short delay he confirmed that
Shell was in fact an ethical company.
Surely in an ethical company criti-
cism is met openly and problems or
failures are addressed with the atten-
tion they deserve. Whilst the source
claimed that internal communications
dealing with this exist, the detail of
them and whether they are accessible
to anyone or on a “need-to-know” ba-
sis remains unknown.
Next, the negative impacts of Shell’s
operation in Nigeria were questioned.
Having been to Nigeria as part of his
work for Shell, the source was the ideal
candidate to give a close-up perspec-
tive. He claimed that the numerous oil
spills were mostly caused by sabotage
and that leakages in general were no
more severe than in any other region
or at any other company. However
Amnesty insists Shell has the respon-
sibility to prevent leaks from occurring
(whatever the source may be), and, fail-
ing to do so, to at the very least clean
up the resulting spills.
When asked about the dangers of
working in Nigeria, the source told the
Amnesty members that Shell tries to
avoid areas of political unrest.
This led to the question whether
Shell had actually sown the seeds for its
current distress, which was answered
with “It depends how you assess the
situation.” The way that Amnesty as-
sesses the situation is that the often
blamed political turmoil, the violent
attacks on Shell’s property and kidnap-
pings of Shell’s employees were not in-
evitable. When Shell moved to Nigeria
fifty years ago, the local populace was
anything but militant, expecting an
economic boom in the area. Yet little
of the enormous revenues made with
Nigerian oil seemed to reach the peo-
ple; the average income, at $2 a day, is
amongst the very lowest in the world.
The interview concluded on a friend-
ly note, as both the Amnesty members
and their interviewee are hoping that
“in time, everything will change for the
better.” Whether this is true remains to
be seen. Meanwhile Amnesty is upping
the pressure on Mr. Voser to put things
right in the Niger Delta.
‘a petition asking Shell
to take responsibility for
the damage they are do-
ing in the Delta garnered
an extremely positive re-
sponse around campus.’
The Amnesty stall in the JCR, before the assult on the careers fair
Osborne and Marissa Lewis of the Imperial Amnesty club confront Shell at the Imperial graduate careers fair.
Your Club or Society Here.
Description of your awesome trip or event here.
Want your club to be in felix? Send us a description of a trip, event, tour or social and everyone will know about it.
Email clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk

