3
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Elevating the elite
within the
Golden Triangle
A report released this week by the Higher
Education Policy Institute examines the extent to
which Imperial still trail Oxford and Cambridge
as their main British rivals.
Editor-in-Chief Dan Wan investigates how far
in front they are actually are
I
mperial cannot claim to be
keeping up with Oxford and
Cambridge as academic insti-
tution, says a new report pub-
lished by the Higher Education
Policy Institute (HEPI).
The report, Oxford and Cambridge:
How Different Are They? released on
19 November, investigates a number
of aspects of the higher education
sector that conclude the Universities
of Oxford and Cambridge are greatly
“distinctive” from their nearest Russell
Group rivals, namely Imperial.
*
Catching the brightest
Imperial, alongside the LSE and UCL
are considered to be the London corner
in an elite ‘Golden Triangle’ with the
Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
The latter two are suggested by
HEPI’s latest report to be in a league
above in terms of their ability to attract
the highest academically-achieving ap-
plicants and also in their undergradu-
ate teaching environment.
HEPI is an independent think-tank
dedicated to exclusively policing and
analysing higher education in the UK.
Admissions data collected for this
report show that in 2008, the 58% of
undergraduates at Oxford achieved
eight A*s at GCSE was four times the
14.4% proportion of undergraduates at
Imperial that achieved the same. This
in light of 72% of Imperial students felt
that their GCSEs had very little or no
bearing on their A Level achievement.
Oxbridge however are known to still
use GCSE grades to distinguish be-
tween candidates and hence still hold
GCSEs in some level of importance,
and probably moreso than other Rus-
sell Group universities.
Over the past decade, Imperial Col-
lege has frequently been ranked 3rd or
4th behind Oxford and Cambridge at
an interchanging 1st and 2nd place in
the Times Good University guide. The
Times Higher Education Supplement
World Rankings 2009 ranks Imperial,
at 5th, one place higher than Oxford.
Subsequently, HEPI’s latest report fo-
cuses in on Imperial as a conclusively
unfavourable comparison to the Ox-
bridge universities.
In a survey conducted by felix, it
was found that 51% of current under-
graduates claimed their GCSE courses
had very little or negligible bearing on
their ability to perform at their cho-
sen A Level courses, whilst 21% felt
their GCSE courses had absolutely no
bearing on A Level performance and
hence requirement to enter Imperial.
Seemingly, despite the stark contrast
in GCSE achievement between Ox-
ford and Imperial, Imperial students
unaware of it (as not to influence their
survey answer) put little importance
on their GCSE grades, and prefer to be
judged by their A Level grades.
However, Oxford and Cambridge
are shown to be attracting brighter
students as judged by their prior aca-
demic achievements, i.e. A Levels or
equivalent. The study showed that the
vast majority (57.2%) of Cambridge’s
applicants had 540 UCAS tariff points
or more. This is in contrast to Impe-
rial where the proportion of appli-
cants with 540 tariff points or more
was about equal to the proportion of
students starting courses with less
than 480 points. Tariff points work as
a system to standardise and compare
all applicants as they apply to higher
education with a range of qualifica-
tions. A Levels, BTEC Nationals and
International Baccalaureates are just
some of the extensive range of quali-
fications which UCAS tariffs cover. A
typical student coming through the
conventional British education system
can expect to receive 120 tariff points
for a top grade at GCE A Level. For ex-
ample, 540 points of more can be ob-
tained by achieving As in four A Levels
and a B in a fifth. A typical student is
generally expected to take three A Level
courses and hence most degree streams
at both Oxbridge and Imperial have a
requirement for three A Levels. Oxford
and Cambridge are notorious for issu-
ing offers higher than the a standard
three A Level requirement. felix’s sur-
vey came across some current Impe-
rial undergraduates who had previously
been offered AAAA (480 UCAS tariff
points), but for one reason or another
didn’t not take up on the offer.
Imperial’s proportion of applicants
starting courses with 480 or below tar-
iff points is 35.1% compared to Cam-
bridge’s 19.1% and Oxford’s 21.7%.
Degree streams such as Biology, Bio-
chemistry and Material Sciences typi-
cally have lower-than AAA require-
ments. For the incoming 2010 intake
Biology, Biochemistry and Biotechnol-
ogy have minimum entry requirements
of AAB (340 points). Oxford require a
minimum AAA (360 points) across the
board for Bioscience courses. Hence
the students achieving over 540 points
therefore are “exceptionally talented”
students who have undertaken and
achieved top grades in extra courses at
A Level or equivalent level of study.
The study also concludes that the
university’s applicant’s average UCAS
tariff points correlates to the propor-
tion of independently-schooled ap-
plicants. Institutions with a “larger
number of independent school en-
trants are more likely to have a higher
proportion with greater accumulation
of [UCAS] tariff points.” However,
Oxbridge only has an average of inde-
pendently-schooled applicants which
is 7% greater than the number of cur-
rent Imperial undergraduate students
that have entered directly from a pri-
vately-funded institution. These find-
ings do little to dampen the myth that
Oxbridge are still ‘socially engineering’
their student intake towards independ-
ently school students.
HEPI also highlights a gulf between
Imperial and Oxford’s offer-to-ac-
ceptance conversion rate. Over 90% of
students that receive an offer from Ox-
ford take up their place once they have
achieved the required grades. In stark
contrast, less than half of Imperial’s
offers are taken up, leading to fluctua-
tions to the number of students admit-
ted onto courses each year. The report
suggests that this pattern of offer-
acceptance shows that an application
holding both an Imperial and Oxford
offer, they are far more likely to turn
down Imperial’s offer than Oxford’s.
This theory is backed up by the survey
conducted by felix. It found that 61%
of current Imperial students applied to
Oxford or Cambridge as their original
first choice university.
*
Longer hours
HEPI’s extensive report goes on to de-
tail the differences in teaching stand-
ards and student expectations that they
claim the Oxbridge universities are
head and shoulders above others.
Average hours of study are tabled in
the report to point out differences of
working hours (both contact teaching
time and private study) between the
Oxbridge universities and specifically
Imperial.
Oxbridge Medics students study 42.1
hours a week, which is claimed to be
14.4% more than at Imperial College
School of Medicine. The biosciences
are renowned at Imperial for being
courses with the least evident teaching
time compared to the rest of College,
and the study indicates Cambridge bio-
scientists study nearly 17 more hours a
week.
However, the most dramatic com-
parison comes with students study-
ing physical science courses. At Cam-
bridge, they are said to study over 50%
longer than their equivalent course-
mates at Imperial.
Across the board, Cambridge stu-
dents study an average of 40%, and
Oxford students an average 30% more
than Imperial students. These figures
are likely to come as surprise to some
Imperial students as they put in the
long hours at the Library.
*
Teaching quality not assured
It is a well-known fact that Imperial
has performed extremely poorly in the
58%
Percentage of undergraduates
atOxfordwith8+A*satGCSE
National Student Survey (NSS) during
recent years. The NSS forms part of a
quality assurance framework (QAF)
supported by the Higher Education
Funding Council for England (HE-
FCE). The survey collates feedback on
the satisfaction rates of students and
hence quality of their courses.
During an interview with felix last
year, outgoing Rector Sir Roy Ander-
son claimed that one of his aims during
his tenure would be to dramatically in-
crease Imperial’s poor ranking of 100th
out of 113th in the NSS. It has largely
been to blame for Imperial’s inability to
challenge Oxbridge for the top spots in
league tables which factor in the NSS,
such as the Guardian Education Uni-
versity Guide, where Imperial regularly
flirt around 8th place.
Oxford is currently 6th place and
Cambridge 2nd in the latest NSS.
HEPI’s report breaks down this ranking
into the 22 separate questions as part of
the survey. The Oxbridge universities
occupy 1st place in 7 of the 22 questions
alone, whilst Imperial tops none.
Despite a lesser workload, Imperial
students are still far unhappier than
their peers of Oxbridge. This can point
to the teaching methods and standards
at Imperial being a problem, the mas-
sively greater ability of students at Ox-
bridge universities to deal with heavy
workloads, or the apathy of Imperial
students not only in their studies, but
filling out the entirely optional Nation-
al Student Survey. It is suggested that
only the students with grievances will
fill out the online survey, whilst stu-
dents that are content with academic
life at Imperial regularly ignore both
College and the Union’s promotion.
While the report does not implicitly
state that Imperial is inherently inferi-
or, it does assume the stance of Oxford
and Cambridge superiority by stating
that the universities are indeed “really
different” from “the small number of
institutions with which they are some-
times compared”. There is little doubt
that Imperial, LSE and UCL make up
this “small number” of universities.
Whichever way it is looked at, HEPI’s
report this week has greatly distanced
the two corners of the UK’s elite Gold-
en Triangle that protrude outside the
M25.
“61% of current
Imperial students
applied to Oxford or
Cambridge as their
original first choice”
14.4%
Percentage of undergraduates
atImperialwith8+A*satGCSE
40.4
Number of hours per week the
average Cambridge student studies
29.1
Number of hours per week the
average Imperial student studies
37.5
Number of hours per week the
average Oxford student studies
All statistics are quoted and calculated from the original report by HEPI Additional reporting: Afonso Campos

