4 felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
felix
InterFaith success
To commemorate National Inter-
Faith Week, eight students from the
InterFaith group, each representing a
religion, gathered to enlighten an au-
dience of over 300 people and spark
discussions promoting better under-
standing of their religions.
Held on Monday evening, some 50 au-
dience members engaged in group dis-
cussions following the event regarding
InterFaith and its benefits. The religions
represented were Baha’i, Buddhism,
Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Jainism,
Judaism and Sikhism. Yousef Salmasi, a
co-ordinator of the event and member of
the InterFaith group which were behind
it, explained that ‘’it’s the astonishing di-
versity in faiths and beliefs at Imperial
which adds that extra element to living
out your faith’’
.
Yousef, upon asked about the purpose
of the event, added: ‘’By having an in-
terfaith forum at imperial, and a launch
event of this nature, we can ensure that
there is more interaction, and of an ap-
propriate and respectful nature, between
different faith groups on campus. People
may ask why this is important but the
answer is simple: so that we can fin-
ish our journey in university as learned
and open-minded ambassadors of the
world, whilst maintaining our respective
identities.’’
The event was marked a success, re-
ceiving praise from many who attended.
Obadah Ghannam, a Medicine under-
graduate remarked that witnessing these
religions ‘’come together in such a visible
form of unity was absolutely amazing.’’
InterFaith was noted by Harsita Patel,
another undergraduate studying Medi-
cine as being a ‘’fantastic opportunity to
promote and spread the fantastic teach-
ings and morals of various religions.’’ He
plans to ‘’educate others about Hindu-
ism and gain a better understanding of
other faiths, whilst getting to know and
befriend a new group of people.’’
InterFaith holds many dialogue events
in an effort to apply a variety of perspec-
tivestoreligionsandallowtheaudienceto
discussandexploreculturalandotherdif-
ferencesindepth.Formerpresidentofthe
Jewish Society, Yoni Weiner, is currently
a representative of InterFaith, explaining
that ‘’InterFaith is very important for dis-
pellingmythsandmisconceptionsandin-
creasing understanding and co-operation
between different faith groups.’’
AlexKarapetian News Reporter
Media Awards fail
After a year of being the best at some-
thing other than research, Imperial Col-
lege is no longer home to the ‘Student
Newspaper of the Year’. Despite being
nominated for several awards, neither fe-
lix, nor Live! won anything at the Guard-
ian Student Media Awards on Wednes-
day. felix was in the running again for
Student Newspaper of the Year but was
unfortunately beaten by Leeds Student
fromtheUniversityofLeeds.DylanLowe
didn’t win Best Travel Writer either. Im-
perial’s website Live! was also nominated
for Student Website of the Year but the
University of York’s website www.nouse.
co.uk was apparently better.
IC Radio left empty-handed too at
the Student Radio Awards even though
Roushan Alam had been nominated for
three awards: Best Male Presenter, Best
Entertainment Programme, and Best
Interview (with Derren Brown), which
were awarded to Fergus Dufton (URN),
The Big Chewsie (RaW), and Joshua
Chambers (URY), respectively.
This outcome was a big disappointment
for Imperial College, which will just have to
recoveritscredibilityatnextyear’sawards.
Lizzy Griffiths
A
s we roll into the latter
stages of November, there
is plenty to be looking for-
ward to in the near future.
One date almost everyone will have
earmarked as one to look forward to
is Christmas, and I am not the excep-
tion. The Christmas break will provide
me, like most, with the chance to catch
up with some sleep and termly quota
of distinct idleness that I have become
accustomed to in the past two years at
university.
However, before I’m content to truly
appreciate the fuzzy sentiment of Coca
Cola’s “The holidays are coming” adver-
tisements, there have been, and still will
be, some important happenings regard-
ing felix as a newspaper, institution and
community.
The first issue has been a pressing mat-
ter for over a year now; the server that
essentially runs the office and is vital for
the production of every issue was dy-
ing on its feet. Last week, I’d say it was
taken to within a few days of its complete
failure, and in that event we would have
been royally screwed. Luckily for me and
my distinct lack of knowledge about lo-
cal networks and Apple products, none
other than Comment Editor Ravi Pall
organised a swift and wonderfully ef-
fective server change this week. A per-
sonal apology would go a lot further, but
I think I’ve been incredibly short with
so many people these past few weeks,
a public one will have to do. So, if I’ve
seemed a little ratty recently, please do
accept my almost sincere regrets.
This week also saw the felix team go
to the Guardian Student Media Awards
2009 in Camden. As Student Newspa-
per of the Year last year, a collection of
editors led by last year’s Editor-in-Chief
Jovan Nedic went with a huge amount
of pressure and expectation on their
shoulders. Nominated once again for the
night’s main category, alongside Dylan
Lowe’s nomination as Travel Writer of
the Year, we left North London empty-
handed. Despite losing our title we
coveted so dearly, I am still immensely
proud of the work done last year. The
Guardian judges may not have thought
it was worthy of an award to Jovan’s dis-
appointment, but his characteristically
bullish editorial style has commanded
great respect amongst College and his
peers. Truthfully, I personally value the
opinion of the editors and readers of felix
far more than the Guardian judges, and
I hope Jovan does too. To see someone
intently reading or casually enjoying
the paper on a Friday morning is a great
honour that an award ceremony once
a year will probably never emulate. A
nomination still means we are a top 5
student newspaper in the entire country,
and that is enough to be proud of.
We’ve been barking about this for a
fair while now, but felix reaches 60 years
old on the 9th of December, and it’s an
opportunity for celebration. We’ve got a
special anniversary issue coming up, so
look out for a special issue. Pints in the
Union are on us that day. When I say ‘us’
,
I definitely ‘yourself with your own mon-
ey.’ Felix is already free of charge every
week, it would have cost you 9 pence in
1949. What more do you want? Drink up
and sod off. Oh, there’s me being ratty
again.
may ask why this is importan
Editor-in-Chief
Dan Wan
News Reporter
The sweet smell of success for Nottingham Trent University...

