6
COMMENT
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
T
he undersized room is
packed out with complex,
esoteric instruments. Jars
of powders, preserves and
preparations, both ex-
otic and eldritch, line the shelves. Es-
says and treatises by greater men and
women, heavy with inky annotations,
lay strewn about, covering all surfaces.
The air is filled with smoke, fire and
heat. All is silent as the room’s sole oc-
cupant rises from a stupor. He finds
the result of his investigations, the
fruit of countless years’ toil. Euphoric
tears stain his cheeks, blackened by his
endeavours.
You may think this is a description of
the quarters of some mediaeval master
of alchemy, finally realising his search
for the fabled philosopher’s stone, but
you’d be wrong. It was my kitchen
last week, and I had just perfected the
boiled egg.
Many people think that modern
chemistry arose from the mystical
half-science of alchemy. But they’d be
wrong. What we think of as alchemy
was nothing more than tricks and cons
to fool the rich and the stupid. Alche-
mists were certainly interested in mak-
ing gold but they didn’t need a fancy
stone for that. No, science takes its
cues from a much purer discipline.
Just consider the similarities be-
tween the kitchen and the laboratory.
In both, you have to carefully meas-
ure out your reactants and set up the
necessary apparatus. Safety measures
must be taken, usually involving a blast
screen of some kind, especially when
dangerous compounds/baked potatoes
are involved. Hypotheses are formulat-
ed, tested and refined for the next ex-
periment/meal, bringing us ever closer
to understanding the divine mysteries
of the universe/cookbook. We can read
about the investigations others have
undertaken, either in Nature or Read-
er’s Digest, and try them for ourselves,
assessing their validity and delicious-
ness. And there are those pioneers who
give their lives (sometimes literally) in
the never-ending pursuit of knowledge
and flavour.
As an aside, I was once almost count-
ed among those brave souls, following
a catastrophe of a pasta bake. That
night I stared Death in face, with my
arms tightly wrapped around the toi-
let bowl. I thought my time had come.
The timely application of sliced bread
and a great deal of ketchup was the
only thing that kept me in this plane.
Also, fire. Fire is important. Heat, en-
ergy, we need these things to drive our
testing forward. Since the dawn (and
full English breakfast, presumably) of
man, fire has been vital to man’s sur-
vival and learning. Fire refines, fire re-
juvenates, fire changes! Without fire,
of some kind or another, you are barely
experimenting and you are certainly
not cooking. What does the science lab
revolve around? The bunsen burner.
The kitchen? The stove. Without fire,
you’d have to eat salad all day long.
And salad isn’t cooking – rabbits eat
salad and they don’t even have oppos-
able thumbs!
With the advent of fire, cookery and
science really took off. Our primor-
dial ancestors were the first to realise
the potential of this strange dancing
light. “Ah, this heat-light I found out
by the dead trees is superb! Hmm,
but that mammoth carcass I left near
it has changed colour. Oh, it’s hot like
the heat-light! Mmm, that’s new...it
feels different to how Wife does it...
and even though it’s been a few days,
this still tastes quite good. Maybe if I
put more meat near the heat-light, I
can make it taste better too?” Thus,
observation and hypothesis were laid
down as the foundation, the very cor-
nerstone, of both cookery and science,
by some rather well-spoken hunter-
gatherers. And naturally, fire was a
brilliant way of keeping warm through
the long winter nights, before gas bills
were invented.
While it’s great to talk about science
and cookery in these logical, rational-
istic terms, there are also times when
you just have to throw the scientific
method to the wind and see where
an open mind and dumb luck can get
you. In science, you have to put more
effort in pretending you’re a mature
adult but this is more acceptable in
cookery; I remember last term using
raspberry jam as a substitute for pasta
sauce. The results were sticky but ex-
tremely tasty – the resulting diabetic
coma was a minor side-effect. Some
of our greatest discoveries lie in these
unexplored frontiers, these brave new
worlds. Kekulé worked out the struc-
ture of benzene while high off his tits
on opium and Emperor Shennong dis-
covered tea when drinking hot water
under a tree with an arboreal alopecia.
Ah, the maillard reaction has fin-
ished now; I can have toast. Mm, but-
ter-topped science!
Rhys Davies reinvents kitchen science
“That mammoth
carcass I left near
it has changed
colour. Oh, it’s
hot like the heat-
light! Mmm,
that’s new...”
I
LIKE ROUGH SEX TOO. Apol-
ogies for being crude, but I want
to attract the same audience as
Mariash Notelling, the people
who were made to feel like shal-
low sluts throughout that comment
piece. What first struck me is the anger
and venom the writer felt against other
people – I really did wonder why they
were getting so worked up by other
people’s business! Rather than attack-
ing bits of last week’s column though,
I’d like to use my couple of hundred
words to approach the points raised
using a different view.
felix and the student population are
only as obsessed with sex as say – most
of the 18 – 21 yr olds around the world!
It’ll always crop up, as a scientist you
will be familiar with the evolution-
ary concept that humans function to
the four basic F’s: fight, flight, feeding
and... reproduction. Of course we can
all rise above it and discourse on other
matters, but it would be futile to say
that a sophisticated society should be
exempt of the desire to fuck.
First years are usually fresh out of
school. For many of them, it is the
first time that they will have been let
loose, out of the advisory guard of par-
ents and the school system. Some may
choose to crash head first into a yard
of ale, but it’s a phase that is normally
shed as time passes. That first year
away, especially the first term, is when
they will grow-up and hone their in-
stincts. This worldly knowledge cannot
be gained however, without launching
yourself out there and accumulating as
much experience as you can. “La con-
naissance, c’est la transformation d’un
savoir en une expérience de vie”. This
isn’t a call to sleep around as much as
possible. What I’m trying to convey is
that, as first years, and throughout the
rest of your life, you will be learning
and doing new things, and sometimes
– whoops! – you’ll make a mistake.
Don’t take shame in it. That experience
is a small part of a book that makes
you. You’re not a generic “slutty female
fresher”, and no-one, including anony-
mous comment writers, has a right to
judge what you choose to do.
Onto the most irksome point in
Mariash’s column. Why do you men-
tion your virginity? Does it really mat-
ter? I thought it detracted from the
power of your piece. Already border-
ing the line between being facetious or
not, that really sent it to the nutcase
pit. The concept of having not “given
in” is particularly worrying. It sug-
gests that all non-virgins, including
those that are in loving relationships,
are weak of mind. Clutching to your
virginity has neither any say in your
character nor any bearing on the valid-
ity of your opinions. Holding the status
of a virgin does not elevate you above
others. Your sexual interests and status
are completely irrelevant outside of
intimate personal relationships. Sure
there may be some Mariash out there
judging you or conversely a patronis-
ing wanna-be cool kid looking down
on you for your lack of experience.
Ignore them: they are not worth your
time.
I’d like Mariash to apologise to all
the girls she has offended. Not only the
promiscuous ones, but all the other fe-
males she has disgusted by her narrow-
minded views.
Milli Begum with a retort to Mariash
“I’d like Mariash
to apologise to
all other females
she has disgusted
with her views”

