7
felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
S
ome of you may remember
last week. It was long, green,
and to be honest with you
a little dull. I can’t claim all
the credit for the dullness
myself, you understand, but I like to
think that I added to it in some small
way. My contribution took the form
of a piece in last week’s issue – a piece
which rather naughtily bit its own
nails and hung itself over a cliff before
reaching a conclusion. Though I’m
sure you’d wish a similar fate to befall
me, the dramatic finale to last week’s
episode is here at last.
Those of you who actually gave a
damn last saw me rushing across Euston
station, desperately trying to be the first
person to set foot on the platform...
Because being first on the platform
means you have the crucial strategic
advantage. Most importantly, you can
be the first to race all the way across to
carriage A, which is traditionally the
emptiest and least popular. Ergo, you
think, the best place to find a free seat.
You board carriage A a good kilome-
tre and a half ahead of the puffing in-
vestment banker running behind you.
You scan the electric signs above the
seats, looking for one that says ‘avail-
able’. Aha! You find one – and it’s a win-
dow table seat facing in the right direc-
tion at that – what luck! You throw your
case in the overhead rack, arrange your-
self in the plaid cliff-face of seating, rip
the Saturday Guardian out of its plastic
wrapper, and begin perusing the first of
its 12 special supplements in perfect in-
ner peace.
A short while later you hear, through
your shimmering golden bubble of hap-
piness, the bustle of several thousand
people boarding a carriage which has
exactly forty-seven seats. You raise the
Business section a little higher and hum
‘The Battle-Hymn of the Republic’ qui-
etly to yourself.
“Excuse me...”
Dah-dum-Dah-dum-Dah-trumpet.
“Excuse me...”
Dah-dum-Dah-dum-defeat.
Dah-dum-Dah-dum-Dah-hearts-of-
men-Dah-dum.
The paper is unceremoniously ripped
from your hands, and you find yourself
staring into the disgruntled face of a
heavily pregnant woman with babies in
either arm and a Hamleys bag draped
over her shoulder. Her face is flushed
with an otherworldly glow and her eyes
are like tungsten filaments on the point
of incandescence.
“You’re sitting in our seats”
, she
growls.
“But I can’t be,” you calmly point out,
“Look at the...”
Your breath catches in your throat as
you see that the word ‘available’, which
previously hung over your head in the
manner of a protective charm, has van-
ished. It has now been replaced by that
most cruel and dispiriting of words:
‘reserved.’ The writing is quite literally
on the wall. An unreasonably friendly
voice on the PA chooses this moment
to announce:
“The seat reservation data has only
now been uploaded to our on-board
software. We apologise for any incon-
venience caused.”
You flush an unbelievably deep shade
of crimson, and attempt to gather to-
gether all the sections of the Guardian.
You soon dismiss this task as being hu-
manly impossible, and concentrate on
extricating yourself from the situation
as quickly as the limited maneouvring
space will allow. Some agonisingly slow
minutes later, you find yourself standing
in the doorway of Carriage G, trying to
stop the door from giving you a comple-
mentary circumcision whenever it arbi-
trarily sees fit to close. Often, I should
point out, with a large and hairy dog
using various parts of your anatomy for
target practice.
It is experiences such as these that
lead me to wonder what is so appeal-
ing about Heaven if it involves having a
train of seventy-two virgins for the tak-
ing. God knows I’ve taken seventy-two
Virgin trains and I feel as though I’ve
been through Hell.
Possibly the only thing that makes the
English railway system halfway bear-
able is the knowledge that things are
so much worse abroad. In Italy, for in-
stance, where once the trains used to
arrive bang on time and leave, and the
leaders used to fall apart with alarming
frequency, now it is the trains which
regularly fall apart, and the leaders who
arrive, bang on time, and never seem to
leave. Not much of a joke, granted, but
at least the timing was right. Which is
more than can be said for the damned
trains.
In the end, of course, you get to
your final destination. This is assum-
ing that the train is able to navigate its
way through the minefield of obstacles
which include leaves lying on the line,
rogue children stealing lengths of ca-
ble, and the force field around the M25
which attempts to keep the good people
of London safe from the depredations
of the North.
Ah, trains. You can’t live if you miss
them, you can live if they miss you.
Gilead Amit reaches his final destination
“You find yourself
staring into
the disgruntled
face of a heavily
pregnant woman”
S
onitus (n. masc. fourth de-
clension): a sound; pl. soni-
tus (pronounced ‘sonitoos’).
Ejaculare (v.); to throw
out, to hurl, to ejaculate;
ejaculandorum (gerund, gen. plural):
of (the) throwing, of (the) ejaculating.
Hence, sonitus ejaculandorum: the
sounds of ejaculating. Or, more collo-
quially, ‘cum noises’.
After much agitation, I was torn as to
whether or not to write this article, not
least because of the ribald and licen-
tious nature of such a sticky subject.
But it’s clearly an important issue, so
germane to human existence, that it
seemed callous not to have a crack at
it. Still, we are civilised enough that we
can at least substitute ‘cum noises’ with
its proper medical name ‘sonitus ejacu-
landorum’, henceforth ‘S.E.’.
There’s a school of thought that says
that you don’t choose your S.E., that
it is thrust upon you by the vagaries
of nature. I would like to raise a bone
of contention with this view; it sug-
gests that the people who whinny like
horses when they pop the weasel are
in no control of themselves. It implies
that some people are genetically pro-
grammed to squeal like worried guinea
pigs at a church fête while they spend a
creamy penny. To say that their predic-
ament is incurable is to condemn such
people to a life of seeing their sexual
partners cringe mid-coitus every time
they start rehearsing a symphony in
the key of mad cow disease.
Call me a snivelling leftie, but I be-
lieve such people can and should be
rehabilitated.
I hope this article makes inroads into
achieving that aim. Even so, it’s worth
mentioning that prevention is better
than cure. Many of you are in a postion
to cultivate your S.E. from its infancy.
You can act now, before your house-
mates have to buy earplugs to block
out the din of you and a special friend
recreating a radio play of Abu Graib
prison. Ultimately, someone is going
to hear your S.E. and it is best that
they don’t need serious counselling af-
terwards. And if you think it’s bad for
your mate with a wall between you and
your tortuous moaning, imagine what
it’s like for the girl or boy you’re evacu-
ating: your emetic gurgling could be
doing him or her some serious mental
damage.
The first thing to do is to get stuck in
and start thinking about the sort of S.E.
that you would like to hear yourself.
Watch documentaries (porn) and see if
there are any S.E.s that you think you
could pull off. Record some practice
runs on your laptop. Play back your ef-
forts. Does it sound like a rhinoceros
with a giraffe stuck up its bum? Then
it’s got to go. Experiment a bit: try
changing the pitch or the vowels (‘ee’
rather than ‘oo’ for instance). Once
you think you have a winner on your
hands, why not swap mp3s with your
friends on Facebook and ask for their
advice? If they have to listen to you
grunt-bonanza at one in the A.M., the
least you could do is to give them right
of veto over the noise that sounds like a
chimpanzees’ circumcision party.
One mess we must mop up is vo-
cabulary. Of course you may take the
traditional approach, viz. ‘I’m about
to come, I’m going to come! I’m com-
ing! I’m coming! Oh, my God, I’ve
just come!’ While dependable, this is
not exactly love poetry. To spice up
the butter, you could try it in French:
‘Je vais arriver. Je suis sur le point
d’arriver. J’arrive! J’arrive! Sacré bleu,
je suis arrivé!’ (N.B. Grammar: Don’t
say ‘j’ai arrivé’ or you will be a laughing
stock.) Alternatively the German can
carry a more punchy tone: ‘Ich werde
kommen! Ich komme! Ich komme! Ich
bin gekommen!’
Let’s go in a bit deeper: once you’ve
mastered the basics in your chosen
language you can be more adventur-
ous. Instead of: ‘I’m going to come.’ try
‘Here comes the choo-choo.’ Instead of
‘J’arrive’ try ‘J’habite à Croydon et j’ai
un frère et deux soeurs’. There’s not
much time during the victory wail for
much more than an extended vowel,
but for a challenge, try pus-howling
‘Harriet Harman!’ during the Big Bang.
To finish off you could announce: ‘I’ve
just curdled your receptacle.’ With
enough practice you could even build
up to something like this:
‘Ooo, ooo, eee, I’m on the 4:17 from
Portsmouth. ooo, eee, I’ve really got
the wind up me now, aah, eee. I CAN
SEE THE SEA! Ooo, mmm. That’s it.
Mmm, oh. that was good value, urgh,
yeah, I feel like I’ve just had the best
piss ever.’
I.et’s get the creative juices flowing.
David Stewart’s sounds of ejaculation
“I’m about to
come, I’m going
to come! I’m
coming! Oh, my
God, I’ve just
come!”

