8 felix FRIDAY 27 NOVEMBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FEATURED COMMENT
I
raq is as divided as an apple pie.
Arabs and Kurds make up its two
main ethnic groups. A further
religious division puts the Arabs
into the two main camps of Sun-
nis and Shiites. Not too long ago crit-
ics spoke of a ‘civil war’ going on in the
country. Laws are vetoed, deadlines fail
to be met on parliamentary level, infil-
tration into the national police and army
by insurgents still remains. What is to
be the future of such a country? As in-
habitants of Britain, the country which
first ruled Iraq and had a big role in the
creation of the ‘new’ Iraq, we ought to
familiarize ourselves with its future
prospects.
Nearly two weeks ago the controver-
sial election law was passed, paving the
way for national elections in coming
January. The source of the controversy
around the law was the Kirkuk gover-
norate in the north. Under Saddam and
many preceding governments ethnic
Kurds making up the majority within the
city and its surroundings were deported,
in the hope of putting claim to the oil-
rich governorate as one being of ‘Arabic
identity’.
In 2003, after the fall of the dictator-
ship, many Kurds returned back to the
city with the hope of restoring their
lives. Nevertheless, the city’s relatively
dangerous security situation combined
with the neglect of the city’s essential in-
frastructure and facilities such as water
supply and electricity put many original
Kurds from Kirkuk off from returning.
Many thousands more have permanent-
ly settled abroad, with no intentions
of going back. Now, with the tyranny
gone and a new democratic government
system, the Kurds want to incorporate
Kirkuk into their federal region, based
on a referendum in which the city’s in-
habitants can decide their own future.
Unlike general elections here in Brit-
ain, those in Iraq are still very reflective
of people’s strong expression and asso-
ciation with their identity. Sunni Arabs
voting for their Shiite counterparts or
the Kurds voting on either are simply
unthinkable phenomena. It is the re-
sult of many decennia of oppression by
the subsequent Iraqi regimes targeting
communities just because of who they
are or are not.
As a result of people’s votes being
mainly based on identity rather than
ideology, Iraqi politics has indeed been
dominated by the former. There is no
such thing as an ‘Iraqi people’s party’. To
me, this phenomenon underlines that
Iraq is already a much divided country
and in fact has always been so ever since
it was established as a British mandate
in the early twentieth century. The Brit-
ish were quick enough to recognize this
and as a result handed over power to
Iraq’s Sunni Arab minority upon leav-
ing, thus depending on an iron fist rule
to keep the country together. George
W. Bush failed the follow the British in
his understanding of the country’s divi-
sions in 2003.
Why would the international commu-
nity not take the responsibility to call a
stop to daily inter-ethnic and sectarian
disputes, claims of oppression and feel-
ings of insecurity by giving in to the de-
mands of a great proportion of the Iraqi
people, namely far-going federalism or
even independence? The fact is that the
reality on the ground is a much more
complicated issue than it sounds.
Inter-related marriages between
Shiite and Sunni couples will lead to
a new generation that will find it hard
to express a preference for one side or
the other. I know such people and I
am aware of their ‘identity crises’; they
simply term themselves as ‘Iraqi’. In an
ethnically mixed city such as Baghdad
people of various backgrounds have
lived there for generations, often in the
same street or even as neighbours. How
do you divide such a place? Not only is
it not an easy task, but it actually ap-
proaches the extent of being impossible.
The expression of support from
abroad for a continuation of a united
Iraq is immense. Saudi-Arabia is fear-
ful of having an independent oil-rich
Shiite state to its north. Iran, Syria and
Turkey – each with their own Kurdish
minorities seeking self-rule – strongly
oppose the creation of an independ-
ent Kurdish state as neighbour. The
U.S., already highly criticized for hav-
ing gone into Iraq and widely asso-
ciated with failure of its intelligence
and military apparatus, would be even
more humiliated if its initial promise
for a ‘free, united and democratic Iraq’
would turn into an Iraq broken up into
different pieces as a result of the failure
in the practical implementation of the
envisaged democratic system it sought
to bring.
In case a break-up does go ahead, how
will the Kurds and Sunnis cope with
suddenly becoming landlocked and de-
pending upon neighbouring states for
essential supplies or the allowance of
the operation of supply routes? All in
all, it is a very difficult matter indeed.
Would I, born an Iraqi myself, prefer
to have the old regime back instead of
facing all these everyday problems? No,
definitely not. I strongly believe the
Iraqi people are far better off without
the cruel dictator who did not hesitate
to mass murder thousands of his own
people or order the killing of his clos-
est relatives. The Iraqi oil sector is up
and running, but this time instead of
its revenues going to arms and pal-
aces for the dictator, they go to or-
dinary Iraqi citizens struggling on a
day-to-day basis to build up a normal
life free of violence.
Unfortunately, facts cannot deter-
mine Iraq’s future, but instead it is
seen and approached differently by
each and every person. A divided
Iraq, the tendency as a consequence
of the failure of the country ever
since its creation to serve its people
equally and rightfully, is a justified
measure through many eyes.
However, as mentioned before, this
would be a rather difficult and time-
consuming task and will therefore
not be realised anytime in the near
future. After decennia of fatal deci-
sions from outside Iraq that have
come to affect and cause suffering
for the people within it, it is fairest to
conclude that any Iraqi way forward
indeed should be completely in the
hands of the Iraqis themselves.
Free from foreign interference and
manipulation, free from economic
embargos and above all, free from
violence.
Raz Jabary
The future of Iraq

