There have all done well this year even the sportshop.
BOOKSHOP
After a £1000 loss in 1983-84, a £27000 profit was made last year with £5000 being
paid to the four Unions. This year a better return is being expected. Accounts and
stock control arein the process of being computerised.
SPORTSHOP
After two bad loss making years the Sportshop may well show a small surplus this
year. The losses were in many ways due to large amounts of old opening stock from
when the running of the shop was transferred to Union control from the Southside
Shop nearly three years ago. Roy Hicks and Jason Gold are largley responsible for
these improvements and should be thanked for their efforts.
SNACK BAR
This has progressed well this year, with much improved takings, but unfortunately
this has meant longer queques. Ways of alleviating this must be considered as part
of a general refurbishment of the room. Norman and Julie have worked hard and
remained cheerful, despite a high turnover of regular assistants. Yet again they
deserve the highest praise. The part of Senior treasurer has been filled this year by
the appointement of Dr Bob Schroter, a former chairman of the College Refectory
Committee. His imput has been significant already.
UNION BAR
Without a doubt this has been the more time consuming aspect of my job as well as
being the most enjoyable. When we took over the Bar, often a lot of background
work, it was partly due to the commitment of Martin Parsons and the College
appointing Moore Lyttle as manger whilst they were in charge that the changeover
was smooth and largley problem free. We have been extremely lucky in finding two
such dilligent Barmen as Moore and Kevin Buckley. Complaints about the toning
down of excesses have been outweighed by the drifting back of more non-hacks.
Moore's approach has been vital in this aspect,
UNION BUILDING
In a rapid period of change and expansion such as we have experienced this year,
itis inevitable that some parts of an already full job description will have to take a
back seat. Sadly thisyear, the Union Building has not received the attention that it
deserves. Hopefully, Jackie can do better at thisnext year..
NIGHTLINE
Nightline has been threatened with extinction this year, despite the work of Anne
Cox. This has been largely due to a loss of revenue was precipitated by the KQC
merger, Pete Wilson has been liaising between Anne and College and ULU.
However he has recently not been able to spare the time to keep thisup, and I have
taken over. At present I am still trying to secure financing for next year. There is a
possibility that Nightline may move to ULU.
WOMEN'S OFFICER
I was delighted to see this post created, and indeed play a small part in if s creation.
Whilst this post may smack of tokenism, this is an important additon to the list of
officers, especially in a college with so few women students. For it to succeed, a
good first holder of the post was needed. None better than Christine Taig could have
been found. I raised the same issue for the first time this year at G U C in my ULU
presidential campaign. ULU isnow set to follow ICU and this is something that we
should be proud of.
COLLEGE COMMITTEES
By and large decisions are made at College level before these committees meet.
More of these decisions are outlined in other areas of my report or Carl's.
GOVERNING BODY, AND FINANCE AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Governing Body is the ultimate decision making body in College. It is an extremely
polite and very stuffy meeting Quentin and I seriously considered doing the
unthinkable of voicing complete opposition to a paper that had been presented as if
it had ICU agreement. This was the new College disciplinary proccedures, but on
arrival at the meeting a extra paper was tabled which agreed to our proposed final
amendments. F&E is effectively an interim Governing Body. All three of us have
spoken up when necessary at both bodies, equitting ourselves pretty well in my
view.
SAFETY COUNCIL
Very early onin my first meeting of this, Ibegan to wonder what on earth I was there. I
am a Maths Graduate who has hardly set forth in a lab since leaving school. The
question of the Deputy President being ex/officio safety officer must seriously be
recommended when s/he comes from a non-lab orientated discipline.
Accident reports have been dominated as usual by Chemists who either stab
themselves when their pipettes breaks whilst a filler is being attached or obtain a
mouthfulof acid otherwise. Accident reports from Chemists are so common because
of their dilligence in reporting them and the nature of their subject or is it because
Chemists are chumps?
HOUSE COMMITTEE
This is now claimed by a Governor, Peter Foster, and no longer by the Rector. It has
been an effective forum for free discussion. I have quite enjoyed it. This has been
the only effective yet not stuffy, high powered College committee.
CATERING AND CONFERENCE SERVICES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
This is almost totally useless. All too often it is just a forum for Rob Northey and Gill
Davies to bitch at each other in public. John Smith uses it as a way of formally
approving his decisions.
BAR COMMITTEE
I chair this. Basically, with the advent of the CCSMC it has no power, I am trying to
find a new direciton for it.
REFECTORY USER COMMITTEE
Has as much power as the Bar Committee. Simon Perry promtes his views as those
of the committee even when it is united against him. Northey just waffles on for ages
about nothing.
OUTSIDE BODIES
ICU has a habit or trying to be belligerently independent and ignorant of many of
these. I have tried to get to know about a few of the most relevant.
ULU
llmperial College has had a bad reputation within ULU reaching the pits last year
due ot Michael Newman and a Hit Squad. This has changed this year Carl, Quentin
and I get on well with a larger member of officers from other colleges and the ULU
Exec. I have been actively involved at ULU and enjoyed it. As a result I belive that I
have helped make ICU one of its most influential constituent unions. Sabbaticals
from all over the University phone me up to ask for advice or help. This has to reflect
well on ICU. The most obvious example of this was a request by a number of ULU
hacks that I stand for President. After a lot of thought I did stand. One of the reasons
that I lost was a lack of campaigning as I was not prepared to abandon my job, or
studies, for two weeks like most other candidates.
NUS
It never ceases to amaze me how many people around this college pontificate forth
on this subject without knowing what the hell they are on about. Very few people will
deny the need for a national representative body for students. For some people this
justifies open ended subservience. For others the left-wing domination of this
organisation condemns it as a complete waste of time. When I arrived here nearly
five years ago I knew nothing about the arguments for or against NUS, yet
whenever NUS is discussed people who know bugger all about nothing beleive they
are experts. After a year in office I know a lot more about NUS than I realised ther
was to know, yet I remain to be convinced either way. If there is to be a referendum
about this next year I hope that it will be the culmination of a well informed debate.
Don't be fooled by arguments like; These left-wing loonies want to rip you off" or
"We must join because otherwise we are getting the benefits of the NUS without
paying our money".
NSSO
The NUS set up the National Student Services Organisation as a way of taking over
the various student bulk purchasing organisations for their own political ends. NUS
disaffiliates are not allowed to join, but may enjoy the benefits of NSSO on payment
of three times the normal membership. Phil Woolas stated to Jackie and me that this
is to prevent disaffiliation. Ibelieve that this is also intended to force reaffiliation. To
maintain this position, NUS have injected £50,000 into NSSO and created company
with virtually unchangeable rules. So far we have not lost out on any deals. It would
also appear at the moment that ULU is prepared to continue to support us if NSSO
are able to bring pressure upon suppliers to remove or reduce discounts.
Colleagues
Jen, Pat and Kathy; they have coped admirably with our eccentricities and failings
There is no point in saying any more as I would only end up repeating the praise in
previous reports.
Carl and Quentin; we are still friends after a year. I could not have done my job
without the shear hard work of Quentin or the eccentric brilliance of Carl, I cannot
think of one plan or objectivetaken on by ICU this year which has been achieved -
usually because of Carl.
Conclusions
Despite all the hard work and frustration, I have to admit to a sense of acheivement
and enjoyment. It's difficult to see why this is, especially when being Deputy
President is such a thankless job. I wish Jackie all the best for next year.
Hon Secretary
Quentin Fontana
It is not my intetnion that this report be confined to just what I have done but to give
some idea about my views of this union whilst speaking from experience derived
from other Universities I have spent time at.
1 Transport
1 a Administration This year I have introduced a new booking system for weekend
minibus hire with a form being used which is intended to provide more information
than was previously available on random slips of paper. They seem to have
worked fairly well in allowing me to make more efficent use of our own busses,
along with outside hire ones. There have been some quite considerable problems
tough with cancellations and I feel that the general attitude of clubs is very poor,
oarticularly when they try to get me to change the system to give their own club
priority even when they don't really need a minibus.
1b The Union Crewbus Fleet (Italian Minibusses Inc) I have tried to keep all the
busses in reasonable running order and in particular the oldest one (HLO yellow )
on which I have spent quite a bit of money to keep it going as it is cheaper to do so
than to keep selling and replacing with new vehicles. I don't believe that having a
somewhat scrappy bus is any problem as the whole idea of the fleet is to provide a
cheap and basic service without frills. I must however complain about the level of
misuse by students which is a major contribution factor to the short life on the
busses. The fleet will be shortly be increased to five busses which I believe will be
well worthwhile, being three thirteen seaters and two seventeen seaters, this is
something I am doing with an election promise. I must express my thanks to
transport officer Jerry Hasnip for all the help this year in keeping the fleet in
reasonable order.
1 c Outside Hire Buses In general. I have managed with just Budget and
Translocation, with Swan National supplying some early on. There seem to be
problems for next year as Budget Earl's Court are stopping supplying minibusses,
which may result in greatly increased costs so the whole concept may require
looking into. Some of the late cancellations have resulted in a great deal of bad
feeling with the hire companies.
1 d Accidents There has been a general attitude that the Union should be
responsible for all accidents rather than the drivers
2 Insurance
2a Club Equipment At the start of the year there were three different files
containing various inventories of equipment owned by clubs and societies, many
of which were weel out of date and bore very little resemblance to to what was
actually insured. I have now reduced them to one file of up-to-date inventories and
adjusted our policies accordingly. I have had major problems all year with clubs not
supplying me with inventories or giving updates, so it is very possible that that
there is much valuable equipment which is uninsured. Some people are, however,
very good at updating inventories, particularly DramSoc and IC Radio. As hwrite
there are quite a few outstanding claims, many of which I am waiting for
documenation from clubs which most are very slow to provide.
2b Halls of Residence At the start of the year some negotiation, by Carl and myself
resulted in a reduction of the premium from £15 to £7.50 but this is unlikely to be
repeated next year due to an increase in claims and it is possible that the premium
may be increased sharply. At the time of writing I am looking at a new type of
policy.
3 Duplicating Service
3a Duplicating The Union duplictaing service basically consists of a photocopier, a
Gestetner and a typewriter, all of which are available for use by clubs and
societies. The photocopier has given the most problems this year, particularly due
to a complete failure of the auto-paperfeed mechanism., only working when
manually fed. It took ages to get Canon to come and fix it but they did eventually
and, at the time of writing, it is running well. It was during the period of inaction that
the office acquired the second photocopier for office use which I believe Jen and
Pat are finding very useful in that they can use at any time, without waiting for
students to finish with it., this being a major problem with just having the one. The
Gestetner is working reasonably well when in cappable hands but has been
causing a few problems for the less experienced. It is not easy to say why. I have
unfortunately been very lax in cleaning it but I hope to be able to hand over a dean

