Gestetner at the end of June. As far as the typewriters go we have had a
somewhat unsuccessful year as they have proved to be reliable despite replacing
them. At the time of writing the club's one is working although my recent fixing of it
lends me to have grave doubts about ifs reliability. A major change I have made to
the duplicating service has been to move the photocopier from my office into the
main office. I didi this for two main reasons, first to get it out of my office so that I
would be able to work easier without interruptions which are very damaging to a
train of thought and hence make working much more difficult, and also to put it in a
postion where it can be supervised better. I feel that hte move has been
worthwhile.
3b Disposal of junk I have cleaned out a large amount of junk from my office and
the Queen Mum's Poweder room (my store room) so that there is now much more
room to accumulate new junk and useful artifacts. I have also taken quite a few old
minite books down to the college archives, apparently the first time for may years
that this has been done.
3c Stationary Maintaining the Union stacks of stationary basically consists of
5aking a Sainsbury's trolly down to central stores a couple of times a week. This is
a job which takes up a remarkable amount of time, particularly due to opening
hours. I have endeavored to keep a reasonable amount of usable items for various
items, but this has not always been possible.
4 Union Committees
There are many of these that I sit on and a significant number for which I take
minutes. Minute taking and writing up takes a remarkably large amount of time and
I find it very difficult to see the justification in having a paid sabbatical to do this
when it could be easier for each committee to appoint if s own secretary viz MScs
and the Academic Affairs Committee, this releasing the Hon Sec to do more
important jobs as the Union expans ifs sphere of influence and trading, and
changes ifs set up and organisation over the years. I will admit that this may be a
problem for only this year being due to Council's desire for expanded minutes,
•something that has caused Pat and myself a lot of work. I have attempted to keep
the minutes accurate and I feel that I have achieved this, the lack of apparent
corrections being fairly indicative, but I have included the odd joke or personal
comment to try and make them more interesting.
4a UGMs and Exec News This year UGMs appear to have resulted in reasoned
argument for the most part on several issues of direct relevance to IC students.
One thing that I have found somewhat worrying is the way in which, when I put
fairly flippant comments in my report along with serious reports, the only parts
which get questions are the flippant ones. It has as ever been as disappointing to
find that UGMs are inquorate. The challenging of quorum has lead to a great deal
of debate about quorum as a cncept in that many people dont appreciate the
reason for its existence. Quorum exists to protect the Union from having
contencious policies passed by an unrepresentative number of people, any
reduction in the level of quorum would lessen the power of any UGM decision as
well as making UGMs much more vulnerable to the 'block vote' type of tactic from
any pressure group. For the past four years Exec News has been printed in the
FELIX PPrint Unit to provide a better quality publication. I found problems with it
this year due to the rapidly moving events in the first term and also the problems
with Tony, the printer, being off sick at so I reverted to the previous system of
Gestetner printing which resulted in greater flexibility but poorer quality. The
cahnge was for reason of circumstance rather than being a move to change the
system permanently so I don't know what Dave will do next year nor shall I advise
him which way to go.
,4b Council: Council this year has been very fractionated with a very obvious divide
between the FELIX clique and the rest wich has lead to a very unhealthy
atmosphere and a great.deal of bickering. I have had the general impression this
year that Council has been working against the Union rather than for it with a
general opinion that it has tended to concentrate on a couple major items of
business to the almost complete exclusion of other, lesser but still important items.
It was for this reason that, on my recomendation, the Executive decided to split the
January meeting into two halves so that the issue of the proposed FELIX move
would not cloud the other items on the agenda. I feel that this was a success but I
very upset when, at the second meeting, a line was deleted from the minutes of
the first which succinctly summed up the situation at that moment. Another of the
major problems with Council this year has been the officers not submitting reports
in time for them to be typed, duplicated a nd circulated so that other members of
Council have been unable to read them properly and consider the implications of
the items mentioned. It was this point that led to the cancellation of the March
meeting due to there being an aparent lack of business. Subsequent information
has indicated that I was correct to do so.
4c GUC: Over the year I have come to the conclusion that ULU GUC is a complete
and utter waste of time except to visit ULU bar and meet students from other
colleges. It tends to concern itself with far too much petty party political wranglings
with very little actual interest in the direct affairs of students. One thing that I have
found very disturbing is the total lack of respect that the majority of delegates have
for the views anad opinions of others when they differ even slightly from their own
extreme left wing politics. There have been times when I have been very amused
by the complete lack of suss that some delegates have and the way they make
claims without any information to back them up. LSE have been the worst
offenders in this respect but they are not alone.
4d MSCs: Whilst the three sabbbatical officers are full members of the MSCs, their
role is little more than to observe and make sure that they don't act
unconstitutionally. Unfortuantely I haven't been able to attend as many of these
meetings as I would have liked, mainly due to the timings of the meetings, but I
have been reasonably impressed by the professional manner in which they have
been run, credit for this must go to the chairmen.
4e Internal Services: This I feel has probably been the best and most effective of
the minor sub committees this year and was largely responsible for much of the
early work with respect to the Union Bar. Meetings have tended to be long and
fairly verbal but unlike some other committees this verbosity hasn't been confined
to one or two individuals and most of the discussion has been useful and objective.
Much of the credit must go to chairman Alan Rose for making this a very useful
committee.
. 4f External Affairs: This is a total contrast to Internal Services in that it has done
very little as a committee apart from discuss what is on the GUC agenda. This
includes motions which are frequently about issues on which we have no policy as
a Union so voting has to be done at the discresion of the delegate. The EAO has
however tried to force a party line which almost defeats the object of having
elected delegates to GUC. I have rarely bothered to take minutes for this
committee due to there being nothing but G U C discussed and as such make no
apology for not doing so. The worst thing about this committee is that the
Chairman has been dealing with items and campaigns behind the back of the
committee with almost no reference to it. .
dictatorship ,in many ways it has but I make no apology for it as I feel that it is
inevitable when only a couple of people actually know what is going on.
4h Union Finance Commmittee:This showed the usual CCU/MSC divide but I got
the impression that there wasn't the same antagonism as there has been in
previous years with a general air of realism. I am writing this before the May UFC so
my opinion may change greatly then. The permitted expenditure policy statements
were a useful exercise.
5 College Committees: I only sit on acouple of these which is something that I am
extremely grateful for as they are generally very tedious and don't seem to do much
of any consequence.
5a Refectory Users:This is a committee which combines the rantings of Chairamn
Simon Perry with the smooth bullshit of Refectory Manager Rob Northey. It was
noteable that the most constructive meeting that this committee had was the one
when Northey was out of the country.
5b Health Service Users: This is extremely boring and I really dont know why the
Hon Sec sits on it, it was probably due to a bit of delegation a few years ago. I dont
think that most of the members really know what the committee is trying to do and
much of the discussion apears to have been on items which seem irrelevant or
should be dealt with by other committees such as Safety Council.
5c Parking and Traffic: This is a complete and utter waste of time as Security Chief
Geoff Reeves tends to take over and run the meetings despite officially being the
secretay. The most that I can say in its favour is that this committee doesnt meet
very often.
5d Governing Body and F and E: These committees are a complete contrast to the
other College Committees in that they tend to result in reasoned argument and
discussion of many of the issues which are of major interest to the College rather
than being rubber stamp committees. Although it is not easy to make a major
contribution during the meetings, the post meeting lunches are a very useful way of
getting the students views known to some very influential people such as politicians.
6 Parking Permits: I seeem to have managed the allocation of these with ethe
minimum of fuss mainly due to not advertising the appeals procedure meaning that
it was those who really deserved and actually wanted them who got them. Once the
appeals allocation had been made I only had one person complain and they were
first on the short list for reallocation of returned permits anyway, although when one
became available he didn't bother to pick it up. The introduction of the £5 deposit
resulted in some being returned which is at least an improvement on previous years.
7 Elections. The sabbatical elections went off fairly smoothly, although I had a great deal
of difficulty in getting an elections commitee together. In the event it didn't matter, but a
couple of decisions which should have been committee decisions I had to take myself. A
major problem occured with the election rules in that a major change was proposed last
year and went before the elections sub commitee but as there is no record of them being
passed, I had to work with the old rule, which are woefully inadequate. The problem only
came to light after the sabbatical papers had gone up, so there was nothing that i could do
about it. The dep rep elections didn't go off as smoothly, mainly due to incompetent
returning officers, illustrating that there are times when it may be a good idea to delegate
responsibilities. Other elections seem to have been performed with the minimum of fuss.
8 Union Bar. The bar has been a prime target for a Union take over for years, and now we
have it. This has caused me a few problems in a social sense as I feel guilty about drinking
in Southside when I could be increasing the Union bar takings. The main problem is that
the bars are a very good place for officers to meet non 'hack' students, and that limiting
oneself to the Union tends to reduce the contact one has with the general student body
thus limiting the feedback one gets from them, hence making the job of representation
more difficult. It has been a problem I have found very difficult to overcome.
8a Bar Boycott. I was very impressed with the response to the boycott call, and I feel that it
reflected well on IC students that when something is worthwhile and attainable, yet
requires a personal sacrifice, they are preared to make that sacrifice and fight for it What I
was less impressed with was the responce of the Union officers. The Union bylaws state
'the officers of the Union shall be responsible for carrying out the policy of the Union as
determined by a General Meeting.' yet when it came to the picket to enforce the boycott,
apart from the six members of the Executive committee I can only think of three council
members who regularly attended being Alan Rose, Hugh Stiles and Tim Palmer. In my
opinion this lack of committment to the Union was deplorable. I write this six months after
the event so I apologise too anyone whom I have forgotten.
CONCLUSION
So that in my view of my is the year broken up into sections but the question I must now ask
is whether the whole is the sum of the parts. I don't think that it is exactlly and I leave the job
with an impressioon of the whole year rather than a lot of impressions of various parts. So
why did I do it? And would I do it again? Over the year I have frequently been asked why I
took on the job and the usual reply that I have given has been 'I got drunk one nighf.
Before the start of the evening of the Guilds Centenary Barnight it hadn't occured too me
to stand but for some reason, whilst under the inflluence of a couple of halves of shandy, I
let Chris Mason persuad me to stand just for the sake of having an election. I spent nothing
on my campaign, considerably less than Dave who was unopposed, yet I was elected
despite being beaten by A B Stain by 22 votes, i had always intended to resign immediately
if elected but Roger Preece persuaded me to do it so I did. Despite this somewhat
unencouraging start I have no regrets about doing the job apart form it taking up a year of
my life in an activity that will in all probability have little to do with my future career, at my
age every year counts. As far as achievements go, the answer to that question must be
that as I orginally only intended to force an election I achieved that admirably yet I still work
on the job so I suppose that any general achievement over the year must must be
considered. I haven't reality done anything more than what is required in the Hon Sec job
description yet a simple job description only identifies areas of responsibility and the
incumbent man can expand or contract their activities within those areas almost at will. It is
very diffiicult to assess how well one has performed as it is easily possible too convince
oneself that one is doing the work of two people whilst not actually fulfilling one's own
responsibilities so I will have to leave performances as an open ended question for others
to decide on. The question of whether I would do it again is probably the most difficult to
answer as I am now writing with hindsight and feel that I have some idea as to what the job
entails. Again I must leave this as an open ended answer as my reply would usually
depend on my state of mind at the time but I would like to state categorically that my move
to a provincial university is in no way intended to qualify me for a second sabbatical year
nor do I intend doing one. When it comes to fulfilment of election promises I can only think
of two positive points that I raised both during the Hustings questions, the first was that I
would like to see an increase in the size of the minibus fleet something which is currently in
the process of happening, the second was to improve the quality of paper darts at UGMs. I
have made absolutely no effort in this direction apart form supplying more paper for
practise, I humbly grovel and beg forgiveness.
I apologise for the length of this report and also for areas which overlap with Carl and
Dave's reports but I have tried to give my overall impressions of my view as Hon Sec along
with my philosophy of work and professional interactions with colteaguess. I also apologise
if large parts of this report seem like one long complaint, much of it was written in a
somewhat pissed off mood, I cant really hate students that much as I stitil want to spend
another three years amongst them pushing my university career to over a decade in
length.
CREDITS
There are far too many people to thank by name but particularly thanks must go too Jen,
Pat, and Kathy for keeping me sane and putting up with me for a year and to all those
whom I have served on committees who have had to put up with my minutes and appaling
sense of humour.

