It just remains for me to wish the Union (that means all its memberss not just the officers) a
fond farewell and that I hope that Dave and Christine and Jackie has a good a year as I
have just remmber the words attributed to a famous black student leader: 'Bloody
students, they give me so much grrief, they really piss me off.
Academic Affairs
J Martin Taylor
This year has seen the beginning of a process which may (or may not) lead to real
changes in teaching methods at the College. With the arrival of a new Rector, along
with evidence that the College's reputation for teaching is becoming tarnished (as
evidenced by the dramatic fall in the number of applicants), the College set up an
Undergraduate Studies Committee to produce proposals designed to revitalise
teaching. This committee, with its large student membership (which does not
include myself), has spent all year in intense deliberations, and has addressed itself
to all the age-old student complaints about lecturers who can't lecture, too heavy
work-loads, etc. Unfortunately it has not yet produced its first set of proposals, and
although in draft form they look quite radical, I think the present delay is because
they are being watered-down in order to stand any chance of being accepted by
Board of Studies.
It's the same old story - there is always a perfectly good reason why any particular
change shouldn't be made. Everyone agrees on the need for some change, but
whatever is proposed, whilst always a 'good idea in principle', cannot be put into
action because of some over-riding reason. My feeling is that what will eventually be
approved will be token window dressing designed to justify having gone through the
entire process, with the real problems and their potential solutions remaining
unaddressed. Academics are still too stuck in their comfortable ways to make any
hard decisions about the future of higher education, something which I find
profoundly depressing.
COLLEGE COMMITTEES
The most useful committee I attend as AAO is Admissions Policy. The members are
Admissions Tutors who are all interested in students and they are deeply worried
about falling applications. It is unfortunate that their concern has not permeated to
all parts of the College, although I believe it is shared by the Rector.
Board of Studies is a fascinating body. It consists of a very large number of people,
all the professors and many lecturers, and is chaired by the Rector. It is the highest
academic body in College. It makes decisions by consensus, which means in
practice that if what is suggested meets with the Rector's approval it is the
consensus, and if it doesn't it isn't. Occasionally the Rector can't make up his mind
and must judge what the mood of the meeting is. I will treasure the moment when
the Rector, after explaining that votes are never taken at BoS, asked for a show of
hands to 'indicate the feeling of the Board'. BoS is basically a conservative body
which makes any radical change difficult to achieve. Occasionally this works to our
advantage, but more often than not it is a major obstacle to reform.
Other College committees I sit on include Vacation Training which has at last
realised why student reps didn't turn up - they never sent any notifications to the
Union. We are now playing a part in this again. Most discussion is hampered by a
lack of statistics on how many students actually get vacation work through the
College scheme. Careers Advisory has only met once and unfortunately I wasn't
able to attend.
I have also been a member of the Rector's Working Party on increasing the number
of women students. This he set up after setting the ambitious target in his
Commemoration Day speech of doubling the proportion of women at IC by 1992.
This working party, after some initial discussions, has arranged a series of two day
courses for sixth form girls in the summer. This is laudable, but offers little hope of
meeting the Rector's target given the limited numbers involved. Unfortunately the
wider problem is largely outside the College's control, for example only 20% of
Physics A-level entrants are female.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS DAY
This took place for the first time in February, and I believe it was very successful. It
consisted of a speech and discussion with the chairman of the UG Studies
Committee, Prof. Blow, training exercises and discussion of Academic Affairs policy.
I am glad that I have been able to start up what I hope will be a regular annual event
which should improve the Union's Academic Affairs work. Ideally the event will be
held early in the session, and I believe my sucessor is already arranging it for the
autumn term.
ALTERNATIVE PROSPECTUS
The AAC decided in the autumn term that it was unhappy with the decision not to
produce an AP this year. The decision was bad for a number of reasons - the
previous AP was seriously out of date, and was never intended when it was
produced to cover two years; the idea that schools will keep the old editions for
another year is unrealistic. In addition there is the argument that it is an important
function of a student union to provide a student view to potential applicants to the
College. Unfortunately the Union took a narrow financial view of the AP.
I decided therefore to get the College to pay for the AP, since it is after all part of the
College's overall recruitment effort, and a good AP is likely to encourage the right
people to choose IC. I won the support of the Admissions Policy Committee and the
Rector's Working Party on Women Students, but unfortunately time ran out before
the matter could be raised at a high enough level. I feel that we would have been
successful in obtaining the £2500 we needed if there had been any support from the
President, with his access to the Rector. Unfortunately, for convoluted reasons,
various people including Carl Burgess decided they didn't want an AP this year and
remained resolutely opposed to the idea even if College agreed to pay for it. It
seems there are people prepared to oppose any idea simply because I'm in favour
of it - but then that's student politics.
IC UNION
This has been the worst year for the Union in the seven years I have been a student
here. We have undoubtedly the most incompetant, lazy and inexperienced
leadership' that I have ever seen. They have succeeded in dividing the few active
members of the Union as never before, and reducing interest in and respect for the
Union amongst its members to a new low. Fortunately, the College realise that this is
a one year problem and it hasn't affected their view of the Union too badly. But it is
impossible for the Union to expect to take on more responsibility when there is
always the threat of another year like this one. The lesson to all members of the
Union is clear - if you elect joke candidates to top jobs in the Union, then you will get
a Union which is itself a joke.
J Martin Taylor
Internal Services
Alan Rose
Section A: Trading Outlets
1. The Union Snack Bar
This outlet has consolidated its position after a very good first year and should
return a larger surplus this year.
Space has continued to be the root of most problems, the main two being the large
slow moving queues at peak periods and the lack of space to sit down and eat at
these times. To streamline the point of sale it is hoped that an additional microwave
oven and an extra till will be introduced by the start of the new year.
Expansion into the area of externally sold food production (eg providing rolls for the
bar) has increased productivity without a POS bottleneck overhead but has
necessitated the introduction of an additional employee. As the associated
preparation work takes place in the morning, student casuals are generally
unavailable. Suitable external candidates proved difficult to attract, eventually
resulting in the arrival of an ex-IC student who had time on his hands. Whilst Pete
Hartley has done a great job, he may be resuming his "studies" at some stage and
so we will be stuck with the same problem again.
Although the Wednesday evening opening was hardly a howling success, it did not
lose any money and is indicative of future bar/snack bar policy which will hopefully
involve both outlets working together.
2. The Book Shop
After the £1000 deficit of 1984, the 1985 surplus of £27000 showed that the
problems were temporary, a fact born out by the recent half-yearly accounts which
indicate that the shop should show an improved performance this year.
The bookstalls organised by Mr Hicks, the shop manager, for the various
conferences that have taken place at college this year have continued to be
successful.
Because of the fact that much of the shop's stock is dictated by the booklists
submitted by members of academic staff, the stock levels and hence the shop's
financial fluidity can often be adversely affected by thoughtlessly cobbled together
lists. This will always be a problem but it appears to have caused less damage this
year than last.
Like IC Union itself, the Book Shop is poised to move into the computer age. An
accounting package is in the process of being intoduced and hopefully a stock
control package will be implemented before the start of the next academic year.
Jason Gold of the finance section has produced much invaluable work to aid this
project as well as all of the new technology will be to liberate the shop's
management staff from a lot of tedious paperwork, enabling them to explore such
areas as sales to outside organisations like technically based firms and other
colleges which is the only way forward as internaj sales reach saturation point.
3. The Sports Shop
Contrary to some of the ill-informed piffle in sabbatical election publicity last term,
the Sports Shop looks set to return a small profit this year after last year's small loss.
It is true to say that the shop still has outstanding debts from some time ago and it
will certainly need some form of re-vamp in the not too distant future.
At the beginning of the year, one of the shops main suppliers went out of business.
The fact that this company was NUS recommeded is entirely consistent with that
organisation's attitude towards trading which has always been little short of
cretinous. The shop has pulled through well and new suppliers have been found.
The business has undergone a certain amount of streamlining this year with stock
levels being reduced and opening hours being adjusted to meet demand.
4.The Union Bar
The January takeover of the Bar was brought about by a quite excellent popular
response to the boycott and a great deal of discussion and haggling both within the
Union and between the Union and College.
Although the end .result was inevitably imperfect the financial and administrative
implications of the takeover were moulded into a workable format. This was greatly
aided by;
a) A lot of hard work and investigation by Sabbatical officers, (particularly from Dave
Kingston)
b) Co-operation and advice from the Refectory system, (particularly from Martin
Parsons).
c) Informed and constructive criticism from Union Officers, (particularly from Nick
Shackley).
d) Help and advice from other student bars (particularly from ULU).
And was hindered by;
a) Ill-informed destructive criticism from Union Officers (particularly from Gren
Manuel)
b) ill-conceived badly worded takeover agreements.
Since the takeover the bar's takings have shown a steady increase up to a point
where they are now on a par with last year's performance. A few minor
administrative hassles have come to light but should soon be ironed out.
This has been greatly aided by;
a) The hard work and patience of Union staff (particularly Jen, Mooore and Kevin)
b) Most of the bar's customers.
And has been hindered by;
a) Very bad attitudes from some 'customers' (most of whom have been from rugby
clubs but I'm sure this is a coincidence)
SECTION B NEW DEVELOPMENTS
1. Machinery
Pete Wilson decided that the Southside Bar toilets needed a Durex dispenser. This
was installed last term and appears to be doing good business. Whether he thinks it
is still a good idea after all peurile jokes he has had to endure over the last few
months is another matter.
I investigated the possibilty of installing a stamp machine and to this day I am
waiting for Automated Postage Services Ltd to iron out problems with their
machinery.
The idea of asking one of the High Street banks to install a Cash Point on campus
was mooted. Lloyds were originally interested but after prelonged discussions with
their development department, the College Secretary, the Finance Section and the
Mech Eng Departmental Superintendent, Lloyds finally pulled out.
2. Refurbishment
In order to attract more students into the Union Building, it was decided that the
roomm which now houses both the Union Snack Bar and the Union Lounge Bar
should have a major facelift. This should make the room much more functional as a
snack bar and make it somewhere where people can come for a quiet drink inn the
evenings. Over the last couple of months Dave Kingston and I have a good idea of

