what is required, and how much the Union can afford to spend. The most important
thing is to get the work done in time for the start of the new year.
Sector C non Union Services
1 Haldane Library
The record librarian refused to put a record bought by the Union's buyer into the
collection as she considered that the title of the artist was offensive. This
precipitated along discussion at ISC about moral responsibility and the librarians
right of veto on records purchased by the Union's buyer withthe Unions money
which are intended for predominantly student ears. At the time of writing this position
has not been resolved.
2. Southside Bar
The new Food Bar has been a great success. It has not harmed the Union's food
trade and provides good quality food at reasonably prices (but you knew that didn't
you). I hope that I speak for everyone when I express IC Unions appreciation of
Roger Pownall's acheivement.
3 Refectories
The quality of the food on offer showed some improvement immediately after the
new Refectory manger took over but seems to have done little since. There is still a
long way to go.
SECTOR D THE COMMITTEE
At the start of the year the committee seemed to be suffering from a lack of direction
and purpose. Although it obviously became very preoccuppied with the bar issue, I
feel that it now has the correct structure for the future; divorcing itself from the nitty
gritty of management and setting itself up with the responsibility for the
development, publication and interaction of Union Services.
Alan Rose
PG Affairs
Gareth Fish
Since being cajouled into this job by Carl and Chris in July I must say that I have
enjoyed myself although at times I have felt dispondent about the lack of
involvement of PG s in anything other than work or section/laboratory socialising.
Small amounts of within departmental socialising has been organised. The lot of the
PG at IC is a strange one and varies from section to section, department to
department. Workload varies social life is different. I would like to thank Gareth
Edward -Jones for his work at Silwood and to thank Chris Martin (Treasurer) and
Helena Bramwell for their contributions this year.
1 Council: I have attended all meetings this year and felt that I have some
contribution to make to the general well being of the students that I represent and
also adding to the discussions giving the benefit of my 4.5 years at College.
2 Bored Of Studies: Although I have missed the last two meetings due to being
elsewhere in the first instance and representing the College at cricket in the second,
I feel that I have learned a great deal about who runs College and I have raised a
couple of important points about things in general at College. The next important
thing is to make sure that representatives attend the BOS on 25/6/86 as it is at the
final BOS of the year that the College always puts through devious course changes
etc with the Union being unable to stop them.
3 Graduate Studies These meetings tend to last for 2.5 hours and are sometimes
rather tedious. Lots of things of importance to both MScs and PhDs come up and I
have always got my oar in on any matter that affects Postgrads. Ted Brown and the
other academics as well as Messers Mee and Wheatly are friendly and I always get
more than my fair share of biccies.
4 Bar Committee I am the Council representative on this and for the last 15 months I
have been secretary. Unfortunately this committee does not meet as often as it
ought and subsequently things that need doing and decisions by the committee,
except price decisions, take several months to implement. One of the problems with
BC is that the refectory manager does not turn up so it almost impossible to get him
to answer to any of his misdeeds. Hopefully my two recommendations of 9/12/85 will
go some way towards preventing the farce of the price increases of last
October/November. If Council agrees then I would like to continue to represent the
Union on this committee as I feel I have plenty to offer the Union on the bar front.
5 UGMs I have been to the start of all the UGMs and think that I have continued to
contribute useful things to all those UGMs I have stayed to the end of. The last one
ended on a very sour note with there almost being a fight between the left and the
right over the Barclays motion. The problems here lies in the apathy of the ordinary
student who fails to attend and the meetings only become a political football after
the sabbatical elections. The vast majority of students at IC don't care about World
Politics, Nicaragua, Barclays Bank, or if they do they are too apathetic to do anything
about it. Until IC UGMs contain material of relevance to ordinary students they won't
bother coming.
6 Internal Services Committee I have attended most of these (when notified) and
have hence contributed usefully to the running of the Union Bar (see Union Bar).
7. Beer Festival This is an important Rag Event and should continue to be
sponsored by the Union as the potential of raising £1 k is there. All that is required is
someone will a pasion for beer { good real ale) to step forward and run the festival
next year. There is some doubt about the siting of next year's Beer Festival on
account of the work in the JCR and MDH. It may well have to take place in the Union
Building. As ever I will contribute as much as I can to the running of this event.
8 Union Bar I was involved in the Boycott. I did attend/man the picket lines and
actively discouraged others from using the bars. I was invloved in the takeover of the
bar at all stages and enjoyed the battle with college. Mr Northey ought to be
castigated for his employment of Mr McVee. It left the bar in poor state for the
Union's subsequent takeover. For the first two weeks before Kevin Buckley's
employment I was quite happy to be the cellarman and enjoyed the work. Since then
I have been watching the progress of the bar and am pleased with the progress.
9 PG Group this has not been very successful due to the failure of the PG's to turn
up to the ploughman's lunch and the Valentine's party. On a college wide scale the
group is doomed to failure but organised departmental^ could be and is more
successful depending on departments.
10 PG women Sam Chittendan has been co-opted as the Women's PG rep and
hopefully will not have had much to do as PG Womens Officer.
11 PG Appeals for several weeks I was presued by an MSc student who failed his
degree, appealled, was deemd to have failed again, and spent three months seeing
everybody he could repeatedly so as to try and get his degree. The Civ Eng
department, the registry, Prof Sayers, and myself have gone out of our way to to
help him and we hope in the end he will resit and get his degree.
12 IC Cricket Club I have been Hon Sec of this club and have put a lot of time into
organising things and hopefully we should (weather permitting), be rewarded with a
good season.
13 Summary On the whole I have enjoyed my time as PG AAO and if anyone of you
PGs out there is thinking of doing the job please come and see me. Of the above all
that needs to be done is 1,2,3 and 9. Overall I have enjoyed my time, as ever, and
will still be here til September 1987.
Pub Board Chairman
Hugh Stiles
To take the publications in turn:
FELIX; This year has seen a very bold move by the editor in totally revamping FELIX
and attempting to drag it into the mid 1980's. Although not universally popular, the
successes (and failures) of the new look FELIX should give next year's editor a firm
base from which to work.
After last year when the student staff level fell to an all-time low, the student effort on
FELIX has increased substantially with an almost completely new set of staff having
been trained up over the year. Many of these people will be around next year and so
a higher standard of production from early on may be expected.
Finally of course, there is the FELIX move; arguments for and against it abound, and
I believe that only time will tell whether the move is a good thing or not.
IC Radio; Beset initially by internal divisions, the radio station has settled down into a
smooth running rytnem, with almost too many erstwhile presenters to be
accomodated.
The refurbishment of the Southside studio has moved very much further on this
year with the new mixer desk fast approaching completion. Attention is now being
turned towards making Northside into a viable studio. The idea of 'Community
Radio' still skirts the fringes of the IC Radio consciousness but as yet nothing can be
done.
STOIC; This has run very smoothly indeed and, certainly from my position, appears
to run with a calm professionalism that gets the job done and still leaves time to look
to the future.
That future has started to take shape this year with the first steps on the way to
making the studio in RATT a viable alternative to the College studio. Plans have
been proposed for the necessary partitioning and soundproofing and an edit suite
has been obtained at a favourable price from the College TV studio.
Handbook; Generally well received this year although subjected to perhaps unfair
criticism from certain parts of the Union for too great a use of editorial freedom.
The question of how to distibute to overseas freshers is still an unresolved problem
as the bags of unclaimed Handbooks in Quentin's office testify. Sorting this out
before next October must be a priority for the new Hon. Sec.
Phoenix; At one stage going through editors like they were going out of fashion, the
Phoenix has ended up in the lap of Chris Edwards who, I am sure, will do a very
capable job.
This year the magazine is being printed 'in-house' and is now targetted for its main
sales in October rather than the late part of the Summer term.
It is regrettable that the changes in editorship nothing something special could not
have been arranged for this, the 100th year of the Phoenix.
AP; At the end of last year it was decided to extend the print run on the AP in order to
save money this year by not printing one.
As this year wore on, more and more dissatisfacton with that decision came to the
surface until attempts were made to find the funding for a new AP for this year.
It was suggested to College that they should fund the AP since it was essentially a
part of the recruitment propaganda rather than a publication for consumption by
Union members.
In spite of the fact that an editor was elected to oversee the AP ( be it a full issue or
just a supplement) over a very foreshortened timetable, College were unable to
come up with the money.
It is unfortunate that the very best efforts of the two keen people involved, should
have come to naught in this manner.
PG Handbook; To my sorrow this did not appear. Not one postgraduate felt they
could edit it for the benefit of future and potential postgraduates.
Sometimes I wonder why the Union bothers doing anything for postgraduates.
On a more general level I have been very tied up in my research this year and to a
certain extent I have been a 'caretaker' chairman rather than the 'new broom' I set
outtobe.
However, to my surprise, with the exception of placing orders, I have found that Pub.
Board operates very well with just gentle guidance required from the top, and credit
must go to the constituent parts for the responsible attitudes they adopt.
• Financially things are not looking too bad, this being the first year without carryover
the guessed at 15% contingency could have been too low. However, it seems as if
the matter was judged just right.
My thanks to Steve, Pete, Judith and to all the members of Pub Board all of whose
maturity in discharging their responsibilities took a lot of potential pressure away
from me when I could least have coped with any difficulties.
Thanks Pub Board-I wish all MSC's were like you.
H.N.S.
Rag Chairman
John Ingham
Monopoly and tiddlywinks at the start of the year both went very well and I
recommend the same form again next year. The two collections in Rag Week and
the Leapfrogging last term were less successful. I have obtained a list of licences for
the whole of next year so at least we can now plan which licences to use in advance.
Rag Week

