This generally went well but publicity on both our part and that of the CCUs was bad
and we suffered from a lack of attendance at a lot of events. 1 wish I could have had
a publicity officer as keen as Nick Shackley. The only new event was the Hypnosis
lecture which went very well despite poor publicity. Apart from this all the events
other than the street collections and carnival were better organised than before and
raised more money. On a personal note I thought that Morphy Day was great fun
and was the highlight of rag week.
Rag Mags
I hope that Jelly produces something that is not as sick as this year and I wish him
lots of luck. We only ran a couple of tours to other London colleges (which I did not
go on) and most of the rag mags were sold at the beginning of term and on the RCS
trip. One reason for this being that the printer only let us have a couple of hundred at
a time. Next year's committee should think about producing more which could be
sold with a few trips in the first term.
Parachuting
A good idea of Judith Hackney's which unfortunately suffered from lots of cock-ups.
We should still have raised about £2000 from it. Our Valentine's Day Milk Tray
message idea didn't go so well, Hugh Southey's mum being the only person to take
advantage of it. All the rest of my ideas such as Beit pancake races were
conveniently forgotten about.
Rag Fete
This was organised very well by Man Tai with a little bit of help from myself. The
party worked out very well and most people got extremely pissed. Carl was already
pissed at 9.00am on the same morning and was extremely obnoxious to Anne
Diamond. Anne Diamond did not wear Tony Spencer's jumper on TV-AM.
General Comments
This year we have raised about £13,000 (+ £5000). Next year's charities are
National Deaf Children, Cancer Research, RADAR, Brain injured children and a
local group of Mencap. We are not supporting any African charities so go and run in
Hyde Park for Sport Aid.
I would like to wish the best of luck to Man Tai and hope all the VPs get involved in
Rag Committee, bring their friends along and make the chairmans job a lot easier. I
have enjoyed my year but wish that people would realise there is a limit to what you
can do. I would probably have done a lot more if I hadn't got pissed off half way
through the first term due to excess hassles.
RCC Chairman
Tim Palmer
This year for RCC has gone well, the RCC Exec has worked well, with Peter Hill, the
Vice Chairman running the accounts smoothly on and giving a helpful second
opinion. Simon Seward, Jerry Hassnip andd Richard Collcott have all helped keep
the committee running smoothly. Frank Potter, RCC Hon Senior treasurer, has
been invaluable as ever.
The clubs have had varying success this year, a lot depending on the personalities .
and drive of people in them. A successful club generally has a hard working
chairman and committee.. During the year, we lost Brewing Society due to lack of
interest. Chinese Chess Soociety joined RCC just before Christmas, providing us
with a new and different club. Astrosoc's committee haave requested to be
transferred back too RCSU next year and Simon Redlich, RCSU President and I
have agreed on this. Therefore next year, RCC will have only 28 clubs under its
control rather than the 29 I have had this year.
As for the other clubs, Keep fit have had a very successful second year with
membership almost double that of last year. Dance, and Billliards and Snooker
have some pleasing successes in competitions, with Dance also expanding their
range of lessons. Canoe and Caving this year have produced two potentially
exciting expeditions to the Karokoram and the Rockies respectively which give
some indiccation of the high degree of expertise in these and other RCC clubs.
Financially this year has been tight. With care having to be exercised thoughout the
whole range of RCC finance. Next year, the same is going to be true. Although if
UFC gets its way we may lose certain clubs which the 'Union' believes spend too
much. This I believe is a very dangerous approach to take especially as we then
have to prioritise our expenditure. This is NOT possible inn an organisation like the
Union which provides a sservice. I also believe we are still living in a 'land of milk and
honey' to some extent compared to the 'real' world, therefore everyone could take
the cuts needed with attacking certain clubs.
I have enjoyed my year as RCC chairman and wish my successor and his Exec luck
with the next year. Success will as always depend on people rather than money.
SCAB Chairman
Nick Shackley
The past year has seen a maintenance of the Board's activities with pleasing
growth by a number of The Board's constituent clubs, despite continuing financial
pressure. I shall briefly detail the activities of The Board's societies.
The Chamber Music Society has not been active this year and its exact role in the
musical activities of students remains unclear. However, the recent appointment of
Richard Dickens as 'musician in residence' by the College should aid its
emergence next year. The Debating Society has held fewer debates involving
outside speakers and has therefore been less visible to the general student
audience but the involvement of its members in debates and the introduction of
debating workshops has proved succesful and popular.
The Dramatic Society has been as active as ever with three major productions and
SCAB Nite being performed; two radio plays have been produced for broadcast on
IC Radio, which have ensured the involvement of most members interested in
acting. The 1985 tour to the Edinburgh Festival proved succesful; with no major
difficulties being encountered either in the running of the theatre venue (Theatre
West End), which involves considerable organisation throughout the year, or in the
performance of the Society's three plays.
The reformed Jazz Club has emerged this year and the efforts of a few in getting
the Club off the ground have been most succesful. Bands using the Club's facilities
have performed at SCAB Nite, Rag and RCS parties, as well as providing music in
the Union Bar, and the Club has organised a couple of its own gigs in the Lounge.
Also, a Big Band has been formed and is practising regularly. The Operatic Society
enjoyed its traditional success with their February show, as well as performing at
Christmas and at Easter. The tour to Devon, completely self-financing, went very
smoothly with good houses for all performances. The help and cooperation of last
year's Tour administrators has been most useful in sorting out the perennial VAT
problems.
The Choir has maintained its activity over the previous year with well-attended
concerts at Christmas and Easter, the installation of an organ in the Great Hall
being a major asset to them. Some difficulties in their intensive rehearsals,
essential for sufficient paractise, have resulted in lower attendences. The
Orchestra has seen improved attendances at its Christmas and Easter concerts,
not least due to the hard work of their committee, and the joint concert at Easter
with the Choir was a highlight and notable success for both parties.
All SCAB societies participated in SCAB Nite which was attended by about 200
people this year. Autumn is always a busy term for the SCAB clubs and I am most
grateful to all concerned for their efforts.
The hiring out of projectors and PA by the Executive continue with usage
remaining broadly the same as the previous year. These items have remained a
source of hassle and the loss by Ents of the PA speakers at the beginning of the
Autumn term left Jazz Club in a difficult position just when it was getting off the
ground. The maintenance of this equipment is expensive and costs are barely
being covered at the moment.
The Board now oversees six accounts and a degree of coordination is necessary,
particuarly when sorting out the end-of-year VAT and returnable balance
payments. I am grateful to Malcolm Walker of Finanace Section for his help in this
area but it will take a couple of years for The Board to get used to this new role and
the help of the individual treasurers, which has been excellent this year, will always
be required. The computerisation of the SCAB account has proved successful
although the lack of a computer in the Union Office has complicated matters
somewhat; this will be remedied next year, I understand. The new, separate
accounts for the Choir and Orchestra have proved successful, fully justifying the
decision of the two commitees to go ahead with the change. The existing
proposals regarding next year's funding by the College of Choir and Orchestra are
most unsatisfactory and this issue will continue to be persued by the The Board
until a fair and appropriate allocation is made.
During the last two years, I have represented the Union on the newly formed
College Music Commitee. Overall, I have been impressed with the willingness of
this commitee to tackle the basic problems faced by the musical societies in the
College. However, the commitee must not be reticent in dealing with the financial
situation regarding College funding to musical activities. The belligerence of any
one individual must be overcome to ensure a satisfactory outcome for all parts of
music at the College.
Finally I would like to thank all members of The Board for their time and help over
the past year. Financial pressure, from all quarters, and the difficulties of
coordinating all our financial activities is not at all easy and their interest and
. support has been essential and very much appreciated. In particular, I would like
to thank Dr Don Munro for his work as Orchestra staff treasurer, a post he is,
regrettably, giving up this year and the SCAB executive. In particular, I am
indebted to The Board's senior treasurer, Professor Bill Wakeham, for a sense of
humour, an adroit signature and two years of amusing Thursday lunctimes.
Welfare Officer
Pete Wilson
"Dave Kingston has been largely useless as a Deputy President". Recognise this
phrase? It is the one which Dave Kingston used to describe my work for the Union
over the last year. Neither statement is very constructive.
I think I can best report my actions as Welfare Officer this year by answering
Dave's critisisms. Of course during the year, my first as a Union Officer, I have had
my short comings, but then even Sabbaticals have short comings.
Dave critisises my ideas as being ill thought out, and with no realistic idea of
funding. Each year the Union receives a quarter of a million pounds from College.
Do you think spending an extra £200 pounds a year on a more effective rape
alarm, to be given free to women students, is ill thought out. Do you think spending
a few pounds a week on a minibus service to take students from the 'campus' to
the head tenancies, after the bars have closed, is a waste of your money? Dave
Kingston, and the other sabbaticals, refuse to even consider either of these ideas.
I spent a lot of time in the second term attempting to find a solution to the 'Nightline
Crisis'. The problem, simply, is that the funding has collapsed, and Imperial
College ( not the Union ) has kept it going for the last year. I wrote to every
Sabbatical of every ULU College, and to every student newspaper, pointing out
the situation, and asking for money or publicity. However Colleges and Unions
were, at the time, unwilling to come up with the thirty pence, per student, which
would enable Nightline to survive.
Anne Cox, the Nightline director, and I approached the Rector and the College
Tutor, who both agreed that the bottom line was Nightline is a valuable Service,
which should not be allowed to collapse. As the solution to the problem is obviously
London wide, and as I had exams looming, I left the situation in the more than
capable hands of the ULU president.
Finally I would like to thank Anne Cox, Leslie Gillingham, and everyone else at
Student Services, on behalf of the Union, for their hard work. I would like to wish
Dave Kingston the best of luck in his career outside of college.
An afterthought; if you're interested enough to have read this far, then you will
probably have read the sabbatical reports as well. You should take them all with a
pinch of salt, as it seems that Carl, Dave and Quentin have indulged themselves in
mutual back-slapping, and a fair degree of back stabbing. Did you really want
these children running your Union. Roll on next year

