Dio Hammersmith Odeon
13th May 1986
Rainbow, Black Sabbath-all
the way back to the Electric
Elves in 1957, Ronnie
James Dio has seen it all.
But have we? Well, yes
would have been my
answer to this, having seen
the repetitive rubbish that
is paraded as 'Rock' music
these days. But as Ronnie
has been in the business so
long and has provided me
with so many hours of
listening pleasure in his
various guises as heavy
rock's most experienced
entrepreneur, I decided to
give DIO a second chance,
having seen them in
Newcastle two years ago.
The venue Hammy odeaon,
the time-well I thought it
was 7.30 but in fact it
seemed to be anytime in
1520 once they had started
KEEL. The support group,
led a reasonable if
pretentious start to the
evening. But it was DIO
that we were waiting for
and what a start! Straight
into the King of Rock and
Roll, beaty and bouncy and
all you'd expect from a
rock and roll band. But the
stage set had to be seen to
be believed! A medieval
castle, one roaring dragon,
an awful lot of photen
debauchern and we were
into the most amazing
stage set I've ever seen.
With the drums kit hoisted
high into the castle turret,
and the keyboards on the
other side, the lighting
complimented both in a
hitherto unimagined display
of space production. Dio
himself was powerful and
seemingly unfettered by the
nigh-on 50 years of his life
whilst the new guitarist,
Craig Goldie, dazzled us by
effortless fits of virtuosity.
The lighting developed into
lasers during 'Don't Talk to
Strangers', which itself led
into an immense display of
drumming talent.
Accompanied by laser and
strobe effects, by Jinnie
Appic, one of Rock's most
experienced and competant
drummers. Solid support
was offered throughout by
bassist Jimmy Bain, whilst
keyboard player Claude
Schnell seemed to make
tinkling the ivories as
simple as falling asleep.
Which none of us were
doing! The Dragon
breathed fire, smoke and
lasers from the eyes, and
the show went from
strength to strength Ronnie
eventually defeating the
dragon with an amazing
laser work. Heaven and hell
original by Black Sabbath,
I and Long live rock and
\\ Roll, the Man on the Silver
mountain, originally by
Rainbow (both with Duo as
a member, of course, led
the show to a fitting end
with We rock which
everybody seemed to be
doing. We rock? We did,
and if Duo sticks around,
we will be for year to come!
Back In The DHSS
Most students will at some time claim some form
of benefit from the DHSS. In most cases this will mean
filling out some seemingly endless form, waiting a lot
and then eventually recieving a giro. To many people
the exact means by which the amount on the cheque is
arrived at will seem mysterious, occasionally it will seem
wrong. It is possible you may find yourself told you are
not entitled to benefit at all. Now while there are carefully
defined and arbitrary methods by which benefits are
assessed mistakes are sometimes made. In which case
where do you stand ?
Until recently I was probably as much in the dark
as anyone else, but last September I found myself
disqualified from claiming Supplementary benefit for four
weeks between finishing a temporary job and returning
to college. Puzzled by the decision I decided not to let
the matter rest and so wrote off to the address given for
the leaflet about appealling. It now seems that the results
of this may be relevent to other people this summer.
Although ultimately I still find myself with no
money it was a useful experience to find how the appeal
system works. The first and most important point to
make is that by appealing you have nothing to lose and
everything to gain. The first stage is that a D H S S
employed adjudicating officer re-considers the claim.
This will result in a letter within a few weeks either
awarding you benefit or, more likely it seems, upholding
the original decision. With this comes a further set of
instructions about what to do if you still disagree.
Generally you will find all sorts of obscure paragraphs
from benefit regulations quoted at you. Although these
may seem rather difficult to relate to your particular
circumstances they will probably be fairly standard
clauses which have become well used to cover all sorts
of cases. If you want to find out what the D H S S are
really trying to say it is best to take your case along to
someone with experience of these matters. This doesn't
have to cost anything, the Citizens Advice Bureau is one
possibility. Better stiff, if you are in college, Student
Services Welfare Adviser, Lesley Gillingham, is
available to help with problems of exactly this nature.
The second stage of appeal is a Tribunal and
after consultation I decided to go along and find out what
one is like despite the fact that my chances of success
were actually rather minimal given the facts of the case.
A Social Security Tribunal is not like a law court, in fact I
found the whole thing to be very informal. The tribunal
itself is composed of three laymen who are entirely
independent from the D H S S , they have a clerk who
takes care of all the paperwork and who also met me
outside beforehand and explained the procedings.
There was a single representative for the adjudicating
officer who basically read out the papers I had
previously been sent.
Tribunal hearings can be open to the public (you
are asked whether you mind about this before the date
of the hearing) but from my experience this is not really a
mass spectator sport. More importantly you can take
along someone to advise you or speak for you. In some
cases Lesley Gillingham is able to assist students at
tribunals, however in my case the hearing was held in
the town where I had worked and was beyond the scope
of this service. You are not obliged to attend a tribunal
but it can only pay you to do so. You will not be out of
pocket as you are paid travelling expenses and there is
also a (modest) meal allowance if you are obliged to be
away from home for longer than a certain time. It is in fac
possible to have a hearing transferred to a more
convenient place if you have moved to another address
since your claim, for instance back to college.
When it came to my turn the chairman of the
tribunal was quite chatty about the whole affair and even
asked me what I planned to do when I left college at the
end. It transpires that the way I became caught by the
system is quite common and hence worth noting if you
have a job this summer. When you are paid monthly in
arrears the D H S S will in fact assess your salary as
covering a month after the date you are actually paid.
Hence I found that despite being out of pocket between
starting work and getting my first pay cheque I was not
entitled to dole money for sometime after I officially
stopped working. So this is a cautionary tale, but at the
same time it carries an urge to never give up because it
is always possible that you might be lucky and find a
tribunal who look sympathetically on you.
Finally it is important to remember that the
benefit system is not some hideous conspiracy against
you but is staffed by perfectly average people just doing
a job, it is up to you to make sure it works in your favour
and not against. My case provides just one example; I
was not aware until told at the tribunal that it is possible
to continue claiming supplementary benefit after starting
work for a period of up to 15 days or until you are first
paid. This is equivalent to about £ 5 0 and is an
entitlement rarely pointed out.
16 Friday 16 May FELIX

