Annual Reports
President
Carl Burgess
The Annual Report of the ICU President
Introduction
This has been year of many changes ranging from a new Rector in the driving
seat to a new Refectory Manager and all the ensuing events caused by this.
This report is an account of the year and includes my opinions on the Union
and the College.
With only a year to achieve anything it is very difficult to promote change
yet I feel that this year we managed to keep the Union dynamic and on its
toes. This has led to severe criticism of myself and my fellow sabbatical
officers by people who would rather see the union remain unchanged.
Many people have also commented on and criticised my behaviour as
President, thinking that I should act in a holier-than-thou manner to the
everyday student. To those I say that I do not agree with them and refuse to
pretend to be someone I am not. The Handbook said 'This is your President,
what have you let yourself in for?' Those who elected me knew what to
expect, those who didn't bother to vote have only got themselves to blame.
The Union and Its Committees
UGMs
This year again there has only been one quorate UGM, the first one. This is
very disappointing as it is supposed to be the sovereign body of IC Union and
hence creates policy which affects all students at this college. Many people
who did turn up were not interested in what the sabbaticals were doing but
only in motions pertaining to the Rag Mag, Women's Officer, Barclay's Bank,
Nicaraguan Coffee etc and leaving once their motion had been heard. The
meetings were ably chaired by Chris Hendy who had to deal with a
particularly obnoxious rabble on some occasions. I am particularly sorry for
Michael Newman, who put forward a motion on Union Organisation which
was never heard. He had put forward radical proposals to change the face of
ICU but nobody appeared to be interested, it seems that people are quite
content to take part in the club or society activity but not in the decision
making process that governs their facilities, money or even existence. I
sometimes wonder whether they think that their club funds and equipment
magically appear for their use.
Whatever the reasons for non-attendance, be it alternative events arraged by
societies clashing, be it lack of publicity, be it general disinterest, the UGM is
not just a practical for budding Aeronautical engineering students.
Council
Council almost went very smoothly under the cool control of Pub Board
Chairman Hugh Stiles but unfortunatley certain officers with a love of seeing
their names in the minutes were unnecessarily verbose and downright
obstructive. They have yet to realise that a little incorrect knowledge is far
worse than absolutely no knowledge at all. They need to take their heads out
of the ground and see that the world is never black or white but just a rather
unattractive shade of grey.
Nevertheless, although many hours were spent in pointless debate, all that
we wanted to happen has occured.
The absence of the Departmental Representatives is as usual as it is
mysterious. I cannot work out whether they either do not know what their jobs
entail or whether they can't find the Union office or haven't discovered that it
exists yet.
It is typical of such a body to produce a patent report measurer to enable
reports to be referred back if they are not long enough.
The Executive
In direct contrast to Council the Executive was a very plesant affair. It was
very nice to work with intelligent, objective and helpful officers such as Dave
Pearce, Roger Preece, Simon Redlich, Dave Kingston and Quentin Fontana
who helped formulate the polices we undertook to carry out this year.
We have had to have twice as many meetings this year than last year, a lot
to do with the major changes in the running of the Union but also to deal with
an incredibly large number of disciplinary matters. I hope that the number of
discipline cases drops next year as it is getting quite out of hand.
Major Sub-committees
I have not been to as many of these as I would have liked for a variety of
reasons including timetable clashes with other meetings, not receiving the
notification of the meetings and various other unanticipated occurences that
merited my attention.
However those that I did attend were very competently run and were quite
painless affairs and so I must thank the M S C Chairman for all their time and
effort in administering their clubs and societies. Ian Bull had asked for all
outgoing MSC Chairman to write a job description and all salient details
pertaining to the job which would be given to the incoming MSC chairman so
that they would know more fully what was necessary to be done. I can only
reiterate this request as it can only help the smooth running of the Union.
ACC
There have been a few hiccoughs with A C C this year mainly due to Simon
Errington, who started out as A C C chairman not being able to decide at the
start of session whether he was going to do his PhD or not. He eventually did
not and so had to resign without leaving the necessary information behind for
his successor Paul Dubenski. This led to a lack of communication between
Paul and myself, since I had assumed that, Simon had briefed him on ail the
relevant details of the Harlington gravel extraction which will be later in the
report. Having said this the clubs have performed very well this year winning
many cups but I shall leave the details of that to the A C C Annual report. R C C
Again this year, faced with a cut in funding, subscriptions had to be increased
in line with the cost of the activity and the tour subsidy had to be reduced.
Tim Palmer achieved this with the minimum of fuss or complaints.
Nevertheless the participation in most clubs was not affected and a high level
of activity was maintained. It would however be very helpful if clubs would
notify the chairman if they are not going to continue their activites in the
following year so that their funds and resources can be reallocated.
S C A B
Under the able guiding hand of Nick Shackley SCAB has continued to excel
in all areas. Unfortunately problems arose with the Choir and Orchestra
budgets. They attempted to oust Nick from the College Music Committee as
they felt he couldn't properly represent them as he was in neither society.
Fortunately this was defeated. Also the College Music Society refused to
increase its allocation to these societies expecting the Union to foot the bill
which due to our Financial intransigence we are unable to do.
sec
Yet again we have had the hardy perennial problem of Industrial Society and
their 'secret' bank accounts, lack of accountability and inability to answer
phone messages thus cluttering up our receptionist with unnecessary
repeated calls. Richard Eccleston drew up a proposal to sort this out in a
mutually acceptable fashion but Finance Committee, in their infinite wisdom,
decided that they should be able to spend 'their' money how they liked. I wish
next years sabbaticals luck cleaning with this problem, because its not going
to go away by itself.
Another perennial problem is Ultra Vires which we have had to look at
especially in respect to affiliations to political groups and campaigns. A close
scrutiny will have to be kept next year.
Another problem is political societies inviting potentially hazardous
speakers to talk at their meetings. Infiltration by pressure groups from other
colleges to incite trouble has been known to happen. This has now to be kept
under even greater control since the Freedom of Speech and Lawful Assembly
document from the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principals has been
brought out.
Correction
The following lines were missed from the Hon See's
report they should be inserted between columns 2
and 3.
this committee is that the chairman has been dealing with item's and campaigns
behind the back of the committee with almost no reference to it.
4a Welfare Committee: This has been similar in many ways to the External Affairs
Committee in that there hasn't been much discussed.The first meeting of this
committee was in January meaning that there were no meetings in the whole of the
first term. The January meeting was only held due to the Welfare Officer being
instructed to by Council so that constitutional changes could be dicussed. In the
event the Welfare Officer's propossals were greatly altered. The problems at this
committee, were unlike External Affairs, more due to the incompetance of the
chairman than a malicious intent to decieve for personal political reasons.
4h House, Catering and Bar CommitteesThese have all performed adequately
within their own spheres of influence, any problems that have been encountered
have been due to individual bungling outside the committee rather than any
inherent problem. The meetings were somewhat lacking in frequency however.
4i Executive Committee: As a committee this has worked very well this year, mainly
due to a genuine concern for the good of the IC Union. Council hasn't always agreed
the Executive but the Exec has normally been proved right in the end.
4j Transport Committee: This is the main committee which I chair and as such my
comments may be somewhat biased. The main problem with this committee is that it
is mainly composed of people who have little to do with the direct running of the
transport system except as users so their input cannot be expected to be extensive.
As such the committee has been almost a rubber stamp and a means of recording
what has been going on. I have been the major speaker with Jerry, the Transport
Officer, being the only other regular contributor. A major change that I have made
with this committee is to dispense with bookings, apart from tours, and concentrate
on the practical side of the system such as the administrative system, pricing
structure and vechile policy. It may sound as if the committee has been run as a

