Nevertheless trie societies have continued to be active and provide a
valuable outlet for the political, religious and miscellaneous societies and their
role in broadening the life in this college.
o s c
As more overseas students arrive new societies need to be set up to cater for
them. Alexis Papaspiridis has ably coped with this and has also managed to
get their spending more under control.
Alexis has ably represented the overseas students on the College
Committees he has attended especially in the areas of accommodation,
welfare, and recruitment practices.
Pub Board
FELIX, the supposed newspaper of Imperial College Union has been a great
disappointment to me. I was under the misapprehension that Hugh Southey
having held several Union posts would be the ideal position to publicise the
Union. Unfortunatley he chose to ignore his duty to the Unin which employs
him and decided to go on a campaign to remove a sabbatical. It seems
incredible to me that he can continually fail to seek the truth but will rely on
rumour and hearsay. The newspaper of Imperial College Union should be the
voice of the students and not just the voice of the editor. I have received many
complaints from clubs and societies that their articles have not been put in.
Even the sabbatical notices have been relegated to the editorial as footnotes.
The space is filled with esoteric and incomprehensible articles and reviews
which are seldom read. Although FELIX is the best produced publication in
the University system I feel that more input from the student body is
necessary.
As for the other written publications the Handbook came under fire
especially for the cover which was meant to create an immediate bad
impression of the Union in general and myself in particular. Is it any wonder
that people do not get involved in the Union when their first impression are
that it is run by a bunch of incompetent idiots who by the vagaries of the
democratic process elected to represent them.
There was no Alternative Prospectus this year as it was decided last year to
produce one biannually. This decision was taken because as there is little or
no change in the departments each year, the money could be spent on far
more deserving causes. Unfortunatley J Martin Taylor and Sunny Bains took it
upon themselves to campaign for the reinstatement of the AP knowing full
well that no money had been allocated for it. Ms Bains not to be outdone then
went for an AP supplement, how else could she possible gain the editorial
experience for her campaign to be the first female FELIX editor. However this
has not come to pass and so we'll just have to wait until next year.
Having not seen the Phoenix I cannot comment upon its artistic merit, but
having seen the vast quantities of previous issues lying about cluttering up
various offices I am forced to ask myself 'Is it really worth it?'
In cotrast to FELIX, IC Radio and Stoic have actually personally come to
see me and ask for my comments on a regular basis. They still continue to
produce very good quality programmes but they felt that the increased
membership fee decreased their levels of membership.
Post Graduate Affairs
Gareth Fish has done very well in organising events for the sizeable post-
graduate contingent in this college. This work ws started last yeer and has
been built up admirably this year with a very good turn out at all their
functions.
Unfortunately nobody volunteered to produce the post-graduate handbook
which ws a great success last year, I can only hope somebody produces one
next year.
External Affairs
This year we have decided to adopt a far more sensible and realistic attitude
to the University of London General Union Council and our input manged to
quieten down the more radical loony left element which tends to frequent
such bodies. I feel we made a valuable contribution to the debates and to the
response to the green paper, which would have made us out to be absolutely
cretins if they had set it out in its original form.
We have also been involved with the AUT strike, passing a motion to
support the pickets and boycott the lectures. This solidarity against the
governments educational policy showed the depth of feeling of both staff and
students on this matter.
The leaflet campaign outside Harrods was fairly successful but there were
complaints that it was not publicised sufficiently and so many people who
would have gone did not know about it. This is something to consider for the
future if we are to continue our role as an effective campaigning body.
Next year will see the emergence of the great NUS debate. We are a thorn
in the side of the NUS at present because they cannot claim that they
represent the total student body. It is a shame that they base their leadership
upon party political lines and hence refuse to hear a significant minority of
students that disagree with them. Hence the National Executive is completely
made up of NOLS people with no representation for anybody else and hence
no desire to change their structure or policies. I think it is necessary to send
visitors to the conference to observe the events and see what it is really like.
Unfortunately nobody went this year and so cannot report on if the
proceedings have improved since I last went.
ENTS
Ents have been very difficult this year with a complete lack of communication
between their officers. The state of the Ents 'Office' was so appalling that the
College Secretary and the Rector decided that those areas should be put to
better use. Unless Ents get their collective acts together there will be more
problems next year.
Acadmic Affairs
The major thing to happen this year was the setting up of an Undergraduate
Studies Committee by the College which had originally only had the three
C C U AAOs on it but included me when I expressed an interest. It seemed
reasonable to have somebody who had just finished their undergraduate life
and hence had a complete view of what was wrong with the teaching methods
in all 3 or 4 years. Unfortunately we found out very early that there were a lot
of things we didn't know concerning workloads, contact hours or whether
students were satisfied with their courses there fore we drew up several
questionaires and obtained answers from each departments students and
staff. Each head of department was also interviewed once all this information
had been collated we were then able to draw conclusions and make
reccommendations which will be going to the board of studies in the Summer.
It is very important that we do not lose momentum on these issues and so I
hope the AAOs plus whoever takes over from me (it can be any sabbatical
officer) keep on hammering on the doors of bureaucracy. I would like to thank
Luke Walker for all the work he has put in this year and wish that all AAOs
were as keen.
The Academic Affairs Committee organised its very first Training day for Ac
Reps. JMT finally had a good idea here. It worked very well and I would hope
that this can continue but much earlier in the year than this one was.
It seems that nobody knows what the Union is doing when it comes to the
field of academic affairs. Although staff-student committees are fine for
dealing with immediate problems which crop up now and again in
departments, the Union represents the students on the Board of Studies which
formulates the educational policy of the college. All Dep Reps should attend
the Academic Affairs Committee in order to formulate the Unions view as to
what this polcy should be.
There was no alternative Prospectus this year, neither is there a supplement.
This was decided last year, in an attempt to save money. The question is
whether we should pay for it at all as it takes money from the current students
to attract potential students? I suppose though it could be used as a weapon
to cause the college to change, after all Victor Mooney retired after a really
vicious attack in the AP about the state of the refectories.
House Committee
It never ceases to amaze me how furniture moves all over the building or just
disappears never to be seen again. People just don't seem to understand that
if we place tables and chairs in a room that is where they are supposed to be,
if they are borrowed they should be returned. Anyway the building hasn't
fallen down yet and the redecoration program is still under way. STOIC are
having a studio built on the top floor, the lounge bar is going to be
refurbished during the summer and the IC Union Office is being transferred to
the tea room next to John Smiths office.
College Committee
Governing Body, Finance and Executive
These are the two top college committees, each meeting once per term with three
student observers. I felt that it was very important that we were able to contribute
direct knowledge of student problems to the Governors, and the Chairman took
every opportunity to ask our opinions on matters directly concerning students for
example the Harlington Gravel Extraction, the accommodation problems,
discipline in the college etc. It is very important to keep on the ball as many issues
have been sidestepped for years but have now been finally resolved. They are also
very important for disseminating information since much much of the College
Internal Business is discussed.
College's House Committee
This committee controls all aspects of Residence, Refectories (including
Bars), Estates (now called Maintenance Services) and Conference. This year it
has formulated policy on the aims of its sections so that effective monitoring
of the success or failure can be done. It can often by very useful way to
bypass the lower-level committees who can not or will not respond to
continued complaints and criticism.
Catering and Conference Services Management Committee
This is a new committee set up at the investigation of Lord Flowers, the
previous Rector. It is chaired by the College Secretary. Its aims were to unify
the Refectory system with the conference office who in the past had to work
together but had only done so with considerable friction.
There was much criticism of this as its resulted in the disbanding of the
Refectory Committee and a shift of control from the users of the system, ie
the Academics, students and staff to the administrators who are there to run
these facilities for our benefit. This situation has led to the administrators
being answerable to themselves which many Acadmics find unacceptible. I
think it will change in the foreseeable future.
Board of Studies
This is the top Academic Board of the College and is chaired by the Rector. It
deals with the academic policy of the College including creating professors,
changing courses structures and generally creates reams of statistics on
pass/failure/drop out/ application and varius other rates they can think of.
There was a serious drop in the number of applicants to the College this year
which concided with a general drop in Science and Technology throughout
the country. This led to great worry about teaching standards and all
associated phenomena and the setting up of the Undergraduate Studies
Committee. The Data Protection Act caused a lot of concern becuase of
examination results are all on computers files. This led them to decide that
they would only release them if them to decide that they would only release
them if they were individually asked for as they beleive that most students
believe that the grades they are given are correct and so won't bother asking.
It seems to me that a few academics are completly out of touch with reality.
Graduate Studies
This year as last year there was much discussion on the nature of a PhD.
There doesn't seem to be a concensus at all of what a PhD should consist of.
Nevertheless they came to a conclusion that most PhD theses are completely
incomprehensible to even the most intelligent layman and hence decided that
each PhD student should write a Scientic American type of report for
submission as part of the degree. It is surprising thateven though they are
worried about PhD submssion rates (a significant percentage submit after
4,5,even 8 years) they still give the student more work to do
Undergraduate Studies Committee
This committee was set up to replace the Education Technology Committee
which was felt to be just a talking shop that achieved nothing at all.
A great deal of work has been done by all the members of the committee
and I must highly commend their efforts. We have had a very short time scale
to work in since our conception but the recommendations that we have
arrived at will have far reaching effects if it is accepted by the Board of
Studies-These recommendations include continual re-examination of
curriculum; limitation of student workload, the introduction of formal
instruction in learning skills; September resits; course unit systems; teacher
training and assessment and various esoteric practises connected with these.
I sincerely hope tht the Board seriously considers the document that we
have drawn up and implements all the recommendations that we have made.
Athletics Committee
This committee overseas the running of Boathouse, Harlington and the South
Kensington Sports Centre.
It is surprising that even though we have many representatives on this
committee hardly any of them turn up. Itis unsurprising that the Chairman was
annoyed when he had flown over from the continent just to attend the
meeting.
Athletic Ground Committee
This committee looks after Harlington our sports ground near Heathrow. The
major business this year was the upkeep of the playing pitches while the
extraction was occuring. I shall write a full version of the Harlington Gravel
Extraction later in this report
Welfare Committee

