This committee consists of the College Senior Tutor, The Senior Tutor for
Women, Nightline Director, Students Councillor and representatives form the
Day Nursery, Health Centre Students Services and the Union.
It does not appear to be able to do anything but allows many problems from
each area to be aired so that a coordinated approach can be made to alleviate
the most serious problems and to enable a better approach to be made of
problems that reoccur.
Central Libraries Committee
A lot of space in the College is taken up by libraries and it was initially
thought that there was a great duplications of texts and expensive periodicals
and so some libraries could be merged. Eventually it was decided that the
libraries could not be merged but only; speciallist texts should be placed in
the departmental libraries and multiple copies of undergraduate texts should
be kept centrally. The library space ineach department from my experience
are used a great deal by students to work in and it would be a mistake to lose
this space.
Refectory Users Commitee.
This has effectivley replaced the suggestions and Complaints Committee,
having absolutely no power at all. It allows the users (staff, students) to
questions the Refectory Manager on what is happening and to bring up
complaints from the little used complaints boxes and can suggest a proposal
for courses of action but at least we do find out what is actually happening.
Committee on Overseas Students
Athough my predessor had criticised the need to spend vast sums on
recruitment visits to South East Asia the committee is still sending people on
'holiday' to gain just a few people. Criticisms again were made a revamped
booklet explaining why it was inadvisable for prospective students to bring
their familes over here has been produced.
It was decided that a certain percentage of the money which overseas
students pay to the College should be given over to their welfare as it seems
only reasonable that if we bring them over here we should look after them.
Unfortunately this money was again mostly allocated to recruitment visits
under he auspices of the Pro Rector (External Development). Although they
have been pushing for overseas married accommodation there is little that this
committee can do about anything
Student Residences Committtee
There have been many problems this year both with the Southside and Evelyn
Gardens Remedial work. There were many worries that the work would not be
completed in time and that there was no consultation with the residents as to how
their halls should be reworked. This was eventually sorted out. Several Working
parties were formed to deal with aspects of Southside Security, Evelyn Gardens
Wardens appointment procedure, and the procedure for re-applicants which to
my mind came to satisfactory conclusions. Southside has gained two security
booths at both entrances, the House Wardnes have been upgraded in status so tht
they are now equivalent to Hall Wardens, Evelyn Gardens remedial work over the
summer will be far better co-ordinated with the summer letting scheme.
Peter Hallworth has done a great job in creating several new overseas married
flats by converting disused basements in Princes Gardens, He has also
succeeded in making Southside look quite nice while still keeping in with the
G L C fire regulations. He has had a dfficult job to do and has had many people
having a go at him, but I think within the financial constraints that he has had
to work with he has done admirably well.
Telephones have been a major prolbem in the residences this year with vast
amouhts of money being lost, for reasons of security I cannot say why, which
has led to the installation of new blue phones. Evelyn Gardens will finaly be
getting internal phones connected to the college system, but how many has
not yet been decided. Remedial works have been carried out in Montpelier
Hall but the entry phone still is yet to be operational.
The rents for next year are still to be decided but the SRC reserve will be
preserved in case new accommodation comes on the market
Wardens Sub Committee
This has been a busy year for this committee with problems about the
remedial work in Evelyn Gardens, security in general, new Wardens procedure
and various problems dealing with the nitty gritty of residences in particular
as opposed to the general policy decided by SRC. It is very useful as only
each Warden knows the ins and outs of the particular residences.
Snack Bar
This has had another successful year for the Snack Bar, It seems the college
have taken the hint as they have changed their style completely to emulate us.
It only goes to show that giving people what they actually want is the only
way to succeed. The problems encountered are getting enough staff for the
correct hours. Part time staff are extremely difficult to find for the morning
period. Student casuals are also very hard to find for the lunch time rush.
Fortunately we gained a resting student to become a full time staff member
and this arrangment has proven very satisfactory. The operation will become
more mechanised withthe introduction of a food processor and hopefully in
the future the catering operation will be expanded. Many thanks to Norman,
Julie, Peter and all the casuals for their hard work.
Union Bar
Having only taken over this operation on Jan 1st it is significant that we
should show a profit in the quiet terms of the year. There has been a lot of
work ot do just to satisfy the health inspectors but now that we are in control
we are able ot devote time and effort to see that everything is brought up to
scratch and eventually refurbished to our specifications. I must thank
everybody who helped in the infancy of this operation especially Moore Lyttle
for all his hard work to sort out the existing problems
Bookshop
After making a loss the previous year the Bookshop was back to its feet again
and returned £5k to the Unions. This year it is set to make an even greater
profit. The bookshop should be fully computerised by the end of session
which will help the stock control and auditing process. Much thanks must go
to Roy Hicks and Jason Gold for the work that they have put in
Sportshop
For the first time the sports shop looks like making a profit. This is mainly due
to finally getting rid of the dead stock and cutting staff costs by reducing the
hours of opening. I think that it is a valuable service and we should not think
of closing it
STA Travel Office
This has continued to provide a good service (not only to Dave and Myself)
but due to the JCR/SDH changeover it wilt have to move although not until
the summer 1987
Items and Events
Computer
Although my predessor reported last year that the computer would be
installed at the start of this session he was unable to do this. Many problems
developed with the person who had been contracted to report on the subject
therefore it was left to me to pick up the pieces. After much consultation with
various experts I finally decided on a workable system to deal with the Union
accounts and wordprocessing but at the time of writing having allthe software
and printers, I am suffering form the vaguaries of IBM who have not delivered
the goods. Hopefully, if IBM get their collective arses into gear the system
should be installed by the summer.
Harlington Gravel Extraction
This had been an ongoing situation since 1978 when a PhD student
discovered that there was gravel underneath the playing fields. Much
argument and debate went on as to how the money should be spent and how
the extraction would affect the sports teams. For the last two years plans had
been drawn up on how many pitches were needed and how they could be
fitted around the extraction works. The area that would be dug up would be
refilled and resurfaced so that it would be playable upon in 3 years time. This
was worked out by experts in soil mechanics and restoration. Unfortunately
nobody had considered the quality of the pitches necessary for certain types
of sports such as hockey and cricket therefore a big hoo-ha developed which
led Mick Reynolds to redesign the entire area to accommodate the needs of
these various clubs. The planning permission has finally been obtained and a
tender from Streeters, who own the land next door has been verified.
The Governing Body has agreed that the money obtained form the
extractions should not disappear into the general College coffers but go
towards a captial project such as a new Sports Hall at South Kensington. This
will be necessary when the Old Chemistry building is knocked down and we
lose the volleyball court.
Bar Takeover
It has always seemed very strange to me that a student Union should not
control its own building. Most modern Student Unions run all their facilities
employ hundreds of staff and do it very well. It was my considered opinion,
seeing that we had turned a loss making refectory into a profit making snack
bar that we could run our services in a better way than they were when the
management showed little interest. To this end a boycott of the bars was
organised, a concept that was previously thought conceptually difficult if not
impossible. Suffice it to say it worked and we are now in control. The turmoil
and strife that occurred up to the time of our takeover has now thankfully
been eradicated from memory and we now again have peace in our time.
Next year with the refurbishment of the Lounge Bar we shall be able to
produce a proper social centre within the Union Building and perhaps make
the Union more relevant to its members.
Rag Mag
Once again the Rag Mag has caused controversy. There have been several
articles in the national press as well as the Bradford Argus. Understandably
several people in Bradford were upset about the inclusion of certain Bradford
City fire jokes. Having tried to have them removed it was quite unfortunate to
be censured at the first meeting of the year but thats life. Nevertheless they
seemed to have sold quite well but I hope that next years Rag Committee will
act in a more sensible way now that a censorhip committee has been set up.
Womens Officer
This year saw the introduction of the first IC Womens Officer. This was not
just to replace the ICWA President who had a completely different function.
The Womens Officer is supposed to identify certain problems pertaining to
women such as sexual harassment, sexist publicity, the attitude of many men
including lecturers to women and other areas of which I had no knowledge
but a woman would directly experience. The election had necessarily to have
only women involved in the voting procedure to avoid the election being taken
over by unthinking jokers. I felt that it was time for a Womens Officer since
now we are actively campaigning to get more women at this College
New Disciplinary Procedure
The situation had arisen that the present College disciplinary regulations
drawn up 17 years ago were unsatisfactory. The process of implementation
was unnecessarily cumbersome and hence so unwieldy as to-be unusable.
Unfortunately there were many occasions that merited the implementation of
this process and so a new policy was drawn up after many months of
consultation, amendment and a lot of wrangling. It is a shame that this
procedure is necessary as so much unecessary violence and vandalism has
occured this year. I can only hope that people syphon off their energy in more
constructive pursuits next year.
INCOST
Having written at length about this elsewhere I shall not attempt to paraphrase
this at all but instead shall strongly recommend that ICU continues to send
delegate to it. It serves as a useful forum for the exchange of views between
students of different nationalities. Many English people tend to neglect the
importance of other countires as to what we do here, especially as a lot of IC
graduates eventually go to work aborad. A specialist conference for
technology students is a very useful forum, since co-operationn between
nations in industrial, economic and technological development is becoming
increasingly common.
FELIX, Bot Zoo and Union Buidling
The Botany Zoology Common Room has been a target for the expansion of
the biology department for a great many years. Since then the Biology
Department have gotten more ambitious with the advent of several lucrative
reasearch projects for which they need extra space. The Rector decided that it
was a good idea to centralise the Biology department in S Ken, Ashurst lodge
at Silwood being sold to raise funds, and so the Bot-Zoo Common Room and
initially the Lounge party room were to be used as extra lecture space for
when the Biology Lecture theatres were converted into laboratories and
offices. However there was a mighty uproar that we could not possibly lose
the lounge as it was the only party room in the Union that did not disturb the
neighbours who always sent the police in to break up the 'riots' that were
occuring the Union Building.
Subsequently the Rector and the College Secretary had a quiet stroll
around the Union Building and took note of the large amount of disused
space in the building and appalling state that it was left it, especially the 'Ents
Office'. They then decided that this was an unacceptable situation and
something had to be done about it. Hence the plan to move the FELIX office
from its present location to the disused kitchen area behind the lounge. As an
incentive for the move £25,000 was been offered to re-equip the FELIX office.
The effect of all these upheavals is to centralise all the Unions activities in the
one building and hence prevent further takeover bids by the expansion
orientated Biology Department, with whom we have had the highly
unsatisfactory arrangement of sharing the Beit Quad with. Suffice it to say we

