do not actually own anything, certain areas of the building were granted to us tighten up the agreement, and so our provisional agreement became final
for our use by the Governing body and what the Governing Body gives it can
take away just as easily. The Union has no separate legal identity and derives
its status from the Governing Body so as a consequence can not own
anything.
JCR Refectory Changeover
After much debate by my predecessor it was decided that to improve the
Refectory System in Sherfield Building the Refectories all had to be on the
same level because of the problems entailed in food transferal. To this end it
was agreed that the JCR and the Lower Dining Hall would be interchanged.
This work has now been started but due to delays and the plans of the
Sherfield Building being incorrect the program has had to be revised so that it
will be completed in segments over a period of three years. This year they
have removed the JCR bar and are building a fast food outlet to replace the
Buttery and have knocked a few holes in the wall for windows and a
resitement of the door. The JCR will still be in operation at the start of the
next session so do not panic. It all seems to be going very smoothly and after
24 years it is absolutely necessary to modernise.
Impossible without:
Union Permanent Staff
It is so easy to take for granted the people who make life more easier for
you but although they have eased my way I greatly appreciate the amount of
time and effort that they have put in to ease my way. It has been a difficut
year not only for us but for all of them and I cannot thank them enough. It is
fortunate for IC Union that we have such people as Jen, Pat, Kathy, Norman,
Julie, Tony, Rosemary and Moore in our employ.
Quentin and Dave
Althoughmuch criticism has been hurled upon them, it would not have been
possible for me to achieve anything if they had not been there to support me
at the times when it really counted.
Experience is not the be all and end all of a sabbatical what is most
important is the willingness to learn, listen and communicate. It was rather
unfortunate that nobody was willing to communicate with us, perhaps we
smell a bit, and this led to a lot of unnecessary and undesirable friction that
everybody could have done better without.
Finally
Never before in the annals of IC Union has so much been done in so short a
time by so few. The good that men do is oft interred with their bones but
nevertheless I can only wish Christine, Jackie, Gutman and Dave the best of
luck next year and hope that the good points more than compensate the bad.
May the Force be with you.
Carl Burgess
Deputy President
Dave Kingston
This report is an attempt to summarise the work that I have done the events and
activities that I have been involved with this year. It is of necessity in many places a
personal view. I hope that those that I have criticised will think about what I have to
say and act on it if they agree with me.
UGM's
I wonder from time to time whether they serve a useful function. They are rarely
quorate and despite being a forum for the public questioning of the sabbatical
officers, they rarely provide anything but trivial questions. I am convinced that an
unscrupulous sabbatical could commit the Union to extremely damaging policies by
hiding recommendations in a long winded report. Why are meetings so rarely
quorate? Not enough interesting motions is one answer, but who's fault is that?
Proceedural wrangling is another. It amazes me that the cream of the country's
scientists and engineers cannot concentrate on something as simple as standing
At the end of last June we were budgeting for a £5000 defecit. Fortunately all of the
major sub-committees underspent and then defecit was covered even after the cost
of half a boat was taken into account. Bookshop income has helped ease any
worries for this year.
Next year's estimates are proving to be source of difficulty with a number of people
out to screw the Union for all it's worth. I would like to thank all of those who have
helped weed these ludicrous claims out. At the time of writing I am trying to leave a
balanced budget for next year.
One problem for next year has been the five year plans for capital expenditure
system. It appears that a number of clubs who have failed to obtain as much
equipment as theywould have like through their MSC or C C U have claimed for this
under five year plans over the last two or three years. I have moved some of these
claims back to where they belong thus creating some of the problems with the
recurrent expenditure estimates. However, this has been necessary so as to
alleviate some of the pressure that the equipment fund under for next year.
Another real pain in the arse, has been the take over battle for the Distillers
company in which we held shares. After bid and counter bid by the Argyll Group and
Ginnes, I accepted the final Guinness offer.
MAJOR SUB COMMITTEES
I have tended to regard my role on these more as observing them partaicipate. This
is largely because they have all been very well run and not needed control from
above.
MINOR SUB-COMMITTEES
these have varied enormously from being useful to useless, this is largely
dependant on the performance and quality of their relevant chairmen.
TRANSPORT
I am secretary to this. It meets more for the sake of meeting since Q, Kathy and
Jenny do all thework on a day to day basis and are the only ones who know whafs
happening anyway.
INTERNAL SERVICES
Excellently run by Alan Rose. Alan has been a model chairman. Not only has held
regular meetings and developed the role of the committee as the Union has
developed this year, but has also put in a lot of work outside of the committee, it is
unbelievable that this is the same committee that J Martin Taylor spent little time at
bodging up last year. As a forum for discussing trading services it has been useful/
Alan has made a valuable contribution to the running of the Bar, Snack Bar.
bookshop and sportshop.
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
Gren fails to see what his relationship to this committee is, or indeed what the role of
the committee is. All too often EAC's have been just a discussion of the next GUC yet
at the following Council meeting, a report is presented suggesting an incredible
amount of discussion on many and varied topics. Sub-committees are supposed to
carry out work at a level that Council does not have time for, and council assumes
that a chairman is reporting the views of his committee and not himself. What is even
more interesting is what has not been reported either to his committee or council,
how many people have heard about his discussions about NUS reafilliation contrary
to Council policy? Gren has in my view abused his own position so as to achieve his
own aims. One wonders if it is any coincidence that a large proportion of EAC
meetings have been at 12.15 on a Monday when he has had a lecture to be at 1.30
thus preventing any discussion on non-GUC material form taking place.
Furthermore, I am still intrigued as to why he took ICU's copy of the University's
accommodation survey from the Union Office without asking anyone
WELFARE
Pete Wilson has been largely useless as a welfare officer, although this is not a
reflection on his ethusiasm. Only two meetings have taken place, although this is
two better than his three predecessors. His ideas are as ill thought out as Gren's and
are frequently expensive with no realistic idea of a source of funds. This is a problem
faced by finance officers everywhere and is not specifically a criticism of Pete.
ENTS
After arranging a good Freshers's week programme all we have been teated to is a
bloody shambles. There has been a committee (of sorts) largely populated by
people more concerned with freeloading than organising events. See Welfare for
comments about money.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
Another year and another commitee for J Martin Taylor. His talking shop style is
much better suited to this than last year's Internal Services. If s a shame that the
rabble collectively known as Dep Reps have not taken advantage of this.
ICCAG
orders, besides which there have been very few of these wrangles this year
anyway. One answer that is not often promulgated is the fact that our quorum of 300 Do you know that the ICCAG chairman is an officer of the Union and sits on Council?
is one of the highest that I have come across, and in fact our UGM attendance is I find it difficult to see why this is not an SCC club,
better than most other London colleges. RAG
COUNCIL Rag has been it's usual roguish self and in doing so has rained more money than in
Council has been dominated by a bunch of loud mouthed egomaniacs who appear previous years. The Rag Mag was again a source of trouble. It need not have been
to discuss and decide issues with virtually no facts to work on, and attempt to had Tony Spencer listened to the sabbaticals. Neverthless the enthusiasm of
destroy and diminish anything that the sabbaticals and even UGMs do. Constructive people like tony is one ofthe reasons for Rag's success and not the uninspiring
discussion only occurs when someone outside of this clique has a chance to get a
word in edgeways (this is not Hugh Stiles' fault). I have a very low opinion of a body
that judges an officer's report on the basis of it's length, and not its content or the
amount of work done by that officer. Why is it that Council prefers long winded
reports by officers who have done bugger all but put ill considered and ill discussed
thoughts on paper and at lenght?
EXEC
This is the converse of Council Roger, Dave, and Simon are a constant source of
fresh ideas and are among the most dedicated of officers. This has been the most
enjoyable of all committees despite most of the meetings being at some ungodly
hour of the morning.
FINANCE
The year started controversially with incidents concerning the Boat Club and
Industrial Society. Last year's Exec decided that a new racing eight should be
bought for the Boat Club after Simon Errington had reported a massive underspend
on the part of ACC. After their win at Henley, the new boat was ordered, only for
Simon to report that A C C had spent more than he had thought due to two large bills
he had forgotten about. Fortunately, just as we were about to cancel the order for
the boat, College were persuaded to provide £3000. Whilst I agree that expenditure
performance ofthe Chairman. The resurgence of interest in Rag in C&GU and
RSMU provides one of the best reasons forthe continued existence of the CCUs.
CAMPAIGNING
ICU has not been involved in much campaigning whilst I have been here, but thishas
improved this year, campaigns that I have been involved in have varied from the
small turn out to the NUS 'Fowler' demonstration to the Harrods leafletting and the
widespread support by students for the AUT strike.
BAR BOYCOTT
The biggest campaign by far was within the college, and was of course, the Bars
Boycott. When we called it we were by no means convinced that it would be a
success. The support of the students was amazing with College losing over £12000
in takings that week, I arranged special promtions during the week at the Norfolk
Tavern and the Merrie-go-Downe,. A rep from Arkelts told me that their sales to the
Marrie-go-Down increased six-fold that week. If students support was excellent, the
opposite could be said for the officers with only Alan Rose, Tim Palmer and Hugh
Stiles helping the Exec enforce the boycott. The boycott was a success in getting
College to concede the principle. What was far more difficult was convincing the
officers who had done bugger all in the boycott to work towards the the take over.
Indeed it seemed that these people were determined to block the transfer to Union
of this sort of money should be decided by UFC, this was an exception. The decision control by imposing negotiating conditions upon us and creating an inflexible stance
had to be made when it was, and that is one of the reasons that you have executive
officers of a student's Union. Industrial society were a different problem. When we
took office, Industrial society were continuing to refuse to close down two outside
bank accounts. They refused to talk constructively, so Carl and I suspended them
from the Union. Negotiations commenced and after early intransigence on their
part, Richard Eccleston and I reached a provisional agreement but UFC refused to
from which we could not negotiate. Cart and I ignored the conditions that the one
and only meeting of the Union Planning Group tried to impose and effected a good
agreement with college and in time with out original plans. One does not ordinarily
ignore a committee decision, but in this case we were in a far better position to judge
the facts that anyone else. I think that so far we have been proved right.
TRADING SERVICES

