Initially the onset of memory loss is gradual and inconspicuous. Then sufferers start
to forget-not only where they left their keys- but what their keys are for. Gradually,
confusion, loss of reason and language problems set in. In thefinalstages ofthe dis-
ease, The Alzheimer's victims can't even recognise their own family. It is devastating
and undignified condition with no cure. But new advances in imaging technology are
helping us to diagnose and understand Alzheimer's. Graham Eastwood reports.
>in
A
round 600,000 people in the U K are estimated to suffer from
Alzheimer's disease. It accounts for over three-quarters of
British dementia cases in the over 65's-but the disease can strike
before the age of 30. It is the fourth largest cause of death, after heart dis-
ease, cancer and stroke, in the western world. As you read this it may be
tempting to dismiss the disease as a problem for the elderly-but as health
care standards continue to improve, and the population lives to an ever-
increasing old age, it will become a major problem for our generation.
For scientists, Alzheimer's is very much a mystery disease. It is still
not clear what causes it. Although we do know the disease progresses by
destroying large numbers of nerve cells in the brain. Five areas are partic-
ularly susceptible (see figure)
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has shown that in
the brains of Alzheimer's patients, the death of
nerve cells (which can be up to one-third of the
total of the brain) causes the brain to si
and the fluid-filled spaces around it
increase. The neurotransmitter acet;
choline (ACh), which is the major
chemical messenger between the
nerve cells in the brain's memory
circuits, is also depleted.
Another difficulty scientists
have faced is in the diagnosis of
Alzheimer's. At present the
only way to diagnose the dis-
ease in living patients is by rul-
ing out other possible causes of
the symptoms, such as
tumours or strokes.
Alzheimer's can be diag-
nosed accurately at death. At
post-mortem, the brains of
Alzheimer's patients contain
abnormal bundles known as
plaques and tangles. Plaques are
formed by deposits of a fatty acid,
known as beta-amyloid, whicf
builds up in the nerve cells. Tangles
form when the tau protein, which
normally maintains the health of
nerve cells, clumps together inside the
cells preventing them from working properly.
Encouragingly however, in April of this year, a team led by David
Smith and Kim Jobst from die Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford announced
what is being hailed as a breakthrough in the detection ofAlzheimer's dis-
ease. The new test uses, a combination of brain scanning and images of
blood flow in the brain to pick out damaged areas. When brain cells are
damaged, the flow of blood to them is greatly reduced. A harmless
radioactive dye called Ceretec is injected into a vein in the arm. The Dye
quickly travels to the brain and sophisticated computer photographic
equipment builds up an accurate 3D image of the damage to the brain
Wf§MpMff^ <-x
which has been caused by the disease. It is said to be more than 90 per
cent reliable. This opens the way for the early diagnosis of the illness and
the accurate selection of patients for future therapies and research pro-
grammes. Dr Jobst told The Guardian "Until now there has been no
accurate diagnostic test for Alzheimer's while the patient was alive. We
think we have made some exciting discoveries about brain function in
Alzheimer's disease."
In other areas of research scientists have already identified a number
of risk factors. Environmental risk factors could include
head injury, smoking and alcohol. In a puzzling
series of American studies, scientists con-
ed that nicotine, which mimics the
;urotransmitter ACh, may protect
against Alzheimer's, drinking alco-
hol in moderation may have the
same effect. Strangely though,
fWsJWki"' """Uk*" Bk another study suggested that
heavy drinking and smok-
ing together may actually
increase the risk of devel-
oping the disease.
Head injury may also
increase the risk. Some
boxers, often seem to be
'punch-drunk', and foot-
baller's (asked to head a
400g ball travelling at
k speeds of about 80
mph), have shown
signs of brain
damage similar
to that seen in
Alzheimer's
patients.
Scientists have also
identified three types
of defective genes that if
inherited could cause
Alzheimer's-although no clear evidence has emerged. A fourth gene,
known as the ApoE gene, has also been identified. It occurs in three dif-
ferent forms, named E2, E3, and E4. Everybody inherits two forms of the
gene, one from each parent. A child that inherits two E4 forms of this
gene will have a ten times greater chance of developing Alzheimer's dis-
ease. There is a blood test available that can detect this combination, but
should this test be carried out ? Given that there is no cure for
Alzheimer's, and that patients with this combination do not
_• necessarily develop Alzheimer's, should a patient be told that
\ M. they may have a ten times greater risk ?

