•simon baker
The fact that I have now
finished my exams will not
endear me to about 80% of
the college, but I do sym-
pathise with you and hope
it all goes well. Say what
you will about the govern-
ment, it is schools and uni-
versities that inflict the most discomfort on stu-
dents by insisting on 'inviting' us to while away
our summers slowly filling our heads with huge
amounts of information over several weeks so
that it may be totally emptied in about three
hours. So, dear reader, when it's really getting
you down, when the prospect of BSc (London)
after your name seems to have the same cachet
as membership of the Tufty Club, remember
these words, which I read somewhere recently:
'Don't let the seeds stop you from enjoying the
watermelon.' Of course, if you don't like water-
melon, you're buggered. Can't win 'em all.
It was nice to see that the Care in the
Community programme has been vindicated by
the NUS's decision to moderate their stance on
students grants. These angry young men and
women really are now much more calm and less
excitable, and may soon be permitted to write
policy motions in biro rather than crayon (I gath-
er that moves to change the Executive's stance
on the flatness of the Earth are not yet com-
plete). It would seem that the main protagonist
of this change is my goodfriendGhassan Karian,
footsoldier in the Blair Army and president of
ULU - Well done, Sarah on your bid to succeed
him. He seems to have per-
suaded the mish-mash of
Trotskyists and Marxists (i.e.
the moderates) within the
NUS to accept New
Solutions, which, although
flawed and sketchy, is a bit
more realistic and at least a
step in the opposite direction.
Time will tell if the wicked cynics are proved
correct and Uncle Tony gives Ghassan that nice
safe Labour seat he has set his heart on.
This week has been surprisingly busy both in
and out of college. I have seen an enormous
amount of balls, and I don't mean the College
Estates Development Plan, but rather the World
Snooker Championship, won unsurprisingly by
Stephen Hendry, which has been riveting, as was
the climax of the Premiership. I'm not a football
fanatic, but it has been a great season.
The BSE fiasco rumbles on, the Union
deciding to announce that their beef is non-
British, following a sign I saw in the JCR
announcing the same about College Catering.
While I do not eat in the Union often enough to
pass judgement on this decision, other than that
I would have expected a slightly more rational
response from a student body entirely populat-
ed by scientists, the concern of College catering
is hilarious. You cannot imagine how delighted
we are that you care about your customers so
passionately. Anyway, I ate in Linstead for a year
and I'm damned if if I ever found anything of
bovine origin. 'Bollocks!' I hear you cry, and
maybe you're right.
theatre: skirmishesiuas
Despite needing meaning to their lives,
the characters in Skirmishes have, accord-
ing'to this press release, reached 'a point
of indifference where it really doesn't
matter what they do or why they do it. A
point located on the edge of the black
holes inside their eyeballs'. Now, this is
eminently quotable stuff, but considering
how portmanteau stories (as this one is)
can often be disappointing (a recent cine-
matic example is Four Rocims), it is inter-
esting to see how this play can break pre-
conceived notions.
London is the setting for this patchwork
play which consists of four contemporary tales.
These cover subjects like the anger of youth to
the sociopathic nature of misanthropy. Neil
Biswas is certainly a dynamic writer, able to
effectively convey anything from profane, bel-
ligerent street slang to the detached, cyclical,
seemingly irrelevant speech of autism. But apart
from the already quoted link (and even that is
tenuous) and the fact that they are all set in the
Capital, this play lacked a convincing overall
schemata. Maybe that was the point - to present
these disparate tales together in order to try and
make unlikely associations, but this meant it lost
its coherence and cogency.
The acting did not have any tangible vibran-
cy, energy or urgency. This was a shame, as
Robert Pepper's mainly action-led direction was
often focused and balanced. An effective
attempt at a multimedia production was made
by flashing transient dream-like images of the
tales on numerous T V screens between the
installments. These were accompanied by an
appropriately weeping and dissonant cello.
Other music included the sweet Motown
rhythms of the 60's and the hell-on-earth tech-
no anthems of the 90's.
Skirmishes may not be for everyone's palate,
but nonetheless is a disturbingly real portrayal of
London life.

