Getting down to business
Getting down to business
After the relatively easy job of acquiring a
handful of addresses comes the rather more
difficult one of converting them into bricks
and mortar.
Even if you have been discerning in the
addresses that you have taken down,
chances are that a large proportion of them
will be unless. In most cases this will be
because someone has beaten you to it but
is also not uncommon to find that the details
held by the accommodation agency are
somewhat more attractive than the
accommodation itself. For example, rents
are sometimes put up once the owner of the
accommodation realises that there are a lot
of people interested in it.
So, the first thing to do is to reach for your
bag of five pences and ring the numbers to
check that the accommodation is still
available, find out more about the place and
fix up an appointment to meet the owner and
see the room
When you go to see a place it is important
to remember that the landlady is looking for a
suitable tenant just as much as you are
looking for a decent place to live. After a long
and frustrating day of looking for somewhere
to live you may not be at your best but it is
essential to have in mind that the average
landlady is looking for someone who is quiet
and studious and generally likely to occupy
the room in a way which causes the least
possible disruption to the lifestyle of the rest
of the household.
Thus it is important to appear polite and
pliable even though you may be feeling quite
the opposite.
There are a number of thing to look out for
when you go to look at a room.
Furnishings
Is there room and facilities to work, eg desk,
chair, etc and somewhere to keep books. If
the furnishings are not adequate in some
respect will the landlady allow you to
supplement them with things of your own. Is
the bed going to be comfortable enough to
sleep in for a year?
Other facilities
Usually you will have to share the bathroom
with other people. Are there going to be
unreasonable restrictions on when you can
use the facilities? When landladies initially
offer a room, they are sometimes vague
about cooking facilities where this involves
sharing the family kitchen. It is useful to
establish at this stage exactly what use you
will be able to make of the kitchen. At the
same time, it quite often happens that a
landlady starts being fairly unhelpful in this
respect but once she gets to know you and
realises that you are going to treat the
facilities in a responsible way, things intend
to improve. If you intend to use a bicycle to
get you to and from College, check whether
you will have a place to keep it.
Heating
When you go and look at a place in
September, you will be seeing it at its best in
that it will be fairly warm because of the
weather and any dampness is likely to have
dried out. Try and envisage the place in
winter with the wind whistling in through the
gaps round the window and the innocent
looking dry stain marks on the wallpaper in
full drip. Rooms in someone's own house are
more likely to be weatherproof but in houses
run by commerical landlords who are
interested in making as much money out of a
place with the least possible expenditure this
kind of problem is much more likely to occur
and the same goes for flats. Gaps around
windows and under doors can be dealt with
quite easily by fitting your own draught
excluders, but damp often requires
expensive repointing work or repairs to
guttering which the owner may never get
round to doing. Rooms with high ceilings are
difficult to keep warm, the more so when
they are next to an unlagged roof space.
It is an idea to look at the heaters which are
provide to see whether they will be able to
keep the room warm, and if you are paying
for the electricity or gas yourself, how much
per week this will add to the real cost of the
accommodation.
Fire Risk and Means of Escape
Large houses full of bedsits are perhaps
more likely to go up in smoke than a lot of
other sort of accommodation. Such houses
like others in multiple occupation, are meant
to have certain 'means of escape' facilities.
These usually involve self-closing doors with
a fireproof backing on them, a fire escape at
the top of the house and, in the case of
houses over say three stories high, a fire
escape at the top and a fire screen on the
stairs, usually near the top of the
building—this is where you have to go
through a self closing door to get to the stairs
serving the upper portion of the house. Such
buildings are also meant to have a fire
certificate. A good way to ensure that you
don't get the accommodation is to ask to see
the owners fire certificate.
It might make life difficult if you were only
to accept accommodation in houses which
comply with the fire regulations, but at the
same time do bear in mind the dangers. If you
are offered a room at the top of a house, what
would happen if a fire broke out on the floor
below. Would you be able to get out? Other
details like old wiring or the fact that the
accommodation is over or next to a chip shop
are also worth noting in considering whether
or not the risk of living there is an acceptable
one.
Noise
If you need a quiet environment to work or
sleep in, look out of for main roads and
railway lines. Unfortunately, however, the
most likely nuisances are going to be your
neighbours and there is no way of finding out
how noisy they will be until you have moved
in.
The Landlord
The landlord's personality, as it were, is not
that important in cases where he does not
live on the premises, but if you have a
resident landlord it can be very important
indeed. To a large extent it is up to you how
you get on with your landlady although of
course there are some unreasonable
landlords and landladies who would try the
patience of a saint. In most cases, though, all
that is required is a bit of give and take on
both sides, but you may well be expected to
make most of the concessions. On a first
meeting it is very difficult to work out
whether you will get on with a particular
landlord or landlady and if they take an
instant dislike to you the problem will be
solved by you not being offered the room. As
a general rule, the quality of the relationship
that you can develop with the landlord will
have a considerable effect on the quality of
your life in the accommodation.
Transport
Before rejecting a place because it is too
difficult to get to on public transport, it is'
worth looking at alternative means of
transport. Don't forget the overground
trains that serve South London and you
could even consider the possibility of getting
a bicycle. Also it is sometimes quicker to
walk than to use public transport!
Making a Decision
One of the most difficult aspects of the whole
business is trying to decide whether or not to
take a place that isn't quite what you had in
mind. On the one hand you can't help
thinking that if you go on looking for a bit
longer something better will come your way
but on the other hand you may be getting
pretty fed up with trudging around looking at
places and if you don't take up the offer that
you have, you may end up having to take a
place that is even less suitable.
If you are reaching the end of your tether
and a place comes up that is acceptable but
not ideal, one solution is to take it so long as
you don't have to enter into a long term
agreement for it. Then, when things have
quietened down a bit and you are feeling up
to rejoining the fray you can start looking
around for something more suitable without
the threat of homelessness hanging over
your head.
FEUX Friday 7 June 1985 11

