Signing the
agreement
Signing the agreement
Agreements come in many shapes and sizes but they have one
common objective—to give the property owner as much control over
the situation as possible. Housing legislation has two main objectives.
One is to give tenants security, the other is to impose some form of
control over the level of rent that the landlord can charge.
These provisions can have serious consequences for landlords and
so they naturally seek to avoid them.
In many cases, this is not entirely unresonable. Landlords have high
overheads and are operating in an area which is only marginally
feasible in commercial terms. The return on the amount of capital
invested in the accommodation tends to be low in comDarison to
other forms of investment. Much rented accommodation is loan
financed and vulnerable to increases in interest rates, apart from
absorbing much of the rent which the landlord is able to extract from
his tenants. There is an element of capital gains ie the increasing value
of the house or flat, but this is fairly unpredictable. If a landlord is
unable to charge a rent which covers his outgoings and gives a
reasonable profit, and if he is unable to sell and recover his investment
then there is not much point in his continuing being a landlord.
From the point of some classes of tenant, such as old people and
families, security of tenure is extremely important. For a student,
however, this is not so critical. Most students are looking for short
term acccommodation anyway and the most important thing is to
avoid being made homeless at crucial times like in the middle of
exams.
So, the main thing is not to worry too much about agreements.
Even though some seem strange, there is usually method in
their madness.
Minimum Protection
Under virtually every kind of accommodation arrangement, there is a
level of minimum protection provided by the Protection from Eviction
Act. The landlord has to give you 28 days written notice and then
must apply for a court order before he can get you out. Any attempts
to get rid of you without following this procedure constitute a criminal
offence.
Types of agreement
Licences
These are the most common form of Rent Act evasion and until a
recent House of Lords decision, they seemed to have the unqualified
support of the Courts.
The main feature of a licence is that the owner reserves the right to
move in with you himself or move other people in as and when he
likes. This is just a technical form of words which is intended to
prevent the creation of a protected tenancy. In reality the owner has
no intention of doing this. Licences also tend to include clauses to the
effect that you freely agree to enter into a situation where you have no
rights. However, in fact he would still have to get a court order if he
wanted you out.
Holiday Lets
These used to be very common but their validity as a means of taking
your rights away has now been discredited for long lets because they
are obviously sham agreements—who do you know who would take a
nine month holiday in Shepherds Bush?
You may come across a holiday let but if you do, it probably means
that the landlord doesn't know what he is doing. There is no reason
why you shouldn't sign one of these.
Tenancy Agreements
Signing a tenancy agreement could mean that you are a protected
tenant, can stay there for as long as you want and have your rent
registered (this usually means reduced) by the Rent Officer. These
agreements are usually used where the landlord wants to incorporate
one of the Rent Act exceptions to long term security of tenure, such
as the fact that he is an owner occupier. This means that althouoh i«* >
are a protected tenant, the court would let the landlord have his
house back, if he wanted to live there himself.
Shorthold Tenancies
These were created in an attempt to encourage more people to let
flats, by restricting security of tenure. However, in order to create
such a tenancy the landlord has to register a fair rent for the,
accommodation. For this reason they are very unattractive to mostj
landlords and although you may hear of short hold tenancies it isi
unlikely that you will ever come across one.
Non-existent Agreements
Many landlords don't use agreements at all. This is usually when they
live in the same house in which case security of tenure is limited
anyway. People worry about this kind of arrangement. In fact, there
isn't anything to worry about. Nearly all agreements have a lot to say
on what the tenant must, or must not do, to fulfill his side of the deal
and very little to say about what the landlord has to do. If there is not
an agreement, this does not take away any of your legal protection. In
the case of a situation where the landlord is not resident, the absence
of an agreement is likely to mean that you are a fully protected tenant.
The only real snag with this kind of arrangement is that it is often used
by people who are up to something like subletting when they
shouldn't be or not declaring the rent to the taxman. Such landlords
are likely to refuse to give you receipts for rent, insist on cash
payments and generally try to give the impression to the world at large
that you don't exist. The only problem is that if you want to claim any
form of housing benefit you will find it very difficult to convince the
town hall that you are paying rent. Such landlords get emotional if you
mention housing benefit to them.
Fixed term agreements
Most agreements are for a fixed term eg 1 October 1985 to 30 June
1986.
This applies to all kinds of tenancies and licences. The problem with
fixed term agreements is that unless they contain a clause to say that
you can move out early-eg by giving a months notice, then you will be
liable for the rent for the whole period of the agreement. This can
cause real difficulties if you find that you don't like the place. Usually
landlords will let you go if you can find a replacement but this is often
not possible .It is important not to sign a fixed term agreement
without provision for giving notice unless you are reasonably
confident that you will be happy to stay there for the whole period.
The alternative is to negotiate with the landlord and try and get him to
put in a provision about leaving early.
Checklist for signing agreement
1 Read it carefully. Standard clauses like not playing records after
10.00pm are unlikely to cause any problems. The landlord will only
enforce these if he starts getting complaints from neighbours etc.
However, sometimes landlords put in clauses saying, for instance,
that you will have to pay some enormous sum at the end of the
tenancy for cleaning or for an inventory check. These are a different
matter altogether.
2 If the agreement is for a fixed period remember that you will only
be able to move out before the period expires if the agreement
expressly says that you can.
3 If you are really unhappy about signing an agreement for any
reason, don't sign it. Ask if you can take it away so that you can get
some advice on it. The landlord may refuse to let you have the flat
unless you sign right away but if he does, then you were probably right
to be unhappy about the agreement in the first place!
Deposits
Landlords usually ask for large deposits to cover damages and non-
payment of rent. Since you are likely to be having to part with one or
two months rent, it is important that you take steps to safeguard it.
The problem with deposits is that once the landlord has it, it can be
difficult to get it back. This is a very good illustration of the saying that
possession is nine-tenths of the law. At the end of your stay the
landlords may claim, for example, that you have ruined the paintwork
and that he will keep the deposit because he has to re-decorate. In
most cases it is very difficult to disprove this and since the landlord
has the money he usually ends up keeping it!
There are, however a few things that you can do to avoid this.
When you move in do a careful condition check of the
accommodation, make notes and send a copy to the landlord. In
particular, you need to look out for things which might prove
expensive if you are accused of causing them later on. For example
marks on walls, shabby paint work, damaged wallpaper and holes,
stains and cigarette burns in carpets. Also you need to look out for
damage to bathroom fittings and kitchen equipment, fitted cupboards
etc. Marked and broken furniture and stained mattresses are also
worth looking out for. Sometimes the landlord will provide an
inventory which makes it easier but if he doesn't a comprehensive list
of effects, copied and sent to the landlord could well pay dividends
later on. One way of recording the general condition of the
accommodation and the state of decorations is to take photographs.
Colour ones are best because they tend to be unflattering anyway
whereas black and white photos have the opposite effect.
12 Friday 7 June 1985 FEUX

