FELIXI]
sec
Chairman's
Annual Report
'By the time, man is in loss, except those who
believe, those who do good works, those
who enjoin the right and those who are
patient'.
Yet another academic year draws to a close
and students reflect back at what they have
achieved this year. Final year students will be
happy (or sad, as the case may be) at their
(expected) class of degree or at their
employment situation, others will be worried
about their exams etc. But most will look
back at this year and ponder on what they
could have done and blame themselves (or
more likely others) for their underachieve-
ments.
So let's look back and see what S C C has
achieved this academic year. There has been
no shortage of events for S C C to capitalise
on, this year:-
The horrific famine in Ethiopia. People are
dieing, due to lack of food, on a scale
unknown in recorded history, while at the
same time there are mega surplus quantities
of food in the E E C and U S A .
The continued sick aparthied system in
South Africa while College maintains close
links with the oppressive South African
government.
The non-sensical wars taking place in
various parts of the globe and how the plight
of the suffering Lebanese, Afghani and Irish
people has been ignored.
The political questions brought about by
the re-election of Regean, and the deaths of
Andrapov and Mrs Gandhi.
The list is by no means complete but
compared to the above the most major
problem faced by the U K this year, the
miners strike, seems (and is) insignificant.
It could be argued that since S C C contains
all the religious and political societies it is the
job of S C C to do something about the above.
There were three main S C C co-ordinated
events this year (no improvement on last
year):
The Human Rights Week was very
successfully organised by Tom Osorio this
year and high-lighted some of the problems
above, the level of participation was perhaps
down on last year but the level of activity was
certainly high.
Contact Week organised by the Christian
societies and co-ordinated by Richard
Eccleston was the most visible in a long time
and several important questions were
discussed.
The rest of the religious societies, Baha'i,
Islamic and Jewish participated in the
r?e/gious Week with the highlight being the
event by Baha'i society which brought
together all the major religions which showed
that perhaps there isn't as much in common
between them as some would lead (or like) us
to believe.
By far the largest group within S C C (or
indeed in the College), the Miscellaneous
societies (with the membership of just the
Industrial, Sci Fi and H G Wells societies
exceeding a grand) were content with mostly
individual activities but their level of activities
is very high anyway, a special mention must
be made of the careers fair which is
organised by Industrial Society and was on it
usual grand scale.
Financially, S C C may just be able to keep
to its budget this year, thanks to fine
management by Dr Nigel Graham, the H S T ,
Adrian Masters and the HJT. But with the
mega Union short fall next year and the
formation of two new societies (Appropriate
Technology and a much needed Arts
Appreciation Society) next year may be a
problem. Also I would like to use this
opportunity to appeal to all those who use
the S C C equipment to please return it as
various items have gone for walk this year
and lost their way back.
I would like to thank all of this year's
committee especially Josie Glausiuz for
putting up with my incredible laziness and
wish Richard Eccleston and next year's
committee all the best in the future.
The problems faced by the world today
puts into perspective the role of students at
IC. We come here to get an education not
just to get a piece of paper at the end
qualifying us to be called engineers or
scientists. Part of that education must be
directed towards answering the question
'what am I here for?' and in answering that
question you will do your bit in solving the
real problems that afflict you.
VACATION WORK AT THE SCIENCE MUSEUM
The Science Museum has vacancies for two Assistants to help run its 'Test Bed'
from 29 July to 31 August 1985.
•Test Bed1
is an area, open only at certain times, where visitors can handle
and experiment with a number of specially prepared exhibits in a more direct
and informal way than is possible elsewhere in the Science Museum.
The Assistant's job is to be on duty when Test Bed is open, and to
- talk to visitors and encourage them to try things
- carry out running maintenance on the exhibits
Hours: 11.15am to 5.30pm Mondays to Saturdays (inclusive) for 5 weeks,
starting on Monday 29 July and finishing on Saturday 31 August.
Pay: £16—£18 a session, depending on age.
Applications: Further details can be obtained from the Information Desk in
the Science Museum, or from Michael Williams, Launch Pad Project, Science
Museum, Exhibition Road, London SW7 2DD (Tel: 589 3456 ext 588/625).
Closing date for applications: 21 June 1985
FEUX Friday 7 June 1985 13

