C L E T T E R S Z _ ^
Letters
The Cuts—
More
Whining!
Dear Sir,
Following last week's article by Steve Lane
of the IC Caving Club, I should also like to
express my concern over the proposed cuts in
the transport subsidies for R C C Clubs. In
general the term time activities of our club
culminate in a 'tour' in each vacation. The
purpose of this tour is to put into practice
techniques which have been introduced over
the previous three months and to build on
these. The extended time period of the tour is
a more efficient way of increasing
competence with in the club and to pass on
experience from older members to those who
have just joined. The alternative is the
intensive weekend trip which only allows two
days to attempt anything new, before having
to return to London. Whilst the weekends
give an excellent opportunity for club
members to sample many of the different
areas in Britain, each developing particular
styles of walking or climbing, there may be a
gap of months even a complete academic year
before the club returns to each area when
vaguely remembered methods must be
relearnt wasting valuable time. The value of
week long tours to clubs such as ours, caving,
m o u n t a i n e e r i n g , a n d c a n o e i n g is
inmeasurable. Techniques can be perfected
over several days. Once persevered with, they
are much less likely to be forgotten. A t the
end of the year the summer tour is the
highlight of the year's activities, when
members can enter an environment abroad
which many would not otherwise be able to
afford. This offers challenges far more
stimulating than anything found in Britain.
The results are a dramatic increase in the
standards in the club and inevitably in the
safety standards self-imposed by club
members who have gained such experience
and confidence over the three weeks abroad.
Why then should reducing the tour
funding be the solution of the Union's
problems since it attacks only specific clubs.
Obviously it is impossible for our club to
experience lightweight walking activities
without leaving London. We need our tours
to fulfil all that we can offer to
undergraduates and postgraduates at this
College. Let the cuts be administered,
through R C C , by the people who are best
capable of deciding where the cuts should be
made, distributing the effects more equitably.
Celia Woodward
Chairman 1985-86
IC Scout and Guide Club
G Thorpe—
The Real
Problem
Dear Sir,
I was interested to read G Thorpe's letter
of last week (31 May) where he/she was
obviously keen to 'solve the real problems of
the world'.
Any solution relies heavily on the problem
being correctly identified, and at its root this
lies with man himself. Attempts to change the
world without changing human nature will at
best merely be treating the symptoms rather
than effecting a cure. In this context the
biblical view of Man as created in the human
image of God, but fallen and fatally flawed, is
a key insight into understanding the human
condition.
In a nutshell, I am part of the problem, but
God's transforming power is part of the
answer.
Yours,
Martin Lings
(Soil Mechanics PG)
NOS on
operating system
Dear Sir,
On 24 May you reported that the ICCC
password file had been broken into, and that
users were recommended to change their
passwords. On a proper operating system,
there would be no problem, one could simply
type, at a terminal, password, Gandalf or
such, and that would be the new password
from then on. Under NOS (not an Operating
System) it's not so simple. One must
1 Go to the Computer Centre and obtain
the correct form.
2 Fill this in and present it to your
department computing representative (not
someone you are likely to know) rather than
the group representative who deals with unit
allocation, etc.
3 Return the form to ICCC, who will have
your new password up in a day or two._While
this situation remains, security at ICCC is a
joke—just like screen editing and a lot of
other things that NOS can't do. If this is a
Cente of Excellence, when are we going to get
the excellent operating system we deserve?
Diane Love
Physics PG
FELIX
The student grant goes up 3% next year.
Rents are likely to go up 5%. When the new
housing benefit regulations are announced
they will probably abolish benefit for
students. The rates will be reduced, in any
event. The Government are also likely to
abolish Supplementary Benefit for students
during the summer vacation.
Students next year are going to be short of
money. Students in London next year are
going to be virtually destitute.
The Government realise this, of course,
and, of course, it is exactly what they want.
They are forcing students to live in
circumstances under which they cannot
survive without taking out a loan. There was
a massive outcry when the Government first
spoke of student loans. Now that they are
conspiring to introduce them through the
back door, the outcry should be no less.
Unfortunately there is no hope that the
Government will listen, though.
If you take 300 madmen and send them
abroad with brightly coloured scarves and
bottles of Newcastle Brown Ale then they are
classed as football hooligans. If you put 300
madmen in a palace in Westminster they are
able, not only to do irreparable damage to
our country's name, but also to its future.
The wages of the sin of these philistine anti-
scholars is the intellectual death of the
country.
Next year's editor has asked me to
announce that publicity to be printed for
Freshers' Fair should be submitted to him
before Wednesday 7 August. The Print Unit
cannot guarantee that orders placed after this
date will be printed in time. Orders placed
before the end of term will be charged at this
year's rates.
There will be no F E L I X next week—the
last issue will appear on Wednesday 19 June.
The copy deadline is Wednesday 12 June for
Diary and Small Ads.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Michael
Arthur, Grenville, Chris Martin, Martin,
Richard, Diane, Nigel, Pete, Debbie, Tinker,
Ian, Alan, Judith, Sarah, Pete, Rosemary and
Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 7 June 1985 FEUX

