Wind
Power
Wind Power is one of the most promising of
the renewable energy sources in many parts
of the world. A team in the Electrical
Engineering Department headed by Dr Leon
Freris are working on two interesting
projects involving wind energy conversion.
Wind is particularly abundant in the
United Kingdom; with an annual average
windspeed experienced by the North
Western coast of Scotland and the Scottish
Isles being as high as anywhere in the world.
But to exploit this non-polluting and
inexhaustible energy source it is necessary
to develop aerogenerators which convert
wind energy into electricity as efficiently and
reliably as possible. With conventional
designs, some major problems have been
encountered and it is hoped that a new
aerogenerator under development at
Imperial College will help to solve them.
One of the problems is the fatigue
experienced by the blade roots due to wind
turbulence and the shadowing effect of the
tower over millions of revolutions. The new
design hopes to overcome this cyclic stress
by having the blades attached to the hub
through an ordinary and cheap universal
joint. In this way the blades have freedom to
'cone', that is move out of the plane of
rotation, thus relieving the blade root from
the fatigue experienced by conventional
designs. So that the joints experience a
minimum of centrifugal force, the blades are
counterbalanced. These universal joints also
allow blade pitch control, for example the
possibility of changing the angle of the blade
aerofoil with respect to the wind. By
adjusting the pitch it is possible to control the
power converted from the wind, and so
prevent the system from overspeeding at
high winds. The pilot system about to be
tested, is shown in figure one, and has a set of
blades of 3.8 metres diameter; but ultimately
the aerogenerator will be fitted with blades of
eight metres diameter and will provide a
maximum of about l l k W from the
generator. The whole system is under the
supervision of a microprocessor based
controller which loads up the wind turbine
optimally to maximise the energy from the
wind, and also monitors other variables and
takes action to protect the system if
Fig 1 above-exploded view
Fig 2 below-what a whopper
Fig 3 top right-close up
necessary. This new aerogenerator will soon
be installed at the Rutherford Appleton
Laboratories in Oxford so that extensive
studies on its performance can be carried
out.
Another area of wind energy exploitation
which has enormous potential is in the
generation of electricity in power networks
supplied by diesel generator sets. These
networks are found in areas too remote for
connection to a national grid or on islands.In
these situations the exploitation of wind is
particularly attractive as islands often
possess a high annual average windspeed,
and diesel generated electricity is expensive
particularly when fuel transportation costs
are high. When the required wind generation
capacity is small in comparison with the
diesel installed capacity then addition of wind
generators is not normally a problem.
However, to obtain substantial fuel savings
sufficient wind capacity is needed to supply
on occasions the total load demand. Then
system stability and control logistics become
a problem.
Dr Freris is involved in a co-operative
project supported by the Science and
Engineering Research Council, and Hawker
Siddeley Power Plant Ltd which is being
carried out at Imperial College and the
Rutherford Appleton Laboratories (RAL) in
Oxford. The main intention is to develop a
wind/diesel system which is commercially
viable. The project involves extensive
system modelling and experimental studies,
based on a working system which consists of
a 16kW aerogenerator and a 7kW diesel
generator. Figure two shows this system
which is based at the RAL site.
The work up to date has led to the
establishment of ways to minimise diesel fuel
consumption, maintain system voltage and
frequency as conditions vary, and minimise
the wear and tear on the diesel engine.
Projects such as these that provide
pollution free energy from inexhaustible
sources are of importance to developed
countries but even more so to developing
countries as the technology used can be
readily adapted to exploit local materials and
expertise.
FEUX Friday 7 June 1985 5

