The FELIX/Student Services Guide to
Accommodation
Planning
Introduction
Finding somewhere to live is a serious
business. It calls for careful planning and
hard work. The aim of this guide is to give
you information you need to make the best of
your efforts and to help ensure that you end
up in accommodation which will enhance
rather than detract from your enjoyment of
the year ahead.
Unlike some University Towns, London
offers a wide variety of accommodation in
many different areas. As you commit
yourself to ideas about how far away you
want to live, how much you are prepared to
pay and so on, you restrict the available
options and make your task that much
harder.
Sharing or living alone
The first decision is whether to team up with
other people or whether to go it alone. One
big advantage of the go it alone approach is
that a large proportion of the
accommodation on offer is for one person.
Also, you can choose where you want to live
without having to consider other peoples
views. Flats with single rooms are few and far
between so if you are set on not sharing a
room, then this may be your best strategy.
The main disadvantages are that living alone
can be very lonely, especially in London and
iunless you can maintain a good social life at
College or elsewhere, you might be letting
yourself in for a pretty miserable time.
Conversely the main advantage of sharing is
that you have guaranteed company and the
work involved in finding a place is shared as
well. Whereas if you are living alone you will
almost certainly have to share bathroom
facilities with strangers, and will either have
to share a kitchen or put up with a Baby
Belling in your room, a flat share means that
as a group you will have your own kitchen
and bathroom and even a sitting room as
well. On the minus side, the strain of living on
top of each other in a small flat can lead to
personality clashes with people dropping
out, leaving the remainder with the problem
of finding a replacement or the rent.
Committing yourself to a group can severely
limit the number of suitable places. In order
to help you decide on the basis of availability,
here is a breakdown of 863 offers of
accommodation which appeared on the
Student Services accommodation lists
between September 1984 and May 1985:-
Number
accommodated
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Percentage
of offers
48.7
25.3
6.0
10.4
4.3
3.4
1.0
0.5
0.3
0.1
100
Area
Naturally enough, most people want to live
as close to College as possible and the virtual
phasing out of the facility for re-claiming
travel expenses from local authorities
provides a strong financial incentive for
doing so. The old argument that more distant
accommodation is cheaper doesn't count for
much anymore, since the cost of travel
added on to the cheaper rent is likely to
amount to the same as you would be paying
close to College.
The advantages of looking further afield
are more to do with availability. Widening the
area that you are prepared to look at means
that you will have more offers of
accommodation to choose from and this in
turn will increase your chances of finding
something suitable. It makes sense to take
some time to look at as many areas as
possible before deciding. Places like
Bayswater, Fulham, Clapham and Chiswick
all have attractions which, for many people,
make the travel worthwhile.
Rent
The amount of rent that you can offer is a
very significant factor in determining where
you end up living. Over the last year or so,
ithe situation has been distorted by the
availability of housing benefits for most kinds
of rented accommodation. The distortion
has arisen because people have felt able to
pay more, in anticipation of receiving
housing benefits and landlords have raised
their prices accordingly. As many have
found, however, it is not a good idea to rely
on housing benefits mainly because of the
very long periods which elapse between
making a claim for benefit and getting the
money. This has left many students facing
severe cash flow problems. Another
discouraging factor is that it is by no means
certain that housing benefit will be available
to students in the future, particularly in view
to the governments commitment to end
student entitlement to Housing Benefit and
Supplementary Benefit
The calculations for housing benefit are
fairly complicated and the amounts which
people actually receive are rarely what one
might expect. Nevertheless, to give you a
rough idea of what you might be able to get
next year if you are on a standard grant, take
the rent exclusive of heating and lighting and
deduct £22. You can hope to get back about'
60% of the difference but it would be
dangerous to rely on this to any great extent.
When to look
As most of you will probably have discovered
by now, it is very difficult to fix up
accommodation in advance. Landlords
know that they can fill their accommodation
easily whenever a vacancy arises. It doesn't
make sense for them to commit themselves
to having the accommdation available in the
future because this would effectively mean
that if the accommodation became vacant
before then they would have to keep it empty
and lose rent. It is certainly much easier to
find accommodation if you are looking for
places which are available immediately and
are ready to move in and start paying rent a
once. This means that September is by far
the best time to look. Although there is a lot
of accommodation available during
September, the main difficulty is that there
are a great many other people looking for
accommodation during that period as well.
FEUX Friday 7 June 1985

