www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 9 June 2005
6
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
Roads, radio and requests
Academic appeals
Ever been in the position where you
have exams coming up and some-
thing unexpected happens in your life?
Something out of your control that
take your mind off your studies? What
do you do?
In some circumstances, people think
that they can juggle personal problems
with academic work. Some people can
do this, but most can’t. When a close
family member or friend is ill, or per-
haps even dies, it is very hard for us
all to concentrate on our jobs, and we
often cannot carry out our usual tasks
to the best of our ability.
Sometimes departments can make
mistakes in their procedures, for
example the wrong revision notes
may be given to you or you might be
told the wrong location or time for an
exam. These situations do sometimes
arise and they are known as proce-
dural irregularities.
If either of these situations, or
something similar, happens to you,
it is always important to talk in the
first instance to your department.
Sometimes a senior or personal tutor
is a good start, but who else could you
talk to?
The Information and Advice Centre
(IAC) is here to act as an independ-
ent and impartial ear to all students
who find themselves in this type of
awkward situation. We are totally con-
fidential and can give you options as to
the best way forward.
In some circumstances, students
carry out an exam with this sort of
problem hanging over them and then
afterwards realise that it affected their
performance. In this situation, you may
be able to launch an academic appeal
on the basis of extenuating circum-
stances. To do this you will need good
evidence, so for example if you had an
illness you would need to provide doc-
tor’s notes or proof of a hospital stay.
It is easier to resolve if you bring these
issues up before exams or coursework
has to be handed in.
With procedural irregularities, again
you will have to have proof of this on
paper. The IAC can help you with all
these issues by ensuring that you have
enough evidence to proceed.
If you do wish to appeal when you
receive your results, it is important to
think about this long and hard before
doing so. Consider the following:
• What basis are you appealing on?
• Have you got the evidence to support
your appeal on paper?
• Will you be any better off if you win
the appeal?
• What result do you want to see hap-
pen, and is it likely to be the outcome?
• Are the department willing to give
you another chance anyway?
It is important to remember that you
cannot appeal just because you are
unhappy with the mark. Papers are
often marked two or three times, so if
the mark was wrong it would almost
certainly have been noticed by now.
In all cases, be honest with yourself.
If you honestly feel that you have a
case then proceed, but if you just didn’t
do enough revision then your appeal
will be thrown out at the first level.
The IAC is currently producing an
information sheet as a guide for stu-
dents on how to appeal and the pos-
sible outcomes that can occur.
If you would like more information
on academic appeals, please contact
the Information and Advice Centre on
020 7594 8067 or advice@ic.ac.uk.
Remember, don’t let your concern
turn into a crisis. Make the Information
and Advice Centre your one stop shop
for all your welfare issues.
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
Death in vain?
Yesterday was the cremation of Apijak
‘Joe’ Srivannavit, the Imperial post-
graduate who was killed in an accident
whilst cycling at the Queen’s Gate
junction with Cromwell Road. Coming
a couple of months after the death of
a long-serving staff member, Thomas
Sippel-Dau, on the same road, it’s
a poignant time to think about road
safety in the area.
There have long been concerns
about the safety of Cromwell Road,
for pedestrians as well as cyclists.
Furthermore, there is an air quality
monitoring station which shows it to
be the most polluted road in London.
The Union is seeking to raise politi-
cal awareness of the road safety and
environment issues with the Cromwell
Road. The issue is complicated
because the main road is the respon-
sibility of the Mayor and Transport
for London whilst the adjacent roads
come under the jurisdiction of the local
councils. Nevertheless, the nature of
recent events means that it is now a
cause we must champion on behalf
of the local community (of which we
are a major component). Joe’s family
have expressed their support for our
campaign. To find out more, or to help,
please visit www.union.ic.ac.uk/icbug.
Radio controversy
I know there are several controversial
issues bubbling up that people want
to talk to me about. I get a lot of email
and it can be difficult for me to reply to
each and every person who emails me
about something. So I thought it might
be worth drawing attention to the fact
that you can phone in to Fireside, my
radio show with Dave Edwards, the
editor of Felix. We are on air every
Thursday, 5-6pm on 999AM in Princes
Gardens, 1134AM in Wye and at www.
icradio.com.
Requests
I know that next week will be my last
column after serving two years as your
President. I expect to write about the
future of the Union and Imperial as a
whole, as well as what I have learnt
in my six years as a student here. If
there’s anything you think I should
write about, then please email me
(president@ic.ac.uk) to let me know.
Alternatively email Felix as they are
going to interview me.
Election time
Please don’t forget that we have
election nominations open for Union
Officers as well as the new Graduate
Students’ Association. Nominations
close on Monday 13 June and voting
takes place online later that week.
ULU success
As I hope you are aware by now,
Imperial students are members of the
University of London Union (ULU)
as well as ICU. ULU organise central
campaigns and every other year or so
one of them actually achieves some-
thing. This is one of those years.
From September 2005 all students
will be able to use the University of
London Library (ULL) in Senate
House which has an extensive collec-
tion of humanities and social sciences
texts. Up until now, only students from
those Colleges which subscribed to
the ULL could use it. That excluded
Imperial as we didn’t subscribe since
the ULL does not maintain any special-
ist science collections. Nevertheless,
the ULL is valuable as study space for
Imperial students who live in inter-
collegiate halls in the area. It is also
incredibly valuable for anyone who
wants access to a broader collection
of humanities texts (especially those
taking humanities for credit). Credit
must go to ULU for this.
STATE OF
THE UNION
MUSTAFA ARIF
UNION PRESIDENT
Local community must learn
from cyclists’ deaths
O
ur thoughts go out to the friends and family of Apijak
Srivannavit, the Imperial College postgraduate student who
was killed in a road traffic accident in South Kensington two
weeks ago. He was knocked off his bicycle by a coach at the junction
of Queen’s Gate and Cromwell Road [see last week’s Felix, issue
1325].
Mr Srivannavit was not the first person from Imperial College
to suffer a tragic death while cycling in the area. Less than three
months ago, Thomas Sippel-Dau, an ICT manager, was knocked off
his bicycle and killed by a 4x4 vehicle in a hit-and-run incident.
One death could be seen as an anomaly, but two in such a short
space of time suggest that something is seriously wrong on Cromwell
Road. It is a long, straight route, where drivers appear to break the
speed limit very frequently, perhaps as a result of the fact that many
come in from the west on the M4 and fail to realise that they need to
slow down.
Imperial College and its students’ union should put pressure on
the local council and Transport for London in order to protect those
who cycle in the area. Any number of traffic calming measures could
be introduced, perhaps on a trial basis initially. These would also
improve safety for drivers and pedestrians. There is no doubt that
the status quo must not be allowed to continue.
The local community must learn from the deaths of Mr Srivannavit
and Mr Sippel-Dau, doing all it can to prevent further tragedies.
Imperial College Bicycle Users’ Group has information on how you
can help at www.union.ic.ac.uk/icbug/cromwell.html. The website
includes tips on cycling safely and ways to influence key decision-
makers.
Next week’s Felix is the
last issue of term. Send
your letters, reports or
other contributions to
us by 5pm Monday
felix@ic.ac.uk

