www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 9 June 2005 7
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
Why has no-one thought of this
before? Let’s put all those hard-
working economics students out of
their misery and re-train them as
pop stars. Why bother having LSE
taking up all that prime space in
central London when it could be put
to better use as a recording studio?
Yes it sounds risky, but only a few
platinum albums later they will be
instantly granted the moral author-
ity to lecture world leaders on how
to solve global poverty. Admittedly
I write this article in the spirit of
nimbyism* as living only a few miles
from Gleneagles (the location of the
G8 summit) I am not overly enam-
oured with the prospect of return-
ing home at the end of term to find
my local area swamped by anti-
capitalist eco tree-huggers and the
security services required to con-
trol them.
Saint Bob Geldof has encouraged
the world to descend upon the G8
conference as the high point of the
campaign to Make Poverty History.
Whilst no-one with even the slight-
est shred of humanity can disagree
with the sentiment of this noble
cause, its methods are verging on
the ridiculous. Whatever happened
to the stoicism of giving to a cause
privately? Now when we support
a charity we insist on getting a
sweat-shop-produced rubber band
so the whole world can see just what
fantastic people we all are. We can
only help Africa if we remain a well-
educated, prosperous country in a
position to help developing nations.
Perhaps Mr Geldof could explain
to us all how encouraging children
to play truant from school helps to
achieve this.
By jumping on the A-list band-
wagon, we would not be solving
any problems but subsidising them.
Unconditional aid rewards woeful-
ly incompetent governments who
spend far too much of it on them-
selves and not enough on the food
and healthcare it was supposed
to provide for the people it was
intended for. Swiss bankers will be
doing a roaring trade in the weeks
following Sir Bob’s little sing-song.
We have a duty to increase aid to
developing nations but at the same
time we also have the responsibility
to ensure that not a single penny is
misused along the way.
Increasing aid and reducing cor-
ruption are necessary but not suf-
ficient conditions for improving the
lives of the millions who are living
well below the poverty line. If the
Bollinger Bolsheviks of the anti-
capitalist movement stopped derid-
ing the multinationals, perhaps they
would realise that these large cor-
porations could play a vital role in
providing support to governments
who are overwhelmed with the
tasks facing them. Love them or
loathe them, they all have ruth-
lessly efficient management struc-
tures and vast knowledge of the
global economy. Sharing this exper-
tise with a fledgling democracy
would greatly increase its chances
of developing into a stable, prosper-
ous nation.
To further maximise the chances
of this happening, we could start
with the chastening of the European
farmers lobby. They seem to be the
only group left who have not accept-
ed the Thatcherite consensus that
unprofitable enterprises should
not be propped up using taxpayers’
money, as was recently demonstrat-
ed by the unfortunate demise of
MG Rover. We now live in a country
where farmers receive payments
for the “stewardship of the coun-
tryside” – they don’t actually have
to produce any food. Not only are
these people not letting third world
producers compete on equal terms,
but some are receiving money for
being little more than glorified land-
scape gardeners. The benefit felt by
poor foreign farmers through the
elimination of rural welfare will far
outweigh any suffering caused to
our own native producers. Perhaps
Mr Geldof could sanctimoniously
grandstand on their behalf. I can
just see it now – Land Aid: Support
the Shires’ Need for Tweed.
Also ignore the mean minded dic-
tum of the xenophobes who believe
that charity begins at home. Please
continue to give generously to over-
seas funds, but do so for their cause
and not your own. Altruism is not
a quality to be publicly flaunted, so
please take those silly little bands
off your wrist. The world assumes
you to be a kind and generous per-
son until you show otherwise. Don’t
insult the intelligence of your peers
by giving them the most crass of
hints. There are far more effec-
tive ways of helping the third world
than massaging the egos of a few
has-been performers. Their celeb-
rity and passion generates a huge
amount of welcome publicity, but
it is very dangerous to assume
that a group of people who have
spent their lives insulated from
harsh reality have all the answers.
Irresponsible pleas for bringing a
city to a standstill are not the best
way of spending the moral capital
they have generated.
Finally I request you to quietly
turn down Sir Bob’s invitation to
Edinburgh in early July. Try later
on, when the festival is taking place.
It is a beautiful historic city with
a rich cultural heritage, with far
more rewarding activities on offer
than joining the malodorous mass-
es kicking in the McDonalds on
Princes Street.
[*NIMBY: Not In My Back Yard]
Making economics history?
Bob Geldof and the Make Poverty History campaign have the best of intentions but are
going about it all the wrong way, argues Stephen McAloon
“Unconditional aid
rewards incompetent
governments who
spend far too much of
it on themselves”
“Altruism is not a
quality to be publicly
flaunted, so please
take those silly little
bands off your wrist”
As the academic year draws inexo-
rably to a close, anyone would be
forgiven for throwing all thoughts
of the next one to the wind, in grate-
ful anticipation of the summer.
However, it will probably interest
some to know that a most unusual
and unprecedented event is planned
for the first week or so of October:
the first Imperial Environment Day.
Now although it might be considered
too great a challenge to fit the words
‘Imperial’ and ‘environment’ into the
same sentence, the day will mark at
least some effort and progress on
this front.
Supposedly, by the time this
event occurs, the College will be
busy reducing its environmen-
tal impact and trying to become a
leader amoungst the group of top
universities that demonstrate sound
environmental practise. (At present,
of course, we have some way to
go.) The day will look to highlight
this shift and attempt to reinforce
it, whilst being a huge joint ven-
ture between students, the College
itself and certain others, such as
Carbon Sense. It will bring together
the numerous and diverse, if some-
what decentralised, strands of green
within the university.
If all goes to plan then whilst
Imperial academics show off their
world class environmental research
and famous and respected alumni
holdrelevanttalks,Imperialstudents
and societies will provide support in
the form of music, artistic ventures,
alternative sports parties, games
and stalls. As we all know, there are
a lot of incredible people at this uni-
versity, staff and students alike, and
it isn’t all that often that they have
the opportunity to come together in
this way and create something spec-
tacular. It would seem that this day
offers just such an opportunity.
If, by October, the College has not
delivered on its promises (environ-
mentally speaking), the potentially
monumental day could, alternative-
ly, serve as a sharp reminder of the
relevance and importance of these
issues. The more cynical might sug-
gest that such a big event could
also offer the college a smokescreen
with which to hide its true level of
commitment to the environment, if
indeed there is anything to hide. We
can only hope that no one within the
college would resort to such behav-
iour, and we expect this event to be
only part of a larger general move-
ment and continued visible change.
So enjoy the summer, whether you
are on holiday or not. But at the
same time, look forward to next year
and what is to come, and look for-
ward to the Environment Day! Any
individuals, groups or societies want-
ing to know more or get involved at
all should contact joseph.bull@ic.
ac.uk, hannah.theodorou@ic.ac.uk
or samantha.perera@ic.ac.uk.
Turning the College green
Joseph Bull offers you an invitation to the first Imperial Environment Day
“The event will bring
together the numerous
and diverse strands
of green within the
university”
Green technologies, like this solar-powered speed monitoring device, could be signs of a new commitment
to the environment at Imperial College

