www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 9 June 2005 9
Columns felix@ic.ac.uk
Dear readers,
Barely a day passes when my
friends at South Kensington do not
hear your much-appreciated opin-
ions on the adventures described
in this column. I am touched to
hear – from our esteemed editor,
no less – that several of you pick up
our little paper of joy on any given
Thursday and turn straight here to
get your disposable piece of me!
‘Disposable piece of me’ – onomat-
opoeia for an emocore band name,
don’t you think? I should really pass
that on to Greasy, who has been
emailing me non-stop this week
about his ‘clart’ posse.
I would also like to thank the love-
ly Diogo for keeping me a secret,
and the inimitable Aaron S for
taking the time out to answer my
lovingly thought-out questions – I
enjoyed his ‘String Theory’ column
immensely!
Moving on. What else have I been
up to? Running into a variety of hid-
eosities with my partner in crime,
Brownian motion, I do believe! A
hideosity is cross between some-
thing hideous and a monstrosity. In
keeping with this theme, I’ve decid-
ed to compile a list of the most hide-
ous people in college, to keep you
all guessing during those dreaded
maths methods lectures! Short of
naming and shaming them, we’re
going to leave you with a treasure
hunt... the prize being a cold bever-
age shared in the presence of the
most excellent yours truly. Here are
six of the ‘best’...
We begin with a four foot tall,
Huxley-based case of short-man
syndrome. He’s also homophobic,
well versed in text harrassment and
unbelievably inarticulate. Without
the requisite anger management
classes, he would have been better
suited to a career in suicide bomb-
ing. His brother, the curry breath
greaseball from EEE, also gets a
mention. We finally met up with him
after months of painstaking emails
saying, “please meet me, you won’t
know if you hate me ‘til you try”.
So we did. We took him to the
Science Museum, since no-one we
knew would be hanging out there
at 2pm on a Thursday. Believe me,
he was highly embarassing to be
seen with – a two-foot tall, fully-
bearded old-school hair metaller
does nobody any social favours! His
attempts to claim the Lostprophets
as Britain’s biggest rock band fell
flat on our unreceptive ears.
Our next hideosity is more refined.
This ICT worker actually pro-
nounced his occupation as a ‘per-
gammer’ (programmer). Spitting
relentlessly as he talked, we lasted
45 minutes before giving up on this
absolute gem.
Next up is another Mech Enger.
Of Asian origin, he has taken a leaf
from the books of the sleazes most
commonly found in Shepherd’s Bush
market. I’m sorry, but just because
I’m brown does not mean I’m from
your country of origin. It also does
not mean that I’ll automatically love
you. Setting foot in Chelsea does
not suddenly make you rich. Even
if it did, you’d still not be desirable.
Believe me, if I was going to marry
for money, it certainly wouldn’t be
to a man whose hobbies include
chirpsing brown females and get-
ting sweaty patches in the middle of
his pink Ralph Lauren polo shirts...
Number two in our ‘chart’ is the
infamous Erection Man, famous
for grinding against unsuspecting
females in the union. Not only does
he gyrate, but he gets full blown
erections from it. Many of us have
been unfortunate enough to be danc-
ing merrily before turning around
on feeling something small and hard
on our bums. Nasty.
So who is the number one hid-
eousity?
Clap your hands for the Huxley’s
finest son – the barometer of all
physical ugliness, Mr Pain Fetish. So
small and spindly, you could break
him in two within seconds, this chap
of primarily caucasian origin has
got it going on. He resembles a
human pug. Since ugly guys do it
best, and his personality is most
pleasing, we’ve decided to keep him
sweet, since he could be keeping a
few treats up his sleeve for when he
splits up with Elektra.
I’m off to the Big Apple for the
rest of the month. Have a wicked
summer, and don’t do anything I
wouldn’t (which is not a lot, admit-
tedly, but still).
I’ll be watching you!
The girl about town
by STORMY WOODS
Self-love has gone
mainstream
Pornography is a multi-billion
pound industry and increasing rap-
idly – some 1000 new porn sites are
created daily. Despite porn being so
omnipresent in our lives and on our
computer screens, porn comes up
very rarely in conversation. I guess
you’d have to be pretty good friends
with someone to say, “I found this
great new porn site the other day,
it’s got everything...”
Porn is defiantly losing the stigma
that has been associated with it in
the past. Its stars are now rightly
proud of their assets and achieve-
ments. In the past, some famous
actors have had to dabble in the
porn world to keep their finances in
the black. Once they become main-
stream movie stars, the threat of
‘revelations’ hangs over their heads.
But exposure through porn can give
porn actors celebrity status in their
own right – see Jemma Jameson
and John Holmes, for example. The
porn world also has its own ver-
sion of the Oscars, the AVN awards,
which are held at some of the plush-
est hotels in Las Vegas and San
Francisco.
Strictly for research purposes, I
had a quick look at the myriad of
different types of porn that are avail-
able on the internet. There is a
whole plethora of different types of
porn available. You would have to
have some truly bizarre interests
to not find your niche somewhere.
Unfortunately, no matter how hard I
tried, I couldn’t find any true scien-
tist porn. There were lots of nurses,
firemen, nuns and teachers, but
absolutely no lab coat related stimu-
lation.
The nice thing about porn is that
you can be as specific as you like.
For instance, you don’t have to wade
through a sea of ginger people if you
like ‘em blonde. If you have a fetish
for golden showers or S&M there
are multiple sites that will give you
exactly what you want without you
having to ask.
I don’t think it would be appro-
priate for me to list all the types
of truly depraved porn in the hal-
lowed pages of Felix. Suffice to say,
you can get some truly weird and
‘I’m surpised that’s physically pos-
sible’ stuff. This got me wonder-
ing whether these niche activities
existed before the internet revolu-
tion. I know there are sex shops
and stuff, but I can’t see how there
can possibly be enough demand for
some of the truly bizarre. So, have
people always been turned on by
these ‘activities’ or has the internet
caused the creation of scores of new
crazes?
The internet must have increased
porn usage by several orders of mag-
nitude. According to Men’s Health
magazine, roughly one quarter of
all web searches are porn-related.
I imagine most of the population
has a bit of a dabble in porn, but
aren’t so into it that they go out
actively seeking it. The internet
serves these people excellently
– if you’re a bit bored or horny you
can have a Google and sort your-
self out without heading down to
Soho, where you have to quell those
nerves and ask the motherly-look-
ing woman for a magazine, the title
of which you hope your mum has
never heard of.
Internet porn does, obviously, have
its down sides, child porn being the
major one and far too serious an
issue for discussion here. Addiction
is another – I’ve got a friend (this
isn’t a friend who is actually me)
who was seriously worried internet
porn had caused him to fail his
exams. His explanation? “Revision
is boring, porn isn’t.” However
funny it may sound, porn addic-
tion can become a serious problem,
with men spending countless hours
online to the detriment of their fami-
lies and jobs.
Porn itself is but a tool and tools
are completely neutral – it’s their
application that renders them good
or bad.
4th floor library dude
I would like to apologise for any
distress that may have been caused
by my previous column, ‘4th floor
library dude’. The column was writ-
ten as a light hearted joke, and I
am disappointed that others seem
to have used it as a pretext for per-
sonal attacks.
The Neighbours generation
by RUPERT NEATE
Party like there’s no tomorrow! Wye Cricket Week
As the end of term approaches, this means one thing in Wye: Cricket Week. This tradition goes back as long as any records show and is not ready to stop yet.
While the week does include some cricket, the main aim of the week is just to have fun and relax in the sunshine, in the picturesque settings To facilitate this, a beer tent is set up, and is open
from 11am daily with some late licenses.
Sports events, during the daytimes, include an all-girls match where the ULU Cup-Winning Rugby Girls are challenged by the Netball girls in both games.
The evening entertainment programme is as follows:
Fri 17th - Band Night. The bar opens and the week kicks off with some great live music.
Sat 18th - Scavenger Hunt. Competitors in cars will be set various points-winning tasks, hopefully staying within the law this time: no more fire engines!
Sun 19th - WyePAS Pantomime. This year it’s Dick Whittington, the story of a country boy who discovers that the streets of London are not necessarily paved with gold; complete with
Pantomime Cow, and a Pantomime Dame from the JSF!
Mon 20th - Karaoke, in Wye’s unique style (ask ICU Choir about their Weekend Away!)
Tue 21st - Comedy Hypnotist Show
Wed 22nd - The Meteorological Society (who are not actually passionate amateur weather forecasters) hold their annual disco, at a location to be announced
Thurs 23rd - Silly Hat Day (work gets marked quickly here), followed by Graduation Disco
The week ends on Friday 24th June, with the Commemeration Ball, the biggest party of the year, lasting 12 hours solid: more on that from the organisers.
So if you want a break in the country, for a quiet drink or some serious partying, get in touch or just drop by: it’s your last chance to party with Imperial College Agricultural and Equine Freshers.

