17 December 1997 INSOMNIA 19
i i
I can't get no sleep.
Methought I heard a voice cry,
"Sleep no more."
(William Shakespeare.)
Recently I've had a bit of trouble getting to
sleep. This isn't to be taken too lightly. Sleep is
probably the most important operation that we
as humans have to perform, it is essential to our
being. Some even say that it is actually our rai-
son d'etre When 1 was younger, I lived in
Glasgow and had what can only
described as an utter nutter for a j
doctor. He said that sleep was |
everyone's natural state and when
we woke up, all we do is prepare
for sleep: Food helps us sustain
our sleep. Ablutions are carried out
so as not to disrupt sleep. Even
the acquisition of knowledge is
just the collection of materials for
dreams to be made out of. This is
obviously rubbish (or is it?) but it
would be unwise to underestimate
the tremendous power of sleep. In
a way you could say it's like sex;
it's taken for granted until it is
absent!
I used to think an insomniac
was someone who never slept at
all! It was someone who'd been
magically blessed, or even cursed,
with a lifetime of consciousness.
In fact, insomnia is a very broad
term and is simply defined as "to experience
difficulties with the process of sleep." There are
three different types. Type A: Difficulty in going
to sleep. Type B: Disturbed sleep. Type C: Early
morning arousal. This last type may sound like
"In a way you could say it's like
sex; it's taken for granted until
it is absent."
fun but believe me, it's not what you think! I'm
a Type A myself. Sometimes when it comes to
the time when I should really think about going
to sleep, I'm wide-awake. I end up just wasting
time till the early hours of the morning: writing
songs, reading books, watching
amusing late night TV, sometimes
I might even do a bit of work. 3am
starts approaching and I start to
feel tired and eventually 1 nod off.
Be-Beep! Be-Beep! Be-Beep!
The alarm goes off at half-seven. I
feel heavy-limbed and very tired. 1
struggle to keep my eyes open
before lunchtime (although lec-
tures may play a part in this fac-
tor) but by the afternoon I'm fine.
And when it comes to around
midnight I'm feeling quite
refreshed and awake when I know that I should
be tired. The problem here is my biological clock
and I have been told that all I have to do is force
myself to go to sleep at the appropriate time.
This appropriate time varies from individual to
individual. On average we get about seven hours
sleep when we would probably like eight or
more. However, usually we only actually need
about six and a half. This being the case, 1
should be forcing myself to sleep by one in the
morning. That's all very well but how do 1 do
that? An uncle of mine always has a small glass
of hot milk and whisky before he goes to bed
and it seems to do the trick for him. Another
solution comes from a nineteenth century doc-
tor: " A very efficacious method of procuring
sleep after lying awake for some time is to take
in a small quantity of food, for example, a bis-
cuit. This stimulates the digestive organs, draws
the excessive blood from the brain into the
abdomen and speedy sleep is the result." Also
in the nineteenth century, it was believed that
strong magnetic currents streamed between the
two poles and by positioning the bed due north
and south, you would receive the benefits of
these charges through sleep. Charles Dickens
was apparently a devotee of this theory.
In the end, though, the answer is whatever
works for you. However, if you do have prob-
lems sleeping, there are plenty of general sug-
gestions for a better night's sleep. You can con-
trol both your external and internal environment.
For example, do you get to sleep quicker with a
small light on or do you have to have total dark-
ness? Does coffee make you drowsy or does it
wake you up? You can control your mental state.
Sometimes the source of sleepless nights is
emotional stress (Or is it the other way round?)
so offloading worries by writing them down
before you go to bed is a very
good idea. This is actually what I
do now and I find that I can get to
sleep much quicker when I
haven't got anything on my mind.
Try and get into a regular sleep
pattern. I appreciate that this is
impossible once the weekend
arrives but good sleepers are reg-
ular sleepers who have their bio-
logical clocks running efficiently.
Use your imagination. This is pos-
sibly the most powerful method of
all. If you find yourself worrying
about future difficulties and
caught in a "vicious circle of
thoughts" then try to remember a
time when you were happy or the
last time you found something
hilariously funny. You will now be
in a better state to relax and there-
fore sleep. Finally, if all else fails,
bore yourself to sleep. We've all
heard of counting sheep but try recalling those
mind-numbing integration rules. When your
brain is given the choice of this or sleep, you'll
find that it soon surrenders to the daily lapse of
"An uncle of mine always has a
small glass of hot milk and
whisky before he goes to bed
and it seems to do the trick for
him.
consciousness.
So. Sleep. It takes up about a third of our
lives. It accompanies both the beginning and the
end of our day. A relaxing night in the sack can
sometimes mean the difference
between a good and a bad day.
Sleep is the drug that we are all
dependent upon. Occasionally
better than sex and definitely less
tiring. Choose life? Choose sleep!
Good night.
Words by Dennis.
Illustrations by Matt Wright.

