FEATURE 17th December 1997
m
It is a fact that the law courts,
the fine temples of justice, are
adjacent to the food distribution
point for the homeless.
Whilst barristers clad in wig and gown and
debate through the evening, a collection of
shabby vans gather outside to hand out food. A
small group congregates under the street lamps,
some sipping hot chocolate, while others making
jokes about students. Somewhere in the distance
the siren of a police car can be heard, suddenly
a taxi pulls round the corner, then flashes past
into the night. This is another evening and
another soup run.
The IC soup run is poorly named, as it
involves neither soup nor physical exertion.
Rather volunteers gather each Tuesday and
Thursday evening, in the laundry of Weeks Hall
to prepare tea, hot chocolate and sandwiches.
Most weeks a mini-bus transports the volun-
teers, urns and sandwiches into central London;
although on occasions no drivers can be found,
so the pilgrimage is made on the tube.
The first stop is Lincolns Inn Fields, which is
known for the law courts and the headquarters
of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund. However
it is known amongst the homeless community
as a food distribution point, where various char-
itable ventures hand out their cargo. The people
who assemble there are from many walks of life.
Some are on shore leave from their ship, others
looking for work in London, most will be sleep-
ing on the street. Generally it is easy to strike up
conversation, lamenting the weather or mock-
ing the excuse of a van we travel in. Some folk
prefer to remain silent, others are vocal. Whilst
the barristers attempt to sway the jury, the gath-
ering outside
mumbles on.
Subsequently
the party moves
on to the Strand,
where people are
preparing their
blankets and
some already
curled up for
warmth. The urn
of hot chocolate
is carried up and down the length of the street,
together with the remaining food. The 1C group
is known by a number of the people on the
Strand and greetings exchanged. An encounter
with an old acquaintance brings good news; he
is now housed in Camberwell, as opposed to a
theatre doorway. He still sells the Big Issue, but
his clean-shaven appearance and new shoes say
it all. Then there is the old boy from Imperial
College, sitting on a pile of empty bread crates.
Each week he politely enquires which college
we are from; Royal College of Science, City &
Guilds or Royal School of Mines. Each week we
tell him and then he proceeds to tell us of his
time as an engineering lecturer. He is deaf on
account of an aircraft accident in the Second
World War and at some point his house was
confiscated through some incident with the
communists. Nobody is sure why.
The Strand is witness to every aspect of life.
The diners from Simpsons mingle with the audi-
ence for 'Chicago', the Savoy welcomes new
guests in limousines, via their rear entrance. The
neighboring Shell-Mex building accommodates
a few dozen people under the supporting arches.
Very occasionally a cynic questions our pres-
ence, claiming that we know nothing about the
streets and are engaging in self-gratification.
Whilst it is true that few of us have any compre-
hension of the hardships on the street, our
modest offerings are appreciated by the major-
ity and hence the activity is worthwhile. Whether
the activity is self-gratifying or not, is a personal
issue for each volunteer.
Around 11 pm the bus returns to Weeks hall
and the volunteers disperse.
The soup run begins at 8.15pm in the Weeks
hall basement, every Tuesday and Thursday
during term time. There are other projects run
by ICU Community Action Group. For informa-
tion on these and the next soup run, view our
home page at www.su.ic.ac.uk/clubsocs/.
The s o u p run n e e d s blankets
during the winter. If y o u have
spare o n e s please email us,
c o m m u n i t y . a c t i o n @ i c . a c . u k

