17 December 1997 OBITUARY
IC "Heretic" Dies on NASA Project
ANDY SINHARAY
Professor Eric Laithwaite, Emeritus Professor
of Electrical Engineering, died last month. He
was 76.
Born in Lancashire, Prof Laithwaite was best
known as one of Britain's first 'media engineers'
for his work in heavy electrical engineering,
principally on the linear motor. As one of IC's
most prolific academics - he had made around
300 publications - Prof. Laithwaite was known
to television viewers in the 1950's and later
designed the world's first magnetic levitation
trains. He left Imperial after 22 years in 1986
and continued his work at Sussex University,
though not without first causing controversy;
the scientific establishment was stunned when
he demonstrated gyroscopic devices that
appeared to defy gravity at a lecture at the
Royal Institution.
Prof. Bob Spence of the Electrical
Engineering Department, told Felix that "I knew
him very well... I knew he was a brilliant innova-
tor." However, Prof. Spence felt that Prof.
Laithwaite's departure from IC had been sensa-
tionalised by the media, The Times in particular
saying that Laithwaite had left five years than he
actually did, "pretty much in disgrace." Prof.
Spence points out that Laithwaite was made a
Fellow of Imperial College (FIC) some years
after his departure "so the college valued him...
Professor Eric Laithwaite FIC, 1921 - 1997.
Photo: Neville Miles
I think he may have found Sussex University
more convenient being closer to home."
As regards his work on gyroscopes, he told
Felix, "It was a significant part of what he did...
he was an extrovert, and said things [to school-
children] like You shouldn't believe everything
your physics teacher tells you'... We need peo-
ple like that." In 1994 the BBC screened a doc-
umentary on his gyroscope work; the series was
called Heretics. "We need people like that," Prof
Spence added, going onto say that Prof
Laithwaite would always be remembered as one
of the three who made their mark on the
Electrical Engineering Department, the other
two being Dennis Cabor, Nobel laureate, and
Colin Cherry, professor of telecommunications.
Despite extensive work in the field of elec-
tric linear motors, many believe that his career
was harmed by the gyroscope work which flew
in the face of accepted wisdom; some believe
that he would have become a Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering and the Royal
Society had he not upset the establishment.
Felix has learned that as recently as 1994, a stu-
dent, working on gyroscopes as part of his
Aeronautics course, was pointedly told by one
of his lecturers not to persue further inquiries
into Laithwaite's work.
Although a controversial character, the force
of Laithwaite's other work and his personality
will remain undimmed. "I was terribly sad," one
of Laithwaite's associates said, "I met him in
September; he was a wonderful storyteller."
Prof. Spence described him as "outstanding".
He was working on a linear motor-based launch
project for NASA when he died.
Interviews will
be held here
on Wednesday
13th January
1998.
The 12-month programme kicks off with intensive classroom-based training comprising product, market and
systems training designed to prepare Associates for a series of trading and sales rotations in the London
trading room. Associates then complete three weeks further training at HQ in San Francisco before being
permanently assigned to one area in London.
Candidates should have achieved or be expected to achieve a class 2.1 or above in a Maths, Economics, Sciences
If you would like to apply, please send your CV and a covering letter explaining why you're an ideal candidate
to: Fiona Mason, Graduate Recruitment Officer, Bank of America NT & SA, 1 Alie Street, London E1 8DE.
Or come and see us on Wednesday 13th January 1998.
Applications for our US and Asia based programmes will be welcomed
from candidates with the appropriate rights to work and will be
forwarded on to the relevant Human Resources Departments.
Bank of America is an equal opportunities employer Bank of America
j Global Capital Markets Group
T r a d i n g places.
Whether it's Sales or Trading, we believe you learn by doing.
Bank of America is one of the largest US Banks and a major player in the Capital Markets league. We are
tppkinn to rprmit hinh ralihrp individuals to ioin our Associate Trainina Proaramme in Global Capital Markets.

