NOTICES 1 7 December 1997
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E S U M M E R BALL?
Do you want a huge party? Do all your at other Universities have
big balls? Are you Jealous?
We're trying to organise a massive summer ball for Imperial at
Alexandra Palace but the Union will only back us if we have the sup-
port of students. So, if you're interested in dressing up for a big party
with a slap-up meal, booze and a top hand then contact us as soon
as possible. There'll be a bfgffarne sponsor so you'll have the oppor-
tunity to 'network' too. The cost will be approximatly forty quid.
To support the ball either:
Drop a note in the box in the union office with your name,
deparment and email address, or write to us as summerball@hot-
mail.com. For more information, look at www-
students.doc.ic.ac.uk/~wefs/ball
Make it happen!
looking for contributions of all kinds - design, admin,
is, web authors, musicians, v r you
live, contact the edfc ?r, at
Sic.ac.uk
F O O D F R I C E S A N D V A T - 1 9 9 7
Tiie College regrets that an agreement between H M Customs & Excise and The
Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals (CVCP), whereby staff and other non-
students were exempt from paying VAT in predominantly student oil lets, has
recently been withdrawn.
FLEASE NOTE THAT THE FOLLOWING WILL APPLY
WITH EFFECT FROM 1 JANUARY 1998
VAT will be charged on all products in all of the following areas UNLESS proof of
student status can be shown:
Main Dining Hall (Quicks and The Diner)
JCR Breakfast Bar
JCR Curry Bar
Basics Pizzeria
Management School Coffee Bar
Charing Cross campus Snack Bar
Silwood Park Tea Bar
PLEASE NOTE THAT STUDENTS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED TO PAY VAT IN THE
ABOVE OUTLETS PROVIDED THAT THEY SHOW THE APPROPRIATE PROOF OF
STATUS
Proof of status will be regarded as:
either an ICU Student Union Card or an IC Student 'Swipe' Card.
Prices and VAT arrangements in all other outlets (including those accepting IDTJs)
remain unchanged besides the following exceptions:
• VAT exemption will also be available to students purchasing hot food from QT
snack bar on production of the appropriate proof of status.
• All sales from Huxley Coffee Bar will be VAT inclusive (staff only outlet)
Notices will be displayed in all areas but please note that NO REFUNDS will be made
after payment for goods.
Coopers
&Lybrand
London based,
up to £24,000
Are you highly numerate and about to complete your first or
second degree with excellent results, confident in dealing with
people, capable of focusing on key issues? Energetic? Flexible?
Able to impress our clients?
Then if you had joined us within the last twelve months you might
have been the consultant who.., helped a major privatisation by
estimating the financial effect of missing data on performance
standards; defined and built a telecoms revenue estimation and
forecasting model; designed a new method for monitoring the
performance of media professionals; built a financial model to
help a giant retailer understand what drives its businesses;
used system dynamics to model the flows of orders following
liberalisation of the electricity market; optimised the cost of
meeting government regulations by using genetic algorithms;
designed a database for international customer benchmarking;
designed, built and ran the financial model whose results led the
regulator to turn one utility sector on its head.
Applied mathematics? OR? Business Modelling?
We call it Business Dynamics.
Solutions
for Business
For our brochure please call our free phone hotline on 0800 282 208.

