5 F E L I X
CONTI.flJBD gROM VAGE FOUR
Tha Committee recommend only0 , 1 6
general rule
viz - that a l l members should leave their hats and
coats in the cloakrooms before proceeding to the
other rooms instead of depositing coats and other
garments in the lounges (Received with loud acclama-
tion by the Union.)
People bringing sandwiches should consume them
in the Snack Bar or Upper Refeotory and not in the
lounges.
Daily newspapers will be plaood in the Main
Lounge on the ground floor and periodicals in the
Reading Room whioh will be regarded as'a quiet room.
Card games, ohess, eto., should be restricted to the
rooms provided for these games.
Attention is drawn to the correct way of
drawing the curtains, whioh are hung in the most
scientific and up to date manner, operated by
cords. Pulling the curtains any other way will
wreok the pulley track.
POSTING OF NOTICES
No general notices may be pinned up on the Inter-
nal or External notioe-boards without permission from
the Union Publicity Offloer. The limiting size of
posters and other notioes If 18" x 22" exoept at the
discretion of the Fubliolty Offioer.
BOOKING OF R
O
O
M
S
Committee Rooms may be booked in the diaries
provided in the Committee Rooms for that purpose.
A pplioation for the use of a l l other rooms in the
Union building should be made through the Union Office.
COMCTJIRT HALT,
Hops and Carnivals will be held in the Conoert
Hall in oonjunotion with the Upper Refectory. (This
much perturbed Mr Higson.)
GYMNASIUM
No-one is to enter the gymnasium in outdoor
shoes. The ohanging rooms oan be reached by the
western stairoase without having to cross the
gymnasium floor.
UPPER REFECTORY AND SMALL LOUNGE.
The Upper Refeotory is on the top floor and the
entrance to the small longs is on the opposite side
of the landing. This room is oarpeted and the Com-
mittee recommend that no ooffee or sandwiohes should
be carried across the landing for consumption in the
Small Lounge.
The small lounge miiy prove to be an ideal situa-
tion for a television set. (Discussion revealed a
desire to purchase, a igramophone.)
1.0. UNION CARDS
It may from time to time be neoessary to hold a
oheck on persons present in the Union building; to
discover for example, infiltrators at Union meetings
or undesirables at Hops. Routine checks of Union oarda
will NOT be made, but a l l members are asked to co-
operate by carrying their oarda about with them in
case a check becomes desirable.
Finally, i t oannot be.over-emphasised that the
successful running of the new Union dependo on the
helpful OA-operation of every Btudent with the Duty
Offioers and members of Council on whom the main
burden of responsibility falls. (The highest authority
concerning the running of the Building is the General
Meeting of the Union and that everyone using the
building would have to abide by the decisions made
at such a meeting.)
LOST, STOLEN. OR STRAYED. The cover of the
Motor Show issue of PUNCH by Brookbank depioted
Bo flying over the brow of a h i l l , driven by Mr.
Punch, wearing Guilds scarf , acoompaniedby dog
Toby and parsued by the lawe There i s no record
that Bo was borrowed to pose especially as i t
s t i l l has only one cylinder and can not take
part in this year's Veteran Car Rally.
The cartoon was inspired by Brookbank jn.,
a cartoonist with academic links with Guilds.
LT3ERACE The London University woman's paper
- Sennet, last week printed a misoonstrued account
of activities outside the Albert Hall, oopied
from the National Press. For the Denefit of the
above, who oan not afford their own reporters,
this was a short show by sohoolboya at 7 P»™»
The demonstration at 10.30 p.m. at whioh
the pianist escaped via another door, (for an
adjectival description read Cassandra) caused
the law to provoke a short, aquatio display.
Two daysi later the oonstabulnry announced
that they would strengthen their team, (wearing
waterproof underwear ), at the mext matoh. This
occasioned a silent protest and a polioe state
atmosphere.
LAST LEGS. Guildsmen have* been requested not
to stamp in lecturer beoauae their building now
stands on iron legs over a 35 ft. hole where the
foundations of the new buildings are Idid.
Water has been discovered 11ft. abova the
level indioated by preliminary borings, necessit-
ating piling round the site before excavation to
4 ft. below sea level oan bagin.
R
U
M
O
U
R HAS IT that the Imperial Institute
^ Tower will be burned in effigy today. It is
' expected that the Hostel water-throwing ele-
ment will be there to control thingsj anyway
the ohange of element nay raiae ee tain damp-
ened spirits.
TICKETS BLU.iUSR The depressing sight of young
ladies being turned away from hops after fighting
for nonexistent tlaketa may be good pre "Has for
the January sales but must ne speedily rectified
before we get a bad name for our hospitality.
Already, the more determined havt found ways of
entering the hall^paoked with fruatr&tad, hop-
mad^ Jiving males.
i c e , u.
What Think Ye Uf
- C h r i s t ? -
|A- A V t s s i o r v Is c o m t r u j N o v k.~\f*

