F Socks
Ed's Note
Half of this article has been cut as it contained
derogatory remarks about Astrosoc, which I feel sure
Ken Mann will want to air through the letters' page. As
revenge for writing such dildo articles, I have rearranged
all of the remaining paragraphs. The point is, can you
tell?
Now an abject apology. We're very very sorry
that Santa got cancelled. It wasn't our fault,
honest. If it was not cancelled, ignore what I just
said. Amazing was it not? I'm sure all who saw it
are still singing the title song. If it wasn't cancelled.
Well, this is already the longest bulletin ever (do
you believe that?) so I think I'll wind it up. Blessed
are the meek for they shall inherit the earth.
Everyone else will have left. So much to see, so
little time to see it in. Tail High Brother!(Anyone
recognising that last allusion should be ashamed
of themselves.)
Christ and the man in black
And now, for those of you who spotted the
punchline in the last bulletin, here is the joke to go
with it.
A N D Y O U M A Y find yourself writing an S F
Sock bulletin. And you may find yourself behind a
large white sheet of paper. And you find yourself
in a beautiful lecture theatre, . . . with a beautiful
lecturer (though, it's not very likely). And you
may ask yourself, do unicorns have right-hand
screw or left-hand screw horns? But changing the
subject faster than Denis Howe's hair can be dyed
the most-read club bulletin in FELIX (that's this
one, you doubters) moves zestfully to this week's
competition. If anyone out there can explain why
in a recent Dr Who episode, the good doctor (and
that's not Isaac) jumped from one side of a mirror
to the other instantaneously, did nothing in
exactly the right way and spent an interminable
amount of time wandering about black and white
photographs of English stately homes, write to
M a l a c l y p s e the Elder c/o Phys Dept (use
pigeonhole Q). Address the envelope "Why am I
leaving this in pigeonhole Q competition".
Next film up is the Rocky Horror Picture Show
Don't forget our wonderful library. The Haldane
is good, but we have titles it does not, and no
•fixed borrowing time limit. Not to mention a copy
of O n Wings of Song by Tom Disch. Why it didn't
get a Hugo at the last Worldcon, I'll never know
"Doctor, Doctor, I keep thinking that I'm a bar
of soap."
ICCAG
NB: The Blood Doning Sessions scheduled for
February 11 and 12 have been cancelled.
Home Insulation: If you would like to help old
people fight the cold, come and help us insulate
their homes this Wednesday afternoon (February
11). More details from Sean Coyle, Elec Eng 2, or
come to our Monday meeting (see below).
Old Clothes: We are organising a collection of
old clothes from people in the area to give to
those sleeping rough in London (on the Soup
Run). If you can spare any time this Saturday
(February 7) to knock on doors and ask for
donations, please meet in the Southside T V
Lounge at 10:00am.
Don't Forget: We meet every Monday at about
12:35pm in the I C C A G Room, top floor of Union
Building (turn left at top of stairs).
Newcomers are always welcome (however
much you want to get involved). Free coffee!
Bookshop Bulletin
Each week, I hope to publish a list of the new
fiction titles in the bookshop together with our
best sellers, usually paperbacks. This week, the
Brandt Report — "North South", is selling very
well, as it links up with the series of four lectures
held at College.
When possible, we will be offering books for
sale at "bargain" prices. The main title this week
is the "Four Seasons Cookery Book" by Margaret
Costa (originally published at £15, we are selling it
for £6.95). This book is for people who care about
using foods in season. The beginner will find
sound and carefully explained recipes, and for the
experienced cook a treasury of imaginative ideas.
Keep your eyes peeled for further Bookshop
bulletins.
Roy Hicks Bookshop Manager
Astrosoc
THIS IS J U S T A Q U I C K W O R D to inform all
members and would-be members of Astro Soc
that there will be a coffee evening on Tuesday,
February 10 at 7:00pm, in the Staff Common
Room on Level 8 of the Blackett Laboratory for
anyone interested in observing. We hope that the
six-inch and eight-inch telescopes will be working
by then, so, if the weather is fine, you will have a
chance to see for yourselves the equipment
available through Astrosoc. There should be an
opportunity to discuss future projects in
observing with both the committee and other
members. Also, although this may seem a bit like
bribery, we'd like to emphasize both coffee and
biscuits will be free!
There are also a few alterations to the
programme published in last week's FELIX: Dr
Garry Hunt's lecture on 'The Voyager Project' is
on the 19 N O T the 13 of February as stated, Dr
John Taylor has also had to cancel this term's
lecture due to a more important commitment, but
instead we have Patrick Moore coming on
February 27, when he will be lecturing in Physics
1 at 6:00pm. No doubt Dr Taylor will be lecturing
some time next term when he has a free day, but
in the meantime we can look forward to Dr Brian
Morgan of our own Astronomy Department
lecturing in Lecture Theatre 3 on March 12 at
1:00pm.
We hope you will come to as many of these
lectures as possible, but, most important of all,
don't forget the coffee evening, Astro-Soc won't
be Astro-Soc unless someone takes an interest in
observing.
FEUX, February 6,1981 Page 5

