Matters
Raised
The Threat of Rape
The recent 'ether' attack in the mews behind
Southside has again highlighted the problems of
security in the area, a subject which has been
widely discussed since the rape in the basement
last May. Since then the security guard system
has been rearranged, and there is now one guard
permanently on duty on the Main Entrance, and
two doing internal patrols (including Weeks and
Linstead) and also random external patrols,
which are currently concentrated on the area and
time of the last attack. The structural alterations
include stopping the lifts from travelling to the
basement, and placing convex mirrors in the Hall
entrances so that every corner of the entrance
hall is visible from the door. Unfortunately, the
main alteration, which is the blocking of routes
from Stan's Bar to the Halls by means of
electronically locking doors, has been held up at
the planning stage and is awaiting approval from
the Estates Department. When this is done,
seven doors (which can't be locked conven-
tionally as they are fire escape doors) will be
locked electronically, the circuit being broken to
allow an escape route when the fire alarm is
sounded. The net result will be that everyone
entering or leaving the Bar/TV Lounge area will
have to go past the main Security Guard.
Until that happens however, the only way to
avoid further attacks is not to provide the
attacker with the chance to make them, i.e.,
D O N T P U T Y O U R S E L F A T RISK. Whether
you live in Southside, or are just travelling around
the campus, the following points should be
carried out to minimise the risk of attack.
D O N ' T walk alone at any time after dark.
Remember that it's not just late night that's
dangerous — the last attack was at 10:00pm, and
he'd probably been waiting around for quite a
while.
IF you must walk alone, stick to proper roads
and well-lit areas. D O N T walk across church-
yards or unlit gardens, or cut through side streets
and mews.
C H E C K the mirrors in the Hall entrances
before you get inside and if you see a man you
don't recognise, especially hanging around in
corners, then WAIT until they've gone before you
enter (but make sure you don't follow them into
the lift). If they don't go within a reasonable time
alert the Security Guard.
D O N ' T go into the basement areas of
Southside (e.g. the routes from Stan's to the
halls) alone late at night. Remember this is where
the May rape took place, even though it is within
earshot of people in the Bar/TV Lounge area.
IF you feel particularly worried, you can buy a
'shrill' alarm from me, price £4.50, to carry with
you in case of attack.
Most of all be alert to the possibility of attack
and follow these suggestions. D O N T think it
'won't happen to me' — because it might.
Telly Trouble
Historically speaking, House Committee decided
last year that "there was no longer a need for the
T V Lounge on the third floor, bearing in mind that
the T V area in Southside is a Union area" (I quote
from the minutes of March 10, 1980). Malcolm
was of the opinion that there was simply no
demand for the service, but I have had reports
that the bad reception on the set (which Malcolm
was apparently unaware of) was probably the
reason for this. (I can't find anyone else who
thinks it was vandalised, Steve.)
For the moment may I remind you all that there
is a Union T V Lounge in Southside (next door to
Stan's Bar) and that Beit T V Lounge is for Beit
residents only and is definitely N O T a general
U n i o n area w h i c h anyone has access to.
However, if there is a clear demand for a T V in
the Union Building I will ask House Committee to
consider installing one, so if you have strong
feelings either way please come and let me know,
so I can gauge opinion on this subject.
Saturday, February 7
Inter-Hall Rag Collection
Thursday, February 12
inter-Departmental Pedal Car Race
Saturday, February 14
Guilds & IF Valentines Party
Friday, February 20
Carnival in aid of Nightline
Your social reps should be organising teams for
the Pedal Car Race, or get in touch with Tony
Heales. Snotgobbler will be going to Bristol
University for the Twenty-four Hour Pedal Car
Race (with the best peddlers in the Inter-
Departmental Race) on February 20.
Tickets for the Valentines Party should be
available soon in the Guilds Office. There will be a
live band, 'Temper'.
John Otway and Wild Willy Barrett will be
appearing at the Carnival, as well as three groups
and a late disco, tickets are £3 each from Links or
the Guilds Office, with profits going to Nightline.
By the way, if anyone "found" any plastic table
numbers at D & D please could they return them
— anonymously "no questions asked" etc — to
the Guilds Office, as the hotel is not amused.
Cheers
Andy
IMPERIAL COLLEGE RADIO
O n 301m M W to the Princes Gardens Halls,
and by high quality line to the College bars
and K e o g h , Falmouth and T i z a r d Gallery
levels.
IC Symphony Orchestra Broadcast
This Sunday afternoon at 3:00pm IC Radio will be
broadcasting a recording of IC Symphony
Orchestra. The recording was made at their
concert last term in the Great Hall, and among
the works played were the Festival Overture by
Shostakovich and Symphony N o 2 in D major by
Sibelius. This is the first time I C S O has made a
broadcast on IC Radio.
MOPSOC
and Associated Studies present
The (Jnderstandability of Science
with Dr Magnus Pyke
on
Thursday, February 12
1:30pm
Pippard Theatre
IC Orchestra Concert
8:00pm, March 6
Great Hall
Tickets now on sale
in the
Haldane Music Library and Union Office
Mining and Metallurgical Society Lecture
The Role of Entrepreneurs in the Multi-
National Dominated North Sea
byACluffofCluffOilLtd
Monday, February 9
4:00pm
Mining Lecture Theatre Rm 131
All are welcome.
Photosoc Competition
7pm, Tues, Feb 10
Colour and Slidesjudged by Mrs N Batcholar
Prints: approx 6"x8", min. no. 3
fee 30p
Slides: 2"x2", lOp per slide
1st, 2nd and 3rd prizes awarded in both
categories.
Imperial College Operatic Society
present
RUDDIGORE
by Gilbert and Sullivan
W A R N I N G ! O n the 1014th February, The
Witch's Curse will descend on IC. Informed
sources have stated that it will be centred around
the Concert Hall in the Union Building. However,
there is no need to panic!!? O n the contrary, you
are all advised to make your way to the Concert
Hall on at least one evening of that week and see
Opsoc's annual production. Tickets are £1.20 for
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday; £1.40 for
Friday and Saturday. There is a 20p discount for
students. Bar available!!!
Compiled by Phil Webb
Wednesday, January 28,1981
Rugby
IC 1st X V V Borough Road 3-57
IC 2nd X V V Borough Road 0-32
Football
IC 1st XI v Goldsmiths 4-1
2nd XI V Goldsmiths 4-0
3rd XI V Kings Coll 1-2
6th XI V Middlesex 2-5
Hockey
IC 1st XI V U C L 3-1
R C S V C X H M S 1-7
Volleyball
IC V West London Inst 3-0
Football Seconds
Another reshuffled Seconds team turned in
an impressive performance to defeat a largely
bemused Goldsmith's side with two goals in
each half.
IC took an early lead when the Goldsmith's
keeper parried a shot and Lay, who had
quickly settled into his central midfield
position, followed in to score. IC then allowed
Goldsmiths far too much of the ball and the
resulting pressure brought two fine saves out
of Williams in the IC goal. A quick break close
to half-time, however, made it 2-0 to IC with
Lay again appearing to complete a fine move.
During the second half IC controlled the
game well with any Goldsmith's efforts being
solidly stopped by the defence of Dunhilll,
Lakin, Griffiths, and Beer. Fine running from
Merritt, Saunders and Hartland exposed the
Goldsmith's defence on many occasions and
created several good chances. The third IC
goal came midway into the second half when
a through ball left Hartland with the keeper to
beat. This he did, and then added to his total
with a headed goal near full-time.
TEAM: Williams, Dunhill, Beer, Armstrong,
Lakin, Griffiths, Esberger, Lay, Merritt,
Hartland, Saunders.
Jim Beer
Volleyball
THIS convincing win lacked some of the
excitement of our recent league matches but
has however carried us into the semi-finals of
the London Colleges Tournament. The lost
impetus was soon regained when we realised
that our raggedly turned out team's over-
shadowing by the efficiently dressed and
Page 6 FELIX, February 6,1981

