Election Publicity
The papers for the sabbatical elections (i.e.
President, Deputy President, Honorary
Secretary, and FELIX Editor) go up on
February 16 and come down on February 27.
At this time the Union Print Unit gets severely
overloaded with requests for posters to be
printed. Consequently, we will not be printing
CCU election publicity after February 16, just
ICU election propoganda. I
f you are intending
to stand in a CCU election, get your stuff in
soon. The use of the typesetter will only be
available to FELIX Editor candidates, who will
be expected to produce all their own publicity
including their manifestos for publication in
FELIX.
I should point out that we have limited
stocks of bright coloured papers for use as
posters. I will be selling off stock on a first
come-first served basis, so if you don't want to
end up with white or grey posters (we've got
LOTS of that) then come in soon to avoid
disappointment.
Also, we require two weeks' notice if you
want coloured inks.
So pull your fingers out. Elections can be
fun! Thrill at the idea of being the only
candidate with coloured posters by buying us
out now. Gosh, paper deliveries are so long
these days!
Just remember, the secret of a good election
campaign is to cheat without the elections
committee finding out, like John Passmore last
year. Well done, John!
The evil Sir Despard Murgatroyd, Bart., is
lurking beneath a tree in Rederring Park
hoping to carry off the fair Rose Maybud
Unfortunately for him, Rose is being protected
by her friend Robin Oakapple and the gallant
Richard Dauntless-.
The park is laid out with two circular paths,
one inside the other, and a zigzag path
connects the trees on these circles. The
diagram shows a section of the network, and
the pattern continues right round the ring.
Robin
never moving to the same tree as Robin or
Richard.
Rose, on her turn, changes places with one
of her protectors. If Despard can move to the
same tree as Rose, he will carry her off.
Neither side is permitted to miss a turn.
Rose has the choice of starting first or
allowing Despard first move. Should she move
first? What is her best strategy, and what is
Despard's? Can Rose be sure of escaping
Despard's clutches? Watch for next week's
gripping installment to find out!!!
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me c/o
FELIX by Wednesday 1:00pm. There is a prize
of £5 (donated by Mend-a-Bike) and two
tickets to Ruddigore (donated by Opsoc).
Last Week's Solution
The winner is Say-Wei Foo, Elec Eng PG, who
can collect his slice of minced beef roll from
the FELIX Office.
L O !
M O O N E Y
M E A T
R O L L S ,
R E A L L Y
A
T R E A T
M M !
M M !
E A T
A T
M O O N E Y S
2 0
1 0 0 5 9 6
1 9 4 3
7 0 2 2 8
7 9 4 2 2 6
4
3 7 9 4 3
1 1
1 1
9 4 3
4 3
1 0 0 5 9 6 8
Rose and Despard take it in turns to move.
When Despard moves, he slinks from one tree
to the next, always keeping to the paths and
Incidentally, this type of letter-digit
substitution problem is sometimes known as
an alphametic. Considering the subject matter
of this one, it would be better described as an
alpha-emetic.
Thanks for the many compliments on this
puzzle, by the way. And in reply to the people
who asked — no, I can't explain how I made it
up.
Despite warnings, several people attempted
computer solutions; none of them managed to
solve it.
The Opsoc production of Ruddigore runs
from Tuesday to Saturday of next week and
they've given two complimentary tickets as a
bonus prize. So please say on your entry
which night you would prefer to go, and I'll
make sure the winner's tickets are in his
pigeon hole by 3:00pm on Wednesday.
W
h
a
t
'
s On
Friday, February 6
•Socialist Society Bookstall, luncthime, JCR.
Sunday, February 8
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, Southside Upper
Longe.
Tuesday, February 10
•Vegsoc Meeting, 12:30pm, Maths 346. Lunch provided
— 30p.
•The Consort Chamber Orchestra, 1:00pm, Consort
Gallery, Sherfield.
•The Industrial Archaeology of London's Docklands
Part Two: The London Hydraulic Power Company, Dr
Denis Smith, 1:30pm, Read Theatre, Sherfield.
•Figures Into Landscape — Landscape into Figures
Part One: Landscape and Townscape - Narrative and
Design, Professor John White, 1:30pm, Pippard Theatre,
Sherfield.
•Labour Club: Reg Race (MP for Wood Green) on
Labour Party Democracy, 1:00pm, Maths 341. Free.
•Ruddigore (Gilbert and Sullivan Opera), 7:30pm, Union
Concert Hall. To February 14. Tickets £1.20 for Feb 10
and 12 and £1.40 for Feb 13 and 14 (20p discount for
students). Bar available from 7:00pm.
•Riding Club Meeting, 1:00pm, Elec Eng 1110.
•STOIC Transmission, 1:00pm, JCR and Halls.
Wednesday, February 11
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
•Talk an HP Propagation, 1:30pm, Elec Eng 1207.
•Trampohning Club General Meeting (and election
of committee), 5:30pm, Courtauld Hall, QEC.
Thursday, February 12
•Dafydd FJis Thomas, M P speaking on Socialism in
Wales Today, 1:00pm, Maths 340.
•Hang Gliding Club Meeting, 12:30pm, Above Stans
Bar.
•STOIC Transmission, 1:00pm and 6:00pm, JCR and
Halls. With News-Break.
•Chem Soc/ICI Lecture on Photo Electron Spectro-
scopy, 4:30pm, Chem Lec Theatre 2. Free.
•WIST Discussion with speakers from the Campaign to
Impede Sex Stereotyping in the Young, 6:30pm, Green
Comm Room
•Lunch Hour Concert with Stephen Isserhs (cello),
1:30pm, the Music Room, 53 Princes Gate.
•The Understamiability of Science: Dr Magnus Pyke,
Formerly Secretary and Chairman of Council, British
Association for the Advancement of Science, 1:30pm,
Pippard Theatre, Sherfield.
•Gliding Club Meeting, 5:30pm, Aero 254.
•ULU Gaysoc Meeting,8:00pm, Room 2D, ULU, Malet
Street.
UNSTEAD HALL
Appointment of a Subwarden
Applications are invited for a subwardenship in Linstead
hall to take effect from February 1981 when Mrs Sue
Kalicinski is leaving College.
The responsibility of the person appointed will be, in
conjuction with the two continuing subwardens, to assist
in the running of the Hall in social and financial aspects,
under the general direction of the Warden.
The Hall accommodates 190 residents, of whom 24 are
women, and of whom about 60% are freshmen
undergraduates.
Applications should be from members of the academic
or research staff, or from postgraduate students.
Appointments are for one year initially and are
renewable. People able to offer more than one year will
be especially welcome. Rent free accommodation is
provided which is suitable for a single person or married
couple.
Please apply in writing, with a curriculum vitae, to the
Warden: Dr M D Carabine, Linstead Hall, as soon as
possible.
President Reagan is 70 today and still using
henna.
P.S. Don't forget your Valentine's Day small
ads next week. FREE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB. (589 5111 ext. 1048/int 2881) Copyright FEUX 1981. Editor: S.J. Marshall, Advertising Manager: M.A. Smith. Registered at the GPO as a newspaper.

