Union Page
Complete the National Student Survey
LGBT+ History Month
You can lead Imperial
Nominate yourself and lead the change at Imperial
#icuElections
Nominations in the Leadership Elections 2020 are now open! There are
over 700 opportunities available in which you could lead the change at
Imperial. As a Union, this is our biggest annual democratic exercise,
where every student at Imperial gets to decide the student experience by
choosing the people who lead and represent us. Each position has a big
impact on the student experience, from your academic department, Club,
Society or Project, to general student life and wellbeing. We encourage
you to stand for a role if you believe you can make a difference.
Stand for one of the Officer Trustee positions, which includes the
President and four Deputy Presidents, and make some real change in
these year long, full-time, paid positions. Or if you’d like to advocate for
the voices of under-represented groups, stand to become one of our
nine Liberation & Community Officers. You could also be our next Felix
Editor, Council Chair or StudentTrustee. Read about all the roles, find the
one that best suits you, and nominate yourself at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
TheannualNationalStudentSurvey(NSS)givesstudentstheopportunity
to help shape the future of their course at their university. By taking part
in the survey, you play a key role in helping College identify where they
can improve.
Once the results of this survey are released later in the year, each
department creates an action plan aimed at enhancing areas such
as teaching and student support, as part of the College’s strategic
commitment to enriching the student experience. The Union also uses
your feedback to produce our annual response to the NSS, which helps
set priorities in our work with College for the benefit of students.
This survey is for only for final year Undergraduates - share your views
on your experience at Imperial at thestudentsurvey.com.
We are celebrating this year’s LGBT+ History Month with a programme
of events, developed in partnership with the LGBT+ Staff Network
(Imperial 600) and students from ICSM, IQ (Imperial’s LGBT+ Society),
CGCU and your LGBT+ Officer. Join us at a range of events and activities
taking place from now until the end of February, including networking
events, film screenings, presentations, social activities, and more.
Events are open to all students, whether you identify as LGBTQ+ or an
ally to the community.
With an overall aim of promoting equality and diversity, the month
seeks to increase the visibility of LGBTQ+ people’s history, lives and
experiences.You can find the full programme and details at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/LGBTHistory.

