eiiftJSTuras /-
By
Juvenal
There was a sharp chill in the air as
dusk settled over Cheapskate. Its
citizens were walking purposefully
towards the grimy slums which the
Baron provided to accommodate them.
To protect themselves from the bitter
wind that blew, they covered their faces
with thick scarves, woven with a vile
multi-coloured cloth designed to
identify them should they dare to step
outside the kingdom unlawfully. Yet,
despite the adverse weather, it was with
hope and optimism that they trudged
down Cheaps Gate and across to
Southside and the domain of the
wicked witch Pristine; it was the end of
their stay in that land of questionable
pleasure-for a short while, at least. It
was Christmas, a time for much
celebration, as the citizens began
John Secretary locked away his plans from prying eyes and sneaked out
into the dark night, frequently glancing skywards wary of falling tiles.
'I suppose I'll have to spend most of
Christmas on top of Lady Mari-
gold's tree' moaned Arthur Michael.
packing their belongings and prepared
to flee Cheapskate and return to the
warmth and comfort af the homes of
their youth. But while the citizens were
packing, joyful at the prospect of their
imminent departure, the season of
goodwill was failing to permeate several
other parts of the kingdom.
The prospect of Christmas was not
one that appealed to Arthur Michael,
the good but not very helpful fairy.
"I suppose I'll have to spend most of
it on top of Lady Marigold's Christmas
tree again," he moaned, fearful at the
prospect of having a coloured lantern
on his head. "And if those snivelling
nephews are staying, I'll simply refuse
to do it," recalling how, previously, they
had spent much of the time throwing
hot chestnuts at him in order to knock
him off. But the thought of the sharp
end of the Baron's tree was not the only
thing that preyed on Arthur's mind as
he minced across his office, desperately
trying to see where he had left his magic
wand.
"If I don't find it soon, I'll have awful
trouble trying to get rid of that nasty
little upstart, Randy Stalker," he
thought. Randy was one of Arthur's
minion elves, whom he employed to
control the worst of citizens' homes-the
Fleamantle. "If everyone starts showing
up my incompetence, I'll never get in
with John Secretary," he grumped as
he peered behind a filing cabinet to see
Wednesday, 14 December, 1983 UM
if his wand was there. It was not, and
Arthur moved to the centre of the
room, tucking his baggy trousers
around his now ample waist, a
perpetual reminder of all those late
nights spent drinking mead in the
Fleamantle with some of his more
cooperative sidekicks.
"So, what if the place is falling down. I
don't see that it is any reason to get
upset about it; they should be grateful"
he said, although there was no one
listening. "It's an excellent situation." At
which point Arthur began to recall
those fun-loving evenings at Earl's
Caught when he was younger.
"Oh, who wrapped that round it,"
moaned Arthur, discovering his wand,
stuck in a flower pot with mistletoe
wrapped round it. Romance was not
something that concerned those who
were trying to climb up the Baron's
ladder of success.
"It rots the teeth and shrinks the
brain," he shouted, sulkily, at his
giggling staff who, amused by his
search, had been peeping around the
door. "Now I'll easily get rid of Randy.
Gormless Layon is bound to support
me since I got her that delightful room
so close to her parking space. I'll throw
him out on Christmas Eve," said Arthur
with characteristic vindictiveness, "and
I hope that it'll be snowing. That'll teach
people not to cross me."
• n n n M n M H H i FELIX

