Puzzled Packed Christmas Special!
Welcome to the double spread Ulysses, with plenty of puzzles
for you to try over the vacation, if you're not too busy with
reports to write or if you haven't overdone the festivities. Some
of the puzzles are difficult and are marked with a dagger and
are worth £5 each, donated, as ever, by Mend-a-Bike of Park
Walk, just off Fulham Road. The unmarked ones are purely for
your entertainment. Thanks to all those who have tried any of
the puzzles. Many thanks to Achilles, Nick Williams, Olympus,
Rev and Anatoly for their puzzles and ideas, and special thanks
to Mend-a-Bike, without whose generosity there would be no
puzzles column. Good luck, everyone, for the last time this
term, and Merry Christmas to you all.
Solutions to the FELIX Office by 1:00pm on the first
Wednesday of term, please.
Here's a long division puzzle with only one
digit. Fill in the blank spaces to obtain the
unique solution.
If you've been trying the University Prize
Crossword, you might like to have a go at
these. They are some of my favourite cryptic
crossword clues.
1. Gegs (9, 4)
2. I J K L M N (5)
3. World Cup team produces duster (6, 6)
4. (5, 3, 1, 4)
5. Yob—in need of remedial attention (8,
3)
t
Solution
The Triangular Duel
The key to this puzzle was in working out the
best strategies for each of the gunmen. A's
best strategy is to shoot at B first, B's best
strategy is to shoot at A first, if C shoots at B,
and hits, then he's dead, and if C shoots at A
and hits, he stands only 20% chance of
shooting again,so C's best strategy is to
intentionally miss until either A or B is dead,
and then he stands a 50% chance of winning.
If you work out all possible series of events,
the probabilities of each are:
A 3
/1 0
B %5
C*%|
So the poorest shot has the best chance of
winning, and in fact his probability of winning
is greater than his accuracy. Nine correct
solutions for this one, and the winner was J
Bryson of Chem Eng 3, who can collect his
cheque from the FELIX Office any time.
Many thanks to Olympus for that brain-
teaser. ^
The Square-Wheeled Bicycle
This is an adaptation of an Oxbridge en-
trance question shown to me by my friend
Rev, and is a chance for all the Oxbridge
rejects to show that they were wrong not to
take you.
I was down at Mend-a-Bike's garage the
other day, and they had just finished their
Christmas party. One of the workers there
had had rather too much to drink, and was
busy trying to knock one of the bikes back
into shape. When he had finished, the wheels
of the bike were square, but he was too drunk
to notice and left the bike to be sold. If the
wheels are equal size, in synchronism and the
bike rolls with constant horizontal velocity,
how fast can it go before its wheels start to
leave the ground?

