after having a Police album named after
him. The Police may not yet be more
popular than Christ but judging by their
reception at Shea Stadium in New York
they are at least as popular as the
Beatles.
Going back to the start of the year it
seemed that the class of 79 was going to
have a good year with U-2, WAH! and
Echo and Bunnymen all appearing in the
same chart—WAH! inexplicably failed
with their follow up Hope whilst U-
2/Echo did their chances little good by
releasing very heavy albums (U-2 the
drums; Echo /ery serious). Ironically it
seems U-^ ar
e enjoying world wide
success wi'ih Nar, their weakest LP to
date whilst Echo have realised that the
unbelievebly inaccessbile second side
of Porcupine is not the way to success.
Nevertheless live the bands were
nothing short of excellent with the
Bunnymen playing prestigious gigs like
the Albert Hall and Stratford-upon-
Avon. U-2's live mini LP Under a Blood
Red Sky was by no means a classic but
still a bargain at its low price.
Once again it was left to Elvis Costello
to make the quality album of the year
with Punch the Clock. This we expect
anyway so it was a real bonus for
Costello to abandon his troublesome
media image to make several television
appearances and grant several inter-
views, leading to his appearnce on the
cover of Time Out and The Face in the
same week. Strangely it seems to be a
combination of an appearance on C4's
chaotic and occasionally posy Loose
Talk and releasing the scathing Pills and
EDITORIAL
/ apologise most sincerely to WIST for incor-
rectly identifying them as Ladies Rugby in the
issue two weeks ago. This must have come as a
great shock to them! I have now come to realise
that Wist mass orgies are in no way connected
to Ladies Rugby mass orgies.
The.Revenge of the Thirds
Once upon a time the thirds went to
Harlington, and the opposition went to
Harlington, so we could play with each other.
Jack and Jill went up the •hill,
Jim then scored making it one-nil ,
They went to fetch a pailof water,
Farnam Common were in for a slaughter,
I've run out of imagination so I'll just write
a normal report. Against strong opposition,
we played well giving plenty of square balls
and using constructive play to score three
times. They could only reply with a single
goal which was hardly surprising considering
the pressure we were putting them under.
FELIX MHniHHnHHI
Soap single under the guise of the
Imposter which heralded this new
image. A video of the terrific
Shipbuilding also started appearing on
TV and before anyone knew it Costello
had been in the charts and on TOTP
twice in as many weeks. The Imposter,
was released as a limited edition with the
promise of a possible 'celebration twelve
inch on red vinyl'. Costello had further
success with Everday I Write the Book
although all the singles failed to chart
dent the top ten, the album topped the
charts and the follow up tour was a
success.
Unfortunately the same can't be said
of the Undertones, undoubtedly the
greatest live band in the world. Their
fourth album The Sin of Pride was a
masterpiece, showing a heavy sixties
influence and receiving a unanimous
thumbs up from the critics. Unfor-
tunately no one bought it and thus the
unrelenting economics of the music
industry deprived us of the Undertones.
Their singles package All Wrapped Up
will no doubt be viewed as an essential
album in years to come.
Before mentioning other bands who
have gone the way of the Undertones it
only «rema.us to bring together some
loose ends. Public Image returnedtothe
chart with the excellent This is not a Love
Song and then played some very
dubious concerts whilst Lydon's old
mentor Malcom McLaren plundered
around the world leaving us three of the
The first win of many!
IC vs QMC Away
Score 22-8
Casualties 1-2 (+lspectator)
After much confusion about where, when and
how we eventually got hold of a pitch and on
a cold Sunday afternoon found ourselves in a
deserted tarmyara in the depths of wildest
Essex—the QMC grounds at Ditchley.
The first half started on a bad note when
the Q M C ref came over the check our
studs—his first and last words were 'you may
call me Sir.' Ok what a cute guy!
It took us the fist ten minutes to recover
from the shock of the aggressive
play—QMC's tactics confused us on a few
issues w.r.t. certain rules. While we were so
stunned they slipped through the defence and
scored the first try, but we soon evened the
score with a try by Nessie.
As blood pressures rose due to the jeers of
the QMC crowd, our prop—Annie 'the tank'
Burnill was well justified in her attack on one
of the QMC male supporters—go get 'em
Annie!
The whistle blew for half time but it took a
while before Frank and Doug, our trainers,
could brave the mass of fuming IC women to
give a pep talk.
WMWednesday, 14 December, 1983MM
most unusually satisfying records of the
year. King Sunny Ade and his 19 Africa
beats came from Nigeria to play some
memorable concerts whilst Men At Work
came from Australia to torment us with
awful lyrics and worse videos. For-
tunately America has taken them to her
heart so if we're lucky they'll stay there
with other pains in the ear like Thomas
Dolby and Flock of Seagulls.
From North of the border Aztec
Camera released the excellent Highland
Hard Rain LP and their star being in the
ascendant now they've moved from
Rough Trade to WEA and Oblivious
rockets up the charts. Big Country also
proved they were riot doomed to become
Scotland and the eighties version of
Status Quo when they released the
standout single Chance.
Prize prats Wham! failed to follow
early classics Wham Rap and Young
Guns with anything even 1 % as good and
ended up doing what most of theircritics
had been saying all year when they
advised their fans not to buy their latest
single.
The latter half of theyear also saw what
could be the most important single of the
year released—This Charming Man by
The Smiths.
And so goodbye to the Beat (who will
resurface as General Public), Bauhaus,
Funboy 3, Soft Cell and Yazoo and
welcome to all the bands I haven't heard
and you probably havent' heard of.
Peter Rodgers
By the second half we had learnt to channel
our anger back into the game—there was no
stopping us!
Tries were scored by Nessie Yates (3) and
Leah 'the mouth' Wallbank (1). Also 3
conversions by Leah. Congratulations must
go to Sue 'if she's strong she's gotta go'
Wacholt whose skilfull tackling wiped out
their captain. Also, well played the
newcomers: Sue (Geo 1), Judith (Chem Eng
1) and Hilary.
The aggressive hatred fostered on the pitch
was soon washed down in a steaming bath,
with cans of lager and a jolly sing song.
Many thanks to our supporters, although
they were swamped by the opposition in
number, the quality of their cheers reigned
supreme.
All that can be said to those men who had
promised to spectate is that you missed a
really good match—we'll return the favour
sometime boys!
Next match against UCL on Sunday 11
December at Harlington. Coach leaves at
10:00am for kick off at 11:30.
HHHHHHHH Page
I Would Go Out Tonight But I Haven't Got A Stitch To Wear.
Smiths

