A deadly hush came over the room as our
captain began to speak.
'OK team, this is the big one.'
Bevan swallowed hard. 'You mean, we've
got to beat them?'
We nodded our heads at him slowly.
'And I've been relegated to a crew?'
'Correct.'
'But what about Tostevin? Or Baynes? Or
Hill?'
We glaned at each other, wondering
whether we should reveal the horrible truth.
Finally Jones spoke up.
'They didn't make it.'
We bowed our heads, reflecting on the fate
of our fellow sailors.
'What's more,' he added nervously, 'Cam-
bridge have beaten Oxford.'
Our objective seemed to be drifting help-
lessly out of reach.
'Is it worth discussing tactics?' mumbled
Kennedy.
'Same plan as last week,' asserted Jones.
'Kennedy on the starboard pin, Howarth on
the port end and I'll fit in where I can.'
s We stood there thoughtfully. Finally
Bennet-Clarke spoke up. 'Our only chance is
to fix the boats.'
'No,' said Jones. 'We'll sail this one
straight.'
Three hours and five races later, the team
stumbled back, exhausted.
'God knows how we managed it,' gasped
Bennett.
'Even Howarth made it,' jested Bevan.
Disapproving glances were shot in his
direction.
'Sorry.'
'He nearly took me out with him,' re-
marked Kennedy. 'It's a wonder we're both
still here.'
Silence fell over us as the meaning of our
victory sank in.
We'd beaten Cambridge 4-1.
B o w l s
H I
mm*
Secretary's Report
We met old rivals Brunei on home ground last
Saturday, after an ignominious defeat away
last match; and we handed them a shock
when our C team demolished theirs. The
slightly off form A and B teams lost narrowly,
but the ladies team lost heavily as usual. So if
any of you ladies out there can bowl, come
along and buttress up the team. We meet
every Wedensday at 2:20 in the Chem Eng
foyer.
Tim Schofield deserves special mention for
clearing the vital tenth pin to capture the high
score for the day (missing the other nine in the
process). The presence of the reserve member
of the ladies team was warmly appreciated,
she contributed to the excellent performance
of IC team member Paul Day at the railway
station.
Footbal
Cup Success
IC3 vs QMC4 3-0
IC's sole survivors in the cup this year
marched triumphantly through to a semi-
final draw against Kings 2 or UC 3 in this
their final match of the term.
With Martin Barnes still injured, the old
faithful were augmented by the dashing Dave
Wadsworth who turned in his usual gritty
performance in midfield. The ever style-
conscious thirds decided early on that the
normal strip didn't go with Dave's eyes and
so decided to exchange for bilberry flavour
shirts courtesy of Farnham Common HC.
Early IC pressure paid off as careless
backpass under pressure caught the unfor-
tunate QMC keeper off his line. Selflessly,
Hors(e) decided not to save the face of Mary's
star centre-back and was content to mind the
ball over the line.
Meanwhile...the appearance on the touch-
line of substitute Steve Coussens some 20
minutes late and clad immodestly in bikers
gear seemed to unsettle our opponents
further and, not wishing to be different, they
allowed Torsten the opportunity to score his
thirteenth clinically taken goal of the season
shortly before the break.
Responding to the usual stirring half time
team talk IC prised home the advantage early
on as Mark slotted in his thircfthis term. Soon
after, Mark decided he'd done enough to earn
his beer and allowed Steve to take the field.
Stripping off his pseudo-leathers, Curly
reveals his latest on park trendiness...
legwarmers. So taken aback were we that our
usual complacency crept in and only some
fine work from keeper Paul Simpson allowed
us to keep our clean sheet.
All the teams played this week, although not
necessarily successfully.
' The first team played on Friday and Chris
hasn't told me how they did so they probably
lost, despite Chris' undoubtably valiant ef-
forts.
The second team, in their first reportable
game, lost but only by 7-2; the 2 being gained
by one of the opposition running away (from
me) and Wladek getting about twenty edges
per game versus another of them. All this is
irrelevant as the star of the show was Geoff,
who despite a strained lower calf muscle and
Mechanics problem sheets turned out to put
in probably his best performance of the
season.
The fourth team, under the captaincy of
Mike for the first time lost, but valiantly
considering their opposition were top of the
division at the time.
Erica's team also played on Friday and
(because Erica didn't play) they haven't told
me how they did but Erica thinks that they
probably lost.
CHAMPIONS
1C Lire Southern Universities Water Polo
Kings!
On Salurday 3 December IC Water Polo
team won the Southern Universities Athletic
Union Water Polo Championship held at IC.
The competition has much stronger than the
I'l U league which IC have monopolised for a
long lime, but thanks to a superstar perfor-
mance by Welsh internationl Geoff Hurley,
backed up with a determined team effort, IC
provided the finale to an exciting afternooa's
polo by beating Bath 4-3.
In the preliminary group matches IC drew
6-6 with arch enemies Bristol in a very close
game. We started off quite sleepily but were
swiftly woken by a 3-1 defecit. Hurley shot us
back into the game at 6-5 we were one second
away from victory. Alas we conceded a
penalty giving Bristol a not undeserved draw.
Having thrashed Southampton 14-1 up-
staging Bristol, we went into the final group
as winners, here IC played the other pre-
liminary group runner-up: Reading. By now
the team talks were having an effect on IC
who shocked their faithful supporters by
taking the lead through two goals by Boggy.
Although the first half was close, IC built on
the 4-3 half time score to record an 8-4 victory
over a team only beaten 2-1 by Bath.
Having beaten Bristol, Bath needed to win
or draw their last match with IC to win the
tournament. Thus the match was cleared of
mathematical solutions and reduced to a win
or nothing scenario for us. At this stage of the
evening fitness and determination were just as
vital as ball skills but nevertheless IC were
confident when the final game started.
For a few minutes Bath appeared to have
given up as IC took a swift 3-0 lead. The
action then started as Bath fought back to
reduce the defeat to 3-1 at half time through a
penalty. The second half saw IC display the
same lapse of concentration and suddenly.
Bath were back in the game at 3-3 as the teams
tired.
Bath still appeared stronger but on one of
IC's consistently dangerous breakaways, a
penalty was conceded. The number of IC
players who actually watched Hurley convert
the penalty could not have been many but
from then on IC were on the defensive. Three
minutes is a long time when the clock is
stopped for every stoppage of play: but with
determined defence, a few mistakes from
Bath and a little luck we held on to achieve
success unsurpassed by previous IC sides.
Undoubtedly Hurley was the star, but he
received magnificent support from Robert
Eastman. Although none of it would have
been possible without any of the other eight
players, or without Dan's magnificent efforts
in controlling the team from the side, or of
course without the supporeters, and of course
Mrs Peart.
As for greater things, the UAU national
final will be in March so the team will be
training twice weekly til then. Traihing will be
6:30-11:00 each Monday and Friday with
9:30-11:00 being devoted to boat race skills
and the rest to a warm up in the pool!
Team: Python (Capt), Hurley, Chorlton,
Edwards, Boucher, Eastman, Richardson,
Burr, Crowder, Kalkanis, Peart, Langman,
Morris (manager).
Page 181 Wednesday, 14 December, 1983 FELIX

