Editorial!
Union Freebies
Every year about £ 2 , 0 0 0 of your money is spent on sending
sabbatical officers and their mates to conferences. Whilst one
or two of these conferences are worthwhile the vast majority of
them are nothing more than piss ups and an opportunity for a
few U n i o n hacks to have a good time at the Union's expense.
I think the motion proposed at the U G M , to review expendi-
ture on conferences, touches only the tip of the iceburg. The
U n i o n Office has a sundries account of £ 2 , 0 0 0 for 'unallocated
expenditure'.which is basically the President's slush fund to
throw parties, ,tock the U n i o n Office with drink and generally
do with what she wants to.
With all the Union clubs and societies being forced to tighten
their belts perhaps the review committee should take a close
look at some of the Union Office's extravagances.
Goodwill
In the spirit of Christmas I thought I would be nice to Michael
Arthur. I understand he has been complaining that I never
write any good things about him. After a long and concen-
trated night's thinking I came up with the following good
things.
It's a good thing that I don't have to see Michael Arthur very
often. It's a good thing for Michael Arthur that he has a hard
working staff to do all his work for him while he smart-arses
around College all day. It's a good thing that he won't be
Student Services Officer for very much longer.
Credits
This term has been a very long and hard one with all kinds of
production problems. But through it all I've had a marvellous
bunch of people to work with. M y thanks to you all.
News J Martin Taylor (Editor), Simon Nield, Carolyn Aldred,
David Jones, Dave Parry, David Rowe and Carl Burgess.
Production Hugh Southey, Jon Jones, Lyn James, Diane Love,
Peter Rodgers, John Scott, Nick Thexton, J Martin Taylor and
Simon Nield.
Photos Matt Faweett (Editor), Steve Brann, John MacMasters
and Malcolm Gray.
Reviews Tony Atkins, Claire Moss, John Burgess and Nick
Shackley, Peter Rodgers.
Cartoons Guy Riddihough, Tim Noyce, and Rich Archer.
Regular Collators Richard Powell, Richard Monkhouse, Pete
Coleman and Jonathan Gerson.
Thanks also to Maz Fellows and an extra special thanks to
Pete Dawson for printing above and beyond the call of duty for
this Christmas issue.
Merry Christmas!
Pallab Ghosh
MrMoron's
MerryXmas
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd.SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSouthei/CopyrightFEUX1983

