Kevlewsl
or Christmas
-SEAN
CONNER/
NEVER
NWER
Never Say Never Again (Warner West
End) marks the return of Sean Connery as
James Bond. Connery looks a little old, but
all the magnetism is still there. He has real
screen presence throughout the film, except
when Rowan Atkinson as an upper class
Foreign Office twit steals the show.
I found the last few Bond movies too
gimmicky, but Never Say Never Again has
more of a plot and a far fresher atmosphere
about it. SPECTRE manages to steal two
cruise missiles armed with nuclear
warheads—Bond has to find them before
they are blown up. There are all the
traditional elements of a good Bond
film—beautiful girls, gun and fist-fights, high-
tech, glamorous locations and car chases.
The Bond formula is now tuned to a fine art
and the mix of 'gratuitous sex and violence' is
highly successful. The whole thing is totally
preposterous and great fun.
If you liked Bond movies in the past, Never
Say Never Again is a must.
There has been a dearth of good comedies
recently, which may help explain the huge
and unexpected success of Trading Places
(Empire 2). In the US this success has been
of near ET proportions. The two stars, Dan
Ackroyd (1941, The Blues Brothers) and
Eddie Murphy (48hrs) have become cult
figures, as has director John Landis, famous
for Kentucky Fried Movie and Animal
House.
Ackroyd plays a rich and smug junior
partner in the Duke and Duke firm of
commodity brokers; Murphy is a street-wise
loser and conman. The evil Duke brothers,
bored with conventional entertainment,
wonder how Ackroyd will react if he is slung
out on the streets, and what Murphy will do if
he is given everything Ackroyd has. This is
the starting-point for a hectic film that tries to
be satirical and ends up farcical, but is a
success through it's sheer vitality and good
humour.
Trading Places reminds me of 'Soap',
because it trys to mix frantic and zany action
with moral points. But the pretensions to
making comments about rich people versus
poor people are smothered by Ackroyd who
overacts and always looks as if he's about to
burst out laughing at himself. Murphy
however is just brilliant and British actor
Denholm Elliott as Ackroyd's butler can say
more with the lift of an eyebrow than any of
the Americans (who instead tend to machine-
gun you with the gags). Although too slow in
starting and too rushed at the end, this film is
marvellously funny and really gets you
involved. There's nothing quite like the
sound of a full cinema audience laughing
together—it beats the solitary watching of
TV and video hands down.
Dan Ackroyd in 'Trading Places'.
Hitchcock's Rear Window (Plaza 2,
Classic Chelsea) is a long unavailable clas-
sic. Due to copyright squabbles the film has
not been legally shown for twenty years.
After a triumphant reissue at the London
Film Festival, it is now on general release, and
so many of today's films just fade away before
it. Over the next few months four more
Hitchcock classics will be rereleased -
Vertigo, The Man Who Knew Too Much,
The Trouble With Harry and Rope.
This will be a rare feast of great Hitchcock
films.
The story is about a temporarily wheel-
bound photographer (James Stewart) who
spends his time watching the activities of his
neighbours in the buildings across the
courtyard. He becoms fascinated in
discovering all about their lives until, over
several days, he becomes convinced that a
murder has taken place in one particular
apartment. His girlfriend (Grace Kelly
looking absolutely stunning) is as doubtful
about this as Stewart is about marrying her.
This reluctance convinces you Stewart is
definitely round the twist. The rest of the film
follows his attempt to convince the other
characters that he isn't mad and that a
murder has occurred.
The plot is simple enough, but a lesser
director than Hitchcock would have quailed
at the constraint of shooting almost the entire
film through just one open window.
Hitchcock however revels in it. You never
want to leave that room, even though film is
supposed to be the medium of the wide-open
spaces. Like being abie to read minds, the
idea of freely watching other people's lives is
a fascinating and dangerous one. You find
out things you shouldn't or would rather not
do.
The film was shot over one huge set and
the buildings look too theatrical. The action is
rather slow off the mark but once Grace
Kelly appears the film leaps into life.
Everything about the murder is perfectly
shot and paced. With its macabre humour
and its delicate balancing act between
condemning and justifying the voyeur,Rear
Window was one of Hitchcock,s favourites.
It is definetly now one of mine.
Videodrome (most ABCs) is a blood and
gore movie made by a good director, David
Cronenberg, having an off day. Cronenberg
specialises in pop-horror-with-a-message
films. He directed Shivers which is famous for
its bathroom scene where worms slither out
The Master and James Stewart
Page 8 Wednesday, 14 December, 1983 IFELIX

