14 NOTICES AND OPINION FELIX FRIDAY 4TH OCTOBER
simon baker
Well hello there. You can't keep a
good man down, and sure enough,
Felix lost some of its best staff last
year, so you're stuck with me. Ah,
the modesty. Ah, be buggered. No
sooner had I graduated than I felt a
hand on my shoulder and heard a
voice telling me that early release
had been revoked, sentencing me to
three more years. Of course to a larg-
er number of you this means nothing.
Not a reflection on my prose, but
because many of you have just
arrived at Imperial fresh out of
school.
The prospect of embarking on a
degree course should not daunt you,
and to help matters, Uncle Simon
will offer you the benefit of his expe-
rience. Firstly, don't let the size of
the place worry you. As a result of a
project solely for your benefit,
Imperial now has so many signs that
even Mark Thatcher could not lose
his way. Secondly, always talk to
your fellow students, occasionally
talk to computers. With computing
students, form your own opinions.
Finally, since you will find your-
self on a fairly tight budget, it's very
important to shop around for gro-
ceries and suchlike. Southside Shop
may not be quite the cheapest in the
area. In fact, I always found a little
corner shop down the road could beat
them on price. It's on Brompton
Road near Knightsbridge tube. Loads
of green and gold. You can't miss it.
(You think I'm joking!)
In the world beyond South Ken,
we are in the middle of the party con-
ference season. Currently Labour are
doing their stuff, wooing the voters
with their policies on... Ah, we've
got a problem. Tony Blair has shown
that the way to achieve huge popu-
larity is to slag off the opposition and
not commit yourself on anything, a
bit like when you crash your car.
Unfortunately, somebody some-
where before the next election is
going to want to know what the hell
New Labour is and what it plans to
do. Empty phrases on taxation, social
security and constitutional reform
will not persuade anyfloatingvoters
to back the party and highlight the
leadership's mortal fear of offending
anyone south of Watford Gap. Time
will tell how durable that smile is
when the real picture emerges.
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION H A S T H E FOLLOWING
V A C A N C I E S O N T H E S T U D E N T REPRESENTATIVE
COUNCIL
WELFARE OFFICER
W O M E N ' S OFFICER
T R A N S P O R T OFFICER
These posts will be elected at the first full Council Meeting of the year, at
18:00 on Tuesday 15th October in the Union Dining Hall (opposite the Union
Office), the nominations having closed at 18:00 on this day. All full members
of the Union are entitled to vote. For more information about these posts, see
the President in the Union Office.
Eight Ordinary Members will be elected to Council at this meeting. Two
of these must be first years and two postgraduates, any full members of the
Union may stand
HUMANITIES
EVENING L A N G U A G E
C L A S S E S
The Humanities Programme is once
again offering an exciting pro-
gramme of evening classes begin-
ning in October. As last year, class-
es for all College students and staff
are available at elementary, interme-
diate and advanced levels in
French, German, Italian, Spanish,
and Japanese; and at elementary
and intermediate levels in Russian
and Mandarin Chinese. In addition
this year, elementary courses in
Arabic and in Mandarin for
Cantonese speakers are being
introduced.
For the four main European lan-
guages there is a wide range of lower
level classes in each language, as
well as some higher level study on
specific evenings. Japanese classes
take place on Monday evenings and
Wednesday afternoons; Russian on
Tuesday evenings; Mandarin on
Monday evenings; Mandarin for
Cantonese speakers and Arabic on
Thursday evenings.
All classes are held once a week,
and courses last for two terms. The
fees are £60 for European languages
(1.5 hours a week) and £80 for
Oriental languages (2 hours a week).
Classes start in the week begin-
ning 21st October. Details are avail-
able in Rooms 327 and 313C
(Humanities), Mech Eng. Those
wishing to enroll should come
between 1.30 and 5.30pm, or attend
a special advice and enrolment ses-
sion at 5-7 pm on Thursday 17th
October. Additionally, English
classes for overseas students are pro-
vided free to College members, and
also to their spouses at a small
charge. Registration and English test
at the beginning of the second week
of term.
P R O G R A M M E
C O N S T A B L E - D E B U S S Y -
M A R X
Three exciting new courses are on
offer this Autumn as part of the
Humanities programme. Be one of
thefirstto enroll.
Music: Mr Roderick Swanston,
the well known broadcaster from the
Royal College of Music, will exam-
ine how ideas influenced some sig-
nificant musical works in the nine-
teenth century, and how a knowl-
edge of this can add to the under-
standing of both of the individual
pieces of music and the development
of nineteenth century cultural histo-
ry. First lecture, 12 noon Friday 11th
October.
Philosophy: Mr Keith Barret's
popular Philosophy course can now
be followed by Philosophy II where
you will have the opportunity of
studying in depth some works of the
highest intellectual quality and sem-
inal importance as reference points
of contemporary thought. First lec-
ture 12 noon, Friday 11th October.
Art: Dr Maurice Davies' course
will explore ways in which artists
'see' nature and will teach you ways
of looking at and thinking about art,
especially British landscape paint-
ing. Dr Davies, who is an expert on
Turner, has lectured at Cambridge,
UCL, the Tate Gallery, and the
National Gallery. First lecture, 12
noon Monday 14th October.
Full details of all Humanities
courses can be obtained from the
Humanities General Office, 313C
Mech Eng. Timetables and venues
will be displayed in departments and
on the Humanities notice board.

