FELIX FRIDAY 4TH OCTOBER SPORT 15
C l i m a t e g e t s t h e b e t t e r o f h o c k e y
t e a m i n B a r b a d o s
(But w i n , lose or draw, there's always the beach bar)
It was a dark and stormy night in the
deepest depths of the Union Bar.
There was an atmosphere of sobriety.
Suddenly, a spark turned to a full
blown dream - the Barbados tour was
born in all of its splendour and glory.
For once, the teams' acted on their
drunken ideas and after several
months of hard work and headaches
by 'Cantona' and a select few others,
we headed off to Heathrow on our
way to Barbados.
By some miracle we arrived in
Bridgetown airport on time after a
few rounds of Tager, lager, lager' on
the plane. Suddenly we were hit with
what turned into somewhat of a prob-
lem - the heat. The raw and delicate
maidens and gentlemen of the British
Isles were not used to the soaring
temperatures and wide skies of their
new location. A certain amount of
getting used to the environment was
required. A little bit of relaxation
before those all important hockey
and football tournaments.
Except that all that seems to be
The ladies hockey team getting it together before one of their matches in
the Banks Beer International Hockey Festival. Unfortunately for the
team, the heat and humidity played havoc with their training schedule.
International Hockey Festival.
Our first week was spent acclima-
tising. We struggled with sightsee-
ing, sunbathing and adjusting social-
ly. The thought of playing sport in
the heat was frightening so we avoid-
iililit
The mens football team posing before the scoreboard of the Kensington
Oval. Co-incidentally, the board shows the team's aggregate score over
their tour, but they got a good result against the Aston ladies.
remembered is sun, sea, sand... oh
and a few aches and bruises from the
hockey, football and beer which is
after all what we were there for. Of
course, we represented Great Britain
along with four other British
Universities and had it not been so
hot, humid and hungover, we could
have done well at the Banks Beer
ed physical activity as best we could.
Although the footie lads did manage
a bit of play away from home with
our British counterparts (footie lads 0
- Aston girls 5)
There were many nations repre-
sented in the Banks Hockey festival,
and though most of the teams were
from the various Caribbean islands,
there were at least fifteen European
sides and other American and South
American teams. The atmosphere
was ecstatic. Well there aren't many
teams that have been privileged to
play at the legendary Kensington
Oval (even if they weren't playing
cricket).
The opening ceremony was
vibrant and colourful (mainly due to
the sunburn) as it turned out to be the
beginning of a spectacular sporting
fest for the Hockey teams. Jane and
Smita represented Imperial College
in the Festival Eleven in the
Barbados International side, and sev-
eral of the squad did their bit for the
Festival by umpiring throughout the
Tournament. It wasn't quite the
Olympics, but we performed on par
with the British side at Atlanta
(minus Steve Redgrave and Matthew
Pinsent).
With no Hillary Rose or Susan
Mason in sight, the balls kept ending
up in the back of our net, and without
Calum Giles the twenty four year old
super sub from Havant, we only
scored on rare occasion. We did,
however become the most popular
team in the festival because through-
out the losses, we kept the smiling
faces and the fighting spirit going.
The footie lads had arranged sev-
eral friendly fixtures vs Barbados
sides and like the hockey, were not as
successful as they would have hoped.
Unfortunately amidst the heat and
dehydration, during the last fifteen
minutes, the oppositions forwards
frequently passed the previously rock
solid defence (on more than one
occasion).
All in all, the score line did not
represent the enthusiasm, commit-
ment and sex appeal of the teams.
We worked hard and played harder
but unfortunately, the heat and
humidity got the better of all of us.
The tour was enjoyed by all as was
the island. We saw and appreciated
as much as was possible in two
weeks.
We would like to thank all those
who supported the tour and would
like to say that with your continued
support, teams will be able to repre-
sent the College and Union with
greater success in the future.
Special thanks to: Peter Mee, Chris
Oakley, Liz and Linda from PR,
Simon Goodall. Lorraine in registry,
Timmy T., Jane Hoyle and all of the
staff in the Union.
The team would also like to say a
big Cheers to Rachael for being a star
and organising everything.
An exhasted pair prop each other
up after a particularly tiring
match

