ISSUE 1708
FELIX
BOOKS books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18
H
ave an inspiring woman in your life? This book would be the perfect gift. The title lady is Elizebeth Smith, half of one of the greatest
codebreaking duos in history. With her husband William Friedman, she pioneered the field of modern cryptology during the height of
World War I. An expert on Shakespeare, Smith was asked by her employer, who had ties with the government, to apply her language
skills to code-breaking. There, she met her husband, and they became some of the most important people of the US National Security
Agency. Despite that, their story has never been fully told, until this new biography by Jason Fagone. During World War II, Smith worked on the
Enigma machine used by the Germans, cracking multiple versions. At the same time, her husband worked on the Japanese verison of Enigma,
Purple. This is the story of America’s cryptography history told through the prism of Smith’s life, and how it shaped modern intelligence. A
fascinating and inspiring read. - Jingjie Cheng
Joy to your bookshelf
‘Tis the season for giving, and Felix Books is here to help with four of our recommendations to spread literary
cheer!
W
inner of the British BookAwards, this stunning debut novel by Gail Honeyman delves deep into lone-
liness, connections and the power of kindness. The theme of isolation is one that is rarely explored in
contemporary culture; as Honeyman puts it, “These days, loneliness is the new cancer – a shameful,
embarrassing thing, brought upon yourself in some obscure way.” The premise of a solitary heroine
is interesting, but Honeyman takes it to the next level, crafting a beautiful character and inviting the readers to
know Eleanor intimately through her narrative. I smiled at Eleanor’s hilarious comments as she navigates through
common aspects of human life; I shed tears when she is overwhelmed by love and care. I especially want to
applaud Honeyman for her portrayal of mental illness, breaking stereotypes and presenting a perfectly layered
and flawed character who is a product of her environment. Simply put, this novel has it all – humour skilfully
intertwined with heavier material, an emotional roller-coaster and a charming protagonist. A heart-wrenching yet
soul-soothing read, it’s the perfect gift for those whom you love and treasure. - Jia Qi Tan
Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine by Gail Honeyman
BOOKS
Jingjie Cheng
Books Editor
Jia Qi Tan
Books Writer
The Woman who Smashed Codes by Jason Fagone
K
now someone who loves their tea? A Little Tea Book is an ode to tea, the art of tea-making, and the joys of tea-drinking. Sebastian
Beckwith fell in love with tea while working as a guide in Bhutan in the 1980s, and over the years has sought out the finest, most
sustainably-grown and ethically harvested teas and brought them to the menus of some of New York’s finest restaurants. He distills
his tea wisdom into this very book. It is everything you ever wanted to know about tea – part field guide to choosing, preparing and
enjoying tea, part love letter. He touches on the history of tea, as well as exploring some of the common myths of tea. It is beautifully illustrated
by Wendy MacNaughton, full of lively, colourful drawings. The book is a lovely work of art that one would keep on the bookshelf for time to
come, to be leafed through regularly for a dose of tea-happiness. - Jingjie Cheng
A Little Tea Book: All the Essentials from Leaf to Cup by Sebastian
Beckwith and Caroline Paul
Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat by Samin Nosrat
T
here are shelves upon shelves of cookbooks in every bookshop, each surrounding a certain theme or cuisine. This book is different. A
former chef at Chez Panisse, Samin Nosrat distills all cooking into four elements – salt, fat, acid and heat. With an understanding of
these four elements, one can cook anything from first principles, she believes. Perfect for the aspiring chef in your life, this book starts
from the basics, and is written in an approachable way. It is also charmingly illustrated by Wendy MacNaughton (again!). Nosrat has
been praised as a teacher, and this is evident in the way she instructs in this book. Her theories are easy to grasp and applicable to a wide variety
of dishes. Now, the book has been adapted into a Netflix series of the same name. It is by no means introducing revolutionary new ideas into
cooking, but it certainly distills food science into its essentials. - Jingjie Cheng

