When computers were born 30 years ago, they weighed close on 30 tons
and occupied a complete room. Today, a machine of similar capacity
would hardly fill a briefcase.
If equally dramatic changes had taken place in the car industry our
headline would be unremarkable.
A Lamborghini really would be that easy on petrol and your purse-strings.
When integrated circuits first arrived, they cost £40 apiece. Now they
are ten-a-penny. Literally.
As computer production costs have gone down, their use has gone up.
Children today are as at home with software as they are with soft toys.
Immunity from the rampaging microchip has been granted to no one.
Banking. Insurance. Retail. Wholesale. All have bowed before it.
But it is the manufacturing sector which has the most to gain, as well
as the most to lose, from its advance.
We are on the verge of a second industrial revolution.
Before the advent of steam, 80% of the population spent their days,
and much of their nights, working to feed the nation.
After it, they were free to put their talents to other tasks.
Now the computer is coming to the aid of today's workforce. Already,
repetitive and unpleasant jobs are being carried out by robots.
At the same time, our traditional dependence on established raw
materials and forms of energy is being lessened.
Evaluation and development programmes that took years, can now be
completed in days. New products, new services and new markets are easier
to develop. Complex problems are easier to solve.
Such changes are taking place on a scale unthinkable 20 years ago.
Clearly, the backbone of commerce is no longer iron and steel, but
expertise and judgement. Today, ideas are the crucial currency.
Of course, radical, far-reaching changes require solutions to match.
We certainly would not suggest finding the right answers is easy. But at
Ernst & Whinney we believe we are better £ ^ | § § E r n s t & W h i n n e y
• . i . i i . i Accountants, Advisers, Consultants.
equipped to oegin ine searcn tnan most. RnfetltMwvlUnfetbMaivRtwJ, I <»»],«. S
H
I 7KIITil!0I-92H 2000.
IF YOU LIKE THE SOUND OF ERNST & WHINNEY
CONTACT MICHAEL KNIGHT AT THE ABOVE ADDRESS.

