You decide who
will run your
Constituent Union!
Decide your next Constituent
Union President and Committee
now.
Visit our website to vote and get more information on all the positions and candidates.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Voting opens
12:00, Friday 3 March
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting closes
12:00, Friday 10 March
Vote online at
You can also vote on your mobile phone! Visit bit.ly/voteicu through
your phone’s browser.
You decide who
will run your
Constituent Union!
Decide your next Constituent
Union President and Committee
now.
Visit our website to vote and get more information on all the positions and candidates.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Voting opens
12:00, Friday 3 March
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting closes
12:00, Friday 10 March
Vote online at
You can also vote on your mobile phone! Visit bit.ly/voteicu through
your phone’s browser.
The candidates are in.
Who will you choose to lead Imperial?
In this pull out, you can read the manifestos for:
Union President
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Deputy President (Education)
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Deputy President (Welfare)
Felix Editor
ICSMSU President
Council Chair
Student Trustee
All information enclosed has come directly from the candidates and hasn’t been altered. Any
views stated are those of the candidates. All information correct at the time of going to print.
To see all the candidates’ manifestos, visit imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
Candidate Manifestos: Union President
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.
Jiangxuan Chen
The landscape of higher education
is changing and there are challenges
ahead. I have the experience to lead the
Union through this change and ensure
the best outcomes for all. I currently
represent 2000 of you in all aspects of
your university life in my role as ICSMSU
President. Previously I was ICSM Clubs
& Societies Officer and ICSM Treasurer
and I have held 16 committee positions
across 6 different societies. During my 5
years at Imperial it has been amazing
to have met, supported and worked
with so many people. I want to use
this experience to improve the student
experience at Imperial. This year I have
been part of a strong team of ICU
sabbatical officers and have first-hand
knowledge of the great activities and
support the Union offers. I will continue
to promote all this. I also want to
work towards long term development.
Building on the work of this year’s team
we can make lasting change to benefit
you and students to come.
Specific things I would work to achieve
include: Shuttle service to Heston/
Harlington on Wednesdays; Counselling
triage appointments within 10 college
Alex Chippy Compton days; Study skills advice for first years;
Support for Constituent Unions
and Management Groups; Staff and
sabbatical officer presence at non-SK
campuses; Advancing the current work
on protected Wednesday afternoons
for PG students; Focusing the ongoing
programme to increase external
revenue sources to give better value for
money.
Trust Experience Trust Chippy.
Full manifesto: votechippy.strikingly.com
#votechippy
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.
Harry Collini
Mahmoud El-Khatib
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.

