Yusuf Qureshi
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Imperial College Union is proud to host
over 350 clubs and societies, all run by
an incredibly valuable volunteer base
- our students - willing to commit so
much to ensure their success.
I want not only to represent all of
these volunteers, but to also make
improvements so that everyone can
enjoy their clubs and societies as much
as I have. In my five years at Imperial
I have gained experience as a club
member, as a club treasurer and in a
organisation and development role as
Management Group Chair for ICSM.
My experience has given me valuable
insight into areas where we do really
well and three main areas which I
would like to develop (and form a
convenient acronym):
Training- You say you have felt under-
prepared for your volunteer roles, so I
will ensure that appropriate training is
tailored for all students, allowing you to
feel confident in your roles.
Openness-You sometimes feel that the
Union, College and Sport Imperial are
Thomas Bacarese-
Hamilton
too opaque. I will ensure that all relevant
information is released in a way which
you are able to understand.
Management- You have long
complained about minibuses, storage
and room bookings. I will review how
we manage club amenities to ensure
that you are able to get the maximum
available.
For my full manifesto, and to ask
questions, visit https://votetom.wixsite.
com/gettom and don’t forget to find and
share my facebook event! Don’t forget
to VOTE TOM, GET T.O.M.
“If loving Imperial College’s clubs and
societies was a crime, by all means lock
me up”
– James Snakey every Wednesday.
Alright fellas and fellarinas, my name is
James and I am an anticipating Biology
graduate, a 3-year veteran/committee
member of ICHC and just a stand-
up guy looking to contribute. A more
extra-curricular approach to university
life cannot be stressed enough, even
at an academia focused institution like
Imperial as it will grant a more rounded
and meaningful student experience.
I have a dream of an Imperial where
students strive to strike a perfect
balance between academia and often
forgotten extra-curriculars. I shall
achieve my vision by being voted as
the people’s representative in order
to synergistically forge the bridges
between the clubs and societies and
the Imperial College Union. I might not
be the most experienced but I more
than make up for that in passion and
creativity. Furthermore, if you believe
in honesty and transparency, I strictly
suggest you give consider me for vote
as I’m a straight shooter and what you
James Breakey see is what you get.
Policies include: Working alongside
DPFS on delivering clearer policies on
how funding pots (tour funding, ADF,
BUCS) are allocated. Granting the Union
responsibility to handle their own
general club issues independently whilst
Sport Imperial only handle bookings/
fixtures. Allowing management groups
chairs to sit on more sport boards for
better student representation. Campus
drinks prices match local competition
(e.g. The Slug). Finding better storage
facilities. Imperial sports teams must
have a snake-based mascot.
Yusuf Qureshi
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Education)
Why Pick Nick to be your next Deputy
President (Education)? Pick Nick for
experience: As Academic Affairs Officer
for ICSM this year, I have represented
the educational needs of hundreds of
biomedical and medical students across
13 different subjects. I have introduced
new teaching content, worked
with College to develop an iBook
for students, and most importantly,
ensured that student’s opinions are
communicated to Faculty. I believe that
this year has given me the skills needed
to succeed as your Deputy President
(Education). Pick Nick for ideas: Listen.
Feedback. Improve: LISTEN: • Students
should feel empowered to shape their
education. I aim to foster two-way
relationships between staff and students,
so that your views are not just heard,
but listened to • I will work with College
to implement the newly approved
“teaching consultants” programme,
where students can work with lecturers
to improve practise FEEDBACK: • There
are still vast differences in assessment
feedback across College • I will continue
the pursuit of improving feedback
quality and timeliness by ensuring
the implementation of the traffic light
Nicholas Burstow system across College • I will ensure
that students are consulted during the
design, implementation and evaluation
of assessment and feedback. IMPROVE:
• Improve communication on education
between departments and faculties,
so that ‘good practices’ become ‘best
practices’ • Improve the post-graduate
education experience, ensuring that
College deliver on their pledge to
keep Wednesday afternoons free •
Improve the transparency of mitigating
circumstance policy across College by
creating clear guidelines for students
Pick Nick to be your next Deputy
President (Education)
Hi, I’m Mo, a fourth year student
currently completing my masters in
chemical engineering. My Imperial
experience however extends beyond
CGCU. Through my interactions with
students from different departments, I
have developed a deep understanding
of the issues faced by the wider student
body.
Despite having headed societal
campaigns with teams of over a
hundred fellow students, I still come up
against the academic shortcomings of
Imperial daily. For this reason, I am close
enough to the issues at hand that I can
present your concerns accurately and
from your perspective. With this intuitive
understanding, and by unlimited
accessibility to you, I am confident we
can tackle the following issues:
Feedback: The unacceptable
inconsistency with feedback times
for projects and courseworks needs
to be addressed. I will work tirelessly
to introduce stringent operating
procedures, lowering these waiting
times across all departments.
Panopto: Potato level recordings,
delayed uploads or complete non-
Mohamed Elyas existence. Any or all of these may
accurately describe your experience of
Panopto. I will endeavour to work with
staff directly to increase the quality,
reliability and availability of E-learning
material. Interdepartmental fluidity: I will
work towards increasing the amount
of academic interaction that is possible
between disciplines. By opening up
learning resources for courses in one
field to the other faculties, I plan to
provide students with the ability to take
a module from a different subject with
ease, allowing them to diversify their
knowledge.
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Hi, I am Matt and I am running to be
your DPFS. I am a final year Chemistry
and Business School student and as
your DPFS I would:
INCREASE EXTERNAL INCOME TO
MAKE YOUR UNION BETTER VALUE
o Centralised Sponsorship of the Union
o Life Membership funding directly to
CSPs o Union minibuses during holidays
BETTER SERVICE EXPERIENCE IN THE
BARS AND SHOPS
o Increase range and quality of food
o No above-inflation drink price rises
o Improve non-SK campus facilities
MAKE FUNDING AND SERVICES
PROPERLY SUPPORT CSPs
o All minibuses to be roadworthy at
the start of the year o Coach service to
Heston and Harlington o Centralised
club regalia
MAKE YOUR UNION MORE ACCESSIBLE
o Student involvement in the biggest
Union-run events o Increased number
and quality of part-time Union jobs o
Continue financial infographic series
o Promote Imperial Plus
Matthew Blackett And finally, pre-poured pints at ACC Bar
nights!
In my 4 years at Imperial, I have been
heavily involved with various clubs &
societies holding positions of financial
responsibility, including as the ACC
Management Group Vice-Chair. Having
studied good financial practice in the
Business School, I will make sure the
Union’s finances are in safe hands. It is
these experiences of interacting with
every level of the Union, as well as my
straight-forward, pragmatic, problem-
fixer attitude that will allow me to
improve your experience of the Union.
Yusuf Qureshi
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.

