I’m Jamie. I’ve been at Imperial for
7 years, now I’m running for DPFS.
The DPFS is responsible for the
bars, shops and other commercial
services run by the union, as well
as student development, marketing,
sponsorship and union services. I have
a vast amount of relevant experience
including: -- Holding financially
responsible positions with multiple
societies over five years and overseeing
over £37,000 of club expenditure --
Sitting on Union Council and the Arts
Imperial Board -- Being involved with
running over 200 shows/events at
imperial, with societies, the bar, and the
Events-and-Conferences team -- Being
at Imperial as an Undergrad, Postgrad,
and PhD student and being involved
with over 30 societies has allowed me
to see Imperial from many different
perspectives. But what am I going to
*do*? IMPROVE THE BARS -- Pre-order
food from FiveSixEight online -- Faster
service on Wednesday and Friday nights
-- “Express lane” with bottle bar and
pre-poured pints -- Jägerbombs on
tap. -- Refurbish Metric and improve
FiveSixEight’s doors -- Review bar
staff pay and conditions -- Create an
James Targett entertainments committee -- More Live
Music REDUCE CLUB ADMIN BURDEN
-- Improve eActivities’ usability -- Make
club mailing lists better -- Review
financial authorisation levels (one size
doesn’t fit all) -- Improve the room
booking system -- Fix the printing
system OTHER MISCELLANEOUS
POLICIES -- Continue the Union’s
current work of increasing its external
income -- Introduce a better e-voting
system for clubs -- Decide fair
budgeting rules *before* clubs submit
their budgets. -- Improve the records of
the Union’s historic £200k collection of
tankards.
Hello, person reading this. Whilst I really
hope you’re enjoying your time at
Imperial, there’s a possibility that that
isn’t the case- that you’ve felt scared
and alone, or too dumb to be here, or
filled with self-hate for re-watching Bake
Off instead of doing your mechanics
homework. The good news is that you
aren’t alone- not by a long shot.
I want to be your Welfare Officer
because I am genuinely passionate
about welfare, from things as small as
effective use of Panopto to things as
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Welfare)
as big as the stigma around mental
health conditions. I believe no problem
is too big or too small when it comes
to your health and happiness. My goals
include:
* full mental health first aid training for
more staff, and subsidised sessions for
students
* establishing student support groups-
both for those struggling and for their
loved ones and friends
* inviting external speakers with
disabilities or mental health issues who
have had successful careers in STEM
* creating clear, concise resources on
Imperial’s welfare services, both on
Jessica Chapman Blackboard and in the new student
welcome pack
* improving communication between
students and staff
* emphasising the importance of of
organisation, timeliness and reliability in
the way courses are run
* improving awareness of exam
adjustments other than extra time
* better training for personal tutors and
supervisors
* more consistent support for those
taking an interruption of studies
For more information on my policies
and why I think I’d be good, you can
check out my extended manifesto.
VOTE EXPERIENCE • Actively involved
with Imperial College Union, working
at Beit Bars, and active in leadership of
RAG and Comedy Society • Member
of the LGBT+ community • First-hand
experience of struggles obtaining
mental health and financial support
during an interruption year • Former
community & events officer for a
charity, leading a team through multiple
campaigns. VOTE SUPPORT
Support during interruption years •
Lobby college to set up an emergency
fund for all interruption students
• Guidance document for those
interrupting studies and Year in Industry
students, including how to obtain
mental health support Departmental
support • Restructure the personal tutor
system - including training in supporting
students with mental health problems
and Specific Learning Difficulties •
Mental health first aiders across all
departments Improving Imperial College
healthcare • Increased funding from
college to shorten wait times • Support
for substance abuse • Improved mental
health counselling for international
students taking interruption years
Sophie Johnston VOTE LBGT+ REFORMS • Campaigning
for more gender-neutral toilets on
all campuses • Eliminate transphobia
in bathrooms • Clear guidelines and
formalisation on how to change names,
titles and IDs at Imperial • LGBT+ mental
health issues incorporated into tutor,
hall senior and mental health First Aider
training • LGBT+ 101 leaflets in fresher
welcome packs • Incorporate LGBT+
training for new students and staff
VOTE SOPH, and together we can put
welfare at the forefront of life at IC.
#sophantastic
The Union and the College are at a
critical point in their welfare strategy.
You deserve a DPW who is passionate,
committed to supporting you, and can
negotiate to create a lasting legacy
of better service provision. I have
the vision, the enthusiasm and the
experience to be that officer.
ACTION • Education and Welfare
Link: I recognise that education and
welfare are inextricably linked. Will work
closely with the DP (Education) to solve
problems at the source, supporting
issues such as support for interruptions
of study, among others. • Personal
Tutors: Work to design a system where
access to a good personal tutor is not a
lucky dip. • Sexual Assault and Consent:
Capitalise on current successes;
maximise the benefit to students
from the HEFCE proposal for active
bystander training, more comprehensive
sexual violence disclosure guidelines,
and sexual violence liaison officers. •
Campaigning: Follow up on the review
of campaigning support. Better support
and training for liberation officers.
Enable the student body to shape their
community. Believe in the power of
Fintan O’Connor many small changes. • Mental Health:
Continue work in frontline training,
development of College services, and
better mapping of how to get help, in
and out of Imperial. • Listen to you:
Engage you in the process – help you
to shape your union. Welfare is diverse –
every one of you matters. EXPERIENCE
• CGCU Welfare Officer • Working
closely under current DPW • Union
Council voting member • Community
and Welfare Board voting member
• Under Pressure Campaign volunteer
• Sexual health supplies and advice
provision
• Academic Year Rep
Hi! My name is Katya, I am a
Bioengineering Masters student. Before
this, I studied Biology here at Imperial
too. Being part of both the RCSU and
CGCU, I realise how varied the problems
across College are and how much
work is required to improve welfare
for ALL students. I am eager to take
responsibility and give my absolute best
to improve YOUR student experience!
My main policies: - Develop a network
amongst departmental Welfare Officers
with annual training and regular
meetings to feedback on current
welfare problems. This will allow me
to strategise the course of action
that would benefit all departments. -
Introduce workshops every term to
educate students on how to recognise
and support your friends going through
mental health problems. - Start a
support group for international students,
where you can talk about the difficulties
of being international and receive
advice from those more experienced.
- Establish anonymous chat and
counselling services to share your
concerns and feelings confidentially.
- Campaign to increase funding for the
Katya Pchelintseva Mums and Dads scheme and personal
tutors enabling regular meetings in
an informal setting. As the previous
Welfare and Academic Officer for
Biology and the current Departmental
Representative for Bioengineering, I
have the experience and knowledge
of the system which will help me to
pinpoint problems and deliver effective
solutions as DPW.
A vote for Katya is a vote for a candidate
with experience in the RCSU and CGCU,
passion for the role, and the drive to
really help people.
Yusuf Qureshi
This candidate did not supply a manifesto.
Hello! I’m Fred, and I’ve been involved
with Felix for the last five years. In
this time, I’ve been nominated for a
Guardian Student Media Award, edited
three editions of Phoenix magazine,
and edited the Culture, Arts, and
Film sections. I love Felix, but it’s not
perfect. If elected, I promise to: KEEP
THE CAT FREE > Hold the Union and
Sabbatical Officers to account, with
termly progress reports showing what
campaign promises haven’t been
delivered > Establish alternative revenue
sources to increase Felix’s independence
Candidate Manifestos: Felix Editor
> Hold investigative journalism
workshops, encouraging students to
question College policy. KEEP THE
CAT FRIENDLY > Create a welcome
environment for Felix, with face-to-face
feedback and drop-in sessions where
writers can discuss ideas > Ensure Felix’s
fresher issue is in all first year halls >
Hold workshops on news reporting,
criticism, and feature writing giving
students the confidence to get involved
KEEP THE CAT FORWARD THINKING
> Establish a dedicated online team to
get news up when it happens, rather
than waiting until Friday > Redesign the
Felix website > Improve integration with
Fred Fyles social media, encouraging direct
feedback > Collaborate with ICTV to
encourage video journalism > Create a
weekly newsletter, with the best stories
sent straight to your inbox. KEEP THE
CAT FOR ALL > Work with ICSMSU,
CGCU, RSMU, and RCSU to ensure
diversity of voices > Collaborate and
establish ties with other societies, such
as PhotoSoc > Establish a weekly listings
section where clubs and societies can
advertise events > Ensure that Felix
speaks for all students, not just a few
VOTE FRED FOR FELIX EDITOR!
Qasim Mahmood
I’m Qasim, a fourth-year Aerospace
Materials student. Over the past four
years I’ve been at Imperial, I’ve written
many high-quality articles for Felix,
ranging from science to technology
and gaming. Being deeply involved with
the newspaper as a content provider,
I have a very different outlook on how
Felix should operate than those who’ve
worked as section editors.
The lack of diversity is still an issue, and
there needs to be a drive to encourage
a wider array of students to contribute.
a wider array of students to contribute.
However, the biggest issue facing the
newspaper is its lack of digital presence;
the infrequency of Facebook posts and
the lack of any web-only content is
holding the paper back significantly, and
this sorely needs to be rectified.
This is exactly what I aim to improve,
by holding more open, well-publicised
events to tackle general tips for writing
articles, aimed towards giving people
more confidence to contribute. I will
massively increasing Felix’s social media
presence, by posting articles as soon
as they are done, posting small, web-
as they are done, posting small, web-
only articles and videos on the more
interesting content, such as interviews
with the authors or more in-depth
discussions on a topic. Having been
Publicity Head of Charity Week, I have
ample experience with publicising
events, which I can use to promote
Felix. I also aim to give societies allotted
times to contribute articles to promote
upcoming events and discuss relevant
content. This, along with inter-uni
articles and contributors will significantly
boost readership and make Felix a paper
to be proud of.

