Too long has Felix drained the union
dry for unnecessary funds that could
be used elsewhere, and does anybody
actually read Felix for any reason
other than the puzzles section? The
personality cult of editors and their
new age centre-folds must end. Felix
currently costs the union around
£40,000 a year, but under my leadership
this era of fake tabloid news will end
as we finally accept that print is dead
and move into the 21st century. In the
money we will save by making Felix
app-based and online-centered, I will
make all sports nights free, and
everyone will get one free portion
of curly fries ( no cheese/chilli you
scroungers). I promise more inclusion,
namely less lefty whiners writing
articles, and more memes (preferably
of the dank variety). Please vote for
me for a better Felix, a fairer Felix, and
something you will actually want to
read.
Jonathan Masters
Sometimes it takes a fresh outlook to fix
a broken system.
Six months ago I discovered an
oversight in the new bursary system.
This oversight reduces the funding
allocated by almost 20%. I wasn’t on
SU, wasn’t a treasurer, and wasn’t even
affected personally by this mistake.
However, I made it my business to
find a solution. Six months later and
the issue still persists. I’ve met with
department heads, administrators and
even Martin Lupton himself,
Candidate Manifestos: ICSMSU President
and yet no solution is forthcoming.
How many more issues like this have
been abandoned halfway through this
process? How many boring lectures,
terrible courses and mismanaged
projects still exist because a student
couldn’t reach the right people? Enough
is enough. I promise to implement 3
main solutions from my very first day as
president:
1) Weekly Meetings between myself and
a cross section of ICSM students. I will
visit Imperial sites and have lunch with
any student who wants to discuss any
problem they are facing, large or small.
Marinos Ioannides 2) Monthly Meetings with the leaders
of all major clubs within ICSM to tackle
the issues facing societies promptly and
deal with them efficiently.
3) Termly Open Forum with the Senior
Faculty. The only way change can
truly happen is if the faculty hear our
complaints, and I will make that happen
with public Q&A meetings between you
and the faculty at least once per term.
Sometimes it takes a fresh outlook to fix
a broken system. That’s why I’m running
for President.
My past two years on ICSMSU
have given me the experience and
knowledge to thrive in this role. Having
already run a multitude of successful
events, such as the town hall meeting
with faculty, to freshers, I know I have
the skill-set to best represent you. Our
strong community spirit is matched
only by the hard work all of our students
put in, and I want to make sure you
get the recognition you deserve for
that. I want to be your next president
so that together we can take ICSM into
the modern world whilst preserving
the history and traditions that make us
proud to say we are part of ICSM.
Education. I will empower students
throughout their degree by offering
more student choice modules. This will
deliver a course tailored to your specific
interests right from the start.
Welfare. By offering personal tutor
systems based at Charing Cross, at a
time that suits you, I will ensure that our
welfare and personal tutor provision is
easily accessible.
Clubs and Societies. I will work with
Rhys Smith the Union to improve the efficiency
of club activities. I will do this by
increasing the space available to our
clubs, maximising transport options and
reducing the bureaucracy surrounding
your activity.
Events. Expand our range of events
and introduce new activities to provide
experiences that all can enjoy, without
breaking the bank!
Thank you for taking the time to read
my manifesto, for more about my ideas
visit my website. And don’t forget......
VOTE RHYS!
Despite the Council being a crucial
branch of the student union, it remains
somewhat underrepresented. The
Council is the democratic medium
for ordinary students to propose and
vote for union policies. The Chair is
responsible for governing the flow
of information between the Council
and the Officer Trustees. However,
the current lack of awareness and
intimidating atmosphere of Council
meetings does not facilitate appropriate
representation of the student body.
As Chair, I would strive to reshape the
Candidate Manifestos: Council Chair
structure of the council and improve
these limitations. I’ve been the
Academic Representative of my
course for the past two years and was
a member of the Student Council in
my school for four. I believe that these
positions have given me appropriate
experience in voicing the opinions of
the student population to authority
figures. If elected, I would deal with the
problem of intimidation by bridging
the gap between the student body and
the Council. In order to achieve this, I
suggest putting in place a simple and
anonymous platform for students to
propose their motions. Additionally, I
Roy Tal Dew would conduct meetings in smaller
groups to create a more open
atmosphere where students could
more comfortably approach council
members. I believe that these changes
would incentivise input across the entire
university rather than being restricted to
the loudest voices.
Lastly, I hope to raise awareness about
the Council by advertising important
information on social media, such as
Facebook. I’m confident this would
provide the average student with a
better understanding of union policy-
making.
Council is a part of the Union known
by relatively few and understood
by fewer, yet it is one of the most
important bodies involved in running
the Union, so it is important to pick
the right candidate for Chair. I am
an experienced member of Council,
and have seen first-hand the positive
changes which it can implement when
it’s working well. However, there have
been problems; as an Ordinary Member,
I proposed reforms aiming to improve
the way Council works. Despite being
well-received by a majority present,
the paper was sent to a ‘working
group’ and quickly forgotten. This year,
despite being off-campus on a year’s
placement, I have remained active
in its process, co-authoring a pair of
papers again trying to improve Council’s
procedures so it can do good work
for every student at Imperial. These,
too, were sent to working groups
and forgotten. As Council Chair, I will
improve the effectiveness of Council by:
1. Pushing on with positive changes to
Union structures to make sure everyone
is properly represented
Owen Heaney 2. Fostering communication between
Council and the Trustee board through
regular reports of the activities of each
to the other
3. Improving the visibility of Council in
the wider student body by publishing
details of meetings in the most
prominent place possible and getting
work out when an important decision is
due to be made.
You will not find anyone more
committed to improving the Union’s
structures than me. Please, vote for
Owen Heaney for Council Chair.
Your vote will create change that
makes a difference at Imperial.
You decide who
will run your
Constituent Union!
Decide your next Constituent
Union President and Committee
now.
Visit our website to vote and get more information on all the positions and candidates.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Voting opens
12:00, Friday 3 March
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting closes
12:00, Friday 10 March
Vote online at
You can also vote on your mobile phone! Visit bit.ly/voteicu through
your phone’s browser.
Hi! I’m Eric, currently an Ordinary
Member of the Union Council , and I’m
running for the role of Student Trustee.
In my three years at Council, which is
the governance level below the trustee
board, I’ve tried my best to voice your
concerns and to lobby for change. From
opposing the closure of the Weeks Hall
accommodation at Prince’s Garden,
to suggesting the extension of student
loans, and to promoting the “re-boot”
of Evelyn Gardens as a student hall
(instead of leaving it defunct) for non-
first-years, I’ve been working hard to
Candidate Manifestos: Student Trustee
improve imperial’s university experience.
Recently, I’ve looked into how difficult
it is to get appointments from Career
Services during peak season, which I’m
sure some of you may relate to. Thanks
to the feedback I gathered from you all, I
was able to pass a paper addressing the
issue through council.
Along with my experience at various
college-wide committees, e.g. the
Health and Safety Committee and
Discipline Committee, I hope to
convince you that I have the experience
and heart to represent you at the trustee
board.
Eric Suen If elected, I would continue to reach out
to more of you, and make sure that your
voices are heard. If there’s any college
matters that you believe are unjust or
should be changed, I would be more
than willing to take emails or messages,
and to express your concerns on behalf
of you.
Dedicated, motivated and approachable,
I genuinely hope that I could have your
vote as student trustee this year!
I have had the privilege of being this
year’s Physics Society President and I
have previously represented my year
as a Year Rep. These experiences have
taught me what students expect and
want from their Union. I want to put this
into practice by becoming a Student
Trustee.
The student trustees sit on the trustee
board of the Union. They are ultimately
responsible for everything that the
Union does, deciding its vision and
values.
I believe my track record points to my
ability to represent our views and make
an impact in doing this. As Physoc
President I’ve brought onboard record
funding, organised a huge Christmas
Dinner, jointly coordinated a three
society ‘Undergrad Physics Research’
conference and will be leading our
international tour to Prague.
I have a proven record of being able
to deliver and make the things that we
want happen. As your student trustee I
will help guide an even more successful
Union. Vote Waite!
Thomas Waite
You decide who
will run your
Constituent Union!
Decide your next Constituent
Union President and Committee
now.
Visit our website to vote and get more information on all the positions and candidates.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Voting opens
12:00, Friday 3 March
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting closes
12:00, Friday 10 March
Vote online at
You can also vote on your mobile phone! Visit bit.ly/voteicu through
your phone’s browser.
Voting opens
12:00, Friday 3 March
Voting closes
12:00, Friday 10 March
Who will you choose to take the lead?

