Friday 3 March 2017 31
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX
Enter the kink | BDSM 101
F
ollowing the election
theme, today I’m
going to talk about
relinquishing control
of yourself to
someone who you
deem trustworthy enough not
to cause permanent damage
to your well-being. Welcome
to BDSM 101.
There’s been a fair bit of
press around BDSM since the
release of those Fifty Shades
of Grey books. There’s been
a fair bit of backlash from the
B.C. Maile
I’m into all of it a little bit really. I like shibari (Japanese artistic
rope bondage) and I’m a bit of a sadist at heart. I take a domi-
nant role. I’ve subbed in the past but it’s not really my thing.
I’m also into most of it, but I’m a full on sub. My main thing is
full-body restraint. I like being completely unable to move and
particularly being suspended from something. I’m also quite into
electro play.
\\ It’s
important that
after a session is
finished, everyone
involved feels
respected and
safe \\
So first off, what are you two into when it
comes to BDSM?
I’ve got a nice silk rope set, a couple of whips, a riding crop, a spanking
paddle, some nipple clamps and a spreader bar (attaches to the ankles and
wrists to keep the legs spread apart)
I’ve got quite a collection so I’ll just list it and you can explain what the
things are. I’ve got a sleepsack (basically a full body straightjacket), ropes,
a suspension frame (to hang the sleepsack from), a paddle, several leather
and rubber hoods, spreader bars, weights to hang on the balls, an elec-
trostim buttplug and and electrocock cage (they shock your bits).
Do you have equipment for this?
I wouldn’t really say I have one. I get to live out most of mine so I
like a mix really. Most of them involve pretty rope arrangement
though. Google shibari and you’ll see what I mean.
I think my number one fantasy is to be suspended in a sleepsack,
gagged, with an electro butt plug and electro pads on my dick,
while someone else controls the power dial.
What’s your number one fantasy?
Well it’s hard to pin one thing down but I definitely find the control very
hot. Teasing and playing right on the edge of peoples’ limits is a huge
turn on for me. I guess it’s just really exciting.
I just love the complete forfeiture of control. It’s hard to explain
why without getting too Freudian. As for the pain side, I think all
sensory extremes are quite deeply connected. That uncertainty
of whether a feeling is pleasurable or painful is just so exciting to
me.
What do you like about BDSM?
Any advice for those wanting to try it
out?
Consent! Consent and trust are the big things here. It’s important that you
start slowly, and establish your partner’s comfort zone before you start to
push beyond it. When you finally do, push gently, and remember the impor-
tance of aftercare.
I second that. Aftercare is a big thing. It’s important that after a session is
finished, everyone involved feels respected and safe.
And that concludes our interview! I’d just like to highlight that last
point. Consent and trust really are the most important things in any
encounter, and it seems that is why Fifty Shades received such
a bad reaction from the BDSM community. BDSM is not about
abuse, it’s about mutually-enjoyed, exciting sexual experiences.
For that reason, I’d recommend you leave that book on your
mum’s bedside table, and learn about BDSM from pros like Hami-
sha and Hamish. I hope that’s been somewhat enlightening. See
you next week!
BDSM community about these
books, the majority of which
suggests that it is not really a
book about BDSM at all; it’s
just abuse-themed masturba-
tory material for your mum. I
can’t really comment as I only
got halfway through before I
got bored, but what I can do
is give a little insight into what
BDSM is all about.
BDSM stands for bondage,
domination, and sado-mas-
ochism. They are all quite
different things, but certainly
have a lot of overlap, so
people who are into one of
them tend to be into a few
if not all of them. Whilst I’m
sure most readers will know
what they mean, I’ll outline it
anyway just in case.
Bondage: bondage is a
blanket term for practices
relating to restraint of the
body and sensory depri-
vation. This can go from
furry handcuffs, ropes and
blindfolds anywhere up to
full-body straitjackets and
gags.
Domination: This is more
of a vague one, and there’s
not too much to say on it. It
involves a partner or partners
taking a dominant role, while
another partner or partners
submit.
Sado-masochism: This refers
to people who get off on
inflicting pain on others, and
those who enjoy having pain
inflicted on them. This can
involve whipping, caning,
spanking, clamps, weights or
electrodes on various body
parts, the list goes on.
Now we’re all caught up on
definitions, you might be won-
dering why people like this
sort of thing. To provide some
understanding, I interviewed
two friends: one of them a
pansexual girl and the other
a gay guy. To conceal their
identities, I will use the pseu-
donyms Hamisha Beck and
Hamish Beck respectively.

