Kiddy Korner
Alternatively, if you're doomed to
escorting younger siblings, cousins,
complete strangers etc. to the movies this
summer, Felix presents a quick view of
some of the better (ie. more tolerable)
movies out this summer. Conspicuous by
its absence is The Rocketeer, Disney's
attempt to succeed this year where Dick
Tracy failed last year. 'Rocketeer' is based
on those brilliant old series which feature
a man with a rocket on his back
mysteriously not blowing up but instead
solving crimes, disasters etc. It's currently
in the Big Secrecy Phase prior to its US
release, whereupon you can expect to be
bored rigid by everything from Rocket-
Wogan to Rocket-Condoms. Some time
later this year Disney will release The
Rescuers D o w n Under .which if it lives
up to the standards of the first could be
even better than The Silence Of The
Lambs.
The only other remotely kiddy film not
herein is Rock-A-Doodle, featuring
ancient cartoon character Chanticleer the
Rooster. Who knows ?
TMNT n:ffile1e c r e t o , l b e
With nary a pause for pizza the
four lovable amphibians with poor
disguises are back with a
vengeance. They kick butt, they talk jive,
they don't use skateboards (as they're
going out of style) but they do
breakdance (?). And so to the plot. This
movie follows directly on from the last
(although no previous knowledge is
required) with the turtles kipping at
April's and the Shredder in a garbage
truck. But you can't kill Shredder that
easily so he's back too. Everyone seems
to be back save Casey Jones, the sports
equipment wielding psychotic from the
former excursion. This is because it is a
real kiddies sequel with all the violence
in a 'Tom and Jerry' stylee rather than
the 'Hey kids! Knives are fun!' of the first.
This comedy violence idea actually
works. At one point Raphael even beats
up a baddie with two sausages.
Anyway, what about the ooze?. Well
the ooze of the title is the stuff that
changed the turtles and can be used to
mutate. Pretty obviously you-know-who
gets you-know-what and makes himself a
couple of nasty guess-what-kids to fight
the-Nolan-Sisters. That's the story. Throw
in the scientist in charge of ooze removal
(David Warner, great actor), April O'Neil
(Paige Turco), a streetwise oriental kid
who's a karate genius (Ernie Reyes Jr.),
and a rare cameo (I hope they're going to
be rare) by Vanilla Ice and you've got the
whole caboodle. It's aimed at the under
tens and it's great fun. In the words of Mr
Tutti Frutti himself, 'Go Ninja! Go Ninja!
Go!'.
The Amazing Machine II: the Secrets
in the Taste
Drop Dead Fred Cinderella
Alternatively, if you don't want the
kids influenced by even comedy
violence, you could take them to
see this. The basic story goes : Phoebe
Cates (great actress that she is) did not
have a particularly happy childhood
because her mother had the disposition of
a badly tamed harpy. As a result she
created an imaginary friend, Drop Dead
Fred, who happens to be Rik Mayall.
Naturally, jolly japes follow, since our Rik
is not known for his sensitive character
portrayals.
Now Phoebe is grown up she still looks
twelve years old and her marriage is on
the rocks, presumably because her
husband can no longer face her acting.
She gets taken home by The Megabeast
(as Fred calls her mother). Once there,
she recalls Fred..
What follows is fairly predictable, no, I
do the film an injustice, extremely
predictable, as Fred tries in his six-year-
old way to reunite the couple against the
philandering husband's better efforts, but
it's all very sweet in its way. In the end
Phoebe comes to terms with herself and
with Fred...blah blah blah...
This is a pretty good film for the early
teens and quite enjoyable for old folks so
long as you leave any more demanding
instincts at the door. Rik Mayall hardly
charts a new path for himself but is
predictably competent in the role; Phoebe
Cates follows up her performance in
Gremlins 1
1 (which won her so many
Oscars that she was forced to stand
down) in unnoticeable form. The support's
okay, including Carrie Fisher as Phoebe's
best friend (apart from Fred, of course).
Good idea, fair execution, nice try
Phoebe.
The Flying Gerbil and Friends.
Six tickets! We were sent six tickets
to see Cinderella\ Oh joy. And as it
turned out, Cinderella is my
girlfriend's favourite animated film of all
time (Akira move over). The reason for
this sudden re-release is that Cinders is 41
this year (?). And not a wrinkle! Its a
wonderfully animated cartoon, all the
backdrops are wonderfully detailed, and
the characters are luxuriously drawn. One
thing Cinderella does not do is travel
well. It remains firmly rooted in a
traditionally valued, happy ever after
scenario where impossible romance is
possible- pre-marital sex get outta here-
and the bad guys (gels) get their come-
uppance. Having said that, it makes a
refreshing change from modern cartoon
fare (Killer Tomatoes et al) but sadly the
prince turns out to be nothing more than
a one dimensional dancing prat with too
much money for his own good. (An
obvious metaphor for the eighties yuppy
generation -Walt you're a genius).
Disney's early films have become
institutions and as such are part of the
fabric of everyone's childhood. Go re-live
it for an afternoon.
John.
12

