Thespian Action B
So, stuck here for the summer paying off
your overdraft? What does a culture
starved student do? Why, go to the
theatre of course! But where, when, why,
what is there to see and how much does
it cost?
First the biggies: The National Theatre
on the South Bank continues to churn out
plays in its three theatres. Ending soon is
Ayckbourn's Invisible Friends and
Mollieres' The Miser, Richard III and
Black Snow are still playing. John
Webster, the White Devil, has just opened
examining dirty doings in Renaissance
Italy. Long Days Journey Into Night
follows Timothy 'Bras's West as a day in
the life of a collapsing family. Napoli
Milionarci tells of the fight for survival in
Naples after the Second World War. The
Life of Jamaica is shattered in The Coup
written after the recent Jamaica
upheavals opens at the end of June.
In August the Resistable Rise of Arturo
provides more surreal goings on from
Brecht in Chicago, based on Adolf Hitler
(told you it was surreal). The prices are
less for standby tickets or previews and
matinees, more expensive at sociable
hours of the day, but usually worth it.
The Barbican plays London home to
the Royal Shakespear Company, so
usually doesn't have much written before
the 1700s, but you are guaranteed a
superb show. Much Ado About Nothing,
Winona!
King Lear, Troilus and Cressida and a
Comedy of Errors are all coming from the
Bard. Edward II, by Marlow and the Last
Don Juan provide promising alternatives.
Bill Chekhov's The Seagul opens in July.
Again £5 stand-by—worth going, just to
wander around as there is so much on.
The Etcetera Theatre above the Oxford
Arms in Camden High Street has so much
going on it is impossible to list it all. The
most promising are Vaclav Havel
Audience. The Czech premier's political
rise has renewed interest in his writing
which looks at turth and honour in
society. Jean Genets' The Maids an
upstairs/downstairs story as two sisters
impersonate themselves with deadly
results. Plays start at about 8.30 to
9.30pm, to time to sample the pub
beforehand. Tickets are £3.50.
. The Drill Hall Arts Centre (16 Chenies
Street opposite Goodge Street tube) shows
Let The Call it Jazz about one black
woman and her musical triumph over
Britain's oppression. As well as Sarrasine
the story of the last castrato opera singer
in Paris.
At the Grove upstairs at the Kensington
Park, Ladbroke Road tube, National Sport
portray the 'true' story of Gazza's sale to
Italy. Only £2 for a seat on Monday,
£3.50 otherwise.
The life of Anna Wickham is portrayed
by fellow poet Adrian Mitchell in Anna
Thanks
Dearly beloved we are gathered here
today to give thanks to those who have
done us service thereof therewith
henceforth :
Rose and Chris (for support and
patience), Adam T. (who taught us all we
knew, although we don't any more),
Jonty (possibly the most helpful human
being on the planet, sorry if we made
you fail all your exams), Stef (bromides
and backchat), Ian (backchat), and ALL
THE REVIEWERS : Jonty (again), Murph,
Anna B, all the names Toby has used
recently, Pendragon, Liz W., The Don,
Iftikhar, DJ Simon Su, Christ, Rose (it'll
come out one day), Totty, many theatre
reviewers we never met, and anybody
else..
Matt and Richard (hardware), Graham
and Mark and Jeremy (inspiration), The
Elephant Seal (sounding off and comedy),
Pugh, Pugh, Barley McGrew, Cuthbert,
Dibble and Devinder, Safeways (for life
support), Dave Lee Travis (Sunday
mornings), Jon Pertwee, Winona Ryder
(other things), David Soul (fashion tips),
on Anna which returns to the Offstage,
downstairs at 137 Chalk Farm Road
(Chalk Farm tube). £4.50 for concessions.
Duke of Cambridge Theatre Club, 64
Lawford Road (Kentish Town tube) is
showing 'Tis Pity She's a Whore written
in the 17th Century by John Ford dealing
with religion and incest.
Contrast and changes are covered in
Across the Ferry at the Bush Theatre
(Shepherd's Bush Greet, Shepherd's Bush
tube). Old seamen and a young couple try
and reconcile their differences and a
changing world.
The Latchmere Theatre (505 Battersea
Park Road, Battersea tube) explores Billie
Holiday's music in Taint Nobody's
Business if I Do (£3.50). And into August,
Bill Bertolt Brecht's Baal (£4.00) but you
must take out a membership of £1.
Why is John Lennon Wearing a Shirt
showing at the Riverside Studios (Crisp
Road, Hammersmith), farsical if only for
the title.
London is over-loaded with fresh
theatre and most of the advertised stuff is
very expensive. So remember to use
standy-by tickets. Arrive 30-45 minutes
before a play starts and unsold tickets
can be bought for half the price with a
student card. All prices quoted are for
people carrying their union cards. If you
don't think the union does much for you,
let the union card work instead.
the force of gravity (holding things down),
Denon Hi-Fi (any chance of a freebie),
Rank, Twentieth Century Fox, piss off to
the bloke at Columbia, Angela at
Frontline, David Lynch, Laurie Pike,
Filthy The Dog, Marc Bolan and the
pixies, the Clonmel She-Rockers, Tony
Christian, Empire magazine, Time Out,
Sian and Sam (services rendered), Peter
Purvis (for Junior Kick Start), two pairs of
parents, Kevin and Rob, one billion
Chinese and the Universe, for letting us
live here.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
13

