Liz Warren, ex-Felix Hack and current Deputy Editor of 'The British
Journal of Healthcare Computing' reports on the state of the...
FEATURES
The NHS reforms have been in operation
for three months and it is already clear
that they are not proving successful. The
reasons for this are complicated and are
not only a function of the reforms
themselves, but also the speed with which
they have been implemented and the
failure of the systems that have been
devised to support them.
The reforms combine a number of
ideas, perhaps too many. There is an
attempt, building on work that was
carried out prior to the reforms being
introduced, to improve the management
of the resources within the NHS. The
Resource Management Initiative came
into being in 1986 when six pilot sites
were established, and is concerned with
all the resources used by the NHS, such
as nurses, clinicians, laboratory services,
drugs, beds and even the finance
department. The initiative aims "to allow
total and individual patient care (and its
quality) to be planned, delivered and
costed more effectively" (Ian Mills,
Director of Resource Management, NHS
Management Executive, February 1989).
The NHS has for some time controlled
and planned its functional costs (such as
nursing or laboratory services) and has
had a good idea of the total costs of
particular disciplines, such as geriatrics or
orthopaedics, within a hospital. From this,
it has calculated an average cost for
treating each patient, but this takes no
account of the complexity of different
cases. It has only been within the last
couple of years that the NHS has been
able to find out how much a hip
replacement operation using one
technique costs compared to using
another technique.
Clearly any industry that ran itself on
the basis of not knowing how much more
its cost to make one product rather than
another would have soon found itself out
of business. While the views that "there is
an infinite demand for free healthcare in
this country" and that "the NHS is a cash-
limited service" both oversimplify the
position, it is true that we could spend an
ever increasing amount of money on
healthcare, by trying to achieve a perfect
state of health for the entire population,
and that, even if we turned over the
entire gross national product to the NHS,
we would still run out of money at some
point. The resource management
initiative tries to offer some kind of
measure of 'treatment effectiveness' by
looking at the different resources used to
try and treat different cases.
This scenario often causes people to
throw up their hands in horror in the
belief that patients will now only be
cured if the treatment is deemed 'cost-
effective' or will receive poorer quality of
care because it is cheaper. This is not
entirely true, and the NHS Management
Executive, which has day-to-day
operational control of the NHS (as distinct
from the Department of Health)
recognised this in the statement by lan
Mills quoted above which mentions
quality. Another strand of the reforms is
'clinical audit'. There is no clear definition
of clinical or medical audit, but it involves
looking at different aspects of the
patient's treatment and evaluating their
effectiveness in terms such as recovery of
function (for example, mobility in a
broken arm which has been set and then
treated with physiotherapy).
In fact, audit has become rather a buzz
word in the NHS and the NationalAudit
Office and the Audit Commission are
carrying out a series of studies in the
NHS on the effectiveness of many of its
organizational structures, such as supplies
and pathology services. Sadly, most of
these reports have been, at their most
kind, scathing.
The third strand of the reforms, and the
one which has caused most controversy,
is the 'internal market'. This divides the
NHS into 'provider' organisations, which
offer services such as particular
operations, and 'purchasers', who buy
these services for the population they
must supply with healthcare. The
purchasers mainly consist of district
health authorities, which serve a local
population, together with fundholding
GPs, who control their own purchasing
budget to buy healthcare for the patients
on their list rather than simply expecting
the district to pick up the cost of referrals
as in the traditional system.
Purchasers may also include hospitals
that decide not to provide a particular
services themselves (for example, a
specialty such as orthopaedics) and
instead subcontract another hospital to
provide those services for them. Amongst
the providers are the Trust hospitals,
which have been given self-governing
status, independent from the DHA in
whose district they lie. The Trust
hospitals have been one of the major
sources of political argument, especially
the allegations after the Monmouth by-
election that Labour 'lied' during that
campaign by describing the Trust
hospitals as having 'opted out'.
Purchasers and providers draw up
contracts between them agreeing the type
of service to be supplied (such as a hip
replacement), the number, the cost of
each operation and levels of service, such
as maximum waiting time for an
operation. Here the concepts of resource
management, clinical audit and
contracting meet, since it is clearly
necessary for providers to be able to cost
each type of operation and prove its
effectiveness so that purchasers can
balance price and quality in placing their
contracts.
Here is the first area in which the
reforms have foundered. Despite the
resource management initiative, and
despite the fact that the NHS
Management Executive were forced to
roll out the project to all the acute
hospitals in England before the pilots
were finished or evaluated (a move which
has been highly criticized by the team
from Brunei University which evaluated
the pilots), most providers still have little
idea what their services cost them and
what to charge for them. To avoid
complete confusion, the Department of
Health also effectively ordered districts to
continue to place contracts with those
providers who had historically served
them. Thus the internal market has been
'fixed' in its first year, a move which sits
oddly with this government's policy of
free marketeering.
The avowed intention of these free
marketeers was that "the money would
follow the patient". Yet, unless the district
in which the patient lives has a contract
with the hospital to which the GP wishes
to refer them, they can no longer be
referred there. The truth of the matter is
that "the patient follows the contract".
This is the case even with fundholding
GPs, since they too must make contracts
and are not as free to "shop around" as
the government would like us to believe.
The reforms also appear to have taken
no thought for the problems of paying for
patients who fall ill when away from
home and are treated by GPs or hospitals
outside their own district. In London,
especially, this is likely to cause a major
headache.
At the beginning of this article, it was
suggested that the failure of the reforms
was not only due to problems inherent in
the underlying philosophy and errors
thrown up in the formulation of policy
and strategy from that philosophy, but
also a result of the speed with which they
were put in place. This haste has given
little time for trials to be carried out, and
has not allowed the lessons learnt in
those trials to be incorporated in the
national scheme. It has also allowed
insufficient time for the systems
supporting the reforms to be developed,
put in place and tested. This is

