9
FELIX
and Silly Things
protest any further. Then we wrap up
Little Chas in incense-scented toilet paper
which seems to be very plentiful in the
Iraqi Embassy, and put him on the sign
so we can carry him, and what with the
wrappings, and the large swelling that he
has on his noggin from where Penguin
slugs him, he looks very authentically
injured, indeed, and we are sure that the
coppers will let us pass without pass
without asking any tough questions,
maybe thinking that His Excellency the
Ambassador was not so pleased with our
insurance premiums.
However, just as we are proceeding to
lift Little Chas on the sign, the door from
which we have just removed it opens like
a horse-trap at the start of the Derby and
a short guy wearing so many robes that
he is almost as bundled up as Little Chas,
and whom I presume is His Excellency
inhabitants of the Iraqi Embassy to depart
as quickly as possible. In fact, I do not
give a hedgehog's deposits on Broadway
for our chances at this moment, and if
anybody desires to lay a little six to five
on our survival, I will not give it to them,
even if they offer me a thousand G's,
since I consider it a very bad proposition,
indeed.
But, just as I am preparing to hand in
my dice and go meet the Big Guy
upstairs, I see a pineapple come sailing in
the window behind His Excellency the
Ambassador, and it seems the other guys
see it too, because they all drop to the
floor as if they are shot, which surprises
His Excellency the Ambassador greatly
since he does not yet start to let off his
rods. But this surprise is nothing
compared to the surprise he gets when
the pineapple goes boom, very loud, and
» A m
the Ambassador, though I do not enquire,
comes bustling out yelling a blue streak.
Normally I will be all for boffing him with
the Rag can, if it is not too cracked by
now, and making a quick getaway, but I
see that he is holding a John Roscoe in
each fist, and waving them in a most
unpleasant manner. He is in a most
excited state, and I judge that he is not
too tickled that we try to borrow his
nameplate, since he continues to holler at
us, and Happy Steve and Penguin and
Paul Reynish and I are also hollering,
because we are afraid more than
somewhat that he may start blasting with
his rods and pepper us all full of holes,
and in addition to all this excitement
there is also a considerable comotion
outside, because the mob are apparently
tired of waiting and wish to help the
some pieces of it come and hit him in the
back, making him fall down dead as a
doornail, or maybe deader.
Of course, I do not know for sure that
he is dead, but we do not hang around to
see if he is going to be rejuvenated, or
what, since he may remember us and
start waving his John Roscoes again, so
we give Little Chas the old hey hup and
lift him, and almost lift him clean into
orbit, since he is nothing but skin and
bones and hair and toilet paper; and we
lug him downstairs as fast as we can clip.
As we are going out the door he hops off
the nameplate and says he prefers to
walk, but this does not matter any longer
since the coppers are too busy keeping
from getting trampled like beetles by the
mob to notice that he is walking when he
is supposed to be a patient.
We do not go fifty yards before we
hear that the mob is yelling extra loud,
and on turning round we see that the
Iraqi Embassy is burning very nicely, and
flames are shooting very prettily from all
the windows, because it appears someone
manages to throw a great deal of petrol
into the place and set it alight. None of
the parties present recalls seeing a joint
torched so professionally, although we
are very fortunate in making a getaway
when we do, since to be inside a place
that is on fire in such a way is likely to
be most uncomfortable, and also fatal.
I see that Happy Steve is royally
pleasured up at obtaining this nameplate,
for his kisser is almost in a straight line,
instead of with the corners drooping
down so far that you fear they will fall
off, as is usual. Moreover, Little Chas is
smelling so sweet from being wrapped up
in incense-scented toilet paper, that he is
unrecognisable, and in fact we almost
lose him, which pleasures up Happy Steve
so much that I fear his kisser will bust.
Well, there is little more to tell, except
that some days later I am sitting with
Penguin in the Caterpillar Cafe, enjoying
a dish of chicken tikka, since the chilli
seems recently to be going downhill in
this establishment, and not hearing any
loud thuds whatsoever, when I see Happy
Steve; and although I see many a sad-
looking guy in my time, and most of the
time it is Happy Steve himself, I wish to
state that I never see him looking sadder,
and indeed I think that maybe the
corners of his mouth drop off altogether.
This puzzles me, since I imagine that he
will still be up on cloud nine, or ten, or
maybe higher, on account of getting the
nameplate from the Iraqi Embassy, and
so I enquire of Penguin what causes this
sudden depression.
'Well, I hear just now', says Penguin,
'that this morning he gets a very polite
note from the office of the gendarmes,
requesting that he return the sign to the
Iraqi Embassy. Apparently,' says Penguin,
'one of the coppers guarding the joint
survives the attack of the mob, and
testifies that he sees a guy with a very
sad kisser flogging insurance, and also
smells something very strange, and the
local gendarmes know there is only one
time that you find a strange smell and a
sad kisser side by side, which is when
Little Chas and Happy Steve go
borrowing property together. Naturally,
Happy Steve cannot refuse such a
request, especially since it is so polite, but
the fact that he must return the sign
discomfits him no little. However,' adds
Penguin, 'this is nothing compared to the
discomfiture he feels when he discovers
that, the party who tosses the first
pineapple, and starts the riot which
nearly causes us to be fried like schnitzels
inside the Iraqi Embassy, is no-one but
Shifty Shan.'
18

