Women
Well, there we are, sitting glumly, half comatose, at a poetry reading; Amanda and
1 are occasioned by a dapper, somewhat ethereal character. "Can I sit here?" he
asks. "Sure", we say, and move over. He parks himself delicately, and kind of spreads
out, with an unconscious elegance that makes my skin crawl. I watch and wait.
"How much is the ale?" he asks. We don't know, probably quite expensive. He rum-
mages in a senile leather rucksack, extracts a bottle and huddles; "I brought my
own. Hide me, O.K. ? Don't let them see me ". I don't like his voice. It whines. Aman-
da, I notice, is gushing with protective sentiment. I'm not. Did we know where there
was a phone? Did we know of any flats he could rent? Could we save his seat?
We save his seat three times, or at least Amanda does. I'm ready to grab an Uzi.
"Let's go now, Sweet" I say. "We can't go", shesays, "We've got to watch that guy's
bag until he comes back". "Did he ask us to watch his bag?" "Well, he left it there".
She stares fretfully at the stylishly decrepit sack, it's bowels partially voided around
our feet. "I hate that guy", I say. "Why are you being such a twat?" "How dare
he sashay in here and expect us to take care of him?" "Oh come on, is it gonna
hurt us to be nice?" "Yes, damn you, it is" t say...
..."Caroline, why are you lying on the dining room table?" "Sssh, mummy, I'm Snow
White and I'm sleeping for years and years " "Why, Caroline?" "So that Prince Char-
ming can ride up on his white horse and wake me with a kiss. I have to keep very
still, mummy". "Caroline dear, I don't think Prince Charming is going to ride his
horse into our dining room ". "He might; you never know." "How about if I wake
you with a kiss?" "Don't be silly, mummy. You're not a man. You can't rescue me".
"Okay, darling, but try not to scratch the varnish"...
...It's odd, but every time I go to my local convenience store (paki shop for the
uneducated), there is a woman, usually middle-aged, in front of me giving the
shopkeeper an almighty time. First she has to taste the ham. She doesn't like it,
and makes him open a fresh joint, but that one's too fatty. She asked for lean, didn't
she? And what about coffee filters? Yes, she knows they're in the back of the store,
but she forgot them, O.K.? So could he get them for her now? O.K., yes, that's it.
No, maybe she needs some aspirin. And maybe some branflakes. And didn't she
say half a pound of stilton. The keeper looks bewildered as he amiably does her
bidding, while the lengthening queue of customers behind her tap their feet and
cast glances, baleful to withering, as she fumbles within her purse. There's one
somewhere but these new ones are so small. I ask, what is wrong with this woman,
what does she expect from this man. Jews would call her a "kuetch". To me, she
seems deeply, profoundly disappointed, soured, as though she never got what she
wanted...
...Every weekday after five and before six p.m., certain car owners in our languid,
suburban shangri-la, move their cars from one side of the lane to the other. Yes,
lane; Cheam-wise, a road with a mere sapling poking beside a lamppost is a lane,
be the sapling leafy or not. Then these budding gentry wait near their cars until
it's legal to leave them. So I'm standing there with a couple of women. Lesbians,
I think (even in the hallowed drives and closes here), talking weather, dogs, and
hot pot. A sprightly middle-manager, late fifties, pulls into the last vacant space.
A woman, Burghley idol, in floppy straw hat with ribbon nonchalantly idling over
the back bounds up to him. "That's My space! Honestly, I was just about to pull
my car in there! I always have that space! You have to let me!" "Now that is un-
mitigated, fucking gall", I say. "Ten to one he goes for it", Freda says. "Come on,
nobody's that much of a prat" says Joan. Martin, years of domestic training behind
him, shrugs and grins sheepishly, puts his car into gear and pulls out. Straw hat
bubbles with glee and effervesces triumphantly to her jeep. "She'll never get it in
there; her car's twice the size of his!" I say. "She'll beg prettily and get everyone
else to move their cars; watch" said Freda. And that's just what she did. "Wow",
said Joan. "If they ran a manipulation event in the Olympics, she'd definitely place"...
..."But I just can't cope" Sara was crying. "Look, Sara", said Jill, "you left Mark
because you wanted to be independent. I don't mind you sleeping on my sofa for
five months, but you've got to pay your own fucking 'phone bill!" "But I had that
big dermatologist's bill: And then I ruined my only decent pair of shoes and had
to buy another pair, an-" "Look, Sara, I just can't keep picking up your slack; why
the hell should I? I've got enough hassle". "But don't you see? I just can't- ""I know,
cope. Maybe you'd better go back to Mark" "What, and miss all the fun?" "..."...
..."Well, I still think you're me-" said Amanda. "You don't understand!" I growled,
"Blokes like that give us other chaps a bad name! And you girls, you 're so stupid,
you go for that type of leech in a big way, that poor, soft, look-after-me type, and
then, when he takes you for everything that you're worth, you're shocked, you're
horrified, you blame our entire sex". "You're just jealous", she smirked.
We can't live without them.
Matriarch
The earth does not forget.
Raped but once, she will
yield and bear bastards
eternal. She will drown
her suckling babes in the
milk from her breasts; rape
her children, taking them
into her, now-chilling,
womb.
She will destroy You, and I?
I long for her, with all pain
With Night's silken fields and
dread-myths she conspires;
bringing about her own end
through you and yours.
Fetid shots and glimpses of-
fered, sweating shroud serv-
ed for your slumber, a velvet
cutlet to share with...
Night, mock-mourning,
affected and weeping,
plays widow.
She wears black.
D A Spooner
Raffles.
19

