E.W1R0 Antarctica
The continent surrounding the South
Pole constitutes nearly a tenth of the
world's land but is owned by no one. It is
free of war and to date entirely lacking in
manufacturing industry. It has no national
government and its temporary inhabitants
are all principally involved with
investigating or supporting some aspect of
science. Thanks to the Antarctic treaty of
1959, science is king. It froze territorial
claims, banned military activity and
established Antarctica as a nuclear free
zone. But thirty years on, world demand
for mineral resources has risen, fuelling
speculation on Antarctica's mineral
reserves and the political uncertainty
regarding the future of the Antarctic
Treaty.
The seventy million km2
of rock and
ice surrounding the southern pole,
constitutes the highest, coldest, most
remote and least explored continent in
the world. Despite its extent, only a
relatively small area about the size of
Spain is exposed, free from permanent
ice. The geological mapping, of this
exposure, completed so far has been
mainly at a scale of 1:500 000. Such
mapping omits features less than half a
kilometre across. These resolutions are
insufficient to identify potential settings of
mineralisation. Of the hundreds of
metallic mineral occurrences reported on
the Antarctic Peninsula none have
undergone the intensive sampling and
analysis required to describe their genesis
and demonstrate their extent and
importance. Many are simply spectacular
surface oxide stains with little or no
substance. At present they are only of
academic interest. Discussion of their
exploitation is untimely and would be
considered a farce within the mining
industry.
Despite this lack of evidence,
reconstruction of the ancient super-
continent of Gondwana, provokes
comparisons with once adjacent terrains.
This leads to parallels with mining
districts in Australia, South America and
South Africa. The popular media report
finds of economic concentrations of
valuable minerals (Times 23rd May 1989)
and even scientific papers refer glibly to
"ores" and "economic deposits". Abuse of
these terms has rendered them
meaningless in Antarctic literature. A
single value of 0.09 parts per million gold
does not imply the enviable grade of 0.09
grammes per tonne. "Economic minerals"
in this context refer to minerals with a
human resource potential which are
economically extracted elsewhere in the
world. Only too often the phrase is
wrongly interpreted as an Antarctic
mineral deposit which can be mined at a
profit. Currently their is no ore in
Antarctica. "Ore-minerals" have certainly
been found, in fact almost every
industrial mineral, base and precious
metal occurs. But it is not until the
transport links are established, the deposit
is extracted, refined and sold at a profit
that the term "ore" can be applied,
explains Dr Willan, economic geologist u
for the British Antarctic Survey. It seems
reasonable to believe that Antarctic crust
is as mineralized as other continents,
implying perhaps 900 significant deposits.
However, in the absence of data these
resources are completely hypothetical. At
present there is more chance of finding
such resources beneath the few hundred
metres of East Anglian chalk than the
two kilometres of Antarctic ice.
Existing geophysical surveys have
proved inadequate for defining potential
hydrocarbon traps. They do little more

