With the deadline fast approaching for the second meeting in Madrid to
sign the protocol, banning Antarctic mining for 50 years, Christopher Riley
reviews the speculation and history of negotiations which have clouded
the issue, and asks if there really is anything to fight over beneath the ice?
ENYIRO
than provide a tantalizing glimpse of the
seven major sedimentary basins which
surround the continent. Of these seas the
Weddell Sea is thought to contain the
thickest successions of sediments. At over
ten kilometres these offer the most
potential for yielding hydrocarbons,
explains Dr MacDonald, senior
sedimentologist for the British Antarctic
Survey. However, the sea is plagued by
the world's most hazardous pack ice,
making any extraction almost impossible.
Access into the Ross Sea is far easier
although the sedimentary sequences in
this basin are only four kilometres thick
and to date, only methane and ethane
have been detected by the deep sea
drilling project. Such results provide little
support to the claims of the 45 billion
barrels of oil that the continental shelves'
are estimated to contain.
Perhaps the most speculated sites of
Antarctic mineral potential are its iron
formations and coal bearing strata. The
iron formations of Mac Robertson Land,
Enderby Land, Wilkes Land and Dronning
Maud Land are dwarfed by those of
Western Australia and Brazil. Even the
importance of the coal in the
Transantarctic and Prince Charles
Mountains has been exaggerated. Located
hundreds of kilometres inland from ice
bound seas it is thought that such
resources could never compete with the
abundance of more accessible, better
studied, better quality deposits elsewhere
in the world.
Indications of copper are common on
the Antarctic Peninsula. There are
numerous reports in early literature of
spectacular bright green malachite and
blue azurite stained outcrops. In fact such
occurrences are the source of rash
Antarctic place names such as
"Coppermines Peninsula". Frequently the
origin of such staining is little above the
background levels of copper in the crust.
The Dufek massif (a layered igneous
intrusion in the Pensacola Mountains) is
often compared with the Bushveld
Complex in Southern Africa and regarded
as highly prospective for nickel, cobalt,
chromium, platinum, vanadium and other
platinum group elements (PGEs). The
PGEs speculated from this tentative
parallel have become a reality through
media exaggeration. Only three percent
of the Dufek intrusion is exposed and this
has only been studied for a few weeks in
the field. From a few unrepresentative
hand samples it is suggested that the
unexposed three kilometres may contain
PGE deposits perhaps within 100 metres
of the surface. The limited data available
suggests that there are more differences
than similarities between the two
intrusions. Their differing ages,
geochemistries and origins all reduce the
legitimacy of comparisons. The rocks of
the Shetland Islands seem just as likely to
contain PGEs as the Dufek massive. The
only real test is by extensive grid drilling.
But with speculation at such a high level
and the chances of discovering the
complex to be barren, equally as high,
such a drilling programme cannot be
justified.
John Hughes of RTZ explains that for
Antarctic mining to become economically
possible, the inflated market prices would
render many other low grade deposits
elsewhere in the world exploitable. This
would postpone the need for Antarctic
mining further. There is still plenty of
unexplored crust left. Each new survey
reveals new mineral potential which was
previously unknown.
Despite this, the time will surely come
when depletion of the Earth's easily
accessible crust will necessitate Antarctic
exploitation. If ever this position is
reached, present rates of pollution will
have rendered the world uninhabitable,
global warming will have destroyed
todays polar environments and Antarctic
exploitation will be immaterial. The most
immediate threat facing Antarctica is not
the possibility of local mineral
exploration, but the effects of global
pollution. The industrial northern
hemisphere which drives the demand for
exploitation is responsible for the ozone
depletion and the CO increase which
jeopardizes Antarctica's and hence the
planet's future. Comparison of Antarctic
aerial photographs, taken thirty five years
apart, show that in places the snow has
receded forty metres. Whether this is just
a cyclic ebb and flow of the ice sheet, or
a permanent man-induced change might
not be discovered until it is too late.
Another perhaps less publicised threat
to the continent is that of tourism.
For a little over £11,000 a Canadian
trekking company offers a 19 day
expedition to climb Mount Vinson. Some
3,000 tourists come to Antarctica annually
for skiing and mountain climbing. During
the past 25 years 'adventure tourism' in
Nepal has grown from 10,000 to 250,000
a year. Without proper controls on litter
and sewage the Himalayan trekker-
transmitted plague of discarded plastic
bags and used toilet rolls will infect the
South Pole as well.
Antarctic science has a global
importance in describing, understanding,
monitoring and predicting changes that
effect the whole world. There is a general
consensus that preservation of the
Antarctic environment and mining are
incompatible. The inevitable accidents,
chronic pollution and habitat
encroachment would destroy the
wilderness and these scientific values.
Antarctica has already suffered its first
environmental disaster. Early in 1989 the
Argentine supply ship Bahia Paraiso ran
aground near Palmer Station.
Thousands of gallons of fuel fouled
beaches and killed wildlife.
But we should not be too quick to point
the accusing finger. We are all at fault. It
is the consumers that feed the industrial
machine. The new emphasis on the
environment as the ultimate resource
demands a re-education of todays
consumer society. All of us in the
industrial world are already using too
much energy. It is up to every individual
to do justice to their planet.

