A valuable resource to exploit or
E.NVIRO
Could you not live with a smaller house,
with one or no car per family, with just
one brand of detergent and half your
plastic equipment? Governments refuse to
invest in such policies for future
generations who cannot yet vote.
These suggestions might not sound that
attractive, but then neither is the reality
that our continued environmental abuse
will create.
All the metallic and bulk minerals
mined so far are still on the Earth's
surface. They have not been destroyed
and still exist, incorporated into discarded
products. Much of our rubbish is made to
last and will never decay when disposed
of in a landfill site. British homes and
industry generate 23million tonnes of
rubbish a year. In 1988 the drinks, food
and aerosol cans disposed of in Britain
would have reached to the moon and
back, yet we recycle only 1.5% of our
domestic waste. In contrast the DDR,
Austria, Switzerland and parts of the
United States recycle over 10%. In the
world of recycling even environmental
and economic factors support the same
goal. There is a 95% energy saving when
aluminium is resmelted. Every tonne of
glass recycled saves thirty gallons of oil,
and half the energy needed is saved
when making paper from waste rather
than virgin pulp. Recycling of
metalliferous waste dumps and scrap
heaps is logistically easier, more efficient,
cheaper and less destructive than mining
south of Cape Horn.
That is not to say that present
technology will not permit Antarctic
"development". "Frontier" exploration
companies maintain that polar technology
currently employed for Alaskan and
Arctic exploitation could move south
tomorrow. The relevance of
Arctic/Antarctic comparisons is however
debatable and the performance of Arctic
technology in the much harsher regime
of the southern hemisphere is not
guaranteed. Ironically pollution clean-up
technology has not kept pace with
l l t i l l « f e „ .
ii J 9 » IP'1
]—S
^
mi . .
ttW||B||r™
a priceless continent to preserve
ENYIRO
exploitation technology. The Exxon
Valdez disaster exposed just how under-
developed it is. The pathetic clean-up of
the coast line consisted of high pressure
hot water hosing and wiping the rocks
with paper towels. It is envisaged that oil
spilled at sea, where high winds and ice
exist would probably be impossible to
recover or even contain. With Alaskan
drilling costs approaching &40 million per
kilometre and estimates of equivalent
Antarctic costs nearly three times this
figure, such budgets are not justified by
todays markets, despite the Gulf crisis.
International energy companies like Du
Pont, the parent company of Conoco,
prefer to spend their funds on alternative
energy research. Unless alternatives are
found, the first world's reliance on oil and
its associated products will surely dictate
future development of our fifth and final
continent.
Despite such demands which may one
day exist, few companies would take on
the complex geopolitics. Sovereignty
disputes, acquisition costs, and royalties
remain at an unacceptable level.
The 15th consultative meeting of the
Antarctic Treaty, in Paris in 1989, was
dominated by a proposal put forward by
Australia and France that Antarctica be
declared a 'Wilderness Park'. Implicit in
this proposal is a ban on all mining and
strict regulation of all other human
activity on the Continent.
This struck a mortal blow to the
controversial 1988 Convention on the
Regulation of Antarctic Minerals
(CRAMRA). This convention was the
culmination of ten years of negotiations.
It assumes that at some stage in the
future, mining in Antarctica might
become a reality and allows for future
exploitation under strict conditions and
with the full agreement of all signatories.
A veto by only one state being sufficient
to block any mining application.
Deciding what constitutes minerals
exploration is central to their proposal.
An international secretariat would police
environmental regulations and vet
proposed geophysical research to ensure
that it is not prospecting in disguise.
A special consultative meeting, to
accept or overturn CRAMRA in favour of
the world park regime, was held in Chile
in December. However, after three weeks
the signatories had failed to find a
formula which satisfied both camps.
The US, Britain and Japan, still supporting
CRAMRA, argued that an agreement to
regulate mining activities is better than a
total ban. If commercial pressure for
resources ever force mining, a ban
contains nothing to control it. This is a
situation which Mr Richard Laws,
president of the Scientific Committee,
regards as potentially disastrous CRAMRA
at least imposes strict rules on such
activity. Opponents including Australia
and France maintain that without
CRAMRA, nations will not even look for
minerals because land ownership would
remain impossible. There are now twelve
more like minded countries. This year,
powerful groups in Washington have
pressed the US state department
negotiators to forget mining and back the
idea of a world park.
Before April's Madrid meeting, and with
support dwindling, the prospects for
CRAMRA look grim and the
implementation of the world park regime
seemed likely. Indeed on the seventh day
of the eight day conference in Madrid
another stalemate was imminent.
However, after Japan's defection from the
pro-mining camp, at the eleventh hour, a
compromise was reached. Since the Chile
meeting Britain had shifted its position,
pushing for a fifty year moratorium and
Japan now asked for a moratorium on
mining until such time as technology was
sufficiently advanced to safeguard the
environment. A blue-print was drawn up
which would ban mining for at least 50
years. Treaty nations must now take the
package back to their governments for
further consideration before signing in
Madrid on the 23rd of this month. Head
of the American delegation, Curtis Bohlen
said the plan represents significant
concessions by all the major players. But
he pointed out that the opportunity is still
there for future generations to lift the ban
if they choose.
Even environmentalists are encouraged
by the agreement, although it falls short
of their objectives of having Antarctica
declared a world park. What is clear is
that the moratorium provides a strong
deterrent to mining companies and will
perhaps ensure the protection of
Antarctica until at least 2040.
Despite claims by Mike King, professor
of petroleum engineering at Imperial
College, (Independent 19th November
1990) that the oil companies are queuing
up for exploration licences, it seems that
the opposite is true. Robert Horton, (BP
Chairman) stated publicly that "We have
no short or long term plans or ambitions
to explore for oil, gas or minerals in the
Antarctic", (Independent 23rd November
1990). Both RTZ and Shell remain totally
impartial about the outcome of the Chile
talks and would be happy to abide by the
laws of a world park.
Whether a conservation park or not,
extreme economic and political reasons
can force mining in the most unlikely of
places. The Siberian coal mining industry
has not been a profit making venture
since its birth. It is still heavily subsidized
by the government in an attempt to
synthesize employment in the region. The
detrimental effects of mining PGE, (so
important for controlling global industrial
pollution) may be offset by its benefits
ofhelping to preserve the Antarctic ice
sheet. Alternatively, as Dr. Willan points
out, future demands may be satisfied by
diverting the 50% of the PGE annual
world consumption from jewellery and
speculative hoardings.
Although our current resources are
sufficient to support our forever hungry
species, what problems of supply will the
next century bring? Antarctica may
become an important frontier simply
because it is the last frontier. The future
of Antarctic mineral resources depends
on a great many unknowns. What
constitutes "ore" in the future will change
with advances in exploitation, mining
technology and demand. But until these
are more adequately defined, forecasts
remain as speculative as the Antarctic
mineral resources themselves.

