FELIX
The personal observation of the happenings of Friday April 5th 0f mis y e a r „ .
The Day Iraq was Invaded in London 9
FELIX
At around 9.00am on April 5th of this
year fourteen Kurds made their way into
the Iraqi embassy on Queensgate,
opposite the Huxley building of Imperial
College, bypassing the light police
presence at the time. Though in general
highly policed at that time of tension, the
immediate area was only being guarded
by two policemen, and only one of these
was at the front door.
Prior to the invasion, a group of
approximately ninety Kurdish
demonstrators had assembled outside the
embassy to protest about the treatment of
the Kurdish people in their Iraqi
homeland, a plight largely ignored by
Western governments until recently. The
building was not stormed in any
traditional form. One of the group of
ninety told a small group of journalists
that entry had been gained to the locked
embassy by possession of the front door
key. Where this had been gained from he
didn't say.
By 9.30am the police presence had
gained considerable strength and the
stretch of Queensgate enclosing the
building had been sealed off, the rest of
the demonstration having been moved up
the road and out of the way. Prince
Consort Road and Bremner Road had also
been blocked, although at this point it
was still possible to walk through College
via both the Prince Consort Road and
Queensgate entrances. People from
neighbouring houses and the Crofton
Hotel were told that they could not move
their cars, much to their distress.
The protestors inside began their
occupation in style by throwing burning
leaflets out of the windows together with
a fast incinerating picture of Saddam
Hussein. Iraqi diplomatic documents
littered a large stretch of Queensgate.
The Kurds appeared at the windows
fleetingly and hung up a large banner
asking that we 'STOP Saddam's genocide
against the Kurdish People'. Various
occupiers who began to shout out pleas
for help to the British public, held back
by the police, found them virtually
beyond the reach of their vocal strength.
Liaison with Imperial College Security
closed the Queensgate road entrance and
allowed police entry to the Huxley
building for observation and control
purposes
A Hostage Control Room was
set up on level 3 of Blackett as it was
suspected that one remaining Iraqi
diplomat was still within the embassy. It
later transpired that he had made his
escape by the back entrance. At 11.30am
policemen, clad in bullet proof vests,
crawled onto both the embassy's roof and
the top of Physics.
The three Kurds at the window spotted
me and my camera in the building
opposite and waved a leaflet for my
benefit. A second uniformed officer
appeared on the embassy roof.
— i
11.55am, three police vans and a police
bus passed the embassy on the college
side of the road, as if displaying strength
in the hope that the Kurds inside would
give up peacefully and leave. The Kurds
remained and Home Office and Scotland
Yard personnel appeared on the scene.
12.36pm, a team of five 'Blue Beret'
police, their commanding officer and
12.51pm, the first Kurdish demonstrator
was removed from the embassy courtesy
of two riot police. He was frog-marched
to one of the vans chanting, but showing
no sign of resistance. One by one the
other thirteen were lead out at roughly
four minute intervals. None of them
struggled, some were quiet, but others
12.08pm, the police on top of the
embassy checked the masonry as if an
SAS style counter siege was being
planned as with the Iranian embassy on
the other side of College. The policemen
were armed with pistols, their holsters
clearly showing.
12.13pm, the police vehicles drove past
the embassy again, packed full of riot
police.
12.27pm, senior police officers appeared
on the roof of a building four blocks
north of the embassy.
another senior official gathered at the
Embassy's front door. The men were
armed with semi-automatic light rifles and
machine guns. The Landrover, bored with
the slow pace of the incident,
manoeuvered around the road destroying
several traffic cones and crossed the
central reservation for no apparent
reason. It crossed my mind that the
driver was considering ramming the front
door.
12.34pm, Approximately thirty riot
police entered the building, police dogs
could be heard from the Landrover on
the street, while, in the background, the
demonstrators chanted.
12.39pm, their voices weakening, the
occupiers brought out a megaphone to
project their final plea; 'We are human.
We need your help. We want to leave
peacefully, more than anyone else'.
shouted the slogans 'Down down with
Saddam' and 'Viva Viva Kurdistan'.
1.48pm, the 'Blue Beret' force entered
the building with the dog to roust the last
man.
1.51pm, the last demonstrator was
escorted out of the building and the 'Blue
Berets' check the building next door.
They left at 2.18pm, climbed back into
their Landrover and drove off.
I left and took my films to Reuters,
nearly selling a photo and found myself
reading the last edition of the Evening
Standard. On the front page was an awful
picture of a policeman on the embassy
roof taken from Sky Television.
Words and pictures
by Chris Stapleton

