Holding Up Half
In the aftermath of the Gulf War, as the
United States and its allies slip
comfortably into their designated roles in
President Bush's 'New World Order',
another silent and deadly scenario is
being waged in the Third World: it is the
ongoing struggle against under-
development. In January 1990, the United
Nations affirmed development as a human
right. However, as Western aid is
diverted to Eastern Europe, following
fundamental changes in the political
climate, there, the prospects of bridging
the North-South divide seem ever remote
and the issue of development, particularly
the subject of women and development,
remains one of much concern and debate.
An Essay on Women in
Development by Natasha
Shoaib:
Women are at the heart of development:
they not only control much of the non-
money economy (subsistence agriculture,
bearing and raising children, domestic
labour) but also play a vital part in the
money economy (trading, the informal
sector, wage employment). Women's
contribution is central to development
and costs of ignoring the needs of women
are uncontrolled population growth, high
infant mortality, a weakened economy,
ineffective agriculture and a generally
poorer quality of life. Improvement in the
situation of women is closely linked to
other objectives, namely those aimed at
reducing poverty. In fact, improving the
status of women is probably the most
basic way of improving general living
standards in a community—in short
investing in women means investing in
development itself.
Many women in developing countries
are still trapped in a web of traditional
values, with few choices other than
marriage and bearing children. They tend
to have large families because a woman's
status and achievements are linked to her
role as a mother and because children
are regarded as an insurance policy in
old age. However, implementation of
family planning is faviourable to the
health of mothers and children, to the
improvement of family life and to raising
the cultural and technological status of
women. In fact family planning is an
essential prerequisite for achieving real
equality between men and women.
Most people now agree that poverty
and rapid population growth are closely
linked and need to be tackled together.
There is also growing concern over the
issue of population growth and
environmental damage: ever increasing
numbers of poor people in developing
countries have been forced, in order to
survive, to use up resources which could
sustain them in the future, and the effects
of environmental degradation are felt
most acutely by women, for it is they
who must walk further to search for
firewood and unpolluted water. An
estimated seventy percent of India's
groundwater is polluted with toxic waste
and sewage, and deforestation and
irrigation projects have left an estimated
23,000 villagers without drinking water.
In parts of Central America even breast
milk was found to be poisoned by
pesticides. The deterioration of the rural
environment has led to urban growth, the
consequences of which are an issue of
considerable concern because the massive
consumption of resources and production
of waste in towns and cities has already
caused major pollution and environmental
problems. Urbanisation is partly due to
the men leaving the countryside to find
employment in the cities and has resulted
in the growing number of female headed
households—needless to say these
households are amongst the poorest in
the world.
Discrimination against women starts at
a young age, for many it starts at
childhood—parents with limited resources
give more to their sons than to their
daughters. Many studies have shown that,
due to a girls inferior status, boys are fed
better than girls and girls are more likely
to be malnourished in times of famine.
Parents have greater expectations of their
sons, even though their daughters start
work at an earlier age and work harder
than their sons. However a woman's
contribution is seen as less valuable as it
constitutes less to the family income (in
many cases, women's wages are less than
men's, even when they do the same
work).
The discrimination against women
continues as they grow older. The
available data on literacy and education
suggests that a wide range of levels of
literacy and educational attainment exist
amongst women in developing countries.
Although the majority of women in Latin
America are literate, more than two
thirds of the women in African countries
are illiterate. Generally, fewer women
than men are literate, and as literacy is
closely associated with participation in
some aspects of development, the gap
between the sexes will suggest the extent
to which men and women participate in
the development process. In addition to
basic literacy, the level of education
attainment is also important, as very few
women (compared to men) complete
secondary school, which is a prerequisite
to more financially rewarding work.
Very often, the work that women to
goes unrecognised and women's
participation in the economy is frequently
under-reported in the usual statistical
systems because of their involvement in
the informal sector and because of their
status as unpaid family workes. Recent
surveys in a number of South American
cities indicate that the labour force
participation rates of women are
considerably higher than the
corresponding rates reported in national
censuses. Most statistics suggest that
women's roles are at best supplementary,
when in fact, many women are heads of
the Sky
households, with full responsibility for
their own and their children's survival.
The overwhelming majority of women in
developing countries live in rural areas
and their contribution to agriculture is
enormous: women are responsible for
sixty to eighty per cent of the food
grown in Africa; one survey of village
women in Pakistan found them working
sixty-three hours per week; in Rwanda
women were found to work three times
as much as men. Studies documenting
rural women's 'invisibility' have increased,
but there is still a shortage of vital
information. National data collection
systems do not yet accurately document
women's contribution to development.
The development of quantitative and
qualitative data on women will enable the
'fine tuning' of policy interventions
currently being used, some of which have
been shown to have a negative impact on
been encouraged by the IMF and the
World Bank, the two main sources of
funds. The role of the IMF is to help
governments with financial difficulties
manage their budget deficit and balance
of payments by way of short term one or
two years loans. In return the country
concerned must implement corrective
measures such as the devaluation of
currency and cuts in public expenditure.
The World Bank is primarily charged
with improving a countries' productive
capacity and promoting growth and
development through 'Structural
Adjustment Loans', targeted at mobilising
domestic resources, improving the
allocation and use of resources,
institutional strengthening, and, as
mentioned above, reforming economic
incentives. Structural adjustment involves,
amongst other things, the realignment of
prices through the exchange rate and an
FEATURES
increase the price of export crops have
resulted, in many cases, in a shift from
subsistance farming to cash crops and has
meant that control of the crop has passed
to men, as they (and not the women) are
routinely given training, credit and
technology. And what about those
women and men who are unable, for
whatever reason, to shift production to a
more lucrative product? For them, the
poverty inducing effects of adjustment
could be more than just short term.
Why is it so important that women's
needs are recognised and specifically
included in development policies? Firstly,
if the goal is to produce social and
economic transformation, then the
exclusion of one social group on the basis
of sex will certainly sabotage those aims
and there will be specific socio-economic
repercussions for those who are excluded.
Secondly, targeting women as a
women. Students of economic
development have dealt a major blow to
modernisation theory by demonstrating
that the benefits of development do not
accrue equally to men and women. This
has been the basis for exploring the
gender impact of macro-economic policy.
Variations in the instruments of macro-
economic policy (the exchange rate, fiscal
and monetary policy etc) influence the
costs and benefits of different economic
activities. In recent years, with the debt
crisis in many developing countries, the
incentives for the production of tradable
versus non-tradable goods have increased.
Manufactured good, internationally traded
foodstuffs and close substitutes of imports
are examples of tradables; construction
and personal services are examples of
non-tradables.
This reform of economic activities has
increase int he price of tradable versus
non-tradable goods, with the intention of
changing production incentives. There is
now growing concern over the short-term
poverty inducing effects of structural
adjustment. Removal of food price
controls and an increase in the price of
consumer goods is felt immediately on
the demand side, whereas the increased
incentive to produce takes more time to
work. Thus any increase in income will
only come about after a lag, and the
initial fall in wages affects women more
acutely.
Agriculture is typically targeted for
structural adjustment programmes. In Mali
ninety-one percent of all women are in
agriculture; in Zaire the figure is ninety-
four percent and in India seventy percent.
Thus the issue of the impact of women is
important. Policies that selectively
development priority will not end
poverty, save the environment or ensure
peace, but it will certainly make a crucial
contribution to these ends.
In this essay, I have tried to outline,
very briefly, what I feel are some of the
important issues in what is often referred
to as 'Women in Development', namely,
family planning, the environment,
education, the importance of developing
reliable indicators on the status of
women, and gender and macro-economic
policy. This list is by no means
exhaustive, and it is my firm belief that
growth and development can only be
achieved with the full and equal
participation of women. Finally, the more
one studies women at the bottom of the
hierarchy the more strongly one feels
that no-one needs emancipation, equality
and development more than they.

