Trespassers on the
March saw the first visit of the Dalai Lama, Tibet's spiritual and political
"Dalai Lama...Dalai Lama...." the
pilgrim repeated the words over and over
again, stroking my arm with her
blackened finger nails and fumbling with
her prayer beads. 'Dalai Lama la mei', (I
haven't any Dalai Lama pictures) I
replied. The golden roofs of Huangzhong
monastery shone in the afternoon light in
the depression below.
In 1950 I would have been standing in
Tibet, but today it was Qinghai province
in the Peoples Republic of China. Since its
forceful occupation over forty years ago,
Tibet has been administered as an
'autonomous' region of China.
Tibet's recorded history began in 127
BC. During the next two millenium,
shrouded by its Himalayan veil, Tibet
acquired a romantic image which hides a
darker past. Behind this ice curtain the
majority of the population were all but
slaves trapped by poverty and punitive
taxation. Five percent of Tibetans owned
most of the land, while the monasteries
owned great estates covering a third of
the country, consuming half of Tibet's
total revenue and controlling tens of
thousands of serfs. Every family in the
land was expected to contribute one son
to the monastic order and there was
virtually no education for the rest of the
population. Despite the far from ideal
feudal theocracy of its past, the
impending Chinese holocaust would cause
unimaginable destruction and suffering.
Tibet's borders remained from the tenth
century until the Communist Chinese
invasion in 1949 to "liberate the country
from feudal control and to 'return' it to
Chinese sovereignty." Fearing invasion,
Tibet sent a delegation to Britain and the
USA. Both countries refused to recognise
her as an independent nation, with no
army of her own and precious few
resources with which to repay them.
"one sixth of the
population have
been killed"
Since then, in the name of liberation,
more than 1.2 million Tibetans, one sixth
of the population, have been killed.
Monks, previously accounting for up to
one in five of the native Tibetans, are
today few and far between. More than
7.5 million Chinese settlers have been
transplanted into Tibet, thus making the
six million indigenous people a minority
in their own country. During the Cultural
Revolution over 6,000 monasteries,
temples and historic structures were
looted and raised. Such looting of 'your
own territory' calls into question the Han
Chinese view of their 'conquest'.
In 1979, a program of renovation began
and selected temples have been rebuilt in
the name of tourism. Today though, study
and teaching of Buddhism are forbidden
and thousands of religious and political
prisoners remain in prisons and forced
labour camps.
Lord Ennals, the president of Britain's
all-party group for Tibet, who invited the
Dalai Lama to visit Britain, describes
Tibet as: " A slave state in which people
are shot, detained and tortured for their
belief in freedom."
His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama,
Tenzin Gyatso, is the spiritual
andtemporal leader of the Tibetan people.
In 1950, at the age of 15, with China
invading, His Holiness was called upon to
assume full political power. Despite talks
with Mao Tse-tung and other Chinese
leaders in 1954, his efforts to bring
peaceful solutions to the conflict were
thwarted by an uncompromising Peking
government. The stalemate came to a
head in March 1959 when thousands of
Tibetans demonstrating against Chinese
occupation were killed.
Escaping at night and in disguise, the
Dalai Lama, accompanied by some 87,000
Tibetan refugees, fled to northern India.
Born on the 6th July 1935, in northeast
Tibet, he was recognised as the
reincarnation of his predecessor at the
age of two. With his older brother, he
was bought to the Potala Palace in Lhasa
to begin his education. This culminated in
a final examination before an audience of
20,000 monk scholars, involving the
debating of logic and metaphysics.
Since 1960 he has resided in the town of
Dharamsala. He refuses to return to his
homeland until the Chinese withdraw and
recognise his claims, both to religious
leadership and as head of the Tibetan
Government in exile.
Dalai Lamas are the manifestations of
the Bodhisattva of Compassion. For
Tenzin Gyatso, with the cause of his
Roof of the World
leader, to Britain for three years. Christopher Riley spoke to him.
suffering so clearly identified, exercising
this compassion, cannot have been easy.
But the 14th Dalai Lama is adamant that
the Sino-Tibetan problems will be solved
peacefully. For his persistent compassion
and opposition of violence he received
the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989.
The Chinese maintain that their forty
year occupation has removed any doubt
of China's right to the "tribal area". They
are now rewriting Tibet's history, but
despite the duration of this occupation,
nothing has happened to legitimize
China's presence in Tibet. Would forty
years of Iraqi occupation have made the
Kuwait situation irreversible? Unlike
"Britain's position is
not satisfactory"
Kuwait, there has been no international
action to liberate Tibet. There is no oil to
motivate the UN. The Dalai Lama alone
represents the task force. Since 1967 he
has travelled the world on lecture tours,
visiting 41 nations, to bring the plight of
his country to the attention of the world.
March of this year saw his first visit to
this country for three years. The British
government, however, refused to meet
him, at risk of jeopardising the delicate
relationships with Peking - Hong Kong
reverts to Chinese control in 1997.
On the fourth of his six day visit to
Britain the Dalai Lama held a press
conference. Sitting in front of the red,
yellow and blue Tibetan national flag and
framed by two Himalayan Snow Lions,
bathed by a golden sun he was
questioned about the parallels of Tibet
with the situations in Kuwait and the
Baltic States.
"two generations of
occupation "
'There are similarities between the
Tibetan and Kuwait situations. Human
rights violations and torture took place in
both cases, but this is where the
similarities end. In Kuwait the atrocities
only remained for a few months. In Tibet
they have existed for almost two
generations. The motives for persecution
in Kuwait were not religious.' In Tibet we
have seen the systematic dismantling and
destruction of Buddhism. He felt the
western attitudes, over the Baltic States,
were healthy. 'It is good to make your
views clear. The West, including Britain
should be more critical of China. It is not
necessary to be pro-Tibet but just pro-
justice, pro-truth.'
Critical of the British government's
weak stance on Tibet, he described their
present views as 'not satisfactory.'
Stressing the importance of standing up
to China, he said it was important that
British policy should not be based on
Chinese propaganda. Propaganda which
has mislead the British government to
write-off Tibet as 'autonomous' - with the
Chinese occupying a 'special position' in
the region. 'The attitude of some
countries towards China is, I feel a little
over-cautious. If you concede too much,
the other side becomes bolder and
bolder.' We need not worry about the
people of Hong Kong, he explained.
'China relies strongly on Hong Kong for
economic support - this guarantees a
better situation for Hong Kong Chinese.'
Returning to Kuwait, His Holiness was
asked if Iraqi torturers could have been
removed from Kuwait peacefully, or are
there occasions when force is needed?
'Basically the proper method to solve
the problems is non-violence. Violence
and war are very unpredictable, with no
guarantee of the desired consequences. It
is better to avoid violence. Whether the
method of violence is justified or not, we
can only judge much latter. Violence is
like a very strong pill. It may relieve pain
from certain illness, but side effects
cannot be predicted.' Side effects which
have perhaps now manifest in the
Kurdish backlash.
"it's not necessary
to be pro-Tibet, but
just pro-justice, pro-
truth "
Not only have the Chinese imposed
their most brutal and inhuman communist
regime upon Tibet, but they are also
forcing their appalling environmental
record on the roof of the world. They
have started mining in southern Tibet,
the Dalai Lama said. 'Up to 60 lorries a
day are transporting minerals out of the
region.' The deforestation and
industrialisation are being conducted
without regard for the environment.
Because of the high altitude, (a lot of the
country is above 5000 m) once damage is
done it takes much longer to repair.
'Environmental damage inflicted on Tibet
has climatic consequences in the
neighbouring states, Nepai, India, and
China.'
'But what causes anxiety is the
population transfer', he said. In the
northeast of Tibet new Chinese towns
have been built on pasture land, forcing
nomads into the hills and leading to
quarrelling and killing between Tibetans
fighting for scarce grazing land.
Naively perhaps, the people of China
still believe that their occupation of Tibet
is "for the good of the Tibetan people."
Even those Chinese who have first hand
experience of Tibet are unable to see
through the propaganda. Lu Tsun Sheng
was sent to Lhasa for eight years during
the 'Cultural Revolution'.
'The Tibetans were just savages, feeding
their dead to the vultures and skinning
people alive as a punishment,' he
explained. 'We have brought them
civilisation. They can now watch colour
TV, they have electricity, roads, and
generally a better standard of living. We
have established China's largest
hydrothermal energy project, and are
actively mining metalliferous ore, and
coal.'
"such progress has
only benefited the
Chinese economy"
But is all this "development" really for
the good of the Tibetan people? 'No one
can deny that there has been no progress
under Chinese occupation', His Holiness
explained. 'There has been some progress
- a new airport, hospitals, schools and
some small scale industry.' But the
destruction, which the Chinese never
admit, totally outweighs the progress, he
said. 'Such progress has only benefited
the economy of the Chinese.'
His Holiness seems sure that the
increasingly repressive nature in China is
a sign of weakness. 'Unless they use force
the situation becomes out of control. This
creates a very negative image in the
outside world and the Chinese
government are concerned with China's
image. But isolating China is not the
answer. Pushing China into isolation is
unwise; bringing China into mainstream is
my belief.'

