Portobello Pubs
FEATURES
Cruising up to Notting Hill,
to most, will conjure
thoughts of its famous
carnival, or the weekend
market. But, keeping eyes
peeled both left and right,
many a beer can be taken
in many a distinctive pub.
Follow Phil's advice and
don't lose your wallet...
Given the task of conjuring up an article
for Felix at this slack time of year I have
begun desperately to search through my
limited repetoire of student experiences
and anecdotes to find a subject to interest
the discerning IC punter. 1 have decided
to forego any macho posturing on my
pseudo-athletic achievements or
polemicism about the Gulf War in order
to present a short users guide to the pubs
on the Portobello Road.
At this point anybody who does admit
to knowing me will have their toes curled
up in the cringe position and be hurriedly
skipping through the rest of the issue to
find that map of the hairdressers in South
Ken where we IC fashion creatures can
get a £20 haircut for only £19. I shall
leave them to it and begin the tour. A
quick note however to any of you
bearded real ale 'enthusiasts' out there, I
suggest you join the queue at the salon.
A holostic approach is what is called for,
so, I won't be harping on about the
relative merits of different pints of warm
donkey's piss. Anyway when was the last
time you were propositioned in a bar
with the line. 'I couldn't help noticing you
were supping a full bodied, yet still
yeasty pint of Old Cats Flaps xxxxx'
(insert Big Boy or Darling as required).
The first venue, 'The Sun in Splendour'
is located at the southern tip of the road.
This pub is an aberration, has nothing
worth noting and if you closed your eyes
you could be in any one of a hundred
similar establishments across London. The
same cannot be said of the other pubs on
the road and you could be walking home
without your wallet.
A 300 metre walk down the road brings
us to the 'Portobello Gold'. As advertised
by the bright pink pimp mobile with
attendant Harley Davidsons squatting
outside. The interior design was by
somebody who really thought that if he
drank enough Bacardi, whilst waiting for
a number 52 bus in Cricklewood, then he
would be in the Bahamas. Punters are
offered a panoramic (yet beer stained)
view of Montego Bay, complete with fake
palm trees to accompany the equally
synthetic culinary offerings of what is
essentially a wine bar masquerading as a
restaurant. Salvation is at hand however
as we now head for the 'Earl of
Lonsdale'. This Sam Smith pub has
suffered yuppy and Australian
interdictions in the last year. A meat-
market atmosphere still prevails however,
with the well-heeled offspring of sixties
rebels, turned chartered accountants,
thronging around the expansive bar.
They are what Mark Knopfler refers to as
'Portobello Belles' vying with each other
to posess the fattiest cardigan and
hollowest cheeks, whilst at the same time
holding unconditional offers to 'good'
Oxbridge colleges. A few stalwarts of the
legions of the disposessed begin to make
an appearance in this pub. Their numbers
rapidly diminished when the table football
was taken away last year, and they now
only really attend to watch England
matches in the conservatory, the groans
of their collective failure to achieve
orgasm, at each missed shot, shuddering
through to the rest of the pub at 10
minute intervals. •
The door of the next destination, 'The
Portobello Star', a minute's walk away
proclaims 'No food, No children, No dogs,
No portable phones', they should also
have mentioned no service, no room and
nowhere to sit. The medieval door policy
of this tiny bar serves to exclude snoopy
tourists and suit wearers, distilling out a
clientel which, judging by their sick
expressions, have average life
expectations of maybe two years. The
barman seems to be mumbling something
about keeping off the moors, or is it, 'we
don't get your sort round 'ere' but we IC
students can rest assured as we know you
can't catch rickets from sitting on a bar
stool.
We have reached the bottom of the hill
and from now on I have decided to
A User's Guide
change the names of the remaining pubs.
I make no apologies, since the newly
christened pubs have titles more suited to
their characters and some Martin Amis
readers may be enlightened in the
process.
The first, a hundred metres down from
the Star is 'Pickwicks' a new-Watneys pub
with a drifting, listless complement of
refugees from the other, more lively,
venues on the road. If there has been one
too many drug busts this week at The
Black Cross the place fills out. Overall it
is unremarkable except for the park
benches outside which encourage
incontinent canines and tourists to sit
down and shed their loads. Looking at
the crap the overburdened tourists have
just been sold on the market, one
marvels at the mimicry the dogs are
capable of. Past the Electric Cinema and
over the road is 'The Pub That's A Caff.
This schitzophenic place has improved
remarkably in the last few months and
now, happily for the owners, is in the
position of being the trendiest and
naturally the priciest pub on the road.
Fashions will change. Last year, to be
seen in The Pub That's A Caff was a
more obvious admission to a lack of style
than being caught stark bollock naked,
running down Gloucester Road humming
a Van Morrison song. During the
unpopular period a twice weekly serving
of 'World Music' was laid on by the then
owner, a huge fat bastard who would sit
in the corner sipping a diet coke. What
he didn't realise is that people going out
for a drink don't want to be confronted
by the inevitable consequences of 25
years of bodily abuse and the residents of
an area where white, middle class,
liberals are in the minority don't give a
tinkers toss about 'World Music'. The
solution was simple, turn the volume,
steal the 'cool as fuck' barman from the
FEATURES
place down the road and drastically
increase the prices. That is capitalism.
One hundred metres northwards one
meets a pub which is as rough as a
badger's arse. The 'Black Cross' can only
be reached by negotiating a crowd of
leather clad youths who seem to be
sneezing in a most pecular way. They
walk up to you and exclaim, 'Hashoo!'
without even blinking their eyes, pat their
soon to be exterminated pit ball terriers
on the head and then start mumbling
about coke and other soft drinks. The
efforts of these agents of the temporance
society's should be ignored by we hard-
living IC students and I advise immediate
entry into the bar and the ordering of a
pint of strong beer.
This pub is the centre of the West
London trade in banned substances. The
two beautiful blue pool tables at the back
are the scene of more money changing
hands than the Stock Exchange and the
police know about it. They raid the place
regularly. If you are six foot tall, have
short hair and like to wear big, black
boots don't walk into the Black Cross and
expect to be greeted like the prodigal
son. I always feel genuinely uneasy about
going to the toilet as it involves passing
through the 'dealing' area. A flashing
glance could easily be followed up by a
flashing knife. This is the only pub where
I have seen somebody glassed. It is also
the most interesting, dangerous, exciting
pub on the road and has an atmosphere
that has attracted filmmakers ('I hired a
contract killer') and novelists, it being the
central location in 'London Fields' by
Martin Amis. On a Saturday the Black
Cross is an apex of a miniature Bermuda
Triangle for the locals that includes their
market stalls and William Hill the
bookies. A lot of money goes into this
triangle but not much comes out.
The final pub on the road is, 'Neil's
Place', which won Time Out's 'Style bar
of the year' in 1990. Unfortunately we
are now in 1991 and it doesn't qyite cut
it anymore. The decor is still like
something out a Ken Russel wet dream,
with rich tasselled curtains, gothic
sculptures and gigantic dripping wax
candles, but the prices have gone down.
The lowering of prices is a certain
indication of terminal decline. Only last
year paying over seven pounds for three
bottles of beer was normal. Now the
same round costs only six. The clientele
are all media people who drink Grolsch
straight form the bottle, whilst the lads
from the Black Cross are putting in a bit
of overtime relieving their Porsche
convertibles of tyres and stereo systems.
Incidentally we call it 'Neil's Place'
because Mr Tenant of The Pet Shop Boys
was a fellow regular although I must
admit he never actually spoke to us, or
anybody else for that matter. Miserable
bastard.
Philip Gribbon.

