Pierre Etoile
An interview by Dominic.
Trooping up to the Seven Sisters Road I
got lost and then it started to rain. This
however was not going to get in my way
of getting to the place on time. Troopers
come and troopers go, but only true
troopers know how to know. With a
piping hot cup of coffee on the way I
prepared to talk to Damon, one half of
Pierre Etoile, which means 'rock star' in
French, and ex-one third of Galaxie 500.
He's over from Noo Yawk to promote his
latest sonical sound scupture (my cliche,
not his) which is why we are seated in
the Rough Trade interview room and we
just let the conversation flow.
So how did this all come about?
It's just a little side project that we (we
being Damon and Naomi who is the other
half of the band and also used to be in
Galaxie 500) had done which was already
scheduled for release before Galaxie 500
split up. We were getting ready to do an
interview for the band and we came back
from our last European tour and Dean
said he didn't want to do an EP after all
and he wanted a break. Looking back it
was an ominous sign, but he was really
keen that we should do it. I think he
didn't want to hold us up. It's just a three
track EP of quiet intimate songs in the
spirit of solo records like Johnathan " •
Richman and Alex Chilton.
Why did Galaxie 500 split?
Dean quit, for reasons only he knows. It's
very unclear to us.
Even though the three were old
friends Dean isn't talking to them
anymore and they have had no
contact since the split.
Was it a sudden thing?
Yeah, it was straight out of the blue. He
said it had just gotten to be too much
work, just like a job.'
Prior to their split Galaxie 500 were
receiving more critical success than at
any time previously and they were
especially popular in Germany and
Damon thinks that this had a lot to do
with it (being popular, not necessarily
being big in Germany). In the past New
York semi-legend Kramer had been the
fourth member of Galaxie and would play
on some of their records.
I asked if he had been involed with
this new record.
Uh no, we produced it ourselves. We
wanted it to not sound like the band so
we did as many things different as we
could, like I sang instead of Naomi so that
it wouldn't sound like Galaxie. But
Kramer was into it and understood why
we did what we did.
This project is a one-off and Damon
and Naomi have been looking for
other people for a new band. Damon
is enthusiastic:
Once we got over the shock of the band
splitting up it was kinda exciting. It's
going to be a very different sound. It's
gotta be radically different though, or it'd
just be like Galxie 500 all over again.
Damon is a teacher in English
Literature and is going to have to get
a job upon his return since now
Galaxie are defunct there's no money
from the band. He also prefers vinyl
and thinks CDs are too clinical and
that the covers of CDs are crap. He
rates Can and The Soft Machine, and
so do I so we must be right. We have
a bit of muso chat about guitars,
l l t h s and 13ths and 'Decomposing
Trees'. What about covers?
Yeah, covering songs is great, because
you get into the song and learning
someone else's song is like having
someone else play for you and we will do
more in the future.
He's mates with Sonic Youth and I tell
him how even though I'm a great fan
of theirs I still managed to fall asleep
at one of their shows. He thinks this
is particularly amusing and says that
there've been people falling asleep at
their shows but that he understands.
He still doesn't see how I managed to
fall asleep. Pierre Etoile are gonna
burn you outta sight kids and don't
say you were not warned. Here's to
their next project.
A X Z X X Z X A K X Z K K A X Z X A Z A X Z X .
Farrrrrrrrrooooooooouuuuuuttttt!!!!!
35

