The Rockingbirds
Going on the East London Line for the
first time in my life, 1 was feeling in a
particularly buoyant mood and I was not
in the least disheartened to find that The
Electric Prunes were not playing tonight
and that The Venue was a vast black
building which inside reminded me of
some provincial 'danc'ehaU' with the
carpet stinking of stale beer. My fellow
interviewer P McPatrick and I then
proceeded to accost the most talked
about (by me anyway) band in London
today prior to soundchecking. The
Rockingbirds play Country music in a pop
manner not, as some idiot called them,
'not naff country-rock'.
Adjourning to the dressing room we let
the bodaceiously good vibes flow and
cracked open a Jim Dunk beer.
'Hello, we're The Rockingbirds.'
The Rockingbirds formed at the
beginning of last year, after all meeting in
the Falcon pub in Camden, with the
bassist and drummer from The Weather
Prophets, the guitarist from Milk and
three from Norwich (the city, not a band).
We talk about Milk and we found out
why The Weather Prophets split up, but
we decide not to print that upon request
from the band. (It's not really that
interesting anyway.)
Influenced by Elvis, Ricky Nelson, Fat
Mattress, Badfinger, Doug Sahm, all the
usual Country-rock bands and a million
others, the band are currently getting it
together and have just reorded a single
for July release on Heavenly Records.
Entitled 'Good Day To You' it will be a
stormer even if it's only half as good as
the live version, which, frankly, storms.
Having now got a fair sized crowd
coming to their London shows they're
starting to get a following outtatown as
welly which was compounded by getting
the support slot on the Johnathan
Richman tour.
So Rockingbirds, let's talk some more;
do you think there's an audience for you
with this noise scene that's going on?
'We make our own audiences, we don't
expect a ready-made one, but with this
noise-scene there's just a lack of
alternatives. Sometimes the music press
are interested in promoting crap bands,
but let's face it most bands are crap
aren't they?'
We agree.
'It's just that they have to sell music
papers so they have to make out that
there's something worth writing about.
Obviously there were prime movers in
the scene, like My Bloody Valentine, but
I've never understood why people want
to go home and form a band that sounds
exactly the same. It's got to the point
where you go into Virgin Records and
you can't find anything you like because
the racks are full of rubbish.'
We most definitely agree again since
there are far too many of these
Chapterhouse, Slowdive types around for
our liking. What about the other bands
on your label?
'Everyone on Heavenly ploughs their
own furrow, like The Manic Street
Preachers and Flowered Up, oh yeah! and
East Village'
Everyone starts laughing at this point as
East Village write songs about the autumn
and flowers, though the band say they're
good geezers and were instrumental in
getting them a deal.
'We're not interested in appealing to
the country-rock crowd, we just want to
be played on Radio 1 and tour the world.'
What do you think about Satan's most
evil creation—the Compact Disc?
'Well there's nothing you can do about
it now. I much prefer LP's, but I'd quite
like a CD player if anyone's got one
going since that's the only way you can
get a lot of music now. What I really
think is a shame is the demise of the 7"
single. It was such a great format.'
Luddites that we are, we dispute the
merits of a CD player and rave about the
7" single, but talk turns to money.
'None, enough to put petrol in the
Transit.'
What's it been like hanging out with
Johnathan?
'Well he doesn't really hang out since
he's got his own mates, but he stays
around and has a chat after the show.'
We talk about Johnathan some more
and they tell us how they still can't quite
believe they've been supporting him. We
talk about the crummy dressing room and
they remark that they plan on painting
up the dressing rooms when they go on
tour.
Andy is the muso and talks about
pentatonic majors and blues scales which
means absolutely zilch to me and
everyone laughs. He then tries to deny
that he's a muso, but I don't know if 1
believe him. Alan writes all the lyrics and
Rockingbirds
is 'not the person to write political lyrics'
since they are a pop band.
After the soundcheck we natter some
more about people, places and rehearsing
whilst tripping. They are too poor to
afford drugs at the moment, but luckily
some turn up from somewhere, where-1-
don't-know etc...and the interview
crumbles with sustained bouts of giggling
and much debate over the musical merits
of Fat Mattress. I learn that when they go
on tour they want a travelling show with
them, jugglers, NO! make that 'no fucking
jugglers'—and fire-eaters, proper ones of
course, Johnathan Richman comes in with
his guitar and tells us anecdotes about the
Velvet Underground—he's a friend of
them all—and we are impressed. He is
very funny but doesn't do interviews, the
band play a-stompin' and a -stormin' set
and pass out on the bus home.
The Byrds a-rockin'; we have no picture of The
36

