The Gun Club Siouxsie & the
—The Venue 7.6.91
Jeffrey Lee Pierce looks fucked. Really
fucked. In fact, the presence of his
wastedness as he shambles on stage is
mighty. For the benefit of the ignorant,
the Gun Club are a legend; a fabled mash
scorched into the benighted realms
populated by Nick Cave and the Sisters of
Mercy. Yes, Patricia Morrison was there,
and this writer managed to get a few
words from her. Interview, please.
Why are the Gun Club so great they
justify the name 'legend'? Put simply,
they lived their music. They also
recorded the second best album of 1987.
Their trashed-out-of-skull, self-
emasculating retribution style of
blackened blues took Nick Cave and
rendered the world almost too 'small for
both. Tonight, they are ghosts from a
desirably undesirable past.
They do play a rather good set of
angry, ineffectual Rock n' Roll, and at
their most passionate, they were so
compellingly groovy 1 just swang along,
motivated by their sweet despair. It is
indeed a shame that there were lacklustre
moments to contrast this. This really
should have been a colossal triumph; of
sorts, it was, but a slovenly,'going
through-motions' quality let the
performance down.
Perhaps ghosts is unfair. After all,
apparitions have seldom been as cool as
this. Kid Congo oozes sleazily. He waves
to the audience and grins infectiously.
Romi Mori is pretty cool, too, but jeez,
Goth Goddess of all time, Patricia, is even
cooler. A pity She's not on stage. She
wears white and rides a horse in
'Dominion'. Shit. What a victim I am.
Sonic Euph.
Warlock Pinchers
—Morrisey Rides a
Cockhorse 12"
It's surprising that a band made up of
such obvious no-hopers can make single
of the week in both major music rags.
'Morrissey' rides a fine line between a
throw-away joke and straight forward,
deserving invective. Let's face it,
Morrissey always was a bit of a wanker,
and these boys tell it like it is ("That cry-
baby son of a bitch, no talent mother-
fucker" etc). Ooh, he must be weeping
into his tea. There's also a nice piss-take
of Tiffany's / Think We're Alone Now
which lasts a gratuitous 12 minutes of'so,
and shows that the Warlock Pinchers
tread musical genres as delicately as a
Pit-Bull in a playground.
John.
Banshees:
-Superstition
What a dreamy photo. And that's only
the press/biog. Three years on from the
exquisitely fuckable Peepshow, Mrs
Budgie and the family Banshee return
with another silkily-soporific masterpiece
of almost cerebral subtlety. (AARRGHHH!
CLICHE HORROR!!) still waters run deep,
you know.
The album opens, suspiciously enough,
with Kiss them for me; Siouxsie in such a
magnificent dying swan mode, I am
amazed they didn't close with this. Mind
you, I could say the same about 77?e last
beat of my heart from Peepshow. The fact
is, they're up to their old tricks again.
This bloody record is so subtle it could
almost be incidental, background music to
fill out your scenes but subliminally, to
infest your dreams. Drifter, another major
offender in the infesting stakes, is classic
banshees; There's not one obvious threat
in this album, and it's frightening. Excuse
me, my paranoia is reaching fever-pitch
at the moment, but I'm expecting to be
haunted tonight. Some pale, beautiful
horror is going to follow me, at some
distance, down a heavily- wooded road.
Even as I speak, I can almost hear the
owls in the trees above me. It's in the
trees...
Now more than ever, their icy
haughtiness is melting into some
shimmering, silvery pool to welcome all
potential drowners; Fear harks back to
the sort of dry ice stomp of Juju, but
basically what we now get as official
banshee is gentle, but persistent fluidity.
It's also much more danceable than
Peepshow, and whether that detracts
from the pigeonhole concept of their
pseudo-religious following, is not
important. It is simply a beautiful record;
Silver Waterfalls and Softly are the
epitome of the new banshees, while The
Ghost in You is Rhapsody revisited,
dealing with the Tiannammen massacre
and the general failure, at human level,
of the practice of communism. In time-
honoured fashion, we are told to keep
alive the spirit of human freedom; funny,
I'd always assumed that freedom was
nothing more than the belief that one is
free...
Right, closing paragraph. I've tried
damnably hard to avoid using adjectives
like 'bewitching', 'spookily' etc., and
replace them with 'shimmering' and the
like, but it's too demanding, and I'm a
lazy bastard. Yep. Superstition is spookily
bewitching, mesmerically creepy...a small
black cat leaps onto my torso and, claws
and all, proceeds to gently lick milky
blood from my nipples. Fucking strange
dream.
SONIC E U P H .
Carter USM
—Sheriff Fat man 7"
This is a re-release of Carter's second
single involving granny farming, Valium,
amphetamines, Starship Enterprise
Allowance Schemes and such like, but
like all knowledgeable readers you knew
that anyway. Carter see pop as an escape
from the unfairness and banality of life.
Undoubtably success will alter their
outlook on life, which will be a shame,
but I can't wait to see Sarf London's
ugliest on TOTP.
John.
Diamanda Galas
—Plague Mass LP
AIDS, it seems, is still around. It is still
that obscure and most protracted form of
suicide. However, it can no longer rely
on ignorance, so it looks to the future
and invests all it's hope in complacency.
Ignorance, after all, has found a new
purpose. It's the same old purpose, and it
renders ethical argument futile: The
lessons of history are not missed on us,
we are simply not interested. 'Plague
Mass' is that futile ethical argument, and
sadly, I am convinced that these screams
will go largely unheard.
If I told you this woman was
comparable only with the demented,
vengeful harridans screaming at
Robespierre as he was decapitated, you
may not believe me. I was not in Paris in
1794, so how would I know? I don't, but I
can, with equal readiness, think of Lucifer
screeching his torment as he was cast
down to the Judecca.
It is such images as these are invoked
by this extraordinary music. To be
honest, I knew what to expect; I 'phoned
Mute Records to see if they would
forward a copy for review, but I couldn't
wait. I went out and bought it the day
after - I begged this howling bitch to
shriek-sing her paeans to pain,
to cleanse me by slitting open my flesh
and stripping me down to' polished, white
bone. There is much beauty in the
simplistic. She leaves me breathless; Her
bloody fists, Her bloody head, Her bloody
anguish hopelessly pounding against
impregnable walls. Do you want Her
blood? I need it.
Sonic Euph.
,5 i

