ENV1R0
Alaska, the Exx
Then a n d now
Alaska is a treasure trove of natural
resources. The ancient Inuit, the Indians
of the North, lived for thousands of years
off Alaska's renewable resources; the
seals, fish and whales of Alaskan waters.
In modern times attention has focussed
on the region's rich reserves of non-
renewable resources; oil, gas, and mineral
reserves. The extraction of these
resources has proved controversial.
Alaska is breathtakingly beautiful and is
home to rich flora and fauna. The
environment of Alaska has neither been
comprehensively studied nor has any
such area undergone similar
development. Alaska is something of an
environmental enigma. The effects of this
lack of knowledge are twofold: a poor
understanding of polar development has
led to both insensitive development and
unexploited opportunities.
The confusion and ignorance that lies
beneath the surface of polar development
was clearly seen when the 'Exxon Valdez'
spilled her 11 million gallon oil cargo into
Prince William Sound.
The Exxon Valdez
On March 24th 1989, the Exxon oil
tanker, the Exxon Valdez, broke open on
Bligh Reef and spilled 11.2 million gallons
of crude oil into Prince William Sound.
Thirty thousand fish from nine different
species died in the initial stages of the
spill as did over a thousand otters. There
agreement ends.
environment is a lot tougher and more
resilient than most people give them
credit for. All the evidence suggests
Prince William Sound is a robust ,
resilient environment well on the way to
recovery.' These environmental reports
had no mention of Exxon and instead
bore the emblem 'Printed on recycled
paper'.
What is the truth
Even apparently quantitative analysis can
be misleading. The histogram shows the
pink salmon harvest from 1978 to 1990.
The 1990 harvest is double that of the
previous year. Salmon have a two yearly
lifecycle therefore the first figures of any
significance would be those for 1991, two
years after the original spill. A recent
^^^^^ I'^^gj: -
mm mtmWmmmWmm^mWMWm
Block Island, April 1989
Environmental Impact Assessment
Exxon was heavily criticised in the media
during early March 1991 for an alleged
whitewash surrounding the environmental
impact of the oilspill on Prince William
Sound. In July 1989 Exxon organised press
conferences to show the world's media
the apparently pristine beaches of the
Sound. The before and after pictures of
Block Island are taken from a press pack
handed out at that time. There is strong
evidence that those same beaches were
re-oiled long after the media circus had
moved on.
Independent empirical evidence is hard
to come by. The initial impact reports
were all written either by direct
employees of Exxon, or people paid by
them. These reports are subjective and
non-empirical. The following conflicting
statements appear in the publication
'Environmental recovery of Prince
William Sound and the Gulf of Alaska',
'Longterm studies of the recovery process
are incomplete and recovery timescales
suggest some extrapolation', and in the
same publication, ' we saw nothing to
indicate Prince Willaim Sound is
particularly fragile. The marine
Block Island, June 1990
38
on Valdez Spill
Channel 4 documentary revealed that
even fish that did survive the original
spill were polluted with oil. Valdez's
canning factory was closed down by the
local health inspectorate in July 1990 due
to high levels of oil in fish.
Independent Reports
The only independent reports published
to date examine the actual response to
the oilspill. In Kelso's 'Alaskan response
to the environment', published in the
February 1991 edition of EST magazine,
the response to the oil spill is criticised in
three ways. The technical response to the
oil spill , the beach washing technique, is
heavily criticised, the report also
concluded that there were insufficient
resources and that the management of
these resources was ineffective. Despite
this criticism the United States
government, according to New Scientist
October 1989, has delayed ratification of
an international treaty aimed at
formalising who should be responsible for
oil spills, both their clean up and cost.
Long Term
Significant amounts of oil are still being
washed ashore in Prince William Sound.
Fishermen describe the waters as 'dead'.
There has never been an oil spill of these
proportions in this type of environment
before. Scientists both Exxon funded and
independent must sit and wait before the
long term effects of the spill can be fully
assessed.
The Inuit a n d Alaska
According to the anthropologist James
Watson the Inuit are 'one of the most
sophisticated adaptations to the
environment known to anthropology'.
The Inuit of Alaska are descendants of
the first human migrations, ten thousand
years ago, across the prehistoric
landbridge now washed by the Bering
Sea. The Inuit are completely dependent
on the renewable resources, especially
marine mammals and fish. Until the late
nineteenth century the Inuit lived in small
semi-nomadic groups with strong social
cohesion.
What Went Wrong?
During the early twentieth century the
Inuit came into contact with 'the white
man'. They became increasingly
dependent on the commerical fur trade
and abandoned their subsistence way of
life. The fur trade collapsed in 1940 and
the Inuit were starving. In the latter half
of the twentieth century over- fishing and
culling of marine animals has decimated
the fauna of Alaskan waters. Even if the
Inuit had still had the skills to return to
their old way of life the resources were
no longer there.
The Balance is Redressed
The advent of oil and gas exploration had
focussed Inuit demands for self-
determination. Their fight against the
proposed MacKenzie pipeline was
successful and acted as a cohesive force
within the Inuit people. The two groups
oorne out of that fight COPE, Committee
of Original Peoples Entitlement and the
ITC, the Inuit Taprisat of Canada
continued the fight for Inuit
independence. During their early years
the groups concentrated on the
settlement of land claims but growing
LWIRO
political awareness made Inuit
organisations ever more determined to
gain political independence for their
people.
The Future
Inuit and Oil and Gas companies have
learned to co-exist. In the same way the
extraction of non-renewable resources
must co-exist with the renewable
resources of the Arctic. Although our
knowledge of the Arctic is limited the
way ahead is clear. A balance: neither
blind exploitation of non-renewable
resources nor preservation of Alaska's
renewable resources to the exclusion of
all else. Through compromise Alaska's
future can be made secure and its
magnifience, encapsulated in the ancient
Inuit poem below, remain for generations
well after our own.
/ arise from rest
With the beat of the raven's wings.
I arise
To meet the day.
My eyes turn from the night
To gaze at the dawn
Now whitening.
Native Inuits
39

