Spies
Felix, Issue 908
19 June 1991
A number of students are to be hired this
summer by the college to find out the
rents in colleges and universities around
the country. The Rector, Sir Eric Ash,
told Felix that 'we (the college) haven't
done any market research - that was one
of the deficiencies of our system.'
Flying
The Royal College of Science Union aid
expedition to Romania, organised by
Martin Heighway, has suffered a change
of plan. The volunteers will go by air
instead of overland by bus. Mr Heighway
told Felix that 'we're still taking a lot of
stuff ... like baby clothes and cuddly toys.'
He said that he was 'over the moon'
about the response to his appeal. A group
of volunteers will leave for Zvoristia in
Moldavia in about a week's time. Rag
have donated about £1000 to the
expedition, but much more is required.
Any donations - money or cuddly toys -
would be gratefully received. Please
contact the RCSU office on 8675.
Bar
Resurrection
The Union bar acquired two new bar staff
last month. Andrew Flanagan took over
from John Riding as Bar Manager and
Ramesh Patel was appointed Assistant Bar
Manager. Mr Riding only became
manager in September last year.
When asked his name, Mr Flanagan
answered that he was still trying to find
himself, but later admitted to actually
being the late Karen Carpenter. He was
formally bar manager at Goldsmiths
College and is looking forward to the
challenge of working here. 'There is a lot
to do', he added, 'and an enormous
potential. It will be fun to see how far we
can go. The Union is a good team'. He
has already held a Pimm's cocktail
evening and has more events planned.
Ramesh Patel was formerly at St
Thomas' Hospital. He is an avid squash
player and succeeded in beating Felix
Business Manager, Jeremy Burnell, with
ease.
Rent Breakdown
The college has backed down on the its
proposed increase in rent. The Rector, Sir
Eric Ash, told Felix that the college
would now receive about £92,000 less
from the residences than the original
proposals suggested. This was done after
a 'lot of agonising discussion' between the
Union and the College, he added.
The Rector said that he had received
assurances from Angus Fraser, the
College's managing director, that the rent
for a single room in any college residence
would not exceed £49.50. Sir Eric said
that he 'intended to sign on the dotted
line' when the final rent proposals from
Mr Fraser are presented to him.
The Rector commended Gordon
Marshall, Director of Estates, for his 'real
attempt to put rents in a logical order',
taking into account such things as the
local poll tax, travelling distance and
quality of housing.
The Union's proposals would mainly
affect residences around Prince's Gardens
site. Under their scheme a single room in
Southside would cost £4 less per week
than the original college rents proposal. If
the college had adopted the union
proposals unchanged the college would
have lost £99,382 in revenue.
The catalyst for a re-examination of the
proposed rent rises came from both the
Union and academic staff. Senior tutors
and heads of department expressed
concern, formerly expressed in a letter to
Sir Eric, signed by a number of interested
parties including A.J. Taylor-Russell, the
Chairman of the Admission Policy
Committee, T.J. Seller, the Director of the
International Office, and D.M.L
Goodgame, a College Tutor.
The signatories to the letter said they
were aware of the Rector's concern about
the financial difficulties of students and
that they were sure that he would not
like to encourage the view that 'Imperial
College is widely perceived to be too
costly a place at which to study'. They
expressed worry at the effect on student
numbers though it would be 'difficult to
quantify the extent, by which admission
numbers will be affected by the proposed
higher residence rent'. One of their
concluding comments was that there was
'clear evidence from surveys undertaken
by the registry and departments that
accomodation costs are a major reason
for potential students declining offers of
places.'
Sir Eric told Felix that his 'hope is that
the increase in rents will have a close
bearing on RPI', which is the inflation
rate, and that 'my ultimate responsibility
is that the college doesn't go broke.'
Low Down
Loos
The Peachtree survey conducted on
behalf of IC Union will be published in
about a week's time. The draft
conclusions show that the Union building
lavatories are considered the most serious
problem in the building; they actually put
students off entering it. Improving the
lavatories will cost an estimated £8,000.
A secondary problem concerns the
accessibility of the union offices. There is
a proposal to relocate the union to the
present SCR (Senior Common Room) on
the first floor of the Union building. The
SCR would be moved to the present
Union back office and the whole
relocation would cost about £13,500.
A number of other changes are in the
pipeline, though the funding has not been
fully arranged. The Union lounge may be
improved and the concert hall may have
a gallery installed so that FilmSoc can
show films more often. This latter change
would cost about £3,500. The upper
kitchen in Southside may be converted to
a health suite, and catering will be moved
to the weights room and the motor club
store. This would cause confusion as the
Motor club have nowhere to go and
STOIC (IC Television) would not be able
to move to Southside as previously
planned.
H A I R D R E S S E R S
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D ,
S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N
071-823 8968
We have a fantastic offer for all you
students, a cut wash and blowdry
by our top stylist
(which normally costs around £21)
For only £11 Men £12 Women
Check us out !

