When nuclear power was first
introduced people said that electricity
would be produced so cheaply that it
wouldn't even be worth metering. Forty
years on we are still paying the bills. If
nuclear funding had been ploughed into
renewable energy research from the
beginning we might have achieved that
enviable goal. Sadly though the weapons
motives dictated a different path which,
today, is still fraught with the debate
which plagued it from Day 1.
With the inevitable connections
between nuclear power and nuclear
weapons "Joe public" believe that in
order to be pro-nuclear power you have
to be pro-nuclear weapons. However,
support of the former does not dictate
approval of the later. In Sweden 50% of
the national electricity is produced by
nuclear reactors, while they have no
nuclear weapons. In Britain many people
who work in the nuclear power are also
in CND!
The basic principal of producing
electricity is the same using any fuel, but
with nuclear power the amount of fuel
used to produce the energy through
fission is much smaller. To produce the
energy consumed by one person during
their lifetime, would require 54 tonnes of
coal, or 33 tonnes of oil, or 3kg of
Uranium. The benefits are obvious. The
difference of three orders of magnitude of
mass is large enough to outway many of
the disadvantages. Indeed standing
downwind from a coal fired power station
one is exposed to more radiation than
living in the proximity of any nuclear
power plant.
The allegations that incidences of
leukaemia coincide with populations
around nuclear power stations remain
statistically unproved. The likelihood of a
completely uniform distribution of
anything is very low. Even "random"
numbers are observed to "cluster." Of the
thirty leukaemia clusters that have been
identified in the UK, only 2-3 are next to
power stations. According to Morgan Rue
of BNF Ltd. there is apparently a higher
correlation of leukaemia cases to ancient
monuments. Living in Britain the
radiation you are exposed to can be
broken down as follows:
47 % Terrestrial Radon
14 % Terrestrial gamma from granites
12 % Eating (K40 in Hamburgers)
12 % Medical X-rays
10 % Cosmic radiation
4 % Thoron inside homes
0.4 % Fallout from weapons tests
0.4 % Miscellaneous...travel, luminous
watches...
0.2 % Occupational (eg dental nurse)
0.1 % Nuclear discharge from power
generation
Uranium is abundant and does not have
many other uses as it is very brittle and
dense. Despite the obvious attractions,
political decisions in some countries have
frozen the nuclear programme. In the
United States, reactor construction has
come to a halt, no new orders have been
placed since 1978. In Sweden the
termination of nuclear power generation
by 2010 has been called for and in
Switzerland and Germany there is a de
facto moratorium.
However, on a global scale, nuclear
power is a growing industry. In 1989,
16% of the world's electricity was
produced by 426 nuclear reactors. There
are currently 96 more reactors under
construction which when completed
would bring the total nuclear generating
capacity to 397,178 MW. In 1989 12
reactors were added to the global grid
and construction began on five reactors:
two in Japan, two in South Korea and
one in the USSR. Does this mean that
nuclear power is becoming safer?
Whether incidents or accidents is a
matter of definition. Whatever you want
to call them, they are always serious and
potentially deadly: Germany has one of
the most exhaustive records of nuclear
incidents. This is perhaps a function of
their stringent laws which require details
of every episode that effects safety. In
1988, 296 such incidents were
documented. Causes were recorded as
incorrect planning and construction,
incorrect use of equipment, incorrect
manufacture of equipment. Even if the
reaction process could be made 100%
safe there is still all the waste to be dealt
with.
Like any other process, nuclear fission
generates waste products. Although less
volume than other methods, the
plutonium by-product is toxically far more
of a problem. The liquid waste is stored
in stainless steel containers which, after
the liquid has cooled, are put into
landfills. The volumes of waste can be
reduced substantially when the liquid is
converted to a super cool liquid (glass
form), and it can then be stored under
International Safety Guide-lines. These
stipulate that the plutonium waste cannot
be diverted to weapons production
without the rest of NATO knowing.
The alternative to landfill, is
reprocessing. This involves extracting the
Plutonium and the unused Uranium from
spent fuel. Currently there are four
reprocessing plants in the world; Sellafield
in the UK, La Hague in France, Tarapur
in India and Tokai in Japan. Four more
are under construction. Allegations of
radioactive discharge from the Sellafield
plant are dismissed by BNFL Ltd. Rue
states that there is "less radioactive
discharge than from coffee beans. In
thirty years it has put half a tonne of
plutonium into the Irish sea. This
compares with the two million tonnes of
naturally occurring alpha omitters already
there. The mutant fish trawled in by
fisherman are put down to sampling
error. "Mutants are naturally occurring
anyway", says Rue. "Around the
discharge pipes fisherman bring back all
the mutants they catch. Further away,
they are thrown back to preserve the
clean image of the industry."
Reprocessing still results in some waste
which still needs storing; typically for 500
years. After this period it can be
reclassified from high level to
intermediate level; which is low enough
to be manageable. Stored waste is
already producing problems. The United
States' Washington State Hansford
Nuclear Reservation is the oldest site,
with 177 steel concrete tanks containing
40
ks?
E.WIRO
radioactive waste. Sixty-six of these are
leaking, twenty-two are accumulating
dangerous amounts of hydrogen and
another 22 are potentially explosive. The
star of the reservation is tank 101-SY
which is sending up hydrogen bubbles
through the hard crust. The dilemma is
how to gain access to the tanks without
creating an explosion and scattering
radioactive material over a large area.
So can nuclear power with all its pitfalls
and problems ever by made safe? In 1946
the then US Secretary of State Dean
Acheson along with David Lithienthal and
Bernard Baruch of the United Nations
Atomic Energy Commission called for the
creation of a global agency to govern
atomic power. The agency could ensure
reactor safety, to implement and monitor
waste storage facilities, while taking into
account the concern of the year 2000 and
beyond. The idea of International Waste
storage facilities was developed further by
Wolf Hafele in 1976. He believed that
such facilities would be immune to
national politics and so would not hold
back development in science and
technology of waste disposal methods.
But even with improvements in design,
efficient fuel cycles, and other
technologies, would more countries
consider nuclear power unless it is
economically feasible?
In the UK where nuclear power has
contributed to the national grid for over
forty years, John Wakeham, (Energy
Secretary) last year gave formal approval
to the building of Britain's second
pressurised water reactor at Hinkley point
on the Somerset coast. The project at
Hinkley point will cost £l,700m and will
depend on the Government's review of
its' nuclear programme, scheduled for
1994. The inquiry into Hinkley-C included
an investigation of economic benefits of
nuclear power alongside fossil fuels, but
with the rates of return needed by
private investigators, nuclear power
looked unfavourable. This resulted in the
removal of the ageing Magnox reactors,
and the removal of the nuclear power
stations from the privatisation of the
electricity supply industry and scrapped
the plans for Sizewell-C and Wylfa-B.
For the moment nuclear power is losing
popularity in some countries, but since its
origin in the 1950's the propaganda from
both camps continues and the debate
goes on.
STOIC P R E S E N T
GOING FOR
COPPERS
A fun new quiz show after
the news at l p m on
Thursday
British Coal
Challenge Ban
British Coal is renewing its efforts to develop a
new opencast pit in NW Leicestershire. The
proposals have been met by fierce opposition,
Anna Teeman reports.
In August British Coal will open its appeal
against Leicestershire County Council's
decision to reject a planning application
for a new opencast mine in North West
Leicestershire.
The area concerned lies to the south of
Coalville which has its own opencast pit,
Coalfield North. The proposed site lies
between the picturesque villages of
Heather, Ravenstone, Packstone and
Normanton-le-Heath. The villages'
residents, many of whom are vehemently
opposed to the proposal, are fighting
British Coal through the organisation
FOIL (Fight Opencast Mining in
Leicestershire).
FOIL'S opposition to opencast mining is
based on both economic and
environmental grounds. The
environmental arguments aside, FOIL is
incensed by the apparent economic
stupidity of opencast mining. The
proposed site, known by the Coal Board
and coalfield west, would, in common
with other opencast pits in Great Britain,
produce high sulphur coal. The power
generating companies, opencast mining's
all powerful customer, foist penalties on
such coal. In addition low sulphur coal
must be imported into the country, at
cost, for proper mixing.
FOIL see just the phrase 'opencast
mining' as misleading. NW Leicestershire
has a tradition of deep-mine coal mining.
Up to 4,500 miners have been made
redundant due to pit closures in recent
years. Using the phrase 'opencast mining',
argue FOIL 'sways people into
acceptance'. They see the opencast
extraction process as more akin to civil
engineering than to mining. The
employment benefits for the local
community are minimal, say FOIL,
completely opposite to the days when a
whole village would be employed by a
deep-mine.
FOIL are deeply concerned about the
environmental impact of a large opencast
pit on the local area. Residents are
concerned about dust, noise, traffic and
the aesthetic impact of an opencast pit.
The environmental section within the
original British Coal planning application
lists all possible environmental hazards
but contains only vague assurances that
no detrimental environmental impact will
result. According to Mr A Crompton of
British Coal Region Project Group, his
company intend to present more
quantitative information at the
forthcoming appeal. Mr Crompton was
extremely cagey about what such
information might contain. British Coal
are keen to keep their new
environmental plans under wraps and
away from the action groups until the
appeal.
Even if British Coal do pull a sparkling
new environmental plan out of the bag,
local residents are unlikely to change
their opinion of the Coal Board. British
Coal has already simply chopped down
'Green Lane', a bridleway documented as
containing hedgerows of enormous
ecological significance, on the boundaries
of the proposed site. As to increased
noise British Coal's measurements of the
crucial background noise were taken as a
jumbo jet flew over and an articulated
lorry rumbled past, say local residents.
British Standards 4142, by which the Coal
Board would have to abide if a new pit
were opened, state that noise would not
exceed the present level by over lOdb.
By not averaging out their readings,
British Coal attempted to stay within that
all important lOdb range, foul play say
residents. British Coal, in the original
environmental statement say dust
wouldn't be a problem, despite
unequivocal proof that it pays a local
nursery owner living near Coalfield North
£3,00 per year to clean dust from his
greenhouse windows.
Britsh Coal are adamant that coal
would be transported by rail; residents
question this. Two children were killed
last year by lorries from a nearby pit
where all the coal went by rail.
The appeal is due to open in
Leicestershire on August 6th 1991 is
expected to last three weeks.

