IvIlA **
The Felix office has a reputation for
being the sanctuary of dispossessed,
disgruntled and disillusioned science
students seeking refuge from the
peculiarities of the college and the people
in it, and from the excessive tedium and
pain that many of the courses inflict. This
has generated a certain atmosphere
within the office which though I often
feel is not altogether healthy, does give
the weekly output a certain objectivity. It
also seriously gets up the nose of people
like the Rector and associates whose job
it is to sell the college to sixth formers,
foreign governments and businesses by
telling them what a orgasmically superb
place it is, where the happy, oh so
rapturously happy students only stop
enjoying themselves when they fall asleep
after a long (but happy) day spent
studying their future vocation. I
thoroughly enjoy irritating the powers of
authority, I'm sure I'll have plenty of
opportunity next year.
Felix is now the proud owner of a
collating machine. This will speed up the
grindingly painful late night process of
manual collating - that is assembling each
copy of Felix by hand, with the aid of a
great deal of alcohol. This technological
leap has its obvious benefits, but its
downside is that the opportunity for
people from outside Felix to make
contact with the office is diminished.
In my second year at this place I was
Felix's news editor, well, to be exact I
was the entire news team - Felix has a
perennial problem of too many chiefs and
not enough Indians. As well as stoking
my paranoia this has made me a 'news
person', meaning that I see Felix
primarily as a newspaper. This has a
number of intrinsic problems, the main
one being that we need far more news
reporters than we have at present. A
secondary problem is that the front page
is going to be news, not a photograph
like this year. I have heard a number of
points of view on this matter, generally
opposed to mine, and I have decided to
exert my authority and completely ignore
them. A tertiary problem is what to do
with our photographers now that they
don't have a front page to fill.
By far the biggest problem facing next
year's Felix is the same as has faced this
year's, namely the lack of volunteers
running it. Those who have worked on it
this year have done an excellent job, but
they all have degrees to get so it is
highly unethical to push them to do more
than they are doing already. The upshot
of this is that complaints about the
quality, contents or quantity of Felix are
singularly pointless. This is not wilful
dismissal of those complaints, but merely
saying that the solution to the problem
lies within the hands of the plaintiff. If
you feel that the quality of English is
poor, spelling is abysmal or that there is
not enough news, don't stop complaining,
but do come and do something
constructive about it.
If Felix cannot depend on people to
come into the office by their own
initiative, a campaign of leafleting and
postering may be instigated. If this fails I
may be compelled to resuscitate the
custom of pressganging. So please, help!
We desperately need more volunteers.
Although I hope that I will be able to
work with Zoe, Jonathan and Steve of the
Union executive elect next year I believe
it is important that the Felix editor should
feel no guilt at slamming a member of
the executive if that editor thinks they
deserve it. I have no evidence to suppose
that any of these three disagree with me
on this point, but just to emphasise it,
Felix must never be allowed to become
the lapdog of the Union executive. It
would lose all credibility and what's
more, it would become terribly, terribly
dull. Speaking of lapdogs, it looks like
there might be a general election during
my year of office. I'm sure I get as
irritated as any sane person with the
backstabbing and shit throwing that
accompanies this triennial orgy of
senselessness, so I promise from the
uttermost depths of my limbic system that
Felix will not become the exclusive
battleground of the college's
representatives of bolshevism or
bourgeoisie.
Finally I wish to extend my gratitude to
Chris and Andy for keeping the flame
alive for the past year - I hope to see
them both again after the summer
holiday. Undying thanks goes towards the
trusty band of Felixites and Felixettes
who are, in the main, the people
responsible for each week's baby. Not
forgetting, of course, the people whose
word is law within the office, and who
can cause the building to tremble and the
mountains to shake, Andy the printer and
Rose the typesetter operator.
I am looking forward to being editor
next year.
Freshers issue next year comes out on 30th September. Anybody wanting an
entry should see me before the 31st August. If you would like work printed
over the summer, see me as soon as possible.
13

