FELIX
The Staff on the
The Case for
the Prosecution
You should be careful what you wish for.
When Chris failed his exams, the whole
staff wanted an editor. Instead we got
Andy. He is believed not actually to exist,
but is instead a projection of all the staff's
worst nightmares. Constantly surrounded
by a cloud of fags and empty Dog bottles,
he sweeps through the office threatening
to give people a slappin' or a kickin' for
no apparent reason. Talking of reasons,
we still wonder why he actually stood for
the post. After drawing a couple of
cartoons, and doing a bit of collating, he
suddenly found himself in charge of
producing 4,000 copies of a magazine
every week. The only explanation he has
ever given is that it would be 'a larf. My,
how we larfed.
Things did not start well when most of
the staff did not come back from holiday
for the first issue. In a fit of madness, the
features editor (who hasn't been seen for
the whole of the summer term!) suggested
a cover, and Andy's bum was printed
4,000 times, in red. In panic, the staff
returned, and while they tried to bring
the style back to normal, Andy proceeded
to try and write the entire magazine
himself. The odd cartoon, massive
editorials and endless features on the
Andy's second love (the first being
himself), comics began to dominate the
magazine. Staff were resigning in droves.
By the Valentine's Issue he had
discovered the standard excuse 'I'm not a
sabbatical and I've got exams' and
disappeared for two weeks. The litho
broke down in despair, along with the
staff. The printer and print unit manager
got drunk, and various staff members
found themselves in overnight paste up
sessions. To complete a perfect week, it
started snowing. This may also have been
Andy's fault.
After a particularly late night's collating
he declared his intention to have FELIX
finished by the time the pubs shut. He
didn't specify on which day or in which
time zone. In recent weeks it has become
apparent that he meant Monday, although
it's been a close thing recently.
The subtle distinction between reality
and fantasy is non-existent in the
byzantine labyrinths of Our Darling
Editor's mind. The personal computer in
the office has a city simulation game on
it, and boy is he PISSED OFF if anybody
releases earthquakes, floods, godzillas and
air crashes on it when he's not looking.
And as everybody knows, when Bagpuss
plays computer games, all the mice on
the mouseorgan fall asleep. Whilst
deadlines heroically slip by, and the
madness unfolds, what is Andy doing? Is
he in his room studiously revising? Is he
catching up on his course work? Is he
jollying on the staff? Is he typesetting,
pasting, bromiding or writing editorials? Is
Val Doonican a real hip guy? The answer
is cruel but true.
Another favorite pastime is often played
as collating sessions wear on. When
everybody else wants to get finished and
collapse into bed, Andy looks for a verbal
fight. Collating is forgotten as tempers
rise and contradictary statements fly. It
doesn't matter what the subject or the
angle, Andy always has the last word, of
course (see Editor on staff!).
His latest psychological disorder stems
from the Life Sci ball. Ever since he
attended this event he has been claiming
to be a celestial avatar of sex god. This is
based on the fact that he believes that
people spent the evening telling him how
gorgeous he looked in his Tux. He was
too drunk to realise they were in fact
telling him how 'gargoyle'-ous he looked.
He has an overdraft larger than most
third world debts, a waistline to match
and turns into an amoeba at the sight of
a spliff. As the saying goes 'The spirit is
willing but the flesh is weak (and flabby)'.
The Felix staff's confidence in Andy
'the' Butcher was seconded only by the
relief of the Union staff and sabbaticals';
relief in knowing that their incompetence
44
Editor,
would not be recognised given the sheer
incompetence present in Mr Butcher's
Gotham-warped mind. The faith of the
Union Social Colours committee was also
in evidence. 'Votes for...?', '...and those
against?', 'that's a far greater number'.
Andrew very rarely takes things in the
•spirit in which they are intended. He will
probably succumb to suicidal thoughts on
reading this article. Every editor has been
slagged off by his staff in the final issue
of each year. The difference is, up until
now, the staff haven't meant it.
And what of the future? Mr Butcher has
expressed a desire to edit London Student
- the rag of the University of London
Union in a year or so. Interested parties
are rubbing their hands in glee at this
thought. We've been looking for an
excuse to shut London Student down for'
years...
The immediate future for Andy is a
return to the life sciences division. Well
probably not, given that he has done less
for his course than for Felix. Rumours
that his examination pass will be
delivered to him by Lord Lucan riding
Shergar are said to be completely
unfounded, but quite possible nonetheless.
And just before we finish, as Andy
always complains about being critisized
behind his back, this time it's in black
and white, and read in 2750 Felices.
The hottest head, a temper vastly
quicker than his paste-ups or editorials,
more quirky than Bill Goodwin: Andrew
Butcher, you're going down.
The Case for
the Defence
Being the first non-sabbatical Felix editor
since 1974 put Andy in a very difficult
position. Editing Felix is a time
consuming job, and mixing this with an
attempt to save a degree that was
already spiralling into oblivion was a
nearly impossible task. There was no way
that he could be in the office enough to
give the staff the sort of guidance they
need (individually us staff are quite
competent, but in groups we tend to
assume a sheep-like quality, needing to
be reminded to sleep, for example).
He was torn between his course and
Felix, feeling an obligation to do both,
and finding himself doing neither. Editing
a magazine when you have only eight
hours work a week is hard enough, but
doing a full-blown science course takes
things beyond the realms of possibility.
The problems really started about his
After two terms of command under
Andy 'the' Butcher the staff of Felix
air their views and reveal the truth
behind the man in charge.
9
FELIX
fourth and fifth issues. Various tensions
around the office came to head, as Andy
effectivly had to take two weeks off to do
his exams. As a result staff found
themselves doing much more work which
interfered with their course work. Some
had to resign. This in its turn had the
effect of starting to break up the 'family
spirit' that is, too a large extent, the
driving spirit behind Felix. Course
pressures, and in one case, starting to
edit another college's paper, led to the
departure of many of the general purpose
staff, leading to a team mainly concerned
with their own sections. The magazine
team had become more insular with few
people willing to just do past-ups.
Andy found things more and more^
frustrating, and as he received less help,
he began to lose interest in Felix. Things
reached a head when virtually all of the
remaining staff went on strike on a
Thursday night, with half of Felix still to
be printed. Production of Felix had
become virtually impossible.
While he really had started out with
good intentions, the mountains he had to
scale were nearly insurmountable. Despite
this, for much of the time Felix was
bigger than last year's. And he really is
quite a good bloke. And he reads (fairly)
good comics and ... um ... he bought me
a drink once and err...
The moral of this tale is not that Andy
is a completely useless editor, but rather
that to have a non-sabbatical Felix editor
is virtually impractical. Andy took on a
shit job, with little idea of what he was
getting into, and very little experience of
the job. Is it any surprise that things went
wrong? Thanks for trying Andy.
15

