News Review 90-91
Accommodatio n
Clayponds and Montpelier Hall are two
names which have been linked
throughout the year. In separate deals, so
it is claimed, the College was to sell
Montpelier for at least £7 million and
finance the building of a new estate in
South Ealing, Clayponds, for £11 million.
The sale of Montpelier, however, was a
fiasco. At first the students were told they
would have to leave before Christmas,
then the deal was delayed and they were
given a reprieve. It was up to Felix,
however, to tell them this.
Clayponds went ahead, even though the
College had, as yet, not received any
money from Montpelier. This sale was
wrecked when it was discovered in the
deeds that the building could only be
used for educational purposes. Sir Eric, in
the Rector's question time recently, said
that 'we've made a terrible mess of it', a
feeling echoed by those who have been
left in uncertainty over exactly how long
they had left at Montpelier.
Now the first residents have moved into
Clayponds, and very nice it is too. It just
seems strange that College should be
buying a whole new estate when the
Accommodation Office is deeply in debt.
Perhaps it is hoped that by raising a large
amount in new rents, the £20.5 million
accommodation deficit may be paid off.
Hence the steep rent rises proposed for
next year.
Dissatisfaction over levels of rent
reached unprecedented levels when
residents of many halls were asked to
pay full rent over the Easter vacation or
empty their rooms. This was done
without the consultation of the wardens
and was seen by many students as a way
of making a fast buck.
As for next year, increases include a
rise in deposits from £50 to £75 and a
lengthening of the period of notice to a
term. This will make it far more difficult
to move out of a College room. Residents
will also be asked to pay for 34 weeks
instead of 31 in many halls. Consultation
between Paul Shanley and Gordon
Marshall over a proposed rent increase
from £46 to £52 p/w has made the later
lose face. Mr Marshall shall henceforth
not be handling rents.
There is another problem with
accommodation, that of ageing buildings.
Southside should be condemned in a few
years time, having been built 29 years
ago, with an intended lifespan of 25
years. It is unlikely that the College will
be allowed to build such a monstrosity
again, which means that a large sum of
money will be needed to finance a hall of
the same size. Of course a smaller hall
could be built, or the land used for other
purposes, but the student population have
a heed for more purpose built
accommodation near to College, not less.
Ongoing Sagas
The future of the careers service at
Imperial is looking bleak with the
planned disaffiliation from the University
of London Careers Advisory Service
(ULCAS). The Rector took what he said
was a purely managerial decision to
break contact with ULCAS, consulting
only Mr Angus Fraser, College's Managing
Director, and not the student
representatives. There are fears that this
move will reduce careers advice in non-
scientific areas since the Rector is known
to favour graduates moving into jobs of a
technical nature.
Claimed benefits of disaffiliation include
simplification of the management
structure, but Russ Clarke, IC's chief
careers advisor from ULCAS believes the
service provided to students could suffer.
Unsurprisingly, the move was initiated
when the College was asked to pay more
money for the service. They had been
receiving ULCAS support at a reduced
rate due to a quirk in university funding
procedures. Funny how money
considerations overrule that of students.
Queen Mary and Westfield College took
drastic action to save money - it has
decided to close at least one department
and severely curtail others. Up to 400
jobs may be lost in the next five years as
the hospital restructures in the process of
becoming self-governing. The action
group there expects the Government to
close one London teaching hospital. This
would have a severe effect, not only on
patient care, but on training for the
future.
The College announced a new science
park to be built at Duffryn, South Wales.
The first building is likely to be a £2
million technology center called 'Imperial
House'. Research projects form a large
part of Imperial's income, £39 million for
the 1989/90 period. Does all this money
have to go back into research? One
would have hoped that part could be
used to pay off the massive
accommodation debt. That kind of
transaction is illegal under Government
regulations, but as the Rector said about
missing lectures; 'its's been done before'.
College Security
Theft has been a major problem all year,
contributing to the news again and again.
Unfortunately the Union building is still as
insecure as it was this time last year and
random thefts are increasing.
The biggest movers during the year
have been bikes. Plugging D-locks has
made no impression on students. The
College in general is an area of rich
pickings with departments being totally
insecure. Many cheque books and cards
have been stolen from offices and from
the Union. On three occasions this year
Benjamin Turner, ICU Deputy President,
gave chase and successfully gained their
collars. In the words of the local nick, it's
more than they have had! Although I
support students and staff being wary, it
should not be their responsibility to
protect the College.
Even the College Ambulance was
broken into and £500 of emergency
equipment stolen. Included in the items
taken was Nitrous Oxide. Known more
commonly as laughing gas it was
probably intended for personal use.
Another College vehicle, a mail van, left
unattended for a few minutes, was stolen
and driven to Peckham. It seemed that
most of the post, apart from six
registered packets, was untouched. The
driver was chastised but security
commented that the theft was 'one of
those things'.

