News Review 90-91
An attempt was made to reduce
incidents occurring in Southside bar by
introducing card checks at the door,
although I still wonder why the
checkersdon't carry ID themselves!
Perhaps some similar scheme should be
attempted in the Union Bar which has
had several fights, some involving
persons not involved with IC. The
Carnival, for example, led one man to
punch out a window, lacerating his hand.
Geoff Reeves, Head of Security,
resigned a year before retirement, since
he did not feel that he had enough time
to carry out the changes in security that
were being mo6ted. 'Half-baked change',
as he called it, seems to'be rife in
College.
During the. year computer hacking was
made a criminal act by the Computer
Misuse Act 1990. This necessitated
universities to take a serious view on
hacking and the Board of Studies passed
the following regulation: 'Computer
misuse will be regarded as a serious
offence and will be dealt with under the
College Disciplinary Procedure...'
During the time of the Gulf War, or
police action as they like to call it,
rumours of stored nerve gas quickly
drifted around College. A siren was
installed in the Queen's Tower to scare
the shit out of everybody and orders
were issued to leave College premises,
turn East and run like hell. It was also
requested that no such information should
be channeled to the media but someone
spoke to the Evening Standard, say
no-more.
On the 18th January, Felix carried a
report of the bombing of Tel Aviv,
written at 1.30am. Huddling round the
radio, bringing the news to students as it
happened, we fulfilled the journalists
dream - to be first with the news.
Unfortunately we typeset the date
wrongly and to some it appeared as if the
occurrence happened a week earlier.
Morons in College
They came to earth in order to seek out
Science Fiction Society (ICSF) and lay a
simple power cable. This simple message
belied their true mission: to drill a big
hole in ICSF's door, walls and ceiling.
Another example of Estates' ineptitude
is the state of the Union lift. This machine
was out of order for nearly a year whilst
a vital component was manufactured in
the United States. Why it was not possible
for the combined resources of Imperial
College to repair one bit of metal one
shall never know.
An indication of the priority given to
students is the fact that although many
minor repairs have been requested by
this year's sabbaticals very little has been
done to improve the fabric of the Union
building, often leaving it insecure. This is
indicative of the state of College repairs.
In fact it has been rumoured that with
respect to Evelyn Gardens, Joe Dines and
Peter Hallworth will be holding up falling
ceilings with their bare hands to save
money.
Dr Gillon, Director of the College
Health Service put his foot in it when he
supported the prescription of beta-
blockers to students to help them through
money. Inevitably it will be the students
who will have to pay the difference. This
will further reduce the divide between
Imperial College and Imperial College pic.
Already the London School of Economics
and University College have considered
charging tuition fees. IC's own
Management School has increased it's
course fees for the MBA in Management
from £3,500 to £4,500.
examinations. His comments about
students being able to sit through
examinations without extreme anxiety
affecting their results highlights
thenegative effect of examinations on
students in general. It is generally agreed
that regularly assessed practical
coursework is a far better indicator of a
pupil's ability than a few hours of
torturous abstract problem solving.
Imperial has decided that the blanket
agreement for paying BOC for various
gasses is not in their favour, and are
looking at various other suppliers.
Imperial provides 10% of the total
academic market for gases, but pays the
same rate as smaller consumers. Of
course any agreement in which College
paid out to support more needy colleges
who do not have the same resources is
not fair and should be scrapped. I would
not have expected less from the clutching
financiers of Sherfield.
Still in Sherfield, Tom Stevens, IC
Business Manager, was given a graceful
heave-ho. The man 'in the know', Angus
Fraser, gave the damning 'no comment'
and left us to guess whether this had any
connection with Rob Northey's intended
resignation. Mr Northey, IC's Refectory
Manager, had little to say on the subject.
The few reasons he gave being
interrupted by the chuckled comment 'I'm
not going to tell you'. One can only
speculate, and we will. Why was he paid
an extra months salary?
Money, I want Money.
On a larger scale, the University Funding
Council have decided that they can not
fund universities to the level universities
think they need. In other words,
universities must support more students
to a better level of education with less

