News Review 90-91
money. Inevitably it will be the students
who will have to pay the difference. This
will further reduce the divide between
Imperial College and Imperial College pic.
Already the London School of Economics
and University College have considered
charging tuition fees. IC's own
Management School has increased it's
course fees for the M B A in Management
from £3,500 to £4,500.
A s well as cutting funding to
universities, the Government this year has
introduced the Student Loan. This is
intended to offset the depreciation of
grants which have been frozen at last
year's level. However, by the beginning
of November only 200 students had
applied. Was this due to the general
apathy that haunts IC or due to a massed
outcry against this twisted system? In
tandem with the loans came the Access
Fund, a Government safety net for
impoverished students. Mr Cullen, who
managed both schemes, tried valiantly to
give away £259,400, receiving just 220
applications at first, rising to 560 after a
campaign in Felix. Next year Mr Cullen
hopes to have more to give out and
thought that more students would apply.
These grants aren't to offset the loss of
housing benefit are they?
The Union
The Union has been fairly quiet this year,
with only a few major cock-ups. The first
major hiccup came when a giant marquee
was erected on the Queen's L a w n for the
Careers Fair. Setbacks aside, the Fair was
a runaway success in all ways except
financial. The fair made a small loss in
50
comparison with the substantial' surplus it
made last year, but this was due to a
change inorganisation and added facilities
to the companies who attended.
A n even bigger clanger was dropped to
the tune of £5,500 due to
maladministration both in the Union and
the College over the 'big gig' w h i c h was
due to be held in the Careers Fair's
marquee the next weekend. O n the day
the marquee wasn't used, there wasn't a
bar extension, the support band pulled
out and publicity was poor. The ticket
price spiraled down from the original £7,
and ended up free. Even so, only 350
people attended to see the ever trendy
Dr. and the Medics. Fortunately, the gigs
later in the year were more successful
and attracted a fair crowd.
The Snack-bar (aka the 'Lounge Bar'
aka the Caterpillar Cafe ) has been re-
fitted again during the year, this time
with some success. Although the
conversion to dark blue carpet and pink
walls cost around £8,000, the
establishment broke even for the first
time in four years. The change started
well, with a new selection of baps
(Chicken T i k k a anyone?) and pastries.
The latter, however, are overpriced and
the finesse that went into the first menus
seems to have fallen into the familiar
'there's chilli or some veai mush'.
Further work planned for the summer
that should make entering the toilets less
of an ordeal and revamp the Union office,
is the first stage of an attempt to make
students feel part of the Union. The aim
is to create a hub of activities to w h i c h a
student may turn for entertainment. This
would provide a reason for students to
come to the Union building, eat some
food in the Union Lounge-bar, watch a
film courtesy of the Union's Film Society
and socialise over a drink from the Union
bar. Just by being in the U n i o n building,
people would then find out where to
come for help with any part of student
life. Many people do not realise that there
is a Union welfare service and that the
Union is not only there to provide a huge
range of clubs and activities but also to
advise and represent students on a wide
range of issues.
Spending money on cosmetic changes,
however, is the easy part. To produce a
caring face, some radical changes will
have to be made in the day to day
running and the unfriendly, closed
atmosphere found at present. The insular
nature of many segments of the Union
has been building up for many years and
change will be a painful and difficult
process. In addition, if the functions are
run only to the standard seen so far,
ramshackle and badly coordinated, the
increasingly sophisticated student will
turn to the well organised events
available in London.
Changing of staff and attitudes has
started this year with new staff being
appointed to over half the professional .
posts in the Union. This has already h a d
an effect, with Mandy Hurford, the new
Union Manager, instigating the successful
changes seen in the Snack-bar. She is the
driving force behind many of the changes
mooted above.
The face of the Union certainly
changed with the retirement of Jen
Hardy- Smith who was at the centre of
the Union for 17 years. With new faces in
both the finance and administrative
sections of the Union, there may be a
better tolerance to change and
reappraisal of the purpose of the Union.
Visitors to Mickey Mouse land
The College has been overwhelmed with
visitors this year, including Margaret
Thatcher w h o opened the new Centre for
Population Biology at Silwood Park as her
first official engagement since her
resignation.
ConSoc invited many conservatives,
such as Cecil Parkinson and Edwina
Currie to speak to them and The Socialist
Workers Student Society and ICU Labour
Club did likewise, inviting Tony Benn and
Jeremy C o r b y n , another Labour MP. W h y
they don't ever want the other side' to
talk to them I don't know.
Another event, w h i c h might have been
of wide interest to students was the
Schrodinger lecture w h i c h this year
featured Professor Mandelbrot. The
lecture was originally to be held in the
Great Hall, as usual, but w h e n this venue
was oversubscribed it was relocated in
the last week to the Westminster Central
Hall. It is a pity that the extra capacity
was not widely advertised as the larger
venue was only half filled, and not many
of those attending were students. College
clearly could not be bothered to
encourage students to attend even though
this was a topic w h i c h can arouse interest
in even the most apathetic soul.
Acts of God - Fire and Flood
The halls of residence are becoming
dangerous placed to live. In Weeks Hall,
a kamikaze wall heater destroyed the
room in w h i c h it committed suicide.
Other halls have had exploding
microwaves and incendiary grills. These
fires highlight the inadequacies of the
equipment and alarm systems in hall,
though as usual, nothing has been altered
since nobody was seriously hurt.
College did not escape injury this year,
with the water in a tank on the eighth
floor of M e c h E n g making a dramatic
escape. Not content with it's high position
in the College hierarchy it decided that
working in the basement was it's aim. To
reach this envious position it took a short
cut down the main power ducts, shorting
out the department in the process. A
lesson in staff management there.

