News Review 90-91
College T y r a n n y 9 to 6.
Proposals to change the college day
have resurfaced throughout the year. A
longer working day and staggered
lunchtimes were firmly rejected by
students at UGM, but the Rector, Sir Eric,
continued to plug his cause throughout
the year.
Students have complained that a
lengthened College day, even if the
number of contact hours remain constant,
will create traveling problems and will
interfere with hall meals. There is also
the suspicion that departments will try to
cram more work into the newly made
space. Additionally a staggered lunch
hour will make it almost impossible for
many clubs and societies to operate in an
effective and productive way.
The Rector brushed aside such
objections saying '...after all, just
occasionally, one can skip a class-get a
friend to take some notes. Going to
lectures is much to be desired-but one
can make a few exceptions. It has
beendone before...'
On the subject of work, the Rector, Sir
Eric Ash, has been on record saying there
is not enough maths on courses.
Engineers say that the college might-as
well rename all courses 'applied
mathematics' if any more is introduced.
Affairs of the Rag
The most prominent feature of Rag this
year was the squabble between Imperial
and Cardiff Universities. The chief
complaint of Cardiff was that collecting
cans had been appropriated into
Imperial's own collection. At first glance
this seems to be a petty charge since all
of the money would eventually go to
charity. It emphasises, however, the
sloppy way that cans were gathered at
the end of the day. For some time after
the event, rag cans were being found in
odd corners of the Union building, some
marked, some not. If Imperial is to keep
it's position as a rallying point for London
and countrywide rag organisations, it
must manage events such as these in a
more professional way.
Petty bickering aside, Rag has raised
thousands of pounds this year, Monopoly
and Tiddlywinking racking up £6,000.
Pub crawls and the Beer Festival were
popular, as was the Bar Quiz (yet again I
must report without bias that Felix won
hands down). The C&G Slave Auction
raised over £700 but proved
controversial, prompting an attack by
STOIC (Student Television Of Imperial
College) on the outdated and sexist views
prevailing in College.
The Rag Fete did not fair so well. It
had a poor turnout and raised little
money, due to a lack of publicity and a
move from it's normal venue, the Queen's
Lawn being abandoned due to College
having removed the turf. Another
example of a well planned and executed
event due to mutual cooperation.
The Exec. Initiative proved that yet
again the Union Executive are a
tenacious breed. Dropped outside
Stonehenge, the Exec, were to make their
way back to college. Unfortunately for
the organisers, their minibus was stolen
by the Hon Sec, Murray Williamson who
had decided to return in style, showing,
for the first and last time, some initiative.
The Queens Tower's lions did not
escape Rag stunts this year being suffused
with a cheery red glow. King's College
was suspected but the culprits are not
known. The occasion produced an
unforgettable quote from Mr Reeves, 'If
we have to sandblast the lions much
more we'll end up with a couple of
bloody mice'.
Conclusion
There is a general trend emerging that all
aspects of College and Union policy are
being justified on financial grounds, rather
than on possible benefits to students.
Change is often accompanied by the
argument that 'it will bring more money
into the system which will filter back to
students'. In reality, any extra revenue
gained stays within the section wherein it
was created, proppingup a research grant
or subsidising one club's activities rather
than benefiting students in general.
The Union now has it's own logo, but is
stuck with it's old image. College has not
seen fit to introduce anything new and
my research is going quite nicely
thankyou.
The next few years will see the Union
and College fighting with the problems of
accommodation. The College is already
seeing a reduction in intake which may
be directly accounted for by the high cost
of living in London, exacerbated by the
current mismanagement of College
accommodation. How the issue of
accommodation is tacked by the Union
will strongly affect it's image and standing
since the decisions made will affect many
students, both in the short term and for
many years to come.
51
Which would you trust with &13.5K ?
If you don't keep them under control they get all
over the building
One of these deserves a good home

