Resignation
Mr Rolf Birch, an orthopaedic surgeon at
St Mary's hospital, has resigned and
intends to move his centre of operations
at the Royal National Hospital at
Stanmore, where he has occasionally
worked before. Reports in the national
media suggested that Mr Birch was
frustrated with the limitations on
treatment he could offer patients enforced
by the administration policies at St
Mary's.
Mr Birch is reported to have said that it
was 'no longer professionally possible' to
care for children to the levels he wanted
to. He said that the implementation of
'trust status', soon to be adopted by St
Mary's, would add to the bureaucracy
that already hindered him getting to see
patients.
Although Mr Birch was too busy to
comment yesterday, a spokesperson from
the Stanmore hospital said that 'we are
delighted he is moving .. and is going to
centre his activity here at Stanmore'.
Delayed w | n eD ,
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, has stated that
the proposed changes to the college day
will not be implemented this October. He
added that it will probably not occur
even in January 1992 as the timetable for
many of the departments was already set.
Mend-a-Bihe
P E T E * T H O M A S
BICYCLE
REPAIRS
SALES
A N D
ACCESSORIES
4-6 Effle Road
Fulham, London SW6 I T D
071-371 5867
There are plans afoot to convert the
basement of 170 Queensgate into a wine
bar for academics and alumni. The
Rector, Sir Eric Ash, told Felix that the
feasibility of doing this - both technically
and financially - had not been studied,
and that if the plan was to go ahead it
might occur next summer.
Sir Eric said that academics and alumni
need more than the Holland Club; 'they
need faculty clubs such as many
American universities have'. He added
that 'if it can work financially it will have
a useful effect on the college'. In his view
the college needs somewhere where
alumni can drop in when visiting the
college and where college staff can meet
after work. He said that* his objective was
to 'get alumni to make a bigger
contribution to the college as a whole'.
Last year the whole of the ground floor
of 170 Queensgate except the room
facing the garden was renovated. This
summer the remaining room is to be
redecorated. 'I don't think this is
debatable', said the Rector, and added
that the building was often rented out
and was where 'the great and the good',
industry and commerce were persuaded
to support the college.
Dirty
Dealing
Doctor
A warden of a college hall has been
accused of attempted fraud this week. Dr
Joe Cartwright, the warden of Willis
Jackson house, is alleged to have fined a
student in his hall £50, stating that the
cheque should be made payable to Dr
Cartwright himself. This is in direct
contravention to the rules laid down in
'discipline in Imperial College' where it
states that 'all monies from fines shall be
donated to the Union charity of the year'.
Following an appeal by the student
concerned, who had removed and
damaged a hall stereo player, the matter
was brought to light and the fine was
paid to the charity. According to both Dr
Cartwright and Dr Brian Levitt, the
chairman of the Student Residence
Tribunal and also a Westminster City
Conservative councillor, though it was
true that this had happened, nothing
unacceptable had been done. Dr Levitt
told Felix that whether the fine was made
payable to the Rag charity or not
depended on whether it was considered a
'fine' or a 'charge' - the latter being
made payable to the hall concerned for
damage done to it. He said that in this
case it 'could have been either.'
A secondary allegation concerns the
appointment of a subwarden in the hall.
Sources from the Union categorically
deny that this subwarden took up office
after being approved by the Subwarden
Appointment Panel, which is the only
legitimate way of doing so. Dr Cartwright
in turn states that he did nothing wrong
and that Ben Turner, Union deputy
president, was informed and agreed to
the placement. This Mr Turner refutes,
saying that all he did was to tell Dr
Cartwright exactly what channels he
should use.
In addition, a number of sources have
said that a former subwarden, Mike
Priestnall, stayed on in the hall after his
term of office paying a weekly rent of
£20 to Dr Cartwright. Dr Cartwright in
turn said that he had offered Mr Priestnall
the hall guest room for a month while he
was searching for somewhere else to stay
and that the rent was paid into the hall
amenities fund.
Dr Cartwright concluded by saying all
these allegations were 'definately not
true.'

