The staff thought they were pretty clever: now it's my turn...
Editor on Staff
T o b y (Former News Editor)
Toby had all the makings of a Felix Editor. He
didn't sleep, worked far too hard for us, didn't
do any course work, could do anything in the
office, and is a borderline psychopath.
Unfortunately he hadn't quite got the hang of
it, because he decided he really ought to try
and pass his degree, and left.
But the real problem was we all liked him.
Stef (General Office Bod, Part T i m e News
Editor, and Penguin Appreciator)
Stef is insane. This is not because he identifies
with penguins (right down to emulating their
skill at chess), but because he has openly
stated that he liked some of my issues.
Strangely enough it appears that penguins,
despite being very bad at chess, are actually
quite nifty little graphic designers, as Stef is
responsible for most of the icons in Felix this
year. They also apparently take to the things
that need to be done in a Felix office in much
the same way that they don't to sea-lions.
He is also very talented at destroying
computerised cities.
A n n a (Current News Editor and T o k e n
Woman)
Anna wants to be a journalist. I mean she
really really wants to be a journalist. With all
her heart.
Shame really.
(1 don't really mean it. Honest.)
A d a m (Generally G o o d Bloke and F o r m e r
A r t s Editor)
Adam T is as near to being a perfect student
staff member as anyone I've ever met. Losing
him due to his exams and appointment as
editor of CUB (the student magazine at QMW
where he now studies) was a huge body blow
both to myself and to Felix.
He has worked ridiculously hard for Felix
this year, despite not even being at Imperial
and having to travel for an hour to get here.
He can do just about anything that is needed
of him: Paste-up, camera work, typesetting, not
sleeping, write the nice bits about me in the
'Staff on Editor', and go on comic buying trips
on Fridays after getting up really early to help
me distribute (the fact that he was often
sleeping on my floor having nothing to do with
this). He also reads some really cool comics,
and he bought me a drink once, and...
I'm sorry. I tried to think of something nasty.
Honest.
Matt a n d Sumit (Current A r t s Editor)
These two have been grouped together for the
simple reason that they share the same brain.
Under Adam T they worked as reviewers, and
when he resigned they leapt into the gap with
more gusto than a particularly suicidal
lemming who has watched far too many bad
American T V shows, and was under the
influence of various recreational
pharmaceuticals, mainly those of amphetamine
descent. Which is roughly how they describe
themselves when writing reviews.
Except for the bit about the bad T V shows.
M i k e (Sex Starved B o o k s Editor)
Mike is one of those people that 1 could have a
real heyday with. 1 could be really nasty,
totally rip him to pieces.
But it's much more fun to let him wonder
what 1 could have written.
Sarah (Former Music Editor)
Sarah was one of the staff members from the
old school (ie she's left). She originally decided
to stand for the non-sabb editor, but in a flash
of neural activity far too impressive for a
potential editor she realised that if she got the
post she'd actually have to be seen in the day.
This is not necessarily a bad thing for your
average human, but Sarah belongs to that
vague sub-species, the 'Goffs'. As such she had
spent painstaking hours not going out in the
day, avoiding exposure to any form of solar
radiation, and generally working up a nice
unhealthy pallor. So she decided to stay
nocturnal (ie do the music pages).
She's also damn good at lot's of other stuff
(like paste-up), but as she left without telling
me what was getting her down, I'm not going
to say that.
J o h n (Current Music Editor)
I have a feeling that John is in fact an alien.
He's far too good at being music editor to
really be a physics fresher. He's also stolen one
of earths women, and he's into indie music.
What makes it really suspicious is that he's
actually nice to me.
And I've never seen him without his cap on.
D o m (Music Reviewer and E d this issue)
Dom is the guy responsible for those really
weird bits that appear in the music pages
almost of their own accord. He is also a pro
MC-5 fan, and full time hippie.
Roland (Former Features Editor, Current
whereabouts unknown)
Roland was the man responsible for the cover
of my first issue of Felix. I think that just about
explains why he hasn't been seen in recent
months.
Either the rest of the staff got him, or he's
still in hiding.
Ian (Former Science Editor, H anger-On)
Ian Hodge, or as he doesn't like to be called
(but everyone does anyway), 'BODGE',
originally decided to stand for non-sabbatical
editor. However, he was persuaded by the rest
of the staff that he really shouldn't stand, as
the job was very strenuous, and what with the
weak heart he didn't actually have, it wouldn't
actually kill him, so he shouldn't do it.
After this he seemed to lose interest in doing
any work for Felix.
Richard (Rumoured Photo Editor)
Who?
Jonty, Nige, Dave and J a m e s (Reviewers,
News People, General Bods, Hacker)
These three are the kind of people we need far
more of. They aren't concerned with just one
section, but do whatever is needed at the time.
They're all good blokes, and I love 'em to
death.
This has nothing to do with the fact that
they haven't really been about long enough,
and thus actually do things that I ask them.
(James is the exception: He has been around
long enough, but still does what I ask him)
C h r i s Riley (Professional Tourist)
Chris has been everywhere in the world, and
written articles for Felix about most of it. He is
also the only PhD student at IC who has ever
written anything for us more than once.
He also has the annoying habit of being
happy all the time.
Kate and Louise (Err...)
Kate and Louise are not staff in the strict sense
of the word. However, they have been very,
er, accommodating to some of the other staff
throughout most of the last two terms. At this
point my natural instinct for self preservation is
screaming rather loudly into both of my ears .
at the same time, so I think I'll shut up.
Steve (Head Collator, V i d e o Supplier, a n d
Professional Mug)
Steve isn't so much a staff member as someone
who's far too gullible for his own good. He's
turned up to almost every collating session,
normally with a VCR, TV, and assorted tapes
following dutifully behind. He never leaves
before it's all done, which means he normally
ends up distributing.I could almost forgive him
for all the hassle he gives me.
Almost.
J e r e m y (Business Manager, Advertising,
and Part-Time Computer Tyrant)
Jeremy is the living incarnation of Karl Marx's
worst nightmare. He has done such an
excellent job at organising the finances and
advertising this year that he has become one
of the best examples of why communism is
doomed to failure. He is also one of the very
few people in the office who is totally frank
with me, which comes as a refreshing change
compared to most of the other Machiavellian
plotters around here.
Unfortunately he realised quite early on that
as he isn't being paid he doesn't have to do
anything I ask him to unless he really really
wants to.
Rose and A n d y (Typesetting, Printing, and
Wonderful H u m a n Beings)
I've grouped these two together not because
they don't deserve separate sections, but
because they deserve so much praise that I
haven't got the space to say it all twice.
If Adam T is as near to a perfect student
staff member as I've met, then Rose and Andy
A R E the perfect paid staff. They are both
excellent at their jobs, and no one in the office
works harder than they do. I couldn't say too
many good things about them. What makes it
worse is that Andy is a hideously talented
musician, with a brilliant band, and both of
them are great people.
I cannot adequately express my thanks to
them for the work they've done this year. I
only hope that they both stay with Felix for a
long time yet, as we would find it nearly
impossible to find two other people who are as
good at their jobs, and are willing to put up
with people like me. I know this all sounds
horribly gratuitous, but the worst thing is it's
all true, and I mean every word. Thanks.
C h r i s (Former Editor Elect and Current
Production Manager)
I've left Chris until last because I don't really
know what to write. He's been a huge help to
me throughout the entire year, both
professionally and as a friend.
I can't say he hasn't annoyed me at times, or
that he's always acted as I would have liked.
But the basic fact is that without him there
could not have been a regular Felix this year.
Whenever I've had exams it has been Chris
who's got the thing done while I've been
trying to work. This issue would not have been
produced without him, as he's handled nearly
the whole thing (I've got exams on Thursday
and Friday).
He really deserved to be Editor this year,
and I thank him for all the help he's given me,
and all the work he's done both for Felix and
as Print Unit Manager.
He's also a really cool guy.
Cheers Chris.
52

