Editorial
Well, here it is, the last issue of Felix for this
academic year. Surprisingly enough that means
that this will be my last editorial (isn't logic a
wonderful thing), at least for a little while.
However, before you all burst into tears at my
passing, in the great tradition of editors
everywhere, I've still got a few things left to
say.
Most of these are things that have been
lurking belligerently around in the area at the
back of my brain where belligerent things like
to lurk for quite some time, and there just
hasn't been the chance to write them before.
The rest are just feelings and opinions and
summings up of my time as an editor. But let's
deal with a lurker-first...
Non-Sabbatical Editorship, and other things
I wouldn't wish on m y worst enemy...
For this year I've been the first non-sabb editor
in quite a while, and the main thing I'd like to
say about it is that it sucks. If I'd had half the
sense that evolution (or God, depending on
your view of things) saw fit to bestow on the
common earthworm, then I would have
resigned after the first couple of weeks.
Basically the job of Felix Editor is far too big
for someone who is unable to devote all their
time towards it, regardless of how much help
they have. Even with an extra member of
staff, as we had this year, it just won't work. It
is still the editor who is ultimately responsible
and everyone, despite all their misgivings and
sane feelings to the contrary, continues to look
to him or her to make the decisions, organise
the whole thing, and sometimes, unbelievably,
for advice and encouragement (mad, aren't
they?). So if the person concerned can't be in
the office all the time, and even when they are
often can't give Felix their full attention
because they're worrying about their course,
etc, the whole system breaks down.
I'm not saying that it was only the situation
that has been to blame for many of the
problems that Felix has had this year. As I've
already mentioned in my piece on the staff,
several people haven't acted in the way which
1 think would have been ideal (ho hum). On
top of this I've been far from blameless myself,
and several things that have gone wrong have
had at least some grounding in me, and
several have been entirely my own fault.
However, I feel that even the most organised,
hard-working, even-tempered and generally
saint-like example of the perfect editor still
would not be able to overcome the innate
problems of being a non-sabb.
Basically it's just too much. In order to give
Felix the attention it needs and deserves of its
editor, you would have to sacrifice your
course, and vice- versa. There isn't any way to
find a middle road that will allow you to do
both well. In future the Union should bear this
. in mind, and while I appreciate that there
wasn't much else they could have done in the
circumstances, they really shouldn't allow the
same thing to happen twice. Felix needs an
editor, and it needs one that can devote all
their time to it, otherwise they won't be able
to do justice to the job, to themselves,
and.most importantly, to Felix itself.
Students of the College unite?
More shady lurking, I'm afraid, this time to do
with our beloved Union, and the people I n "
charge thereof. Several people have
commented this year that I have on occasions
been very soft on the Union, and generally
haven't maintained the near-tradition of pitting
Felix against 'them upstairs'. This is true.
No, I'm not about to admit to being a
snivelling lackey of the Union by claiming that
they haven't actually done anything wrong, or
that they are the most wonderful Union
Officials ever. The reason why I'm not going to
admit to it is because it's not true.
However, I do have an explanation. I came
into this job not really knowing much about
the internal workings of College or the Union.
However, I did know that a lot of people seem
to find a great deal of amusement in whiling
away their time by moaning about the Union. I
also realised quite quickly that College
administration are continually trying to change
things here, and often in a way that could be
or in fact are bad for us students.
I also realised that the only student body
with the power to try to stop this kind of thing
happening are the Union. For example, the
proposed extension of the College Day, and
the ridiculous rent increases proposed for next
year were both fought by the Union, and in
both cases students ended up a lot better off.
It seems to me that most of the so-called
'problems' with the Union result from the fact
that not enough people actually get involved.
It's all well and good to sit on your backsides,
admire your digital watches/stare at your pint,
and slag off the Union, but nothing is going to
change if more students don't start seeing the
Union for what it is: A group of people who
are there to represent OUR views to College,
and to serve US.
As, typically enough, the average apathetic
student seems to be unable to realise this for
him/herself, I have been attempting to get this
idea across via my editorials. Hence my lack of
complaints about the Union. It would be no
good me propounding their virtues and
attempting to raise peoples awareness of 'them
upstairs' if I then turn around and give them a
good slagging for some minor annoyance or
pathetic cock-up. I'm not saying they haven't
made any, because they have. However, they
have also worked very hard; almost as hard as
the Felix staff, which is about the highest
commendation I give to anybody.
Neither do I want to give the impression that
Felix is the mouthpiece of the Union, because
it isn't, and never has been (or will be). I just
feel that both the Union and Felix are here to
represent and serve students. I also feel that to
encourage interaction with the Union benefits
far more students than reducing the already
low faith in a group of people who, for this
year at least, have done a lot of work, and in
an institution that is vital to us, and has the
potential to do so much more than it does, if
only people would take an interest.
Evil Tyrants, Nasty Plans, Accountants and
Management Structures
Quite a short bit, just for a change, as the
upper tiers of College have been covered in
various other articles in this issue (I'm talking
specifically of Shan's Bit - give it a read).
Suffice it say that in my innocent idealism and
naivety 1 used to believe that the big boys
over at College had as their primary concern
the quality of our education, and the
continuing academic standards of our college.
I was wrong. I have attempted to show just
what kind of things actually go on, and how
much sneakiness, backstabbing, dubious
accountancy, and plain old incompetence there
is 'over there'. Unfortunately, 1 don't think I've
even managed to scratch the surface.
I just hope that Adam can do better next
year. There are a lot of things that go on over
there that they'd rather we didn't know, but
we'd probably be a lot better off if we did. At
least then we might be able to have a say in
our futures.
'Regrets, I've had a few...'
I don't regret having been Felix Editor.
However, in my own eyes I have not done
justice to Felix, to my course, or to myself, and
this 1 do regret. I know that 1 could have done
a better job, and not all of the problems were
to do with being a non-sabb. But that's just the
breaks.
I would like to apologise to all the people
that I've managed to annoy over the past few
months, for whatever reason, especially those
who haven't deserved it (ie the staff). There
have been times when I've been surprised that
they haven't murdered me...
...He's coming a r o u n d the final bend (and
he's in front of all the people behind
him)...
So there you have it: My last editorial (well,
not including this bit). I'm afraid 1 feel a bout
of that horrible affliction that affects all Oscar
winners and Editors in their last issue - The
gratuitous thank yous...
Firstly, a massive thankyou to all the staff,
both for all the hard work, and for putting up
with me as well as you have. I'd like to thank
all the contributors and collators: Without you
guys and gals Felix would have been in even
more trouble than he was when I got elected.
Also huge hugs and kisses to all the people
who've ever said to me 'Good editorial' or
'Nice issue this week' or 'The cartoon was
funny' or anything like that, and all those
people who are in college at very silly hours of
the morning when I distribute Felix, and pick
up a copy as soon as I put them down. Last
but by no means least (don't you just love
cliches?) all of you who have ever read a copy
of Felix this year. Oh, and my Mum and Dad,
my brothers and sister, James, John P, Eirik,
Chris, Emily, Adam T (thanks for defending
me), Richard, Jez, Keira, Eddie, Matt, Darren,
Wendy, Tim, Jenny, Nigel, Anna, Lisa, Sam,
Ian, Reni, Andy, John B, Kate, Louise, Stef,
Penny (from Fisher?), David, Jeremy B, Steve,
all my other friends, Alison, my teachers at
school, my two dogs, Burger King, Ben, the
Gosh Comics Shop, Bob Kane, the Coca Cola
Corporation, Marlboro Cigarettes, Shan,
Whoever makes Pro-Plus, James Cameron, The
Russians for inventing Vodka, Whoever
invented coffee (Mr Coffee?), The Zippo
Corporation, the kitchen sink...
By no means has it all been sunshine, roses
and happy bunnies, but given the chance I'd
still do it all again. Despite all the hassles,
stress, lack of sleep, increased cigarette intake
and nasty things written about me I've really
enjoyed it in a sick, warped and twisted kind
of way (it was a larf).
A n d on the seventh day, He looked back
on what He h a d created...
O r , Well, that's about it then...
F e l i x is p r o d u c e d for a n d o n b e h a l f o f t h e I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e
U n i o n P u b l i c a t i o n s B o a r d a n d is p r i n t e d b y t h e I m p e r i a l
C o l l e g e U n i o n P r i n t U n i t , P r i n c e C o n s o r t R o a d , L o n d o n S W 7
2 B B ( T e l 0 7 1 - 2 2 5 8 6 7 2 ) . E d i t o r : A n d r e w B u t c h e r , M a n a g e r :
C h r i s S t a p l e t o n , B u s i n e s s M a n a g e r : J e r e m y B u r n e l l . C o p y r i g h t
F e l i x 1 9 9 1 . I S S N 1 0 4 0 - 0 7 1 1 .

