This is probably my last report as
President before handing over to Zoe
Hellinger. The allegation often made by
the Rector is that Union sabbaticals are
unrepresentative. The Union has tried to
demonstrate that this is not always the
case. In particular, we have tried to
gauge student opinion on such issues as
the college day and student rents. We
even undertook a market research
exercise - the first on such a large scale
in ICU history. What follows is completely
unrepresentative - it is personal.
Constituent College Unions
If Imperial College was to be recreated,
CCUs would play no part in it. The
variety of CCUs is interesting in itself. St
Mary's is probably the most with-it CCU.
It generally represents its members and
forms a good social forum for the medics
to meet. However this would probably be
true of any CCU which found itself
isolated on a different site. Of the other
CCUs, there is little else in their favour.
City and Guilds performs some useful role
academically, as it did when the threat of
ACGIs being awarded outside of IC came
up. Socially, they satisfy little need that
isn't already catered for by the Union
main body. The Royal School of Mines
does little academically - its Academic
Affairs Officer has done nothing this year
- and generally gets a reputation for
pissing it up in the bar every night. The
RSMU completely wipes out every effort
made by the college to promote women
in science and engineering. And the
RCSU? The biggest laugh is left until last.
RCSU may well represent its members
academically - its Academic Affairs
Officer has done a good job this year -
but the majority of RCSU are people who
couldn't muster half a course unit
between them. Some of them, of course
mean very well. But the majority of
people within the RCSU office are wasters
who have failed exams and are too
frightened to face the real world. Suzanne
Ahmet, in particular, had ideas about
eliminating the randoms from the office
this year. She has failed in that
endeavour - not least of which because
she failed to appreciate the ethos that
exists of RCS being for a select bunch
organising events for themselves. A
complete waste of a union block grant.
Angie Creissen has stacks to do next
year.
U L U
The University of London Union is
possibly the worst waste of money in the
whole of the country's academic expense.
Set up to provide additional services not
catered for by host unions, it performs
little or none of this function. At the
heart of ULU is a policy making body
known as GUC. GUC is the worst case of
committee destruction known to mankind.
It forms working parties to discuss the
purchase of a new ULU minibus (ICU
bought one overnight), it attempts to
donate money to charitable causes (illegal
under attorney general guidelines), it
represents no-one but a select band of
followers. In principle ULU should work,
in practice it is a meaningless
organisation whose sole raison d'etre is
ICU PRESIDENT
U N O F F I C I A L
REPORT: SHAN'S
L A S T R A N T
the management training of political
activists and the provision of junkets for
its sabbaticals.
COUNCIL
ICU Council has met this year at regular
intervals. In this time, themajority of
members have had little or nothing to say
about any of the topics debated. Council
has been dominated this year by three
sabbaticals and about three other officers.
Virtually every idea put forward by a
sabbatical has been passed unanimously
because of the blind faith council has
placed in its sabbaticals. On only one
issue has there been any sort of debate -
the question of market research. Whilst
the idea of this was sound and probably
the best thing the Union was proposing in
a very long time, the execution of this
idea was awful. Council should have
deferred the proposal pending further
debate - they didn't. Council is a
managing body with full powers of
debate. It has discarded those powers this
year.
C O L L E G E
The year 1990/91 has been the year of
the accountant. Balance sheets play a
larger factor in the decision-making
process at IC than ever before. In order
for IC to survive in an increasingly
competitive market, fiscal policy has to
play as big a role as academic policy, but
must never overtake it.
Staff morale within IC has never been at
its worst. There have been mass
redundancies within college, and at the
same time a recruitment drive for
managers and directors. We now have
managers and directors of Estates,
Development, Marketing, Personnel,
Finance. The college is in danger of
having too many chiefs and not enough
Indians. At the Rector's question time a
few weeks ago, points were raised on the
issue of mass early retirements within the
Estates section. Estates has a huge
personnel problem within college. The
blame for this must be partly shouldered
by its big chief - Gordon Marshall - the
Director of Estates.
Gordon Marshall has upset a large
number of employees in his time at
college. In particular he has the amazing
ability of being able to bullshit himself
outa corner. All year he has denied to me
that he had anything to do with the farce
surrounding the purchase of the
Clayponds development and the sale of
Montpelier Hall:
-
He has continually stated
that he was not employed by the college
at the time that the two were debated.
Gordon Marshall was employed by the
college at the time. He was retained as a
building consultant by Imperial College in
July of last year. He attended the
governor's meeting that discussed the
purchase of Clayponds back in July.
Gordon Marshall has misled every
committee this year on which he has
denied his involvement with the
Clayponds deal. The further denial
relating to the Clayponds/Montpelier saga
is that the two were not related. How
could any competent businessman
advocate buying a property for SM11
with no source of funding other than a -
bank loan? A senior administrator within
Sherfield told me that he had shown the
residence balance sheet to someone in
the real world (i.e. industry). The reply
was that whoever was ultimately
responsible for Clayponds should have
been sacked for gross mismanagement
and sued in the high court. A simple
admission from the top echelons of
College would suffice - Okay hands up,
we got it wrong. Instead we have seen a
cover-up.
Mr Marshall has been aided and abetted
by his right hand woman Sheelagh
Crampton nee Patrick. Mrs Crampton has
fluttered her eyelids this year whenever
in a tight corner. She even rang Gordon
Marshall in the south of France when the
going got tough on negotiating rents with
Wilson House, the St Mary's hall of
residence. Mrs Crampton is an evasive
woman and will fit in well with the
current management style.
The tide is turning within college. Staff
are openly criticising Gordon Marshall for
his management style. His -briefings to
Valerie Straw, his facilities manager, are
flawed, as she has found to her cost. On
two occasions this year, she has arrived
at college committees (Parking & Traffic
and College Athletics) to present papers,
only to find that her brief is incorrect.
As for the academics, they are the
unhappiest of all. Heads of department
generally feel that the college now views
the academics as a support service for the
administration, instead of the opposite
way round. Decisions affecting academic
staff are now being made at
administration level - not even via the
Management Planning Group, the
unofficial 'advisory' panel headed by the
Rector. Poor old Eric Ash probably isn't
aware of what Sherfield is doing half the
time.
The MPG has also lost its credibility.
Formally an advisory body, it now makes
medium level policy, seemingly with
autonomy from Governing Body. A senior
academic told me that MPG is a body
'made up of suits with Angus Fraser at
the head of the table, Donald Duck on his
left and Mickey Mouse on his right.'
The future of Imperial College is bleak.
The huge debt is mounting, staff morale
is at its lowest, students are finding the
London Factor too much of a disincentive
to come to this 'centre of excellence' . If
present trends continue, IC will be a well
oiled machine in ten years time, returning
a large surplus. But the academic
reputation will be shot to ribbons. IC will
be another institution catering for
research students. One year ago, I wrote
in the fresher's handbook that the
concept of IC becoming a postgraduate
institution was a nightmare. In ten years
time, that nightmare may well be a
reality.

