7 think we can afford the
first incision, nurse'
7.v this beach leaded
or unleaded?'
'Well, that's the Complete
Works of Shakespeare, now
let's think of analternative
to the poll tax.'
With our special offer,
you can laugh all the way
to the newsagent's
Take the completed voucher intayour newsagent and get a fortnight's
Daily Telegraph and Sunday Telegraph absolutely free.
p r o T H E N E W S A G E N T Please accept this voucher in lieu of payment for 12 issues of The
Daily Telegraph - Monday to Saturday - and two issues of The Sunday Telegraph. The voucher is worth
£6.80, that is, ten issues of The Daily Telegraph at 40p each, two issues of The Daily Telegraph on a
Saturday at 45p, and two issues of The Sunday Telegraph at 60p plus a handling fee of 5p per issue.
Please return this voucher before Monday, July 29, 1991, to your Wholesaler who will deduct
£6.80 from your news account. Multiples should return their vouchers also
before Monday, July 29,1991, either to the Central Office in the usual way or to
their Wholesaler as above. Please stamp or write your name and address in
BLOCK CAPITALS in the panel below. Please contact your Wholesaler if you have
any enquiries concerning this promotion. NB: This voucher is not transferable.
Accepting it in lieu of payment for any other article constitutes fraud.
Pleasefillin your name and address, and answer the question below, then take |
this voucher to your local newsagent who will reserve your free copies of The Daily
Telegraph and The Sunday Telegraph. Please try to give this voucher to your
newsagent at least 3 days before you want your consecutive free issues to start, to
allow him to adjust his order with his supplier.
First Name:
T O T H E W H O L E S A L E R Please accept this voucher from your
newsagent and credit him with the total value of the voucher, that is, the total
cover price of each issue claimed of The Daily Telegraph and The Sunday
Telegraph - plus 5p handling charge for each paper - a total of £6.80. Only 14
newspapers can be claimed per voucher. Credit for this voucher will be arranged
by your Daily Telegraph Area Manager when he next calls.
14
D A Y S
F R E E
Surname:
Address:
Postcode:
Which one daily newspaper do you most regularly buy?
You must hand in the voucher by Monday, July 8, 1991;
the last free newspaper will be issued on Sunday, July 21, 1991.
If you have your newspapers delivered, your newsagent
will be happy to deliver your free copies to your home (he may
charge his normal fee). If you would prefer to collect your paper,
a copy will be reserved for you to pick up each day.

