Expo 91 Small Ads
FELIX
If you've ever wanted to do something
just that little bit different perhaps you
should take your idea to the
Expedition Board. If this sounds like
you, read on...
This summer three expeditions leave
Imperial College for the four corners of
the world. George Beccaloni a third year
biologist is leading a party of scientists to
Madagascar to study the ornithology.
Rachel Pears is the Imperial College
coordinator for a joint British Universities
diving expedition to the Galapagos
Islands, and Chris Riley and John Rogers
are the 1991 British Trans-Atlas Mountain
Bike Expedition which plans to cycle
across Morocco.
Rachel Pears expedition has a large
party and requires the largest budget;
almost £20,000. Such sums of money are
not easy to raise, and this has been the
biggest headache during the present
recession, explained Rachel.
The Trans-Atlas Mountain Bike
Expedition is the smallest proposal with
costs being kept to a minimum.
Patronised by the College Rector, Sir Eric
Ash, and explorer and travel writer, Dr
Richard Crane, the ride is to raise money
for a Scholarship fund for North African
students to come and study at Imperial.
The whole expedition is running on
under £1000 for both members. This
includes purchase of any vital equipment
not supplied through sponsorship. Their
glossy prospectus was printed and
distributed in January. 'Initially response
was slow, and it looked like we would be
cycling across the Atlas on a pair of U-
security locks, supplied by Citadel'
explained Chris. 'Since then nearly 70 of
the 240 companies have replied, some
twice. Sixteen of these have offered
support. The extent of this has varied
from simply a copy of their catalogue, to
generous discounts of between 10% and
55%. Nikwax, the Waterproofing
company has offered to supply their
products for free. Saracen and Marin
have offered 33% of their bikes, and
Dawes, a generous 50%. Cyclopath, a
supplier of cycle clothing run by Emyr
Griffiths and based in South Wales have
offered the very durable New Zealand
Tika cycle-luggage, as well as bike
carrying straps and special leather handle-
bar grips. To make comparisons,
Carradice have supplied their panniers
which convert to a rucksack.'
The two man expedition hopes to cover
the 800 miles in four weeks, and plans to
make the first ascent of the south face of
Mount Toubkal, (3,625m high), by bike.
'The biggest problems we will probably
encounter, is finding clean water to drink
along the way. Other problems I've been
told about include the drug sellers who
force you to buy their hashish at gun
point, for the police to confiscate it and
fine you up the road.'
Chris and John leave at the beginning
of September, to avoid the searing
summer temperatures on the fringes of
the Sahara, where they start. 'If all goes
to plan, we should be back by the
beginning of September', said Chris. You'll
be able to read of their success or failure
in Felix next term, along with the
outcome of the other two expeditions.
If you want to run an expedition next
year, please submit proposals to Don
Adlington, during the first half of next
term. The expedition board first meets in
December.
• FOUND: 2 Floppy disks marked with
'Lightspeed CI' and 'Lightspeed C2' under
the name Tom Nichols. If you are, or
know the said person, please contact Liz
in Room 339 Sherfield or extension 3202.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• ENORMOUS DOUBLE ROOM in joyous
house in Wimbledon. All mod cons and
available immediately. 30 mins to college
and 5 mins to beer, food, flicks etc. £60
pw. Change of carry over for next year.
Contact Felix Office, Dave.
•FLATSHARE Hammersmith, end of
High St Ken. Enormous room. Double £50
pw each. Prefer undergrad, M or F, non-
smoker. Tel: 0737 555596.
• EARLS COURT flat for 4 available from
21 June. 2 double bedrooms with lounge,
kitchen and bathroom. £721 per month,
£166 per week or £41.60 per person per
week. Landlord's OK, leave a message on
his answerphone—071-794 2900, mention
fit E, 68 Warwick Road.
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• PAKISTAN SOCIETY day trip to
Margate. Thursday 20th June. 7.30am
departure admission to adventure park,
travel and video on coach included.
Tickets £12.50 from committee members.
•WEST LONDON CHAPLAINCY is giving
a farewell party for Gisela Raines and
Tracey Rehling. Monday June 24, 1991,
7.30pm, St Jude's Vicarage, 18
Cqllingham Road, London SW5 0LX.
RSVP to Bill and Gisela Raines on
071-259 2301 or leave a message on
college ext 8633.
•AQUACISE-Thursdays, 6.30 to 7.15,
ICU Sports Centre.
P E R S O N A L
• IAN WAGSTAFF: Chem Eng IV
Ian Wagstaff: Chem Eng IV
Now you are famous
•WAGSTAFF IAN. Born Oct '68. Leaving
Chem Eng June '91. And probably going
to kill me.
• T E L L IAN you saw his name in print.
IAN WAGSTAFF
VACANCY
Sub-Warden
Holbein House
Applications are invited for the post
of sub-warden, Holbein House. The
candidate should be a postgraduate
student with more than one year
remaining at College. Closing date for
applications is Friday 21 June 1991
and forms are available from the
A c c o m m o d a t i o n Office, Prince's
Gardens.

