BJ on Fridays Ents FELIX
'Why don't we end the year with a really
big bang, and really go out in style!!?'
said the best Ents team ever assembled,
so we sat down and got to it.
So now on Friday 21st June, the last
day of term, the Ents crew have lined up
an unsurpassable treat for you lucky IC
students. One of the biggest, most
happening bands around at the moment
will be playing at IC (a band even Lise
Yates may like), the Paris Angels.
For anyone who has not got an ear to
the ground the Paris Angels are the band
responsible for the massive dancefloor hit
Perfume (All on You) which has been
played at Libido every Wednesday and
Friday, and many other top London
nights out. Although they stem from
Manchester they are different to the run
of the mill bands from this part of the
country. Their music is mainly dance
orientated but retains the bagginess
which encapsulated all the good parts of
the now defunct Manchester scene.
Imperial College is very lucky to play
host to the only London College date for
this band (after they pulled out of the
Summer work plans
come unstuck? Why
not try UROP (the
Undergraduate Research
Opportunities
Programme)? Booklet
available (free) from
UROP Office, Room
313C, Level 3, Mech Eng
Building.
DO YOU SPEAK
FLUENT
MANDARIN?
IF SO, I N E E D Y O U R
H E L P F O R 1/2 H O U R .
WILL P A Y . C O N T A C T
J O H N A T F E L I X O F F I C E
A S S O O N A S POSSIBLE.
ULU date due to other commitments).
Over the last few months the band has
attracted so much media and public
attention that most dates on their recent
tour have been sold out, including the
New Cross Venue and the International in
hometown Manchester. This means this is
a pristine date, so much so that the gig
has been moved to the Union Concert
Hall (from the Lounge) usually only
reserved for carnivals. Support on the
night comes from the superb Spinning
Jenny, who stem from the Ride/Catherine
Wheel ilk of bands. A very recent signing
and definitely the name to watch (just
like 1 said for Leviathan, Catherine Wheel
and Soul Family Sensation who all played
at IC this year).
Doors open at 9pm and the admission
price is £3 (as opposed to £7 at the
Venue (New Cross). Tickets are only
available from the door and are on a first
come first served basis, as there are only
a few hundred more than a usual Lounge
gig-
As well as the bands there will be
many other forms of entertainment so
that the end of the year spectacular is
like a carnival. This will include a late
bar extension and drinks promotion, Ents
disco (of a very high quality) with many
new and special effects in the Concert
Hall, and others to be confirmed. So my
advice to you is to put on your dancing
shoes, your drinking trousers/skirt and
one of your best tapping tops and ease
on down to the Union on Friday night!
As this is the last article I will write I
would like to take this opportunity, on
behalf of the whole Ents team, to say a
big thanks to: The Union staff, the
sabbaticals and everyone else who has
made the Ents shows possible. And of
course to you, the students who have
made doing Ents this year a real l a u g h -
especially the Links Club and Ian
Wagstaff. Hopefully we have made the
Union a better place for you to come to
and have a good time and let your hair
down. Normal Ents service will resume in
Freshers Week. Good luck!
BJ (Ents Chair 89/91, 90/91)
YOU'RE BOUND,
At STA Travel, we're all seasoned travellers so we should know a thing or two
about where you're headed. And because we know the travel business backwards,
we can offer you the best deals on fares - even the flexibility to change your mind as
you go, without having to pay over the top for the privilege. We operate from 120
offices worldwide. So call in soon.
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
Prince Consort Rd, London SW7 2AZ
UBTAi
99209 ULU TRAVEL

