Forthcoming
Hey hey it's the Monkees! People say we
monkey around! But we're too busy
singing! To put anybody down...
The Monkees, along with popular kids'
faves Why Don't You and Lassie, will be
showing on BBC this summer. Should the
exploits of Davey, Pete, Mickey and The
Other One fail to excite you then maybe
you should switch off your television set
and do something less boring instead...
The A Team
Editorial note : This section does not
include the A-team. Nor MacGyver or
Automan. Neither is there a sniff of Lee
Majors (The Fall Guy) and Howie in a
dress.
It does include Terminator 2 :
Judgement Day. Summer just wouldn't
be summer without tea and scones on the
lawn and a bit of multi-million dollar
violence. Arnie's an android, Cameron's
the director and the plot's a secret.
Chances are it won't feature Howie in a
dress. Vying for pole position with Arnie
and vying with Tom Bergin's effort comes
the thinking man's bread and butter,
Kevin Costner, in Prince Of Thieves
where he dons his green tights and goes
singing through the treetops. Or will he?
Or will he examine the natives of
Sherwood Forest from a sympathetic
viewpoint over three hours of nice
scenery? Who knows? Kevin Costner
does, for one. Why don't you ask him ?
We're still trying to find his phone
number. I once saw Vince from Grange
Hill. Friends of the stars, that's us..
Hudson Hawk emerges in July, with
Bruce Willis as a spunky young burglar
who turns to espionage. This film is
directed by the man who brought you
Heathers and Meef The Applegates but
financed by the man who brought you
Die Hard II so big-budget fun aplenty.
Doing quite well Stateside with everyone
but the critics.
In a desperate attempt to burn off all
the big movies in a single category, we
bring you Backdraft, in which Kurt
Russell (did you know he's been stepping
out with Goldie Hawn? Remember where
you heard it first, folks) and William (not
Alec, who's been stepping out with Kim
Basinger) Baldwin star as fire-fighting
brothers. Enough said.
This category would not be fulfilling
The Amazing
without telling you what Steven Seagal is.
First he was Nico, then he was Hard To
Kill, but now he's been M a r k e d F o r
Death anyway. Shortly he'll be Out For
Justice. We'd like to wish him luck in his
future activities whether At The Dentist's
or Scared Of Heights..
A Kiss Before Dying stars Sean Young
and Matt Dillon as well as Max 'Ming The
Merciless' von Sydow in the second
adaptation of the Ira Levin novel. This
means it should be great plotwise, but
does it translate to the screen ? Word has
it that it does not..
A few tiddlers.. Teen Agent looks quite
good. Can you spot the deliberate mistake
in the last sentence? Boyz N The Hood
received critical acclaim at Cannes; New
Jack City featuring Ice T (not to be
confused with iced tea, which you might
also like to try this summer) caused
violent uproar Stateside and wins the
Most Dangerous Film To See award.
Finally, two from this month; State Of
Grace featuring the ever-versatile Sean
Penn and King O f New Y o r k starring
the golemesque Christopher Walken. We
can tell you nothing about these films.
The Jim Davidson
C o r n e r
Actually, it's not. it's comedy.
Let's start with Another Y o u (no
thanks, I just had one). (Crap gag ! Crap
gag!) . Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder as
(wait for it) a duo of Unlikely Criminals;
Pryor is a conman doing community
service by looking after Wilder, who is a
pathological liar. Advance reports are
that there may be many comical pauses
and Richard Pryor may say "shit" a lot.
Life Stinks. Well, yes, but this is Mel
Brooks not taking the piss and word has
it if you're looking for a good film you
might be better off at Return T o The
Blue Lagoon. Don't quote us on this. It
might be great.
Incidentally, we're not kidding about
Return To.... See below.
Pa-pa pa-pa pa-pa pa-pa pa-pa-pa pa-pa
pa-pa pa-pa pa-pa PA! Pearl And Dean
Present
Nothing But Trouble (did you know
you can get Cool Dude Smarties with
sunglasses?) starring Dan Aykroyd, Chevy
Chase and Demi Moore (isn't she pretty?
She's stepping out with Bruce Willis).
From what we've read it's failed to make
Flying Gerbil Machine
anyone anywhere laugh ever. Even the
Americans thought it was bad. This is the
country that brought you Out O f This
World. However, it does contain John
Candy in drag, as opposed to Howie from
The Fall Guy.
Only The Lonely, from the same
people who brought you Home Alone,
stars John Candy (presumably not still in
drag) (although Howie might be), Ally
Sheedy as - get this - mortician love
interest - and Maureen O'Hara as an
interfering mother.
Sylvester Stallone makes an attempt to
emulate Arnie and move into the comedy
bracket in the mob farce Oscar which is
currently doing great You-Know-Where.
As opposed to a Ray Clooney farce, in
which he would lose his trousers and
meet his wife while with a young
secretary at the vicar's garden party.
Shame, really.
Soapdish. A n all-star cast featuring
Whoopi Goldberg, Sally Field (who was in
Smokey and The Bandit with Burt
Reynolds. Burt Reynolds wears a wig)
Kevin Kline (who's stepping out with
Phoebe Cates), and Carrie Fisher about
soap stars with Lives More Bizarre than
their characters. Hmm..
From Disney comes Too Hot To
Handle, about a singer and a playboy in
1948, tripping gaily through a minefield
of romantic hazards. The lovers are
played by Kim Basinger (who's stepping
out with Alec Baldwin) and Alec Baldwin
(who's stepping out with Kim Basinger).
Remarkable really, the things which go
on in Hollywood these days.
Finally, out this month is Don't Tell
Her It's Me based on the preposterous
idea that Steve Guttenberg can act. As an
Anzac biker named Lobo. Who is really
just pretending in order to get off with
Jami Gertz. Frankly you'd be better off
looking for comedy-shaped potatoes.
Films That Refuse To Be
Pidgeonholed
Okay.. Most eagerly awaited (by us,
anyway) is Edward Scissorhands, which
relates the adventures of an artificial
human with a variety of kitchen
implements for Moulinex mittens. Said
adventures seem to relate largely to
topiary and kebabs along with romantic
Attractions
slag off the Summer's films
advances to a blonde Winona Ryder
(who's stepping out with Johnny Depp
boo hiss); Johnny 'Bastard' Depp (who's
stepping out with Winona Ryder) plays
the eponymous Mr Ed. Tim Burton directs
which means it may be attractive but
meandering (viz Batman) or just good ol'
fashioned fun (Beetlejuice).
Another film which may be attractive
and meandering is Thelma and Louise
which is (of all things) a road movie
directed by Ridley {Alien, Bladerunner)
Scott. Thelma and Louise are a pair of
young ladies who decide to escape their
lives and in the course of things get
entangled with the law. Susan Sarandon
is Thelma and Louise is played by Geena
Davies (who's stepping out with Jeff
Goldblum, dont'y know).
Off A n d Running is another road
movie about a groups of 'varied' (read
contrived) individuals who are thrown
forcibly into each other's company and
yours too. Is it good ? A toughie. It's
certainly not promising.
Still staying with vehicular action we
have Harley Davidson a n d the
Marlboro Man who are Mickey Rourke
and Don (snort) Johnson (who's stepping
out with Meg Ryan) as two ass-kicking
heroes who are trying to save the local
orphanage from Mr. Big. That's almost
right, but substitute "biker's bar" for
"orphanage" and "bank" for "Mr. Big"
and you have the basic idea. Sounds
good, huh ?
Possibly the best film in this particular
sector is Jungle Fever, believed by
many to have been robbed of the Palme
D'Or at Cannes. This is a Spike Lee film
about ah interracial relationship (ooh,
dangerous) and has a Stevie Wonder
soundtrack. Depending on your tastes this
allows either one or two reasons to see it.
If you need a third, Lee has an increasing
reputation as a black (in both senses)
comedy director.
Latest in the series of Euro-flics to
undergo the Hollywood treatment is
Pertwee's seminal Die Kroppe, which has
been remade into Potatoes! and stars
Roseanne Barr in the title role. John
McTiernan directs.
Once A r o u n d is the tale of Whistling
Jack's Trouser Press. Okay, so it's not. It's
about a Catholic woman (Holly Hunter)
who falls in love with an salesman
(Richard Dreyfuss). Might be okay.
Regarding Henry. Great title. Features
Harrison Ford dying early on.
Reincarnation and happy vibes..
Class Action stars Gene Hackman and
Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio as father-
and-daughter lawyers who are forced to
oppose each other in a case of rich vs.
poor. As you might expect this also
involves them Examining Their
Relationship. Both Hackman and
Mastrantonio are fairly adept at their
craft so it shouldn't be too winceworthy.
Where Angels Fear T o Tread is
based on the E.M. Forster novel of
colonial Brits abroad, something to fear
for those of us who have endured A
Passage To India. The usual cast (you
know them already), probably the usual
location footage, maybe the same plot (a
widow and her strait-laced companion
wandering in tropical climes), probably
not the greatest movie this summer.
The Hairdresser's Husband is the
much-lauded tale of bald Antoine and his
hairdresser fetish. Eh? Yes indeed, a man
who gets the hots for (female) barbers.
Strange bloke indeed, but a big thumbs-
up from all and sundry means the
promising plot is well executed.
Dying Young is Julia Roberts' Serious
Actress film (who's stepping out with
Kiefer Sutherland, but they've postponed
the wedding) about a pretty (obviously)
nurse who falls in love with a bald
leukaemia victim. And then she leaves
him and he dies. No, not really. Test
audiences got so upset they changed the
ending.
One Good Cop is about Michael
Keaton adopting three cute kids after his
buddy is cut down before his time. This is
now about the fifteenth movie based on
this premise. Fourteen of those were
redundant..
Finally, Liza Minelli - wait for it - in
Stepping Out (hooray!). Liza seeks to
escape typecasting in a role as a tap-
dancer, co-starring Julie Walters and
Shelley Winters (who died in The
Poseidon Adventure. Showbiz, huh ?)
The Shit Bin:
Not Necessarily Shit : Switch is a Blake
Edwards movie about a man in a
woman's body (spiritually, anyway), the
body in question being Ellen Barkin's.
This may well be a pointless exercise,
since Steve Martin seems to have just
about exhausted the possibilities of this
idea in All Of Me. Dutch is a John
Hughes movie in which a man and his
girlfriend's brat break down and have to
Co-Operate (can YOU say Co-Op-Er-Ate)
to survive, in the process coming to
terms with each other As A n Individual.
Sounds crap to us. Navy S.E.A.L.S is the
risible tale of Sheen & Biehn kicking ass
in the Middle Eas.t in an inflated tale of
military derring-do. Great.
We now turn to the amazingly titled
Whore which Ken Russell tosses to his
less than adoring public. This is the warm
and wet tale of an everyday hooker
which boasts less taste than a Ratner's
bargain bucket and considerably less
subtlety. In a fit of fervent perv-appeal,
Ken guides his characters through the
negligible plot with his traditional light
touch and savoir faire. Although Huggy
Bear, yes, Huggy Bear, does show up.
Sequels department : Nightmare O n
E l m Street VI : Freddy's Dead hmm
yes bet that's a good film. Freddy, aka
Robert Englund, also brings us 976-Evil
II which might be a good movie. And
then again it might not. First one's a pile
of donkey do. Staying with the Horror
motif, Child's Play III will be out later
this year. Alas, poor Chucky, I knew him
well. First one was excellent, second one
didn't feature the mother from the first
film, and was pretty damn crap; this one
doesn't even star the original kid..
FX2 stretches credibility with what is
practically a remake of the original,
which we doubt will be particularly
entertaining twice.
The Completely Hopeless Cases
Department : What Empire wittily called
'the least eagerly awaited sequel in recent
years': Mannequin II, same story,
different people. Which leaves only the
question : will it still have a Starship
soundtrack? Why? Who commissioned
this film?
And finally : The Grand Turkey Of
Them A l l : Return T o T h e Blue Lagoon.
Somehow the son of the original couple
has been careless enough to get himself
stranded on another desert island, but not
so careless that he doesn't have the
company of a nubile young lady. What
can we say?

