SCIENCE
FELIX
10
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It Must Be Beautiful
by Various (edited by Graham Farmelo)
And a few suggestions...
This collection of essays is a tribute to mathematics
and its equations, with contributions from science
writers, historians and scientists. They range from
the prolific mathematician, Roger Penrose to Impe-
rial College’s very own Professor of Neural Systems
Engineering, Igor Aleksander. It reads almost like
a biography of mathematics, with historical refer-
ences and charming anecdotes. The book was put
together by Graham Farmelo (author of ‘The Strang-
est Man’) and his own essay on the Plank-Einstein
equation is a brilliantly concise insight into two of
the last century’s greatest minds.
There is a personal feel to every essay, with each
writer choosing their equations carefully; the writing
is passionate and exciting, qualities one would not
usually associate with mathematics. This, for me,
is the greatest triumph of the book; through its au-
thors, it makes mathematics witty, accessible and
altogether more human, providing an excellent read.
Katya-Yani Vyas
Diabetes: is it too late?
Jamie Williams
As World Diabetes Day approaches, what can be done?
Diabetes mellitus is a devastating metabolic
disease that has seen cases in the UK rising
74% from 1997 to 2003 alone. With 4.7% of
the UK population suffering with the condition
and almost 300 million worldwide, scientists
are trying to understand the mechanisms of glu-
cose control and ultimately, what it is that goes
wrong. Today brings new challenges as scien-
tists battle with time due to the ever-increasing
rate of diagnoses, fuelled by a spiralling obe-
sity epidemic. With World Diabetes Day fast
approaching, what better time is there to make
a difference?
Diabetes mellitus is a disorder where glucose
is not regulated effectively and can be cat-
egorised as either type 1 (insulin dependent or
early-onset) or type 2 (non-insulin dependent
or adult-onset). Type 1 diabetes is caused by
insufficient insulin production, whereas type 2
diabetes is caused by insulin resistance, where
normal insulin production remains, yet the tar-
get organs do not respond to it adequately. Both
types lead to dramatic changes in blood glucose
levels and other metabolic disturbances, which
can eventually lead to blindness, strokes and
peripheral vascular disease.
Neither type 1 nor type 2 diabetes has a de-
finitive cause. However, it is thought that type
1 diabetes is an autoimmune condition; the im-
mune system begins to attack the body’s own
tissues. Type 2 diabetes is thought to have a
genetic cause, with a major breakthrough in the
year 2000 leading to the discovery of one of
the genes that contributes to the development
of the disease.
Obesity and sedentary lifestyles are becom-
ing increasingly common and with harrowing
statistics that by 2050 it is predicted that 6 out
of 10 of us will be obese (with 3 to 4 out of 10
already there), this is the most likely explana-
tion for the exponential rise of new diagnoses
in such a short period of time in recent years.
When the glucose in the blood has been
used for respiration, hypoglycaemia may oc-
cur. Tiredness and confusion, confounded by
irrational behaviour, are key symptoms and
ultimately it leads to a coma if left untreated.
This is always a medical emergency and can
be fatal.
To complicate the lives of diabetics even
more, slow-healing sores and repeated skin
infections are something they have to become
familiar with if their glucose is not well con-
trolled. Excess water excreted in the urine can
often leave one dehydrated. This, plus the dam-
age caused to the nervous system by excess
glucose in their blood, resulting in reduced per-
spiration, can lead to extremely dry skin, reduc-
ing the defences to outside pathogens. Often,
patients may suffer from diseased blood vessels
due to impaired circulation, making skin infec-
tions harder to treat.
However, there is some hope for those who
adjust to this harrowing future. Professor Sir
George Alberti, Chair of Diabetes UK and
Senior Research Fellow at Imperial College
London, told Felix how “new insulins have
been developed which are better able to mimic
normal insulin secretion… Imperial is at the
forefront of efforts to produce… [an] ‘artificial
pancreas’.”
Professor Sir Alberti further adds that ev-
eryone can do their bit to prevent developing
diabetes: “Increased physical activity is crucial
- it does not need to be marathon running - 30
minutes brisk walking a day will make a dif-
ference. Similarly, eating a sensible diet and
not becoming overweight is everybody’s re-
sponsibility”.
With all of this taken into account, diabetes
can be an extremely scary diagnosis to have to
cope with; the worrying, the need to become
your own nurse, the pressures of being ‘differ-
ent’. Many individuals will develop diabetes
and reach into denial, refusing to accept that
they’re ill, partly due to doctors not being able
to pinpoint an exact cause to every patient,
but also due to its intangibility. Some will not
realise the severity of their condition until it
comes to the removal of their gangrenous limb,
whereas others will adapt relatively easily.
What is important however, is that we realise
the potential consequences and costs to society.
Professor Sir Alberti believes that “if num-
bers increase on the present trajectory then ei-
ther treatment and care will become severely
substandard or the NHS will be bankrupted.
This will have a major impact on society as
well as on the individuals affected. This is a
bleak prospect and a major effort is needed
by individuals, by society and by government
to change the nation from an obesogenic en-
vironment into one where healthy living is the
norm”.
Unless action is taken with a big focus on
both lifestyle and self-management, incidence
will continue to increase over time, predictably
faster than the NHS budget. The question is:
will we beat the ticking time bomb?
Deadly bacteria found to kill cancer
Amberley Stephens
With MRSA recently becoming a bigger killer
than HIV/AIDS in America, it’s no wonder
bacteria are often viewed in a bad light. How-
ever, an interest is growing in using some
bacteria as anticancer agents due to the re-
markable tendency of some species to prefer-
entially infect tumour cells over normal tissue,
and the multiple ways they can be manipulat-
ed to deliver drugs or cause targeted immune
responses.
It is still unclear exactly how certain bacte-
ria such as Salmonella, Clostridium and E.coli
infect tumour cells. Professor David Holden’s
research group in the Centre for Molecular
Microbiology and Infection at Imperial are
researching Salmonella pathogenesis. They
believe that mammalian cells could be particu-
larly vulnerable to infection at specific stages
of their cell cycle – stages that cancer cells have
to pass through in order to replicate.
In contrast, Clostridium targets tumour cells
due to their depleted oxygen levels. Their
spores can circle in the blood stream before
proliferating in solid tumours. They don’t sur-
vive as well in the surrounding healthy tissue,
which is oxygen rich.
There are several ways bacteria can be used
to target and kill tumour cells, all of which be-
gin with the attenuation of the selected bacte-
ria and removal of toxicity genes. Bacteria can
be modified to carry vectors such as genes for
the over expression of interleukin – 2. When
the bacteria reach the target they are induced
to express certain genes due to a change in
environmental factors. Interleukin – 2 causes
an increase in immune response towards the
tumours cells resulting in increased clearance.
Alternatively, engineered bacteria can carry
genes encoding enzymes to catalyze prodrugs
into active toxic drugs at tumour sites; expres-
sion of HSV-thymidine kinase converts guanci-
clovir into its active toxic drug.
Some of the most potent toxins are produced
by bacteria themselves, such as diphtheria tox-
in and Pseudomonas exotoxin. However they
are so toxic they can’t be let loose around the
body but need to be conjugated to monoclonal
antibodies or growth factors targeted to the tu-
mour cells. Pseudomonas exotoxin and IL-4
have been fused together as a chimeric fusion
protein to target IL-4 receptors, found on brain
cancer cells but not normal brain cells. Experi-
ments have shown direct necrosis of these cells
and clinical trials are now in place.
There are obviously problems in this emerg-
ing area of anticancer therapy. Toxicity of bac-
teria is always an issue, particularly in the high
doses needed to combat cancers. The use of
bacteria has much better side effects compared
to usual anticancer drugs which elicit strong
emetic effects and the most obvious, loss of
hair. However bacteria are most likely to be
used in conjugation with anticancer drugs due
to the current therapies being unable to destroy
the whole of the cancerous cell.
Although there are many issues with this area
of anticancer therapy hopefully it will yield a
new weapon to fight against cancer with fewer
side effects that patients experience with cur-
rent anticancer drugs.
Friday 12 November 2010
Felix Radio Show!
Every Monday from 7pm, check out the
Felix Radio show at icradio.com. You’ll
get a sneak preview of the week’s news
and the best tunes from Felix’s Music
section
NOTICE

