FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Cosmic zoom lenses
magnify galaxies
The detection of gravitational lenses,
which are essentially magnifying glass-
es of a cosmic scale, is harder than you
would think. The identification pro-
cess has hitherto been time-intensive,
but a new technique developed in part
by researchers at Imperial has proved
hugely successful. Experiments at the
Hershel Space Observatory detected the
bright infra-red light signals irradiated
by dusty star-forming galaxies that had
been gravitationally lensed. The loca-
tion of the nearby galaxy acting as the
lens could then be narrowed down. This
targeted search is far more effective than
performing a blind search across the
cosmos, as previously done.
But what exactly are gravitational
lenses and how do they work? The theo-
ry behind them (like a lot of phenomena
in modern physics) harks back to Ein-
stein, who showed almost a century ago
with his theory of General Relativity
that mass causes a curvature in space-
time. The warped space-time will cause
everything – even light – to bend around
the mass, and this effect is intensified
when light passes something as massive
as a galaxy. This is where the idea of a
‘lens’ comes in to play; light from dis-
tant objects can be distorted by the grav-
ity from a nearby mass in a way that can
increase the angular size and brightness
of the object and even cause multiple
images of the object to form. Gravita-
tional lensing can be exploited in the
study of high-redshift galaxy structures,
since scales can be probed beyond those
accessible by the largest telescopes in
existence.
Gravitational lenses allow far away
galaxies to be seen as if they were near-
by; some of the lensed galaxies detect-
ed by the Hershel Observatory are so
distant that they are seen as they were
when the Universe was a tender age of
2-4 billion years - less than a third of its
current age. By peering back in time into
the early Universe, we can analyse how
the building blocks of the Universe have
changed since its infancy. Professor Rob
Ivison of the Royal Observatory, Edin-
burgh, who was part of the team com-
ments: “This relatively simple technique
promises to unlock the secrets of how
galaxies like our Milky Way formed and
evolved. Not only does the lensing al-
Melissa Lever
Brain power needed for tools
In a collaborative effort, Imperial re-
searchers have answered the question of
how Stone Age man evolved to craft in-
creasingly superior stone tools. Why did
it take Lower Paleolithic humans almost
two million years to develop the sophis-
ticated hand-held axe from crude razor-
sharp stones? Computer modelling and
sensor-embedded gloves compared
complex hand crafting skills of one
early and one late Paleolithic tool-mak-
ing method to assess any differences in
brain activity between the two methods.
The research team, led by Imperial
neuroscientist Dr. Aldo Faisal, deduced
that manufacturing intentionally shaped
axe-tools required higher levels of brain
processing and more complex thoughts
than shaping sharp stones. This dispels
previous theories suggesting that under-
developed motor skills were responsible
for the slow evolution of tool complex-
ity.
The project required the collabora-
tive effort of neuroscientists, archaeolo-
gists, anthropologists and craftspeople
in order to synthesise theories relating
archaeological evidence with potential
changes in behaviour and cognition.
The Lower Paleolithic period of the
Stone Age accounts for 90% of human
prehistory. Around 2.6 million years
ago (mya) the earliest stone tools, sharp
stone flakes, were bashed from river
cobbles with small rocks. Although this
method required reasonably high levels
of perception and motor skills, inten-
tionally shaped, superior tools began
to appear 1.7mya. This development is
thought to be a crucial step in human
cognitive evolution as it required more
advanced mental and procedural capaci-
ties and is considered direct evidence of
the evolution of more complex human
behaviour.
The research team replicated the art
of flintnapping, whereby Conchoidal
stones such as flint, chert and obsidian
are shaped into tools using hammer-
stones to detach the lithic flakes from
a stone core. They compared the neural
bases of crafting early Lower Paleolithic
razor-sharp stones, or Oldowan flakes,
and late Lower Paleolithic handaxes
with the sensor-embedded data glove,
which recorded digit joint angles to
compare grip and manipulative com-
plexity of the crafting hand and stone
core-holding hand.
Previous research has shown there are
differences in brain activity between
the two methods, and this project sug-
gests that the differences are due to
higher-level behavioural organisation
in the brain, rather than poor dexterity.
Dr. Faisal puts the findings into context:
“The advance from crude stone tools to
elegant hand-held axes was a massive
technological leap four our early human
ancestors. Hand-held axes were a more
Polly Bennett
useful tool for defence, hunting and rou-
tine work.”
In addition to primary findings the re-
search suggests a link between language
and tool-making activities due to ob-
served neural overlap of these activities
in the brain’s inferior frontal cortex. This
region controls manual grip coordina-
tion and the processing of sounds. Ear-
lier research has also identified that later
Lower Paleolithic tool-making differed
from that in earlier periods by produc-
ing additional activity in the right hemi-
sphere of the brain, including a region of
the Broca’s area. This area is involved
in higher-order cognition and processing
linguistic context. Taken together these
findings suggest a link in evolution be-
tween increasingly complex cognitive
capabilities and the development of lan-
guage. Dr. Faisal adds that this “makes
the end of the Lower Paleolithic a piv-
otal time in our history. After this period,
early humans left Africa and began to
colonise other parts of the world.”
I swear I saw this couple in Dalston last week...
Friday 12 November 2010
Charlie Harvey
Arthritis
drugs help
memory loss
“...one day we also
might be able to use
these... [drugs]... as
a pre-surgical dose”
Drugs used to treat arthritis may help
prevent cognitive problems that can oc-
cur after surgery, according to new re-
search from Imperial College London
and the University of California.
For years, doctors have struggled to
explain why some patients experience
confusion, learning disorders and mem-
ory loss, a condition known as post-op-
erative cognitive decline.
Research from Imperial College has
found evidence that the disorder is
caused by cytokines, molecules secreted
by the immune system that transmit in-
formation between cells. Surgery causes
a cascade of immune responses, result-
ing in the increased production of cyto-
kines.
Drugs that target the activity of cyto-
kines are widely used to treat inflamma-
tory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthri-
tis, and are known to be very effective
in humans.
“This study suggests that one day we
also might be able to use these thera-
pies as a single, pre-surgical dose to
prevent cognitive decline in suscep-
tible patients,” said Mervyn Mave, the
senior author of the study and Chair of
the Department of Anesthesiology and
Perioperative Care at the University of
California.
Professor Mave and his team gave a
single copy of an anti-cytokine antibody
to mice before surgically operating on
them. The treatment significantly de-
creased blood levels of a cytokine called
interleukin-1 beta (IL-1ß), limiting in-
flammation in the brain and prevented
the mice from showing signs of cogni-
tive decline.
“This is an important observation, as
it demonstrates that cytokines are poten-
tial therapeutic targets in a wider range
of diseases, not just autoimmune disease
and cancer for which they are known
targets,” said Professor Feldmann, Head
of the Kennedy Institute of Rheumatol-
ogy at Imperial College London.
It is hoped that these findings, pub-
lished in the journal Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, could
lead to human clinical trials within a
year.
low us to find them very efficiently, but
it helps us peer within them to figure
out how the individual pieces of the jig-
saw came together, back in the mists of
time.”
Dr Loretta Dunne of Nottingham
University adds that once all the experi-
mental data has been obtained, “ we can
probe the early Universe on the same
physical scales as we can in galaxies
next door.”
Gravitational lensing can allow scientists to magnify distant galaxies
“They deduced
that manufacturing
shaped axe-tools
required higher levels
of brain processing”

