12 felix
FRIDAY 12 november 2010
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The first mention of a mythical Play-
Station phone was over four years ago
in September 2006 on several gadget
rumour websites. Recently Engadget,
arguably the largest gadget blog in the
world, has staked their reputation on the
fact that the fabled device exists -- shar-
ing specifications and a series of photo-
graphs of an Android based smartphone
with a custom Sony Marketplace for
games. When Engadget says something
exists, it definitely exists.
Sony’s attempt at bridging the gap
between a games console and a phone
appears to be a direct response to the
handheld gaming threat posed by the
iPhone, and to an extent the iPod touch,
with the touch screen interface, acceler-
ometer gaming controls and wide range
of cheap downloadable games in the
App Store.
Now the Playstation phone appears to
be real, with Sony Computer Entertain-
ment Europe quickly retracting a state-
ment by an employee that the phone is
a ‘fake’ and instead stating that they ‘do
not comment on speculation’.
The rumours predict a 1GHz proces-
sor, 512MB of RAM, 1GB of ROM,
a 3.7”-4.1” screen size and perhaps
most surprisingly, a MicroSD card slot
in lieu of its proprietary and more ex-
pensive M2 or MemoryStick Duo slot.
Prices are not known, although it can
be expected to undercut the iPhone
and compete with existing Android
smartphones.
The phone will likely be available in
the first half of 2011. This is of course
all rumour at the moment, until it is of-
ficially announced and in the hands of
reviewers everywhere!
It’s no secret thatApple isn’t the biggest fan
of Adobe’s Flash. One of the big criticisms
of the iPhone is its inability to display Flash
content, which upon the device’s release,
made up a huge portion of the internet’s
streaming videos and games.
This inspired Steve Jobs to write an open
letter back in April, criticising the technolo-
gy on multiple fronts, including: openness,
size, reliability, power consumption and de-
velopment. One can only assume that lost
somewhere in the first draft of this letter
was a reference to Flash’s mother, possibly
linked to some remark about obesity, per-
haps having her own postcode.
As well as irritating Adobe, whose CEO
Shantanu Narayen later announced the
company had “moved on” from iOS de-
velopment, it extinguished any hope left
in iPhone owners that they will ever get to
watch Megavideo or play Miniclip games
on their pocket pal of choice.
Then along came Skyfire, an alterna-
tive mobile browser choice with a twist,
previously only available on the Android
platform. Skyfire’s brand new iOS app
finally brought Flash video to the iPhone
(without having to go the jailbreak route).
This feat of Apple defiance is achieved by
transcoding the video into Apple-friendly
HTML5 wrapped H.264 on their own serv-
ers, before streaming it to users. On top
of this killer feature is a fully functioning
mobile browser built on top of the Webkit
underpinnings that powers Mobile Safari,
maintaining most of the capabilities seen in
the built-in iOS browser, but adding things
like: private browsing (porn mode, if you
will), a related pages explorer and fast ac-
cess to Facebook.
As one can imagine, it has been a huge
success. Just hours after its US release the
app shot to number one in the iTunes app
charts and had to be pulled by Skyfire as
their servers were crippled by the sudden
onset of iPhone users. Early downloaders
who have given it a try seem to be happy
with the product. Flash is a bit slow to load
as the servers do their converting, but the
content is delivered with a decent quality.
One drawback is that the HTML5 video re-
turned to the user does not allow scrolling
to a specific point in time in the video, nor
can it implement the “skip ad” features that
some sites offer.
It’s also important to note that this tech-
nology does not work with Flash games, so
procrastinating in lectures will still be best
done with apps or laptops.
At the time of writing, the app remains
pulled from the app store, but will slow-
ly be re-released in the US to be sold in
‘batches’ and expanded globally as Sky-
fire reinforces their servers to deal with us
demanding iPhone users. While it’s not in
Apple’s nature to change their principles
when it comes to user-interface and how
that interacts with features, this app makes
one thing tremendously clear: iOS users
want Flash!
Free App of the Week
iOS - Sky Sports News for iPhone
Whatever sport you follow, Sky Sports News has you
covered. Quickly look up the latest news and scores
from around the world, right from your iPhone.
Behold: The PlayStation Phone is real!
Craig Buchanan
It may have a dodgy name for football, but it’s better
than soccer I guess. Simple, fast and all the scores
at the tap of a finger.
Android - SportsTap for Android
SkyFire = iPhone + Flash
Want to watch Flash video on your iPhone even though
Jobs doesn’t want you to? Get yourself SkyFire browser
Chris Fonseka
Engadget stake reputation on
Sony scoop

