13
felix
TECHNOLOGY
LTE to the Party. UK lags behind on 4G
It’s almost 2011 already. Where’s my super fast 4G?! Jake Lea-Wilson investigates
W
e’ve been stuck with
3G (Third Genera-
tion) networks in the
UK since March
2003. Technology
has moved on significantly in the last
seven years, but unfortunately we have
not. The USA, Japan and most of Eu-
rope have already signed deals and are
set to have the next generation of mo-
bile networks operational in under 12
months. In fact in Germany and India,
we’ve already seen the government auc-
tion off the frequencies that are required
to broadcast these networks to cellular
providers. In short, we’re well behind
the game.
Our current top speed on British net-
works is around 3Mb/s, and this has
only really been taken advantage of in
the past few years, since the introduc-
tion of the iPhone and similar high-end
smartphones. We’ve become a depen-
dent nation and the demand for high-
speed data is growing by the day. 4G
LTE (Long Term Evolution) is a dy-
namic new network that promises to
give us download speeds of up to 300
Mb/s. Make no mistake, this is going to
have a huge impact on our daily lives;
we’ll no longer need to find a computer
terminal to watch video news, films
and catch-up TV. We’ll be truly mobile,
with some saying that all our data will
be stored remotely in the cloud and ac-
cessed with ease from anywhere. We’ll
have a door to every song, book, and
film ever recorded within seconds and
in high definition. Not to mention the
impact it’s likely to have on mobile
gaming. It’s also expected to make
broadband and traditional broadcast
TV defunct, as we’ll have quicker-
than-broadband speeds everywhere we
go. The face of the television industry
could change dramatically moving to
a model more closely resembling the
BBC iPlayer and the Sky equivalent.
Why are we behind in these high tech-
nology, fast-moving times? It’s down to
the launch of the last networks back in
2003. There was such a hype surround-
ing the new networks that the mobile
providers overpaid for the frequencies,
losing a large amount of money in the
gamble. Remember those annoying
Three adverts for video calling? It never
really caught on because the technol-
ogy didn’t deliver. We all marvelled at
our friends’ phones showing pixelated,
blurred faces moving on small screens,
sounding like a cross between a tin he-
licopter and a gale-force wind. It didn’t
work over 3G, this is why the latest
iPhone only offers video calling through
WiFi. The government auctioned five
different frequencies back then, for a to-
tal amount of over £22bn. It was a stag-
gering price and it doesn’t compare at
all to the new 4G LTE networks that are
going for around £4bn in India.
Let’s hope that the government and
mobile operators can start to work to-
gether and not against each other. We
need to avoid a similar situation to 10
years ago, where markets were grossly
misjudged. We’ve got the technology,
there’s a proven demand, so why not
get the supply and we can start watching
HD TV ubiquitously.
Diaspora is an open source social network built
by four students at NYU’s Courant Institute;
Daniel Grippi, Maxwell Salzberg, Raphael So-
faer, and Ilya Zhitomirskiy.
They had been inspired by a talk about free-
dom and ownership online, by Eben Moglenn,
and focussed by the fact that the large social
networks require us to sacrifice lots of our pri-
vacy for features that aren’t anything special.
The project was published using Kickstarter,
a funding platform for creative projects, in
April 2010, with the team attempting to raise
$10,000 by the 1st of June in order to begin
work on it.
The four students persuaded more than 6000
people to contribute money to the project,
making it the largest Kickstarter project ever,
and managed to collect well over $200,000.
This outpouring of funding instilled them with
a strong motivation to get their idea off the
ground and available to all.
The four Diaspora creators believe that pri-
vacy and social connectivity do not have to be
mutually exclusive. The system they created
allows users to create their own, personally
hosted versions of Diaspora, called seeds, pro-
viding greater control of your information.
As Maxwell explains it: “Diaspora will give
to every single person in the entire world the
opportunity to install their own node within the
network. This node is fully controlled by you.
You can share and pass all the information you
want. It’s completely yours and you can extend
it in whatever you want to.”
A developer edition has already been re-
leased on GitHub, implementing many fea-
tures. For Diaspora users, all traffic is signed
and encrypted (except photos, for now), unlike
Facebook and its HTTP issues. A seed con-
nects to other services such as Facebook, Twit-
ter, Flickr, and pulls information back to the
local host.
At the moment Diaspora has all the features
of a basic social network, although it lacks the
level of interactivity of Facebook. Users can
share status messages and photos publicly and
privately, upload photo albums, add and man-
age friends across the Internet, no matter where
their Diaspora seed is located. The really inter-
esting thing is that it’s possible to customize
your seed’s appearance and add new services
and features, as the platform is open-source. For
the developers amongst us, it is programmed
using Ruby on Rails, MongoDB/MongoMap-
per, and GPG with full keychain support.
But the development team promises more
to its users. In the near future, their plan is to
implement data portability, which it will give
users the ability to move their accounts to new
seeds and notify all of their friends about the
change. Furthermore, they want to use the
browser’s language header to internationalise
Diaspora, so it can be easily used in many
languages. Plus an undo button (something
akin to gmail’s undo send), private messag-
ing, events and photo tagging are also in the
todo list. Diaspora certainly shows promise,
but like most open-source things, could stray
into the geek-only, mainstream shunning side
of technical know-how. If Diaspora is to suc-
ceed as Facebook has, it has to cater to the
lowest common denominator, including the
Internet-challenged.
Anyone who wants to learn more about Di-
aspora can follow it on twitter, Facebook, or
head on over www.joindiaspora.com.
The privacy aware, personally controlled, do-it-all, open source social network
Diaspora: social without the invasion
Anastasia Eleftheriou
“Why are we so far
behind these fast-
moving times? It’s
down to the launch
of the last networks
back in 2003.”
FRIDAY 12 november 2010

