BUSINESS
FELIX
14
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Summary
House prices reach 18 month low
House prices have declined at the fastest rate for
eighteen months. The House Price Index compiled by
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors is down
to -49 in the three months leading to October. This is
significantly worse than any analyst’s expectations.
The reason for the drop is a significant decrease in
activity in the mortgage sector and a lack of consum-
er confidence derived from the uncertain economic
outlook. Mortgage approval has also taken a signifi-
cant tumble, as fears of the austerity measurers are
starting to come into play.
UK financials doing well in China
Prime Minister David Cameron has managed to
secure preferential treatment for UK financial
firms in China, in lieu of American firms. This
was achieved during Cameron’s visit to China in
an attempt to sign trade deals and agreements.
David Cameron has taken with him the largest
business delegation to date.
George Osborne, says that China finds it easier
to do business with the UK than the US. Cam-
eron stated that this deal will expand the eco-
nomic relationship with China. Britain has also
agreed to make plans to allow some Chinese
companies to be listed on the UK stock market
This comes as news that some UK firms will
help China develop its bond markets.
Ron Paul elected to oversee Fed
Write for Business
Ron Paul has been elected to chair the Financial Ser-
vices Subcommittee on Domestic Monedary Policy.
This body is a supervisory one that has jurisdiction
to oversee any activities related to US monetary
policy and the agencies that affect it, directly or indi-
rectly. It is also a subcommittee that will allow Paul
to oversee the activities of the US central bank, the
Federal Reserve. This has been described by pundits
as the “perfect role” for Ron Paul.
Friday 12 November 2010
It is hard to argue that Imperial is not
one of the world’s best universities;
after all, several independent and dis-
connected rankings tend to place it con-
sistently in the top 10. With impending
changes to higher education funding, it
is imperative that Imperial significantly
engorges its endowment if it is to main-
tain this standing and keep pace in an in-
creasingly competitive market for talent
and high calibre students. In order to do
so, Imperial faces enormous obstacles,
some of which will be nigh on impos-
sible to overcome.
Asystem heavily reliant on alumni do-
nations is not one that can be institution-
alised overnight. The reasons American
universities are able to raise such exorbi-
tant amounts is because there is a culture
of giving back to your alma mater. The
student experience in the UK is, with
perhaps the exception of a few universi-
ties, wildly different from the campus-
based experience American universities
are able to provide. In order to breed a
culture where alumni donate regularly
to Imperial, it must invest heavily and
continuously in student life, fostering a
sense of belonging to something great,
in the true sense of the word. This exer-
Imperial needs to star
Afonso Campos
recommendations of the Browne re-
view, although it did highlight some of
its drawbacks. The Union is not alone
in recognising the difficulties that lay
ahead. The College has officially ac-
knowledged that “storm clouds are gath-
ering” and that there has been a “grow-
ing concern” regarding the “inevitability
of reductions in public spending”.
When the College’s latest financial
statement (2008/2009) went to press,
close to half of Imperial’s total income
appears to be originated from pure-play
government sources with the income
derived from endowment investment
coming to a mere 2% of the total. This
is very different to the way Cambridge
operates, where over 80% of its total in-
come is made up of its endowment.
Endowments have not traditionally
been relied upon by most UK universi-
ties as public institutions, since much of
We need to feel
like we belong
cise is likely to take decades, if it can be
achieved at all.
What may work in the College’s favour
is how surprisingly well it held up during
the financial crisis, securing an increase
in total funding when most universities
suffered a dramatic loss. This is proving
to be a real testament to the soundness
of its investment policies and of Martin
Knight’s judgement in his role as Chief
Operating Officer.Alumni are likely to be
encouraged by such stellar performance.
While it is without a doubt a colossal
task, Imperial has the clout, talent and
ability to make at least some headway in
significantly increasing its endowment,
thus securing a future that is free from
government intervention.
A new drive for donations needs to be
of unprecedented proportions.
Imperial College has long wished and
pledged to be among the world’s elite
of academia, continuously making the
assertion that it can stack up proudly
against the financial mammoths that are
the top American universities, Oxford
and Cambridge. Its literature certainly
highlights the College’s prominent and
ubiquitous presence in national and in-
ternational rankings of universities. Al-
ready on-going is a race to the top, and
with the myriad of proposed changes to
universities’ funding models, it is bound
to become more ferocious.
The contentious Browne Review has
once more brought into the spotlight
the longstanding and polarising issue of
higher education funding. The fact that it
was even commissioned in the first place
highlights the very grave status of uni-
versity funding, especially in these dif-
ficult financial times, in which austerity
is the mot-du-jour. Despite loud protests
by many, there is a growing sentiment
that students need to start taking more
financial responsibility for their educa-
tion and the value they attach to it. There
seems to be an increased understanding
that those who benefit most from their
degrees should be sharing the financial
burden of undertaking them with the rest
of the taxpaying population.
While the news of a potential tre-
bling of fees have galvanised many to
take to the streets in protest, the Impe-
rial College Union Council has recently
passed a policy that supports the broad
Afonso Campos
“Imperial has raised £4m in
alumni donations since 2003;
equivalent to just 1.6% of what
Cambridge managed to collect”
Yale University has one of the largest endowments in the world. It is around $16bn
Changes to university
funding require
Imperial to act fast
Are you interested in business,
finance or the economy? Want
to write for Felix’s Business
section? We’d love to hear
from you. Email us at
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk

