POLITICS
FELIX
16
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Forza Berlusconi! At least
he’s living La Dolce Vita
S
ilvio Berlusconi is, in his own
words, “the best political leader in
Europe and the world.” To most
foreign commentators, however,
he is at best a carefree, flamboyant
playboy who likes to throw sexy parties at his
Sardinian Villa. He makes Hugh Hefner seem
an amateur, and Bill Clinton a choir boy. At
worst, he is accused of being a supremely cor-
rupt businessman, with excessive control over
the nation’s media, alleged links to the mafia,
and a predisposition for bribery and fraud.
Defending this ex-cruise ship crooner might
therefore seem as difficult as supporting the
intentions of a charming spotty-faced, white
tracksuit-laden youth who likes to loiter around
bus stops at three in the morning. But there are
arguments in favour of the Italian Prime Min-
ister, and they merit attention, starting with his
gaffes and highly charged libido.
Berlusconi is often ridiculed in the media for
his outlandish remarks and apparent inability
to control his more basic instincts. Last week,
he managed to combine both by intervening in
the release of a 17 year old belly dancer who
attended parties at his house and stating in the
process that it is “better to like beautiful girls
than to be gay.” But a wavering eye towards
the opposite sex does not necessarily have any
direct bearing on a person’s ability to be com-
petent in the work place. Bill Clinton’s adven-
tures with Monika Lewinsky did not stop him
from leaving office with the highest approval
rating of any US president since the 2nd World
War, and did not detract from his role in su-
pervising the longest period of peace-time eco-
nomic growth in US history.
That Berlusconi likes to provoke the media
with regular witticisms should, in principle,
also be irrelevant to his ability to address the
nation’s concerns. Boris Johnson is renowned
for his penchant to crack the occasional gag
(who can forget his call for the Tories to be the
“meat” in the coalition government’s sausage),
yet since being Mayor of London he has de-
fied the critics who had haughtily predicted
that City Hall would collapse into a complete
shambles. Berlusconi’s policies and legal accu-
sations aside, therefore, his fondness for jokes
and fruity girls is irrelevant to his capability to
govern Italy. To his critics it is, if anything, a
dangerous distraction from the far more seri-
ous legal crimes he is charged with. It serves
to portray him as a bumbling fool instead of a
hardened and ruthless businessman.
Then there is the weakness of the opposition.
Berlusconi is the second longest-serving Prime
Minister of Italy. He has held the job on three
separate occasions: from 1994 to 1995, from
2001 to 2006 and since 2008. Only one Ital-
ian government has lasted a full five-year term
in the past fifty years, and that is Berlusconi’s
from 2001 to 2006. In 2006, he lost the election
to Romano Prodi by a whisker – only to see
the new government collapse in 2008. The left
are not strong enough to fight back. In essence,
whatever the pitfalls of Berlusconi, the sad fact
is that there is currently no one better to run the
country. It is plausible that if he were ousted
today, the work he has done to help Italy avoid
the credit concerns that have swamped Greece
would become undone by the renewed politi-
cally unstable climate.
But whether Berlusconi is, in his own immor-
tal words, “the right man in the right job” might
just not be the most important thing. Italy is a
place where masochistic lamentation is perva-
sive and Italians fail all too often to recognise
the good things Italy has to offer. People may
laugh at Italy and its politics, but nothing can
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Haiti
A series of bombings and mortar attacks targeting
Christian areas has killed at least three people in
the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, according to the Iraqi
officials.
The attacks come days after militants seized a Cath-
olic cathedral killing 70. Interior Ministry sources
have said that the two attacks were linked.
A group with links to al-Qaeda has claimed respon-
sibility for the attack on the cathedral. Al Qaeda has
announced that all Middle Eastern Christians are le-
gitimate targets after their demands for the release
of prisoners went unheeded by the Iraqi and Egyp-
tian Governments.
Iraq
detract from the historical and artistic might of
cities such as Florence, Rome, and Venice or
the talents of Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo,
and Galileo Galilei. Nothing can hide the fla-
vour of an Alba truffle, a chunk of bistecca alla
Fiorentina, or the delectable sip of Napolitan
limoncello. Italians like to live well. They are
more likely to argue about their gnocchi than
their politics. Perhaps Berlusconi has done so
well simply because his party is called “Forza
Italia!” (literally “Come on Italy!”), akin to the
chants heard across the country on a Sunday’s
Serie A match day when the passionate tifosi
cry out “Forza Juve!”, “Forza Inter!”, “Forza
Milan!” And perhaps they have got the bal-
ance right - to quote the illustrious composer
Giuseppe Verdi “You may have the universe if
I may have Italy.”
The Haitian Government has confirmed an out-
break of cholera in the capital Port-au-Prince.
73 people have been treated so far amidst fears
that an outbreak could spread throughout the capi-
tal after Hurricane Tomas battered the Caribbean
nation causing flooding and sanitation problems.
Up to 2.5 million people could be affected in the
area around the Haitian capital if more outbreaks
are confirmed. Most residents of Port-au-Prince live
in the slums and tents which surround the city and
most have no access to clean water.
Burma (Myanmar)
Myanmar’s pro–democracy leader Aung San Suu
Kyi has said that she will not accept any condition
on her release.
Her latest house arrest term is set to expire this Sat-
urday 13th. It comes after the military-backed politi-
cal party claimed victory in Myanmar’s first election
in 20 years which most Western observers said was
neither free nor fair. However, China has called the
election peaceful and successful. Releasing Suu Kyi
carries risks for the military junta, but not freeing
her would disappoint Myanmar’s ASEAN partners,
some of whom
are frustrated
with the West-
ern criticism it
draws to their
region as the
bloc strives to
build econom-
ic ties.
Italy may be a ship full of holes but it refuses to sink and
there’s no better captain than Silvio, argues Charles Betts
“I am the Jesus Christ of politics” - Berlusconi, 2006
Friday 12 November 2010

