POLITICS
FELIX 17
The incredible Dr Kim
Dr James Kim meets the British delegation
I
t’s hard not to be captivated by
Korean culture, dignity, and
manners. They are a deeply
civilized and hospitable people
who have suffered grievously:
tortured by half a century of degrading
and cruel Japanese occupation followed
by an ideological war which massacred
millions, severed their homeland, and
divided their people.
History on the Korean peninsula re-
mains unhealed and a generation of
embittered and embattled military and
political leaders have presided over spo-
radic and half-hearted attempts to allow
their people to move on.
The human and emotional conse-
quences for families estranged for over
half a century are incalculable.
During my recent visit the Govern-
ment of North Korea confirmed that
a new round of brief family reunions
would take place but Vice Foreign Min-
ister, Kung Sok Ung, told me that “as
many as 20 million inter-related fami-
lies, first, second and third generation
Koreans, remain separated – which is
why reunion of the peninsula remains
our first priority.”
The economic cost of reunification to
the South would be phenomenal, dwarf-
ing the oft cited comparison made with
the divided Germanys. North Korea,
after all, is a country where, only a de-
cade ago, during a pestilential famine,
an estimated two million people died of
starvation.
The British Ambassador, Peter
Hughes, recently voiced his concern at
the continuing manifestation of chronic
malnutrition; and, throughout talks
with officials, it was never long before
the failure of this year’s cabbage crop
– which provides the kim-chi staple to
Korean families during the impending
and always harsh Korean winter, was
mentioned.
The cabbage crisis has led to South
Korea relaxing its high import tariffs on
cabbage and white turnips (previously
27% and 30%) and cornering the mar-
ket in China’s vegetable growing areas.
Scarcity had now led to the price of veg-
etables in Seoul reaching a historic high
of nearly £6 per item. In the North, no
family would have access to such re-
sources.
At Sariwon, 40 kilometres from
Pyongyang, I visited a co-operative
farm and saw agricultural workers
bringing in the last of a meagre harvest.
Around the fields were blandishments
and loudspeakers urging the workers
to redouble their efforts – but without
improved technology, different methods
From death row to founder of North Korea’s first independent university, Dr James
Kim’s story is told by Lord David Alton, in the second part of this exclusive series
Friday 12 November 2010
of agriculture, enhanced yields of crops,
and pooling resources with the South, it
is hard to see what more the workers can
reasonably be expected to do.
Which is why a political settlement,
ushering in a new era of peaceful prog-
ress and development, is so urgent.
This was the same situation which the
Korean-American business man, James
Chin Kyung Kim, found in China 17
years ago when he opened the country’s
first foreign joint-venture university.
This thriving institution, with 1700
students, places more than 90% of its
students in jobs – cutting-edge roles in
transforming China’s huge agricultural
sector and in its booming liberalised
economy. Dr Kim’s dream is to provide
the same opportunities for the North Ko-
rean students now entering the Pyong-
yang University of Science and Tech-
nology (PUST).
The university had its genesis in
1987 in a series of intermittent visits to
Pyongyang.
Initially, he was treated as a curiosity
by the regime. After the death of Kim
Il Sung the climate changed and, dur-
ing a visit in 1998, Dr Kim was arrested
and thrown in jail, accused of being an
American spy.
The situation appeared so bleak that
he was told to write a will - and, in keep-
ing with his vow to give everything back
to his country - he even told his captors
that once they had executed him they
could have his body parts for medical
research.
James Kim told me that “The North
Korean Government was moved and
allowed me to return to my home in
China.” It was the first time someone
was released after the death penalty was
imposed. He made no public complaints
about what had occurred and “two years
later they invited me back to North Ko-
rea and asked whether I would forget
our differences and build a university
for them like the one I had established
in China.”
Dr Kim believes his experience is evi-
dence that the regime “can be touched
and messages can be communicated at
some level. On a much grander scale we
need to deepen the experience of recon-
ciliation.” Through education – which
“has the power to transcend nationalistic
boundaries and promote cross-cultural
understanding and respect” - James Kim
believes the situation can ultimately
be transformed. The results will be du-
rable and long lasting but will not hap-
pen overnight and “peace comes with a
price.”
Dr Kim asserts that an approach based
on patient love “is the only thing that
can touch the heart of souls in North Ko-
rea. There is nothing that won’t change
or be inspired by it.”
PUST’s small corps of teachers, who
are committed to ushering in North
Korea’s “information age”, providing
English language studies which will link
its coming generation to global society,
and who are now living in Pyongyang,
are giving their services for little or no
recompense. This is a real service min-
istry – and they are looking for others
to join them for a semester or for a full
academic year.
Eventually, Dr Kim wants to see an
industrial park created around the PUST
campus, providing a springboard for
international companies. Ben Rosen,
the American venture capitalist and
founder of Compaq Computer corpora-
tion has visited the campus and believes
that PUST will give its students “a win-
dow to the outside world and will create
a new generation of technocrats with
the potential to lead a post-Kim Jong Il
government.”
James Kim is under no illusions about
what he has taken on: “Our work will be
costly and sacrificial in many respects;
and it will be time consuming and diffi-
cult. However, once that price has been
paid it will, in turn, give us peace. We
must pay the ‘price of peace’ regardless
of our discomfort.”
It’s a sentiment uttered by a man who,
during the carnage of the Korean War,
saw all of his friends perish, who has
festered in a North Korean jail, and
whose jailers sentenced him to death.
It’s a sentiment which sums up the re-
markable story of a truly remarkable
man.
“The economic cost
of reunification to the
South would be phe-
nomenal, dwarfing
the oft cited compar-
ison made with the
divided Germanys. ”

