18
COMMENT
felix
FRIDAY 12 NOVEMBER 2010
S
cience and engineering have
serious institutional prob-
lems when it comes to diver-
sity. I say this as head of an
organisation whose purpose
it is to champion this sector.
Only one in ten graduate engineers are
women. Disabled people make up 5.9%
of the total workforce, but only 3.8% in
science, engineering, and technology.
Only one in twenty chemistry lecturers
isn’t white. Amongst our international
competitors, the UK ranks disappoint-
ingly badly when it comes to how student
performance in science and maths corre-
lates with socio-economic background.
There are lots of reasons why this
should be, and some of them are compli-
cated and obscure – but it’s obvious why
it’s unacceptable.
Thousands of people are being de-
terred from careers they would excel in,
which is a loss to those individuals. But
it also means a loss to society, and the
economy. We’re talking about thousands
of people who could be making advanc-
es, and might be excelling in their field,
if it wasn’t due to the discrimination
which seems to be built-in to our science
and engineering establishment.
And when I say ‘establishment’, I
don’t refer to remote upper echelons.
Look around you. More than six in sev-
en of all professors at Imperial College
are male. Less than one in ten black Af-
rican applicants end up getting in.
Progress is being made. For instance,
Imperial is one of only two universities
that ranked in the top 100 LGBT work-
places last year, and the gender gap for
academics here is (very slowly) narrow-
ing. But the statistics highlight the scale
of the problem. It’s going to take dec-
ades of consistent effort before we can
safely say that regardless of the circum-
stances of your birth or your lifestyle,
you’ve got an equal chance of making it
as a scientist or engineer.
So it’s really quite important that if
something looks set to start to unravel
good work which has already been done,
it must be countered. In the Higher Edu-
cation funding reforms we could face
such a challenge.
Broadly, the reforms go far in securing
lower graduate contributions from the
lowest earners. But they may fail in one
crucial respect that’s very relevant to us.
It’s no secret that science and engi-
neering degrees cost more than arts and
humanities to teach. Think of the cost of
a physics laboratory versus a philosophy
library. Luckily, current funding models
mean that (as long as you’re not a for-
eign student) you have free choice over
what to study, because all degrees have
the same annual cost. That may be about
to change.
The government has left the door
open to universities now charging dif-
ferential fees for different subjects. Al-
though there may still be some central
government funding for STEM degrees,
it won’t necessarily be enough to make
sure those degrees don’t cost more than
arts and humanities.
We already know that the cost of go-
Pale, stale and male
ing to university affects student choice.
For instance, some students (particu-
larly those from certain ethnic minori-
ties) choose to live at home rather than
moving out, based on financial consid-
erations. This obviously limits which
universities they can attend.
The danger is that students may soon
be forced into taking their second-choice
degrees, or going to their second-choice
universities, because of a decision about
debt - rather than a decision about what
they could achieve.
If that happens it would counteract
enormous amounts of effort that have
gone into widening participation in sci-
ence and engineering, and exacerbate
existing inequalities. It’s important we
make sure that the overriding concern
for applicants is their own academic
merit and drive, not a subject-specific
financial trade-off.
Science has always benefited from di-
versity - we shouldn’t lose sight of that.
It’s in difficult times that we need inno-
vation the most.
University funding reforms fail in one crucial respect.
The evidence for this is right here at Imperial College
It’s informative that students, of all the vic-
tims of the coalition’s cuts, are the first to
stand up for themselves, instead of blithely
accepting the extreme austerity of the cur-
rent parliament. The growing sense that old-
er generations have used up all the hot wa-
ter, so to speak, has created a great sense
of injustice amongst young people. Add to
this the coming Lib Dem betrayal, of their
election pledge to vote against tuition fee
increases, and it’s easy to understand why
50,000 students marched on Wednesday.
Boots on the ground alone are not enough
to win arguments. Move away from emotive
accusations of abandoning a generation and
it quickly becomes clear that the govern-
ment’s proposals are the fairest solution to
a difficult problem.
Someone has to pay for higher education.
Either society in general, when the govern-
ment taxes the population, or the individual
who directly benefits. There is no need to re-
sort to demagoguery; this ideological point
is the essential difference between, say, the
N.U.S. and the government.
So in this time of severe financial auster-
ity, when each and every area of government
spending is being reviewed, why should the
general population bear the costs of giving
a select few an advantage in life? The cru-
cial point is while the state cannot bear the
cost of the higher education system, the in-
dividual, through the tuition fee system, can
and should.
Because ultimately student debt is only as
scary as the N.U.S. makes it out to be. If
you remember that you’ll pay a relatively
low amount of interest, that the debt will be
wiped off after 30 years and that nobody is
going to repossess your home then actually
it is a pain free way of paying for the best
years of your life. If however you believe the
scaremongering slogan of “crippling debts”
then of course you will be deterred from
university.
As more and more people attend university,
the state is grows less and less able to foot
the bill. It is obvious that individuals should
shoulder the costs of that which directly
benefits them. The real problem with the
current tuition fee debate is that young peo-
ple are being choked by the smoke produced
by the N.U.S. when there’s no fire to actually
burn them.
FELIX
Imran Khan
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
The act of protest is
admirable,but higher fees
make sense
When the only woman on campus walks past, it’s easy to spot the guy with a girlfriend
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director of the
Campaign for Science
and Engineering and
Imperial College
alumnus
“
“
t, it’s easy to spot
”
Science has always benefited
from diversity - we shouldn’t
lose sight of that. It’s in difficult
times that we need innovation
the most
Comment Editor: Anna Perman

