HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 12 November 2010
2
FELIX
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox Middleton
Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo
Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson
Special thanks to: Dan Wan, Alex Nowbar, Hannah Thomas, Lizzy Griffiths, Alex Karapetian, Gilead Amit and Polly Bennett for their invaluable help this week.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK
Felix JCR Stall
Every Monday. 12:00–12:30
Union Meetings
Council
Union Council, the decision-making body of the Union
which is open to all students, meets this Monday in the
aftermath of the N.U.S. protest last Wednesday. At the
meeting the President will declare the beginning of the
formulation process of the Union’s 5-year strategy.
Initation of Union 5-year strategy
consultation process
On campus
How the sun influences
climate
Friends of Imperial present a lecture by Professor
Joanna Haigh. Her research has raised the question
of whether global warming could be managed using
solar radiation management techniques. Contact
admin@friendsofimperial.org.uk
Lecture Theatre 1, Blackett
16 November 19:00-20:00
Jorge Cham of PHD Comics
Jorge Cham, creator of
the web comic ‘Piled
Higher and Deeper’,
comes to Imperial to give
his “Academic Stimulus
Package” talk. There will
be a book signing and
informal reception in the
Queens Tower Rooms fol-
lowing the lecture. Email
graduate.schools@im-
perial.ac.uk to register.
Graduate students only.
Alumnus Book Launch
Imperial Physics graduate Gareth Davies returns
to Imperial to launch his debut novel, The Looking
Glass Club. Interestingly, the novel contains a se-
ries of cryptic puzzles and Gareth is offering up to a
million pounds to the first person that solves all of
them. He will offer a free Kindle on the night to the
first person to solve the first puzzle. Copies of his
book will also be on sale and Gareth will be signing
copies.
Wolfson Lounge, Southside
18 November 19:00
G16 Sir Alexander Fleming Building
17 November 17:30
Union Dining Hall
15 November 18:30
Have you ever read Felix and found an error,
mistake or article that you hated (or even
enjoyed, God forbid)? Each Monday lunch-
time, Felix holds a stall in the Junior Com-
mon Room (JCR) to give you the opportunity
to speak to the Editor face-to-face. Felix is
your student paper and we’re open to sug-
gestions, criticism and especially new con-
tributors.
Come say “Hi!” to us on Monday if you have
something to get off your chest or if you want
to get involved with the newspaper.
The Editor
The Cat might be there, depending how aloof he’s feeling

