IS FRY RIGHT ABOUT
WOMEN’S
SEXUALITY?
T
hou shalt not question
Stephen Fry? Oh dear,
I may as well go watch
Hollyoaks and eat a Kit
Kat. While we’re at it, the
Beatles aren’t just a band – they are a
way of life.
Stephen Fry, National Treasure™,
has been quoted as saying women are
uninterested in sex, except as the price
for a relationship. Apparently, we’re all lying back and thinking of intro-
ducing him to our parents at Christmas. It doesn’t help that I imagine him
saying it as General Melchett in Blackadder.
Apparently, he never meant it (not that he never said it, and I have scru-
tinised his blog on the subject, before you ask). Maybe so, but I think it
reveals some underlying opinions about women and sexuality.
So apparently straight men wish they, like gay men, could frequent the
shadier areas of Hampstead Heath in hopes of getting their rocks off. Eh?
Most of the gay men I know just go to a club or bar, the same as straight
men and women. Cruising public lavs isn’t a sign of sexuality, it’s a
product of a by-gone era where homosexual activity was forced into the
shadows. Straight men don’t usually go cottaging, because there have
always been plenty of brothels for that sort of nonsense. Women don’t,
because it isn’t the 1800s and we can just go pick someone up in a club.
It’s nothing to do with whether women are horny or not, it’s because
‘Let’s go outside’ is a brilliant song, but a poor sex tip.
Another strand of his purported argument was that women pretend to
like sex to get men to give them what they want, be that money or a re-
lationship. It is a patronising opinion to have of women, but also of men.
In my experience, they aren’t all sexual junkies, but do on occasion want
the relationships ascribed as being a purely feminine desire. They also
sometimes use sex for monetary gain.
I think guys have it reinforced to them all the time by our culture, that,
while women may look like they are autonomous beings, secretly, they
only ever think about what men are upto. For example, most action films
will just include a love interest, if any female character at all, who just
talks about how worried she is about the hero. Romcoms, conversely,
will feature all sorts of conversations between women, which will almost
always be about hating/loving a guy.
Bullshit. Mostly, my conversations with my female friends are about
books, science, music, our friends, our careers. Sometimes, we talk about
men. My every move is not dictated by what men want, but what I want.
If that is sex, it is regardless of what I can gain afterwards.
And frankly, the idea of sex in a park reeks of cider-infused teenage
fumblings. Come on Darling, let’s go inside.
20 felix
FRIDAY 12 november 2010
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
suppose this has got blokes
questioning what girls have
said to them on the subject.
Are you really the best she’s
ever had? When she says
“nobody does it better”, is that a
compliment, or a consolation?
If I were you, I wouldn’t worry
my little head about these things;
it’s her business if she wants to pay
the price of a relationship with your highness. Furthermore, if she is pre-
tending, couldn’t she be quieter about it? You have no particular problem
with the noise but your mother has been nagging you about it.
So why are feminists getting so worked up about Stephen Fry’s claims?
One, they are reasonably indignant because they do lurrve sex. Two, they
ridiculously demand equality in all fields in spite of obvious physiologi-
cal differences. Three, they want men to believe they love sex so as not
to arouse suspicions of their manipulative ways.
I, for one, am disappointed that Fry didn’t stand by his comments.
Sincere as he sounds in claiming to have been misconstrued, I suspect
he expressed his honest views. However, he realises them near impos-
sible for him to justify, his position being significantly weakened by his
gender (Ironic, no?). In that department I am far better equipped to cru-
sade for what Fry may or may not really believe in. It is not so absurd
to believe that women enjoy sex less than men. In fact it is a perfectly
logical conclusion to draw from typical female behaviour devoid of ac-
tively seeking sex.
However I would be the last to deny that we can enjoy it. Much as it
pains me to say, there is a pink, throbbing elephant in this room in the
form of a vibrator. One which proves we are capable of enjoying sex.
The problem is the widespread inability amongst men to reproduce the
kind of results that he can.
Hence it is reasonable to generalise that women do not like sex, at least
not as much as men do. Essentially man is inferior to the elephant.
And I haven’t even got started on libido, of which men have a far great-
er supply, this being a universally acknowledged truth. You can hardly
argue with evolution. Apparently there are girls gagging for it but I can’t
even begin to explain their psychology except to assume it is some com-
plex product of society’s expectations. Ok, maybe I’ll have to concede
that some girls do feel strong natural urges for sex as I can’t know what
others experience but I will not accept those feelings as the norm.
Women have various motivations to lie about liking sex, and assum-
ing women don’t like sex is reasonable. But we’re all in a pickle if the
women actually enjoying the sex aren’t being believed.
Hey, who said I had the answers? Ask Jeeves.
“‘Let’s go
outside’ is a
great song, but
a poor sex tip”
Anna Perman
“I, for one, am
disappointed that
Fry didn’t stand by
his comments”
Ways to liven up an
Autumn evening #19
Transexual Scrabble.
Alexandra Nowbar
Scrabble isn’t particularly exciting. I’d go as
far as to say that it’s borderline hell, equita-
ble to being locked away with Patrick Kielty.
It’s a novelty for the first fifteen minutes,
but then becomes a scraping pain on the in-
side of your skull, as you either get bored of
thinking of words, or Kielty tries, and fails,
to be in any way entertaining.
But what about the current UK scrabble
champion? A pink wig wearing transsexu-
al in a PVC dress called Mikki Nicholson.
Scrabble has suddenly got a bit interest-
ing; going from the world of the geek, vigor-
ously masturbating over a thesaurus, to the
wacky world of sexual ambiguity.
But Scrabble isn’t the only autumn activity
in need of an injection of some joie de vivre.
I’m quite partial to a game of Risk every now
and then. It’s actually quite challenging. But
imagine if Risk involved a bit of actual risk,
paintball guns perhaps. No longer relying on
rolling three fives to take Irkutsk, you would
simply whip your gun from under the ta-
ble and relentlessly plaster your opponent
in paint. Games about world domination
shouldn’t involve dice. Genghis Khan never
rolled a dice. He killed, raped and pillaged.
Those things aren’t acceptable in society
any more; luckily paintball is.
Shopping too could be spiced up, Super-
market Sweep style. You would queue at
line up against other would-be contenders
at the entrance and then fly around Sains-
burys, throwing all you needed into your
trolley. Tins of tomatoes flying across the
room. Screams of delight as you discover a
2-for-1 deal on Doritos and then, shopping
complete in a PB of fifteen minutes, forty
three seconds, you proceed to checkout.
Here my vision differs from that of the fake
tanned nightmare of Dale Winton. The self-
service checkout machine, the bane of our
lives with their insistence on everything be-
ing in the bagging area, now we fling things
willy nilly across the scanner until the su-
permarket looks more like Get Your Own
Back.
Ms Nicholson is a prime example of all
that’s good with the world. She followed
her dream and achieved it, smashing the
stereotype of scrabble players forever. So,
I urge each and every one of you, no taking
the Mikki, please.
By Rob Cleaver
Stephen Fry’s claim, that women don’t
cruise because they are uninterested in
sex, outraged feminist groups. He claims
he was misquoted.The question is...

