21
felix FRIDAY 12 november 2010
COMMENT
First year isn’t stale just yet
O
h goody! Another sub-
ject to rant on about in
a pedantic and pomp-
ous tone of voice. Well,
more like splitting hairs
in a self-important manner really. Either
way, the headline “Is the first year of a
degree a waste of time?” is the sort of
trashy headline calculated to get Radio
Four listeners heading for the hills.
Needless to say, it has nothing
whatsoever to do with missing out
the first year, but re-structuring three
year degree courses so that they take
24 months rather than 33. This sadly
misses the point, that technical degrees
worth having now last four years, but
I digress.
We live in a fast age. People want to
get on, to make something of themselves
in the best years of their lives -- maybe
so they can do something before they’re
told to retire and before strikes affect the
industry in which they work. Easy when
you think about it isn’t it? Every eight-
een–year–old school leaver obviously
thinks of it in just that way.
It’s more likely that they have money
on their minds, but are only dimly aware
Sam Furse
of the full financial consequences of a
shorter course. Someone on a two-year-
long degree is still going to have to meet
significant costs, and is not going to
have time to do paid work as there will
be four terms in a year, and no ‘sum-
mer’. They won’t to be able to shop
around, or exist healthily on the cheap
stuff (who can?), they won’t have time
to earn money or do extra-mural or ul-
tra-curricular activities.
Arguably, one might be willing to
make this sacrifice. The short-term cost
implications may be worth it as there is
potential for an additional year of work
rather than study. Trouble is, although
HR managers and agencies like a good
First class degree, in reality a 2(i) with
something else to say -- be it knitting or
flower arranging -- will get you further.
Employers want something else to look
at on paper, something else to talk about
at interviews. Sitting at a desk and do-
ing work is fine, but is not good enough
on its own.
Conversely, things in education do
change and getting left behind is at least
as bad as being right too early. Under the
current system, academics who teach,
which is most of them, have space to re-
search and publish. It is easy to dismiss
this as an academic selfishness, and in
a perverse way it is. It allows them to
spend time learning from their students.
That is undoubtedly a good thing, and
it is the same logic as to why generally
those in healthcare prefer teaching hos-
pitals to district ones.
The time for extra activities lost by
those doing two year degrees might
reasonably be balanced by a year of
travelling, volunteering or gambling af-
terwards. Or would that be missing the
point? Probably…
My advice to anyone thinking of a
one, two or even three year degree? Do
what you think will suit you and just
dive in. You will never know what it
would have been like any other way,
and it does not matter because you will
probably have the right degree for you
anyway.
Enjoy it, whatever the cost or how-
ever long it lasts. Of course there will
be ups and downs, but imbibing human
achievement, or even contributing to it,
is one of the most rewarding things one
can do.
Dear Sirs,
Felix’s interview with Claire Fox about
the Institute of Ideas’ “Battle of Ideas”
debate weekend made interesting read-
ing [October 15, 2010, p. 9]. The ac-
companying photo’s caption had me
looking forward to “a show of wits”, but
the questions were none too probing; in-
stead Fox simply plugged the institute’s
event and bemoaned science and society
for a thousand-odd words.
Fox says that “[o]ur [presumably the
Institute’s] concern is that scientists
rarely admit that reality is more compli-
cated than the statistics”. This is the kind
of complaint that sounds compelling and
deep right up until the moment one ac-
tually thinks about it, at which point it
immediately falls apart.
I doubt Fox has any good evidence
that the vast majority of scientists
won’t discuss what their statistics don’t
capture; certainly the idea doesn’t jibe
with my experience. There are many
scientists who come to conclusions that
are too strong, true. Some omit impor-
tant caveats about their work, true. But
what proportion of scientists do this
consistently? Is it so high that only a
handful of scientists acknowledge the
limits of available data? That’s hardly
credible, especially considering how
many scientists strive to expose others’
blind spots.
Next she suggests that scientists
“don’t trust that the public will be able
to handle an issue which has a less
black-or-white answer. Scientists con-
tribute to that view, and we suggest we
have a more intelligent debate over the
role of science in society.”
But what if it sometimes happens to
be an accurate view? Then Fox has sum-
marily dismissed it just for the sake of
promoting her institute’s position as
“more intelligent”. Surely she can think
of times when members of the public
have poorly handled uncertainty about
scientific issues? If not, I suggest she
looks at current views of global warm-
ing, or of the MMR vaccine ten years
before that.
Fox complains about “the climate
of mistrust [that] has gone too far”,
but poorly-founded attacks on scien-
tists contribute to that same climate of
mistrust.
Moreover, it’s hard to avoid the sus-
picion that the “controversial” Institute
of Ideas’ focus on “live debate” (a poor
substitute for serious truth-seeking) and
“challeng[ing] orthodoxies” is likely to
cultivate still more cynicism and mis-
trust in its audiences. I expect its ap-
proach is an effective way to manufac-
ture publicity, but “an intelligent public
arena”? That’s, well, debatable.
Thomas Drew
“Although agencies
like a Ist class
degree, a 2(i) with
something else will
get you further”
Warning: X Factor is
a serious danger to
your mental health
Another weekend is upon us,
and with it, certain inevitabili-
ties: problem sheets will re-
main partially complete; Mon-
day will come too soon and
with it, X-Factor news.
This manufactured and over–
dramatized programme will
‘grace’ our screens this Satur-
day and will probably follow its
usual lacklustre format.
After the initial stages in which
the bewildered and mentally
unstable are paraded on
stage, the leftovers (or the
“lucky few” as they prefer to be
called), schooled in the lower-
wobbling lip, blubber their way
through, singing – occasionally
well – with camera-cuts to an
emotionally-overwhelmed fam-
ily member. Then to Machiavel-
li himself, his cosmetic smile
casting judgment on the de-
luded fools before him. From
the music to the comments,
everything – even spontaneity
– is planned. Regardless, the
audience whoop fervently, re-
inforcing the judges’ and con-
testants’ ever-growing sense
of self-importance. The wor-
ship of the talentless by the
vacuous.
The morning after, revelations
of a contestant’s sordid past
push more interesting news off
the front covers. Who cares for
a durable two-state solution to
the Arab-Israeli conflict when
the latest tuneless and talent-
less evictee “reveals all”?
These are not talent contests.
They lack both talent and any
form of fair competition. They
project their snivelling con-
testants into the mainstream
media and purport them to
have far more skill and inter-
est than they actually do: or-
dinary men and women, of no
discernible talent are given
status of “national treasure”
or “inspiration”.
As with other manufactured
products, X Factor should
come with a health warning:
watching this will harm your
mental faculties.
By Leonardo Williams
The opinions expressed on the Comment pages represent the views of the author only.
Dear Sirs,
I believe that one of the cornerstones
of a democratic society is the public’s
access to information. That is why I
am very pleased that a coroner has last
week ruled that evidence at the July
6th Bombings inquest must be heard in
public.
The most quoted argument for secrecy
is probably that of national security:
making sensitive information public
might offer an advantage to the coun-
try’s enemies.
It is, however, my strongly held opin-
ion that very often not releasing this
information can have far more dire con-
sequences. If we do not fight for our
right to know what the government and
its agencies are doing, we are effectively
giving them carte blanche. This can eas-
ily lead to corruption and other abhor-
rent behaviour by politicians acting for
their own good, or a misguided idea of
the public good.
One of the best examples is that of
parliamentary expenses. If not for the
efforts of the media, MPs would have
succeeded in their attempts to conceal
the immoral behaviour of some of their
number, and the practice of over–claim-
ing for expenses might still be wide-
spread today. More recently MI6 head
Sir John Sawers has criticised plans to
allow judges to order the secret services
to publish classified information. We
cannot trust them and the government to
be the only ones to decide what reaches
the light of day, especially as much of
it incriminates or embarrasses them. Re-
cent and persistent allegations of British
complicity and even participation in tor-
ture seem to support this. It is too easy
to hide behind excuses.
Releasing evidence about the Bomb-
ings is unlikely to lead to any similar
scandals but it will help to give the vic-
tims’ families closure and might pres-
sure the authorities to improve their
methods of combating terrorism. The
government’s opposition to this is illogi-
cal and I agree with Lady Justice Hal-
lett that the documents to be seen will
do Britain no harm if certain sensitive
names and details are blanked out. If we
want to live in a fair and efficiently run
society it must be based on truth.
Maciej Matuszewski
Letters and Corrections
Corrections
In last week’s Felix the review entitled
“Imperial PhD student releases a debut
album” was attributed to Stephen Smith.
It was by Miles Robertson. In addition
the article entitled “Scuba trip to Pen-
zance” was wrongly attributed to Sam
Gonshaw instead of the Scuba Society.

