Going out isn’t just
about cheap shots
and dance tracks.
Drink in the atmosphere while you sip your
avant-garde beverage at one of London’s
best literary or artistic club nights
ARTS
FELIX
22
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science fiction still gets a lot of bad press and, while
there have been a fair number of stories about bug
eyed monsters, I believe that at its best it can equal
the greats of any literary genre. Childhood’s End is
probably the finest proof of this.
A hard science fiction classic, it is a fairly early
example of the alien invasion story. Indeed, it has
inspired TV shows such as V and films such as In-
dependence Day, but is much better than either of
them. The aliens here are quite unusual: despite
being known as the Overlords, they have ‘invaded’
not to destroy or dominate humanity, but help it.
Using their amazing technology they provide people
If you read nothing else
this week...
Maciej Matuszewski speaks up for
some first class science-fiction
Childhood’s
End by
Arthur C.Clarke
What should we be reading next then? If you want
to see a review of your favourite book in Felix, send
300-400 words to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
with free and unlimited energy and resources. Spec-
tacular displays of this technology, such as blocking
out the sun over South Africa, are also used to force
people to come together and solve their problems
peacefully. Violence, however, is never used, with,
at first, the aliens not even landing or showing their
faces.
One of the best elements of the story is the mys-
tery: why exactly have the Overlords come, what are
their plans and what do they look like? Clarke gives
us tantalising clues throughout the story and the fi-
nal solution is both surprising and satisfying in that
it fits these clues perfectly. This is such an impor-
tant and interesting part of the plot that the book
does somewhat suffer after a few of the mysteries
are revealed early in the second half, set several
decades after first contact.
This being hard SF the science is fairly realistic
but it is not the novel’s main focus. This is prob-
ably the author’s exploration of how humanity might
respond to such unusual circumstances. The first
half of the story shows people’s early reactions, in-
cluding opposition, and how this is dealt with. In
the second Clarke explores what different societ-
ies could possibly evolve in the peaceful, techno-
logically and culturally advanced world guaranteed
by the Overlords’ interference. This section of the
book focuses on a single family, which gives a much
needed personal and human perspective, especial-
ly in the very emotional conclusion.
Childhood’s End doesn’t have any big space bat-
tles or major conflicts. It is, however, imaginative,
engaging and perfect for all those wanting an in-
troduction to science fiction or simply an intelligent
read.
Friday 12 November 2010
NIGHTCLUB
THIS
ORDINARY
AIN’T NO
Before anyone builds up a mental image of
cockney miners drinking pints of bitter, let me
set out a few facts. Whilst Bethnal Green Work-
ing Men’s Club at one point probably lived up
to its name, those in charge now clearly don’t
care for preserving history. Men in overalls and
bingo nights have been replaced by perverse
shows and barmen transvestites.
Self-described as a ‘literary cabaret’, Home-
work is one of the less racy nights held at
BGWMC, making for an ideal, gentle mid-
week night out. Run by Aisle16, a collective
of young poets, writers and comedians, the
monthly night brings together a diverse selec-
tion of distractions. Inspired by the story-tell-
ing events held by The Moth in New York, this
month saw the group sharing their tales of their
‘worst gig.’Two hours of tragicomic anecdotes
ensued, that would have given even the most
angelic of souls a few pangs of schadenfreude.
Surely Salisbury’s funniest export since
David Mitchell, Chris Hicks and his tale of
the weekend he discovered his girlfriend was
cheating on him, caught appendicitis and un-
intentionally revealed his ‘massive tattoo’ to
his mother in hospital mixed hilarious mis-
fortune with a macabre outlook, all to great
effect. Tim Clare too deserves special men-
tion. Anyone who can carve out an entire set
based around the attempted assassination of
Park Chung-Hee in 1974 is clearly a master
of their art.
The surprise of the evening came from the
headlining guest, Johann Hari, more famed
for his tenacious journalism and television
appearances than for his stand-up. Neverthe-
less, it became apparent that his talents stretch
beyond just hard-talk as he hilariously retold
the story of his disastrous interview with the
Dalai Lama. But the show was somewhat sto-
len by John Osborne who told the story of how
he kindled a correspondence with kids’ TV
and radio legend Pat Sharp. More entertain-
ing though was the subsequent breakdown of
said relationship, as John became a cult celeb-
rity for his poem entitled “I Think Pat Sharp is
Lonely.” Despite Pat’s parting plea for John to
never read it publicly again, an ingenious ruse
was still found to give the poem an airing (I
strongly recommend having a google for this
one, but the five minutes I spent on it yielded
nothing. Ms. Sharp clearly employs an efficient
team of lawyers.
Whilst not side-splittingly funny, the feel-
good atmosphere of the night certainly made
for a good chuckle, which combined with
Homework to look forward to at Bethnal
Green Working Men’s Club once a month
Will Prince
“He hilariously retold the
story of his disastrous
interview with the Dalai
Lama”
the unconventional décor of BGWMC, gives
Homework something unique. With the relaxed
manner of the performances and the set-up
suited towards cabaret nights, the whole affair
is a very comfortable and pleasantly informal
one, with an entry fee that wouldn’t blow a hole
in your pocket. Any thorough visit to London
would not be complete without an evening at
BGWMC, be it to Homework or another of the
club’s plethora of events. And we work hard
enough at Imperial, don’t we?
Monthly at BGWMC, www.aisle16.co.uk/
homework-ldn/ for details
Hari, hard-hitting journalist – usually

