FELIX 23
ARTS
Friday 12 November 2010
lies a bar. Within the bar there are all
sorts of people chilling out and unwind-
ing on various comfy sofas with the odd
stack of books here and there. Under the
bar is a cellar full of nude life models
and a large number of people drawing,
chatting and drinking to some form of
ethereal background noise.
The bar is called ‘The Book Club’ and
it is one of London’s various arty bars
Now I know that for most people a night
out consists of drinking and dancing fol-
lowed by some form of fast food and a
hangover that could slay a rhino. I must
confess that I am all in favor of that plan
in that precise order; however it’s taken
another night out with the Leonardo
Fine Art Society to show me that this
isn’t necessarily the only way to do it.
Out in the dark depths of Shoreditch
Thinking, drinking and nude models – the finest of fine art Poetry unplugged. And unwanted
The Poetry Café is a sweet little place
with a rather unattractive poetry night,
Poetry Unplugged, on Tuesday eve-
nings. Poetry Unplugged gives anyone
the opportunity to read poetry in public.
Amateur poets can read their poetry in
public to an accepting audience. Unfor-
tunately, the mix of amateur poets and
nice audience members make for some
truly terrible poetry. Any mildly good
verse was quickly outshone by a host of
overly emotional, unoriginal or simply
crazy sonnets.
A poetry venue should at least be
shabby in the chicest sense of the word,
if only to get everyone present into an
inspiring state of mind. The basement
of The Poetry Café is as uninspiring
as venues go. Poets stand in front of a
white sheet with bright white light shin-
ing on their faces. The audience sits on
red plastic chairs with drinks carried
down from the bar. This makes it impos-
sible to put your drink down lest some-
one should accidentally spill it all over
your feet.
The whole atmosphere reminds one of
bad stand-up comedy and the host tells
an array of farmyard animal jokes that
simply do not improve the mood. To all
the above, add an eccentric old lady with
bright red hair who sings in loud Pol-
ish and reads poems about Nelson that
sound more like gibberish than poetry.
While unconventionality and madness
can be quite entertaining for five min-
utes, poetry is supposed to be the theme
Chris Clarke Eva Rosenthal Mena
“Go to the Poetry
Cafe... Because
everyone should
know what bad
poetry sounds like.”
of the evening.
Having said all this, Poetry Unplugged
is probably not a bad place to go if you
have never shown your poetry to anyone
before. I urge students to present their
work at nights such as Poetry Unplugged
because they are anxiety free. The audi-
ence is not going to laugh at anyone’s
writing as long as it is not utterly ridicu-
lous and it is likely that someone in the
room will have the ability to give useful
feedback.
If you happen to go and also enjoy
photography, there are fantastic charac-
ters in the room. Most of them will en-
joy being photographed.
If you happen to be in Covent Garden
on a Tuesday evening and know nothing
about poetry, go into the Poetry Café for
five minutes. Because everyone should
know what bad poetry sounds like.
“Nude but with the
addition of all variety
of strange garments
including feathers,
spandex and all
things alternative.”
that can always guarantee an interesting
night. The life drawing session is not on
every day but occurs a few nights a year
and is definitely something to be expe-
rienced. In the instance of my visit, the
bar was celebrating its eighth birthday
by running one of these sessions for a
mere pound! Sadly this fee did not in-
clude the drinks; however you can’t
have everything, so sometimes a person
must suck it up and buy their own.
The bar itself is not especially re-
markable as bars go, but that’s not to
say it isn’t pleasant and relaxing. The
real excitement though lies downstairs
through an archway covered by black
curtains next to a pool table and an an-
cient arcade machine. Through the arch
is a warm red brick walled room with
various arches and doorways jutting out
here and there. Stacks of dusty old vol-
umes lay scattered about with one wall
in a darkened area apparently made of
them, while if you care to look up, the
ceiling appears to be completely cov-
ered in small white globes which, on
closer inspection, turn out to be several
hundred old light bulbs. To top it off is a
small modern looking bar, the preferred
beverage of which seems to be wine.
Definitely not the place for a pint of
cheap lager!
This would be the bar as it stands on
the average evening, however on the
evening of the life drawing it was topped
off by the addition of about eight mod-
“The atmosphere is
not a solemn one”
els (male and female), nude but with the
addition of all variety of strange gar-
ments including feathers, spandex and
all things alternative.
The atmosphere is not a solemn one.
People are there to unwind and enjoy
themselves, so you may choose to sit
and draw quietly or have a quiet chat
whilst the poses are on, followed by a
much louder chat in the breaks. I guess
the sight of a number of models sipping
pints at the bar, safe in the knowledge
that everyone in the room has already
seen everything and thus not bothering
to cover up, is an image that sticks in the
mind.
You don’t have to be a brilliant artist
to go, just a little open minded and up
for a bit of fun. Isn’t that what a night
out should be?
These kids are having a good time, artistically – this could be you! You could be sitting there, discussing ‘litertatchah’ and listening to Johann Hari. This is staged - in real life, they code...
The Book Club is currently running as
normal, but advertises a series of regu-
lar events including dance and music
as well as the life drawing. So if you’re
struggling to think of something to make
a memorable night out, have a look and
see what they’re up to at.
www.wearetbc.com. Who knows what
you’ll find!

