J
ust over two years ago we took a look
around the recording studio at icradio and
thought to ourselves “why don’t we do
live sessions here?” Two years later we
are completely in a league of our own in
Student Radio, churning out two sessions a week
at the highest quality and entertaining some of the
best up-and-coming acts that are touring the UK.
It’s quite satisfying to see some of the bands that
we have recorded in previous years become more
and more well-known - Ou Est Le Swimming
Pool, Master Shortie, Das Pop and South Cen-
tral have all graced the icradio corridors, and this
year I’d say that the quality of sessions has been
even higher!
Take last Thursday for example; we had a band
that recently supported Bloc Party at Scala in
for a session, Redtrack. Really nice guys, both
incredibly talented and also very down to earth.
After nailing down an exquisite series of acoustic
versions of their punky, indie, catchy tunes, they
then had a couple of pints with us in the Union
afterwards.
I think that is the main reason we do these ses-
sions, because it is a great chance to get to know
the rock stars of tomorrow while they’re still “nor-
mal”! We don’t get many pre-Madonnas, just peo-
ple that want to come and show off the thing that
they love and work hard for.
The most recent session that we have done was
with an Icelandic singer called Hafdis Huld, who
has been played very frequently on 6Music and
BBC Radio 2. She’s a beautiful singer with an
amazing personality and someone that is destined
to become big news. What is it about Iceland and
music?!
Redtrack played four tracks for us (Cigarette,
Catch Me Out, The Trier and Been There), Haf-
dis Huld played three (Kónguló, I Almost Know
A Criminal and Synchronized Swimmers). All
are available to listen to on our icradio recordings
Bandcamp: http://icradiorecordings.bandcamp.
com/
We still have many more sessions to do this year
and are always looking for more people to come
down and watch, or even help out. We usually
meet at 1PM on Wednesday afternoons, however
for more information email me at manager@icra-
dio.com.
Dan Fowler
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 12 NOVEMBER 2010
26
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Brian Eno
Small Craft on a
Milk Sea
Warp
2010
Highly regarded experimental musician/record pro-
ducer Brian Eno releases his first LP on Warp. Re-
sulting in one of the best records Eno has made this
decade that will surely stand beside his masterpiec-
es from the 70’s and 80’s. Inspired by the sound of
movie soundtracks, Eno and his equally nutjob multi-
instrumentalist friends Jon Hopkins and Leo Abraha-
ms have crafted the beautiful score to an imaginary
Sci-Fi epic, reminiscent of Eno’s contribution to the
`Dune’ soundtrack. What we have here are sound-
scapes, rather than songs, that generate visual imag-
es of a distant barren land, a deserted alien planet.
There’s the odd burst of frantic guitar noise, invigo-
rating the mix. It rivals only Trent Reznor’s “Social
Network” OST as soundtrack of the year in my mind.
Also, the only promotional interview Eno has done for
this album so far is with Dick Flash of Pork Magasine,
who is actually just Eno in a wig. That YouTube video
alone is worth the trip. Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
The Cinematic Orchestra
Royal Albert Hall
Sunday 14th November
7:30pm
The Cinematic Orchestra, founded by Jason Swins-
coe and signed to Ninja Tune, are as suited to the
Royal Albert Hall as any band you could name. Their
music, while innovative and forward-thinking, has
the grace and skill of the finest opera or concerto.
It’s not their first time at the Royal Albert Hall, hav-
ing played there in 2007 and later releasing an al-
bum, Live at the Royal Albert Hall, in 2008.
Unfortunately you’ll have to dig deep into your
pockets to go to what is certain to be a monumental
performance. Tickets are going for around the £100
mark and rising on ebay. But as with all things, qual-
ity costs. Kadhim Shubber
I
n this, my second instalment
of Techno Nonsense, a feature
dedicated to highlighting the big
players in electronic dance music
right now, I’m going to hit you
with Night Slugs.
Traversing the entire length of the mu-
sical spectrum from last week’s Disco
feature, Night Slugs is one of the hot-
test labels in the UK right now and I’m
definitely not the first, nor will I be the
last, person this year to sing their praises.
It’s hard to tie Night Slugs down into a
genre, as all of their releases so far have
been fresh and hugely varied. In fact
when asked about their ‘sound’, Night
Slugs co-founder James Connolly, AKA
L-Vis 1990, stated in no uncertain terms
that “formulas are shit and we don’t want
them, so that’s why we don’t do them.”
Connolly runs the label with South
London based DJ, producer, graphic de-
signer and all around media boss, Alex
Sushon AKA Bok Bok. Like most excit-
ing new movements in music, the Night
Slugs idea developed from disenchant-
ment with both the UK grime scene
and the club scene in general. Initially
contacting each other via MySpace, the
two got together and started putting on
parties in Camberwell in 2008.
The party later moved to Old Street
but it wasn’t until this year that the label
itself was christened with the release of
Mosca’s, fittingly titled, “Square One”
EP in January. Since then Night Slugs
has released 8 EPs, all of unfaltering
quality – an impressive feat and the
reason Connolly and Sushon are find-
ing huge praise flung at them from all
directions.
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
TECHNO
NONSENSE
Pt. 2: Simon Hunter continues
his tour of the electronic realm
with London’s Night Slugs
As I have already alluded to, describ-
ing a typical Night Slugs release is
pretty difficult, as there simply isn’t one.
Staccato percussion, sparse 8-bit syn-
thesisers and deconstructed R&B vocal
samples all make appearances, creating
beats as diverse as Girl Unit’s haunting
masterpiece “Shade On” to Lil Silva’s
ruthlessly funky “Night Skanker”. One
feature common to all of the releases,
however, is the use of sub-bass which
transforms songs that sound pretty bare
on normal speakers into a full-blown on-
slaught on the dance floor.
In addition to songs recommended in
the previous paragraph, check out King-
dom’s “This Mystic” and Girl Unit’s
“Wut”; both eerie and hard-hitting in
equal measures. And to hear the best of
what Night Slugs has to offer, how it
should be heard – under a bridge in the
early hours of Saturday morning – head
down to Counter Culture this Friday
night.
IC Radio are taking student radio to
the next level
Hafdis Huld: not coming to IC for
a PhD... Yet
1. Radiohead
2. Coldplay
3. Daft Punk
4. Arcade Fire
5. Katy Perry (WTF)
6. Crystal Castles
7. Bloc Party
8. Muse
9. Kings of Leon
10. Caribou
Bok Bok & L-Vis 1990: sluggish? I think not
Slug Night are curating Coun-
ter Culture this Friday, taking
place in a railway arch beneath
London Bridge Station, featur-
ing sets from Bok Bok & L-
Vis 1990, Jam City, Kingdom,
Girl Unit, Lil Silva and Deep
Teknologi.
£10, open til 6am
7-9 Crucifix Lane
SE1 3JW
Nearest Tube: London Bridge

