School of Seven Bells
Heaven
8th November 2010
★★★★✩
FELIX Friday 12 NOVEMber 2010 27
MUSIC
Brave New World
Playlist
Links to some of the best
music floating around the web.
iamamiwhoami -
t
Das Racist -
Who’s That? Brooown!
Die Antwoord -
Beat Boy
OFWGKTA
Tyler the Creator -
French!
Earl -
epaR
Domo Genesis -
Super Market
S
omething crazy is going on
with this internet thing. Oh
sure, there’s always some
kind of weird video of peo-
ple shooting a bear and do-
ing ungodly things over it afterwards,
but I’m not talking about that. I mean a
social media revolution, involving mu-
sic in particular. Social media is You-
tube, Twitter, Bandcamp, and all those
other websites you might check out once
in a while for new music.
Online publicity stunts have been used
for advertising everything from Lost to
Viagra, but what’s particularly interest-
ing with music is that in theory there
shouldn’t be that much money to be
made in music anymore, unless you’re
a corporate caricature copycat. However
the traditional “business model” for suc-
cesful bands in the past (demo, followed
by local tour, then indie label, national
tour, and maybe - just maybe - major
label and world tour) is outdated and
the vast majority of musicians never get
past the first stages. Blame it on trends,
faster rates of musical consumption and
turnover in the iPod age, or simply on
the fact “it’s all been done before”, but
at the end of the day the core dilemma
remains obvious. If you can just down-
load everything for free - and look past
Brave New World
As the music industry bleeds itself to death a new breed of artists
emerges online. Greg Power reports
the “moral ambiguity” of loving a band
and yet repeatedly stealing from them -
then why would you ever need to pay for
an album?
This is where forward-thinking artists
such as Trent Reznor and Radiohead
realized true, hardcore fans would do-
nate money in exchange for a “free” re-
cord so long as the quality they’d come
to expect from their favourite band was
consistent with their new outtings; re-
gardless of record deals. So there are
still viable money-making opportuni-
ties available for established musicians
on the internet. But what about the ex-
tremely talented dude who just makes
beats at home and is too “edgy” or un-
PC for labels in the first place? How
about projects that look insane on paper
and will never get funding?
A new generation of artists has de-
cided that the solution is a DIY-attitude,
reminiscent of early punk, just more
geeky, with more time spent on the in-
ternet and post-production software.
Nowadays anyone with a bit of talent, a
bit of imagination and a lot of time on
their hands can create cutting-edge, in-
teresting and challenging art.
The best example of this audiovisual
wizardry has to be iamamiwhoami, a
female artist possibly from Iceland (and
Chris Dean
Photo by Christopher Dean
If you want to share a
mind-blowing playlist send
it in to music.felix@gmail.
com
It’s been a tough few weeks for School
of Seven Bells. The announcement of
Claudia Deheza’s departure, one of the
twin sisters whose vocal harmonies
make their sound so distinctive, arrived
suddenly and without warning on their
Facebook account. Fans were shocked,
and despite their decision to continue
with their tour, they’ve received medio-
cre reviews in her absence.
So it’s with trepidation that I step into
Heaven tonight to see for myself how
the band have coped with this recent
loss. First up however is the special ap-
pearance of Jon Hopkins as support.
The man who co-wrote Brian Eno’s
new album arrives on stage surrounded
by an impressive array of electronic
equipment, and over his half hour set,
morphs from Animal Collective-like
psychedelia to full on dubstep. Leaving
the stage to the most raucous applause I
have ever heard for a support act, he’s
immediately placed on my ‘to listen to’
list.
A few more minutes of waiting, and
SVIIB themselves appear onstage
cloaked in darkness to the faint hum
of synths before launching into ‘Half
Asleep’, and the chills down my spine
reassure me that they mean business.
Wisely, the now-duo use a setlist of
songs predominantly from their new
album Disconnect From Desire, rely-
ing less on their characteristic harmony
and more on guitar based ambience,
resulting in a more cohesive sound.
Musically, SVIIB have never sounded
tighter. By employing a live drummer
as well as drum machine, songs like the
My Bloody Valentine-esque Babelonia
and ILU sound blistering live. With
the incredible sound system at Heaven,
the wailing guitar lines and pounding
rhythms push the songs into another
league, and the crowd reacts accord-
ingly.
However, not everything works. In
certain songs you get the feeling that
some crucial ingredient is missing: Dust
Devil, one of my favourite tracks from
the new album, sounds distinctly flat and
empty without the vocal harmonies, and
My Cabal almost sounds clumsy with-
out a synth lead.
After 10 songs, the band finish with
Sempiternal/Aramanth, the longest, and
in my opinion worst, song off their de-
but album Alpinisms. However, live it
suddenly makes sense. The track is al-
lowed to build to a massive peak, with
Ben Curtis producing an incredible gui-
tar feedback solo.
After it’s all over, I feel reassured.
Despite my moments of doubt, this
band are currently at their peak, and if
tonight’s performance is anything to go
by, they really are on their way to bigger
things.
SVIIB Lives on, Despite Suffering a Loss
SVIIB teaching the masses: the dream-pop crew strut their stuff with a
newfound confidence despite twin sister Claudia jumping ship
probably a pseudonym for pop singer
Jonna Lee) who has relied on anonymity
and fantastic production to create a col-
lection of viral videos since December
2009. There are 16 videos to date, sport-
ing cryptic names and accompanied by
haunting, atmospheric and groundbreak-
ing experimental songs. On a mysteri-
ous website (towhomitmayconcern.cc)
a live concert was recently announced.
However, before contact could finally be
established between the musicians and
the growing online community of fans
that thrive on the mystery behind the
concept and speculation about the over-
arching plot to the videos, the YouTube
followers were asked to designate an
intermediary. User ShootUpTheStation
was finally chosen for his loyalty and
dedication, and in a beautiful piece of
meta-fiction the latest video “20101109”
shows the surreal phone call from artist
to fan announcing that he has been cho-
sen, will be picked up from his house in
Germany and flown to Sweden in prepa-
ration for the gig. The lines between art
and reality become blurred, and the proj-
ect has truly taken on a life of its own.
No one knows where it’s going or how it
will end, but whilst it lasts it is an excit-
ing new concept to be a part of.
Another world being revolutionised by
social media is the hip-hop community.
The success and unstoppable ascension
of cultured comedic rappers Das Rac-
ist would have seemed impossible a
few years back, but over the past year
they’ve exploded on the internet thanks
to the release of two flawless mixtapes
for free and a unique take on the genre
that pleases freaks and geeks alike.
After struggling to get recognized as
the genius he is, South African vision-
ary Waddy Tudor Jones is finally get-
ting the recognition he deserves with his
rap-rave crew Die Antwoord thanks to a
single hilarious viral video, “Zef Side”.
The list goes on, but surreal rap crew
Odd Future Wold Gang Kill Them
All are particularly noteworthy. Led by
fearless leader Tyler The Creator, this
gang of 16 to 18 year olds from LA are
making waves with their minimalistic,
unhinged beats, agile rapping skills and
profane, drug-induced homocidal lyr-
ics. Their Tumblr website features every
release from the crew (all for free) and
links to their fresh and imaginative low
budget videos.
The future of music is in building a
loyal fanbase on the internet and letting
word of mouth create the demand for
your music, not in chasing imaginary
pots of gold or deals with the devil.
youtube.com/user/iamamiwhoami
dasracist.net
dieantwoord.com
oddfuture.tumblr.com

