28
FILM
felix
Casting a new light
on the Western diet
The message of vegetarianism is a frequent-
ly repeated one that gets pushed at you from
NHS pamphlets and school health classes, and
always feels repetitive and dry. One of the
things that PLANEAT manages to achieve is a
more positive outlook on the topic of vegetari-
anism that avoids the guilt-tripping red-paint-
throwing tactics of some organisations, and
goes further than the old “vegetables are good
for you” routine. The regular sunny cutaways
to different vegetarian and vegan chefs and
bakers whipping up impressive-looking plant-
based meals in their restaurant kitchens could
probably tempt even the most devout carni-
Classic Cinema
Cool Hand Luke
Cool Hand Luke appeals to anyone growing up with
even the slightest hint of rebellious spirit, as we
follow Luke from his arrest, for lopping the tops off
parking meters, through his time in prison working
on the chain gang. Paul Newman is fantastic at
portraying Luke, the arch non-conformist and ‘nat-
ural-born world-shaker’ with an indescribable smirk
which perfectly sticks two fingers up at all authority
figures – including his fellow inmates.
This film is filled with memorable scenes (there’s
even an homage in Toy Story 3) and some unfor-
gettable characters – I don’t think the head guard,
‘the man with no eyes’, will ever be bettered as the
unbending front of overzealous, strict regime. Expe-
riencing these characters for yourself will underline
how I couldn’t possibly do them justice.
Regarded as a hero by the prisoners, particularly
for eating 50 hard-boiled eggs in an hour, Luke’s
every sly comment and escape attempt has eve-
ryone in the audience smirking with him. Although
never outright rude, his smile is utterly offensive to
the guards, though, however much you try, you can-
not replicate it yourself.
Luke’s escalating masochistic refusal to be bro-
ken by the prison guards makes for very uncomfort-
able viewing. Yes, we don’t want him to be beaten
by the system, but it is increasingly apparent that
with every quip he is only digging himself deeper –
literally, as he is forced to spend whole days and
nights digging and refilling trenches.
There are plenty of films with rebellious lead char-
acters, so what makes Cool Hand Luke so special?
I’ll limit it to three things: it’s Paul Newman (need I
say more?); it features a series of beautifully shot
scenes of the men of the chain gang working; and
a final fifteen minutes of unbearable excitement.
Mark Bruggemann
Newman - making cholesterol cool since 1967
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Directors Shelly Lee Davies and Or Shlomi
are new to filmmaking. In an after-screening
Q&A they revealed that this endeavour was
one which they carried out largely alone and
with what appeared to be little past experience;
suffice it to say that it did show. Although the
content of this film speaks volumes, the editing
and camerawork left something to be desired,
especially when compared to The Cove, An
Inconvenient Truth, Fahrenheit 911, or in fact
many of the eye-opening “docufilms” which
have so thrillingly educated us in the past.
This film is not a blockbuster; it is not an ar-
tistically shot, hard hitting, exposé of scandal-
ous issues, unfairly hidden from the deserving
public; PLANEAT is a genuine educative expe-
rience. In the Q&A the directors suggest that it
was not their intention to make a blockbuster,
they make their impact in a different, more sub-
tle way. PLANEAT doesn’t thrill and excite by
exposing the seedy realities of the workings of
the meat industry. They shock by simply reas-
sessing what we all “sort of” knew anyway. I’ll
bet a lot of people know that a meat based diet
is more environmentally damaging than plant
based alternatives, but how many know that
eating a diet based on chicken is more eco-
savvy than vegetarianism? This film informs
you of the science behind the everyday, com-
mon titbit of dietary knowledge that so many
live by.
vores, and it casts a different light to counter
the commonly-held view of vegetables as rab-
bit food.
It is, however, just one small section of a very
broad problem of colliding interests, cultures
and industries. Davis and Shlomi stress this
point in the Q&A, making it clear that the argu-
ment of health and environment is by no means
the final word in the problems of Western diet
and disease. An issue that isn’t covered in this
documentary, and is probably one of interest, is
the fact that a lot of the foods promoted in it are
pretty expensive. In one interview, they film a
restaurant owner demonstrating how to make
a meat-free roast and soup, chopping a squash
on his marble kitchen counter or browsing for
fresh ingredients in Whole Foods. The issue
of processed foods is only really ever seen as
a bad choice made by nameless heart disease
sufferers, not as a product of convenience and
culture. When they film Professor Gidon Eshel
strolling through a sustainable organic farm,
they don’t really take into account that not eve-
ryone can go down to the wholesome village
market and buy seasonal lettuces grown down
the road.
Throughout the film, the personal lives of
the three key figures are gently dipped into;
enough to make you associate with them and
yet not so much that the spotlight is taken from
the science. Small sections filmed within Dr
Esselstyn’s home, showing the idiosyncratic
little relationship he shares with his frankly
wonderfully eccentric wife, provide some of
my favorite moments, giving a lightness and
humor to an already very good natured docu-
mentary. It is this affable approach that sets
Our survey says: 8 out of 10 cows prefer not to be eaten
iCU Cinema - Scott Pilgrim vs. The World
£3/£4 for members/non-members
Tue 16th Nov. 6:30pm.
Union Concert Hall
EVENTS
Director Shelley Lee Davis, Or Shlomi
Narrator Yvonne O’Grady
PLANEAT
Noah Baker
Jade Hoffman
Friday 12 November 2010
“They don’t thrill by
‘uncovering’ the meat
industry. They shock by
simply reassessing what
we all ‘sort of’ knew”
PLANEAT apart from the blockbuster docu-
mentaries, and presents the science in such as
way that is intended to shape your lifestyle,
rather than force one big change.
In keeping with the documentary’s more per-
sonal, choice-based message, it ties in with a
quite extensive website that links you to the
different organisations supporting the film
(WWF, Meat-Free Mondays etc.) and gives
some of the recipes featured. In a move that
really reflects the film’s demographic, the clos-
ing titles encourage the audience to now go and
log on with their phones to sign up for email
updates and recipes - cue mobile phone inferi-
ority complexes, though still a nice touch. The
website also includes links to the scientists in-
terviewed throughout the film, allowing you to
look further at their work – another nice touch
for a documentary that looks at fostering per-
sonal changes rather than a blanket approach to
Western consumption.
The annual Screen Green! festival has pre-
sented some very thought-provoking docu-
mentaries that may not get all that much wide-
spread attention, but do certainly hold some
relevance to what goes on here at Imperial.
This festival provides a platform for films that
may otherwise have difficulty getting seen or
publicised, and has put on another varied and
insightful programme of quality documentaries
from all over Europe.
PLANEAT is out now on limited release, with
selected screenings at the Marble Arch Ritz
and Odeon Wembley. See http://www.pla-
neat.co/ for more information.

