ties of Metric, hopefully there will be
even more kegs.”
Deputy President (Finance & Servic-
es) Ravi Pall was particularly pleased
with how the event passed, saying in a
blogpost that he was “impressed with
the way the ACC conducted themselves
on the night, with only a few minor
incidents; which is a drastic change to
previous years.” He also responded to
the overall praise of the lack of queues,
claiming that this is “truly a testament to
the serving capacity of FiveSixEight.”
The next ACC Bar Night will be held
on the 8th December.
FELIX Friday 12 NOVEMBER 2010 3
Uncertainty over PhD teaching income
Medic’s University Challenge trials
I
mperial medics enjoyed a
quiet night on Tuesday, hav-
ing their University Challenge
tryouts in the Reynolds bar. The
competition was open to medics
and non-medics alike, with about
a hundred people competing to
represent ICMSU.
The medics enjoy the relaxed at-
mosphere at the Reynolds, many
seeing it as a ‘home away from
The winning Medic team will go up against the other faculties on the 22nd of November
NEWS
Union lobby EEE department to ensure that PhD students get fair deal
Senior figures in the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
have begun concerted efforts to ensure
that postgraduate students understand
the circumstances under which they are
paid for teaching duties, introducing a
potential new measure to reduce the cur-
rent bursary and have students explicitly
earn their lost money.
As reported by Felix last month, post-
graduate students in the department
found themselves confused over whether
their funding included payment for teach-
ing work, a matter that was further com-
plicated by the various types of bursary
available, whether from Imperial College
London itself or from outside sources
such as the Engineering and Physical Sci-
ences Research Council (EPSRC).
A statement was issued last week to
all postgraduate students, regardless
of funding type, by Director of Post-
graduate Studies Dr Patrick Naylor,
further clarifying the situation in order
to overcome any discrepancies in prior
information. The Head of Department,
Professor Peter Cheung, had previously
admitted to Felix that the postgraduate
acceptance letter detailing their require-
ments for teaching work “wasn’t clear”
in communicating the relevant informa-
tion to students.
The main aim of the new information
was the announcement that ‘payment for
teaching must be separated from the stu-
dent stipend explicitly’. The department
goes on to explain the two reasons for
this; the fact that earnings for teaching
must, by law, be paid through the Col-
lege and that EPSRC stipends should
not be used to pay for teaching. It is also
stated that these new changes have been
retroactively introduced from the begin-
ning of this term.
The funding provided by College will
now be ‘split into two elements’. The first
is a college bursary which ‘may be ad-
justed to remove any element implicitly
or explicitly associated with teaching’.
The second is teaching work, which ‘will
be paid through the College’s payroll sys-
tem at the published hourly rates’.
A meeting was organised last Friday
for postgraduate students to voice their
opinions on the matter. Imperial College
Union President Alex Kendall was also
in attendance. He spoke to Felix about
the proceedings while also discussing
possible plans that the department may
implement.
He explained the adjustment to the
College bursary; prior to the confusion,
around £700 was added onto the normal
college-funded stipend of approximately
£15,000 to cover the cost of teaching du-
ties. However, the issue was raised that
there weren’t enough teaching hours to
cover the desired ‘4 hours a week’ for
each student to undertake.
Kendall was impressed, however, by
some ideas from students in attendance
hoping to overcome the issues: “There
was a good suggestion put forward by a
PhD student that the department should
provide an extra £700 to the college-
provided bursary. As soon as a student
earns more than this £700 through extra
teaching, then they would get paid for
the extra teaching that they provide. The
department went away thinking about
the idea. Potentially it’s great for stu-
dents.”
Students agree, according to Kend-
all, stating that those present “appeared
happy with this idea”. However, any
potential introduction of an idea formu-
lated at the meeting may only account
for this academic year, with there being
a high chance that the additional sum for
teaching will then be removed. Students
would be paid for any teaching duties
they perform through the College’s pay-
roll system.
Staff behind the funding changes have
remained tight-lipped over potential
future changes, with Dr Naylor stating
that he would be “very happy” to discuss
what funding will change but not “until
we have finished our consultation pro-
cess and finalised all the details.”
Matt Colvin
The first Athletics Club Committee
(ACC) Bar Night of the year took place
on Wednesday 3rd November, raising
over £1000 for various sporting clubs,
with the success being hailed as the be-
ginning of “a new age for the Union”.
A turnout of 600 people helped put the
newly opened FiveSixEight bar to the
test with a record 27 kegs being served
in under 2 hours; the fact that there was
damage caused to the men’s toilets did
not deter attendees from finishing off all
of the beer and cider on offer.
The profit made will be recirculated to
ACC clubs, which this year have all suf-
fered budget cuts.
ACC Chair, Monya Zard gave her
thanks to all the clubs attending and
said “we are looking forward to the next
event where we can test out the capabili-
ACC Bar Night
brings £1,000 profit
home’. As the Hammersmith cam-
pus is quite far from the main South
Kensington campus, most medics
find that they spend their free time
socialising at the Reynolds. The
recently refurbished bar is aptly
decorated with stolen signs from
other medical schools to give it a
warm and welcoming effect (though
whether King’s College share this
view is debatable). Although there
was much intra team rivalry, with
some even threatening to ‘blud-
geon to death’ fellow team mem-
bers for incorrect answers, all
competitors enjoyed themselves
while raising a fair amount for
RAG Week charities. The winning
team, comically named ‘The Vod-
ka Fairies’, will elect four of their
group to represent ICMS in the
Imperial final. Zainab Ali
Matt Colvin “Hopefully there will
be more kegs at the
next Bar Night”
Photo by Zainab Ali
Photo by Kadhim Shubber

