FASHION
Fashion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 12 November 2010 31
Fashion’s final frontier: Techno-Couture
Gabriella Yongue explores the latest obsession in the world of fashion: technology
M
any of us think that
Imperial could not be
further removed from
the world of fashion,
however I’d like to
persuade you otherwise. Both fashion
and technology are constantly evolving
industries; fickle and always in search
of the new ‘it’ product to entice buyers
into yet another superfluous purchase.
Therefore one can only imagine the
force generated when these two polar-
ised worlds collide...
Fashion Reconstructed
So firstly to all of you studying materials
and engineering, take a look at the mad
scientist of the fashion world, Mr Hus-
sein Chalayan; a genius when it comes
to designing clothes from the most un-
likely recycled materials. One of his
works includes an airplane dress (SS
’00) made from aircraft-construction
materials. And, for those boys who fan-
tasize about undressing a girl at the push
of a button, this dress changes shape by
remote control! But what really put his
name on the fashion world map was his
following collection in which he trans-
formed chairs and tables into skirts and
other garments in front of the eyes of the
front row. And Lady GaGa, the queen of
avant-garde, is also a fan - remember the
bubble dress from her fame ball tour? -
she ‘re-created’ it from his SS’07 show.
So what are you waiting for? Get the
pencils out from behind your ears and
your measuring tapes from your back
pocket and get creative!
Geometric Proportions
Now, attention maths geeks: why not
follow Issey Miyake’s lead and put the
Golden Ratio to good use to produce
unique geometric garments. Her collec-
tion ‘132.5. Issey Miyake’, was inspired
by none other than the computer scien-
tist Jun Mitani who has produced a pro-
gramme that can create 3-D structures
from a single sheet of paper just like
origami! Issey Miyake explains the title
of her collection, “1” signifies a single
piece of fabric; “3” and “2” refer to the
three-dimensional shape which can be
flattened into a two-dimensional form;
and “5” is a reference to the fifth dimen-
sion.“ The fifth dimension, according to
Miyake, is the precise moment when the
garment is worn on the body and comes
to life. If only geometry back at school
was more like this….
Fashion Surgery
A quick one for you medics…Instead of
twiddling your thumbs during the next
MCD practical, why not steal some of the
equipment to create your own version of
Dutch haute-tech designer Anouk Wip-
precht’s dresses: Pseudomorphs. She
uses repurposed medical equipment and
custom designed electronics attached to
a neck brace to trickle ink down a white
dress to produce a unique pattern. Then
again, I wouldn’t advice trying this out
with red dye on scrubs, you probably
won’t get a great response for your ‘art’
from your patients!
Let there be light
Last but not least, EEE. The current cat-
walk’s latest craze is illuminating their
clothes and accessories. Anastasia Rade-
vich has created a stunning collection of
shoes for 2011. The designs themselves
are head-turners but made even more
magical with the added feature of a
mesh of LED lights. However, the most
inspirational collection must once again
be Mr Chalayan’s Swarovski Tokyo
Show ’08. By aiming red lasers at crys-
tal-encrusted dresses, he created a mes-
merising burning embers effect. This is
where I feel fashion truly becomes art. A
YouTube watch is a must.
For those interested in the future of
fashion, I highly recommend a trip to
the Barbican where they have an exhibi-
tion on the leaders of techno-couture, the
Japanese. The Future Beauty: 30 years of
Japanese fashion is open until February
2011. I hope I have managed to inspire
some of you to direct your scientific
minds in a more artistic direction, prov-
ing that us geeks can do fashion. Radevich’s stunning LED ankle boots, lighting up catwalks everywhere
The Search of the Perfect Winter Boot
In-keeping with the shearling trend for winter, Felix checks out Ugg’s competition,
which comes in the unusual form of CAT’s uber-functional and furry footwear
Jennifer Smith
As seen on the Autumn/Winter 2010
catwalks of Milan, CAT’s shearling-
lined work boots are quickly becoming
the hot fashion trend of this winter. With
an eclectic mix of designs for men and
women, CAT presents an ideal footwear
solution for those seeking a boot encap-
sulating functionality and vintage style.
CAT have based their A/W 2010 col-
lection on three key concepts. The Rug-
ged collection aims to retain a classical
CAT image, whilst maintaining versatil-
ity and making the boots easy to wear.
The women’s boot Nena (£89.99) is a
great example of this. Incorporating the
traditional CAT hiker styling with a pad-
ded tweed ankle detail for ultimate com-
fort, this boot should be worn loose over
jeans for the ultimate casual look.
The Casual collection aims to main-
tain CAT’s rugged signature style
whilst incorporating a modern twist.
The men’s Evolve boot (£99.99) main-
tains CAT’s signature oil resistant rub-
ber grip sole and thick fleece lining
yet integrates this season’s lumberjack
trend for a quirky take on an estab-
lished classic.
Finally, the Active collection offers
functional and comfortable boots for the
consumer who is energetic at heart. The
men’s Apa boot inspired trainer (£74.99)
features a leather upper with a sturdy
rubber sole, making it ideal for ambling
through the countryside, while the wom-
en’s Molten boot (£84.99) incorporates
a fur lining into its sturdy design, mak-
ing it the perfect winter warmer.
CAT footwear effectively manages
to withstand both changing weather
and changing trends. The company is
committed to developing durable yet
fashionable boots which incorporate
pioneering technological features with
original designs. While the idea of
wearing footwear made by the world’s
largest manufacturer of construction and
mining equipment may not be for every-
one, for those wanting to be fashion for-
ward and break the stranglehold that is
Ugg, CAT boots might be right up your
street.
CAT boots are available in Schuh
stores nationwide.
CAT presents it’s brand new,
fashion-forward collection,
enticing those bored by the
ubiquitous Ugg boot

