GAMES
FELIX
Friday 12 november 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
variety of party style games, a Wii-esque intro-
duction not lost on anyone I’m sure. The first
game I picked to try was the on-rails shoot’em-
up The Shoot. From the first movie-set-card-
board-cut-out you cruelly gun down you realise
exactly how comfortably this game, the Eye
and Move are working together. Shooting and
aiming comes naturally until that tricky shot ar-
rives and you find yourself nailing a precision
shot with what feels about the right level of dif-
ficulty. You won’t (nerd rage aside) be blaming
a faulty controller for the bad guy who man-
aged to get one off against you.
In fact this demo not only demonstrated
the on-screen recognition of the system but
also intuitive touches that Nintendo rarely
found time for. Some power-ups are acti-
vated by shooting above the screen, differ-
ent ones for beneath and in keeping with
the arcade tradition reloading can be done
to the side. As you may have also heard, an-
other great thing about the Move controller
is that it comes with the Z-Distance of Wii+
as standard. Though this didn’t seem to be of
huge use in most situations (excluding the in-
sane table tennis smashes you can lay down)
much like PS3 Six-Axis I have a deep faith that
games will step forward able to really utilise it
and make another step forward in the tech-
nology.
Is all this to good to be true? Well, perhaps a
little. In keeping an open mind I considered the
possibility that the demos Sony were pushing
may not be a complete insight into how well
the technology really works. This meant step-
ping into the 3rd party software: the stumbling
ground of the Nintendo Wii and perhaps that
of Sony too. Tiger Woods 10 promised a full
size launch title with a somewhat shoehorned
Move compatibility, which is something I do
not commend them on. After spending twenty
or thirty minutes enabling the Move controller,
I spent the next hour getting my first shot to go
where I wanted it. Frustrated and annoyed by
the game’s attempt to turn my arms inside out
in order to line up a shot I turned it off and had
a five minute hissy.
Perhaps, I thought, this all really wasn’t
worth it? A hard days pay and a mediocre trade
in deal of Battlefield Bad Company 2 for some
more party games? As I contemplated this my
sister walked in, oblivious to me and her sur-
roundings altogether. She picked up my dis-
carded controller and starts playing with her
‘EyePet’ - a virtual pet that can be petted and
tickled. Perhaps it was the weaponised levels
of cuteness, perhaps I’d just refelected that I
always hated any sort of motion technology (I
play Super Smash Brothers Brawl with Game-
cube controllers) but I realised that the Move
isn’t just for me. If my technophobic sister can
be won over then Sony have done something
right. Maybe they’ll win me around too be-
cause I certainly won’t be trading it in – it’s
definitely worth more than that. That is, if she
ever gets off that fucking EyePet and lets me
play more Fallout.
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Bejeweled Blitz
apps.facebook.com/bejeweledblitz
Even if you’ve never played this particular version,
chances are you’ve stumbled upon this gem-swap-
ping family of games before. Blitz is a timed variant
of the classic formula: you have just 60 seconds to
score as many points as you can by making rows of
three, four or five gems.
The one minuite limit really helps to pick up the pace
and makes the game much more exciting than its
placid predecessor. Try and get into a rhythm for a
significant speed bonus!
T
he Playstation 3 has long been re-
garded as the antithesis to Ninten-
do Wii’s modern video game phi-
losophy. Where Nintendo offered
family-orientated offline multi-
player with cutesy graphics all in a compact
console, Sony opted for a monolith designed
to have a greater capacity than could be utilised
by game designers at launch and aesthetically
targetted at the somewhat small audience of
Stanley Kubrick and Darth Vader.
From the day the PS3 entered the market un-
til the moment Sony first announced its Move
technology it had seemed like this gap was
increasingly widening. Nintendo was witness-
ing a sharp decline in third party interest in
developing games for its “gimmicky system”
whilst the PS3 was bouncing back from initial
criticism to produce games of such graphical
quality that real life began to seem somewhat
low res. However, to a mixed reaction and pos-
sibly in response to the undeniable volume of
sales that the Wii continued to generate and
Xbox’s Kinect announcement, Sony weighed
in with it’s own interpretation of motion gam-
ing. What’s stranger, they told us they could
bring the ‘hardcore’ games with them.
The launch titles, we were told, would in-
clude fully compatible FPS and fighting games
that would pull no punches just because you
would be waving a motion controller at them.
Though these titles are yet to hit the market,
what’s here now is all we need to examine the
current full variety of control Move offers.
The first thing you notice when you pick up
the main Move controller is how well it fits into
your hand. Technically I suppose this might
be the second thing for most people after the
large glowing ball on top used by the PS Eye
to identify it, but that aside this really was a big
part for me. One thing that came out from criti-
cism of the Wii Remote was that the shape was
simply not as ergonomic as it could be. Super
Mario Galaxy is one of the best games of the
generation but who can enjoy it if they don’t
like the feel or layout of the controller?
However, as I was testing it without the op-
tional ‘navigation’ stick, the second thing I
noticed was how annoyingly awkward hold-
ing the standard PS3 controller in one hand
was to navigate through the menus on Tiger
Woods 2010. I could use all kinds of terms and
names (‘money grabbing capitalists!’ for one)
to describe Sony and the choice to sell these
two peripherals separately. In a way I do appre-
ciate that not everybody wants the navigation
stick – these same people probably don’t yell
at loading screens or get into flame wars with
14 year old kids – but I just happen to not be
one of those people. Though it is by no means
particularly expensive, to not offer a combined
pack was for me the first mark against the com-
mitment to keeping PlayStation ‘hardcore’.
No-one will be playing FarCry or Call of Duty
31: CoD In Space with a DualShock 3 in their
left hand.
The optional demos from PSN offered a good
The next revolution in
Dexter Tarr gets his hands on the Sony Playstation Move...
32
CellCraft
cellcraftgame.com
Despite stinking ever-so-slightly of a, *shudder*, ed-
ucational game, this biology-based adventure RPG is
actually quite entertaining. Taking control of the cell,
moving it along and building ribosomes and other
things is fun as you can zoom in and see everything
happening, and there’s an incredible amount of de-
tail in the way the game works. Quite why, then, the
developers felt the need to include a plot featuring
talking duck-billed platypuses is a true mystery.

