FELIX Friday 12 november 2010 33
GAMES
“
“Motion and sound-sensitive
controllers cannot possibly
hope to match the precision of
the traditional controller or the
mouse and keyboard”
n gaming has arrived
The last time I played a wrestling game was in
1998 on the original PlayStation 1. WWF War-
zone was the first 3D wrestling game ever, and
although I had no particular interest in wres-
tling it was a title I came back to every so of-
ten. So, twelve years on, how much have things
changed?
On the surface, gameplay remains basically
the same. Matches consist of two or more wres-
tlers clotheslining, chokeslamming and DDT-
ing each other into submission. There is a new
control scheme, and of course there is a myriad
of new characters, moves, and features, but the
core of the wrestling is (not surprisingly) very
familliar.
Combo moves are still a put off. You can still
perform grabs, locks and various other pain-
inducing movements, but figuring out which
buttons you need to press is the real chal-
lenge. This is really frustrating as I know what
moves I want to do but I just can’t remember
the button combinations for them. I’m sure
this is part of the challenge for hardcore play-
ers but punching someone in the face repeat-
edly gets tiresome when you know there’s
more interesting stuff you could be doing.
The content creation options have been mas-
sively expanded with new ways to customise
the game to the player’s liking. Almost every-
thing is customisable: audience signs, entrance
displays and even story arcs. The character cre-
ator is actually incredibly advanced and rivals
that of The Sims series in the amount of options
it has. It does, however, seem a little unhinged:
we managed to create a shiny pink monstros-
ity with two metre long arms and a protrusion
from his belly that was very reminiscent of
something from Alien.
The best part about wrestling games is play-
ing with friends, as you essentially get to beat
each other up without anyone getting hurt.
Local multiplayer is available and is actually
pretty amusing, but playing multiplayer on-
line is incredibly slow. There’s no control over
players who haven’t picked a character yet so
everyone has to sit around waiting for idlers.
When I tried a game in ‘Royal Rumble’mode, I
got 30 seconds of wrestling for approximately
half an hour wait. I literally sat there watching
other people wrestle for about ten minutes.
Overall, WWE Smackdown Vs. Raw 2011 is
not a bad game. There really is a lot of con-
tent on offer here if you’re interested, so if you
like wrestling then you definitely should buy
this game. For everyone else though, the old
problem is still present: this is a game about
wrestling, designed by wrestlers for people
who like wrestling. Sure, fighting your friends
can be amusing for a while, but if you’re some-
one who has no particular interest in wrestling
it’s hard to really see what Smackdown Vs. Raw
2011 can offer you.
derstand how vital it is to your studies that they
invest in a Kinect.
Game wise Kinect is lacking, but then again
most new consoles are a bit shabby in the
game department upon initial release. It’s just
a question as to whether or not the Kinect’ll go
down the PS3 route and have nothing decent to
offer us four years or so down the line. There
have been a dozen or so games released so far,
mostly sport and dancing stuff that make full
use of the Kinect’s motion sensor. They’ve re-
ceived mixed reviews, ranging from fun and
entertaining to hair pullingly frustrating (I’m
looking at you again Sonic). They’ll keep you
entertained for a good few hours but don’t ex-
pect them to last you for weeks. Maybe the
game industry will prove me wrong but expect
there to be a lot of rehashed iterations of the
same themes.
Of course, some guy has already managed
to destroy his LCD TV by swinging a ceiling
fan’s chain right into the screen whilst flinging
his arms about like an idiot. Still, that’s more a
fault of him being a nitwit than anything the Ki-
nect did. I’m sure most people have heard those
stories of Wii remotes flying into tellies, though
in many of those cases airborne remotes were a
result of faulty straps. Let it serve as a warning,
mind – if you do end up buying a Kinect or any
other motion sensitive controller, watch where
you fling your limbs.
There’s also been a bit of controversy and a
$2000 prize generated by the Kinect’s release.
Adafruit Industries is currently offering this re-
spectable chunk of cash to anyone able to cre-
ate open source Kinect drivers which would
allow the Kinect hardware to be utilized by
other operating systems. Microsoft is (as most
people could have guessed) narked off and
claim the Kinect will be kept tamper-resistant.
They’re fools to expect it to remain so – the
online modding and scripting community is
massive and Microsoft simply won’t be able to
stop the creation of open source drivers. Yes,
Kinect-enabled software sales might suffer,
but on the flip side it’ll only improve hardware
sales.
So should you go out and spend your stu-
dent loan on a Kinect? The short answer is no
(the long answer would take up several pages
of writing). Why? Well, right now it’s just far
too expensive for what it is, a glorified TV
remote that lets you play a few party games.
At this stage of gaming development, motion
and sound-sensitive controllers cannot possibly
hope to match the precision of the traditional
controller or the mouse and keyboard so forget
about playing any sort of games that require a
modicum of aim.
Perhaps one day motion and sound-sensitive
devices will surpass the good ol’fashioned con-
troller, but right now Kinect is just a stepping
stone to that goal. I suppose I can’t complain
about that – accurate motion capture technol-
ogy just doesn’t spring up overnight. It needs to
be tried and tested, perfected and honed. What
I can complain about is the price. Unless you
have Xbox parties all the time and enjoy throw-
ing yourself about like you have a bad case of
the hives, avoid it until it’s much cheaper, has
had a few of its issues ironed out by Microsoft
and supports a wider selection of games. Your
wallet will thank you.
The Microsoft Kinect is available now for
your Xbox 360, retailing at £129.99.
K
inect, Microsoft’s most recent
peripheral for the Xbox 360, is
set to arrive in UK stores by the
time your eyes are roving over
this article. There’s been a fair
bit of hype and excitement pertaining to Micro-
soft’s latest gadget, but is it really justified? Is
Kinect the greatest thing since sliced bread or
are customers going to be left in the dust?
If you’ve been living under a rock for the last
year or so let me take a minute to fill you in.
Step one: think of the Wii. Step two: apply it
to the Xbox. There, you now have a good idea
of what the Kinect is. It’s a movement sensi-
tive device that allows you to play games on
the Xbox without having to hold anything, so
now think of the Wii but without the remote.
It’s also able to pick up voice commands, so go
ahead and glue a microphone onto the mental
image you have of the Wii.
With units already selling in Japan and N.
America, how has the Kinect been receieved
up until now? Well, so far the reaction has been
fairly positive. Internet gaming magazine Ko-
taku gave it decent marks in its review, praising
in particular its ability to pick up voice com-
mands, something I’ve never trusted technol-
ogy to do well so I’ve got to give Microsoft
some marks for that. Overall, the opinion from
Kotaku seems to be that it’s not a must own, at
least not yet. There are still some slow response
times to be worked out when it comes to physi-
cal directions, but if you’ve ever played on a
Wii you’ll understand that these sort of devices
are less than precise. Also, there are no great
games designed especially for the Kinect yet,
so the Kinect’s £130 price tag will no doubt
make you wince. Unless of course you’re a
student with marvellously rich parents who un-
...while Laurence Pope looks into the brand new Xbox Kinect
Yet another
gripping
game from
the WWE
Simon Worthington

