FOOD
FELIX
Friday 12 NOVEMber 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fulham’s newest venture:
Broadway Bar and Grill
Lucie Jichova
Your review
Jess says:
Wahaca is a Mexican street food chain: tacos, to-
stadas and quesadillas are just a few of the street
foods that it offers. Cheap prices and small portions
make this restaurant not a place for a heavy lunch,
but a meal of snacking and gossip with the girls.
Don’t go for authentic food, that’s what La Taqueria
in Westbourne Grove is for... go for cheap fresh food
when you’re not in the mood for Nandos or Pizza
Express.
12 purple plums halved and pitted
6 pears peeled, cored and cut into eighths
6 apples peeled, cored and cut into eighths
500g blackberries
The zest and juice of 2 oranges
The zest of 1 lemon
1 star anise
2 cloves
8 black peppercorns
1 cinnamon stick
170g golden caster sugar
1 large egg white, whisked
To make the compoté
Place everything apart from the egg white into a cas-
serole pan or big saucepan and bring to the boil.
Once bubbling, turn down the heat and poach for
3-5 minutes or until all the fruit is cooked through.
Once the fruit is cooked through, strain the poached
fruits through a sieve, making sure to pick out the
hard spices and then pop to one side.
Pour the juicy liquid back into a saucepan on a high
heat, and allow to bubble until the liquid is reduced
by a third. Then whizz up the juice and fruit in a food
mixer and leave to cool and thicken.
To turn it into a sorbet
Once it’s cooled, fold the whisked egg white into
the fruit compote, pour into an ice cream maker and
leave to churn until your sorbet is creamy and stiff.
It should take about 40 minutes. Then pop it in the
freezer for 5 hours and serve 1 scoop of your sorbet
with 80g of fresh berries to tick off your 2 portions.
Autumn Fruit Sorbet
Share your favourite restaurant or cafe in 80-100
words with us, send it to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I tried to find a photo more appealing...
“How formal is this place you are taking me
to?” my friend Apu called to ask before meet-
ing me at the newly opened Broadway Bar &
Grill on Fulham Road. “I don’t think it’s too
formal. Relax,” I told him. “Okay, let me ask it
this way: Is it a shirt place, or a t-shirt place?”
he replied.
Gentlemen, don’t worry. The Broadway
turned out to be male-friendly territory. Owner
Brenhan Magee explained his inspiration for the
bar came from The Living Room chain: a sports
bar that isn’t just about sports. Sure enough,
flat-screen TVs on the walls were all glaring
green when we visited, which could only mean
one thing: football. However, the venue’s décor
is sophisticated, with dark wood, exposed brick,
mirrors and period windows. Our fellow patrons
were a well-behaved bunch of 20- and 30-some-
things dressed in smart casuals. So even though
sports is a big theme here, WAGs can safely tag
along: not much chance of having beer spilled
on your skirt by rowdy lads here. The staff are a
friendly bunch too.
Food at the downstairs bar is similar to other
London gastro-pubs: salads, burgers, pasta,
steak, chips, club sandwiches and the like.
My linguine with meatballs was served with
a bunch of grilled Vittoria tomatoes on the
vine, which provided a nice bit of tartness to
contrast with the sweetness of the sauce. My
dining companion chose the real ale battered
haddock with chips and pea puree. Surprise
surprise, the french fries were nicely thin. Both
our dishes came well presented, and the por-
tions were definitely man-sized. Being a girl
with a well-developed sweet tooth, I always
have space for dessert, but this time I was re-
ally struggling. The dessert menu on the night
was rather modest: a choice of cheese board,
rice pudding and apple crumble. To the bar’s
credit, the apple crumble seemed home made
from fresh apples, rather than the kind of mi-
crowaved pre-fab nonsense one often finds in
pubs. Mains at the Broadway bar start at £7.95
and food is served every day from 10 am until
11 pm, with the restaurant staying open until
12.30am for the night owls.
Should you desire more sophisticated din-
ing, venture upstairs to Brasa, the luxury
Asador Grill restaurant, where you will find
white tablecloths, candles and all the associ-
ated romantic paraphernalia emulating a chic
New York loft-style feel for impressing your
girlfriend. The owners have tried to create a
fun sharing experience in South American or
Mediterranean styles, centred around qual-
ity meat. The staff seem knowledgeable about
the origins of their meat, making an effort to
seek out rare breeds from around the country to
specifically suit the different type of steak, e.g.
the large Galloway breed of cow for the large
porterhouse steak. Steaks are priced from £18
upwards, and you will also be able to choose
from fresh fish, seafood, pheasant or venison
on the menu.
Last but not least we must mention the
drinks, as this is a bar after all. The connec-
tion between sports and beer doesn’t require
a big mental leap, so it goes without saying
that lagers, ales and cider are available on tap.
However, there is also an extensive wine list,
with all the major wine-producing nations
represented, including France, Italy, Chile,
South Africa, Argentina, Australia, Califor-
nia… you get the idea. Furthermore, you can
choose from a wide array of cocktails, includ-
ing longs, shorts, martinis and sparkles us-
ing Broadway’s exciting homemade infused
spirits including chilli vodka, pink grapefruit
tequila and lemongrass & ginger rum, with
prices ranging from £7.50 and £8.50. One of
the featured house cocktails include the Burn-
tdown Tennessee, which encompasses orange-
infused Jack Daniels, marmalade and Victori-
an-style lemonade.
Located literally on the doorstep of Fulham
Broadway tube station, the recent opening of
Broadway Bar and Grill will be a convenient
option for students renting accommodation in
the area, and is also in close proximity to one
of Imperial’s residence halls, Orient House.
Broadway also offers private dining for up
to 25 people and are now taking bookings for
Christmas parties.
Broadway Bar and Grill 474-476 Fulham
Road, London SW6 1BY. Tel: 020 7610
Broadway’s canapé and cocktail party for local residents held last month
Steak, football and beer - a student’s every need fulfilled
Even though sports is a
big theme here, WAGs
can safely tag along
The stash of the homemade liquers

