FOOD
FELIX Friday 12 november 2010 35
The basics of cooking begins with an odd-looking stick woman and a black pan cooking on a distasteful hob
S
tep into the Troubadour and
you don’t know where to
look first. On one wall is a
stained glass window and
rows of antique coffee pots;
on the other, a vintage electric guitar.
This perfect blend of the rustic and retro
arrests the senses, and something tells
you you’re in for a treat.
With its buzzing atmosphere and
quirky personality, warm and friendly
staff, the Troubadour is a perfect place
for a first date or an alternative night out
with friends. Traditional English food
is served in great volume to small, inti-
mate tables, and quality is certainly not
compromised for a reasonable price tag;
meals start from £8, with steaks nearing
£20, but why not treat yourself? Be-
tween us we sampled the fish and chips
and the popular Troubadour burger,
noting the refreshing lack of grease, at-
tention to detail and general perfection.
The fish and chips may have been £13,
but wow, that is what you call fish and
chips! It is worth noting that all ingredi-
ents are sourced locally and with great
care, the secret to the dishes’ perfec-
tion. If these are not for you though, you
could always try one of their omelettes
or salads. And most importantly, such
hearty portions still allowed room for
dessert! The apple crumble was flawless
and the brownie literally melts in your
mouth.
Adding to the eclectic feel of the Trou-
badour is the basement nightclub. Rich
in history it has hosted the likes of Bob
Dylan and Jimi Hendrix, and, more re-
cently, Paulo Nutini. Every week a se-
lection of exciting performers who write
and perform their own material, treat
audiences to a novel experience. Par-
ticularly pertinent to student tastes, the
nightclub serves 2-4-1 cocktails, avail-
able from 8-9pm.
The garden is yet another asset to the
Troubadour’s charm. Under a grape vine
canopy, this hideaway provides a tran-
quil environment right in the busy cen-
tre of Earl’s Court, a short tube journey
from South Kensington. The adjacent
Troubadour wine shop is also worth a
stop. The shelves are stocked with un-
usual wines from around the world with
prices to challenge supermarket prices.
From 9am onwards the Troubadour
Anyone up for a Snog? It’s juicy, saucy... it’s yoghurt.
Frozen Yoghurt is a tasty cold treat, and
London has caught the cold. It’s go-
ing round. If it was a warmer foodstuff
they’d say it was spreading like wild-
fire. Instead, it’s spreading more like the
Starbucks and Subways that now punc-
tuate every high street. This is an ice-age
moment after years of hot coffees and
warm pastries. Cold is the hottest new
thing in edible delights, and what a de-
light it is!
If it wasn’t already apparent, I abso-
lutely love the stuff. I love its refreshing
tart taste. I even prefer it to ice-cream,
and its low calorific content means it
carries little of the guilt despite lots of
the pleasure.
But it wouldn’t be nearly so joyous
a thing if served by some sweaty man-
hair hybrid into a polystyrene tray-box
in a Turkish chippy behind Ladbroke
Grove. The ambience is the thing.
Though Frozen Yoghurt itself is being
sold in more and more food places, it is
the dedicated frozen yoghurt bars and
their common sense of funk that are the
most fun. With their sleek interiors and
candy colours they are like a portal into
a future wonderland of cool and verve.
It is as if someone syphoned off people’s
fantasies of Tokyo and urban-chic, then
poured it into the shop-mould to set.
Here, life is Pop.
I can see the doubt in your eyes. You
have yet to experience this Narnia of
modernity. Luckily there are several
local places that you can try, including
Snog in South Kensington, Frog in Bay-
swater and GoYog! in Hammersmith.
Even their names rhyme! Clearly they
are destined to enter folklore, made into
songs sung by men of the future about
this time of culinary change.
Perhaps. As for reviewing these dairy
emporiums I will say this: Snog is de-
licious but the priciest. Frog, opposite
Bayswater station tastes the same and
has a two-for-one deal for students,
which makes itABargain™. It also has a
strawberry flavour not found anywhere
else that is super tasty, faintly recalling
strawberry fromage frais but with added
F.Y.D. (frozen-yoghurt-deliciousness)
factor. GoYog! in Hammersmith has the Dancing flappers, illegal moonshine but no Wall Street Crash in sight
TROUBADOUR HAS HEART
Jamie Williams and Hannah Tullett visit
Earl’s Court coffee house and music venue
starts its day as one of the Top 50 places
to eat breakfast in London, so why not
check out the full English? Failing that,
stop in for a coffee during the day and
watch the world go by. Our advice?
Don’t miss out on the buzz that is syn-
Omar Hafeez-Bore
“Rich in history it has
hosted the likes of
Bob Dylan, Jimi Hen-
drix and, more re-
cently, Paulo Nutini”
worst topping selection and only one
yoghurt flavour (despite what that crafty
blackboard tells you), but like Frog has
a two-for-one deal for students and a
yoghurt that tastes distinctly different to
both Snog and Frog. It is creamier and
less tart.
This may sound like the obsessive
detail of an addict, but you’d be wrong.
Knowing the workers at Frog on first-
name terms is what makes me an ad-
dict. If I could snort the stuff I would.
In fact, if you could snort the stuff I’d
make my own new outlet called Snort.
I’d put it opposite boujis and make a
killing. Heck, I’d probably get govern-
ment backing for weaning people off
brain-frying drugs to brain-freezing
Yog-Stuffs.
Maybe I’m on to something. But until
then do try Frozen Yoghurt in any of its
incarnations. It’s delicious.
P. S. Look out for Snort.
Snog 32 Thurloe Place, London SW7
2HQ. GoYog! 12 C/D Hammersmith
London W6 7AL. Frog 58a Queen-
sway, Bayswater, London W2 3RL.
onymous with this wonderfully time-
warped, bohemian gem.
Troubadour 263-7 Old Brompton
Road, London SW5 9JA
www.troubadour.co.uk

