TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 12 NOVEMber 2010 37
Whilst recognising the importance of reminiscence, Chris Richardson examines
the brighter side of some of the world’s top remembrance destinations
Lest we forget to find a balance
“Embracing such darker
elements of a culture is
often what separates
travelling from tourism”
One of Poland’s oldest cities, this glistening me-
tropolis is home to some beautiful architecture, a
booming nightlife and some fantastic eateries. It’s
only a short drive from Auschwitz, and most hotels
will organise transits and tours for you for a negli-
gible cost. I still speak to people who have visited
the city and haven’t done the Auschwitz tour, the
reasons for which are just beyond me.
The tours are tasteful and the area has been very
well preserved from tourist rot: the tours keep to-
the-point and the lack of a resident gift shop is
somewhat pleasing. Certain parts of Auschwitz I
and II-Birkenau are included on tours that are ran
by knowledgeable guides who were doing an ex-
cellent job from what I could tell. Auschwitz is
definitely one of those cases where reading a book
or watching a documentary will pale in insignifi-
cance to standing there. It’s certainly an eerie feel-
ing walking through a place that is a symbol for
such atrocities.
Back in Krakow many options await you. One
of my highlights was sampling honey vodka and
plum brandy at the Wieliczka salt mine, which
includes an entire chapel carved out of rock salt.
While seemingly standard it’s a very impressive
display. Drift through the Old City at night and see
the impressive evening lights bounce off the town
hall tower, gaze at the town’s many churches and
squares, and see Wawel Castle, one of Europe’s
most beautiful castles.
If you’re a morning person be sure to check out
one of the flea markets, or for the night owls among
you check out the reasonably-priced cocktail bars
and clubs like Cien which pump out endless house.
The point is that it’s a great city with lots happen-
ing, and a great stop-off for anyone who is inter-
railing or in the area for whatever reason.
Vietnam is by far my favourite destination and Sai-
gon was the first place on my hit list as I made my
way up the coast to the China border. This urban
sprawl is littered with telephone cables and posters
depicting the revered Ho Chi Minh, and if the sea
of motorbikes doesn’t knock you off your feet the
stench of durian fruit certainly will.
South Vietnam in particular suffered heavily dur-
ing the war with the US, the damages of which can
still be seen by the births of children with physical
deformities and mental retardation due to prenatal
chemical exposure.
The War Remnants Museum has several exhibits
ranging from plain interesting to shocking, outlin-
ing the events and consequences of a devastating
war.
The Cu Chi tunnels are a network of 250km of
underground tunnels that were occupied by South
Vietnamese during the war: many people were
permanent residents – some even got married and
gave birth there. You can still enter the tunnels to
get a glimpse of what life would have been like,
and trust me, five minutes of claustrophobia is
more than enough.
Hop on a bike and hit up some of the parks and
markets on offer, in particular the Russian market
where you can filter through the replica garbage
and find some genuine war memorabilia, Zippos
and the like. Have a couple of shots of snake wine
(great for impotence, apparently) and hit up the
city at night – the street food is not to be missed,
nor are the manic night markets and pumping bars.
And did I mention that Vietnamese bin collec-
tion trucks sound like our ice cream vans? Saigon
is such a great place to begin or wrap up your Viet-
namese journey – there’s a reason it’s a focal point
on the Asian backpacker circuit.
Oh, you’re hopping between Cambodia and Viet-
nam and stuck in this hole for 2 hours while you
wait for your bus transfer? Shit, isn’t life a bitch at
times? I’m really not sure why this place has such
a dire reputation on the good ol’ tourist trail, or
perhaps I just continually chatted with the wrong
sort of people. Hell, I loved it and stayed there way
beyond the call of duty even after my ’nam visa
started ticking!
Pol Pol’s brutal regime was responsible for the
death of 21% of Cambodia’s entire population,
but despite this grim statistic he’s often missed out
of conversation. Phnom Penh is home to both the
Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum and the Choeung
Ek Killing Fields, the former of which is a school
turned detention centre turned museum, and the
latter of which has recently been privatised, much
to the outrage of the Cambodians whose relatives
the fields commemorate. Both offer a thoughtful
insight into the problems Cambodia has faced in
the past and now faces as a result of such horrific
events.
The cliché of the ‘contradictions of Cambodia’
certainly didn’t spawn from nowhere – Phnom
Penh’s streets are a bizarre mix of the extremes:
poor children missing limbs playing alongside
wealthy businessmen in suits. Such contrasts can
be seen in just about everything in the city, which
certainly has a great deal of life to it. The Royal
Palace has all of Thailand’s wondrous infrastruc-
ture but without the incessant hailing to the oh-so
wise king, which was certainly welcomed.
Grab a cheap hostel overlooking the lake and
kick back with a massage, go for a cruise up the
mighty Mekong, and chow down with a classic fish
amok curry – include this awesome place on your
route more than just a stopover, you won’t regret it.
W
ith Remembrance Day just be-
hind us it seems appropriate to
draw in some of the more som-
bre elements of travel destina-
tions. As a traveller you often
confront the tensions of the place you’re visiting,
though this will of course vary by destination. I
think embracing such darker elements of a culture
is often what separates travelling from tourism:
you’re interested in the lifestyle and not just sport-
ing your token ‘peace fingers’ pose for your prized
photo with the big Buddha statue.
My latest Southeast Asian jaunt as a case in
point: although I’d read about some of the prob-
lems from the Lonely Planet and heard the tales I
couldn’t really get a grasp of it until I actually vis-
ited. The countless number of landmine victims in
Cambodia is frankly shocking, as are the slightly
more subtle cases of Agent Orange deformities
throughout Vietnam. While poverty is certainly
an eye-opener, such atrocities get you to think that
little bit more.
That’s not to say that it’s morbidly depressing to
witness such circumstances, and in fact once you
rack up your own little anecdotes and experiences
it adds a great flavour to your travels. One time in
South Vietnam I decided that it’d be a great idea to
do some manic off-road biking with an empty fuel
tank, and needless to say I found myself stranded
pretty quickly. Thankfully a war veteran and his
son were out fishing and stopped to fill me up and
even handed me a bottle of water on account of my
probably sweaty face. Absolute heroes.
As I’ve now nagged several times (and will con-
tinue to do so for years to come) in true self-righ-
teous travel writer fashion: some of the people you
meet have encountered hell, yet are still infinitely
hospitable and upbeat.
While Remembrance Day was founded to re-
member the lives lost in the Great War, the re-
membrance has been greatly expanded to allow
us a pause for thought for conflicts everywhere, of
which there sadly are and have been far too many.
I’m going to share a few places I’ve recently visit-
ed that often present taboo in conversation because
of the darker events they’re often associated with.
The aim is to show you the important must-see
remembrance-based activities in these places while
also drawing in some of the lighter things, too: If
you’re ever in the vicinity of these locations I hope
that you don’t become hesitant at the mere utter-
ance of the place, and instead embrace them with
open arms as destinations that really do have some-
thing valuable to offer.
Kraków, Poland Saigon, Vietnam Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Kraków’s Old Town, Saigon’s skyline (right, above) and downtown Phnom Penh (right, below)
Photo by Richard Sandwell Photo by Chris Richardson
Photo by Mahar Usman

