CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
42
T
wo weeks after a very well
attended Freshers trip, two
minibuses of Outdoor Club
members left for a week-
end of adventure in the
renowned Peak District National Park.
Despite taking wildly different routes,
both groups arrived at Fulwood Scout
Hut, Sheffield within seconds of each
other, after sampling some of the Mid-
lands cheapest, and perhaps greasiest,
takeaway food (in Loughborough and
Birmingham). The occupants of both
vehicles were of course disappointed in
two ways: 1. They hadn’t got there first
2. Worst of all, no one had yet brewed
up. After quickly unloading the buses
the latter of these grievances was rapidly
remedied before all settled in for a very
comfortable sleep.
Early on Saturday a motivated group
of walkers and climbers, spurred by the
excellent weather, were up and packing
the kit needed for the day ahead. The
first bus made it’s way to Stanage High
Neb, at the Western end of the extensive
gritstone escarpment of Stanage Edge,
whilst the second bus beelined for Stan-
age Popular, the opposite end of this
3-mile long rock feature. Stanage is a
magical place for climbers, walkers, fell
runners and mountain bikers alike. The
rough, dark grey rock sits above auburn
bracken, punctuated by bright green,
grassy paths and large, round millstones
shaped from what some describe as
‘God’s own rock’. The top of the edge
stretches out into vast moorland and
standing above the climbs you are re-
warded with views of nearby Hather-
sage, the picturesque Edale and Hope
valleys and of course the other gritstone
edges. Invigorated by the splendour of
the natural environment and the cool
morning air all were eager to have a go
at climbing the famous cracks, aretes,
nebs and rugosities and before long
we’d Limbo’ed, Tango’ed, accessed the
Inaccessible Crack (Direct) and some
had even taken to flight on Flying But-
tress Direct. However, like Stanage, the
Outdoor Club is about much more than
just climbing, and many of the trip mem-
bers opted to brave the windy conditions
of the moor to walk, or in one case run,
along the length of the edge, exploring
the different scenery and features, in-
cluding the famous Robin Hood’s Cave
- a popular summer bivouac.
Of course, the most important part of
any trip is the Saturday evening, when
everyone can come together and share
stories of the day. A few members had
dressed for Halloween so our number
included a superhero, Rod Stewart’s
love-child and a reptile charming wiz-
ard. Now, with the chilli simmering, a
few cans drunk and the pumpkin carved
it was time to begin the games, starting
with the traditional family favourite:
Apple, Carrot and other assorted vegeta-
ble bobbing. The rules are simple: 3 tries
then you’re out. You eat what you ‘win’
or losers drink a cup of the bobbing
‘juice’ - a bright red foaming concoction
not dissimilar to snakebite. The com-
petency level was high this year, with
RAG Week
CGCU Slave Auction
Amateur Radio
Please contact Phil (pjh@talk21.com) if
you have any interest in amateur radio
(ham radio). Staff and students wanted!
NOTICE
Friday 12 November 2010
many people succeeding on apples or
bananas, and only a few unlcuky souls
retrieving onions, or nothing at all. Now
with a good hunger we sat down to tuck
into copious volumes of pasta and chilli,
followed by chocolate cake and custard.
The perfect meal after a long day. As
we all relaxed with some after dinner
drinks, no one (including the performer)
realised that an impromptu Karaoke and
dance-a-thon session was about to be-
gin. Needless to say, they were slightly
embarrassed the next morning and the
author of this report has it on good
grounds that they are desperately seek-
ing to destroy the video evidence.
So, enjoying the extra hour of sleep,
and the obligatory Sunday morning lie
in it was a slower start to our second
day in the Peak. The bright sunshine and
crisp breeze of Saturday had been re-
placed with an atmospheric mist across
the higher moors and slightly warmer
temperatures. Three parties set out. One
to undertake a good 20km walk via Win
Hill, a small grassy Peak which quietly
mocks the neighbouring Lose Hill, and
Ladybower reservoir - training ground
of the ‘Dambusters’. Two sites of in-
teresting and unrelated military history.
Meanwhile, others climbed at Bamford
and Froggatt edges - giving club mem-
bers the chance to practise their lead
climbing skills on some fairly challeng-
ing routes. An unexpected rendezvous
of two of these teams in the Yorkshire
Bridge Inn gave an opportunity for more
tale telling before heading back to the
buses to make the long drive home.
Even more remarkably than the outward
journey, the two buses left different
parts of Derbyshire, at different times,
returned to London by different routes
and arrived back at Beit about one min-
ute apart. Some things are just meant to
be!
In a weekend in which, Burg dressed
as a non-mammalian Batman character,
Jonny reintroduced the mullet to the
climbing scene, Phil wore a snake as a
scarf and many people wore a purple
pointy wizards hat all but the longest
serving members of the club will be
surprised to hear that nobody wore a flat
cap!
The Outdoor Club has been ac-
tive since 1945. Typically, weekend
trips see members walking, climb-
ing, running, rafting and biking their
way through the hills. The club also
climbs indoors at Ethos from 7pm-
9pm every Thursday evening during
term-time. For more information con-
tact outdoor@imperial.ac.uk.
Outdoor Club’s
Peak District romp
“Our number included a super-
hero, Rod Stewart’s love-child
and a reptile charming wizard.”
By Phil Leadbeater
The annual CGCU Slave Auction took place this
Wednesday night, resulting in Union President Alex
Kendall shelling out £200 to buy himself out of be-
ing a naked mascot for this year’s varsity.
A bitter Kendall sought to embarass his fellow sab-
baticals. Teaming up with last year’s President, Dr.
Ashley Brown, they bought Deputy President (Clubs
& Societies) Heather Jones for £135 and now must
wear a corset or banana costume to the next five
meetings with senior College staff.
RCSU President, Scott Heath, must now prepare
to run around Beit Quad naked after mutiple people
teamed up to enslave him for £120.
£50 will go to charity as soon as Current Deputy
President (Welfare), Charlotte Ivison, fulfils her task
of cooking dinner for master and the Slave Auction’s
organiser, Sahil Chugani. However, the agreement
stipulates the cost of the dinners must be split
50/50.
To round off the night, Felix Editor, Kadhim
Shubber, was bought for
a disappointing £15 in
return for a naked centre-
fold.
By Dan Wan

