SPORT
44 felix
FRIDAY 12 NOVEMBER 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editors: Jovan Nedic
David Wilson
Ultimate Frisbee
Forgotten Sports
Archery and ice hockey, at least
you knew these things were
sports, but did you know that Ul-
timate Frisbee is one also? Carina
Carter didn’t...
Ultimate is a seven-a-side team sport played with a
flying disc. Played on a rectangular pitch of 100m by
37m, with two 18m deep end-zones, the object of the
game is to score points by having a player catch the
disc in the end-zone which they are attacking. Once
in possession of the disc the attacking player can-
not move, but can pass the disc in any direction to a
teammate. The defending team takes possession if
the disc touches the ground, lands outside the play-
ing pitch or is caught by a defender. Games run until a
predetermined time or points cap is reached.
Uniquely among competitive sports, Ultimate is en-
tirely self-refereed. Any infringements are called by
the players themselves, for example a body contact
foul, after which the other player involved can agree
with or contest the infringement. This relies on the
trust that players will compete fair-mindedly and will
not intentionally breach the rules. This underlying mu-
tual respect for the opponent is known as the Spirit
of the Game, inherent to the sport.
Ultimate is played across three divisions: Open (for
which all players are eligible), Women’s and Mixed
(where teams must comprise of both male and fe-
male players). The sport is most commonly played
outdoors on a grass pitch, but has indoor and beach
variations which are played on smaller pitches with
only five players.
Widely played at university level, the UK also boasts
some of the best club teams in Europe. Most club
tournaments are held from November until August,
with European Championships held annually and
World Championships every four years. Some of the
largest tournaments in the UK see over five hundred
players compete and, with its growing reputation as a
fast-paced, intense sport, Ultimate looks set to con-
tinue to attract new players to the game.
Phil Sandwell
What is Ultimate Frisbee?
Ultimate frisbee:
because just throwing it
about in the park is crap
I’m sure many of you (me included) thought
that frisbee was just a game you played in the
park on a hot summer day to pass time, appar-
ently we were wrong. Who knew before com-
ing to university that it is in fact a sport, let
alone an ULTIMATE one?! Appearing in the
UK in the early 70s, Ultimate Frisbee grew in
popularity and the next few decades saw clubs
appearing at various universities across the
country. Ultimate Frisbee started at Imperial
back in 1998. The club currently has around
40 members and compete in both indoor and
outdoor competitions.
The club have already been out in action
in several competitions this term. They com-
peted in BUCS open indoor regionals for the
South-East two weekends ago finishing fourth.
This puts them top of the second division for
the nationals in a few weeks time, where they
will compete to retain their title as defending
champions-pretty impressive! They also play
in a winter league, which provides good prac-
tice for the nationals.
In terms of freshers, the club signed up over
200 at freshers fair (including 50 girls I was
enthusiastically told!) and saw 60 people turn
up to the first session. The club usually also get
a high post-graduate turn out from those that
have played for their previous university. No
previous experience is required to start play-
ing and new players got the chance to give it
a go at a fresher tournament in Brighton. Four
out of the five players on the team have to be
beginners: “this allows the freshers to learn the
game in a relaxed atmosphere. It’s competi-
tive but there’s no pressure”, says the club’s
president Michael Foster, “it’s experience you
couldn’t get in a practice”.
So does the club also have a social side?
“Yes, we have various events like curry nights
and Christmas dinner, as well as going to the
union after practice” says Phil Sandwell, the
club’s secretary. They also seem to have their
own drinking tradition called the 3 pint chal-
lenge. Unfortunately I didn’t get to see this in
action, but it involves racing in pairs to drink 3
pints through (apparently it has to be McDon-
alds) straws. The drinking vessel is of course
a Frisbee and the current record is 16 seconds.
Well, I guess it makes a change from the stan-
dard ‘get it down...’ anyway.
Ultimate Frisbee train in Hyde Park on
Wednesdays (1pm) and Saturdays (11am). If
you think that a Frisbee could make your life
complete, or you just fancy giving it a go, email
ultimate@imperial.ac.uk for more details.
Carina Carter
Frisbee can indeed be played indoors and you can even wear a headband to play
a club’s policy on crowd surfing on the Friday
night.
Saturday morning the guys woke up to
hangovers and a parking ticket! Not the best
result of the weekend. However with a whole
new day of ski and snowboard events ahead
of them, spirits soon lifted. Unfortunately, the
last minute drop-out of the ski team’s only
girl resulted in the team not being allowed to
compete in the team slalom. However, there
were plenty of individual entries in ski and
snowboard. The hammering rain was no deter-
rent for Snowboard captain, Bridgestock, who
made it through to Big Air final – pulling a suc-
cessful 360°! Saturday night was the BUDS
ball – traditionally a carnage-producing event
that lived up to expectations.
After an exhausting weekend, drivers Joe
and Gerry had the task of bringing the minibus
safely home; they succeeded! Anyway, despite
the torrential rain, it was a awesome weekend
with some great results. So, well done boys!
Once again, it was time for the Snow sports’
annual dry slope championships, or BUDS for
short. The event took place in Edinburgh last
weekend, November 4th-6th. With around 70
universities in attendance, it was a great chance
to meet other snowsports clubs from around the
country.
A group of 11 Snowsports members travelled
the long minibus ride up on the Thursday eve-
ning, arriving in the early hours of the morning.
This did not leave much time for rest for team
captains Gerry Hawkins, Luke Bridgestock
and Simon Federer who, along with chairman
Joe Templeman had to make the 8am captains’
meeting.
The competitors were joined by a host of IC
freshers who offered support through general
debauchery from Thursday through Sunday.
This was probably spurred on by a certain per-
son’s – let’s call them JT – disagreement with
Beth Burks
Snowsports at Dry
Slopes Championships

