SPORT
45
felix FRIDAY 12 NOVEMBER 2010
top with Southampton, with Nottingham
just a point behind as the race for the cup
was reduced to a three team battle.
Dressed up as a 13 man Asian base-
ball team, we returned to the Herts field
on Halloween for our final round robin
game against reigning Fall Cup cham-
pions University of East Anglia. With
Nottingham having already defeated
Southampton for a place in the final ear-
lier that day, the Falcons needed a point
to ensure qualification. Another late
comeback by the Falcons saw us take a
3-2 lead, and Imperial hung on for a 3-3
tie and the necessary point to play for
the Fall Cup.
Tied with the Thieves, Imperial was
top of the table by virtue of our head
to head record over Nottingham. Thus,
Imperial had the advantage of batting
in the bottom half of the inning in the
final. While the opponent was the same
as our first match, the game was not the
pitching duel of Saturday and instead it
became a battle of lineups. A great fly-
ball catch with men on 1st and 2nd base
by Kevin Ling slowing the bats of the
Thieves. However, good base running
by Nottingham allowed them to take the
lead with the score 2-0 at the top of the
first inning. Multiple lead changes saw
the Falcons trailing 6-4 with two innings
remaining. Hanson came out of the bull-
pen to shut the Thieves down, giving
Imperial a chance to pull the game back.
The Falcons so nearly tied it, scoring
once but aggressive base running left
Jun Weng, the tying run, thrown out at
the plate for the 3rd out. With that, the
Falcons were down one with just one
inning to play at 6-5. A quick three-up,
three-down defensive top half of the in-
ning set up the Falcons last shot at glory,
as the team needed to manufacture one
run to stay alive, and two runs to walk
off winners. Rory Thomas followed up
a big hit with great slide to break up a
double play. Syed Taha chased this up
with a walk to load the bases. Finally,
all tension was relieved as a single by
Vassil drove in Kevin as the winning run
and a mad celebratory scramble ensued.
The weekend saw some great baseball
played by all sides. The Falcons, a team
clearly more than the sum of its parts,
showed great spirit, repeatedly scor-
ing vital runs and making great defen-
sive plays to end games and ultimately
earned its first national title. After over-
coming the daze of too much cham-
pagne sipped from the trophy, we now
shift our focus to retaining our South-
ern league championship with matches
against Oxford, Southampton and ULJS
coming up in November.
Baseball Club win the Falcon
Cup for the first time
The Falcons with the Fall Cup. Look out for the baseball feature in next weeks issue!
... Continued from back page
touchdown run two plays later and with
a two-point conversion the Immortals
took the lead. Unfortunately the Im-
mortals defence were unable to halt the
Stingers passing game and Surrey recap-
tured the lead before the half adding a
two-point conversion.
After the break the Stingers extended
their lead as they took advantage of an
offensive fumble and scored another
passing touchdown to make the score
8-20. Down by 12 points the Immortals
offence dug deep and engineered a 35
yard drive to score. Good blocking by
the offensive line led by rookie centre
Zhiyao “Jackson” Xing and a first career
reception for wide receiver Charles Ed-
wards of 15 yards, set up first-year run-
ning back Alistair Boyce for his maiden
rushing touchdown. Back in the game
at 14-20, the Immortals defence set
about countering the continued aerial
assault as the Stingers completely aban-
doned the running game and attempted
to pick apart the defensive secondary. A
decent pass-rush from the Immortals de-
fensive line and linebacking corp gave
the Surrey Quarterback little time to
make his throws and Cornerback Irfan
Raza and Safety Arjav Trivedi were able
to break up plays and almost picked the
ball for multiple interceptions.
With time running down the offence
once more handed the ball off to Millar
and solid blocking sprung the running
back for a 34 yard touchdown run, lev-
elling the score. A failed two-point con-
version meant the game would be head-
ing for overtime.
Getting the ball first, the Immortals
drove from the 25 yard line and despite
solid play by the Stingers’ now tiring
defence, Quarterback Rob Wolsten-
holme threw a beautiful spiral pass to
Arjav Trivedi for a 25 yard, career-first,
touchdown. Failing on the two point
conversion the Immortals led 26-20.
Surrey commenced their drive and the
defence almost won the game, only for
the Stingers to score on 4th down, but
failing to convert the two-point conver-
sion. Receiving another drive each, the
Immortals failed to score as Millar was
stopped inches short of the goalline on
4th down. The ensuing Surrey drive
saw the Stingers clinch this hard-fought
game by kicking a field goal leaving the
score at 26-29.
American Football: Immortals
lose to field goal in overtime
... Continued from back page
You’ve got to ask yourself, when the players are this ‘big’, is the protec-
tive gear really needed?
A high-stakes game for the Ladies 1s
on Sunday saw them face Royal Hollo-
way in the first round of the ULU Cup.
As last year’s Cup winners, and facing
a team they’d lost to the week before,
the ladies had a lot to play for. Arriv-
ing somewhat early, there was plenty of
time for the ladies to psych themselves
up against a team who, it appeared, had
not only a full-time coach, but also a
separate warm-up coach!
On a pitch more reminiscent of a
soggy beach than an Astroturf, a win-
ning toss forced the opposition to play
into the sun, and Imperial tried to take
full advantage. Having learned from the
previous game that the Holloway play-
ers could only follow their coach’s in-
structions, Imperial put up a much better
fight, forcing much of the play into the
opposition half. Unfortunately, thanks
to some solid last-gasp defence, and a
lucky penalty corner strike, Royal Hol-
loway were first to score. With some
help from (flexi-)Harry’s acrobatics in
the D, and helped by the opposition de-
fence’s inability to keep up with Teddy,
IC brought it back to 1-1 for half time.
Ready for the second half, and aware
that full-time at 1-1 would only mean
golden-goals and penalty flicks (an expe-
rience far too stressful to contemplate),
Imperial Ladies finally took advantage
of one of their many penalty-corners;
a great shot from Gigi “I can’t score”
Fateh-Iravani taking it them 2-1 ahead.
The Holloway girls unfortunately failed
to be boosted by their coach’s words of
wisdom (such inspirational words as
“that’s not how we play hockey, is it
girls?” were to be heard from the side-
line), and Imperial dominated the rest of
the second half, with Kirsten finishing
off a cross to take the final score to 3-1.
With only two more matches against
Royal Holloway before the end of the
season, IC Ladies move on to the second
round of the ULU Cup – preparing for
the next tie against GKT Ladies’ 1s.
Jess Poore
Women’s Hockey ULU CUP
IC 1st 3 - 1 Royal Holloway 1st
Hockey: Ladies
1s’ progress in
ULU Cup

