FELIX Friday 12 November 2010 5
NEWS
rial College’s expertise and resources to pro-
vide voluntary activities which offer valuable
development opportunities both to the Col-
lege and the wider community”.
Deputy President Heather Jones expressed
her sadness at the cut, saying it was a “sad
reflection of what the college values.” She
believed that “they didn’t need to fully pass
[the government] cut onto the Volunteer Cen-
tre”. The Outreach Centre, however, made it
clear that while they thought the Volunteer
Centre was ‘very important’, the combina-
tion of government cuts and reduced College
funding to the Outreach department meant
that they were unable to save it.
Throughout its history, the Volunteer Cen-
tre has received various sources of govern-
ment funding. Most recently the centre was
funded by the Teaching Enhancement and
Student Success scheme, TESS, offered
by the HEFCE (Higher Education Funding
Council for England) which has seen its bud-
get cut this year. Imperial Outreach was first
made aware of problems with the funding
nine months ago, but was only made aware
of the scale of the impact of the withdrawal
of TESS funding, two weeks ago.
Melanie Thody, Head of the Outreach de-
partment, told Felix that she had hoped that
she would be able to save the the Volunteer
Centre but the reduced funding to her depart-
ment, compounded by the direct withdrawal of
government funding to the Volunteer Centre
made it too difficult. The Outreach department
is currently ‘under review’ by the College se-
nior management. Melanie Thody said “like
all departments, we have to tighten our belts.
It’s going to be tough, but other departments
are suffering too.” This term already has seen
the restructure of the Plant Sciences research
group and the Institute of Mathematical Sci-
ences (IMS), which was evicted from its prem-
ises at 53 Prince’s Gardens. The future of the
IMS is still uncertain as concrete plans for its
continuation are yet to be released.
Professor Julia Buckingham, Pro Rector,
Education and Academic Services, dispelled
fears that Outreach services would be affect-
ed saying, “It is vital that students with ability
feel there are no barriers to them coming to
university... While these are difficult times,
there is no question of this ethos losing its
place as a College priority.”
As a result of the cuts to the Volunteer Cen-
tre, one member of staff faces the risk of re-
dundancy, though it is hoped that they will be
Volunteer Centre gutted as
Outreach takes budget cut
Belt-tightening continues with Outreach and Volunteer Centre the latest victims
successfully reassigned to a different part of
the college.
Volunteering has always been an integral
part of life at Imperial College London.
With so many diverse schemes being of-
fered through the Outreach centre such as
‘the Pimlico Connection’, ‘Exscitec’, and
many others; it is fair to say that students and
staff from Imperial play an important role in
the wider community. Volunteering is also
beneficial to the volunteers. Employers are
finding it increasingly difficult to differenti-
ate between candidates, so as well as gaining
valuable experience and learning new skills,
students can use volunteering to ‘stand out
from the crowd’.
It also has a positive impact on students well
being; leading to a more enriched experience at
university. In a study done on students at vari-
ous London universities including Imperial by
the Volunteer Centre during the academic year
2009/2010, it was found that 56% of students
believed that volunteering had increased their
“sense of being part of my university”, 49% of
students felt that volunteering had “benefited
their learning in one way or another” and 89%
of students felt volunteering “increased their
opportunities to meet people from different
backgrounds”.
Minna Ruohonen, head of the Volunteer
Centre, stressed that it was not shutting down
completely, but did concede that the broker-
age service which is being closed, was “a lot
of the main part” of the IVC. She explained
that “it’s not a complete closure, but it’s af-
fecting our services quite dramatically, be-
cause we cannot give volunteers direct links
to local community projects anymore”.
Members of the college will still be able to
access schemes such as ‘IntoUniversity’ and
‘CV2012’, though the majority of the oppor-
tunities which the Volunteer Centre offered
are now gone.
The closure of the service is something that
Ruohonen personally finds very emotional.
She expressed her sadness at the closure of the
centre because “it has been a closure that has
really hurt my heart, in that the centre has been
something that I personally set up, developed,
and was something that I was really passionate
about, and I was seeing that it actually served
a purpose.” She added that “For me and the
whole of Outreach, it has been quite painful
journey to actually close the brokerage service
and go through further redundancy, but I per-
sonally hope that people will use the remain-
ing parts of the Volunteer Centre, and continue
volunteering one way or another.”
As part of the brokerage service the Volun-
teer Centre provided an online search engine
that volunteers could use to search and apply
for volunteering opportunities. With options
to filter projects by preferences, time commit-
ment, skills, and over 100 projects to search
from since it was last updated; the brokerage
service had been an invaluable part of volun-
teering at Imperial. This is especially true for
international students who have just arrived in
the UK and know little about the infrastruc-
ture and necessary steps needed to start vol-
unteering in the UK. The service will continue
to be available until the 22nd of November.
The College expressed its regret at the loss
of the Volunteer Centre’s brokerage service
but said that it was forced to review its ac-
tivities as a result of the “significant financial
challenges which are having a direct impact
on every university in England.”
Ruohonen highlighted the effects that the
closure will have on volunteers who are in-
ternational student, explaining “I think it will
now be much more difficult for international
students to find those projects, especially in
their first year. I believe this will directly
influence their student experience and their
whole studying experience, because if you
have a lot of extra-curricular activities, and
enjoy it as well, it then affects your studies,
because you are happy.” International student
Nina Hartwich, explained that “the service
provided by the Volunteer Centre was very
useful and helped me to start volunteering in
a country and city that was new for me.”
Students and staff across Imperial will be
deeply affected by the closure. Deputy Presi-
dent Heather Jones said “we won’t be able to
plug the gap [left by the Volunteer Centre].
Our students are highly skilled and it’s very
sad for students and volunteer organisations
that they won’t be able to volunteer those
skills like before”. With the Volunteer Cen-
tre prophesising that “it is going to be more
difficult for volunteers to find volunteering
opportunities”, it is clear that the number of
volunteers will dwindle.
A College spokersperson said that they are
“exploring alternative ways for partners to
access those staff and students who wish to
volunteer with community organisations,”
and recommended the Volunteer Centre
Westminster http://www.volunteer.co.uk/
and the Volunteer Centre Chelsea and Kens-
ington. They went on to say, “the College re-
mains committed to supporting volunteering
as a matter of policy, with almost 250 staff
and students currently registered as volun-
teers who are actively volunteering their time
this academic year”.
The Volunteer Centre is not the first victim
of the fiscal contraction going on at Imperial.
This year alone the Life Sciences department
have had to make difficult decisions and the
Institute of Mathematical Sciences faces an
uncertain future after being booted from their
building. In recent years we have also seen
the closure of some of the Humanities De-
partment’s services. It is obvious that we will
see similar closures and departments ‘under
review’ in the coming academic year.
The cuts so far
Life Sciences
The Life Sciences department in-
stigated a restructure that saw sev-
eral units, including Plant Sciences,
merged into one Integrative Cell
Biology unit. The Union launched a
campaign to stop what they termed
the “end of Plant Sciences” at Im-
perial, which the department de-
nied. It is not yet known what the
full impact of the restructure will be.
Institute of
Mathematical Sciences
The Institute of Mathematical Sci-
ences, like the Life Sciences de-
partment is being ‘restructured’. It
has been removed from its prem-
ises at 53 Prince’s Gardens but no
alternative model for its continua-
tion has been released yet.
Ian Wei
Katherine Bettany
...Continued from Front Page
Minna Ruohonen, head of the Volunteer Centre, said “it has
been quite a painful journey to close the brokerage service”

