grainy picture pops up in
front of me. It’s an un-
impressive sight. On the
right of the picture a sim-
ple question pops up, “Is
the galaxy simply smooth and rounded,
with no sign of a disk?” I’m given 3 op-
tions; I click the one which best suits the
blob in front of me. I answer a couple
more questions and that’s it, I’ve offi-
cially classified a galaxy.
It’s simple and requires only a basic
amount of decision making; I am in dis-
belief that people spend hours of their
day doing it. However, half an hour later
I am still classifying galaxies; moving
quickly through the less impressive,
blob-like ones in search of the elaborate
ones, the beautiful ones, and the weird
ones. My essay is going to suffer for the
discovery of Galaxy Zoo!
Galaxy Zoo is phenomenally success-
ful. To date it has published over a dozen
papers in science journals! The Zooni-
verse team behind Galaxy Zoo, Moon
Zoo, and many more have successfully
broken down complex tasks in an en-
gaging format that draws people in and
allows them to generate data for scien-
tific research.
I get a chance to talk to talk to Rob
Simpson, a member of the Zooniverse
team. With a background in astronomy,
he tells me how he enjoys being part of
a different sort of science, a step away
from the normal academic research
path, and working in the exciting, grow-
ing area of citizen science.
One thing is puzzling me; why do
people even give up their time for
something they don’t even get a credit
for? Rob explains that a survey was
done of Galaxy Zoo participants and
produced results that even he is scepti-
cal of. Out of the various options fellow
galaxy classifiers could have picked,
the most common one was that they
felt like that they are contributing to
something. “Hard to believe, but true,”
Rob tells me with real disbelief in his
voice. He explains that, “There is a real
gaming aspect [to the different zoos]”.
It plays on people’s hobbies and adds
a, perhaps unintentional, competitive
twist.
The beauty is that there is real mutual
learning; the public gets to explore the
different types of galaxies out in the far
reaches of space, while the scientists get
vital data.
Galaxy Zoo is part of a growing num-
ber of research projects using volunteers
to generate data, known as citizen sci-
ence. Some people believe that this is
just crowd sourcing; an out sourcing of
data collection to members of the public.
Rob believes that Zooniverse is not as it
“tries to engage with people.” There are
forums where people can discuss their
findings. These discussions platforms
have even led to new discoveries, such
as the intriguingly named Hanny’s Voor-
werp! This was spotted by a zoo mem-
ber, Hanny van Arkel, a number of years
ago and is now thought to be a portion
of a gas-cloud, heated by the jet from a
black hole!
Interesting discussion have arisen
from other ‘zoos’. Their latest project,
Old Weather, asks people to transcribe
meticulous weather records from ships
log books into databases. Boring? May-
be. But as well as looking at the weather
data, people are able to track the jour-
ney of the ship around the globe and
get to know the daily lives of the sail-
ors on board. In the Old Weather forum
people post comments such as, “It all
feels like it’s happening there and then
when you’re working through the logs.
It’s a nice way of keeping their memo-
ries alive.” And more touchingly, when
people have encountered a death aboard
the ship, “Not the kind of thing I want
to just ignore - it’s like I need to mourn
their deaths again for myself.”
On the other hand, the forums do give
people interested in conspiracy theories
a platform to air their views. Although
reluctant to give specific details, Rob
tells me that people do use moon zoo to
search the moon’s surface for evidence
of a moon base while others scour the
skies for evidence of UFOs. None have
been found to date.
There is real value in citizen science
projects such as these. Firstly the sheer
scale of information that can be gath-
ered from the public. Because they have
no preconceived ideas about what the
galaxies should be, they serve as more
objective observers. “People can do
things computers can’t,” Rob explains.
In the case of Galaxy Zoo, a computer
cannot carry out the same detailed visu-
al identification that a person can. The
amount of people carrying out this iden-
tification allows an average closer to the
true result to be obtained and irons our
FELIX Friday 12 NOVEMBER 2010 7
INTERVIEW
SURFING
THE ZOONIVERSE
Lizzie Crouch chats to Rob Simpson and gets
addicted to galaxy classification as she tries her
hand at citizen science
any deliberate errors or differences in
opinion.
An interesting discussion is about
the role of citizen science has recently
appeared recently on the blog of Impe-
rial lecturer, Professor Alice Bell. Dur-
ing the course of the discussion Chris
Linott wrote that “the broader role of
citizen science projects... is to provide
examples, places where people can
sample being an active participant in
science.” Does this suggest that citizen
science can bridge the gap between sci-
entists and the public, and engage them
on a new level? Something to think
about!
So what’s the future for Galaxy Zoo?
Rob’s currently working on a project
which is a bit of pet of his. When he
joined Galaxy Zoo earlier this year he
suggested that he might develop a new
zoo which plays on his background. Us-
ing infrared data from space telescopes
participants will be invited to draw
where they see bubbles of space dust;
work which will be hopefully generate
data on how stars form. Sounds intrigu-
ing, but in the meantime I am still sat in
front of my computer classifying galaxy
after galaxy!
“Galaxy Zoo is part of
a growing number of
research projects us-
ing volunteers to gen-
erate data, known as
citizen science”
Photo by Tom Welch
Big science projects can generate
thousands of gigabytes of data per
day. For most of these projects
computers can process the data
and give meaningful results quickly
and efficiently.
However for certain data, such
as images, humans are just bet-
ter at spotting certain trends than
computers. Zooniverse is a citizen
science portal which allows the
general public to do these tasks
and be part of a real research proj-
ect, much like ‘SETI@home’ in the
late 1990’s.
Current projects which can be
accessed from the Zooniverse in-
clude the aforementioned ‘Galaxy
zoo’, ‘Old Weather’-a project to
recover and analyse weather ob-
servations from around the world
recorded in log books of Royal
Navy members around the time of
World War 1,
‘Moonzoo’-a project to record
craters of the moon in depth from
data recoded by a NASA lunar or-
biter, and much more.
Zooniverse can be found at www.
zooniverse.org.
What is
Zooniverse?
A

