NEWS
FELIX
8
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
o ifs, no buts, no education cuts.” This was the
chant carried through London last Wednesday by fifty thou-
sand students and lecturers, in protest against the govern-
ment’s plans to raise the cap on tuition fees to £9,000.
The rally, organised by the National Union of Students and
the University and College Union, highlights a major issue
facing universities in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland.
Spending cuts to higher education have been introduced to
reduce the country’s budget deficit. While many students
at the protest agreed that spending cuts must be brought
in, there was strong opposition to this measure. “Britain’s
economy is supported by its intellectual reputation,” said
one student from Cambridge at the demonstration. “The
use of tuition fees to cover unnecessary cuts to education
is ideologically motivated, not driven by economic need.”
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg maintains that the pro-
posed system will be fair to poor and disadvantaged stu-
dents. “The proposals we have put forward will mean that
those who earn the least will pay much less than they do
at the moment,” he insisted in Parliament on Wednesday.
Bright sunshine provided a fitting backdrop to the mood of
excitement which dominated the early part of the day. The
protesters’ anger was largely muted by a comforting feeling
of unity, inspired by the sheer size of the demonstration.
Slogans were chanted and placards were brandished, but
there was no sign of aggression between police officers and
protesters. A few kind protesters even shared their food
with policemen. At the Tate Britain, a National Union of Stu-
dents bus with radio and television equipment blared mes-
sages over the crowds with loudspeakers. The messages
they played, like the students they were played to, varied
greatly in fervency, ideology, and hostility. Yet they were
greeted with thunderous chanting from the demonstrators,
sharing a united opposition to the government’s proposal.
What was almost entirely a peaceful demonstration was
marred by violence at the Conservative Party Headquarters
at Millbank House. Who the perpetrators were is uncertain,
but about 200 people stormed the building, overrunning the
small police presence and smashing windows on their way
in. At 13:30, ideologues with megaphones campaigned out-
side the building, shouting, “This is the Tory Headquarters!
We must barricade them in their offices, we must blockade
them in the streets!”Masked anarchists were seen at the
forefront of the attack, and activists handing out anarchist
literature were scattered around the area. Police regained
control of the building at 17:00, arresting 35. The hostility
has provoked firm condemnation from student leaders and
students alike, being branded ‘despicable’, and ‘barbaric’.
It was a day of unity for the demonstrators. The future
for the next generation of graduates lies shrouded in de-
tail, ideology, economics, and political manoeuvring, but at
least one thing is a clear fact: the voices of fifty thousand
students came to London in protest. Whether or not they
were heard by the government is a question indeed.
N
STUDENTS
TAKE TO THE
STREETS
Photo by Miles Robertson Photo by Miles Robertson
Photo by Miles Robertson
by John Wheatley
Friday 12 NOVEMBER 2010

