Reviews
Short Cuts
Director: Robert Altman
Starring: Andie MacDowell, Bruce Davison,
Jennifer Jason Leigh, Peter Gallagher
Lily Totnlin, Tom Waits, Lili Taylor
Robert Downey Jr, Matthew Modine
Frances McDormand, Julianne Moore
Chris Penn, Ann Archer, Fred Ward,
Madeleine Stowe, Tim Robbins,
Annie Ross, Lori Singer, Huey Lewis
Jack Lemmon, Lyle Lovett.Buck Henry
Eight short stories and one poem from
Raymond Carver thread together 22 individuals
in the Los Angeles metropolis. The urban
backdrop always allows a variety of lifestyles
and California itself pretty much asks for it. So
take 'Short Cuts' as Robert Altman continues his
drive back to the cinematic heartland of a widely
divergent career.
The start screeches with the blades of
helicopters whooping through the air, it could be
Oliver Stone doing 'Nam again except these
choppers are spraying insecticide over LA. The
camera enjoys them as they fly across the heat
flushed moon; the only non personal focus we
get for the next three hours. In an age obsessed
by the mechanical we are about to leave it all
behind and enter the world of the breathing.
The spray gently falls to earth, back to where
people live and aphids begin to die. Maybe we
could all do with some pesticide to clear up our
messy lives. If we do nothing about it there
could be some nasty things hatching out soon.
As the helicopters come into land we meet up
with our first resident. Say hi to Stormy
Weathers the pilot. He looks like he could do
with a good dose himself, but as this picture is
only 15 minutes old, let's just see how he gets
*:*:
* m m
Tom Waits and Lily Tomlin take
on. I suppose I could go through the other 21
characters, their roles and attitudes, but you'd
get bored and so would I. And anyway this is not
a conventional film with middle, beginning and
neatly wrapped sunset end. It is a glorified
documentary in a sense, a cross section of
American Life during a couple of summer days,
when the sun is warm and the smog rising.
Tomorrow's going to be a beautiful day and
they all have to get up again and continue that
crazy little thing called life. There's lies,
honesty, the charade inbetween and the violence
of loves, lovers and losers. Everyone's bringing
it all back home. Yet for all the grief contained
in the film these are families operating,
dysfunctional maybe, but families nevertheless.
As such it is the women who tie the whole film
a drag and order some hash browns
together. They are the prime movers, even as
victims they seem to be more in control of their
lives than the men. Just look around and tell me
it isn't true in real life. L A , London or Milton
Keynes, they're all cities full of angels.
It's just your luck that the greatest films of
the year have come out within two weeks of
each other. So the phrase to practice is "two
tickets please". With this and 'Schindler's List'
you can get a life and a conscience. What more
do you expect the cinema to do for you?
Tintin
Opens across London today. Odeon Kensington
cones £3.50 before 6pm. Gate Cinema, Notting
Hill Gate, cones £3 with student ID Mon-Fri
before 6pm. Warner West End cones £4 Mon-Fri
before 5pm.
V O T E !
If you are on the South Kensington Campus, you must have a working SWIPE Card in order to vote in the
soon-to-arrive Sabbatical Elections. The Elections are on the 14th and 15th March across IC. If you want to
vote, make sure you test your card in your department.
If you haven't got a SWIPE CARD or the card that you do have doesn't work, just nip over to Security, Level
One, Sherfield. They'll order a new one for you or re-encode yours if it doesn't work. Simple really.
If you are at St Mary's, don't worry, you don't need the Swipe cards to vote. The same goes for all students who
will vote at Silwood Park.
Note: Voting is open to Undergraduates and Postgraduates ONLY

