18 Reviews
Excel at Interviewsby Patricia McBride
Use Your Head by Tony Buzan
The Fro
War
Excel At Interviews attempts to outline the
secrets of interview techniques, but fails to tell
the reader the biggest secret of all, namely that
interviews are universally acknowledged as the
worst method of selection known to mankind! I
know from the management experiences I gained
prior to becoming an (allegedly) mature student
that selection-by-interview has only a 20%
success rate compared to things like psycho-
metric testing. And yet, the world and his wife
still rely upon the blessed things!
Excel At Interviews trots out the usual guff
about dressing smartly (since when has one's
dress sense had anything to do with one's ability
to do a job?), overcoming nerves and avoiding
slipping up on those deliberately embarrassing
questions specifically designed by sadistic
interviewers in order to make one feel like a total
prat! It also offers tips on how to handle different
types of interviewer, though there was nothing in
it that would have helped me overcome the
handicap of being interviewed at Oxford by a
tutor so pissed he could hardly stand up!
The question is, will Excel At Interviews help
a third year get that all important first job? 'No'
is the answer though, if one thinks it'll do any
good, one can always borrow a copy of it from
the library. A book that will definitely help all
students though is Use Your Head, by British
psychologist Tony Buzan.
Books about mental development are usually
written by American management gurus or
Eastern mystics. Use Your Head is different.
Like that other champion of mental develop-
ment, Edward De Bono, Tony Buzan bemoans
the fact that there are more professors of Sanskrit
in the world's universities than there are
researchers working on developing the mind as a
tool.
Citing the case of Edward Hughes, a middle
ranking G C S E student who used the book's
techniques to get 4 A grades at A level and a
triple first at Cambridge, Buzan outlines a
variety of techniques for faster reading, better
memory and time management. Stuck for an
intro to your essay? Then try Buzan's Mind-
Mapping technique and you'll never be stuck for
a creative idea again for as long as you live!
I speak from personal experience here. M y
first essays for Oxford in Philosophy and Politics
were dire. The following year, I applied Mind-
Mapping to them. The improvement was
tremendous. The quotes were all in the right
places, the arguments were solid and they
seemed to be much more flowing. I still didn't
get into Oxford, but that probably had less to do
with the quality of the essays and more to do
with the fact that the person reading them was
out of their face on cheap liqueur!
At £6.99, Use Your Head is the same price as
Excel at Interviews, but this essential book for
students is worth a thousand times more because
the talents one can potentially develop out of it
will mean that job interviews will be a doddle.
Shaun
Excel at Interviews: Published by: Hobsons
Price: £6.99
Use Your Head: Published by: BBC
Price: £6.99
gsof
by Andrew Harman
It seems that spoof fantasy is a popular genre.
Since Terry Pratchett started the trend with his
widely acclaimed Discworld series, several
authors are now following suit. However, the
front (and often the back) of these new books
normally has some referral to or quote from
Terry Pratchett which immediately incites the
reader to compare the insides of the book to
Pratchett's works. Thus, it was in such a state of
mind that I started to read The Frogs of War.
At first I did not enjoy it. The style was too
similar to that of Pratchett. Descriptive wherever
possible and using very visual and funny
imagery for everything. However, once past the
first few chapters, I settled down, started to
enjoy the writing for what it was and really got
into the book. As with most works of this type,
there was a large amount of general mayhem
and confusion, rowdiness, merriment, along
with some incredible names such as Arathoostra
and Turgg Inyeff, all thrown together with just a
pinch of magic. It is a good mix and works well.
The heroes (and heroines) of the book are
young teenagers and the story seems to be
aimed at the same age group. I enjoyed it but
found that there were a few parts in the story
where the storyline was thin and even puerile.
Overall though, I found it entertaining but
would recommend it only to younger teenagers
(or to those who are one at heart).
Ginster
Published by: Legend
Price: £3.99
Emergency General Meeting
for Imperial College Union
1pm, Monday 7th March 1994
Ents Lounge, Union Building
Item Of Business:
Passing The New Imperial College Union Constitution
For more details, contact Andy Wensley, Union Office ext. 3501

