Reviews 19
Richard Griffiths' Galileo watches as the world begins to turn
1
1
1
1
1
1
Life of Galileo
There are few more poignant icons for the
scientist than Galileo Galilei. The Twentieth
Century may have its Einstein tea cosies but
Galileo was a hunted figure, threatened by the
torture instruments of the Inquisition and finally
destroyed by religion. Of course it's not as
polished as that, truth rarely is. Yet Bertolt
Brecht's play manages to avoid getting too dug
into the details as well as it accounts for the
basic historiography of the events. For 'The Life
of Galileo' is a broader play, encompassing the
whole of Science's impact on its participants and
society in general.
Richard Griffiths is not perhaps the obvious
choice for the lead role. His sheer physical bulk
makes him appear clumsy in the relatively
dynamic first half. Which doesn't sit easily with
the attitude that one would expect from the
suave, arrogant scientist. Only after the interval
when the crises occur do points begin to be
sharpened.
The velvet gloves which had previously
shook hands, become more dogmatic as the red
vested Cardinals of the Church icily remind
Galileo of the burning fires for heretics. The
detached malice of Alfred Burke's Chief
Inquisitor stalks best in these scenes. Edward de
Souza, as the Pope, also holds the reigns of
power with a force of being. Such are the goads
Galileo is warned not to kick against. The idea
that the earth is not the centre of the universe
111 1 lililsillij
Wicked, Yaar!
For me, the star of the show is Bhaskar, the
Ghul, a modern day genie who has the power to
grant wishes by a medallion. Malik Mir takes
possession of it and instantly the Ghul provides
him with a new red cricket bag. Cricket is one
of the main themes of this musical, with
Bhangramuffins Hunters and Jax Williams
rapping the chorus in Classical Greek style to the
rhythm of this Bhangrabeat.
Three thugs, Gazza, Gora and Gori, beat up
Malik and eventually take possession of his
golden medallion. But thugs being what they
are, they fail to take proper advantage and end
up with a load of electronic equipment and a
pair of Nikes. In the end Gazza accidentally
kills Malik because of one of the incidental but
redundant love interests in the plot and the play
ends with that sad fact resonating around our
heads, attempting to highlight injustice.
I didn't feel very deeply touched by Malik's
plight but the presentation of the material is
impressive and the music exciting.
Adrian Thurston
'Wicked Yaar!' plays at the Cottesloe Theatre
from March 8th. Phone 071 633 0880for details.
was only a worthy mathematical hypothesis,
more physical interpretations promised to be
deadly. So Galileo redirects his time to the study
of floating ice and sloping planes. Things are
quiet for a time in Florence.
But then a new Pope who is favourable to
Galileo is crowned and he finally publishes his
Dialogue concerning the Two Chief Systems of
the World in 1632. The doleful voice of the
Inquisition booms out; Galileo begins his
downward spiral. As he is publicly forced to
recant, his followers play out the pivotal scene.
First joyful in the hope that Galileo will uphold
scientific truth, they are eclipsed as recantations
flow. It is night, their sun has fallen from the sky.
Galileo ends up trying to live with his
betrayal of truth. His eyes have been ruined by
years of gazing through his telescope, his life
Andromache
This play was first dramatised by Euripides in
420 B C , and this new translation is based on
Jean Racine's version of 1667.
The plot is essentially one in which
everybody loves someone and is in turn loved by
someone else to whom they are indifferent or
hostile. The men are torn between their hearts'
desires, and their responsibilities towards the
Empire. Orestes loves Hermione who is
disinterested in him. Hermione loves Pyrrhus
whose hand is sworn to her in political marriage
anyway. Pyrrhus is infatuated with Andromache
who loathes him for killing her husband in battle
during the sacking of Troy. Andromache's one
interest is to protect her son Astyanax, sole
surviving prince of Troy. She is not interested in
the throne for her little boy, only in saving his life.
Now Pyrrhus should kill Astyanax, who is a
threat to the Greek Empire but Pyrrhus is loathe
to do so, as the threat over the child's life is his
only hold over Andromache. Orestes arrives in
Epirus with orders to persuade Pyrrhus to kill
the boy. Orestes is also interested in wooing
Hermione. Should he succeed in his charge, then
Pyrrhus will be unable to marry Andromache,
ruined by a clash of science and dogma. Yet it is
not to say that science has been robbed, because
Brecht is not simply condemning the Church. It
is clear that as the denial of science withers
Galileo so the 'truth' of science can destroy
whole communities. The Church was fighting
for the religious certainty of the common man. It
requires both parties to carefully consider the
basis of their chosen knowledge. As the death of
religion has been exaggerated so the life of
science could prove to be less significant than
we would like to admit.
Tintin
'The Life of Galileo' plays at the Almeida
Theatre, Almeida St, Nl. Box Office 071 359 4404
Tubes: Angel or Islington and Highbury.
Runs until 31st March, Mon-Sat 8pm,
tickets £6.50-115.50
and marry Hermione himself!
This sort of thing is known as a Greek
Tragedy and it was certainly all Greek to me.
The characters were quite regal, with imperial
passions and dilemmas. Frankly, neither the
actors nor the venue were quite up to it.
The Camden Studio Theatre is a cellar under
a book shop in Chalk Farm Road. One is
reminded that the venue is between Chalk Farm
and Camden Town when the whole 'theatre'
vibrates as the underground trains go by.
I would not recommend this production to
most students outside the Imperial College
'Classics Faculty'. Call me a Philistine, but if it
took 2,000 years before Racine decided to do a
remake, perhaps Jon Harris should have waited a
little longer to direct the new translation.
Michael Factor
Andromache' runs until 12th March at Camden
Studio Theatre, 37 Chalk Farm Road. Tubes:
Chalk Farm or Camden Town.
Mon-Sat 8pm. Mon £5.50, Fri-Sat £7.00,
Tues-Thurs £7.00, concessions £5.50
Advanced bookings: 071 916 4040
More Cracking Cryptic Crosswords on the back page

