20 Reviews
H1II f i i i i i i i i i
iSpi
S i ISinnllill
Rev Hammer
The Bishop ofBuffalo
Without real justification Rev Hammer come
across as a musical luddite. Maybe it's his
association with the Levellers or just the grimly
northern scenes he paints in coal dust mixed
with stout. Whatever, "The Bishop of Buffalo' is
pretty stern stuff, even the breaks in the clouds
bring rain. Only in 'Drunkards Waltz' does
something break free and head up to the higher
ground occupied by the likes of Richard
Thompson. 'Shanty' almost beats battleship
chains out of the raw hillside but ends wasted,
lost in Dylan's 'Subterranean Homesick Blues'.
The American Master can make 200 years of
their history more evocative than 600 of the
Shire's mighty swellings. This, in turn, remains
more of the great dustbowl than the bright
shining lights of tonight. (5) Tintin
Rev Hammer goes for some 'London Calling'
Saint Etienne
Tiger Bay
Allowing themselves no glamour, Saint Etienne
return with subdued toiling roles on their
Moonfleet-like cover painting; all smugglers
and coves. A n d though faithful to their
electropop musings Messrs Wiggs and Stanley
steer away from their earlier throwaway singles.
This is the only way ephemeral pop can survive:
continuous reinvention.
'Tiger Bay' is a multi faceted album; the
newer shades coming from folk. With rolling
guitars on 'Former Lover', Sarah Cracknell's
usually anodyne voice takes on the maturer
English Rose of Marianne Faithful to surprising
effect. While the more notable strings on
'Western Wind' imbue the autumnal
melancholic hue of Nick Drake. It gently blows
from the crevices of the psyche and reaffirms
that feeling blue can be therapeutic too. But
they're not all so low key, or eau-de-vie. The
metaphysical grasp of 'Hug My Soul' is brighter
in its outlook. It twirls around sunny streets with
carefree insouciance; definite single material.
Saint Etienne are certainly conceptual
auteurs, intelligently able to grasp and jettison
our emotional woes with these kitsch pastiches,
but this is not a concept album. Though the
individual tracks shine, and some of the motifs
have continuity, the overall coherence is
disappointing. Still their careful smudging of
accepted style boundaries is commendable. And
despite the susceptibility to rapidly diminishing
returns from repeated listens, there will always
be an innate beauty about Saint Etienne.(7)
Camille
Smashing Pumpkins
London Astoria
"And if you bore me, you lose your soul to me."
Hey my soul departed five months ago after
seeing the Pumpkins at Brixton. That night they
sank into a sea of crippled waves; not even a
clown suit could save them. I still loved them.
Saturday night, things are changing. The
trappings of a show stand behind as the
Pumpkins enter. Large curved reflectors and a
lighting kit capable of landing a full house.
Gently into action. 'Soma' like a coma, except
you get woken up half way through by the knee
jerk of exploding guitars. Suddenly it's daylight
inside as four banks of spots fire into the already
swaying crowd. The whole of the floor is on the
move. This is going to be the night we regain
our souls and see a birth-right accepted. Away
True, Deal, Malkmus, we are understanding
without knowing. This is a technicolor dream
painted experience, the tautest album of the last
year is bursting out in blistering volume
everywhere, speeded up, cracked open, over us.
We watch as one by one they fall. Hummer,
Disarm, I am one, Mayonnaise, Rocket, Quiet,
Geeks here today will be gone tomorrow. Forget
your grandchildren, you'll be able to boast about
this one to your Grandparents.
Even when Billy goes into stasis, we can only
clap helpless as his posed axe finally falls and
the piper restarts his dance. "Somewhere over
the Rainbow" there might be a crock of gold but
fool that I am I'll stay here with a handful of
silver. We all die, foreheads scared deeper than
you think. Finally the guitar goes too, and for
once it's not extravagant. Its role in our lives is
over. Billy wades into the drumkit; there's blood
on his head, he smears it onto his hands. He
loves us you know. Tintin
So finally we get some
subjectivity in the single
reviews, Tintin has his good
and his ugly. This is the good
and what a strange list it is.
Submarine are strangely
reminiscent of Kristin Hersh, in title at least.
'Lips and Fingers' really only just squeaks into
the upper column thanks to the two cover
versions therein; Ultra Vivid Scene's 'Lynn
Maire' and the smashing 'Tugboat' of Galaxie
500. The latter containing those excellent lines
"I don't wanna vote for your president, I just
wanna be your tugboat captain". The Smashing
Pumpkins are breaking out all over this page.
Mr Happy merely says that 'Disarm' "sounds
like a typical Smashing Pumpkins song". I
assume he means it's brilliant.
Vik, never one to ignore the possibilities of
punish humour tackles Headswim's 'Moments
of Union' ep. "Throw into the cauldron a ladle
full of vehement power chords, a smattering of
keyboard touches and some deceptively
hummable tunes...let them boil over and you're
left with a unique concoction that'll make your
head...erm...swim! Delicious" Equally evocative
is 'Hobo Humpin' Slobo Babe' from the thin
line Whale. " A chaotic pop trawl through
primal soup, this sounds like an artic gale...hotly
tipped for the future." (Camille) Therapy are
currently flooding the market by releasing as
many things as possible. Their new single
'Trigger Inside', "regains the recipe they
pretended to lose with 'Nowhere'. This is the
perfect pop song." (Freddy) And Owain despairs
of the space given to review The Red House
Painter's 'Shock Me' - " A beautiful lonely
joke" is all he is allowed...
Sadly then we head down
south to the ugly of the week's
releases. While the sentiments
behind PWEI's release of 'Ich
Bien Ein Auslander' may well
be noble but as music it is
going nowhere backwards, small wonder R C A
dropped them. 8 Storey Window plug into the
Nirvana socket with 7 Will' and don't break out
of their mould. Not worth the stubble on Kurt's
chin. I suppose it can only get worse, and it
does. Big White Stairs wander aimlessly on
their 'ep no.V into a Jane's Addition chorus
situation as on 'Been Caught Stealing'.
Everything hurles down from there and even
their Suede impression has mange. Freddy
Cheeseworth gets in on the act with Die,
Monster, Die and their 'Slumber'. "Formula
written grunge but with girly singing" Ridley
Dash is equally efficient with Rollerskate
Skinny. Concerning the 'Threshold' ep he says,
"three tracks of vaguely psychedelic indie rock
with some interesting effects". Owain heard
them at the Pumpkins and moaned long.
I'm not sure I can even continue rationally
with Animal Factory's 'The Dude' ep or the
ridiculous Passion Fruit and Holy Bread's
'Jonah', so I shan't. A piling steam of wasteful
scank and lipid framcupies to you all. Tintin
today is the greatest day I've ever know

