Opinion 21
'Not Religious'
I have an obsession.
I am not alone in this obsession - I could
name fifteen or twenty other people here at
Imperial who have also experienced the pleasure
and rewards that come from following this way
of life. We meet regularly on a Sunday
afternoon in the East End of London to pay
devoted and loving homage to the idol of our
enlightened lives.
The leader of our following could be
described as famous. He is certainly known to
thousands of people all over the world and
possibly other planets as well. He has entered
many people's lives and permanently changed
them. He gives a unique kind of peaceful inner
strength.
I'm not talking about Freddie Mercury. I'm
not lecturing about John Major, nor ranting
about my landlord, Mr Christian. I'm thinking of
The Great One, The Almighty, Our Inner Light.
Rolf Harris.
Not many individuals know about this. I keep
it fairly quiet. Not out of embarassment, I stress,
but out of respect for fellow humans. They have
almost certainly pondered the subject for
themselves and reached a non-participatory
conclusion. I can leave it at that.
This respect is not forthcoming from some of
Imperial College's less well established
religious groups, who circulate and trundle
inconspicuously about Imperial's corridors and
walkways.
This respect has not been afforded to me on
perhaps five separate occasions in the last three
weeks. Nowhere am I safe: the Sherfield
Walkway, Beit Quad, 'Basics', the JCR...
Being regularly accosted by strangers and
cajoled into giving my life over to God is not a
new thing here. It started almost as soon as I
arrived at this College. During my three years
here I have become more and more accustomed
to this behaviour, but correspondingly more
incensed by these persistant and regular
demands for my soul.
I know why these people pester me (and
others). The majority of my verbal attackers are
members of the London Church of Christ, which
is a modern cult (to use the tabloid term).
Members of this demanding organisation are
required by the senior members to introduce as
many friends, aquaintances or strangers into the
Church as they can, to further their standing
amongst their peers.
So they try and drag me in. Each of my three
flatmates has been similarly approached. Tactics
have interestingly changed over the years.
Originally, afflicted people would approach and
blurt out quickly "Would you like to come to a
Bible meeting on Tuesday?" and look at me with
big, sad, hopeful eyes. Presumably a lack of
favourable response has led to a mutation. Now
I'm engaged in innocent short conversations on
the subject of playing volleyball, or noise levels
in Beit Quad, until my guard has been lowered
and my accoster has built up confidence. But the
same desperate punchline is delivered time after
time.
I am pleading with these people (you know
who you are) to leave us all alone. Put up
posters, advertise in Felix, stand on a soapbox
by all means, but L E A V E US ALONE!
Until I get this peace and respect I'm going to
wear a badge saying 'Not Religious' and leave
you with some advice from the Old Testament,
Eccleiastes 5:2: "God is in Heaven and thou
upon earth: therefore let thy words be few."
You've been warned.
Ben Harvey, Mech Eng III
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround. Don't panic if you are too late to
apply for the Milkround, we shall be writing to
several hundred employers in May and you can
apply for their remaining vacancies when you
have completed your finals.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now available on the new Database in the
Careers Office. Apply to U R O P for research
opportunities.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, come to the Careers Office and try
PROSPECT - our computer careers guidance
system.
International Students. The Job Market And
How To Deal With It is a short course for
Overseas Students on Wednesday 9th March in
Huxley 344 from 2pm-4pm. Sign up in the
Careers Office.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from 10am
to 5.15pm Monday to Friday. A Duty Careers
Adviser is available for quick queries from
lpm-2pm daily.
NEED ADVICE?
Union Advice Line
Ext. 3507
Tuesday 10.30am - 1pm
Thursday 2pm - 5pm
Election Information
Hustings
8th March, 6pm, Ents Lounge, Union Building, South Kensington.
10th March, 6pm, Gladys's, Medical School, St Mary's, Paddington.
Voting
Across the campus on the 14th and 15th March.
Voting from 9:30am# to 5:30pm.
Results
As soon as they are counted,
Tuesday evening, 15th March.

