Opinion 23
STOIC - A Patio For Lively Entertainment
Dear Cat,
You may have noticed that the quality of
student media at Imperial is in decline - we
think most of your readers know what we're on
about! Let me explain. No, we're not talking
about Felix but refer to STOIC. You may have
heard of it; it's the small society that could be
run as the most successful media available to
students, but instead is, on the whole, left
vegetating on the third floor of the Union
Building. Those who do use it are, to say the
least, technically minded (it is hoped that
members will forgive our description of STOIC,
but most of them would agree that this is fair).
Indeed STOIC is the best technically
equipped studio in the country - solely for the
use of students - but less than 1% of students
actually use it or watch it. With this recent
movement against apathy, as highlighted in this
very magazine by some chappie in the Mech-
anical Engineering department and our good
friend Kyriakos Hatzaras (sic), other students
might want to take part in such a potentially
successful society that STOIC could be.
STOIC, although not over-bounding in its
artistic quality, is exceptional in its technical
production and, since its extensive refurbishment
over the summer, a revival seems to be
underway! Mr Frank Bruno (and other celebs)
have been interviewed and are currently in the
editing stage (Channel 4 has expressed a keen
interest in broadcasting this one). After some
recent successes at the National Student
Television Awards, a number of small films and
other interviews are in the pipeline, about to be
spewed out onto your screens. So maybe STOIC
isn't cabbaging after all?
But what else could be done about STOIC?
Television production, as anyone who has
witnessed a TV show being made will agree, is a
time and effort consuming process. To obtain
results worth watching, it needs full-time
commitment and attention to detail. This might
explain why STOICs creative output is often
seen as less than satisfying and embarrassing.
No-one can expect, or is asking, STOIC members
to devote such a large proportion of their
academic lives, slaving over a vision mixer. But,
if Imperial wants to strike a balance between the
insular group to be found wandering around
apathy central and people whose extra-curricular
activities don't span beyond a soldering iron and
a Laplace transform, then we urge them to do
something about it! Having just insulted the
apathy posse, we would like to say that these are
exactly the people that we are looking for;
people with personality, energy and an
alternative view of life. We appeal to them to get
involved and make STOIC a flagship to be
proud of - a patio for lively entertainment and
thought provoking creativity!
We suggest that a sabbatical post for STOIC
should be created (after all Felix has one and
although IC Radio doesn't, setting lights, sound
and camera for each shot requires a great deal
more effort). STOIC is also responsible for
maintaining the T V cable network around
College, which otherwise would not exist, or
would cost the College thousands of pounds to
be kept in service by professionals. We are not
proposing this post so that people like ourselves
can live in hall and have something on their CV,
but there is a great potential here which could
and should be used.
Perhaps STOIC shouldn't just be limited to
Imperial. Most people will have heard of the
Live-Net cable network set up by Imperial,
which links other U L U colleges such as QMW,
King's, U C L , etc. As it stands, it costs the
University of London thousands of pounds in
technicians' fees and equipment, which is hardly
used. It could be put to another use: transmitting
to and from these other colleges with live link-
up programmes (similar to Channel 4's 'The
Word'). A student television production com-
pany could be set up, allowing dedicated U L U
students to get together and produce their own
progressive and distinctive television. This could
be a spring-board for such students to attain
recognition by people in the film/TV industry.
So the next time you see a STOIC poster,
tantalising you to become involved, don't think
'Sad Twats of Imperial College', but get off
your indifferent behinds and do something to
make your mark at Imperial. Ask yourself if you
really want to miss an opportunity to host your
own T V chat show, interview celebs, make your
own film, your own music video...you won't get
another chance once you leave.
If you have any comments or suggestions
please don't hesitate to contact us, or go up to
STOIC and do something about it!
James Harrow Elec Eng II
Anthony Waite Elec Eng II
Please note that the opinions aired in this letter
do not necessarily correspond with all STOIC
members and is in no way expressed by the
society as a whole.
Politics, Engineering & Peace
Dear Beccy,
It never rains, but it pours down like silver
eh? Precisely in the same week Gareth Davies
writes so concerned about the state of the Felix
letter pages, out pop a tidal wave of liquid prose.
Could it be media virus which actually works?
But like the ideological count contained therein,
so the student writers of IC have some very
naive explanations of the world they live in.
What's wrong with being career-obsessed?
Despite the regular mention of such, I've still
yet to meet such. Isn't learning worth it anyway?
Depending on which end of Sagar Das's article
you start from you get very different ideas.
Either learning is the best thing to emerge from
our mind's eye and it's also a terrible thing to
work hard at learning (to get a first at least?).
The combined talents of Hatzaras and
Alexander are well meaning but adrift on an
ocean of hopeless optimism, surely. If the 20th
century has taught us anything it's that
nationalism is one of the strongest social forces
available. Any peace we can hope to achieve
must be within that framework, as David Owen
is presently finding out.
As for Engineering being non-political, if
only. I'd reconsider my currently non-career
orientated future. Ah, but the poet can dream.
Jon Jordan, STS PG1.
P.S. "Should we respect someone for their
physical appearance?" Mr Shaw, just look at the
cover. Could you respect that? Really.
S M A L L A D S
Parking Permits: Would all students who have
a red temporary parking permit please come to the
Union Office and collect a permanent permit.
Wanted: Cello and Violin to accompany
singer/songwriter for occasional gigs on London
circuit. Must have good ear and imagination and
be slightly less than the full quid. AND like pop
music with a jazz feel. Contact Andy c/o Felix
ext 3515.
For Sale: Mini Clubman 1100, Blue, V Reg,
70,000 miles, 1 months tax, 6 months MOT, £200
ono. Tel: 081-673 7201, leave name and message.
Answers to last
week's
Elimination
a Left Wing 13,17
b Zone, Extra 18,21
c Straight Away 41,4
d Valley, Barrier 34,36
e Last Minute 12,29
f Flop, Failure 10,30
g Born Liar 6,11
h Cheat, Teach 20,25
i Reflex Angle 33,19
J Grass, Smack 22,24
k Common Ground 28,31
1 Legion, Affairs 32,35
m Dire Straits 9,40
n Tide, Profile 16,39
0 Best Man 5,1
P Nun, Kayak 2,23
q Chances, Date 37,7
r Deal, Cheese 8,27
s Part Company 14,38
t Sum, Some 3,15
The word left over was Words
The deadline for letters is Monday, 6pm

