4 Feature
Gluttons of the World Unite
Nainish Bapna previews some ofthe delights that will be available toni
the OSC's International Nite Food Fair, which is taking place in the M
Dining Hall.
How often are you offered the chance to
appreciate the delicate cuisine of many exciting
cultures in one evening under one roof? Not
enough, no doubt. Well tonight is one of those
rare occasions. The Food Fair of the Overseas
Students' Committee's International Nite allows
you to experiment, and I will attempt to describe
some for you of the alternative dishes available.
This year all the dishes have been
appropriated from restaurants, so the quality and
authenticity is guaranteed!
There are ten different cultures represented
from all corners of the world. This reflects the
enormous diversity of peoples found in IC.
So, you have two vouchers, now how should
you use them? I recommend you go for things
that look totally unfamiliar to you. This is your
chance to try something different quite safely!
At the Iranian stall there will be a selection of
snacks. So your voucher will get you a cutlet,
some olive salad, Pilashki (pastry stuffed with
mince meat), Coocoo (vegetable cake) and
Dolmeh (stuffed vine leaves). Personally, I
cannot wait for the Pilashki.
More snacks are to be found with the
Pakistanis. You will find some shish kebabs
(spicy mince meat cooked over hot coals),
samosas (savoury stuffed pastries), aloo tiki
(potato cutlet) some salad and pitta bread.
Enough variety here to suit anyone's palate.
The Sri Lankans bring us Egg Gothamba.
The best description I can give of it is that it is
pancake-like, with an egg cooked in the middle.
It really is gorgeous. M y portrayal gives it no
justice. The Seeni Sambol that goes with it is a
chutney and is normally very spicy. Let us hope
that it has been made more palatable for us!
They tried hard, but the Japanese just could
not get hold of any sushi. Instead they tempt us
with grilled chicken, which has undergone
rigorous Japanese-style marinating, with rice.
For noodles try the Singaporean stall. Kway
Teow Goreng is being served with a curry.
These are wide white noodles, and all the
Singaporeans I have talked to have begun to
drool when I mentioned to them that it will be
served!
Coconut rice, with extras, comes from the
Malaysians. Personally I prefer it without the
extras.
Now, dessert has not been forgotten. After
all, it is my favourite part of the meal! The Afro-
Caribbeans have Briwats, Kaab E l Gazel, Sfof
Sweet and Kwilate to end our meal with. Sorry I
do not know what they are, just ask them when
you're there - they will be happy to tell you. If
you do not have a sweet tooth, the French are
serving L a Grande Bouchee. This is a
marvellous selection of cheeses (yes Brie is
there) served with bread.
After writing this I just wish I could try out
every stall there will be at the Fair, and I have
not even mentioned everything that will be
available tonight. So remember don't be shy in
trying out new foods, and always ask the people
at the stall about the food - they will gladly tell
you about it. And do try out new foods. It
doesn't hurt! But above all, enjoy yourself!
The Food Fair runs from 6pm to 7.30pm tonight
in the Main Dining Hall in the Sherfield
Building. Tickets are £5 (not including the
Cultural Show) or £8 (for everything) from the
Sherfield Foyer (between 11.30am and 2.30pm)
and the Union Office.
F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
t h e b e s t s t u d e n t o f f e r in l o n d o n !
C U T tk
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!!
C a l l : 071 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N S W 7 3 E S

