Clubs and Societies
St Mary's Rag: The Carnage Continues
ST MARY'S HOSPITAL
MEDICAL SCHOOL
RAG WEEK '94
Friday 4th, 7pm
Bands' Night Wilson House, 38-76
Sussex Gdns, W2
Saturday 5th, 8pm
The Riverside Victoria Embankment
Ball
Sunday 6th, 8pm
Hypnotist, Gladys's, Med School,
Jeremy Wheeler Norfolk Place
Monday 7th, 7pm
Drag Night Gladys's, Med School
with tequila bar Norfolk Place
& Paul Varney
Tuesday 8th, 7.30pm
The Slave Gladys's, Med School
Auction Norfolk Place
For supreme-value entertainment, the best in
drunken disorder and a far healthier male:female
ratio, head across the Park and partake in Rag -
Mary's style.
You had Brian May, we've got Screaming
Death. One's a soft metal guitarist; the other's a
band of Housemen who take the stage as nature
intended, bathed in Baby Oil (tm) and play the
heaviest rock this side of Barry White. For once
the joke band is funny. With more serious
ambitions are Clueless. Knocking the pants off
Jamiroquai, they're causing a few ripples in the
London gig scene: you'll be name-dropping
them soon. Earnest support is provided by
Mary's other stalwart groups and the first year
band will be popping their performing cherry in
front of your very eyes. Sod 'The Word': Friday
night is Bands' Night.
After the excess the night before, The
Riverside Ball provides the perfect antidote.
Moored at Victoria Embankment, the luxurious
RS Hispaniola offers a touch of class that will
make your room seem even grottier the next
morning. A buffet-cocktail reception, live band
and disco at the unprincely sum of a tenner.
Coup of coups is on Sunday evening, when
Rag '94 plays host to probably the most original
and entertaining hypnotist of the current crop,
Jeremy Wheeler.
We're in the home straight now. A l l you
heavy drinking transvestites head north on
Monday evening for the infamous Drag Night
&aa 'is
AM1
Ml
ftiABY I
with its tequila bar and Aussie cabaret star Paul
Varney. Come and debauch your stuff.
Sell yourself to the devil or, better still, your
body to the Rugby Club at Tuesday's Slave
Auction. Last year, the First Year Girlies out-
Madonna'd the queen of sleaze herself. Bring a
wallet and a bib.
So, if there are any fun-seekers at IC who
want to partake in the best Rag festivities in
London, get a group together and join the fun.
For more details telephone: 071-723 1252 ext
5195
Alan Parker - Urban Warrior Tea Ceremony
JFK, Malcolm X , Alan Parker the Urban
Warrior. The list is endless. Alan Parker is a
rebellious, street-wise bedroom anarchist who is
inspired by the lyrics of old English punk bands
Sham 69 and the UK Subs.
If you've got any prejudices, you won't have
when Alan Parker - Urban Warrior has finished
with you. Either no prejudices or NO TEETH -
the choice, is yours! He's the self-appointed
politically correct youth spokesperson and
prophet of the discontented masses, seeking to
smash the system with subversion and a spray-
can. He is an adolescent revolutionary socialist,
whose guerrilla war against the crypto-fascist
bourgeois is fought on the battlegrounds of
British Rail and the DSS. However, he is also an
aspirant polemicist fired with an evangelical
fervour to convert the lumpen proletariat to the
doctrines of anarcho-syndicalism - and the
lyrics of Sham 69. At least that's what his agent
says, his mum probably reckons he's a nice
normal boy who works round the corner.
If you crossed Che Guevera, Johnny Rotten,
Leon Trotsky and James Dean you'd get Alan
Parker - Urban Warrior - A Rebel Without a
Clue. But a very funny one.
Alan Parker - Urban Warrior has made a
major impact on the British University comedy
circuit with his hilariously misguided revolu
tionary message. His popularity stems from his
typifications of the political activist common to
all University Student Unions', except perhaps
this one! As a regular writer in NME, Alan has
built up a dedicated crossover following with his
comedy column called 'The Truth'. This column
has established as a favourite with music
audiences at outdoor British rock festivals. His
1993 Edinburgh Festival Show 'Living on the
Edge', enjoyed a sellout three week run.
In the UK, this character comedian has been
busy spreading sedition on the nations T V
screens with appearances on various top variety
shows including Viva Cabaret!, Packing Them
In, and Raw Soup. Alan Parker - Urban Warrior
has his own music and comedy show '29
minutes of Truth' on Radio 1FM, and has also
recorded a special 'Stop the Fibbing' comedy
show for Radio 1FM.
Support is from Scott Fuller a bizarre cross
between Victor Meldrew and the Milky Bar Kid,
his act consists of an acerbic verbal assault on a
number of subjects ranging from Bullseye,
Tartan Shops, Scandinavian pen-pals and
Countdown. He also explores the sexual origins
of 'The Krankies', his wasted childhood spent
watching Heart of Midlothian (nil), and the
confusion involved in losing your virginity to
another virgin. So, don't miss the message, hear
the gospel according to the nations leading
reactionary plus support on Friday 18th March
1994, in the Ents Lounge. The show starts at
9pm, so don't be late.
Many of us are somewhat familiar with
Japanese manners and etiquette. Yet it is
interestingly difficult to explore very deeply into
Japanese culture without stumbling over the
curious expression 'Tea Ceremony'.
Most foreigners marvel at those very words!
Could you possibly imagine how a simple act of
enjoying an afternoon beverage with a few
friends can be formalised into a ritual - even for
a society as steeped in tradition and refinement
as the Japanese?
In fact, the tea ceremony is believed to
impart all kinds of transcendental and spiritual
rewards. It has proved to be a massive influence
on Japan's art, manners and craft.
To provide a little more insight into the
culture of this fascinating country, we at the
Japan Society would like to enlighten you with a
simple presentation of a traditional Japanese Tea
Ceremony. It will be held on Friday 11th March
at 6.30pm in the Senior Common Room of the
Union Building. You may even get the chance
to sample some of our tea, but please note that
there w i l l be a limited number of places
available for the evening.
Making a bowl of tea is not the challenge, it
is making it in the right spirit that consumes a
lifetime of effort. In tea making, the host must
show effortless ease and grace. As a result in
Japan today, many young ladies attend 'tea
lessons' to improve their bridal resumes!
Short Cuts, Long Review (page 17)

