Clubs and Societies
Ladies Basketball
Basketball is the fastest growing sport in the
United Kingdom, yet has been slow to reach the
environs of the Queens Tower.
This year it has arrived with a vengeance;
following a couple of years of relative obscurity,
the IC ladies basketball team is firmly back on
track. They have competed in the London
College League Championship and the U A U
Basketball tournament. The hallmark of the
team this year has been enthusiasm, dedication
and an emphasis on good sportsmanship.
Although consisting mainly of inexperienced
players, IC have played with determination and
in the process have shown what teamwork and
team spirit are all about.
The ladies team has diverse playing abilities
and different nationalities. The only two English
roses to grace the team, Sarah and Rebecca,
displayed genuine Anglo-Saxon determination
and grit throughout the season; the meticulous
Martina strived for Germanic order; and Kristen
brought in Scandinavian height to tower over an
unrelenting defence. In contrast the warm-
blooded Mediterraneans, the skilful and agile
Concha and the positively temperamental
Natasha, raised the temperature during matches.
The imaginative sense of humour of the lively
Ghada and Lisa provided vital optimistic uplift
and support on and off the court. There was
Oriental trickery in the deceptively diminutive
Shigeko, who demonstrated devious ability in
her interceptions and Klara displayed solid
performances before leaving for the bridges of
Budapest. The icing on the cake was the French
contingent, consisting of the steady Myong, the
sharp shooting Sandra, and the sensational
"Shaq-attack" Catherine.
Last Thursday their efforts came to fruition
with the first league victory against Thames
Valley University ( T V U ) . Imperial over-
whelmed T V U with a pounding 58 to 29 score-
line, allowing only four baskets against them in
the second half. The ladies basketball team's
performances this year can be summed up by one
of the many complements received: "IC deser-
ved to win that match on team spirit alone."
Windsurfing Weekend
PHEW, what a stormer! As previously reported
in this literary piece of art, the Boardsailing Club
trundled down to Gosport for a weekend of fun,
frolics and a bit of aquatic skills.
After a burst of stage-diving in the back of
the minibus we arrived at our caravan. The night-
life was poor, so we made our own entertainment
from double sided sticky tape and beer.
Saturday was set aside for sailing which gave
ample time for any external body parts to
disappear. Our main goal for the weekend was
completed though. This was testing all recently
bought kit and preparation for the British
Student Championships. These are held on the
weekend of the 30th April to 1st May, and are
intended to be for windsurfers of all abilities,
with the social side of the weekend catered for!
Afterwards we watched rugby, ate chilli and
played pool. As we all know, a weekend is a
game of two halves and we awoke to a snow
Exploration
On Thursday 10th March, David Edwards,
Chairman of the Exploration Society, will
describe how he and three other students from
Imperial College made the first ever descent of
the River Nyong in Cameroon last summer.
They successfully combined adventure with
science, studying reptiles and amphibians in the
surrounding rainforest. A photographic record
was made, including shots of the world's largest
frog as well as deadly snakes and crocodiles.
The canoeing proved exciting, both
physically and politically. As the river wound
through the rainforest they encountered rapids
that threw them and their equipment into the
water and they were mistaken for a group of
mercenaries by one of the villagers.
The talk will take place in the Clore Lecture
Theatre (Mathematics) at 6pm and is free for
members, £1 for non-members, or £2.50 for the
lecture and membership (available on the door).
For further details contact David Edwards,
Chairman, Management III, or see us in
Southside Upper Lounge at lpm on Tuesdays.
storm. We forced down a cooked breakfast before
making the token effort of going to the beach.
We then left for the sprawling metropolis,
leaving broken hearted maidens behind.
So we arrived back older, but no wiser,
however the weekend will go down in folklore,
have no doubt about that...
(Anyone interested in competing at the
Student Championship should contact James
Mayhew via the Mech Eng pigeonholes.)
wwtm
Loads of your favourtie
tunes with Jamie from
the Firkin in the
Union Bar...
STARTS 8.30pm
Each week!!

