Clubs and Societies 7
Photographic Exhibition
Opening night Monday 7th March, 5.30pm-8pm. All welcome. Light refreshment provided.
The 1994 Imperial College Photographic Society Exhibition opens in the on Monday and lasts until
the end of term. The photos are very diverse in styles, both colour and black and white and give a
view of the world as seen by IC students. The Photographic Society has full darkroom facilities in the
Union Building and offers tuition to beginners, studio equipment, cheap films and visits to London
exhibitions. For more details contact Andy Forbes, Mech Eng 4 or see us in Southside Lounge on
Tuesdays at 1pm.
Samba By The Sea
The Quest For
The Gritstone
The Mountaineers weather-defiant quest for
gritstone took them to Stanage. After pushing
the van up to the base of the crags, five of the
twelve abandoned basecamp and made (deep)
tracks into the fog to a cave in order to beat the
crag rush for routes in the morning. Ice climbing
in trainers proved too keen so eight waited
patiently for morning in the van, the ninth
snored loudly and three bivied peacefully.
A Reconnaissance for the SPD pact was
made of the Hathersage area, terminating at a
cafe; a snow war followed sending innocent
people to seek cover. We spent the entirety of
the wet afternoon in the Foundry climbing wall
in Sheffield engaged in more technique and
muscle constructive pursuits until everyone had
wrecked their tendons to a level of discomfort.
The pyjama party option was abandoned for a
country pub where we asked for everything on
the menu, played spoons with knives and
severed a few fingers to relieve the other pains.
Plainly in need of a good bed for the night we
were offered a dry barn with beds out the back.
Sunday was deemed unfit for climbing since
no-one could climb the rock bus shelter so after
a cafe stop we inspected the boulder park below
Stanage Edge, turned it into a snow-war zone
and went home wet and exceedingly smelly.
The next trip to the Lakes will go ahead,
driver permitting. See the noticeboard on the
climbing wall (next to the JCR) to sign up.
Drivers particularly welcome.
See England vs
Denmark Free
Fancy seeing England play Denmark on
Wednesday 9th? Want to find out i f Terry
Venables knows what he's doing? It's England's
first game since the debacle of the World Cup
qualifiers, so will the new breed of England
players improve on recent performances, espe-
cially against the present European Champions?
Well, if you are willing to spend an hour or two
collecting outside Wembley for the Spastics
Society before the game, then we at Rag might
be able to get you in to see the match for free!
If you are interested in fulfilling a life-long
ambition of parachuting, or just fancy jumping
2000ft (with a bit of nylon tied to you), then
we're now organising a sponsored parachute
jump in aid of Great Ormond Street hospital.
We're also looking for someone to be Rag
Mag Editor for next year, so if you've a suitably
depraved mind, please come and talk to us, or if
you're interested in any of the other Rag
committee posts.
For any of these events, or if you just fancy a
chat, please come and see us either at the Rag
meeting at 1.10pm on Friday in the Union
Lounge or in the Rag Office any lunch time.
Last Saturday saw Southampton University host
the Southern Ball, at Bournemouth. This event,
the largest dancing competition for the South,
was attended by a dozen or so Universities
including Oxford, Cambridge and Bristol. The
stakes were double high: Imperial was defending
all three Team trophies, and the Nationals are a
mere fortnight away.
A week ago, disaster struck; a team already
laid low by flu was hit by chicken pox and we
lost one of our A Team. The week was spent in
frantic attempts to rebuild three teams. At the
last moment Shirli stepped in, the teams were
reshuffled and dealt and we were ready to leave.
The sun was shining on the sea as we arrived
at Bournemouth Pavilion - for once we were on
time, having left the Oxford teams in a service
station 30 minutes away. Rumours abounded
that a confident Cambridge side was paddling in
the sea. Inspection of the dance floor revealed
that it was rather fast (translation: like an ice-
rink).
The afternoon events saw Paul/Zoe,
Satin/Mansi and Bryan/Sarah take 123 in the
Paso Doble, while the latter came second in a
hard-going Tango final. Both Beginner couples
(Sai Hong/Julianna, Navill/Laura) reached the
Cha Cha finals.
Finally, the Team Matches. Even after the
finals, the results were too close - nine of IC's
twelve couples had reached finals, but Oxford,
Cambridge and Bristol had almost as many.
The results - we did it! We retained all three
trophies, winning three out of the four individual
events. Celebrations on the coach home were not
so much muted as silenced by exhaustion; gentle
snores accompanied the pundits at the back who
were discussing tactics for the Nationals.
Teams
Waltz: Bryan Crotaz & Sarah Cutmore;
Timothy Ake & Lucy Chothia;
Tead Rezek & Jacqui Harn.
Cha Cha: Paul Skjold & Zoe Antoniou;
Tuang Liang Lim & Lye Yen Tien;
Suttinan Chattong & Seetal Patel.
Quickstep: Andrew Smith & Elaine Hornby;
Peter Purdie & Sian Rowsell;
Michael Ng & Shirli van der Vledder.
Jive: Satin Gunga & Mansi Amin;
Kenwyn James & Ruth Schuster;
Roger de Souza & Siu Lin Goh.
See page 5 for details of St Mary's Rag Week

