Clubs and Societies
Angels, Apes, Aliens and the
Antichrist
Monday's icsf video projected double bill starts
at 6pm in Chem Eng LT1 with Alien Nation. A
race of genetically engineered Newcomers
arrive on Earth, take jobs and try their best to fit
into Earth's culture. But the dormant potential
within them is about to be unleashed by the
murder of a cop on the streets of L A . Prepare
yourself.
8pm sees the start of the classic Planet of the
Apes. A crew of astronauts, thinking that they
have crash landed on Earth, climb from the
wreckage only to find themselves on an
unfamiliar world run by a race of highly
intelligent apes. But even after their
imprisonment and humiliation as test subjects
and exhibits they are not prepared for the final
secret of the planet of the apes. Both films are
free to icsf members (see below for details).
Tuesday sees another video double bill, but
shifted to the STOIC studios (top floor of the
Union Building). At 6pm we present The Omen,
As I scanned the pages of Felix a couple of
weeks ago, my eyes caught the article 'Born on
the Fourth of February'. Having an interest in
Sri Lanka, I began reading it with great
enthusiasm, but with every line my heart sunk
deeper on seeing Sri Lanka's multi-cultural
history distorted by someone not fully informed
of the true facts. I felt compelled to give the
other side other story so that people can decide
for themselves if, in this modern age, the Tamil
people of Sri Lanka are indeed 'unliberated'.
As the previous writer stated, it was on 4th
February 1948 that the little island of Ceylon
became an independent Sri Lanka and that is as
far as I can agree.
That writer begins by saying that it was then
that the Sri Lankan Government:
a) 'Decitizenised and disfranchised the one
million Tamils living on the plantations.' What
was not said was that these Tamils on the estates
were brought from South India by the British to
work on the plantations and who were
previously stateless. Many thousands were later
granted citizenship by the Sri Lankan
Government.
b) 'Colonised Tamil areas with Sinhalese
settlers.' This is utterly untrue as the Sinhales
are never allowed to settle down in the North.
The few that attempted to remain were
massacred purely because they were not Tamil.
c) 'Enacted Sinhalese as the official language,
discriminated against Tamils in employment and
higher eduction.' That statement is a fallacy
because all students up to and including the ' A '
Level classes are given the option to study in the
a story of what would happen if your son really
was the Antichrist. Riding tricycles in the house
isn't the half of it as the Thorne household
becomes the source of a Satanic chain of events
centred on little Damien.
The horror continues at 8pm with Alan
Parker's voodoo thriller Angel Heart. Downbeat
detective Harry Angel is hired by the mysterious
Louis Cyphre for $125 a day to track down a
missing singer. But the fee increases as what
started out as a straightforward missing persons
hunt becomes a trail of ritualistic murders. Oh
yeah, and Lisa Bonet like you never saw her in
The Cosby Show.
Both films are free to icsf members.
Membership costs just £3 and gets you free
entry to our full programme of video double
bills, the chance to borrow 3,000 books, videos
and graphic novels from our library in the corner
of Beit Quad plus reduced entry to out 35mm
presentations including your first film free.
Tamil medium. Once in university the majority
of degree courses, including Law, Medicine and
Engineering are conducted in English. Contrary
to what the writer claims, Tamils do hold vital
and prestigious positions in the running of the
nation. At least three Cabinet Ministers alone are
Tamil and they hold substantial power. Impor-
tant posts are held throughout the country, the
acting mayor of the capital is Tamil, as are
members of the police force and Commanders in
the Army.
d) 'State terrorism against the Tamil people.' I
do not quite understand what is meant by what I
assume is a reference to the army fighting the
Tamil Tigers, a terrorist organisation who have
killed thousands of people, not just Sinhales but
Tamils as well because they did not agree with
the violence the Tamil Tigers carry out. The
terrible, bloody fighting during the summer of
1981 was not coolly planned, but rather a violent
reaction of some Sinhalese people to the
slaughter of nine soldiers by the Tamil Tigers.
That article concludes that thousands of Tamils
have disappeared, but it has been found that
many of the so-called 'disappeared' Tamils are
alive and well and living in the west under
different names or as refugees.
It is sad that the bitter politics of an island
thousands of mile away is being perpetuated
within this College.
Tonight is International Nite, an event that
celebrates each other cultures. It would be nice
if that harmonious spirit could emerge and
prevail among the Tamils, Burghers, Moors,
Malays and Sinhalese, who all make up Sri
Lanka.
Rolling Along
on the Crest of
a Wave
Well we would be except blades and roller-
skates don't float. But we do get to Roller
Express each Tuesday night for a bit of skating
to the music. From total beginners to those who
are just too damn good, there are plenty of
people around to help you stay upright, go
backwards and even turn upside down (if you
are that way inclined).
As the weather gets better we intend to move
on to some outdoor meetings too - maybe some
far off places and quite likely, a few rounds at
Hyde Park, too.
To find out more, we meet in Southside
Lounge at lpm on Mondays, or contact Dave
Cohen on 94-727 or Nick, Chem Eng 3 or Vicky
Owen 94-802, Chem Eng 2
P.S. Beginners, to go to Roller Express you
don't need your own skates, you can hire them
there for free.
OSC Soccer
Although it was a cold, wet afternoon, all of the
quarter final matches were played with great
enthusiasm. The African Caribbean team easily
eliminated the Indian Society 7-0, and the
Singapore team beat the Malaysians by the same
score.
The other two quarter finals were much
closer. The Cypriot versus Lebanese game was
contested at a very rigorous pace. The game got
a bit rough at times, and ended with the Cypriots
winning 4-2.
The Iranian match against the reigning
champions, the Pakistani team was very close. It
was very tight in mid-field, and both teams had
a very good defence. After an early goal by the
Pakistanis, their star striker was shut out of the
game. The Iranian team played extremely well
in the second half and won the match 2-1.
Semi-Final Results
African Caribbean 2 - 3 Cypriot
Iranian 2 - 4 Singapore
3rd/4th Place Result
African Caribbean 5 - 3 Iranian
Final
Cypriots (by default)
An Independent Thinker
The International Nite Food Fair is previewed on page 5

