Letters
In Defence
of Nigel
Baker
Dear Bill,
I am writing to you in response to the article
in last week's FELIX, entitled 'View from a
Bridge', which 'passes judgement' on the Union
President, Nigel Baker. I am not a 'Bakerite', I
am onlv writing to point out a few factual
inaccuracies in the article, and do not want to be
i n v o k e d in a bickering match between Union
big-wigs.
In his article M r Harbour-Bridge says that ' M r
Baker informs his Council of his actions rather
than asking their opinion in advance'. This is not
true. At the Council meeting of 21 November
1988, which I attended, approximately one-and-
a-half hours were devoted to the President's
report. This was because M r Baker had asked for
Council's views o n several matters. These
included rent levels, intercollegiate halls, the
value of sub-wardens, student loans, timetabling,
to name but a few. The reason for the debate on
each of these issues was so the President could
present the Union's view, and not his personal
view, at forthcoming committees, meetings and
discussions.
I seem to remember that last year M r Harbour-
Bridge presented a paper to the College
Governing Body proposing a reorganisation of
the College timetabling system. This paper was
not presented to Council at the time so the
proposal put forward was the personal one of M r
Harbour-Bridge. What right does the Union
President have to present personal papers to
Governing Dody without first consulting the.
students—those people who elected him and who.
ultimately will be affected?
I believe that most students would rather see.
the Union Office run as an 'efficient package'.
Surely the more efficient and organised the Union
Office is, the more efficient and effective the.
whole Student Union will be, which is beneficial.
to everyone. W e should be grateful that the.
President is not continually at loggerheads with,
his Deputy. The sabbaticals should work as a.
team, with the President, according to the Job.
Description instigated by M r Harbour-Bridge last,
year, 'responsible for the overall effective,
organisation of the Union'.
Once the office closes at 5.30pm the President,
and indeed the other sabbaticals, are still,
accessible, each one of them having a telephone,
in their rooms. It is not part of the President's.
Job Description to spend every evening in the
U n i o n Bar.
Through the running last term of Alcohol
Awareness Week and the Welfare Survey and
this term's Aids and Sexuality Week, M r Baker,
has demonstrated that he actually cares about the.
students w h o elected him. Was it his fault that
75% of IC students couldn't be bothered to fill,
in and return the Welfare Survey? Also on the
subject of Welfare, the Union does have a Student
Welfare Officer and the Welfare Committee did
meet last term. A Welfare Advisor, a member of
the permanent Union staff, has been appointed
and should be assuming responsibilities any time
now. It takes time to appoint the right staff,
particularly to the post of something like Welfare
A d v i s o r . Indeed i n M r Harbour-Bridge's
reorganisation of the Union last year he said that
the Union was 'massively understaffed', so when
staff are appointed the right choice is essential.
Mr Baker does care about accommodation and
is currently involved in assessing the value of sub-
wardens. The rent levels currently being charged
for College halls were agreed during M r Harbour-
Bridge's year as President, so why didn't he do
anything about it? A n d on the subject of the
merger with St Mary's, why wasn't a merger
agreed last year?
I believe that the article written by M r Harbour-
Bridge is a case of 'sour grapes' as a result of
probably a few things. Firstly M r Baker's attempt
at a vote of no confidence in M r Harbour-Bridge
at a Council meeting last term, and secondly M r
Baker is more popular and is doing a better job
than M r Harbour-Bridge ever was or ever did.
Okay, M r Baker's 'public image' is not as great
as M r Harbour-Bridge's was, but M r Harbour-
Bridge got his 'public image' through his
'relationship' with the FELIX Editor. O h , by the
way, what did M r Harbour-Bridge actually do for
Joe Student during his year as President?
Yours, name not withholding,
Chris Greenwood (Elec Eng 2).
Indsoc rules
the waves
Dear Bill,
I would like to reply to the anonymous letter
in last week's issue. Hopefully we can put this
issue to bed once and for all.
1. The money in question is not for my benefit,
it is for Indsoc which doesn't receive an S C C
grant.
2. We were specifically told before the Fair that
Indsoc would be given a cut of the profits. We
were complaining because this was in question.
3. In four days we raised £500 for Rag and
£8,000 for the Union and £2,000 for Indsoc. Very
arrogant I must say.
4. W h y won't you let your name be printed?
Frightened that somebody else will bitch
anonymously at you?
S / McCall.
Chas for
Wendy
Dear Bill,
I have just seen an envelope addressed to my
colleague Ian Morris, I C U H o n Sec, which has
. been posted with a first class frank on it. Nothing
extraordinary about that, except when you
consider that it has been posted from College
itself, instead of being sent in the internal mail.
As someone who is responsible for Union
finances, Nineteen pence wasted by College may
seem a trivial amount to quibble over, but I
wonder if this is just the tip of the iceberg?
Yours sincerely,
Charles Brereton ICU Deputy President
That's not
cricket
Dear Editor,
I a m writing concerning the proposed
expansion plans for Imperial College Radio,
which 1 note have not been discussed with me.
O n Friday evening, January 13, I received
notice from Sydney Harbour-Bridge that
comments and amendments to his suggestions
should be received before Wednesday January 18.
I take this to mean that the lastest date for
submission is Tuesday. The notification of this
leaves me two College days in which to prepare
submissions.
I suspect it is unlikely to have escaped M r
Harbour-Bridge's notice that this leaves very little
opportunity for the members of IC Radio to
formulate a reply to proposals that are universally
held by them to be very damaging. Given that
the earliest possible time that I could call a general
meeting of the station is Thursday January 19,
I must ask that the deadline be extended.
Failure to do this will result in the members of
Imperial College Radio being allowed no say in
the future of the Club to which they belong. In
such circumstanes, many of them are unlikely to
wish to continue providing a service to their
fellows.
As a consequence of this, and in the light of
the unconstitutional discussion of Imperial
College Radio at the last meeting of the
Publications' Board, I must inform you that
failure to extend the deadline will leave me with
no alternative other than to table a motion of no
confidence in the Chairman of the Board.
Yours sincerely,
Nigel Whitfield, Station Manager.
Wendy for
FELIX
Dear Bill,
First of all may I congratulate you on printing
the opinion article by Sydney Harbour-Bridge.
Even though the article is obviously critical about
my bias towards Ents (1 was Ents Secretary last
year!), the criticism is constructive and has
prompted me to act on a number of ideas that
I had shelved for the time being. I therefore
apologise for not having invested enough time
in certain areas.
With respect to your Editorial, however, I feel
that such negative and fruitless criticism will only
serve to alienate people rather than encourage
them to correct any mistakes they may have
made. I know that a certain amount of 'them and
us' inherently exists between FELIX and the
Union Office but if we all try to shed our o w n
self-advancement and consider how best to
project the Union, progress will be made and the
student populus will see that we're not so
immature as to wreck the Union from within
when external influences are having a pretty good
g°-
Yours sincerely,
Ian Morris, ICU Hon Sec.
Page 2 FELIX January 20 1989

