Felix
Editorial
A Farewell to democracy • On Monday, the Union Council will consider a proposal
to abolish the Union General Meeting. The proposal has been put forward by the
St Mary's merger working party. It has to be one of the most absurd and dangerous
proposals that this Union has ever considered, all the moreso because, on the surface,
the move appears to quite innocuous.
The problem which has been hindering merger between IC Union and St Mary's
medical school is the question of the Union General Meeting. The difficulty is that
the time table at St Mary's Medical School does not allow their students time to
attend Union General Meetings at Imperial.
The working party's solution to this problem is to abolish UGM's altogether leaving
Council as the only decision making body. Such a move would mark the end of
democracy within the Union.
The Union General Meeting is the only forum in which ordinary students possess
to challenge or question the actions of their elected Union Officers. It is the only
forum which students have for raising motions on subjects they believe and it is
the only forum they have for discussing issues which are important to them.
Without UGM's this Union would be governed by a clique of self seeking individuals
whose interests lie more in making a name for themselves than in the long term
good of the Union. Elected officers would not be accountable to the students who
elected them and the Union would be one stage further removed from the students
it represents, as if it isn't far enough removed already.
In many ways the abolishion of UGM's marks the culmination of the attitude which
has been prevelent throughout the Union this year; a move away from consultation
and towards decision making behind the closed doors of the Union Office. Take the
recently appointed Welfare Adviser for example. Nigel Baker deserves a pat on the
back for persuading the College to pay for a full time Welfare Adviser. But he was
wrong not to bring the matter to the attention of Council or the UGM, particularly
when it is possible that cuts in Clubs and Sociecies budgets may be needed to provide
the Welfare adviser with the £7000 resource budget she needs to carry out her job.
(The Union forgot to pass the relevent UFC minutes through the last Council.) No
doubt someone will raise the matter at Monday's Council, but now that the adviser
has been appointed it is rather too late to discuss the merits or otherwise of having
a full time adviser.
The proponents of abolishing the Union General Meeting argue that students will
still be able to raise motions at Council and point out that they will be able to ask
for speaking rights. They argue that such a system is good enough for The University
of London Union in their General Union Council (GUC) and so it should be good
enough for IC.
There are two points to bear in mind. Firstly, to be considered by the proposed
new council, a motion would have to have 150 seconders, as opposed to our current
UGM system where only one seconder is required. It is fairly obvious that this will
make it very difficult for students raise motions at all. Emergency motions, which
need to be draughted and submitted in a hurry will, of course, have no chance
whatsoever.
The second point is that the GUC consists of delegates representing constituent
Colleges which have there own UGM systems ie the position of GUC is inherently
different from that of Imperial and St Mary's.
Alternatives ? I am not pretending that there will be an easy solution to the UGM
problem. It may mean negotiating with the authorities at the Medical School to ask
them to reschedule lectures and holding UGM's on alternate sites, for example.
What I do know is that this Union should be striving to become more democratic
not less so. Even if retaining UGM's does damage democracy by making it difficult
for St Mary's students to attend it is preferable to do this than to destroy democracy
completely by aboloshing UGM's.
Cheese & Wine Tonight at 7pm in the FELIX Office. Everyone is welcome. There
will be a small financial contribution required.
Thanks to Dave, Sez, Rob, Doug, Romin, Andy, Jason, Wouter, Summit, Liz, Paul,
Adam, Saya, Syd, Penny, Roy, Hal, Nik, Wendy, Walter, Rose, Dean, Ents, SF Soc
and Third World First for collating last week, anyone I have forgotten and all this
weeks collators. Staff Meeting today 12:30.
Smallads
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Japanese Society: Please contact
K Yokota, Mech Eng P G (ext
6265), or K Kameko, Physics
U G 2 , for details.
• Greater London Club. Trip to
Ronnie Scotts today (Friday).
Cost £5 to see Art Blakely and
the Jazz Messengers. Meet 8pm
at Union Snack Bar.
• G L C trip o n Monday (23rd Jan)
to see Wogan. Meet 8pm Union
Snack Bar. 30 places.
• G L C trip to Jongleurs on Friday
27th Jan. £4, includes transport
there and back. Only 30 places.
• Girls tennis team practice starts
again this Sunday from H a m to
l p m at IC courts. Expect to see
all the old members there and
any newcomers welcome too.
F O R S A L E
• Openreel Vi" '4-track' sound o n
sound recorder. Normal, X2, X4
cassette spds. £60 including
leads. Bass guitar, 2 pickups.
£35. Contact C Wong (Physics 2).
• Vauxhall Cavalier 1300 Saloon,
B Reg. £2250. Contact Adrian
Hicks via Dramsoc 3531 or Elec
Eng U G pigeonholes.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• First week of MarcVi—shared
accommodation available i n
Bayswater. Contact A Tamdjidi,
Aero 3 or phone 724 6553.
• 1-4 people in Hamlet Gardens.
Available from 22/3/89. £38 per
week (rent rebate available).
Contact Christine Tuckett (Life
Sci 2) via Biology pigeonholes.
P E R S O N A L
• Wot no Zev Greenjacket
• Babs—Don't forget our secret
meeting on Wednesday 2.15pm
outside the bookshop.
• I haven't seen Pam since the
Dirty Disco...honest.
• Small lonely pine tree seeks
companion for lasting
friendship—Beit Quad.
• What's green and smells of
cucumber?
• H o w long is your cucumber?
• Lost: Small, furry, black hat,
prefers dark corners, liable to
bite. Reward. Return to FELIX
Editor.
• Beware the R C S U dream ticket.
• iNot if y o u don't take your
boots off you don't, luv D .
• We're not having that as
President.
• Monday 23rd is approaching
fast.
• C a n y o u stand the suspense?
• Wanted dead/alive person to
share room, either sex, would
consider inflatables. Box 725.
• Surrogate father available,
cheap rates. Contact Bill T want
to have your babies' Goodwin.
• Wanted: Legal advice
concerning forthcoming lawsuit.
A p p l y Norman Rat (Deceased).
• Saucy Susan reveals all. The
hottest sex line i n IC o n 3521.
• Chemistry 1 claims another
victim! The Penthouse Club.
•The E E C wine lake, the E E C
butter mountain, n o w the R C S
mustard lake and the R C S onion
mountain.
• M o n Dieu! C'est beaucoup de
onions!
• Why aye yer bugger! D 'yer
won ter, buy sum onions?
• W i l l Steph 'Ballcrusher' Snell
be taking part i n the wrestling i n
the Great Hall o n the 26th?
• T i m the Toyboy
Dave the Face
Paul the Eunuch!
• Phallixsword: Flamey. Your
bodies i n overdrive, but y o u
mind's in reverse. Extasis or
Joanie, which is worse? Beware
of 12 bar; He's the curse. The
Last Main Block.
• Phallixsword: Twelve Bar
Extasis Baffled Flamey with a
move Ray hadn't seen in the
back By G o d . The New Breed:
The Last M a i n Block.
•Want to w i n a bottle of wine?
Or even join the blind tasting
team? Then come along to the
U D H on Tuesday at 6pm.
• If you've heard of Muffin the
Mule, here comes Robin the
Mule. A s k Helen for details...
• D i d Rick Astley model himself
on Steve, come along to
Computing 2nd year and see for
yourself.
• Q . H o w do y o u get 24 people
in a 17 seater van?
• A . Do it on a Thursday.
• Desperate computing second
year seeks intelligent third year
for a lasting copy of Pascal
Compiler. See Zmaccw41.
January 20 1989 FELIX Page 3

