The wodge ofpaperyou are now holding in a pair ofsweaty hands reaches you via the undying (hmmm.. .alm
enthusiasm of the FELIX staff. A merry band of men (and women), we are led by our illustrious leader,
Goodwin, FELIX Editor extraordinaire, in a spacious open-plan office in the corner of Beit Quad.
I am about to take you on a guided tour of our activities in the FELIX office...
Prepare yourself for an absolutely mind-blowing experience...
RESEARCH AND WRITING
T
his is where it all starts... Research is the central activity of
the news-team. The team is headed by a man who always has
his head in the clouds, Dave Smedley, (a great cloud of fag
smoke follows Dave round wherever he goes) backed up by
Sez Wilkinson, Rob Davison, and anyone else close enough to be
asked to write a news story.
M u c h to the annoyance of various people in College and the Union,
these brave souls trek all over the campus to interview notables and
generally be nosey about things that aren't their business. Having
dug u p enough scandal to make a reasonable story, the reporters
sit at a word-processor and write their various pieces, usually
continuing late into Thursday evening in order to ensure that the
news is ' N e w s ' and not 'Olds'.
by Steve Meyfroidt
PROOFING
T
his step, completely unnecessary most of the time (oh aye, tell
us another), means persuadinjyigrneone to read through the
typeset, carefully highlighting^pj|g errors, spelling mistakes,
etc. The text is returned to flm typesetter operator who
diligently weeds out all the mistaias.
In fact, this process usually takes two or three cycles to remove
all the errors, and even then, the odd one manages to slip thrugh.
N o one's perfect...
The nasty camera i
I
%
TYPESETTING
H
and-written or word-processed text needs to be presented in
a final, printed form; the typesetter, a kind of high-powered
computer/laser-printer is used for this. During the week, the
typesetter is operated by Rose Atkins, whose delicate fingers
tickle the keyboard all day long; but when she flits off at 5.30 the
rest of us are left to grapple with the beast ourselves, which usually
results in miles of wasted typeset paper. It's quite fascinating to see
the thing set an entire two-page article onto a single line. Fascinating.
But completely useless.
The typesetter terminal acts in a similar way to a normal word-
processor, albeit rather crude in many respects. The clever bit lives
in another box to which the terminal is attached; it takes a text file,
complete with embedded control codes to determine fonts (type-
faces), point sizes (text size is measured in points), and other clever
things, and 'prints' it onto photographic film. The film is developed
in a processor which dunks the film into various chemical baths and
then dries it ready for use.
THE PROCESS CAMERA
T
he process camera is an essential piece of machinery to the
production of FELIX. A n d it knows it. That's why it enjoys
breaking down or re-programming itself at the most critical
periods of activity...
During the final stages of Union Handbook production last summer
the thing took it upon itself to collapse before my disbelieving eyes.
The first time I'd used it by myself. With 30 or so jobs to get done.
A n d it decides to blow itself up. D|ve Smedley (the Handbook editor
at the time) was mildly peeved; not only did he go up the wall, he
clung to the ceiling and stayed there until the repair-man had been
two. days later.
Anyway, when it decides to work, the process camera will reduce
or enlarge artwork, a n d also produces the 'dot-screened'
photographs you see reproduced in FELIX. (Photographs need to
be converted into dots before printing; look closely at a 'photo on
this page and you'll notice the dots.) A s its name suggests, the
camera uses photographic methods, although the paper used is
developed automatically in a processor to give a finished 'photo'
in about a minute. (The 'photo' is usually called a 'bromide'.)
The camera is also used later on in the production process to make
the printing plates used by the pres-s - see below.

