PASTE-UP
E
ach page of FELIX is laid out and stuck d o w n on 'paste-up'
sheets. These sheets are pre-printed with a 'grid' that defines
the position/width/depth of the columns of text, and, in theory,
they ensure that all text is straight. Lengths of typeset with
accompanying bromides are stuck d o w n on the sheet with ' C o w
G u m , ' which fills the office with solvent vapour. Could it be this
solvent that causes people to get 'hooked' on producing FELIX?
A. pot
of glue
PRINTING
B
y mentioning the press (or 'litho', since it uses lithographic
processes to transfer the image to paper), I am immediately
risking this week's FELIX. The litho is very sensitive, and if
1 slag it off too much, it will take one look at the stack of nice
clean paper waiting to be fed into it, grab as much of it as it can,
shred it into confetti, then distribute the confetti about its internals.
At this point, Dean would try to restrain the beast, while tying his
shoe-laces together to create a make-shift noose.
The litho's temperamental nature is the reason that Dean listens
to Radio 4; the soothing sounds of Joe Grundy in The Archers, and
the useful advice given on Woman's Hour seems to calm the litho
somewhat.
However, by the time our news-team has pasted up the front page
on Thursday night, Dean has usually gone home, leaving Bill to
persuade the litho to print the last side. Bill hasn't quite got the right
technique, and often upsets the poor litho by playing 'tasteless' music
such as Bob Dylan's Dear Landlord while operating it. By this time
of night the machine is really knackered, and to taunt it with Dear
Landlord is just too much. Bye bye says litho. O h **** says Bill...
PLATE-MAKING
T
he completed paste-up sheets are spirited away by Dean
Vaughan, our ever-so-sligh '
room. Relieving his grubby j
he uses the camera, Deaf
produce a special negative that
plate-maker.
Plates are not made of finest bone china. They are flexible
aluminium sheets, carrying an image of the page to be printed" on
their surface.
azy printer, to the camera
:
s of their coating of ink while
Jbses the paste-up sheet to
a a plate when fed into the
Bill not smoking
FOLDING
i o u ' l l notice that the pages of FELIX are folded. This job is
supposed to be done by a marvelous piece of technology called,
not surprisingly, the folding machine. With a combination of"
pulleys, levers, and rubbe&wlpls (I kid you not!), this marvel
of modern science manages to fold the printed pages i n half.
Sometimes. This is another temperamental machine, and it often
spits out the main screw holding it together just so that it can have
a rest. We do try and keep it all in one working piece; the amount
of sellotape used to do this is enormous...
COLLATING
A
fter being folded, the pages are put inside each other to make
whole FELIXes. This is called collation. I don't really want
to publicise this too much, but on Thursday nights, we have
a collation party. Open to everyone. Completely free. Lots
of fun. The reason I don't want to publicise this weekly event?
Because I don't want everyone to rush down, gatecrash it, and drink
all the free booze. DISTRIBUTION
A
lone figure trundles across the campus. H e pushes a shopping
trolley before him and looks immensely tired. Stopping, he
stoops down over his trolley, picks up a heavy pile of paper
and shambles over to a table. The pile is dropped and the
. mysterious figure droops back j o h i trolley... W h o is the figure,
. and what is he doing?
Well, it's Bill on a Friday morning. The trolley contains thousands
of copies of FELIX which are deposited at strategic places for
. thousands of students to pick up on their way to first lecture. Perhaps
in future you will realise the effort that goes into producing FELIX
every week. You might even want to come down and help! If so,
drop in one day; you might even enjoy it...
Someone strange

