4 FELIX
X
Assistant Editor
Sports Editor
Late News Editor
Photographs
Sub-editors
Treasurer
Photographic Editor
Photographers
Reporters
Cartoonists
Advertising Age
EDITOR D.
Peter Combes
Frank Hobson
Tim Doe
Brian Ray
Graham Bolch
Chris Lampard
VACANCIES
VACANCY
VACANCY
V A C A N C I E S
V A C A N C I E S
V A C A N C I E S
ncy Educational
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
London, S.W.7
Telephones : KEN 2963
Internal 2881/2799
I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Barrie Pichler
Sale-, (Manager Pete Ash
Asst. Sales Manager Elizabeth Rankin
Secretaries Gill Steele
Stephenie Vogler
VACANCIES
Production Assts. Roger Lethbridge
VACANCIES
Advertising Manager VACANCY
Publicity Manager VACANCY
Subscriptions Manager VACANCY
Publicity (Partners) Ltd. CHA 6081
Comment
by the
Editor
1 •
Is Second Rate better
than SecondHand?
AT THE TIME of Consort's opening at Silwood the New
Scientist exposed that without DSIR's initial outlay of about
£100,000 London University could have had a nuclear reactor
with 50 times as much power for free—and three years earlier. How-
ever, we at IC should be grateful that DSIR chose to place the
reactor in our charge, for its presence should further add to our
good name in industry.
When the AEI Company offered the Aldermaston Merlin, Consort's designers
had only recently changed their thinking from the Mark I 10 kW reactor
to the Mark II 100 kW version. Apart from those of the Atomic Energy
Authority, Merlin was the first British designed and built reactor in
the United Kingdom.
This offer was not taken up, and the opportunity to piovide the universities of
the south of England with a training facility of great versatility and a
research facility of great power three years before Consort was sadly
missed. .
It may be argued that Merlin was a second-hand instrument, and as such
inefficient. But—if this is indeed the case—surely also a reactor of such
a low output as Consort is inefficient. Another argument that may be
pursued might be that the design of nuclear reactors has advanced con-
siderably since the time that Merlin was conceived—which, as a layman, I
am prepared to believe.
But Government departments are rarely credited with good sense, except in
terms of saving money, and it is surprising therefore that in the face of
such a tempting offer DSIR did not abandon the expensive Consort
project and accept AEI's invitation.
On the facts that are available, it seem ludicrorus that this grant-giving
authority—now renamed the Science Research Council-—can squander
money so recklessly on such schemes, but has been so unwilling to help
post-graduate on tnc bread-and-butter scale, by raising their grants to a
more realistic level.
Why Two Carnivals P
It is high time that a Union Meeting had a long discussion on the whole
subject of the timing and organisation of our Carnival. Thursday 21
October would seem to be as good an opportunity as any, so how about
somebody preparing their case ?
THE IC CARNIVAL BOARD recently announced that in addition to
the i i m k i I Carnival Week in May they are to introduce a Rag Week
in November. The present plans for this November Rag Week appear
to be somewhat half-hearted, with few special productions to compare
with those of May to be held in the Union, boosted outside only by
collections, which normally begin at this time of year.
For many years organisers of IC Carnival have appreciated that May is
not the best time of yearto attract the degree of support which it deserves
from the College due to the proximity of of the examinations. The crea-
tion of a second Carnival Week should not therefore be a priority.
My own impression of the populace of South Kensington is that, with some
notable exceptions, they begrudge our very presence. Does it therefore
seem likely that they will welcome not just one but two weeks of sheer
lunacy on the part of our Commandoes—and dig deeply into their
pockets ?
So far as we in the College are concerned, the Autumn Term calendar of
events is full enough already without the addition of such a dominating
occasion. Quite apart from this busyness, this term is the costliest—in
terms of new text-books, club subscriptions and Christmas presents.
It seems to me that the Carnival Board are letting themselves in for a lot of
unnecessary work and wasted time. Undoubtedly, the best place for the
IC Carnival would be at the end of the spring term. This is well clear
of exams, which should not raise the usual recruiting problems, and there
is at least a 50 per cent, chance of fine weather.
WANTED
for murder
COLCUTT
Applv in strict confidence to
96 Beit
DO SOMETHING
IN PREVIOUS FIRST ISSUES Felix editors have made their welcomes
to freshers in the most prom'nent positions. Though lower in order
of place in this editorial, the greetings are just as great and sincere.
Each year's influx of students enables the College and students' union
to continue re-energised.
By now enough has been said of the happy balance between " work and
play " by representatives of both academic and Union sides of IC, so I
have no need to repeat this very worthwhile advice.
However, I feel that it is essential to emphasise the extracurricular aspect of
College life. For, despite any appearance to the contrary that may be
interpreted from our pages during the year, far too many Union clubs and
societies are " sick " through lack of support. It has been said that at least
half of the students at IC take no part in the Union other than to obtain
their midday meal.
Student apathy is not a characteristic peculiar to this College. It is
common to all universities. The Union is the students, and it is the
responsibility of every student at Imperial College to make some non-
monetary contribution, however small, to the Union's well-being. The
new Yearbook is a valuable introduction to 1CU, but it is entirely up to
the individual to make the first move; in an institution of our size, the
clubs cannot all come to him (or her).
Only through communion with other students—sharing tasks, exchanging
views, " leading the flock " will you be able in three years' time to say
quite honestly, " I have led a full College life."
DO NOT WISH to dwell on changes or improvements in Felix since last
year. To thosfc of you now in your second or third years these should be
obvious. But the standard can only be maintained by a strong staff. No
longer can this newspaper be run by a triumvirate as it was when I first
came to IC—it has become too big a business.
Last year we had a " full-time " staff of about 30, and were very grateful to
the numerous " part-time " colleagues. As you can see ;ibove a number of
major vacancies remain, so anyone with even the slightest inclination
toward publishing or business should contact me without delay at room
96 Beit Hall or at one of our Tuesday staff meetings in the Press Room.
If you just want to " do something" non-academic—you're not sure what
—you'll render us a great service, even if you can't construct a sentence,
by doing a few reporting jobs for Felix, in the course of which—who
knows—you may find your dream. And next time you hear anyone
say, " Another bloody awful Fel'x," just send him to 96 Beit. I shall
be pleased to hear his views on improving it.
S IN THE PAST the Editor
will be pleased to receive from
readers letters intended for pub-
lication. However, the edi-
torial board has the right to withhold
from publication such letters either in
part or in toto.
MANY THANKS
I WANT TO WRITE at once to express my own thanks and the
thanks of the Notting Hill Housing Trust for all the work which
you and your colleagues liave put in to produce the total of over
£2,400 for our work.
We are very much aware of the immense amount of work which was involved
in your raising such a large amount of money as this and we are immensely
grateful to you all. With the College's gift the Trust will he able to do
nearly £\5,000s-worth of work—by taking advantage of all available loans
aid g~~tts we are able to make each gift pound do the work of six.
In human terms this means that the results of the 'College's work will be that
a' lea*' ten families—who are now living in conditions of extreme over-
crowding or who are actually homeless—will have a good, simple perma-
nent home in which to start life afresh.
BRUCE KEN RICK (Rev)
Chairman. Notting Hill Housing Trust, W.W.
THEN AS NOW t
IN 1934 H. G. WELLS wrote of Imperial College :
| // is today a huge fungoid assemblage of buildings and schools
without visible centre, guiding purpose or directive brain. It h'ts
become a constituent of that still vaster, still more conspicuously
acephalic monster, the University of London.
The thumbsy wisdom of the practical man, with a conception of life based
on immediate needs, unanalysed motives and headlong assumptions, and
with an innate fear of free and searching thought, is still manifest at a
hundred points in the structure and working of this great aggregation.
The struggle to blend technical equipment with a carefully cherished illiteracy,
an intact oafishness about fundamental things, has been well sustained.
South Kensington will still tell you proudly. " We are not literary," and
explain almost anxiously that the last thing it wants to impart is a liberal
education.
The ideal output of the Imperial College remains a swarm of mechanical,
electrical and chemical business smarties, guaranteed to have no capacity
for social leadership, constructive combination of original thought.
The Imperial College was and still is in fact not a college but a sprawl of
laboratories and classrooms. Whatever ideas of purpose wrestled together
in its beginnings are now forgotten.
It has no firm idea of what it is and what it is supposed to do. That is to
say, it has no philosophy. It has no philosophical organisation, no
social idea, no rationaliscdgoal, to hold it together.
I had come up to South Kensington persuaded that I should learn everything.
I found myself in South Kensington lost and dismayed at the multitu-
dinous inconsecutiveness of everything.

