F E L I X
Moroccan underwater expedition collecting some valuable zoological
data in the Mediterranean. The 18-man expedition aboard converted fishing
vessel " Boy Mark " was led by T. A. Bowman. After some minor engine
trouble was overcome, all considered this summer's expedition a great success.
Polish Impressions
by Rovers
TWELVE MEMBERS OF the IC Rover Crew went on this year's
summer camp in Poland. The train journey to Warsaw was
broken at Berlin where we split into groups and spent a morning
wandering around the western sector admiring the new building
schemes and bright shopping areas.
Apart from one party just missing
being involved in an accident on the
railway everything went smoothly
until the Friedrichstrasse check point.
After some delay here we were
finally let into the eastern sector and
soon learnt that taking photographs
near the wall was forbidden. The
contrast between west and east was
brought home to us more by the re-
served and almost sullen behaviour
of the population than by the goods
in the shops or by the appearance of
the buildings. That evening we set
off again for Warsaw and after a
comfortable kip on the floor of the
compartment saw our first glimpse of
Poland.
Ourfirstimpression was the extreme
flatness of the country, the only hills
being near the Czech or Russian
borders. The harsh realisation that
the exchange rate was heavily biased
against us came when we had to buy
our first " Polo grub." 24 hours or
so in Warsaw was spend acclimatising
ourselves to the currency, seeing the
city and discovering that no-one had
heard of paraffin or primus stoves.
Then we set off for the Polish lake
district near the Russian Border via
Gdansk. Travelling on Polish local
trains is an unforgettable experience;
virtually no trains run during the day'
PRICE FIXING
ALL " HOP " BAR prices are to be
standardised. In some cases these
will be above normal Union Bar
prices.
and those that travel overnight are
packed solid, as it appears to be a
national paSstimc and transport is very
cheap. Our time in the lakes (for the
most part literally) was spent sailing,
swimming and walking in the sur-
rounding (almost English) countryside.
We spent the second part of our
holiday in the south of Poland based
near Zankopane. Here we went
walking and scrambling in the Toctra
Mountains which go up to 8,000 ft.
along the Polish-Czech border. It was
most reassuring having come down a
rather innoccuous " path " to be told
that someone fell off there yesterday
or to be told by a Pole speaking
English with an Irish accent, " Sure
every bloody thing in this country is
illegal."
The ways were for the most part
clearly marked and were flhly dan-
gerous when snow covered the track.
One hazard which—to our cost—we
did not allow tor was thunderstorms.
One Group had reached a saddle
7,000ft. up when a storm broke and
lightning struck, both at the top of
the ridge and also below them.
Having eventually decided that the
safest place to be was in the open
they sat on the hillside and several of
the group felt electric shocks every
time the lightening struck.
We returned to London also by
train and one of the lasting impres-
sions of our stay was the difference in
attitude between the Polish people,
•who could not have been more
friendly or helpful, the East Germans
we had met earlier.
Living
on a Shoestring?
Never mind, it can't last for ever. And while you are
preparing to make your first million, it's just as well to
open an account at the Midland Bank. For an account
can help you now—when help is needed most—to
manage your money affairs more easily. More important,
it will go on helping you as your money problems
change through the years (for money problems
never cease, however rich one becomes
—they merely assume a different form).
So make the wise decision today: have
a word with your local Midland branch.
The staff will be glad to help you — whether
you're ever likely to make a million or not!
M i d l a n d B a n k
• • • • THE BANK THAT KEEPS AHEAD —ON YOUR ACCOUNT
Head Offiee: Poultry, London, EC2

