COMMENTARY
A fortnightly review of Union affairs.
Regular readers of the Council Notioe
Board in the Union Lounge will no doubt
have read recently a notice concerning
the Marxist 3ub-Group. The latter haa,
in the past,been a sub-group of the L i t .
and Deb. 3oc., but this year the Sooiety
finds itself "embarrassed" by i t s relation
with the Marxist Sub-Group, and, by strange
ooinaidence the International Relations
Club also feels for the same reason that
i t cannot possibly take the left-wing
"theorists" under its wing.
It is therefore proposed that the
Marxist Sub-Group should become a fully-
fledged Society of the I.C. Union after
approval by the S.C.C. at its next meeting
However, i t s supporters are forgetting
that under Item 10 of the S.C.C. Oonatit-
ution they are bound to obtain a list of
signatories in support of the proposed
Club,and under past S.C.C. Chairmen i t
has been necessary to submit a l i s t of
not less than 25 such persons.
Let us hope that at the next S.C.C.
meeting the members (the Presidents of
a l l the I.C. Social Clubs) present will
demonstrate that they are not so gullible
as the members of the Marxist Sub-Group
would like to think. Perhaps they will
remember that apart from being an embarr-
assment to the Lit. and Deb. Soc., the
Marxists are also an embarrassment to the
I.C. Union, and for that reason should
not be officially recognised in any way.
An unofficial survey was conducted
at the last meeting of the I.C. Union
upon the subjteot of the number of
members present, and when, after the
meeting, the results of the various
counters were meaned i t was found that
the attendance at the Union meeting
was 1 9 5 + 1 . Under Item 17 of the
Bye-Laws of the I.C.U. i t is stated that
a quorum of a General Meeting of the
I.C.E. shall consist of 200 Full or Life
members of the Union, and upon this basis
we may therefore reason that a l l the dec-
isions arrived at at the last meeting
are invalid. Comparing the last Union
meeting with the one at this time last
year (attendance then was 700) we may ask
what is the reason for this 3udden lack
of interest this Session. The answer i s
two-fold:
(a) The Union i s being lead half-heartedly
from behind rather than from in front.
The only policy seems to be to try to dis-
credit Council and to avoid coming to any
decision or giving any lead to the Union
in public. Perhaps the person concerned
is at last beginning to realise that i t
is up to Council and not the Union meet-
ings to manage the Union on everyday
matters.
(b) This year the politicians have risen
to power and we see their effect in the
resulting chaos surrounding the distri-
bution of the proceeds from the I.C.
Charity Carnival, not to mention motions
about South Africa.
It is not surprising therefore that
the I.C. Union meetings are inquorate and
that even the members of Council are so
apathetic that they do not even bother
tc attend the Union meetings and speak in
support of their own resolutions.
A PLEA FOR
ACTION
bu Qandall Peart
What is wrong with lectures in
this College? It is generally agreed
that lectures at I.C. are not the stim-
ulating influence they should be. Gur
lectures tend "to be relics from school
days - the scribbling down of oompref
hensive notes and figures from the
blackboard (with the last three examples
for prep) rather than the University
lectures of ones imagination - the
lecturer standing at ease before a group
of adults, dealing with his subject in
an interested, interesting, and lucid
manner.
A lecture is made up basically of
three things; the subject, the lecturer
and the audience. An unsuccessful
lecture can be attributed to any of
these three although the effect of the
f i r s t two can influence the last to a
great degree. Let us consider, then,
the first two ingredients.
The main arguments against this
suggestion are based on the alleged
disinclination of the student to study
'if we gave them printed notes they
wouldn't need to come to the lectures'
'with printed notes the material of the
lecture need not even pass through their
minds, as i t does at the moment on the
way to the notebook'. This is nonsense
The student never need attend a lecture
at present, he can get his notes from a
friend. Y
<
h
e
n he is two lines behind
the lecturer he begins to write auto-
matically, to become a human duplicat-
ing machine, so that he neither hears
the lecturer's explanation, nor does he
understand his own scribblings.
How will printed notes cure thesef
failings of the present system? At
the beginning of the lecture, notes are
handed out. The lecturer puts the
lecture in its context and then runs in
a leasurely and comprehensive way
through the printed notes, dealing with
queries as they arise. Students add
their own notes and explanations and
with the time gained by the omission of
the present phrenetic blackboard chase
the lecturer has time for a few worked
examples. Result:- enlightenment,
stimulation and better student-staff
unders tanding.
Consider the second component, the
leoturer. It is very rarely that the
opinion of the student who has first
hand knowledge of the lecturer, i s
either required or recognised. Yet we
have to put up with some terrible
lecturers. Lecturers can be divided
into three groups. ^uite simply, those
who care (they are rare and usually very
good), those who can't (and don't seem
to realise i t ) and those who realise
they are inadequate and try to improve.
If the subject i s scientific, as
in a l l the bad lectures here, i t is
intrinsically poor lecture material
although i t is good '.schoolroom
fodder'! A l l too often the main part
of the leoture is taken up with the
transfer of plain hard fact from the
lecturers notes onto the board and
thence to the students notes.
Industrial efficiency experts would be
horrified at thia expensive and un-
remunerative waste of time, 'give the
student printed notes' they would say,
and why not?
The last group is most numerous and
point the way to the possible direction
of improvement.
Anybody contemplating a school
teaching career has to do a course,
solely ooncerned with the technique of
teaching, for up to two years
Graduates moving onto the staff of the
Universities are very rarely required
to have any teaching experience or
qualification. Remember also that at
University they are probably teaching
more difficult subjects under a more
difficult but ultimately more effective
system. An obvious solution to this
T roblem is a course of lectures on
Lecturing for Lecturers for proposed
(and present) s t a f f . Surely at a
University, lecturing ability is as
important as research ability?
Staff at I.C. will not deny there
is room for improvement. '
.
.
h
o Is
courageous enough to take the first
step?.
UNION MEETING
The Union Meeting, last Thursday,
Nov. 19th, started five minutes late,but
inspite of this, there were not many
people who could find the energy or time
to attend. The trend towards poor
Union Meeting participation oan perhaps
be explained by the continually increas-
ing popularity enjoyed by most of I.C's
clubs and sooieties, but i t would be
a sad reflection on a l l i f these funct-
ions became mutually exclusive.
The minutes and matters arising
were rushed through. Significant i n i t s
omission was a vote of thanks to I.C.E.C.
for the excellent entertainment they
provided for the Union at Harlington
on Guy Fawke3 night. The financial
accounts were then presented by Dr.
Weale, Prof. Wright and Mr. Comber
with the odd humourous touch. It
is good that the Union should be
able to thank these gentlemen for their
work at this annual presentation,
however, i t seems a pity, that, a l -
though the accounts have been displayed
publicly for at least fourteen days
prior to the meeting, they have to be'
read and itemized at great length at
the meeting.
The I.C. Charity Carnival was
then discussed. After some confusion
with regard to procedure, and the four
main speeches, i t became dear that the
two groups of thought were attempting
to reach a suitable compromise acceptable
to the majority of likely supporters.
This crystallized into a new motion
being proposed,to the effect that WET
students should receive the proceeds,
and that WUS should be recognized as a
constitutent member of the WRY organis-
ation.
Discussion then revolved around
whether students shoulti give to their
contemporaries in need, or to the needy
in general. An amendment was tabled,
supported by a simple 'rally round the
flag boys' speech. The amendment was
carried, the motion defeated, so now the
I.C. Charity Carnival's proceeds will go
to W
H
Y
?
'
.
(Procedure, Mr. Iresident!)
A motion was then tabled concern-
ing the boycott of South African goods.
Time was moving on, however, so the
meeting was adjourned until the following
Thursday.

