NELSONS COLUMN
(1) Nelson welcomes back John Hart (ex-
President Guilds) from the wilds of Africa
where he has been recovering from a duo-
denal ulcer gained from overwork during
his last year in the New Hostel.
(2) "It's great Man - you can get - on
5/-* This was how one Miner described
the new extra-strength bottled beer after
i t had been installed in the Bar one even-
ing last week.
(3) Is Jock Henry's new rule that a l l
P.G.'s must sign in when entering the
departments in the evening an attempt to
out down "brown-bagging" or has he heard
whispers of midnight parties being con-
ducted under the pretence of research
work?
(4) Ntlson would like to congratulate
those responsible for deciding to hang
two pictures in the S.C.R. of the Union
Building - they hide the fuse boxes mag-
nificently* It i s only to be regretted
that i t can by no stretch of the imagin-
ation be said that the pictures are suited
to the room.
(5) The "Bedford Beau", alias Peter Grim-
ley, returned to I.C. last week from the
Antarctic and he has hinted that his
collection of penguins is to be present-
ed to the Bar in his memory.
T H E P L A Y ' S
T H E T H I N G
No doubt many of you w i l l have spent
some time in the country. Possibly some
of you may have visited the cloth-cap
country of Yorkshire, and a few might
have heard of Upper Netherwick, a small
hamlet resting below the coarse sandstone
crags of the dales.
It was i n Upper Hetherwick that the
vicar, the reverend Peters, decided to
bring a l i t t l e uplift into the village,
and so he formed the Upper Netherwick
Dramatic Society, which met at the
Village Institute every '.Wednesday after
the "Bright Hour". Attendance was good,
and helped by his wife, he decided to
produce one or* Shakespeare1
s most tragic
plays.
Unfortunately the play was doomed
from the start. Time after time Mr.
Peters would rehearse his oast without
any result of response. "After a l l , "
people would comment, "Nobody 'ad dun a
play like this before, plain daft".
Evm the s.-uire's son, an Oxford under-
graduate, a person whom the vicar thought
he could trust, spoilt his party manners
on the ive of the performance.
The posters had been» billed, the
tickets printed, and many 3eats sold for
the opening night, but unless something
could be done for the squire's son the
play would not be performed.
Was the play a suocess? Did the
squire's son recover? Perhaos you have
many more questions, but a l l these will
be answered i f you visit the Dramatio
Sooiety's forthcoming production,- "With-
out the Prince", a oomedy by Philip King,
on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 10th,
11th and 12th December.
n i g .
AROUND
T H E
T O W N
What's on. About the Town.
Ihe Royal Court and Ibsen! A.
theatrical combination which would, I
think make the average Soowgoer" quiver
in hia West End "short back and sides",
"what! Sit with the long hairs, Oh No'
No!" In many cases his fears would
spring from a solid foundation of exper-
ience. The Royal Court and especially
the English Stage Society have aquired
the theatrically bad habit of taking
themselves rather too seriously, they
have beoome unable to turn their
laughter upon themselves and because of
this their productions bear a character-
i s t i c stamp of brittleness and over
strain. This failure upon their part
is highlighted a l l the more by the
comparative success of "The Theatre
Workshop", which although entirely
different in character retains the basis
of both; to present plays of new and
young dramatists and to revive drama to
the status of a living art form, a
position which i t lost some three
hundred years ago..
Ibsen's Rosmershalm, in many
respects represents a complete contrast
to these aims. Although i t is not an
English Stage Society production, nor
has i t been written by ah up and coming
dramatist, i t i s s t i l l in many ways an
experimental play ih the same way that
any production of hamlet must be exper-
imental. Combined with this is the
fact that i t has remained unproduced for
thirty years and as such must be
entirely new to the majority of the the
theatre audience. Rebecca (played by
Peggy Ashcroft) and John Rosmer (Eric
Porter) are both characters which
require from the auatenoe much concen-
tration plus a l i t t l e (and maybe a great
deal) of phayohological insight but the
play will only blossom more with the
effort. llease do not, therefore,
rush away and read the play before see-
ing i t . Rebecca i s a part which may
be played in literally hundreds of
different ways and I think i t would be
unfair to impose ones own preconceived
ideas onto the performance of leggy
Ashcroft, which I am sure you will
admire i f only for i t being obviously
one intelligent method of portraying the
character.
I cannot for a long time remember
a play which has opened to so much pre-
run publicity as "The ..orId of Susie
Wong". Whatever moral values are <
f
i
t
stake in Hiss r/ong's world, I am at
least certain that her life w i l l
intrigue and give pleasure to many
people (non-Freudians especially) for a
long time to come. ousie nong is a
Chinese prostitute who's really a good
girl at heart (aren't they all?), who
falls in with an artist living a life
of monklike chastity in a brothel,
(don't ask me why). Despite the
obvious difficulties which are bound to
arise in such a relationship everyone
of oourse lives happily ever after.
Sentimental? Yea. A l i t t l e trite?
Maybe. But i f you feel like light
entertainment and,are not prepared to
make too great a demand upon the author,
you will probably enjoy this.
UNDERWATER EXPEDITION
Following the successful Azores
Expedition this summer a more" ambitious
project is being planned for 1961.
Applications are invited for membership
of this expedition and should be addres-
sed to The 'Hon. Secretary, I.C. Under-
water Club'. Previous diving experi-
ence i s not essential.
PROFILE
Having developed a dribbling
technique from a very early age, i t waa
obvious to many that football was to
play an important part in the life of
Dave Faulkner. He received his first
academic tuition at St. igberts College
Chingford, and after a several lazy
years and the inevitable games of foot-
ball, he passed on to the local high
school. For some peculiar reason, after
only one year he left Chingford Grammar
School, and transferred to the South
We3t Essex Technical College.
The rarified atmosphere of study-
ing Advanced Level had a disturbing
effeot on Dave, and on' the completion
of his course, he deoided to do his
national service. Naturally enough he
was snapped up by the R.A.F., but after
he had spent a couple of weeks doing
nothing, pushing his luck he asked for
a weekend pass, which brought a storm
around his ears, as the authorities
thought he was in Essex. He was then
shifted up and down the country until
just before being posted overseas, he
finished up in the middle of nowhere.
The Isle of Man did not come up
to Dave's expectation, so depressed
and dejected (Like-H 1) he left the
"mob." It should be mentioned that
due to his dynamic ability, and power
of leadership (he saidl) he raised him-
self from the ranks, A.C. plonk, to
beoome a Pilot Officer.
With C i v i l Engineering as his subject,
Dave joined forces with Europe's largest
building contractors - WTMFEY. The exper-
ience he gained set him in good stead,
and in 1956 he came to I.C. to read C i v i l
Engineering. With amazing dexterity a
degree was his, and now with engineering
geology as his theme he has joined the
ranks of the postgraduates.
Whilst at I.C. Dave has not res-
tricted his sporting activity to his
first love, football; boxing has attrac-
ted him, and in the U.L.U. Championships,
although he wis knocked out in one of the
earlier rounds, he succeeded in drinking
his victor under the table, which unfort-
unately took him no further in the tourna-
ment. This then is I.C.'s football captain,
a quiet, conscientious man whose ability
both on and off the field i s admired by
a l l .

