Whatever
your degree...
BP
Hear about career options
for 1991 graduates on
23rd October
• • •
at the
Barnes Suite
Forum Hotel
Cromwell Road
•
530pm start
Buffet and drinks tofollow
• The cannabis plant and its derivatives have long been known
to have medicinal properties, including combatting nausea and
killing pain. But because of their psychological side effects,
synthetic canabinoids can only be used to suppress nausea caused
by cancer chemotherapy, and then only if other remedies fail.
Now researchers at the US National Institute of Mental Health
have isolated the gene that gives rise to cannabinoid receptors in
the brain. It is hoped that this will make it easier to study and
screen drugs that bind to the receptor and to find cannabinoids
with analgesic and antiemetic properties but free of
psycho-activity.
Scientific American, October 1990
Caterpillars often feed ants a secretion rich in sugar and amino
acids; in return the ants refrain from attacking and may even
protect the caterpillars from other predators. The mystery of how
caterpillars may 'call' the ants has been solved in the case of at
least one Latin American caterpillar which has a pair of ridged
rod-like proturbences behind its head. By scratching its head
against them it produces a high pitched rhythmic chirping that
attracts the ants through vibrations in the ground or leaves. The
entomologist who recorded the vibrations said they reminded him
of a 'gueiro', a Latin American percussion instrument In which a
stick is dragged over a grooved gourd.
Scientific American, October 1990
Controversy over the future of the Natural History Museum
(NHM) spilled over at a recent conference held by the Royal
Society of Arts on the future of scholarship in museums. Dr
Michael Novak, dean of science at the American Museum of
Natural History said he was disturbed at the way in which Dr
Klaus Sattler, a German researcher currently working at the
NHM, commented that compared with the management of the
NHM and the Victoria and Albert Museum, 'the total collapse of
my country in 1945 looks positively well organised'.
Nature vol 347, 11 October 1990
Imperial is more successful than most at recovering overhead
costs on industrial research costs, according to an item in Nature
(vol 347, 11 October 1990). Sue Jacobs, of Imperial's Industrial
Liaison group says that most industrial companies can be
persuaded to pay a fair price for university research. However,
getting a fair deal out of government departments is more
difficult: the problem, apparently, is finding the right official in
Whitehall's labarynthine corridors to negotiate with.
ICU ENVIRONMENTAL &
APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY
SOCIETY
CHEESE & WINE
P A R T Y ! !
TONIGHT at 6PM
ICCET
48 PRINCES GARDENS
4th FLOOR, LECTURE THEATRE
Members—FREE
Non-Members—SI.50 (membership fee)

