S c r i b b l e r s C o r n e r
Imperialist Hypocrisy
Dear Chris,
The present Gulf Crisis is not simply a
matter of terrorism (see last week) but
stems from the illegitimate carving up of
the Middle East in the 1920s by British
Imperialism. T h e formation of these new
states: Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia et al
and their artificial boundaries has ensured
continual instability and conflict in the
area since. W h i c h is what was planned.
Arab Shikh's sympathetic to the British
cause were made rulers and in most
cases their families still govern. B y
separating Kuwait from Iraq it was hoped
the little oil rich state would be protected
from the effects of Pan-Arabism
emanating from Iraq and also weaken the
larger state. (Iraq and Kuwait may
receive the same income, in $ of oil per
capita, but Iraq has many more mouths
to feed.)
Since Kuwait's independence in 1961 it
has been governed by the same family of
dictators—the A l Sabahs—installed by the
British. Nepotism is strife and denying the
majority of residents the right to vote or
own land ensures these stooges remain in
power.
Out of the two million population of
Kuwait only 800,000 are citizens the rest
are migrant labourers. Of these 800,000
citizens only 60,000 select male citizens
are eligible to vote in elections for the
National Assembly and even this body
has been dismantled for the past five
years or so. This is the system the US has
stated it wants Kuwait to revert to after
the crisis is solved and not to any form of
free or democratic government.
The hypocrisy of the present US action
is contemptible. They have k n o w n for a
long time what type of tyrant Saddam
Hussein is. They aremed and trained his
armies to the teeth. They aided him in
his aggression against Iran, in which
almost 1.5 million lives were lost; they
ignored the repression of the Iraqi people
and the callous treatment of the Kurdish
people was overlooked.
Also, why is the US not so vehement in
its condemnation of the Israeli occupation
of Palestine?
W h y is there still no end to the
problems of Lebanon after more than a
decade?
A n d can't parallels be drawn between
the present invasion and the US invasion
of Panama, last year, w h e n 7,000 people
were killed and a puppet regime was left
behind?
It is obvious that the only reason the
US led 'Western Alliance' is camped in
the desert is to satisfy its greed for oil
and not for any honourable or righteous
notions.
Saleem Choudhery.
Bookstore Backlash
Dear Chris,
I fell compelled to write to you in reply
to the letter headed 'Pricey Publications'
(Issue 878, 12.10.90).
The letter from G Andrade intimates
that it is possible to buy all books
cheaper outside of the Bookstore. This,
unfortunately for the student, is not true.
A L L book retailers are required to abide
by the Net Book Agreement. This is an
agreement that is upheld in the law
courts, whereby the publishers dictate the
selling price of their o w n books and
retailers are not allowed to discount
them.
There are three reasons a book could
possibly be obtained cheaper elsewhere.
1. They are breaking the Net Book
Agreement—something y o u won't find
happening too often as Dillons have just
been prosecuted for it!
2. The book is 12 months old and
hence can be sold at 1989 prices. Again
this doesn't happen too often as it is risky
to keep stockholdings of anything other
than bestsellers for more than 12 months.
Most recommended texts are not exactly
bestsellers.
3. The cheaper book is an old edition.
In which case you're buying a completely
different book and probably not the one
you want.
Given the help of your lecturers we can
stock all the texts that y o u require. By all
means try elsewhere but do bear in mind
that in looking elsewhere you'll probably
end up spending more on travel than you
save on books and you'll certainly spend
more time looking.
Always pleased to be of service.
Yours,
Neil McCluskey, Bookstore Manager and
Ex-IC Student.
P.S. We have cheaper pads, files and
document folders than any high street
shop including W . H . Smith!!!
NHS Psycho Sex Change Romp
Dear Sir,
I am writing about that bloke who,
after having a sex change, wanted to
marry another bloke. Under British law
he was not able to do this, so instead of
crawling back under from whichever rock
he came, he went squirming and crawling
to the European Court in order to force
the British people to accept something
that is against everything this country
holds dear.
For once the Europeans went along
with Britain but that still didn't stop the
12
revolting creature. He then said how
unfair he had been treated and how
everyone should feel sorry for him. Well
'Luv' I lost no sleep over it.
In the same article it stated that 25,000
sex changes have been carried out on the
NHS, which the good and decent people
of Great Britain pay for. This is totally
unacceptable!
This problem of believing that you are
a women in a man's body is clearly a
psychological problem and should be
treated as such.
If deviants and weirdos want these
operations they should pay for them out
of their o w n pockets. Because where will
it end?
If someone thinks they're Admiral
Nelson will they get an operation to cut
off an arm and blind them in one eye? Or
if a person thinks they're the President of
ICU will they get a labotamy?
Yours,
Alan Bailey, Chem 2.

