MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY
Take off with Andersen Consulting
To ensure your career takes off
we fly you to Chicago
Within four weeks of joining Andersen Consulting,
all our new graduates find themselves sitting in the
departure lounge at Heathrow Airport. Their
destination is Chicago and a three week spell at our
International Training and Development Centre.
However, this is just the start of an in-depth training
programme that will foster carefully the technical,
business and managerial skills of each young
consultant. A thoroughly professional programme
that will develop the broad-based experience
necessary to tackle an unusually wide range of
challenges....
As the world's largest management consultancy we
specialise in applying technology-based solutions to
complex business problems. Our teams analyse
carefully the client's individual needs and provide a
bigh quality professional service that incorporates
the full range of potential of advanced information
technology.
This spectrum of skills and services has attracted
'blue-chip' clients including many of the major
insurance, banking, manufacturing, engineering and
retail companies as well as government departments
and health authorities . . . a client portfolio which
calls for consultancy talent of the very highest
calibre.
Graduates who succeed with us start with a good
quality honours degree in any discipline. They
possess the confidence, maturity and diplomacy to
impress our clients at all levels and also enjoy
exceptional prospects.
Our culture is geared to rapid career and salary
progression based entirely on merit with the genuine
prospect of partnership in a person's early 30's.
If yon want to learn more about your prospects with
the world's largest management consultancy, please
visit us at 2 Arundel Street, London WC2R 3LT on
Tuesday 23rd October, 1990 at 6.00 pm. For further
details contact the Careers Service or Marion Turner,
Graduate Recruitment Manager direct on; 071 438 3493
ANDERSEN
CONSULTING
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. S.C.

