A l l ' s
The Careers Fair had over 6500 visitors
during two days this year compared to
4000 over four days last year. Many of
the companies attending stayed for both
days. David Ensell, Careers Fair Manager,
said 'Its all gone horribly right'.
Last year the fair was held in the
Junior Common Room (JCR). The
different organisation this year, which
included a marquee on the Queen's lawn,
has been a great success according to the
employers. Russ Clark, Careers Office
Manager, said that the 'set up is better
than the Great Hall or the JCR'.
Comments from the employers included
'Its better than the JCR' and 'I like the
marquee - it looks professional'.
Complaints included the 'lack' of
provision for drink in mid-afternoon and
the careers fair handbook, which many
thought sloppy.
Though the Fair made £30,000 last
All three year engineering degrees at
Imperial College are to be reorganised
into four year Masters courses by October
1992. The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, gave a
speech in which he said that the decision
to change the course structures was taken
primarily to 'concentrate above all on the
fundamentals of science which will
remain the basis of engineering in the
future'.
The decision was also influenced by the
Rector's feeling that an extra year was
necessary to match the level of education
received by German engineering students.
A third factor raised by the Rector was
the worry that the level of knowledge
required in A-level mathematics courses
may be declining. This could be
countered, Sir Eric said, by adding more
mathematics to degree courses. This
would require an extra year, especially if
Free!
Two free lectures are to be held in
Physics next week. On Wednesday at
13.15 in Lecture Theatre 1, Dr D. Deutsch
will be speaking on 'A Quantum Concept
of Time'. On Thursday at 12.45 on the
level 3 Physics concourse, the
Mathematical and Physical Society
(MOPSOC) are having a cheese and wine
buffet followed by a lecture by Dr. John
Quenby. He will speak on the early
results from the X-ray satellite ROSAT.
Both events are open to all members of
Imperial College.
2
Fair
year, the experimental setup has meant
that it only broke even this year. It is
hoped that the improved service will
mean a larger profit next year.
David Ensell said that the many
companies which had shown satisfaction
with the new arrangements would be
writing to the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, to
show appreciation of this Union organised
event. He also stated that any profit
made next year could be split between
the careers service, currently
underfunded by College, and a nominated
charity.
When the employers were approached
concerning students, who, after all, were
the main reason for their visit, comments
ranged from 'there's a good calibre of
people here - we often recruit from the
fair' to the more ambiguous 'Ah, it's not
worth commenting - the organisers have
no control on that'.
the teaching of calculus were to be
dropped from the A-level syllabus.
Sir Eric said that 'the suggestion that
educated people need not know calculus'
was harking back to a 'two culture'
system which leads to problems in
communication. He commented that the
lack of scientific knowledge amongst MPs
was a problem today.
When questioned after the speech, Sir
Eric said that the Chief Executive of the
University Funding Council (UFC) had
been involved in the decision and had
given a 'green light'. He added that the
Department of Education and Science
(DES) is supportive of the move by
Imperial but would not necessarily be
supportive of other universities due to the
increased cost. Mandatory grants from
local governments will be available for
the new four year courses, he said.
Time's Up
Mr Rob Northey, IC Refectories Manager,
tendered his resignation last Thursday. He
said that his reason for leaving was
because he had been at IC for five years,
which was the length of his contract.
Mr Angus Fraser, IC Managing Director
is known to be concerned in the matter,
but refused to comment.
Mr Northey said 'I've enjoyed myself
very much', and added that he would go
to India afterwards. Although he has
officially resigned, he will continue to
work until January 28th.
Thief!
Police caught two bicycle thieves last
Wednesday after a member of college
alerted the Senior Traffic Warden of
Imperial College, Mr Pitrola. Three
teenagers had been spotted tampering
with a bicycle in the old chemistry
building's bike sheds. Mr Pitrola
challenged the youths who ran off
towards South Kensington. Two of the
gang were apprehended by police near
Old Brompton Road.
The youths were found to be in
possession of bolt cutters, hidden inside
duffle bags. These bags had a hole in the
bottom to allow a security chain to be cut
secretly.
Mr Geoff Reeves, IC Security chief,
commended Mr Pitrola. 'He dealt with the
affair in a proper manner.' He added that
the last 10 days have seen 10 bicycle
thefts. He said that this was a lot.
Speaking to Felix, Mr Terry Briley,
Security Officer, reiterated security's plea
that bicycle owners should use D-locks
rather than chains. These are available at
cost price from the security room in
Sherfield.
Hard-up
Students may be able to claim over £50 a
week 'hardship' payments over the
summer vacation from a little known
Government fund. Local Education
Authorities (LEA) have the discretion to
award up to £53.50 to any student whom
they consider may suffer undue hardship
without the extra grant. This award
would be refunded to the authorities by
the Government.
Mr Alan Parker, the Education Officer
of the Association of Metropolitan
Authorities, told Paul Shanley, Union
President, that the LEAs don't get many
requests or agree to many. He will be
meeting the National Union of Students
(NUS) next month to discuss the fund. He
advises students to write to the LEA in
which they are currently resident to
register their intention to claim. A request
for a claim form should be sent later.
OLD CENTRALIANS
invite you to a
Careers Reception
for Graduating Students
6.00-8.30pm, Thursday 1st Nov
Senior C o m m o n Room, Sherfield
This is an ideal opportunity to discuss career
prospects in most engineering disciplines and
management, with OCs and their guests.
Wine and light refreshment will be served.
Tickets are free to members and SI for non-
members, and should be obtained from the Old
Students' Association Office (Room 303,
Sherfield) by Thursday 25th October.
BEng Dropped

