Bird on a Wire REVIEWS
To give this film its due, it's scrupulously
fair. You see Mel Gibson's bum at least as
often as you see Goldie Hawn's legs. Of
course, both the bum and the legs are
particularly fine examples of their type.
Physiology maketh not the film, alas, so
what does it have to offer in the areas of
acting, plot and filming? Well, a fair
amount actually. Rick Jarmine (Mr
Gibson) is on the witness protection
programme, changing identity, accent and
occasionally sexual orientation whenever
he is recognised. At present he is working
in a garage with a southern accent, y'all.
Then his college girlfriend-turned-hot-shot-
lawyer improbably pulls up for some gas.
A call to the FBI soon puts the very
people he put away on (and some
buckshot in) his tail. Thus he and
Marianne (Ms Hawn) are forced to flee
across the country.
Both the principals turn in reasonable
performances, and Mr Gibson copes well
in a role that often sends up the macho
types that he is best known for playing.
The chemistry is good between the
principles, and the contrast of Rick's
retention of his college beliefs and
Marianne's sell out for yuppie principles is
occasionally exquisite. The villains rarely
even make it into two dimensions, but as
their role is low on words and heavy on
guns it doesn't make that much
difference. Admittedly, the cockroach is
far more emotionally convincing than the
motiveless tigers but then I'm sure
talented tigers aren't even two a penny in
Hollywood.
In amongst all the shooting, flying,
screaming (Ms Hawn has a pair of lungs
to match her legs), roaring, bonking and
hairdressing something got rather
unfortunately left out. Where were those
laughs? Without them we are left with a
comedy-thriller that occasionally raises a
wry smile, but would never have you
rolling in the aisles. Passable, passable.
Pendragon.
USSR Bolshoi Symphony
The scene was set, the lights in the
Barbican were dimmed, the orchestra
poised and as the conductor raised his
batton a panting FELIX reviewer
staggered to his seat. Despite LRT's
attempts to stop me getting to the
concert I had made it!
The concert opened with Tchaicovsky's
Fantasy-Overture Hamlet, Op.67. This
provided an exhilarating start to what
was to be an impressive concert. It was
composed in 1888 and was obviously
inspired by Shakespeare's play, and
dedicated to Grieg, (popularly known for
'In The Hall Of The Mountain King').
However, Hamlet is a tragedy and I
doubt if Tchaicovsky's intention was to
recreate the atmosphere of the play since
he would have failed miserably if it was.
The overture is a bright and inspiring
piece which even a vehment 'I don't like
classical music character', typical of I.C.,
would recognise parts of, if only from
adverts. I don't consider myself placed to
criticise the orchestra on technical detail,
but I did feel that they were a little
uncertain in their delivery.
Dvorak's Cello Concerto in B minor,
Op. 104 followed and provided a complete
change of atmosphere. The audience
warmed to the soloist, Alexander Rudin,
as he played with a skill and feeling that
infected the orchestra and the audience
with equal enthusiasm. Rudin played with
increasing confidence throughout the
three movements. So popular was his
performance that he returned to the stage
to treat us to ten minutes of the most
impressive cello I have ever seen.
An interval followed and then the
Romeo and Juliet Suite Op.64, by
Prokofiev began. Its opening can only be
described as spectacular, and again would
be recognised by almost anyone. It was
only slightly spoilt by an over enthusiastic
brass section. The entire work was
excellantly done, with the orchestra
warming to the audience. The closing
bars received a standing ovation and such
was the reception that Lazarez was
pursuaded to lead the Bolshoi into two
encores, including Elgar's Pomp and
Circumstance, No.l, which was played
with great enthusiasm.
It was a rare treat to see this orchestra
in London and they lived up to their
excellant reputation, giving a concert that
the audience should not forget for a long
time.
Richard Eyers.
The Alternative Motor Show
Following the success of the Science
Museum/Lego exhibition earlier this year
the Museum is once again displaying
designs based on those infinitely versatile
plastic bricks.
This time students of design across
Europe were asked to produce a 1:5 scale
model of a concept car for the next
century. Their entries, built using only
Lego, range from the wildly original (a
giant walking stilt) to the practical (an
egg-shaped passenger vehicle) and the
shades in between, including the winning
entry, 'Lobstar', a two-part car comprising
a small electric runaround and an
environment-friendly hydrogen booster.
Also on display are computer-controlled
Lego cars and robots that can be
programmed for a variety of movements
and skills; and for those of us who
enjoyed being harrassed by small children
last time, there is the essential 'build your
own' section with thousands of the parts
you could never find.
Lastly, car freaks will be happy to learn
that the Jaguar XJ220 concept car (no,
not a Lego one, the real thing) is on show
for the next week. The next chance you'll
have to see one of these will be one of
the 350 they make between '92 and '94.
The exhibition is well worth a visit for
anyone interested in design, cars or
pretty models. Remember, admission to
the Museum is free for Imperial students.
Stone.

