REVIEWS
Robocop I I
Clump, clump, clump.
Like the posters say 'he's back'.
Restored to gleaming perfection after the
toils of his last celluloid exploit, once
more Officer Murphy—Robocop—patrols
the streets of Detroit. Until Nuke (a
deadly drug) merchant Cain and his gang
get their hands or rather pneumatic drills
on him. O C P soon take delivery of a self-
assembly Robocop model kit. Meanwhile
The O l d M a n (boss of OCP) puts seductive
but frankly barmy Dr Juliette F a x x in
charge of the Robocop II development
programme. N o w Robo II is part of a
takeover bid, but not of a corporation,
but of Detroit itself. After pressure from
the police F a x x rebuilds Robo I but...are
you following all this? Thought not.
Ripp....Craaaash....
In the hands of comic writer and artist
Frank Miller, the Robo-sequel is not a
simple affair, but a combination of at
least three separate plotlines. Almost
inevitably this makes it a much more
complex film than its predecessor. Issues
only touched on in the first film, such as
privatisation gone mad a n d the
psychological effects of becoming a
cyborg, are developed and a greater dose
of humour is injected. Poor old Robo
himself is the butt of most of it—he even
has 'kik me' sprayed on his back at one
point.
'Where is he?....Obstructing the law is
an offence.'
So far, so good. The gore and splatter
merchants will be pleased too. Many of
the less important cast members
disappear into a fine red mist when Robo
II enters the fray. If y o u can stomach this,
which is not easy—a rather damp cinema
seat marks m y attempt to cover m y eyes
while sticking m y fingers in m y ears with
my morning orange juice still in m y
hand—there are many gem like moments
to be had. Robo is mentioned to have
been a catholic, and is then 'forgiven' by
a criminal with a Jesus syndrome before
he is dismembered.
Clump, Clump, whirr, click...
Surprise! A sequel which is m u c h better
than its predecessor. The best ideas from
the first are mixed with some fresh input
and a very enjoyable film is the result.
Go see, y o u have 20 seconds to comply.
Y o u are under arrest for violating the
Critic's Charter section seven—no
reviewer will like a sequel better—you
are coming with me, dead or alive.'
Pendragon.
Salute of theJugger su n s e t
I have seen the future and it is dark...It
always is isn't it? Once more we have a
barbaric apocalyptic society where lots of
impoverished looking people scrape out a
living from the arid deserts that remain.
Their only entertainment is The Game—a
sort of public school rugby, but with
chains, sticks, body armour made from
tyres and a dog's skull instead of a pig's
bladder. Bands of Juggers (players of The
Game) roam from village to village
challenging local teams, a n d invariably
winning. Their prize? Money, food,
alcohol and w o m e n (and m e n too—
w o m e n play o n equal terms). The film
tells of Kidda (Joan Chen) a young Qwik
in Sallow's team w h o aspires to the
League. The League is a series of games
fought between teams from the 7 citities,
each imaginatively named after a colour.
Eventually the team's wanderings bring
them to Red City and a challenge match
with a team headed up by an old team-
mate of Sallow (Rutger Hauer). This chap
turns out to be called Gonzo, but is
unfortunately not a blue Muppet.
The plot is minimal and the acting
minimalistic. T h e backdrops are standard
(Australian) wastelands but the extras
refreshingly multi-racial. T h e film will
never be accused of selling itself on the
back of gorgeous people as the Juggers
are all badly scarred. The
cinematography is unexciting, and the
music fairly banal. Not really a lot to
recommend so far.
Their is light in the darkness though.
The scenes in the vast underground city
give tantalising glimpses of a feudalist
society, with a rich, hedonistic and
aesthetically obsessed hierarchy and an
oppressed and subservient underclass.
Sandwiched between the two are the
Juggers w h o form a rather precarious
middle-class. It's never really developed
though, lost under the weight of the main
plot and lots of significant glances.
If you're a devotee of Mad Max style
movies, or even sports films, which this
resembles fairly closely, The Salute of the
Juggers m a y be worth a look. For
everyone else the exciting game
sequences won't be enough to sustain
interest over the 92 minutes.
Pendragon.
at
Blandings
This finally brings the Life at Blanding
series to an end. Unfortunately the final
instalment is incomplete, P . G Wodehouse
died before he had a chance to tie up the
loose ends and bring everything to its
natural end.
Included with the book are the notes
that w e r c f o u n d when he died and some
discussion as to h o w he w o u l d have
ended the book. Y o u do need to have
read the other books to fully understand
them but they're interesting nevertheless.
There is too little space to go into the
details of the plot; that would be a book
in itself, the best thing to say is that it's
simply brilliant.
Many modern, supposedly humourous,
writers could learn m u c h from reading his
book. It is funny in a natural, human
way, there are no jokes but y o u will
often find yourself laughing at the
mistakes and coincidences that the
numerous characters concoct.
I highly recommend that y o u read this
book and the others in the series. A l l I
will say is w h y can't people write like this
now, was it something in the water?
Ian Hodge
Video Competition Winners
N W Jones
Catherine Tombs
Graham Little
Your prizes will be here in a week!

