T h e S h a m e n
The Shamen have shocked the world
with their outspoken stabs at tradition,
firmly intent to make us question all that
we hold for granted and try to convert us
to their ante-religious philosophies.
This new creation, due for release on
October 22, adds the latest dimension to
their brain-washing techniques and
hypnotic propaganda. There is no
aclimatisation, no becoming drawn into
their ideas.
The first track, Human NRG, leaves no
doubt of their convictions that the mind is
the source of all divinity. Is this mind-
numbing medley meant to awaken people
to the snares of tradition, or simply force
them to succumb? There is no let-up into
Progen where the mind is not only
divine, but all-powerful. Here The
Shamen add a racing beat and some rap,
succeeding still more in bringing their
own relevance to today.
The album continues with still more
attacks at apathy and warped morals
where anything is permissible without a
divine law to inspire. The Shamen are
purveyors of sounds and captions more
than musicians. They acquire their
knowledge from the television world of
fraudulent A m e r i c a n preachers and do
not find it necessary to add with vocals to
what has already been said. Nonetheless,
5 H 4 m E T I
The
Mothers
Even if we Lose
This four track E P is a blues/folk
collection of songs, which sound very
American—similar to the likes of REM,
but not as melodic. They favour story
telling, with a key theme of lonliness,
delivered with a distinctive rasping vocal
style.
The EP kicks off with Even if we Lose.
This is the most blues orientated track,
with scarcer vocals than the others.
Shame on You is an acoustic number
accompanied by a piano, and dealing
with the subject of prostitution. A married
man picks up a prostitute and takes her
home, as his wife is away. His bedside
manner leaves a lot to be desired as he
tells her 'Everybody's lonely, so lie on top
of me!!!'.
On the other side—Trying to Find a
Reason is a bit more up-tempo,
reminiscent of early Echo and the
Bunnymen (of all things). It is a more
poppy combination of guitar and vocals.
Finally The Marriage is Gone is a slow
number which is full of the despair,
regret, self-pity, and lonliness of a man
close to the brink. The singer is a father
writing to his son about the end of his
marriage, and his resulting lonliness.
Although not the type of music we
would choose to listen to, it's not bad, but
we can't really relate to the subject
matter.
P i n k y & P e r k y .
Loud
This doesn't explode, although it does
manage a pretty loud pop. A l l three
numbers suffer from a case of production,
leaving them too clean to be exciting,
while giving a definitely trans- Atlantic
taste, that probably lines the title up as
M T V fodder. The singer tries too hard to
be interesting, and even succeeds a bit.
A n acoustic track helps to get the
needle to the middle of the record, but
not much else. Perhaps this is the New
Model A r m y influence still lingering on
singer, Craig MacLaughlin.
The other two tracks are different
enough to take Loud off the beaten track,
but only onto the grass verge. If they
want to be good beyond doing what
everyone else is doing, they will have to
be wierder than this. Their music's o w n
merits are not enough.
Entact LP
where they do sing, it is only to confirm
this trippy dreamworld w h i c h counters all
that is real.
The hit, Omega Amigo is also included,
but seems a little insignificant against
such a relay of sounds as here. However,
the familiarity does provide a little relief
from the head-on onslaught at the mind
all around it. This effect is secured where
the flick is an image of the first, a
restatement of what has preceded. More
conformist is the dance track, Hyper Real,
which should be a single, overlaid with a
female soul voice. There is an addition of
African influence and a little rap, again
confirming that The Shamen are just as
concerned with race as religious zeal. A
contrast to this is the half-consciousness
of Oxygen Restriction where the whole
floats on the edge of the surreal.
The album is sealed with the last track,
Hear Me, almost a repetition of the first
track. There is no apathy within the
realms of the innocuous black pit of
vinyl. Y o u can either fight it or be swept
into it, it cannot be ignored.
SJH
Explosive 12"
Quite a lot of people will like this quite
a lot.
M u n g o
WHERE'S THE
CARTER
REVIEW???

