FELIX
Kaveh Guilanpour follows the chit-chat of leading Conservative
family man
R o c k y R o a d
On walking into the lecture theatre on
the ground floor of Mech Eng, I was
astounded by the lack of security—I
merely walked in with my bag (which
could have contained anything) and took
a seat—no security guards and no body
searches—remarkable considering recent
terrorist activity in London. Or do the
IRA have such a high regard for IC
students that they wouldn't harm them.
As if to emphasise the lack of security, an
unattended bag was left in the lecture
theatre throughout the address without
once being challenged.
The next thing of major importance
that I noticed is that the Secretary of
State for Transport is yet another
Conservative MP who drinks Perrier. Not
content to sell our water industry to the
French, are the Government now
adopting a.policy of buying French
bottled water as well as French owned
tap water?
Another fact distinguishing him as a
true Conservative was his inability to
remember the name of the Liberal
Democrats. This inherant Conservative
disability he shrugged off with a laugh. I
do not consider a minister who cannot
recall the name of the third largest party
in the House of Commons a laughing
matter, despite the fact that its name
changes every five minutes or so.
Mr Parkinson soon launched into the
expected oration of how bad a condition
the country was in before 1979 and how
wonderful it is now in comparison,
throwing in countless statistics along the
way.
A great deal of his speech was devoted
to the state of the economy, saying that
decisions taken after the crash of 1988
were a mistake and had led to the high
balance of trade deficit and high inflation,
adding that 'economic lessons had been
learned' and that 'the risk of a recession
had justified taking the risk of high
inflation that we have now'. He gave
another reason for the present state of
the economy as being the 'win the
election, pay later' policies adopted by
the Government in 1981. He also said
that in economics 'motives don't matter—
action determines results'.
On inflation he commented that it
would fall but that 'timing was
unpredictable' and that drops in interest
rates would follow inflation.
Speaking on the recent joining of
Britain to the Exchange Rate Mechanism
(ERM), Mr Parkinson said that this 'would
not solve Britain's economic problems'
and 'joining the ERM is no substitute for
sound economic policy'.
'Joining the ERM will have benefits but
will put pressure on industrial
productivity and economic growth'.
On being questioned on the timing of
Britain joining the ERM Mr Parkinson
stated that the date had not been chosen
to coincide with the Conservative Party
conference the following weekend, but
had been chosen to 'avoid market
speculation'. He revealed that the date for
joining the ERM had been discussed
between the PM and the Chancellor of
the Exchequer, John Major, as early as
June.
In reply to the suggestion that our
European Community (EC) partners were
not happy with the timing of Britain
joining the ERM, especially in view of
high interest rates at present, Mr
Parkinson replied that many of the
Government's conditions on joining the
ERM had been met, resulting in the
joining of the ERM last Monday-
something that is currently being strongly
disputed by Labour in Parliament. Neil
Kinnock claims that the PM had done a
'U-turn' on conditions previously set by
the Government.
On Economic and Monetary Union, Mr
Parkinson expressed the attitude of the
Government as 'not obstructive but less
enthusiastic' than the rest of the EC.
On being questioned on Capital
punishment he replied that he was in
favour, but that his view should not be
official Government policy since MPs
should have a 'free vote' and should not
be forced to vote against their
consciences, saying that at the moment
there is a 'substantial majority against
capital punishment in the House of
Commons'.
'Not much' was Mr Parkinson's reply to
being asked about electoral reform and
proportional representation. He added
that Hitler had come to power under a
system of PR and that our present system
'marginalises extremism'. He went further
and said that after many years of
experimentation with different election
processes, the American political system
had come to the conclusion that our 'first
past the post' system was the best.
Turning to the issue of privatisation Mr
Parkinson said that past flotations of

