Rag Tag and Bob Tail FELIX
Two events down, lots to go. (Why else
would 1 be writing this?) For those people
who aren't tired of Rag collecting there's
a good old UNICEF/UNA London
Collection tomorrow, with a free party at
ULU afterwards (ideal if you don't have a
big gig ticket). Turn up at today's Rag
meeting (Union Lounge 12.40pm) if you
want to collect. Also at the meeting we're
going to decide what we should do with
the Rag Mags. They're back from the
printers and very funny too. So come to
the meeting if you have an opinion on
whether we should sell them before the
beer festival.
Next Wednesday we have a Rag Raid
to Guildford, followed on Saturday by the
infamous Covent Garden World Wildlife
Fund Collections. So if being a panda for
a day is your cup of hedgehog juice, pop
along and see us (yes you've guessed it...)
the Rag meeting. The other future events
are:
Leukaemia Research pub crawl, Poppy
Day collection, Rag Week (from Beer
Festival to Dirty Disco—the new extended
12 day version). The sponsored Nude
Kamakaze Parachute Jump (24th Nov) is
now off the back of Jez, everyone's
favourite fire engine. So volunteer to
streak from Harrods now. The team
finishes with the Canterbury Rag Raid.
If anyone else wants to be a cheery rag
bod then they can stand for 1st year
publicity officer or Rag Fete coordinator.
Nominations for Rag Mag Editor open the
week after Rag Week.
Love and soapy bananas,
Steve Farrant, Rag Chairman.
Well Monopoly went well. Ooops, wrong
article, as I was saying Tiddlywinks was
lots of fun and we managed to hit the
LWT News and the Sunday Times. The
event itself raised around SI,450 for
Actionaid.
Drink-a-pub-dry afterwards failed in its
objective, though the Queen's Elm did
transform to a semi-arid state by the end
of the night. A couple of mega interesting
tiddle-related facts for you:
1. Shan is the first IC President for six
years not to go tiddlywinking. Though he
did manage a very energetic 'Fuck Off at
the Wakey Wakey Southside.
2. It's the first tiddle in ages not to
have a motorised mascot present. (They
were all broken unfortunately, however
Clem was excellent at Monopoly and Jez
will be available for the Sponsored Nude
Kamakaze Parachute Jump.)
One final note, 1 was perfectly fine after
Drink-a-pub-dry but Tanya was so pissed
she couldn't even remember half the
things she did. Ha Ha Ha.
Steve Farrant again.
Opinion:
Poll Tax, Why Not?
Cecil Parkinson
^ predicts the fortunes
of the Conservative
Government
National Industries had been a 'Rip-
roaring success' and that British Rail
would probably be next. Mr Parkinson
made the observation that 'nationalism is
not suitable for anything that matters'.
The Health Service is something that
'matters' very much. I leave you to draw
your own conclusions.
On issues closer to home, Mr Parkinson
said that it was his aim in London to
improve all forms of transport and then
'let the people choose how to travel',
adding that the overcrowded transport
system could take no more passengers at
present, although a slight increase on the
bus system was possible. Speaking on the
infrastructure of London he said that
'planners do not always get it right' and
commented 'I look forward to the day
when I can put a bomb under it' in
reference to Lambeth. (Town or
councillors?)
Surprisingly the question of Student
Loans and Education did not rear its ugly
head, and neither did the Poll Tax, or the
position of the Conservative Party in the
opinion poles.
Mr Parkinson was most cooperative in
answering questions and extended the
allocated fifteen minutes. He dealt with
the only incidence of heckling by saying
'just an intellectual letting off steam'.
Kaveh Guilanpour.
If you went to buy a loaf of bread and
the assistant demanded the deeds to your
house, you would think that he were
crazy. What is more, you would probably
walk out in disgust, and yet this is just
what we accepted for years. Out of a
basket of community needs such as food,
water, clothing and schooling, some were
paid for according to use, and others
according roughly to the value of your
home. Yet no one could say that water
was less important than food or schooling
less important to clothing. So why the
difference? Some weak-willed liberal
might comment that it was impractical for
the state to supply food (as had been
show in the Communist Bloc), but this is
simply intellectual chit-chat. What we
needed was a charge for everything, so
that those slacking lefties would really
pay for their spending sprees. The
Community Charge has brought us a new
freedom, where everyone has the
opportunity to pay, almost regardless of
their means.
But this new wave of rationalism has
not yet reached the shore. As I am sure
you all know, half of local finances are
contributed by central government. And
among that, a substantial part is raised
through the so-called progressive tax
system. This no more than a kind of
financial apartheid, where people are
discriminated against by the amount of
money they earn. One group, the nice
clean people (who just happen to have
lots of money) are forced to pay more,
while the lazy dirty people (who have a
little less) pay less or nothing at all. 1
have heard it said, that the well-off
should be glad to support the community,
that they should pay in growing
proportion to their earnings. But why
should they support a load of whingeing
paupers? It is well time that we
disregarded this socialist nonsense.
We need to take a fresh look at this
problem. If the Community Charge is
such an equitable solution, we could
apply it more generally. After all, what
difference is there between spending on
the police (local) and the army (central),
between spending on undergraduate
study (local) and postgraduate study
(central)? Surely what's sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander. Why stop
at the Community Charge? Why not a
National Charge? Everyone would pay a
fixed monthly charge, irrespective of their
earnings. At last we could put an end to
this idea of robbing the rich to give to
the poor. We wouldn't need to have any
tax inspectors, or prosecutions for fraud.
Just think, that nice man Mr. Piggott
would never have gone to gaol.
Yes, this discrimination between rich
and poor has gone on too long. It is the
rich who provide employment for the
poor. And what do they receive in
return? They are charged more for
services which they don't ever use. It is
time the poor looked after themselves,
and the rich were left to get on with
getting richer. We need a National
Charge now (I ought to know, I've got
loads of money).
in serious jest...
Matthew G. Johnson

