Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Pige 5
Wednesday 16th Friday 18th
Bill to save Grammar Schools
A bill removing compulsion on local
educational authorities to reorganise all their
schools into comprehensives is to be
published this week.
It is the first piece of legislation to be
introduced by the Conservative Government
and indicates the priority given to reprieving
the remaining 305 grammar schools.
Frenchman on right side of the law
The gastronomic pleasures of a West
Somerset inn proved too much for a
Frenchman. After thanking the landlord for
his fillet steak he sat in his car and drove off -
up the right hand side of the road into an
articulated lorry.
Taunton's deputy police commander said:
'There was no need for the breathalyser,
because it was a genuine mistake and no-one
was hurt. After a good meal he probably
thought he was still in France'.
Russians fix the drinks
The American Embassy is advising
diplomats to accept drinks from Russians
only if they see them being poured out and
their hosts drink with them.
The warning follows investigations after an
American and an Australian diplomat were
taken ill o n a visit to the Ukraine. They
became violently ill, after drinking a glass of
vodka with Russian officials, experiencing
disorientation for four days.
Thursday 17th
Bessell addicted to drug
Peter Bessel, the chief prosecution witness
in the Jeremy Thorpe murder conspiracy
trial, admitted at the O l d Bailey that he had
been addicted to a hypnotic sleeping drug for
five years between 1967 and 1974 which
'clouded' his moral judgement. He had
obtained the drug Mandrax, from doctors to
help him to sleep.
Shah buys hotel
The Shah of Iran has paid £2.5 million for a
hotel on Paradise Island in the Bahamas,
where he has been staying since the end of
March. The hotel has 70 rooms.
The Shah and his family are being guarded
by at least 50 bodyguards, believed to include
a contingent of the Bahamian police.
How not to Do-it-yourself.
DIY enthusiast Michael Taylor tried to
lower the floor of his cellar to make an extra
room. He d u g away the foundations, with the
result that the side wall and front of the semi-
detached house collapsed. The three story
house in Regent Street, Gloucester was left
with three rooms exposed and floors hanging
in mid-air. It has been exstimated that it will
cost around £5,000 to repair the damage.
6-tongue pocket computer
A pocket machine that could replace the
language phrase-book and the telephone
address book has been launched in Britain.
It costs £148 plus VAT, and is the world's
first hand-held computer. The Lexicon L K -
3000 can translate between six languages
and will soon be capable of storing lists of
telephone numbers: It has been described as
'a tremendous breakthrough in micro-
electronics. '
Looking for a job, girls?
Knife thrower Carlos Carlezra is about to
interview applicants for the job of 'human
target' - he says the successful applicant
must be attractive, between 17 and 22, and
happy to stand against a board whilst knives,
spears and axes are thrown at her.
Leyland in Honda deal
British Leyland is to spend around £40 million
on building a new car which will be designed
by Honda, and sold under the Triumph
badge.
Honda will supply the gearbox and engine,
and Leyland will produce the body. The
model is to be manufactured at Triumphs
Canley plant in Coventry, which at present
makes the TR7, Spitfire and Dolomite.
Saturday 19th
New York Horror
Whilst climbing out of her car in the
business section of New York City, a woman
was attacked - by rats. At present there are
known to be more Norwegian rats than
people in the city. Last year, there were at
least eight million, and by this summer there
could be eleven million. A single female can
produce 30,000 offspring per year, around
15,000 of which can be expected to survive.
A 600 strong task force has been employed
to fight the rats, and Health Authorities fear
the recurrence of the Black Death plague,
which is spread by rats. The rats are thriving
on waste dumped in the city - 10% of food
purchased by New Yorkers is thrown out
every day.
Wales beat Scotland 3-0
Three goals from John Toshack gave
Wales their first win over Scotland in 15 years.
The home international football match was a
fast moving entertaining spectacle. However,
the match between N. Ireland and England
was an untidy game with England winning 2-
0.
Civil service cuts
The government will cut the number of
civil servants by at least 60,000. The intention
is to shrink the 566,000 strong white-collar
Civil service by around 10 per cent over the
next 12 months through retirements and the
usual rate of men leaving for other jobs.
Sunday 20th
Pay beds challenge
A s e r i o u s n e w c h a l l e n g e t o t h e
Government's plans to preserve some pay
beds in Health Service hospitals was thrown
down by militant members of the National
Union of Public Employees who threatened
to withdraw all services from private patients
from January 1st next year.
Elton John arrives in Moscow.
Elton John arrived in Moscow to take the
'Red Arrow' train to Leningrad at the start of a
ten-day concert tour. A s he arrived it was
announced that all seats for his first concert
had been sold.
Lancet warns of babies facing alcohol risk
Babies could be harmed even if their
mothers give up drinking during pregnancy.
A child has been born with features of the
fatal a l c o h o l s y n d r o m e - i n c l u d i n g
malformation, heart failure and stunted
growth - despite parents stopping drinking 18
months before conception.
Monday 21st
Teachers accept pay offer
A n offer of 9% was accepted by the teacher
unions with the rest of their 36.5% claim to be
referred to the comparability commission.
The N U T executive promptly agreed to call
off the sanctions which have been troubling
schools for nearly a month.
North Sea Oil to be shared?
The International Eriergy Agency is
d e c i d i n g w h e t h e r to i m p l e m e n t its
emergency oil-sharing scheme to cope with
t h e g r o w i n g s h o r t a g e s f a c i n g t h e
industrialised countries as a result of the
Iranian revolution.
If the scheme is implemented Britain will
have less North S e a crude oil available. Oil
exports would have to be increased by the
amount the IEA decided was the average fall
in normal supplies before any more could be
used in Britain. This would almost certainly
mean the i n t r o d u c t i o n of m a n d a t o r y
conservation measures by the Government to
reduce demand.
Tuesday 22nd
UDI Settlement
The Conservative Government is set to
bring Rhodesia back to legality after 14 years
of unilaterally-declared independence. Mrs
Thatcher and her colleagues have accepted
the view of a team of Conservative observers
that the recent elections in Rhodesia were
relatively fair and free.
The acceptance of the elections could
fulfil the last of the six principles which
s u c c e s s i v e B r i t i s h G o v e r n m e n t s have
insisted o n being met if any Salisbury regime
is to be acceptable.

