7 February 1992 Felix 925 Travel
sent the horses whinnying in protest
and dripping saliva as they gagged
on their bits.
At the Inglesia de Ntra we went
in from the white blinding sun. The
virgin hovered in a spot light above
the altar and my pupils, still small
from the sun, could see little. It was
like walking into a huge cave with
the saint's statues like large
stalactites dripping from the ceiling.
A faint light fell from a dome high
above the altar. I stood at the back
where the mass could be heard
against the puppet show entertaining
the crowds outside.
'...es Spiritus es sancte...' and
the mass was over and the doors
were flung open to reveal the great
silver ox cart outside. The podgy
priest pushed his way out to greet
them. The ungainly silver cart was
turned to face the altar and a hush
fell over the crowd as the singing
began to the whistle and the drums.
The cart was turned again and to the
booming of fireworks it processed
south.
Across the Acero de Darro I
stopped to watch a shepherd
herding his sheep and goats up the
dry Rio Genii—in which a little
muddy brook flowed. He wore fine
brown check trousers, black cloth
shoes, and two faded shirts—the
inner one tucked clumsily into his
slack trousers. His hands and face
showed a career of outside toil and
he bore a healthy worn in tan. He
carried a matted bundle of leather
straps and his voice was as coarse
as the country he trod. 'Perro
aqui...' he croaked in an earthy
command. The two crew-cropped
English sheep dogs hesitantly
obeyed—bounding to where he
pointed and obediently looking to
him for the next command.
The weather-beaten figure on the
fly-over persisted with his croaked
instructions above the traffic noise
until the animals were positioned
'just-so'. As the herd stood on the
banks of the muddy waters in a
small shady triangle at the mouth of
an inky black tunnel, the dogs
trotted about, fine tuning their
position. Content, the shepherd
strode off, leather bundle in hand.
It was drizzling gently as we
slipped and slid our way along the
freshly cleared landslides which
coated the road to Trevelez. I was
told it was the highest village in
Spain, if not Europe, not counting
ski resorts, at 1300m. An inky
black storm cloud groaned and
crashed over the snowy peaks and
a mist swirled around the steep
terraced, richly green valley sides,
occasionally parting to reveal tiny
white conurbations brandishing tall
white and clay brown church spires.
It reminded me of the lush green
Hunza valleys in the foothills of
Northern Pakistan.
Once inside the little villages,
their narrow streets would envelope
you and wrap you in an Alpujarride
wool blanket of warmth and
comfort. It was late in the day when
we returned on the road to
Lanjaron, of bottled water fame.
The streets were thronging with
candle carrying people milling
about outside the little church and
spilling into the road as they awaited
the arrival of the children who had
received their first communion that
year. Little girls in brilliant white
lacy gowns and little boys in sailor
suits—hair groomed and pleated. A
bespectacled nun led the girls, who
took it in shifts of thirty steps to
front the procession and face the
In one corner of the square, a
South American pipe and drum
band fought to overcome the ear-
splitting flamenco. They achieved
a small foot-tapping crowd which
clustered and clamoured to hear the
soft wood pipe whistle.
It was to the cathedral that I
traipsed on Corpus Thursday
morning to view the start of the
procession. There was already a
military band assembled outside
when I arrived. Pristine rows of
crew-cut green berreted khaky clad
young boys with smart white
gloves, ceremonial spades, axes,
and picks.
I picked my way through the
crowds assembled in the square
outside and squeezed into the
and edged towards the main altar
where it halted to wait patiently for
its moment in the service.
The starry eyed congregation
sang and wailed and the mighty
organ piped their lead from the
rafters drowned only by the priest
who led enthusiastically through the
PA system. As the service drew to
a close the procession amassed in
the aisle carrying long white
candles. Miserable looking old men
in their best suits mouched at the
front trailing their candles in their
wake. Behind them came the
standard bearers—Podgy boys with
piglet grins in brown suits paraded
in front of equally podgy little girls
in white bulging bridal gowns.
More elderly men, some dressed
like waiters, others like
undertakers. Next the nuns, in grey
and black and cream and white,
hands hidden and arms folded in
abject submission, patiently
queueing as if for communion.
Behind them the monks lined up
cloned 'fria-tucks' in brown sack
habits with white bell cords round
tubby waists.
As the service finished, the
priests filled out from the high altar
and followed the monks, their white
dresses wafting in the draft from the
gapping doors at the end.
The altar was off again, trembling
its way down the aisle towards the
daylight. In the congregation, old
women clutching boney walking
sticks shouted out 'Blessed Senior
Jesus' and started to applaud
contagiously. A fanfare from the
military band drew the altar to the
waiting crowds outside and as it
passed the old women by, they
would glance up fearfully and then
hide their eyes.
As it reached the sunshine, the
current of applause fired the crowds
outside into action and fire-crackers
exploded from the cathedral roof,
showering the people in ash and
sending pigeons into wielding
confusion. Down the stairs and
along the little streets quaked the
altar washed along by clapping
hands and torrents of confetti.
In its wake, strolled floppy velvet
hatted urchins in puffed culottes and
tights. Court jesters, medieval
soldiers and busby clad guardsmen
marched in a goose-stepping ballet.
Through the little streets they went
for all to see. The parade was so
long it kept stretching and snapping
and re-forming.
I strolled around the city that
evening and watched the young
children pirouetting in their
Christmas tree dresses. Flurries of
hands wave their mimes tirelessly,
as they span and stamped and
looked their serious stern
determined looks. 'Franco is dead
long live flamenco.'
battery of proudly popping flash chilled musty interior of the gaping
bulbs and the cyclopses of video building. A vast cavern of a room
cameras. met my eyes and all about were
When I returned to Granada, the people milling and mixing and
same corpus celebrations were in the floral displays and a golden light
full swing. As I descended from the glowed from the carved walls
Sierras into the basin at dusk the behind.
lights from a vast fun fair burnt high As I watched the flowers began
into the hazy night. Big wheels of to tremble and the flames quivered
orange and green neon cartwheeled as the altar raised mysteriously off
in the oily blackness. Long arms the ground and rotated through
tumbled flung and span terrified ninety degrees. The feet of the men
faces at unpredictable angles. within were hidden from view by
In the square behind the curtains draped around them.
Cathedral an ethnic triangle of Once outside the recess it moved
symbiotic culture had grown. North up a side aisle, the crowds parting
Africans were massing, their wares to allow its passage. At the top of
blanketing the pavement. As they the cathedral it swivelled sidways
squatted behind proudly swatting socialising whilst the service
the dust from their goods with commenced beneath a stupendous
feather dusters their white teeth altar in the distance. Insence burned
gleaming in cheeky cajoling grins. and the air was cool and quenching.
The centre of the square was In a recessed archway at one side
swathed in a striped canopy. was a sturdy silver altar bedecked
Beneath, bucksome, poppy in white lilies, orchids and blossoms
mouthed, pouting schoolgirls as pure as the Sierra Peaks. Tall
released exam tension in a frenzy candles sent up sooty plumes from
of hand curving flamenco.

