If the current pandemic has been good
for anything, it has been kindest
to the act of reflection. So many peo-
ple were trapped inside their homes,
physically separated from key aspects of
their lives and livelihoods. Being stuck
inside forces one to look within as well
as without – increasingly people appear
to have become aware of the negative
ways in which society has hitherto been
organised, and much value has been
placed on the opportunity for idealis-
tic introspection. But on the minds of
many, one practical question persisted
throughout the lockdown: when will
things return to normal? This call seems
entirely reasonable. As pragmatists
never tire of pointing out, the long-term
effects of a so-called “90% economy”
could be disastrous. What’s more, the
rhetoric of both the powers that be and
the average citizen often centres around
this idea of normality, and in particular
how to rediscover it. But I’m not so sure
about the reasonableness of these calls,
no matter how intuitive they appear –
what I do think is that their frequency
offers an opportunity to talk about why.
Perhaps the most striking thing about
calls for normality is how normal they
themselves have become. Before the
coronavirus pandemic much of global
politics was seen to be going through
a strange period; from the victories of
“outsider” populists like Donald Trump
and Jair Bolsonaro to the increasingly
volatile relationship between the East
and West, there were no shortage of calls
for a return to a normal world order.
Before that even, who didn’t wish they
were back before the Great Recession?
And, wow, wasn’t life a lot more nor-
mal before 9/11 – when will I be able to
board a plane normally again? It seems
that there is nothing more normal than
abnormality.
Of course, much of this can be under-
stood under a rose-tinted lens. More of-
ten than not, people will look back and
see greener grass, and there is nothing
surprising about that. But what’s inter-
esting is how this rhetoric so effectively
reproduces ideology: indeed, it has a
deeply political character. In the repeat-
ed framing of global issues as deviations
from a normal social order, the latter is
effectively petrified – it becomes entirely
ahistorical. After all, if our only metric
of success is rooted in similarity to the
past, how can we ever hope to reach the
future?
This analytical angle cuts deeper too.
When Fukuyama proclaimed the end of
history after the fall of the Soviet Union,
he stressed that such an end could nev-
er apply to culture, but we appear to be
trying to force one nonetheless. Consid-
er the precipitous rise in film and televi-
sion remakes in recent years – in 2018,
80% of top 20 grossing movies world-
wide were based on unoriginal material.
From fashion to advertising, we tend to
place an ever-higher value on retro and
vintage aesthetics. In effect, our culture
is littered with simulacra of a dead past.
We can therefore not only understand
normality as naïve sentimentality, but
also as a sharp ideological tool keeping
us from looking too far forward. The
rhetorical and aesthetical vocabulary of
late capitalism haunts us with nostalgia
forapastthatneverexisted,andsokeeps
us suspended there. The normal is sim-
ply a ghost in the machine.
Given this predisposition to look
backwards, it is perhaps no wonder that
(inwealthycountries,atleast)peopleare
so pessimistic about the state of things.
A 2017 Ipsos MORI study on the “Perils
of Perception” found that, despite ob-
jective material improvements in glob-
al poverty and child mortality rates, a
large majority of people think that these
things are at an all-time high. A similar
survey by YouGov found that only 4%
of Britons think the world is getting
better. Such sentiment serves only to re-
inforce a regressive mindset. So, what is
to be done? First, we need to recognise
the autonomy that humanity has over
its condition and celebrate the success-
es which it has brought about. Perhaps
more importantly however, we must use
this celebration to motivate greater faith
in our ability to continue this historical
progression. We should reflect upon but
not dwell within our past, indeed, with-
in the old normal – we should seek to
build a new one.
Who would be an MP? The
answer that people often give to
that question is the rich, the power
hungry, and the narcissists. There
is widespread acceptance in British
society that politicians are incom-
petent bastards, a view not entirely
disproven by their actions. Howev-
er, we have only ourselves to blame
for this when we pay them so little.
To run the country, a task as large
and complicated as any around, we
pay them the same as if they were
mid-level managers at American
Express (£82,000) or Head of Trad-
ing at John Lewis (£90,000). Yet
at the same time we ask and expect
them to be the best and brightest.
Unfortunately, our best and bright-
est are at John Lewis where their
talents are appreciated. This creates
a disconnect between the value of
the work expected and the remuner-
ation for the work. This deficit can
be addressed either by lowering the
quality of the work done, leading
the Guardian to compile a ranking.
of MPs by number of parliamen-
FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk 111
COMMENT
News writer Nicholas Manrique argues that despite the changes in our lives since the start of the pandemic, we should learn to deal
with the new normal.
Why we shouldn’t want things to
return to normal
NicholasManrique
Newswriter
tary votes missed, making up the
difference with inherited money or
money earnt in other jobs or finally,
being so power hungry that you
don’t care how much you are paid.
Most MPs tend to employ all three
in differing amounts.
The outrage at the MPs’ proposed
pay rise is just the most obvious of
the British obsession with keeping
down our elected officials. When
Trump got ill he was flown to a spe-
cial medical centre and he received
24/7 medical care. The Americans
understand that the death of a lead-
er would be disastrous enough to do
everything in their power to prevent
it. In Britain, however, we still like
to imagine that our leaders are just
like us, keeping them working out
of a small townhouse in London.
Apparently, David Cameron would
leave Cabinet meetings to go up-
stairs to make himself lunch because
there are no staff at 10 Downing
street beyond a cleaner. We imagine
ourselves as a world power yet still
treat the business of ruling as an
amateurish game.
If we want a ruling class that can
make us proud, we should treat
them right. Pay them what they
might get in the private sector and
give them support in the form of
staff and proper buildings and
offices to work out of. Stop handi-
capping ourselves with pseudo-hu-
mility.
CalumDrysdale
Editor-in-Chief
Why MPs
should get a
payrise

