The College has responded to criticism of its policy
of expecting all students studying from home to
have WiFi by sending out flipbooks and sheet music
which together can be used by offline students to re-
construct the lecture experience. The flipbooks, which
areavailableinhalf,double,andf1.25timesspeed,were
put together by members of the Live Music society and
the Art society the new teaching delivery method has
been a hit among the small but hugely marginalised
Imperial Portsmouth Brethren and Amish communi-
ties, both of whom refuse to use technology in any way.
Representative of the anti-technology student com-
munities, Ann Faylward, a fourth year JMC student
that draws all her code up on a blackboard in chalk,
told NegaFelix that this was a really big day for rep-
resentation at Imperial. “Finally, people like me will
no longer need to rely on stealing notes from our peers
and can instead get down to some proper study.”
When NegaFelix spoke to members of the Art and
Live Music societies that were involved in the project
they were matter-of-fact about the process. “The sheet
music is really not much to get excited about. Most lec-
turers speak in monotone with the really engaging ones
usually having a vocal range of about three notes which
makes it easy for us to pen in. Other than the occasion-
al voice break up several octaves, once you get into the
groove of a lectures voice you can transcribe them fairly
easily.” The members of the Art society were similarly
pragmatic. “The low quality of many lecturers’ cameras
and internet connections means that videos are so low
quality that we can use the same flipbook for every lec-
turer and simply sub in the appropriate diagrams..”
When we spoke to the Vice Provost (Arts and
Crafts) Schmitt Stick about the
project, he was keen to stress that
this was only the early stages of very
promising new revenue stream. He
explained that “This is a matter of
critical representation. In order to
avoid some students being disadvan-
taged by their views we are going to
be abolishing all computer usage. We
apologise for the discriminative way
that we have employed computers in
research and learning over the last
decade. The College is dedicated to
Flipbooks fix persistent Panopto problems
Credits: wikimedia
Tarlie Hitmuss NegaFelix Reporter
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Felix@imperial.ac.uk
14
HANGMAN
learning how to be a better
institution every day and
fighting discrimination in
every form that it takes.”
NegaFelix reached out to
the Amish Society at Impe-
rial for comment, but at the
time of publishing we have
recieved no response to our
email.
VIDEOS ARE SO LOW
QUALITY THAT WE
CAN USE THE SAME
FLIPBOOK FOR
EVERY LECTURER
“
Plans for a live comment system are still in the works

