KEEP THE CAT FREE
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
16
Eternity in the air
News writer Nicolas Manrique chronicles his witness to the 640-year rendition of John Cage’s ‘As
SLow As Possible’ being attempted at the St. Burchardi Church, Halberstadt, Germany, where the
first organ-chord change in over seven years took place recently in early September.
I
t is early in the morning on September 5th,
and I am on a slow regional train from Berlin.
The destination is Halberstadt, a small town in
Saxony-Anhalt. Its chocolate-box streets and
imposing cathedral are perhaps reason enough
to visit, but today a different attraction demands the
pilgrimage. Just north of the town centre, nestled
inside a medieval cloister, stands the unassuming
Sankt-Burchardi church, and inside its nave you will
find the longest, slowest musical performance ever
attempted. It began in September 2001 and doesn’t
intend to stop until the year 2640 – unless, of course,
the sheet music calls for a rest. The piece being played
is John Cage’s aptly named As Slow As Possible, usu-
ally known by the baffling acronym ASLSP, and this
afternoon (3 o’clock, to be precise) is the first time in
seven years that a note is changing.
Whenever you make a journey like this, it is always
fun to see if you can tell which of your fellow passen-
gers are making the same one. Who goes out of their
way to see – hear? – this happen in person? Dr Rainer
O. Neugebauer, the performance’s director, reckons
that as many as 1000 people may descend on the town
for the note change, or Klangwechsel. Why so many?
“On the one hand, ours is a very simple project: just
time, and air. When you’re inside the church, you hear
no melody, no rhythm… just this unchanging sound.
But on the other hand, it is a very philosophical
project. People think about time, and their lifetimes”.
He himself has been confronted with such thoughts.
In 2011 a single pipe began sounding, playing a low
D, which will not stop until 2071 – in his own words,
“I won’t ever hear the end of this note!” Moreover, Dr
Neugebauer thinks that in a certain sense people are
able to find more in this music than in any other: “For
Cage, all sounds were equal. The notes don’t know
about Mozart, or Beethoven, they are just sounds;
they have no meaning – so people can give them what-
ever meaning they want.” Perhaps I’m doing this point
of view a disservice by sharing my interpretation here
– I’ll leave that up to you.
Arriving early at Sankt-Burchardi, the first thing
to notice is the emptiness. In place of pews and an
altar, one finds bare ground, and specks of dust. And
in the still air, a sound: following it, one finds the only
permanent residents. On one side of the hall six great
bellows work constantly to feed the organ’s pipes; and
on the other sits the organ itself. It is a small instru-
ment, with far too few pipes filling its wooden frame.
At its front are the sandbags responsible for playing
the keys – the project was unable to find a human
organist with the required stamina.
Gradually, the nave fills with both people and
anticipation for the note change. In truth it is more of
a note addition: the existing chord is being augmented
by an E and a G#. The event proceeds almost ritualisti-
cally, with Dr Neugebauer addressing the crowd from
a lectern and the organ being handled only with white
gloves. Finally, soprano Johanna Vargas and composer
Julian Lembke each install their respective pipe and
the change is complete. The air within the church
changes for the first time in almost a decade, and then
it is over. The crowd applauds as the performers bow.
And the music continues.
Being inside the church for the event itself, it is
easy to see what Dr Neugebauer means. Surrounded
by the endless sound, you are forced to think about
what, if anything, it might be trying to say. In a town
whose own cathedral took hundreds of years to
complete, one is reminded of how its ancient builders
must have felt, dedicating their hours to the com-
pletion of a façade they would never live to see. In
modern times such time scales are unthinkable. Life
appears to be accelerating at an ever-accelerating rate,
yet here we find its very antithesis. The almost anticli-
mactic catharsis of the change itself is a reminder of
just how alien this feels, like looking at the Mona Lisa
one square millimetre at a time.
Will we as a people ever hear the end? 639 years is
an especially long time in this age of climate change
And the Music Never Stops
Credits: Illustration by Nicolas Geiseler-Toran

