Inothernews
Lunch time concert resumes
Blyth Centre resumes its live weekly lunch time
concert series for a socially distanced audeince
at the Great Hall starting first week of October.
E
lectronic aims to be a comprehensive history
of dance music, from the creation of the first
synthesizers, to acid houses, Boiler rooms,
post-wall Berlin techno and everything in between.
From LED light spectacles to neon-coloured
membership cards and holographic vinyl collec-
tions, you will find a lot of fun stuff to see The
background music which accompanies the whole
experience has some museum goers thumping
around while others seem completely impartial and
apathetic to it.
The exhibition is extensive, and you can easily
spend hours in there trying to gather all the infor-
mation. I phrase it like that because there is defi-
nitely not a shortage of information at this exhibi-
tion. Text box after text box, band name after band
name, I started feeling like a saturated sponge, not
able to soak up more information about music
collectives or synthesizers created by college kids.
There are a lot of references to eras and artists, and
it gets a bit dry after some time if you don’t have
previous knowledge about them. Furthermore, the
relevance of certain items can remain a bit unclear,
like why certain costumes and collectives are on
display rather than others.
Another issue with the exhibition; we are in
London - a major city in terms of influence for
electronic music. However, this aspect is explored
very little. Berghain is mentioned and presented at
least 3-4 times (including a miniature architectural
prototype of it??), but come on, no London venues?
A not-so Brief history of electronic music
Electronic @
The Design Museum
Until 14th
Feb 2021
£16.3 (£12.15 Students)
Reviewed by Amanda Hertzberg Arts Editor
Cultural recovery fund alloca-
tion details announced
Exhibtion
For Whom the Bells Toll
Credits: Nicolas Manrique
Governemnt earlier this week, revealed details
of the £1.57B cultural recovery fund allocation
for venues that applied for under £1M through
the scheme, totaling to over £257M spread
across more than 1300 venues.
FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
ARTS
17
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
and mutually assured destruction. “My
wife, she is a big pessimist!” laughs Dr
Neugebauer. “I am a historian, and
history shows us that often our plans
don’t work out […] Cage was interest-
ed in processes where you don’t know
how it ends.” Still, he remains optimis-
tic – possibly out of necessity. “I hope
that enough young people, enough
enthusiastic people are able to continue
our project.” Practical concerns such as
these are ever-present in the mind of the
organisers: all the €1,000,000 needed
so far to keep the project running has
come from private donors. If such fund-
ing dries up, then the music could end
abruptly, even without some apocalyp-
tic event.
No doubt many readers will be
lamenting such a waste of money.
But for Dr Neugebauer, support for
projects like this is crucial. “Good,
authentic avant-garde art is very im-
portant, to offer a picture of the future.
We cannot draw what the future looks
like, but through the avant-garde we
can get glimpses.” In this sense, the
performance becomes far more than
mere spectacle: it takes on a political
character. Through its very contrast to
our world and the music of our time,
ASLSP holds the seed for something
beyond them.
Maybe these ideas seem abstract
and nebulous, but if you don’t buy into
them, I reckon there is still something
here for you. There is something de-
lightful about the inherent optimism in
the attempt; an almost childish purity
akin to asking what the biggest number
is. Even if you see it all as a ridiculous
joke, what could be
more uplifting than
thousands of people
coming together
to see it through
to its punchline?
If that thought
does not make you
smile, then I am
not sure what to tell
you. But above all,
don’t dismiss this as
something point-
less without giving
it a chance. As Dr
Neugebauer puts
it, “… maybe you
find it [the attempt]
crazy or bullshit,
but at least open
your mind before
you decide too fast.
Listen.” The next
note change is in February 2022, so that
gives plenty of time to mull.
Is it music? As Cage himself once
replied to a poser of that very question,
“Madame, if you don’t think it’s music,
then call it anything else.” To spend
time worrying over the project’s seman-
tic designation is to miss the point. The
Halberstadt performance of ASLSP
stands as a testament to that most hu-
man of motivations – why not? In this
work we find the living and breathing
contradiction to our existence. Where
we rush, it meanders; where our sym-
bols are saturated with meaning, it
offers a blank canvas; where we try to
understand, it remains incomprehensi-
ble – indeed where we die, it lives on.

