Nauman evokes raw discomfort
Anthro / Socio (Rinde Spinning)
Credits: Christoph Irrgan
T
here are few things as eerie as a sinister spin
on child’s play. Children, perceived to be the
epitome of innocence by society, still un-
touched by the lures of lust and greed, should only
be seen as pure. Horror films such as the Exorcist,
Annabelle, Sinister and Hereditary (to name a few
- the list really goes on forever) play on this eerie
concept of the darker side of childhood.
Not knowing what to expect when I stepped
into Bruce Nauman’s exhibition at Tate Modern, I
am struck by a sinister feeling. Nauman, an Ameri-
can born in Indiana in the 40s, explores the human
body, play, discomfort, life and death in different
colours. Walking from room to room in the exhi-
bition, feelings of unease are not uncommon. The
use of sound often penetrates from one room to the
next, so you’ve already got an idea of what’s wait-
ing for you in the next room based on the wailing,
crying sounds or the grainy, loud background noise
creeping up on you. Much like Andy Warhol, the
guy he shares the 4th floor of Tate with, Nauman
saw his studio as a place where art wasn’t static or
even a product of working. He rather saw it as a
constant dynamic creation, one that he as an artist
was constantly involved with.
Much of his art is in video format, but he was
also very talented at sculpting steel, fiberglass and
neon. He explores children’s play in much of his art,
making references to musical chairs, playing with a
pack of cards and falling over like a cartoon char-
acter slipping on a banana in a slow-motion video.
His own description of his work ’Hanged man’ is
a perfect example of
his harrowing take on
child’s play: ”With my
version... you’re not
allowed to participate
- the parts of the figure
are put into place with-
out you” (obviously
referencing the game
Hangman). I look
around the exhibition
- there are children
running around, ahead
of their parents, per-
plexed by the different
works.
Other works are a
direct commentary
on society, and cover
topics such as impris-
onment, surveillance
and death. They engage the visitor in more than
just a visual sense. The exhibition shows off Nau-
man’s talent excellently, and the use of space is well
thought out. For the first time in a while I walked
out through the last door of the exhibition, disap-
pointed not to be met with yet another room, but
instead the museum café.
Bruce Nauman @
Tate Modern
Until 21st
Feb 2021
£25 (£22 Students)
Reviewed by Amanda Hertzberg Arts Editor
Exhibtion
Jean Michel Jarr’s virtual studio
Credits: Imgur/Gil Lefauconnier
KEEP THE CAT FREE
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
18
And what about grime, drum & bass and garage,
three huge electronic genres endemic to London?
Visitors are required to bring their own head-
phones to the exhibition, there is a lot of informa-
tion that goes missed without them. They need to be
wired as well, so no airpods unfortunately. Because
of COVID-19 the museum is not able to lend out
headphones, which might make some parts of the
exhibition inaccessible to some.
I would’ve also liked to see more of an attempt at
involving the viewers in the exhibition. At times it
felt like reading a Wikipedia page about electronic
music, but in physical form. However, there are a
few interactive pieces, and they are excellent. They
are clearly what the exhibition has been built up
around, and are kind of the few strong pillars hold-
ing up a rather weak roof. The audience that would
enjoy this exhibition most, is the gen X, that grew
up on the birth of electronic music, partying in the
80s and 90s era of Eurodance music, who want to
reminisce the good old times.

