Little Simz, real name Simbiatu Ajikawo may be
one of few rappers who enjoyed the step out of
the limelight lockdown earlier this year offered: “I just
cook my meals and make my tunes/I’ve always appreci-
atedsolitude”shestateson‘youshouldcallmum’,while
her focus on wealth and success places her shoulder to
shoulder with her peers, her serrated individualism
ebbs through each track making for a refreshing listen.
Felix Reccomends
Cristiano Crisci, aka Clap! Clap! demonstrates a
dexteroushandatproduction,boundlessimagina-
tion and a genuine love for his craft on Liquid Portraits.
Bustling bodies of crisp percussion, showcasing strong
influences from traditional West African drumming
styles make up the heart of the Italian’s kaleidoscopic
compositions, accented by crystalline synths, and on
more propulsive tracks like the labyrinthine ‘Liquid
Mantra’ driving bass and snare patterns which create an
effect vaguely reminiscent of Chicago footwork.
The record’s pacing will make or break it for the like-
ly disoriented listener – the jazz musician and DJ has
no qualms dropping the listener from a breezy piece of
minimalist percussion into the depths of a dancefloor
groove from track to track, or indeed in the same track
(c.f. ‘Southern Dub’). ‘Hokkaido’s Farewell Portrait’ is
an undisputed highlight, where polyrhythmic tuned
percussion and bells are ruptured by an earth shatter-
ing 808 groove, a few samples of flutes and chanting
hidden subtly in the mix and the track is a musical ex-
perience unlike any other. Elsewhere, including on the
record’s opener and closer Crisci opts for more relaxed,
minimalism interplay of crisp synth lines which make
for pleasant if less compelling aural thoroughfare.
Like Guedra Guedra’s Son of Sun EP, which I re-
viewed last summer – I encourage anyone intrigued by
the fluid, abstract “portrait” on Liquid Portrait’s cover
to give this record a listen – the record’s contents might
just expand your definition of music. At the very least,
Clap! Clap!’s intricate rhythms will
I know what you’re thinking, “Guthrie wtf! These
recommendations are supposed to be from 2020 and
we all know this album came out in 1986”, but actually
it was re-released this summer; technically I’m safe. In
the 1980’s Japanese artists were pioneering their own
style of ambient music. GREEN is one of the all-time
masterpieces of Japanese ambient/environmental mu-
sic. Using a small range of synths, Yoshimura delicately
places notes into space. Inspired by sounds of nature,
the music is designed to have the same calming effect as
white noise but is loaded with artistic expression and is
filled with heart-wrenchingly ingenious moments.
Reviewed by Miles Gulliford Music Editor
EP by: Little Simz
Forfansof: Floetry,LaurynHill
TopTracks: mightbang,mightnot,where’smylighter
RunTime:12 minutes 50 senconds
Drop 6
Reviewed by Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
EP by: Clap! Clap!
Forfansof: Zomby,MountKimbie
TopTracks: Hokkaido’sFarewellPortrait
RunTime:40 minutes 54 senconds
Disrespectful
Reviewed by Miles Gulliford Music Editor
Album by: JZ Replacement
Forfansof: ??????
TopTracks: DisplacementA,TakeTheJZTrain
RunTime:35 minutes 41 senconds
Album by: Hiroshi Yoshmura
Forfansof: BrianEno,PenguinCafeOrchestra
RunTime:42 minutes 57 senconds
Green
I hadn’t taken particular note of Simz’s previous ef-
forts, but on her most recent EP Drop 6, something
clicked. The EP’s title marks it as another instalment of
her Drops series, the last of which debuted 5 years ago.
While her effortless yet rhythmically engaging flows,
unapologetic honesty and taste for minimal beats are
on display here as well as any of her other recent releas-
es, this record’s sparse runtime, clocking in at just over
10 minutes, and lower profile fit Simz’s style to a tee,
and offer her room her room for greater expression.
The listener is given perhaps a perfect introduc-
tion to the London rapper, “If you give you my time,
give you my space/Know that that shit’s not to waste”
she snarls on the opening lines of ‘might bang, might
not’. Here a light, propulsive, jungle-tinged drumline
straight and simple bassline give the track a distinctly
British sound as the Mercury prize nominee gives the
listener a whirlwind tour of her life – from her work
ethic, marijuana use and newfound success to her love
life and general ambivalence to how others may see her.
Much of the rest of the record follows in a similar
vein, with a number of more introspective tracks like
‘where’s my lighter’ closing out the track list, placing
Simz’s unique energy in a different emotional context,
where she still seems to thrive with ease. This imbues
Drop 6 with a natural flow that takes the listener on a
journey and keeps them coming back.
The drum and saxophone duo Jamie Murray and
Zhenya Strigalev strive to bridge the musical
ocean between UK drum’n’bass and jazz on their de-
but record. Tracks open with tightly arranged interplay
between drums and sax before giving way to more spo-
radic breakneck grooves overlaid with angular sax lines
and catchy synth and electric basslines courtesy of Tim
Lefebvre.
Liquid Portraits
FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
19
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk

