Ithink there is in everyone’s taste a soft spot for silly
movies. Adam Sandler’s career-long monopoly on
this subgenre of film would make you think he’d be
good at them by now. Not necessarily. In Hubie Hal-
loween, Sandler plays the silly-voiced, naive, health and
safety nut Hubie Dubois. Hubie regards Halloween as
a sacred holiday in his home town of Salem, and each
year sees that it is enjoyed safely. So far so Sandler.
Then Steve Buscemi shows up—to mar the great career
he’s had—playing a polite, self-loathing werewolf who
has escaped from the “werewolf
institution[?]” and is being tracked
by a Mike Myers parody who
enjoys pissing in the street (I’m not
making this up). Then Shaquille
O’Neal shows up, doing a woman’s
voice, and proceeds to eat a sand-
wich à la Lady and the Tramp with
a woman who has a man’s voice.
It’s at this point that the viewer has
a decision to make: embrace the
poorly written plot for the slice
of fun that it is, or become deeply
depressed at the state of modern
cinema, perhaps even some people
will manage both. The former,
though sacrilegious, at least gets you
through to the end of the film. I can
think of only two groups of people
this will appeal to: the first is children,
and the second group is that subset of
adults who can see that it’s crap, and
yet are still good-spirited enough to
try and see the funny side. It isn’t a
good film, nor is it especially funny,
hence its abysmal rating. But it will in-
evitably find its place, five Halloweens
from now, on those nights where the
pizzas are ordered, and any film will
do, and the familiar, albeit annoying
grin of Adam Sandler beckons from
the screen.
Sandler’s Latest Horror Show
Saint Maud: A Devilish Debut Feature
Reviews
One of the most popular devices
used by horror directors of late is
that of possession. Such a theme is of-
ten displayed through the process of an
‘other’ taking hold of an innocent host
to go about its sordid business. This
idea can of course be executed with
varying levels of success. We see it fail
miserably in money-grabbers like The
Conjuring and The Nun, but also see it
succeed in genuinely good horror mov-
ies like Ari Aster’s Hereditary. As in
those mentioned, the possession usually takes place
in a religious or cult context, though it is not in
itself ever religious. The unlucky host often has no
conscious agency, having totally succumbed to the
spirit or devil possessing them. Until Rose Glass’s
debut feature Saint Maud, I had not been aware
as to just how unsettling a movie can be when the
agency is returned to the host, when the religious
possession is entirely ideological, self-driven, delu-
sional. In many ways, this possession is more unset-
tling than the more common demonic possessions.
A spirit can always leave, and in doing so can re-
turn the person back to rationality. But if they have
been possessed by an idea, as opposed to a spirit or
ethereal force, what can they return to? What can
save them?
The role of Maud—a young nurse who cares for
the terminally ill, and who is on the verge of a very
personal, life-consuming, religious epiphany—is no
easy task. However, Morfydd Clark (who recently
featured in The Personal History of David Copper-
field) gives a beautifully balanced performance. She
gives us enough insight into her mind that we feel
her downward spiral, yet she
keeps enough cards close to
her chest that we do not
know how far she’ll fall.
Jennifer Ehle—formal-
ly Myrtle Logue in The
King’s Speech, and Jessica
in Kathryn Bigelow’s Zero
Dark Thirty—is danger-
ously playful in the role of
Amanda, Maud’s newest
patient and target of con-
version. Although Saint Maud is reminiscent of a
standard horror movie in the beginning, its tone
shifts slightly when Maud questions her faith. As
Maud looks to sex and alcohol to mend her polar-
ising psyche, the film bears striking resemblences
to Julia Ducournau’s exhilarating 2016 film Raw.
Both Raw and Saint Maud are about a possessed
young woman who tries to shake her obsession
through delving into the ‘dark side’, who feels an-
ger towards a more hedonistic older woman, and
who ultimately is unable to help herself. However,
despite the themes of possession and psychological
degeneration, Saint Maud, like Raw, is ultimately
about loneliness.
The bleak coastal town where Maud lives, and
the isolated house on the hill where she cares for
Amanda, emphasise just how alone and far from
normalcy she has become. The soundtrack, consist-
ing of drawn out notes and barking cellos, comes
and goes but is very effective in setting an eerie tone.
Although only 80 minutes, the ending does not feel
premature—it is assured and superbly abrupt, with
a final shot that will haunt you on your way home.
The horror we’re used to will undoubtedly mislead
people’s expectations going into this one. I’d advise
you to leave your desire for a scare-fest at the cine-
ma doors and embrace the character study, you will
not be disappointed.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Directedby: Steven Brill
Starring: Adam Sandler; Kevin James; Julie
Bowen; Ray Liotta; Steve Buscemi; Rob Sneider
Studio: Happy Madison Productions
Hubie Halloween
KEEP THE CAT FREE
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
26
Saint Maud
Directedby: Rose Glass
Starring: Morfydd Clark; Jessica Ehle
Studio: Film4 Productions; BFI Film Fund; BFI; Escape
Plan Productions; A24
THE FINAL SHOT
WILL HAUNT
YOU ON YOUR
WAY HOME
“
Source: IMP Awards/Netflix
Source: A24 Films

