Thought of as “the first
true horror film” by Rog-
er Ebert, Caligari was a visual
and thematic turn of pace
for cinema. On the surface
it is the story of Holsten-
wall: a small town tormented
by murder. After the death of his friend, Francis
(played by Friedrich Fehér) sets out to find the kill-
er, and directs his focus towards a new double-act
at the local circus: ‘Dr Caligari’ (Werner Krauss)
and his haunting somnambulist Cesare (Conrad
Veidt). However, if Robert Wiene’s horror classic
teaches us anything, it is that not everything is as
it seems. Caligari’s history, like the movie itself,
is rife with deception, false-impressions, and im-
agined memories. Hans Janowitz and Carl Meyer,
the screenwriters, were influenced by a great many
things—from torrid experiences in WW1 (such as
Meyer faking madness to avoid military service) to
old memories of Berlin circuses. The film is often
seen as a critique of authority and blind conform-
ity. However, when you watch the movie for the
first time, the interpretation will almost certainly
come as an afterthought. You’ll find yourself much
too preoccupied with the delocalising set design,
unable to fully distinguish hills from streets, or
living quarters from hospitals. The most engross-
ing element by far is Veidt’s
unearthly performance—from
the way he slinks around the
streets at night, to his terror-
ising gaze, teetering between
a look of piercing sentience, and
the torpid stare of a waking dream.
Free Film of the Week: The Cabinet of Dr Caligari
Classic of the Week: Dead Man’s Letters
Editor Recommends
We open in a land
annihilated by
nuclear war, a land where the
streets are strewn with charred
bodies and muddy fallout, a
land where shallow graves are
dug in living rooms. Outside
the underground hovels that
many call home, there lives only rubble and radiation.
Curfews are kept with brutal enforcement, such that
only the dead are allowed outside. All culture has been
obliterated, and the libraries stand half-submerged
in black morasses. Morale is low, values deteriorated,
and death a mercy to many. “Death is not a frightening
thing when everything has died”. Professor Larsen—a
former recipient of the Nobel Prize in physics—begins
a letter to his lost son Eric: “My dear boy…I am work-
ing, can you imagine that?”.
This is the bleak world of Dead Man’s Letters. And
yet, despite the desolation, the cruelty, and the de-
cay, there is no other film I know of that has a more
humanitarian message. Made in 1986—in the days
of Chernobyl, Gorbachev, and Reagan—where the
threat of nuclear disaster, by accident or premedita-
tion, was still eerily present in the world, Dead Man’s
Letters stands out as a dissenting voice against rapa-
cious governments thirsty for nuclear armaments. It
appeals directly to the emotions to see the folly in war,
come ‘hot’ or ‘cold’. One of the film’s best features,
though unintentional, is its irony—that its obscurity
in Western cinema is likely a consequence of it hav-
ing been absorbed into the propagandistic fog that
it so vehemently warns about. While it did screen at
Cannes in 1987, its exposure in the West was slow
and fleeting; its New York Times review, for example,
came out in 1989. This is of course no surprise—olive
branches often
find themselves
getting conven-
iently snapped
as they are
extended.
In the world
of cinema also,
1986 was a
dismal year: it
saw the release
of Andrei
Tarkovsky’s final
movie The Sacrifice in May, followed by his untimely
death in December at the age of 54. Around this time,
the baton of Russian artistry seemed to have immedi-
ately fallen into the hands of Konstantin Lopushan-
sky. Throughout Dead Man’s Letters, Lopushansky
unravels his message regarding the sanctity of life, and
his fear that modern culture has cheapened it, and
modern warfare disregarded it. Such appeals to the
soul, and to the goodness of people, naturally evoke
strong intimations of Tarkovsky. These similarities are
no coincidence: Lopushansky was intimately involved
in Tarkovsky’s work, having helped him direct Stalker
in 1979. Dead Man’s Letters is a classic by the way its
central dilemma is presented. It’s firstly channelled
through Larsen: he has “logical theories” that try to as-
certain the chance of humanity’s survival, all he needs
is time. However, the people around him are packing
up to make the perilous journey from the museum
basement where they’ve been lodging, to the “central
bunker” where they may be safe. Matters are made
worse for him when he adopts some orphans who are
sick and hungry, but alive. At this stage, the dilemma
of saving humanity is channeled through the children:
they are the glimmers of hope in the wasteland.
Of all the endings I’ve ever seen, this is the closest
to perfect. Larsen helps the orphans decorate a Christ-
mas tree and then goes the way of his wife and young
son Eric. The orphans gather round his deathbed to
look into the eyes of the Old World. “Remember: the
world has not died” he tells them, “go while you have
the strength, for while a man is on his way, there is still
hope for him”. And so, in coats they had no time to
grow into, in boots too big to cross the tundra and
the snow, the children wander hand-in-hand, as they
have seen the adults do, unaware that the world has
abandoned them, but quite sure that they must not
abandon each other.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
The Cabinet of Dr Caligari
FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk 27
Directedby: Konstantin
Lopushansky
Yearof Release: 1986
Directedby: Robert Wiene
Yearof Release: 1920
Starring:Werner Krauss; Conrad
Veidt; Friedrich Fehér; Lil Dagover
Dead Man’s Letters
The haunting stare of Conrad Veidt as the infamous
somnambulist Cesare
Scan to watch!
OF ALL THE
ENDINGS I’VE
EVER SEEN, THIS
IS THE CLOSEST
TO PERFECT
“
Credits: www.brevestoriadelcin-
ema.org
The children go out into the wasteland, their fate uncertain
Credits: marcinlachowicz.com
Credits: Konstantin Lopushansky

