Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
BOOKS
This coming-of-age novel follows
Wallance, a black Ph.D. student
in a predominantly white com-
munity. We dive deep into Wal-
lace’s wounds and desires through
Taylor’s exceptional writing. It
touches on the important topics of solitude and
vulnerability.
THE BOOKER PRIZE SHORTLIST
Real Life
By Brandon Taylor
Shuggie Bain is a heavy read that
sheds light on the difficult topics
of substance addiction and abuse.
The titular character Shuggie is the
son of Agnes Bain, both trapped
in poverty in Glasgow, Scotland.
The Bain family lives on the edge of chaos and
devastation, and Shuggie’s love for his broen
mother makes the tale all the more heartbreak-
ing.
Shuggie Bain
By Douglas Stuart
A story set in a world riddled with
climate change and overpopul-
tion, The New Wilderness is the
debut novel of the author of Man V
Nature. Its depiction of the moth-
er-daughter relationship and its
dystopian setting makes an interesting premise.
The New Wilderness
By Diane Cook
“I would be lying if I say my moth-
er’s misery has never given me
pleasure.
“ This novel explores the
relationship between Tara, a wild
mother and her daughter Antara.
It is a story of love and betrayal,
truth and lies, and memories and myths.
Burnt Sugar
By Avni Doshi
Written by one of the top author
of Zimbabwe, this Mournable
Body follows a complex protago-
nist Tambu whose potential and
education has alienated her from
her crowd. It packs a punch with its
touches on neo-colonism, capitalism, war, and
poverty.
This Mournable Body
By Tsitsi Dangarembga
Set in 1935 Ethiopia with Musso-
lini’s invasion, this WWII his-
torical fiction depicts the brutal
event and more importantly the
women warriors fighting. A unique
but depressingly cruel perspec-
tive of WWII, The Shadow King provides an
eye-opening story of Italy’s attempted colonial
rule.
The Shadow King
By Maaza Mengiste
29
physique immediately. Research has shown the
instant gratification associated with social media
use: instant likes, comments, messages, and stories,
develops a dependency for these instant positive
feedback loops. Our brain is susceptible to priori-
tise these immediate gratifications; soon extending
to a social media habit. In the book, Clear suggests
methods to exploit this characteristic of the brain to
make it easier to develop better habits, but also re-
veals the honest truth: ‘At some point it comes down
to who can handle the boredom of training every-
day…you have to fall in love with boredom.’ Not
the most awe-inspiring quote in world – irrefutable,
nonetheless.
Downsides in the long run
Habits come at a cost. This issue emerges when
‘a habit becomes automatic’ and is a part of your
identity, rendering you to ‘become less sensitive to
feedback.’ You soon function on autopilot as the task
has become so easy. So easy that you’re expending
very little energy on thinking about ‘little errors’ and
areas of improvement. I caught myself doing this
when I was in the gym, mindlessly doing exercises
and weights I was familiar with. I wasn’t trying – it
was second nature. Clear thus highlights a prevalent
component of mastering anything: Review. Review-
ing ensures deliberate practice, and constant im-
provement. When applied to my dull gym sessions; I
took note of the weights I used and exercises I found
difficult and made sure I’d review each session and
made efforts to improve from each session. It was a
lot harder but rewarding.
Clear’s adept writing style makes the message
clear: be consistent, be patient and review to con-
stantly improve.
CONTINUED

