Union Page
Join our Black History Month events
Ready, set, vote!
Earn the Imperial Award Grab your bundle!
Are you ready? Voting time is quickly approaching and we’re excited to see who
is going to represent us on Union Council or in the Academic and Wellbeing
Networks, support under-represented groups through the Liberation &
Community Networks or lead our Constituent Unions.
All students who are full members of the Union can vote in the Autumn
Elections. Remember, who you elect will be responsible for influencing changes
and decisions that affect you, so make sure you get to know our candidates
and what they plan to do if elected.You can view the candidates standing at
imperialcollegeunion.org/manifestos.
Voting opens at noon, Monday 19 October and closes at 14:00,Thursday 22
October.Take charge of your Imperial experience, get ready to vote your reps.
Cast your vote: imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
The Imperial Award is an optional programme that helps you record your
experiences and activities while at university and reflect on them against the 12
Imperial Award attributes. It is open to all students at Imperial and can help you:
· Develop practical self-reflection skills
· Develop your ability to pitch yourself to various audiences
· Gain a formal recognition from the College
“The Imperial Award process, as much as the end result, has impacted me more
than I expected. I am more self-aware and I’ve noticed that I can handle difficult
situations better than in the past. I am happy I did the Imperial Award.”
– Business School Student
Find out more and register today imperial.ac.uk/students/imperial-award
If you haven’t already, you should definitely grab a Welcome Bundle! Get your
Imperial branded tee, hoodie, bottle and tote bag and show your pride.
Our Shop (on the Sherfield Walkway, just across the Senior Common Room) is
open and we’ve made sure you can come in safely and buy whatever you may
need. Whether you want branded clothing, a reusable mug, a new fountain pen
or you’re simply hungry for some sushi - the Shop awaits! If you do visit us, we
kindly ask you to adhere to social distancing rules, wear a face mask and use
hand sanitiser.
Oh and don’t forget you can order online!
imperialcollegeunion.org/shop
Curious what we’ve got planned for you?Together with our African Caribbean
Society and our BME Officer we’re bringing you some exciting events this
month.
On Sunday, 18 October you can join us for Black History Month Film Night.
We’re discussing the struggles with police brutality on Monday, 19 October,
and Black Women in STEM on Wednesday, 28.The African Carribbean Society
are doing a games tournament onThursday, 22 October and a delicious virtual
cooking session together with the East African Society on the 30.
Links to join and a full list of events can be found at
imperialcollegeunion.org/bhm, so have a look and join us!

