FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
SCIENCE
7
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
SCIENCE
Genetically driven diseases encom-
pass a wide variety of illnesses
and, in addition to genetic disorders,
include some of the world’s most lethal
killers, such as diabetes or cancer. These
occur when a specific region of DNA
is deleted, replicated, or exchanged,
leading to mutations and faulty protein
production. While these mutations are
frequently inherited, they can also arise
spontaneously later in life, such as in
most types of cancer.
Advanced therapies, including gene
therapies, aim to treat or prevent ge-
netic diseases by addressing the un-
derlying cause: faulty DNA code. For
example, gene-based therapeutics can
be introduced to inactivate or ‘silence’
faulty genes, or conversely to stimulate
expression of correctly functioning ones
to amplify their effect. Genes can also
be modified or reprogrammed, either
within the patient or in vitro, to provide
correctly functioning proteins.
The type of appropriate therapy will
depend on the individual’s genetic com-
position and stage at which the genetic
mutation occurs, and so is highly tai-
lored to the patient. This illustrates the
concept of personalised medicine - and
signals a move away from the current,
more generalised, medication approach.
RNA, despite being known primarily
for its role in protein synthesis, is a par-
ticularly effective gene therapeutic. Due
to its diverse biological functions, if
engineered correctly, it encounters sig-
nificantly less obstacles when entering
our cells than synthetic drugs, and has
less potential for toxic side-effects than,
for example, viral vectors, which can
risk unwanted mutations or immune
hyper-reactions. Moreover, small nu-
cleotide changes can be easily made to
adjust the RNA’s functions within the
cell, simultaneously achieving a more
targeted and versatile mode of action
than currently used treatments. It is also
increasingly easier and cost-effective to
manufacture than more complicated
alternatives, such as immunotherapies.
A currently popular method which
employs RNA is CRISPR-Cas9, where
a pre-designed targeting guide RNA
(gRNA) sequence is embedded with-
in a longer RNA strand (yes, it is this
mechanism which was the basis of this
year’s Nobel Prize in Chemistry!). The
CRISPR-Cas9 complex, guided by
the gRNA, binds to a specific DNA
sequence inside the patient’s cells, and
the Cas 9 enzyme acts to cut the DNA
at this location. This triggers the cell
to recognise that DNA damage has
occurred and activate its own repair
machinery to add, replace, or delete a
gene fragment - such as a piece of faulty
genetic code. CRISPR itself is extreme-
ly versatile and has high potential for
a plethora of genetic diseases, but it is
not yet widespread for human use, as
off-target effects and other limitations
are still being eliminated via early-stage
studies. However, one current experi-
mental focus is attempting to cure Hun-
tington’s disease in humans, a genetic
disease classified by additional, repeated
segments of genetic code that cause
deformation of the subsequently gener-
ated protein, which disrupts the func-
tioning of neuron cells. Use of CRISPR
gene editing tools aim to remove the
surplus repeats to prevent escalation of
the disease.
Although the most high-profile, RNA
gene therapies are not limited to CRIS-
PR tools. A type of RNA known as
mRNA (messenger RNA) can be used,
focusing on replacing a patient’s faulty
mRNA, such as in cystic fibrosis, a
disease that occurs as a result of the mu-
tated CFTR protein. mRNA is a form
of RNA which acts as the connection
between protein expression and raw
DNA code, and so delivering healthy
mRNA to the patient could correct an
underlying genetic disorder. Candidate
drugs of this type involving inhalation
of nanoparticles containing healthy
mRNA to help replace the faulty CFTR
protein are currently being developed
by TranslateBio and Moderna Thera-
peutics, among others.
mRNA can also be used to develop
vaccines; one of the leading vaccines
being developed against COVID-19 is
of this type and is being developed by
Moderna Therapeutics. Injected mRNA
can be translated into proteins by our
own cell machinery to stimulate the
immune system to produce a specific re-
sponse against a pathogen such against
the flu, Zika or rabies viruses. Specific
cancer biomarkers, called neoepitopes,
can also be targeted using mRNA, such
as for melanoma treatment.
Finally, an RNA therapy focused
on degrading faulty proteins, termed
antisense therapy, is on the rise and
is currently more prominent than
mRNA due to its ease of manufacture.
This primarily uses a type of RNA
known as interfering RNA (RNAi, or
siRNA - short interfering RNA), and
was the basis of the 2006 Nobel Prize
in Physiology/Medicine. These short
RNAs carry instructions for the cell
to destroy particular malfunctioning
mRNAs within itself. Again, this is
gaining traction with therapies to
treat haemophilia and improve kidney
transplant outcomes, which are already
being used, while multiple others are in
clinical trials. In 2018, Alnylam Phar-
maceuticals launched the first approved
siRNA drug to treat a rare degenerative
disorder called hereditary ATTR amy-
loidosis. Their drug, patisiran, is either
injected or administered intravenously,
and exhibits its effects in the liver; as
do most candidate drugs at this point
in time. Since then, however, only one
other siRNA drug has been approved;
but several others are showing promise
in late-stage clinical trials.
RNA-based therapies hold immense
potential, but the answer to the key
limitation - the lack of efficient drug
delivery systems which can target or-
gans other than the liver - is the primary
focus in the field. With further research
and investment into the sector, RNA-
based therapies appear to be the basis of
the next pharmaceutical revolution, and
a solid step towards curing what was
once thought to be the incurable.
Why RNA may be the answer to curing
genetic (and other) diseases
Julia Dabrowska Science Editor
Microscope image of the mRNA vaccine candidate being developed by Moderna Therapeutics
Photo credits: Flickr.
RNA THERAPIES
SIMULTANEOUSLY
ACHIEVE A MORE
TARGETED AND
VERSATILE MODE
OF ACTION THAN
CURRENTLY-USED
TREATMENTS
“

