FRIDAY 16TH OCTOBER 2020
SCIENCE
9
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Lockdowns have negative socio-eco-
nomic effects, such as with mental
health, domestic abuse, lack of access
to education... the list goes on. The first
lockdown was a sacrifice by the people
to give this Government time to boost
our historically underfunded healthcare
system and to build a world leading test
and trace system so that any new infec-
tions can be isolated before they spread
far, ideally keeping R below 1 and seeing
domestic transmission come to an end.
Yet the Government failed, outsourc-
ing this by handing over £10 billion
in contracts to private firms such as
Deloitte and Serco who have produced
a system that, according to the Govern-
ment’s own experts on SAGE, is experi-
encing delays so severe that the system
is having only a “marginal impact” on
transmission. The system was telling
many residents to drive hundreds of
miles to get a test, leaving those with
symptoms to either not get a test or to
get tested privately, further exacerbating
the class divide caused by this pandemic.
The app that was released only a cou-
ple weeks ago has also had a variety of is-
sues reported, from false alerts to a lack
of information about local restrictions.
It isn’t supported on older iPhones,
although this is more due to how Apple
and Google designed the API that facili-
tates the contact tracking.
In the end, despite massive amounts
of goodwill from the public and health-
care workers, the Government has wast-
ed billions from the public purse on a
dysfunctional test and trace system, and
we are back at square one, staring down
the barrel of a second wave.
Three weeks ago, SAGE recommend-
ed that universities move to online
teaching where possible. Yet the Gov-
ernment ignored this and universities,
including Imperial, continued to tell
students about “mixed learning”. Stu-
dents moved into halls believing that
they would get some level of in-person
teaching as well, and in the past couple
weeks we have seen the largest outbreaks
take place in student halls. Official case
numbers have now overtaken those of
the first wave, and statistics imply that
these are being driven particularly by the
16-29 age group.
In response, the Government has
instituted a localised three tier system
of restrictions, with the Liverpool city
region being placed under the highest
tier of restrictions. Yet experts, both
independent and on SAGE, say these
measures do not go far enough. They,
along with the Leader of the Opposi-
tion, have demanded a national “circuit
breaker” lockdown to stop the epidemic
spiralling out of control.
A second lockdown was not inevi-
table. It could’ve been avoided with a
functioning test and trace system. Yet
the Government’s failure to learn from
the lessons of the first wave means that
it is the only option left to us in order
to save lives. Except this time, when we
emerge from the other side of lockdown,
we need to have test and trace.
CONTINUED
Elon Musk’s Starlink “mega-constellation” and
the impact of the commercial use of space Photo credits: Starlink
Photo credits: John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
Living in London, it is hard to
imagine a world without internet
connection. Most of us groan at the
rare sight of our mobile data switching
from 4G to 3G, and we even have Wi-Fi
at our tube stations. But in 2018, the
Global System for Mobile Communica-
tions reported that 10% of the world’s
population lived beyond the reach of a
mobile network, and an additional 3%
do not have access to adequate broad-
band speeds. That translates to around
1 billion people living without adequate
internet coverage.
This is a problem in our increas-
ingly online world, where more of us
are working from home than ever and
many children require internet access
to complete their schoolwork. In 2017,
the Imperial Business School published
a study showing that a 10% increase in
mobile broadband leads to an increase
in GDP of 0.6-2.8%.
So a network of potentially 42,000
mini satellites providing high-speed
internet to the entire planet sounds
like a great idea, right? That is the end
goal of Elon Musk’s SpaceX Starlink
programme, which began in May 2019
with the launch of 60 small satellites
from a single rocket. As of right now,
there are almost 800 Starlink satellites
orbiting the Earth.
There are several issues with this
ambitious plan. For starters, the
internet coverage will come at a cost
to users. Depending on the cost, it is
likely that this will limit the num-
ber of additional internet users
that the programme can actually
bring in, as areas without proper
internet access are generally in
less privileged communities.
On top of this, satellites do
not last forever, and we are
facing an increasing prob-
lem of “space junk” as more
satellites become non-op-
erational. Even if SpaceX’s
satellites last for
centuries, their
“mega-constel-
lation” will still be
leaving future gener-
ations with an additional
42,000 pieces of space junk to
deal with.
Many astronomers have also ex-
pressed great concern about the impact
that the programme will
have on astronomy
research. At the
moment, if you
spend a few hours
looking at the night
sky, you will see sev-
eral satellites moving
amongst the many stars.
But the stars we can
see with the naked eye
currently significantly
outnumber satellites, and
astronomers researching our
universe can correct for the
marks left by a satellite or
two in their images and data.
Removing thousands of
satellites from a set of data is
less easy, and a lot more time
consuming. You only have to
look at images that have been
interrupted by the Starlink
satellites already orbiting to under-
stand the potential disruption that
tens of thousands of satellites could
cause to research.
Radioastronomers have also voiced
concerns about Starlink satellites. The
Square Kilometre Array (SKA), an in-
ternational telescope project which will
become the world’s largest radio obser-
vatory once complete, has highlighted
the issue that these satellites will require
the use of a wider range of frequencies.
This will reduce the bandwidth available
to radioastronomers studying the sky.
The band that Starlink uses takes up
frequencies of 10.7 to 12.7 gigahertz,
within a range known as band 5b. This
is one of the seven bands SKA’s satellite
dishes aim to target. This is based on
SKA analysis which calculated the im-
pact of 6400 satellites, so it is likely that
the planned 42,000 Starlink satellites
could have an even worse impact.
And it is not just researchers who will
be impacted. Those of us who do not
have access to a telescope might soon be
looking up at a sky dominated by satel-
lites rather than stars. The reflection of
sunlight from the satellites will increase
light pollution and reduce the number
of stars visible to the naked eye. The
night sky, a near constant throughout
human history, might never be the same
again.
Lily Shepherd Science Writer
ROUND TWO

