>inSc^ght°
"This is London...99
Is British B r o a d c a s t i n g b i a s s e d t o w a r d s t h e a r t s ? T h e W o r l d S e r v i c e p r o d u c e s c i e n c e p r o g r a m s
w h i c h a r e p o p u l a r in c o u n t r i e s a l l o v e r t h e w o r l d - e x c e p t here. Rebecca Mileham reports.
I
spoke to 15 million people a few
months ago. I'm not sure exactly
which 15 million they were, or
even what country they were all
in. What I do know is that I probably
didn't know any of them, and that my
name, was completely, utterly, totally
unknown to them.
I was talking to them about science. Here
the scenario starts to seem even more unlikely.
Not only was I talking to people I didn't know
and who didn't know me, the subject with
which I chose to introduce myself was science.
And I'm afraid it gets worse. Depending on
when they were listening to me talking, they
might have heard me saying things about
Alzheimer's disease, childbirth or a rare congen-
ital disease similar to Parkinson's. At least that
was vaguely medical - people are always inter-
ested in their health. But one week in August, I
attempted to interest people in an esoteric story
I'd just heard about someone playing music at
4.5 times the speed of light. Right. And the fol-
lowing week, horror of horrors, all I could come
up with was something really bizarre about nan-
otechnology. Unbelievable.
It actually was unbelievable, the idea that I,
Unknown Rebecca', could be speaking into a
World Service microphone, onto a tape, which
would be sent off across the planet to places like
Antigua, the Cayman islands,
Cyprus, Kuwait, South Africa,
Mauritius, Brunei, the United Arab
Emirates or China. 'Like' these
places? Nowhere could possibly be
like them all. Half the point is that
all these places are totally different,
and yet local radio stations had cho-
sen to pay money for a radio pro-
gramme about science. And accord-
ing to the sales statistics, more sta-
tions choose to pay for someone talking about
science than money, sport, books or celebrities.
Of course I could only talk about science.
My expertise, such as it is, is in science rather
than any other, more cultural or politically topi-
cal things like the latest Kundera novel or the
global ramifications of civil war in Eastern
Europe. A i d in a way, I'm sorry.
In England, I men-
tion my job at the
Science Museum, and
Rebecca Mileham completed an MSc in Science Communication at Imperial last year and did
her work placement at Radio International in the BBC World Service. She reported for Science
Magazine and Health Watch, broadcast in 24 countries around the world, and currently works
full time in the Science Museum.
"In Britain,
to prefer
science to
art is a
social faux
pas."
unless any of those around the table have kids
who spend their Sunday afternoons playing on
the Sound Dishes in Launch Pad, I feel as though
I've admitted that I used to work at Sellafield.
I say that I'm tired of Radio Four's infatua-
tion with arts news coverage - an hour and a
quarter per day in two pro-
grammes both entitled
Kaleidoscope, that's two and a half
hours per day, and it's as if I have
let slip my opinion that the latest
BHS ad is really classy television.
I enjoy the feeling of knowing
more science than people on T V
quiz programmes who manage to
answer huge strings of questions on
history, art and Sanskrit Poetry and
get really upset by not remembering that it was
Prince Oleg who made the treaty between
Russia and Byzantium in 911. They have the
power to leave me feeling completely culturally
inadequate and reaching for the encyclopedia (or
just switching over to try and catch the BHS ad).
Waen it comes to science, though, these people
are puny. I laughedforhours at a contestant who
thought a photo of a distant galaxy might have
been taken by the Hubble Space Telegraph.
Now, this contestant was possibly confused, in
the heat of the moment, by his extensive knowl-
edge of the Greek culture and language. It may
have been that in his hurry he mistakenly substi-
tuted the suffix graph, (from the Greek
graphein, to write) for scope (from the Greek
skopeein, to see) as he reconstnicted the word
from first principles. It may be that he was mak-
ing an extraordinarily clever and subtle joke
about the inability of the machine to see any-
thing clearly because of errors in its construction
(nobody's perfect, after all). But I was happy to
believe that a man so well-versed in everything in
one half of the education curriculum was com-
pletely ignorant of everything in the other half.
And I laughed and told everyone I knew.
Now, I don't think there's any greater merit
in knowing the name of a telescope than the
name of a Russian politician. I'd quite like to
know more about history and art, and maybe
just one thing about Sanskrit Poetry.
Unfortunately, in Britain, to prefer science to art
is a social faux pas. While this situation prevails
I'll just have to be comforted by the fact that
there are people all over the world who tuned in
to hear me talk about bees trapped in amber and
the hole in the ozone layer rather than anything
even remotely connected with history or litera-
ture. And there were 15 million of them.

