New Balance Hyde Park Relays '96 -
An Invitation
The X-Country club cordially requests the presence of all sports clubs, societies and
everybody else at the 48th annual HPR's. This prestisious race consists of 6 x 3 miles for the
men and 4 x 2 miles for the women.
This is the most famous student relay in Europe with around 1000 competitors from all over
the world. Past runners have included Seb Coe, David Moorcroft, Gary Hoare and Alicia
Silverstone.
This year 2 new prizes will be awarded to the 1st IC male and female teams, excludins the
X-Country club. These will consist of a crate of beer and sisned certificates. The more teams
enter the more beer we can set.
To resister turn up at the ents lounse on Saturday 17th February between 11.00am and
1.00pm. The race starts at 2.00pm, prize giving and teas start immediately afterwards at
around 4.30pm. The HPR Party begins as soon as the proceedings are over.
The entry costs per team are; Male with tea vouchers £12, Male without tea voucher £6,
Female woth tea vouchers £8, female without tea vouchers £4.
If you can't be arsed to race and would rather watch the rugby instead, we'll see you in the
bar afterwards.
Postgraduate Scholarships and Awards
Closing dates are approaching for some awards for postgraduate study at I.C. - they are lim-
ited in number and applicability. For more details see your Departmental notice boards for
adverts or the PG prospectus.
Concrete Structures Bursaries (for MSc Concrete Structures) - 31 March
Beit Fellowship for Scientific Research for a PhD applicant holding a 1 st class honours
degree of any UK, Irish or Commonwealth University, (but not for medical research) -
30 April. (Only ONE award available).
ORS Awards Scheme - fee-support for overseas students - 30 April - but closing date is 1
April for applicants not already studying for PhD. [Current ORS Award-holders don't
have to apply for renewal - progress report forms will be sent to Supervisors this
month.
RTZ Advanced Course Bursary (for specified MSc courses concerned with Mineralogy or
Geophysics as advertised) - 15 May (only ONE award).
Jan Dzienisiewicz Studentship (for students of Polish nationality or origin, resident in UK
or Poland) value £10,000 only - 1 June
Rees Jeffreys Road Fund Bursaries (for Transport studies) - 20 June
Sir John Cassus Foundation Scholarship (MSc courses only) for residents of London
Boroughs (parental/own home, not student residence) - 31 July
Application forms from the Scholarships Office, Room 314, Sherfield Building.
Interested in study at HARVARD? There is a Special Students programme designed to allow
students to take arts/science courses of 1 or 2 terms at Harvard University without being com-
mitted to a degree programme. Information has been sent to Departments - further copies
from the Scholarships Office.

