chemist
All is well with the world. Pamela
Anderson splashed all over last
Sunday's television, even offering an
opinion on the Bosnia situation,
Steve Davis playing vintage snooker
again and no new signs around
College. All right, the last one was
wishful thinking. I know Ian
Caldwell is an avid reader of my
humble prose, so perhaps he would
care to satisfy my, and your, curiosi-
ty by telling us how much it has all cost. As well
as these rays of sunshine, my lunch last Thursday
in the JCR (fast approaching the Savoy in price
and Linstead in quality) was cheered up immea-
surably by your friends and mine, the Socialist
Worker Student Society.
Their latest crusade concerns the proposal
from Vice Chancellors to impose entrance fees
on freshers; a plan already dismissed by the
Government, but used to start debate on fund-
ing. Not a stunningly good idea, but in the words
of Bob Hoskins, it's good to talk. So what
response do these cheeky chappies in the SWSS
suggest? Lobbying those involved might be a
good idea. Mais non, much better 'to shut down
every college.' Whilst their silly rants and loony
policies are all rather amusing, the joke is starting
to wear a little thin. Don't they realise that
'Citizen Smith' was a comedy, not a manifesto?
Here we have a group of silly little kids playing
politics, whose insight rarely stretches past a
poster of Che Guevara above the bed, using
tired political statements that even Arthur
Scargill would shy away from. Don't get me
wrong, I am not irritated with them because
they have opposing views; I have nothing but
respect for those who support Labour or the Lib
Dems. The thing that really gets me about them,
the Militant sUidents and of course the NUS, is
that they have been responsible
for the very low opinion that the
public and government have of
students as a whole. I've seen
these clowns in action at
Goldsmiths, and contributions
such as 'scrap Trident and the
Monarchy to return grants to
1979 levels' will not do an enor-
mous amount for the cause of stu-
dents. As for student funding, it
seems to me that the problem is
simply the expansion of higher education at the
lower end. A degree in peace studies with
needlework at the University of Nowhere
should not attract similar fonding as physics at
Cambridge or even Elec Eng at Imperial (only
joking, lads). Higher Education must be elitist,
not in terms of background, but intelligence. If
there are any spelling mistakes in this, my argu-
ment's gone for a burton.
I dare say a good few of you, who were unable
to get slaughtered in Southside Bar a week last
Wednesday, saw Under The Sun on BBC2,
which concerned beauty pageants in America.
Big deal, I hear you cry. But, dear reader, these
beauty queens were about five years old. This
was undoubtedly one of the best and most
grotesque programmes that I have ever seen. If
ever evidence was needed of a troubled country,
this was it. The kids, of course, were quite nor-
mal. The parents on the other hand were verging
on the evil, forcing their beloved daughters to
dress in clothes that even Zsa Zsa Gabor would
reject as over the top, in order that they might
win cars and large quantities of money. As for the
pageant compere, a man who looked as suitable
for the job as Fred West, I shall say no more. To
smile like that in the company of five year olds is
just not cricket. I quite expect stills of this docu-
mentary to be in the next Rag Mag.
Noises, sounds and sweet
airs - michael nymaniwte
In the majestic setting of the Royal Festival Hall,
little could go wrong. The musicians, all part of
the Michael Nyman Band, were helped in their
efforts by loud-speakers that gave great body to
the sound. So, no problem there. Much of the
work is dominated by a strong rhythm. Units of
repetitive music, with the odd melody added on,
pulsate throughout. This created simple dynam-
ics with crescendoes and accelerendos, which
the public relished.
Contrary to much sung classical work, the
instruments were to the fore, but the crucial
backing was a little over-bearing. Shakespeare's
words give some continuity, though I for one
regretted the lack of clarity. For a quick review
of the text, go and have a look at
http://www.en.utexas.edu/benjamin/316kfall/-
316ktexts/tempest.html. Or if you have a mac,
and feel adventurous, try ftp://ftp.alumni-
.caltech.edu/zimm/Tempest.sea hqx.
Every now and then, the transition from
lyric to music and back was rough, especially in
the first half. It might just have been a question
of the mixing getting smoother. The title, in fact,
originates in the original text. The show was
bathed in multi-coloured lights to support the
emotions emanating from the bits of text one
understood. Overall it gave the impression of
film music; films have in fact been made from
this story, and Nyman has already worked on
"Prospero's books".
Often, the music was out-of-date in the
harmonics but almost minimalist in form, espe-
cially with the avoidance of cadenza at transi-
tions, though, strangely, not at the very end. A
hundred years ago, it would have most certainly
been considered as vulgar, simplified and not fol-
lowing the proper form. Times and mentalities
change, though I dare say I agree with at least the
first point: this was composed to be a crowd-
pleaser. If you're into Berio and Nono, forget
this; there is no prolonged unresolved dissonance
here, no tapes whirring, just plain easy-listening.
A good evening was had by all (well almost).

