28 Films Felix • 8 November 1999
So, the 43rd London Film Festival is here. It kicks off with the premiere of this
film, which fully deserves its top billing. It is a film of quality, with superb acting
and fantastic cinematography. Set in the American Civil War, this film will not
be your average IC student's cup of tea: there are no light sabres or flashy spe-
cial effects, no Keanu Reeves wandering about with nice shades on. It is a film
at the other end of the spectrum; it involves you by stirring your emotions and
telling a rousing story rather than throwing hundreds of computer generated
images at you. And what a nice change it is as well.
The film follows the fortunes of a group of pro-Southern Bushwhackers around
the Missouri-Kansas border in the 1 860's. For those of you who not up to
speed on your American Civil War history, I will quickly explain. In 1 854, the
Kansas-Nebraska Act was passed which meant that States had to vote on
whether they would allow slavery. They would then be either slave states or free
states. However violent conflicts in and around Kansas ensued with pro-slav-
ery settlers, allied with people from neighbouring Missouri, fighting anti-slav-
ery Kansas "Jay-Hawkers". Soon afterwards, the Civil War broke out, with Mis-
souri (now a slave state) siding with the Northern Union, rather than the South-
ern Confederacy, i.e. most of the states surrounding it. What followed was divi-
sion of loyalties, even between members of families and led to local militia
"Bushwhackers" (pro-Confederacy) undertaking guerrilla warfare against the
North's Union soldiers and sympathisers. The worst atrocity was the Lawrence
Massacre (re-created in the film) in which the town of Lawrence was ransacked
by pro-Confederacy militia with the loss of 1 80 lives.
So we follow in the trials and tribulations of a small band of men, firstly as they
hide in the hills during the winter from the army, and then into the spring where
differing opinions lead the group to disband. Leaving their companions
behind, Jake Roedel (Tobey Maguire) and a former slave Daniel Holt (Jeffrey
Wright), try to put the violence and brutality behind them by heading south and
making a new start for themselves. The characters having slowly realised that
the situation is hopeless and futile; the only people the Bushwhackers are
killing are innocents. They are not killing members of the army but their fami-
lies. But the other members of his unit are not so sympathetic and would pre-
fer to stay until the bitter end, showing that these men had no real humanity
and were nothing short of animals.
Maguire plays a difficult part excellently, as does Wright, but the whole cast
must be congratulated on a fine performance. The production of the film is first
rate with director Ang Lee showing again (after Sense and Sensibility) that he
is an accomplished period filmmaker. The emotions are stirred effectively by
the struggles of the central characters, while the realism is of war is often sick-
eningly displayed. You could do far worse than spending a few hours watch-
ing a film of this calibre.
Drew
Ok, the cinema was in Brixton, it was a bit messy, everybody was try-
ing to sell us "puff" and the number of people watching this preview
equalled your average ICU presidential election voting turnout (about
eight). Bad omens for a film I knew nothing about having had the tick-
ets thrust at me only hours before. "It's got the doctor from Eastenders
in it," was all the information I was told. Things started to look up when
the cinema started playing Big Band music in the time gap between the
film starting and all eight people turning up. This was going to a British
Film and a very cool one at that. I wasn't let down.
East Is East' is set around a large Pakistani family living in Salford (the
director's hometown) in 1 971. The father came over from Pakistan in
1937, leaving behind his first wife, and married an English woman.
They raised seven children and run a chip shop. The father is deter-
mined to impose his Pakistani beliefs onto his offspring. One such
belief is arranged marriages. When he arranges for his two eldest sons
to be married to two of the ugliest girls on the planet, things start to
blow up in his face. Whilst this all sounds very serious, the whole plot
revolves around a set of comic set pieces, involving circumcision, the
thick girl next door, the racist bigot across the road and one sons
attempts at modern art.
From the start it was obvious that 'East Is East' had a script with the cal-
ibre of a 1 2 bore shot gun. Well written, sharp, witty, hilarious, touch-
ing, sensitive and glorious are all words that could be used to describe
the script writing. One moment you are rolling about on the floor and
then before you know it you are almost crying at the sadness of the
leading roles. This was not just due to the script. All of the actors man-
aged to portray such a sense of realism that, even in some of the more
obtusely funny scenes, your level of empathy was huge. You just
believed in the characters and the story as a whole. This level of
involvement is also heightened if you have ever had any Pakistani
friends who have gone through the whole arranged marriage thing,
and helped them get through all the cultural clashes that go on when
East meets West. Another aspect that added to the atmosphere of the
film was the attention to detail in the clothing and sets. It looked and
felt like a genuine 1971 Salford street.
Film Four has done it again: produced a low budget, all British, dif-
ferent but brilliant film. Ok, so I only recognised one actor and I
haven't a clue who the director is, but this film is fantastic, touching
and hilarious and, for me, better than 'The Full Monty'.
Eddy

