8 November 1999 • Felix Films 29
CINEMA
What's on at ICU Cinema This Week
So have you been to ICU cinema yet? C'mon then get going. Did you
know it has one of the largest screens in London and a brand new
amazing sound system. Well, now you do. This week ICU cinema is
showing the piss-your-pants funny South Park and hilarious Analyse
This. Both are definately five star films so if didn't get to see these films
over the summer now's your chance.
South Park (in case you haven't been on this planet for the last 12
months) is an adult cartoon about four kids living in a town called
South Park. There has been a TV series and mass merchandising so I
think everyone knows what I'm talking about. This film is one of the
funniest films of the year and is a must see for all students. You will
find yourself quoting for weeks after this film so be warned. South Park
contains explicit language so if you don't like the word f*** and get
offended by bad language don't bother watching this film. While the
language in the TV series in bleeped out, the naughty words in this film
are not. Apparently, this film uses the F-word more times than Pulp Fic-
tion. Now that's an achievement.
Analyse This is a comedy starring Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal. You
probably read the review in the first edition and never got to see it as
you were too busy doing Freshers Week. Well now you can see Analyse
This in the comfort of the Union. De Niro is a gangster (what a sur-
prise!) who has 'issues' and needs a psychiatrist to help him sort him-
self out. Crystal is the unfortunate psychiatrist who has to deal with
him. Also starring in Analyse This is Lisa Kudrow (Pheobe from Friends)
who's character is not that dissimilar to Pheobe. She plays Crystal's
wife to-be. The film follows the antics of this off-the-wall patient-doc-
tor relationship.
Both films are being shown on Monday and Tuesday evenings in the
Union but as always make sure you check the posters on the walkway
or the advertisement somewhere in Felix for the times and details of
prices. Ok, it doesn't show the latest blockbusters, but as least it's
cheap and you can take your beer and curry in with you.
ICU Cinema is looking for staff to sell tickets, ice-creams and do other
stuff so if you fancy getting to watch free films or would like to know
how a cinema works then get in touch with the cinema. Either ask the
people working at the cinema when you go this week or mail them at
cinema@ic.ac.uk.
screen r~]
East Is East Competition
This week's competition courtesy of the Odeon Kensington gives you
the chance to win tickets to see 'East is East'. Have you read the review
and decided that you would like to see it? If so enter this competition
and you and a friend could be going to see East Is East for free.
Instead of the normal answer a question and you could win a prize just
e-mail
film.felix @ ic.ac.uk
telling me why you want to go and see this film. Please try and be
imaginative, as I hate reading boring e-mails. The more interesting the
answer the better your chances of winning this week. The best five e-
mails will win and be able to enjoy a night out for zero pence. Just
make sure you e-mail films by 12 noon on Wednesday 10 October.
Congratulations to the winners of last week's Pushing Tin competition.
They are :
A Georgilidakis
D Mcshane
S Jasay
E Bray
A Majid
Please call by the Felix office to collect your tickets or mail us at the
above e-mail address to make other arrangements.
Offers, Offers, Offers
If you have been entering the competitions and not winning do not
despair. The Odeon Kensington has a money saving scheme. You are
able to purchase a film credit booklet for £47. I know that sounds a
lot of money but read on to find out what you get. Your little booklet
contians, amongst other things, 8 cinema tickets - so in effect you get
two tickets completely free. You also get 4 vouchers for money off
drinks and popcorn, discounts on subscription to Heat and Empire
magazines, a voucher for a discount film soundtrack and a chance to
win their groovy competition. Sounds good, doesn't it. It is a really
good offer especially if you enjoy going to the cinema quite a lot.
Odeon Kensington is situated at the far end of High Street Kensington
and you can buy the film credit booklet fom the box-office there.

