NOTICES AND EDITORIAL 22 May 1998
And n o w the end is here,
and he has faced the final
curtain. The death of
Frank Sinatra brings to an
end the career of one of the great-
est popular musicians of the twen-
tieth century. He achieved the rare
feat of huge popularity across a
number of generations by the sheer
magnificence of his voice. To list the
man's repertoire w o u l d fill this
entire copy of Felix, but he will, of
course, be most remembered for
the anthemic M y W a y and Theme
from N e w York N e w York, known to
singers at the other end of the artis-
tic scale the world over. Indeed, I
myself have been known to sing a
few bars in a few bars in my unmis-
takable mellifluous tones. A l o n g
with Elvis and John Lennon, Frank
was a master. A s M a x Miller
remarked, there'll never be another.
It would require supreme self-
restraint for an opponent of this
government not to take a m o d i c u m
of delight in the shambles sur-
rounding the arms to Sierra Leone
episode. The parallels with the
arms to Iraq saga are striking,
though the attitude of Robin C o o k
and other members of the Cabinet
seems to have changed a little
since the Scott Report. C o o k ' s
volte-face is truly breathtaking. It
was abundantly clear to most peo-
ple that his political flair have
change d r a m a t i -
cally (for the HI
worse), but it J j T
seems that views
and principles
have undergone
an even greater HQ
transformation. In
the Scott Report - > | r
*
debate, undoubt-
edly his finest
hour, w h e n he
inflicted consider- •
able d a m a g e o n
the Conservatives,
he said that it would be disgraceful
if Civil Servants were dismissed for
mistakes made by ministers. So
what does he d o over Sandline's
arms sales to Sierra Leone? He
blames Foreign Office staff for fail-
ing to brief him, only to be contra-
dicted by the Permanent Secretary,
who, sensing the embarrassment of
the situation, reluctantly admitted
that C o o k was being less than hon-
est with Parliament. The Foreign
Secretary and one of his junior
Ministers failed to agree on the
date they b e c a m e aware of
Sandline's actions, further indicat-
ing suspicious behaviour. C o o k has
a rather patronis-
S
~ i — i ing obsession
\ ^ with 'the bigger
. ^ T " picture.' O n e has
' » I to ask what this
means, if poten-
i tial breaches of
• * • U N arms embar-
~ ! goes are seen as
H) trifling details.
• Some of his offi-
y^J cials have sug-
gested that he is
^ "| more concerned
with his private
life and its reporting in the media,
which is not a happy state of affairs
for a Cabinet minister. It is difficult
to say, at this stage, whether he
should resign, simply because he
has been so evasive, moving from a
position of blanket denial to claim-
ing all the credit for the restoration
of President Kabbah, w h e n in fact
the principal assistance was given
by the Nigerian army. The easier
question to answer is whether Cook
should be m o v e d in the summer
reshuffle. Yes. H e has demonstrated
none of the skill required for one of
the trickiest Cabinet jobs, leaving
destruction in his wake on several of
his foreign trips, and has shown pre-
cisely the type of arrogance he has
criticised in others. He must go, but
1 don't envy Tony Blair, w h o will
have to find a replacement from a
Cabinet so full of mediocrity.
It would seem that my army of
scouts slightly missed the mark
when they gave m e the form for
Southside/Union football extrava-
ganza. The Union boys did rather
well at kicking the o l d pigskin
around Hyde Park, winning 4-0. M y
congratulations and sincere apolo-
gies for doubting y o u . But, I stand
by m y c o m m e n t s on drinking,
chaps. T e a m boat race to
Southside and a second, five man
competition to the denizens of
Princes Gardens. To be fair, they
did have the assistance of some
bloke called Baker in the second
one, but since he spends as much
time in Southside as most of the
staff, it seems fair enough.
H
D
D
3
L
a
]
Barbecues
As even the most work-a-holic amongst us
must have noticed, it's sunny. That means it
must be B B Q season. As every male knows
everything there is to know about barbecuing 1
thought I'd stick my little oar in too.
You'll need something to barbecue in. You
could go and buy one of those pre-packed, pre-
coaled and pre-tee expensive ready-made B B Q s
from a superstore. But then y o u ' d be a silly
twonk with too much money, no sense and no
spirit of adventure (Ohh, I d o love making ene-
mies). Or you could buy a semi-proper stand-up
metal jobs that you put up yourself (much m u c h
easier to construct than those flat-pack book-
shelves from IKEA) which are reasonably cheap
and actually reusable. However, my preferred
solution by far is to make one. It's a piece of
cake, costs nothing and really gets those
primeval cave hugging juices going. All you need
are six (6) bricks and a grill from the a) oven b)
grill c) fridge d) railings for those really big steaks.
Stack the bricks up into 2 little walls, slap the grill
on top and there you go.
As for fuel, it really has to be charcoal in
London. This is readily available in petrol stations
and comer shops. I think l u m p w o o d charcoal is
better than the reconstituted stuff but that may be
pure pretentiousness. Nothing beats paper and
kindling (broken kitchen chairs or banister spin-
ners are perfect and should be readily available by
this time of the year) for lighting a fire and neither
smell as horrible nor cost as much as commer-
cially available lighting fluids.
Barbecuing is a quick and intense way of
cooking things so you need thin, succulent items.
Pork and lamb chops or ribs, well marbled (ie
containing thin streaks of fat) beef steaks and fil-
lets are ideal. Don't bother with cheapo burgers
and bangers: if they're crap to start with, they'll
end up crap. M o r e exotically, try lamb kidneys or
liver. I've never found chicken ideal for barbecues
as the breasts end up completely dry and drum-
sticks take for ever and end up proverbially incin-
erated on the outside and raw and stringy on the
inside. Fish on the other hand are superb espe-
cially fatty ones such as mackerel, haddock and
as mentioned last week, sardines. Salmon is also
splendid although, as they tend to be quite thick,
need advanced techniques. I'm working myself
up to doing a suckling piglet but haven't quite got
there yet. Above all, don't forget that vegetables
are excellent barbecued. Phat fleshy ones like
aubergine (see last week's), courgette, peppers
and tomatoes work really well and make a
healthy contrast to the meats. Trick of the trade:
slice them up, string them on a stick and w h a m -
bam you've got a kebab.
The final part of the jigsaw is marinating.
There are several points to this. The traditional
reason for marinating meat is to make it tender
by breaking d o w n the fibres using culinary acids
such as vinegar, lemon juice and shite wines.
Secondly, marinades add loads of flavour which
can mask any nasty tastes in spoilt or off meat
which hopefully shouldn't be a problem these
days. Thirdly, a suitable marinade glazes the
piece and keeps the inside niiiiiiiiiiiice and moist.
There's basically an unlimited range of marinades
that you can concoct with whatever you have in
your cupboards but here are a few of my
favourites (quantities obviously vary with the
number of chops involved):
Honey and Mustard:
®" 1 part grainy mustard
*" 1 part runny honey
Mix the two up and coat liberally. If this starts
burning on the grill just slap some more on.
Sweet and Sour:
"~ 1 part soy sauce
*" 1 part malt vinegar
«" 1 tbl five spice powder
Herb and Lemon:
juice of 1 lemon
*" several pinchfuls of herbs de provence
«" salt and pepper
Themes and variations, that's the key.
Remember that marinating implies soaking the
meat for a g o o d while (a couple of hours should
do it) so be patient and turn or baste the pieces
so they get evenly treated.
In the mellow haze when you're fully stuffed
and the bottles are getting empty consider bung-
ing a few bananas (skins and all) into what's left
of the coals for around 10 minutes. They'll cook
in their o w n juices and become succulently
mushy. M m m m m h ! A great opportunity to burn
your fingers as you peel them.

