You've survived the first RAG Week, you've bought the t-shirt, you've bough the mug and
now.... RAG Week 2: The Sequel.
Why I hear you ask? Well it just seems that the Rag committee had lots of good ideas
and decied to lump them together.
Milk Tray Delivery:
Have a box of the proverbial delivered to the love of your heart. A black clad milk Tray man/woman will enter the
lecture theatre or other place of your choice to the sound of dramatic music and give your sweatheart a box of chocs.
Ultimate embarrassment at only 2.50
Barbershop-o-grams:
A minute of pure acapello courtesy of IC Choir, wonderful and a snip at 2.50
The Bar Quiz:
Remember the first in november? The same thing again- loads of prizes- 2 per team of 4. Don't forget to bring your
brain (and leave your vodaphone at home or you'll get a large fine for cheating).
afterwards there will be a Dicso. bop to the latest Ents sounds and mellow out on crazy Rag cocktails (we have as much
fun making them as you do drinking them).
Gaming night.
Horse racing on the ginormous 50 inch video screen. The races arrive sealed, and you bet on the outcome. A must
for all gamblers and if that doesn't entice you, Guilds casino will, incuding blackjack, roulette and poker.
Hypnosis Lecture:
by popular demand we see the return of Martin S Taylor, hypnotist extraordinare, for another evening of entertainment
(remember Cosmic the talking martain?). If you don't already know how good this is you really ought to go.
BIBIC Londonwide Collection:
pay Monopoly around the sites of London as laid out on the board game, but watch out for the jail van (and dissapearing
into Soho at high speed when it's on the other side of a traffic light doesn't help, especially when you're wearing no
trousers at the time). A good day out for teams of 4-6 in aid of BIBIC, which helps brain damaged children regain senses
which they have lost.
BIBIC Carnival:
Bands, disco, films etc for the BIBIC collectors, the Hyde park relay teams any anyone else who wants to go. Great
value at 1.50 great value.

