Felix
Editorial
The papers for this year's sabbatical elections will go up on Monday. Hopefully,
this year will see all four sabbatical posts keenly fought. There is nothing worse
than an uncontested election, or as was the case last year, an election in which
most of the opposing candidates were joke candidates.
For the first time, students this year will have the option of voting for a 'new
election'. In the case of posts for which only one candidate is standing the candidate
will still have to prove him- or her- self to the electorate.
The following posts are up for grabs:
President. The President is theoretically responsible for the overall organisation of the
Union and represents the Union to the College. The President also takes responsibility for
a number of areas of concern to students, for example academic affairs, athletics, external
affairs or welfare and is required to research and distribute information in these areas.
Deputy President. The revamped Deputy President's job description was designed to
remove much of the tedium from this position, but unfortunately was unsuccessful. In
theory, the DP is responsible for the financial side of the Union, Union security and discipline,
representing the Union on a number of College committees and chairing a number of Union
committees. Like the President, the DP is supposed to take up two areas of responsibility
on student matters.
Honorary Secretary (Events). The Hon Sec (Events) is responsible for organising anything
that can be classed as a Union event. This involves liaison with Rag and Ents and the
organisation of Freshers' Fair, Commemoration Ball, et cetera. The Hon Sec also acts as
the Returning Officer and is responsible for producing and distributing publicity for Union
General Meetings and other Union events.
FELIX Editor and Print Unit Manager. The FELIX Editor is responsible for the production
of FELIX and the management of the Print Unit. The job is the toughest of the four
sabbaticals and anyone thinking of standing for this post ought to go and see a doctor
immediately.
Election Timetable
Papers up 13th February
Papers down 24th February
Hustings at IC 2nd March (1pm)
Hustings at St Mary's 27th February (evening)
Voting in departments 6th and 7th March
Results UGM 9th March
Publicity
Sabbatical candidates should come and see me before Wednesday next week to discuss
their publicity requirements. The publicity budget this year has been set at £80 which should
allow for the production of two sets of posters and a double-sided A4 leaflet.
We will be printing election publicity on 20th and 21st Feb and all artwork for printing
must be completed before these dates. I will be available to assist with election publicity
on the 13th, 14th, and 17th of Feb. In addition candidates will be able to book time on
the weekend of the 18th and 19th of Feb when they will be guaranteed complete privacy
within the FELIX Office.
Any candidates requiring typesetting should hand copy in by 17th Feb at 10.00am at
the latest.
Manifestos. Copy for the manifesto's issue of FELIX should be submitted by Monday 20th
Feb at 10.00am, accompanied by a photograph if you wish one to be printed. Late
manifestos will not be accepted.
Manifestos should be submitted on a single side of A4 and should be hand written or
double-spaced. A maximum of 300 words will be allowed; overlong manifestos will be
cut at the 300th word. Candidates will not be allowed to proof-read their own manifestos,
but FELIX staff will ensure that they are printed exactly as written.
Credits
It's been a sleepless week. A thousand and one thankyou's to Steve Meyfroidt for designing the cover,
Toilet Editor Sez Wilkinson, Dev for the Valentine's page, Simon Bredshaw, Dave Thomas, Robin Davison,
David Smedley, Ramin Nakisa, Doug King, Wendy Kite, Andy Bannister, Jason Lander, Paul Barton, Andy
Garside, Yve Posner, Andy Waller, Adam Harrington, Mike Dalton, Sumit Guha, Andy Clarke, Wouter van
Hulten, Liz Warren, Jen Hardy Smith for being mother. Felicity, Walter, Rose Atkins, Dean Vaughan, RCS
and Ralph Greenwell for collating last week and all the collators. Staff meeting today at 12.30pm
Debits
IC Choir who promised us collators in return for a free advert but did not fulfil their part of the agreement.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication
Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Bill Goodwin. Business Manager: Liz Warren.
Advertising Manager: Nick Jones. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• AIESEC Meeting, Tuesday
12.45pm, Mech Eng 748.
Valentine's big kiss from Konrad
Pagenstert for all who turn u p !
• Is anybody else running i n this
year's London Marathon? I'm
looking for somebody to train
with. Contact Gavin
Spittlehouse, Computing 3.
•Environmental and Appropriate
Technology Society present
'Environmental Week' from 20 to
24 Feb. Lectures every day, 2
films and two stalls around
College, one manned by the
Green Party. Watch out next
week for more publicity.
• Booksale—Avoid the crowds at
Sotheby's. A unique chance is
afforded of acquiring withdrawn
items of Central Libraries book
stock. Many bargains to be had.
Lyon Playfair Library foyer,
9.30-14.00 Wednesday 22 Feb.
• Ladies basketball team meets
Fridays at 12.30pm, Volleyball
Courts, behind O l d Chemistry or
contact K Crawley, C h e m I via
pigeonholes.
•Help—A red Marrin mountain
bike was stolen from outside M E
on Wednesday (1 Feb) afteroon. •
Anyone spot anything? Contact
Tristram Graham, M E 3.
FOR SALE
•Cannon fitting lenses; Vivitar
series 1. 28-135mm and Sigma
70-210mm. Also, cable and
tripod. Contact Tristram Graham
M E 3.
• Calling all b i k e r s - N o l a n (N31)
fibreglass helmet (unused). £50.
Contact M Afsham, Computing 1
or extension 54 Tizard Hall.
PERSONAL
• Christmas is coming fast! Don't
delay, contact A n d y Plant (Chem
Eng 2) for your free hamper
catalogue.
• Nutford House. Corridor Speed
Record: 17.5mph. Well done Jon.
• Nutford House News—Get
your Valentine's messages i n
now!
• DoneV S O ? I am writing an
article i n FELIX about experiences
in V S O and am interested i n
interviewing y o u . Please contact
Features Editor, FELIX (Union
Building).
•Thanks, Manos.
• Q T is Cosmic, or is it custard?
Just watch you don't put your
foot i n it, but then haven't you
said enough?
• Phallixword: Telegram for
Gothic Thunder! Congratulations!
A h ! The Last M a i n Block.
•The rumour that IndSoc is
changing its name to CVSoc is
completely untrue.
• Italian speaker wanted, for
regular conversation practice.
Contact Paul Smith, Management
School, int 7029.
• Phallixword: The Purest? Yes I
think so. Wasn't it a Cadillac you
were looking for?—TLMB
• Q T watch this space!
THE GREAT GUILDS
RAVIOLI
COMPETITON
14th February at 1pm
Beit Quad
Do you like Ravioli?
Would you like a free meal?
Can you find sponsors?
YES? Then collect sponsorship forms
from the Guilds Office. 10 best forms
get to compete.
£500 national prize for most Ravioli
eaten in 5V2 minutes.
February 10 1989 FELIX Page 3

