T h e B r i t i s h S o c i e t y for S o c i a l
Responsibility in Science conference
was hosted this year by Imperial College
Science for People Group and took
place on Saturday 24 November at IC.
All the discussions were rivetting (as
u s u a l ) but the d i s c u s s i o n o n
Microprocessors in particular prompted
me to overcome my usual lethargy and
read the articles I had around on the
issue and set down a personal view of
some of the issues involved.
IF CHIPS COULD FLY
Occasionally one could believe that the
chip can do everything; including flying
across the atlantic. Unfortunately this
isn't so far from the truth. Cruise missiles
can; arriving at allocated spots with
remarkable precision. Microelectronics
were originally developed by the
defence industry. However, you can't
always judge a child by its parent
(though have you ever wondered why
there are so many electronic war games
around - the Union Lower Lounge being
no exception!).
ITS A WONDERFUL THING -
SCIENCE!
The new technology is revolutionising
everything from cash registers and
calculators, petrol pumps and pinballs
to t e l e v i s i o n s , t y p e s e t t e r s a n d
t e l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s . Everything is
getting smaller, therefore using less
material. The production of chips is not
energy intensive and therefore aids
conservation. In the process of greater
mechanisation, boring and repetitive
jobs are being ended - or are they?
Unfortunately the chip is stealing many
skilled jobs, people are replaced by
machnes without consideration of the
social implications. Who would you
rather greet at a service station: an
efficient self-service petrol pump with
flashing green lights, or a friendly petrol
pump attendant who chats away to you
to add a bit of cheertoyourday? The job
of secretaries is being reduced to copy
typing by word processors that have
preprogrammed layout and simple
editing, skilled welders are reduced to
machine minders, even a brain surgeon
can be replaced by a machine (with the
help of a junior doctor). Whereas, lots of
really dreary repetitive jobs are not
being changed by new technology;
dustmen, packaging workers, postmen
etc, while existing skilled jobs are being
deskilled. You may be thinking: well, if
there's no future in brain surgery there is
at least some in software, but even there
you could be wrong. Computers are
now being programmed to develop their
own software in many instances.
Estimates of structural unemployment
due to the new .technology vary, but
2 1/2 million in Britain seems to be a
likely figure for the near future. Of the
people in work, we could be left with a
technocratic elite and deskilled masses.
Joint meeting:
Science for People
and Communist Soc
with Dr Leo Pyle
speaking on T H E
THIRD WORLD AND
THE ENVIRONMENT
in Maths 341 on
Tuesday 4 December
at 7:00pm.
'THE ONLY THING I WOULDN'T
SWOP MY JOB FOR IS UNEM-
PLOYMENT' (QUOTE FROM A
COAL MINER)
Many people are suggesting that what is
needed is to move away from society's
idea of 'work ethic' and to train people in
the art of leisure. This idealistic view
seems to ignore the current education
cuts and cuts in the arts and other
facilities. It seems unlikely, if you are
one of the unlucky unemployed that you
will have anything more interesting or
socially useful to do than to play on an
electric TV game all day (that's if you can
afford it on the dole!).
IN NEXT FRIDAY'S
30th A n n i v e r s a r y
FELIX
COLIN PALMER, OF
THE COMPUTING &
C O N T R O L DEPT
W I L L BEGIN A
SERIES OF ARTICLES
ON
COMPUTERS
COMPOSING MUSIC
THE LUDDITE FACTOR
Perhaps the Luddites weren't so bad
after all? Unfortunately most of the old
movement was shipped to Australia.
They aren't doing so badly there
however, the Australian T U C has just
decided to attempt to enforce a five year
moratorium on the further introduction
of new technology. However, my view is
that it is possible to make constructive
use of the microchip but you have to
begin from a different standpoint.
WHOSE SOCIETY?
Some people would reply that it's the
machines, if its IQ is over 120. It has been
suggested that if computers develop an.
intelligence quotient of this figure then
we will have to consider whether they
are human and perhaps make it a
punishable offence to switch them off.
(This brings into question how to regard
people with an IQ below 120!) Beforethe
whole debate'gets out of hand we ought
to r e m e m b e r that m a c h i n e s are
developed as tools to help humankind
(or should be). Unfortunately we are not
always united on our definition of
progress. Current industrialists seem to
regard progress as anything that costs
less (in money terms). Human labour is
expensive and best expended and
machines have the added advantage of
not tending to disobey orders.
Ideally society should discuss the
implications of the new technology on
each occasion it may be introduced. A
future does exist for the new technology
that can benefit us all. It opens up the
way to ending the divide between work
and leisure and to develop further
creative skills. However, its present use
is to dehumanise the workplace and pit
the human being against the supposed
greater skill and speed of the machine.
In a capitalist society where democracy
is defined as 'those who own should
decide', it is difficult to exert any real
control over the introduction of
microprocessors. Trade unions have
struggled over the last century for the
workers right to some control over work
conditions. The new technology makes
their role even more decisive. In the
short term they need to fight for it only to
be introduced in cases where the
working week is shortened, there is
increased, and/or diversified production
and where the working environment is
not dehumanised, with all workers being
given opportunities to develop skills.
Greater 'efficiency' is not the only
criterion to be used. Unfortunately these
things are never simple. International
c o m p e t i t i o n exerts a t r e m e n d o u s
pressure for accepting new technology
without such stringent conditions, but if
society is to be saved from the horrors of
a 'brave new world' we must all at least
begin the fight for social control of the
microchip.
Mary Attenborough
13

