PREVIEWS
This week I thought I'd look at
some of the films which will be released
in the next few months. Being the
Christmas period, many of the major
distributors will be releasing films which
they hope will make much money.
Most prominent is the long-awaited
and much praised Apocalypse Now
from director Francis Ford Coppola.
Seven years in the making, this film is
bound to be the centre of attention due
to its controversial treatment of
Vietnam. Strangely, there will be two
versions; a titleless 70mm version for the
West End and a titled 35mm version
(complete with different ending!) for
countrywide release. Some people just
like being difficult. I'm assured by Roger
Stotesbury that it is brilliant, but I shall
need to see it to be convinced.
Next on the extravaganza list is the
amazing Star Trek - The Motion Picture.
I say amazing, as it is quite strange how a
television series which started way back
in 1966 can survive to become a film and
still have the same stars. Older, in
different uniforms and aboard a new
Enterprise, Kirk, Spock, Scotty, Chekov,
Sulu, Uhura, M c C o y and even Nurse
Chappel are all still there to save the
E a r t h f r o m c e r t a i n d e s t r u c t i o n .
Admitted Kirk is now an Admiral,
Captain Dekker runs the Enterprise and
there is a bald, female navigator, but
things are bound to be just the same.
However, I have been informed that the
special effects are very realistic (ie
expensive) and include a photon
torpedo being created and fired down a
tube on the Enterprise. I hope to review
the film fully in the last FELIX of term, as
it will be released on Saturday 15fh
December at the Empire Leicester
Square and simultaneously at many
cinemas all over the country.
l*t*r.« s i t e
Leonard Nimoy returns to play Mr Spock
Still ort the space theme (no groans
please) is Disney's The Black Hole. This
is Disney's most expensive project to
date and also their first 'A' certificate. It
concerns the discovery of a huge space
vessel, the U S S Cygnus, circling a black
h o l e . Its c o m m a n d e r , Dr H a n s
Reinhardt, is the only human aboard and
insists on making his rescuers witness
his descent into the black hole, where he
believes he will find another universe
and eternal life. Well, well, there's one
born every minute isn't there. Seriously,
t h o u g h , d e s p i t e the w o n d e r f u l ,
expensive publicity, the wonderful,
expensive special effects and the
wonderful, expensive cinema tickets, I
doubt whether this will appeal to many
of you. It looks like a children's film, but
perhaps you can keep one of your grotty
little cousins quiet with it as a Christmas
treat - that'll be my excuse to see it. I
hope to review this fully as well at a later
date.
T H E U S S C Y G N U S copyright Walt Disney Productions
The crew of the Palamino arrive aboard the
U S S Cygnus.
flllllllllllii I'"
HMMI ]
Creeping up at the start of December
is one welcome light note. Peter Sellers
stars in a remake of The Prisoner of
Zenda which will undoubtably be cast in
his own life style (he wrote most of it).
Great comedies are few and far
between, so I hope that the recent
release of Monty Python's Life of Brian is
not a bad omen. Also due for release is
Meteor, a disaster movie in which the
earth is endangered by a shower of huge
meteors. A star-studded cast is included
for good measure with some new and
technically difficult special effects. I
hope it's worthwhile.
All in all, December looks quite
promising with a broad range of films to
cover most tastes. Incidently, it is
rumoured that besides The Sound of
Music, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, etc, we
may see 2001: A Space Odyssey on
televison over Christmas. A real classic-
not to be missed.
Mark Smith
16

