IHPERIKL.
C O L L ECjE
ekhPHOhM
ORCHE5TRIA
Those people who attended Wednesday involving rivalry in love, class
night's concert given by IC Symphony .repression, insurgency and sorrow in
Orchestra must have left the Great Hall »sixteenth century Burgundy. Unfortunately
feeling well satisfied with their evening's t h e
orchestra felt ill at ease among such
entertainment. The orchestra conducted by extravagent surroundings and one felt the
Richard Dickins and led by David Bogle, gave m u s |
c became rather disorganised and
a performance which was spirited and uncoordinated. It was a disappointing start
enthusiastic and although by no means but the players rapidly recovered themselves.
perfect the players created a very favourable The orchestra was joined by Hideko
i k „ i , . u » „ l n m , i , « m , n i f . U d a g a w a f o r t h e p e r f o r m a n c e of
impression of their ability to make music. . . . . . _ . „. . .
Medelssohn s Violin Concerto. Since her first
The concert opened with the Overture solo appearance at the age of fifteen Miss
Colas Breugnon by Kablevsky. This lively Udagawa has appeared in concerts and on
composition reflects the moods of a stormy television throughout the world and has also
AFTER THE FIRE
Interview and The Passengers
at the Rainbow
This was the final date of a two month
tour, in which After the Fire played forty-
five gigs. I arrived at the Rainbow
expecting to see the place about half-
full, and was immediately struck by the
number of people milling around in the
foyer.
Promptly at eight, the first band The
Passengers made their entry and started
pumping away, as usual, the bass was
far too loud, but otherwise all the songs
except one reggae number(did not work
at all) were thoroughly enjoyable as a
warm-up for the main event. It was a
shame that the lyrics were totally
indeciperable. Visually the band need a
lot of improvement if they are going to
be worth seeing on stage. The lead
singer gave the impression that he was
imitating Elvis Costello, whilst all their
stage stances looked constructed and
so awkward that they almost looked
comical. The strongest two songs were
their single 'Two Lovers' and the one
they finished with 'Something About
You I Don't Like'.
At this point everyone shuffled out to
get their half-pizzas and extortionate
liquid malt in the fifteen minutes before
Interview came on. I'd heard of this band
somewhere in the distant past and
consequently was expecting something
rather good, however, I was to be
disappointed. The most entertaining
part of their set was when the bassist
broke his guitar strap and endeavoured
to finish playing the rest of the song in a
series of contorted positions.
In appearance, and the way they
moved about on stage, Interview could
have been some of the relics of the punk
movement, but musically they could not
have been much further removed. I
found them quite boring. The songs they
s t r u n g out by i n c l u d i n g l o n g
instrumental passages inbetween the
singing, whilst the vocalist ambled
aimlessly about the stage trying to look
as though he was enjoying himself. It
was just as well that the audience had
reverted to throwing darts to keep
themselves entertained, throwing them
back gave him something to do.
Eventually Interview finished, and letthe
rest of us stagger out for our, by now,
warm and uncomfortable seats.
Everything had been running exactly
to time so far and After the Fire
continued in the same business-like
fashion. After an interval of exactly
fifteen minutes, whilst the safety curtain
was still down, the Thunderbirds theme
played at Imperial for the lunch hour
concerts. The Mendelssohn concerto is one
of the best known and best loved of concertos
in all musical circles. Discrete interplay
between soloist and orchestra is of course
essential and care must be taken that the
orchestra does not simply accompany the
soloist but also complements her. Miss
Udagawa and ICSO performed the concerto
magnificently. Although the strings were
occasionally blurred and in the last
movement the wind players-had difficulty in
matching the soloist's cracking pace, it was
nonetheless a striking performance and a
credit to all those involved.
The orchestra completed the concert with
the second symphony in E minor by
Rachmaninov, an extended work requiring,
one would have thought, both skill and
experience among the players. This was an
exciting and daring undertaking for the
College orchestra and must have been a
tremendous challenge to conductor and
players alike. The symphony, written at the
turn of the last century, abounds with rich and
romantic melodies which are carried through
the string sections while the wind groups in
rather a stark contrast pronounce urgent
demanding themes. However, the melodic
care of the work predominates throughout
and the symphony ends triumphantly in a
mood of optimism. Under the superb
direction of Richard Dickens IC Orchestra
gave a creditable performance of a symphony
which must inspire awe, even in the best
orchestras, with an admirable peformance by
Sally Donegari of the clarinet solo.
Full congratulations should go to Richard
Dickens who has successfully created such a
capable and enthusiastic amateur orchestra.
I hope he remains with them for some time.
Sue McClaughry
tune came over on the Disco and
evidently (a lot of the audience must
have seen A T F before) this was the
signal for the crowd to erupt into
raptures and rush to the front. The safety
curtain was raised revealing an
empty stage, but for vacant drum kit and
organ. Thunderbirds gave way to 'Joy', a
track from their album, and the band ran
on the stage starting playing over the top
of the disco.
The only criticism that can be raised at
their performance was the lack of
movement, but this can only be
expected as two of the four were playing
stationary instruments.
The fifty minute set came to an end
remarkably soon, the band was called
back for the obligatory encore and
played 'Laser Love', then were called
back again for a second encore with a
jammed-up, very A T F version of the
Beatles' 'Help'.
I went to the concert expecting to hear
a very well played, boring version of
After the Fire's LP. The quality of the
sound was every bit as good as I
expected, but the atmosphere was
electric, I've rarely been to a concert
with such an exciting hum in the air. If
you missed them this time, you'll be
paying a lot more next time around.
Chris Watts
17

