SOAS pulled one back just before half-time
to make the score 5-1. The second half saw IC
in some messy moves ending in long range
shots which had no hope of going in. The fog
gradually began to come down and in one of
the better moves George Adach received the
ball from Nigel Audin just outside the penalty
area and the swerving ball was too much for
the keeper to hold and IC were 6-1 up. (In my
unbiased opinion this was the finest goal of
the game - ego trip!).
Towards the end the fog was so bad that the
goalposts were just visisble from the halfway
line. The SOAS captain - a true sportsman in
the face ot defeat - agreed to play to the end.
I would like to thank Paul Archer, the
substitute who cheered on from the touchline
although he couldn't see anything. To all our
loyal supporters like Zap and Marek who
couldn't get tickets for the match but assure
me were there in spirit, I hope this report
makes up for their disappointment.
The team was: Rynbeek, Tinkler, Bradley,
Sola, Davies, Audin, Adach (Capt), Muttock,
Baldwin, Wolfson and Slater.
George A d a c h
T A B L E T E N N I S
IC 2 vs B S C 2 (AWAY): 2-7
This must be the most nauseating result the
2nds have managed this year. A defeat by a
team from a division lower than themselves.
Again Andy 'Tye-ered of life' suffered three
ignominious thrashings (I'll supply the razor
blades), Phil (Well he lost too!) Walker was
about as much good as a muscle-bound
clam, and Bob Edde just excapes my worst
sarcasm (only because he's foreign and I'm
not racist, bwanal).
However, IC 4 vs TEXACO 2 was another
bucket of shit. We all played like a gas (and
Texaco cracked like a an egg-SHELL), to win
9-0. ESSO-specially good was Phallic Sly-
won (even though blind in two eyes) and we
can all look forward to having our next round
match sometime during the Christmas
holidays.
The thirds, lead by Stiff Jeans (put it away
Jeff!), had a buy, and so too did Sheik
Singalonga-bedy-by-rajah's team the (f)
worsts.
Nastier than usual,
Lord Peter Whimsical
RUGBY REPORT
LONDON HOSPITAL vs ICRFC
1sts: 14-3
The quarterfinals of the Gutteridge Cup
saw ICRFC 1sts taking on the might of
London Hospital. Hopes of repeating the
Cup final victory of two seasons ago were
high, but London proved to be the stronger
side and won a hard, tight game by a score of
14-3.
Imperial started strongly and dominated
the first quarter. They took the lead with a
penalty goal, but a breakaway try for London
gave the home side a lead of 6-3 at half-time.
The second half saw London increase the
score with two further tries and although
Imperial battled hard in the closing minutes
they did not succeed in crossing their
opponent's line.
However, the IC team played well and this
was satisfying after a recent series of
disappointing losses. Team verdict after the
game was that IC had lost to a good side and
so everybody retired to the bar to drown their
sorrows and celebrate somebody's birthday!
Thanks must go to John Dyson who kindly
played a scrum half and who proceeded to
give a fine, all-round display.
Team: S Gunn, R Davies, J Mauzoui, A
Warby, R Smart, P Goring, S Townsend, J
Austin, J Dyson, E Budgen, P Dunleary, J
Chandler, W Burgoyne, R Parkinson, and D
Pullen. Reserves: A Loraus, D Lilley and B
Thomas.
Robin Oavies
S E R I A L C O L L E G E 6th XI vs S O A S 2nd XI:
6-1
The afternoon of 21 November saw history
being made in the fog-bound environs of
Greenford. That memorable afternoon saw
IC 6ths clinch their first win in living memory.
After a disappointing result in the cup the
previous Saturday and as a result of four
changes in the team IC cruised to a 6-1
victory over SOAS 2nds. Any doubts
resulting from travel fatigue and the
anomalous behaviour of the chocolate
machine in North Acton were promptly
dispelled as IC won the toss.
Within sixty seconds IC were in the lead, a
perfect cross from Daniel Wolfson on the
right found the head of a SOAS defender who
neatly flicked the ball past his goalkeeper and
into the net. Spurred on by the remarkably
unprecedented event of being in the lead,
Wolfson added two more superb goals to IC's
tally after some skilful runs down the left by
Gary Slater and Neil Muttock. With the threat
of having to buy a round if he scored again,
Wolfson decided not to score any more,
although he did hit the cross-bar.
A period of frustration foliwed which saw
SOAS have some near misses. They would
have scored had it not been for the
determined tackling of IC defence consisted
of - Sola, Bradley, Davies and Tinkler. A
dangerous moment came when SOAS won a
free kick just outside the penalty area and a
certain goal was prevented when -George
Adach headed the SOAS striker instead of the
ball.
The game sprang back into life with the
ball breaking from defence to Ken Baldwin on
the right. He went past three defenders and
with only the keeper to beat he hit the post but
managed to control the awkward rebound
and this time made no mistake. A few minutes
later in a near identical Baldwin scored again.
THE HAMSOC BIT(S)
Right, let's try again! If you are (not
surprisingly) uncertain about what the title
means, taking it left to right: T H E self
explanatory H A M S O C the high-powered
non-harmonic soon-no-longer-3kHz-off-
channel we-also-walk-dogs Amateur Radio
Society of Imperial College BITS elementary
'particles' of information. In other words, this
is an article'by your local, worldwide radio
station, some HAMSOC members being
qualified to operate radio transmitters, and
thus talk to people all over the world, which in
my typical roundabout, lop-sided manner,
brings me to my first point.
Please will anyone wanting to take the
Radio Amateur's examination next May write
to me care of the physics undergraduate
letter rack, or just collar me some time. We are
going to run classes for the May RAE next
term, and so I would like to know who will
definately be taking the exam and who will
just be coming to the classes. We are also
considering giving out printed notes, so if you
could indicate whether you would pay, say
50p for these, I would be grateful.
Incidentally, don't forget that the morse
classes are still running: Elec Eng 1207 at
1:00pm every Wednesday. Anyway, for those
not familiar with HAMSOC, this is what we do:
So far this term, we have had several
outings, from a trip to Leicester, to a radio-
controlled pub-crawl, and also, several talks,
the most popular being a stimulating lecture
by Professor Laithwaite, which was much
appreciated.
As to forthcoming activities, in the
remainder of this term we have a talk by Mr
Harry, from the Home Office on Interference
Problems and we will probably have either a
'fox hunt' or 'treasure hunt' on Wimbledon
Common. Since it is possible to succeed in
ventures like this without a transmitter,
obviously unlicensed members will be able to
participate fully.
Other thrills we have lined up include
constructional projects which we are trying
to raise funds for. One of these, stemming out
of the Microwaves talk, is to build a pair of 10
GHz transceivers. Will all the people who
have said they are interested (and those that
haven't, who are) please get in touch with
Frank Rowsell, Elec Eng 1.
Also, anyone interested in getting some
sort of RTTY set-up going (particularly
anyone who knows anything at all about it)
please get hold of me.
Next term's arrangements "are still a little
nebulous as far as talks etc go but I can say
that the RAE classes are a certainty (provided
somebody is interested!) and one definite talk
will be Dr B i g n e l l on S a t e l l i t e
Communications. We are also trying to
organise a rather novel visit (ever wonder
how they're (!!) electronically tested?).
Finally, come on girls, where are you?
There isn't a micro-gram of male chauvanism
in HAMSOC you know, is it just the brand of
deordorant I'm using? Anyway, if you're
interested in us, why not come up and see us
one Wednesday afternoon? You'll find us in a
wooden hut on the roof of Elec Eng, so if
HAMSOC appeals to you, or you just want to
know what sort of pratt writes articles like
this, I'll see you up there on Wednesday!
J Savage
Campaign Against Blood Sport please note
A 'fox hunt' is a sort of direction finding
contest, sort of radio-controlled orienteering
18

