IMPERIAL C O L L E G E BILLIARDS AND SNOOKER CLUB
On Wednesday last, the immortal C team
worked over the infamous and unfamous B
team. Evading the homosexual advances of
the B team captain and his jolly crew of nice
boys, we advanced to our corners, refusing
bluntly to spank them, so the game started.
The frothing Leclezio, rubbed his thigh in
anger at seeing we'd switched our order and
put our best player Dave 'we'll fight them o n
the beaches' Nuttall. The game heated up
when Alice 'show us your legs' Cameron was
ordered to be evicted by Leclezio only to see
Leclezio later sporting a gigantic shiner on
his right eye (don't mention Iran Soc). Nuttal
lost, so he has to spend a throbbing night with
our team 'goer' Alex Cameron (Physics 3) -
Y O U can book a night with him as well.
Next, those two beer chums, Curtis (C
team) and Calvert played and needless to say,
Calvert lost (for a change) playing like a wet
copy of the Daily Star (or seeming to play with
one). Well, I played next and needless to say,
since I'm wonderful, brilliant, gorgeous,
superb, exquisite, slick A N D Welsh, I won.
Maybe it's something to do with the fact that
my opponent, Mr Jeans, was suffering from
delusions of heterosexuality which were
totally out of character with the bloke.
Damian 'asthematic hobgoblin' Kelly was
on for us against the wormy diarrhoea
extract, Tomsky who just can't win games of
snooker to save his life. I don't like punishing
him like this because he is sensitive but why,
oh why God, did you produce such a weak
sickly snooker player of this calabre, I mean
he played like a chewed up foetus and fully
As outlined in last week's report, the Club's
opening match promised a good season.
S a t u r d a y ' s h o m e m a t c h a g a i n s t
Southampton bore out this confidence. Ron
Johnson of Kingston Poly, but bowling for us,
led the firsts to an easy 200 pin 4-0 win, with a
fine 608 series; while the ladies in winning 4-
0 achieved their first victory in at least four
years.
Meanwhile the seconds had cruised to a
healthy 2-0 lead, almost let it slip, but held on
for a 3-1 win. S o everything looked set for a
100% result: the thirds had rallied well to go
into the final game level, and a total 10-0
result seemed possible. It was not to be: Roy
of the Rovers, or his bowling equivalent, is not
to be found in the IC thirds and a
disappointing collapse led to a 3-1 defeat and
an overall 8-2 victory.
Nevertheless, this was our first victory over
Southampton in recent years and gave the
team confidence for Sunday's match at
Brunei.
T E A M S
Firsts: R o n Johnson, John Knight, Brian
MacGowan, Danny Lau and Tubby Woo.
Seconds: J o e Wong, Tim Hillyer, Lawrence
Poon, Robert Cheung and J o e Ng.
Thirds: Paul Jeynes, Ray Cook, Stuart Cox,
Thomas Wong and Nigel Heath.
Ladies: Delia Wong, Marie Cheong, Merhala
Thurai, Ruby Wong and Lousia Lau.
Eventually, everyone got to the Airport
Bowl on Sunday, for the lunchtime match,
only to find the roll-off delayed by half-an-
hour. The firsts again won, although only on
the last ball of the day. Danny Lau bowled at
deserves these tickings off - so no more
bleeding subservient grovelling towards me
please, M r McLelland for mercy. This means
that the score was a 3-1 win to the C team and
a as a formality our weak link Alex (vital
statistics 24-36-24-11/2) Cameron played
that dark, silent 'Valentino with glasses' figure
Andy 'Iron Curtain''Kresewski. Alice played
like an albino penquin sunbathing and
flipped his lid and lost owing to political
jostling from Ayatolah Leclezio who accused
him of spying and forthwith received a black
eye (see earlier). S o the final result was 3-2to
the C team, who are still top of the league.
(I've got them well under control now, since
I've had training in zookeeping)/
T E A M S
B Team: A Mazio, T Repellant, S Jones
(Capt), C Cavity, and A ?.
C Team: A Cameroons, G Brilliant-
Wonderful, D Smelly, G Shitartus and D
Fuckall.
The A team played L S E B (or was it with
themsleves - who can tell). Amid an air of
severe tension owing to the fact that their two
star players (and only decent players)
dropped out to go to the England match
(must have foggy minds), Pressy Tea urn,
impersinating a punka wallah, put his foot
down and demanded that they would win
even though the team was worse than the
spastics shot putting team. First on was Dave
'our man in Hong Kong, China, Japan and
any other slanty-eyed country' Crossland
10 pins, needing two to win and got a solid
8 to give a 3-1 win. Likewise the seconds
scraped a win, having surprised themselves
by drawing level at 1-1 and then surprising
Brunei by producing a good 806 team game,
to produce a 3-1 result. Disappointingly, the
thirds and ladies found the Brunei teams too
strong on their home lanes and were
probably also tired from the match o n
Saturday. Both teams slumped 4-0.
The overall result was a 6-4 defeat, the best
we have done against Brunei. A win would
have given us a chance of topping the South-
East Division, if assuming a good victory in
the remaining match. However, it was
another good result. We now have an
excellent team and are now beginning to get
the results. Barring any more auto-electrical
mishaps, this should continue.
T E A M S
Firsts: Ron Johnson. John Knight. Brian
MacGowan. J o e Ng and Danny Lau.
Seconds: Thomas Wong. Tim Hillyer, Neil
Hunt. Albert Yue and Robert Cheung.
Thirds: Paul Jeynes. Ray Cook. Lawrence
Poon, Nigel Heath and Nigel Windsor
Ladies: Delia Wong, Marie Cheong, Merhala
Thurai, Ruby Wong and Lousia Lau.
There will be league bowling next
Wednesday as usual. The minibus leaves
from Aero (opposite Beit Arch) at 2-30
prompt. Many thanks to everyone who played
last weekend, especially those who push-
started my car.
Cheers,
Tim.
who showed his diplomatic touch by
castrating his opponent who didn't see any
balls and was annihilated likeakiloof napalm
inside a Russian labour camp.
Next to the sickly coloured cloth was happy
boy Proudiove, our IF correspondent, whose
lumpy performance provided as much
entertainment to the crowd as seeing the
pope's body lying in state. He was the victor
sylvestor of the A team who.were 2-0 up. O n
to the bowling green came MrTeaurn himself
thinking he could play snooker which is
about the same as thinking he was a British
citizen (joke). He played with as much control
as a hedgehog in a nudist camp and was
thoroughly massacred like a Rhodesian
commoner.
Sean off Armstrong was on next. It has
been hinted that this person does not look
like a toothless leprechaun. The person who
said that must be married to a pinnochio-
nosed bag of flies. What a chronic
performance he put up. A deaf bat was more
use to the team and would have certainly had
more chance of scoring (in both senses of the
word). Last to play was one of Harvey Smith's
horse Sanyo music centre whose links with
chairmen Mao have been compared with
Margaret T h a t c h e r ' s c o n n e c t i o n s with
Gaysoc (re considerable). His yellow streak
- didn't show and he kung fued his way to a
dramatic 'bull in a chinashop' win.
Team: D Pissland, M Randilover, S Teaurn
(capt), S Barmpot and S Yuwho.
. Grandpa
FOOTBALL
IC 6ths GET FA IN CUP
IC 6ths vs Charing Cross 3rds: 1-5
IC 6ths biggest chance for fame and glory
yet came in this 2nd round cup match. After
sailing through the first round IC started well
and after ten minutes had not only achieved
their target of not conceding a goal but had
also created a few scoring opportunities.
Then, with IC playing their best football of the
season and very much against the run of play,
the opposition scored. This quirk of fate was
accepted inasimilar philosophical manner as
the previous 28 have been this season and
despite continuing pressure IC found
themselves 1-0 down at half-time.
During the interval IC sportingly offered
Charing Cross the oranges first and were
rewarded for this gesture by being left the
smallest orange segments. As a direct result
of this lack of refreshment IC found
themselves 3-0 down shortly after the restart.
Again, IC came forward but soon found
themselves 4-0 down (sorry about that lads!).
This goal seemed to add more zest to IC's
already building attack and soon they won a
free kick just outside the area. George
Adach's pin-pointed kick found Dave (could I
just say this is the first time I've appeared in
FELIX?) Braaley rising above the defence to
nod the ball past the keepers despairing dive.
From then on IC pulled all the stops out and
came close many times before allowing
Charing Cross a consolation goal just before
the end.
Team: Names not given to avoid prosecution.
D Tinkler
TENPIN BOWLING
19

