DAY BY DAY
WEDNESDAY 21
US EMBASSY SEIGE
Iranian students threatened to kill their 49
r e m a i n i n g hostages if the A m e r i c a n
taskforce, which sailed for international
waters off Iran, intervened. The students are
taking seriously reports that President Carter
will not stand idly by if the hostages were put
on trial.
US EMBASSY IN PAKISTAN
ATTACKED
The US Embassy in Pakistan was stormed
by a mob and one US marine was shot dead.
The Americans trapped inside had to be
rescued by troops ordered into the grounds
by President Zia. The riots seem to have been
sparked off by rumours that 'American and
Israeli agents' were responsible for the
seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca and
Ayatollah Khomeini broadcast a statement
backing up the rumour.
MINERS TO VOTE ON STRIKE
Leaders of 230,000 miners rejected the 20%
pay offer and called for support for disruptive
action. A pithead ballot will be held on 30
November and the result will be announced
on 6 December.
THURSDAY 22
F O R E C A S T E D D E C L I N E IN
ECONOMY
In the latest Treasury economic forecasts a
deficit of £2 billion is projected in 1980,
although inflation is expected to fall from 17%
to 14% by the end of 1980, the economy is
expected to decline by 2%, despite reaching
self-sufficiency in oil.
The mortgage rate is to be increased from
11 3/4% to a record 15% from January
1st. This is the biggest ever rise in the cost of
home loans and home-buyers face a jump of
over 20% in monthly mortgage payments.
CHINESE ACCUSE VIETNAM
The Chinese accused the Vietnamese army
of causing a million deaths in Cambodia and
hinted that another Chinese invasion of
Vietnam might become necessary soon. The
Chinese delegat Mr Han Nianlong, at a new
round of border talks in Peking also accused
Vietnamese forrces of "tyrannical rule and
plundering in Cambodia" and claimed that
the deaths took place during ruthless
'mopping up' operations and massacres
Although the Vietnamese delegate repeated
their proposal that both sides of the dispute
shuld sign a non-aggression agreement, Mr
Han is reported to have concentrated on
Cambodia.
BRITISH HEART TRANSPLANT
The seventh heart transplant to take place in
Britain was completed after a six hour
o p e r a t i o n at P a p w o r t h H o s p i t a l near
Cambridge. The patient is said to be
breathing on his own and the heart
functioning well.
FRIDAY 23
BL FUTURE IN JEOPARDY
BL's future was in the balance while the
company considered whether to scrap the
survival plan in the event of strikes in support
of Mr Derek Robinson being made official. If
this happens, management sources said that
the B L Board might withdraw its request for
£200 million in slate, which would mean more
redundancies.
ZAMBIAN CRISIS
Fears that the Lancaster House talks could
collapse wider the strain of Zambian crisis
and the deadlock over ceasefire lead to an
apeal by Mrs Thatcher for a quick agreement.
The statement said that the achievements
should not be jeopardised by 'ill-judged
actions or decisions'. The talks were 'within
an ace of success' and that deadlock over
ceasefire could lead to previous decisions
being unravelled.
IRA MAN GETS LIFE SENTENCE
Thomas McMahon, one of the Provisional
IRA's bomb makers, was convicted of killing
Earl Mountbatten in a boat explosion and
sentenced for life.
SATURDAY 24
POLICE CORRUPTION INQUIRY
Several police officers are expected to be
arrested in the next few weeks in Operation
Countryman, the biggest ever investigation
into London police corruption. Detectives
involved in the operation which has been
running for a year feel that they have been
prevented from taking action against several
suspects. They blame this on the policy of the
- Director of Public Prosecutions of only rarely
giving immunity to informants and on the
protective 'immunity' of the London police.
So far, one officer has been arrested on a
minor charge and seven suspended.
RABIES JAB
The first safe and cheap anti-rabies
injection is now available. The vaccine is
produced from human tissue and so free from
foreign body reaction caused by earlier
vaccines. About 100 people have been given
the injections at a weekly clinic at British
Airways Victoria Station terminal. No side
effects have been reported.
SUNDAY 25
REPORT ON OBSCENITY LAWS
The Williams Committee which has been
investigating pornography laws for two years
is to recommend withdrawal of film
censorship powers from local authorities,
establisment of a statutory board of film
censors and a licensing system which will
enable d e s i g n a t e d c i n e m a s to s h o w
pornographic films. Public displays of
'obscene' material would be banned but hard
core material will be more accessible to
adults.
US EMBASSY HOSTAGES CRISIS
The U N Secretary General, Dr Kurt
Waldheim, asked the President of the
Security Council to convene an urgent
meeting of the Council to deal with the "grave
situation which has arisen in the relations
between the US and Iran". Dr Waldheim said
that the tension had now esclated to a point
where the world is facing the most serius
threat since the C u b a missile crisis of 1962.
MONDAY 26
HOSPITAL PICKET LINE
Scuffles resulted today when about 200
junior doctors and nurses staged a counter-
demonstration against the picket line at
Charing Cross Hospital which has been
refusing to allow the delivery of any heating
oil. The hospital has been brought near to
closure with only 330 patients, 463 empty
beds and contingency plans to evacuate the
patients. A n out-patient suffering from throat
and lung cancer approached the picket line
and told them that the would die if the did not
recieve daily treatment. The dispute is over
the dismissal of two engineers. The strikers
claim that the two men were victimised by
hospital management because they were
working to rule. The 50 strikers have denied
the order to return to work.
CAMBODIANS NOT RECEIVING
FOOD AID
Cambodian refugees arriving in Thailand
have claimed that Vietnamese troops are
stealing international food aid. The refugees,
in contrast to the United Nations' Children's
Fund and the International Red Cross, claim
that they have recieved little of the foreign aid
that has been delivered over the past tow
months. Almost all of the refugees believe
that Vietnam is out to exterminate the
Cambodian race.
TUESDAY 27
INQUIRY EXAMINE ROBINSON
SACKING
The leaders of the engineering workers'
union agreed with Sir Michael Edwardes, the
BL Chairman, to instruct their members to
return to work immediately. This decision
caused anger in the Transport, and General
Workers' Union which declared the strike
official. The Engineering Union's decision
has made it inevitable that the T G W U will
have to halt its own strike. Instead of taking
official action the A V E W will hold its own
inquiry into the sacking.
TECHNICIANS' DISPUTE HALTS
BBC TV STUDIOS
A dispute with technicians has halted
production in London studios. The last
remaining technical operations crew walked
out on a twenty-four hour strike today. The
B B C has begun to draw up television
schedules containing increasing numbers of
films and programmes which have been
shown before.
7

