3 February 1998 WHEREFORE ART THOU, ROMEO?
Once again, the 14th Jehruary rears it's dedcate, romantic head, sneaking gently into our otherwise Cove-
Cess Cives. It's pagan, ageCess Beauty eche-ws the tacky andugCy commerciaCism of otherfestivaCs, giving us
the only 24 hours in the year in -which we may express our true feedngsfor our Covedones -withoutfear of
rejection or stupidity. Those -who truCy are in Cove; evenfrom afar often take the time to conjure a -witty
phrase orpoem to honour their desired one. iHere at fedx we are honoured toprint hut a tiny seCection of
such Cines fromthe tens of thousands of amourous hopefuls. /And myself; my "VaCentine is working in a bar
on Saturday night whiCst I go home to bury my recently, deceaseduncCe. Love to you aCC... xxx
Hey Stud Muffin,
You and a dozen red roses are enough to turn me
on... forget the Karma Sutra
Love M e xxx
S. Don't forget the cinnamon
GrecnPca
Have you posed your question to
Natalie? Your green veg will not bear
sweet red fruit unless you see silver and
pink.
But if all does not go well, just send me
an SOS (but not on valentines Day
please!)
Spaghetti Queen.
Geology Dave is into rocks.
Union Jacks are on his socks.
Impressed by her pool room talent,
to the Italian girl he's very galent.
We wish him luck on 'Valentia's' day
We're sure he'll get his wicked way
T o teddy, bibouna and the swedish-blond madame tar
tine, I won't be able to spend this day with the 3 of you,
I won't be there to complain about our miserable lifes,
But I still hope you have a wonderful Valentine's day
That a Prince charming will take you out,
and treat you like the Princesses of the day
Happy Valentine's day from the other side of the
Atlantic!
From Y O U K N O W W H O !
T o A L I C I A A G I U S
"The difference between ordinary and
extraordinary is that little extra"
Love always,
Pattick K. Van Jamk
T o Shereagh
I love you more than anyone,'
anything, ever.
You mean the world to me.
Love always
Matt
Sweet Viola,
You have nice eyes and of course great legs. I bet your legs
is more beautiful without boots or shoes or even socks:)
fancy a feet massage? It is a delicious cake? but you have to
take it on your own wish :)
xxx
It doesn't matter if you don't know my name or
who I am. It only matters if you know how I feel
about you. Since that time you smiled at me in the
library, I have always admired you. I always sit by
the coffee machine outside 217 between lectures
just to get a glance of you. I hear your friends call
you Ryan. But I don't know how to come closer to
you. Felix is the onyl way to reveal my passion for
you. Please forgive me. I am your junior from the
first year, the one with a shy dimple.
I will be absoluetly thrilled if you would just meet
me for a coffee todav at S in the JCR. Dying to see
ya!
Yours fruity & juicy
Strawberry
There was a young bloke
called T o m Hull
Who certainly never was
dull....
Apart from the time
(oh shit this won't rhyme)
When he plays champi-
onship manager!
P.S. I love you loads Tom.

