3 February 1998 MANIFESTOS 15 I
New Election All Posts
Ha ha ha! Cackle cackle! I, the Evil
One, have returned! Yes, master of
chaos, chief of destruction and shat-
terer of dreams is here to plauge
another batch of hopeful candidates.
What? You don't know who I
am? I am the all-powerful New
Election, and it is within my grasp to
eliminate the weak and the stupid
from these elections. I'm standing for
all posts, so if you think that all the
candidates of that position are noth-
ing but pitiful, unworthy retches, then
vote for M E and I shall destroy them!
But greatest evil is yet to come -
if I am victorious, the elections will be
held again. Ha ha ha! HA H A H A
HAAAAAA!
James Carter Deputy President (Finance and Services)
Meeting the needs of your Union
Next academic year will undoubtedly
be the most important year in the
management of your Union. This is
because for the first time in ten years,
all the union clubs and societies, ser-
vices and trading outlets will be finan-
cially supported from within the
South Kensington campus. However,
there are bound to many teething
problems and I do not want anyone
to suffer because of this. Not every-
thing can be anticipated in this matter
so the Deputy President of Finance
and Services must be able to respond
to problems both fast and effectively.
Fortunately, I know how to carry out
what could be an overwhelming task.
I have experience in the management
of people and union finances from the
club and society level right through to
my current position as Recreational
Clubs Committee Chairman. I have
learnt that the only way to make sure
things don't go wrong is by imple-
menting a system of proper instruc-
tion and effective communication
throughout the membership of the
Union. Believe it or not, much of this
system is already in place. All it needs
is a bit of forward thinking and the
right person to implement it. You will
all have seen what happens when this
is not done.
Please remember that your Union is
here to support your needs and
nobody else's. Better suited services
including welfare, catering and
accommodation support may well be
needed over and above what already
needs improving. I will be there as a
member of the team to help imple-
ment suitable changes within the
financial constraints of the union.
Sadly, all this is not guaranteed to
happen unless you vote for James
Carter: Deputy President, Finance and
Services.
Dave Wharton Deputy President (Finance and Services)
Experience, personality, enthusiasm,
commitment. A good candidate
needs not only to have them all, but
to show them too. It is my job in
these weeks running up to the elec-
tion, to show you that I do.
The position of DP(F&S) involves the
day to day handling of the Unions
Finances. Although not described as
such, it is a job, and one which
demands the same high standards as
my current one. As a computer con-
sultant to BT I work in a team, and it
requires the four qualities above, and
more.
The DP(F&S) sits on, and chairs vari-
ous committees, and has to keep in
constant contact with other Union
staff and members. You could have
the best accountant in the world, but
if you can't approach him with your
problems, then you're wasting your
time. A club treasurer may not under-
stand how to create a budget, or
might not understand what a Five
Year Plan is. Hitting them with, what
they might see as mumbo jumbo
finance speak, is not going to help.
They're not going to learn, and they're
not going to go away and get it right,
which makes the DP's job harder.
Why not just explain it properly to
them in the first place, and help them
understand. That way things are
made easier for everyone, and it
helps the Union run like the well oiled
engine that it should be.
This year we will have students arriv-
ing at IC who will be encountering
financial difficulty with the introduc-
tion of tuition fees. 1 believe the
Union needs to cater for this new
problem, and provide information,
and help about the fees, and any
implications they may have. 1 want to
see ICU services keep their high stan-
dard, and offer more. I want the job.
Adam Cherrington Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
Imperial College will enter a new era
in October with the arrival of the
medical students on the South
Kensington campus. This will
undoubtedly effect the members of
the 200 or so clubs and societies of
ICU, whose interests are the respon-
sibility of the DP(CS^). The current
DP(C&S) is already dealing with the
well-publicised BUSA situation and
councils decision for hybrid entry.
This is a position with which I am in
total agreement as a means for
smoother integration before the
eventual, but seemingly distant, total
merger of all clubs competing in
BUSA competitions. There has been
concern that other clubs and societies
will be forced to merge with their
equivalent on other campuses, a situ-
ation I cannot see happening and,
due to the fact that many clubs may
be detrimentally effected by a large
increase in membership and are not
under the restricting regulations of
BUSA-like organisations, do not sup-
port.
So why vote for me? I am currently
the Tour Manager of 1CU Rugby Club
organising a tour to South Africa in
July '98 for both medical and non-
medical players. This position has
given me the unique experiences of
working within the Union structure
whilst dealing with College Officials
and students of all disciplines, as well
as people and businesses from out-
side the education system. 1 also have
a keen interest in the theatre and out-
door pursuits, and although not a
member of the relevant clubs in 1CU, 1
have been a member of societies out-
side of college, hopefully proving that
I am not what is generally referred to
in the states as a Jock.
May 1 finish by saying vote 1 for Adam
Cherrington

