18 MUSIC 13 February 1998
S I N G L E S
j The Hybirds - See me through
' " H B Alright tune, sounding a bit repetitive but
the guitar drives the s o n g o n .
Lilys - A nanny in Manhatten
This is the new Levis theme which lacks the
colour and energy seen in the ad. It's a bit too
phunky for me!
Dandywarhols - Every day should be a holiday
Heard these guys on the radio a few times and
they seem to be getting O K reviews. But to me
it sounds like an express train going nowhere
fast.
Simon Warner - The wrong girl
U m m , the song starts off well but then the
respectability of it declines steeply w h e n he
starts singing. Better leave this one alone!
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N 1
Hinda Hicks - If you want me
This is Hinda Hick's debut single of '98 and is da
licks. She delivers a phunky flavoured track with
the sample Too Hot from Kool and the Gang.
She is going to blast on to the R'n B scene with
this tune. Lets hope she makes it big in '98, she
definitely got the features-no doubt!!
Shelter - Whole wide world
This is an American alternative indie group with
some Hindu influences, Hare Krishna! Song
sounds better as you listen to it.
Stereophonies - Local boy in the photograph
Quite a g o o d kickin' tune from the 'Phonics with
some blasting drum beats. Seems like this is
going to be a popular one.
Addict - Red Bird
This is a slow t e m p o indie track which we've all
heard before. It grows on y o u after a few listens
but still is a little downbeat.
Strangelove - Another night in
Strangelove, strangeboys, delivering a catchy
yet annoying tune singing some really interest-
ing lyrics about having 'another night in'. It's O K .
Save Ferris - World is new
H o w can 1 s u m up this tune. It contains some
really corny crap trumpet work but gets a bit
better when it stops. This new band have had
limited success in the U.S. and I can't see why?
Lets hope they d o better here, yeah mate!
Mellowbac - Illusion
This is a slick mellow tune from a rap group
based in Germany. It consists of two laid back
rappers spinnin' their web of wicked words
backed up by some smooth female vocals. It
contains some French rap verses sounding sim-
ilar to Alliance Ethnik with their groovy sounds.
Interesting to see how they do in '98, they def-
initely got the skillz!
Deni Hines - Delicious
Radio edit has a phunky laid back flavour with
some groovy piano and guitar backin' it up.
There is also a C-Swing remix featuring Don-E
which does nothing for the track and also an
upbeat Cold mix which houses up the track for
the worst.
Finley Quaye - Your love gets sweeter
This is a more up tempo track from Finley w h o
sings about the joys of a w o m a n ! It is not quite
as g o o d as what he has c o m e out with before
but it is still a catchy little tune and sure of suc-
cess.
Chantal Kreviazuk - God made me
She is a 23 year old Canadian pianist, singer,
songwriter with an Allanis Morrisette flavour but
still quite individualistic. She has a soft yet p o w -
erful voice and most of her tracks are heartfelt
and moving! O n e to watch out for. O h h h h ,
Chantal!
Nim
Primal Scream - If They Move Kill 'Em
This is a groove laden track, with an excellent
bass heavy under-current. It is one of the num-
ber of top class tracks off their most recent long
player, Vanishing Point. It's only going to be
released for a week, so give it a listen, it's worth
it just to catch a listen of the 'Scream's cover of
Darklands by those ancient indie maestros, The
jesus A n d M a r y Chain.
Six By Seven - 88-92-96
Unfortunately this is depressing and boring,
much in the similar vein as Portishead, with the
exception of extremely whiny vocals. Apparently
this band has been touted as one of the break-
ers for '98, all 1 can say is don't believe the
hype.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N 2
Cornershop - Brimful Of Asha
If you've been listening to the radio recently you
are bound to have heard this beautiful slice of
p o p by the previously (nearly) unheard of
Cornershop. This is an ode to famous Hindi
singers (Asha and others) and much loved vinyl
45s. It is essential to investigate the remixes on
the rest of the single, they're on another level
from the original single edit.
Pitchshifter - Genius
This is described as a fusion of metal and tech-
no, although it is more similar to a pathetic
attempt at trying to gain some commercial
ground by introducing a dancey beat to some
poor metal R A W W K .
Crandaddy - Everything Beautiful Is Far Away
Lo-fi-ness at its worst, it is bland, and uninter-
esting. It is advisable to avoid this record with a
passion.
Jason
T H A B O M B )
Yeah, Yeah it's that time again Felix,
Friday its must be the Tha Bomb. Sit back
relax and just read you know where it's at!
Coming up you got all the usual shit.... news,
singles, you know all that, but y'all also got
some extra stuff and its all free of charge.
Now for some news, the oooohs and the
aaaaahs of the RnB world. I heard this story
from one of my boys on Saturday, I don't
know whether its true, but who cares about
the truth; Lil Kim and Foxy Brown are both
touring with the Puff Daddy crew over state-
side and if my boy is right they got a little
pissed off with each other and it all ended in
nails at 10 paces (every badboy's perfect
night, two badgirls fighting it out in the
mud...oooooh). O h and by the way for those
who bought tickets for the Puffy gig in January
it seems that the Puff Daddy was too ill to
come over here, but good enough to go over
to the other coast and see Michael Jackson
last month. Rumours of a Jacko-Puffy collab-
oration started late last year, well they may
not just be rumours anymore. Jacko's kid sis-
ter has added an extra date to her tour in
June...my question is why?, the last album
was so fucked up I can't imagine anyone
going to see the tour, only reason I can think
to go is if she plays loads of old tunes.
On the album front the wicked Jay-Z
album, In My Lifetime Vol. I, has just been re-
released, the record company probably look-
ing to generate more sales on the interest
created by Wishing On A Star, you know this
is gonna be a huge crossover hit...the British
public love the old remade classics. Just
switching to a Drum'n'Bass groove for a sec-
ond, the new Goldie album is at long last
gonna get a release, titled Saturnz Return,
this double album includes the dope tune
Digital with KRS1. The Ride, a film that will
probably never make it to our big screens has
a soundtrack that's already out and is in the
process of blowing up on the underground.
I've only heard a couple of the tracks but I've
got to say they were phatness itself and if the
rest of the album lives up to the hype sur-
rounding it then we got some major shit on
our hands. The Weekend is a wicked party
tune and The Worst from Onyx and The Wu
blows your mine....I don't wanna say anymore
cause u got a review coming up next week.
To finish off I gotta mention a little story
I heard last week apparently while a
friend of mine was now in IC radio he heard
somebody saying that while 1 start off writing
like some sort of rudeboy my writing style
slowly gets more and more normal towards
the end. Now I read thru' last weeks column
and look at that it's probably true, but
that doesn't worry me. ..u worry me for read-
ing my column and analysing the fucking
thing. This little story encases all the shit that
goes with Imperial rather than props for the
writing the fucking thing 1 get shit because my
style isn't consistent.
Shoutouts to the Chem. Eng. home girls,
you know who you are! I'm out.
Milen

