20
C L U B S C E N E - T H E E L E C T R I C C A F E
MUSIC
l/C < I'•
13 February 1997
7s this close enough to
the camera for you?'
- Dr. walker
Welcome to another edition of the Electric
Cafe! First of all, many thanks to all of you
who entered the Reactivate Classics competi-
tion from last week. The response from the
Felix readers was so good, that I have ordered
extra CDs from the record label! As I am writ-
ing this column, I still don't know who won. I
will have to wait until the response from the
radio show (that went out on Sunday and
Tuesday this week) comes back.
For all of you who entered by email, I am
thinking of starting up a mailing list so that
you will know what special features and com-
petitions are coming up on the radio show
and the Felix column. I will also tell you about
club nights in London, if I think something
unusual or special is happening. It will be an
informal thing, decided by how often 1 can get
to a computer to write it! If you would like to
be included on such a list, then please drop
me a message (a.sethi@ic.ac.uk) with your
return address.
This week 1 want to tell you about a group
of artists that have been making music out of
Cologne in Germany for a number of years.
Many at Imperial will know Air Liquide as a
French chemicals company. Only a few will
recognise the name as one of the most avant-
garde German techno groups. But for those in
the know about the underground dance
scene, Air Liquide have been consistently pro-
ducing challenging, yet highly addictive music
for a number of years now.
Three people make up Air Liquide; Dr
Walker (Ingmar Koch), )ammin' Unit (Cem
Oral) and singer Mary Applegate (who comes
from a pop background, having written the
lyrics to Jennifer Rush's hit single The Power
Of Love'.). They have also built up a network
with other Cologne artists, including Khan
(Cem's brother), Mike Inc and Jorg Burger. All
these artists are releasing material today,
and all share a common vision and philoso-
phy.
So what is this vision? In an interview
Ingmar once said, "I don't want to make
music for people when they're washing dish-
es or cleaning their appartments. It's boring,
I hate this kind of thing. Music should touch
your heart, your fears, not make one sound
for half an hour."
To say Air Liquide's music is dark would
be an understatement. Whether they are
pumping out full-on techno, indulging in elec-
tro, serving up rich, textured soudscapes of
ambience or taking their new departure of
breakbeats, you get the feeling they are right
on the edge of their abilities. If something has
been done and put on the map of techno,
then you should understand that it is no
longer of any interest to them.
I first listened to Air Liquide about three
years ago when I bought the album The
Increased Difficulty of Concentration. That
experience still lives with me today. In an age
when music had to be "uplifting", the sound
they created was fresh. Air Liquide have a
vast back-catalogue, scattered amongst a
variety of labels. Check out Rising High, Sm:)e
NYC, Blue, Djungle Fever, Blue Planet and
Harvest. Albums such as Nephology (The New
Religion), The Increased Difficulty of
Concentration, Radiowaves and Air Liquide
have been pivotal moments in electronic
history.
Once in the studio, Air Liquide follow no
set rules or formulae. Their greatness comes
from their unpredictability. You can't really
talk about pushing back boundaries when the
boundaries don't exist in someone's head!
Indeed, it does appear that the greatest
experimental artists of the electronic genre
are the ones who don't think or create within
set limits. Quite fitting for a form of music
that is inventing itself from totally new types
of instruments and composition tools.
Air Liquide was born of the school of hard
knocks that was responsible for Ingmar's
education. An electronics whizz from his
teenage years, a load of new electronic
sounds that he had invented were stolen by a
synthesizer company at the age of sixteen.
After that he produced a string of succesful
commercial hits for a Frankfurt house label.
Three and a half million copies were sold, but
the company went bust before he could see a
single penny of his cut.
From that moment, Ingmar decided to
make only the music that he really liked. The
result is a new independent electronic music
scene for Cologne, some of the most respect-
ed and admired music and artists of today, a
multitude of labels and the highly succesful
Liquid Sky parties. Yes! Liquid Sky was one of
the few club nights that I had a real longing to
visit. It was here that Air Liquide perfected
their spellbinding live performances and DJ
sets in front of a local crowd, and also dis-
covered and nurtured new artists and DJs,
giving them the confidence and freedom to
create their own music.
Tonight (13/02/97) will see a rare appear-
ance by Air Liquide and the rest of the
Cologne collective in London at the 333 Club
in Old Street (333 O l d Street, London EC1)
from "10 till death" as the publicity points
out! 1 counted over ten named artists plus
guests, so there will be something for every-
one on two floors of teeming action. Look out
in particular for live sets by Air Liquide, The
Bionaut, Khan and Frank Heiss. O n the decks
you can enjoy the talents of Freddie Fresh,
Strobocop, Kron and Thomas Thorn. This all
comes highly recommended from the Electric
Cafe.
I leave you with the words of a journalist
who said, " A recent single was charmingly
titled Don't Fuck With Cologne. Far better to
let Cologne fuck with you."
"There is no law except the law that there
is no law"
Air Liquide - Twice Zero is Zero
"Nothing is true; everything is permitted"
Hassan-I-Sabbath, The Old Man Of
The Mountains
(Excerpts from this article were taken
from Trance Europe Express 3)
Here are the times for the Electric Cafe
this week:
Sunday night: midnight till 2am
Tuesday night: 10pm till 11pm
Both shows are on IC Radio (The Student
Radio Network). As usual, we'll be covering
the best in new and classic cutting-edge elec-
tronic music.
@l;©k
fammin' Unit gets some
light in his eyes.

