3 February 1998 A R T S 23
S O M E T H I N G F I S H Y G O I N G O N I N C H E M E N G
EASY ACCESS (FOR THE BOYS)
Claire Dowie
T
his is the new play by Claire
Dowie - hailed by s o m e as
the female answer to the
"angry y o u n g m e n " of m o d e r n the-
atre- in which she explores the del-
icate issue of childhood sexual
abuse. The central character
Michael is a prostitute w h o believes
that he was abused by his father as
a small child, and the play charts
his changing attitudes toward his
father and his actions. At first
Michael denies that his father's
treatment of him was abuse at all,
insisting that he still has a g o o d
relationship with his father.
During the play, M i c h a e l is
making a video diary containing all
the most intimate details of his life.
He spends a large amount of time
speaking out front to the camera,
with the recording being simultane-
ously projected onto a gigantic
screen on stage. As he relates his
life story, we see his attitude toward
his father gradually changing under
the influences of the best friend
Gary and boyfriend Matt. Michael
goes through the whole spectrum of
reactions, from denial, through
anger toward his father, to the reali-
sation that his father's abuse of him
had somehow made him feel spe-
cial and loved - exactly the opposite
of what one would expect.
Throughout the early part of the
play Michael's father Ed hovers in
the background, his constant pres-
ence symbolic of the far reaching
effect he has had on Michael's life.
W h e n e v e r M i c h a e l and M a t t
b e c o m e physically close, Ed
appears behind them and begins to
act out the same kissing and touch-
ing that they are involved in. This is
very obviously intended only as a
metaphor, but nonetheless a surre-
al effect. D o w i e also uses the
device of the juxtaposition of dif-
ferent scenes, so that the action
moves fluidly between separate
conversations between M i c h a e l
and others, and characters can be
passively present without being
directly involved.
Michael returns to his father's
home to find that he has taken on
live-in help for the bar which he
runs, in the form of Ruth w h o now
lives upstairs with her y o u n g son
Jake. Michael is immediately wor-
ried, soon becoming terrified that
his father is now abusing Jake, so
that he makes every effort to per-
suade Ruth to leave. His father
chooses this time to discuss with
him the events of the past, playing
on Michael's resentment towards
his mother, w h o left when he was
six years old, and saying that he
never really did anything, nothing
significant, and that it only hap-
pened once, after all. After this
Michael really begins to doubt the
accuracy of his o w n memories, half
believing his father's platitudes, but
is also hurt at the idea of his
father's having found a substitute
for him, in Jake. The plot c o m e s to
a horrifying climax, and only then
does the full intricacy of the subject
matter become apparent, showing
that we can never be completely
aware of the nature of the abuse
which is going o n .
After seeing the climax, the
viewer's impression of the entire
play is dramatically altered, and it
seems to me that Claire Dowie has
written the play almost solely with
the intention of creating the situa-
tion in which such a climax can
occur, with the result that many
scenes appear lame or irrelevant.
The cast rise above this to some
extent, in particular M a l c o l m James
in the portrayal of the relationship
between M a t t and Michael, and
Peter Marinker, w h o captured well
the mild menace inherent in Ed;
although I was unimpressed by
Natasha Langridge's s o m e w h a t
stilted performance. Despite the
fact that neither the potential of the
writing, nor that of the several
clever devices used, is fulfilled, the
play succeeds in raising many inter-
esting questions, and challenging
the accepted view of what consti-
tutes sexual abuse.
Abi
Details on diary pages
HOT MIKADO
CXWMS Light Opera Society
ALBERT HERRING
Benjamin Britten
Y
ou're in L o n d o n , arguably the cultural
capital of the world and y o u think that,
maybe sometime y o u might possibly
like to see an opera. But you're in London
which is famous for it's extortionate ticket
prices and y o u can only just afford a pint or
ten d o w n the bar. A n d then y o u remember
that you're a scientist at IC, so where did you
get such a stupid idea from in the first place?
For those of y o u w h o might have even the
slightest of cultural tendencies, here's your
chance. O p e r a for £3 and just across the
road from DaVinci's. The Britten Theatre is
one of the best opera venues in London and
even the cheap seats are excellent.
Based on Guy de Maupassant's short
story, Le Rosier de M a d a m e Husson, the
opera is set in the fictional East Anglian
coastal town of Loxford at the turn of the cen-
tury. Those of you w h o are familiar with either
that area or w h o simply have a general idea of
British small-town mentality will be able to
relate very easily to the characters and set-
ting. Self-appointed moral guardian of
Loxford, Lady Billows is discussing candidates
for the town's M a y Q u e e n with a group of
local representatives (schoolmistress, vicar,
mayor, and policeman); however, the suit-
ability of all the candidates is called into ques-
tion by Lady Billows' housekeeper Florence
who's notebook is at the ready. Eventually
they have to settle for a M a y King instead and
the honour is to be given to Albert Herring - a
rather simple chap w h o works for his mother
at the grocer's shop. Unfort-unately for the
moral majority, the prize money and a practi-
cal joke where his lem-onade is laced with
rum, provide him with the conditions to break
out of the stifling constraints of the village
society: this opera is, in the end, a coming-
of-age story.
This chamber opera can be appreciated
on many levels; Britten's characterisation is
reminiscent of the Mozart comic operas: the
vocal writing for each individual character per-
fectly portrays the particular neurosis and dis-
position of that person. Thus, Lady Billows'
music is full of musical outbursts and arpeg-
giated figures which mirror her self-righteous
moral and patronising personality. There are
so many other details which may go unno-
ticed on one's first hearing but that won't
spoil one's appreciation of it; underneath the
light-hearted exterior there lies quite a pro-
found message with music of equal depth,
confirming Britten as one of the greatest
operatic composers of this century.
Stephen Tarlton
Details on diary page
H
ot M i k a d o " is the famous operetta by
Gilbert and Sullivan, given a '40s twist. The
songs and settings remain the same, with
the only difference being the suits and some
extremely poor American accents.
The story involves Nanki-Poo, a wandering min-
strel, travelling to Titipu in search of Yum-Yum, his
lost love. O n his arrival, he finds her engaged to
her guardian, the Lord High Execut-ioner. After a lot
of sing-ing and dancing, the lovers are reunited and
live happily ever after.
The set was minimal, and in a vaguely Japanese
style. The Gentlemen of Japan looked like extras
from "Dick Tracey" in their rainbow suits, whilst the
ladies were all Susie W o n g in skimpy dresses. It
was all very colourful, with a fairly mixed quality of
singing from the chorus. The leads proved consis-
tently excellent. The musical provided an evening
of enjoyable, light entertainment, with some very
funny mom-ents. Shame y o u missed it, really.
A. Griffin

