13 February 1998 COLUMNS 9
%*
Originally, I was going to have a
rant about the parlous state of the
Constituent College Unions, but
the events of Sunday mean that
this will have to wait. I a m referring
to the death of Enoch Powell. Even
at a place as politically apathetic as
Imperial, this is a tricky subject to
handle. For many, he is remem-
bered only for that speech in
Birmingham on 24th April 1968,
'The Rivers of Blood.' This was
branded racist by Ted Heath and
led to his immediate dismissal
from the S h a d o w Cabinet. A n
inflammatory and, it was later to be
shown, overly alarmist speech, it
sharply divided public opinion and
led to the unusual spectacle of
London's dockers m a r c h i n g o n
Westminster to defend a Tory
politician. However, it had the
unfortunate effect of pushing one
of the finest political mind of the
century to the sidelines, leaving the
rest of his work overlooked by so
many. He is widely credited with
inventing Thatcherism, espousing
monetarism decades before it was
embraced by the Conservatives.
He mooted the idea of privatisa-
tion in the early 1960s and laid the
foundations for the breaking of
consensus politics in Britain, the
remorseless march to the left,
which drove the country onto the
rocks. His views on Europe, dis-
missed by Heath, were frightening-
ly accurate. 'The Community is
designed to be a political unit, with
c o m m o n internal
and external
policies, the
s a m e currency,
the s a m e
treaties. All this
means a single
government, and
therefore a c o m -
mon parliament
based o n one
electorate.' H e
said this in 1970,
and the full
impact is only now being felt. Such
was the strength of his feeling on
Europe, he urged people to vote
Labour in 1974. H e w a s the
sharpest mind in the C o m m o n s ,
who would ruthlessly crush o p p o -
nents with his frighteningly power-
ful intellect, his principal strength
but possibly one of his weak
points. There will never be another.
I find myself in the o d d position
of leaping to the Rector's defence,
something w h i c h probably
unnerves him as much as it does
me. Once again, our friends in the
ICU Environmental Society are
bleating on about Imperial's fund-
ing. Suzanne
Aigrain states
that IC's funding
'is increasingly
coming from Oil
companies with
a reputation for
appaling envi-
r o n m e n t a l
destruction [sic],
denial of Global
W a r m i n g . . . '
Needless to say,
f""+ this dubious,
sweeping statement is rubbish. The
highly respected W o r l d w a t c h
Institute in Washington has just
praised the efforts of BP, an
Imperial funding source, in invest-
ing in solar and wind energy. The
Chairman of BP announced last
year that his company accepted
that the burning of fossil
fuels was linked to changes
in the Earth's climate. Yet the
Environmental Society still saw fit
to disrupt a BP lecture held at
Imperial recently in a manner that
can only be described as childish.
M s Aigrain begins to reveal her true
agenda when she moans about oil
companies developing new fields.
As she well knows it is not the role
of a supplier to suppress its own
sales or fail to meet the demand
for its products. That is the role of
governments. Perhaps she feels
that the battle against lung cancer
would be best served by Philip
Morris deciding to stop the manu-
facture of cigarettes? The clincher
is her preference for 'state funds'
over industrial sponsorship. As with
many 'environmentalists', her real
disagreement seems to be with the
capitalist system, rather thanenvi-
ronmental issues, w h i c h serve
merely as a vehicle for these cryp-
to-socialist views. You can best
help save the planet by not clog-
ging up Felix with these silly distor-
tions.
THE IDIOT'S GUIDE TO GETTING A FIRST with COLIN DALE
Abstract
Admittedly it is less so than some work you
J will have to do, but that doesn't stop it being
' achingly tedious.
' Introduction
You may be forgiven for thinking that the
i purpose of writing lab reports is to give poten-
I tial employees an idea of your ability to c o m -
I municate technical information clearly and pre-
! cisely. But these skills are only of marginal use
I to most companies, w h o are looking increasing-
| ly for employees w h o can deliberately misin-
| form and distort data to their advantage. They
| are also searching for soulless automatons w h o
I can routinely perform the most mind-numbing-
I ly boring tasks for very little reward. That is why
• lab reports are marked by weight rather than
• content. You don't seriously believe that any-
• one could be bothered to read them do you?
| Theory
You are provided with up-to-date, well
. maintained equipment with which to assess the
! validity of scientific theory or improve your
! practical skills, under the supervision of helpful
' demonstrators. In science, a theory can never
' be proved, only disproved (or something).
' Basically, this means that anything that comes
I under this heading is about to be proved utterly
I false as soon as you walk into the lab.
I Method
I First of all, you have to find yourself a lab
I partner. The choice must be made carefully. It
I
Part Four: The Lab Report
should be someone w h o will co-operate with
you, support you, and when the going gets real-
ly tough, someone on w h o m you can offload all
responsibility while you go d o w n the pub.
Basically, anyone will do as long as they're not
bigger than you - that way you will sustain less
damage when things get violent. You may end
up with someone who only turns up every other
Tuesday, invariably with a bad hangover (and
you don't even have lab on Tuesdays).
Alternatively, you may get someone who is less
conscientious than yourself.
After three hours in the library desperately
trying to understand what the lab script is on
about, you finally give up and make a start on it
anyway. After all, it never stopped Einstein, did
it? Never mind the knowing smirk that crept
over the technician's face when you told him
which experiment you were doing; this is going
to be O K . That illusion persists until you see the
apparatus. The diffraction grating / bubbling vat
of chemicals / rat's testicles you are to be work-
ing on bear absolutely no resemblance whatso-
ever to the description in the text. Instead, you
have a equipment that looks as if it was sal-
vaged from the engine room of the Titanic, and
functions equally well. After two hours of curs-
ing at each other through clouds of black
smoke, you and your partner discover that
you've tried to connect a wire the wrong way
round. Of course, you could have asked a
demonstrator right at the start, but a couple of
hours of futile effort is a small price to pay in
order to avoid the humiliation of being patron-
ised by a sad postgrad w h o didn't manage to
pull while he was d o i n g his first degree.
Demonstrators are always around (usually a bar)
to demonstrate how easy it can be to earn eight
quid an hour.
Things continue in a similar vein for several
weeks, until you suddenly realise that it is the
last session. You haven't even got any results
for the first part yet, and your partner was last
seen rolling around in a gutter singing 'I'll Be
There For You'. So there is only one course of
action open to y o u , the one that comes
between blind panic and hard liquor, namely
fabrication.
Results
The University of London takes a very dim
view of bogus data, but I think it's fine as long
as you don't get caught. This is what statistics
is for. No-one understands statistics, so any
results can look reasonably g o o d as long as the
errors are justified in a completely incompre-
hensible way. Choose a formula (the bigger the
better, it needn't mean anything) and churn
those numbers out.
Discussion
The less said the better at this stage.
Conclusion
Your practical experiences may or may not
agree with my theory.

