FEATURES
10 FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
Nightline: a last resort for many
Julia Langer nudges alumni towards Memory Lane
We’ve all heard the rumours about the
‘real’ reason why the Queen’s Tower
doors remain shut for most of the year.
Regardless of whether they are true, it
is recognised that university life can be
extremely stressful and that students are
a high risk group for suicide. In 1969, a
study conducted with British and Amer-
ican students found “an unusually high
rate of suicide among college students”,
a fact still true today. This highlighted
the necessity of emotional support for
students. Following a spate of suicides
at Imperial College, in 1971 a small
college-based project known then as
West London Nightline was born. Now
40 years on, this registered charity (re-
named London Nightline) offers confi-
dential listening and support to students
from all over London and Brighton. The
60-70 active volunteers that work with
the charity – all of them students like
you – are there for students all night,
every night during term time. These vol-
unteers would like their fellow students
S
o I see the advert: “Student
Caller Campaign For An-
nual Fundraising”. In my
head I’m thinking, “Yes!
This ticks a lot of boxes”.
Like many fellow Imperial students, my
CV is too science-focused. I have got
lots and lots of experience in labs but I
feel like I need some other type of work
experience to show I am an employable
individual.
One of the attractions of this campaign
is that it’s a chance to be a part of some-
thing positive and help future students
studying at Imperial. The perks: it pays
£7.50 per hour, it’s compatible with my
studies, and it’s only a four-week cam-
paign so there is no long-term commit-
ment. The campaign is raising funds for
three areas: the rector’s fund, the stu-
dent opportunities fund, and the junior
research fellowship fund. So what did I
learn whilst being a student-caller on the
fundraising campaign? This is my per-
sonal account.
What do the alumni think of Imperial
10, 30, or 50 odd years after graduating?
The majority spoke fondly of their time
at Imperial. Almost immediately, many
mentioned that they had to work hard,
but made life-long friends, and that their
degree from Imperial opened all kinds of
doors for them.
It was astonishing that what is es-
sentially a cold-call could lead to a
30-minute conversation with a complete
stranger. Some alumni had very limited
contact with the college, but despite the
years that had passed since they last set
foot on campus, they warmed over the
phone and told me of their personal ex-
periences.
What were the moments that they re-
member best? Many of the engineers
talked about the lack of female students
on their course. I spoke to one woman,
who had been one of only 41 female
undergraduates at the time. A chatty
physicist remembers sitting in lectures
with Brian May, prior to his success-
ful career as a musician with the band
Queen. A post-war graduate described
how the student population changed
from a predominantly British institution
to a multi-cultural university. One of my
favourite stories was that of a 61 year-
old physicist who attempted to climb
the Queen’s Tower after a few beers too
many at the union bar. Then there was
the chemist who proudly claimed to be
the first Imperial graduate to get a “pass”
as his final degree award. I learned about
the mysterious tunnels under the South
Kensington campus and of the College’s
history.
In addition to hearing the experiences
of alumni, I was able to tell them about
my impression as a current Imperial
to know that sometimes it’s tough and
there are people who care.
Originally, Nightline was set up with
the help of the Samaritans with the aim
of reducing suicides at university. How-
ever the service is not exclusively for
those suffering from depression or with
suicidal thoughts. Over the phone, via
Skype, email and instant messaging,
Nightline volunteers will listen to any
topic you wish to talk about. It is not a
counselling service but provides an im-
partial, non-judgemental and empathetic
ear. Most of us have felt the daunting
feeling of moving to a new city where
you may not know anyone and have to
navigate for yourself. So Nightline pro-
vides information that could help with
common student issues from taxi num-
bers to where to find an STI clinic or
financial advice.
Imperial College is an institution
which praises science and logical
thought, but that doesn’t mean we al-
ways master our emotions. The found-
ing of Nightline offered a haven for
students to talk freely about whatever
weighed on their minds. Nightline was
a rapid success and within 4 years was
offering the service to 20 colleges in
West London. Today, London Night-
line runs at over 60 universities and
colleges, with a catchment exceeding
300,000 students. However, the jour-
ney of Nightline has not always been
smooth. In 1986, it threatened closure
due to funding problems. At the time, IC
paid the bill for the majority of the char-
ity’s costs and, although they were still
happy to provide accommodation and
administrative costs, they looked to oth-
er London universities to help contribute
to Nightline’s survival. Even today, the
charity relies on funding provided by af-
filiated colleges or universities and their
student unions. Sadly in 1989, after 18
years of generous support from Imperial,
Nightline was forced to relocate to make
space for more student accommodation.
Although the charity could no longer call
Imperial home, the college and union
have remained affiliates to this day.
The Independent reported in 2008 that
“more than half of the students who went
student, and issues, such as the funding
cuts, that concern us as students. To my
surprise, some of the alumni were very
well informed on recent events and de-
velopments at Imperial. Alumni news-
letters, emails, and fundraising events
have been a great way of maintaining
contact.
Whilst most alumni reflected affec-
tionately on their student days and want-
ed to give to the College, some were
positively appalled at the idea of be-
ing asked to donate money. Comments
ranged from feeling no affiliation to the
College, to alumni expressing that they
had an awful experience and that their
time at Imperial was the most stressful
of their life.
So why is fundraising of such im-
portance to Imperial? Most will agree
that actively calling alumni appears to
be a rather American strategy, and per-
haps even a bit aggressive. In recent
years, there has been a huge push by the
Higher Education Funding Council for
England (HEFCE) to alter the approach
to philanthropic giving in England. Be-
tween 2008 and July 2011, the matched
funding scheme for voluntary giving has
been running. Imperial has taken advan-
tage of this scheme, by which private
donations are matched by the HEFCE
on a 3:1 ratio. Under this scheme a £300
gift can sum up to a £500 donation. Im-
perial has already reached the maximum
limit of £2,750,000 being allocated by
the HEFCE on the matched funding
scheme.
Over £1 million has been raised by the
previous telephone campaigns at Impe-
rial to date, from over 5,400 alumni.
That’s right, their hard-earned cash is
going to benefit us, the students at Im-
perial, despite the many years that have
passed since their graduation.
Surely this can’t be simply because
they had a jolly-good time at Impe-
rial? Many people would agree that
they made friends and had fun at their
first bar or part-time job, but as far as
I am aware, nobody donates to these
organisations! The truth is that your
degree from Imperial could be one of
your greatest achievements. It may be
the foundation for your chosen career,
the friends and contacts you make, your
first move away from home, your sports
team, or what you learned about your-
self. One alumnus I spoke to got a lot
more than just his degree at Imperial; he
met his wife!
After reflecting on my conversations
with the alumni, the message that I
can pass on to our current students is
to work hard, take up the opportunities
that are on offer, and enjoy whatever
else it is that makes Imperial special to
you.
“One alumnus I
spoke to got a lot
more than just his
degree at Imperial;
he met his wife!”
for help at university counselling servic-
es in the 2006/2007 academic year did
so for depression, compared with about
a quarter in the 2003/2004.” Suicide
and mental health are still subjects that
most avoid. Yet the support for services
such as Nightline is increasingly impor-
tant, especially as university budgets
are being cut and counselling services
are struggling with demand. Current
Nightline co-ordinator, Francesca Alton
explains “Students are more in need of
support than ever due to the increas-
ing stresses on them such as financial
worries and pressure to fit in and suc-
ceed. All these reasons, combined with
proposed rises in tuition fees and fierce
competition for graduate jobs mean it is
more important than ever for us to be
there for as many students as possible.”
When asked about how Nightline
plans to celebrate four decades of stu-
dent peer support she replied: “to mark
our anniversary we will be conducting
the biggest ever survey of our service
users, releasing a commemorative publi-
cation and hosting a celebratory event to
thank all those who have been involved
with Nightline and acknowledge their
hard work, and to celebrate the achieve-
ments of the organisation over the past
40 years.”
The creation of Nightline is one of
Imperial’s many remarkable achieve-
ments, and what started as a small col-
lege-based project has blossomed into
a London-wide charity that has helped,
and continues to help, thousands of stu-
dents every year. So, with 40 years of
the organisation, let’s just recognise the
achievements of those Imperial alumni
that had the compassion and ingenuity
back in 1971 to reach out to their fellow
student.
Elizabeth Burks
The Imperial-born charity celebrates 40 years of supporting students this year
“Nightline is one
of Imperial’s
many remarkable
achievements”
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk

