FEATURES
FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
12
URBAN
ECOLOGY
O
ver half of the world’s
6.9 billion people now
live in urban areas. So,
perhaps it’s time for us to
embrace the ecology of
our urban areas, look at the species that
thrive in these environments and take
steps to protect them. At the same time,
we must ensure that our urban environ-
ments do not unnecessarily encroach
upon remaining green spaces and our
cities do not grow in an unsustainable
manner.
Here at Imperial College, we are right
in the centre of one of the world’s great
cities, capital of one of the world’s most
industrialised nations. So, how much
do we know about our urban environ-
ment? And, what kinds of efforts are be-
ing made to improve the ecology of our
campus?
Of course, London is famous for its
great parks and Hyde Park is just a cou-
ple of minutes walk away from campus.
However, whilst London’s parks are un-
doubtedly great places to spend a sunny
Sunday afternoon, they aren’t always
necessarily home to the most diverse
range of plant and animal life. This is
where TrUE comes in. TrUE stands for
the Trust for Urban Ecology, which was
set up by environmentalist Max Nichol-
son in 1976. TrUE now runs four sites
here in London: Greenwich Peninsula
Ecology Park, Lavender Pond Nature
Park, Dulwich Upper Wood and Stave
Hill Ecological Park. These sites pro-
vide important habitats for many spe-
cies, but they’re also about education,
with lots of school activity programmes
and opportunities for local people, like
us, to get involved. Mick Wheeley, site
administrator at Greenwich Peninsula,
said: “Some of the kids who come down
here really have no idea about British
wildlife – they come down here expect-
ing to see crocodiles! But they learn lots
at our site and they’re still excited by
looking at the newts, frogs and birds we
do have here”.
Even closer to home, here at Impe-
rial College, there’s also a community
of volunteers keen on protecting our
natural environment. Environment Soc
is led by Reuben Gibbon, a medical stu-
dent with a passion for all things green.
Reuben and his band of just 16 urban
ecowarriors work on a small garden
plot, hidden away behind Ethos. The
garden is officially called ‘Prince’s Gate
Garden’, but it’s affectionately known
as ‘the secret garden’ amongst society
members. The garden has a pond with
a thriving frog population and there are
a number of small allotments where a
range of fruit and vegetables are grown
– they even have a banana plant. How-
ever, Reuben is keen to stress that the
society isn’t just about gardening: “We
also get involved in lots of environmen-
tal campaigning. Last year, we were par-
ticularly involved in the 10:10 campaign
to tackle climate change”.
Along with Stef Piatek, Reuben is also
Environment Officer for Imperial Col-
lege Union. The pair recently pressed
the Union to remove Blue Shark from
the menu of FiveSixEight. Stef argued
that, “selling shark meat just doesn’t
make sense, blue fin sharks aren’t quite...
[an] endangered species yet, but they’re
pretty close, so I don’t really think they
ought to be selling this sort of meat”.
Of course, it’s not just students who
are looking after Imperial’s green spaces
and making sure we reduce our negative
environmental impacts. Last month saw
the first batch of compost from Impe-
rial’s new ComPod programme used
by gardeners on the South Kensington
Campus. ComPod is a food composting
plant, designed using technology devel-
oped here at Imperial, which composts
the 1.1 tonnes of food waste produced at
the College each week. Imperial College
has been given two Rushlight awards for
this programme. Whilst this is certainly
good news, Imperial College’s main
contribution to the world of sustainable
urban ecology is undoubtedly through
its leading academic research.
Dr Simon Leather is a reader in ap-
plied ecology at Imperial’s Silwood
Imperial’s CO2 Savings
An important part of ecology is looking at ecosys-
tems’ net carbon dioxide exchange levels. Urban
ecosystems are net producers of CO2, but steps
can be taken to reduce the amount of CO2 they add
to the atmosphere. Below are just a few of the mea-
sures being taken here at Imperial’s South Kensing-
ton campus to help meet the university’s target of
reducing CO2 emissions 20% by 2014.
Traditional tube heat exchangers have been replaced
with energy-efficient plate heat exchangers, saving
20 tonnes of CO2 every year.
1. Traditional tube heat
exchangers
Imperial’s heating system consists of over 3km of
pipes. Insulating these pipes has the potential to
save a whopping 1,500 tonnes of CO2 per year.
Work to do this has already started and, for every
3m of pipes insulated, enough energy is saved to
heat an average house.
2. Insulating heating pipes
Imperial now has its own combined heat and power
plant, which is far more efficient than traditional
power plants, where large amounts of energy are
lost through heat to the atmosphere.
3. Imperial power
Over 150 individual cooling units spread across the
campus have been replaced with a more-efficient
central cooling system.
4. Central cooling system
Did you know that Imperial has its own private elec-
trical network, which allows it to control the voltage
from sub-stations? By reducing the voltage by just
5%, roughly 500 tonnes of CO2 can be saved every
year.
5. Voltage control
Machete in hand,
Andrew Purcell sets
off to explore our urban
jungle...
Andrew Purcell
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk

