SCIENCE
FELIX
14
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes,
Charlie Harvey, Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In brief
An a–peel–ing water filter
If you thought banana peels were only useful for
practical jokes, think again. According to new re-
search, the slippery skins can also prove a dab hand
at removing toxic heavy metals from contaminated
river water to make it safe to drink. Waterways are
commonly contaminated with heavy metals such as
copper and lead that result from mining processes,
industrial wastes and runoff from farms. This con-
taminated wastewater poses a threat to humans,
the aquatic environment and the fish, plants and
sediments that inhabit it.
To filter out these harmful elements, scientists use
a number of extractors including silica, cellulose, and
aluminum oxide, which contain acids that bind to the
metal ions. However, these technologies have proved
costly and the extractors themselves can be toxic.
Using natural materials to extract heavy metals from
river water is a more appealing purification method
because it is both cheaper, and more environmentally
friendly. Natural materials also don’t need any chemi-
cal modification like other extractors do. So far, sci-
entists have used natural materials we often consider
waste, like sugar cane and peanut shells. In Brazil,
Gustavo Castro of the Botucatu Institute of Bioscienc-
es, and his colleagues, proposed that banana peels
might be capable of purifying drinking water too. To
investigate, the researchers ground banana peels to
identify the atoms that allow it to coordinate metal
ions. They then used the peels to make filters through
which they fed the contaminated water.
The team found the fruit peels were better at ex-
tracting lead and copper from riverwater than the
filter technology they compared it with. They con-
cluded banana skins can be used to identify metal
contaminants in raw river water. What’s more, the
results suggest these fruity filters can be re-used
11 times without losing their filtration ability. The
study was published in the American Chemical So-
ciety’s journal Industrial & Engineering Chemistry
Research.
Thea Cunningham
Samuel Furse
MRI machines make a peculiar sort of layered
whirring noise, both when one is in them and
one is waiting to be in one. At other times too,
I should think, but I did not stick around for
those.
First, I was waiting there. The cheery woman
took my forms, checked over the sundry de-
tails, sat me in the room with the lockers in it
and explained about what to do with the key
and so on. I suppose I needed to wait until the
previous patient’s scans were complete. It was
a slightly nervous wait in a small room, with
large, off-white cabinets on either side of me,
the large surface of the doors broken up only
by plastic badges reading SIEMENS in that
revolting green they use. My foot’s smarting a
bit. I have walked for over an hour today, I cal-
culate, more than I have done for a while even
if it was mainly in trainers. After I do not know
how long, my phone being both off and in the
locker, I get called in.
At the beginning of last December I was
unwise enough to wear hard shoes on hard
ground. This is normally fine, though in the
past I have had achy feet from doing this for
too long. This time is not ‘fine’. My left foot,
one of the metatarsals in fact, is very slightly
achy after wearing those shoes on the Monday.
I choose to ignore it, I am unfit and the left leg
is the weaker anyway. After Tuesday it is really
quite painful so I stop wearing those shoes and
revert to my rubber-soled hush puppies. The
achiness gets no better and over the next few
weeks, the damned thing starts to swell up as
well. I put this down to a bit of a trauma – this
was the diagnosis last time anyway, and I can
rest it soon as it is sit-on-your-arse-it-is-Christ-
mas time. I am still limping but whatever.
Funnily enough, I was seeing a medic
around this time. Needless to say she asked
me why I had not been to see my GP. I said it
was all rather trivial and would get better. The
fact was, I could not walk far without being in
some pain. Still, I rested it over Christmas, af-
ter I got back from my parents’. All seemed to
be better. I wore trainers for as long as I could,
and looked forward to my second placement
which would have to be in softer shoes. This
all seemed better though once the swelling of
the soft tissue had disappeared I was left with
a hard lump on my foot. This clearly was not
going away, and neither was the on-and-off
aching. At this point I did book an appoint-
ment. I had to wait three weeks as there was
nothing outside the hours of 9am and 4pm be-
fore then. Sigh.
I chatted to my GP, who was great; she re-
ferred me for an x-ray. Being nosey, I wanted
to look at the images, so I did, albeit only on a
small screen. A large calcified lump was evi-
dent, two in fact, one on each of the two larger
metatarsals. Evidence of at least one stress
fracture – oh bugger. Turns out the disapprov-
ing medic had been right after all. I cheerily
went on my way, texting her with what little
mobile phone battery I had left at the time, to
say she had been right.
What I was not expecting was a second re-
ferral. My GP rang me personally to say that
the consultant radiologist had recommended
that I go for an MRI scan urgently as a close
inspection of my x-rays had indicated that the
bone growth was abnormal. She knows about
my research background and so she needed
to say no more than that to get her meaning
across. I did not know what to think. I still do
not, now.
I went for the scan. It seemed to go along al-
right. I left in rather a daze. Outside was colder
than inside, unsurprisingly, though switching
my phone back on I got a message saying I had
not been given a job I had put in for earlier.
No feeling. I had asked to see the images after
the scan, but after a momentary stiff pause the
unidentifiably-accented radiographer declined
with a tone that suggested it was more trouble
than it was worth to organise. I had no desire to
be rude so accepted this without playing ‘the
doctor card’, and left.
The next piece in this particular story has
yet to come I am afraid. Hopefully I will know
whether or not I have cancer by the time you
read this, though. Watch this space.
Today, I’m going to talk about Ian M. Banks’
first science fiction novel, Consider Phlebas.
The story is set in the midst of a war between
two societies: the human ‘Culture’and the alien
‘Idirans’. Banks draws the reader in from the
very start with the fast paced first chapter de-
scribing how a sentient Culture computer crash
lands on a desolate planet, Schar’s World, after
managing to escape an Idiran attack. This is
one of the best introductions I’ve ever seen in a
book, introducing readers to a rich and detailed
universe and leaving them hungry for more.
The story follows Culture agent Perosteck
Balveda and Bora Horza Gobuchul, a hu-
man working for the Idirans, as they struggle
to find a computer, whose advanced design
could greatly help whichever side found it. The
book’s middle section is probably its weakest
part. Separated from the Idiran fleet, Horza is
forced to join up with a group of pirates to get
to his goal and has to help out with a number of
their illegal raids. While each of the set pieces
in this part of the book are certainly diverting,
overall, they are somewhat forgettable and
seem to lack focus. The group’s incompetence
quickly gets annoying and apart from the ad-
mittedly brilliant character development this
section adds very little to the overarching story.
The novel really picks up again when Balve-
da and Horza finally make it to Schar’s World.
The conclusion was very surprising, not be-
cause of how unbelievable it was but rather the
opposite. I hadn’t expected a book like this to
have such a bleak and yet truly great finale: a
gripping and poignant examination of the hor-
rors of war and how very little individual peo-
ple can matter in the grand scheme of things.
This is where all the character development re-
ally pays off, the ending being far more power-
ful for us having grown to care for Horza in the
previous chapters.
While certainly not for those who like happy
endings, and though much of its middle is need-
less filler which could easily have been removed,
this is a must read book. It forms the perfect in-
troduction to Bank’s brilliant series of Culture
novels and I guarantee that the final chapters
will move you like few other novels could.
A medical adventure: the beginning
SCIENCE FICTION
C O N S I D E R
PHLEBAS
Maciej Matuszewski
discovers the rich and
detailed universe of
Ian M. Banks
Friday 18 march 2011
Upcoming Science Events
From big bang to biosphere – Lord Rees
22nd March at 17.30 in Lecture Theatre G16, SAF
Is life common in the cosmos? Lord Rees traces the
emergence of complexity from its simple beginnings.
Do changes in the Sun affect the Earth’s climate?
23rd March at 17.30 in Lecture Theatre G34, SAF
Head of Physics, Prof. Haigh reviews the current un-
derstanding of the Sun’s impact on our atmopshere.
Samuel Furse recounts his long journey from an aching foot to the MRI machine

