felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If preliminary reactions are anything to go by,
it appears that Apple might have pulled another
winner out of the bag with the newly released
successor to the original iPad. The fully up-
graded model has been garnering some serious
attention from reviewers over the week, with
the almost unanimous conclusion being that the
device delivers exactly what was promised on
the tin, if not more.
With many reviewers having stripped the
tablet down to its innards, it’s been found
to pack a 900 Mhz dual-core ARM chip and
another dual-core processor in the form of
Imagination Technologies’ GPU. The inte-
grated performance of both chips has man-
aged to blow away standard benchmarks used
for judging graphics performance, both when
compared to the original iPad and to other
similar competition.
Reviewers are so far reporting that the lat-
est incarnation of the slate manages anywhere
between 50 – 65 frames/second under the GL-
Benchmark for graphical performance. This
is in comparison to the original iPad’s perfor-
mance of between 15-20 frames/second and the
Motorola Xoom’s 25-30 frames. Admittedly,
the Xoom is running on a slightly higher reso-
lution than the iPad 2, but the figures indicate a
performance gap that can’t be explained by the
fewer pixels on screen.
The latest reviews will be worrying for Ap-
ple’s competitors. Unlike the mobile market,
where Android handsets have proved more
than able to match and improve upon Apple’s
iPhone, there has been little to indicate that they
have anything new to offer in the tablet market,
despite having a year to plan a response.
For much of 2010, the iPad was the only
viable option for those looking for a quality
tablet. While many Windows tablets were an-
nounced at trade fairs, there were none to be
seen on sale; Android tablets proved relatively
numerous but also relatively poor, seeming
Free App of the Week
iOS - Radio Player
The iPhone might not come equipped with a radio
tuner, but as they say, there’s an app for that: Radio
Player. Simple, free, and plays in the background.
Android’s got it’s fair share of streaming radio apps,
but TuneIn is a solid option with a load of stations to
choose from. Ad-supported, free radio sorted.
Android - TuneIn Radio
iPad 2 blows away rivals
Feroz Salam
Slipcases are pretty standard fare for laptop
protection these days. From the cheap and
cheerful to the leather-clad, there’s a slipcase to
suit every taste and budget.
The LA robe for Apple’s MacBook Pro line
from be.ez fits into the middle range of slipcas-
es. It incorporates some fancy Low Resistance
Polyurathane (LRPu) foam into a fairly stan-
dard zippered slipcase design. The foam ab-
sorbs impact energy by freely deforming under
load, reducing the amount of energy that can
pass through to your laptop. It’s different from
other foam in that it puts up less resistance to
deformation and therefore absorbs more of the
impact energy.
In practice this means that it dents easily and
then slowly recovers to its original formation
Keep scratches at bay the LA robe rose
Samuel Gibbs
largely like outsized Android handsets (to a
much greater extent than the iPad).
Early 2011 brought announcements of Mo-
torola’s Xoom slate, the first tablet that would
sport Android’s tablet-oriented Honeycomb
OS. Powered by a dual-core chip and some
highly promising graphics, there was high
expectation that the device could finally be a
worthwhile response to the iPad.
Yet any progress the Xoom has made has
probably been undone over the last few weeks.
The device was more expensive than most
reviewers were expecting and on the back of
the quality performance by the iPad 2, includ-
ing the addition of the cameras the device was
sorely lacking before, it’s hard to see why cus-
tomers looking to buy a tablet wouldn’t choose
Apple.
The increased graphical performance of the
iPad also means that the devices have more to
offer gamers, with the larger screen giving a
much wider range of interface options for de-
velopers, now with the ability to display pretty
pictures too. It’s definitely not the focus of the
device, but it will be interesting to see how
quickly developers pick up on the possibilities
of the platform.
It’s not all doom and gloom for the Xoom
though: with 4G capabilities and working
Flash on the way, it’s still got much to offer
that the iPad doesn’t. Apple’s App Market
and software distribution system still suffers
from the same lock-in problems that Android
doesn’t, and Android keeps it’s usual edge on
customisability.
The issue of picking between the tablets
seems to boil down to the regular question of
freedom versus user experience. The iPad 2
appears to have been tailored for a quick and
neat user experience, with enough similarity to
the old iPad to keep the learning curve shallow
yet enough behind-the-scenes improvements
to deliver a noticeably better experience. The
competition is going to have to do a lot better
before they can even consider wooing consum-
ers away from Apple.
once the load is removed, which can be pretty
disconcerting when you first start using the
case, but does work as described.
The case is designed to fit specific models
ranging from the 15-inch MacBook Pro to the
13-inch polycarbonate MacBook, however in
our testing with the 13-inch MacBook Pro, the
fit wasn’t snug enough for our liking, meaning
that the laptop moved around inside the case
rather a lot. The lining of the case is soft velvet,
so perhaps this isn’t too much of an issue, but
we would have preferred a better fit given the
model specificity that be.ez claims.
If you’re putting your laptop in a regular
backpack, this slipcase might do the trick, but
without any sort of cable storage or handle, it’s
not going to be all that useful on its own. We
liked the LRPu foam, but the LA robe certainly
didn’t fit well enough for a simple slipcase.
I still think anyone with a tablet looks like a massive prick
Friday 18 March 2011
16

