W KILEAKS
S
ince Wikileaks published
their first leak in 2006, it
has grown to become one of
the most controversial web-
site in the world. Wikileaks
lubricated the whistle-blowing cog,
resulting in a Cambrian explosion of
leaks in the past couple of years via
their website. Some leaks are mere ob-
jects of amusement, like the publication
of the secret handbooks of American
university fraternities (frat boys de-
spair as their secret handshakes are no
longer secret). Some, like the Collateral
Murder video footages and Cablegate,
triggered widespread socio-political
debates. Wikileaks leads the charge for
more transparency but the irony is that
the organization itself is rather opaque.
That is until last month, when Danieal
Domscheit-Berg, the ex-spokesperson
and former second-in-command of
Wikileaks, published Inside Wikileaks,
the account of his time at the “world’s
most dangerous website.”
Part memoir, part expose, Inside
Wikileaks traces Daniel’s time with the
organization from its infancy until Sep-
tember 2010, when Daniel and a group
of Wikileaks dissidents left. Daniel
first met Julian Assange, the enigmatic
founder of Wikileaks at a hacker confer-
ence at which he had arranged for Julian
to speak. Back then Daniel had a full
time job in designing network security
at a large American company, and was
actively involved in the open source
community.
Julian, though unknown publicly dur-
ing then, was regarded in high esteem
by Daniel. The lanky Australian stand-
ing at the podium, addressing a dismal
turnout of less than twenty, had a repu-
tation in hacking circles. Going by the
pseudonym of ‘Mendax’, he was one of
the ‘International Subversives’, a trio of
high-profile hackers, and the co-author
of the hacking cult classic Underground:
Hacking, Madness and Obsession on the
Electronic Frontier. Julian has his share
of battle scars as well, being convicted
in Australia for 25 hacking charges, nar-
rowly escaping jail term on account of
his disrupted upbringing. The man with
the wispy platinum hair was a hacking
superstar.
Daniel had his first taste of its power
when he dealt with the Bank Julius Baer
leak. The documents detailed the Swed-
POLITICS
FELIX 19
team working on Wikileaks full time
consisted of less than five people. Julian
role-played multiple characters when it
came to external correspondence to give
the impression that Wikileaks was a for-
midable organization.
The state-of-the-art encryption tech-
nology Wikileaks employ to protect the
anonymity of the whistle-blowers is so
sophisticated that only a few program-
mers in the world could design it but
the unnamed architect left together with
Daniel and took with him together the
codes. They both now work on Open-
Leaks, a new whistle-blowing website
less focused on sensational leaks tar-
geted at the US.
Inside Wikileaks focuses on the story
of Wikileaks rather than the technical
side, making it widely accessible. It is
generally well paced, and it is spattered
with plenty of humourous anecdotes
about Julian Assange’s eccentricities
like how Daniel psychoanalyzed Ju-
lian’s character from the way Julian
dances in a club. Following the success
of David Fincher’s The Social Network,
Dreamworks optioned Inside Wikileaks
to be made into a feature film. How-
ever, sometimes Daniel’s rapid assault
on Julian’s character, down to the most
trivial idiosyncrasies, makes one feel
that the book is written to get back at
Julian – whining that Julian drank all
his cocoa powder probably should not
have gotten into the book). It is worth
a read if you would like a peek into
the workings of Wikileaks and spend a
day with Julian Assange. Maybe when
Julian Assange publishes his autobiog-
raphy late this year, we would be able
to hear the other side of the story and
hopefully more hilarious eccentricities
of Julian.
Friday 18 march 2011
A BOOK
REVIEW BY
GUO HENG CHIN
LEAKING
a large rucksack. The two freedom (of
information) fighters developed a genu-
ine camaraderie working together on
Wikileaks, and Daniel became Julian’s
confidante. However their relationship
would eventually unravel in the likes of
Mark Zuckerberg and Eduardo Saverin
during the dramatic founding of Face-
book.
Julian Assange is a figure that in-
trigues as much as he is admired. He
styles himself as “founder, philosopher,
spokesperson, original coder, organizer,
financier and all the rest” of Wikileaks,
a lengthy title reminiscent of a British
monarch. Julian is an idealist champi-
oning for a more open world, but at the
same time kept Wikileaks’ finances and
administration secret from the public.
Daniel accuses him of running a dicta-
torship at Wikileaks and compares the
cult-like organization of Wikileaks to
that of the Church of Scientology, of
whose secret bible they leaked in 2008.
As the leaks got more controversial and
attracted more media attention Julian
began to become suspicious that Daniel
was seeking to replace him.
Julian Assange is known to be on the
paranoid end of the spectrum. He attri-
butes his nomadic lifestyle to avoiding
surveillance from the enemies he ac-
crued. He also points a finger at a US
conspiracy to smear him when he was
charged with sexual crimes in Sweden.
On the other hand, Julian carries with
him a certain charisma. Perhaps his
magnetism comes from the fact that he
is a rebel with a cause. An Oxford Uni-
versity student who volunteered with
Wikileaks likened him to the Pied Piper,
attracting followers over the Internet
with the maverick tune he plays.
When Daniel first got onboard, the
[Domscheit-Berg]
compares the cult-
like organization of
Wikileaks to that
of the Church of
Scientology
ish private financial institution’s elabo-
rate tax evasion scheme that involved
exploiting a complex subsidiary system
and shoring funds on Cayman Islands.
Injunctions procured by the company
lawyers and furious threats failed to take
down Wikileaks, giving Daniel his first
taste of victory over Goliath.
Inside Wikileaks is as much a story
about Julian Assange as it is about the
structural cogs and gears of Wikileaks,
as Daniel had the rare chance of spend-
ing months with Julian Assange. At the
same time of the Julius Baer leak, Julian
moved in with Daniel. Julian does not
have a permanent address and leads a
nomadic lifestyle, relying on the good-
will of supporters for a bed to bunk in,
and carries all his worldly possessions in
“ Stills of footage fom leaked US Military video showing the killing of Reuters journalists and civilians
Julian Assange and Daniel Domscheit-Berg

