COMMENT
felix
M
uammar Gaddafi has
been an outstanding
figure on the world
scene, in terms of ab-
solute lunacy. When it
comes to stories about him, it’s hard to
separate fact from fiction. Usually, as is
often the case, the fact is stranger than
the fiction. His Facebook page lists his
interests as: “Libya”, “Pan-Africanism”,
“Hating America”, “Justin Bieber”, and
“cock.” The last two were the result of an
unimaginative Facebook rape, I assume.
Colonel Gaddafi is currently in the
midst of what is almost a civil war. His
reaction has been, well, exactly what
you would think from a man like him.
That is to say, angry, violent, and totally
insane. Most noticeably he has given
some erratic speeches. Making the effort
to watch these is really worth it. Most of
the time you can even audibly hear the
translator struggling to understand what
on earth he is going on about, and how
this could be translated into English. The
shortest of such appearances occurred
from the back of a car when Gaddafi
gave a short statement to tell people he
is still in Tripoli and hasn’t fled.
He energetically delivered a speech,
transmitted on the 24th of February, in
front of his old house. As it is Gaddafi
we are talking about, this wasn’t quite
symbolic enough. So there was also a
large sculpture of a fist holding a US
fighter jet and crushing it. Don’t be
alarmed; the stress of work has not got
to you. That last sentence said exactly
what you think it just said.
It is debatable as to whether the trans-
lators took liberties, but either way there
were some highlights. Gaddafi said at
one point: “I am a fighter, a revolutionary
from tents.”That sentence really ran away
from him there. It started out strong, but
then, tents? Is he a Boy Scout revolution-
ary? My personal highlight in terms of
inspirational rhetoric was: “Libya wants
glory; Libya wants to be at the pinnacle,
at the pinnacle of the world.” Get T-Pain
to sing that, add in “shawwwty”, slap a
triumphant beat in the background, and
we have a hit single on our hands.
Baffling rants are not exactly a new
phenomenon for Gaddafi; he delivered
a 96 minute speech to the UN in 2009.
At this point, you may be wondering
who on earth gave the okay for that.
The answer is that nobody in the world
said yes. He was given a 15 minute slot,
but got a bit carried away. I suppose at
the centre of diplomacy it would be a
bit frowned upon to stand up and shout
“Get off the stage, you’re shit.”
The other regimes to be toppled did so
at the cost of lives. Sadly, I fear that here
there may be an even greater human
cost. This time, the fighting is fierce and
Gaddafi hasn’t lost the support of the
military. Once more the international
community is unhappy about the vio-
lence against protesters. Ban ki-Moon
is, as usual, not too impressed. At the
end of February, he said that he found
the scenes of demonstrators being fired
upon “disturbing” and “shocking”. He
said: “This is unacceptable and must
stop immediately. Seriously guys, is no
one listening to me? Does it not say
Secretary motherfucking General any-
where on my suit? That’s it, I’m about
to impose some sanctions all over your
ass.” Guess which part of that quote the
media decided to report.
At this point I will break up the article
with a note on the oddity of the rank he
chose. Gaddafi claimed that he did not
promote himself to General because he
does not need any grand titles, as his gov-
ernment is one of the people. This rings a
Mad Muammar
bit hollow when coming from a man who
has moreAKAs than a west coast rap star.
He goes by: “The Brother Leader”, “The
Guide”, “Brotherly Leader and Guide of
the First of September Great Revolution
of the Socialist People’s Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya”, “Brother Leader and Guide
of the Revolution”, “Chairman of the
Revolutionary Command Council” and
(my personal favourite) “King of Kings
of Africa”. So, as he said, no grand titles
then, really staying grounded. He’s still
Muammar from the block.
Anyone else in his position would re-
alise the game is up, and just hand over
power. The question is: will this be the
end of Gaddafi’s reign? The BBC cer-
tainly doesn’t seem to think he will win
this battle, judging by the headline:
“Libya crisis: no ‘happy ending’ for
Colonel Gaddafi.” so maybe they were
just talking about an unsuccessful trip to
a “massage” parlour. It’s hard to predict
the outcome except to say that Gaddafi
will not go quietly.
Gaddafi will not go quietly.
Gaddafi has once again demonstrated what a nutcase he is
We have the deepest sympathy for Impe-
rial’s senior management. The government’s
schizophrenic and frankly gormless policy (or
lack thereof) on higher education must be
infuriating for those trying to formulate long-
term plans and strategies for this institution.
The attitude adopted by recent govern-
ments towards universities can best be
compared to a bully in a school playground
holding smaller children by the arm and forc-
ing them to slap themselves. “Why do you
keep hitting yourself?”, is the taunt, as uni-
versities find themselves criticised for ac-
tions they had no choice but to take.
Remember the idealistic push to have 50%
of young people attending university? Fees
were introduced to help fund this push. How-
ever, as fees increased, government funding
was comparatively stagnant, or worse. And
universities who exceeded the government’s
cap on how many students attended univer-
sity (yes they do cap it, handing out loans to
cover the tuition fees that they introduced is
expensive business) would be heavily fined.
The current government has increased fees
to £9,000. But at the same time as increas-
ing fees – ostensibly to give universities
more freedom – they also hoot and howl at
universities who set their fees at the amount
to which they legislated to increase it.
This government has heavily cut funding
to universities, and raised fees to make up
for this loss. But now, the government is
threatening to make further cuts to universi-
ties who charge the maximum level of fees.
Stranger still, they would prefer universities
to offer tuition fee waivers to poorer stu-
dents instead of higher cash bursaries dur-
ing university; even though everyone except
Nick Clegg can see that cash bursaries are
a more effective way of ensuring that poorer
students are able to attend university.
Finally, the government has begun to
suggest that universities charging £9,000
should set quotas for the number of stu-
dents from disadvantaged backgrounds.
When universities are forced to select stu-
dents by metrics other than ability – for the
crime of seeking to plug the holes in their
funding that the government has brought
about – then it is clear that somebody, some-
where has been grossly incompetent.
Which is probably the closest to the truth
that we’re going to get. The government, bi-
zarrely, didn’t think that universities would
try to charge £9,000. They falsely believed
that the increase of the cap on fees would
result in price competition (a result no previ-
ous rise has achieved) and as a result they
have massively underestimated the amount
they are going to have to extend to students
to pay their tuition fees. Now universities’
senior management have to deal with the
government’s mad ramblings as they try to
control this growing financial mess. Once
again, they have our deepest sympathies.
FELIX
Tim Arbabzadah
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Higher Education Lunacy
Just let go Gaddafi, you massive raving lunatic...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
“
9.
9.
g
g
“
ng lu
g lun
”
“I am a fighter, a revolutionary
from tents.” What is he – a boy
scout revolutionary?
Friday 18 March 2011
20
Ben Kennedy

