HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Lolcat of teh week
Good luck with exams!
On campus
Cinema All-Nighter
ICU Cinema is hosting
its second all-nighter
of the year, featuring
highlights of the Oscar
season. Tickets will cost
£10 for the whole night
or £3 a film, with a full
schedule available at
www.icucinema.co.uk
and on the Facebook
events page: (search ‘iCU
Cinema’)
Metric Carnival
It’s time for another end-of-term party at Metric, and
the line-up is as good as it always is. Ultra and NY
will surely urge you to “get your hands up high and
jump around”. This terpsichorean extravaganza will
be followed by Capital FM’s Roberto to keep the party
pumping with an amazing selection of what the Union
website refers to as “banging tunes.” Tickets are
£4.00 online or £6.00 on the door.
The Union, Metric
25 March 20:00
The Union Concert Hall
22 March 18:00
Rave for Japan
RAG are hosting a night of live music from Imperial’s
finest on Monday night, with styles ranging from
Bollywood and jazz to rap and rock. Prizes are available
to the person with the most multi-coloured costume.
All proceeds from this event will go to the Japan
Tsunami Aid and charities helping the victims. Tickets
are £4 and are available from the Union website.
The Union, Metric
21 March 19:00
Notice
New Felix website
Over the last few
months, we’ve been
secretly designing a
completely new website
and it’s nearing comple-
tion. The design is much
cleaner and we’re going
to have new features
like photo and video gal-
leries as well as audio
like radio shows. Whilst
you’re all revising over
Easter, we’ll be tidying it
up with an aim to launch
at the beginning of next
term. Look out for it!
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles
Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika
McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos Politics Editors Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox
Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky
Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth
Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas
Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Illustrators Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
While you chumps are revising over Easter, I’ll be rocking up in Laos.
Or, sitting alone in the Felix Office... Which would be far less badass
Coming next term
Friday 18 MARCH 2011
It’s that time of year again, when exams
roll around and we get to use the tired
old phrase, ‘‘It’s that time of year again”.
First years, I wish you the best of luck as
you realise how pitifully easy your A-levels
were in comparison. Final years, I hope
that you did really well on your project and
that these exams are just a matter of not
completely ballsing them up. If it all gets
a bit much, the Health Centre will be able
to help you cope with exam stress. Aside
from that, there’s little else to say except
try to not get too depressed by all the
travel photos I start posting up on the Felix
Facebook page.
Editor
That’s what I thought you
would say
Neville Miles
felix@imperial.ac.uk

