felix
COM M ENT
L
iving the typical meagre
student existence at Impe-
rial College in South Kens-
ington, one of the wealthi-
est boroughs in one of the
world’s most expensive cities, was nev-
er going to be easy. But my soon–to–be
alma mater (assuming I pass my damned
degree) is going to make it a whole lot
harder with the increase in tuition fees.
The powers that be feel that Imperial is
esteemed enough to demand £9,000 a
year for a degree, and had this been the
case when I was applying for university,
I feel my parents would have been far
less supportive of me coming here. Af-
ter all, they have had to suffer most of
the costs.
I am fortunate though. This year my
parents have fallen on hard times and so
I am a recipient of a Study Support Bur-
sary (SSB). This bursary, with the ad-
dition of a maintenance loan and grant
mean that I am quite comfortably stay-
ing afloat without being a burden to my
parents. In fact, I have more disposable
income than they do, and without the
support of the bursary I would have al-
ready maxed out my overdraft, spent all
Rhys Davies
my savings and be spiraling into debt.
Admittedly part of this could be blamed
on my penchant for clothes and cock-
tails, but I don’t want to give the im-
pression that the bursary goes towards
funding a life of luxury. My indulgences
come from savings that any sensible
person would conserve for the future. I
hope my parents don’t read this.
But it is the absence of worries of
mortgages, children and taxes that
makes student life so enjoyable. This is
why I think the bursary should continue
to be given to students cash in hand.
Sure, it would be nice to think that my
future burden of debt could be slashed,
but a more immediate necessity is hav-
ing a roof over my head, affording food
to eat and doing those recreational ac-
tivities that make life at Imperial bear-
able. In all honesty, I’ve been almost
unflinching about the rise in tuition fees.
Part of this is down to a heavy case of
Imperial student apathy, but it’s also be-
cause the future repercussions of tuition
fee and maintenance loan debt feel com-
pletely imaginary.
Relieving accommodation costs
would theoretically be the best way of
ensuring that the bursary is spent the
right way – akin to giving food vouchers
to the homeless. But this is impractical
after the first year when students move
out of halls. It’s true that the bursaries
can be abused, especially when you are
surrounded by predominantly affluent
students and an expensive location. The
nearest Aldi is miles away and I still find
South Kensington a culture shock, hav-
ing come from a bland estate in Read-
ing. I am continually bemused that there
is so little disruption in the borough
that council employees spend their time
painting garden railings. Back home I’m
more used to seeing charred bus shelters
being repaired. Maybe I’m embellishing
a little; it has only happened a few times.
In essence I’m saying vive le SSB,
and may it continue to support the liv-
ing costs of students in need. I know the
system isn’t entirely fair, since I know
students whose parents have a higher
income than mine but do not provide as
much as the combination of bursary and
government contributions do. But then
distribution of wealth has never been
fair, and it’s important that those most in
need receive help. Especially me.
T
he other day I saw some-
thing strange and wonder-
ful. I was walking along
the street, happily minding
my own business, and hap-
pened to stop at a junction. All normal
so far. Then, a lorry stopped beside me
– a FedEx lorry with the FedEx logo em-
blazoned all over. And that was when I
saw it; inside the FedEx logo, there was
an arrow!
I am not ashamed to admit that I fell to
my knees and wept with awe at the sight.
There may be some of you wonder-
ing how some trickery of design could
evoke such a reaction. To these people, I
suggest to go away, find the FedEx logo
and when you see it, I’ll be here with
tea and biscuits and we can all share our
experiences.
The odd thing is that I’ve seen the Fe-
dEx logo hundreds of times before and
I’ve never seen that arrow before. Maybe
it was the lighting, or the angle of the lor-
ry or...whatever! For some reason, it sud-
denly decided to click. This is indicative
of something wider, something greater.
I get the feeling we are simply drifting
aimlessly across the millpond surface of
a much stranger reality.
For example, we like to think that the
Oracle of Delphi, who famously messed
with people’s minds, was just another
Melissa Lever
tale confined to antiquity. We were
wrong. She just relocated, to Reading of
all places! My favourite sign along the
M4 corridor reads “For the Oracle, turn
off at Junction 11.” I would go and visit
her but I’m afraid I might end up doing
something I didn’t mean to, like killing
my father or poking a badger in the eye
or something equally tragic.
Sometimes, we are accustomed to the
strangeness only when it’s presented as
fiction. If I were to describe a magical
blue box from a faraway land that is big-
ger on the inside than the out, most of
you would instantly jump to TARDIS.
Not many of you, I reckon, would im-
mediately think of Ikea, but that is ex-
actly what it is! I’m sure at its heart is a
flat–pack forest, from which they make
all the furniture – not that I’ll ever find
out of course.
I’ve always been confused that, of
all the great panoply of creation, most
things taste like chicken, especially since
chicken doesn’t taste like much at all.
My bamboozlement was ended by the
application of Occam’s Razor, or rather,
Occam’s carving knife. The reason why
everything tastes like chicken is because
all these animals are chickens in dis-
guise. For larger animals like crocodiles,
imagine a pantomime horse but with
more players. For a bird that cannot fly
or run for any meaningful distance, this
is a wise survival strategy. It’s just unfor-
tunate that people will eat anything. In
a similar vein, human beings taste like
pork (or so I’ve heard) because some
of us might actually be pigs in disguise.
This theory might not be kosher but I’ve
never seen a Jewish cannibal.
The Pythia in a power suit. Swed-
ish spooning of the Laws of Physics.
Fancy–dress parties for poultry. I won’t
blame you if you don’t believe these dis-
coveries – they are incredible, literally.
But the more we learn about our world
and our universe, the more amazing it
becomes, to me at least. When explor-
ers first stumbled across the duck-billed
platypus, scientists dismissed it as a taxi-
dermic joke. Nowadays, we barely raise
an eyebrow at this egg–laying, poison–
barbed, duck¬billed and beaver–tailed
monotreme, although they are still kind
of neat.
I think with each new discovery, we
risk becoming complacent to just how
amazing reality is. When did we be-
come so jaded? Is it cool, or mature, to
be unimpressed with everything we see
around us? If so, call me an immature
loser! I don’t think there is a worse crime
than ignoring how awesome this life is.
Except perhaps poking badgers in the
eye.
Discovering this weird world
“I think the bursary
should continue to
be given to students
cash in hand”
A beginners guide to
‘Brit-ing’
Bursaries make university fun
I don’t know about you, but
whenever I venture beyond
the borders of this fair nation
into the foreign, I’m always
convinced that everyone hates
the British. Not so! Being una-
shamedly British is a real as-
set at times.
The first rule of ‘Brit-ing’
abroad is this; do not try and
act like a native. After all you
aren’t one and you’ll end up
doing it wrong and potentially
offending someone. Trying too
hard to look like you’re not Brit-
ish will be seen as being spine-
less (we don’t want that, our
spines are fine thank you very
much) and secondly, you give
the impression that you are not
proud of being British. Then
you open yourself up to end-
less criticism, and sentences
starting with “You know what’s
wrong with the British?” be-
come tiresome ever so quickly.
The second rule of ‘Brit-
ing’ is to dress appropriately.
I don’t mean wear a top hat
and tails to breakfast, but I do
mean that letting your beer bel-
ly hang loose from under the
old and stained fake England
football shirt is entirely unnec-
essary. Just like we shouldn’t
be ashamed of being British,
we shouldn’t feel the need to
inform the waiter that “I’d like
chips with that please” by our
t-shirt. Discretion is key.
That’s how not ‘to Brit’, so
how do we ‘Brit’? Simple. Let
your guard down. Inside every
Brit there is a self-deprecating,
witty and cynical narrative. Let
the inner Brit roam free. The
best way to make friends and
more is humour and there’s
nothing quite like British hu-
mour, it will serve you well. Hu-
mour and laughing at yourself
is an essential part of ‘Brit-ing’.
If you really want to ‘Brit’
properly you must play the
part. Foreigners and in par-
ticular Americans like to think
that we are a nation of James
Bonds that take tea and say
‘lovely’ all the time. Play up to
this and make sure to milk the
accent for all it’s worth.
So remember, don’t be
ashamed, don’t wear England
football shirts, do show your
humor and do play up to the
stereotype!
Happy Brit-ing.
Benjamin Plackett
The opinions expressed on the Comment pages represent the views of the author only.
“Is it cool, or mature,
to be unimpressed
with everything we
see around us?”
Friday 18 march 2011 21

