Jackie’s own approval is harrowing to watch.
Yet, there are also some excellent humorous
moments, particularly the physical comedy of
the picnic for great-grandmother’s birthday
and the spontaneous song of the children with
its refrain of “when I grow up I want to be a
hairdresser – or a housewife!” accompanied by
Spice Girls-style dance moves, darkly reflect-
ing on the poverty of their ambitions.
The acting was certainly of a better quality
than I had expected from such a small theatre
but demonstrated why the Finborough Theatre
is the Stage 100’s Fringe Theatre of the Year.
This play is the first of six in the “In Their
Place” season which will showcase the work of
female playwrights over the next three months.
Fen is certainly a promising start.
FELIX
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
Fenimism with flair
Fen kicks off a showcase of female playwrights in Fulham
My first impressions on entering the Finbor-
ough Theatre, having climbed the stairs from
the wine bar below, were dubious. The middle
of the theatre was covered in earth, liberally
strewn with potatoes, the room hummed with
eerie folky music and for a good five minutes
an actress in farmer’s garb darted from side to
side, shaking her rattle at imaginary birds.
Despite this unportentious start, Fen far ex-
ceeded my expectations. I have never seen
a play by Caryl Churchill before and I was
struck by how brilliantly she writes from life.
She is able to get right inside the heads of nas-
ty children, bullying stepmothers and converts
to Jesus and perfectly captures a sometimes
infuriating irrationality and pettiness in her
dialogue.
The play is set in the 1980s in the English
Fens. The people have little money and fewer
choices. Churchill is unashamedly socialist
and feminist in her views and her characters
make an excellent case for her principles. The
women’s monotonous work out on the cold,
dark earth speaks for their cold, grim lives.
They have no money, no avenue of escape and
so they attempt to lose themselves in religion
or forbidden love, but solace always evades
them.
The damned-ness of Val, a young mother
whose only three choices are to leave her chil-
dren, to tear them away from their father or
to live without love highlights the particular
way in which women become trapped by early
choices and forever held in place by a web of
interdependencies and the fixed mindsets of
their community.
Several of the female characters in this play
are not much older than I am (Val’s mother re-
marks that she was a grandmother at 36) and
yet I largely felt that the themes explored were
too mature for me to be able to properly em-
pathise. I certainly left feeling grateful to live
in a liberated society and to be allowed to be
young and female but still free.
Just as impressive as the writing is the ability
of the six actors, five female and one male, to
inhabit the vast range of roles: from Japanese
business man to petulant six year old. I was
especially impressed by the mostly flawless
Norfolk accents. On the other hand, I felt hav-
ing only one male actor was a weakness, as he
found it hard to make the adjustment between
the male romantic lead and the curmudgeonly
old farm owner role.
The maliciousness of Nicola Harrison’s
Jackie as she psychologically tortures her vul-
nerable step-child and derides her craving for
Christina Flanagan
Amateur serpents and super amorists
I was apprehensive when I heard that, because
the budget would not allow for period costume,
this production was to be a contemporary ver-
sion of the opera. That is not to say I know any-
thing about opera, but for me part of its appeal
is the historic context and atmosphere that it
exudes. However, I was very pleasantly proven
wrong.
The opening scene of the traditional opera
shows our gallant hero Tamino, the height of
princely handsomeness battling a ferocious
serpent. Again, for budget reasons this was
actually a man in a shoddy dinosaur costume.
Interspersed between the powerful operatic
tenors opening notes were unenthusiastic roars
that had the audience in stitches.
The plot was too complex to be fittingly
summarised here, but essentially the dashing
prince falls in love with the daughter of the
Queen of the Night, who turns out to be evil
(I think they ought to have guessed by the
name).
After an attempt to save the daughter and
several convoluted plot lines, kidnapping, be-
coming monks (etc. etc.) he and his lazy half-
man-half-bird friend succeed in eliminating the
evil queen and getting married. All in time for
a late afternoon cup of tea.
The performance was excellent and managed
to be entertaining for two hours even though
we were sitting on hard church pews. It was
funny whilst still displaying the original integ-
rity of the opera and displaying the astonishing
talents of the entire cast.
During the infamous ‘Queen of the Nights’
solo, I’m sure the stained glass windows were
trembling in their frames, leaving the audience
flabbergasted. While on the subject of win-
dows, the venue was stunning, and the orches-
tra superlative.
A R T S
Until 26th March at Finborough Theatre
Kelly Osborne
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 18 March 2011
22
“I, Van Veen, salute you, life” opens the final part
– you might call it an epilogue of sorts – of Nabo-
kov’s exquisite novel Ada or Ardor. The novel itself,
as though keeping a promise, salutes life, with all
its wondrous moments and tragedies.
Van narrates the action, which commences when
he is 14 and visiting the home of his aunt and cous-
ins. Here he meets for the first time his cousin ( and
sister) wilful Ada Veen, 12, and falls as irrevocably
in love with her as she eventually does with him
that same summer. Nabokov, in incredible style,
treats both incest and age in such a casually erotic
tone that all inhibitions are completely relinquished.
Van and Ada are subsequently separated. Ada or
Read a New Release this
week...
Eva Rosenthal Mena tries a new
edition of a book by the author of
Lolita, first published in 1969
Ada or Ardor Vladimir
Nabokov
Ada or Ardor by Vladimir Nabokov – Limited Edition
newly published by Penguin Modern Classics
Ardor follows Van the philosopher without Ada, trav-
elling, lecturing, writing and growing beyond her
reach. Their brief, but always passionate meetings
throughout time are a testimony to their incredible
love.
Nabokov in ‘Ada’ has invented two universes. An-
titerra, in which the characters live and interact, is
not too far removed from our own. Its counterpart,
Terra the Fair, is where the characters dream and
sometimes go mad. The time periods of each world
overlap so that in Antiterra, planes whizz about, but
cars are interchangeable with horses in the 19th
and early 20th centuries.
Nabokov integrates both universes with each oth-
er and with our own naturally and gracefully so that
dates are both meaningful and meaningless in that
they exemplify the passage of time whilst breaking
down its straight trajectory.
‘Ada’ is written in magical prose that reads and
flows like poetry. Nabokov fills the novel with allu-
sions, wordplays and puzzles that mirror Van and
Ada’s youthful first summer. The supporting charac-
ters in Van’s life are masterfully sketched and Nabo-
kov inserts and removes them from the narrative
with skill; their part in the tale is never forgotten.
‘Ada’ can also read as a philosophical examination
of time, which Van is forever trying to understand.
But above all, ‘Ada’ is an astounding love story that
leaves one with a lust for life, imagination and the
beauty of words.
“Nabokov treats both
incest and age in such a
casually erotic tone that all
inhibitions are completely
relinquished”
Crouching in the mud. Guess whether this is about the low or high status of women
Mozart’s famous opera Die Zauberflöte was produced last week on
Gloucester Road with London Youth Opera and Imperial’s own choir

