FELIX Friday 18 March 2011 23
ARTS
Estorick: The little Italy hidden away in Islington
Rafael Benitez Cabral
Canonbury Square, postcode N1, is not
my usual haunt on a Wednesday after-
noon. I have navigated my way here
from Highbury & Islington station and
arrived in front of a handsome Georgian
house on the square where George Or-
well once lived.
The Estorick Collection is a small
museum of modern Italian art whose
permanent collection includes works
by Balla, Boccioni and Modigliani, but
I am here to visit the temporary exhi-
bition From Morandi to Guttuso. The
forty selected pieces provide a compre-
hensive overview of Italian Modernism,
from Futurism and Scuola Metafisica to
Novecento and Corrente.
On entering the exhibition, I was
drawn to a meditative still life in earthy
tones by Giorgio Morandi which shows a
will to communicate the magic and poet-
ry of ordinary objects. Initially, I was un-
derwhelmed by Gino Severini’s small-
sized Window with Pigeons (c.1930-31).
I later learned that Severini started his
artistic career in the pre-World War II
years as a Futurist, insisting on the cen-
trality of modern subject matter and sen-
sations. The piece strikes me as being
the perfect embodiment of the “return to
order” phenomenon, whereby artists of
the inter-war years abandoned the icono-
clasm of pre-war artistic currents and
shifted focus to more traditional subject
matter. Giorgio de Chirico’s Les bains
mystérieux (c. 1934-36) then caught my
eye and instantly became a personal fa-
vourite. Part of a series, it reveals an en-
during fascination with the iconography
of classical antiquity.
As I proceeded to the next room, there
were some fine examples of works by
Italian Futurist painters Enrico Prampo-
lini and Fortunato Depero. I was struck
by Prampolini’s Synthesis of Taormina
(1939), which aims to capture the drama
of flight in its depiction of Mount Etna
and small, historic Taormina at its feet.
Scantily-dressed women (1940) by Re-
nato Guttuso, an exponent of Corrente,
is visually engaging.
There I finished my visit. It is worth
mentioning that Della Ragione donated
his extensive collection to the city of
Florence as a gesture of solidarity after
the devastating 1966 floods which car-
ried away in its waters so many works
of art. The collection was last exhibited
five years ago and had been in tempo-
rary storage. Whether you are Italian or
not, don’t miss the chance to see mas-
terpieces from a collection that has been
invisible for so long.
Tate Modern’s blockbuster Orozco
Is it worth going to see another exhibi-
tion full of quirky art put there just to
leave the onlooker wondering how any-
one can call it ‘Art’? Beyond the bewil-
dering first impression, Orozco’s exhibi-
tion at the Tate evokes a personal and
surreal world where playfulness comes
side by side with death. On entering the
gallery, you can find a primaeval clay
heart made simply by the artist’s hands
compressing a piece of mud. It has a
simple but powerful beauty to it.
And rapidly the tone shifts – in the
next room, Black Kites (1997), a human
skull meticulously decorated by the art-
ist with a black chequered pattern stands
in the middle of the room. Hung around
this image of death there are extracts
from the obituaries of complete strang-
ers published in the New York Times.
Surrounded by such a display, I could
not avoid thinking what line would sum
up my life. Will I ever have a line writ-
ten for me, by those who remain alive
after my death?
Walking on through the rooms, I
found myself in a floating graveyard.
Lintels (2001) is a collection of the
lint left behind from the filters of dry-
ing machines. When approached closely
one can see the residues left, and even
make out strands of human hair. Though
repulsive at first, it leaves a more lasting
imprint that invites a deeper reflection.
This piece, first displayed in the after-
math of 9/11, evokes a moving vision
of a necropolis; imagine how striking it
Rocío Molina Atienza could have been to those who had just
experienced death so closely. In contrast
to this, the main room shows an eclectic
arrangement of pieces, much more up-
beat. The walls of the room are covered
by a series of photographs taken in Ber-
lin, where the artist would stop when-
ever he saw a motorbike the same as his.
Overall, I found that piece dull in the
extreme, though together with the other
pieces in the room it conveyed a twisted
version of the industrialism that sur-
rounds us. More engaging, was the art-
ist’s own reworking of a Citroen DS that
dominated the room. The car had been
sliced in three, the middle part taken out
and reconstructed again to create a sleek
car reminiscent of Formula One.
Other pieces in the room left me cold:
a random shoebox, remarkable only as
having been used by artist, had been
placed on the floor, and not very far
away there was an empty elevator com-
partment from a building in Chicago.
Nonetheless, there was in that room a
piece that struck me: an arrangement of
four bikes modified such that they were
attached to each other, like a twisting
skeleton of worn out snakes biting each
other’s necks. Finally, from my visit,
one anecdote is fixed in my mind. “Car-
ambole with Pendulum” is a twisted
game of billiards where the table is now
elliptical, with no pockets and only three
balls, one of which is hung by a pendu-
lum from the ceiling. With cues stacked
in the corner of the room, anyone can
pick one up and play, according to their
own rules, this surreal game.
As I’m standing there watching oth-
ers play, a family enters - two children
mouth-full of question followed by two
parents. The girl, not older than seven,
asks again and again if she can have her
go as her father starts playing with the
balls and the cue as if he were the child.
Meanwhile, the mother contents her
with some reasons of why it’s not her
turn. This little scene just got me think-
ing how conditioned most of us have
grown up to be, never daring to play af-
ter years of parental repression.
Art is a way of demolishing these learnt
preconceptions; it is an invitation to those
who dare to join the game of observing
reality from a different angle and taking
part in it. Orozco’s exhibition is definitely
a good starting point to embark on this
trip – then again, it might just be a break
from the adult world of Imperial life.
“Art is a way of
demolishing [...]
preconceptions ... an
invitation to those
who dare to join the
game of observing
reality from a
different angle” Why always skulls? We get it already, it’s just a dead person’s head
These guys are heading off for a ‘wash’ in Les bains mysterieux
We ask whether this high-class freak show is more than the art of drawing crowds
Until 25th April at Tate Modern
Until 3rd April at Estorick
Gabriel Orozco ‘Black Kites’

