FELIX Friday 18 March 2011 29
A R T S
P
hotography has always been a bit
of a mystery to me. I understand
the fascination with trying to cap-
ture a moment in time. I also see
that cameras can capture more than
just scenes. However, as a painter, the camera
seems to me to be a very blunt, restrictive tool.
That said, the geek in me is pretty interested in
those sleek, expensive looking cameras and the
lazy artist in me is definitely interested in works
of art you can produce at the push of a button.
Armed with this array of prejudices I pot-
tered along to PhotoSoc’s exhibition Re-
flections Through the Aperture. My initial
reaction was quite positive. The exhibition
is imaginatively hung, and this dynamic ap-
proach to curating really brings the exhibition
to life. There was also a lot more colour than
I was expecting, and was I impressed by the
subtle progression from realism to abstraction.
So how had the contributors chosen to inter-
pret ‘reflections’? Unsurprisingly there were
quite a few pictures of reflective surfaces. How-
ever, I was far more drawn to the abstract and
interpretive works. There was certainly a wide
variety of these.Afew deserve special mention.
‘Vanishing’ by David Zheng, hung at the end
of the gallery, shows a double expose of a long
corridor superimposed under cables emerging
radialy from a pylon. The impression, of bleak,
drawn-out perspective is quite powerful.
My favourite set by far, wistfully titled ‘You
use a glass mirror to see your face; you use
works of art to see your soul’, by Ewa Lacho-
wicz, consists of three portraits. The female
subject is poised amidst a whirl of her own
movement and ethereal lights. The sense of
warmth and intimacy is palpable. Ewa says of
her work that “[it] explore[s] purely aesthetic
forms as well as deeply personal reflection”.
This sentiment is much more in tune with the
aims of the contemporary and traditional art-
ists I am more used to reviewing
My reaction to the exhibition was not entirely
positive.Agroup of prints showing out of focus
macros of shiny things, while pretty, seem to
lack depth. Similarly the trend for photomon-
tages involving contemporary and historical
photographs of urban scenes appeared to be
more of an exercise in Photoshop than a seri-
ous attempt to explore the theme. This idea
has been knocking around the internet for long
enough to gain the dreaded mantle of cliché.
My feeling is that this particular c-word is
harder to avoid in photography. You may have
expected this review to follow the classic “au-
thor’s preconceptions are shattered” structure.
Not quite. I am, however, glad to see that there
is imaginative artwork at Imperial that starts
life as silver nitrate and not in a tube of paint.
Reflections Through
the Aperture, reviewed
by LeoSoc’s Meredith
Thomas
Wreckage, reviewed
by PhotoSoc’s Sam
Whitcomb
Photosoc and Leosoc go head to head
What do they really think? The two societies review each other’s recent exhibitions.
I
’m not really sure how to consider
Leonardo Fine Art Society’s latest
show; Wreckage. You see, I’m used to
seeing a scattering of photos on those
pasty walls, or even a flock of birds
swooping through the gallery – not a torn mass
of paint regurgitating out of the walls, nor a
colossal Hepworth-esque tangle of strings ex-
tending up out of and down into oblivion. The
effect was powerful.
That’s what’s so tricky about a society wide
exhibition: The struggle to connect pieces
which have been submitted exclusively,
some by a group, and some as individuals. I
found, however, that Wreckage bypassed this
difficulty with ease, sidestepping the precon-
ceptions that all pieces were required to hold
a connection. Of course, narratives could
be formed if pushed hard enough but on the
whole each piece was so startlingly different
from the last it became necessary to allow
yourself to observe each piece in isolated
consideration.
Attending the gallery opening granted me an
additional insight, that of the artist. Perched
delicately on a secluded podium lay what I as-
sumed to be an old wrecked book with some-
one’s green scrawl crossing, commenting and
cannibalising the words.
On approaching the artist, Maria Han Veiga,
she explained, “the book displays language
as it should be, as it was. I’ve corrected the
text so it’s more in tune with the way we com-
municate today, depicting how language has
evolved to accommodate our steadily adapt-
ing vocabulary.” And although it was hinted
that the further we evolve our language, the
more we dilute, pollute and ultimately wreck
it, she draws an interesting paradox between
what to some is considered creation and others
destruction.
Another novel idea presented itself in the
form of a computer game written by Hugh
Osborne, depicting the familiar and frustrat-
ing cleanup operation following a house party.
Bottles deposited in unlikely places, beer cans
abandoned in an inebriated search for more.
Your task simple: To insert the rubbish into
bins, a task which was ironically fuelled by
the free flowing wine provided! But it was
this which fascinated me: the stark differences
between the individual pieces and their blin-
kered nature, crafted by completely indepen-
dent thinking.
Possibly the most disturbing, yet brilliant
piece was entitled, ‘Imminent Wreckage’.
Hidden in a row of cabinets in the shadow
of the main gallery lay a series of balloons
hung an instant from destruction. Spikes sur-
rounded and flames abounded; each balloon
was doomed to die in its own sickening way
yet it was death by the knife, a few tantalising
millimetres from the surface of the stretched
rubber, which concerned me. It is a feeling I
have felt a million times over, one which I feel
sure every member of Imperial has felt one too
many times. The realisation that you’re teeter-
ing on the edge. That deadline is about to pass,
that exam is about to be failed, or that you’ve
drunk too much and you’re about to explode.
For me it was an unsympathetic analysis of
that realisation of doom, and its loneliness
was stark.
It’s exhibitions like these which allude to the
fact that Imperial College is multitalented, that
perhaps some of its students’ genius is in the
subtle use of intellect to evoke feeling. That
being said, it is perhaps the demanding intel-
lect of our students which keeps them at home
studying, for the gallery opening was not well
attended despite a reasonably far-reaching
poster campaign.
Still, the exhibition has been well received
by those who attended, and it is exhibitions
like Wreckage and Untethered which have en-
sured the continued eminence of student art in
the Blyth Gallery.
Wreckage has closed. Now Showing in the Blyth Gallery
This is Wreckage. Not going to argue with that.
A piece from Wreckage – looks like a pretty damn good pizza. I need more of those easter eggs...
Mery (left) from LeoSoc, wrote (right) about Sam (right) who wrote (left) about Maria (centre). Confused?

