MUSIC
FELIX
FRiday 18 March 2011
30
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Frank Ocean
Nostalgia, Ultra.
Self-released
2011
Look, I know I’m always talking about Odd Future, but
If you still doubt that this crew is overflowing with tal-
ent, just check out Frank Ocean’s first self-released
debut mixtape on Tumblr! Anyway Ocean is a bit of
an anomaly amongst OF: rather than rapping about
rape, he tends to croon about how good a lover he
is. Def Jam originally picked Ocean up for a record
deal but then dropped him when they succumbed
to their recent financial woes. What a mistake that
was. If you’re trying to make money as a label you
probably shouldn’t let go of one of the most promis-
ing, soulful and inspired R&B singers around. All you
need to get the Ocean bug is to come into contact
with amazing tunes like ‘Novacane’, ‘Swim Good’ or
‘Songs for Women’. This album is pretty much the au-
dio equivalent of crack: once you try it, you just can’t
let go man. Seriously, how many R&B singers have
you heard sampling Kubrick movies, or rhyming about
poon over MGMT? Genius. Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
The Hamptons
12 Bar Club, Denmark Street
Wednesday, 30th March 2011
This gig may not be until next week, but this source
of biblical knowledge won’t be around then, so lis-
ten. This London-based six-piece are taking to 12
Bar Club for a night of rocking the tennis socks off
their pounding feet, and possibly the tops off their
female fans. Featuring vocal/guitarist cousinly love
from across the pond and a comradeship through
their music, the benefits of the American/English
influence are clear here, keeping the rock alive in
the heart of both sounds. Known for keeping venues
on their feet through their flying guitars and clearly
colossal sound, these boys are sure to provide your
Wednesday night with that wall you’ll probably end
up running into anyway and some high energy an-
tics. Having featured on BBC radio and US stations
in Gainesville and Tampa, this is one not to miss...
Trust me. Luke Turner
H
ave you ever felt like going to
a pub, having a couple of pints,
playing some old style video
games and hanging out with
friends? Yes? Well, you’re not
alone. Two guys, Nicholas Thurgood (Nicky)
and David Lightfoot (Dave), have just started
running a monthly event called Nintendisco.
The basic idea is to get people together and
hang out in a bar, and then play videogames to-
gether, whilst listening to music, from contem-
porary radio hits to video game theme tunes!
Nicky and Dave have both been gaming fans
since they were kids. Dave’s first console was a
48k Spectrum that he shared together with his
brother, and this is what started his lifelong pas-
sion. From this starting point, both guys spent
time in signed, touring bands before joining the
two interests together and starting Nintendisco.
They explain that they “wanted to combine our
live musical/promoting experience with our
love for games and make an event that every-
one could enjoy. Sort of like gaming karaoke,
or watching a football match on a big screen,
but watching a round of Mario Kart instead.”As
a start-up, they spent some time going through
different games, looking for retro, fun and ac-
cessible games that could work well on a big
screen.
The first event was at the Lock Tavern in Cam-
den. Nicky and Dave were at first worried about
how many people would show up, being unsure
of people’s interest. It turned out to be the least
of their worries, and they moved to a larger ven-
ue: 93 Feet East on Brick Lane. This is where
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
Light Asylum @ Corsica Studios
1. Radiohead
2. James Blake
3. Arcade Fire
4. The xx
5. Muse
6. The Strokes
7. Daft Punk
8. Kanye West
9. Red Hot Chili Peppers
10. Bloc Party
Light Asylum; the dark wave, ‘enough-balls-
to-bust-up-Schwarzenegger’, electroclash duo
from Brooklyn are Shannon Funchess and Bru-
no Coviello. They came for Club Motherfuck-
er’s eighth birthday at Elephant and Castle’s
Wait... Did I just die? Because this sure looks like nerd heaven to me
Corsica Studios. The pair address the stage like
a boxing ring with the crowd as their opponent
as they limber-up for their set at 12.30. Break-
ing into swirling synth sounds they engage in
tear-your-face-off songs from their new EP
Videogames + Music = AWESOME
Charlotte Levin takes us to the strange party that is
Nintendisco: a celebration of games, music and geekery
they held their 5th, and latest, event. It’s still a
fairly small pub, with some leather sofas spread
around, a DJ podium in one of the corners and
the screen on the wall facing the entrance. The
atmosphere is laid back, two players at a time
sitting down on one of the sofas and by the podi-
um the hosts take turns in presenting the players
and commentating on the game. To get to play
you hand in a piece of paper with your name
and which game you would prefer to play, e.g.
Super Mario Kart or Street Fighter. They recom-
mend you hand in the paper fairly early to make
sure you get to play, a challenge that has turned
out to be much bigger than getting people to the
venue. To make sure that there isn’t one person
dominating all night long, there is a small prize
ceremony after a certain number of victories;
how many depending on the game being played.
During the ceremonies, the Star Wars Imperial
March soundtrack plays in the background and
the winner is placed on a podium where he re-
ceive a small gold medal and a t-shirt.
If this is something that interests you, the
next event will take place 28th April. Al-
though, already next week, on the 24th March,
Nintendisco will be a part of the launch event
for Nintendo 3DS. Instead of focusing on their
regular old school games only, they will hold
a 3D Tournament, but still play the mixture
of Nintendo sounds and contemporary music.
This launch event is at HMV Oxford Street
(Oxford St, London W1A 1AB), so why not
celebrate end of term but getting together a
bunch of friends and challenge each other on
video games? To follow coming events and
updates on what games will be on, have a look
at the Facebook group (“Nintendisco”) or fol-
low them on Twitter (@Nintendisco).
In Tension, as the crowd welcome the music
drone and power from both vocals and synth.
Funchess’ vocals bring memories of a fe-
male Ian Curtis with attitude as she yelps and
shouts with a shocking vocal range through
the microphone, using smartly placed loops
to weld into Coviello’s rhythms. The sound
matches New Order’s electronic reign post-
Curtis, with his female successor. The hugely
dramatic event keeps the crowd enticed and
on the verge of anarchy. Using recognisable
themes and forceful bass and lyrics, the two
keep the intensity at bursting level as they ca-
reer through their appropriately named album.
‘Knights and Week Ends’ along with ‘Skull
Fuct’ send patches of the crowd into apoplexy
and patches into jaw-dropping shock.
The fearless New Yorkers just started the
fight and wont be going down in the first
round. This is only the start for Funchess and
Coviello. The dark dungeons of Corsica stu-
dios being an ideal place for this round, Light
Asylum have started making waves.
Luke Turner
www.soundcloud.com/the-hamptons
The Brooklyn twosome start a right raucous night in South London
Charlotte Levin

