FELIX FRiday 18 March 2011 31
MUSIC
The Experimental
Interface List
In keeping with the spirit of the
Musical Expression EEE project,
we present you with a list of some
of the more interesting musical
interfaces out there today. Check
these badboys out on YouTube.
ReacTable
Big ass musical table
for you and your friends
to drool over
Tenori-On
Gorgeous 16x16 matrix
of LED switching device
for solo play
K-Bow
Violin with bluetooth
sensors, captures mo-
tion like a WiiMote
Tangible Music
Use tokens, toys and
blocks to create music;
MAKE: Online
Shitloads of home-
made instruments
Join the “Musical
Expression” Facebook
group for more novel
musical interfaces.
What follows is an extract from the
research proposal presented by a
group of 2nd year students in the
Department of Electrical & Electron-
ic Engineering. The project, entitled
“Musical Expression” aims to de-
velop an entirely new musical instru-
ment which is, above all, intuitive to
use, and which facilitates the cre-
ative process by collapsing the bar-
rier between idea and creation.
Music is one of the most widespread yet
least understood aspects of human cul-
ture. Indeed, some say the human capac-
ity to appreciate music is what makes us
human. It seems strange then, to think
that although we can all enjoy music, be
it by ourselves or with other people, not
all of us can make it.
Why is this so? In our opinion, it is to
do with the structure and technique of
musical instruments. They are the tools
with which music is made, yet they are
complex and refined to be operated in
a very specific way, requiring a great
amount of skill from the player. Yet this
seems to go against the notion of the
instinctive nature of music. Effectively,
the relationship between the tool and the
craft is skewed so that we are left to de-
vise a set of methods and techniques that
Creativity & Intuition
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto de Troya on his second year EEE
group project entitled “Musical Expression”
Blanca Martínez de Rituerto de Troya (www.escapecomplex.com)
we must learn before achieving anything.
This is not only an issue for the lay-
man but also for the seasoned musician
who tries to explore the infinite possibil-
ities of music. Often they are faced with
technical or practical limitations which
stand in the way of realising their artistic
intentions and what’s worse, often these
limitations or the path to overcome them
will corrupt the idealised concept. While
this may always yield interesting results,
as is observable in the more adventurous
styles of music, it becomes little more
than a frustration for those seeking to
bring their ideas squarely into being.
Most people have a natural disposi-
tion towards music developed through
evolution and social adaptation. Music
is enjoyed as a means of celebration,
entertainment, an intellectual exercise
or as a vehicle for human interaction.
However, this deep seated affinity for
sound remains largely passive for the
greater proportion of the human popu-
lation. This is largely due to the divi-
sion between music listening and music
making or the separation between audi-
ence and performer. The greatest barrier
between enjoying and producing music
lies in the sound sources themselves, the
instruments.
Musical instruments require a great
deal of skill and education before one
can play them properly or at a satisfacto-
ry level. The reason why this is so is be-
cause of the way the instruments work,
requiring a great deal of memorisation
and familiarity before producing any ap-
preciable composition of sounds. This is
a problem of design which doesn’t op-
timise the interaction between the user
and the tool. When else do we encounter
a line of strings or a row of buttons in
our daily life? These vehicles are inher-
ently alien to the human condition. They
must be strictly defined and explained
within a particular context in order for
them to bear fruit.
What we propose is to investigate and
develop a more intuitive and natural way
to create music, a way to bring out each
individual’s intrinsic desire to create
If you want to share a
mind-blowing playlist send
it in to
music.felix@gmail.com
Mr. Scruff has a freaky sense of humour. But seriously we want a brew
We want to “develop
a more intuitive and
natural way to create
music”
something in the world and to express
their otherwise inexpressible whims. In
so doing we wish to connect a person
to their creative instincts via an entirely
non-invasive electronic interface and
expose the potential for creative ab-
straction not often associated with rigid
technology. In order to do this we must
first observe the successes and failures
of traditional as well as modern musical
instruments, and consider the opinions
of musicians as well as non-musicians
with an inclination towards music.
We believe there is a better method for
interacting with machines, especially in
creative contexts. It is important to iden-
tify and establish the right language for
communication between the object and
the subject in question so that we may
use technology to realise our ideas and
visions.
We hope to have a finished prototype
within the next year. To follow our re-
search please find the link to our website
in the Facebook group “Musical Expres-
sion: Creativity & Intuition” or contact
the author via im808@ic.ac.uk. If you’d
like to contribute towards the develop-
ment of our new instrument, the website
also features a 1-minute survey about
musical creation and inspiration – we
would love to hear your thoughts!
Mr. Scruff
KOKO, London
19th February, 2011
Katherine Portilla
“Two teas please.” Not the usual order
one makes at a bar, however this is not
a ‘usual’ gig. Mr. Scruff is not only fa-
mous for his random, yet surprisingly
popular tea stands though. You can
expect a full six hour DJ set from the
man himself. A medley of hip-hop, jazz,
swing and dubstep keep the tunes fresh
and the crowd on the dance floor. At
Camden’s impressive KOKO, a former
theatre, Mr. Scruff’s tunes were accom-
panied by two large screens at either
side of the turn table. Home-made ani-
mations and messages such as “incom-
ing bass alert” flashed on the screen,
much to the amusement of the bouncing
crowd.
The dance floor is packed before you
know it and browsing the turnout, the
crowd is as versatile and charming as
is the tunes streaming from the sound
system. Here’s the key point, anyone
can enjoy Mr. Scruff for he plays for
no genre, let alone age group. This
Manchester based DJ had six albums
worth of work to pick and choose from,
managing to sell out his 11th show in
Camden, with no support act to boot. To
get you started, check out Mr. Scruff’s
‘Get a Move On’, his most notable hit.
Perhaps, trip-hop would be the best de-
scription his music, but most of his work
just keeps you guessing. His work with
the Ninja Tune label, which I recom-
mend for its handful of similarly groovy
artists, is a real treat for your ears my
friends.
Mr. Scruff will be returning to Koko on
Saturday 21st May 2011.
Tickets on sale now.
£15
More info, music and weird cartoons
on www.mrscruff.com

