FILM
Emilio’s on his way
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Emilio Estevez
Screenwriter Emilio Estevez
Cast Martin Sheen, Deborah Kara
Unger, James Nesbit, Yorick van
Wageningen, Emilio Estevez
The Way
Ja y Hoffman
One does not simply ‘Charlie Sheen’ into Mordor!
FELIX
32
he decides to walk the 480-mile route himself
and thereby complete it for his son, whose
ashes he carries with him and scatters in instal-
ments along the way.
We follow him over some stunning scenery
as he forms relationships with fellow hikers,
including a rotund Dutchman (Yorick van
Wageningen) and a spiky Canadian (Deborah
Kara Unger). Indeed, the film is at its strongest
documenting the Chauceresque hijinks com-
mon to bands of pilgrims: joking, drinking, and
‘living off the land’ (aka thieving). Such light-
ness of touch is welcome in what is at heart
a serious story, and it must be said that Sheen
acquits himself superbly in a challenging role.
His decades of Hollywood experience are al-
most visible on his face in every shot, whether
playing for laughs, intensely emoting, or even
– every actor’s toughest test – playing drunk.
Unfortunately though, The Way is well-
intentioned, admirable even, but significantly
flawed. The direction is formulaic, perhaps
reflecting the repetitive structure of the hiking
routine but in truth suggesting a lack of imagi-
Emilio Estevez wrote, directed and appears in
The Way, so it’s fair to say that this – his sev-
enth film as director – is a markedly personal
effort. Set on the route of medieval Christian
pilgrimage the Camino de Santiago de Com-
postela, it was filmed on location in Spain with
a small crew and stars Estevez’s father Martin
Sheen. This good-hearted, earnest effort was
even inspired by the director’s own Camino
with his son.
Sheen plays Tom, a widowed ophthalmolo-
gist shocked out of his comfortable day-to-day
existence by the freak death of his son (Este-
vez) in the Pyrenees on the first leg of the jour-
ney. Upon arrival in France to identify the body
Classic Cinema
Make Music Mine
Make Mine Music is an interesting piece of cinema,
firmly rooted in its own specific time and enjoyable
– with a pinch of salt. On limited release in 1946,
as the first in a series of ‘Package Films’ made by
Disney as a way of keeping its studio going in the
resource-stretched wartime, this feature length film
is a collection of ten musical segments that pre-
sents popular music of the time in short animated
tales. It is like Fantasia for the forties but, unlike the
classical music of Fantasia that found its own niche
in which to remain timeless and lauded, Make Mine
Music’s soundtrack has dated quickly.
It is, nevertheless, a classic slice of Americana,
showcasing the talents of Benny Goodman, The An-
drews Sisters and Dinah Shore among other big for-
ties names that have, for the most part, been lost
over the decades. Its stories revolve around small-
town baseball games, and teens dancing to jukebox
hits at the “Malt Shop” in a compilation of what are
now nostalgic little snippets. Though this may sound
entirely un-relatable, or even unbearable for some,
Make Mine Music has the advantage of being cre-
ated right in the middle of Disney’s heyday. It remains
charming with its meticulous hand-drawn animation
that has lost out to the mightier Pixar Studios in re-
cent times, and the simple creativity found in this –
still only Disney’s eighth feature film – is appealing.
Some of the content has to be taken with a pinch
of salt, however, with the fat girl being hilariously
shunned at the dance until she is re-drawn thinner
and the occasional appearance from a blacked-up
minstrel sending shudders of 21st Century social
sensitivity down the spines of the audience at the
BFI. Still, Make Mine Music is a curious production
that encapsulates 1940s America in an entertaining
and unique way.
Jade Hoffman
Dancing clarinets? Oh shit the acid’s kicking in!
Friday 18 march 2011
nation – for instance, you can set your watch by
when an aerial-shot walking montage is com-
ing up. The script, too, is clunky, especially in
the opening 15 minutes of lame exposition in
which Sheen is clumsily introduced playing a
round of golf with his similarly knitwear-clad
country club buddies. And after he receives
the bad news, his relationship with his late son
is too-briefly summarised via the medium of
melodramatic TV-movie flashbacks.
Worse still, at points it feels like Estevez
wants us to celebrate the simple humanity of
no more than a cast of borderline-offensive
continental stereotypes. The film deals almost
exclusively in them: the laid-back Dutchman
who likes a crafty ‘schmoke’, the old Spaniard
who ‘always wanted to be a matador’, and the
twinkly-eyed boozy Irish poet. Finally, these
major issues are compounded by a couple of
fist-chewingly awful ‘message moments’ (so
Gypsies aren’t all thieves and scoundrels, you
say? Why thank you, Emilio!) Unfortunately
for Estevez, liking this film is easier if you
haven’t seen it.
Father and son team up in this ultimately muddled re-
interpretation of Chaucer’s classic The Canterbury Tales
iCU Cinema - All Night at the Oscars!
Once again, iCU Cinema is finishing up
the term with its six-film all-nighter on
Tuesday 22nd March. After the success
of last term’s all-nighter, which had mas-
sive turnout for The Social Network and a
good group of dedicated film-lovers stick-
ing it out until the morning, iCU Cinema is
looking to up its game once more. For its
final event of the academic year, before
going on an exam-induced hiatus over the
summer term, the club is holding a “Night
at the Oscars” all-nighter which will show-
case some of the biggest and best films
to win or be nominated for awards in last
month’s Academy Awards.
Perhaps the most hotly anticipated film
being shown that night will be this year’s
runaway hit, the British film The King’s
Speech which took the awards for Best
Picture, Best Director and Best Leading
Actor among others. Though this film is
slated to be shown first in the bill, it is
by no means an early peak. The rest of
the night promises more of this year’s
major award-winners like Black Swan and
The Fighter.
The full line-up for the event, which is
kicking off at 6pm on Tuesday and ex-
pected to end at around 7.30 on Wedne-
say morning, is as follows:
– The King’s Speech
– Black Swan
– 127 Hours
– Alice in Wonderland
– The Fighter
– The Kids Are All Right
Tickets to see all six of this year’s big-
gest films are £10 and the Union Bar will
be staying open all night to fuel the most
dedicated iCU Cinema patrons. More de-
tails can be found on the Facebook event
and online at www.icucinema.co.uk

