F
I
L
M
FELIX 33
Friday 18 march 2011
For Country fans only
Director Shana Feste
Screenwriter Shana Feste
Cast Gwenyth Paltrow, Tim McGraw,
Garrett Hedlund, Leighton Meester,
Marshall Chapman
Country Song
John Park
As her performance on Glee showed
us all, it appears that Gwyneth Pal-
trow can both act AND sing. She was
just a substitute teacher on the hit U.S.
TV show but with Country Strong, the
film is all about her, starring as famous
country singer Kelly Canter from Texas,
trying to make a comeback in the mu-
sic industry, whilst being threatened by
a younger, hotter and talented teen. To
add to more drama, she is an alcoholic
with a tumultuous love life – throw in
some rehab, and this completes the most
clichéd set-up for a musical drama.
It was recently announced that Paltrow
is very close to signing a record deal –
and it’s not difficult to see why. With her
clean-cut voice, she carries the country
songs well. She may not have the most
powerful set of lungs, but vocally she
seems more than capable of handling a
solo stage. It’s a shame, then, that Pal-
trow is far too underused musically. Her
character is mostly involved in sense-
less, meandering, alcohol-fuelled drama
that she doesn’t get a lot of screen-time
to show off her singing abilities.
Kelly Canter has been in rehab after a
disastrous, drunken performance in Dal-
las attracted much criticism. Even worse
she was 5-months pregnant at the time,
which subsequently led her to lose the
baby altogether. She is released a month
ahead of schedule, and obviously has
been let go far too early, but her ambi-
tious husband James (Tim McGraw) in-
sists that she makes her comeback now
and turns it into a memorable one. The
pressure is on for Kelly, with her over-
bearing, affection-free husband being
of absolutely no help, and the stiff com-
petition from an up and coming young
rising star Chiles Stanton (Leighton
Meester). Though she finds solace in
her concerned rehab worker, Beau Hut-
ton (Garrett Hedlund) who is genuinely
looking out for Kelly’s well-being, Beau
also just happens to be a talented coun-
try singer and is asked to join them on
tour.
Predictably, Kelly continues to go on
more drinking benders, but the alcohol-
ism aspect of the film seems to come
and go at the film’s convenience. In
one scene Kelly is waving around a li-
tre of vodka, drinking it straight out of
the bottle, and in another scene, alcohol
has disappeared completely, with no
further mention or development on her
problems. Nothing is told of how this
dependence started, and though Paltrow
displays depression and repressed emo-
tions well, the script does not offer any
decent depth for Paltrow to portray on
screen.
Whatever emptiness there is on screen
cannot be blamed on the actors. Despite
all the rash decisions and melodramatic
choices they make, there is not even the
slightest hint behind the characters’ in-
tentions, which is why it’s even harder
to find some meaning to justify the
film’s rushed, irrational and “tear-jerk-
er” ending.
Manipulative is too weak a word to
describe the extent the film is willing to
go to just for another heavy, emotional
scene. Much like its protagonist, the film
needs to take intermittent breaks from
all the intense, though quite frankly, sil-
ly, drama. There’s a fight, then a concert,
another argument, another concert in a
different city, and this cycle goes on and
on. If you’re not a fan of country music,
you can forget about watching this; half
of the film is filled with mellow, acous-
tic guitar-backed songs full of corny lyr-
ics. Aside from this – which may still
appeal to some – the story itself leaves
no noticeable impact.
Hollywood gets flattened in Battle: L.A.
Director Jonathon Liebesman
Screenwriter Christopher Bertolini
Cast Aaron Eckhart, Michelle
Rodriguez, Ramon Rodriguez,
Bridget Moynahan, Ne-Yo
Battle: Los Angeles
Ed Knock
The recent resurrection of the sci-fi
genre has changed how many people
view this typically maligned section
of cinema but Battle: Los Angeles fails
to match the quality of the critically
claimed films Moon and District 9. Dis-
trict 9 was intriguing by being set in
the little filmed Johannesburg whereas
Los Angeles is familiar city of end-
less identical suburban houses and as a
horde of aliens quickly reduce the place
to a heap of smouldering rubble, I can’t
help but think that no-one would really
care if this characterless metropolis was
vaporised.
The film is essentially a re-hash of
Black Hawk Down, though replacing the
faceless Somali insurgents with faceless
miniaturised versions of Optimus Prime,
and it suffers from the same problems
as Ridley Scott’s muddled war epic –
namely characterisation. We’re intro-
duced to a gang of multi-ethnic fresh
faced marines at the start and they’re
subject to the usual clichés; either
they’re over confident bad-asses or inse-
cure newbies. Attached to the platoon is
a world-weary veteran played by Aaron
Eckhart who has a reputation for getting
his soldiers killed. It’s not long before
mysterious asteroids start bombarding
the coasts of New York, Tokyo, London
and errr Galway and news soon filters
through of an extra-terrestrial invasion
before our plucky soldiers are whisked
off to extract civialians from L.A. as
emotionless mechanical E.T.s emerge
from the ocean to begin their murderous
assault on the local surfers.
Director Jonathon Liebesman pro-
vides some flimsy answers for the aliens
motives; they’re here for our water and
to successfully colonise our planet they
must exterminate the native population.
But any references to post-colonial guilt
are quickly swept aside and replaced
with American paranoia of invading
foreign forces. In fairness, he does cre-
ate a generally creepy atmosphere as the
marines locate an over-run police station
amongst charred bodies and an unseen
enemy with tense jump in your seat
moments. However the aliens reveal
themselves all too soon and the film de-
scends into a standard ‘shoot em up’ and
unsurprisingly the marines are perfect
shots, whereas the aliens, with all their
sophisticated firepower and technology,
miraculously can’t hit a thing.
There’s a brief interlude in an aban-
doned airbase where attempts at deep
dialogue between characters betray the
cringe worthy failures of the script and
once the action resumes, the chaotic
scenes of warfare quickly become tedi-
ous. Michelle Rodriguez joins the cast
to play a vulnerable, sensitive victim.
Sorry, I’m pulling your leg, she fills her
stereotyped boots as the usual tough girl
alongside Aaron Eckhart who was so
brilliant in Thank You for Smoking and
The Dark Knight, but here he just grunts
out his lines with a permanent textbook
expression of exasperation. Battle: Los
Angeles has a promising start but a weak
script, uninspiring plot and poor charac-
ters quickly turn it into traditional brain
dead action fare. Wait, wait! Aaah man, it isn’t Batman.

