GAMES
FELIX
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Y
ou can generally assign video
games into one of three catego-
ries. The first group houses the
games that you just can’t stop
playing. If you’re in a game and
your friends start to ask you if you ought to
eat and suggest that you might want to take a
shower sometime, then it more than likely falls
into this group.
The second category contains mostly single
player games, ones you can play a few times
without getting too bored. Fun, but replay value
is limited. Finally there are tier three games,
games which are just plain bad. The only rea-
son you play these abominations is to justify
the cash you splurged out on them.
Baron Wittard: Nemesis of Ragnarok, hence-
forth shortened to NoR, falls somewhere be-
tween categories two and three. It’s not so bad
that I ever considered tooth-pulling more en-
joyable, but it’s not so amazing that I’ll be play-
ing it a second time.
NoR was created by a two person develop-
ment team called Wax Lyrical Games, and
serves as their first title. It follows the tale of
a photographer sent into an old abandoned city
called ‘The Utopia’, built by the title’s afore-
mentioned Baron Wittard. Naturally, any idiot
who calls their creation ‘The Utopia’ is just
screaming out for fate to smack them around
the chops and turn their Utopia into a Dys-
topia. Of course, everything went tits up and by
the time your character arrives two years later
everything’s just a little bit old and mouldy.
Now, to review this game I’m going to start
with my rough line of thought when I started
playing. First things first, there are no video
settings. The resolution and graphical quality
are fixed, and I spent the whole game playing
with black borders that letterboxed the screen.
Whilst I understand that top-tier graphics aren’t
always available to smaller developers, I would
have appreciated the ability to at least alter the
game’s resolution.
The movement controls. Oh yes, the move-
ment controls. NoR is a point and click puzzle
game, so naturally control is somewhat limited
versus say an FPS, but I’ve seen point and click
done better than this. The last game of this type I
played was Sam & Max: The Devil’s Playhouse
and that managed it really well, giving you full
control over a small interactive area. In NoR
you can’t freely move your character about,
and you’re limited to moving to set positions in
the environment. This became particularly ir-
ritating when I was rolling the mouse about the
screen to find the area to move to next.
OK, now we’re into gameplay. Gameplay
makes or breaks a game, as redundant as that
may sound. The controls can be stodgy, the
graphics average, but if a game has a suc-
cinct plot and challenging elements that drive
it along these smaller gripes can be ignored.
Only, NoR doesn’t quite deliver, and the afore-
mentioned gripes are only amplified.
To put it simply, NoR is, in essence, a string
of various logic puzzles strung together with a
fairly average story and cliché horror elements
that are about as scary as a kitten arching its
back and mewling dangerously. The game’s
box doesn’t seem to promote it as a horror
beyond ‘Spine-Tingling Mystery Adventure
Game’, but the flickering lights and use of
darkness imply it’s trying to be one. Without
the horror or a properly convincing story it’s
just a big puzzle game.
Now, there’s nothing wrong with puzzle
games, but the way the player has to solve puz-
zles is poor at best. There’s a lot of going back
and forth – first you need to locate ten hidden
rune stones, find their meaning in one book,
then find out which room you have to take them
to from another book in another room, which
contains a puzzle whose solution is found in
another wretched room. You see where this
you feel like a proper detective. If that’s you,
great, go buy NoR now. To me, it simply felt
clunky. The guy has a camera in his inventory
for Pete’s sake; I was honestly expecting the
ability to take pictures for reference which
could be scrolled through at another point in
the game. I can’t see why Wax Lyrical Games
didn’t – it’d provide a method for keeping ev-
erything neatly on hand without the game giv-
ing you any clues or requiring a pen and paper,
AND it wouldn’t feel out of place in the slight-
est. But no. You use your camera once. ONCE,
for a completely arbitrary puzzle. A wasted op-
portunity, guys.
Look, for all my hate, Barron Wittard: Nem-
esis of Ragnarok isn’t by any means a train
wreck that should be avoided like the bubonic
plague. NoR has the potential to be a really
great game. It has sturdy foundations but pa-
per-thin walls. There were no bug issues that
cropped up, the puzzles were hard enough to
keep my large Imperial brain ticking over and
the music was nicely fitting. The story could
have benefited with a little extra work, and
as I said above a system for capturing images
would have alleviated a lot of fiddly note tak-
ing when it came to problem solving.
Would I recommend this game? It depends
on if you believe indie developers deserve
your money to create a new and better title by
correcting their mistakes. A company’s first
game isn’t always their magnum opus, and I
think Lyrical has shown that they are capable
of greatness; they just need to take criticism
onboard and try again.
Baron Wittard: Nemesis of Ragnarok is
available now from Iceberg Interactive and
Wax Lyrical Games for PC. It is available
in major retail stores, on digital download
portals or through the Iceberg Webshop at
iceberg-shop.com/baron-wittard.html.
Trouble in paradise
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
iSketch
isketch.net
Despite being around since the mad, bad days of
Web 1.0 when really annoying Flash introductions
were cool, iSketch is still going strong and is still
enjoyable even though it’s starting to show its age
a little. The classic Pictionary, where players have
to draw a picture to describe a word or phrase, has
been brought online and thrown into the wild world of
multiplayer action.
Players take it in turns to draw against the clock.
The more correct answers, the more points, and
answerers get a bonus for answering first. Drawing
is definitely the highlight and the chime the game
makes when you’re first to answer soon becomes
the most pleasurable sound it’s possible to hear. If
friends want to play they can join the same room for
some co-op or team-based action. Trolling random
strangers on chat is fun too!
In this gallery shooter, you play a World War One army
sergeant faced with something much worse than the
Axis powers: zombies. After teaming up with German
counterparts, you’ll take on all manner of undead in
the traditional fashion.
Only, the mist over no-man’s land brings more fear
than usual, not least because you’re stuck with awful
guns from Call of Duty 2. Night levels rack the atmos-
phere up a few notches, giving some great moments.
Carveola Incident
tinyurl.com/carveola
38
Laurence Pope on Baron Wittard: Nemesis of Ragnarok
Friday 18 march 2011
“If a game has a succinct
plot and challenging
elements that drive it
along, the smaller gripes
can be ignored.”
is going? This is where the above-mentioned
gripes kick in. The average-at-best movement
system makes navigation a chore, and with the
amount of navigation required to solve each of
the puzzles you feel the game taking its toll on
you.
To make matters worse, you can’t record
anything in-game. If you find a pass code, or
door combination, or instructions to solve a
puzzle you have to write it down, and I ended
up keeping a notebook and pen next to me as
I played. Maybe this is what appeals to some
people; maybe making notes as you play makes
You might be a ghost but that doesn’t mean you have to stand like a moron

