GAMES
FELIX 39
access to ‘The Magician’s Guide Book’
– by choosing certain tricks from this
tome you can progress through situa-
tions that might have otherwise been im-
possible. After selecting the right trick
you must combine a series of ‘moves’,
if you will, to pull off the trick success-
fully; for example, a slight of hand or
slipping items up your sleeve. Every
trick is explained in the book, but you
have to choose the right items in order
to complete the trick. This is a really fun
way to solve some puzzles, as you can
trick characters along the way in order to
progress, giving a new side to the ‘point-
and-click’ gameplay. Obviously there
are some puzzles that are simply riddles,
jigsaws or scavenger hunts, but these are
to be expected in this style of game.
All in all, Gray Matter is enjoyable
but can sometimes disappoint. It’s come
out at a time when this style of gameplay
has really passed. Although it brings a
few new ideas to the table, it is really
just a standard ‘point-and-click’ game
and feels a bit out of date. One thing that
I will reiterate is the amount of detail
that this game goes into with its back-
ground information. If you spend a lot
of time going through every last piece,
you’ll really get a lot out of Gray Mat-
ter. However, if that isn’t what you’re
looking for, it can really feel like it’s
dragging on. With eight years of produc-
tion, I really feel this game should have
done so much more.
Gray Matter is available now from
WizarBox and Lace Mamba Global for
PC and Xbox 360.
G
ray Matter starts off
as any mystery game
would: a creepy old man-
sion, half an hour’s bus
ride from Oxford, dur-
ing the middle of a storm. Sam Everett
is an American who practices magic and
is searching for a secret magicians’ club
known as the Daedalus Club. Her mo-
torbike breaks down in the rain and she
happens to stop near the mansion. To
blag a room for the night, she pretends
to be the new assistant to the owner, Dr.
David Styles, an expert in the field of
‘unusual neurological abnormalities’.
In the morning, Sam realises that she
can make a bit of money by continuing
her deception, and so starts performing
tasks for Dr Styles. She must gather up
several guinea pigs for his next experi-
ment, so she goes to Oxford to find stu-
dents (pretentious or otherwise) to take
part. Of course, the good Doctor has a
shady past, about which more is discov-
ered throughout the storyline.
There is definitely a lot of intrigue in
Gray Matter. The storyline is gripping
and really makes the player want to keep
playing in order to find out everything
about the game world. Jane Jensen, the
game’s designer, has clearly done a lot of
research. By exploring the game, players
can find out so much and not all of it is
necessary for the game. You can access
libraries and file cabinets, giving you
access to a vast plethora of information
about either Oxford, magic or neurosci-
ence – the scale really is impressive.
Music in the game works very well,
adding much to the atmosphere and ac-
centuating the feeling of mystery in a
lot of the settings. Occasionally sound
effects were far too loud, just to make
it obvious something was there. For ex-
ample in the tutorial, the sound of the
rabbit chewing was unnaturally loud. It
overpowered the music and any other
sounds, and just felt unnecessary.
Graphics, however, vary hugely in
Gray Matter. During gameplay there’s a
vast amount of effort put into even the
smallest of details, and it really looks
spectacular. The backgrounds are well
thought-out, and the whole game has a
really realistic look. However, during
cut scenes the visuals really fall apart.
The characters judder and any realism is
gone – yet this is how the game opens,
rather disappointingly. For a game that
has been in production for eight years,
I feel the cut scenes could really have
been improved upon.
Gray Matter works like most other
‘point-and-click’ adventures. Players
You’ll need a lot of Gray
Matter to enjoy this one
Friday 18 march 2011
find points of interest around the room,
clicking on them to get information and
to go to different places. The more you
click on, the more information you get.
Sometimes you must use items in your
inventory to progress and certain rooms
remain inaccessible until you have com-
pleted certain tasks. Like the majority of
these games, it can sometimes become a
bit boring. This is even worse if you get
stuck, as you often find yourself going
to the same rooms and looking for the
smallest detail that could help you.
you get is the word ‘Error’ projected at
you, and no ramifications. I mean, come
on, everyone has that little bit of sadist
in them that wants to just be able to have
their scalpel accidentally slip. The only
way you can fail an operation is if you
choose the wrong instrument use it on
the patient too many times, or if their vi-
tals get to dangerous levels.
This isn’t the only thing to jar you out
of the simulated world. You are required
to shave hairless areas, right over the
wound that you are to be operating on.
Surgery Simulator literally consists of
eight different operations. One of which
is called ‘Road Traffic Accident’… this
is the sort of level we’re operating on
(pun intended). Oh, and I should warn
you: “This product is a computer game
and not for training or tuition purpos-
es!!!” So you Medics that have picked
up this title to enhance your surgical
skills, think again.
I can’t get over the brevity of this
game. Eight operations – that’s it. You
can perform each operation in either a
Campaign mode, which requires you to
complete each operation in turn before
progressing to the next, or Free Play
mode, which lets you play any opera-
tion straight from the off. Additionally,
there are three difficulty levels for the
whole game and you can choose to
have the game tell you everything to
do, or nothing at all. That is the entire
scope of this Surgery Simulator – it’s
the sort of level of depth I’d expect
from a Flash game.
However, the operations themselves
do have some merit. Although I have
no surgical experience, the operations
consist of a seemingly logical series of
steps, and it’s not difficult to imagine
the real-life operations being reflected in
these simulations. This, with the added
“realism” of monitoring and correcting
levels of anaesthesia, at least creates a
feel of a semi-real operating theatre.
But you can’t kill anyone! No matter
how many times you try and cut at the
innards of your unfortunate patient, all
“It’s the sort of level
of depth I’d expect
from a Flash game”
“There is no hint
system, whch I feel
is actually a good
thing”
Great story but nothing new, says Sean Harbison
There is no hint system, which, de-
spite the difficulty, I feel is actually a
good thing for this style of game. Often
these systems cheapen the game and
make it far too easy, but this choice may
put off playes that are finding it hard to
progress. There is, however, a chance to
show every item in the room with which
you can interact. This allows you to see
what you can interact with but doesn’t
show how important certain things are,
or tell you if items might need to be used
on them, therefore keeping the difficulty
at the same sort of level.
Gray Matter also brings a new idea to
the table. As Sam is a magician you have
Maybe if you got back to reading the article you’d know the graphics rock!
Not exactly cutting
edge gaming
Whip out your scalpel and
forceps in Surgery Simulator
Hmm, for this operation I think I’ll choose... the CREEPY FALSE HAND tool
Chris Bowers
Not only is the step apparently unnec-
essary, I imagine it would be dangerous
and counter-productive. But hey, what
do I know? Then you have to disinfect
the area, which has no visible effect on
the skin, making it very difficult to com-
plete. For a simulator, these non-realistic
effects really spoil the illusion.
In short, Surgery Simulator does one
thing well – and that’s the procedures
themselves – but apart from that, it
sucks. It has nowhere enough content to
warrant its price tag and what there is
feels too restricted and isn’t at all grip-
ping. One to avoid, in my opinion.
Available now from Rondomedia and
Excalibur Publishing for PC.

