NEWS
FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
4
Tell us about yourself
I’m a 3rd year Mechanical Engineering
student. I’m on the full Imperial bursary
as well as the government grant and have
been for my whole time at university.
Would you have been able to come to
Imperial without the bursary?
Maybe, obviously living in London is
expensive but the bursary makes things a
lot easier. It means that I’m able to have a
flexible student life, for example in terms
of living with friends after 1st year, I
didn’t have as many constraints on who I
could live with or where I could live. But
in terms of coming to Imperial, I imagine
that people who don’t have parental sup-
port find it just as difficult, even though
they don’t qualify for a bursary.
The bursary means
I don’t have to
constantly worry
about money
Peter Roberts talks
to Kadhim Shubber
about how the College’s
Student Support Bursary
makes life easier
Financial Emergencies
How the College can help you if
you’re facing financial trouble
We need the money no
Debt reduction rejected as students point to living costs, not hi
A majority – 60% of the 460 students
that responded to the survey – said that
they preferred cash bursaries to either
lower accommodation costs or tuition
fee waivers. The survey was only tar-
geted at the 1261 students who receive
financial aid.
One survey respondant said that tu-
ition fee reductions “would be a com-
plete waste”, adding “It is the upfront
cost of living that deters poorer students
from higher education, not tuition fees.”
Union President Alex Kendall said that
whilst he “understood” the govern-
ment’s point of view, it was clear that
the best way to help poorer students was
through cash bursaries.
At present, Imperial College offers
many forms of financial aid to its under-
graduates and postgraduates. It spends
£4.5 million annually on bursaries for
students from households with an in-
come lower than £50,000. £4 million of
this comes from Home/EU tuition fee
income (equating to 17.5%), whist the
other £500,000 comes from the College
Endowment Fund.
The Student Financial Support (SFS)
team, which comprises of only four
members of staff, manages the distribu-
tion of this money (and other funds) to
students. The survey showed high sat-
isfaction with the SFS team, with over
90% rating the service as ‘good’ or ‘ex-
cellent’.
With the increase in tuition fees to
£9,000, the College’s bursary system is
being reviewed, with Union President
Alex Kendall calling the new bursary
system “much more generous”. Plans
include raising the threshold for bursa-
ries to households with incomes of up to
£60,000 instead of the current £50,000,
as well as some tuition fee reductions for
poorer students.
Alex Kendall confirmed that there
would be some reduction in tuition
fees, not only because of pressure from
the government, but also to show the
university’s willingness to address the
problem of debt deterrence. He said that
the amount paid to students would not
decrease. However, the results of the
survey also suggest that the College still
has work to do to ensure that prospec-
tive students are aware of the financial
aid that they are eligible to receive.
It found that almost 25% of those
surveyed had no knowledge of the
bursary system before applying. 10%
only found out about the bursary sys-
tem after arriving at Imperial. One
student highlighted that they didn’t
“feel enough information was given to
students about the bursary during the
application process. Whilst I still ap-
plied, I suspect Imperial’s reputation
as an expensive university might put
off potential applicants who were un-
aware of the bursary.” Clearly, Impe-
rial will have to raise the awareness of
prospective students about the bursary
scheme to ensure that it continues to
If you suddenly find yourself in financial hardship, for
example finding that you’re unable to pay your rent
for that month, the College can help you and may
give you money (which you don’t have to pay back).
As well as the processes described below, they will
also provide emergency assistance or loans. So if
you’re facing a financial crisis, email student.fund-
ing@imperial.ac.uk and they will do everything that
they can to help and advise you.
Home Students
Access to Learning Fund
The Access to Learning Fund (ALF) is a pot of money
that is supplied by the government and distributed
to home students who are experiencing “genuine fi-
nancial hardship”. Of course, judging whether your
hardship is genuine is something that happens when
you apply, but they do ask that you’ve explored other
routes of financial aid before applying (for example
if you haven’t signed up for a full student loan, then
you can’t apply)
If you do qualify for support from the ALF, you will
receive between £100 and £3,500 that you do not
have to pay back. There is a thorough application
process, however. They examine your bank state-
ments and compare your income and your “essen-
tial” expenditure (meaning that they don’t look kind-
ly on subscriptions to, for example, online gambling
sites) to calculate your deficit.
EU/International Students
Hardship Fund
The Hardship Fund is a fund that is supported by do-
nations and the College directly; as opposed to the
Access to Learning Fund (ALF) which is funded by
the government. It’s aimed at EU and International
students who have “experienced a change in their
financial circumstances after registering with the
College”.
The fund offers between £100 and £1,000 and as
with the ALF, the money does need to be repaid.
However, it is subtly different to the ALF in that it not
designed to aid with long-term living costs. It is for
“short-term and urgent situations only”.
Your Senior Tutor, Postgraduate Tutor or supervisor
will be contacted about your attendance and aca-
demic progress if you make an application to ensure
that they are “satisfactory”.
Both funds are for undergraduate and postgradu-
ates. They are not available to assist with tuition fees
payments. Contact student.funding@imperial.ac.uk if
you have any queries. More information is available at:
imperial.ac.uk/registry/studentfinancialsupport
The survey suggests that poorer students would prefer cash in hand rather than a re
Kadhim Shubber
...Continued from Front Page
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

