T
ruffles have always sound-
ed slightly removed from
anything I eat on a regular
basis. Not because they
were impossible to get
hold of, just something I was unlikely
to stumble across. And if, like me and
Daniel Barenboim, you are more imme-
diately interested in the impossible rath-
er than the very difficult or the unlikely,
perhaps they are not something you have
yet considered much either. Ever the sci-
entist though, my interest to learn more
was primed from conflicting informa-
tion I had heard about them. The truffle
is a name applied to both chocolate and
also that fungus that is grated or thinly
sliced onto (savoury) starters and soups.
Manifestly they were not the same and
so I took my sweet tooth, grabbed the
chocolate bull by the horns and set about
trying to find out more.
Like most people I have had truffles in
chocolate selection boxes, especially as
those which include truffles start more
or less a cut above the cheapest ones. I
found these a disappointment I’d rather
avoid now: poor-quality chocolate with
a chalky texture and too many nuts. I
do like the milk chocolate concoctions
more than most of the others, but if it’s
too milky or greasy I can’t say I would
consider it for anything other than a
source of fuel.
Next, rather than look up what it
was or should be, by chance I came
across some much better ones, namely
the Pink Marc du Champagne truffles
from Charbonnel et Walker. These are
quite exquisite, if you can get past the
frankly unnecessarily pink presenta-
tion. I think that they are sufficiently
well put-together that one alone is just
right. I should say how these are con-
structed. They use white chocolate,
and so do not contain any pure cocoa,
only cocoa butter in them. The filling
is Marc du champagne which is an im-
possible-sounding thing really; Marc is
a drink made from the fermentation of
grape skins alone, after they have been
removed from the wine, or in this case
champagne, making process.
Typically, this is done to supplement
income when a bad year drives down
the yield of grapes. The same thing
happens in Italy but there it is known
as Grappa, and is perhaps more familiar
than Marc, though both are very bitter.
Pink Marc is perhaps unusual as it re-
quires a mixture of both white and red
grape skins to make it. Either way, the
bitterness seems at odds with the white
chocolate, but in this case it works well
as it ensures the sweetness and deca-
Handcrafted, exquisite little morsels basking in their ruffled paper cases... mmmm
dence of the butter are reined in and
so the flavours balance well and are
deeper. The trouble is that a box costs
£10 in the Gloucester Road Waitrose
and there are only about nine in each
box. Personally, however, I consider it
well worth it. Pralines are often mixed
up with truffles, and quite frankly
they’re fairly similar. If your experi-
ence is like mine, they will also have
been disappointing if not very similar
to the cheaper truffles noted above.
They are supposedly a type of truffle
which does contain nuts; made from
either almonds or hazelnuts. Normal
truffles are made with chocolate mixed
with cream or butter and flavoured, typi-
cally with a spirit. This is similar to the
ganache used to decorate pâtisserie in
which chocolate is melted at body tem-
perature before the cream and/or butter
is mixed with it. I must say that mixing
chocolate and cream and adding a fla-
vouring sounds rather achievable. Time
to experiment myself I think...
I’m not allergic to nuts or anything
but I’m not a massive fan either. How-
ever, a recent present of chocolates and
champagne showed me that truffles or
pralines can be done well with nuts.
And more to the point, milk chocolate.
Truffles are an indulgence that I shall
be thinking twice about now, whether
it be buying them for myself or others.
Like all things, especially luxury items,
spending a bit more and going for the
packet with the gold embossing ensures
a very satisfactory experience for all.
Spring fever is fast approaching. And as
Mark Twain puts it, “when you’ve got
it, you want - oh, you don’t quite know
what it is you do want, but it just fairly
makes your heart ache, you want it so!”
Except, Mark, you know perfectly well
what you want. You want to enjoy ice-
cold beers in the park, a chat with that
fruity bird you seemed to have missed
when she was wearing more layers in
the winter, and a healthy dose of copula-
tion.
What you don’t want is to be sitting
in the library studying. Setting exams at
the heart of spring has always been one
of life’s immense injustices, the great-
est annual manifestation of academic
schadenfreude there is. The stupid-
ity of it all ranks up there with anyone
that has woken up one day and thought
“Wouldn’t my life be more complete
with an iPad?”
Indeed, science has never drummed
up quite as effective a tranquilizing
agent as a sunny spring day. Thought
that maths module on Fourier trans-
forms was dull in mid-December? Try
focusing on it when everywhere there’s
suddenly more colour, more flesh, more
daylight. You’d much rather be outside
having fun, ogling and cavorting with
that girl sitting opposite you in the quiet
study area. Without any sort of respite,
your revision focus will slowly dwindle.
Which brings me to lunch – the per-
fect excuse to grab a well-earned rest
from a morning’s hard studying and a
stroll with your favourite Biologist. You
won’t be welcome in the SCR, where
they now check swipe cards to prevent
any UGs from tasting their attempts at
food – as if exclusivity would somehow
make the place more desirable. There
are a few sandwich outlets on campus,
but frankly they don’t sufficiently ap-
pease the frustrated, overworked, ir-
FOOD
FELIX 41
What’s the fuss
with truffles?
Sam Furse explores the wonders of chocolate
Charles Blakeley/flickr
Friday 18 march 2011
ritable student. What will do the trick,
however, is a sunny 15 minute walk to
Daphne’s restaurant.
I’m not going to claim it’s the best
restaurant in London. I haven’t eaten
at enough places, my range of London
dining falling shamefully short of any-
one else pretending to know something
about food. But in my desperation at the
state of the SCR, I have tried most of
South Kensington’s eateries. And none
offers as enjoyable a lunch as Daphne’s.
Sitting in the conservatory, surround-
ed by olive trees and relaxed daytime
shoppers, the place is a world away from
the library café with it’s baked beans and
potatoes. Serving hearty Italian cuisine,
the place feels very laid back, unpreten-
tious, and the staff are friendly. Having
lunch here really does lift the weight off
your shoulders.
The set lunch menu is £17.50 for
two courses (or £19.50 for three), and
changes regularly. Don’t let the price
put you off. You’re getting top food for
Carluccio prices, which makes it damn
good value. The dishes are rustic, re-
gional, and utterly authentic. There’s
something for everyone, be it butternut
squash soup, pork saltimbocca, veal rav-
ioli or homemade pistachio ice-cream.
Although the portions tend to be on the
less-generous side.
I don’t want to set you up for a dis-
appointment. I wouldn’t go there for
dinner – the food doesn’t warrant the à
la carte prices and the atmosphere be-
comes a bit too stuffy, a bit too full of
dismally self-important pithy bankers
and the worst of the nouveau riche. But
the place really is good, very good, at
lunch. And you’ll feel that little bit less
devoured by your exams.
Daphne’s Restaurant
112 Draycott Avenue
London SW3 3AE
020 7589 4257
Lunching in
Knightsbridge:
Daphne’s
An escape from lunch at College
Flowers and candlelight at lunchtime. Now that’s luxury
“If it’s too milky or
greasy I can’t say I
would consider it for
anything other than a
source of fuel.”
Charles Betts

