TRAVEL
42
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
Recovering from food poisoning in the remote Chilean outback, Priya Garg retells
some of the prominent anecdotes circulating South America’s beloved gringo trail
Tall tales and the runs
M
endoza is a cosmo-
politan city in the
north of Argentina,
crushed by an earth-
quake and rebuilt
from the foundations, leading to ex-
pansive sunny reading parks with blue
tiled fountains, cathedrals, large plazas
and shopping malls. In the parks lie big
wooden chests in which you can pick out
copies of anything from Teach Yourself
Spanish to The Life History of the Bin
Ladens and settle on a bench, reading
on a warm spring afternoon. On every
street corner you will find a carved ca-
thedral and a ‘helado’ shop, selling you
ice-cream in any flavour from tiramisu,
to lemon meringue pie, flan and ‘Bari-
loche’ chocolate.
Taking a bicycle a couple of miles
out of the centre, you discover over
1300 wineries around the Mendozian
area, each growing the ‘Malbec’ grape
as their speciality. Rows upon rows of
green vineyards, covered netting, oak
between the two countries, making our
crossing an altogether less enjoyable
experience. However, I was able to use
my limited Spanish “banos, vomitar!” to
locate the nearest bathroom, whilst my
travel-buddy Becky tried “mes amigo is
missing, árrete le autobus!” – a fantastic
panicked mixture of English, Spanish
and French, to prevent the coach from
travelling into Chile without me.
So whilst I have been struck down with
food poisoning, I am sitting in Becky’s
friend Daniela’s beautiful house in San-
tiago, with the Andes mountain range
directly behind, a veranda to write on,
a swimming pool slightly cracked from
a recent earthquake ahead and cloudless
skies above. Here I thought I would fill
you in on some of the more gripping
tales we have heard from travellers in
South America.
Although Argentinean and Brazilian
culture means they are warm, open, gen-
erous people, this openness also means
that crime, whether petty or more sinis-
ter, is rife. On our journey the first warn-
ing came from a chef who had gone to
an all night fiesta in Rio de Janeiro, end-
ed up drinking beyond his companion´s
leaving time and woke in the morning
beside a Brazilian girl in a favela. Dis-
covering at the doctors that his drink had
been spiked with Rohipnol, he was just
starting his course of anti-retrovirals for
HIV prophylaxis as we left.
The second came from the stories of
the ‘favela tours’ in the centre of Rio,
where tourists can experience the murky
underbelly of Brazil’s poorer districts led
by ex-gang members, with profits going
back to regenerate the slums. Despite the
safety of fellow non-local companions,
taking photographs is strictly at your own
risk. One Israeli backpacker got a little
too snap-happy and ended up fighting
over his digital camera with a seven year
old drug dealer who thought the guy was
going to sell his photograph to the police.
More sinister was the account on a
long-haul bus where masked gunmen
stopped travellers on a night bus between
Rio de Janeiro and San Paulo with shot-
guns, by peppering the windscreen with
bullets. Boarding the bus they forced the
driver to take it miles into the deserted
sugar cane fields whereby all males on-
board were led out and stripped naked
before being locked in the luggage hold.
“South America is a
crazy continent”
No, no, no. First you waft the aroma! Philistines...
If you look carefully in the distance, you can just about make out the last of Charlie Sheen’s dignity...
“One backpacker
ended up fighting
over his digital
camera with a seven
year old drug dealer”
barrels and quaint French-style build-
ings, painted white with a terracotta roof
tiling. Outside Argentinean farmers toil
at the seed of the land. At our wine tast-
ing we were surprised that the most aro-
matic and beautiful wine was white, as
in England it was agreed that we would
normally associate it with the taste of
acrid petrol. Suddenly we could smell
apricots, honey, and elderflower. It was
easy to romanticise life at an organic
winery, crushing grapes by hand, using
the skins and seed, throwing the stems
for compost, labelling your own bottles,
exporting hand-picked goods.
Leaving Mendoza after just two
days, we took a tourist bus through the
spectacular Andes up across the border
of Chile and in to Santiago. The driver
dribbled the bus around the windy
mountain path like an NBA basketball
player, swirling past great sweeping
snow covered landscapes. However, a
bout of food poisoning meant that I was
capable of vomiting both on the Argen-
tinean and Chilean sides of the border
and once in metaphorical no-man’s land
The gunmen then re-embarked to strip-
search the female passengers and thrust
the barrels of their guns in their faces
until thousands of pesos and personal
belongings were taken. Following the
incident the frightened and upset group
were finally taken to the local police sta-
tion with the hope of nothing more than
a report and a claims receipt.
Luckily we have felt safe until now,
although not as safe as one Italian back-
packer we met, who has been hitchhik-
ing lifts from Argentinean truck drivers
up and down the country based on his
reasonably decent patter of Spanish.
Despite the phrasebook’s best inten-
tions, the stream of dialect that follows
a question is almost impossible to keep
track of and their English is almost al-
ways better than our Spanish. Recalling
an American girl who spouted off “no
NINTENDO” rather than “no entiendo”
(I do not understand) a lack of Span-
ish is a frustrating obstacle to throwing
yourself fully into the local culture, al-
though potentially allows you to avoid
more dangerous areas by adhering very
closely to the well-walked gringo trail.
South America, from what we have
seen so far, is a crazy continent, one that
has provided spectacular views, breath-
taking experiences and extreme warning
scares. As Sinatra said, “that’s life”.
It’s too late to start worrying about leaving the oven on now...

