Scorpio
This week, you’re seriously considering
leaning forward and saying to the guy
in front of you in lectures (do it now),
“I’m going to lick the back of your head,
and there’s NOTHING that you can do
about it... baby.” Either do it or die! Your
choice, Imperial...
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you’re on the beach watching
some girls tan a few tens of metres
away. You go to speak to them but just
before you reach them, you trip up and
end sprawled all over their oily bodies,
shouting “ooops I fell OVER.” They stop
buying it when you refuse to get off....
Taurus
This week, you’ve got your eyes close
while walking along. You keep pushing
yourself and before you know it, you’ve
walked a whole 5 minutes without
opening your eyes. Suddenly someone
calls to you. They say, “GET OFF THE
TREADMILL ASSHOLE.”
Gemini
This week, you’re at the Union when you
notice everyone looking at you. Aw yeah.
you’re getting attention tonight, right?
Wrong. They’re staring at your because
you’ve experiencing a double prolapse
and your rectum is consuming your body.
But hey, at least you’ll be remembered!
Cancer
This week, you got five guys in your bed-
room and there’s splaff EVERYWHERE.
I know, right? They lick it all off you and
then they start getting off with each other,
all over again. You wake up to find your
boyfriend, half-asleep, fumbling around
your knees. Real life is so shit.
Leo
This week, you think you’re Charlie
Sheen. The real Sheen hears this and
challenges you to a drug-off. You spend
33 days on a pussy-filled, cocaine smoth-
ered hellamashup before you die. The
next day Charlie calls you a chump on
live TV. The planet nods in agreement.
Virgo
This week, you’re going mad. You know
this because the hybrid parrot-monkey that
lives on your shoulder has turned blue. He
only turns blue when you’re going mad.
If he goes to purple it’ll be fine. If he eats
your ear, you’ve won a year’s supply of
Mike Tyson branded Tangfastics...
Libra
This week, you’re not even sure if it’s
physically possible to be this tired. Duh!
Of course it’s “physically possible” you
hyperbole-spouting newspaper cunt!
How can you be typing these words if it’s
not “physically possible”. Sheeez who
the fuck writes this bullshit anyway?
Sagittarius
This week, you were awfully
disappointed by the Libra horoscope.
You write a letter to your MP
complaining about the lack of originality
and vomit-inducing pus. Your MP
replies by sending you a bucket of his
own pus. You’ve got to love democracy.
Capricorn
This week, you’re feeling incredibly
sad, and horny. Which can only mean
one thing... yooooouuuuu’re LONELY.
Wait, that isn’t funny... That’s actually
kind of sad. Man, why am I so horny? I
guess that means I’m...? Ah, of course, I
get it now. Damn...
Aquarius
This week, a meteor appears in the
sky and ends civilization? Why didn’t
scientists spot it and tell everyone? Well
they did spot it, they just figured that if
most people died, they’d have a better
chance of getting laid with the horribly
scarred and brutalised survivors.
Pisces
This week your boyfriend is a massive
turnip. A proper, bonafide plonker. He’s
inconsiderate and doesn’t respect you or
your friends. He doesn’t have time for
you either. He spends half of his time
bitching and the other two halves failing
basic mathematics exams.
Gandalf & Co forced to take
Mines of Moria with artillery
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
I like to think that when he woke up, he didn’t squirm and roll, causing the whole thing to fall down. No, it’s far
more enjoyable to think that he started screaming with pain: “Guys, I think I’ve broken a rib...”
FELIX 45
Friday 18 march 2011

