CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX 47
Friday 18 march 2011
Gospel Choir sing for charity
Gospel music is a mixture of jazz
and blues and has strong roots in the
African-American communities of
the southern states yet it is loved and
performed by masses worldwide and is
constantly under metamorphosis with
new gospel composers incorporating
a variety of new shades from neo-soul
and indie to straight up UK funky. As
amazing as this genre of music is, what
is special about it is its ability to bring
people of different backgrounds to-
gether. The gospel music sung by the
IC Gospel Choir is much more than
the dynamic music, the syncopated
rhythms and the passionate perfor-
mances - it is very close to the choirs’
heart and our lives.
So after weeks of dedication, hard
work and preparation, led by Music Di-
rector Kadisha West and accompanied
by the freshly established and soulful
Imperial College Gospel Choir Band
(led by Leonard Aidoo Micah), the IC
mosphere as the students in the choir
sang a mixture of songs from the heart.
Some of these included ‘God Great God’
by gospel artist Kurt Carr; an enthusias-
tic song with intricate harmonies that
had the whole audience on their feet as
the line between the stage and the audi-
ence became invisible.
Other acts on the night included a con-
temporary dance piece performed by the
MOCA group Gospel Glee Project and
the talented and energetic Kings Col-
lege Gospel Music Society’s Choir with
which the IC Gospel Choir sung the final
song, Total Praise. All the proceeds from
the concert were donated to the Rahab
Project in Earls Court who reach out to
the working girls of the area and try to
provide a way out of the sex industry for
them.
The choir has come a long way since
I joined two years ago and what I love
about it is the miracle that could be eas-
ily overlooked of strangers coming to-
gether and encouraging one another as
a family. Proverbs 18:21 says that “the
tongue has the power of life & death”
and for us, the life that the music we
sing brings is relevant to every sphere
of our lives. Singing gospel is actively
practicing what it says in Psalms 150:6
“Let everything that has breath, praise
the Lord!” and I have it on good word
that even the mice in the vestiges of the
Clore Lecture theatre were getting their
groove on!
As the newly elected Music Director I
look forward to meeting more amazing
people and seeing the scope of the choir
broaden. My vision is for the heart of the
Gospel to be heard in our singing & that
many more within the IC community
will hear, experience and take part in the
joy of singing gospel music.
As Imperial turns to exam season and
the pressure mounts, the words of a song
called ‘My Help’ we sang seem appro-
priate; they simply say “All of my help
comes from the Lord!” I hope it encour-
ages you! That glimmer of hope that
comes from above is without a doubt,
The Reason Why We Sing.
Gospel Choir executed on Saturday
the 12th March, our second show of
the year: ‘The Reason Why We Sing’.
Time seemed to stop in defiance of all
the pressures this time of year brings,
and every moment was complete with
exuberant joy, contagious laughter and
rhythmic clapping which filled the at-
The Rahab Project
in Earls Court gives
working girls a way
out of the sex industry
Tobi Obisanya
They remind me of the band at my mother’s first wedding...
Wilson whitewash inter-hall paintball
Florian Rathgeber
Last Satuday was the epic inter-hall
paintball games. We arrived at May-
hem Paintball in the morning. Bernard
Sunley, Tizzard and Parsons Halls com-
bined to form a compact team of only
11 people called The Blues, vastly out-
numbered by the other 3 teams with
each over 20 people. Wilson wore silver,
a colour Wilsonites associated with vic-
tory. Pembridge were taped with ‘frag-
ile’- would they live up to their name?
Beit had yellow and black striped tape: a
warning to others – or themselves?
The first two matches were Wilson vs.
Pembridge and Beit vs. The Blues. The
Wilson / Pembridge match took place on
a vast field with many obstacles includ-
ing a log barricade, which turned out to
be the crucial pivoting point during the
game. The objective is to capture the
flag. Wilson started uphill, having two
large flanking groups lead by none other
than George Georgio and Tom Alpe,
veterans of the game. Pembridge had a
strong flat line defense, which was hold-
ing Wilson down, until Scott Esnouf and
Lee Sewell sneaked in through the barri-
cade. Scott made home with the flag for
their first victory. Another solid game
from Wilson gave them a 2-0 win over
Pembridge, who graciously in defeat
praised Wilson’s tactics and players. The
Beit match was hotly contested despite
the Blues being outnumbered 11 to 21.
The Blues managed a draw for the first
Scott Esnouf
match, but eventually lost the second
match to Beit.
The next matches took place in the
most popular arena: Urban. This close
quarters combat requires lots of balls.
First up Wilson vs. The Blues. Sadly,
The Blue’s determination, bravery and
grit couldn’t hold off the Wilsonites and
they lost the two games. Next up was
Pembridge vs. Beit, who took one game
each, both with the strategy of taking,
holding and pushing from the critical
barn. Wilson had 4 wins, Beit and Pem-
bridge were tied for second, and The
Blues with their limited numbers but
skillful players had 1 draw and 3 losses.
For the final matches,Pembridge faced
off against the Blues in the dense for-
est of Aeroplane Wood while Beit vs.
Wilson took place in Bridge Wood. The
Blues started strong against Pembridge,
using their skill to pin down the greater
numbers of Pembridge and pick off those
who dared run or peak from a barricade.
This strong start gradually diminished
as the Blues went low on ammo, giving
Pembridge a chance to push towards the
Aeroplane, where they were able to keep
the Blues at bay to take the draw. For
the next game, The Blue’s ammo was at
critical level and they gave it their best
shot, but Pembridge were too much for
them and they lost the second game, but
not without a fight. An exceptional last
ditch effort by The Blues captain, who
took 5 enemies before being shot.
The confident Wilson did not let their
guard down against Beit. Eventually,
Wilson grabbed their 5th win. With Wil-
son losing only 3 players in the game,
Beit were in a very sour mood and
threw rash insults at Wilson. Wilson
kept quiet, knowing how they would
take revenge for these accusations. The
next game was a chance for Beit to stop
Wilson taking home the Championship
with a whitewash, but they failed to do
so. A huge sprinting start by the entire
Wilson team put them in forward posi-
tions. Skillful Wilson players shot down
any Beit player who dared to peek from
their barricades. Javier and Scott made a
suicidal dash to the flag and would have
been gunned down by the remaining two
players of Beit, had it not been for Claire
Lynn’s superb cover fire. The Spanish
steed that is Javier desired nothing but
glory, hence he sprinted for the flag cov-
ered by Scott who made a crucial pick on
the second last Beit player..Javier dived
and slid feet first across a mud patch
while gunning down the last Beit player,
grabbing the flag and running home for
the best ever score in inter-hall paintball.
Beit were very sore second place losers.
Pembridge graciously accepted a joint
second place and the Blues took the last
place.The day ended with a huge battle,
Wilson and the Blues vs Beit and Pem-
bridge – there were no survivors.
Joanna Kefas

