49
SPORT
Following Imperial’s early morning suc-
cesses courtesy of the Mens 3s and the
Ladies 2s it was time for the Ladies 1s
to take to the pitch to continue ICs un-
beaten run.
As with all Varsity matches there was
pressure from the start from both teams
in front of a growing crowd including
the medic’s chicken. The IC ladies were
on top form from the start quickly put-
ting pressure on the medics and packing
out the d with a series of shots on goal.
Unfortunately the medic keeper kept
getting in the way but finally, thanks to a
lovely chip around the keeper by Teddy,
IC took the lead.
Surfers enjoy the
hospitality of Belushi’s
whilst away in Newquay
After half time the medics came out
strong and some lovely hockey was
played by both sides. IC midfields and
forwards kept driving forward into the d
and it wasn’t long before the ball was in
the back of the goal courtesy of a shot by
Teddy that went just past the keepers left
leg. The medics responded with several
breaks but were unable to convert their
runs into goals. Their chance came from
a short corner, and they scored bringing
the score to 2-1. IC continued to push
for another goal, but unfortunately 10
minutes before the end of play Dobby
had to be taken off with a knee injury.
Thankfully Kathryn from the Ladies 2s
had remained in kit so stepped in keep-
ing Imperial with 11 players on the
pitch. The match finished 2-1, continu-
ing ICs Varsity hockey success.
Imperial SurfSoc invaded Newquay for
the second time this year. Armed with
boards, wetsuits and Mexican themed
fancy dress, we hit the road with the in-
tention of having a calm, relaxed week-
end away from the stress of city living.
Didn’t happen, it was mental. After a
minor detour due to a loo stop (Sarah
really needed a poo) and poor naviga-
tion (“should we turn left?” – “There’s
not another one for miles” – “So turn
left then?” – “My name’s Thom”), we
finally made it to Newquay. We headed
straight for the bar to make the most
of our 10% Belushis discount before it
closed, so everyone got pretty battered.
A few pints too many later and it was
time for a romantic night-time stroll on
Towan Beach (there are unconfirmed ru-
mours Harkin may have slipped Harvey
a digit). As everyone knows, the sensi-
ble thing to do when it’s pitch black and
you’re drunk is to get naked and wonder
into the Atlantic Ocean. Surprisingly
(to us at the time), not so much looking
Lizzy Griffiths
Elliot Taylor
back on it, the police rocked up. Unfor-
tunately they declined our invitation to
join in. Q: How do medics reproduce?
From what I saw that night it can’t be the
same way as the rest of us…
The next day, after complementary
breakfast in Belushis (WIN), it was time
to get kitted up and into the water. The
less confident of us opted for lessons,
which proved a wise choice as the waves
were huge and the instructor was pretty fit
(3/10, but I take what I can get/what can’t
get away). The water was surprisingly
warm (and this is coming from someone
who usually gets out the water shivering
with blue hands) so we were only lured
out by burgers and hot chocolate. While
most of us destroyed a well-earnt lunch,
Harkin was sadly disappointed due to his
burger being accompanied by the excre-
ment of a passing seagull (Harvey’s re-
venge for the unconfirmed ‘fun’ the pre-
vious night). A committed few returned
to the swell after lunch, while the rest of
us enjoyed a nap (yes, we’re that hard-
core) in preparation for the evening.
The evening started with pre-drinks in
Belushis, then bowling at an alley that
appeared to be connected to a swingers
hotel. Then back to the bar for the tradi-
tional SurfSoc Ring of Fire (like normal
ring of fire but crueller), and Fines. We
turned Mexican (F-off Clarkson) with
lucky-dip moustaches drawn in perma-
nent marker. Error. The night continued
with various antics, including the Irish
contingency chatting up some 50 year
old local talent, Hardcore Harvey’s
usual lairy dance moves, and a failed
‘after-party’ involving unsuccessfully
dragging Karvelas and Utley from their
beds. By ‘after-party’ I mean rape.
The effects of the previous night did
not lessen Sunday’s surfing poten-
tial, with everyone keen to make the
most of the last session before leaving
Newquay. We spent a chilled morning
nursing hangovers and ripping barrels;
the more experienced conquered the
10ft swell while the rest of us stuck to
the shallows. After hot showers and fi-
nally being able to eat something that
stayed down, we reluctantly loaded the
minibus and headed back to London. In
summary: It was awesome. You missed
out. Sort your life out and get involved!
Hockey: Medics put
up good fight, but
Imperial ladies
remain victorious
Varsity Women’s Hockey
Imperial 1st 2 - 1 Medicals 1st
Carina Carter
Right from the outset the Imperial Col-
lege team looked to dominate the game
with goals coming from the BUCS
women’s Waterpolo finalists. Two goals
by Sarah Benett within the first 3 min-
utes and a third from Lisa Goers lead to
a cracking first quarter score: 3-1 to IC.
The second quarter saw further excite-
ment as the Medics tried to close the gap
which the girls had made at the start. Ian
Welch-Phillips opened the scoring for
the IC team and then followed it up with
a second, this time from a penalty. How-
ever, the medics were clawing at the feet
of the IC team and had narrowed the gap
to 5-4 by the half way point.
With tension high and still all to play
for both teams went into the third quar-
ter with something to prove. Once again
the IC team were first to open the scoring
Varsity Water Polo
Imperial 9 - 8 Medicals
Thomas Trimnell with a great goal from Stefano Longo.
But, with two late goals from the Medics,
the fourth (and final) quarter started as a
tie; with neither team willing to budge.
An early goal from the Medics put
them into the lead for the first time in
the game. Excellent play by the IC team,
however, counteracted this travesty only
15 seconds later with another goal from
Stefano. And IC then went back ahead
after a terrific goal from Daryl Khoo.
The Medics, not wanting to take an-
other beating, fought back to once again
equal the scores, leading to the most nail
biting final 3 minutes of the game. Even
when IC inevitably went ahead due to
another brilliant goal by Ian W-P, the
game went on till the very last second;
the Medics eventually beaten by the
clock whilst in a last ditch attempt to
salvage their dignity.
IC reins victorious again, but with the
Medics drawing ever closer, next year’s
Varsity match will be one not to miss.
Water Polo: Close
fought battle see
Imperial edge ahead
at the end to beat
Medicals
They seem unfazed by the gringo who has infiltrated their ranks. Look at her, smiling... What’s she up to?
FELIX Friday 18 MARCH 2011

