FELIX Friday 18 march 2011 5
NEWS
Faculty elections
Police warn about bicycle thefts
Although the biggest results have al-
ready been announced this Tuesday for
the Imperial College Union elections,
election fever is far from over, with nom-
inees vying for the votes for positions on
the committees of the RCSU, CGCU
and ICSMSU. All three unions are run-
ning their own election for members to
choose a new committee to represent
them for the upcoming academic year.
ICSMSU nominations closed last Sun-
day, with the final hustings taking place
tonight at the Reynolds Bar, Charing
Cross, where candidates will be ques-
tioned on their experience and ideas for
representing Medicine, Biomedical Sci-
ences and Pharmacology students. 16 po-
sitions are available, with only 4th Year
medic Suzie Rayner running for Presi-
dent (Interview: Page 8). She is the only
candidate running for the position. She
said that she is paying close attention to
the ideas being put forward by candidates
for other positions: “There’s so much
competition this year for some of the
positions that it’s been great listening to
it.” She added that “I’ve been scribbling
down ideas either thinking how similar
they are to mine, or how good other ideas
are that I want to borrow.”
Colin Hill, Julian But, and Tsz Kwan
are all running for President of the
CGCU, whose elections are also cur-
The police are investigating a recent se-
ries of bicycle thefts from the bike shed,
including one student who placed a lock
around the front wheel and thus lost the
whole bike, apart from the front wheel.
The suspect, caught on CCTV, tends to
wait for a user to let him in, as a card is
required for access. Then he carries a bi-
cycle in and leaves some time later with
a stolen one, often of high value.
Surveillance of the bike shed shows
the great extent to which students tail-
gate and allow others to tailgate. The
advice for bike shed users is to ensure
they lock their bicycles up with high se-
curity locks (ideally a “D” lock should
be attached to the main frame, not to the
wheel!) and to avoid being tailgated.
While the spate of thefts of laptops, iP-
ods and phones, even in secure areas,
is a result of students and staff leaving
property unattended, it is also a product
of letting unauthorised people into re-
stricted areas.
College Security said that they were
unable to release CCTV images of the
suspect as they have “not been proved to
have committed an offence yet.”
The Head of College Security, Terry
Branch, reminded students to not allow
“tailgating” into the bike shed and that
the College sells gold standard D locks
at half the usual price to help students
secure their bicycles.
Did the bursary help determine your
choice of university?
I wouldn’t say so. Obviously I was wor-
ried about the living costs but it was the
government grant that was more im-
portant in terms of feeling comfortable
about coming to London. I knew about
the government bursary well before I
applied to university but I only found
out Imperial’s bursaries during the ap-
plication process.
Do you have a part-time job?
No, the bursary means that I don’t have
to do that, which makes it easier to con-
centrate on my studies. The reason why
the bursary is so helpful is that you don’t
have to constantly worry about money
and have that on your mind constantly.
What do you think of the bursary ser-
vice? Is it straightforward?
Yes, it’s very easy and hassle-free. They
email you at the beginning of each year
to remind you about the applications.
What would you like to see as fees rise?
More money directed to bursaries or
reduced fees for poorer students?
The problem with bursaries is that stu-
dents from higher-income families, who
don’t receive support from their parents,
miss out. I don’t believe in higher fees,
I’d like to see them stay at the minimum
£6,000. However, reducing your debt af-
ter university doesn’t help with living ex-
penses during university so in that sense,
more bursaries are beneficial.
ow, say students
igher fees, as the main barrier to attending university
attract the diverse range of students it
currently enjoys. Gerry Greyling, Stu-
dent Finance Support Officer, agreed
that Imperial must do more to inform
prospective students: “As fees increase
students will be looking at their uni-
versity choice not only in terms of the
quality of course but also at what fund-
ing the university can offer. So there’s
a real incentive to collate all the infor-
mation about scholarships and fund-
ing in one place.” He recognised that
Departmental Scholarships are very
decentralised, highlighting the lack of
a central place where students can find
Tuition fee waivers or cash bursaries?
rently in full swing. Efforts will be fo-
cused on increasing the turnout after
disappointing figures in previous years.
According to current President, Victor du
Mesnil du Buisson, this is partly due to
problems in management that the union
has faced. He believes that “the CGCU
needs some kind of rebranding to be-
come more approachable to students”
and hopes that next year’s committee “is
firmly prepared and are motivated to start
the next year and bring back CGCU.”
The RCSU will also be looking to in-
crease participation amongst its mem-
bers, with nominations having closed
on Thursday. Current president, Scott
Heath, hopes that the turnout for these
elections will mirror the record-break-
ing figures from the ICU elections ear-
lier this week. However, he admitted
that it’s not going to be an easy task with
about 40% of the voting population in
the RCSU being postgraduates. He says
he finds it “very difficult to get them en-
thused about the election”. When con-
sidering only the undergraduate turnout,
the figure stands at roughly 24%, and
this year’s plans to get more students
to participate in the elections include
lunchtime hustings with free food, in the
hope of increasing the turnout.
Hustings:
Medics – Friday 18th, 7pm, Reynolds.
RCSU – Monday 21st, 12:15pm, Stu-
dent Activity Space, 2nd floor Union
Deepka Rana
Alex Nowbar
eduction in their fees
information about all of them. Student
Finance Support is currently working
on the creation of a portal on the cen-
tral bursaries website, where they can
collate all of the available sources of
funding and advertise them to students.
What is clear from the results of the
survey is that Imperial is already doing
an exemplary job at providing finan-
cial aid to its students, a fact made all
the more impressive considering how
many people SFS employs. Moreover,
Imperial already meets the require-
ments set out by the Office for Fair
Access (OFFA) in response to govern-
ment changes in tuition fees. The future
of bursaries remains unclear – there is
government pressure to offer ‘freebies’
in the form of fee waivers; but students
still require substantial help with rising
living costs. Kendall pointed out that
the survey goes some way to settling
the argument over the future of tuition
fee waivers and bursaries. The future
is likely to see a balance being struck
between implementing fee waivers and
reducing the amount of ‘cash in hand’
students receive, in order to ensure stu-
dents can still afford to apply to and
study at Imperial.
Chemistry
student taken
to hospital after
suffering burns
A second year Chemistry student was
taken to hospital on Tuesday 15th after
suffering burns. It is believed that di-
ethyl ether vapour ignited causing the
parts of the student’s body to catch fire.
Another student present put him out
with a labcoat. The student was taken
to Chelsea & Westminster hospital via
ambulance.
The rise in tuition fees has sparked
a contentious debate about how to
ensure the participation of those
from poorer backgrounds in higher
education. In this rather topsy-tur-
vy argument, it is the government
– who raised the fees in the first
place – that are arguing for lower
fees, while universities are more
inclined to charge the top rate and
offer greater cash bursaries to
students.
A cynic might say that the gov-
ernment is motivated by a need
to reduce its own costs, rather
than concern for students. It
costs the government money to
provide tuition fee loans for stu-
dents. It estimated that univer-
sities would charge an average
£7,500 in fees. As it becomes
more likely that many will charge
the full rate, the government has
suddenly found that it has mas-
sively under budgeted.
Because the government
doesn’t have the legal power to
force universities to charge spe-
cific fees – aside from legislating
a maximum – it is now looking at
other ways to recoup its costs.
The universities minister David
Willetts has threatened universi-
ties that charge the £9,000 rate
with further cuts in funding.
The shadow universities minis-
ter Gareth Thomas perhaps hit
the nail on the head when he said
that this government has ended
up charging students “more and
more” while saving the govern-
ment “less and less”.

