NEWS
FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
6
Strike to go ahead but
numbers still unknown
Departments calm as few declare intention to strike
Students improve Tanzanian water
The University and College Union (UCU) has
officially confirmed that members at Imperial
college will be striking on the 22nd and 24th
of March. It is still unknown exactly how many
lecturers will strike but around as of Wednesday
17th, a dozen had already declared their inten-
tions to College, with more expected to follow.
At the time of writing, Physics, and several
engineering departments, had confirmed that
few or no staff had declared their intention to
strike. However, staff have some time yet to
notify the College of their intentions. The De-
partment of Life Sciences confirmed that taught
postgraduate courses are likely to be unaffected.
The strike is the first at Imperial for almost
a decade. The last time strike action was taken
was in 2002, when academics across London
protested a freeze to London Weighting, an addi-
tional allowance for working in London. Impe-
rial academics have not, in recent history, gone
on strike over local matters, thanks to what the
College describes as a good working relation-
ship between itself and the unions at Imperial.
The strike is over proposed changes to the pen-
sion scheme, which would see existing academ-
ics making increased contributions and newer
employees receiving lower final pensions. Sally
Hunt, general secretary of the UCU, said: “Uni-
versity staff [...] have made it clear from the start
of this dispute that if the employers were not
prepared to negotiate then we would be left with
little option but to take strike action.”
Louise Lindsay, Director of Human Resourc-
es at Imperial, emphasised that the reforms are
aimed at reducing the cost of pensions, to avoid
contributions increasing significantly in the fu-
ture. She argued that long-term trends make the
current system unsustainable. Two years ago,
when employers’ contributions to the scheme
rose by 2%, Imperial had to pay in an addition-
al £3.1 million per year.
The reforms would see existing members of
the scheme paying a contribution of 7.5% of
their annual salaries to the scheme. New mem-
bers would pay the lower 6.5% rate, but receive
a pension based on their career-average salary
rather than their final salary. In addition, em-
ployers and employees will share any increase
in costs; up until now employee contributions
have remained fixed, while employers’ contri-
butions have been more variable.
On the days of the strike, staff will not receive
salary or be covered by the pension scheme. One
consequence of this is that their life insurance
policies will not, by default, be covered on these
days. This means that in the unlikely event that
a staff member dies on a strike day, their depen-
dants don’t receive the life insurance payments.
Indeed, some institutions such as Lancaster Uni-
versity are refusing to pay the life cover of their
staff on strike days. However, Imperial will be
paying life cover contributions on strike days,
as they deem it to be the “right thing to do” and
have expressed a willingness to maintain posi-
tive relations with their staff.
In a message to staff, the College said that
picket lines were possible but they assured staff
and students that “they will not be prevented
from going about their usual business on the day
of the action if they wish to do so.”
The Universities Superannuation Scheme
(USS), which administers university pensions,
originally planned to pass the reforms by the 1st
ofApril. However, the UCU’s refusal to pass the
reforms means that “it is not possible to forecast
when any changes might be finally decided on.”
The deadline was important for tax reasons, but
now employees look set to lose out on tax relief
due to the delay. In a statement, the USS said:
“Regrettably the recent events have also affect-
ed the ability of the trustee company to imple-
ment options to mitigate or eliminate the new
tax charges that arise for some members as a
result of the government’s forthcoming changes
to the pensions tax relief rules.”
Overseas Societies
Find out how you can win funding
for your Freshers Event; quick, the
deadline is the 13th of May!
Raincatcher Imperial is an annual student-led
project that aims to improve the standards of
living in Tanzania through the provision of
clean drinking water. According to Tanzania’s
Ministry of Water, 70% of its rural population
have no access to safe water, causing the deaths
of 31,000 children due to diarrhoea each year.
In the remote regions, even unclean water is in
short supply as the dry season lasts for up to
eight months of the year.
Raincatcher Imperial was started in 2008
when the Development Officer of the Anglican
Church of Tabora wrote to the Engineers With-
out Borders society at Imperial. In the summer
of 2009, 10 Imperial students visited Tanzania
to construct three Rainwater Harvesting Sys-
tems (RHSs) in the towns of Kahama, Nzega
and Igunga. The following year, a new team
travelled to the town of Tabora to construct an
underground tank for the Mihayo Secondary
School.
Raincatcher Imperial bears all of the con-
struction costs for all projects, reaching up to
£15,000 per RHS. This year’s team require a
collection of £25,000 to send teams to con-
struct two RHSs.
The project recently secured sponsorship
from a competition held by financial services
firm UBS, called “Fund Your Vision”. Rain-
catcher Imperial has also organised fundraising
events throughout the year to meet the neces-
sary construction costs.
Last Saturday, the 16 students of the 2011
team carried out a sponsored Water Carry, in
which team members each carried 10 litres of
water for 10 miles. A band night has been orga-
nized for the Union tomorrow night.
One site has already been identified for this
year’s project while the second site is currently
under consideration. The first is St Mary’s Sec-
ondary School in Tabora, a boarding school ac-
commodating over 300 girls.
The second site has yet to be confirmed but
two potential locations have been identified.
The first is a local hospital, where a ferro-
cement tank would provide clean water for a
newly formed surgery unit at the hospital. The
second is a refugee camp, where a ferro-cement
tank would provide clean water for members of
the local community.
The RHSs are specially designed to collect
rainwater from the gutters attached to the roofs
and have in-built water filters to ensure that the
water is drinkable.
Raincatcher Imperial will train members of
the local community for the construction and
maintenance of the RHSs, and will be working
with the local Tanzanian universities to help
them conduct similar projects in the future.
If you would like to find out more about
Raincatcher Imperial or would like to support
their efforts, please visit their website at www.
rwh-tanzania.co.uk or contact Demetris Hadji-
georgiou at demetris.hadjigeorgiou10@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
Timothy Thang
Haralambos Dayantis
Calling all heads of Overseas Societies! This year,
the International Office is once again running a com-
petition for overseas societies to win funding for their
Freshers’ Orientation / Pre-Arrival Event.
These events are really useful for freshers to get to
know one another and begin to take an active role in
their society. Previous events have included a fresh-
ers’ camp, a dinner, an evening out and various other
events. International Office funding can be really
helpful in getting your event off the ground.
Arta Babaee, who heads up the Iranian Society,
won a prize of £200 last year to put towards his so-
ciety’s event in an Iranian restaurant. He said: “The
first event of the year is an important one as this is
the event we show the freshers we are there for them
when we need us. Most freshers join the society of-
ficially when they buy their tickets for the freshers’
event. Our prize helped us to subsidise our event
so that more freshers could buy tickets and join us
and also we were able to hold the event in a great
venue in High Street Kensington. We were also able
to lower the ticket price at the same time which was
a great achievement.”
Ashmi Mehta runs the Indian Society and last year
won £200 for a meet and greet event. He said: “We
were able to hire a bigger area because of the prize
and attracted more students as we could provide a
variety of food and drinks. Fresher events are key to
ensure the success of a society during the year. They
allow new students to meet older year students as
well as other people from different halls and cours-
es. This year we held our meet and greet, The Indian
Soc Jam, at the Eastside Bar and we had a huge
turnout. We had soft drinks, food, as well as music
which made it a relaxing atmosphere for everyone to
talk and mingle.”
Heads of overseas societies should start thinking
about their entry proposals now, as the deadline for
entries is 13th May. Some of the best events are
low-cost – e.g. a meeting in a cafe – the main thing
is to give freshers the opportunity to get to know one
another!
If you are member of an overseas society and you
would like to organise an event, contact the Inter-
national Office at international@imperial.ac.uk for
further guidance on how to submit your competition
entry.
Last year the Indian Society won £200 for their
meet and greet event
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Students building a Rainwater
Harvesting System

