FELIX Friday 18 march 2011 7
NEWS
Medic Union facing
£40,000 cut over 5 years
Doctor! Doctor!
Fix my teddy bear!
Oxford University formally
signals rise to £9,000 fees
Students host Teddy Bear Hospital
On Wednesday 2nd March, the Impe-
rial branch of the European Medical
Students Assosciation (EMSA) held
their annual Teddy Bear Hospital (TBH)
Event at Chelsea and Westminster Hos-
pital. This year, they invited children
from St Luke’s CE Primary School
and St Stephen’s Primary School. Over
the course of the day, 100 hyperactive
school children aged 5-7 were let loose
on the TBH manned by over 60 medical
students from Years 2-6.
TBH is a place where children can
bring their sick teddies to get better.
Through “make-believe”, Teddy Bear
Hospital aims to help alleviate the com-
mon childhood fear of hospitals.
Simply put: the Teddies are the pa-
tients, the children are the parents and the
medical students play Teddy Doctors.
Children were taken on a journey
through the healthcare pathway via ten
different stations, some of which fo-
cused on experiences and others on edu-
cation.
The children started off by filling out
‘Patient Notes’ detailing Teddy’s ail-
ments before dialing ‘999’ and having
Teddy whisked away on a stretcher to
the ‘Teddy Ambulance’.
Later on, it all got messy at the plaster-
ing station where each child was given
the opportunity to plaster their little fin-
ger and decorate it with their own artis-
tic flair.
One of the most popular stations every
year is Teddy Surgery. Children dress
up as mini-surgeons ready to fix Teddy.
After sending Teddy to Dreamland they
take Teddy apart, find out what’s wrong
with him and put him back together
again.
Education was made fun with odd
combinations of fruits selected by the
children blended together to make sur-
prisingly delicious smoothies at the
Healthy Living Station. Meanwhile,
at the exercise station, everyone had a
work out by playing ‘Simon Says’ and
‘Punch Balloon’. The students seemed
more worn out than the children by the
end of it!
The kids got ready for their close-ups
on camera at the diary room station.
They then relaxed at comfy beanbag sta-
tion, whilst reflecting on the day.
The day was a great success with posi-
tive feedback from not only the kids and
the medical students but also the staff
and parents. The EMSA would like to
thank everyone who helped and hope to
see new faces in the future.
Videos and photos of the day will be
up on the new TBH website soon, so be
sure to check it out: http://www.icsmsu.
com/tbh/
Irum Sunderji
Priyanga Vijayakumar
Sup fool?
“Who wants me to poke out its eyes?”
The University of Oxford has become
the fourth institution in the country to
officially announce a rise of tuition fees
to the maximum figure of £9,000.
Following in the footsteps of Imperial,
Cambridge and, most recently, Exeter,
Oxford’s move to increase the fees for
home and EU students has been antici-
pated since the beginning of February,
following a debate held by students and
senior university figures. The university
unveiled its proposals earlier this week,
confirming the proposed tuition charge
for a year of undergraduate study to be
£9,000. Alongside this, the university
revealed its plans for making financial
help readily available to English stu-
dents from less privileged backgrounds.
Students joining the university from
households with an income of less than
£16,000 will be required to pay a sub-
sidised figure of £3,500 for their first
year of study, with this amount rising to
£6,000 for the following years.
Those from a household income of
less than £25,000 will receive a reduc-
tion in the tuition fees, with students
from a household earning more than this
being required to pay the full £9,000.
However, those from a household in-
come of less than £42,600 will receive
a means-tested bursary. It is expected
that approximately 10% of students will
receive the highest available bursary
of £4,300 in their first year, falling to
£3,300 thereafter.
Fee reduction and bursary support
for students from the rest of the United
Kingdom and European Economic Area
countries is listed on the university’s
website as ‘still being reviewed’.
Oxford’s proposals are subject to ap-
proval by the Office for Fair Access
(OFFA), with this caveat also apply-
ing to the other universities wishing to
charge more than £6,000. Confirmation
is expected by the end of July.
Professor Andrew Hamilton, Vice-
Chancellor of the university, wrote an
online statement in response to the pro-
posals, stating, “It is deeply regrettable,
as the University has made clear, that
the Government is reducing drastically
direct public investment in university
teaching.”
“Excellence is not cheap and the
funding gap is wide. This means that in
reaching difficult judgements about how
to deal with immediate challenges, Ox-
ford also has to be attentive to longer-
term ones.”
Matt Colvin
Paddington Charitable Trust. The char-
ity has become increasingly oriented to-
wards supporting the patients and staff of
Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust.
In other words, they are prioritising pa-
tient care. ICSMSU intends to appeal
against the decision, fearing that the re-
duced funding will not be enough to sus-
tain vital aspects of the union.
ICSMSU has traditionally received
£40,000 a year from the Hammersmith
Charitable Trust. This was received for
2009-10 immediately following the char-
ity’s transformation but the union was
warned that this wouldn’t last. ICSMSU
have been awarded £40,000 for 2010-
11 and grants for the next four financial
years decreasing by 20% each year.
Allocation of the £40,000 is £8,000
for equipment purchase, £4,000 for
ICSM Gazette (which produces 3 issues
per year), £10,000 for elective awards,
and £18,000 towards the ICSMSU Pres-
ident’s (£24,000) salary.
Electives, during which final year stu-
dents embark on medical placements
abroad, can often be a financial chal-
lenge and this hardship fund is a highly
sought after resource. If the cuts do go
ahead, it is likely that ICSM Gazette’s
funding will be completely cut.
The hope in the long-term is to move
towards acquiring funding from the
ICSM Alumni Association. Of course,
encouraging donations from alumni is a
challenge, but support appears to have
been building year on year. Suzanne
Rayner believes that in order to main-
tain the provision of funds, people need
to be persuaded of the importance of the
union’s role.
The use of charitable funds in health-
care is a well-established tradition; most
of the hospitals within Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust were founded by
independent charities as voluntary hos-
pitals pre-20th century. The idea behind
these hospitals was to provide for sick
working-class citizens, the “deserving
poor”. Despite the shift to government
funding for health, with the establish-
ment of the NHS in 1948, hospital char-
ities have persisted; Imperial College
Healthcare Charity is a descendent of
the charities which founded the hospi-
tals constituting the Trust.
The Union are looking to increase alumni funding in the long-term
Miles Robertson
...Continued from Front Page

