FEATURES
FELIX
Friday 18 march 2011
8
Suzie Rayner is running
uncontested for Medic
President, but is she
the right person for the
position?
This is your second time running. What do
you think that says about you?
I think it probably shows how much I want the
position. Obviously I’ve had to rethink it this
year and it’s quite a weird experience running
for it for the second time, but it’s also quite
exciting.
You’re unopposed, would you rather have
had somebody running against you?
It would be great to win when you’re way into
it, but last year it was very close and very stress-
ful, and I feel that I proved myself last year. So
I’m not worried about being the only choice
students have, because I think I had enough
support last year to prove that I’m ready.
Do you think there’s a lack of choice in the
sense that there isn’t someone else offering
a different set of policies?
I suppose so, but I think you have to rely on
the fact that I will pick up ideas from some
other members. And there’s so much competi-
tion this year for some of the positions that it’s
been great listening to it. I’ve been scribbling
down ideas either thinking how similar they
are to mine, or how good other ideas are that I
want to borrow.
What would be your focus next year?
One of the two main areas I’ve always thought
was essential to a President’s role is mainte-
nance of what has come before. This tends
to be forgotten when people come in all guns
blazing talking about the things they’re going
to change. The other area a lot of the academic
reps are talking about is the feedback from
faculty to student. We have an excellent sys-
tem of feedback from student to faculty, but
it always gets stuck halfway back. We want to
make the system easier to access, like by put-
ting it on the website.
So, to use the old phrase, ‘if it ain’t broke,
don’t fix it’. What things are in your opinion
not broken, and so don’t need to be fixed?
Welfare, for instance, has come along amaz-
ingly these past few years, but the obvious
problem with the welfare system is that new
problems arise all the time, so it’s working off
the solid base we’ve got now.
After the controversy with the Daily Mail
article, do you think there’s anything that
still needs to be addressed on that front?
I think the main things that came out of that
were issues about the Reynolds, and areas
where we weren’t fulfilling our responsibili-
ties. Those need to be worked on gradually,
and some of the dramatic changes we’ve made
recently have caused massive uproar but have
been effective.
Were, say, the sports teams a bit upset
about these changes?
I think they were more concerned about
what could happen, and the threats that they
wouldn’t be allowed to stay in the Reynolds.
But clearly they have, and so the changes
we’ve implemented are not so disastrous.
Do you think Medic ‘antics’ are given too
much attention?
I think the reason their antics get overhyped
is that, like with the Daily Mail issue, we see
headlines saying “This person will be your
doctor” while we see them behaving like any
other student, to be honest. So yes, I think it
does get overblown. Having two different bars
does also add to the air of mystery about the
medics’ behaviour.
Is there a sense that medical students who
don’t drink feel excluded from their Union?
It seems to me that because people go on
about catering for ‘drinkers’ or ‘non-drink-
ers’, they’re escalating a divide that probably
wasn’t there to begin with. Obviously there
are people who will never want to go to the
Reynolds, and those are the people we need to
make sure we’re catering for. There’s less of a
problem with drinkers and non-drinkers than
there is with people not being interested in the
same events.
How big do you feel the divide between
Medics and the rest of Imperial is?
I have a couple of non-medical friends from
Halls, but other than that most of my friends
from halls were also medical students. The
divide ultimately comes down to the degree
being 6 years instead of 3 or 4, and the dif-
ferent locations medical students have to go
to over their time here. It’s not necessarily a
good thing, but there are clear reasons for it.
It is, however, a shame to have rivalry in the
wrong places. So at Varsity, for instance, ri-
valry is brilliant. But when it’s people saying
“Oh, I hate medics” or the other way around,
that’s clearly not healthy.
Does this divide need to be closed, or are
you happy with the current state of affairs?
Ultimately, it does need to be people’s choice.
Everyone should be made aware of the clubs
or activities available in the main student
Union, so that it starts being seen as accept-
able; a friendly approach from both sides is
essential. However, I don’t think the best way
is to try to force people to integrate.
You’re a fourth year now, so where did your
journey to this point begin?
I remember that I spoke with the current Presi-
dent, Dave Smith, on day three of university,
and he said “I want to be president’. I never
had that. I just couldn’t imagine why a per-
son would want to take year out at any point.
So I suppose that a lot has changed. Probably
one of the big things that I’ve done personally
and for the Medics Union is my work as RAG
Chair in second year. That’s one of the biggest
reasons why I realised that I could do the job
of President.
If you love your subject, and you really want
to be a doctor, why would you take a year off
and push back becoming a doctor by a year?
That was always the reason that I hesitated
about it. I love medicine and that’s one of the
biggest cons to running for President. However,
the skills that I’ll learn and the importance of
the role to the Medical school are most impor-
tant. I love medicine but I also love the medi-
cal school as much, if not more. I believe that I
have the traits to do the job well, but we’ll see
obviously. I know that I would do it well.
What are those traits?
I know that if someone came to an open day
and met me, I’m pretty sure that they wouldn’t
forget me. That sounds really arrogant I know,
but what I mean is that I feel that I could give
people a good impression of the medical
school and get them enthusiastic about it.
The Medics’ Union is facing large cuts over
the next 5 years. How big a deal is this?
This is a big deal, we’re hoping that the cut
will be much smaller than what they’re threat-
ening at the moment. The area that we hope to
move to in getting funding from is the ICSM
alumni. It’s building every year.
What can you do to fight these cuts?
I’m very pro student opinion but I also know
that if you go into meetings saying “we want
this, we want that” that you’re not going to get
anywhere. I will compromise on certain things,
to get the more important things. However,
what’s essential is that we continue to persuade
people of the importance of the Union’s role.
Miles Robertson
THE NEXT MEDIC
PRESIDENT?
Interview by
Kadhim Shubber
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk

