FELIX Friday 18 march 2011 9
FEATURES
squeeze next to taxi firms promising more lo-
cal bargains. But it’s in the barber shops that
you can spy the young men, the future leaders
of the community, and the current lifeblood of
the streets.
The bros. They sit in the barber shops wait-
ing for their ‘short-back-and-sides’, with an
extra streak of ‘patterns’ for the stylish or a
beard trim for the overtly religious. For all
of them it is likely their second visit in as
many weeks and, judging by the slight blur-
ring of their hair-line edge, they’re already a
few days overdue. They lounge on the chairs
in tracksuit-trainer combos that look casual
and unfussy to the untrained eye, but are in
fact a proud fashion. One not influenced by
any music band or GQ fashion spread; no one
at Nike or Rockport ever made a poster with
their products worn like this, and none of these
guys ever needed them to. It is just what bros
wear. A precise alchemy of trainers and dark
sports gear that suggests athleticism, and a
manly lack of anything so girly as colour. It is
being ready to do all sorts of hard stuff like go
to the gym, or fight, or disguise as a shadow
or whatever.
It most definitely is not ‘gay’.
Which is funny, because (whisper it) it is
only the clichéd stereotype of gay men that
can rival young Mirpuris in their desire to
get ripped and look big. A diet of their dads’
80s action films and their community’s stress
on physical capability has turned Mirpuris
into gym-going Arnie-wannabes. Being huge
brings not only respect and admiration, but
some protection from guys scared of big hits
by big biceps.
These young men do not follow the usual
teenage rites of passage expected in the west.
For them there are no rebellion years, no punk
phase or needy angst. There are no music festi-
vals to go to nor alcohol-soaked house parties.
These are all the domain of the British, with just
a bit of clubbing and a few British birds pulled
as the only (non-‘gay’you see) deviations made
from their social regime.
Their yardsticks of youth are different; cruis-
ing in cars, playing snooker and cotching in
kebab shops.
Like the recent addition of Sheesha Cafes,
these kebab shops are like Pakistani pubs of the
urban sprawl, where guys can talk passionately
about which takeaway is better than another.
After Pakistani men took over fish-and-chip
shops and claimed Turkish donner–style meat
as their own, it was left to the young to train
their palettes on the ingenious mutant dishes
that came out of the mash-up. Ask a group of
Pakistani youths about the chicken Tikka ba-
guettes you can get in Digbeth, or Caspian’s
Tandoori pizza, and you can expect a street-talk
ode to meat texture and grease doses.
Or just ask co-author Kahfeel about donner
meat and witness his pained expression at being
P
eople grow roots slowly; it hap-
pens unseen, and unknown. Cer-
tainly they were hidden from the
Mirpuri men who came here 40
years ago, intending to spend some
years working and sending money back from
the verdant land of Valaid, of England. After-
wards they’d return to build their lives in the
new towns of the Mirpur region and New Mir-
pur City itself. England was just their land of
opportunity, and it wanted their help.
On arriving here they packed into cheap
rooms and flats, all working throughout the
day, some donning western suits and dubious
dance moves at night. Photos were sent back
from studios in Manchester and Bradford, of
newly dapper husbands grooming their mous-
taches and confirming the fantasy of this new
life in England to those back home.
But this temporary period grew longer and
longer, and by the time the men’s wives came
over to help, it was too late. Their roots had
grown too deep. With a few halal butchers,
makeshift mosques and community ties, the
men had unwittingly started teasing England’s
soil into something more habitable. Something
new.
At least, it looked new. In reality the commu-
nity had just donned a new garb, a patchwork
mix of old Mirpuri traits and new British outlets
for them. The practical skill of these ex-farmers
was channelled into mechanical expertise, an
in-depth knowledge of cars and a male duty to
‘parallel park’ better than you can sit in a chair.
Mirpuri knowledge of famous poems like
Saif Ul Malook was replaced by a passion for
Hollywood action fests like Commando and
Predator. The rapid-fire Potahari tongue was
remixed with English staples such as Pantry, or
Pehntree, whilst the old remedies of Chicken-
broth Yukhni and Kichri were supplemented
by a Western elixir of life; antibotics. (And
of course Vicks, the miracle rub able to cure
coughs, seal cuts and fix broken limbs).
But despite these British flavourings, the Pak-
istani and Mirpuri communities soon formed
their own urban niches, bustling roads became
cluttered with packed kebab houses and super-
markets that sold mangoes by the box-load and
flour by the sack-full. Research by the Office
for National Statistics shows that British Paki-
stanis are more likely to be self-employed than
any other ethnic group, and all those old jokes
about Asians being the corner shop kings now
ring a bit hollow. Corner shops are now just the
bookends to whole streets of Pakistani, often
Mirpuri businesses.
These shop fronts, all Karachi-this and Kash-
mir-that, are little windows into the modern
British Pakistani community, and its evolution.
Girls wearing the latest kameez fill fashion
stores next to Islamic bookshops overflowing
with prayer beads and books. Travel agents
promising cheap flights to the mother land
From the Midlands
back to Mirpur
reminded of how much London’s fatty, brown
strips of khobez-wrapped meat differs from
the dark ribbons of smoother, firmer protein
found in the fluffy naan-beads of Derby’s food
houses.
And as he will also tell you, it is being so
embedded into this lifestyle that makes it so
difficult when severed from it; cut from the
fold of community and the familiar rituals of
this urban existence. Going away to a univer-
sity with few spicy-food-fixes and even fewer
people able to speak the Pakistani patois of the
north can be alienating. In fact, in some ways
it’s even more alien than travelling the 6,000
miles across the globe back to Mirpur and New
Mirpur City.
Because New Mirpur is different, full of
strange tourist-traps for a people who once
called it home. There is the ‘Megamart’ de-
partment store for western-style shopping and
‘Mina Kebabs’ for all one’s donner needs.
Wannabe-British politicians campaign there for
British votes, strips of barber shops vie for the
attention of bros and shops sell British ketchup
at British prices.
And there is a population of people there who
can afford none of it. This stuff is for the Brits,
arriving on packed flights in their Easter and
Summer holidays, and leaving a debris of unat-
tainable aspirations in their wake.
In Mirpur City these Brits stay in 5-bedroom
Ghotian, luxury houses that can cost around
£200,000 to buy, an investment for families
who leave them empty for the majority of the
year. It’s an investment into a false fantasy; that
somehow Mirpur is still home, the final desti-
nation.
It isn’t: Now, here is home. But that final
destination is still uncertain. Some Mirpuris
are making the most of the education system
and becoming professionals, but many more
carry on in static comfort bubbles, protected
from the challenges of meaningful integration
and contribution to wider society. There is a
renaissance in real Islamic understanding, with
all the connotations of peace and productivity
that practising the religion carries. No longer is
it just the cultural Islamic inheritance of their
parents. But there is also confusion, and some
anti-Western sentiment in a community that
struggles to articulate its concerns.Atight com-
munity that is suspicious of change, one that
struggles to accept difference in its ranks as if it
were a dangerous mutation.
As the well-worn cliché goes, the future lies
with the youth. It lies in the acceptance and en-
couragement of difference and progress, with-
out sacrificing the strong values of the past.
Like Mangla Dam, where in summer the water
level lowers and the buildings of Old Mirpur
are unveiled, Hindu temples next to Muslim
Mosques, relics of a time of harmony, of a land
unchanged.
Unforgotten.
PART TWO
O mar H afeez-Bore and
K ahfeel Hussain on how Mirpuris
shaped the British Isles and how
they themselves were changed
“A diet of their dads’ 80s
action films and their
community’s stress on
physical capability has
turned Mirpuris into gym-
going Arnie-wannabes.”
Mangla Dam, where in summer the water level lowers
and the buildings of Old Mirpur are unveiled, Hindu
temples next to Muslim mosques, relics of a time of
harmony, of a land unchanged

