F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 172. F E B R U A R Y 16TH. 1962 PRICE 4D.
Have you paid for it
Editor speaks
Once again it becomes the Editor's unfor-
unate job to bring to the notice of his readers
the sad financial aspect of the newspaper.
Each issue between 25/- and 30/- disap-
pears, either in the form of "lost" copies of
Felix, or, as is more often the case, blatent
theft of the money itself from the various
collecting receptacles (It might not seem
much in money but coverting it back to
copies its 75 to 150 each time). We realise
that the headline might well offend some
people and for this we apologise, the people
towards which this article is aimed are the
persons who (heaven knows why) out of in-
stinct keep a "free" copy, or a "lucky" dip.
Some of you will undoubtedly say that it
must be outsiders; this is indeed a possible
solution, one which we are prepared to ad-
mit, BUT it could be someone within the Col-
lege. The next line is that it is just one par-
ticular person. If it is, according to the bal-
ance sheet for past ten years, he or she has
been at the College for the last seven years!
(This rules out an undergraduate, seven
years is a little long for one degree. A dis-
honest P.G. maybe) There are many solut-
ions, each with its own defence, but what-
ever the solution, we are still left with the
Unsavoury knowledge that petty thefts of
one sort or another have cost this newspaper
£200 in the last seven years.
H A R D F O U G H T S E M I - F I N A L
The I. C. Hockey Team played two
cup matches in three days last week. The
first, a second round replay was won con-
vincingly, but the semi-final match with L S E
was undecided after extra time.
In the second round replay, against Q M C .
the team played magnificently to win 3-0
The goals were all scored in the second half
by Anketell, Panesar and Sinclair, but cred-
it must go to the whole team for a fine per-
formance.
The semi-final, two days later, was against
L S E who had the services of the University
players Waggee and de Villier. L S E scored
first when their right wing chased a ball,
which the I.C. defence thought had gone out
of play, and centred it across the empty goal.
I.C. played well, especially in defence, but
did not quite show their spark of the pre-
vious match. I.C. equalised just before half
time when Phillips converted a fine pass bv
Anketell. The goal was greeted bv enthus-
iastic applause from five supporters who
packed the duckboards on the touchline.
Immediately after the interval Panesar put
(.C. in the lead with a fine shot from a short
corner. The tempo of the match now reached
fever pitch, but it was L S E who scrambled in
a goal after a short corner shot had been
blocked by the I.C. goalkeeper. This was
the last goal of the match, twenty minutes of
extra time which were packed with desperate
attacks and heroic clarances, could not decide
the issue. A draw was a very fair result and
we must wait for the replay to see whether
I.C. will go forward to meet West Ham Col-
lege in the final on March 7th.
U . L . U .
— O N E A C T P L A Y F E S T I V A L -
J/t cannot be said that Imperial College
takes no notice at all of U.L.U. I.C. Pro-
vided two out of the four productions which
were entered for the competition and man-
aged to win with John Webb's production of
the first act of "Sleep of Prisoners" by Christ-
opher Fry.
The scenery and lighting combined well to
suggest the atmosphere of the ruined church
which was a billet for four prisoners of war.
The play called for spirited acting from the
two privates played by Tony Morey and
Brian Connelly who played the murder scene
together with intensity nearing hate. Chis
Masterman as Cpl. Adams provided with the
injured Meadows (Edmundfield) the re-
quired balance of sympathy. One particula.
ly good piece of collaboration between back
and front-stage was the taped voice of God
spoken by Meadows holding a conversation
with the private, King (Tony Morey). The
Adjudicator was; looking for *a production
with pace besides the various other merits
required. Occasionally, however, the speed
and rhythm dropped (e.g. the dice game), but
overall the play clicked — hence 1st prize
and congratulations to John Webb.
The play written by David Cain as much
confused the programme printers with its
title as it did the audience and the Adjud-
icator. "Assevaration" a solemn swearing. It
did not fit the play, but . . , ostensibly this
was the trial of Noah son of Laraech but was
actually a vehicle for the various religious
opinions of the author. The scene was a
court-room: Perry Mason fans would have
been disturbed —- there was no defence law-
yer, but there were two prosecuting coun-
sels, one anti and the other in sympathy with
the believers. Witnesses were Noah, port-
rayed nobly by Simon Adlam, and a man
and a woman (A. Ablewhite and Carol Mel-
ville) who wanted to- get back to bar and
baby-bathing respectively. These two parts
were played to show that "I'm all right,
Jack" is still predominant. Jenny Desmond
was extremely good as the probing cynical
lawyer and Andrew McTier equally convin-
cing as sympathising counsel. Chris Tattersall
was an authoritative, unobstructive President
of the Court. The actual meaning of the play
was pointed by R. Rushton who sat cross-leg-
ged on the stage, smoking and tearing up
the "Observer" into minute pieces. Finally and
superbly casually he tore up the notes taken
by the lawyers. The play was produced bv
the author who sensibly kept action to mini-
mum and concentrated on the words allow-
ing these to be stressed by the surrealist
chorus.
The last performance of the evening was
by the Adjudicator who summed up, wittily,
expansively — and with pace.
BRIAN HOOPER

