FELIX
RCS UNION MEETING
F I N L E Y G E T S T H E B I R D
Thursday, February 1st 1962, saw what
must surely have been one of the most stormy
meetings in the history of the R.C.S. Union.
Premeeting preparations by Council members
and the masses alike were manifest in the
quantities of Missiles (assorted), fumigation
apparatus and protective clothing gathered
into an already overcrowded Chemistry
Lecture Theatre B. The meeting started
only 5 minutes late — the Chairman
omitting to declare a time — not surpris-
ingly so after Physics I had literally given
him the bird, large economy size in the form
of a stuffed albatross. Certain startling changes
in the vestments of Council members proved
wise considering their ordeal to come.
To make matters worse an uncontrollable
excitement on the the part of Secretary Har-
ri whilst reading the minutes nearly brought
a premature finish to the proceedings when
he all but succumbed to the hail of apples
as he disported his naked and none too sight-
tly legs on the bench. As the indecipherable
monotone of his reading dragged on a stamp-
ing of feet on the floor of the House rose in
pitch to louder than the Lone Ranger sound-
track, Chairman McPherson took matters in
hand by declaring Round 3 ended and send-
ing the Secretary in boxing attire back to his
corner.
Nevertheless, it transpired from Matters
Arising that brilliant judical negotiations by
Secretary Harris had all but settled the long
and costly feud between Chem. Eng. I and
Bot. II. Expenses in the case having risen
now to an incalculable sum — viz: 1 inflat-
able Yogi Bear, 2 Rino packets (large size?
and assorted trousers at 7/6 per peak. Chiei
Justice Harris had finally arranged, in con-
junction with Guilds, that the most oppressed
of the hard-done by Botanists should be en-
tertained free by Chem. Eng. at their forth-
coming Dinner, with the option of his enter-
taining them afterwards.
At this stage the strain became too much
for the Secretary who in nervous fidgeting
dropped his glasses and on diving below the
Bench for them, came up eating one of the
apples which had been so viciously hurled
at him only a few minutes previously.
The President now rose, and in fine Scot-
tish tones called upon Vice-President Pete
Young to make announcement of the forth-
coming sports contest with the — Guildsmen.
His familiar and clear voice echoed round the
Theatre and must have touched each heart in
the sincerity of appeal for support. There was
some doubt in the minds of Union members,
though, when he had the misfortune to em-
phasize the "Mixed Women's Hockey Team"
and his subsequent inability to explain the
full potentialities of a "mixed woman" re-
sulted in his narrowly escaping a guided egg.
Grunter Harris, now wisely using his gloves
as a Sporran, then rose to bee support from
nembers inclined towards Boxing in the con-
:est for the Rector's Cup. He then repeated
his speech, loud enough for people to hear,
ind a hushed Union received the news that
Guildsmen are reported to be actually train-
ing.
The new Oriental President, Finling Mc-
Pherson, in his China-type hat followed this
by announcing that much merry-making
should now ensue to celebrate that this was
the Birthday ofl Miss Doreen Rouse, Queen
of Jezebel. He formally presented her with a
cake and the whole Union rose to singHappy
Birthday". A brief and expert speech of thanks
was delivered by Miss Rouse with Regal
elegance. The Subsequent rejoicing, durinj
which Robin Salmon caught an egg aimet
at his tin helmet, though unfortunately break
ing it in the process, ended with the ammon-
iacal fumigation of the Theatre by the Secret-
ariat due to the quantities of eggs, apples
and bird seed which had been hurled about
Thils was followed by the most import^
ant event of the day, the Presentation of a,
revolutionary new Constitution by M r . Dan
Elwyn Jones, dressed in the garb of a Zulu!
warrior, the Council to have a monopolising
control of the Union despite the wishes of its
Members. With h& audience eagerly anti-
cipating a great Revolution he read out the
Document:
1. A l l Union Meetings are to be herein-
after held in the Queen's Arms Public House,
starting at opening'time and ending at clos-
ing time or when n,-> member of the Union
is able to rise from the floor whichever be
the sooner.
2. A l l females shall henceforth and here-
inafter be debarred from Union activities un-
less they fall under the classification of Bona
ide women (according to the standards sel
by Youngs's Modulus).
At this point the Vice-President, Pete
Young, gave a concise synopsis of his Mo-
dulus, graphically illustrated upon the Epidia-
scope.
The Vice-President shall live up to his title
by examining all R.C.S. women to see that
they are up to these standards; and also any
other women he can lay hands on.
3. The Secretary of R.C.S. shall live up
to the well established tradition of being com-
pletely illiterate, punch drunk and booze sod-
den.
4. A l l R.C.S. Committees are to meet once
only during the year, this occasion being loc-
ated at the Red Lion in Glasgow on New
Year's Eve.
The following new committees shall be
formed immediately: Botanical Trousers Pre.
servation Committee; Yogi Bear Deflation
Committee; and the Committee for the Con-
stant Revision of the tyC.S. Constitution.
5. The President of R.C.S. shall have a
complete mental and physical overhaul to
ascertain his suitability for the job, and his
capabilities for the ardous tasks he must
face during his term of office. Unless he be
over 6 ft. tall bearded and with a criminal re-
cord he shall be ineligible for the post.
6. The Royal School of Mines shall here-
ininafter cease to exist, being henceforth a
subsidiary of the Royal Geology Department.
(This was hailed by trumpet blasts from the
Geology section of the audience.)
7. In order to avoid further confusion the
Maths. Department shall be immediately
banded over to the Royal College of Art.
Here, in aswer to question, Dan Jones af-
firmed that this would raise the number of
women in the Maths. Department from 12
to 372.
8. The long awaited take over of the Phys-
ics Block by the Royal Borough of Kensing-
ton Department of Public Health for use rs
a sewage farm be concluded without delay.
9. The demolition squad now engaged
in knocking down the old Physics Building
shall continue the good work with the new
Physics Building. »»•

