FELIX 3 -
RCS U N I O N M E E T I N G
(Continued)
10. The Natural History 5>ociety and the
De la Beche Club shall be in sole charge of
the nomination of the Rector, Deans, Pro-
fessorls, Lecturers, Demonstrators, Laborat-
ory Technicians and Lavatory Attendants
throughout the University.
11. On the occasion of the Gilbert and
Sullivan Societies' Annual Operetta in U.L.U.
there shall take place a mass R.C.S. open
air concert with male voice choirs and or-
chestral accompaniament of dustbin lids in
the environs of Goodge Street, for the de-
light and edification of the Constabulary of
C. Division.
At this point John McManus, who had
kept a constant battery of questions, asked
for two minutes silence for those in peril
on the "C".
12. A l l R.C.S Union Funds shall be ex-
pended on one vast non-stop gigantic drink-
ing party to which shall be invited all stud-
ents of Botany, Geology, Zoology and Chem-
istry Departments.
13. A t Morphy Day the four College Pre-
sidents shall be hurled into the River Thames
at Putney, each with his respective College
Mascot chained around his respective, if
unwashed, neck; first to the other side wins.
All the otherl Members of Rr C.S. Union
shall watch and cheer sportingly, encourag-
ing the contestants by throwing rocks, boul-
ders, logs and any odd pieces of Guildsman
they may find scattered on the tow-path.
14. A l l idiots making a speech on the ques-
tion of the revision of R.C.S. Constitution
lasting more than two minutes shall be en-
titled to kiss the Queen of Jezebel, and the
President.
15. O n the mccasion of the Birthday of
the Queen of Jezebel the entire second year
of the Zoology Department shall be entitled
to kiss the Queen of Jezebel, and the Pre-
sident.
A vigorous protest at the whole propos-
ition by John McManus resulted in his ev-
entual expulsion from the meeting — although
he was soon to reinfiltrate to a rear bench.
Having finished reading, M r . Elwyn Jones
then proposed that his Motion be passed —
only to arouse a reprimand from the Vice-
President who requested that he did not pass
his Motions in public. The Proposition was
generally well accepted — though many scep-
tics who did not know Mr. Jones too well ap-
peared doubtful of his sanity. After obtain-
ing a seconder from the floor the Motion was
put to the vote, assent being registered by
raising one foot in the air, ladies present be-
ing requested to raise both feet. Counting the
feet proved indecisive, but after a recount
the Revolutionary new Constitution was
passed.
Any other business was now raised and
Mike Harris was well to the fore iwith a
proposition that all genuine idiots be debarred
from Union meetings. He was immediately
removed forcibly by the other members of
Council and therefore could not carry the
matter through.
There was a question addressed to the
Chairman, who, with reference to his lamp-
shade type hat, was asked to make public
announcement of his wattage.
No other questions forthcoming, save only
the unanswered problem of what had caused
a suspicious brown stain on the bench, the
gathering transferred outside to where the
Queen of Jezebl had been carried shoulder
high to her chariot, and the President led a
somewhat hoarse set of voices in a Kangel?
which closed the meeting.
hWtA to ik UjtbL
Dear Editor,
Why does Felix weekly have to be cont-
aminated by the puerile literary efforts of
/sexually pervarted ICWAsians, who)se sole
object in life is to decry the entire male pop-
ulation and students in particular.
Ladies it is so easy to condemn, but un-
til you can replaces man by something more
to your liking, I suggest that you like him
or lump him. After all, despite his disgust-
ing characteristics, he is usually both effic-
ient and cheap to run, coming in many dif-
ferent sized containers. An absolute boon to
the modern housewife.
Otherwise, short of committing suicide, I
suggest that you retire to a God-forsaken cor-
ner of the globe, and there set up a Salvation
Army Camp for women.
Your favourite hymn might be;
Sisters leave all those men allone,
Sister, the cads that you have known.
Leave them. Oh, don't believe them,
For they're just no good, no good at all.
Tune "Colonel Bogie".
Yours sincerely,
D.G. PHILLIPS, Mech. Eng.
Dear Sir,
Along with many other males in the Col-
lege, I was extremely interested in the "Bird's
Eye View" that we were given in the last is-
sue of Felix.
As I read through the article I became
more and more confused and perturbed at
the number of categories I appear to fall in-
to. I was wondering, therefore, whether our
sophisticated ICWArian would be prepared
to clarify the matter, on some Saturday night
in the near future.
NORMAN R E E D (Civil)
Dear Sir,
Two gentlemen (B.A. Taylor and K.J.
Hearn) stated in a letter last week that the
whole concept of nuclear holocaust was so
ridiculous as to be almost beyond the bounds
credulity.
fOne can only conclude that either they
have no imagination or that they simply can-
not read. In the sincere hope that they can
in fact read I suggest that they do not delay
in reading the following books; "Has Man
a Future" by Bertrand Russell, "Defence in
the Nuclear Age" by Stephen King-Hall.
{'Strategy for Survival" by Wayland Young,
and "Is Peace Possible!" by Kathleen Lons-
dale. I would be only too glad to lend these
books to the two gentlemen concerned.
Yours sincerely,
PETER A . RIDING
Dear Mr. Barron,
We should like to congratulate Mr. M.
Barron on his Michael F. Barron production
of the Basketball News and Dram. Soc.
Weekly (Incorporating 'Felix'). We note with
admiration, his noble restraint in only men-
tioning himself directly four times and by in-
ference once.
Yours sincerely
M . BARRON, D.J. WILBRAHAM, M . F . BARRON,
S.P. GARDINER, MICHAEL F . BARRON J. CARTER,
BARRON, R. LEWIS, M . FITZGERALD BARRON
"The Six Bells",
Chelsea.
11th Feb., 1962
Dear Sir,
We, the undersigned, were deeply shocked
to read in the last issue of your excellent
publication the views of an "ICWArian"
with regard to the "unfair" sex.
Finding ourselves in categories I to 4 in-
clusive we feel duty bound to sink to our
critic's level and reply in like manner. In our
humble opinion all "ICWArians" fall into
the following three classes; namely:
"Them as do, them as don't and them as
want to but can't".
May we submit that "Them as don't"
should, and Them as can't" learn.
Sincerely Yours,
Dear Sir,
I would like to express my disgust with
the rugby club through your columns.
At the beginning of the year', the club had
more than enough players to run nine teams.
Last week, only the third of this term, one
game had to be cancelled so that eight full
teams could be fielded. Thus, in twelve or
so playing weeks about twenty players have
been lost. I think this has been a result of
)having in the club an inefficient secretary
and a captain whose interest is confined to
the first XV. A direct result has been the
complete absence of availbility lists and re-
serve lits. The latter were started but seem
to 'have disappeared.
This letter is not a personal attack on the
two people mentioned, both of whom I know
and respect.
However, I feel that they could have done
much more to maintain club spirit, although
it is somewhat late in the season to start now.
Yours sincerely,
S.P. GARDINER
LA ft LEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G INSTRUMENTS
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

