Q 0 @arnwal Q.
F E L I X IS S E X - S T A R V E D !
Yes, our cartoon cat is panting for more
of our delightful Carnival Queens (He won t
say whicn of these two he prefers). Surely
you know someone worth taking a second
glance at — or are you too absorbed with
the normalisation of Legendre Polynomials?
Each nomination needs two proposers, a
short article, and a photograph if possible.
It should be sent to the Editor of Felix. If
you have no photograph, please tell the Editor
where the girl may be found, so that our
photographer can get to work.
B I L K T O T T L E S MOPS
The flow of Milk Bottle Tops into the bags
in the refectories seems to have slackened
off recently. We now have a large box al-
most full. Please help us to collect enough
to send away for money.
F L O A T S
Departments and clubs are now being
asked to provide floats for the procession on
May 5th, or stalls for the fete a week later.
Several have already been promised; some are
starting to be built.
Unfortunately the Police are limiting our
procession to twelve floats. This means that
many wo would like to built a float will be
disappointed. It is hoped that they will build
stalls with equal enthusiasm; it is, after all,
the stalls which make money. Floats are be-
ing allocated to the first twelve groups who
can guarantee that one will be built — .
<
o
if you like trundling round Kensington in a
bikini and a beard (as one mathematician did
last year) see if you can persuade others in
your department to do likewise.
F R I G I D F R E D A
Proposed by Mr. Morney and Mr. Seafood.
A t last! A Carnival Queen with a differ-
ence. It is indeed an honour to propose one
whose favours are sought by hundreds of I.C.
students. Known affectionately as the snack
bar cow, Freda is looking forward to becom-
ing the hostel's longest-lived resident. No-one
is expected to object to the two year rule be-
ing waived for her benefit.
Freda has a bright exterior but a cool nat-
ure. Many a visit is paid to her, but no-one
has ever been seen taking her out. Her views
on I.C. students, founded on two years' ex-
perience, are sad and cynical. People ap-
proach her, she complains, with but one ob-
ject in mind. She has accepted her role, how-
ever, and can show her contempt for those
whom she dislikes by withholding her fav-
ours. This has sometimes resulted in her be-
ing roughly handled, which entails the hum-
iliation of a .public medical examination.
But if she likes someone she will double or
even treble her output.
If you are still in doubt over her suitability
for the post of Carnival Queen, we invite you
to present her with a shining sixpence and
experience the thrill of hearing her shudder
delightfully and murmur:
"This section sold out."
T
T H E P R O B I N G PETRI
The face that launched a thousand Trojan
Sailors should go well in a jeep around Ken-
sington. Beauty, modesty and charm are so
uniquely combined in the devestatingly div-
ine young woman as to make her obvious
choice for whatever it is this election is for.
She had, we were told, nearly everything,
when the decision was made to cast her in
the Debating Society's mammoth production
of Cecil B. de Barron's masterpiece "Osprey
at the Orifice", last term. Even under the
camouflage of a flowering blonde wig and a
flowing white dress, the more obvious phys-
ical attractions of this young lady could not
remain for long. And she does wonders with
o tin of "Nescafe".
Any further enquires concerning this no-
mination should be addressed to the sole
agents;
F.J. Webb and D. Inkster,
Dramatic Implements Inc.,
Dishon Sec. D. Cain.
A M E A L F O R A B O B
Impossible? Not at a Carnival Lunch! If
you haven't already enjoyed the hospitality
fo the International Relations Club, come a-
long next Monday — and every subsequent
Monday — to the Concert Hall and see what
they're like. You'll meet all your friends
there, and every penny profit goes to our Car-
carnival charity, War on Want.

