FELIX
Last Saturday the Soccer team jreached
the final of the U.L. Cup for the 4th succes-
sive season, by beating the School of Phar-
macy, 2-1, at Berrylands.
Our opponents who are in a division be-
low us in the University League weren't any
match for I.C. and didn't look at all like
scoring, being content to defend, seemingly
to keep the score down. This they achieved
by packing their penalty area, a move which
I'.C. hadn't the faintest idea how to coun-
teract. Insistence on trying to play the ball
through the middle, rather than to the wings,
met with the same result as if there had
been a brick wall around the penalty area.
This was made worse by the fact that the
two wings-halves kept moving upfield to
congest even further the already-crowded
middle of the field. The small size of the
pitch helped us very little, but a few ideas
must show themselves in the final against
Q.M.C., who have a defence comprising 4
or 5 University players.
The pitch was in excellent condition, our 6
supporters vociferous and, despite a referee
who seemed to be against bodily contact and
who disallowed what seemed to be a reason-
able goal. We scored once in each half, both
times through Collin Casemore, the outside-
left, to win an uninspirited game.
C U P F I N A L
SATURDAY, M A R C H 3RD A T M O T S P U R PARK
In the past forthnight the 1st X I has won
two further league games, beating Battersea
and U.C., both by 3-0, and now seem to be
in a commanding position in the League with
Kings as our closest challegjersl However,
all things haven't been easy; last Saturday
Christ's College, Cambridge, gave us our
greatest beating for at least 3 seasons: 7-2.
A nightmare display by Hugh Payne in goal,
who let 5 goals he should have saved, saw
us 5-0 down at half-time, and a great display
by the defence in the second-half kept double
figures at bay. This was followed by another
superb half of defending on the following
Wednesday against U.C. which resulted in
our 4th clean sheet of the season. With only
8 men the 2nd X I went to U.C., and after
being 2 goals down, fought back to beat U.C.
Ill by 3-2 — an extremely sound display,
but the following week they were beaten 1-4
at home by U.C. II, which may well mean
thay they lose their Division of the League.
The 3rd X I lost again, this time to U.C.
4th, and seem certain to finish bottom of
their league for the second season running,
but as the 5th X I nave won 9 out of then-
last 10 games, and three league games in the
last forthnight, the 4th may again not be re-
legated and 5th not promoted.
The unpredictability of the 6th X I remains
a mystery and is born out by the fact that
they beat City Bank 7-0 last Saturday and
lost to Goldsmiths III 2-10 the following
Wednesday.
The 7th X I seem unfortunate in that they
have lost their last two games by the odd
goals, while the Ex. 7th have now scored 90
goals in 16 matches, their latest victories
being over Nat. Prov. Bank and Westminster
Bank nth teams by 10-3 and 11-0 respective-
ly-
CROSS C O U N T R Y
This term got off to a good start with suc-
cessive wins for the first team against U.C..
London Hosp., and Cranwell. The second
team, meanwhile, were showing similar form
and again further increased their lead at the
head of U.L. League II.
However, the next two Wednesdays, in
strongly contested matches against Borough
Road and St. Mary's training colleges, the op-
position just had the edge on us — due main-
ly to our being weaxenea at the head of the
field.
With 18 teams in the Q.M.C. invitation race
held over 1\ miles of undulating country —
including 4 miles of heavy plough, the re-
sult was a win for Leeds University over
Cambridge with I.C. third beating Bristol,
Oxford, Sheffield, Exeter. I.C. also retained
the Banks trophy — awarded to the 1st U . L
team, and again further increased their lead
at the top of League I.
The welcome return "visit of John Collins
greatly increased our strength by putting In
a creditable performance, coming 5th in a
field of 150.
In similar field in the U . C . invitation 5
miles held the following Saturday at Parlia-
ment Hill, I.C. put in a repeat performance
of the week before coming 3rd to Cambridge
and Nottingham with Oxford 4th. Individ-
ual winner was Farrington (U.C.) with Ted
Wilkins (I.C.) only 16 sec. behind in 3rd
place.
The following Wednesday I.C .heavily de-
feated Reading University 30-50 over our
home course.
Last Saturday, with a few of them repre-
senting the University for the U.A.U.
champs, we conceeded heavily to Vale of
Aylesbury who had the first four men home.
HYDE P A R K R O A D
— RELAY 1962
This Saturday the College once again
welcomes students from all over Great Brit-
ain to the 14th annual invitation Hyde Park
Road Relay, organised by the Cross Coun-
try Club. A record entry of over 80 teams —
480 runners — have entered, so keeping the
record of its being the largest relay in Europe
and possibly the world.
The course this year has been slightly al-
tered from last year's, but is still just under
three miles long. The start, as in previous
years, is at the West End of Rotten Row at
3.00 p.m. prompt. Pat Sage, A . A . A . Honor-
ary Team Manager, has kindly consented to
start the race.
The result of the race is as open as ever.
Manchester University, lafet year's winners,
are favourites for the Sir Roderic Hill Cup,
and Queens College Cambridge, the holders
— for the Imperial College Union Cup for
minor colleges (under 500 male students).
However, Birmingham University and Leeds
University will be challenging strongly, while
our own team, running well this season, has
an outside chance. Some fast laps are ex-
pected, especially if there are good condit-
ions. Turner and Briault of Cambridge Col-
leges, Hill of Manchester and Farringdon ol
U.C. should lap in about 14 minutes.
The Imperial College team wjll incude
four of last year's team, which finished third
after the closest finish ever — the first five
teams finished within 20 seconds after 90
minutes of racing. The team will be from:
John Collins running for the 7th and last (?)
time, John Cleator (3rd fastest lap last year),
Ted Wilkins (2nd U.L. Champs.), Pete Roy
(who ran for Birmingham Jast year, Dave
Hammonds, John Young and Jim Bernard,
now fully recovered from illness which kept
him out of last year's team. Whoever runs
will do so with the best wishes of the College,
and with your support might well bring off
a surprise victory.
ET TU BRUTE
TOGA
OR NOT TOGA
9th March 1962
T I C K E T S O N S A L E
IN I.C. U N I O N
F A N C Y D R E S S

