Debut of the MC Friction Group
The Guilds Union Meeting held on Thurs-
day February 9th was not quite up to the
high standard set by the previous two (on-
ly three eggs reached the executive), but it
was notable for the debut of a small close-
discord group, composed c* f "S's from Dr.
Cameron's lab., in the rat-infebtt i cellars of
the old Guilds Building. Calling themselves
the I.C. Friction Group, these gentlemen ren-
dered a few irreverent ditties on the subject
of higher degrees, accompanying themselves
on the tape recorder, and their efforts were!
appreciated by the Union who burst into ap-,
plause long before the performance was en-1
ded. The spiritual leader of the group, Mr.,
Hingley, also diverted the Union with a1
sample of the letters reaching the Ministry,
of Pensions and National Insurance, for ex-i
ample, "Please send me some money as I
have been in bed with the doctor for a week
and it's not doing me any good." These were
appreciated even more and Mr. Hingley and
Co. are to be congratulated on their efforts
to edify the Union.
The more routine business of the meet-
ing included reports on the Swimming Gala,
the Engineer's Dinner-Dance. Regarding the
first, the President said that it was hoped
to reimburse up to half of the fines incurred
by members of the Union and the Ends,
Chairman, ChrJs Liddle was congratulated
on an extremely fine Dinner-Dance. The fin-
al details for the Sports Sunday were an-
nounced and members were exhorted'', to at-
tend the Guilds-Mines Carnival which is on
the Ides of March. The President revealed
that the President of Mines, John Fairfield,
was to be married on the following Satur-
day, and asked the Union to supply a suit-
able message for the occasion. A short, pithy
message was suggested and aproved, though
the female members of the Union had some
difficulty in pretending not to know what it
meant.
The President tried to get the Union in-
terested in changing the emphasis of the
Guilds Engineer but he had little success.
Mr. Pete Airey asked for the resignation of
the President on the grounds that the I.C.
Executive had refused to allow second year
Electricals to hold a Carnival in the Con-
cert Hall. Although assured that the other
members of the Executive would be forced
to resign also, Laurie Austin declined to give
up his post and no one seemed to be inter-
ested in whether he did or not Finally, a
gentleman who has been identified and put
on the Felix extermination list, asked why
Felix was so dead. The Editor informed him
that Felix was in this state because the quest-
ioner was not doing anything to change this.
The meeting was closed with a Boomalacka
and a crash of glass.
Crossword
by R E G U S
C L U E S :
ACROSS.
1. Estragon and Vladimir hanging around
the three expecting someone? (7, 3, 5)
9. Ambrodgian sport? (7)
10. This occurs in "Coffe Perculation for
You" (see page 234). (7)
11. Let U-Thant go without tea when Dag's
ghost is at hand. (5)
13. Former rays discovered by him. (8)
15. The Broker's Gout one too foot too many
in this. (4)
17. Assinine clergyman lived here. (4)
18. You find these exhibitions on the "Front"
at seaside resorts (8)
21. This is a text about a rover and he wrote
it himself, the show-off! (9)
22. Gripping the sky-bond (and doomed)
lamb. (5)
23. Eyes up for a near disaster! (7)
24. Write out an I O U with zest for someone
somewhat larger than average. (7)
25. Come! G o ! Start! Don't kill! Love!
Eat! Listen! Look! (3, 10)
• • b a • b is
• • • • • • H
tiHBCIHCSDQ
• s u a a Q
t J B n ^ G E Q E E t i n n e r
• • a h • a
. J H Q H H n i l E J H r J H Q B
a n n o • a m
• a h a m m a
JGQH53EG dGQQaSE
DOWN.
1. This usually tries to predict what many
British people thank to be unpredictable
2. Get clued in; don't leave anything out. (7)
3. You'll get no reaction whatsoever from
something that's this. (5)
4. Male strings keeping the canvas up (3, 5)
5. Noised around the soccer rules. (6)
6. Summer in the jam. (9)
7. N o energy and usually no water either
if it's this (7)
8. Wordly amazingly enough! (3, 5, 7)
14. 240 became a cha-cha.
16. A n old man found here was found to
be a fake.
17. A teetotaller takes brine and gets the
bird! (7)
19. This comes into a film and all I can say
is that it's made up of a devilish positive
on negative particle. (7)
20. Infrequent; mild steel on the dole! (6)
22. North American natives and north Eur-
opeans may be a long wav apart but
they have some conection. (5)
W H E N W I L L IT STOP ?
'BO B E A U T I F U L "
Recently Bo was forced to undergo the
rigours of Mr. Marples Ministry of Trans-
port test. He was driven to a small garage in
Putney where he was jacked up and his wheel
bearings examined. For the rest of the test
— "Well you stopped when you came in so
your brakes must' be all right", "Lamps seem
to have oil in so they must work", and the
annual "Just have a look at the play in the
steering" satisfied the other requirements.
Thus armed with his certificate of road
worthiness (but no road tax) Bo took the
President to Harlington on Sports Day in
record time (and brought the Editor of Fe-
lix back).
His next outing will be to bring to the
Union John V . Bolster who will be the guest
speaker at the Guilds Motor Club Annual
Dinner. Among the guests will be Keith
Duckworth and Chris Lawrence from the
motor racing world. H i e Dinner will be held
on Thursday 22nd Feb. in the Dining Hall.
Will all those who wish to come (guests es-
pecially welcome) please put their names on
the club notice board before the 19th Feb.
T E A C H I N G W E E K
Sunday 25th Feb. to Sunday 4th March, 1962
During this week two monks, a friar and
a Fransciscan nun will be helping in a week
of teaching the Christian Faith at Imperial
College.
Every morning of the week, except Thurs-
day, there will be a celebration of Holy Com-
munion in the Snack Bar at 8.30 a.m.
Every a|flternoon during the lunch hour
there will be a meeting addressed by the mis-
sionaries. On Monday and Friday the meet-
ing will be at 1.10 p.m. in Room • 127,
R.S.M. On Tuesday and Thursday the Gen-
eral Studies will be devoted to the Teaching
Week.
On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
nights there will be an exposition of the FAITH
in the I.C. Snack Bar. The evening session
will begin at 8.00 p.m. and finish at 9.00 p.m.
Every member of the College will be wel-
come at any of the events of the Week.
Father IVOR SMITH-CAMERON
Chaplain to Anglican Students
MM. Karnae
(books) Ltd.
N E W BOOKS
S E C O N D H A N D BOOKS
and now . . . P A P E R B A C K S
Visit our new paperbacks shop at 56,
Gloucester Road, where a comprehensive
selection of general technical and
scientific paperbacks are on display.
56-&89 Gloucester lload.
S.W.7

