FELIX
SI SCANS THE SCENE
About this time of the year it is usual for
a student officer to sit down and write an
article yelling like mad how apathetic the
students are. Well, I am not going to do that
as I have been around universities or colleges
long enough to know that such an article ac-
complishes absolutely nothing. Besides I do
not feel that suggesting apathy this year is in
order as I am sure that Thursday, November
30th '61 must be a record as 1000 students
attended the 3 union functions on that day.
So it is not student apathy that has made
me sit down at the typewriter, but the feel-
ing that there should be a link between the
Union Office and the readers of Felix. With
a little luck I should be able to write some-
thing for each issue. Last year we did a sim-
ilar thing for the Carnival, a "Hi from Si"
column. However, it probably bored half the
readers. I am sure that this column will even
be worse off as we can hardly use last year's
opening comment, "Well, the carnival prog-
ress looks as though it jumped up on its horse
and galloped off in all directions.", and then
proceed with some humour. Not that humour
does not have its place in the Union, but
from the Felix point of view we will leave that
up to the carnival. Although at times we
might use the quotation above with "carnival
progress" replaced by "Union".
This week I will not try to establish the
link by discussing what is going on, but rather
what I would like to see existing at the Col-
lege. Firstly, what I would like to see changed
is the negative, or let's do nothing attitude
that is all too obvious here. A student is
at the College for only 3 years, during which
time he has to transform from a school boy
to a man capable to take responsibility in
his first permanent employment. Thus he
should be in an atmosphere of activity, of
experimentation, of questioning, to see if
what he is doing can be done in a different
and possibly better way. This is the time for
the student to run tiis organisations with
boldness, almost daringness to explore the
untried. If it fails he will still have learned
and he will have done so in an organisation
where the effect both on it and on himself
are not permanent due to the transient mem-
bership of a students union. JJ he does not
try this he will never have the chance once
he is in the more rigorous society of industry.
So what are the experiments? Well, here
are a few.
P U B L I C A T I O N S
F E L I X
1. Printed once a week to improve news
coverage.
2. Printed internally to reduce cost and to
make it possible to introduce colour.
3. Subscriptions paid by all union mem-
bers of 1 penny per issue, resulting in distri-
bution to all students and staff once a week.
4. Operate an active advertising board to
encourage companies to use Felix as an ad-
vertising medium, thus reducing our costs of
publication.
S C R U T I N Y — P H O E N I X
1. Combined and published at least once
a term.
2. Two seperate boards, two editors oper-
ating independently of each other except for
the actual printing. This would improve the
standard of presentation of the present
Scrutiny and at the same time make the com-
bined publication financially independent.
H U M O U R M A G A Z I N E
1. To add some light hearted reading to
the list of publications available.
2. Could be used by the Carnival as their
publication in the summer term, thus the pub-
lication could be the union's link with the
Carnival throughout the year.
S T U D E N T ACTIVITIES
At the present time the clubs and societ-
ies represented by the Social, Recreational
and Athletics club committees are well sup-
ported and each is functioning extremely well.
However, this does not mean that improve-
ment is not possible as these could do more
to spread their influence outside of their own
membership. The S.G.G could do this by
staging model House of 'Commons debates
monthly and by organising a model United
Nations once a year. The R.C.C. clubs could
gear their competitions to involve more stud-
ents, land the non-competitiive clubs could
have exhibitions, etc. The A.C.C. teams are
obviously in a slightly different position. The
possibility of extending their number of part-
icipants is very closely limited by both facil-
ities and the number of students prepared to
play regularly for their team. However, most
of these clubs want spectators at their major
games, and it is in this activity that these
clubs could do more. If the field at Harling-
ton was better equipped for spectators, and
the spectators were offered more for their ef-
forts; such as a social evening to follow eithei
at Harlington, or the Union, then more people
would take an interest in these games. (I sug-
gest that even without thleise arrangements
you should take an active interest in these
games as the I.C. teams are of very high
standard and are very deserving of your sup-
port in the University competitions.)
S T U D E N T P A R T I C I P A T I O N
All of the things I have mentioned above
require more work than is presently done,
and most of the work is of the "behind the
scenes type" which always seems like a
thankless task. Thus we need a scheme to
encourage people to do more for their Union.
This can be done in two ways. Both by the
extension of the Union General Award and
the establishment of an I.C. Honours Society.
A W A R D S
1. Three grades of awards, for the lack of
better names, Gold (Union General Award).
Silver, and Bronze.
2. Award recipients nominated by the
student body and the election by an Award
Committee.
H O N O U R S O C I E T Y
1. Membership open to award winners on-
ly-
2. Act as the College's official representat-
ives at all social gatherings.
3. Act as an advisory board to assist stud-
ents.
S T U D E N T S T A F F R E L A T I O N S H I P
This undoubtedly is the most important
matter for the students to consider. Student
staff relationship can be in two spheres of
activities, outside of their academic associat-
ion, social and teaching methods. The relat-
ionships socially are usually limited by the
amount of time either party has available,
or by the personalities involved. However,
this is an important aspect and requires con-
tinual developing. Teaching Methods on the
other hand provide a common ground for
the students and staff as naturally both are
concerned in the techniques available and
'their applications. Many Unions, particular-
ly on the continent, have clubs within their
Union working in co-operation with various
departments in the college investigating
teaching aids. The Union in each case takes
an active part to help financially to acquire
the necessary equipment and the clubs and
departments analyze its effects on the lecture.
In this way they are taking a serious interest
in how they are being taught and at the same
time working closely with the staff. The same
could be done here as the field of teaching aids
is only starting, and many clubs could with-
in their present set-up find many aspects of
this problem worth considering. For ex-
ample, the Radio Club could investigate the
feasibility of clofeed circuit television as a
teaching aid. There are numerous such ex-
amples, and if you stop and think about it you
will see that the knowledge gained by the
individuals in the club and the worth of their
efforts are only limited by the imagination
of the clubs themselves.
C O N C L U S I O N
I have not churned out these ideas just be-
cause I had nothing better to do with my
Sunday afternoon, but because I feel that
these are a few of the things a student body
should be working towards if it really wants
to build a Union for itself which is of signif-
icance not only to the individual but also
to the College.
These ideas are personal, not official. They
wil be shot down by the usual reactionairies,
but I hear their views all the time, so THIS
TIME — i W A N T T O HEAR YOUR VIEWS.
I. C. M U S I C A L SOCIETY
presents
BASTIEN
and BASTIENNE
by W.A. Mozart
and
TRIAL B Y J U R Y
by W.S. Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sulivan
M O N . 19TH TO F R I . 23RD F E B R U A R Y
in
T H E C O N C E R T H A L L
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
Ticket now on sale in I. C. Union.
Published by F E L I X BOARD, Imperial College. London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

