etters
Small Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
•Japanese Society. Please contact K Yokota
(Mech Eng PG) for details.
•Jumble jumble, jumble, please send bric-a-
brac, clothes and toys with tasty cakes to the
IC Day Nursery, 8 Princes Gdns by Thursday
3rd March.
• IC Tennis Club now has a weekly booking
sheet for courts and competitive ladder for all
members. See sports club notice board for
details. £4 to join. Contact Paul Skipworth
(Chem Eng 2).
• RCS Soccer 6's. Sunday March 6, 11am,
coaches will leave Beit Arch at 10am.
• College accommodation 1988-89 application
forms for head tenancies and new applicants
now available from Student Accommodation
Office, 15 Princes Gardens. Closing date March
16.
ACCOMMODATION
• Woman wanted for flatshare Own room
plus share of bathroom and kitchen with one
other woman. Five minutes walk from College
£40 p/w. Phone 584 4508.
• Single room in a shared house of 5 people
in London. £136 p/m. 5 minutes walk from the
tube Phone 5586 (ask for Carol or Martin) or
672 7220 after 7pm.
LOST & FOUND
• Found at Picocon: Six books. If these are
yours contact T Irons (Physics 3).
• Found on Exhibition Road: One blue
bookmark. Contact T Irons (Physics 3).
FOR SALE
• One pair Salomon SX90 ski boots (11/12)
£20 contact J Biddle (Biochem 2) or phone
371 0249.
• 2 bikes for sale £25 and £35. Contact Z
Malik (Physics 2).
PERSONAL
• You with the boyish good looks—would we
both fit on your mast, sailor? Love the
Dynamic Duo
•Yishu—thank you for the roses. Please call
me and I won't refuse this time—H.
• Bored? Fed up with revision? You must be
in Life Sci. See you in Southside Friday night
for a session, Love Martin.
•Andy—following your unexplained absence
from your own bed last Saturday night, you
have been elected as new ladies liaison officer
for the Penthouse Club
• The Gauntlet Club would like to thank
Mark Lee for the delivery of their new video
game.
• Could the person who sent me the Milk
Tray at the John Percy Labs urgently contact
me on 5917.
• Can the girl who left her watch with the DJ
last Saturday contact Richard Fincher at IC
Radio
• Dave Bradley—is it 'thump' with a 'hie' or
vice versa?
• Graham Winsey sends apologies for tutorial
cancellations—his 'dop-wopper' was sadly
removed yesterday.
• Asparagus tips of the world unite!
Wednesday's the night.
•Will Martin score a strike with Katia The
200 Club
• For ransom! One snoopy, apply Flat C9
armed with pints of cider.
• 88+84=69? But not before 12!
Sour grapes
Dear Judith,
I was surprised and disappointed to read Mr Basma's letter
(FELIX 12.2.88). I have the following comments to make.
I accepted the advice of the committee for four out of the
five re-apps, which is hardly 'ignoring' the committee's
'choices', one of whom was Mr Basma. Fortunately, as
subsequent events have shown, he withdrew his application
as he wanted to share a flat with our current Ents rep next
year. So it seems that out of the five re-apps chosen, I am
only responsible for one of those not selected, and Mr Basma
for the other. I am sorry if Mr Basma doesn't like the selection
procedure for re-apps (however it is not in my power to change
this); he is welcome to make a representation to the College
Secretary, Level 5, Sherfield Building.
Incidentally, I do most strongly object to my quotes in the
letter, which are pure fabrication on the part of Mr Basma.
This leads me to what I assume to be the centre of Mr
Basma's 'sour grapes'—the Diggers Club. As with any other
resident of Mining House, I welcome any social activity in
the house, and as such, a social club has a valuable role to
play in the life of the House, initiating and organising activities
etc. However, in its present form, the Diggers Club does not
cater for (or appeal to) the majority of Mining House residents,
although I do not deny that it may have done so in the past.
I'm sorry if Mr Basma is unhappy with the social life of
the House, but this is dependent to a large extent on the House
Committee—elected by the residents. I would welcome and
support any suggestions he may have, parenthetically, Mining
House is still looking forward to the start of Mr Basma's
project which he raised money for three months ago.
With the help of the House Committee and subwardens I
have arranged a variety of events, open parties, barbecues,
film, theatre and restaurant trips, an outward-bound weekend,
an international cuisine evening, cocktail, coffee evenings,
a Chinese New Year party, a Coming-Up Dinner and a boat
trip for the summer term.
Presumably this is the 'unsociable' house which he refers to.
I have yet to hear of any constructive 'sociable' ideas
emanating from Mr Basma, unless drinking ten pints of beer
(as involved in the Diggers' initiation) and throwing-up over
the newly decorated house is his idea of sociability. Perhaps
the Subwardens and newly selected re-apps are behind me
'through thick and thin' because they view 'sociability' in
slightly different terms than Mr Basma: has it occurred to him
that his opinions may not be popularly held?
My appointed job as Warden is to consider the welfare and
happiness of ALL Mining House residents, and to maintain
the good name of Imperial College. If Mr Basma has any
suggestions for improving the sociability of Mining House
then perhaps he could inform the Ents rep, his house rep, or
myself.
Such public exchanges in FELIX can only damage the
reputation of Mining House, something I'm sure he would
not wish to do.
Yours sincerely,
Ms C Brown.
Print Unit trouble
Dear Judith,
Early last term, MOPSOC and Astrosoc drew up designs
for new membership cards, and requested FELIX print them.
When they arrived, they were half the size requested, squashed
up and without borders. Two-thirds of them were not usable
through smudging, poor printing or, as in some cases, through
having the Balloon Club logo printed over them.
Understanding that FELIX was having some trouble with its
print unit we returned the cards and went elsewhere for our
printing, at some cost and delayed by several weeks. As a
gesture of goodwill, however, we decided not to register any
complaint.
It was thus with some surprise that a few weeks later a bill
for materials was received, especially as it represented
considerably more than the original verbal estimate. Presuming
that this was merely a tentative attempt on the part of FELIX
to recoup costs on a disastrous print run, we let it pass. We
didn't feel that RCSU should subsidise FELIX's printing
problems.
Last week we were informed that a letter had been sent to
RCSU, over our heads, labelling us as bad creditors and
requesting that the money be debited forthwith from our
accounts, without our authorisation.
This is not acceptable, FELIX has a monopoly over a
number of services to clubs. We are legally obliged to pay
for unsatisfactory goods and it is blackmail if FELIX uses
withdrawal of its services to force us to do so. For FELIX
to go over the heads of club presidents and to remove money
from their accounts, amounts to nothing less than robbery.
I can only hope that the whole affair is an administrative
oversight and that FELIX's business manager was unaware
for the reason behind the refusal to pay. As such, MOPSOC
and Astrosoc look forward to being refunded, not as a
'goodwill gesture', but as a matter of principle.
Dan Salmons, MOPSOC President.
N B Wood, Astrosoc Chairman.
Reply from Judith Hackney, Print Unit Manager:
The reason they were billed was attached to the invoice
I sent them originally: Mr Salmons saw the artwork for
both cards before the printing was completed and he said
that it was fine. Mr Wood guillotined both sets of cards
himself and took them away seeming satisfied with the
finished j c . It was only the next day that Mr Salmons
returned, having changed his mind. The societies were only
billed for the materials used. The price may have been
more than I guessed because not all of the plate was taken
up by other clubs and societies wanting a similar two colour
job, hence they had to pay more for the plate they used
than is usual. It was well-publicised in last year's FELIX
that any clubs wanting membership cards printed for this
academic year should have them booked in and printed
before the start of the academic year because of this very
plate space problem! However, MOPSOC and AstroSoc
came to me in October. I could go on at great lengths about
the complexities of this Print Unit's time, costings and
availability of printing but as you know we are tight on
space In FELIX.
The Print Unit does not have a monopoly: it merely offers
clubs cheap, 'at cost' printing, there is no labour charge
made. I can only sum up by saying that if I could, I would
have charged the men concerned double purely for wasting
the Print Unit's and my time at the busiest and most
trouble-struck time of the year. It took nearly a day to set
up and print those cards when the printer and I were
working an average 18 hours a day.
Reply from Chris Martin, FELIX Business Manager:
I have seen the letter you have sent to the FELIX Editor
about the membership cards.
Leaving aside the issue of whether you should pay, this
being an issue for the Print Unit Manager, I must explain
our action of going 'over your head' to the RCSU.
This happened when I contacted the RCSU Senior
Treasurer, Dr Bignall, of the Physics Department, over
another matter. I mentioned in the conversation that there
were some outstanding bills from the RCSU, and he then
asked me to send him a copy of all the outstanding bills.
This I did, and later I received a cheque for the amount.
It seems that any misunderstanding over the paying of the
bill has arisen within the RCSU, with the breakdown of
the authorisation procedure. I don't think I have acted
unreasonably in any way.
Also, since the invoice was sent, I have heard nothing
at all from Mr Salmons or anyone else saying the invoice
would not be paid, so naturally I assumed that it would be.
I would like to add that chasing overdue Print Unit bills
takes up, on average, half a day of my (unpaid) time a
week, and these are bills on which we charge only cost
price, and this isn't work that I can say I enjoy.
I look forward to your apology.
PS. Does this really need to be carried out through the
letter pages of FELIX? I can't imagine anyone but Mr
Salmons or Mr Wood being the least bit interested.
FELIX Friday February 19th 1988 15

