• NAUGHTY Nigel Whitfield's
reputation is spreading. At a recent
National Student Radio Association
meeting, the Chairperson Clare Kellet
turned to him and quite without
prompting said 'Do you like my
breasts?'. Nigel immediately gave his
shocked reply T could give you a
much better opinion if you took all
your clothes off.
• IAN FRITH is losing his car
tomorrow. Not content with
terrorising Falmouth Keogh residents
by driving at 70mph on the wrong
side of the road to the local food
wholesalers, he has lately taken to
driving to random towns in Britain.
His latest trip was to Peterborough,
covering the 100 miles in slightly
more than an hour. The last straw was
when his match-making parents sent
down a Beccles beauty to see the
sights of London with Ian. The
terrified girl spent most of the trip
cowering on the floor and now they
are to give the car to Ian's younger
brother.
• WHAT A SHAME it is that more
people haven't put their names up yet
for the three Union Sabbaticals.
However, candidates for FELIX
Editor come ten-a-penny these days.
It is easy to spot these creatures. They
are often seen parading around
College in their designer FELIX
sweatshirts and silly grins. Normal
students are advised to avoid them at
all costs!
• CHAS JACKSON, our illustrious
and terribly hard-working Honorary
Secretary, told me a wonderful bit of
gossip the other day. Last Saturday
his predecessor, David 'Gutman'
Colley went to a service station to use
the Esso Charge Card which had been
given to him by his employers,
Majestic Wine. Despite having been
driving the van for several months,
he put 32 litres of petrol into it.
What's wrong with that?
Unfortunately, it has a diesel engine.
Funniest thing is, though, that
Gutman always claimed that it was the
transport side of his job that he really
knew well!
BY THIS DEED I the undersigned SIDNEY SPANKER of Thinbread Dormitory,
Princes Flowerbed, Cheapskate, DO HEREBY absolutely renounce and abandon
the use of my former first names and surnames of IAN ROBERT MALCOLM
WHYGATE and in lieu thereof do assume as from the date hereof the first name
and surname of SIDNEY SPANKER and in pursuance of such change of such
first name and surname as aforesaid. I HEREBY DECLARE that I shall at all times
hereafter in all records, deeds and instruments in writing and in all actions and
proceedings and in all dealings and transactions and upon all occasions
whatsoever use and sign the said name of SIDNEY SPANKER as my first and
surname in lieu of the said first name and surname of IAN ROBERT MALCOLM
WHYGATE so renounced as aforesaid.
AND I HEREBY AUTHORISE AND REQUEST all persons to designate and
address me by such assumed first name and surname of SIDNEY SPANKER.
IN WITNESS whereof I have hereunto signed my assumed first name and
surname of SIDNEY SPANKER and my relinquished first name and surname of
IAN ROBERT MALCOLM WHYGATE and have set my seal this l'2<** day of
^<tJo • One thousand nine hundred and eighty eight.
SIGNED, SEALED and DELIVERED
above named SIDNEY SPANKER
C O ,
by the
Spanker looked at the deed he had just signed and had a good giggle,
i This would be just what he needed to get himself some publicity, and
:
maybe some for the Cheapskate citizens of which Ian had been elected
leader. But who should he contact first. Oh, of course, the gutter
press. He picked up the phone, three-five-one-five. 'Hello, is that the
Phallix Office, this is Ian Whygate, I've changed my name to Sidney
Spanker.'
'How interesting', said Largeamounts, thinking 'what a plonker
Whygate is'.
Whygate knew Largeamounts wasn't interested so he hung up and
tried someone else.
'Hello, is that the Stun, I've got a story for you...What do you mean
'has it got sex in it?', well, sort of, you see I've changed my name
to Sidney Spanker...Great, on page 3 as well, thanks a lot.'
Spanker had done it, fame at last, page 3 of the Stun.
Over in the Surefield Fortress the Baron picked up his copy of the
Stun and turned to page 3. He was shocked to see the leader of his
citizens there. He called over John Secretary.
'John, read me this story. I'm sure its about Cheapskate—that's
Ian Whygate's picture.'
John read Derek the story.
'What a brilliant idea', exclaimed Derek. Just what I need to enhance
my public standing and get me my knighthood or peerage. Lord Derek
of Cheapskate has a certain ring to it, don't you think, John.'
'Yes, brilliant', said John, who was equally determined to get an
award before DerekT
Meanwhile, election fever had hit Cheapskate. Papers hadn't been
up more than a few microseconds before Nige D Butcher had put his
name up for citizen's leader and Cwis Media for Phallix Editor. Nige
had been suggested by John Chivalrous, who many people had
thought would stand for Honorary Slave (Parties); but the only
candidate for this so far was Austin Morris, John's understudy on
the Parties Committee.
A few days later Wilhebe Goodforacolumninch had also put his
name up for Phallix Editor.
The first set of elections for the new clowns would also soon be
here. Standing for the leader of the Fundamentallaowsofnaturetesters
were Stephalump Snell and Muddly Williamslaughter (who just
happened to be a lumpsofmetalworshipper).
Will anyone notice that Muddly is a lumpsofmetalworshipper?
Will any fundamentallowsofnaturetesters stand in the
lumpsofmetalworshippers elections?
' Why am I sitting in Normal's (the citizen's snack bar) writing this
crap?
Find out the next episode the the Baron of Cheapskate.
• M O R E SCANDAL from the new
Union Housing Committee. At a
recent thinly-attended meeting, the
Selkirk and Tizard reps ganged
together to force through a vote that
the Keogh part of Falmouth Keogh be
the hall to become postgraduate only.
Falmouth Keogh retaliated by making
one of their subwardens secretary to
the committee, which in addition to
the Falmouth Keogh Hall Rep,
Chairperson and Hon Sec made an
untouchable block vote of four in their
favour. Surprise, surprise at the next
meeting the decision was reversed,
nominating Selkirk as the PG Hall-to-
be. The College-run Student
Residents Committee had the last
laugh, however, when it picked on
Weeks Hall. The most recent message
from my spy is that Selkirk and
Falmouth Keogh were not speaking
and running competing pancake day
sessions—Selkirk at £1 for as much
as you can eat, but FKH free!
• THE NEXT sneaky move was for
FKH to 'give' Selkirk a computer
terminal, making Selkirk seem even
more suitable as a PG Hall.
• INTERESTING FACT of the
week. Readers of the letters page may
have noticed a letter entitled
'Sycophantic drivel' two weeks ago
which went on and on about how
great unknown entity Spencer Lane
was. This was followed last week by
a letter from Spencer himself wanting
to know why the letter was given such
a title. I can now reveal that it was
in fact titled Sycophantic drivel
because the original letter writer,
calling himself David Leigh, Physics
1, was none other than Spencer.
FELIX bods smelt a rat when the
letter was first received. Further
investigations revealed that there was
no David Leigh in Physics. It then
transpired that Spencer's middle
names are, in fact, Leigh David.
Interesting, eh?
• WHAT A WALLY Ian Howgate
is! Monday saw saturation coverage
in the Sun, on Radio 1 and IRN of
'wacky' Ian's
change of name
to Sydney Har-
bour Bridge.
Suitably they
put his picture
on page 3 of the
Sun. This made
the Union Bar
staff very happy
because it gave them the opportunity
to display a photocopy of the whole
of page 3 in the bar.
Chris Jones
W A C K Y I a n
FELIX Friday February 19th 1988 5

