Apreposterous suggestion, you may say. Quite ludicrous. But before you dismiss
it as pure fiction, consider the following facts.
The rate of information growth is doubling every five years. Currently, 6000 new
scientific articles are published every week.
An explosion of facts and figures shattering the dreams of anyone hoping to
become a Jack-of-all-trades. Indeed, being the master of just one is now a race
where the finishing line keeps moving.
Skills and knowledge that may have taken years to acquire can be out of date
almost overnight.
Think of the ship designers in the north-east who have had to turn their
hand to designing oil rigs.
The plant breeders who have had their world turned upside down by the advent
of genetic-engineering.
The textile designers who have had their crayons replaced by computer keys.
Formal qualifications on their C.V's, though important, would have given little
indication of their capacity to accept and adapt to change.
W I L L T O D A Y ' S G R A D U A T E B E W E A R I N G A D I F F E R E N T
I
Of course, if we expect people to have a more flexible, adaptable outlook on
work, we must also expect the same of their employers.
So companies must be prepared to do more than just give time off for
occasional conferences. They must also allow time off to attend business schools
and retraining courses. And maybe more.
Some companies do already. But should we follow the example of countries
like Sweden where mid-career breaks of several years are not uncommon? In fact, is
it time we reappraised our attitude towards career patterns entirely?
Traditionally, the long serving employee has been held up as the shining example.
And, of course, many years of experience in a company can be invaluable.
But in today's fast changing world perhaps we should look more favourably on
frequent job changes and regard them as the need to face fresh challenges.
That, in itself, is a challenge that business may soon have to face.
Indeed, in our view, training, or lack of it, is very often at the root of many
companies' staffing difficulties.
Yet, sadly some firms still see training as a side issue when compared with,
say, providing plant and finance.
According to the latest (1985) MSC figures, the average company spends a
mere 0.15% of its turnover on training.
As for ourselves, this year training will cost us some 10% of our income. It's a
sizeable sum. But it's one we would not spend unless §££§|S E r n s t & W h i n n e y
we knew it would repay us fully in the years to come. ^ H ^ f f i S S ^ ^
IF YOU LIKE THE SOUND OF ERNST & WHINNEY CONTACT MICHEL KNIGHT AT THE ADDRESS ABOVE.

