Night of the Living Dead
The first in George Romero's now
classic trilogy of zombie films. It was
originally made in black and white, j
and has been newly colourised for its
video release. The film itself is the
sort that you get out just to laugh at
how bad it is. The colourisation is
diabolical—they've made the zombies
green, for some bizarre reason.
Romero's original idea was to show
the breakdown of society due to attack
from the outside—in this case, the
return to life of the dead. No reason
is offered for this reanimation—which
makes the whole concept more
frightening, because consequently
nothing can be done.
All in all, unless you have someT
special interest in this film, don't
bother getting it. Try to see Dawn of
the Living Dead or Day of the Living
Dead instead—they were originally
shot in colour, had better budgets, and
are very good indeed.
Spyros, a retired schoolteacher, meets
up with a young girl hitch hiker, aild
they travel on together, sharing both
accommodation and food, and
nothing happens between them; they
enjoy a platonic relationship. But one
night she flaunts her indifference to
him by bringing a casual pick-up
back to their room and making love
in Spyros' presence. They separate
without farewells, but once again run
into each other. Spyros initiates their
reunion by driving his van through the
front window of the restaurant where
she is having dinner, and she willingly
leaves with him. They have a brief but
passionate affair, which seems to
liberate Spyros. But the next night she
tells him that their relationship is
over, and in the day Spyros goes to
one of his beehive sites and in
impotent despair scatters his hives,
and falls to the ground in grief.
'You have to begin to lose your
memory . . . to realise that memory
is what makes our lives. Our memory
is our coherence, our reason, our
feeling, even our action. Without it,
we are nothing.'
The quote is from Bunuels, but it
fits Greek film maker Thodoros
Angelopoulos' new work perfecdy. It
charts a doomed encounter between
two generations for whom the past
means everything and nothing. The
film is filled with images of bleakness
and isolation: it starts with a winter
wedding, moves on to a long,
brooding tracking shot of Spyros
walking by a river, and so on. Spyros
goes on a trip inspecting the bee hives
he inherited from his father; it is a
journey into his past, punctuated by'
a soundtrack of extracts from the
diary of a previous journey, and
hopes for the future. Except that for
Spyros there is no future, because the
present makes no connections with the
past he knows.
In the world of 'The Bee Keeper'
the past can only be a memory for
people of a fading generation. But
memory cannot itself sustain a future.
The beehives need periodically to be
renewed, or moved to a better
position.
'The Bee Keeper' is a good film -
Marcello Mastroianni is excellent as
Spyros, as is Nadia Mourouzi as the
girl. The story does fumble around a
little bit in the middle, but otherwise
is excellent entertainment for the;
meaningful film buffs. If you're still
not sure about it, it'll probably crop}
up on Channel 4 sometime next year.
8 Friday February 19th 1988 FELIX

