Letters
Disillusioned
Dear Editor,
- After reading Dominic Strowbridge's article in
EELEX (issue 836), I found that I absolutely agree
with him in the sense that the other side of the .
coin has to be shown. However, does his opinion ,
'typify those of the majority in IC? How many.
students can cope with the heavy workload.
together with a vast number of activities, like Mr.
Strowbridge? Well, these remain to be open
questions, but I can say that I am not one of those.
I used to be incredibly enthusiastic and entirely
absorbed in studying and playing various sport-
games; I attained four A's and a merit in ' A '
levels and was in teams of various sports and a
debating society. With lots of hopes and
enthusiasm I came to Imperial. It didn't take me
long to realise that the tremendous workload and
thelecturing pace had to approach the speed of
light to cover the massive syllabus. Then I started
losing interest in the subject I am reading; this
resulted in lacking reading and hence not
knowing the subject, which in turn made me hate
it more and more. This vicious cycle went on and
on and has not ceased yet. Now the examination
is approaching and I just have no motivation to
even read through my notes for the very first,
time. In fact, I feel totally indifferent towards the
examination and don't care if I fail them all.
So, is it that bad in IC? Well I don't know, for
a coin has both head and tails and time will tell
everything.
Name withheld by request.
A bins life
Dear Bill,
For some years I have provided Imperial
College with an invaluable service, as a receptacle
for rubbish. And yet, what thanks do I get for
my hard work? Every Saturday night for the past
twenty years IC students have vomited on me,
and even worse pissed on me.
Needlessfosay I am handing in my resignation
today and reporting my mistreatment to the
National Union of Rubbish Receptacles and Bins.
Yowrs sincerely, j
The Bin by Beit Quad.
Wobbly bits
Dear Bill,
I am writing to complain in the strongest
possible terms about the lack of wobbly bits in
FELIX. It seems to me that FELIX is still living
in the 15th century when it comes to wobbly
things but let's face it, the student readership,
when it comes to the crunch, is interested in little
else. You need look no further than the circulation
figures of the Sun and Sunday Sport for proof.
Have you forgotten that we are living in a College;
that has six times as many blokes as women?
There is an obvious demand.
Wobbly bits are the in thing. Stuff the letters
page—let's have a full page of bouncing thingies,^
and let's not make it sexist—dangly bits.
Surely we should not be ashamed of our
danglers and wobblers in this enlightened day
and age? I know that many of the people in
Sherfield have wobbly dangly bits, but they waste
them by sitting on them all day. They would be
much better off displaying their bits on the pages
of FELIX
Yours,
Mary Whitehouse.
Lawnmower
conspiracy
Dear Bill,
I was absolutely astounded to find that the
exinations were canceled last week, and I am very
suspicious that the printing mistake was a small
part of a larger conspiracy.
I must ask why a Japanese lawnmower
appeared in the examination paper, and whether
this could be linked to the Japanese lawnmower
awareness program. This may explain, I think,
the number of Japanese students at Imperial, and
maybe their high marks.
I must also point out that this is probably not
the first year such a mistake has happened but
it has been occuring over a period of several
years, undiscovered by most of the students, who
don't know anything about their exams anyway.
I think the setting of such papers may have large
links with student demotivation, and may affect
in a great way the mentality of the students.
So as not to end on a pessimistic note, there
is some good news. The present shortfall in
student sponsorship could soon be met by a large
input of money from Japanese lawnmower
companies, wanting specialist assembly staff.
This could at least solve the financial problems
of some students.
Yours sincerely
Sydney Harbour-Bridge
Name printed extra large by reguest.
Unjustified &
insulting
Dear Bill, or Nigel, or whoever runs FELIX this week,
I wish to protest about Rupert Seldon's letter
of last week; it contained no arguments against
my article, and was just a series of personal
insults. How can he tell me I need to learn about
other people's feelings?
In reference to Martin Crater's letter of May 26,
I would say I didn't start the mixing of religion
and politics in College. My article is a reaction
to the left wing bias of the Chaplaincy. The
Chaplaincy handed out anti-Tory literature at
Freshers' Fair, and in its weekly magazine. There
is even a 'Vote Green' poster on their
noticeboard.-
It is both unjustified and insulting for Martin
'to question the validity' of my faith.
Yours,
Dylan James, Maths 1. x
Goldfish
Dear Sir,
Having read your last issue of FELIX, I feel that
I have to complain about the amount of totally
fabricated material which you choose to put in,
it. I realise that you had a limited, if not zero,
amount of input from students not connected
with FELIX, but did you have to go out of your
way to invent characters to fill your letters page
and artificial small ads which have been
deliberately misleading. One unfortunate
student, having read the small ad concerning hot
bikes going cheap, rushed off to Mend-a-Bike to
purchase one, only to find that he had been
deliberately misled by the only publication which
a student should be able to believe. So, no more
fabrication please!
Eric Rash.
Remarkable
Dear Bill,
I wonder if your readers have noticed the
remarkable similarity between the lead story in
last week's FIDO 'Physics Finalists Bombout' and
that of FELIX issue 660 in 1983 entitled 'Bomb
Scare! Reeves Saves the Day'.
Do you think they are related?
Yours sincerely,
Pallab Ghosh.
Dangerous
Dear Bill
It seemed appropriate to write in and warn
your readers of the dangers of playing with
matches. Although most students are well aware
of the risks involved it is still perturbing to note
that many students regulary use matches to light
cigarettes and gas cookers. This is a dangerous
practice and one that must be stamped out before
there is a serious incident. Is'nt it about time
legislation was passed to make the striking of
matches illegal? I will be patroling Southside
personally during the next few days with a fire
extinguisher to put out any lighted matches I find.
Any students caught with matches will be
immediately expelled and have their degree
withheld.
Yours
Ian Gillet
No small ads!
Dear Bill,
How nice it is that FELIX is safe in your
competent hands again.
Nigel's FELIX last week was a disgrace. There
was no Small Ads section, not surprising when
you consider the whole issue was only four
pages!
Thank God you're back!
Yours,
Dylan fames, Maths 1.
May cow dung fall unto Nigel from now until
the end of time. Amen.
Page 2 FELIX June 2 1989

