Felix
Editorial
M o o n i e s
Members of the Moonies religious cult are currently visiting the halls of
residence in Imperial College. They have been distributing a leaflet which
advertises an 'international essay competition' and an international student
conference. Please do not be taken in by this leaflet; it is little more than
a glamorous recruitment drive for new cult members and I advise everyone
who receives such a leaflet to throw it straight into the waste paper bin.
The Moonies regularly canvas Imperial College at this time of year posing
under the pseudonym of CARP (the Collegiate Association for the Research
of Principles). Their recruitment campaign this year is a little more subtle
than their previous attempts, but students should bear in mind that the
organisation does indulge in brain washing techniques (sleep and food
deprivation followed by intensive guilt inducing programmes) and that
members of the cult are in every sense of the word exploited by the cult's
leaders who live in comparative luxury.
Anyone approached by members of the cult should bear in mind that
they operate on a principal which they refer to as 'divine deception.' This
means that they feel morally justified in lying about their organisation so
that they can attract new members. These people are bad news and
anyone discovering Moonies on College premises should contact the
nearest security desk as soon as possible.
B o u n d editions
Anyone requiring a leather bound edition of this year's FELIX should call
into the office and leave their name and a £ 1 0 deposit. Bound editions
are an ideal souvenir of your time spent at Imperial College and come
tastefully embossed with the name of your choice in gold lettering. The
cost of a bound edition has yet to be negotiated but will probably be around
the £ 3 0 mark.
Subscriptions
If you are leaving College and still wish to receive copies of FELIX next
year you can do so for only £ 1 0 , which covers the postage and packing
for a whole year's supply of FELIX.
The last issue
It is my sad duty to announce that the last issue of FELIX under my
editorship will be published on 21 st June. There will a staff meeting today
at 12.30 to discuss the contents of the final issue and everyone who has
worked on FELIX this year should attend. Advanced warning is also given
of a party & buffet on the same day for everyone who has contributed
to this years FELIX. Please call into the office and sign up so that I can
have some idea of numbers.
A n n u a l Reports
Next weeks issue is the annual reports issue prior to the Annual General
Meeting of the Union. All M S C chairmen and Union Office sabbaticals are
required to submit their reports to FELIX before 5pm today.
P o r k y Pies.
Nigel Baker has been 'economical with the truth' in a few of the comments
he made about his week spent editing FELIX. I do not intend to take the
bait and lower myself by arguing about the issues in print. It will be
sufficient to say that both Nigel and the FELIX staff know the points I
am refering to.
Credits. It's been a funny week. Particular thanks to Stef who put in a
hell of a lot of effort into FELIX this week, Liz and Neil for being Bohemian,
Andy Garside, M A C for producing two pages of reviews single handedly,
Jason Lander for having a 'beard', David Smedley for helping with the
news, Ramin Nakisa for having an unusual name, likewise Sez Wilkinson
and Andy Banister's trousers. Thanks also to Rose and Dean and the
multitudes I have forgotten.
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
Churchill Leadership Expedition.
Vacancies for French, German
and Italian. First half September.
Pyrenees back packing. £165
includes travel. Experience not
essential. Phone H o i Crane o n
0603 54520.
• QTSoc Sorry about the meeting,
but from what I hear not many other
people appeared. II Presidente.
• D A S I had a dream. Was it good
for you too! Sundance.
• Keyboard lessons: Rock, blues,
improvisation, MIDI.
Hammersmith/Clapham (24-track
studio with modern keyboard)
first V 2 hour free. Isabel 498 0781.
• Yo Doggies! Sorry Chris, or is it
Craig. Then again it might be Bill.
No, it's definately Craig. Well, good
luck with all the exams to the
kitchen crew. Hope that you don't
need it.
• RIPSoc You have been infiltrated.
Watch out for the black binliners,
especially those that explode! This
message w i l l cease to mean
anything whatsoever in about ten
seconds. <
•QTSoc H o w about a meeting the
coming Thursday at the foot of our
violate mascot. I ' l l bring the
constitution. U s u a l time. II
Presidente.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Luxury flat'in Putney. Close to
tube station. 1 double and 1
single bedroom, lounge, kitchen
and bathroom. £140 pw.
Available from end of June. Tel
01-785 2250.
• 2 single rooms available for the
summer, i n four person flat-
share. TV, video, telephone,
washing machine, freezer,
shower. 110 Chiswick Village, 5
mins Gunnersbury Tube. £208
per person, per month (incl some
bills). Phone Richard or Kath o n .
995 4409.
L O S T & F O U N D
• Lost (in Geology Dept or
Sherfield) Gold ring with silver
setting and seven small white
stones. If found please contact
Carol o n 5590. Reward given.
FOR S A L E & W A N T E D
• A u d i 80 V Reg for sale. Tax to
October and 1 year's M O T . £800.
Contact Yazdy 5149.
• Bike wanted:-Men's racer, will
consider anything. Phone Rose
ion 3.515 (FELIX).
• Wanted N o n militant bin for Beit
quad. A p p l y to the existing one; it
seems to be a bit pissed off.
Imperial College Union
WELFARE
ADVISORY SERVICE
HOUSING BENEFIT? NHS CHARGES? TAX?
INSURANCE? HOUSING RIGHTS?
CONSUMER RIGHTS? FINANCIAL PROBLEMS?
LEGAL AID? IMMIGRATION?
Advice and help with these problems and many
more can be found in the new Welfare Office.
WHERE IS THE WELFARE OFFICE?
In the Union Building on the 2nd floor above
the Union Office.
WHAT HELP IS AVAILABLE?
-Confidential, impartial advice provided by Yve
Posner, ICU Welfare Adviser.
-A wide range of Welfare related leaflets, claim
forms,
information sheets etc.
The Welfare Office is open Monday-Friday from
12.30-5.30pm. The Welfare Adviser is also usually
available during these times.
If you would like advice over the phone or to
telephone first before calling, please ring 589 5111
extension 3507.
June 2 1989 FELIX Page 3

