Alternative
Jesus votes Monster
Raving Loony!
In his article (FELIX 833) Dylan
James asserted that G o d was a Tory.
Let me say here that he is one
hundred and one percent correct:
God is indeed a member of the
Conservative Party and is, in fact,
special honorary undersecretary to
the treasurer of Imperial's o w n
ConSoc. I know this because I,
Phenominus D . Turkey, ConSoc
Hon-Und-Tres-Sec, am G o d .
Now, obviously, many people will
find this hard to accept. They will
refuse to believe that 'Phenny', the
popular and cheerful member of the
Liniment Hall house committee is,
in reality, the omnipotent being who
controls all our destinies. I, myself,
personally initially and before I
came to college did not know that
I was a deity.
M y suspicions were first aroused
when I started to realise that I was
always, without exception, right.
For example, I get every question of
every problem sheet I do absolutely
correct, even the ones the lecturers
and the rest of the class all get
wrong.
But it is not just in the questions
of Life, the Universe and Everything
that I am unfailingly correct. I am
also unerring in my politics. Since
I was old enough to wave a Union
Jack, I have been a supporter of the
Conservative cause and I agree
wholeheartedly with every single
thing M r s . Thatcher says and does.
Margaret, as everyone knows, has
never made a mistake in her life.
Therefore I must also be infallible
and I present this as conclusive
proof of my perfection.
A h ha! I hear you cry, this does
not prove that I am G o d . I could be
the second coming of Jesus Christ.
True, but was not Jesus the son of
God and did he not hear his father's
voice telling him what to do. I have
never heard the voice of God. I may,
occasionally, have spoken with my
invisible friend Herbert, but even he
seems to have gone away since I
started my medication. So if G o d
does not speak to me despite my
obvious perfection, therefore I must,
myself, be G o d and Dylan, m y
prophet, must be Jesus Christ
reincarnated.
But if I am G o d then who is the
devil. I have thought long and hard
about this. The devil is obviously a
socialist: such people are the spawn
of Satan and I read in the Sun that
the Diabolical One personally told
one of their reporters that he voted
Labour in the last election. I, G o d ,
am a great personal fan of this fine
Christian Paper and I advise, nay
beseech, you to believe everything
it says and I, you must not forget,
am always right.
So which of the socialist scum
who inhabit the Earth is the Devil.
I tell you, he is an evil and cunning
man, a man in high office, a man
who will not admit his true identity
and will do everything in his power
to stop m e broadcasting m y
message to the world. The Devil is
Jason 'Scott' D o n o v a n f r o m
Neighbours: a man from a socialist
country, the d e v i l ' s l a n d of
Australia. It is a plot: soap operas
are a curse, the people are all under
its spell. They worship the devil
instead of worshiping me.
At 5.35 each day, even my loyal
followers desert me for the dark
one. They all turn to the television
and ignore their Lord. Some even
blaspheme: only yesterday, I was
told to 'stop standing in front of the
telly'. M y time is soon, G o d must
save his children from this curse. I
am ready.
So, Sons and Daughters (and
Neighbours), be at peace. G o d has
spoken. N o w , as the cock crows five
times at midnight and large pink
rabbits gambol in Hyde Park, I say
it is safe to come out and worship
me! The first meeting of the Church
of the blessed Phenominus will be
on Sunday behind the bike sheds,
that is if my mother will let me out.
Engineering Graduates
THE CHALLENGE IS STILL TO COME
I Opportunity for
Technical Challenge.
12 year Structured
Training.
I Excellent Salary and
Benefits Package.
TOTAL
T o t a l O i l M a r i n e
The greatest asset our company has is the people
who work for us.
We know you're going to be very careful selecting
which company you invest your degree with and
that's why we've structured our two year Engineering
Graduate Training Scheme to ensure your personal
and career development requirements are fully met.
Demands made on Engineers in the development of
the North Sea oil and gas industry have been
enormous. As the industry grows these continue
unabated and you will be faced with new technical
challenges requiring innovative solutions.
Total Oil Marine is a leading operator in the North
Sea, currently supplying over one third of the U.K.'s
natural gas requirements and committed to a
continuing programme of offshore energy
development.
We're currently looking for graduates with at least
Second Class Honours Degrees in the following
disciplines.
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
In the first two years you will gain experience of
operations, trouble-shooting, process investigation
and the development of improvement projects
relating to our expanding gas operations at St. Fergus.
An enthusiastic and hardworkinggraduate.you will
find opportunities for progression through our
offshore oil and gas facilities, our engineering
department and in the further development of our
gas transportation system.
PETROLEUM ENGINEER
Your training scheme will be structured to involve
you in technical projects both onshore and offshore
and your skills will be developed in all areas of
Petroleum Engineering covering reservoir and
production engineering, well operations and drilling.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Your interest in engineering will be both practical and
theoretical. Your training will involve working
onshore and offshore and you will become fully
conversant with large gas turbines, compressors,
pumps, vessels, exchangers and valves along with
other more specific oil field equipment. This will lead
to your becoming a key member in an engineering
team where your level of responsibility will reflect
your capacity and motivation.
ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC
ENGINEER
Your practical interest in engineering will be
developed with hands-on experience in large power
generation plant, HV and LV switchgear, electric
motors, and more general LV circuits along with
control systems. You will put this experience to use in
design of new plant and trouble-shooting of existing
equipment.
If you're interested in investing your degree with
a major energy exploration and production
company enjoying an excellent salary and
benefits package and progressing your career in
a technically innovative atmosphere, please write
in the first instance to:
Janice Gray, Senior Personnel Officer.
Total Oil Marine pic, Crawpeel Road,
Altens, Aberdeen AB9 2AG.
Telephone 0224 858172.
Page 4 FELIX June 2 1989

