CRICKET CLUB BOAT CLUB
The match between IC thirds and
South Stan more C C proved to be a
fitting foil for the drama of the siege
near College — it was extremely
boring. Phil Maguire was captain, in
the absence of anyone else who could
toss a coin, and he duly 'allowed'
South Stanmore to elect to bat (thus
ensuring a match of reasonable
length).
At forty-two for two (with two
batsmen in, who were obviously
students of the Royal College of -
Agriculture), a final total of one
hundred seemed likely, and this
looked within reach; however, a
furious spell of leg-side thrashing
added forty runs in only three overs
and, thus demoralised Maguire's
Magicians could not hold back the •
flood of runs, taking only four more
wickets.
At tea, South Stanmore declared
setting the slightly unlikely target of
172 runs to win in an hour plus twenty
overs.
The features of the IC fielding were
the unexpected sharpness, in the
outfield and paticularly at slip Stean
taking two catches) and the fine
bowling of Redmond, whose scything
leg-cutters accounted for three of the
six dismissals.
When IC replied, the emphasis was
HANG GLIDING
On the third and fourth of May, two
teams from IC took part in the first
British Inter-University Hang Gliding
Competition, flown in South Wales
and organised by Marc Asquith of
Swansea University. Teams from
Swansea, Loughborough and Aberyst-
wyth took part.
Six of us, Dave Bird, Chris Golding,
Bruce Goldsmith, Ian Hodkinson,
Denis Howe and Paul Lanchester set
off on Friday lunchtime for Marc's
house, where we and about twenty
others were to stay! After meeting the
opposition/sussing out the local
p u b / c r a s h i n g out, we awoke on
Saturday to find the wind 'blowing a
Haslie' and in the worst possible
direction. However, after several cups
of coffee it had moderated enough for
a training slope to be used. Upon
arrival the conditions were eyil, but an
open task was run during which
people who took part felt that the
object was surviving, not flying. At
least one pilot flew to within one foot
of the ground in an effort to achieve
the task.
As our teams were composed of
novices only, we had to wait for
conditions to improve, which they did
by about three thirty, after a second
open task. The first novice task was a
distance/accuracy task with points for
distance flown along a line and also
on defence, but when Croft and then
Turner departed, eleven for two was
the sorry state. Forshaw held up one
end admirably and Maguire made a
solid twenty.
However, any action these four had
suplied was soon forgotten as Hewkin
and Redmond batted for sixteen overs
while adding just thirty runs. Redmond
departing for eleven, Hewkin and
Stean then batted for another five
overs adding about thirty more runs
mainly with inside edges and hoicks
through the gaps in the eight man
fielding side (only noticed after the
match!).
IC reached a semi-respectable 85
for 6 at the close and thus drew with a
rather annoyed Stanmore side.
But the following Saturday's match
was quite indescribable — suffice it to
record (for someone's posterity) the
scores, Brondesbury 223 for 8 wickets,
IC III 51 all out (and this included six
ducks from only ten 'batsmen').
It might be interesting to note that
the thirds had ten men despite Salter
allowing us to leave college with only
eight — we physicists have hidden
talents.
The Thirds Team Captain For A Day
PS: Thanks to Quentin, Neil and Andy
for playing at such short (ie, hours
and minutes) notice.
how close to the line you were when
you landed. The task was complicated
by the wind being a little strong and at
an angle to the hill. Unfortunately,
during this task one of our pilots
crashed a club glider putting both it
and himself out of action until Sunday.
He was not badly hurt, suffering only
a bruised foot and pride.
Bruce flew next for IC on his glider,
and as it was only his third flight on it,
put up a reasonable score. I was the
last IC member to fly and on an
unfamiliar glider was only about
halfway up the score sheet.
The task was then run a second time
as the conditions had improved even
more and this time both Bruce and I
were placed near the top. Free flying
was then declared for the rest of the
day.
Next morning after a party the night
before and about forty people sleeping
in Marc's house we staggered off to a
700ft high hill to find the wind gusting
to between 38 and 40mph and so the
rest of the competition was blown out.
After working out the results, I was
third and Bruce fifth in the novices
section. Unfortunately we didn't have
enough flyers to qualifty for the team
trophy which was won by Swansea. I
would like to thank the whole team
and commiserate with those unable to
fly and hope that next year we
improve upon a very creditable start to
competitive flying.
Chris Golding
At Putney, the Men's Novice IV
raced against King's College in the
first round, and found they could not
match the experience of half the
King's first VIII, losing by about two
lengths. In the Novice Sculls event.
Alistair Rowe, who was competing in
his first sculling race, had a hard row
in the first round, eventually beating
his Auriol RC opponent by one length.
In the semi-final he had a comfortable
win over a London RC sculler, bu
then his lack of experience in i
sculling boat showed when he lost his
final to a very powerful sculler frorc
Kingston RC. In the Senior C VIII'!
event, the second VIII had a hard, but
comfortable row to win the heat. In
their semi-final an easy win over
National Westminster Bank RC put
them in the final against Emanuel
School. The schoolboy crew took ar
early lead of about a quarter length in
the final, but could not get away from
the IC VIII. However, a sustained burst
by Emanuel at about the halfway
point saw them increase their lead to
three quarters of a length and the--
eventually won by one length.
Meanwhile, up at Barnes, the Ladies
VIII had a comfortable semi-final win
to put them in the final. In this race
they had to race Weybridge RC, a very
powerful Ladies Club. However, the IC
VIII gradually drew away from them
and eased off towards the finish line,
winning by about three lengths, thus
recording the first win at an open
event by an IC crew this year.
On Monday, the Men's first and
second VIII were at Thorpe Park, near
Staines, competing in the Metropolitan
Regatta — one of the oldest regattas
in the calendar, and claimed by its
organisers to the second only to
Henley Royal. The racing was held on
a four-lane course, and so the crews
only had to finish in second place ir
their heats to qualify for the next
round. The second VIII, again com-
peting in the serious ' C event once
more managed to qualify for the final.
In the final they were up against
King's School Canterbury, along with
Staines RC and St Paul's School who
they had already beaten. As in the
semi-final, St Paul's took an early
lead, but it then became apparent that
they had settled for only second place
in the semi, and they gradually drew
away from the IC crew. In the closinc
stages of the race, with St Paul?
about one and a quarter lengths ;
front, the Canterbury schoolboys jus
rowed through IC, leaving the seconc
VIII in third place, having lost the
second final in three days.
The first VII competing in thi
serious 'A' event had somewhat of ar
easier time, having a straight fina
against AuriOl RC and Barclays Bam
RC. Off the start, the IC VIII took ar
early lead, only to let Auriol come
back at them. A late spurt by the IC
VIII saw them draw away again, to win
theis presigious event by two thirds o
a length.
17

