Reviews
Films
PLEPHANT
THE GREATNESS of a film is very difficult
to discern. This film, is however, an
extremely different film that elicited
spontaneous applause as the credits finished.
As those who have read the book True
History of the Elephant Man will realise it
follows the final years in the life of Joseph
(John) Merrick who suffered from the
congenital and malignant condition neuro-
fibromatosis. He is discovered by Frederick
Treves (Anthony Hopkins) in a freak show
under the contol of Bytes (Freddie Jones). It
Surgeon Frederick Treves being threatened by
Bytes, who claims ownership of the Elephant
Man
is here explained that the elephant man is
the result of his mother being struck down
by an African elephant at a Leicester fair.
This explains the opening dream sequence
with its savage overtones.
He is brought to the London Hospital
where his grotesque deformities are shown
to a pathological society meeting.
The drama explores the unfolding of
Merrick's (John Hurt) character through
meetings with the famous and infamous.
John Merrick arrives at the London Hospital to be examined by Mr Treves.
The claim to follow the true story is more-
or-less false; the writers and director have
produced a fable. This fable is centred upon
the truely noble character of Merrick; he is
seen to ennoble those around him, ques-
tioning the very root of Victorian hypocrisy.
Its attitudes are revealed in the scene
between the noted actress, Madge Kendal
(Anne Bancroft) and Merrick when they read
from Romeo and Juliet, she sees Merrick
personifying, in spirit, the romantic hero (yet
fated to remain celibate). Many of the most
moving scenes are those when he speaks the
lines that Merrick is known to have said;
these scenes which appear to be over
dramatic (the vanity case scene) are shown
to be doubly tragic.
John Hurt is unrecognisable both vocally
and visibly by stunningly accurate make-up.
His performance conveys all the pathos and
sincerity of Merrick and is a just homage to a
great man. In support, John Gielgud (as Carr
Gomm, Chairman of the Hospital Committee)
and Freddie Jones are excellent. Freddie
Jones, in particular, giving the wholly fictitious
Bytes sinister solidity when the script could
have left him as merely a caricature.
The film itself is shot in black and white in
gloomy sets representing the period ac-
curately. The music is secondary but
supports dramatic scenes with evocative
subtlety.
The closing scenes of Merrick at the
theatre reveal that he is just as much an
exhibit as ever. Yet his naivety allows him
only to give the theatre audience the best of
motives. That evening he finishes his model
of St Phillips Cathedral, the spire of which is
the only part he has ever seen from his
window. He then fulfils his desire for
normality by sleeping in the prone position
(his deformities permitting sleep only in the
sitting position). This act of suicide is the
supreme act of dignity, the only decision he
can freely take.
The film is a brilliant homage to a great
man. I would earnestly recommend it to
anyone reading this review. Its supreme
tragedy is the very existence of Merrick in
the 19th Century. One is left to speculate
whether he would be better cared for now or
would he remain an outcast left to cry: "I am *
not an animal, I am a human being".
Stephen Goulder
La Derobade
LA DEROBADE is the story of a prostitute;
her life and her work.
If it has a moral, it is to reveal the
injustices experienced by the girls working
for pimps.
It is a French film set in Paris. There are
English subtitles, but this does not affect
your viewing, as there is little talking. Marie
Mage (Miou-Miou is her real name!), a
pretty, innocent, nineteen year old, meets a
handsome, flashy guy in a cafe by the name
of Gege (Daniel Duval). She is fascinated by
him and they fall in love. One morning, in
bed, he tells her that he wants her to work
for him as a prostitute; he will be her pimp.
She dislikes the idea, but accepts. She is
repulsed, initially, but soon gets used to 'the
life'.
As the relationships and injustices evolve
we are taken through the tricks of the trade
until the story comes to an anticlimactic end.
(Well, you've got to have some balance!)
I was pleasantly surprised by the film. It
threatened to be just another cheap 'sex and
violence' X, but all the action in the bedroom
was relevant and the characters sensitively
portrayed. What violence there was was
necessary to the story.
The French have a strange, sensual quality
to their films which makes them worthwhile
in themselves.
If you like films about people, then I'd
recommend La Derobade, although it is not
in the 'erotic' class of Emmanuelle.
Running time: 114 minutes.
M Cadwallader
The Long Riders
T H E JESSE JAMES gang: Frank and Jesse
James, Cole, Jim and Bob Younger, and Ed
and Clell Miller, are generally regarded as
being 'the greatest outlaws that ever lived'.
During the fifteen years that they evaded
capture, they robbed at least a dozen banks,
and as many stagecoaches and trains. Their
first raid was on Liberty, Missouri in 1866,
just after the end of the Civil War, and the
gang was not finally broken up until after
their bloody raid on the First National Bank
of Northfield, Minnesota, when Frank and
Jesse abandoned the other members of the
gang, all of whom had serious gunshot
wounds, to capture, and sentences of life
Page 10 FELIX, October 17, 1980

