imprisonment. Jesse James was eventually
shot dead in his own home by his cousin Bob
Ford (who later collected a $10,000 reward)
in 1882, but Frank James lived on into old
age, having turned himself in, been tried and
acquitted.
Directed by Walter Hill (with the Carradine
brothers cast as the Youngers) this film lacks
the vitality of his previous work The
Warriors, its downbeat tempo and gloomy
photography emphasising the inevitability of
the gang's final destruction. Sadly, one and ai
half hours of this becomes claustrophobic,
excessive use of slow-motion in the Northfield
raid merely adding to the tedium.
S Hodgson
A film destined for success, it has everything
the public seems to want, it is escapist, it is
contrived, unrealistic, it is dull, and it has
people (to quote the pre-release publicity)
"swimming naked over coral reefs". 1 found it
the most tedious two hours of my life, or
certainly of the last two years. My time
would have been better employed in a bus
queue, at least there I'd be able to see
genuine h u m a n beings, no i d e a l i s e d ,
c a r b o a r d cut-out, healthy, all A m e r i -
can/Californian-dream, whole-food models.
The plot of Blue Lagoon is tenuous to say
the least. Ship catches fire in Pacific, two
kiddies and stereotype drunken Irish cook
separated from rest of ship. Land in nick of
time on wonderful desert island. The time
drags by as attempts are made to amuse you
and moralise at you as the cook teaches the
kids to survive (not difficult in the tamed and
generous Bounty-ad world portrayed here) it
succeeds only in being kitsch. Cook dies
(anybody who plays a character that
shallowly deserves it. C o m e o n ! L e o
McKern, you should know better.) "They
swim naked over coral reefs". Actually they
grow up during this bit and Brooke Shields
and Christopher Atkins take over the roles.
They argue and bitch their way through the
next thirty minutes "swimming naked over
coral reefs". Then fall in love, have sex, have
a baby, teach baby to swim, and reach the
most unlikely part of a film that is shaky at
best. Mummy and baby are in boat, baby
throws oar into water, mummy, who up until
then swam like a fish, tries to reach over
with other oar, rather than fetch it she calls
daddy who fetches it, gets attacked by shark,
other oar thrown at shark, daddy gets in
boat; boat drifts into open sea, they attempt
suicide but are rescued in the nick of time by
long lost uncle/father. It's enough to make
you throw up.
The director, Randal Kleiser, must take
the blame for the films tedium. A man
obsessed with people who "swim naked over
coral reefs" he pads out the story with
unnecessary, though at first quite pretty
shots of Brooke Shields, "swimming naked
over coral reefs" with a blue filter, "swim-
ming naked over coral reefs" covered in
phosphorescence, and "swimmming naked
over coral reefs" with Christopher Atkins.
Basil Poledouris's music is good, though
unadventurous, it is the only part of the film
to affect me with any feelings other than
boredom. Sadly, the tension and emotion he
conjured up were lost in a morass of awful
acting. Brooke Shields will have done her
reputation as a serious actress no good
whatsoever, with this display of woodenness
and Leo McKern, likewise, was disappointing.
As for Christopher Atkins, the less said the
better (though he does "swim . . . reefs').
Basically, it's worse than Crossroads, a
terrifyingly dull movie. Apparently, it's been
heavily cut (compared with the American
version) by the Censor, smart move I
thought. You can spend a more interesting
hour and thee quarters in a maths lecture,
but of course "they swim naked over coral
reefs".
"Eric" Jarvis
Find out aboutMarketing Management
^ ^ t i n g M a n a g e i V anftg e e j f ft wouldSUityOU.,.
. business role in a dynamic •=o „
i x ! £ , n «
la total business role in a dynamic consumer industry,
c.£20,000 p a . + car O X F O R D
O u r client is a mult- T h i s position will
million pound inter- therefore attract
national company. honours graduates
Recent changes have with business flair
resulted in the need and a strong record of
to hire a M a r k e t i n g consistent
M a n a g e r to join the achievement.
T h e salary is backed
T h e successful by a company car and
candidate v/i\\ b e other important
given the challenging benefits. Career
opportunity of prospects are
" r u n n i n g h i s / h e r own excellent and there is
show" and will plenty of scope to
therefore need to move upwards, not
demonstrate a h i g h only i n marketing but
degree of analytical also i n general
and creative management,
thinking, combined
with an approach to
business geared u p to
• making things
J h a p p e n . , _
The demands of
marketing management
are high, but so are
the rewards - in job
satisfaction and material
terms. You can find out
about the challenge of
marketing management
by spending five days
on Procter & Gamble's
Marketing Vacation
Course.
W e are one of the most
successful
manufacturers of fast
moving consumer
goods in the world and acknowledged leaders in the
marketing management field. The U K Company markets
such household names as A r i e l , Fairy Liquid, Head &
Shoulders, Crest, Flash, Daz and Camay.
Between 15th and 19th December we will be running an
informal, but intensive, marketing management course
for a group of final year undergraduates at our
Head Office.
Full accommodation and all expenses will be paid.
During the Course you will actively participate in
business projects ranging from product development
and consumer research to television advertising and
in-store promotion. They will give you a real feel of
the challenge, intellectual stimulation and enjoyment
of marketing management, and insight into the
broad range of activities involved. Y o u will also
have a chance to meet some of the wide variety of
people with whom a marketing manager works.
If you are interested in learning about Marketing
Management, you should apply as soon as possible.
Please ring Philip Spencer, reversing the charges on
Newcastle upon Tyne 857141, or write to him c/o
Brand Promotion Division, Procter & Gamble
Limited, P.O. Box 1 E E , Gosforth, Newcastle upon
Tyne NE99 1 E E . The closing date for applications is
7th November 1980.
Interviews with applicants will be held at the University before the end of term.
FELIX, October 17, 1980
Page 11

