Erratum
We made a boo-boo on the calendar last
week. The Caravan ENTS gig should have
been on November 16, not November 9.
Last Week's Issue
As you must have realised by now, the ruse
about the folding machine breaking down
was merely an excuse to attempt to smash
the record for the largest FELIX collation
staff. If you enjoyed yourself last week, why
not come in every Thursday night for even
more fun. Well done, we're all very pleased
with you . . . and not a single letter of
complaint!
The Man Responsible
I asked John Passmore what he felt about
his Freshers' Ball; he said he could say
nothing but that he was sorry. He said the
same at Union Council on Monday and in
today's 'Preversions' column.
I was most surprised that the matter was
treated so lightly at Council. While it is all
well and good for John to 'do the decent
thing' and apologise for his cock-up, I feel
that this can be no excuse. Mr Passmore has
just thrown F I V E H U N D R E D P O U N D S
worth of Union money down the drain (PG
Group, for instance, have only this amount
allocated for the entire year); D O E S N ' T
A N Y O N E MIND?
So C'mon Council, stop patting John on
the back for being so frank and honest about
his failings; he should write a full report of
the incident so that the situation may be
avoided in the future.
New Feature
You will notice inside an article called
"Soapbox". While the letters page offers the
opportunity for anyone to express their
views, I felt that it would be a good idea to
encourage authors to explore their topics
more fully than the space constraints of the
letters page will allow (i.e. a maximum of one
column per letter). So, the ball is in your
court, articles should occupy no more than a
page and be double spaced. Contributions
will not be accepted that merely attempt to
contradict a previous article: the letters page
is usually sufficient for that. Obviously,
inclusion cannot be guaranteed, but articles
will be kept over for a future issue, if
possible.
Thanks to
Caroline, Patrick, Eric, Dave (3), Colin,
Johnathon, Len, and all those who've slipped
my mind at the moment of writing.
P.S. Thanks to Geoff Reason without who's
organ ours would not have functioned this
week!
P u z z l e C o r n e r
By Scaramouche
Naughty Numbers
Wodge has been applying logic to the problem of obscene telephone
calls, and developed what he calls his 'system'. Last week he explained
it to me, with his customary enthusiasm.
"Take your telephone number, for instance: 57388," he said, waving
his hands about. "You arrange the digits first in descending then
ascending order and subtract the two, giving a new five digit number.
In your case this is 88753 minus 35788, that is 52965."
"How does this fit in with obscene phone calls?" I asked.
"Well, obviously, it's very beneficial for an obscene phone caller to
receive obscene calls himself."
"Or herself," I put in, trying not to sound flippant. Wodge gave me a
pained look and continued.
"Provided we can persuade all obscene phone callers to scramble
their telephone numbers in the way I've just explained, and then make
all their calls to the number they get by this process, and provided all
these obscene phoners have suitable telephone numbers in the first
place, they will each receive highly therapeutic lewdness from one of
the others in the network."
"Ingenious, but it has a drawback," I remarked, after some thought. '
"Even in a town like this where telephone numbers are five digits long,
and may start with an 0, the number of obscene phone callers on your
system will be at most "
How many?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me c/o FELIX Office by
Tuesday noon, please. FELIX has generously donated a small prize for
the first correct solution opened on Tuesday afternoon. There was a
prize last week, too, but true to form, the Editor forgot to mention
this. Congratulations to Ralph Williams, of Chem 1, who won it.
Last Week's Solution
A was told that C got
B was told that A got
C was told that B got
D was told that
E was told that
E got
a third
a second
a first
a first
F got a thrid
F was told that D got a second
From what he was told, F can deduce everyone's results. So F was
told that either
i) E got a first
or ii) D got a second
or iii) C got a second
Now in case i) there is no information C could have received to
enable him to deduce everyone's results. So we can rule out i).
Case ii) leads to the correct solution, while (iii) leads to this:
A was told that B got a second
B was told that D got a third
C was told that A got a first
D was told that E got a third
E was told that F got a third
F was told that C got a second
which is consistent with the students' deductions, but does not accord
with A's comment that he hope he'd done better.
Interesting letter received by the FELIX Office last week
5iV OcWet, ITCO
3 k « S v j | W t t < W v . ,
a^erflOM As r was \MvU WUJ ^ U J m s old
ftMwsWvfejvVACl
0\WUAQ to 1
VfaS
US
wvp«v\o\ GAtaqev
s locoW
SVVNCCJCIU i
of «tof>!e m W
tt\M V J W W ( j u t VWAS ^ O A S a v d w V a VOIAJC "M&t
\l\ol W o I l W A CU\AW4 . 1 tawe alutoxis M
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB (589 5111 ext. 1048/int. 2881) Copyright FELIX 1980. Editor: S.J. Marshall, Advertising Manager: MA. Smith. Registered at the GPO as a newspaper.

