By J. Passmore
Residence
I have had so many complaints from one thing
to another on residence, mainly regarding non-
repayment of deposits, deserving cases not
getting into Hall and the small question of
Robert Pryor House at 53 Princes Gardens as
well as staff living in student residences that
somewhere questions must be asked and asked
s o o n . S o if a n y o n e else has any major
complaints on residence could they please get
in touch with me so that I can add to the file,
and go to see College and try to fix things up.
Greek Students
As you may know, Greece joins the E E C on
January 1, 1981. However, G r e e k students
starting at College now will be charged 'full cost'
fees although E E C students are regarded as
home students for fee purposes. What the
Greek students would like is to pay full fees up
until January 1, 1981 and home fees from then.
However this is not yet the case and there will
be a motion at Council and at the U G M asking
College to charge the new Greek students at
the home rate. Until Registry produce actual
student numbers then it will be impossible to
estimate the amount of money involved. I would
like all Greek students to organise effectively
and hope to do so through Hellenic Society so
that we can work in a co-ordinated fashion.
UGM
The next U G M is on Tuesday, October 28.
The deadline for motions is Tuesday, October
21 at 5:30pm.
Suggestions & Complaints
T h e r e was a meeting of Suggestions and
Complaints on T h u r s d a y , O c t o b e r 9 which
produced nothing of great note. Do not forget
that the Suggestions and Complaints boxes are
available in al! outlets and are the most effective
means of changing or improving the Refectory
Service.
No Dice
I must say that I accept full responsibility for the
N o Dice concert. It was due to a lack of
communication on my part and I would like to
apologise to all those who worked on it or were
concerned with it.
Matters Raised
Noise
After having tea with two ladies from Ennismore
Gardens, who are sick to death of the noise
made by residents in the Princes Gardens Halls,
I'm sure I'd get just as annoyed hearing several
hundred record players blasting, people hanging
out of the windows shouting, etc. So P L E A S E
show some consideration, such as closing your
windows when playing music, turning it down
after 11:00pm, and generally trying to be less
noisy.
Freshers' Fair
Y o u may have thought you'd heard the last of
this (I certainly did!), but unfortunately a table
belonging to Dr C Halls, the Warden of Beit
Hall disappeared from the Bot/Zoo Common
Room during the event. It is a large, metal-
frame table with a veneered wooden top, so if
a n y o n e has seen s u c h a table w h i c h has
suddenly appeared from nowhere, please inform
me or Dr Halls as soon as possible.
Calling All Clubs And Societies
Anyone owning any storage space in the Union
Building, can I please have details of every
cupboard, locker or filing cabinet, where it is
and what it's used for. Then (hopefully) I can
sort out some of the anomalies, and put the
storage facilities to their fullest use.
Any club buying equipment, regalia, stationery,
or indeed anything at all, please remember we
are members of the Students Union Purchasing
Consortium and thus can get hefty discounts
with many firms. So, before you buy anything
come and check out my files, as you may be
able to get a better deal through the Consortium.
Amusement Machines
These seem to be doing very well, but as I don't
play on them myself, I'll have to rely on your
views as to how good they are. So please come
and tell me which pinball or video machine you
prefer, if you have any ideas or new machines,
or perhaps you think the queues are too long and
think we should get even more!
I'll look forward to hearing from you.
Rae
Lizzie's Wee Bit
A F T E R the hectic start to term and the first lot
of parking permits being allocated, life is settling
into a very pleasant routine. However, there are
several points I'd like to make.
The closing date for appeals for parking
places is F R I D A Y , O C T O B E R 17 with the
results being printed in F E L I X on F r i d a y ,
October 24. Any permit which has not been
collected from the U n i o n Office by Friday,
October 31 will be reallocated.
At the time of writing I am about to hold my
second duplicating demonstration. Any person
who attended demonstrations last year must not
assume that they will be allowed to have use of
the gestetners this year. All publicity officers or
secretaries must attend a d e m o n s t r a t i o n .
Should you have been unable to attend the
demonstrations please come and see me.
As far as insurance is concerned all the new
head tenancy schemes run by College and the
Union have been included on the Halls of
Residence policy. The £4 premium will be added
to your first rent bill of the year. Again I will ask
all clubs and societies to bring me an up-to-date
list of their property or equipment so I can add
them to the G r o u p Policy. If a club/society
holds their own policy please bring me a copy,
with the intention of me trying to include it in
the Group Policy.
All for now. j j f l i
C&G
T O M O R R O W a large group of intrepid, brave,
m a s o c h i s t i c G u i l d s m e n will d e s c e n t o n
P o r t o b e l l o R o a d , to e x p l o i t the s a d i s t i c
tendencies of the general public. The idea is to
sell shaving foam 'pies', at a vast profit, to
unsuspecting passers-by who then (the fools)
waste the pies by decorating the vendors' face
with them. This stunt has only been unleashed
on the public once before (by us, anyway) and
made quite a bit of money for charity. So for
something a bit 'different', meet in the Guilds
Office tomorrow (Saturday, O c t o b e r 18) at
9:30am.
Then, on Monday (October 20), is the Civ
Eng Freshers' Dinner. If you haven't got your
ticket yet, you might be too late, so dash off to
the Guilds Office straight away.
The following day (Tuesday, 21) there will be
a Theatre Trip to see Ibsen's Wild Duck,
starring Richard Briers and Nerys Hughes, at
the Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith. Only thirty
tickets are available and are selling fast at only
£2.25 each. There might be one or two left, if
you're lucky, in the Union Office.
See you at 'Hit Squad'.
Once more into the breach dear friends and
another FELIX is with us again. Tonight sees
the last of the Freshers' Dinners, the infamous
Life Sci Dinner, with party afterwards. Anyone
who has been to any of the other dinners can
go the party — it should be good. Hopefully the
dinner will be as excellent as the rest have
been. T o let you recover after the party there is
no Rag stunt tomorrow.
Last week's stunt brought thirty-odd (very
odd) clowns out on to the streets of Knightsbridge.
Unfortunately Multiple Sclerosis were also out
collecting so the total was only £173.46'/2- Top
collector of the day was Rick Jones of Maths 1
with £23.9772 w h i c h i n c l u d e d a £ 1 0 note!
Nevertheless an enjoyable time was had by all
and most people managed to get a ride on Jez.
The next collection is on Saturday, October
25, and is the alternative stunt which the
President and Hon Sec organise. Watch out for
details.
Ents nights out have been well attended and
more are in the pipeline, the Ents Chairman
says, so look out for the posters.
A h well, that's the e n d of this week's
smasheroonie, so it's back to the lab/Union
Office/bar/bed.
PJ
Good time Rich Archer
A good time woz 'ad by all at the Ice Rink!
Barney McCabe
FELIX, October 17, 1980 Page 5

