Prices Down!
As part of our ongoing commitment to improving the Beit
bars, I have the pleasure to announce what weʼve all been
waiting for: price cuts! From now on, in conjunction with
the usual oﬀer, Reef will be only £1.75 a bottle every
Wednesday night. Friday nights also see considerable
improvement with the following spirits and mixer oﬀer:
We are continuing to work on improvements to the bars with new furniture due into
da Vinciʼs next week and I thank you all for your patience whilst we go through
these necessary improvements.
ULU Cups and Leagues
I am delighted to report that after months of behind-
the-scenes lobbying and following a controversial
meeting of the University of London Union (ULU)
Council last Monday, ULU has formally agreed to
allow ICU sports teams to compete in ULU leagues
and cups after Imperial College leaves the University
of London next year. This is great news for both ICU
and ULU as I believe that not only do our sports
teams get a lot out of participating in ULU league
and cup competitions, they also contribute a great
deal to them. I would like to thank our friends at ULU,
particularly this yearʼs ULU President Vicky Slater,
for working with us to reach this agreement.
Union Court – any volunteers?
It may not be the sexiest committee in the Union
but it will hold a lot of power. This month the Union
will set up a new body called the “Union Court” that
will perform judicial, scrutiny and quality assurance
roles in the governance of the Union as and when
required. It will involve a range of experienced
lay members as well as elected students and the
people who sit on this committee will be tasked
with making decisions on, amongst other things,
student media complaints, elections disputes and
constitutional amendments. This body will have the
power to conduct detailed reviews and over-rule
Sabbatical Officers and Union Committees if they
act illegally.
Elections for three vacant positions on the new
Court will take place at the next meeting of the
Imperial College Union Council, which is being held
at 6:30pm on Tuesday 12th December in Lecture
Theatre G34 in the Sir Alexander Fleming Building.
If you are interested in standing for the Court
then please submit a short manifesto (100 words)
to me (president@imperial.ac.uk) by the 11th of
December.
Union Building Update
I am pleased to report
that the Beit Building
redevelopment project is
just about on time and
deﬁnitely on budget. New
furniture for Da Vinciʼs will
arrive next week and this
will be complimented by
even more new furniture
just after Christmas. We are currently working on
plans for phase II of the redevelopment programme
that will, if funds permit, see the construction of a
brand new Student Activities Centre and Gymnasium
in the west wing of the building. I appreciate that
there will continue to be some noise and access
disruption well into the New Year, however I am
conﬁdent that the whole of the phase I programme
will be complete by March 2007. Below are some
images of the work already completed on the central
core.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Update from the President
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
The top of the lift shaft on
the third floor.
Ground floor entrance with
new life shaft on the right.
Jon Matthews
Deputy President
(Finance & Services)
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
Beit Bars Update
Smirnoff and draught mixer: £1.25
Gordons and draught mixer: £1.30
Bells and draught mixer: £1.35
Bacardi and draught mixer: £1.45
London Marathon Competition
The College has secured a silver bond charity place in the 2007 London Marathon, which
will take place on Sunday 22 April 2007. We would like to ﬁnd a runner who will take
part in the Marathon on behalf of the College and help Imperial to raise funds for the
Student Opportunities Fund. Since its launch in 2003, the Fund has so far provided entry
scholarships for 60 talented students who might not otherwise have been able to come to
study at Imperial. The student selected to run the Collegeʼs London Marathon place will be
chosen on the basis of:
• A 300-word statement telling us why you would like to run in the London Marathon on
behalf of the Student Opportunities Fund and Imperial College.
• Your participation in our Fitness Challenge event at 12.00 on Wednesday 10 January
2007, which will test both your endurance and aerobic ﬁtness.
The combined results will enable us to choose a runner for the College, who will then
receive the full support of Sport Imperial to see them through their training and the Office
of Alumni and Development to assist them with their fundraising. To register your interest
in running the 2007 London Marathon on behalf of the College, email your 300-word
submission to s.corcoran@imperial.ac.uk and get training for the Fitness Challenge on 10
January.

