femm
femm
Friday 8th December
Matty Hoban Music Editor-in-
Chief Jenny Gibson & Thomas
Whitson Public Relations Music
Editors
reviews editorial
A
nother month, another Fe-
lix Music Monthly then. This
week, I decided to introduce a
theme of independence. We in-
terviewed bands on independ-
ent labels and we had a chat with one of the
founders of an independent label, Toby from
Transgressive Records. I also took the op-
portunity to interview Everett True, the edi-
tor-in-chief of Plan B magazine; this makes
up part of a feature on the independent mu-
sic media.
In designing a front page, I tried to think of
ways to convey independence. However, my
lady friend came up with a far better idea of
putting some boobies on the front instead.
So you get Liberty Leading The People pro-
moting indieness; obscurity and lo-fi pro-
duction for all.
In this month’s bitrate section, Greg and I
had a discussion over what technologically
binds the indies; in the end it was voice ma-
nipulation. A lot of people (including myself)
will associate indie music with a certain type
of production, ie. clean, well-balanced and
dull. In a lot of lo-fi music the guitars are raw
and the vocals even rawer. This independent
and DIY ethic is what makes a lot of inde-
pendent music the way it is, so we thought
we’d tell you (albeit negatively) how major
labels manipulate their artists.
Of course there is not one way to make
music – it would be dull if there was. It all de-
pends on what you are into and we are just
conveying a point-of-view in our features. If
you want to express your perspective, then
get in touch with us through music.felix@
ic.ac.uk and write us a feature. I write a lot
of features myself so it would be great to
read someone else’s thoughts for once. True
independence is expression of your opinions
without fear.
We are all aware also that Christmas and
New Year’s Eve is approaching and since
this is the last Femm before Christmas, we
are going to give away some CDs. Thanks
to the kind people at LD Communications,
we've got 5 copies of the awesome World's
Best Mum/Dad compilation CDs to give
away. All you have to do to enter is tell us
in 5 words why your mum/dad is the World's
best, send emails to music.felix@imperial.
ac.uk with the subject title “My mum/dad
is the best because...” It is that easy.
Also some of you maybe back in London
for New Year’s Eve and might want to go
out. For those who want to be a bit ‘inde-
pendent’ and go to gig night, I provided a
short list and explanations to where you
can go that might interest you. There is
also an All Tomorrow’s Parties preview
for those who are going and those who
may not have heard of it before.
Next Femm will also have a theme of
WAG: Women and Guitars. We celebrate
all the X chromosome-infused rock music
there is. We don’t intend to be gimmicky,
it’s just so much rubbish guitar music at
the minute is a result of male melancho-
lia; this has to be stopped. So we will be at-
tempting to cover that. We want as many
of you ladies to write in with your views
otherwise I will force my girlfriend to
write everything and a small child called
Alice to lay it all out.
I hope you find some of this month’s is-
sue entertaining and enjoy reading some
of it. It was turtuous for me to put together
as coursework always arrives at the end
of the term. I also hope you have a lovely
and well-earned Christmas holiday and
don’t spend all of it doing problem sheets.
The Music Felix and Femm team wish
you a very merry Christmas and a rockali-
cious New Year. Have a happy hanukkah
and joyful whatever religious festival you
to choose to celebrate!
bitrate
Ever fancied yourself as a pop star? Do
you long for the celebrity life, spending
your mountains of cash in Hollywood clubs,
hanging out with Paris Hilton and Co. sur-
rounded by desperate hangers on, all hoping
to catch a glimpse of you? Have you always
wished that it was your songs the crappy
pub DJ was playing as you drown your sor-
rows in the corner of some chain night-club?
You stay awake at night just wishing to god
that you had that PERFECT singing voice
but you just know in your heart of hearts,
that the horrendously out-of-tune noise you
attempt to pass off as singing is not going to
be appreciated by any audience apart from
that rancid flannel in your mildew encrust-
ed shower at your miserable trailer-park
home?
Well, I don’t, but some people do; and as-
suming you could pass as one of the Irish
guys who look like they’re about to make my
dinner in front of the TV with Grandma very
uncomfortable by dropping their pants and
recreating a scene from “4-Way Bareback
Sailor Pimps”, or you’re a teenage chav’s
wet-dream eye-candy who’s been dragged
out of Southern US-of-A via the boob-job
clinic and 18 gallons of airbrush foundation,
then hooray! You’re in luck; you can be a
modern pop-singer even if your voice does
sound like the dulcet tones of an exploding
moose. Anyway, I’m going to run out of de-
rogatory descriptions for pop-singers soon,
I’m too tired, and they are just not that fun-
ny, so I’ll get to the main point of the article
now.
It probably won’t surprise you much to
hear that almost every single studio record-
ing (and a large proportion of live perform-
ances too) from modern pop stars has had
more attention from computer geeks and
techs than a bittorrent site purely dedicated
to hardcore hentai movies, in the form of
heavy computer correction of the vocals,
and sometimes even the musical instru-
ments. It’s not just pop-singers either, so
called ‘alternative bands’ are culprits too:
Good Charlotte, Sum41, the list of shite
‘pop-punk’ bands is endless, and if you think
they sound terrible now – imagine what the
sound engineers had to go through.
The main tool of the devil is a pitch cor-
rector, a super-clever bit of studio hardware
(or software) that by using the wonders that
are Fast Fourier Transforms, can automati-
cally detect the pitch of a vocal track, and
shift it to the desired note, sound engineers
can make a totally out-of-tune vocal sound
almost perfect, greatly cutting the time and
artist skill required to make a recording.
Live pitch correctors even exist, and are
often used by the likes of Britney Spears
and Cher, they are pre-programmed with a
performance and controlled by the sound
techs so that the voice channel is routed
through the hardware and corrected before
being heard by the audience (although lip-
synching is also often used). So great, now
you can give a performance that resembles
the drunken karaoke at the local working
men’s club, and those clever guys behind
the scenes will make it sound wonderful!
It must be confessed though, that although
pitch correction is greatly overused by some
artists, it still has its uses, fixing one or two
notes in an album is hardly considered to be
cheating, and anyway, if you have a terrible
song, performed appallingly then no amount
of pitch correction is going to make it sound
good (unfortunately we’re not living that far
in the future yet). But we’re rubbish at sing-
ing right? Someone else is going to write the
actual lyrics so it should be OK, so turn that
pitch mofo up to maximum setting, we want
to sound like we’ve had 15 years of the best,
most intensive singing training when we re-
lease our debut single.
So, now that the pitch is all sorted, another
common manipulation to vocals in popular
music is the use of a chorus filter, which as
long as it is used correctly, can transform
your feeble little (already pitch-corrected)
Gregory Mead
femm 2
Friday 8th December 2006
Matty Hoban
singing voice into a rich, glittering per-
formance. This effect is also used for the
musical instruments in some tracks giv-
ing them more presence and superior
sound. Of course, if the settings are wrong
then it’ll sound like an entire church choir
is performing your number which may not
be the desired effect, especially during a
live performance. The choir filter works
by analysing the input signal, creating a
series of very slightly pitch shifted copies
of it and then overlaying them back onto
each other, giving the impression of more
than one source of the sound. It can sound
lovely, or it can sound ghastly, depending
where it is used.
Another fun vocal effect we should al-
ways consider when embarking on the
creation of a new pop song is the vocoder.
This smart machine has two inputs, gen-
erally one voice input and one instrument
input (e.g. keyboard) and by using some
very clever mathematical transforms, or
some crazy analogue filters if you’re liv-
ing in the 70’s, splits up the voice signal
into a given number of its main constitu-
ent waveforms, which are then recreated
using a new fundamental frequency from
the instrument. You can create some cool
manipulations of your voice pitch shifting
to a tune you play on a keyboard, or even
better – you can make yourself sound like
a robot (see Daft Punk and Kraftwerk for
overuse of this effect), so it doesn’t mat-
ter squat how badly you sing, in these in-
stances you can just speak the lyrics into
a microphone and it sounds AWESOME,
so if you are a budding pop star and your
singing voice is so appalling that not even
the pitch corrector can save it from obliv-
ion, you might want to consider electronic
pop music as your path to superstardom.
An entire arsenal of other effects and
manipulations are available to the sound
recording engineer, allowing them to
make the perfect track basically from
scratch, you don’t need to sing for shit,
other people will write your songs and
session musicians will perform the mu-
sic! Or, if you want to form a band, your
other members don’t even need to be able
to play their instruments, pitch correctors
work even better on musical instruments
than they do on voices! So what are you
waiting for? Just make sure you shag the
right people in the music industry and you
might find yourself the next one-hit-won-
der this Christmas.
Yo La Tengo play at the Kentish
Town Forum in North London: “I
left soundly knowing that there
are some good musicians alive
and well and brimming with
ideas.”
features
4
6
Everett True, editor-in-chief
of Plan B: “One suspects they
[NME] think females making
music is a fad, which is weird,
because personally I think males
making music is a fad and I wish
it would stop.” PAGE 8
“It is sold out and it is far away
from London but the independ-
ent music festival, All Tomor-
row’s Parties’ Nightmare Before
Christmas is happening this
weekend.” PAGE 10
Win this CD!
Read editorial for more info!

