reviews
femm
3 Friday 8th December 2006
releases
Deerhoof
Friend Opportunity
(Kill Rock Stars)
Life is full of the obvious. Our day-to-day
activities are littered with obvious conver-
sations, obvious jokes, obvious observa-
tions, and we are constantly surrounded
by obvious music. The tinny, stray rhythms
escaping from many a commuter’s white
earphones entering our personal areas on
the tube; the omnipresent ‘edgy’ chart hit
emanating from the nearby HMV or Virgin
Megastore. Music has become so accessible
and ingrained into our daily lives that each
medium and facet intermingles with an-
other; advertisements and TV programmes
have led to many a successful track. Yet do a
lot of us think about what we are listening to,
or are we succumbing to the obvious nature
of it: the typical verse-chorus-verse struc-
ture with that catchy chorus and forgettable
verses. Do we want more?
I find this is where people often divide.
Some of my friends have never wanted more
apart from a huge, sing-along chorus and
throwaway, rhyming lyrics. I, on the other
hand, always wanted more. This might make
me a natural critic, but I just wanted more
than the obvious; I want to be challenged.
One thing that niggles though when I want
this is that I also don’t want to be, well, bored.
A lot of ‘challenging’ music is frankly boring.
It is just magical when a band comes along
and strikes a balance between big melodies
Reigns
Styne Vallis
(Jonson Family Records)
HHHHH
Certain things remind me of England;
namely, British Rail tea, the shouting of feral
kids, and warm ales. To this list, I can add
the Somerset duo Reigns and their second
album, Styne Vallis.
Thisisnohalf-comfortingMorrissey-esque
England of rainy afternoons in city centres
and teenage disappointment. No, this is the
England of tiny villages, of strange local
legends, of country life, and of the sinister
hiding just below the mundane. I guess what
I’m trying to say, stripped of writer’s preten-
tion, is that this is the audio equivalent of the
cult 70s horror, The Wicker Man.
Reigns’ previous record was, on first lis-
ten, a collection of reasonably pleasant
instrumental pieces constructed from pi-
anos, violins, acoustic guitars, processed
feedback and field samples. Further listen-
ing revealed a much more complex record,
one that seemed squeezed free of any cruft,
leaving only gorgeous melodies and a deep
sense of that enjoyable, warm-blanket kind
of melancholy. There was something there
that was much more than the combination
of the parts.
As the previous record, They Lowered A
Microphone Into The Ground was, Styne
Vallis is a concept album in the best sense
of the word – one where the narrative ele-
ment only serves to enhance your pleasure
at discovering how the songs fit into the
whole story being created. Styne Vallis is,
apparently, a town that was flooded in the
dying days of the 1970s to make way for a
reservoir. The water, however, turned putrid
and could never be filtered, something to do
with the town’s reputation for incest and vio-
lence. The pair have created an utterly be-
lievable story (via their MySpace, and in the
accompanying booklet) that you’re never
quite sure whether this record is meant as a
documentary effort, or merely an elaborate,
Lovecraftian construction.
To the music, then. The opening track, The
Lost Black Mass Footage, shows this new,
refined Reigns. Voices sound as if they’re
being beamed from the bottom of the ocean,
weird and twisted, repeating “and then, the
dead, shall die, again” over snappy snare
drumming and motorik bass. Oh, and tons
of bizarre field samples that sound like mu-
tated crickets chirping. In short, awesome.
The whole thing comes across like a group
of folk musicians that have just discovered
Merzbow and Sigur Ros and are attempting
to capture the former’s disturbing noise and
the latter’s, well, brilliance.
Wedding of Weed and Dead Weed is the
other side of Reigns; the emotive, heart-
string-tugging duo, using their vocoders to
sing stories of love and inevitable loss. What
stops this tale of young lovers growing old
becoming mawkish and awkward is the way
the words conjure up the mundane aspects
of their lives. The supernatural element is
still there: the man dies before Styne Vallis
is flooded, and the distorted narrator relates
how he still wanders the empty, weed-cov-
ered streets underwater. I’m a particularly
stony-hearted bastard, and this still gets
me.
My favourite by several hundred kilome-
tres is the bombastic Volcanoes Of Taiwan.
The song opens with pretty guitars set
against field samples of flowing water and,
best of all, uses the ticking of a grandfather
clock as its backbeat. Before you’ve had time
to grow tired of the sheer prettiness of it all,
Reigns are pounding out optimistic piano
chords over thunderous, stomping drums,
as a faraway voice intones something along
album review the lines of “awaiting.. explosions”. I can’t
tell, but that doesn’t matter.
Experimental pieces like Revised Map of
the British Isles, a song constructed from
typewriter noise and a lady’s voice intoning
the names of places to be removed, added
or modified to the map, impress greatly with
their originality. The simpler pieces, like Di-
vorcee, seem to have an aspect of traditional
song about them with their simple, memo-
rable melodies and piano/acoustic guitar
orchestration.
I really can’t say any more, as it has be-
come impossible to accurately describe
Reigns’ sound. In a way, you can think of
them as “post-rock”, but that would do them
serious disservice. The range of instru-
ments on offer is huge, and not all songs feel
the need to be slaved to a beat; in fact, some
of the best tracks feature no percussion at
all. The most important aspect of this record
is the sheer Englishness of it; I grew up in
a small village in the north of England, and
the field samples and melodies here remind
me of home, of days spent in the woods,
and of the melodrama of small village life.
Perhaps if you’ve lived in cities all your life,
this record will seem like a charming set of
pretty little songs to you. To me, however,
it’s much more.
Andy Sykes
and challenging ideas.
Okay, this is all well and good but what
about Deerhoof? Well, this band is, in the-
ory, the best band on Earth: they have a
female Japanese singer (Satomi Matsu-
zaki), constantly shifting structures and
ideas with a distinct pop-edge and they
also come from San Francisco, the hub
of creativity. They have all the potential
to master the divide between the obvious
and the avant-garde. Yet there has always
been something that has put me off them.
Their 2005 album, The Runners Four, was
critically lauded wherever it was listened
to. I thought it was okay, not amazing, this
was due to Matsuzaki’s vocals; they of-
ten deterred me throughout. The album
was apparently an intense experience
to record and is equally intense to listen
to. So in the end, the album was rather
disappointing.
Since their 2005 effort, a lot has changed
with the band. They have toured with gi-
ants such as The Flaming Lips and Radio-
head, and received admiration and confu-
sion in equal measures from fans of both
of these arch-groups. They also lost Chris
Cohen – to the band The Curtains – in the
line-up and so are now refined to a three-
piece. These changes may have added
focus to the band to produce the goods
and be more defined in their song-writing.
This remains to be seen.
This is me rambling on anyway; you’re
probably interested in what this album
sounds like. Many have described them
as anything from noise-rock to psych-pop,
and I guess this is accurate, but I think
they are a pop-rock band trying to inject
something interesting into this medium.
The melodies are catchy and addictive as
witnessed on opener, Perfect Me, which
will have you singing the following lines
falsetto: “Me, me, me, me, meet the per-
fect me!” It is addictive whilst the music is
constantly shifting from foot-on-the-moni-
tor rock riffs to spluttering drumming – an
impressive feat considering how sparse
Greg Saunier’s drum-kit is – with organ
stabs and jabs. I really think it is a bril-
liant song and raises the bar for the rest
of the album. Does the rest of the album
compete?
Well, yes and no, second track, +81 starts
off with a brilliant trumpet intro and then
has a chorus including the phrase, ‘beep
beep’. This can only be a good thing! The
verses tend to let it down though as they
are a bit boring and just not Deerhoof. A
distinctly poppy- funk edge reminiscent of
Architecture in Helsinki comes through
on Believe ESP. The lyrics are incompre-
hensible but effective use of lala’s save
it. The rest of the album then disappears
into a bit of a blur between long keyboard
passages and whispered Japanese vocals.
The final track, Look Away is 11 minutes
and 45 seconds long and harks back at
their more psychedelic edge but just has
the effect of not going anywhere. Losing
Cohen proves to be a mixed blessing.
album preview
Deerhoof looking jolly; probably because they make jolly music
FOUR PAWS MEDIA

