live
It was the turn for Camden to
host Yo La Tengo tonight. An
American dreamy, noise-pop
trio, promoting their last release,
I Am Not Afraid Of You And I Will
Beat Your Ass, on my home turf,
I grapsed this rare chance to see
them.
Hugely consistent veterans of
the music world, amassing over
10 LPs - a sign of their talents,
variety, and greatness. A pre-
mier-league band. Churning out
their latest release with quite ac-
claim it’s hard to see when YLT
will stop.
Place these guys in The Forum,
an old art-deco cinema, a venue
with a history for hosting legends
of the genre, meant for a specta-
cle. But standing in the queue
outside in the cold for 20 minutes
before realising that the ticket
in my hand meant I could enter
straight away, I missed the sup-
port act. Walking past the casual
bag inspector into the standing
section, I fought my way into the
mass of fans to gain a good spot,
the 2,000 capacity filling up.
Shortly after 9pm Ira made
his way upon stage, followed by
Yo La Tengo
Kentish Town Forum
HHHHI
femm 4
Friday 8th December 2006
his wife, Georgia and long time friend/band
mate, James. YLT began with a mellow, au-
tumnal track, displaying the singing capa-
bilities of their female drummer/vocalist.
Switching back from the main microphone to
the drums lead to a rockier follow-on, Pass
the Hatchet – a noisy nine-minute six-string
freak-out, supported with a framework of
subtle drumming and basslines.
The well-engineered acoustics in The Fo-
rum meant my ears weren’t deafened after
every struck chord; I could enjoy YLT for the
duration.
After a marvellous 3 songs, Ira began
speaking with the crowd. After the recent
hospitalisation of the Bloc Party drummer
for presumably going to the edge at one of
their tours, they highlighted the physicality
of drumming, joking that Georgia was capa-
ble of going quite mad – “hopefully this won’t
happen right here”.
Shifting gears, the set continued regard-
less with Sugarcube, a powerful, crunch-
ing guitar-led song that stands out as one of
their greatest, which was greeted well. The
set progressed, punctuated with intervals of
dream-like tracks comparable to My Bloody
Valentine, bringing together hits from their
mass of albums.
With a band like YLT, with such an im-
mense back catalogue, there’s always going
to be songs that you wished they played but
didn’t. They’ve certainly taken the negative
reviews of the last gigs (playing mostly B-
sides) to heart and certainly made amends,
exciting the crowds with fan favourites like
Tom Courteney, before moving into longer
Yo La Tengo up in Kentish Town
US indie stalwarts accompany Tool and The Sunshine Underground
Tool and Mastodon
Wembley Arena
I’ve wanted to see Tool for a fair
few years now, and I’ve heard
quite a lot of conflicting reports
about their live act; “mesmeris-
ing” and “tedious” are the adjec-
tives I’ve heard most often. It just
goes to show that the one thing
that can be agreed on is that
Tool excels at dividing opinion.
Everything they’ve ever done
has attracted praise and scorn in
virtually equal measure. Having
shelled out £30 for a ticket, I ob-
viously wasn’t a hater, although
I must admit that some of the
more zealous fans I have spoken
to have occasionally shown a dis-
turbingly cult-like adulation for
the band!
Arriving at Wembley Arena fol-
lowing a tube journey that was
something of an epic in itself, we
got to our seats just as the prog-
metal monsters Mastodon had
kicked off with one of the many
anthems from their latest album,
ominously titled Blood Moun-
tain. Unfortunately, their set
turned out to be a bit of a damp
squib, as the half-full, half-inter-
ested Wembley Arena struggled
to hear the tunes past the bowel-
emptying levels of bass. A typical
problem with loud opening acts
at big arenas; yet even taking
into account the absence of such
contributors to said album as Josh Homme
of Queens of the Stone Age fame, I felt dis-
appointingly ambivalent over their perform-
ance. Fortunately, the last few tracks taken
from Leviathan made up for this, setting the
stage nicely for what would come next.
What followed was a tense, suspenseful
wait for Tool, during which everyone who
hadn’t bothered to turn up for Mastodon
filled up the arena. 45 minutes later the
headliners appeared. Front-man “May-
nard” James Keenan, only 5”7, was utterly
dwarfed by the rest of the band (average
height 6”4), but clearly marked out by his
bright orange jacket and bright red Mohi-
can. Indeed, it really must be added here
that Tool’s stage presence really was some-
thing to behold, with Maynard sporting the
Taxi Driver look against a background of
video screens displaying the bizarro quasi-
mystical-sci-fi-bullshit art of Adam Jones.
Thus all doubts about this not being Tool
were systematically removed like any kind
of termite or roach!
As soon as the distinctive introduction to
Stinkfist begun to ring out, the arena erupt-
ed into mass jubilation; strange when you
consider that the song alludes to a sex act!
Indeed, the lyrical content on most of their
songs has a fairly subversive element to it,
such that they have often attracted the ire
of religious groups. Then again, the actual
sincerity of the implied hedonism or ‘Satan-
ism’ is quite debatable. They then made the
frankly unusual choice of making Swamp
Song their only inclusion from their first
proper full-length, Undertow. It certainly
sent some people off-kilter, but went down a
killer with the crowd nonetheless, even if it
was a fairly straightforward hard-rock piece
compared with the trance-like progressive
metal most fan boys have come to worship
Tool for. Before long they had launched into
Jambi, which was followed by Schism, thus
showing off their evolution well in the space
of four songs’ range. So far, so pleasantly
surprised!
“Good evening! I have good news and I
The Sunshine Underground
King’s College London Union
The Sunshine Underground are one of a
number of new bands coming out of Leeds.
They make up part of the emerging New
Rave (or, as the Metro describes them,
“funk-punk”) scene – think Klaxons, but
with tunes. We set off on a cold November
Tuesday to go to the KCL Student Union, a
Ah, the famous problem of who is going to solo first. Solution: no solos
CHRIS PARROTT
melodies with The Story of and the hypnotic
Blue Line Swinger. The latter begins hesi-
tantly as a group of loose musicians playing
their own thing, uniting slowly, building up
to one mind-blowing climax – as heavenly as
music gets.
Thanking the fans before disappearing for
a break, YLT came back to deliver a fan fa-
vourite, Today is the Day. These aging rock
stars, getting tired, had another break – well
deserved. Maybe three encores was a bit
too self-indulgent, but they came back to
play requests from keen front row-ers. Ira
gave a look to the other band members,
Autumn Sweater, a groovy, stand-out
track that closed out their second encore.
They ended the night with one last song.
Incredible.
I left soundly knowing that there are
some good musicians alive and well and
brimming with ideas.
Christopher Parrott
have bad news” bellowed Maynard. “I'll start
with the good news. Good news: On drums,
Danny Carey; Irish! On guitar, Adam Jones;
Welsh! And on bass, Justin Chancellor; Eng-
lish! (Got the most cheers, naturally) And
the bad news is: there is no bad news!” I’d
pretty much guessed from the lack of Sober
that this was Tool on a high, something con-
firmed as they proceeded to plough through
most of 10,000 Days in the space of the next
hour.
Despite doubts from many, including my-
self, that this album was leaning too much
towards the kind of alterna-pop produced by
Maynard’s other big project APC (A Perfect
Circle), songs such as Rosetta Stoned and
The Pot came across much better live and
were fantastically well received, whilst the
solemn title track itself was almost over-
shadowed by the accompanying laser show.
But of course, they had come with the in-
tention to rock, and rock they did with their
mathematically-derived prog opus Later-
alus and 10,000 Days opener Vicarious. And
then they triumphantly finished with the
angst-ridden epic, Ænima, a rant against
their adopted home of Los Angeles inspired
by late comedian Bill Hicks. The band then
bowed out for an extended standing ovation
at the end, with an intense feeling of eupho-
ria throughout. If there was a song I would
have personally liked them to have played, it
was Parabola; but now that would’ve been
too perfect.
Alex McKitrick
cosy venue with a perfect atmosphere for
a band of this type, expecting a torrent of
drunken indie dance and glowsticks.
Supports Friendly Fires and Ghost Fre-
quency did almost as little to impress as
the bar prices. Friendly Fires were appro-
priate perhaps in style but all their songs
seemed to blend into a rather uninterest-
ing twenty minutes. More time song writ-
ing, less time buying confetti perhaps?
Ghost Frequency were totally out of place
with their brand of muddy emo and re-
ceived little encouragement from the
audience.
The Sunshine Underground were there-
fore received with relief and excitement
when they launched into set opener Wake
Up. This was followed up immediately
with perhaps their best known song, Put
You In Your Place. It was at this point that
the crowd really started to liven up – the
crowd was jumping in unison for nearly
the whole night. The great songs came
thick and fast, not least their “smash
number one hit” (perhaps in French
Guiana…), Borders. Perhaps disappoint-
ingly, You Never Party, not a bad song in
itself, seemed a little flat and the crowd
didn’t respond to it, perhaps because it
was the only non-album song in their set.
Commercial Breakdown, the penultimate
song, built the crowd up to a massive cli-
max with energetic singing and dancing,
ready for the final song Raise The Alarm
– complete with trademark manic cow-
belling and a stage invasion.
Despite a lack of communication with
the crowd, the band gave a great perform-
ance, with a tight dancey rhythm section
accompanying their indie-pop tunes. As
there was, disappointingly, no encore,
all that was left to do was for the band to
throw microphone stands at each other
and for us to claim trophies of an extreme-
ly memorable, if exhausting, night before
the long journey home. This kind of thing
is what indie gigs are all about.
Toby Shaw and Dominic Conquest

