reviews
femm
5 Friday 8th December 2006
releases
A Fire Inside have always been a band that
has passed me by. Even though I have my
finger on the pulse of the American punk
scene, I have never bothered to give them
The Panic Channel
(ONe)
(Capitol)
HHHHI
album review
AFI
Love Like Winter
(Polydor)
HIIII
single reviews
Some albums and in fact many albums I
love are like fine art, a delicate montage of
strokes, made up of a foreground, subject,
background and often naked artists' muses.
They layer emotion in thick oils, lead the
eye and subject you to vistas beyond belief.
But that isn't what (ONe), Panic Channel's
debut album is like. No, this is not a Consta-
ble, this is a Pollock - a canvas that the artist
has thrown everything in the studio at. This
is not a child’s painting - that beautiful in-
nocence is the realm of Bjork – and it isn't
a crap painting either – hell I could splash
a bit of paint on a canvas. This is a Pollock,
a careful blend of chaos and colour, so de-
pendent on personal opinion.
Modern rock has been defined by the
likes of Pearl Jam and when Jane's Addic-
tion released Strays the move into the more
conventional realm of hard rock lost some
of their core fan base. Strays was a great
album but the loss of Eric Avery meant the
loss of funk. His replacement came in the
form of Chris Chaney, a bassist who took
huge scoops of tone and tube distortion and
smothered it over Navarro's sweet licks. The
album was still good and Perry's voice still
worked so it was a shame to see the band
split, again. Alas, all was not lost, the rem-
nants of the Jane’s Addiction; Steve Perkins,
Chris Chaney and Dave Navarro went on to
form The Panic Channel with vocalist, Steve
Issacs (of little previous fame). The result is
this Pollock of rock. It is balanced, well pro-
duced and a wonder to hear. There is no har-
monic double flat isotropic scales here, it is
just good old fashion riffs and power ballads,
yet done well.
Take Blue Bruises; coming in towards the
end of the album this song is nothing too
special, has been done before and is predict-
able, but performed with relish and talent it
sounds pretty darn good. Like Audioslave,
just changing the singer of a group will nev-
er reinvent it. Said You'd Be and Outsider
both reminded me of tracks from Strays and
Ritual de lo Habitual – laid back melodies,
lots of guitar delay interspersed with brief
licks and a milky bass line but it never gets
as painful as Audioslave trying to perform
RATM songs at Brixton Academy. On closer
inspection there is depth to the lyrics. While
Said You'd Be takes a swipe at the possible
false promises of Farrell for the brief refor-
mation of JA, Outsider is Issac's realisation
that the band behind him is exactly that and
something their long history will mean he is
never an integrated part of.
From the Queens of the Stoneage-esque
opener, Teahouse of the Spirits, to the clos-
ing Lie Next to Me it is easy to dismiss this
album as generic and just a little bland and
on the surface it is – I mean a Pollock is just
splashed paint, right? Wrong! Under the sur-
face there is complexity and order and that’s
what sets this long player apart from all the
other American rock band releases.
Nick Simpson
a try. Perhaps I never bought their faux-
Goth image, or maybe I didn’t want to enjoy
the music of someone who voluntarily calls
himself Davey Havoc (I never bought stage
names either). Probably both. So here I
am, trying to make amends for those times
I may have been a little judgmental and
condescending.
As it turns out, I was right. AFI lack the
grit and guts of many of their peers. Love
Like Winter is full of thin synth orchestra,
slow hollow verses and only picks up pace
in the chorus. The overall feel is of a band
trying to develop a more diverse sound. Of
course, this isn’t always a bad thing, but it’s
generally accepted that when punk musi-
cians try to adapt musically it rarely works
(i.e. Angels and Airwaves, +44, The Ataris).
The song is lyrically bland “She bit my lip,
and drank my war, from years before”, with
Davey Havoc’s weak whine adding nothing
to them.
I come away from this song feeling dis-
appointed. AFI have a large fan base, who
must like them for a reason. Their earlier al-
bums are meant to be very good, so why the
departure from their hardcore roots? My
guess is that these guys are growing up and
have had enough of playing music for under-
21s. Is this inevitable? I don’t know, but let’s
hope that other punk bands don’t go down
the same road to mediocrity.
Francesco Padormo
Red Hot Chili Peppers
Snow ((Hey Oh))
(Warner Music)
HHIII
The Chilis, you’ve got to love them, are the
age of your parents but still churn out dou-
ble albums and stadium tours like nobody's
business. Their latest release is from Sta-
dium Arcadia, an album which follows their
line of increasing commercialism. This is
less of a criticism and more of an observa-
tion; when any guy hits forty, he is going to
have a bit of a midlife crisis and get into easy
listening, which is essential what this is.
Gone is the genius of Scar Tissue or Other-
side and the funk of original guitarist, Hillel
Slovak, that has not resurfaced since it was
last seen in diluted form on Mother’s Milk,
the first release after Hillel’s death in 1987.
To the modern fan this is probably their
dream Chili’s single though. Catchy, warm-
ing and stereotypical of their recent work it
is true chart-fodder, but beyond that it is just
another milestone in the decline of one of
the 90s greatest groups.
Nick Simpson
The Hours
Ali In The Jungle
(A&M)
HHHHI
Bands like The Hours are ten a penny these
days and apart from their art-rock roots dis-
played passionately by a Damien Hurst de-
sign for their EP cover there isn’t much else
to tell them apart from the crowd. Razor-
light, Snow Patrol, The Zutons et al. wrote
the book and The Hours are just reading it,
but as Alan Bennett can prove, a fine reader
can make even a tired book interesting.
Ali in the Jungle can be summed up as
guitar music and emotional men. Bare-
bones drumming, a twee piano line and a
soundclip from the Rumble in the Jungle
commentator do nothing for breaking the
stereotype. But just like hearing Johnny
Borrell's backstage version of Golden Touch
from Glastonbury I can’t help but fall in love
with the sentiment which wraps this song in
a silver lining.
It is futile telling myself the album is going
to be a mush of less thought-out and poorly-
penned songs because the single is great
and memorable – something popular music
lacks in abundance. For that The Hours de-
serve credit but don’t hold your breath for a
spectacular follow up.
Nick Simpson
We now head off on a complete tangent
to my last classic album, the indietastic
debut by Easyworld. Few bands keep you
guessing like Liars (pictured above), and
their most recent albums have kept then
on the murky side of obscurity (though I
know there’s at least one other person at
IC who is a fan, I Facebook stalked you).
On stage you will confront 7ft tall man
beast Angus who dated Karen O of Yeah
Yeah Yeah’s fame and likes to wear night
dresses and giant bear gloves. Their back
catalogue includes a concept album about
witches, a concept album about a drum
who journeys to Mt. Heart Attack, and
some very obscure and abstract EPs.
Though I love Liars even when they
write abstract songs called If you’re a
Wizard then why do you need Glasses? I
can see how it wouldn’t be to everyone’s
liking. However, their debut album They
Threw us all in a Trench and Stuck a
Monument on Top is indisputable genius.
It eerily predicted the whole New York
Punk-Funk-New-Wave-whatever scene,
and was indeed created in New York. I can
hear the seeds of bands like !!!, The Rap-
ture and LCD Soundsystem in songs like
the amazing Mr. You’re on fire Mr., and the
rest is full of sharp rhythmical guitar mu-
sic, aped by people like Moving Units and
a gazillion others. There is a real decon-
structive and abrasive feel to a lot of the
album as well, certainly inspiring bands
like Whirlwind Heat.
They Threw us… begins with monotone
singing and various bits of household per-
cussion in the form of the song Grown Men
Don’t Fall in the River Just Like That,
before bursting into machine-gun sharp
drums and guitar, with a scene-starting
funky bass line and a rousing chant of Can
you hear us! It’s gloriously messy and cha-
otic. Garden was Crowded and Outside
boasts my favourite typewriter solo (I ac-
tually know of three songs with typewriter
solos) and Nothing is Ever Lost or can be
Lost my Science Friend does something
unholy to a drum with a delay effect. Liars
continue messing with sound on We Live
NE of Compton where the whole band
seem to be somehow sucked backwards
into an aural point before the song bursts
into pure danceable punk-funk joy.
Many people have been turned off Liars
by their more recent and highly abstract
albums, to the extent that they forget how
the band started. They Threw us… sounds
achingly cutting edge even now, five years
after its release. It has managed to influ-
ence (or at least pre-empt) not only many
bands but also several scenes and is more
exciting, more inventive and just plain
better than any of them. You are missing
a vital piece of the musical jigsaw that was
the turn of the millennium if you do not
own this album, a piece just as important
as The Strokes’ Is This It? And the last
track on the album is 30 minutes long…
’nuff said!
James Millen
Liars
They Threw Us All In A Trench And Stuck
A Monument On Top
(Blast First)
classic album

