femm 6
Friday 8th December 2006
artists
in
focus
Meet the future of the indies
Going with our independence theme
ths week, James Millen has a word
with Jeremy Warmsley, who is on
Transgressive Records, after his
recent gig at 93 Feet East and Matty
Hoban introduces Blood Red Shoes
who have released records through
many indie labels
T
here was that tin-
gle in the air that
told me it was time
to head out to East
London again, a
magical land full of curry hous-
es and trendy accountants.
The draw was Jeremy Warms-
ley, a fine singer-songwriter
who combines indie with lap-
top wizardry. I took my chil-
dren on the green line (daddy
loves you), and we avoided the
gauntlet of Indian food outlets
that is Brick Lane to reach the
trendy warehouse-esque arts
and experimental music ven-
ue 93ft East.
The first band on was run
by Jeremy’s keyboardist Tom
Rodgerson. It was all rather
abstract, with Saxamophone
and a drummer drumming
with pencils. But then at the
end it got LOUD, and you, I and
apple pie know LOUD is good.
So they saved themselves.
We missed out on next band
Absentee since some brash
rogues accosted us from
across the street at Vibe Bar.
These handsome scoundrels
were none other than Fu-
ture Corpses, Imperial’s only
decent band (you heard me
Jazz&Rock, what ya gonna
do about it eh?) They seem to
have upped their game from
post-rock-by-numbers-+-vio-
lin to rocking a bit like really
early (and I mean really early,
scenesters) Biffy Clyro, a com-
ment that I was sure was going
to bring me pain, but instead
found hugs. Aw, youse guys!
I chaperoned the kids across
the road and back into 93ft
East for a nifty £3.50 pint of
Asahi (I’m so cool), and await-
ed Mr. Warmsley. Now I was
rather excited, being quite a
fan, and was curious as to how
he’d reconcile his heavily lap-
top altered music live. Another favourite of
mine, Martin Grech, gets over the technol-
ogy boundary by turning all his live songs
into metal. One can but dream. So onto the
stage strolls young Jeremy, with his indie-
boy haircut and black-rimmed rectangular
glasses. He launches into the pleasant jan-
gle/marching band song I promise to the
delight of the crowd.
Live he uses a standard set up, bass gui-
tar, keyboards, drums, an underused laptop
and himself switching between keyboard
and guitar. The band is very tight, and relies
on no fancy effects. The best way to sum up
how it sounded was given by Jeremy himself
later in our chat: “We do cover versions of
Jeremy Warmsley songs”. It was perfectly
satisfying in general, due to Jeremy’s great
voice and the general musicianship and
quality of song writing. It fell down when he
decided to do a slightly limp acoustic version
of 5 Verses, an otherwise amazing song, that
would require some technical gymnastics to
pull off live.
He’s only one album, an EP and a spatter-
ing of singles in, so there wasn’t so much ma-
terial. Highlights included forthcoming sin-
gle I believe in the way you move and album
opener Dirty Blue Jeans. I was surprised at
how perfect his voice was, I suspected that it
might be a bit hit-and-miss from record, but
a heavy touring schedule has kicked it into
shape. There was at least one new song fea-
tured, and initial thoughts are that he ain’t
gonna be a one album guy.
I was ushered into the backstage dressing
room for a chat, conducted in a rather jaun-
ty side-by-side fashion since we were being
filmed. Turns out that Jeremy grew up in
the pleasant London suburb of Kingston. He
began writing at the age of 16 on his own, a
habit he has stuck to (except recent collabo-
rations with his keyboard player). He wasn’t
really exposed to a scene, just schoolmates
with whom he formed the odd, and not very
good, band. The experience of being in go-
ing-nowhere bands, and the freedom of
not having to make compromises kept him
focused on solo work. He had a quite bril-
liant club night called Jeremy Sings the Hits
where he would do covers of songs by Bob
Marley, At the Drive-In and the Smiths.
All his composition is now done with your
standard bedroom gear and an acoustic gui-
tar for the very cool Transgressive Records.
Jeremy doesn’t stick to a set compositional
style, little scraps of lyrics build with lit-
tle scraps of melody and then are thrown
together to make something beautiful. He
prides himself on never having written a
lyric whose purpose he couldn’t explain.
You should check out 5 Verses in particular,
where quite a beautiful story is spun.
I ask Jeremy whom he considers his mu-
sical peers and he clearly struggles, in the
end deciding to say his music life is too self
contained to be thinking about others. He
worries enough about losing inspiration,
about the day when the first two barren
hours in the studio turn into a barren day,
a barren year etc. Perhaps he finds comfort
in his supportive fan base, built up on the in-
ternet, using forums such as MySpace and a
blog. He likes to demystify the concept of a
musician up on a stage by familiarising with
people, and admires Lilly Allen for her very
human blogs (though he is seemingly una-
ware of the hideousness of her music). Plus
a blog gives him something to do when he’s
off tour!
And it has been quite a tour, starting in the
summer with festivals, supporting various
bands through September (such as the Mys-
tery Jets), and culminating with his headline
tour, of which tonight is his last night. Now
he will head back into the studio do some
remixes of a Larrakin Love song, and a Tilly
and the Wall song. Busy times ahead for this
imaginative young man, it’s certainly worth
going to the link below.
Jeremy’s new single “I believe in the way
you move” is out on December the 18th
and his debut album “The Art of Friction”
is out now
www.myspace.com/jeremywarmsley
B
righton knocks out band after
band with ease. There is a good
chance though that you only know
a few of them. You may know the
likes of The Eighties Matchbox B-
Line Disaster – who are apparently still go-
ing – and the naughty things they want to do
to your mum. There is also Electric Soft Pa-
rade who are now releasing records through
Truck Records. On the female front, there is
Electrelane who had albums recorded by
Steve Albini (he recorded Nirvana’s In Utero
and The Pixies’ Surfer Rosa). Along with
these better known bands, there was also
another great group called Cat On Form
(2001-2004). This short-lived band were
young, energetic and frankly what every-
one needed at that time. They have since
produced many off-shoots and here is one
of them, Blood Red Shoes.
Blood Red Shoes could exceed the popu-
larity and brilliance of Cat On Form, but
to compare them to their old bands is be-
sides the point – especially considering
that of the two of Blood Red Shoes only
one has been in the aforementioned. This
duo – Laura-Mary Carter, guitar and vo-
cals and Steve Ansell, drums and also vo-
cals – make music that is simultaneously
melodic, raw and accessible. By their own
admission they say that, “We don't tend to
sit on straightforward structures or ways
to play our instruments because we'd get
bored and we don't want to make cheap-
shit predictable music.”
They also have an impressive work
ethic; I saw them play three times in what
must have been a month-and-a-half, and
mostly unintentionally. They say, “We've
notched up about 120 live shows and 4
singles. We reckon we've worked pretty
hard.” I’d agree with them and they’re de-
termined to not rest on the laurels of their
former bands.
It is also a well-meaning determination
when they say, “We want to move people;
make them dance or shout or get excited,
and we don't want to come off like rock
stars or some amazing otherworldy be-
ings!” Otherwordly? Never, when they
make this world so much fun.
Their latest single, “You Bring Me Down”
out now
www.myspace.com/bloodredshoes
DARKDAZE
ANNA HALL
Blood Red Shoes: Laura-Mary Carter (left) and Steve Ansell (right)
and below; Jeremy Warmsley (far-left)

