feature
the
scene
femm
7 Friday 8th December 2006
S
tarting out with an ambitious plan
creating a label that was “ethically
sound and that would release the
best records in the world”, Trans-
gressive has progressed beyond
what most people would expect. Currently
responsible for putting out a seemingly end-
less list of great artists including The Young
Knives, Ladyfuzz, Rumble Strips, Mystery
Jets and Regina Spektor, they seem to be
going from strength-to-strength with eve-
ry release. With the recent signing of The
Shins, Foals and Jeremy Warmsley we’re
sure to see some great things from this in-
dependent London-based record label in the
future. With an emphasis on allowing bands
to create their own sounds without label in-
terference, they are an ideal match to art-
ists who don’t want to end up sounding like
every other commercialised band. A proper
indie label.
Transgressive records have come a pret-
ty long way since you started out, has it
Transgressive behaviour
Clockwise from top-left: Foals, The Shins, Ladyfuzz and The Pipettes
turned out anything like
you expected it would
back then?
We were always ambi-
tious to create an impor-
tant,iconic,andtrustwor-
thy music source - purely
because we want to help
represent artists the way
we feel they’re supposed
to be portrayed. So many
quality acts become dis-
illusioned in the music-
industry - we try to fulfil
our acts’ desires accu-
ratelyandenthusiastical-
ly, whilst also providing
great quality packaging/
artwork, treats for those
that buy the music... It’s
easy to be stagnant and
do things on auto-pilot,
but being involved with
music/releasing artists
is a gift and a wonderful
opportunity - why be
mediocre?
To now be in a position
where we can compete in the charts with
original, vital new music, that’s subversive
and challenging, yet infectious, as well as
still release music on a very limited, col-
lectible scale... It puts us in a unique and
fascinating position. We’ve released over 50
records in two years, and we’ve poured our
heart and souls into ensuring every single
release is as strong as possible.
I assume you get plenty of demo discs sent
in to your office regularly, what sort of fac-
tors would you be looking for in a demo
before you decided to sign the artist (apart
from them sounding good obviously...)
To be honest, don’t over-hype yourself; good
music talks, not a self-penned press-release
or fancy sellotape to seal the Jiffy Bag. al-
though, that said, it’s nice to occasionally
receive ‘bribary’ - such as miniature bottles
of alcohol or chocolate. Although these tend
to serve as distractions from the bands that
do this elaborate/pricey procedure (perhaps
that’s the motive!).
But, jesting aside, be honest about what
you’re wanting to achieve, why Transgres-
sive is THE label for you (if you feel it is!),
and that’s it.
We sadly don’t accept many artists via
demo submissions as we get sent a volume
which is insane. Best bet for new bands is
to gig locally, build a following, gets lots of
friends on your myspace, send us a link,
and we’ll try our best to listen... Apologies
that we’re a bit crap sometimes - we don’t
spend huge amounts of time seeking out
lots and lots of new things, as we have a lot
of projects on at the moment... Maybe it’ll
change in a few months!
Up and coming and super popular London
type bands seem to dominate your cata-
logue, are you looking to keep this format,
or are there any plans to conquer the world
with any big future releases?
This is a bit of a misconception we suffer
with at the label; we’re not THAT London -
the bands we have are from as varied places
as New York (Regina Spektor), Austria (La-
dyfuzz), Brighton (The Pipettes) and New
Mexico (The Shins), even the ones from
‘London’ are from the real suburbs.
We’re just into music being good - where
it’s from is irrelevant... There’s no map on
our walls stating, ‘Next - JAPAN!’. It’s what-
ever’s unique and special. I’m from High
Wycombe (urgh), and Tim who I co-run the
label with, is from Essex.
I know you got into the music industry at
a young age, but how did you actually get
started with Transgressive Records?
Tim + me + meet at a gig = chat in a pub =
TRANSGRESSIVE! We felt like we’d known
each other for years, before we had... It was
a real meeting of tastes and insights... And
several years experience of blagging on
guestlists for our music-writing (Tim used
to write ‘Roadkill’, a great fanzine; I used to
edit, but still overlook rockfeedback.com).
The label naturally progressed...
Any advice for budding young record label
executives out there?
Only release music you know innately is im-
portant and vital, or you’ll flounder. There’s
no such thing as an easy shilling, and peo-
ple will smell a fake. Just work with artists
that you know HAVE to be making music,
and whose motives are pure and undying to-
wards their cause. Greatness is universal.
You seem to be branching out into other
aspects of the music industry, broadcast-
ing, managing etc, any future plans to ex-
pand on these?
It grows all the time! Doing a TV show was
a natural one, too - ‘music TV is lame...
let’s do our own’! And now ‘rockfeedback
tv’ is on not just MTV2, but Channel 4, too.
It’s very humbling. Club-nights are great
fun - whether our monthlies at Buffalo Bar,
under ‘the basement club’ moniker, every
4th Thursday of the month, or the Trans-
gressive Roadshows... It’s so exciting to
have that direct connection with music in
the live capacity. Management is equally
rewarding - Johnny Flynn, who we’ve just
started working with, is a genius. We also
publish The Noisettes, too - a former one-
off singles act... They’re touring with Muse
in Europe as I type; blimey...
Being an indie record label, how do you
deal with the actual business side of
things (artistic control etc) do you have
any sort of model for this?
The model is the artist comes first, and
we’re slaves to their cause (or therea-
bouts). However, we will step in and give
advice/prodding when
we feel it is necessary
- just trying to motivate/
encourage, and make
sure whatever magic it
is they’ve unearthed for
themselves, that it stays
intact and that we might
be able to help preserve/
enhance it!
Anything we should
keep an eye out for in
the near future from you
guys?
2007 is going to be stellar.
This is why:
FOALS. Our amazing
new signing. The best
dance-rock band for
years, so intelligent, so
visceral, and shockingly
stunning live.
MECHANICAL BRIDE.
She’s awe-inspiring, and
so talented for years so
young.
THE SHINS. Third album in, and we’re
lucky to be putting out this incredible
record.
JEREMY WARMSLEY. His 2nd LP is due
in 2007 - he’s a genius, and a father to the
emerging folk scene. A true star.
BATTLE. At long last... the astonishing
debut LP
. It was worth the wait.
Finally, where do you see yourself in 10
years time? Still working in the music in-
dustry, TV or both?
Goodness knows; it’s day by day, the only
masterplan is to keep rep-ing amazing
musical talent, and trying to do things the
way we feel they should be done. We’re
probably deluded beyond belief, but - so
far - it’s feeling good.
Now meet Toby L, co-founder of Transgressive
Records, the independent label that signed Jeremy
Warmsley, Gregory Mead had a word with him
Other independent labels
The Beggars Group is the largest inde-
pendent label in the UK, it consists of
4AD, XL recordings and Beggars Ban-
quet. They possibly will be putting out
future releases of Blood Red Shoes.
Rough Trade are consistently good and
have been going for ages. Matador has
put out Pavement and Interpol amongst
other goodies and Southern are excel-
lent for your more avant garde music.

