femm 8
Friday 8th December 2006
Independent Thought
The independent music media is broadly described as
the music media that is self-contained – and tends to
be of smaller scale – and not belonging to mainstream
thought and large media companies, either in print
or on the internet, Matty Hoban looks into the
alternatives to the mainstream music press
T
his may seem obvious
but just as music needs
independent labels;
it also needs an inde-
pendent music media.
The spirit of independ-
ence comes from often
being opinionated and
outspoken about music and promoting
bands that are making music that may
not get recognised by the mainstream. I
think it is fair to say that those who care
about music will work that little bit harder
to discover more and the independent mu-
sic media can be a great tool for that. The
people who tend to work within the inde-
pendent media tend to be just as enthusi-
astic about music as those willing to seek
out alternatives.
It may surprise many that the NME be-
longs to IPC media which is a large pub-
lishing firm which also puts out Loaded
incidentally. I say it may surprise because
the NME’s focus tends to be on male guitar
bands, that have been known to be called
‘indie-rock’, despite many of these bands
being on major labels (as always, there
are exceptions). With more mainstream
publications, the communication of opin-
ions and thought can be controlled and
there have been some examples of this in-
fluence in the NME, in certain album polls
and various features. Being an independ-
ent publication means retaining independ-
ent thought and focussing on what makes
music brilliant and communicating this is
in an enthusiastic way.
Before you start accusing me of major
label and publications bashing, I am not
writing to criticise but merely to inform. If
my opinions occasionally come through then
that is all they are: opinions. In fact, I invite
criticism from others; anything but apathy.
So, if you like your music but constantly
want to hear new things and experience new
and interesting ideas then it is worth invest-
ing a bit of time and maybe a bit of money
(if you’re buying a magazine) in something
that may challenge your initial ideas of what
those same old chords and melodies can be.
You may also find it counter-productive for
me to talk about other publications when I
could be talking about bands making new
and exciting music. Well, there is a grain of
truth in that, but Femm is run off the volun-
teer writers’ efforts and so we are limited
in the amount of time and energy we have;
it is far more worthwhile of you to go out
and seek new pastures of ideas, which can
be presented in a better way than in these
pages. It is also good to know that there are
alternatives and knowing what you are look-
ing for considering most of the publications
can’t afford advertising.
So what is there for you to find out? There
are fanzines, e-zines, online communities,
pamphlets and more traditional looking
magazines. Now you know pretty much eve-
rything, I can only elaborate. Fanzines (or
zines) are what they sound like: magazines
written by music fans and they’re usually
very cheap as it is very easy to word-proc-
ess a few articls and put some pictures in
and photocopy the results. When punk came
along (thankfully), more fanzines were put
out such as the famous Sniffin’ Glue. Dis-
tributions of fanzines often just depend on
the dedication of the creators and in London
currently there is a deficit of zines.
One journalist who started off writing for a
fanzine called Communication Blur
– a zine run by the Poptones and
formerly Creation record label boss,
Alan McGee – is Everett True (origi-
nally known as Jerry Thack-
ray). True has written
for the NME and Melo-
dy Maker (when it was
still around) and re-
ported on the mu-
sic emerging
from
Wash-
ington
State,
USA in the late eighties and early nine-
ties ie. the ‘grunge’ and early Riot Grrl
scene; he has very recently released
a definite account of Nirvana called
Nirvana: The True Story. For those
who want more iconic background in-
formation, Everett True pushed Kurt
Cobain in a wheelchair onto the stage
at that Reading Festival perform-
ance. I had the good fortune to have
a few words with Everett about the
music press and various other inde-
pendent media related things.
In more recent times, Everett was
editor of Careless Talk Costs Lives, an
independent magazine that lasted 12 issues
(on purpose) and was published between
January 2002 and November 2003. He [Ev-
erett] is now editor-in-chief of Plan B maga-
zine which is now released monthly; is a
good alternative (in my opinion) to the NME
and Q if you ever grow tired of their bland
journalism.
Since Everett has been involved in many
publications – both independent and main-
stream – I inquired as to which publication
he is most proud of. He replied: “Probably
Careless Talk Cost Lives, simply because
that was the magazine we created out of
nowhere; we had a specific plan and also,
personally, that was the one [Careless Talk
Costs Lives] I wrote every single cover sto-
ry for. We viewed it specifically as art and we
knew it was going to exist a specific amount
of time. We had a sense of creating history
with every issue.”
Careless Talk Costs Lives was intended
as a replacement to what the creators saw
as a decaying British music press. By limit-
ing themselves to 12 issues of the magazine,
they created a sense of purpose. Also by
running a magazine for a short amount of
time, does it reflect music as disposable and
Everett exclaims that, “Music is disposable.
There is nothing wrong with seeing music
as disposable. It is only the importance you
choose place on it as a listener.” Whilst say-
ing this I feel True pipe into punk ethic as a
reaction to over-pretentious music.
This becomes evident when he says, “In
the late 60s/early 70s there was a pop-rock
divide when bands started thinking that
what they were doing was really important,
with some kind of worth.” He then goes on
to mock the “Beard-stroking men playing
20-minute guitar solos because it was, ‘Re-
ally important, man!’” Everett asserts that,
“I’m not on the side of those people, I’m on
the side of the disposable pop-kids, like Phil
Spektor and early
Beach Boys. I think
pop music is impor-
tant, I still listen to
things I listened to
30 years ago, but
it should not make
them anymore im-
portant. I think more
people should treat
music as dispos-
able then you might
not have people like
Bono or
Chris Mar-
tin around. If
people took them at
their value they wouldn’t
have a career, because as soon as
you have a career you take things for
granted and stop trying.”
This vitriol is what Everett is partly re-
nowned for; it seems a product of a music
fan going into music journalism, starting
from opinionated zines and being disil-
lusioned by the music business. I was in-
terested in what he thought of the main-
stream British music press at the moment
(as he worked both at the NME and Melody
Maker) and he replied, saying, “I don’t re-
ally see the music press in Britain, I have
no idea what that is.” He expanded on this:
“I saw a news story in my local free paper,
saying that the NME had discovered wom-
en, which is nice, but I do wonder if they
risk alienating their readership by writing
about women. Of course, you have the Ob-
server Music Monthly which is for people
who listen to music once a month. I really
just don’t understand Q; if you hated music
that much why would you bother putting
together a magazine?”
On the subject of women in NME, he
thinks that, “One suspects they [NME]
think females making music is a fad, which
is weird, because personally I think males
making music is a fad and I wish it would
stop. I think Plan B next year is not going to
cover any men making music at all.” This
attitude is easily noticed from a lot of Plan
B covers; bands with female members
dominate a lot of the covers eg. The Gos-
sip, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Cat Power and The
Research recently. I chuckled at all of these
unashamedly, but more matter-of-factly:
“In terms of the role the music press plays
overall. Well, everyone exists in their own
tiny world; Plan B exists in its own world,
so does NME. We [Plan B] happen to write
about more bands. Which is kind of weird
as the NME comes out every week.” Of the
[NME] now, he gets the impression that,
“Conor [McNicholas, NME editor-in-chief]
is a fan of music, which is good.” He does
concede however that, “I don’t actually pick
up the NME, it’s not aimed at me, I’m not
13-years-old and illiterate.” Personally for
Everett, the music he discovers is through
word-of-mouth and for me, that is also true

