feature
femm
9 Friday 8th December 2006
the
scene
since I can count on a few of my friends who
know what I like, to recommend me some-
thing. However, if your friends don’t have
good music taste, a magazine might help
you out.
Enough NME slating, I want to discuss
the role – in Everett’s mind – that Plan B
plays; I think it fills a void between the vacu-
ous nature of NME (OK, not all the slating
was finished) and the pretentious nature
of publications like The Wire (independ-
ent magazine that discusses more avant
garde artists). He [Everett] partially agrees
when he says, “We like to think we’re both
vacuous and pretentious at the same time.
There’s nothing wrong with being vacuous!”
He begins to chuckle a little and elaborates,
“The problem with being vacuous (and pre-
tentious also) by nature is that it often isn’t
entertaining for opposite reasons. I was
actually writing about this a couple of days
ago, that the Paris Hilton single is actually
a very good single but the album is absolute
rubbish. That is a very good example of be-
ing vacuous in small portions.” Plan B came
directly as a result of Careless Talk Costs
Lives ending and Everett says, “Careless
Talk enabled us to do a rival commercial
magazine out of it [Plan B].”
But in his own words, Plan B is: “Another
community really. A community that is in-
terested in searching out exciting music
that doesn’t necessarily follow the fashions
of the day but follows its own slightly weird,
tangental path. It’s like one big music club.
In the old days, there would’ve been a priest
or something.”
This article does intend to be informative
and so discussion should move onto the
internet and zines. The internet has made
opinions more accesible; anyone can start
a music blog for free and there are many
words out there for you to read all over the
internet. A lot of these words are written
by over-enthusiastic fans defending their
favourite band. There are online communi-
ties like www.DrownedinSound.com with
forums, reviews and interviews. I often fre-
quent the advertisement-free www.Dusted-
Magazine.com for my obscure music fix and
for music news and happenings in the US,
there is www.PitchforkMedia.com.
On the subject of online communities, Ev-
erett True says, “I’m all up for online commu-
nities, I love online communities. It shouldn’t
be confused with magazines because they
are an entirely different form of communica-
tion. It’s great for enthusiastic people to get
their views across without having to worry
about toning it down at all or writing in a
certain style as with magazines.” I read an
article the other week that compared online
zines to magazines, I thought it was a bit of
a pointless exercise as I don’t see many peo-
ple reading books on their laptop screens.
Everett seems to agree when he says, “It’s
like saying just because something is being
shown on TV means you shouldn’t listen to
the radio. TV and radio are two entirely dif-
ferent media in the way that the internet and
magazines are different. I am really shocked
that after all this time, people are still con-
fusing the two.” Of things online, he also
thinks that, “MySpace is just fantastic, it’s
so much fun, and YouTube’s the same way.”
Music should be accessible and the internet
has revolutionised this, so much so that the
establishment has grown to fear it in some
ways. Back to home ground in some ways
with the fanzine. I asked what he thought the
role of the zine is, he responded: “It depends
why you listen to music, and what you get
out of it, but personally I always loved writ-
ing that makes me feel enthusiastic about
music, and makes you want to check it out.
Zines are incredibly important, even now,
especially now in electronic form or writ-
ten form. I think they’re great because they
make people enthused about music. This is
one of the reasons why I like Artrocker. It
is made by a bunch of people, who are not
the most professional in the world but are
enthusiastic about their music.” I recom-
mend you all go out now and make a zine
about your favourite music and distribute it
at wherever you frequent, or even better, get
together and make one. Write about some-
thing. Do something. Now!
From top to bottom above: Artrocker, DrownedinSound, Dusted Magazine, Pitchfork
Useful links of Independent Media
Plan B Magazine
Dusted Magazine
DrownedinSound
Artrocker
Playlouder
Pitchfork
The Wire
The Imperial and LSE (possibly with UCL and King’s College inclusion) Alternative Mu-
sic Societies are planning on starting a zine in the new year. It will contain reviews and
articles of general music happenings and advertising each others’ gigs and an attempt
to get involved with other London colleges as we leave the University of London. If you
want to get involved then e-mail matthew.hoban@ic.ac.uk if you are interested in get-
ting involved.
www.planbmag.com
www.dustedmagazine.com
www.drownedinsound.com
www.artrocker.com
www.playlouder.com
www.pitchforkmedia.com
www.thewire.co.uk

