All Tomorrow’s Parties preview
femm 10
Friday 8th December 2006
It is sold out and it is far away from London but the independent
music festival, All Tomorrow’s Parties’ Nightmare Before Christmas
is happening this weekend. If you are lucky enough to be going then
here are the artists that will be playing, if you are not going then here is
something to make you feel bad
A
ll Tomorrow’s Par-
ties is the name of a
brilliantly melanchol-
ic song by The Velvet
Underground and
also a Gibson novel;
it is also the name of
a music festival that
has been going for 7 years.
Founded by Barry Hogan in 1999, it was
created as an alternative to the large cor-
porate faced festivals around at the time
such as Reading. The setting was also in
entirely different approach, it was to be
based at a holiday camp in Camber Sands
(now in Minehead, Somerset for this
weekend). This provided a very intimate
setting for bands who wouldn’t necessari-
ly be playing the main stage at V Festival.
Another simple premise of All Tomor-
row’s Parties (or ATP) is that they gener-
ally have musicians (or occasionally visual
artists) to curate the festival. This means
that they invite their favourite bands and
performers to come along and play at the
festival. This idea was best described by
Thurston Moore (who is curating this
weekend’s Nightmare Before Christmas),
when he said, “It’s [ATP] the ultimate
mixtape.”
So, for those who can’t stand being dis-
gustingly muddy in a field surrounded by
drunken idiots and being numbed by sta-
dium rock, then ATP seems ideal. Previ-
ous bands/artists to curate the festival are
Mogwai, Tortoise, Shellac, The Mars Volta
and Autechre. This might give you some
idea of the music you could expect to hear;
if you’ve never heard of the above bands,
then you may not have heard of a lot of
the bands playing, but that doesn’t mean
they’re rubbish. Simpsons creator Matt
Groening also curated in the US version
of ATP
, so the festival does throw interest-
ing line-ups. It is the personal approach
which endears the festival to so many; it
has more of a community than your aver-
age mainstream festival.
Anyway, onto this weekend, where a
plethora of psychadelic, noise, punk and
noisy-punk bands are playing. As I men-
tioned, Thurston Moore (guitarist and
vocals of Sonic Youth) is curating and he
The delightful chalets of old residence of ATP
, Camber Sands in East Sussex
runs his own label called Ecstatic Peace, so
a lot of the bands due to play at the festival
are on this label. Other bands playing are
performers that Thurston just loves, so if
you know what Sonic Youth sounds like, you
might know what to expect.
It might not surprise many to hear that
Iggy and The Stooges are headlining, since
they are one of the main influences on Sonic
Youth. Iggy et al may be getting on in years
but they still can tear it up like back in the
day, so expect all the classics from Raw
Power played loudly and also, statesman-
like; their power has not yet diminished.
Obviously Sonic Youth will be playing, and
so will The Melvins (pictured below), who
have been around almost as long as Sonic
Youth and inspired Nirvana (they both came
out of the Washington scene in the 80s). It
could be described as grunge but it is a dull
and cumbersome definition when it is a lot
more. The Melvins have a new album out
(came out in October) called (A) Senile Ani-
mal, this may be a reflection on their age but
I’ve had a listen to it and it doth rock muchly;
look for a track called Blood Witch from the
new album, I love it.
Another band that have been around for
over 15 years are Bardo Pond, an American
psychedelic group with female vocals (and
occasionally flute). But don’t let the tag,
psychedelia put you off, if it does, the guitars
are edgy and the sound is large like early My
Bloody Valentine. Their tracks are on the
long side but their expansive sound needs it
so they can get inside your head, have a fid-
dle around and exit through your earhole.
If psychedelia isn’t edgy enough for you
then hardcore pioneers Negative Approach
who reunited this year. They along with Mi-
nor Threat (Fugazi’s predecessor band)
helped define hardcore in the 80s, and
their experience will win you over easily.
This is just a small taster of what to ex-
pect, acid-drenched folk can be found in
the form of Six Organs of Admittance and
instant garage-punk tunes are presented
by Be Your Own Pet (on Ecstatic Peace
records). If you like psychedelic solos then
go for Comets on Fire or if you want clas-
sic post-punk then go for Gang of Four.
Clockwise from top-left: Be Your Own Pet, Sonic Youth (Thurston Moore is curating ATP), Comets on Fire psyching it up, The Melvins and Iggy and the Stooges in action

