T
hepre-orderswerefilled
weeks ago, and now wii
finally have a chance to
play Nintendo’s latest
step in the console tree.
With inferior technology, but sever-
al innovative twists, Nintendo once
again are staking their success on
lateral thinking, and by standing in
a very different corner to Microsoft
and Sony.
Finally, people are talking Nin-
tendo again. In the past, way in the
past, they were gaming. There was
nothing else worth talking about.
But as new technologies game in
they were pushed out by a greedy
pursuit of shinier surfaces.
Don’t get me wrong – Nintendo
made a lot of cock-ups, and in some
cases their stubborn desire to op-
pose certain changes has just shot
them in the foot. They snubbed the
CD, they snubbed the DVD (and
still are) and they pooh-poohed
the internet. But one thing never
changed – they always played.
Nintendo lovers are a special kind
of fanboy. It’s groupieism that’s
gone bad, eaten too much sugar,
and then watched an entire season
of South Park in a day. But read an-
ything written by Nintendo guru de-
signer Shigeru Miyamoto, and in an
instant you can understand where
that love springs from.
They loved the SNES, the N64,
the Gamecube. They loved every-
thing, whether it was good or not,
and that worldwide dedication
is what let Nintendo take a new
chance each time around. They’ve
never stopped pushing the ideas
they had, no matter how much they
were ridiculed.
So the question that everyone
seems to be asking, as they do eve-
ry time Ninty make a new stride, is
“is it the Big One?” – is it going to
fall into Great Gaming Mistakes of
History, or will this take us into the
realms of playing that we couldn’t
even conceive of previously? And
even though we always ask it, out
of a kind of courtesy, this time they
really seem to have struck a chord
with the public. They can boast
about a $200 mn marketing budget
for the Wii, but the truth is this: this
console has marketed itself.
You don’t get that a lot. The 360
pissed cash all over the American
media, until you couldn’t switch
on a TV without seeing a grinning
bald guy. Sony – well … Sony are
just Sony, and in a respectful, ma-
fia-like way, if Sony bring out a piece
of electronics, then you feature it if
you can. But Nintendo really only
hold sway with people who are al-
ready gamers. The Mainstream
don’t need to mention them unless
they’re talking about the eighties.
A long, long road to Revolution
What makes Nintendo’s products so timeless? Tony Plana checks the odds on Nintendo’s latest gamble
A
nd this is why the Wii
fascinates me. I’m kind
of interesting in play-
ing Tennis with the
Wiimote, I guess. And I
like Nintendo as much as the next
gamer. But the Wii has got people
gaming almost without them real-
ising it. And that’s going to prove
invaluable in years to come, both
for industry profits and for gamers,
too – a richer demographic means a
more varied release schedule.
There is some concern, though,
because in Nintendo’s quest to
take over the non-gamer they may
find … not much else. Should you
get a Wii? Yes, probably. Zelda is
as swords-and-shields-y as you’ve
come to expect, and Super Mario
Galaxy will be a brilliant use of the
controller, no doubt. But don’t be
fooled – this technology isn’t per-
fect. And ultimately, if Nintendo
want to woo non-gamers, they’re
going to need a different kind of
game than we’re used to. Sure, Su-
per Smash Bros. Dojo is going to be
as frantic as you’d expect. But the
other console contenders probably
aren’t too worried.
Why? It’s not because they’re just
going to throw cash at the problem
until it goes away. Well, not entirely,
anyway. It’s mainly because they
know that the Wii won’t satisfy you.
And that’s the bottom line. You’d
have to have a very good argument
to deny that Nintendo’s offerings
are some of the finest first-party
software ever devised. But de-
spite this, there’s never enough
substance. Smash Bros. will be a
great party game, and Zelda will,
of course, be gripping single-player.
But there’s nothing as weighty as
Halo 3, nothing as deep as Final
Fantasy, nothing as epic as World
of Warcraft. Nintendo can easily get
a Wii in every home, but it won’t be
alone for very long.
And so that’s the question you
need to mull over if you weren’t for-
tunate enough to get a pre-order in
for December 8th. If you decide to
get a Wii in the new year, you’ll be
hard pushed to regret the purchase.
But you’re also going to wind up
wanting a Playstation 3 or an Xbox
360 before the end of the year.
In amidst all the bitching and
name-calling of the run-up to next-
gen, Microsoft’s Peter Moore told
Reuters, “People are going to buy
two [machines] … they’re going to
buy an Xbox … and a Wii. For the
price of a PS3.” That wasn’t idle
smack talk. Whether the Wii really
woos the public will be seen, but
gamers may need to get “the good
stuff” from more than one dealer
– and Sony and Microsoft know it.
Zelda: Twilight Princess is one of the most anticipated games for the Wii’s launch window. No-one does first-party gaming like Nintendo
Nintendo’s entire philosophy has been that of fun, and this came up again and again in the press releases and build-up to the release of the Wii. It’s hard not to be drawn in
28 felix Friday 8 December 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

