F
or years, people have been
saying that games aren’t
as good as they used to
be, and for years they
have been wrong. The
most common complaint is a lack
of innovation – that modern games
rely too much on swanky graphics
and neglect innovative or engaging
gameplay, while in retrospect it is
considerably harder to spot the old-
er games that were sold on grounds
of their shiny graphics since, after
a couple of years, they all begin to
look equally unimpressive.
But these blinkered retrophiles
seem to ignore the vast swathes of
innovative games that have come
along over the years as well as the
formulaic pap of yesteryear, though
in many ways the latter is for the
best. But all the same – how can
one deny how original games such
as Worms, Black & White, Pikmin,
Radiant Silvergun, Rez, Grim
Fandango, even the likes of Super
Mario Sunshine and countless oth-
ers have been?
The clichéd complaint in these
circumstances is of “selective am-
nesia”, but this is exactly the sort
of thing that goes on; new games in
the Metal Gear / Metal Gear Solid
franchise are criticised as being
indicative of the insistence on con-
stant sequels to a successful idea
instead of being praised for con-
stantly pushing the envelope and in-
novating more and more with each
iteration; retro obsessives rejoice
in criticising the slew of drab first-
person shooters of recent years
whilst ignoring similar occurences
such as the slew of derivative plat-
formers of the late-eighties / early
nineties.
Of course not every FPS is go-
ing to be a patch on Half-Life, or
even Wolfenstein 3D, but many
retro games aren’t worthy to be
mentioned in the same sentence as
Elite, Pac-Man, or dear old Pong.
So I shan’t.
So does the Wii, released this wiik,
herald a possible end to this back-
ward-thinking grumbling? Certain-
ly, it’s the most revolutionary con-
sole to be released, at least since the
death of the cartridge, possibly ever
(though mention must be made of
the Virtual Boy, also from Nintendo,
which was innovative without being
in any way consequential).
Whilst other leading manufactur-
ers fill their consoles with faster
and faster processors and more ad-
vanced graphics chips and simulta-
neously add features to turn their
consoles into fully-fledged home
entertainment systems, Nintendo
have focused on what should be the
most important thing when creat-
ing a console – fun.
T
he very idea of the con-
sole, from its bizarre
controller to its childish
name and even its stand
for holding it up at a
jaunty angle, not content with for-
mulaic notions such as “lying flat”
or “propped on its side”, is very
carefully calculated to bring across
Hands on: Why Wii will rock you
A wiivolution? Hugh Stickley-Mansfield’s been there and done that, and it’s all in the wrist apparently
the notion of fun, either through
psychology or by providing it out-
right. Certainly, wireless controllers
are nothing new, nor even infra-red
ones, but never have they come as
standard with a console instead
of seperately for use only with the
likes of Duck Hunt or Turbo Bass
Fishing Deluxe 3.
That the very hardware that
comes as standard is neccessarily
immersive cannot fail to make the
games manufacturers conscious
of the potential of these devices for
non-standard gameplay, in a way
that hasn’t been provided by add-
ons to previous consoles such as
the Eye-Toy.
The notion that anyone could
fail to have more fun swinging the
controller about as though it were
a sword as opposed to repeatedly
pressing buttons to hack and slash
is utterly laughable, though this
view seems to be held by many seri-
ousgamers(anepithetwhichshows
their position up as ridiculous - the
point of games is quite deliberately
not to be serious), though that’s
not to say they won’t themselves
be won over by a control method
which immerses them physically
into the game through more than
a rumble function in the controller.
It is this immersiveness that is key
to the charm of the Wii; whilst more
traditional control methods draw
players out of the game by forcing
them to translate what they wish to
do in the game into a combination
of buttons and joystick movements,
an intuitive system of essentially
acting out one’s role pulls one fur-
ther in.
Sadly, I doubt anyone who already
feels the same way as I do will read
this, what with it being published
on the wiilease date, and those
who have pre-ordered one will be
too busy battling their way through
Zelda to bother with anything so
mundane as a newspaper. But they
already know I’m right.
The Wiimote in the elegant lady gamer’s right hand is where most of the action goes on, but the Nunchuk in her left is a key add-on
Machinima producer? Clan gamer? Internet addict? 1337? Or a writer? Felix Games is planning 2007 and
we want gamers at Imperial to get in touch. Email games.felix@imperial.ac.uk for more information.
Super Mario Galaxy will take the series yet another step further
29
felix
Friday 8 December 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

