Wielding the
mighty organ
I
am tired. Really, really tired. This first term has
been an absolute nightmare in Felix, with comput-
ers breaking, steam pipes leaking into the office,
printing mishaps, and one memorable occasion
where we were nearly six hours over deadline,
and I was on the tellingphone begging the printers for
just ten more minutes (oy, vay).
Oh well. I won’t whinge about it any more. I’m just glad
that this is the last issue of term, and I can go back to,
like, having a life, eating, and occasionally sleeping.
I’ll take this opportunity to say: if you’re not happy with
Felix, then find me and tell me. You can email me at fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk, or you can find me in the Felix office
most hours of the day or night. I will try to reply to every
email I receive personally. At the end of the day, I am
only the caretaker of Felix; I make sure it gets put out,
gets advertising, and looks acceptable. I can’t write eve-
rything, so if you want something to appear in the paper,
or you want to be part of it, then let me know and I’ll do
my best to try and sort it out. I have no way of judging
how successful I’m being – if I don’t get any overt com-
plaints, I assume that you’re happy.
I’ll not comment on the Islam stuff on these pages -
see the Letters page for my responses. Take them all
with a pinch of salt. You should read Stephen’s editorial
to the right of my big dumb head for a measured plea
for peace.
I like Christmas, even though I don’t believe it’s the
birthday of some bearded guy who was nailed to a tree
2000 years ago for saying how nice it would be to be nice
to one another for a change. It’s all about wrapping up
against the cold, shitty weather, and the fact that when
the rain is coming down horizontally in London you feel
like you’re in a film. Oh, and drinking with your relatives.
My Grandma, bless her heart, becomes completely bonk-
ers after she’s tipped a couple of glasses of wine down
her neck at the Christmas dinner table. She’ll always
trot out some memorable phrase we’ll all chuckle about
for the next 12 months; for example, she once annouced
to the room: “Andrew, you used to be such an ugly look-
ing boy, but you came out alright in the end.” She’ll also
ask horribly personal questions about my love life, and
now she’s started doing it to my sister as well. There’s
nothing more embarrassing that being quizzed on your
recent sexual conquests by a drunk 80-something year
old lady you’re related to. Ah, how I love her, and I mean
that honestly.
This editorial was brought to you by a very nice bottle
of vodka that myself and a good friend consumed. Thank
you, sir, for you are a gentleman. I’ll leave you with news
that as I write, a tornado has touched down in London
about five minutes walk from where I live, but I’m at
work instead. I guess God missed. Hah!
Enough is enough now!
A plea from our exasperated Comment Editor about recent issues
I am a member of a minority viewed
with suspicion by many and feared by
some. Being Irish, it has been some
years since I was last considered to be
from a background conducive to ter-
rorism, ever since the IRA were super-
ceded by Al Qaeda as the main terror-
ist threat against Britain, but recently
I have become one of the bearded of
society. Pogonophobia - the fear of, dis-
like of or aversion to beards - is more
prevalent in western society than ever
before. After all, three of America’s
most hated people are bearded - Fidel
Castro, Osama Bin Laden and, after his
spell hiding out from US troops, Saddam
Hussein are probably the most famous
bearded men of recent times. As such,
I find myself viewed with considerably
more suspicion than I was as a clean-
shaven gentleman - on boarding planes
I am taken to one side to have my bag
Beards and the beard prejudice
Hugh Mansfield
searched, and I find myself stared at,
often with open hostility, wherever I go.
There is a religious precedent for
such prejudice, alas - Isaac’s sons Esau
and Jacob were known for being very
distinct in this regard - Jacob noted
that “my brother Esau is an hairy man,
but I am a smooth man”, characteris-
tics upon which their tale hinges. As
Isaac’s sight fails him, Jacob tricks him
into giving a blessing meant for Esau by
covering the exposed parts of his hands
and neck with goat skins in order to ap-
pear as hairy as his brother. And yet, it is
the deceiver, the smooth criminal, who
is viewed favourably by God, who states
in Malachi 1: 2-3; “Yet I loved Jacob, but
Esau I hated, and made his mountains
a desolation, and gave his heritage to
the jackals of the wilderness.” It seems,
then, to be a mistake to depict Him as a
bearded old man, given his disdain for
the bearded Esau, but it is heartening
to observe that artists throughout the
ages have not been quite so prejudiced
against the hirsute.
More notably, in popular culture a
character having a beard is often used
as shorthand for ‘this chap isn’t to be
trusted’, and nefarious types are sign-
posted in this manner all too often rath-
er than giving them believable motiva-
tions or character flaws. For example,
Fu Manchu is often portrayed as having
a long, thin beard (though, I am pre-
pared to admit, mistakenly so, since the
character as written has no such thing)
and The Master, Doctor Who’s arch-
nemesis, invariably sports a goatee, no
matter how many times he regener-
ates. And in both popular culture and
real life, bearded women are almost in-
variably regarded as grotesques.
Perhaps the most compelling exam-
ple of pogonophobia is that of Richard
Nixon who, in the first televised debate
in the leadup to the 1960 US presiden-
tial election, wore no makeup to hide his
stubble and was consequently viewed
as sinister and untrustworthy by the
viewing public, despite those listening
on the radio generally agreeing that his
performance was the more compelling.
Though this prejudice, whilst deeply
hurtful and upsetting in itself, simply
isn’t anywhere near as much of a cause
for concern as predudice on the grounds
of skin colour or the like since I, and any
other bearded man, have the option to
remove it at any time. And in the case
of those for whom wearing a beard is a
religious observance, those who would
view with suspicion are more likely to
do so out of religious intolerance than
on merely cosmetic grounds, while
some will look on their beards in a more
favourable light than those like myself
whose reasons for wearing a beard are
considerably closer to vanity than to
faith.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,367, Friday 8 December 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tom Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Omar
Hashmi | Business Editor Michael Olymbios | Music
Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson |
Film Editor Andrew Somerville | Arts Editor Emily
Lines | Food & Drink Editor Hannah Theodorou |
Fashion Editor Sarah Skeete | Nightlife Editor
Alex Baldwin | Comment Editor Stephen Brown |
Environment Editor João Vitor Serra | Grammar
Gestapo Edmund Henley & Jesse Garman
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
H
ow time flies when you’re
having fun. This term has
been and gone, and to be
honest, the editorial team
of Felix are in need of a
holiday. This is the last issue of term
and it is an appropriate opportunity for
Felix to close all correspondence on
the debate sparked by Samuel Lynas
(issue 1364). It has now rumbled on for
four weeks and the majority of people
are thoroughly sick of it so we will be
looking for entirely new topics for dis-
cussion in the new year.
I’ve learned a valuable lesson over
the past month that will be useful for
my next two terms in this position. I am
not going to accept any more articles
that attempt to make political points
using historical arguments. In case you
haven’t noticed, two groups of students
have been involved in tittle-tattle, but
the main thrusts of their arguments
have been incredibly flawed as they
have both been cherry picking facts
and statements to suit their views.
This sounds reasonable enough but it
is a very dangerous way to present an
argument. For example, lets go back to
GSCE History for a minute, flick open
our textbooks and notice that from the
Great Depression up until the start of
World War II the German economy
went from being stagnant to one of the
most productive in the world. This was
no mean feat, given the levels of poverty
after the Wall Street Crash. On the next
page of the textbook, we notice that a
Mr. Adolf Hitler was leader of Germany
for most of this period and we decide to
infer on the basis of these economic fig-
ures that he did an absolutely splendid
job running Germany. Never mind the
fact we’ve ignored the establishment
of a dictatorship, the persecution of the
Jews and the warmongering leading
to the invasion of weaker neighbours.
We have now constructed a perfectly
viable, factually correct argument that
represents a massive distortion of what
was actually happening in Germany at
that time. Arguing using this method is
just plain bonkers.
As for some of the intemperate, highly
emotive, even bigoted language aimed
at Muslims over the past few weeks I
found it very offensive. We hummed
and hawed before eventually deciding
to print them on the grounds that whilst
it was offensive, it was not threatening
and that if a student was prepared to
put their name alongside it then they
were entitled to have their views aired.
If people do harbour opinions that oth-
ers find offensive then I believe its best
that everything is out in the open so we
all know what and whom we are deal-
ing with. I am in no way suggesting
that anything was deliberately writ-
ten to cause offence just that if you are
writing you should be fully aware that
in some cases the semantics can make
all the difference and how people inter-
pret your article may be different from
how you intend.
On the other hand I almost choked
when I read the piece arguing that the
arrival of a Muslim army in Constanti-
nople was “merciful.” A Muslim army
invading a foreign country that was ac-
knowledged to have fairly unpleasant
rulers was “merciful?” Oh, the irony.
Conquest is never going to be a black
and white issue whereby it will be either
totally welcomed or totally opposed
and it should not be presented as such.
I have zero knowledge of this period of
history, but I do know that good histori-
ans not only point out bias in the work
of others but make every attempt to ac-
knowledge their own motivations when
writing. None of the authors made any
real attempt to do this.
All of this started as a result of one
person’s interpretation of an article
that appeared on the Union website but
soon escalated into a discussion about
a conflict thousands of years ago a long
way from South Kensington. The prob-
lem with highly emotive topics such as
war and religion is that almost every-
one has an opinion on them but few are
qualified to make any real assertions.
It is a criticism that applies to every
student newspaper in the country that
you open it up to be presented with the
ridiculous spectacle of 20-year olds
claiming that only if you listen to them
then we’ll have world peace, a better
economy or an accurate interpretation
of a medieval war. I am aware that it is
not possible to totally divorce matters
that directly affect us students from
the wider world and it is admirable
that there are so many people who take
an interest. Youthful idealism is a fine
thing but we should always think care-
fully before we open our mouths in a
public forum. I feel very strongly on a
variety of topics and if I really wanted
to I could use my weekly editorial as
a soapbox for my political views but I
don’t believe that Felix is an appropri-
ate platform for my opinions on, for ex-
ample, American Politics. The reason I
don’t is that I realise I will have nothing
new to add to the debate. All my opin-
ions are formed on the basis of what I
have seen on TV or read in the national
press. My regurgitation of these facts
and what I infer from them is hardly go-
ing to make interesting reading.
Ok, rant over. See you all in 2007. If
anyone feels bored over the holidays
get writing, but leave ancient history to
the historians.
7
felix
Friday 8 December 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

