CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
SF Soc
Greetings! The semi impossible has happened.
A new academic year and the soc of socs still
exists and will, by unpopular demand, be
meeting in Southside Upper Lounge today. If
you don't know where that is, ask someone
arrogant-looking, they re probably a second or
third year. If you are a second or third year and
don't know, congratulations. This epoch-
something event starts oneish. If you don't go,
worry not, this column will contain all the
important news (hah!); the column known last
year as one of the least controversial bits, of
anything anywhere, recommended by Dr H.J.
Pain as the only part of FELIX worth reading,
and by Steve Marshall (last year's editor) as
the only part of FELIX not worth reading.
Don't forget Alien on Tuesday (ME220) at
6:30pm, FREE to members (membership on
door) and 50p to non members, that's
Tuesday, one out of seven days of the week.
There may be organisations giving better value
for money, but our showing of this film is not
their signature. Showing films is one of the
things they didn't do in the library of
Alexandria, which contained that great lost
scroll, the constitution of SF Soc, which was
lost when the library was burnt to the ground
by Nigel Calder in a fit of envy. A recon-
struction of this document will be featured in a
mammoth thirteen-part social science
popularisation series on the fourth channel in
1983, to be fronted by Francoise Sagan and
entitled 'New York Cosmos', completed with
tie-in book, tie-in tie, and tie-in football team.
A l s o coming s o o n , a variety of I C S F
productions, including 'Escape from South
Kensington', 'Scholars', and 'Day of the
Triffics'. Well, once again we're coming to the
end of an SF Soc bulletin, and my goodness
we've had a good time bringing it to you
haven't we Mike? Yes Mike we certainly have
and now to wish all our readers a fond
farewell, I hand you over to Mike. Thanks
Mike, well we're about to close down so I'll say
goodbye, tune in next week, and declare
myself yours till the B B C produce a decent SF
radio serial. Be seeing you.
The Unteleported Man and the Hand thai
takes
Red Cross
We start our First Aid and Nursing courses
next week. These courses are open to staff
and students alike who are interested in
obtaining certificates in First Aid and Nursing.
O n c e qualified there are a number of
interesting opportunities for you to use your
skills.
Details of the courses are set out below:
Monday, October 12
Start of an 8-week, 2-hourly Nursing course
leading to Red Cross Nursing Certificate.
Place: Health Centre, 14 Princes Gardens.
Time: 6:00pm
Thursday, October 15
Start of a 6-week, 2'/2 hourly First Aid course
leading to Red Cross First Aid certificate.
Place: Bot/Zoo Common Room
Time: 6:00pm
These courses are usually very popular so
don't delay, join us now!!
For further information please contact
Roger Serpell, Commandant, Imperial College
Detachment, Aero Dept (int 3707).
PG Tips
Have you ever thought about earning cash by
tutoring an O / A Level student? Well, it's not as
frightening as it sounds, and can be very
rewarding. T h e P o s t g r a d u a t e G r o u p has
advertised in a newspaper on your behalf to
attract replies from people who wish to be
tutored. So, if you are interested in using this
scheme to be put in touch with a tutee, and
you have not already replied to the previous
advertisement in F E L I X , please leave details of
your requirements with the Student Services
at 15 Princes Gdns.
Industrial
Greetings from Honourable Industrial Society.
We exist to organise visits to, and talks about,
all forms of commerce and industry. This term
these include trips to such establishments
as British Airways, British Steel and even
Mars.
Our first soiree is a discussion with two
notables from national H Q , Julia Cleverdon
and Peter Nesbitt. T h e venue is C h e m Eng
LT1 at 6:00pm on Tuesday, October 13.
At this function you can become a member,
collect some cheese and wine and get your
free gifts.
The more members we have, the more
things we can arrange, so please come along
and get involved.
ICYHA
If you didn't find us at the Freshers' Fair don't
worry just read on. The slideshow will be on
M o n d a y , O c t o b e r 12, in Elec E n g 606 at
6:30pm. This is highly r e c o m m e n d e d for
prospective members as they can see the
highlights of last year's activities.
This terms activites are as follows: O c t 16-18
Peak District; O c t 30-Nov 1 Brecon Beacons;
Nov 13-15 Cotswolds; N o v 27-29 Snowdon;
Dec 12-13 Yorkshire Dales.
If you are interested in any of these weekend
trips c o m e along to o u r w e e k l y 'butties'
metting on Thursday lunchtimes in Southside
Upper Lounge, i.e. food and coffee at 12:30pm.
Sub-wardens for Bernard Sunley House
and Holbein House
Applications are invited for the post of Sub-
warden for either of the above two student
houses in Evelyn Gdns. Applicants must be
male postgraduate students.
Duties are to assist the Warden in the run-
ing of the house on a day-to-day basis from a
domestic and social point of view. Single rent-
free accommodation is provided. Applications
in writing to the Student Services Office, 15
Princes Gdns, London SW7. Please address
envelope "Bernard Sunley/Holbein Sub-War-
dens".
All applications will be considered for both
houses unless specific preference is indica-
ted.
Closing date: Wednesday, October 14,1981.
SDP
The response to the formation of the Social
D e m o c r a t i c P a r t y i n M a r c h h a s b e e n
staggering. Despite the jeers from the tired old
hacks of the fac...(sorry Conservative) and
Mar...(sorry Labour) parties, in six months the
S D P has achieved a position which ensures
that it will form the government after the next
election. W h o would have thought in March
that Roy Jenkins would gain over forty percent
of the vote in Labour's fiftieth safest seat?
Under successive governments since the
end of the war we have suffered an economic
collapse which makes Ireland and Italy look
positively flourishing. We have had govern-
ments that have stifled individual initiative
either by excessive centralisation (Labour) or
by helping big business to the exclusion of
small b u s i n e s s m e n ( C o n s e r v a t i v e ) , (cf S.
Williams "Politics isfor People"). But there is no
point in crying over spilt milk.
A measure of a country's stagnation may be
taken as what event in the past do people refer
to as a watershed in their lives. In France it is
the events of 1968, in the United States it is the
Vietnam W a r , and so on. W e are one of the
very few countries whose people refer, as I did
earlier, to the end of the second world war
from which modern dates are taken. A n event
over a generation ago is still very much with
us. This strikes me as the most compelling
evidence that this country has stagnated.
We must break out of the straightjacket of
the two party system which has ruled us. They
have failed utterly and completely. We need
reform like that which we had in the 1830s: of
the constitution, of the voting system, of the
economic and industrial structure. Only the
S D P can carry this out because all the other
parties have vested interests which cannot
permit them to carry out policies of reform.
David Owen is coming on Tuesday, October
13 to speak in the Great Hall on the S D P . T o
all of you, especially freshers, I appeal to you to
come and listen to him; to discover whether or
not you are satisfied with the present system,
and, if you are not, to help change it to build a
better country.
Frank James
H.G. Wells Society
Don't miss Eric Laithwaite's lecture to the H . G
Wells Society on Monday, October 12, at
6:15pm in Mech Eng 220 on Facts and Fallacies
in Science.
Assistant Sub-Warden
Tizard Hall
Applications are invited for a post of assistant
sub-warden in Tizard Hall for the academic
year 1981/2. Rent free accommodation in a
single room will be provided. Tizard Hall will
have approximately 94 men and 24 women
residents and the duties of the assistant sub-
wardens are to help the warden and sub-
warden with the day-to-day organisation of
the Hall and to contribute to its social life.
Both female and male students of Imperial
College are invited to apply and although the
successful applicant would normally be a
postgraduate, applications from others will be
considered on their merits.
Applications with a curriculum vitae and
names of College referees if possible should
be sent to Dr M.H.R. Hutchinson, Warden,
Tizard Hall, by October 17, 1981.
Page 6 FELIX, October 9, 1981

