FRIDAY 20 JUN
12 WELLBEING
Editors: Marissa Lewis felix@imperial.ac.uk
EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
WHAT ARE YOU ENTITLED TO?
Lots of students take up part-time work or summer jobs between academic years or as a stop-gap after graduation when you’re looking for something permanent.
This is a quick guide to explain what you’re entitled to as an employee to make sure you don’t get taken advantage of.
The rights you have as a worker depend on your statutory rights (rights you have by law) and your contract of employment. Contracts are not binding when they violate your statutory
rights, so even if you sign a contract which does so by accident, these parts are void. However, employment contracts can offer you greater benefits than you are entitled to by law (e.g.
greater holiday entitlement), they just can’t offer less.
Minimum
Wage
The minimum wage for 18-20 year olds is £5.03/hour.
For 21 year olds and over, it is £6.31.
Contracts are not binding if they stipulate a rate of pay below the
national minimum wage – this is a rate you are entitled to and
supersedes contracts you may have signed with your employer.
The national minimum wage is the same for all workers,
regardless of if they work full-time or part-time, the method
of payment, and characteristics of the employer, such as the
size of the organisation you work for or whereabouts in the UK
you work.
If you feel you aren’t being paid minimum wage, you can call the
Pay and Work Rights Helpline on 0800 917 2368. This is a free
and confidential helpline run by the government.
Who can work?
If you are from the UK or the European
Economic Area (EEA), you are free to work
in the UK. International students staying in the UK
over the summer and seeking employment will need to check
their visa status to see whether or not this is prohibited and if
there are any restrictions placed upon your employment.
If in doubt, you can contact Imperial’s International
Office for more advice.
Holiday
pay
If you were working full-
time, you would have the
right to 5.6 weeks of paid
holiday a year in most professions.
For part-time workers, you are entitled to
the same annual leave as full-time workers
but this is calculated based on the number
of days you actually work. For example, if you
work 2 days a week, the leave is calculated as
2x5.6 (leave entitlement), which equals 11.2
days of paid annual leave.
How
long can I work?
Most workers have a right to not work over
48 hours a week and workers over 18 are
entitled to at least one day off a week. If you
are working for longer than 6 hours, you have
to be given at least a 20 minute rest break and
you are also entitled to 11 hours off each day
from your job.
Zero-hours
contract
A zero-hours contract is essentially a contract where
an employer has no obligation to offer you shifts
and you have no obligation to accept shifts. This
creates a different working relationship
than other forms of contract however, if
you’re on a zero-hours contract you
are still entitled to annual
leave and the national
minimum wage.
Cash-
in-Hand
work
Regardless of whether or not your
work full-time, your employer has
to deduct tax and National Insurance
contributions from your pay by law. If your
employer pays you cash-in-hand without these
deductions, you might lose employment rights
and some benefits such as sick pay. You also
run the risk of having to pay these fees
yourself.
Health
and safety
There are a whole load of health and
safety rules an employer must follow
in order to ensure their employees
are working in a safe environment. These
range from first aid facilities, to fire safety
to noise issues. As an employee, it is your
right to work in a safe environment and to
be provided with equipment to ensure your
safety as appropriate e.g. ear plugs or
protective clothing.
Issues
with
employers
If you are concerned that your contract
doesn’t stand up to scrutiny, the first option is often to
talk to your line manager at work about your concerns or
the company’s HR department (should they have one). If
you would like help or support with this, you can contact
the Union’s Advice Centre who can give advice
about employment rights.
If this route doesn’t get the required
result, you can also approach the Citizen’s
Advice Bureau who can offer further
support and even take your case
to an employment tribunal if the
issue isn’t resolved.

