15
FRIDAY 20 JUN SCIENCE
G
uess which substance killed Amy
Winehouse? Have a stab in the dark.
I was amazed to find out that despite huge
problems with illicit substance abuse, and having
been hospitalised previously for an overdose of
heroin, ecstasy, cocaine and ketamine, there was nothing
illegal about the substance that eventually killed her: alcohol.
Of course, the Daily Mail jumped to conclusions when
initially reporting on the story.
I’ve just finished reading David Nutt’s Drugs Without The
Hot Air, and it blew me away how little I knew about drugs
(including alcohol and tobacco). I was amazed to the point
where I felt I needed to encourage more people to read it. It
turns out the drugs education you receive at school is shite
and politicians/the media purvey unscientific nonsense.
David Nutt is the Edward J Safra chair of
Neuropsychopharmacology at the fine institution of
Imperial College London but you may know him as the
government advisor who was sacked for making comments
comparing the dangers of illegal substance to the dangers
of legal activities such as horse riding and drinking alcohol.
The internet doesn’t need another review from some 21
year old kid when The Economist and The Huffington Post
have already got that down. I just thought I would relay
some of the findings in it that surprised and fascinated me.
If you find them unbelievable, I advise you to think where
your current knowledge of drugs and drug users comes from;
for me it was Breaking Bad and The Sopranos. These statistics
and facts are of course out of context (go read the book)
but I’ve tried to be fair when taking them out. Finally, the
sources of these facts are all cited in the book but I haven’t
checked them out. [Most of them, I have – ed.]
On the comparison of legal and illegal activities:
On average, a horse rider can expect a serious accident
every 350 hours riding. An ecstasy user can expect a case of
acute harm once every 10,000 pills (Chapter 2).
Tobacco has 7,000,000 users in the UK and cocaine has
700,000. Cocaine is responsible for 250 deaths a year and
Tobacco is responsible for 100,000 (page 196).
This is how the ISCD ranked drugs, based on harm to the
user and to society, based on 16 different factors (page 43):
On Tobacco:
The World Health Organisation has estimated that
tobacco will account for 10% of all deaths worldwide by 2015
(page 194).
Tobacco-related health problems cost £13.7 billion per
year. Cigarette taxes generate £10 billion per year (page 194).
It’s only because popular culture is saturated with positive
images of people smoking and because friends encourage
it that anyone smokes a second cigarette. Their first is
usually unenjoyable. Compare this with LSD and ecstasy
where some people can go as far as to say their first pill was
positively life-altering (page 201).
On Legal Highs:
Of the dozens of deaths that were reported as due to
mephedrone (MMCAT) in 2009, only two have been
confirmed as being directly and solely caused by the drug.
However, it may have had a net effect of saving lives overall
as people switched from cocaine to mephedrone. There were
95 cocaine deaths in the first half of 2008 which reduced to
66 in the first half of 2009 (page 117).
On Politicians:
Barack Obama was a regular cannabis smoker in his
younger years and has even admitted to trying cocaine
before he came to office (page 135).
In 2002, an ambitious UK backbencher called David
Cameron said in a debate in the House of Commons that
“drugs policy has been failing for decades”. Yet now he’s
Prime Minister he gives the same ‘tough on drugs’ spiel of
every other politician (page 281).
When Cameron was caught with cannabis at Eton he was
made to write out hundreds of lines of Latin (page 286).
Compare this to the punishment of prison which costs
£38,000 a year to keep someone in, and which usually turns
inmates onto harder drugs (also page 286).
On the international war on drugs:
Al Qaeda is principally funded by opium and cannabis
production (page 277).
There were 15,000 deaths due to the crackdown in Mexican
cartels in 2010 alone (page 190).
Every gram of cocaine snorted in England will have been
responsible for an area of four square metres of rainforest
being destroyed (page 189).
The illicit drugs trade is about 1% of the global economy,
untaxed and unregulated (page 276).
On the difficulty of conducting research with illegal
drugs in mental health therapy:
Mental health is the biggest health burden in Europe
today, costing more than heart disease and cancer combined
(page 227).
A recent study of subject with chronic, treatment-resistant
PTSD resulted in an 83% success rate – ten out of twelve
subjects essentially no longer had the disorder after two
sessions of ecstasy-assisted psychotherapy (page 25).
On how LSD can deliver moments of inspiration:
Kary Mullis, who won the Nobel prize for inventing the
polymerase chain reaction, went as far as to say “would I
have invented PCR if I hadn’t taken LSD? I seriously doubt
it [having taken LSD] I could sit on a DNA molecule and
watch the polymers go by. I learnt that partly on psychedelic
drugs.” (page 258).
I could carry on to the point where I’ve typed out the
whole book, but just go read it. Even if you’ve never taken
an illegal drug, it will probably make you think again about
alcohol and make you enraged at how much politicians have
to pander to Daily Mail-reading middle classes who have
never taken a drug or met an addict who think prohibition
is possible.
Jack Peacock
@ JackPeacock
I KNEW NOTHING ABOUT DRUGS UNTIL I
READ THIS BOOK
Drugs Without the Hot Air / David Nutt
The 20 Drugs
considered in
the ISCD’s 2010
report, ranked by
overall harm.
Drugs Without
the Hot
Air

