FRIDAY 20 JUN
16 COMMENT
six years is a long time to spend in this place.
If my Imperial career were a child, it would be
preparing for its first year of primary school by
now: shiny new rucksack perched on its back,
lunch money nestled in its pocket. Like a parent
leaving his child at the school gates, it’s time I
let Imperial go. Will it miss me? Probably not.
It’ll be too busy fighting the other boys and girls
for its place in the league tables. Still, watching
it scamper across the playground has got me
reminiscing.
According to its website I’ve written over 40 articles
for Felix and it’s a strange thing reading over them. I
start as a convinced Catholic, then an atheist. I start as
a Libertarian, then wise up. I start unsure about what
I’m doing with my life, then... best not to ask. I start
a frightened fresher, then an Imperial Graduate, then
an Imperial Postgraduate. I don’t expect I’m alone
in changing so much here. As I changed, so did my
perspective on Imperial.
“It’s a strange place” is how I reply when asked
what Imperial is like, I’ve never really managed a
more precise answer. Cramming tens of thousands of
scientists into a small square in the most expensive
part of the country was always going to make for
strange results. The lack of arts students does leave
a hole in the College but a hole that students then
partly fill up themselves, with Felix, Leo Soc, STOIC
and others giving science students access to creative
stuff that at other universities might be dominated by
arts students. There is a great buzz around science
that you don’t really get elsewhere; who didn’t have
a spring in their step the day the Higgs Boson was
discovered?
There are fewer women at Imperial than at
other universities. This is pointed out so often
that I wonder if people expect a medal or at least a
congratulatory pat on the back for noticing. Contrary
to popular opinion, the worst aspect of the “gender
ratio” is not that straight Imperial men don’t get laid
as much but that too few women are taking up science
degrees, much to the loss of both women and science.
A campus conversation that focused less on sexual
frustration and more on the “ratio” as an intellectual
loss to science would be a big help.
It is both a blessing and a curse that we care so little
about politics at Imperial. A blessing because political
debate tends to focus on evidence and statistics, with
little heed paid to ideology and few tribal loyalties
to political parties. There are student unions held at
pointless gridlock over debates on the Israel-Palestine
conflict or what the top level of income tax should
be - ours couldn’t be further from that. But when this
apathy extends to issues that directly affect students,
we all lose out. We see this at the Union.
The Union is very good at being ok. They provide
excellent facilities, equipment and support to their
many societies, on which so much of Imperial’s
social life relies. Representing students to College, the
story is very different. In this David vs Goliath story,
David is mostly ignored, then finally grabbed by the
ankle, swung overhead and thrown to the other end
of the Earth. North Acton, to be precise. Whether
it’s unaffordable and distant accommodation, an
underfunded counseling service or careers advice given
almost entirely by investment banks, the Imperial
business machine churns on and we students bask in
complicit apathy.
Imperial has so much potential. I know I’m not
the only one who thinks that a CV boost need not
be the only reason for engaging in student politics.
Nor am I the only one who thinks that there are uses
for a science degree other than research or investment
banking. That there is more to a university education
than what can be learnt in a lecture or a seminar.
Imperial could do with a little more soul.
As I leave my adorable six year-old to its own devices,
I suppose I’m more critical than most parents but, in
the age-old excuse, I only say these things because I
love it. Too many people say they’ve had fun “in spite
of” Imperial. What could we do to make “in spite”
into “because”?
Having read Christy
Kelly’s article last
week asking “Does
discrimination dominate
in India?”, I couldn’t
help but think of the
simple answer: yes. In
a civilised country like
India the treatment
of women and
“untouchables” is
not only completely
unacceptable, but also
completely unforgivable.
However I think it is also
wrong to say that the
story is as simple as saying
that the BJP Party, which
was sworn into power a
fortnight ago, is to blame.
It was in December 2012
that India’s attitude towards
women was thrown into the
spotlight, when a 23-year-old
was gang-raped on a public bus
in Delhi – she subsequently
passed away a few days later
from her injuries.
Shortly after her death,
Abhijit Mukherjee, the son
of the President Pranab
Mukherjee and a member of
the (now opposition party)
Congress, said that the women
who were involved in the
protests following the death
were “disconnected with
reality”. This, accompanied
by his other remarks (which
included saying that these
women “went to discotheques”
and are “highly dented and
painted”), was later attacked
as being sexist. Another to
be seriously criticised was
spiritual guru Asaram Bapu,
who suggested that the victim
was “to blame for her own
assault”.
It is a problem. It is a
major problem. It is a major
problem that needs a solution.
To borrow the phrase from
Christy: “discrimination
dominates in India”. But what
can be done to stop it? Well,
one way to begin to solve the
problem is through
economic development,
through the creation of jobs,
and through extra education,
which is what new Prime
Minister Narendra Modi has
prioritised for the Indian
people. Modi won such a
landslide victory because
it is felt that he can bring
the change that the country
is desperately craving. It is
felt that he can take it away
from the corruption that was
rampant within the previous
government. It is felt that he
can make this country better.
Hopefully he can be better
than Obama has been when
using the “Yes We Can”
slogan.
The National Democratic
Alliance (NDA), of which
the BJP is part, now controls
336 of the 545 seats available
in Parliament. The people of
the country have emphatically
spoken (the previous
government lost more than
200 seats) and it is now
time for Modi to deliver on
his promises and to deliver
change.
Can he do it? Let’s wait and
see.
“The people
of this
country have
emphatically
spoken”
“Does
discrimination
dominate in
India?” – A
Response
Kunal Wagle
Comment Editor
Rory Fenton
Columnist
SO LONG AND THANKS
FOR ALL THE PHYSICS
Felix / Joe Letts
Rory Fenton reminisces about his six years at IC
DNA India

