19
FRIDAY 20 JUN COMMENT
Don’t hope. Never hope.
Hope is a last resort, an
admission of defeat. You hope
when there is nothing left to do,
nothing you can do: you can’t
act, repair, work, correct or strive
anymore, so you wish that things
could go your way. All you’re left
with is your powerlessness and
the hope that cosmic coincidences
will align the world in your favour.
When you hope, it means that you
have given up.
They say that hope is the last
to die, and for good reason: it
outlasts any other sentiment and
feeling. When you no longer
have the desire to seek a way to
victory, you can only hope that it
will be delivered to you by divine
intervention. When you have
exhausted every possible option
and possibility, you can only hope
that a way out will be revealed.
When all seems lost and forsaken,
the only resort is hope.
If you find yourself in such a
situation, then you can hope. If you
are truly in despair, incapable and
impotent, and you have honestly
done everything in your power,
then you have the right to hope in
forces beyond yourself. But to hope
when there are still alternatives
unexplored, when there is still
something you can do, when the
only thing that is lacking is your
will to try, then hope becomes
a crime and a deceit. Hope will
show you a world that doesn’t
exist, where everything goes in the
best way possible and where your
deeds are justly rewarded, all of it
with a magic-like veneer. If you
trust in your hopes, if you come
to believe in them as a future that
hasn’t happened yet, then you will
neglect the work and effort that are
necessary to make them come true.
If you start hoping before you have
done all that you can and must do,
you will be led astray.
So do not hope. Do not hope that
the girl will say yes when you ask
her out: know that you have done
everything you can to make her
want to be with you. Do not hope
that the exam will be easy: know
that you have studied and prepared
to the best of your abilities. And if
you have not studied, do not hope
things will go your way: accept and
know that they won’t. Either way,
there is no need to false illusions
and hope. Do not trust in the
easy way offered by hope, but
instead know, research, think, act
and work as much as you can to
achieve your goals.
Don’t hope. Never hope.
Editors: Tessa Davey, Eoghan J. Totten, Kunal Wagle
Pietro Aronica
Writer
The Falsity Of
It’s pretty
terrifying to
think that
the next issue
will be edited by
yours truly. Am I
ready? Right now?
Literally, right
now, as I sit in the
safety of Imperial’s
tiny humanities department, downing
caffeine after about four hours of sleep
last night? Nah, I’m far from it.
But I have time, and hoping that in that
time I will learn a large number of things
hopefully very quickly. These, you will be
glad to know, will include learning how to
write editorials that won’t sound like the
beginning of an adolescent, self-absorbed
MySpace profile “about me” entry.
It was over two years ago now that I was
hounding Tim to be a section editor for the
paper. I had previously written a few articles,
my first being so atrocious I was surprised
it was printed. I was pretty hopeless at
InDesign at the beginning, had no idea how
to write a science article and was completely
overwhelmed by the Felix crowd of students
that all seemed more student-media savvy
than myself.
However, I’m glad I did take the time
to go down to the office, see what the fuss
was all about and try and hack my way into
the Felix clique. We, the Felix team, love
people, and offer a great refuge to students
who simply want to hide away during Sport’s
night if nothing else. We love writers, we
love photographers, we love editors and
grammar enthusiasts, and we love designers,
coders, and artists alike.
Next year, the newspaper will be,
counterintuitively, less about the news and
more about the final form Felix hopes to take
before my tenure comes to a close. We, of
course, are aiming to deliver stories that will
kick up a storm; we plan to put The Tab out
of business and ensure no topic is too taboo
to print. However we are also moving with
the times and planning a website overhaul,
a redesign of the paper and also a complete
shift in the structure of the team itself.
Felix is being rebuilt from scratch, and
we need people to help. If you want to be
part of the new wave of student media, get
in touch. If you want to meet new people,
learn new skills, get in touch. If you simply
want unlimited free tea and coffee, get in
touch but do give a bit of notice so we can
get some top quality brew in.
I hope you all have a good summer, and
will see you all again in Fresher’s Week.
I’ll be the 22 year old sipping straight gin
in the corner, muttering “youths” under my
breath. Please come and say hi, or drop by
the office!
Wow, well it
certainly has
been a year!
I started this job in October, with a small
amount of training and the dusty cobwebs
of my previous years of section editorship
skulking miserably in the corners of my
mind. Summer, as I’m sure you all know, is
quite potent at clearing the mind of useful
memories.
I set out to redesign and expand the paper,
and to some extent succeeded, I brought in
new sections and recruited new Editors and
writers, undergrads and postgrads alike.
Over the course of the year the paper has
tackled several important stories, including
following the issues surrounding the halls
cleaning contracts, the Union’s successful
lobbying and many more that I can’t
remember (this week’s has been a tiring
issue).
Along with the printed words you see
before you, this year’s Felix, as every year,
involves the sweat, occasionally tears (but
hopefully no blood) of the students who
volunteered their time to edit the sections
we have and I can only be grateful for their
help. Without them and without you the
paper wouldn’t happen.
Over the last few years, and the last few
Editors, we’ve tried to make ourselves more
transparent and friendly to people who
aren’t already involved – a task that has
proven to be harder than one anticipates.
However it is good to see that Philippa
is also a keen proponent of change and
improvement, something that will bode well
for next year’s paper.
Most importantly – and it is sometime
hard to convey this, Felix is always the your
paper. We value your feedback (seriously
please do send in letters) and we try to give
you the content we think you’d appreciate
the most.
Looking back over my Felix career, I
remember submitting my first article in first
year, proudly presenting it to my hall senior,
who at the time was a Technology editor.
Since then, from moving on to editing
Politics during the reign of two Editors to
finally achieving my dream of editing the
whole paper, I’m amazed at how much
I’ve learned along the way, as well as the
fantastic people I’ve met. It’s not something
I would have ever imagined doing when I
joined Imperial, and yet I couldn’t see my
College journey ending any other way.
Wanting to go out with a bang, this week
we’ve brought you Felix as a tabloid, it had
to be done. After all we are a tabloid-sized
newspaper, definitely not a broadsheet. This
has been challenging in itself, however I’ve
realised that I’ve learned so much over the
last year – it look a day to redesign rather
than the significantly longer time it took at
the start of the year.
Thanks for reading and thanks for a great
year, I hope you’ve enjoyed the paper!
Talking to the Editors
JOE PHILIPPA

