FRIDAY 20 JUN
2
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
THANKS
THE
LAST
OF
THE YEAR
TO
EDITORIAL TEAM: Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts, Deputy Editor Tessa Davey News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Maciej Matuszewski, Kunal Wagle, Aemun Reza Features
Editors Nida Mahmud, Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editors Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani
Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey, Kunal Wagle Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria
Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park
Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charities Editor Ben
Fernando Sport Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editor Maximilian Eggl Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycaptains Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor
Copycommandos Maximilian Eggl. Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi, June Yin Gan, Tom Rivlin, Ellen Mathieson Editor-Without-Portfolio Jonny Pratt. A huge thanks to the entire team for all
the work they put into the paper this year, the hours spent organising, creating and editing content while staring at a computer screen each week.
Editor’s Picks
· Some preventative work was carried out to a corridor ceiling out-
side a room in January. During this work the residents of the room were
unable to gain access between 10am and 5pm and were offered the use of
an alternative room for this time – which they accepted. The work was car-
ried out as planned and the students were able to gain access to their room
that evening.
· Occasional water leaks from balconies or showers can cause damp.
These are always reported immediately to the help desk by staff to make
sure they are fixed. Accommodation staff continue to monitor the situation
and students with any concerns can contact their Hall Supervisor.
· The College maintains an asbestos register across all sites and works
closely with asbestos specialists to closely monitor and address any repair
needs as and when they arise. There are occasions, as with the wall in ques-
tion, when temporary repairs are carried out to secure an area ahead of
permanent work being done. This temporary maintenance poses no health
risks and permanent repairs due to take place over the summer.
· Aesthetic maintenance is ongoing in Fisher Hall and will continue.
Plans are in place to redecorate approximately 25 rooms this summer.
Campus Services on Fisher
A College Spokesperson gives an update

