FRIDAY 20 JUN
20 ARTS & CULTURE
In an abandoned swimming pool
somewhere in the northern perimeter
of Berlin, lights burst to the rhythm
of acoustic ricochets. A bizarre
choreography of light and sound
imitates patterns of synchrony and
predation found in the animal kingdom.
The source of this erratic audiovisual
experience is a self-aware system of 200
nodes, comprised of 50 loudspeakers and
150 LEDs. Coupled with microphones
and photodiodes, respectively, each unit,
or ‘agent’, extends a field of awareness that
can sense itself as well as its surroundings.
The audiovisual patterns that emerge
from the amalgam resemble a cybernetic
electroacoustic organism that entrances
visitors and lures them to the deep end of
the pool.
n_polytope is a sound art
installation designed and built by a team
of artists, engineers and researchers at
Concordia Univerity in Montreal, Canada,
and was now set up for the 15th edition of
Berlin’s Club Transmediale Festival (CTM)
for “adventurous music & art”. Taking place
over an entire week, in venues across
the city, CTM gathers the avant-garde in
electronic and experimental music in the
present day, as well as paying homage
to the pioneers of the 20­
­
th
Century. This
installation in particular was inspired by
the ‘polytopes’ of Greek engineer-turned-
composer Iannis Xenakis, which sought
to synthesize multisensory environments
of light and sound, which surrounded
audiences in complex architectures of cable
geometries. n_polytope extends Xenakis’s
ideas of stochastic sound synthesis and
acoustic architectures by making use of
modern algorithms in machine learning and
distributed artificial neural networks.
I spoke with Chris Salter (Director of
Montreal’s Hexagaram-Concordia Centre
for Research and Creation in Media Art
and Technology) and Marije Baalman
(ex-postdoc at Hexagram and currently
a hardware engineer and freelance
artist at Amsterdam’s STEIM (Studio for
Electro-Instrumental Music)) about the
technological and philosophical aspects of
the installation, which was put together by a
wider team of collaborators in architectural
design, laser systems, programming and
electronics.
Íñigo: How did you quantify the
awareness of the individuals within the
system?
Chris Salter: Well, it’s a really simple system.
YouhaveanLEDandyouhavealightsensor.
So the sensor can see itself, and then that
awareness runs over an RL (Reinforcement
Learning) algorithm and the RL runs over
a neural network. So what he was trying to
figure out is that when it does an action,
how does it change its environment? Well
of course it could change its environment by
doing the action again, so it gets feedback.
So the sensor is a very primitive sensory-
motor system. It learns to do something,
right? Usually these systems settle into some
minima. The light flickers, and then it finds
a steady state. Either it stays on, or it goes
off. Usually it stays on.
So what happens then if you change the
environment and you turn the lights off in
the room? Then it has to relearn, because
all the conditions have changed. Or you
suddenly blitz it with a strobe, or a flash, or
something. Then it starts up again and tries
to relearn again. So if you continually change
its environment, then it’s constantly trying to
adapt, so it may never get into a steady state.
So that was one of [Sofian’s] tests. So then
we thought about how to build this form of
behaviours and systems, on a larger scale.
And I knew from the start that the algorithms
were complicated so that these things would
talk to each other.
We started with the basic idea that you
have a lot of different agents, and they all start
at different times. So, for instance, one of the
algorithms he runs is a ‘firefly’ model, so
the agents attempt to synchronize with each
other. Once they eventually synchronize,
they then stay synchronized for a period
of time, and then either desynchronize or
remain in a steady state. So that’s one of the
algorithms we’re running. You have to tweak
these reward functions all the time. You have
no idea really – the system doesn’t really
know what it’s doing. It just knows, “Oh,
that’s an interesting action, I got that reward,
I got this number and I’ll do that again.”
These learning systems are not very good as
generative systems, but we’re trying to use
them in that way, and to produce generative
behaviours as opposed to trying to get to a
certain task that it will then be able to repeat.
I: So does it fall into sequential states?
Not a steady state, but a sort of
arrhythmic behaviour?
C: Sometimes, but we also do a lot to
constrain the system. Like, which nodes
are active at one point, or what region
spatially; or how long are they active in a
given sequence; or do they all start at the
same time and then drift? For instance, they
have this one algorithm which is a ‘chasing’
model. So the idea is that the agent gets a
reward for staying away from the other agent.
Of course it’s crossing into the agent all the
time because it doesn’t really know. So at
what time it learns ‘OK… I’m colliding with
the other agent, and I’m getting punished,
so I’ll try to stay a little further away.’ We’d
map that in terms of the speed of which the
flashes happen on these lines. It’s a question
of whether you see spatial patterns or
temporal patterns, because people look for
spatial things – if I see the shape again and
again it means it’s not a random system. If
I sense very simple rhythms or pulses… once
it gets to polyrhythmic it gets very complex
since it’s not very good at rhythm.
I: Like trying to understand which
car’s blinkers are going faster than the
other’s?
C: Right. And of course, the brain has
extremely interesting temporal properties -
how all these neurons start synchronizing
with each other to form some notion of
perception that we have, which is way, way
higher level than this. So Xenakis, whose
work this piece is based on, was trained as
an architect, trained as an engineer, but also
as a composer. He came out of a period
where in the sciences, thermodynamics
and statistical mechanics were the main
concern… he was interested in micro and
macro properties and Boltzmann models of
gases and so on. So he used those models
in his composition (Poisson distributions,
etc.). He wanted probabilistic models, he
wanted stochastic music, he didn’t want
deterministic models. He wasn’t interested
in determinism, he was interested in control.
He was interested in not the kind of linear
polyphony of what the serial composers in
the 1950s were doing, where everything was
deterministic, based on tone rows, and so
on. He was actually interested in patterns
like what happens when, in a riot, suddenly
someone starts yelling and then it picks up
and spreads, exhibiting a kind of swarm
behaviour. Or like the patterns of raindrops
falling on surfaces. So it was the idea of
sound as a mass, or a cloud, or grains.
Editors: Riaz Agahi music.felix@gmail.com
MUSIC & ART
N_Polytope: Behaviours in Light
& Sound After Iannis Xenakis
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto in conversation with artist Chris Salter and engineer Marije Baalman

