21
FRIDAY 20 JUN ARTS & CULTURE
He was very critical of the Fourier models
of synthesis. Fourier is non-temporal
basically, you have to stack things over
time with enough bins (time-frames) to see
if there’s a temporal shape, since time and
frequency are separate domains. He was very
interested in the work of Gabor, who was a
physicist who had these wavelet models.
Gabor of course imagined that time and
frequency could be in the same domain, so
if you think about a grain having envelopes
and you can shape individual grains, but at
the same time considering both domains.
It’s very interesting to think about sonic
behaviour in those terms.
I: It would be interesting if there was
dynamic switching close to the Gabor
limit [where the trade-off in certainty
between temporal and spectral
identity is defined], like maybe it’s
behaving in temporal patterns first
and then reaches some limit and then
the spectral patterns become more
dominant.
C: Yeah, that’s the kind of space he came out
of. I was talking with a friend of mine today
who’s a professor at UdK (Universität der
Künste, Berlin) who is also a programmer,
and the whole question was whether Xenakis
had any interest in cybernetics and feedback
systems. He probably didn’t, even though
this was happening at the same time. He was
very aware of these trends in the sciences,
but it’s a very different set of models that
come from thinking about control systems
versus the statistical systems.
I: I guess he was more interested in
generative properties or stochastic
properties rather than manipulating it
himself.
C: Exactly. He was always interested in
computers as systems to drive things, not
as systems that produce responses that
you can shape. That’s one of the questions
we’ve tried to address in thinking about
what these projects could mean now, if you
approach these things from these machine
learning algorithms or agent networks or
neuronal models – where does the active
responsibility lay in the system or how
you negotiate between these agents and
human predilection for making patterns
and structures and shapes that are clearly
perceivable and have dramatic effect and
so that’s very much the tension. That’s the
research area and that’s from a technical or
philosophical point of view and also from
an aesthetic point of view, because that
question overlaps all of those spaces. They
all somehow operate together. You can’t just
say “Well that’s a technical question, we can
solve that,” and that you can do something
with a tool. They are very intimately related,
because the degree of shaping you have
over the behaviour of something is highly
dependent on what kind of behaviour that
thing or that process produces, and part of
it is observing that behaviour constantly in
some type of dialogue. The English Science
Studies scholar Andrew Pickering calls it
the dance of agency between you and the
non-human parts of things. He’s a physicist
by training, and is very well known in the
area of science and technology studies
for discussing performative practices in
sciences, questions of science being socially
shaped. Because science is not just scientists
discovering nature, it’s constructing those
phenomena with instruments and cultural
frameworks like laboratories. There’s a
constant give and take between materials
you’re using and watching and seeing what
they do, and then describing them. There’s
a similar thing with these kinds of projects,
like right now there’s nothing happening [in
the installation] - it’s like when the cells die
in the lab. The experiment’s done. So that’s
a little background of where we’ve been
thinking.
I: I was wondering when you said
about the single node prototype and
altering the environment by strobing
or switching it on and off. So here the
environment is actually the structure
itself, the ensemble of all the elements.
C: Yeah. So for instance there’s all sorts
of noise in the system. There’s a sensor
that’s looking at those lights, but it’s not
a precise system. It’s more about the idea
that sometimes when those lights are next
to their neighbours, they may have more
energy because they have a different set
of conditions, their ‘Umwelt’. That means
that the way they behave is never going to
be exactly the same. There’s a structure to
it, but they’re never going to do the same
thing again and again because they’re so
dependent on what their neighbours are
doing. You see patterns and it’s not like it’s
just totally random all the time. Ultimately
the pattern is the steady state that one
perceives. But we don’t let them do that, we
keep them active. When you’re testing these
RL algorithms that evolve until they reach
a steady state, but we don’t let them reach
that steady state, we constantly try to keep
them moving.
I: So when it reaches a steady state, the
whole system stops?
C: No, it doesn’t stop. There’s an energy
model and once it runs out of energy
it either stops or you boost it with new
energy because it gets a blast of light from
something around it and it starts up again.
The system is reacting to things happening
in its environment and the agents will tend
to start up again.
I: So it’s an environmental thing, not
arbitrary?
C: Right, it’s environmental.
I: How reactive is it to the spectators?
C: Not at all. Unless you start flashing
cameras at it, then it might do something.
I: Is the parallel with Xenakis more
about the underlying system, the
physical structure, or the sound
synthesis?
C: It’s more about the questions he addressed
in his ‘polytopes’, which were environments
of light, sound, and architecture, tied
together by electronic gestures across all
three. Thinking about light temporally
and sound spatially; and about his interest
in masses or clusters of points – here, the
optical and acoustic agents.
I: Was this made specifically for CTM
Festival here in Berlin?
C: No, it was originally built in Spain, at
LABoral in Gijón, as part of a residency.
After that, it was shown in the Buckminster
Fuller Dome of the Vitra Design Museum
there. Now, it was rethought for the Stattbad
space. The basic arching truss structures are
there, but they were rearranged to fit the
geometry of the pool. The sound is always
reconsidered for the space as well.
I: Marije, can you tell me a bit about the
software and the sound synthesis?
Marije: There are two sound sources. There
are sounds being synthesized by the little
white speaker/microphone units, which is
programmed in Arduino. Apart from the
units, there is also sound coming from a pair
of big speakers which was composed with
a multi-track editor by Chris [Salter] and
Adam Basanta. The pre-recorded material
is constantly being reprocessed or discarded.
The acoustic units have little antennas which
help them to communicate wirelessly to a
computer running Python, and that sends
all the sound information to SuperCollider.
So I’m sending settings and triggers for
the lights and sound from the computer,
and then I get sent the data back from the
units. The lights patterns are synthesized
in a similar way, so I can program the light
envelopes just like I would the sound, as
waveform and duration.
C: It runs in two cycles, one which is more
dramatic (‘chasing’) and another which is
more ambiental (‘firefly’), so it’s quieter.
I: Sofian Audry also worked on some of
the software, right? Is this part of Sofian
Audry’s PhD project at Hexagram?
C: Part of it. He has different projects, but
this is part of the research. He built the
library for this project but he’s also using it
for his own work.
I: For the sound or the lights?
C: He’s agnostic to that. It’s an open-source
C++ library called ‘qualia’, which does
machine learning, essentially; there’s figure
trees built into it too and different types
of processes. When we started to work on
this project he showed me a kind of test of
something, a very simple model of a sensor in
an environment and the question is whether
or not it understood what the environment
was doing, if it changed its output. And then
we started to talk and I said “Can we make
it in a larger scale?” Not just one node, but
many nodes. And so it eventually became
what is now n_polytope.

