FRIDAY 20 JUN
28 FILM & TV
“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in
our stars but in ourselves, that we
are underlings.” So goes the line
from Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar that
inspired the title of John Green’s
tale of two cancer-struck teens
who fall impossibly, tragically in
love. The book was incredibly
well-received, more so than any
of Green’s other efforts (which
remain beloved in their own
ways), with the response to it being
of such a magnitude that a film
adaptation was almost inevitable.
But with the path to adaptation
comes the valley of hatchet jobs, a
valley where so many books have
fallen previously.
The Fault in Our Stars, fortunately,
manages to navigate said
metaphorical valley with aplomb,
thanks to a combination of winning
factors: the heavy involvement
of the author (Green was on set
virtually every day), a dedicated
team of producers in all their
multi-titled guises with an eye on
making the best film possible while
keeping the budget through the
floor, a knock-out cast featuring
Shailene Woodley at a point where
her star can only continue to rise,
and known, successful quantities
in the screenwriters and director
(note ‘successful’, not ‘great’ –
Neustatder and Weber are the duo
responsible for (500) Days of Summer,
which was unavoidably successful
but of questionable merit).
All these factors collide to make
a film that is unquestionably a
perfect adaptation of the source
text. The cast are incredible,
nailing every single emotional
beat (if not adding something
more to each of them), with
one particular scene involving
Hazel’s (Woodley) parents
proving far harder-hitting that
its textual counterpart, thanks
in no small part to Laura Dern’s
performance as Hazel’s mother.
The story follows the same
path, the same beats, using
them to great effect to wring the
maximum volume of tears out
of its audience. Unfortunately,
the preview screening I saw
achieved this effect to such a
degree that it was hard to hear
some of the film over the crying
– speaks volumes for how
effective it was, I suppose.
Of course, this does mean that
any problems with the book are
present and magnified on the
big screen – a scene in the Anne
Frank house, while obviously
thematically resonant (I love
that phrase, it’s so meaningless)
We’re gonna die young
Editors: John Park (Film & TV), Emily Fulham (TV) news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
On The Box – Film & TV
The Fault in Our
Stars
Director: Josh Boone
Writers: Scott Neustadter,
Michael H. Weber, John Green
(book)
Starring: Shailene Woodley,
Ansel Englort, Laura Dern
Runtime: 126 minutes
Certification: 12A
Jack Steadman
Treasured writer
still feels shoe-horned in and
mildly troublesome – and anyone
who wasn’t a fan of the book’s
sentimentality and deliberately
adolescent philosophising won’t
find anything here to convince
them otherwise.
All in all, it’s a very straight-
up adaptation – too straight-up,
truth be told. The direction is
uninspired, taking the obvious
route for every single shot and
doing nothing of any real interest
(yes, obviously in some scenes
the obvious route is the right
one, but not in all of them), while
the soundtrack choices are so
painfully routine and obvious it’s
almost unbearable. If you went
away, made a Spotify playlist of
clichéd songs you’d expect in a
film like this, and brought it back,
I could guarantee you at least
half of those songs would make
an appearance here.
It feels weird to be complaining
about a film playing it safe and
settling for simple doing what
it should be doing, and doing
it competently – it’s certainly
a step up from doing it badly,
after all – but it really does
feel like a problem here. The
cast are stellar, there’s no two
ways around it, and the story’s
a strong one if you’re prepared
to invest in the characters. The
direction and music being found
wanting just makes it all feel like
a missed opportunity. And that –
more than anything I saw in the
film – is what really upsets me.
Summer musicals
Clint Eastwood directs his first-ever musical film, Jersey Boys (released 20th
June), based on the Tony-winning Broadway hit stage production of the
same name. The story is of how Frankie Valli and The Four Seasons
came together to become the singing sensation of the 1960s. Reviews have
been mixed at best, although fans of the singers are guaranteed to have a
good time, with hit songs such as ‘Sherry’, ‘Walk Like a Man’, and ‘Can’t
Take My Eyes Off You’ making their appearances, sung by musically
trained actors, not just film actors trying to sing to fit the role.
Think of this as the cheaper, tackier version of Mamma Mia, as if such
a thing could be achieved. Mamma Mia took the best of Abba and made
a stage musical out of it, which was then turned into a film, but with
Walking on Sunshine (released 27th June) it jumps straight into making
a film out of the greatest hits of the 80s. ‘How Do I Know’, ‘Venus’, ‘The
Power of Love’, ‘If I Could Turn Back Time’, ‘Wake Me Up Before You
Go-Go’, and ‘Walking on Sunshine’ appear on the soundtrack list, and
this marks singer Leona Lewis’ film debut.

