FRIDAY 20 JUN
38 CLUBS &SOCS
This stretch I run a pub. It’s a small thing,
a hole-in-the-wall with some temporal
debris stuck to the wall, a consistency
engine ticking in the back, and a great
selection of beers.
As for me? I accomplished forty seven
missions for the Temporal Directive.
Don’t worry – you’ll never have heard
of them. My last mission was their
erasure. They had done what they set
out to do, and they believed in tidying
up after themselves. I’m the only one
who remembers them – so now I run a
bar filled with the flotsam of a hundred
timelines.
I think it tells you a lot about the life
I’ve lead that my idea of retirement is
running a pub in a war zone.
A war zone? In Bruges?
Silly little linearist.
Old towns twist and turn. Using that is
like calculus, or secondary school general
relativity. You have to be shown how.
Working it out on your own takes an
Einstein, a Newton or a Shun. But once
you know, you can’t not do it. A twist of
an alley brings you to the middle ages.
Another brings your forward to one of
the cyberfutures, and the gentle song of
the Sony mind whales.
And where there is humanity, and
power, there is war.
The consistency engine sticks reality
together. It keeps this building in the real
– writing it into the world as it changes
around us. Outside the Agents walk back
through the streets, and then out into the
past or the future or one of the sideways
realms.
What? You thought all those young
men and woman were here for the night
life? You can’t see the desperation in
their eyes as they party away one last
night before walking out into the endless
possibilities?
Agents always end up alone. Any action
in the past births a new future. One where
you never will/can be/have been born. So
now I provide a few moments of quiet
amidst the storm.
Some Agents hide better than others.
The group of six that just walked in, for
example.
If I didn’t know better I’d be sure they
didn’t even know what kind of town they
were in.
But this is Bruges. No one is innocent
here. But we can pretend. For a little
while.
So I make some gentle conversation,
serve them Trappist beer, and send them
back into the howling void.
Once upon a time... there was a time war – Alex Cameron
A Sonnet of Bruges
On quest we went to see new lands divine,
Fair Bruges, our goal therein new foods to seek,
Our hope to dine on dishes so sublime,
Brave knights cannot hold back, cannot be meek.
Great dragon, Eurostar, to be our steed,
Swallo’d us whole and moved us on our quest,
A hostel sought we in our time of need,
With safe haven and lodging were we blessed.
Our joy was found in taverns far and near,
Bright stars of Michelin were to the fore,
Great friends, great food and many steins of beer,
Duck, rabbit, lamb, beef, pork and many more.
As we reflect upon fair times gone by,
‘Onward!’ to out next quest shall be our cry!
Helen Pennington

