39
FRIDAY 20 JUN CLUBS & SOCS
The Moomins in ‘Brooj’
Sam McKenney
CHAPTER 1
In which the Moomins embark upon their spirited
adventure
It must have been early one morning in May that
the Moomin family met at the railway platform, the
steam-engines chugging out little clouds with all their
might.
“Are we all ready ready for an adventure?” asked
Moominelen.
“Yes!” all the other Moomins replied in chorus,
with their bags-packed and sat at their sides “but how
shall we get there, it’s so very far?”
“Oh, you silly things, follow me” she gestured,
urging them forward.
As they strolled to the train, they passed through
a strange box, which beeped rudely at Moominpole,
although he didn’t know what he had down to offend
the box. Then with much commotion, the box
scrumpled all around Moominpole and then released
him, more scruffled than before.
“What a cad!” remarked Moominpole.
CHAPTER 2
Of their destination and the unusual places therein
After completing their arduous journey with little
more in the way of incident, they disembarked on the
foreign shore, in a land Moonelen helpfully informed
them was known as ‘Brooj’.
“I’m hungry, but what is there to eat in this strange
place?” Moominthel asked. And so they searched
high and low until darkness fell and the rain began
to fall.
“I’m damp!” pined Moominswede*. The others
agreed and found shelter under a big green tent,
which, fortuitously, also held food. Soon after,
they all had lavish and unusual meals before them,
unlike anything to be found in Moominland, and
voluminous drinks.
Moominey lifted the glass. “Are you sure such a big
glass of dubbel is good for you?” enquired Moominon.
“But of course it is, all nice things are good for you!”
Moominon considered this advice for a time, and
agreed, ordering himself a cherry beverage of the very
same capacity.
That night the Moomin family slept sweetly.
*Moominsdonotlikegettingrainedon,Moominswede
least of all.
CHAPTER 4
Their sad departure
But as they continued their journey, they found
that not everything in Brooj was as impolite as
the horses. Indeed, that the very same day, a most
gentlemanly, old building offered them as much
chocolate as they wanted. Soon after, another
stately house was insisting upon their eating
chips until they were all so full they could barely
continue.
As they explored further they soon discovered they
they were in fact on a small island, and windmills
stood sentinel all around its circumference. They
stood far taller and prouder than the watermills
the Moomins had all been taught to build in their
youth, and made our brave adventurers feel very
safe indeed.
It was then that Moominelen told them all it was
time to leave.
“Awww” the Moomins all said in unison “must
we leave?”
“Yes, I’m afraid so, my little Moomins for if we
don’t leave now, perhaps we should never leave.
And if that were to happen, then who would return
to Moominland and tell everyone of the delights
we have seen?”
The End
Dedicated to Tove Jansson
CHAPTER 3
Further exploits in Brooj
When they awoke, the Moomins exited their den to
a bright sun-lit day, unlike anything to be found in
Moominland. As they explored Brooj, they found
many more houses than any of them had seen before,
and, in the very centre of Brooj, there stood a tall
tower. A huge square surrounded the tower and
horses were pulling heavy loads behind them.
“Why are you working so hard on such a lovely
day?” Moominthel asked one of the horses they
passed.
“Neigh!” replied the horse.
“The horses here certainly lack the courtesy they
have back home” said Moominswede*.
*For in Moominland horses are commonly known
to invite all but the rudest of persons around for tea.
Photos by Helen Pennington and Sam McKenney

