47
FRIDAY 20 JUN SPORT
realised and after a quick inner tube swap
and collective apology to Tom the blushed
peloton set off once again.
Newhaven Port came sooner than the
pessimists had agonised. After a quick visit,
photo and mars bar deposit from Vicki’s
Uncle and Aunt we headed for the ferry,
and a midday nap. The five hour ferry
break was well received, along with the mass
produced lunch box of copious egg mayo
sandwiches, quavers and kitkats for all. This
was also when people found out their tour
jersey nicknames with some classic racial
stereotyping naming the German Matthias
“Highly Efficient” and his partner Olivia as
“Likes Highly Efficient Men”.
Day one was still not over, and once clear
of the ferry we quickly stripped off for the
new warmer weather. With Billy “Big Wille”
Palmer donning his new ‘king of the hill’
boxer-shorts we began on the smoothest
roads of our lives. Correct me if I’ve got this
completely wrong, but the French converted
an old railway line into a clear cycle path all
the way from Dieppe to our B&B stop in
Forges les Eaux. It was built just before the
London 2012 Olympics in a plan to allow
the French clear cycling to England. Love
it! This was also where we found our new
fervent love of trail mix; to the point where
Billy was engulfing handfuls and Ellie “Story
Time Please” Howard resorted to rationing
it to make sure it would last.
As the sun came down over the French
horizon we arrived at our B&B, Hotel St.
Denis. We had all wondered what the food
would be like when we got there but literally
jumped for joy at the “Steak House” lettering
on the restaurant’s window. In short, we ate
like kings and queens to a three course steak
dinner, followed by a rejuvenating shower,
beer and eventual sleep. But not before Pav
“Glup” Dimitrijević announced that his
urine was so dark and gloopy from all the
sugar we’d eaten it was like ‘banoffee pie
energy gel’… gross.
Sleep however was short lived, and an
8:00am start the next day had us out and
peddling once more. For 100m, until Marcel
“South African Stallion” Admiraal noticed
something wrong with his back wheel.
Every spoke was loose enough to be used
as a guitar string. Dan “Spare Tyre” Tyrie
and Ed “Salty Face” Hallett, our residential
mechanics ummed erred and plunged
into the risky business of spoke tightening
without the right equipment. Not something
recommended if you don’t know what you’re
doing, but thankfully the wheel kept true
and after some heavy creaking into place
Marcel’s bike was once again road worthy.
This was where we saw the true beauty of
the French countryside and the stunningly
straight and smooth roads. The undulating
Roman roads towards Paris teased us into
challenges of speed and endurance, helping
the group develop much better Peloton
riding skills. We were riding at a stunning
average pace well over 40km/h when we
passed a particular yet unremarkable French
farmhouse. The peloton leaders who rode
past heard a loud and throaty bark to the
right and thought nothing of it, until screams
arose from behind. It is a sight never to be
forgotten seeing a group of 13 other cyclists
weaving all over the road to avoid a brutally
large Rottweiler that had charged out barking
into the middle of the road, which narrowly
missed assaulting Pavle Dimitrijević. Fran
Capel close behind was however not so lucky
and with MacAskill levels of skill managed
to stay on her bike after being hit by the dog.
Thankfully by the time the dog had got up
everyone was out of reach and it trotted back
to its home. Excitement over.
Garmin glitch #003 – The French Off-
roader. Having handled the British off-road
we felt headstrong and tackled the mud and
rock path the Garmin had presented us, with
a challenge of a double rum shot for anyone
who got a puncture. During the entire
journey’s many challenges our handling
skills were definitely refined and improved,
and it was Billy Palmer who earned himself
that double shot. At the next rest stop we
folded a map out on the car front and tried
our best to plan a better route, but the terrain
kept changing none the less.
Garmin glitch #004 – The Red Bridge.
This was actually not so bad, and took us
over a gorgeous footbridge into a park full of
BBQs and Sunday holiday makers, but was
still off-road and a few people were losing
patience. All credit to Mattheas, he did a
sterling job with what he had to work with!
Garmin glitch #005 – The Dual
Carriageway Flyover. Of all the glitches,
this one worried me the most because when
you’re 100ft up on a fast traffic flyover with
just a bike between your thighs and a little
helmet on your head there is an element of
“am I totally insane?” Thankfully we made
it to the end without any accidents, then
we looked back and a group had stopped
halfway. Panicking, because the only
mechanics were now too far away to help,
we waited for Marcel to cycle over and give
us a diagnosis. “Ellie has to go for a wee”.
At that moment I gave Ellie a telepathic
bitch-slap and began to fret even more.
Thankfully everyone got back ok, and the
true story of sudden vomiting made Ellie’s
stop far more justified. But I was very glad
to get off that road.
The final leg towards Tom’s house had
Tom “Fit French Fresher” Bartissol teach
us all about why there were plastic bags
hanging from sticks at the side of the road:
it is a sign that there were prostitutes in the
woods waiting if you fancied a break. We
did keep a keen eye out for the support car
back and Mike “Winky Face” Kaye parked
up somewhere but it looks like he resisted
the urge.
Finally, with throbbing thighs and wind-
burnt faces we arrived at Tom’s home to
a heroes’ welcome. But the journey wasn’t
over. Donning the tour jerseys and refuelling
with cake, we mounted up once more to
cycle to Paris and the Arc de Triomphe.
Our entrance was less than traditional, and
saw us at the base of La Grande Arche de
La Defense. Our first view of the Arc de
Triomphe brought cheers and we traversed
the adventure-park-style descent down steps
and ramps weaving this way and that (feeling
a little too much like a biker gang) before
braving the French traffic. A final hill climb
brought us underneath our final destination.
Powering into the swirling traffic we began
our victory laps of the Arc de Triomphe
and finally unsaddled from our bikes for the
last time. 288km down, and we had made
it. Only to have the Gendarmes (aka Fun
Police) tell us we were too loud and must
leave ‘le monument historique’, to which
Tom replied by accidentally popping a
champagne bottle at them. No harm done.
Now to leave the whirling tornado of
vehicular doom. Exagerating? Wait until
you try and cycle it. Fran survived yet
another collision this time from a French
taxi, Sian “Unforgettable” Morgan decided
the best approach was to exit radially with
one foot clipped in and Tom had to cycle it
with a bottle of champagne! Thankfully, no
one died.
Back at Tom’s and our cook, Fatima had
prepared a gorgeous Moroccan feast for us
which we engulfed before the tone lowered
thanks to copious amounts of delicious
French wine. The party continued into the
early morning hours with the fines circle
opening for all to unleash their frustration
through the medium of rum and white wine,
interesting French drinking games, thrusting
planks and teaching Mike that it’s not ok
to sleep when the fines circle was still in
operation.
Despite everything we still managed
a tourist’s day of Paris, with some even
running around Paris (see below). We truly
proved ourselves in France.
As individuals we will always remember
cycling to Paris and the challenges we faced,
but also as a team we pushed and encouraged
each other through hard times; celebrated
and laughed in great times; consolidated
and supported through the tears and shared
sweat in warm embraces at the end of a hard
day. The first ever TriIC Easter Tour has
been epic and I am in no doubt that in the
future we will see more tours bring more
beautiful people together under the triathlon
club flag.
Bring on Summer Tour.
ICU TRIATHLON
ICU TRIATHLON

