FRIDAY 20 JUN
8 FEATURES
Away from the top of the leader board,
one of the most notable players here
at tournament is New Zealand’s Lewis
Hawkins. What sets him out from the
rest of the crowd is that, being aged
8, he’s at least a decade younger than
anyone else here. Learning from my
failures in adopting the direct approach
with Nigel, I managed to convince him
have a chat with me over a game the
following day.
Buoyed by my date with Lewis, I continued
to rove field-recorder in hand. Still feeling
my way into the Scrabble scene, driven in
equal measures by my own ignorance and
potential interviewees’ relative reticence,
I found myself asking similar questions to
each willing participant. Question: “If you
had one tip to a layman Scrabbler, what
would it be?” Almost without exception,
the response was to learn all the two letter
words. Yet somehow this didn’t seem
enough. I wanted more in depth secrets,
some juice, to give a window into the mind
of a proper player and see better how their
approach differed from that of you or I. I
added it to my notes and pressed on.
Later that evening, as I listened back over
my recordings through the haze of the Czech
bar we’d holed up in (smoking in bars and
clubs is still legal in the Czech Republic), I
had what alcoholics refer to as a moment of
clarity. Here I was practically listening on
repeat to different SCRABBLE grandees
say that learning the two letter words is key;
I had the biggest game of SCRABBLE in
my life lined up for the following day and
yet my knowledge of two-letter words was
lacking.
I’m not sure if it was basement-priced pivo
or the circumstances that caught up with
me, but I descended into a state of minor
panic. After twenty minutes of pleading
with what sporadic roaming 3G my phone
could muster, I scribbled down the first list
of two letter words I could find. Outside, the
sun had long since set. I had my showdown
at nine, the next morning. That gave me
around 12 hours to know my JO’s from
my PO’s and my EG’s from my AG’s , as
I whispered myself slowly to sleep with my
wordsheet.
As eight year olds go, Lewis Hawkins
seemed pretty well travelled. Having made
it to Prague via Bangkok, he’s then going on
to Dubai (to play in the Youth SCRABBLE
Championships no less) before a mini
European tour and a Christmas spent with
family in Norway.
Sitting down to face my SCRABBLE
destiny, I let Lewis do the scoring, largely
for fear of him showing me up if try to
do it myself. Either way, the speed of his
calculation is dizzying. While I count up
each tile, lifting up them to check what
bonus was below, he skips up each number
– “six, seven, eleven, fourteen, twenty eight”
he counted aloud, opening the scoring with
‘COVED’ – like a dancer ascending stairs in
a hurry.
Occasionally, I dare to proffer up a total
and on more than one occasion he corrects
my maths, with a matter-of-fact insouciance
that could only be got away with by someone
of such tender years. Despite some initial
misgivings over whether COVED was a
real word or not I parallel played on with
MASH, putting to good use my newly
freshened knowledge of ME and AD.
I begin with a topic that I imagine to be a
gold mine of conversation for an eight-year
old: that of Christmas presents. He seems a
little disinterested, almost a little too mature
to be talking toys, so I get down to brass
tacks. He explains how he started playing
on the iPad – the first in a generation of
SCRABBLE champions first introduced to
the game on a tablet, I wonder? He tells me
SCRABBLE TOUR!
Grudge
match
against an 8
year-old
On December 6th at around midday,
at least 55 games were taking place at
the SCRABBLE Champions’ Tournament
in Prague. 110 players from across
the globe had convened in Prague for
a tilt at the title of SCRABBLE World
Champion and a share of the €25,000
prize pot. Players from as far and wide
as Bahrain and Barbados had come to
compete. By the time we caught up
with the competition, at the start of
the third day, the serious contenders
had already begun to make themselves
known. Foremost amongst them was
one Nigel Richards.
By the time the final day broke, over 100
comers had been cut down to a final four.
Sammy Okosagah, the Cinderella story of the
tournament, stood top of the rankings after
31 games, a spectacular feat for a player who
only made the competition through the last
chance qualifier. A former big-hitter on the
Nigerian SCRABBLE scene, now a resident
of Baltimore and returning after a long
hiatus, he’d marked his return in style. Level
with him on 22 wins, were Nigel Richards
and Dave Wiegand, a taciturn American
who has won over $100,000 in prize money
over the course of his playing career. With
a far superior spread, Sammy took the top
spot, followed by Nigel and then Dave, with
Komol taking fourth as the only player on
21 wins. It was Sammy against Komol and
Nigel against Dave for a place in the final.
With Wiegand’s mild manner and
Richard’s reputation for unremittingly
outstanding play, the first semi-final had
shades of a lamb going to the slaughter. Of
the many I spoke to, no one could look past
Nigel for a victor and duly, in traditional
Nigel style, he delivered – by a whitewash
no less.
The other final was a less one-sided
affair. Okosagah took the first game
courtesy of GANTLINE, OUTDOER
and FARSIDES, but Komol pegged
him back in the second. The second was
decided early on. With WAWS and SUQ
on the board, Sammy weighed up playing
CATNAPED before deciding to pass and
give Komol the chance to make something
more of the limited options on the board.
Little had he countenanced that Komol
might play GYMPIEs, having picked up the
blank. Bingo, double letter on Y, it scored
90 for Komol putting him 132-18 up after
each player had two turns. The rest of the
match was something of a formality; despite
FEnURON and COVERAGE, both for
80, from Okosagah, OVERRATE and
EROTISE ensured Komol ran out winner
before he closed out the semi-final in the
fourth game.
So it came down to Nigel against Komol,
the final that everyone had seen coming and
that the competition deserved. A best of five
face-off is what stood between the defending
World Champion and the young Thai
challenger. Dave Wiegand had knocked and
been unsympathetically denied, Sammy had
come out of nowhere and got a little closer,
but only two had made it into the final. The
stage was set, the crowd awaited, the tiles sat
ready to write on the board of history. It was
Komol to play Nigel in the SCRABBLE
Champions’ Tournament final.
OILSEED, GREX, RATOONER; all the
words went Nigel’s way. 581-421, Nigel took
the final game and with it claimed his third
world title.
And then, strangely, that was that. Nigel
was victorious and the world SCRABBLE
champion of champions had been decided
for another year, in a predictable yet
nevertheless climactic denouement.
Luckily for me, the SCRABBLE
Champions Tournament is coming to
London’s ExCel Centre later this year.
Will Prince
Scrabble Reporter
Will Prince
Scrabble Reporter
Felix / Max Hunter
Prince
goes
to
Prague

