9
FRIDAY 20 JUN FEATURES
he practises about an hour a day during the
week but often the whole day at weekends
and during the holidays - ‘unless my mum
kicks me off the iPad’ he adds.
He drops down RUE to the end of my
JOKE played a turn or two before and
presses down each tile in order with his
little fingers. Four turns in, he’s already on
triple figures and has a lead of 39. Scanning
over my tiles through a subconscious face
palm, I mutter something about being in
touching distance. “Quite close,” says Lewis,
seemingly getting the emollient comments
in early before the gap becomes unassailable.
“What do your mates make SCRABBLE?
Are you converting them?” I ask as I play
GLORY, with no small hint of irony, for
a piddly nine points. “All of them are very
good at sport”, he tells me in his gentle
Antipodean drawl. “all my friends play at
least three sports. I only play….’ He pauses
a moment. “If you count SCRABBLE as a
sport, I only play two.” The other, he tells
me, is soccer, rarely taking his eyes off the
tiles as he plays BONNETS.
If the systematic dismantling I was suffering
at the hands of Lewis wasn’t bad enough,
the rate at which he did it was alarming.
Every so often I remember that Lewis is in
primary school. I struggle to remember what
my primary school years were like. It puts
into perspective how mature Lewis is for his
age, with a level of focus that many adults
would aspire to.
“Have you ever played SCRABBLE
before?” I couldn’t tell if this was innocent
conversation from the pint-sized kiwi or
exquisite chutzpah, but either way, I cracked.
Despite being away from the cloying smoke
of the bar cellar and (as far as I could tell)
with the last of the pivo out my system, the
wave of nauseous panic returned. My pupils
dilated, my pulse quickened. Beyond the
board, the world blurred into nothingness
and my focus closed down to the rack.
It was just me and these seven tiles, and
I was getting beaten by an eight year old.
Albeit modern SCRABBLE’s answer to an
eight-year-old Mozart but I was getting beat
nonetheless and, a handful of turns in, it
was looking to be a hiding.
Something needed to be done.
SUZE. SUZE was my only option.
With a ‘Z’ on my rack, I needed to make
it count and SUZE was the only way I could
play it and land on a triple word score. The
only issue was that I had just pulled SUZE
out of thin air.
My mind became a flurry of thoughts –
crepe suzette, suzerainty, Peep Show’s Big
Suze – as I scrabbled the recesses of my
mind for a shred of authenticity. I was losing
to an eight year old and my only option was
to try made-up words.
Sitting back in my chair and
pulling the best look of
nonchalance I could
muster, I slapped down
SUZE for a whopping
43. For a moment
Lewis was silent. He
looked at the board,
then down at his
rack and then back
to the board. He
could challenge and
I’d be rumbled, my
SUZE ruse would
be up. Seemingly
unflapped by my
speculative SUZE, he
counters with DETAIN. I
live to fight another rack.
It’s been a busy schedule for
Lewis so far, he’s been here a week and
played both days of the last chance qualifier
for the SCT and every day of the open
tournament that has been run concurrently
for those who failed to make the main event.
I’ve done well to have him squeeze me in
before his day’s play begins proper. He is
more than just figuratively having me for
breakfast.
He came very close to making the SCT
himself: of the three under-18 entrants in
the last chance qualifier, one was guaranteed
entry. Over the course of his eight games he
was drawn against neither of the other two
but they played each other, one beating the
other by a monstrous margin and skewing
the rankings in the favour of the victor. Lewis
was effectively frozen out of contention.
Any sense of disappointment can’t have
lasted too long. I later discovered that at the
World Youth SCRABBLE Championship
in Dubai (his next stop after Prague) he won
the prize for best player in both his own age
category and the one above.
LAVE stares back at me from my rack and
feeling a little cocky from my
close shave with SUZE,
I throw caution to the
wind once again. I
ask him if he has
any favourite
words, to see
if he can top
the tale of
ZYGANTRA
one of the
E n g l i s h
players had
told me the
day before.
“This word,” he
says, scribbling
it down on the
sheet we’re using for
scoring, “This is my
favourite word I played in
the tournament”. I look at it and
baulk. TAENIAE. All of a sudden SUZE
don’t seem all that bad. “Do you know what
it means?” I ask, now weary of disconnect
between spelling and definition in the
SCRABBLE player’s consciousness. Lewis
gives a little mute shake of his head, before
challenging my LAVE.
Any word can be challenged in a game of
SCRABBLE, the clocks are stopped and
the dictionary, automated into a computer
search bar, is consulted. To my amazement,
it checks out and gifts me a further five
points. I would’ve felt worse about so blindly
guessing against a soon-to-be nine year old,
but his margin stood not far off triple digits
and it had dried up any pool of sympathy
that might have been welling inside of me.
“It’s getting quite tense.” I say, mopping
literal sweat off my brow. “Not really” comes
the response. Clearly when you’re used to
spanking septuagenarians with TAENIAE,
losing five points to me on a challenge barely
registers. I, however, was jubilant.
I ask Lewis if he thinks he could one day be
World Champion. He hums a brief moment
of deliberation, before admitting ‘probably
not’. I wouldn’t be so pessimistic about his
chances. Starting so young, his mind will be
a sponge to all that rote learning of words
that forms the mainstay of competitive
SCRABBLE. Assuming he navigates his
formative years with the same level head he’s
shown me over the past half hour, come an
adult, he’d be at a huge advantage.
Picking up the blank, he plays BANTING
for 65 and cheekily reminds me I can
challenge if I want. The word doesn’t spark
even a glimmer of recognition but keen
to avoid falling for his ploy, I play on. A
few more outrageously hopeful words by
me (PAISE apparently is allowed) Lewis
rounds off the game, winning 372-273. As I
pant a relieved sigh at managing to keep the
difference within double digits (the marker
of respectability, I tell myself) Lewis is
already picking at the tiles, working out what
other plays could have been made.
I scan over the scoresheet and finally ask
him for his autograph. Some how, I doubt
it’ll be his last.
Felix / Max Hunter

