Feature
Mixed
Shaken Kamran Malik reports on
mixed-race relationships
P
A K I , W O P , C H I N K , NIGGER, H O N K E Y , W H I T E
T R A S H , S P I C , Y I D , or just plain " B L A C K
B A S T A R D ! " . These are names I've heard from time
to time and quite often directed to me. "Just scratch the
surface and you're all the same... RACIST!" yells Sanjay from
EastEnders after some particularly nasty graffiti is directed at
him. Racism exists. It's as impossible to get away from it as it
is to change the colour of your own skin.
Another popular refrain of the racially challenged is "They're
all right but would you want your daughter/sister/
mother/brother/mate to go out with one?". Mixed-race
relationships are a guaranteed way of getting a potential racist
hot under the collar.
There is no better illustration of the 'scratch the surface'
argument than when a loved one or relative shacks up with
someone of a different complexion. I've seen perfectly
reasonable people who have black and Asian friends turn into
rabid neofascists at the drop of a hat just because their
daughter or son is going out with "one of them". And the real
pity is that it is usually the parents who, out of some
misplaced protective instinct, get so excited.
I want to show how you can get involved with whoever
you feel like and it can
work. It just depends on
how important the rel-
ationship is to you. I know
plenty of mixed-race
couples who are just ord-
inary people getting on
with their lives. They
don't wake up i n the
mornings and say "I'm in a mixed relationship so let's
worry!", they just live ordinary lives. But for those who expect
fireworks or just can't understand it, I'll try to explain this....
I
n order to understand mixed couples, the best thing is to
talk to the experienced people, people who have done it or
are doing it now. First I spoke to Louise, who used to live
with a Punjabi Indian guy, Harjinder:
"I was kept secret from the parents for quite a while but
then Harjinder introduced me to them and it was very weird.
When I'd go to dinner at their house, his mother would ask
'Do you like the food?' and immediately say in Punjabi 'She
should be in the kitchen cooking herself!'. Harjinder would
tell me what she said afterwards. Maybe it's because I talked
about pubs and clubs all the time. I don't think they were
expecting that from a nice girl!"
How did people in the street react to them as a couple?
"It was really weird because we lived in Cambridge, which is a
pretty snobbish place, so people would stare at us. I remember
one time we were in the laundrette and someone just stuck
their head round the door and shouted ' P A K I ! ' and ran off.
Harjinder didn't care but I couldn't believe it; I ran outside
and the person had just run off."
eing subject to racial taunts and abuse is just one of the
new things experienced by a white person when they
go out' with someone who isn't white. Josie and
Osmaan have been living together for two years. They first
started seeing each other four years ago but it's still taking
some time for the parents to be told the whole story. I asked
Josie why:
"My parents know about Osmaan but they still don't
know we live together. Osmaan isn't allowed to answer the
phone in case it's my parents."
What was your parents' reaction when they found out?
"My mum became horrified and extremely racist and
prayed that it was just a phase I was going through. M y Dad
was just pissed off because he had to deal with my mum but I
think he was genuinely concerned that I would get a hard
time because of Osmaan."
And what about Osmaan and his parents? "Er, well I
haven't actually got round to telling them yet." Why not? "I
suppose I'm just running away from the problem. I know they
wouldn't approve
because they want me
to marry a nice
M u s l i m girl and I
can't cope with the
hassle they would
give me."
I asked Josie
about how the public
reacted to them as a couple. "We don't get any hassle in
London, which isn't surprising as there's loads of nutters to
worry about. But Osmaan doesn't dare take me to Glasgow,
which is where his family live, because he thinks people will
stare too much. It is difficult when you notice the way people
are racist. The first time it happened to me, I almost got us
beaten up. The two of us were waiting for a bus late one night
on Tottenham Court Road. I think there'd been a big football
match because a load of fat hooligans passed us completely
pissed. As they went past one of them yelled 'What are you
doing with a fucking PAKI?' Osmaan pretended not to hear
but I completely lost my temper and screamed 'Fuck off or
something. The whole lot of them turned on us and Osmaan
just grabbed me and said 'Run!'. Luckily, they were too drunk
to chase us. I was so shocked that the racism was directed at
me that I over-reacted. I would never do that again."
"One of them yelled 'What are you doing with
a fucking Paki?'. I completely lost my temper
and screamed 'Fuck off!' or something.
The whole lot of them turned on us."
T
S hese hassles exist but they are only anecdotes over a
long period of time. Louise and Osmaan are a very
happy couple, happier than most same-race couples I
know. Let's face it, you can end up being beaten up by a yob
FELIX 10FEB95

