Feature
for your dress sense, and parents can dislike your partner for
their hair colour. It's just a question of how far you let these
prejudices rule your life. We only have look at Yugoslavia to
see where getting exited about ethnic differences can lead us.
To get some words of wisdom about mixed couples, I spoke to
poet and "free-thinking intellectual" Benjamin Zephaniah,
who himself has a Pakistani wife:
"I don't like t a l k i n g to journalists about mixed
relationships because they always seem to be looking to dig up
dirt about the subject."
But what kind of reaction did he get when he got
married?
"The reaction was very good and supportive all round.
All our friends were very happy and my wife's parents were
immediately won over by my charm. I showed some respect of
their culture by learning a bit of Urdu and how to act in front
of them."
What did he think about the argument that I've often
heard from my parents: that races cannot intermarry without
trouble and that you should not mix your blood?
"If you study genetics you see that the difference
between races is genetically very small. The genetic difference
between people coming from different countries is no greater
than that between those from the same country. We are all
from the same source in Africa anyway. You also learn that
mixing of genes is important to produce stronger and smarter
people. When you see the problems that inbreeding creates
you can see that this is true. T h i s [not mixing blood]
argument is wrong because we are all race-mixing all the
time."
But what about cultural identity? "I'm not saying a
person should lose their cultural identity or let themselves be
completely dominated by someone else's; they should be
proud of what they are. When I was young we were all into
Malcom X and black identity, but I think it's wrong to say
any culture is greater than another."
What about the reaction he and his wife get on the
street? "I never get any trouble; in fact, people come up to me,
because my wife is a Pathan and they're a warrior race, and
say 'Wow man, how do you do it?'." And what kind of advice
would he give to younger mixed couples? "Just take it easy
and don't worry. I think people should solely judge people on
who they are."
T
here is a great pressure to conform in any society. We all
want to fit in to a certain extent. However, in immigrant
communities the pressure is greatly increased. While
this is understandable to the extent that cultural values such
as language or art should not be eroded, I think it places
unreasonable demands on the generations to follow,
particularly as far as relationships are concerned.
In my own family, one of my sisters married a Sikh guy.
This produced a more extreme reaction than if she'd married
a white guy. They married happily but were never accepted by
some members of the community.
It is unreasonable to assume that you can emigrate to a
country and not be affected by that country's values. If my
parents decided that I should live and grow up here, then I
can't pretend that I'm still in Pakistan, like many Pakistanis
in Britain do. I get very irritated by the kind of cultural
fascism which permeates arguments about mixed
relationships. I'm not advocating giving up language and
culture and becoming completely bland. It's such a great sight
to walk around London and see so many different cultures
mixing and living in apparent multiracial harmony; but
scratch the surface...? Q
C a l l i n g a l l S a b b a t i c a l
E l e c t i o n C a n d i d a t e s
If you require ICU Print Unit to produce
election publicity for you please come
and see us ASAP The deadline for
artwork to be printed is:
Monday 13th February
We also offer a competitive photocopying
service that will run throughout the
election period.
If you are standing for any of the posts
we strongly advise you to contact us this
afternoon, before you go elsewhere.
The successful candidate would work with large
finish
Intei
F E L I X

