Xtra Curricular Feature
M M ! Sss^S^ffi ©^.ifi SB^at}
What you should realise about Union Clubs and Societies
Keys: Telegraph, Bristol, Snowdonia, 1000ft
Nerves: Some of the Union Clubs and Societies' more dangerous sports
O n Saturday, 28th of January the D a i l y
Telegraph devoted two full pages to an inci-
dent that occurred in, what could be consid-
ered, familiar circumstances. Colette
Fleetwood was a student at the University of
the West of England (Bristol). Colette joined
the Universities Fell Walking Club. On her
very first Club trip, to Snowdonia, Colette
died.
I do not want to place the blame on any-
one, but I will give a brief account of what
happened. Colette was inexperienced in fell
walking, she attended the trips "pre-meet-
ing", and then the Club set off for the Welsh
mountainside. As explained in the Telegraph,
Colette and her friend found the Club atmos-
phere unapproachable (something common
amongst our Clubs) but decided to go on the
trip anyway keeping to each others' company.
It was reported that appropriate precautions
were not taken considering the weather,
clothes and equipment. Colette was placed in
a group walk that was much too difficult for
her ability. She was told that the route con-
sisted of "some scree with a bit of scram-
bling". The Telegraph reports "there was no
'safe' route to the summit". Colette lost her
life when a gust of wind blew her off a snow-
field and she fell 1000ft.
The article explains that the university
vice-chancellor met Colettes parents at the
memorial service; "After expressing his con-
dolences, Morris told them [...] that the uni-
versity and union were 'completely separate'
and that the accident was 'a matter for the
students' union'". The University of West
England (UWE) funds its' Students' Union in
the same way as Imperial College. The
Students' Union receives a "block grant"
from the parent college. I would be extremely
disappointed if Imperial College reacted in
the same way as U W E . Imperial College
Union has a very close relationship with the
College and we believe that this link would
not disappear in similar circumstances. At
this college the Union works very closely
with the Health Centre and Safety Unit. We
are available to give advice and help anyone.
See the numbers at the end of the article.
Sports like mountaineering and fell
walking regard themselves as having an ethos
of "individual initiative and self reliance". If
students wish to take part in these activities
then they decide so as adults, understanding
the risks. Before going on a trip everyone
must be made aware of the risks involved. In
Colettes case, she was not aware of these risks,
and placed her faith in the expedition leaders.
The leaders of our Clubs could be considered
responsible for their members on expedi-
tions.
I am writing this because I am shit scared
of a member of college being involved in an
accident. It may not have happened so far,
but accidents do happen and the after shocks
tremble for a long time. Whenever you con-
sider going on any trip or activity, please
make sure that you are happy with the
arrangements. Make sure that you feel com-
fortable. If you are in doubt then stand up
and shout. Life is too sweet to waste it away
on being scared to ask questions.
Full copies of the Telegraph's report are
available from me, Ian Parish, Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies), in the Union
office.
Phone numbers:
Ian Parish
Office: 0171 594 8060, 58063 internal
Home: 0171 594 8063, 48063 internal
Ian Gillett (Safety Director)
Office: 0171 594 9420,49420 internal
Mobile: 0860 333 615, 23 350 internal
F E L I X 1DPEB95

