X t r a C u r r i c u l a r
Change in Lesson Times
Keys: Shading, Drawing, Art
^m^kffj^f\ ' ) u e
to popular demand,
we have decided to start
^J6,0*f< ji^iflf our art classes earlier as of
' n e x t
week (Tuesday, 14
* * February). That means we
are starting the classes at 5.30pm and finish-
ing them at 7.30pm. The venue is still Civil
Eng Building, Room 101 and the classes are
still on Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
The style of our classes has also changed
(so no more white bottles!). This term we are
following a timetable (check notice board no.
49 on Sherfield Walkway) and for the first
part of each session, the tutor will cover on or
more of the following: shading, perspective,
figure drawing, colours, etc. The remainder
of the lesson can be devoted to either contin-
uing to experiment on that day's topic or
working on an individual piece (maybe even
for the Staff Student Exhibition in May this
year). The purpose of this individual work is
for the teachers to help you learn more of the
various techniques as you work on them. The
teachers are there to help you so please ask
them if you have any questions.
The cost of the lesson is a mere £2 and
material is provided but you are welcome to
bring your own if you like. Membership is £3
for students, and £6 for staff. For those of you
who received our newsletter, please do return
our survey.
For more information, please email
leonardo@ic, or leave a note in our pigeon-
hole in the Union Office (SCAB H-Z).
Dance Club's Trip to Sheffield
Keys: Cha-cha-cha, Jive, Win
By 8.15am, Saturday 4th February, most of
the 46 members if the IC Dance Club Team,
along with a few supporters, were gathered in
Beit Quad. It was the m o r n i n g of the
Sheffield Social, the first of the 3 annual stu-
dent dancing competitions, and we had six
years of titles to defend. The four hour trip
up to the octagon centre passed to the over-
whelming smell of hairspray, the application
of obscene quantities of makeup, and last
minute repairs to costumes. Once we'd
arrived and had found our tables, the rituals
of getting dressed began, whilst Christine
began the task of doing the hair of the mod-
ern team. The floor wasn't overly fast (slip-
pery) but was very solid, making it hard work
for the quickstep and jive couples.
At 2.30pm the competitions started with
the open section. Here we had a great deal of
success, winning or reaching the finals of
nearly all of the student competitions. Next
was the team walk on, where we should have
been called the Imperial Army, with nearly
double the number of competitors of any
other university there. Battle commenced
with the team match, followed by rising
excitement, and finally the knock-out.
The result? We lived up to our reputa-
tion and swept the board winning the knock-
out, and the A, B and C team competitions,
mainly by a consistently high performance by
everyone, especially Ivan and Sarah 2nd with
Jeremy and Lorna 4th (waltz), Satin and
Mansi 3rd with Nick and Barbara 5th (cha-
cha-cha), Bryan and Annya 1st with Jo and
Jacqui 5th (quickstep), Peter and Karen 1st,
David and L i z 4th and Nevil and Ruth 5th
(Jive).
By 12.45 we were all back on the coach,
where the celebrations continued for about
1/2 an hour until everyone fell asleep, or dis-
cussed tactics for SUDA in 3 weeks or I V D A
in 4.
Congratulations to all the team, and
thanks to everyone who helped to get us
there, especially Christine for the hair, and
Vicky and Dorothy who coached us up to a
winning standard.
P3QLTD
Films This Week
Keys: Exorcist, Browning, Fiction
No, hold on a minute there is absolutely no
need to worry. Yes that's right Pulp Fiction
is still showing at I C U Cinema. Okay, so you
may have missed the last two nights but there
are still three performances of this ultra-bril-
liant film remaining. The shows tonight are
at 8pm and 11pm, so it is possible to have a
fun evening with your friends and then wel-
come in the wee small hours. Saturday sees
our last show of Pulp Fiction at 8pm but the
night is not over once the credits for this film
have run.
Oh no, don't even think about missing
the monster movie, that is the Saturday Late
Show. While people think they are being
scared by Interview With A Vampire, we give
you the chance to see the film that set the
standards of all horror films made since, The
Exorcist. The Browning Version is at 8pm
on Sunday, included amongst its cast is Greta
Scacchi who you may have seen in Presumed
Innocent last Saturday Night. If she's lucky
though she may not die in this film, which
features a teacher at crisis point, must have
been the one of those that used to teach me.
That's Entertainment
Keys: Cupid, Regurgitate, Love
Valentines week and I've got my sack for
all the cards I'm going to get (er, did I hear
the word 'not'?). T o mark the romance in the
air, I C U Ents have gone a bit hearts, flowers
and Cupids, so get sexy for the week ahead.
Monday - Live Football
Nothing very romantic about... Big Screen
Live Football. Da Vinci's, 7pm.
Tuesday - Pub Quiz
Dan gets even more sexy than usual (yes, it is
possible!) with a night of questions with a
leaning towards love and sex. £50 cash prize
for the w i n n i n g team, courtesy of S T A
Travel. Da Vinci's, 8pm.
Wednesday - Club Spanque
Drinking, dancing and tapping off (a quaint
northern term), at Club Spanque. 9pm-lam,
Union and free.
Thursday - Lovey-dovey Cocktails
A special lovey-dovey cocktail night. Where
else can you experience Valentines Kiss and
Sex on the Beach without leaving the Quad.
If we get enough response, a very special one-
off Blind Date. (We still need 10 gorgeous
pouting students, 5 of each sex, to take part.
Contact the Union Office!). Da Vinci's, free.
Friday - Comedy, Disco
A full night of passion, mystery and intrigue!
Starting early with Bust-a-Gut Comedy, fea-
turing Chris and George (an anarchic combi-
nation of quick witted banter and blazing
silliness), Julian Barrett and P h i l Davey.
There's free Newcastle Brown Ale to the first
fifty in the door, and it's just £2.50 (or £1.50 if
you've got an Ents Card!).
T h e n , get sexy and get funky with
'Love', a night of unadulterated adult plea-
sures, with romantic things on the door, and
a very special love lounge chill-out zone - and
it's still £1. So go out and find the one you
love!
And don't forget - next Friday, 24th, is
an evening of explicit bad taste, starting with
the regurgitating skills of Stevie Starr, then
going off on a high-tack groove of 70's and
80's pleasures for the disco. So get in the
mood, raid those Oxfam shops and get seri-
ously aesthetically challenged.
Articles for Xtra Curricular
If you would like an article to be
included i n the Xtra Curricular section,
please bring it along to the F E L I X Office.
The article must be submitted on the
Friday before the issue is due to come out,
and preferably on disk. Articles with pic-
tures will take priority over those that
don't if space is limited. If your article is
more than 300 words then you should
give advance warning.
I0FGB95 F E L I X 1

