In the neverending story that spans more generations than
Genesis, star trek returns to the large screen. Magpie
applied his wrinkle cream and shouted out "she caaani take it
captain" with the rest of the starglazers.
If love is the air, divorce is probably trying to creep under the
door. Joseph Ban got knotted watching Strindberg's aptly
named the dance of death.
O
According to Fiona it's not just thin that's in. Striding today's
catwalks is the supernerd - calling everyone in the huxley
building this could be YOU!!!
©
It's a girl, it's a boy, it's a big fat tub of joy. Yes after last
week's enforced absence (due to illness), rotation returns in
the safe but tenderly soft hands of A/ok (he uses fairy liquid!)
^rnw Back in anatomy class, tanya never got beyond lunch - James
[ M~% checks out the new belly album. Vik gets a natural high
* ffl J listening to the senseless things and dream theater whilst
tintin has a most pleasant experience with Victoria Williams.
^ doctoring the spacewaves
In star trek generations the Next
Generation crew arrives on the big
screen to the joy of trekkers,
trekkies and trekettes.
Thanks to the cunning of the
script writers, the plot revolves
around the Nexus, a place where
all your dreams come true, which
allows both new and old captains
to meet. And so Captain Kirk, with
Captain Picard, returns to the good
old days saving the universe once
more.
The prologue to 'Generations'
starts with the grand launch of the
Enterprise-B, this time with
Captain Kirk attending as a guest
and not as captain. As usual the
scenes have that wry humour
indicative of the original series as
Kirk desperately wants to get back
into that captain's chair again. The
prologue then ends with the
disappearance of Kirk into the
Nexus and the arrival of Dr. Saron
(//la/com McDowell) onto the
scene. The film then jumps some
80 years to the future where the
Next Generation crew have to deal
with Dr Saron's dastardly plan to
return to the Nexus.
The original 'Star Trek' was
more of a western in outer space,
and when Next Generation came
to television it relied on special
effects, scientific words and
political correctness. 'Star Trek
Generations' is pretty much on the
same lines as the television
episode: 10 minutes being
devoted to the minor characters
and numerous subplots and before
leading back to the final show
down; Malcom McDowell verses
Captains Picard and Kirk.
The film sets are exactly the
same, though the use of moody
dark shadows and the wide screen
attempts to hide the fact nothing
has changed. Undoubtedly filmed
straight after the last of the
television series, 'Generations' kills
off the possibility of any more
original 'Star Trek' films and
bridges the gap to a new series of
Next Generation films, (with the
added bonus of obtaining a couple
of bob on the merchandising).
'Generations' feels just like an
extended television plot but all the
characters have major scenes
devoted to them although these
are mostly unrelated. The most
notable acting comes from
Malcom McDowell as he is in an
unusual role, though it does show
that there are still acting roles
available for holding men.
If you are a fan of the
television series you will not be
disappointed with 'Generations'.
Just like the television episodes it
flows well for the two hours
duration, the special effects are
spread thickly throughout the film
and it keeps you watching. 0

