F R E E V O T E F O R
P R E S I D E N C Y ?
GIRL RESCUED
DONNA CARE, the 24-year old Chemistry PG, who f e l l and was trapped in the
520-ft deep Giant's Hole near Uastleton, Derbyshire during IC Caving Club's
weekend meet, being carried by rescuers
h to an ambulance on Sunday. Her con-
dition was last reported by Sheffield
Royal Infirmary to be as well as could
be expected. Photo Kevin Williams.
Hall Fees
f j A L L FEES are to go up by
5/- a week from August 1965,
the Halls of Residence Commit-
tee decided last week. This will
raise the rents in New Bei*, for
example, from £68 to £75 p.a.,
and in Weeks and Southside from
£75 to £81 p.a.
The purpose is to offset an ex-
pected deficit in next year's re-
serve fund of £1,200, with suffi-
cient margin to stabilise rents for
several years. The cost for guests
will be adjusted correspondingly.
Council had agresd last year
that such an increase was inevit-
able. The last time fees were
raised was in 1962/3, and they
would have gone up again before
now, but for the income from
vacation rentings. Certain rooms
in Garden Hall, which have had
a recent increase will remain at
their present rents.
Footnote:—During the Summer V a -
cation, the walls and ceilings of rooms
in South Side will be redecorated.
Estimated cost:—£120 per landing.
A MOTION to be put by David Livesey, former Chairman of Catholic Society,
to the next Union Meeting, on December 2nd, proposes that the President of JCU
should be elected by a vote of a l l members of the Union, and calls upon the
Executive to set up a working party to draft the necessary constitutional changes.
Adrian Fletcher, current President,
told FELIX that on balance he was
favour of the current situation, where-
by President was chosen by (& in pract-
ice from) Union Council. However,
Deputy President Chris Molam was com-
pletely opposed to the idea of total
democracy, although he was prepared to
see a similar system, with a veto for
Union Council. Fletcher thought this
pointless.
C L I Q UE
Similarly, Barry Mair, &Mike Scott
(President of RCS) were not in favour
of free voting ("Council knows the
candidates capabilities better than
ordinary students") and doubted if there
was an oligarchy. But Molam did admit
that the present system involves a
certain clique. This familiarity of
members of Council with the President's
job dies ensure some continuity of gov-
ernment - although even so, according
to Mair, Fletcher is only now catching
up with the paper work.
Paper work occupies most of the
time of the Exec., for example, as Dep-
uty President, Mair spentalot of his
time last year putting the Union's
views to the College administration -
'Placating Stevenson and Seaford etc'
- though Livesey suggested that a Sec-
retary with a dictaphone would be a
useful innovation, also delegation of
authority to other members of Council;
however, Mair claims that ALL.members
of Council ARE working this year -
"Even that nit Needham."
Ian Kershaw, RCS Secretary, stated
that there was enough apathy in the
Union for a group of influential people
to swing the vote at a Union Meeting,
even at Council - though, he added,
this is less likely. There seems to
be a general feeling that a free vote
would lead to more people being nomin-
ated - however, Scott expressed fears
of the practice of "putting up one's
mate for a laugh."
The matter f a free vote to elect
an IC President has not been discussed
for many years. Council would appear
to be united in opposition to this
motion and it is to be hoped that it
will be given a balanced hearing.
i t .
Professor Ernst Chain shows
Queen Elizabeth, thte Queen
Mother, around the new Bio-
chemistry Department on Thurs-
day, 4th November. As Chan-
don she came to open the build-
ing.
A.A. will mergp
P O R T H E enlightenment of those
students who read daily news-
papers, and in particular the Guardian,
we feel ob'igcd to explain that any
rumcira mentioned in these publica-
tions suggesting that the Architec-
tural Association have now decided
not to merge with I.C. are completely
unfounded.
The Secretary of the A . A . has in-
formed Felix thatthe merger has been
approved by London University, Im-
perial College and Architectural As-
sociation authorities, and only the
University Grants Committee can now
stop its completion. The A . A . will
become a constituent college having
equal standing with R.C.S., C. & G .
and R.S.M. within I.C. union.

