4 F E L I X
F HIX
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
London, S.W.7
Telephones : K E N 2963
Internal 2881/2799
E D I T O R — D . I. W I L L I A M S 2799
Assistant Editor—Peter Combes
Production Manager—Barrie Pichler 090
Features Editor—John Cawson 2751
News Editor—John Grout 3351
Sports Editor—Frank Hobson 3353/4
Treasurer—Andrew M a y o 3353/4
Sales—Pete Ash, Elizabeth Rankin, Rodney Dawson
Advertising Manager—Chris Lampard
Sub-Editors—Graham Bolch, Tevor Holness, Malcolm Rossiter,
Dick Waterman, Richard Mitchell
Photographers—Brian Ray, Tony Firshman, Colin Harrison,
J. HasMeroudin, R . A . R. Qattan
Cartoons—Richard Gentle
Advetising Agency—Educational Publicity (Partners). Ltd. C H A 6081
Inane Event of the Year
A S U S U A L , inquisitive freshers made up the bulk of the soot throwing
•^•brigades who make the annual trek to Putney, causing the maximum of
inconvenience on the way. Why do they go? It certainly is not to support
the boats, although this is what college unions have most certainly told
them! Very few of them have a personal axe to grind, or any interest in the
extraordinary efforts of the crews. They go because others went last year,
and the year before that, and so on as far as anyone can remember. It must
be kept on; it's tradition, and tradition as everyone knows is sacred. Even
Morphy Day? Never. It's the most inane event of the year, and it is about
time the negative effort put i n last fortnight was turned to positive effort i n
supporting the carnival. Heaven knows, it needs it.
Despicable Clique
C E L D O M C A N A N event i n this college pass these days without a gracious
visitation from hordes of inebriated slobs, who derive great pleasure and
amusement from disrupting, or even wrecking, hall parties, hops, hoots, and
the like. Already this year, a band has had one of its instruments filled
with beer, by one of the staunch members of T H A T club, and every party i n
Southside this year has received its quota of the embittered merry-making
clique. More recently, some of these hearty gentlemen have been slashing
-seats and ripping posters on trains and have been really proud to have
done so. If these are the staggering lows they can reach so soon this year,
I wonder what they'll be up to next summer. Looting? Raping? W h o
knows, even working, though I doubt if they will ever get that low.
A Student Reception
mr
H I L S T O N the subject of gracious visitations, I.C. had another just recently,
or didn't you notice? Y o u could have been excused, for the college did
absolutely nothing to guarantee a good turn out of students to welcome her.
A i l advert for stewards, an overgrown clothes prop in Mech. Eng. set in a
verdant turfed lawn, the complete disappearance of parked cars from Exhi-
bition Road, and frantic sweeping all around were the only signs. A s a
result, there were more passers-by than students to welcome the Chancellor of
our University. Incidently, while watching the fervent effort of the sweepers,
gardeners etc., did you consider how much the college was spending on this
event alone, and then compare this with the amount Carnival raises each year?
Obviously Charity is not so deserving as antiquated protocol.
Parting is such...
A R T H U R ' S leaving Southside bar will, no doubt, give rise to much hearty
cheering, and comments about his sweet nature will be heard two a
penny. In retrospect, however, whether or not you found his jokes and tricks
somewhat nauseating, Arthur's leaving is a great loss to the Union. Like
him or hate him (and who didn't ?), you could not ignore him. I, for one,
am sorry to see him leave, and wish him all the best in his new job.
SICILY
At Castroreale, near Messina, we
have selected a tourist village for
our 1966 Anglo-Italian Centre
for young people. The village is
situated by the sea within easy
reach of the main tourist resorts,
like Taormina or the Aeolian
Islands, and in an ideal geogra-
phical position for excursions to
sites of Archaeological interest.
A fortnight there at the beginning
of September will cost 49 Gns. by
air and on full board basis.
For an additional 4 Gns. you can
have 20 hours tuition in Italian.
This holiday is also being widely
advertised among North Italian
University Students.
For additional details write to :—
DISCOVERING SICILY
69, New Oxford Street,
London, W J G I
INTERESTED IN :
DANCING ?
DRAMA?
DISARMAMENT?
Then come to the
HALDANE
LIBRARY
13 Prince's Gardens
for a book about it.
Open 11—5.30 daily (11—7 on
Tuesdays and Thursdays)
Comment
WasltAIIWorthwile?
J^T A TIME when we have been asked to curb spending it seems
strange that the College should have provided such a lavish turn-
out as it did nearly a fortnight ago for the visit of the Queen Mother
to officially open the Biochemistry Building. Was it worth the
expense ? And who does it benefit ?
The traditionalists and royalists will, of course, say that it was a great
honour to have had a member of the British Royal Family to visit I.C.
Let's not get sentimental—the dowager Queen came here i n her capacity
as Chancellor of the University of London. A n d it just so happens that
the present U L Chancellor is a member of the monarchy.
There must be some people in the College who felt that this pseudo-event did
us some good. One thing is certain, however; the majority of students
did not appreciate its value. Otherwise why did so few use their half-
holiday for its intended purpose?
But the national press is sentimental, and any visit by a member of the
Royal Family is good for some free publicity for his, or her, host.
Financial aid is always welcome and the newspapers are read by the
magnates of industry. They are impressed, we hope, and so the initial
outlay becomes more than justified.
The visit had its farcical aspects, such as those gentlemen employed in picking
up individual leaves falling as nature intended from the trees to deface
the highways upon which Her Majesty deigned to be driven. On the
other hand the .Metropolitan Police seemed for once to solve the rush-hour
traffic problem in Exhibition Road through mass-prohibition of parking,
a sign of things to come.
Continous Carnival
" " T H E W I S D O M of spending so much on the opening of the Biochemistry
Dept. will be discussed for many months yet. Would it not have been bet-
ter to have given the money to this year's Carnival Charity, and so raise
our standing locally?
Reportage of the visit in the Kensington Post is probably as effective in this
respect as any donation to the Notting Hill Housing Trust—especially by
its coincidence with Rag Week. Collections for the whole Carnival
should be made easier—and not only i n the Royal Borough—by the
public's association of IC with the Queen Mother.
Further help towards over-reaching our target of £3,000 should be provided by
Chairman Hocking's plans to maintain enthusiasm, especially through the
clubs, in the Carnival throughout the year. Though no public speaker,
Chris Hocking appears to be a sincere and conscientious organiser.
His ideas for a " continuous" Carnival instead of the usual one (or two)
short-lived twitching(s) deserve support. For it is found to be generally
easier and more satisfactory to maintain the interest of a nucleus of people
—who may be endorsed by helpers from the clubs—through the year
than to attract a motley group for just one week.
However, the problem that is so created is how to keep Carnival alive. It is far
easier to organise events for just one week than for upwards of twenty.
And even the Carnival Committee itself is short-staffed; the vacancy for
a public relations officer remains.
A Tailpiece on Dress
' T ' H E Q U E E N Mother's recent visit was made the excuse for one of those
•*• rare opportunities when I C students were made to look like members of
a university. While I would be the last to advocate the use of academic
robes in lectures—even less i n the laboratory or workshop—I do suggest
that this form of dress (worn with a dark lounge suit) would be more
comfortable and look better at wine hall dinner and on those occasions
which normally demand bow ties and dinner suits.
Carrespondence
Indoctrination?
J WOULD LIKE to reply to Mr.
Kumar's criticism of Pakistani
Information Material, Felix,
November 3rd, 1965.
The morning edition of " Dawn,"
a Pakistani daily, comes to the Union
bv courtesy of the Pakistan High
Commission ; fust as the International
Edition of the " New York Times"
is supplied by the US Embassy in
London. Most of us see these papers
together with the " India News," pub-
lished bv the Indian High Commis-
sion here, copies of which are
equally prominently displayed on the
Union Premises.
The various periodicals, etc., in the
Union lounge are for people to read
at their own leisure and without coer-
cion. Pakistani students are fully in-
tegrated in the activities oi the Union
rr*d tb"'-" is no reason why objection
"'w.i'd he taken to what they read.
Studeit" it I.C. surely have sufficient
ittelligeice to assess critically any
article they may happen to read, how-
ever biased it may be. Therefore, it
would seem to be unreasonable to de-
prive the Union of "interesting"
literature on the grounds of possible
political indoctrination.
M AH MOOD SAEED,
Chem. Eng. P.G.
Disgusted!
T HAVE, unfortunately, to report
that my I.C. scarf (new) was stolen
from the cloakroom of the Physics
Building on Friday, 5th November. I
have written to you on the unlikely
chance that you publish (part of ?)
this letter and that the thief reads
Felix ! As my scarf was on the same
peg as my helmet and coat it could
not have been removed by mistake.
I am disgusted that any student of
I.C. (who else would wait an I.C.
scarf!) should stoop to such treachery
knowing that the great majority of his
fellows are financially retarded ! /,
myself, am still awaiting the arrival
of my grant, am £50 overdrawn at my
bank, and down to £1 a week income,
£5 of which goes to my landlady.
I cannot, therefore, afford another
scarf, this being essential for scooter
riding in this cold weather. No more
cat t afford to travel by lube from
Gunnersbury ! In fact, without the
scarf (and, 1 suppose, the grant) my

