FELI X 5
future at l.C. looks rather dim. So
p'case have pity, thief, and return the
scarf to peg 26 ! No questions will
be asked !
POVERTY STRICKEN and COLD,
ROBERT S. DAY,
Physics I.
Animals!
ADMITTEDLY IC IS predomi-
^^nately male, but this is no reas-
so:i for showing complete disrespect
for the few females there are in the
college.
At Harlington this week we were
subjected to an appalling example of
animal behaviour, whilst trying to
board the coach. We do not object
to taking our turn along with the
rest, but to be forcibly herded out of
fie way is quite inexcusable. As a
result, a few of us had to remain
behind.
Is there no consideration for us, or
is this iust an isolated case ?
I.C. WOMEN'S HOCKEY XI
Keep Off
\AY COMMITTEE and I would
like to bring to the notice of I.C.
students, and particularly to Mr.
Baramki, of the function of "the
nearby refectory at 15, Princess Gar-
dens."
The Dining Club in question is
managed and controlled by a Com-
mittee from the non-teaching staff,
the Club being intended for the sole
use of the non-teaching staff and
their guests. It is not normally in-
tended for student use at all.
Members of the Club may intro-
duce students if they wish in a similar
manner adopted by some students
when they wish to entertain staff in
student refectories.
E. J. HILL,
Chairman, Holland Club.
Amen
T VDGING Mr. Pilcher by his letter
in the last edition of Felix, he ap-
pears to be of the " you name it I'm
-agin' it" mentality. Thank goodness
such childish ideas give way to
maturity if one wails long enough.
As a resident of one of the college
hostels I wish to point out that not
all of us share his views.
Surely tne gentleman must know,
1 cause he is at l.C., that the scien-
tific method is to test hypotheses by
appealing to the facts—not to make
so called obvious assumptions. Th'2
fact in this case is that there is one
regulation which if broken may lead
to expulsion from hall. That com-
mandment reads " Thou shalt not. in-
troduce unofficial guests.. ." If there
is no intention to keep the rule why
apply for a room in hall ?
. There must be some psychological
reason for Mr. Pilcher to read moral-
ity into this. By morals 1 gather
(also for psychological reasons) that
he is talking about sex, but surely he
can sec that one may have whatever
sexual relations one wants with any
wench or whore available, so long as
s'he is sent home at a reasonable hour.
It seems wardens don't go around
peering through keyholes at all odd
hours restricting freedom and invad-
ing personal privacy. Rather, I would
say, too many residents don't even
know the warden.
One last point. The use of the
word "consequently" in Mr. Pilcher's
third paragraph was totally illogical.
If he wants more privacy how can he
be alarmed to find locked gates on
the Southside balcony ? Especially
since these gates neither restrict his
coming in nor going out. I'm be-
wildered by him. A little more rea-
son and a lot less emotion could lead
to more sensible correspondence.
G. P. WHITE,
Keogh Hall.
new men...
new knowledge-
new problems to be solved
• m
Today's children w i l l grow up i n a w o r l d that is
being remade before their eyes. They w i l l have a
wider range of opportunities. They will also face
problems calling f o r new solutions. Today's
children need the most imaginative and creative
teaching. Teaching by men and women who are
among the ablest of their generation... graduates
who are among the most outstanding of their
year. Teachers have greater influence on future
generations than any other profession.
What does Teaching offer you in return ?
New opportunities
Teaching is a vigorous and growing profession. It offers
the graduate greater opportunities than ever before,
both in developing professional skills and in achieving
posts of influence and responsibility — often far earlier
than in many other careers. For example, nearly half of
the men graduate teachers between 25 and 29 hold such
posts and receive salaries well above the basic scale.
About half of those in their 30's are heads of depart-
ments, earning up to £2,330, or hold even higher posts.
One fifth of those now in their 40's are headmasters who
may earn salaries up to £3,850. The prospects are even
better for graduates with first or second class honours, or
a higher degree.
New ideas - new initiative
The mastery of teaching skills and the evolution of new
methods are a stimulating challenge. New discoveries
and new knowledge present teachers with problems for
which there are no precedents. New communication
techniques and aids must be developed.
Training: an extension of your knowledge
Some graduates feel uncertain whether they are
temperamentally suited to teaching. The one-year
post-graduate training course equips you to start your
career confidently on a basis of practical experience
as well as theory.
Why not find out more?
Talk things over with your Appointments Board, and
ask for the new booklet, 'Careers in Education for
Graduates', or write for a copy to Room 1 >4(22 D/l)
Department of Education and Science, Gurzon Street,
London, W . i . It describes the schools of today and the
kind of teachers they need; their salaries and special
allowances.
u
i O
i
\
r •
He needs trained minds like yours
to fit him for tomorrow's world
Isjutd by theDepottmtnt oj Education andScience

