F E L I X 9
BIG TURN UP FOR SHALOM
CHAVERIM
J)ESPITE T H E poor weather on Sunday, November 7th, a sur-
prisingly large number of people—about 100—arrived at the
Southside Upper Lounge to attend the Israeli Folk Song Evening
held by I.C. Jewish Society. The
Chaverim," which means " Hallo
Friends," provided an entertain-
ing selection of music to suit all
tastes.
The evening was opened by Tony
Green, Zionist Officer of the Society
who bravely sang two Hebrew songs
by himself. He was followed by "The
Hanoarim," a quartet—three boys and
a girl—whose interpretation of the
more popular Israeli fo".k songs was
both pleasant and original.
Appearing also were David Rose,
Terry Masterson, Rod Machling, John
Ward and last, but quite definitely
not least, Theo Johnson. The general
quality of the singing was amazingly
high but it is regrettable that the
Israeli theme became somewhat lost at
times.
It was, perhaps, a novel experience
for the audience, sitting in the warmth
and comfort of the lounge, to be re-
minded that 27 years ago to the day,
on Nov. 7th 1938, the Nazi holocoust
began in Germany with the burning
of the synagogues—now known
widely as " Crystal Night." It was
Theo Johnson who recalled this event
by singing " The Peat Boy Soldier,"
a song of the concentration camps.
In spite of this sobering recollec-
tion the evening proved in general
a happy and enjoyable event for all
those who took part.
N O R M A N S T R E E T
programme, entitled "Shalom
The Battle on Putney Towpath—Morphy 1965
FAWKES FJZZLES
Third Satellite
Now In Orbit
L A S T SUNDAY A T MIDNIGHT the Third Satellite came into
orbit of the Earth. It will remain in orbit for about four weeks.
This satellite is, the lecturer at the Aetheiius Society meeting sad.
several miles long and will go into orbit 1,550 miles above the sur-
face of the Earth. With the aid of a model he went on to explain
how this giant spacecraft which
was made on Mars, the industrial
planet, will help " people with
motives of high idea " to perform
good works.
The satellite receives rays from
the sun which it then sends on to
selected individuals on Earth, after
processing in an ovoid crystal, for
them to use in performing good
CAUGHT IN PASSING
High Street Ken. last week
works. The individuals to be blessed
with this converted sun-energy are
chosen by the .Martian operators of
the craft with the help of the dos-
siers which they have about every-
body on Earth. They can beam down
the rays from the satellite with such
accuracy that they are able to single
out a particular member of a crowd
of humans on the Earth's surface.
The energies take the same form as
that energy which keeps the planets
moving around the sun and one of the
most potent ways of utilising this
energy is through prayer. Prayer is
a very exact science which can be
used for manipulating energy. This is
prayer in which the palms of the
hands are held facing outwards to let
the energy stream forth frclm the
hands as a white light. It is not like
Christian prayer where the hands are
held together, short-circuiting the vital
energy.
After each period of " spiritual
push " the Chairman of the Aetherius
Society Dr. George King is notified
of the absorption factor that has been
recorded aboard the satellite. In times
of war and nuclear weapon testing
this has been as low as 1.5 but during
the period when the latest set of
teachings of the Grand Master Jesus
were given in 1958 it reached a value
of 9.
Unfortunately the satellite will not
be visible while it is in orbit because
the space intellegences, in their wis-
dom, have a means of refracting light
and radar waves through 360 degrees.
J. CAWSON
Debates Loss to U.C.
g A D ORGANISATION marred an otherwise successful debate
between IC and UC Debating Society on Tuesday week. The
Debate, first round in the U L U Debating Competition, had to be held
before November 10th, and was organised hurriedly for November
Slh. Little publicity produced an audience of proportionate size, and
the six who did arrive had to wait for thirty minutes in the " comfort"
of the Union snack bar before
the debate began. Even at such
short notice, it should have been
possible to have held the meet-
ing in the less noisy surroundings
of a lecture theatre away from a
busy road.
The system employed in these
competition debates is that the two
teams are told whether they will be
supporting or defending, 15 minutes
before the start, each team consisting
of four speakers.
In the event, U C were proposing
that " This house considers that the
' establishment' is a barrier to pro-
gress," IC opposing.
The first speaker for the proposi-
tion (L;
nda Peters—Social Secretary
of U L U Debates) defined the Estab-
lishment, and also their definition of
progress (a step towards equality of
opportunity for all), both of which
however were rejected by the IC team,
the one as a product of the " angry
young m e n " writers of the 1950's
and the other as " only accepted by
socialists . . . or the Daily Worker."
Jack Lisman, opening for IC, dis-
missed attack on what the propo-
sition called the establishment, as
naive—the authority of what is
usually considered as the establish-
ment stemming from " informed
tradition," and being an entirely good
thing.
A bright part of the evening was
the lighthearted speech made by Dave
Sefton of IC (ex-Toronto), who told
us that the word " establishment"
was one of the several with which he
had had difficulty when he first came
to England; however he now realised
that it meant everyone who had slept
with Christine Keeler. The two teams
were completed by M i k e Edwards and
David Reich (IC), the latter accusing
the proposition of " compressing
greatest number of words into least
amount of thought" and " booming
over the landscape looking for ideas."
Perhaps the last speaker (from
Illinois High School Championship
Debating team, and UC), Susie Nar-
burg, had prepared her speech least,
and benefitted from this, simply
pointing out contradictions in the
" words words words " of the oppo-
sition.
This last point, lack of team-work
on the part of the IC team was men-
tioned by the judges in their com-
ments, and also the point that the
opposition should not move outside
the limits set by the proposition—very
similar comments being made last
year. The verdict was that IC lost
by 488 points to 520, U C going for-
ward to the next round. It is to be
hoped that next year's team will bear
in mind this year's judge's comments.
J.G.
T H E M E D I O C R E G R O U P , and
somewhat unspectacular display of
fireworks, made a potentially enjoy-
able one. It is about time IC dance
arrangers learnt that for important
social events it is worthwhile charg-
ing a little jnore for tickets so that
better entertainment can be provided.
Quite clearly a lot of hard work
went into organisation of the event,
but surely 5/.- for a double ticket is
not cheap, but too cheap. Few people
could object to an increase to, per-
haps, 7/6, and with 250 tickets sold,
this would provide another £30, which
would provide a considerably higher
standard of music and display.
However, despite the above draw-
backs it should be mentioned that
many people had a grand time—not-
ably a large number of small children
playing near the bonfire, and a con-
siderable number of somewhat larger
children (?), strangely enough in
pairs, who wandered off into the fog
for the evening !
B E E R E I G H T A T E X E T E R
The bar at Exeter University Union
had to be closed early last Saturday
after the soccer team, not content with
settling their differences with Bristol
on the field, engaged in a battle with
beer and soda water. Someone tried
to do a striptease and Bristol students
invaded the stage at the Union Dance.
Arthur leaves
the bar
of Southside
T H E R E H A S B E E N a general re-
shuffle in College barmen. Arthur,
one of the Southside barmen, has re-
signed because he wished for more
leisure time, especially at weekends.
Stan has moved from the Union to
try his hand at running the more
civilised Southside Bar and Jack has
taken his place. M r . Mooney is ad-
vertising for another barman to help
Stan.

