FELIX
TO ALL MINES FRESHERS
On behalf of the older hands, may we offer
you a very sincere welcome to the Hoyal School of
Mines. We are glad that you have chosen the se-
nior mining college at which to study your parti-
cular aspect of the profession. In doing B O you
are entering a college with a great reputation
and nearly a century of tradition - a tradition
of which a l l past and present students are ex-
tremely proud, for It is they who have built up
this stature. Its future l i e s In your hands and
because we are a small community your individual
cooperation is needed in some of the many student
activities. It i s as a result of this pulling to-
gether that the "Mines spirit" has been formed.
By giving a hand and showing an interest you w i l l
not only be fostering this comradeship, but w i l l
also enrich your short stay here. Furthermore,
many of the social activities afford the possibi-
l i t y of meeting past students now established i n
the profess.ion.
The organisation of which you are now a m
e
m
-
ber that runs these sporting and social functions
Is the R.S.M. Union, the constitution and rules
of which are explained In a handbook you w i l l
shortly receive. The officers of the union w i l l
do everthlng to make your stay as pleasant as
possible, but i t s ultimate success depends on
your support.
Academically, the teaching staff are very ap-
proachable and extremely willing to offer a l l the
advice gained from wide experience.
Thus ahead of you l i e three or four very f u l l
years, during which your personal success and to a
great extent that of your college rest largely in
your hands. We wish you a very happy and success-
ful stay at the Mines.
R.S.M. Union.
GUILDS
In welcoming you to Guilds I would cast before
you a few pearls of wisdom, to show you what the
college can offer you i f you cooperate.
I want to Impress on you that there are nume-
rous Social, Athletic and Bacchanalian activities
open to you, and i f you w i l l only show some enter-
prise - then you're in! Now "being i n " will pro-
vide just that opportunity for getting the most out
of your l i f e here, and far from interfering with
your work w i l l avoid any chance of mental collapse
as the year progresses.
To help you pursue these activities there are
various Guilds Clubs which are quite separate from
their I.C. counterparts, but are complementary to
them, so get your name down at once for the Clubs
that interest you.
There are various dates that I would like to
call to your attention now - Oct. 20th, Guilds
Freshers' Buffet: Oct. 27th, I.C. Commemoration
Day: Nov. 5th, Guy Fawkes Day: Nov. 22nd, Morphy
Day: the Guilds Carnival and Civils Dance in the
Easter Term: and the Field Cup in the Summer
Term. Mark these days down now and you'll find
that more Information w i l l f i l t e r through to you
about them as time goes on.
Guilds was most successful last year in the
field of sport, particularly against our brother
and sister colleges the Mines and the R.C.S., so
we must keep that up this year, but we want the
Engineers' Cup for rugger this year as well.
The Guilds Engineering Society holds fre-
quent meetings at which papers are read by pre-
sent students and other distinguished engineers,
and a £5 prize i s offerred for the best student
paper of the year. Its magazine, "The Guilds En-
gineer" is also intelligible in parts, and appears
annually.
Guilds Union Meetings provide more colourful
diversion from the common task. Room 17, whose
normal capacity is 100 sleepy students, for Union
Meetings holds 400 raving maniacs. Come to these
meetings and voice your opinions.
In a nutshell, avoid brownbaggingi and let
me emphasize again that what you gain from college
l i f e w i l l depend directly upon what you put Into
i t , and upon your own initiative.
A LETTER TO R.C.S. FRESHMEN
Dear Fresher,
"Welcome to R.C.SjH
The yearly Influx of new studenta to the Col-
lege Is one of the v i t a l moments i n i t s existence,
for at this time we look to the ranks of the Fre-
shers to enable us to f i l l the gape i n the fabric
of the Union. This letter i s to show you the sort
of support we want.
In the main, the University i s non-resident-
i a l and the fusion of social and academic l i f e l a
largely organised by the college Unions. You are
a member of R.C.S. Union and also I.C. Union. If
you are going to get anything out of University
l i f e at a l l , i t i s your duty to support both these
bodies to the utmost. The "Law of Conservation of
Energy" applied to Union affairs, means that un-
less you put something Into them you'll get nothing
out.
Get to know your Union officers. It must be
obvious that Union officers cannot know a l l the
students at College, but i t i s much easier for you
to know them. If you have any queries, suggestions
or complaints introduce yourself and fire away - we
should be delighted by this evidence of interest by
any Fresher. You w i l l have, or will be getting, a
copy of the R.C.S. Booklet, which t e l l s you how you
can contact Union and Club Officials and which con-
tains many other things which will help to put you
In the picture.
The main social l i f e of the College revolves
around the Athletic and Social Clubs. Join them,
support them; you w i l l find i t well worth the ef-
fort. In addition, your support for corporate Col-
lege functions i s important. The Commemoration Day
Ceremony (see R.C.S. booklet) needs the active sup-
port of every student to be an effective and rewar-
ding occasion as i t was last year. Morphy Day
(Nov. 22nd this year) is a day of battle on the
river and sometimes in the river. Whilst two VIIIs
from each college race for the Morphy and Lowry
cups, a great battle takes place on the towpath for
certain sacred symbols -told of elsewhere - and
your support on the towpath i s lmDerative.
You must not assume from tms letter that your
activities at I.C. and R.C.S. w i l l consist solely
of Union and social affairs - work 13 also essen-
t i a l . But I.C. (and to start a controversy, I
think i t originated in R.C.S.) has coined a word,
now preserved for posterity in the Dictionary of
University Slang, which castigates those who,
hedfed in by books and work, emerge only rarely
carrying a l i t t l e brown bag. Such are the 'brown-
baggers, - an odious tribe.
Finally, a special word to overseas Freshers:
this college i s proud to accept you. It has a
considerable reputation with regard to overseas
students and i t hopes that by your efforts, this
reputation w i l l be further enhanced.
Let me end with a cliche, none the less sin-
cere: 'Best of luck, Freshers'.
Peter Haskell.
PRESIDENT, R.C.S. UNION.
T H E
EVENT OF I.C. YEAR
THE C O M M E M . B A L L
A T
GROSVENOR HOUSE
D O N ' T D E L A Y —
GET Y O U R TICKET TODAY.'
CONTRIBUTIONS for the next issue of FELIX must
reach the Editor by Friday, 15th October.

