What do you want to know about Welfare Week for? After all,
you're not sick. Mummy and Daddy told you all about the birds
and bees ages ago, and perhaps you're onto the 'practical' by
now. It's bound to be boring, anyway. Well, in my time at IC I've
come across some pretty weird misconceptions and some
extremely naive attitudes, not to mention a fair number of
unreasonable viewpoints. What we're aiming to do is to provide a
factual background and an open forum for discussion on a few of
these points, and maybe even a bit of fun (shock, horror!). It's up
to you if you want to come along or not, but it's taking up a fair
amount of your money, so you may as well come along and make
it worthwhile.
Glad to be Gay?
From most people's attitudes in this place you may think that it's pretty
odd to be gay—something dirty or whatever. Yet statistically there are
probably as many as 500 gays at IC. So, if you've found that you are (or
might be) gay you're almost certainly not as alone as you felt.
But what does it feel like to be gay? Is it any 'different'? H o w do you
become gay—is it a disease (yes, people actually believe that), is it inborn
or a result of background? I don't know, but come along and discuss
it—whether you're gay yourself, or consider gays as "fucking queers" or
"raving poufs" it's likely there'll be something to gain.
I've noticed that many people find it threatening to be in the company
of someone who is gay—apparently they think that they're just about to
leap on them or something—but perhaps a word: do you find every girl
(or guy) you come across irresistably attractive? Chances are he/she
finds you as unattractive as you find him/her.
0,
Films
On show all Wednesday afternoon.
Just One The effect of that one drink on your
system is quite surprising. Find out!
The Least You Can Do A moderately serious
view of contraception.
Drinking Drinking more sodding drinking—but
you almost all do too much!
'Ave you got a male assistant miss? A light
hearted view of the taboos of contraception.
A VD Attack Plan Not us at it, but it at us (wot?)
O,
'o
4
ICU Welfare Officer
EVEN
12:45pm
1:00pm
Tuesday, February 16
Gale Is Dead Union S C R
Wednesday, February 17
00pm
10pm
00pm
3:00pm
4:00pm
8 til late
Condom Inflation
Competition
Drugs: Good or Bad?
Film: Sex can be a Problem
Discussion of film and sexual
Problems
Drinking: what does it do
to you?
Gay: what does it mean?
'Welfare Hop'—Barn Dance
& Disco. Late bar & films
Beit Quad
Upper Lounge
Union Dining Hall
Union Dining Hall
Brown Comm Rm
Upper Lounge
Union Building
Thursday, February 18
1:00pm Police: good, bad or just ugly? Upper Lounge
The Fuzz
Have you got the greatest of respect for the Police Force? Not everyone
has—the more scruffy amongst us tend to represent prime targets for
searching for drugs, breathalysing and so on, and it doesn't tend to leave
you with too good an image when you've just been made twenty minutes
late for an important meeting (I know!). Yet they do need to do their job
somehow (or are you an anarchist?). If you have either viewpoint, or
could put forward any suggestions, come along Thursday lunchtime and
voice your views.
Sex can be a Problem
Right now your only problem may be "getting it down" at embarrassing
times. Yet it might frighten you that it has been estimated that one in
twelve women suffer from frigidity, and that one in twenty men suffer
from impotence. It's not something many of us discuss much—and
perhaps you didn't know of the treatments available (I sure didn't). This
film will be followed by a discussion headed by a representative of
'Grapevine'—a young peoples sexual counselling agency (amongst other
things)—come along to either or both.
Attention Links/Chaps/22/Field Cup
Contestants
Around IC it's the accepted thing to go for a drink with your mates. Fine,
but we all know that drinking can be a problem. When does social
drinking become a problem? Ten pints a week? Twenty? It's difficult to
know, but I was shocked when I found out just how much alcohol affects
the system, and how long the effects last. Perhaps the most sobering
thought (excuse the pun) was brought home by the film Just One
(showing Wednesday afternoon). I always thought one drink did nothing
to me and that two or three had little more effect—but I found I was
wrong. Obviously cirrhosis of the liver isn't the only possible problem.
If you've been going to the pub more than four or five times a week—if
you've really got into practice so that you can handle eight or ten pints,
then the chances are that you might be doing yourself serious harm.
Please pick up a questionnaire from the display in the Union Lower
Lounge (a leaflet as well if you like) and fill it in—with luck we can get
some statistics for College. In any case please come along 10 the talk by
the London Council on Alcoholism and find out just what you're doing to
yourself!
Gale Is Dead
Gale was nineteen and pretty. She'd been taken into care at the age of six
months and in the intervening years had been in fourteen different
institutions. She became a drug addict. N o w Gale is dead. Perhaps a life
where nothing went right, but perhaps not so different from your own.
For those who didn't see this film on B B C Horizon in 1970 it's a must.
A tragic story, but it should be of interest to everyone.
Drugs
I guess that nearly everyone at College has come across drugs at some
time. (Note, that includes tobacco and alcohol by definition!), and whether
or not you support the legalisation of cannabis you must agree that
some drugs do have very harmful effects. But because it's illegal, drugs is
not a subject that is often discussed, and perhaps you might be tempted
to 'try them out' to see what they're like. Just what are the effects (both
pleasurable and harmful) of specific drugs? What is truth and what is
myth? Just what does the law say? These are all things I'm not sure about
(perhaps you are!), and there's a chance to ask all these questions (and
more) at the discussion lead by the community drug project (Wednesday
afternoon).
Abortion
It's a pretty emotive subject and whether you're a firm believer in the
"women's right to choose" or the "rights of the unborn child" this often
stirs up a lot of feeling. But yet this is often allowed to cover up facts that
are important, leaving the pregnant party bewildered and mixed up to say
the least. Are the fears of future sterility well founded or rubbish (or
something in between)? C a n your G P stall you until it's too late? What
will an abortion cost? See the stall in the Union Lower Lounge to find out,
any time during the week.
Rape
"Well, it's good for a laugh."
"All women need a good raping anyway."
"They enjoy it."
For anyone who thinks any of these are true, perhaps I can straighten
out a few misconceptions. Rape is a very serious business—if "they enjoy
it", then it just isn't rape—something more like the truth might include
violence (beating, "cutting", etc.), anal and/or oral as well as normal sex
and other enforced degradation (the attacker might urinate or defaecate
on the victim for instance). Pretty sickening picture isn't it? It seems to be
something accepted in our "male dominated society' that women only
exist to "get laid" and that if some girl is wearing attractive clothing she's
out to "get a man". This leads to many of the misconceptions that can
lead to rape. If you want to know more, please pick up one of the leaflets
that'll be around, or come and see me and I'll lend you a copy of the Rape
Crisis Centre's report.
IC Welfare Plug
Believe it or not, IC has quite a good range of welfare facilities—almost
whatever's wrong there's bound to be someone to go to see.
Health C e n t r e - t h i s boasts three full-time doctors a n d n u r s i n g /
administrative staff to match, a large sick bay and various visiting
specialists (including an accupuncturist!). They're all to be found in 14
Princes Gardens.
Student Counsellor-Don 'hangs out' in the basement of number 15
Princes Gardens and spends his time talking to students about anything
that is bothering them; from workload to home environment and beyond.
So why not go and see him if you have a problem-it's absolutely
confidential so no-one else will know.
Student Services-This includes the accommodation office (medium-
large amounts of College and private sector accommodation) to sort out
somewhere to live and the 'Welfare Bit' to help out with practical
problems (landlord hassles, rent rebates, signing on, rights, etc.) and
anything else that you can't think where to go for—if they don't know,
they'll probably know where you can find out.
Nightline-This has the great advantage of being open at night rather
than during the day-if you're feeling a bit down or would like to chat about
something there's always someone there during termtime (6:00pm-
8:00am). They've got a fair selection of info too on Ents, films, discos,
transports; you name it! A n d they'll find you somewhere to find out if they
can't tell you themselves. Sounds impressive, doesn't it? To find how it
really works, drop in some time to the basement of 9 Princes Gardens or
ring them on 581-2468.
Day Nursery-For anyone with preschool age children, this can be a
great help-it runs throughout the year (not just during termtime) and has
skilled and experienced staff. There's even a grants scheme for anyone
who can't afford the full fees-but unfortunately there's often a waiting list,
so if you think you might want to use it try to let them know in advance
Page 6 FELIX, February 12, 1982 FELIX, February 12, 1982 Page 7

