E V E R Y
r O R T N I G H T
HO. 11. IMPERIAL COLLEGE 2SIDAY S NOVEMB^l 1950
ADVOCATES 'SAFETY LAST'
Sir Bruce White, the guest speaker at the Commemoration
Day celebrations, surprised his audience with controversial
remarks and unorthodox advice during the course of his
speech last Friday. He deprecated the intrusion of politics
and committee work into engineering and urged students to
at jure security and. to seek not excess in "safety first".
The Commemoration Day procession started punctually
at 2.30. and found its pedestrian way to the Great Hall
without inoident. Guilds being la3t of the three Colleges,
formed the guard of honour for the learned and distinguished
as they entered the Hall, is a result, the entry of the
Guilds resembled that of the gladiators - or the Christians -
heralded by a fanfare of precipitant trumpets.
Mervyn Briscoe, the student Orator, said his piece and
the new Diplomates and Associates were then presented to
Visoount Falmouth. Thir. was followed by the Imperial
College choir singing "An Invocation to Science". Lord
Falmouth then introduced Sir Bruce White whose speech is
reported below.
The proceedings were closed with a short speech of
thanks by the Reotor, followed by God Save the Ring. The
tea and conversazione which followed were held in the
Royal College of Science.
THE SPEECH
Sir Bruce began his speech with some reminiscences
of Guilds in 1901. He said that the Saturday night dances
had to be discontinued owing to the undesirable character
of some of the lady guests. However this had no bearing on
his next remarks concerning the close relation that then
existed between Guilds and the Royal School of Needlework
or on the effect of some Guildsladies' steel corset bones
on Irof.Ayrton's galvanometers.
On reflection, Sir Bruce 'thought that the student
spirit was less vigorous now than in his dayj also, among
engineers "there were giants in those days" who left a
greater mark on their profession than was nowadays the
case. This was perhaps due to the age of expansion in
which they lived. On the personal idiosyncrasies of
great engineers Sir Bruce referred to Sir Frederick
Bramble, who detested smoking. The great man waa one
day inspecting a sewer and one of his subordinates l i t
a cigarette to counter the stench. Whereupon Sir Frederick
roared "What d'you mean by lighting that smelly thing
down here?"
Speaking particularly to Guildsmen Sir 3ruae said that
an engineer was a man who could do for 2d. what any fool
could do for 6d» He found surprising the "rising status
of scientists"; who lacked the necessary knowledge of
economics and the true value of industry characteristic of
a good engineer, "Scientists" said Sir Bruce, "should be
always on tap but never on top." This led to sane restless-
ness among some sections of the audience - a feeling dis-
creetly and gallantly concealed. Sir Bruce,urged his
hearers to "avoid safety first at a l l times", to go abroad
untrammelled by "security of employment" and to take "as
many jobs as you can get while young" so as to broaden
one's experience. He referred to his work on the Mulbery
Harbours and remarked on the necessity of "confidence in
your own ideas." In conclusion Sir Bruce remarked "Do not
blame me if you get the sack following my advicej"
The Rector then spoke spoke and after thanking Sir
Bruce bite for his speech and the advice therein, said
that he would be prepared to meet his challenge to the
present-day student spirit. He He would be prepared to
baok the efforts of present students against those of
Sir Bruce's day, "in any sphere and in any space of time
coordinates," Sir Roderic concluded with some quotations
from the writings of earlier professors of the College,
The trumpeters at the back of the Hall blew their
trumpets and the ceremony closed with "the King",
NOVEMBER 4
N
O C
O
M
M
E
N
T
From the Commemoration Day Conversazione programme:
" Z00L0GI Department where animal types used in teaching and
research will be exhibited "
It i s now certain that the annual Guy Fawkes
Rag on the Albert Steps w i l l not take place. (See
E d i t o r i a l ) . The heavy hand of the Police has poured
cold water or. our bonfire before i t i s l i t . I t i s
doubtless largely a reaction from last year, but at
a l l events the Police evidently mean what they say,
and however regretfully, we shall be well advised to
respect their pronouncement.
A charity B a l l which was to have been held on
November the fourth i n conjunction with the rag on
the Albert Steps has also been scratched. Instead
there w i l l be the usual Saturday night "Hop" and the
bonfire and fireworks w i l l be held on the Rector's
lawn. We are grateful to S i r Roderic H i l l for h i s
kindness i n s a c r i f i c i n g the Rector's lawn to oar
nefarious purposes.
Footnote: I t has been proposed that the effigy to
be burnt this year should the that of the Commiss-
ioner of Police.
SEEK AND HBAHD AT THE COMMEMORATION BALL
ESTER HASKE1L (ires.R.C.S.) being caught behind a
pillar clandestinely uncorking a bottle. The Waiter: That
will be 10/- corkage please SirJ
STUART SILLIAMS (Guilds) getting engaged to Gwyneth
and telling us a l l about i t ,
FROF.LEVX tripping like Fred Astaire with incredible
velocity and angular gyration round the ballroom.
CHRIS WILLIAMS asking a photographer to take a group.
The 1-hotographer, with glassy hauteur:"I'm from the Tatler".
THE EDITOR to the man who trod on his foot: Ne te casse
pas l a tete pour t'excuser!"
A CLOAKROOM ATTENDANT surveying the tip: "Cor"
MANY OTHER things were doubtless done and seen but I
didn't see them. After a l l - well..... .Anyway I certainly
enjoyed myseifl <^jr^' —
TOUCHSTONE
The next Touchstone weekend at Silwood park will be
on Nov.ll/l2th. The subject for discussion will be "The
Power of Language" and the guest speaker will be L.A.G.
Strong. Those wishing to attend should give their names
to the Hen.Seo.I.C.tJ. in the Union Office.

