2 F E L I X
PROFILE— PROF. SAUNDERS
It i s popularly supposed that to be a professor
and to be a crank are identical states. Popular
supposition also prescribes that a professor be be-
spectacled, distant, fragile and austere, a l l these
qualities being inseparable from that studious musty
wisdom which seems so unattainable to the struggling
student, and yet esential for academic success. How
reassuring i t i s fori the student to find that pop-
ular supposition i s confounded by the undeniable
presence in this corner of the Scientific World of
a Professor, large i n form and large i n outlook,
fond of the Good Things of l i f e , who i s an accomp-
lished sportsman, a success i n his academic sphere
and, moreover, a counsellor whose sunny countenance
dispels fear and the awe which s t i f l e s discussion,
and provides the understanding which passes on to
knowledge.
the Bean of City and Guilds does not regret
having been educated at T r i n i t y College, Cambridge;
in fact he i s one of the foremost of those who ad-
vocate the University as opposed to the Technical
School education. The latter he says i s not a
'complete' education. The truth of this i s well
borne out by his own rapid and diverse success.
From early beginnings as Lecturer in Applied Math-
ematical Physics at Imperial College, Professor
Saunders developed the hitherto almost unexplored
f i e l d of Heat Transmission and became a valuable
"boffin" in the recent war when he was on loan to
the Directorate of Turbine Engine Research, a
member of the aeronautical Research Council and
chairman of the Power Plants Committee. He i s s t i l l
chairman of several committees at the Ministry of
Supply and the Admiralty and i s a member of the
Mechanical Engineering Research Board; he has pub-
lished many original papers on his subject and, of
course, his Book, compiled in collaboration with
Dr. Fishenden, which iae confesses i s the only worth-
while work on the subject.
But this i s the sort of thing one expects of
Professors; they are supposed to be b r i l l i a n t .
However, one does not expect him to have a Bronze
Medal for skiing, to be a keen tennis player, an
accomplished pianist and a magician. No, these are
not the standard professorial attributes, but those
who know him find these attributes not so very sur-
prising. It seems the Dean .is 1'ortuna.te in having
command of himself to such an extent as to be cap-
able of complete relaxation. Never does his face
show the harassed, drawn look associated with high
pressure study and thought; his aspect i s rather
that of a tennis player who has just won three
straight sets and i s ready for more, or that of the
skier flushed with pleasure at the end of a long run.
The Professor i s essentially a family man. A
close friend of his has said that his son and two
daughters in their Surrey home are indeed fortunate
to have such a father; and an unostentatious family
man he appears to a l l who meet him. In the lecture
theatre he has that same personal touch that one can
imagine him using when operating his son's model
railway, t e l l i n g his family what to do in the garden,
or producing magic before a small audience. ( He i s
to lecture to the Radio Society on Magic in Decem-
ber - i t now seems indisputable that those valve
things and bits of wire are really just magic after
a l l ! ) One may say that Professor Saunders i s in
himself the answer to those who advocate sheer
brownbagging; singleness of purpose combined with
a m u l t i p l i c i t y of personal interests i s surely a
good guide to a successful and happy career.
REFECTORY COMMITTEE
The Refectory Committee held its 96th meeting last
Monday.
The Committee ivish i t to be .vnown that the situation
regarding College meals is under constant review. As is well
known the ref eotory made a considerable loss last year and
the situation, though improved, is s t i l l serious. The C
o
m
m
-
ittee is always glad to hear from members of the College who
have any constructive ideas to put forward.. Letters may be
placed in the Suggestions Box (inside the Lower Dining Hall,
near the doors) or members of the Committee may he contacted
personally. These are: Chairman, Admiral Hall, v/Chairman,
J.P.Levy; and Prof.Pippard, Derek Allen, Derek Coomber, Miss
June Mahon, Peter Haskell,Peter Hayward and John Rambaut.
The Rector i s an ex-offioio member of the Committee,while Dr.
Howard and icr.i>owry are co-opted members.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Letters are invited on any and every subject.
They should be as short as possible and in no case
longer than 200 words. The Editor takes no res-
ponsibility for the opinions expressed by correspon-
dents.
Geophysics Dept.
R.C.S.
To the Editor of Felix. 27 Oct. 1950
Sir,
We now have a Liberal Group of respectable size
in the Political Society and the Socialist Group
seems at last on the point of deciding if i t is
(a) Communist, (b) Labour or (c) a living proof of
the fundamental identity of these parties. We have
also had a particularly exuberant challenge from
Professor Levy. It therefore seems that when things
get sorted out we are in for some political fun this
term. May I on behalf of the Liberal Group say "Yes
please", and that are ready for anything. We are
particularly anxious to have a go at the collectiv-
ist left from the Red Dean ( Dr. Hewlett Johnson I
mean, of course! ) downwards, and refute their par-
ticular political phlogiston theory. We are also
ready to discuss policy with the Tory Group - ours,
or theirs if they can find any.
However, more of this anon.
Yours faithfully,
John Osborne.
I.C. Eostel.
22nd October 1950.
To the Editor of Felix.
Sir,
In accordance with your invitation for modi-
fication of the form for the letter home, may I
suggest that the phrase 'your erring son1
be chan-
ged to 'your erring son/daughter'.
After a l l , there are at least 42 daughters in
the College at the moment and their interests
should not be neglected.
Yours faithfully,
II. Raged.
(I.C.W.A.)
(Hear, hear! And i f Hiss Raged will let
me have her 'phone number, I will see
that her interests are not neglected - Ed.)
City & Guilds College.
24th October 1950.
To the Editor of Felix.
Sir,
I wish to bring to your notice what I consider
to be a serious omission from Felix.
Before Freshers begin their lives at I.C.,
they reoeive quite a dossier of leaflets among
which is a reminder that they are members of U.L.U.
and they are urged to take an aotive interest in
the affairs of that Union.
Kenoe my surprise when I see no mention of
U.L.U. activities in the last two editions of
Felix.
I realise that there are other ways of fin-
ding out what is taking place., but I do think that
it would be helpful i f mention were made of the
more important events in U.L.U. and the other Col-
leges of London University.
Yours faithfully,
Frank G. Holroyd.
To the Editor of Felix.
Sir,
It was with some surprise that I read the
first of your "Felix road tests".
I think i t would have been more appropriate
to commenoe such a series with the one and.only
'Boanerges'. Few, i f any, freshers probably know
of i t s existence and I am sure that a member of the
C. & G. Motor Club would have supplied the relevant
data.
'Indignant Guildsman'.
(It was felt that a road-test on 'Bo' just
now would be a l i t t l e unfair as she is in
bits with seized bearings and a cracked
cylinder head! - Ed.)

