EDITORIAL
REMEMBER, REMEMBER
It was with greater regret than surprise that
the Union heard its President announce at the re-
cent General Meeting that any I.C. students who
got into trouble with the police on Guy Fawkes Day
were likely to be sent down. In these days of dif-
ficulty in getting into, and remaining at College,
and the almost general reliance on Government
Grants, this is a risk that few students would de-
liberately run, and so i t seems that our tradition-
al bonfire and high jinks on the steps of the Al-
bert Memorial will not be held this year.
Briefly the case for the police is that in re-
sent years our November the 5th rag has ceased to
be a purely student affair; that a large crowd, in-
eluding some of the wilder elements of the town,
are attracted to i t , and that i t verges on a riot.
W
e dismiss as puerile their further argument that
damage may result from the bonfire lighted on the
paved roadway by the steps. The fact is that by
lighting a bonfire and throwing firewo*ks in a
public place w
e are breaking the law, and they have
decided that this lav; must be enforced.
Many people contend, that this case is weak,
and that this is merely another step in a general
trend towards the Police State, They point out that
other Universities are experiencing the same trouble
with their Police Forces, and that last year the
London Police even went so far as to prevent chil-
drens' bonfires on bombed sites. Others say that
these things always happen every decade or so, and
that in a few years things will be back to normal -
but this is of l i t t l e consolation to us at present.
Meanwhile various alternative plans are being
suggested, ranging from the ceremonial blowing up
of the Chelsea Police Station, the Senate House and
the H
o
m
e Office to the slightly more likely idea of
a purely domestio celebration on the Rector's lawn,
which Sir Roderic H i l l has kindly made available.
In any case i t seems that our commemoration of
Britain's most unsuccessful saboteur will this
year be less riotous than of recent years.
LABELS
Not the least surprising of Sir Bruce White1
s remarks
Xast week was his insistence on the labels "scientist" and
"engineer" as if these two were of quite a different species.
Is this not making a semantic mountain out of a molehill of
pedantry? Our respective curricula may differ but we are at
one in our scientific attitude to inquiry and experiment. It
is surely impossible to draw the frontier between applied
science and engineering. The two fields overlap to such an
extent that i t may well be the physicist who designs a
machine whilst the engineer concerns himself with the physics
of its operation. Chemists may tsock and engineers may
engineer but in the last analysis i t comes to the same thing -
we are a l l much of the 3ame persuasion and our different
labels are merely traditional relics. Engineers and scient-
ists - we are so interdependent and intermixed that the label
we use i s of little moment.
EVERY THREE YEARS
Once every three years i t is the custom of
the L.I.F.C.U. to hold a Mission in the University.
Past Missions have been welcomed and appreciated by
many in this College, to some they have proved a
real help. W
e take this opportunity of extending to
you a warm invitation to any or a l l of the servi-
ces or meetings.
W
e believe that the message of the Mission
will be relevant to the times and worthy of the
consideration of every member of the College. Below
are some of the meetings which will be held during
the fortnight of theMission, 5th November - 19th.
MONDAY, 6th NOV. Rev. Maurice Wood, M.A. on
"Need faith be blind?" Room 15, Guilds, 5.3o p.m.
TUESDAY, 7th NOV. Leith Samuel, B.A. on "God has
spoken". Large Physics Theatre, R.C.S., 5,15 p.m.
WEDNESDAY, 8th NOV. Rev. L.F.E. Wilkinson, on
"Where does the Cross come in?" Room 15, Guilds.
5.So p.m.
FRIDAY, loth NOV. Dr. O.R. Barclay, on "
W
h
y the
Cross?" Botany Lecture Theatre, 1.15 p.m.
MONDAY, 13th NOV."Dust and Destiny", sound and
colour film produced by the Moody Institute of
Science, U.S.A. Mining Lecture Theatre, 5.15 p.m.
TUESDAY, 14th NOV. Prof. Rendle Short on "The sig-
nificance of Jesus Christ", Bot. Lect. Th. 1.15 pjn.
THURSDAY, 16th NOV. Dr. O.R. Barclay on "What i t
means to be a Christian'.' Room 15, Guilds, 5.15 p.m.
SUNDAY, 19th NOV. Student Service, preacher Rev.
A.M. Stibbs, 11.A., Holy Trinity Church, Prince
Consort Rd. 8.15 p.m. L.I.F.C.U.
PERsotm tmmmmm
Charge: 6d. per 20 words.
MISLAID - Pink f cap folder (probably in Mines).titled
"Mineral Dressing" containing important key to analyses.
Finder please oontact N.L.Samways, P. G.Metallurgy.
LOST or stolen from Onion cloakroom R.C.S. scarf. Usual
reward on return to J.Osborne, R.C.S.
THE EDITOR s t i l l requires a copy of FELIX No. 1. (Deo 9th
19^9). Payment will be in beer.
LAST YEAR
N O V E M B E R T H E F I F T H
'News, of the World"
OBITUARY
Mr. J.C. Garland, A.C.G.I., B.Sp.. A.M. I. Chem. E.
It i s with the deepest regret that we have to
announce the death of Mr. J.C. Garland i n the Mill
H i l l air crash on 17th October.
John Garland, who was 35, was a student i n the
Mechanical Department of City and Guilds from 1932
- 38, his prolonged period as an undergraduate
being due to his interests i n the wider aspects of
College l i f e being greater than in the purely aoa-
demic work. He was at this time one of the most
prominent members of the College, and his contact
with and interest in the College has never lapsed.
On leaving Guilds, he went into the Stream-
line Filter Co. and, when war broke out, entered
the K.A.F., i n which he was a Flight Lieutenant i n
the Technical Branoh. After the war he returned
to his former firm and, at the time of his death,
was i t s Managing Direotor.
Ee was on the Old Centralians Committee and
this year became their representative on I.C.
Council, i n which capacity he was at the College
on the Thursday before his death. He wap -vi ac-
tive and extremely popular member of the Links
Club,- and seldom missed any of their dinners.
He i s the son of Mr. C.S. Garland, one of the
Governors of Imperial College and a Member of the
Delegacy of the City and Guilds College.
He leaves a wife and three children.
His funeral was held at Bromley on 2l3t Octo-
ber, and a wreath was sent by the Union on behalf
of Imperial College.
TRIP TO CAMBRIDGE FOR OVERSEAS STUDENTS
On Saturday 11th November there .will be a trip to Cambridge
for Overseas Students and any English students who are
particularly interested in forming friendships with Overseas
Students. Coaches will leave the I.C.Union gates at 10 a.m.
on the 11th Nov and return in t he evening. Students will be
conducted around Cambridge by Cambridge students and will be
entertained to tea by them. Will those who wish to go on this1
trip please give their names to the seoretary in the Union
Office bef6re Friday 3rd November and pay a booking fee of
1/-, The total cost will be about 6/- plus booking fee.
EDITORIAL NOTE
On reading through this page w
e find w
e have
a space here.

