F E . L t X 4
FELIX ROAD TEST-NO. 2
THE 1928 STANDARD (PEATH TRAP) SALOON
A CAR FIT
FOR A MIHER.
( Owner: Peter Hayward.)
^gineers^Heport [For Insurance Purposes). A re-
ma!rkaBIe-
scrapTieap - comparatively odourless con-
sidering the advanced state of decay.
Amended Engineers' Report (After £5 Bribe).
Preamble" One"might be l e d to suppose after a cur-
sory inspection that this l i t t l e black monstrosity
would be highly dangerous, uncomfortable, dirty,
slow, inefficient and uneconomical on the road.
A short road test proves this supposition to
be entirely correct.
Recommended Modifications.
(i) Engine~ahd' Gearbox. Apart from the fact that
neither i s an engineer's idea of a mechanical
proposition, things seem to go up and down in the
right places giving a final somewhat rotational
motion to the main shaft.
Recommendation: Leave well alone.
(ii) Transmission. At present, drive i s transmit-
ted through the gear-box to the main shaft and
thence v i a the chassis and body-work to the occu-
pants (numbering 2-7 usually) of the rear seat.
l.ialignant bt. Titus' Dance, varying i n i t s
degree of seriousness has been a oor.imon complaint
of passengers, whilst the incidence of dislocated
neck, although uncommon, i s on the increase.
Recommendation: Haise the chasis clear of the
shaft by use of perambulator springs and supply
small step ladders so that passengers may ascend
to their 3eats.
Alternative: Sorap the car.
(if.) Fuel. Consumption i s high. The reason for
this Ts That petrol finds i t s way, occasionally,
from the tank to the radiator and much power i s
wasted i n an attempt to vaporise radiator water iE
the carburettor.
recommendation: tieal o f f a l l water jacket
leaks with a suitable compound (preferably Lydia
Pink's) and use pulverised fuel.
Alternative: Scrap the car.
(iv) Electrics. V/iring*on the whole, is good and
sma,ll'~TTres, although freouent, -orove useful for
internal heating and for abruptly reviving passen-
gers semi-conscious from carbon monoxide iunes.
The batteries which are new Mid in good con-
dition drive the generator ae a motor very e f f i -
cient!;' but to no obviously useful purpose.
(v) l££ihion. A jolly good idea. 'Preferably to
a whitewash - on ITovember 5th.
Conclusions.
TTTese~modifications would enable this maohine
to run very efficiently as a Seversible Tricycle -
cum - Lancashire Boiler.
Suggest i t be given to a Piccadilly chestnut
vendor or alternatively
Owner's Kote. We cannot disclose the reason for
the abrupt ending of the Engineers' Heport but
are at liberty to say the Insurance Company
would not accept the l i a b i l i t y .
Performance Data:-
ha3Simum~jpeeds.
1st Gear" " 10 m.p.h.
2nd Gear (if you can get in to i t ) 10 rn.p.h.
3rd Gear (you csji't get into i t ) ?
Fuel Consumption .. .. ifany gallons/mile.
Brakes.' j?ront~wheels .. 30 m.p.h - 0 in 5
seos.
Rear wheels .. 30 m.p.h - 0 in 20
sees.
(giving that telescooed effect which
is so distinctive)
FURTHER LETTERS
To the Editor of Felix. New Hostel,
Imperial College*
Sir, 29th Oct.1950.
There appears to be within our midst an intellectual
whose regard for those scholarly journals "The New Statesman
and Mation" and "The Spectator" i s so exoessive that he finds
it imperative to abstract them from the Lounge presumably for
his private delectation.
Now the denial of such erudite literature from members
of the Union is as incompatible with the enlightened (left-
wing) doctrines expounded by the former as with the public
spirited (right-wing) pronouncements of the latter.
May I therefore request the person (or persons) concern-
ed to confine his reading to the Lounge and extend to others
the pleasure of perusing the paragrammatical phillipics of
the above popular periodicals.
Yours etc.
A.F.
City & Guilds College.
23rd October 1950.
To the Editor of Felix.
Dear Sir, We feel that Felix
Is far too lean a cat.
He looks to skinny, long and thin.
Let's have him short and fat.
- Have twice the pages, half the size
And. then he'11" look more neat.
(Right now our paper looks just like
A lab. instruction sheet).
Felix is not a newspaper,
Hor yet a magazine.
He's just a horrid hybrid
That's somewhere in between.
His contents are magnificent.
(Our laughing tires our ribs).
But, as to his proportions,
Our I.C. cat needs Tibs.
A.F. Toplta.
J.W. Barker.

