GUILDS
On the evening of October 2oth Guilds Freshers
assembled in the Upper Dining Hall for their annual
buffeting, many of them hoping, after seeing one of
the posters advertising the event, to see a hori-
zontal Felix s t i l l manfully supping his beer from
the barrel. In this (but, we hope, only this) they
were disappointed, for your correspondent under-
stands that he remained vertical late into the
night.
The buffet was advertised as "6 for 6.3o",
but your correspondent, arriving at about 6.3o af-
ter helping the principal speakers to calm their
nerves with a pint of beer in the President's
room, found that the motley throng had already dis-
posed of a l l the food and most of the free beer;
from which i t may be deduced that our Freshers are
punctual, starved, broke and thirsty - only the
first of which is unusual.
The President, John Rambaut, clad in his
robe3 of office, welcomed the guests, including the
representative of the Great Unemployed - his pre-
decessor - and called on David Allen to propose the
health of the Freshers. This he did with taot and
grace, exhorting them, as they will continue to be
exhorted until they leave, to neglect nothing in
favour of their studies, and ignoring the fact that
by this time the health of many of them was in
jeopardy.
John Hall replied on behalf of the Freshers
with a few well chosen words, f l u i d l y delivered.
Then, with an ease that belied his aarried
state, arose on the table the Distinguished Old
Gentralian, Peter Foster, v;ho proposed with h i s
usual aplomb and wit the toast of the College,
coupled with the name of the Dean. His remarks on
the College, and particularly those on the conve-
nient nature of the architecture of the h a l l ,
quickly drew shouts of laughter from his delighted
audience, laughter that was only surpa-ssed when he
proceeded to deal with the Dean - although it must
be admitted.that the character he sketched bore
little resemblance to this week's p r o f i l e .
Professor Saunders i n replying was l e f t with
l i t t l e to say, and wisely contented himself With a
parting sally at Peter Epater and a few expressions
of f e l i c i t y find welcome*
The important ousiness of teaching the Fre-
shers and the President the Boomalaka was ably con-
ducted by the two past Presidents who were present,
after which the learners gave a satisfactory per-
formance, and the company returned to their spiri-
tual home to render the night hideous with bawdy
song. Fortunately this cannot be reported in detail
as your correspondent returned to the pin.
It is understood that Q.A. are now seriously
reconsidering the advisability of holding a
. formal
dance on the same night as the Guilds Freshers
Buffet.
Owe suspect that our correspondent is unable tc
remember a word he said. - Ed, )
NETBALL
Four matches played and four matches lost!
This sounds as i f the Netball Team this year has
not the victorious possibilities of last year's
team. An explanation is necessary not to vindicate
but at least to uphold the falling honour of the
team.
The crux of the matter lies in the fact that
only in the first practice match against The Hen
were we lucky enough to play our full team. This
team, be i t said with all modesty, should be a
match-winning one. There is plenty of enthusiasm
and attack and a determination to get the ball at
any cost. The initial weakness of poor shooting
has been lessened in the last two matches, both
shooters being "on form" when playing Maria Grey
Training College. Criticism of that match would be
unsure handling and catching of the ball and slow-
ness in passing. Against Bedford i t was anybody's
game and it was just unfortunate that we did not
come out on top.
The practices with The Men are a great help.
« request however from one member of the I.C.W.S.C.
team has been made. Would The Men please cut their
finger nails before playing.
Encouraging and fair support from spectators
has been much appreciated by both the visiting and
the home teams.
HEN PARTY
On Tuesday, Oct. 17th, the first I.C.W.A. ge-
neral meeting of the session was held. This was fol-
lowed by the freshers tea, to which a l l members of
I.C.W.A. had been invited.
The general business of the meeting was ac-
complished with great dispatch. We would like to
take this opportunity to welcome Dr. Pratt as our
new Vice-President for this session. Apart from the
odd hurried whispered consultation with the secre-
tary, our President coped mo.st ably. She was not
even noticeably disconcerted when an ominous clat-
tering in the quad heralded the approach of the tea
trolley, laden with cups and cakes.
The male element of the community will probab-
ly be relieved to hear that no far-reaching or re-
volutionary decisions were made, though one fresh-
woman has been heard to exclaim against the unfair-
ness of the men only bar. Rest assured, she was im-
eediately, and we trust convincingly, talked round
and I.C.W.A. remains content to be debarred. ( It's
cheaper anyhow'.) One or two bright ideas were forth-
coming, with the result that I.C.W.A. will, we hope,
soon be showing signs of life in directions other
than those strictly sporting.
With the handing round of the tea-cups a gene-
ral babble of conversation broke forth and the next
hour or so was pleasantly spent nattering to a l l
and sundry on a great variety of subjects. Freshen,
having shaken off the strangeness of the official
Freshers' Day,occupied themselves with asking yet
further questions about College Activities, and
everybody came away knowing a few more people's
naaies.
Altogether a successful occasion, and any of
the male inmates who were lucky enough to be invit-
ad to coffee by a. hostel member of I.C.W.A. that
evening, will be able to testify to the high quali-
ty of the cakes.
(Note* For the unlettered, I.C.W.A. stands for I.C.
Womens Association.)
RUGGER
The i.e. Rugger Club have started tne season,
.'/ith a great determination to make a better show
in the U.L. Cup this year than in the last two
years.
The Captain, Hawicz, has organised practices
on Monday evenings i n Hyde Park which have been
attended by i
;
.
0 or 50 members of the Club, and the
discussions on tactics which are held in the
lunch hour on Fridays have led to valuable inter-
change of ideas on the finer points of the game.
The thought which has been given to the game
has been reflected i n the matches and although
the Club cannot boast of any outstanding players,
the standard of rugby which is being played is
l i k e l y to lead to the greatest enjoyment and
satisfaction by those playing i t .
The wins arainst the R.A.E. and. Rosslyn
Park 'A' were particularly gratifying because
of the high standard of team work and purpose
that was evident. Although the College ran up
a much bigger score against the Police at
Chigwell, there is perhaps, not surprisingly, o
difference of ideas between the Police and the
College ss to how the game should be played.'
The game against Borough Road College was
very satisfactory because besides depriving the
College of an unbeaten record, i t gave a lesson
in the effectiveness of good handling, bustling
forward play and successful use of the kick-ahead
by the backs.
Imperial College had several very good three
quarter movements which however usually failed
because of a dropped pass which was then pounced
upon by the opposition who, by kicking and fftat
following uu, quickly transferred the play into
the I.C. 25.
There are lots of lessons to be learned from
the Borough Road game and i t is good that this
game came so early in the season so that the
lessons which have been taught will be thoroughly
learned before the Cup matches come along.
R.R.SPAHKSS.
flPACE FILLER
The Editor was sober last Tuesday.

