FOOD
FRIDAY, 19TH
MARCH, 2018 FELIX ISSUE 1689
FELIX
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk FOOD food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32 33
It’s nearly Easter – season of chocolate, chocolate, and
F
or unknown
reasons, Easter is
not my favourite
holiday, and
making food for it is not
as pleasant as cooking for
Christmas. So, Easter for
me is more a holiday of
sweets – especially Easter
eggs. In my opinion, the
only things that should be
cooked during Easter have
to have chocolate. Even
if you have no idea what
to make for Easter, you
can always have everyday
food and then impress
everyone with some great
chocolate detailing. I
totally recommend getting
some Easter eggs to share
with your friends or, if
you have some time, cook
some simple chocolate
cake – but more about that
another time, really.
ANDRADA’S GUIDE TO THE BEST EASTER EGGS
FOOD
Andrada Balmez
Food Editor
“In my
opinion, the
only things
that should
be cooked
over Easter
need to have
chocolate!”
I am aware that there are
hundreds of versions of
chocolate eggs out there,
but luckily for you, I’ve
been testing the market
for some years now and
I have a pretty good idea
about what is worth it and
what is not.
Godiva Treasure Egg
This is my all-time favourite Easter egg with absolutely no doubt! I cannot imagine
something better, simply because my favourite chocolate is Godiva chocolate. The
egg is big enough to stockpile you with chocolate for almost a week, and when you
finish it… there are more small chocolates inside waiting for you! And just in case you
get bored by the Belgian milk chocolate, the inside pieces are different: while some
of them will return you to your childhood, others will make you feel like you are a
responsible adult at a fancy party.
Venchi Nougatine Easter Egg
And the bronze goes to…. I am trying to create some suspense for nothing here as
you’ve probably read the name already. This egg is 56% dark chocolate with crunchy
caramelised hazelnuts. I think that the best bit about it is the advertising:“comes with
a useful surprise for your car/house”. I seriously thought that it is the awesome tin
that will provide a useful storage space – am I turning into grandma? But, it’s actually
a keychain! Oops, sorry for ruining the surprise. Anyway, do not buy the egg for the
keychain alone – the chocolate is absolutely amazing!
Yes, the name does it justice! This chocolate egg is the size of an ostrich egg – to
be fair, they claim this, and I haven’t checked, but it looks legit enough to me – and
it’s delicious. I would like to say that it is as delicious as an ostrich egg, but…I cannot
confirm, sorry. In case someone else wants to check, you are more than welcome to.
Now, I normally eat a lot of chocolate – I mean A LOT of chocolate – but this is more
than even I can handle. Especially because, this comes with more than just the egg –
it also has 27 pieces of chocolate and some mini-eggs.
Hotel Chocolate Ostrich Egg
I think that this egg’s name is slightly misleading as it is not a Colossal Egg, but
rather a matrioshka egg that ends up with a colossal egg! And the best part about the
five eggs is that they all have different tastes (I hope). So far I’ve been through milk
chocolate and salted honeycomb, dark chocolate orange, and the white chocolate
with strawberry and black pepper. Yes, all of them are absolutely great and yes, I am
probably eating too much chocolate, but that white chocolate with strawberry and
black pepper…. I hope that the remaining two eggs will be at least as good. If you
want to have a decadent chocolate party with your best friends, this is the choice!
Fortnum and Mason Colossal Egg
more chocolate!
CANNOT-HAVE-TOO-MUCH-CHOCOLATE MARTINI
You will need...
• 50 g chocolate (any
cooking chocolate
if fine, but I recom-
mend using your
favourite brand of
chocolate)
• 1 tsp honey
• 25 ml crème de
cacao
• 25 ml Baileys
• 50 ml vodka
• Ice
I know you know where this is going, but still.…
1. Pour the crème de cacao, the Bai-
leys and vodka, some crushed ice into a
cocktail shaker and shake.
2. Strain into a glass
3. Add the crushed chocolate on top –
or, if you feel like experimenting, add in
into the mixture.
I know this is an unexpected member of this
list, but I wanted to show you a super-quick and
delicious way of recycling your leftover choc-
olate and I also wanted to show you that you
can enjoy your favourite ingredient – chocolate
– and your favourite pastime – alcohol – at the
same time. And since this a chocolate themed
issue, here we go!
Felix is recruiting!
We want you – yes, you! We’re looking for writers, photographers, editors,
illustrators, reporters, computer experts and grammar nerds to join our
team. No experience needed – we’ll teach you everything you need to know.
If you’re interested, send us an email on felix@ic.ac.uk

