20th March, FELIX Page 3
Vagrancy in East London
Vagrants at the
East End
Mission
Christmas Film
In this article Richard Smith describes the
work done by the East End Mission in help-
ing vagrants and down-and-outs lead a reason-
able life in the slums of East London.
As a result of mutual rejection vagrants are estranged
from all who live more conventional lives. Certain social
characteristics unify them into a small social class and
restrict their interactions with members of other social
classes. These characteristics include the complete financial
dependence of vagrants upon the community and the corres-
ponding negative attitude towards work, a very restricted
range of pleasures (alcohol and gambling), a lack of any
serious interest in reform or renewal of contacts with their
families, their dirty and untidy appearance, and of course
simply not having a home. Compared with the conventional
social classes the vagrant class is very tiny — a few tens of
thousands of men in Britain. For much of their lives the men,
there are very few women, are highly mobile with respect to
where they work and where and how they live. They have
all become vagrants by a process of social decline.
The vagrant class constitutes probably not more than
0.06% of the total population. But vagrants are very much
in evidence in certain areas of most cities. In the Borough of
Tower Hamlets there are many hostels (over 2,000 beds),
many vagrants and a number of voluntary welfare organ-
izations. Our organization (St. George's) serves an average of
55 men on five nights a week and we have given clothing
to over 600 men in twelve months, many of whom have come
back week after week for more.
In some ways the vagrant class functions as a sort of
institution which shelters its inmates from the rest of society.
Unfortunately the effect of this institution — where society
"puts away" those individuals who fail to comply with its
minimal requirements — is to encourage its members' decline,
physical and mental. Vagrants are brought together by a
variety of problems — physical and mental illnesses as well
as social difficulties. They are by no means all alcoholics or
all anything else. What they have in common is the lack of
a home — they sleep in hostels or in derelict buildings. To
generalise further without very great care is unjustified.
The Simon community is dedicated to helping
social rejects who are beyond the effective
range of the welfare state. Every night the
organisation sends, to various parts of London,
vans carrying soup and bread which is given
to drop-outs along the route-the SOUP RUN.
At St. George's Men's Care Unit and St. Botolph's Re-
habilitation Centre (two units in the East End attached to a
Methodist and an Anglican church respectively) we are
attempting to meet some of the human needs of homeless
men. Most of our energies are spent in providing free and
subsidised food as malnutrition is one of the first problems
with which we must deal. As our relationships with particu-
lar men grow we are able to give them the opportunity of
benefiting from our developing facilities — medical help,
occupational therapy, group therapy for alcoholics. We avoid
preaching at the men. We believe that the welcoming, accept-
ing attitude we encourage among our helpers is of consider-
able importance — it is the only way of undermining men's
anti-social feelings. Beyond our two units we are slowly de-
veloping working relationships with more specialized organ-
izations. Also, by education in the widest sense, we are seek-
ing to break down the social barriers between the men and
the community in which we live and work.
A few members of Imperial College help regularly at St.
George's. If any one would like to know more of our work,
or to help or to give us food, clothing or money they should
write to me in the Chemistry Department, where I am a re-
search student, or at St. George's Men's Care Unit, 240
Cable Street, E.I., where I live.
Why do people go on
"Soup Runs"?
For most people who ever
go, a 'soup run' is probably
a sort of mixture of — some-
thing 'useful', an interesting
experience, something to
think about, a trip with
friendly people, an escape
from immediate problems, a
window to glance at society
from underneath, or just
'why not?'.
It is a bit surprising when
you first go and realise that
there are so many misfits who
hang around without much
purpose in life except, per-
haps, to avoid being moved
on by policemen, Every per-
son you meet has a long
story which might explain his
present position; occasionally
you will hear some of the
more sorrowful parts — for
example, the old lady who
complained that every time
she went anywhere to get
help "it was obvious that
they were all against me" —
or pick up a few philosophi-
cal observations — "You
'social workers' can do so
many things and you've got
this problem (alcohol) and
you can't do anything about
it" . . . and so on. Most of
the drop - outs you meet
could, in theory at least, get
a job and/or live 'securely'
but do not want to.
The dedication of the 'per-
manent' Simon workers is
truely amazing; some of them
were 'drop-outs' themselves
once. If anyone understands
what it is all about, they do.
The escapist aspect of
going on the soup run — like
that for many other activities
— is fascinating. For in-
stance — a meeting of IC
Council with its bickerings
about standing orders and
stopping each other speaking
assumes its true insignific-
ance when followed by a
conversation in the rain with
a man from Armenia (?) who
is explaining how he gets
more money than he should
from the MOSS (Ministry of
Social Security).
The usefulness of what
you do may not seem very
great when you realize that
the drop-outs who really do
need help are, of course, in-
accessible on a bomb site
somewhere. Anyway, times
are harder in Biafra. It is
fun on a soup run — meet-
ing all sorts of interesting
people, both on the run and
in the van. Of course, talk-
ing to the people is 'useful' to
them as well as being fun
for you,
You gain SELF-EDUCA-
TION. Something is clearly
wrong with a society, if not
a world, which produces mis-
fits such as these people —
who are really only another
aspect of the many indi-
viduals who are constantly
alienated by today's society.
THE PROBLEM IS NOT
THE PEOPLE — T H E
P R O B L E M IS T H E
SYSTEM.

