20th March, 1969 FELIX Page 5
ROMANCE ANDREVOLT John Spence on Films
There is a little white stucco building in Drayton Gardens,
S.W.10, which is not a cigarette kiosk. Despite its dainty
dimensions it is, in fact, a cinema which displays its name,
the Paris Pullman, in bold letters on the front. Situated just
north of Chelsea's boutiques and just south of a bizarre
concoction of buildings collectively referred to as Imperial
College, this building offers its diminutive premises to both
the groovy intellectuals of the King's Road and the more
digitally orientated chap from Exhibition Road alike —
the common bond, in theory, being a desire to see the
cinema exploited beyond the straight jacket of Elstree
on on? hand and Hollywood on the other. To heighten your
appreciation a haze of "Disc-Bleu" and a subdued back-
ground of Italian and French dialectic enable you, with a
little imagination to transport yourself to a street cafe on
the Seine or a 'Piazza' in Naples where you chat with
Antonioni, Fellini, Godard and Chabrol while sipping your
desert-dry Martini. In short, a trip to the Paris Pullman
means you want to see something different — something
mellow and something sad, something not to be found in
the Union Bar—Something else.
At the beginning of the session I wanted to include the
Paris Pullman's programmes as often as possible in this
column. The place is handy and for 6/6 you can get at
Least ten feet from the screen. They began their season
with Istvan Szabo's "Father" and, although rather hack-
neyed and anticipated, it was a sensible start. Then, for
some reason, probably shortage of money, they got hold of
"Elvira Madigan" as the billboard put it — " . . . for a
season." This may have saved on time and funds but it
undoubtedly lost them support since "Elvira" had already
been seen by most people in the West End. Next came
absolute rock-bottom. The "Queen" was a documentary
record of a male beauty contest which I imagine was sup-
posed to titillate your sense of humour before making you
sick. It's difficult to wallow further beneath a nadir so
"Before the Revolution" — now showing — just had to be
an improvement—relatively speaking.
It's very popular in the Pseud-circles these days to wax
lyrical on how middle-aged directors are best fitted to
make films about youth. You just reel off "The Graduate",
"If . . .", "The Family Way", "Kestrel for a Knave" ad
ablution and nobody tells you that this is simply because
most film directors are middle-aged anyway. Bernado Berto-
lucci was a stripling of 22 when he made, or rather created,
"Before the Revolution" and the film is immeasurably
more sensitive and communicative for being a thinly dis-
guised autobiography. "Prima della Rivoluzione" was first
shown in Cannes in 1964 and, as Bertolucci's first major
film, received acclaim, not only as a mature work of art,
but as a portrayal of the conflict experienced—particularly
then—by many young people in Europe and America, a
conflict whose resolution has resulted in the pervading
reality of student power in contemporary society.
In "Prima" you will not readily identify with Fabrizio
—the young student in the small Italian town of Parma. For
him, the revolution is crystallised, not so much by Lenin or
Marx or the exploits of Che in the Bolivian Jungle, but by
the village schoolmaster, Cesare, who carries the implica-
tion of enlightenment by education when most of the
townsfolk are oppressed via ignorance. Thus for Parma,
the revolution is a long way off and the best Cesare can
do is teach his school-kids the inevitability of it all by
well-chosen tracts from Moby Dick where Ahab's pursuit
of the great white whale is as " . . . timeless as it is des-
tined". Fabrizio can do little more than discuss, debate, ex-
pound and idealise but his dogma is so paper-thin that the
real way to his heart is obviously via his convictions.
It will doubtless be distasteful to many of Imperial
College's home genousiconoelasts that Bertolucci's film
resorts to a love-affair as the omnipotent antidote to excess
revolutionary fervour. Fabrizio falls passionately for a
visiting aunt and Adriana Asti's acting as the "Aunt" Gina
from Milan, is surpassed only by her complete Latin beauty.
There is an understated yet obvious dichotomy. Fabrizio's
Marxist ideals, forming the aesthetic, are in bare conflict
with his passion which is knowingly incestuous. Gina also
has a conflict. One particular scene reveals that her visit
is not one of good-will, especially, but is a therapy for some
neurotic malaise which she developed in Milan. There is
a suggestion of nymphomania and the tragedy of the film is
realised when she recognises that she — the embodiment
of this disease — should not pollute the 'pure' mind of
her nephew. She leaves suddenly and, in his absolute grief
over her, Fabrizio is broken — no doctrine can soothe the
heart's pain, no ideal can acquit the ultimate aesthetic of
the human bond between a man and a woman and no
maxim like "Sin is the only rejection of Bourgeoise values"
can ever again excuse a consummated love-affair. He
realises that he too is destined to be part of the Bourgeoisie
whose standards are his heritage and even the reappearance
of Gina cannot prevent his entire absorption into the system
he once eschewed by his marriage to the daughter of a
local opera impresario and devout capitalist. His own
mother pronounces his epitaph—" . . . he's changed—he
accepts everything" — theie has been no 1984-type torture
to bring this about — the process has been basic, human
and all the more complete.
It is a long film. For two hours Bertolucci uses camera
expertise and appropriate dialectic to probe a gamut of
human emotions and exigencies which most of us can only
experience without recognising. The acting is not great -—
with the exception of Adriana Asti as Gina. The arguments
are not all clear and not always ostensibly relevant—there
are parts which are tedious. But the size of the undertaking
was enormous the thematic requirements difficult and the
directing experience sometimes lacking. But if only as an
antidote to standard procedure this film should be seen.
If only because Bertolucci's style pioneers previously un-
chartered regions of film art with one aim — to obtain the
maximum expressiveness in every visual element and every
situation. The imagery is explicit, the music superb, the
medium justified, the message fulfilled—the cigarette smoke
unnoticed.
COLLEGE DISCIPLINE
A working party is going to be set up to investigate dis-
cipline, the three areas for consideration being double
punishment, the power of wardens, hall discipline and the
bringing of the name of the college into disrepute.
Some clarification is surely needed concerning double
punishment. As I understand it, double punishment simply
means being punished twice for the same offence. An example
would be someone who, having been given 10 years imprison-
ment by the High Court, was then given another 5 years by
his local magistrate. Although such treatment would clearly
violate every principle of common justice, it is important,
to note that some offences exist which are of a double;
character.
A simple example would be someone driving the wrong*
way down a one way street and breaking the speed limit*
at the same time. This person would receive two punish-?
ments, one for each offence. This is NOT double punish-',
ment. Consider the case of someone stealing funds from a
>
private club. He would be prosecuted by the police for the'
theft and expelled from the club for betraying the con-'
fidence of that club. *
When people say that double punishment is justified in1
certain cases, what they surely mean to say is that someone'1
who commits two offences should receive two punishments.'
In view of the fact that no case of double punishment has-
arisen for the last ten years, it makes me wonder why the
subject was ever brought up in the first place.
Some aspects of the above discussion are clearly relevant
to the power of wardens. For example, should someone'
peddling drugs in Hall be prosecuted and also expelled from
the Hall? I believe that the most qualified people to answer'
this question are the members of the Hall Committee and
that the decision should rest with them.
All matters of discipline should be treated by the Hall
Committee, (this is surely one of the reasons for their
existence). The warden should neither dominate the proceed-
ings nor play no part in them. If an acceptable solution
is to be found, all parties concerned must be consulted.
The most important feature that should exist in a Hall is
a level of trust and confidence between the residents. There
must be a guarantee that if you put your milk in the fridge
in the morning, it will still be there when you go for it
in the evening. If this guarantee does not exist the whole
system collapses into anarchy. The only adequate punish-
ment for someone found guilty of stealing from fridges
and laundries is expulsion from the Hall. At one Hall of
Residence, for example, morning papers have had to be
cancelled due to a few selfish individuals who insisted on
removing them before anyone else had a chance to read
them. The question of overnight guests is a rather nebulous
one and can only be treated on individual merit by the Hall
Committee.
I was recently alarmed to hear that Council had decided
that no-one should be punished for bringing the name of the
College into disrepute. The argument here was that we act
as individuals and should be treated as such. The only snag
here is that although students may behave individually, they
are treated collectively. Many students trying to hitch across
France last summer complained bitterly about the lack of
lifts, and placed the blame squarely on "those bloody French
students." Any young person wearing an anorak and blue
jeans was assumed to be an avid revolutionary. Mention
the word "student" to a member of the British public and
he immediately thinks of some long-haired, unwashed
character with a protest banner.
Though this may be a naive attitude, it is certainly the
one that exists, and should be recognised as such. The good
name of the college is particularly important for those
students, for example, miners, who travel abroad for part
of their course. It is no use claiming that it is only our
academic name that is of importance, there are other places
of learning and if we insist on creating havoc we shall no
longer be invited. I do not agree that academic excellence
should be used as an excuse for drunken or boorish
behaviour.
Like it or not, we are treated as a group and it is as a
group that we stand or fall. Both good behaviour and bad
behaviour reflect on every member of the college, anyone
who degrades the college by his action must be punished
accordingly.
The whole issue of discipline is a very large and a very
complex one. Double punishment, power of wardens, Hall
Committees, bringing the college into disrepute are all
inter-related topics, and one can only hope that the working
party will not be rushed into making any hasty decisions.
Although motions passed at Union meetings have their
value I do not feel that they should be regarded as being
the last word on the matter.
BRIAN HAINS

