Page 6 FELIX 20th March, 1969
The Function
Your Place in this Place
the University
by Les Ebdon
The trouble with a question such as 'what is the function
of a University?' is that it is a question with only one
answer — the function is to educate — but the answer
can be interpreted in a score of different ways. This is of
course why Universities resemble particles in Brownian
motion continually being acted upon by forces. Many forces
exert pressures on universities and each of these forces
interprets the word "education" in a different way. Thus
the resulting University, like so many institutions of society,
is a compromise or, put scientifically, the resolution of
these forces.
Let us identify a few of these forces, or pressure groups.
Obviously we must list the Government and Industry, both
influential paymasters, the University administrators and
the academic staff and, to an extent we shall discuss later
the students.
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Recently a group of academics have called for a
University completely independent of the Government. They
would appear to resent the increasing control, exercised
through finance, of the Government. Universities are no
longer isolated acedemic institutions but subject to the
general economic situation. In this context, i.e. the general
shortage of money from the University Grants Committee,
the promise that the UGC will not direct how grants are
to be spent — to provide, according to Robbins, 'an efficient
At a special meeting of the Felix awards
committee the following were voted Felix
awards of the year.
Philip Marshall: Castrated Politico of the
Year.
Rex Lowin: Paper tiger of the Year.
Jane Pearson: Pipe-smoker of the Year.
Barry Hood: Academic thug of the Year.
Piers Corbyn: Isaac Newton award for
Action.
Dave Foster: Isaac Newton award for Re-
action.
JURGO: Pantomime of the Year.
Dermott Corr: Foreign Student of the
Year.
Les Ebdon: Stirrer of the Year.
Carnival Week: Non-event of the Year.
Helen Lewis: Chris Yewlett special Award.
Pete Dolwin: Mr. R.C.S. Popularity of the
Year.
Lord Penney: Correspondent of the Year.
Henry: . . . what's that?
Barry Sullivan: Drunkard of the Year.
C. C. Parker: Special Nabarro Award for
the Pseud-in-Chief.
Chris Yewlett: Helen Lewis special Award.
John Andrews: Piss-artist of the Year.
Chris Lewis: Most Promising Pseud.
C.&G.U.: Special Award for the "white
collared, well scrubbed students with
short back and sides."
Dave Christopher: Most Promising Stirrer
of the Year.
shield against the intrusion into academic life and policy of
irrelevant political influences' has become rather meaning-
less. As quoted previously in FELIX, Edward Short has
put it rather bluntly: 'Universities should become
increasingly aware of the demands of the economy'. Now
those demands of the economy not only mean that the
government encourages research in certain areas and dis-
courages it in others, thus deforming scientific research,
but it also means that the word 'educate' is interpreted as
'train'. Technologists and scientists are trained at IC by the
government so that in numbers and training they are 'fully
adequate to the national needs' (UGC terms of reference).
However, it is difficult to see how academic freedom
in its old sense can be maintained. No university can sur-
vive without money and it is difficult to see how the concept
of the university as seen by the government and as seen
by industry differs, to the extent that academics can play
the two off against each other and remain free. Industry
can indeed be enticed into investing into a university but
it is as interested in obtaining a return on this investment
as the government. Indeed, industry would seem to be in-
sisting that universities go into 'production' — production
of research and trained graduates — even more than the
government.
The pressure of the academic staff and university
administrators is not quite as apparent, partly because it is
not an homogenous pressure, partly because it runs counter
to the general direction of society. If we ignore those
in administration who are representatives of industry or
the government, then the staff and admin share the same
'academic' outlook. Traditionally, academics look upon
universities as 'centres of academic excellence' isolated
from the general pressures of society. To the academic,
therefore, 'education' is interpreted as 'specialization'.
Students are expected to achieve a high standard of pro-
ficiency in a small area and scant attention is paid to the
problem of the inter-actions, ethical or social, of their
studies or research on society or the world as a whole.
What then is the pressure exerted by the student? For
the vast majority of students at IC the university is a degree
provider. As the result of a certain amount of hard work
and exam passing a degree is obtain?d which leads to higher
earnings, greater security and enhanced social status. Educa-
tion is interpreted as 'amassing knowledge'.
THE COMPROMISE
Perhaps we have caricatured these pressures but it does
at least lead us to an understanding of what the nature
of the compromise is. It is this compromise that the thinking
person must take and marry to a proper understanding of
the meaning of education. Education is more than training
or specialization or gathering of knowledge — it has some-
thing to do with fulfilment. If we agree the purpose is not to
turn out clever chimpanzees or electronic data stores, what
pressures can be brought to counterbalance those already
mentioned?
The first thing scientists and technologists should recog-
nise is that whereas scientific discovery is basically amoral
its application has profound ethical repercussions. We must
accept that in universities 'academic freedom' is now a
myth and that research is directed upon particular lines
and development similarly deformed. Now this direction
may not be entirely bad, but a few cases from recent
history will serve as a salutary illustration. The colossal
investment in the research of nuclear physics did not arise
because of 'academic interest', nor did its development as
a basis for weapons of mass destruction. The continued
interest in certain hydro carbons, particularly the alkyla-
tion, has underlying motives. Enormous sums of money
have been spent investigating the foaming properties of
solutions of these compounds, commonly known as deter-
gents, rather than their cleaning properties. The 'profit
motive' diverts research from those avenues most profitable
to man to those avenues which make most money. Academic
freedom can never return; if it did it would be an exercise
in irresponsibility in a world of small resources and large
needs, but if research is to be directed it must be directed
to the solution of the major problem such as mass starvation
that face us.
But research is merely one aspect of the educational
problem; teaching is another. If we reject the concept of
the university as a training school to fit poeple to fill certain
projected vacancies in society, then it is because we reject
th concept of uncritically accepting society. An educated
person is not merely a specialist who reacts to every given
situation using his special skills but incorporates these
situations into his general understanding, ready to use them
if necessary. This applies particularly to the good scientist
whose theories are based on a particular kind of experience
we term 'experiments'. An educated person is able to learn
by experience. When a number of art colleges were closed
last summer the art students were forced to teach themselves;
in doing so they rediscovered this fundamental idea of
learning by experience. Scientists and technologists must
ensure they retain and develop this aspect of their educa-
tion. This therefore becomes a high priority in consulations
with students about revision of courses.
However, we cannot ignore the fact that living in a
society, as men do, we are all involved in relationships
and indeed living is in many ways to be seen in terms of
relationships. If education is to be of value it must teach
people something about relationships. It is because of this
that attention must be given to the staff-student relationship
and to the breaking down of barriers. If students and staff
together are to be able effectively to counter the pressures
of Government and Industry they must in some way bring
their views to the admin, which is, of course, where we
began last issue.
Washing dirty linen in public
Last Thursday we were at
last able to see the 'Horizon'
documentary 'The Drift
from Science", parts of
which were shot at Imperial
College before Christmas.
As might be expected
from the title, there were the
inevitable statistics to illus-
trate the decline in
popularity of the sciences,
together with some not very
convincing theories to ex-
plain away the trend. The
film was, superficially, a
fair, factual document, but
the subtle visual tricks which
the film - makers used to
put science in its worst
light could not escape even
the most impartial observer.
For example, in the
numerous interviews with
sixth - formers, both arts
and sciences: the arts
students were always filmed
out in the open air whereas
the science students were
in a Lab or classroom.
At one point, both arts
and science sixth - formers
were asked to list possible
uses for a top hat; a psycho-
logist explained that the
response to such a question
would indicate a conver-
gent ie. 'scientific' or diver-
gent ie. 'artistic' mind. It
seems a reasonable assump-
tion that any person of
average intelligence, no
matter how convergent his
mind, could think of at
least one or two uses for a
top hat. By showing science
students sitting open-
mouthed and conspicously
silent, thg film began to
stretch one's credulity a
little too far. The film then
showed arts students reeling
off a string of bizarre
suggestions with apparently
no prompting.
As the film progressed
from schools to universities,
only science students were
interviewed. We were told
of the four year course at
Keele, the Humanities for
Scientists at Nottingham and
a group of students from
Manchester talked in glow-
ing terms about their course
in liberal studies for science
students.
Then came the moment
we had all been waiting for:
Imperial College, the fore-
most college of science and
technology in Britain, came
under scrutiny. And what
did our students have to say?
"They don't teach us to
manage people here, just a
load of scientific facts . . ."
". . . . staff only seem
concerned to train research
Alan Morris
students and nothing else
. . ." and numerous other
critical comments, with
which I think many people
wholly agree. And were we
given the thrill of hearing
our name on the box?
Definitely not.
It strikes me as being
somewhat more than strange
that three other universities
should be named and con-
gratulated on their science
courses, whereas the so-
called 'spearhead of the
technological revolution'
should be laid bare and re-
main anonymous. On reflec-
tion, though, it isn't as inex-
plicable as one might think.
In that programme, IC's
dirty linen was washed in
public. Be that good or bad,
one wonders just who didn't
want the public to know
whose dirty washing it was.

