Page 8 FELIX 20th March, 1969
New pants in the hot seats
The period of Presidential elections is upon us. R.C.S. and Mines have already decided on the people they wish to
represent them on Council next year. The Guilds elections will be held next term, when there may also be the exciting
prospect of election the I.C. President democratically for the first time.
Butty sweeps home Barker beats bar-crowd
About 150 RCS people
packed into Physics Lecture
Theatre 3 for the RCSU
meeting on March 11th. A
letter from E. G. Perrins at-
tacking Les Ebdon was read
to a mixed reception. Then
the main business followed
and wild cheering greeted
the announcement of the
election results. In the race
for the Presidency, RCS
Ents chairman John Butter-
worth heavily defeated
Council rep. Chris Kent by
384 votes to 163. Physics-
bred Barry Pywell, of Henry
fame, just pipped Chemistry-
bred Theta bearer Steve
Morrisby by 251 votes to
213 with 141 abstentions
and 2 write-in votes for
Henry.
A pathetic trial of Gwyn
Hughes, RCS president, was
led by Vice - President
Adolf with Pete Dolwin
pressed hastily, and some-
what unwillingly, into the
job of Defence Counsel and
Les Ebdon, equally hastily,
into helping Adolf with
the prosecution. This lack
of preparation ruined the
purpose of the trial. Hughes
was found guilty after
evidence had been produced
of girls 'assaulted' at Carni-
val and on the ICWA
corridor and of conspiracy
between Hughes and a cer-
tain Dermott Corr (cue for
loud hisses).
The meeting was inter-
spersed with plaintive tin
whistle playing and mes-
sages flashed on the screen:
'Yuk', 'Boo' 'Who's Hughes'
and 'Gwyn and bear it'.
Hughes and practically
everyone else was sentenced
to the Round Pond before
the meeting adjourned to
the Queen's.
Butty thanks his triumphant supporters.
The Royal School of Mines had a good showing of
almost two hundred people to their annual elections which
were held on Tuesday, 11th March. The meeting seemed
remarkably sober considering the usual tradition of Mines
Union meetings. The three candidates battling for the posi-
tion of President, previously held by Barry Sullivan, were
Tony Mason, Metallurgy III, Peter Earl, Geology II, and
Ken Barker, Oil Technology II.
Having been introduced to the meeting the three can-
didates left while their proposers spoke on their behalf. In
turn they gave three moderately lengthy, very similar and
slightly boring proposal speeches. The seconders then stood
up and voiced their opinions on the candidates they had not
seconded. During this mud-slinging match a seconder for
Ken Barker stood up and commented to the effect that they
were not electing a beer-drinking rugby player but a presi-
dent. This consequently produced derision from the rugby
drinking sect who appeared to be supporting Tony Mason,
however, this was quicked drowned by applause from the
masses. After this the result of the election was in little doubt.
Ken Barker came to this College via the Distillers Com-
pany and the King's College Chemistry Department. It has
been rumoured among certain circles that he got a little lost
on the way. Nevertheless, he has been a year representative
and is the Rear Commodore of the Sailing Club.
The election of the vice-president came next, from the
two candidates, Mike Walton, Metallurgy II, and lohn
Ballard, Mining Technology II. Apathy had set in by this
time and the number of abstentions in the vote caused
Barry Sullivan to call for other nominations. However,
none were forthcoming and lohn Ballard was declared duly
elected. He is a convert from one of the other constituent
colleges. According to the proposal speech he has realised
the error of his ways and is now a devoted Minesman. The
positions which he has held include President of the Stoats
Club and Captain of the I. C. Rugby Club.
Bill Plackett was elected unopposed as Honorary
Secretary and George Widelski was elected unopposed
Honorary Pornographer, mainly because of his outstanding
choral ability and his memory for many well known songs.
Racialism at lodgings bureau
On February 16th a meeting called by University College Socialist Society decided to
take a strong stand against the racialist policies of the University of London Lodging's
Bureau. The action decided upon was a one day occupation of the Bureau last Friday,
March 14th.
Racialism is a word guaranteed to raise high emotions and its use must be carefully
justified. The form that the Bureau gives the landlords who want to be on the Bureau's
books asks the following:
Will you welcome students from (i) U.S.A. and Dominions (excluding India); (ii)
Europe; (iii) Middle East; (iv) China, Malaya and lapan; (v) India and Pakistan; (vi) Bri-
tish West Indies; (vii) West Africa and Sudan.
70% of the landlords answer no to one or more of these questions. To accommodate
this apparant racialism, the Bureau keeps separate lists of coloured and white students.
Mrs. Tabert, head of the Bureau claims that "African and Asian students are pleased
that we take these steps to protect them", i.e. separate lists of whites and coloureds saves
students (and the Bureau) considerable embarrassment.
The occupation of the Bureau was called to demand the following: that the Bureau
lists only those landlords who declare themselves willing to accept any student, regardless
of race, colour or national origin.
The Bureau claims that under an anti-discriminatory policy they would never get
enough listings to satisfy the demand. It is expected that the University exaggerates the
difficulty students would face. Many landlords would change their minds rather than lose
their place on the Bureau's lists.
At the moment students can only find rooms at the price of participating in racialist
policies.
Most important is the moral and social responsibility of the University to take a clear
stand against racialism in all its forms.
It is essential to either stamp out racialism or to show exactly why it cannot be
stamped out in the present situation of accommodation shortage.
Pete Dare — the new President of ULU—is concerned with the problem and is keen
to resolve the present impasse. Matthew Duncan-Iones.
Editorial
Comment
Wut}tl&
Felix Needs Stars and
Stirrers for Next Session.
If you Ever Feel the
Urge to Create or Des-
troy Then Y O U fit the
Bill. Interested? Then
contact M. J. Williamson
616 Linstead.
Participation: Do Your Thing
Here.
Family entertain
At I.C. hop last Saturday Ents. presented their star at-
traction of the term — The Family. About 700 people packed
into the Concert Hall to see one of the best live performance
I have ever seen.
All except their final numbers were taken from their
two L.P.s, the majority from Family Entertainment. The
group started with what is becoming their standard opener:
"The Weaver's Answer". This number created an atmosphere
which they were to maintain throughout the evening, an
atmosphere based on the surging and unbelievable voice of
Roger Chapman combined with the wide range of musical
talent expressed by the other members of the group.
New Constitution
^ Continued from page one.
The meeting then settled
down to the daunting task
of voting on the changes. The
objects were altered to en-
courage more representation
and interest in Welfare, and
reciprocal membership was
made constitutional, all un-
opposed. Life members also
lost their right to vote. The
move to re-name a number
of officers vice-presidents was
defeated but an academic
officer was added. A move
to remove constituent Col-
lege Presidents was defeated.
The greatest excitement
came when the composition
of Council was discussed.
The majority of present
Council were opposed to an
increase in the size of Coun-
cil and Rob Collinge, IC
Welfare Officer, moved the
removal of floor reps from
Council, now that there were
to be departmental reps,
Hughes and Corr from Exec,
supported him but they were
narrowly defeated, after a
recount. Also rejected at-
tempts to remove the aca-
demic reps and later the de-
partmental reps and finally
Andrews' motion to add the
Hon. Pornographer of
RSMU was heavily defeated.
After some discussion of
anomalous department reps
the new Council was adopted
by 289 votes to 117.
leaders elected democrati-
cally. As a result of the am-
mended clause which was
carried by a large majority,
the President, Vice-President
and Honorary Secretary will
be elected by college wide
ballot at the end of the
Spring term (this year during
the summer term). Keith
Guy, Ents chairman, success-
fully resisted the election of
the Ents Chairman passing to
the Union floor and Spike
Bantin, Flails rep, similarly
retained the residence quali-
fication for Halls' rep candi-
dates.
Amid increasing points of
order concerned with prob-
lems should the meeting be-
come inquorate, the chair-
man, a somewhat exhausted
but still smiling Rex Lowin
adjoiurned the marathon a
few minutes before four
o'clock.
Finally
The elections clause finally
saw ICU vote to have its
New Dean
for R.C.S.
Prof. C. P. Whittingham,
Head of the Department of
Botany and Plant Techno-
logy, has been appointed
Dean of the Royal College
of Science for a period of
three years as from 29
September 1969. This post
is at present held by Prof.
C. C. Butler, head of the
Physics Department.

