News 2 October 1998
Beware Meningitis
Meningitis epidemics have struck a number of universities over the last few years. Dr. Irene
Welnreb, of Imperial College Health Centre, outlines the possible risks facing IC students
That start of the academic year Is a time
that heralds a range of emotions for the
university community. Unfortunately it
also heralds one of the optimum times
for outbreaks of meningitis.
Meningitis means inflammation of
the meninges, the outer linings of the
brain and spina[cord. This inflammation
is usually caused by Infection: Both bac-
teria and viruses can cause meningitis,
but it is the bacteria which are more
deadly. Unfortunately in the early stages
of the disease it is not easy to distinguish
which of the two is the causal agent.
Early symptoms mimic flu or a hang-
over and may progress to severe
headaches, vomiting, a very high tem-
perature, a dislike of bright lights, neck
stiffness, joint pains, drowsiness and con-
fusion. Bacterial meningitis is charac-
terised by the appearance of a distinctive
rash that does not fade on pressure.
This may initially resemble small pin-
pricks before progressing to larger areas
of 'bruising'. The 'tumbler test' is useful
In observing this symptom; If a glass is
firmly pressed against the affected skin,
and the rash is still visible through the
glass, medical help must be sought
immediately. Anyone concerned about
themselves or their friends should con-
tact IC's Health Centre or their own GP
- look out for your mate.
The fatalities at other universities in
previous years have been caused by a
complication called Meningococcal Sep-
ticaemia, a disease 15 to 19 year olds are
particularly at risk from. The peak time
of year for occurrences is at the begin-
ning of the winter.
Transmission of bacterial meningitis
requires close physical contact, as the
bacteria cannot survive outside the body
for very long. In most people the bac-
teria will not invade the blood stream and
little disease develops, but in a small
fraction of cases invasive disease will
follow after infection.
Every student in Imperial College
halls of residence, except Clayponds,
has received a leaflet on meningitis in
their medical registration pack. On each
noticeboard in each hall bedroom Is a
'credit card' sized description of the
symptoms. Be aware. Be vigilant. Look
out for your friends.
IC Health Centre, Prince's
Gardens x49375
KEEP T H E C A T FREE MM EST. 1949
Issue 1120
2 October 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
Assistant Editor: Ali Campbell
Music Editor: Jason Ramanathan
News : Ali Campbell & Ed Sexton
.Games Editor: Mark Baker
Thanks goes to Phil Rowland, Ali
Campbell, Mark Baker and lain
McNaught -
without you this issue wouldn't have
happened.
Usually this space would have the
names of all the sub-editors Involved
with Felix, but we are missing Arts,
Features and Sports editors, to name
a few. Interested? You know where
to come.
The House that
Schal Built
Once again summer brought out the
builders, as construction sites sprung up
around college. Unsurprisingly many of
the building projects are taking longer
than anticipated, but it looks like most of
the essential work will be finished by the
first Monday of term. The new Bio-
medical Sciences (BMS) Building will
open at the start of term, although
exactly what state of readiness it will be
In remains unclear-. Rumours of dark
rooms constructed next to windows, ceil-
ings built too low for electron micro-
scopes and suchlike have been
circulating for much of the summer. The
real test will come in the next week,
when teaching begins in the new build-
ing; hopefully the paint in the lecture the-
atres will be dry by then.
The Junior Common Room (JCR) will
also open in time for registration on
Monday, as will the snack bar QTs. ICU's
part of the new JCR, however, will not be
ready for another two weeks. At the time
Felix went to press the exact cause of the
delay was unknown, but we are sure that
it is merely coincidence that the only part
of the JCR incomplete is the Union's...
watch this space.
On a happier note the renovation
and extension of dB's, ICU's main enter-
tainment venue, will be ready for the
events of freshers' week. The project has
been behind schedule, increasing pres-
sure on the Ents staff who have been
waiting for the builders to leave. Mark
Home, Ents and Marketing Manager,
doggedly commented "we'll be up and
running whatever". The freshers' ball
and carnival are also to be blessed by a
mention on Zoe Ball's Radio 1 breakfast
show, so make sure you tune in next
Monday and Friday.
5th Sabb
Continued from Front page
Tuesday 10 November. This election
will be the first since the arrival of med-
ical students at the South Kensington
campus, which could affect the leg-
endary 'block vote' attributed to the
medical campuses In previous years.
Anyone interested in standing for the
sabbatical position should talk to Dave
Hellard or Chris Ince. DP(F&S).
IC Cricketers
Stump Royal
Holloway
The farcical challenge by Royal Holloway
to Imperial's victory In the University of
London League Cricket Cup has finally
been settled In Imperial's favour at a
ULU committee meeting. The original
dispute centred around one of Imper-
ial's players, Imran Khan, who was in the
first team. Mr Khan is a medical student,
which led to Royal Holloway complain-
ing that he was not eligible to play for
Imperial College teams, as Imperial Col-
lege School of Medicine was not recog-
nised as part of Imperial College by ULU
until this term (see Felix 1119).
The Issue was laid to rest when
Charlie Joynt, then Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies), produced Mr Khan's
IC swipe card at the meeting. This was
enough to persuade those present that
Imperial had not broken ULU regulations
and should be allowed to keep the cup.
Ironically the first team beat Royal Hol-
loway by four wickets, while Mr Khan
scored just one run, making the debate
seem somewhat academic. Let's hope
Imperial's cricketers can repeat that per-
formance in this year's competition.
Inside the
Freshers'
Guide
Thought for the day 14
Freshers'Week Ents 15
Freshers'Fair Maps 16
Ali Campbell
Getting a job
18
19
The Voice of Reason 20
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited. Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

