2 October 1998 Music 21
A l b u m s
THE BOO RADLEYS
Kingsize
T
he Boo Radleys are one of those unlucky ex-Brit-
pop bands. You know, the ones who had the
misfortune to be around when the music press
coined the term: a bracket which allowed a few bands
to sell a lot of records in a very short time, only to fall
into obscurity when the genre died. In the aftermath
of this holocaust, a few guitar groups survived, scav-
enging for sales amongst the rubble, pursued by fas-
cist techno hordes brandishing sequencers, computers
and vinyl. The 'Radlcys, stripped of the irritatingly chirpy
sugar-rush that inspired Wake Up Boo!, strode boldly on
to release an album entitled C'mon Kids, and showed
that the true survivors of that fateful summer were the
ones who could adapt, evolve and innovate. Can they
do it again?
Not quite. After the complex punk explosion of that
previous album, their new offering, Kingsizc, comes as
something of a confusing disappointment. Can this be
the same band who created the energetic, starburst
rock of Cmon Kids, What's in the Box?, and Meltin's
Worm? In places, they sound for all the world like
Oasis, or, worse still. Dodgy. Bloody hell. Where is the
creative sparkle, the raw energy, the clashing and cli-
mactic guitar?
But the most irritating facet of this record is its latent
potential - not all the songs arc middling, insubstantial
pop sludge. Martin Carr, misguided though he seems
to be, is ultimately too good a songsmith to abandon
his album completely. The two openers. Blue Room in
Archway and The Old Newsstand at Hamilton Square
are line tracks, tantalising the listener with complex
arrangements and pop suss. Monuments For a Dead
Century is beautiful, fragile and mellow; High as Mon-
keys is haunting, tuneful and impeccably constructed,
and if the Boo Radleys must pretend it is still 1995, Comb
Your Hair reminds us of those good times.
It's not bad. If Oasis had released this, I would have
been pleasantly surprised. But there's just one filler track
too many, and the 'Radleys can do much better. Wake
up. Boo, and smell the coffee. El
Ali Campbell
U.N.K.L.E. SHERYL CROW
Psyence Fiction
A
lready heralded as the album of
the decade by some critics and
full of singers any other album
would die for, UNKLE's debut will have
to knock the listener out with brilliance
Just to avoid disappointment. Or else
what chance does it have of going
beyond expectations?
Almost the entire album is very dark
or depressing, which is not that surpris-
ing when you have Yorke and Ashcroft
guesting on it. It starts off with Guns Blaz-
ing and the effect Shadow and Lavelle
have on the album are immediate. An
uninspiring rap is saved by some good
sampling and mixing and a strong bass.
Shadow manages to produce the track
well enough so that if there were no rap-
ping over the top, it wouldn't matter
that much and might even be preferable.
The guitaring of the title track Unkle
then kicks in and doesn't alter through
the song, but is just given different envi-
ronments to live in. The phrase back-
ground music springs to mind, either
that or a master class in how to DJ.
Inevitably UNKLE will be compared
to Massive Attack and from listening to
the main Bloodsatin you can hear why.
They've even incorporated former Mas-
sive Attack arranger Will Malone for
Ashcrofts track. Massive Attack have
been almost unique for so long that
anyone else nearing their territory will
inevitably come under their label, even
if there is a vast difference.
Ashcroft has proved on Urban
Hymns that he can sing and gel with
The Globe Sessions
beat driven tracks, look no further then
This Time. Lonely Soul almost works, but
the beats seem to just miss a true fit. It's
not until the orchestra takes over that the
song seems at rest and gets the real
depth that it wants to achieve.
Why Nursery Rhyme was ever put on
this album, I don't know. Having stated
the sound of the album, it then tries to
conquer all arenas. Nursery Rhyme is a
tuneless track led by heavy guitaring, in
which you couldn't even hope to hear
any of the brilliance of Shadow or Lavelle.
Thankfully Celestial Annihilation
saves us. A track with a bass line that
could be in any sci-fi film is again kept
alive by the production and the years that
the album took to bring together are eas-
ily accounted for.
The end track Rabbit In Yout Head
Lights puts UNKLE a step above their
competition. Sure, it's hard to go wrong
when you've got Yorke, but the bareness
and simplicity of this track adds to its
beauty and impact, where adding any-
thing more would take it away. The eerie
piano is perfect and Yorke's voice adds
to the song's sound of desperation.
The contrast in tracks reveals the
real talent of UNKLE. Throughout, what-
ever you think of a song, you can't blame
the production, for the few lesser songs
on the album it's more a case of a good
sculptor working with bad clay. It's not
revolutionary in any way, more, what's
been done before, but far better. H
David H.
• t's that third album that everyone
I supposedly always talks about.
I Most demand a change of direc-
tion, or a subtle change of emphasis,
but where does Sheryl have to go?
When you think of Sheryl at her best
the songs that spring to mind: IFIt Makes
You Happy, All I Wanna Do and Winding
Road have all allowed her voice to reach
its full capacity in range and strength and
have been upbeat or paccy. Sadly she
seems to have forgotten this part of her
music, sobering up into her late twenties.
Her native America now shines through
more noticeably than before; country
music has taken over.
fans won't be disappointed. She
delivers a mellow, well balanced album,
bul manages to fall back into the label
of just typical female guitar music, her
voice being the only difference.
If you liked her first single from the
album Favourite Mistake or presently
wearing a cowboy hat with matching
snakeskin boots, then the album suits
you down to the ground. The easiest way
to describe it is as an album with no sin-
gles. One of the only really mind stop-
ping songs is The DiFFicult Kind. It starts
much the same as the others, but has a
harmony in the chorus that rips your
heart apart. It's worth listening to the
whole album just for that line; Andrew
Lloyd Webber would be jealous.
Sheryl Crow in her last two albums
managed to bridge the gap between
country and western and pop music,
bringing a new attitude to the British
charts. Sadly she seems to have forgot-
ten why she was so successful and
copped out with far easier and conse-
quently more drab songs. There are
some typical Sheryl songs on the album
for example Crash and Burn, when her
voice is allowed to let rip, but these
moments are few and far between. It's
not a bad album and anyone who liked
the last two will inevitably like this one,
but it's just such a waste when someone
capable of so much cops out with an
easy album; what next, an album of love
ballads? C
O
David H.

