22 Music 2 October 1998
DELAKOTA
Psyence Fiction * * * V 2
irstly you have to say that this album is
chilled....with an adequate helping of bluesy
funk thrown in for good measure.
They've got a name which would lead the uniniti-
ated to assume they're part of some US scene but they
actually hail from tngland. Their influences tend to lie
quite heavily with US blues but there are helpings of
British baggy cool that still don't sound outdated even
now. The Charlatans playing only groove laden numbers
would be a pretty close description.
The opening track C'mon Cincinnati exudes 70s
American cool and contains an intensely catchy loop-
ing guitar line with an equally laidback vocal, 'C'mon
man....' sampled over the top. This track was released
over the summer and if you missed it you should seri-
ously think about giving it a listen on this album when
you can. The other single off the album is a stark con-
trast. The Rock is ambient and bluesy at the same time
with its cascading guitar line cycling over the simple
melody and yes yet again it is mellow and laidback.
However even though the album is laidback to the
extreme it does not bore, instead it sends you on a
grooved out journey.
One of the few tracks that actually lets the album
down is Too Tough, with the whole groove effect taken
a step too far, leading it past any sense of tunefulness
and into a grinding dreary mish mash of noise. At
times you could scarily mistake parts of songs for Reef
but thankfully these lapses don't tend to last very long
and you're soon graced with more top quality mean-
derings in 90s blues. It's a bit of a coincidence that two
blues based bands have come to the fore this summer,
namely Delakota and Gomez (yes the one who won the
Mercury Music Prize, and most people still can't under-
stand how and why). Dclakota are Gomez's more ener-
getic brothers and they don't sing with intensely
irritating smoker's growls.
Gospel influences arc evident on 555, while Slcaly
starts off with a Black Grape type of riff (almost Reef like!)
and some cheesy scartchin' thrown in and ambles into
a grooved out instrumental. The whole attitude of
don't give a f " k that runs through the entire album is
summed up in the acoustic strum along Hook Line And
Sinkerwbctc they sing 'Sing a simple song until some-
thing complicated comes along' and guess what some-
thing complicated never comes along in the life of
Delakota. H
Jason
FUTURE LOOP FOUNDATION
Conditions For Living
FUTURE LOOP F
O
U
N
D
A
T
I
O
N
eoNCBWHSFcwuwiw
• f you want the best underground music, you can't
I do much better than Planet Dog. They seem to
I have an unnerving habit of only backing good
artists and good music, and Future Loop Foundation's
second album is no exception. If you've ever listened
to drum 'n' bass in a club and thought "this style's
good, but where can you go with it?" then Mark
Barrott may have the answer.
The ten-minute title track starts you off with a tra-
ditional drum 'n' bass beat, the kind that starts fingers
and toes tapping, before transforming into the slower
and more industrial sound of Remote Viewing V\a the
one minute ambience of 33:45. Several tracks on this
album are slow and moody, noticeably Exit Rush and
Praha.
It doesn't last for long, however, as more attacking
beats can be found in Karma and Conditions For living.
Between these ambient and dance tracks there are a
couple of really innovative tunes. Omerta combines
strings, gentle vocals and a range samples, producing
II minutes of great ambient drum 'n' bass. Towards the
end it gathers momentum and bass before moving on
to the 150bpm beats of Year hex.
The end of Exit Rush, signalled by seagulls and a
distinct mellowing out of the album, brings on the imag-
inative Moog Rd. This tune really is the stuff of club chill
out rooms spent lying on a cushion staring at the UV
lights. It is relaxing yet uplifting, fast but somehow still
chilled, and has great little tunes that you will want to
skip back to on your CD player.
So are there any reasons you shouldn't buy this
album? Well, yes. Firstly, you have to like drum 'n' bass
to like tuturc Loop loundation. If you fancy something
a bit different but aren't really in to harsh beats over
130bpm, forget it. Having said lhat, this album has a
lot of variation and takes the music beyond its original
club setting. Definitely an album for chilling, with maybe
the occasional dance across the carpet thrown In.D
Ed

