2 October 1998 Music 23
MANSUN
• f you want the definition of a con-
I cept album then go no further, just
I give Six a listen and all your ques-
tions will be answered. The first track,
the title track, is a bizarre medley of
three songs rolled into one, in a way
similar to Radiohcad's immense epic
Paranoid Android but of a distinctly third
rale quality.
The entire album is full of purposely
dischordant and disjointed bits of music
that sound like an attempt at imperson-
ating the Cardiacs but still trying to
remain accessible. They have moved
away from their previous debut album,
Attack of the Grey Lantern, (also a con-
cept album) which contained a few easy
to spot singles while this one has about
two in total. It won't come as a surprise
that these tracks are the two that have
been released so far. Legacy and Being
a Girl.
Another quirk of the album Is that
mansun have decided to make it in two
parts which are joined together with an
interlude. Why? is the first question you
ask yourself, maybe they're showing off
their originality hmmm. There is a
whole mix of stlyes playing around, rang-
ing from dichordant punk in Cancer and
the use of a harpsichord on the interlude
track with an opera singer drafted in to
sing over the top.
The whole mood is pretty bleak and
ithe album's depressiveness really shows
on Negative, which is all about looking
downwards and 'seeing negative', while
another track is titled Anti Everything.
Need I go on? Although Six is a few
leaps away from Attack of... the quirky
meaningless lyrics are still present and
the straight up pop of songs like Taxloss
has been removed from their song base.
80s goth (The Mission and The Cure)
influence them on songs such as Spe-
cial/Blown It while they take a trip into
psychedelia on Television.
If you're expecting the same as
Attack of., then don't, and don't be
deceived by Legacy(\hc first single from
Six). It doesn't sound anything like the
rest of the album....let me warn you now.
This could one of those albums that
grow on you after a zillion listens but the
problem is after about enduring three
you just won't have the will power to lis-
ten anymore. And I actually liked their
first offering....well maybe it's the difficult
album cliche that everyone talks
about....hmmm. H
JSson
REVIEWERS
WANTED
Think you're a budding John
Peel? Would you like to
review some music for Felix,
and see your words of aural
wisdom In print? Simply drop
into the office, send us an
email on felix@ic.ac.uk, or
come and visit us at Freshers'
Fair. The very best part is...
you get to keep the CDs you
review! Need we say more?
Annie Christian - The Other Way
Annie Christian have the energy level of the Supernat-
ural meet the Boo Radleys. Their music's loud, but
seems to be turned down to just the right volume. The
strong lead guitar dictates the tunc of the song, hav-
ing a similar chorus. It's a song that nearly everyone will
like, but no-one will be motivated enough to buy it.
Sheryl Crow - Favourite Mistake
Disappointing from Crow. It starts harmlessly enough,
but leads to a near drone of a chorus, that fails to pro-
duce any feelings. Too slow, too small a range of
notes, but I'm sure it's good to sleep to.
Puressence - Traffic Jam In Memory Lane
The lead singer's voice is distinctive, conjuring notes
with the shakes of an opera singer. They obviously have
the talent as a band and would probably be great live,
but to achieve anything they need to think about get-
ting a decent song.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Asian Dub Foundation - Naxallte
Tin Star - Viva
With an electronic baseline comparable to Mission
Impossible and a reincarnated Michael Hutchinson
singer you can't go that far wrong. Get FatBoy Slim in
to make a real dance remix and you could have a club
hit on your hands.
McAlmont - Honey
Lionel Richie better watch his back. McAlmont could
quite easily steel the masses of people still pining for
him with this song. It may be more modern, but lacks
the real style (if I can use that word) that real pop/soul
singers posses.
The Beautiful South Perfect 10
Considering the kind of music the BS have been spout-
ing lately, this tunc is surprisingly good. The bass is so
good and dare I say funky that everything else can just
fall into place by itself. And what's the Llvis impression
about? Who cares I like it
Scarfo - A Year From Monday
This song has a definite journey. The male singer has
a very 'femme' softness to his voice and his use of
minors through the song really adds to its atmosphere,
but just when you want the chorus to take off. it does
the predictable, easiest route. Still quite good though.
At last the single with that cheeky guitar tune has
come out (Urn...it did come out - Music td) It went
down a storm at the mercury awards and as a single it
doesn't fail to deliver. With five versions on the single
it's worth buying even if you already have the album.
Six By Seven - For You
A good verse, echoed by the guitar, but an average
singer, who doesn't seem capable of any emotion. The
chorus sounds like many I've heard before, it's more a
question of which band did it first. CI
David H.

