2 October 1998
Games 27
European Computer Trade Show '98
London Olympia
ECTS is the chance for all the developers
in Europe to get together, see what
everyone else has done, and get royally
drunk.
This year was both a success and a
disappointment. More people and media
types attended the show than ever
before, the show itself was larger, and
the Sony party was amazing, complete
with a concert from Pulp. However, the
quality of games being shown was appal-
ing.
Absentees included Electronic Arts
and Sega, who were showing their unfin-
ished Dreamcast hardware to a select
few at a nearby hotel. Rumours of a
Sonic title at launch continue...
Sony had three main titles to back:
Spyro - a Mario-a-like with excellent
graphics; Medievil - an off-beat plat-
former with a reanimated knight as the
main character, and the eagerly awaited
PAL conversion of Tekken 3. Round 1...
Fight!
Nintendo was displaying its many
forthcoming games. The most popular
(and promising) was certainly Zelda: Oca-
rina of Time which was surrounded by a
constant crowd of spectators. F:Zero was
very disappointing, with featureless
polygonal tracks and low detail cars.
Eidos had the most impres-
sive stand, helped along by a
certain Ms Croft putting in an
appearance for the cameras
(pictured right). Despite the pub-
licity. Tomb Raider III looked like
another formulaic zombie.
Infogrammes impressed
many with its voxel-based game
Outcast which, although slow,
looked outstanding.
It's clear that in the PC mar-
ket, everyone is expecting 3D
graphics cards to be installed. In
fact, all of the games looked
very similar due to their reliance
on accelerated hardware. One
that did stand out from the crowd was
Descent III, if only for a lovely 'water-hit-
ting-the-windscreen' effect.
Konaml had me queueing for ages
to see a six minute video of Metal Gear
Solid, then have a quick go on the game
itself. This continues to look amazing,
and I can't wait to get it home.
Lego had an interesting PC control
system on show, and a virtual lego set.
Personally, I can't see the point.
The BBC was pushing its feletub-
bies licence - apparently it will be an
educational title to help children speak.
No irony there, then.
Most amusing bits of the show: a
guy with the nametag "Mr N. E. Body";
the students who snuck in disguised in
their dad's suits, who then stood out
like a sore thumb; the 300 billion button
joystick that "accurately models the real
controllers in an F-15" and last but not
least, the guy with the nametag "Tariq
Aziz, Iraqi Foreign Minister".
M a r k Baker
Nightlong
Trecison work in progress
The year is 2099. Governments are pow-
erless, and the world Is controlled by
massive corporations. You play Joshua
Rcev, a private detective working on a
dangerous case for his old friend, the city
governor. Spicing up your life is Eva
Tompson, the "beautiful, intelligent and
very elegant" owner of the Free Climax
Nightclub.
Nightlong is a futuristic detective
thriller with pre-rendcred graphics, 'jaw-
dropping' FMV and a gritty, 30-some-
thing lead character.
If that sounds a little too familiar,
then you'd be forgiven for mistaking
Nightlong for Westwood Studio's
Bladerunner, adapted from the leg-
endary sci-fi film. Comparisons are
inevitable, although the Italian develop-
ment team are keen to distance them-
selves from accusations of plagarism.
"From our point of view, the two games
share almost nothing," claims the eight-
year old developer. "Our mood is not
'Noir' but takes inspiration from the clas-
sic cyber-punk novels by William Gibson.
And we have also a completely different
approach to puzzles, which are not just
'evidence retrieval', but involve more
complex and challenging tasks. Our 3D
characters look definitely less 'block/. We
approached the adventure genre in a
more traditional fashion, because we
really wanted the story to nail you to your
chair."
The game certainly looks wonderful,
and is sure to raise the already high
graphical standard for point-and-click
adventures. What remains to be seen is
whether Trecison can create a game thai
is truly immersive, or just another fMV-
laden turkey.
M a r k Baker
Lavish rendered scenery fills Night-
long's three CD-ROMs.
Buck Bumble
(N64)
miim ••••
Good Nintendo games are in danger of
losing their endangered status, with a
good, new platformer and at last a
decent racing game,- the third bus in the
row is Buck Bumble. OK, because it is an
N64 game you have to endure a sickly
sweet story. This time you play the role
of the only cybernetic, genetically
enhanced, and surgically-messed-about
with bee fighting off the alien mutant
insectoids and preventing total destruc-
tion of little cutsie earth insects (though
the loss of wasps should be considered
acceptable losses). So it's a simple case
of finding the enemy and making sure
it ends up on the floor with its legs in the
air - not all that taxing really. Where it is
really good is in its graphics especially its
fast-moving colourful 3D backgrounds.
OK, so it might look a little like Lylat
War's all range mode but after a few
minutes of dodging the stems of the
mini-jungle, Lylat is a distant memory.
Also with its 20 multiple missions and a
few hidden bits, coupled with the 2
player mode which is actually playable.
it should hold interest. In fact the only
problem I had with the game was the
Nintendo 64's graphics fogging, but
given the option between fogging, pop-
up and spending £1000 on a decent PC
system I'll accept it this once.
Gary Smith

