2 8
Games 2 October 1998
Competition Feature
Gas Girl
You've beaten Quake 2, bored with Command & Conquer clones, and sick of Mario.
What do you do next? How about creating your own PlayStation game? Sounds
' impossible? Not with a Net Yaroze!
Put simply, the Net Yaroze is a programmable PlayStation - the bedroom
coder's dream come true. Whilst most of us can't afford thousands of pounds for
a development kit, the Yaroze retails for a
mere £230. You will need something to plug
it into, however. A telly and a PC are required,
and some experience of 'C programming is
certainly useful too. The 'Net' bit of the Net
Yaroze is supplied by an exclusive web site
and newsgroups. Yaroze members have a
free web page to show off their games, or to
help other Yarozers (as they are fondly
known).
The main restriction of the Net Yaroze is
that there is no access to the CD, so all of a
game's data and code must be squeezed into
the teeny 2Mb of memory in the PlayStation
(less than In most graphics cards these days,
but that's progress for you). Whilst the sup-
plied software is adequate, those who prefer
a fancy integrated development environment
can pick up a copy of CodeWarrior for an extra
£90.
Members who want to show off their
games can enter the 'fame game' competi-
tion. Winners' games are published on the
Official PlayStation Magazine demo disc, and
they get twenty copies to give to friends.
There's also a Net Yaroze category in the
Games Developer's UK competition, with a
top prize of £5000.
But most people will get the Net Yarozc
to try their hand at game programming. Sev-
eral Yaroze owners have now gone on to get
jobs in the games industry. Scott Evans, now
working at top UK developers Codemasters,
said "The people who buy a Net Yaroze get
to learn how to program one of the best
games consoles around today. If you can put
on your OV you have got PlayStation pro-
gramming experience you will have a greater
chance of getting interviews."
Universities and Colleges are now using
the Yaroze as a basis for courses in computer
games. Middlesex University even offers a
three day introduction to Net Yaroze pro-
gramming.
As for myself. I bought my Yaroze last
summer, and the experience of program-
ming a real console was an invaluable aid in
getting my job at Sony Computer Entertain-
ment Europe. Of course, the degree in Com-
puting from Imperial probably had something
to do with it too!
for full details, see the Net Yaroze
website at http://www.scee.sony.co.uk/
yarlnfo/lndex.html.
To celebrate the recent price drop of the
Net Yaroze to £230, we've got an exclusive
Net Yaroze t-shlrt to give away. Simply email
felix@ic.ac.uk with the answer to the follow-
ing question: What is the prize in the Net
Yaroze Fame Game competition? The lucky
winner's name (and any other dirt we can dig
up on them) will be printed in the next issue
of Felix.
World Football Manager (PC)
Stonegate
Come Baa
• • • 1 / 2
Football management games: written by fanatics for fanatics. They are dull, dull, dull.
Usually, with little help, you are left to assemble a team which will struggle not to
lose its first 20 games. The current king, Championship Manager 2, fits this rule per-
fectly. So perhaps World Football Manager is the game to drag this genre into the
90's and actually provide us less fanatical footballers something fun to play with.
So we start with the obligatory big name on the cover. Big Fat Ron's seal of
approval isn't the best of adverts for football, either on sex appeal or football cred-
ibility stakes - one league, one FA Cup and lots of near-relegation misses doesn't
really inspire confidence. At least it's better than having Alex Ferguson's scowling
mug. If Ron puts you off your dinner you can always hide the CD case, and luck-
ily the game is much prettier by far. The graphics are clear and while you might not
get 30 frames per second with polygons flying about the screen, at least you can
navigate between any two screens with a minimum of mouse clicks (say bye to hun-
dreds of menus). You still have your train-spotting statistics and your hundreds of
options to play with: scouts,
squads, training programs,
man to man marking - possibly
enough to keep you occupied
for a week between the simu-
lated games (if you really don't
have a life outside your dark-
ened den). Those with a life
might find the two best fea-
tures to be the interactive help
and the fact that the footballers
actually seem to have a life off
Enough options to please even Stato the field. Midfielders with ten-
dencies to put their feet
through plate glass windows and fight other players' sisters are all possibilities (hint:
don't buy N. Wheelan).
So if you like football, don't mind Ron's face and want a management game
with slightly more humour than Championship Manager 2, this is the one to go for.
If you love Championship Manager for its useful statistics, I'd advise more daylight.
Gary Smith
Videogame top 20 chart All formats
1 C Tekken 3 Namco/Sony PS
2 Nt 11 World Grand Prix Nintendo N64
3 O TOCA Touring Car Championship Psat./Codemasters PC, PS
4 o Colin McRae Rally Codemasters PS
5 o Premier Manager 98 Gremlin PC. PS
6 o Tomb Raider 2 Eidos Interactive PC. PS
7 u Gran Turismo Sony PS
8 o World Cup 98 FA Sports PC, PS, GA, N64
9 c WWF: Warzone Acclaim J
S, N64.GA
10 o Tomb Raider Psatinum/Eidos PC, PS. SA
11 o Banjo-Kazooie Nintendo N64
12 o ISS 98 Konami N64
13 o Crash Bandicoot Psat./Sony PS
14 c Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines Lidos PC
15 o Resident Evil 2 Virgin PS
16 o V Rally Psat./lnfogrames PS, GA
17 u lekken 2 Psat./Sony./Namco PS
18 o Die Hard Trilogy Psat./EA/Fox PC, PS, SA
19 o Grand Theft Auto DMA/Take 2 PC, PS
20 u Rayman Psat./Ubi Soft PC, PS, SA
Total Soccer
Mark Baker

