32
PUZZLES 2 October 1998
CRYPTIC CROSSWORD
by Gnat Chum
CAPTION COMPETITION
In a struggle to keep on filling up those endless empty pages, helix is launching its
very own caption competition, for the first week, we present you with this rare and
expensive picture of outgoing ICU President Andrew Hecps, and one recently elected
David Hellard, the new boy. We can freely tell you that the picture was taken at last
year's Summer Ball, but the question is: what sweet nothings were whispered
between the pair while this photograph was being taken?
If you think you have an idea, bring your entry into the new lelix office, which
these days is located in the south-east corner of Beit Quad. The best entry, in the
opinion of the editor, will see his or her caption printed in helix and admired by thou-
sands. Sorry, we don't have any real prizes.
Across Down
I Mad stun explosion leaves no waste.
(7)
5 Unconnected pap or so relevant? (7)
9 Always active on spot when mixing
with no hrench. (2,3-4)
10 Serves us his food. (5)
II In the Pleistoceine were more recent
finds. (5)
12 Sniggering sound around a broken
cart, it pains us. (9)
13 Underworld put somewhere else. (9)
16 This mathematician has a forked
tongue. (5)
17 Hags, we hear, full of air?
18 Slut, I do ye in an unrefreshing way.
(9)
20 Mr yes nods diagnosing conditions.
(9)
23 Plucky dialect? (5)
25 No memory? A character. (5)
26 Ralph and hred might mingle with a
voter on a bicycle? (9)
27 In the net. Hick gets duck cooked
here? (7)
28 It gases out those who hate OAPs. (7)
1 Cause of death belonged to medic.
(7)
2 Part of body chopped up is new. (5)
3 He makes a hole for apes? (9)
4 This groove contains no Tchaikovsky.
(5)
5 Gave a hand cleaning up a dead
pulp. (9)
6 Tires of exam, again! (5)
7 Set of rules in jobs helps deliver. (9)
8 We risk a mix-up being seen on the
piste. (7)
14 Most convincing way to joke, say,
about rector's first name. (9)
15 Moggy has morning on Scottish isle
getting to Hull we hear. (9)
16 Hello sailor! (4,5)
17 It's thick grass, and some slut's put
foot in it. (7)
19 Live foods perhaps give rosy gut. (7)
21 Get through to soldiers with muddled
tea. (5)
22 Capital! lirst person in so far, we
hear. (5)
24 A pound to time singers. (5)
w a n t s y o u . . .
If you are interested In any aspect of student Jour- ~X
nallsm, Felix wants to hear from you. We need news writ-
ers; columnists; sports reporters; photographers; layout
gurus; cartoonists,- feature writers; arts, music, film, book,
theatre and computer game reviewers and people who
can fix our network of ailing computers.
If you would like a slightly more challenging task, there
are the posts of Features, Arts, Books, Film and News sub-
editors going begging, and these provide valuable experi-
ence in many aspects of journalism, as well as being
extremely satisfying.
So please make our lives that little bit easier; email us on
felix@ic.ac.uk, drop into the office in the south-east corner
of Beit Quad, or sign up at Freshers' Fair. We hope to see
\you soon. J

