News Features 2 October 1998
Hurricane Georges Malaysia in crisis
Hurricane Georges has continued to devastate southern parts
of the United States of America, prompting President Clinton
to declare them disaster areas.
by Ali Campbell
The winds, gusting at
speeds of almost 170
miles per hour, have
caused severe damage
in Honda, Louisiana,
Alabama and Missis-
sippi. The President's
decision to announce a state of emer-
gency makes government funds avail-
able to finance badly-hit areas of these
states.
Although the hurricane has now
been downgraded to "tropical storm"
status, it has already caused massive
damage and loss of life In regions of the
Carribean, killing an estimated minimum
of 300 people. Haiti and the Dominican
Republic have been seriously affected,
where 90 percent of crops, including
banana plantations, have been
destroyed. Other areas ravaged by the
wind and torrential rain include Cuba
and Puerto Rico.
Georges is merely one of a number
of hurricanes currently whirling across
the Atlantic Ocean, but seems likely to
be the most dangerous. The three other
tropical weather systems - Jeanne, Ivan
and Karl - are believed to be weakening
as they approach civili-
sation.
As well as the fatal-
ities and financial dam-
age left behind in the
wake of such hurri-
canes, there exists
growing scientific evidence suggesting
that these storms may contribute to
global warming. One theory states that
the winds transfer carbon dioxide from
the oceans into the atmosphere,
although the annual quantity of gas
released in this way is a mere one-twelfth
that introduced by humans.
It is also believed by some that sci-
entific methods could be used to divert
and break up hurricanes; suggestions
include the suspension of mirrors in
space to warm the nearby ocean, or
deployment of soot into the air local to
the storm, which should change air tem-
perature by absorbing infra-red radia-
tion. With some research, techniques
such as these might be employed to
reduce the phenomenal damage caused
by the likes of Georges.
In the past few weeks civil unrest In Malaysia has grown to the point of blood-
shed, as the economic crisis In South East Asia deepens. Last year Felix featured
several articles on the student-led revolution In Indonesia. Will we see a similar
uprising In Malaysia, or Is Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad determined to
keep power at any cost? We examine how the stakes have been raised this
month...
by Ed Sexton
As with many of its neighbours,
the economic turmoil in
Malaysia is affecting more than
just share prices. Economic
hardship has led to an increase
in anti-government feelings,
which are being released in
demonstrations on the streets. At the
centre of it all are two men; Dr Mahathir,
Malaysia's seventy-two year old Prime
Minister who has held power for sixteen
years, and Anwar Ibrahim who. until this
month, had been his deputy for five
years.
While Anwar Ibrahim has advised eco-
nomic caution, spending time abroad
attempting to reassure Western govern-
ments and thus boost confidence in
Malaysia's economy, Dr Mahathir has
publicly denounced foreign speculators,
as well as restricting freedom of speech
and assembly in his country. Whether or
not Western investors are to blame for
Malaysia's troubles, Dr Mahathir was
never going to win favours in the inter-
national debating chambers. Meanwhile
Anwar Ibrahim has, rightly or wrongly,
been portrayed as the hero of Malaysia.
The Malaysian people had found a voice.
Clearly the Prime Minister and
his deputy were not going to
work together for long.
On 2 September Anwar Ibrahim
was sacked from his office by Dr
Mahathir. He immediately
started leading the campaign
against Dr Mahathir and his supporters,
until he was arrested on 20 September.
Under the internal security act he can be
detained without a trial. This week he
has been charged with corruption and
having 'unnatural' homosexual relations.
Meanwhile 80 of his supporters have
been arrested during an anti-govern-
ment demonstration in the capital, Kuala
Lumpur, in which the police used batons
and electric prods to break up the
crowds. They will be charged with "gath-
ering without a licence", as there is cur-
rently a ban on organised meetings
involving more than four people. Dr
Mahathir has said that Anwar Ibrahim will
not be released unless the demonstra-
tions stop and calm returns to the streets,
which seems unlikely given recent
events. The question is, who will make
the next move?
Omagh - a personal view by Jean Sinclair
Until Saturday 15th August, the summer
of 1998 in Northern Ireland was domi-
nated by appaling weather and low level
rumblings around the marching season
and the stand-off at Drumcree. "Low
level rumblings" included considerable
violence, including the deaths of three
young boys in an arson attack on their
home in Ballymoney, destruction of cars
and buses and bonfires blocking streets.
Such events may not be low level in
some countries, but are considered low
level by people who live here.
Such events are low level compared
to what happened on Saturday 15th
August 1998. At 3.10pm, a bomb
exploded in the county town of Omagh
in County Tyrone. It exploded in the area
where people had been evacuated from
the Court House, in response to a coded
telephone bomb warning. Rapidly, casu-
alty numbers grew: 12 dead, then 21, 26
by next morning, 28 by mid-day, over 220
injured, 6 hospitals involved. Local and
national TV and radio changed their
schedules. Local radio played a vital role
in summoning emergency staff, as tele-
phone lines were brought down and the
mobile phone networks closed down
except for designated emergency num-
bers. While the response to the death of
Princess Diana seemed to me to be
totally over the top, response here
seemed so appropriate. Leaders of all
political and religious groups made state-
ments of sadness and condemnation.
Government ministers commented,
many from holidays in Europe and began
to return.
On a personal level: Just the day
before, as part of my research into chem-
ical incidents and health in Northern Ire-
land, I met with a consultant in the
Accident and Emergency Department of
the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast and
a pharmacist who heads the local poi-
sons unit, also on the RVH site. The con-
sultant showed me the chemical
decontamination bay and the green che-
quered file entitled "The Disaster Plan of
the Royal Victoria Hospital". The plan
ends with the words "It Is our wish that
it may not be overly used." I got the
impression that he didn't expect the plan
would be implemented again in
response to acts of terrorism - for a
release of chemicals, multiple vehicle
pile-up, plane crash, perhaps, but not a
bomb. Just over 24 hours, the RVH was
yet again treating victims of terrorism.
Over lunch, the pharmacist and I
talked about local news and TV services.
The generally high standard is let down
only by the dire "Town Challenge", like
1970s "It's a Knockout", which nobody
admits to watching. Many Northern Ire-
land people are "news junkies", actually
watching avidly local news broadcasts
which contain important stories. Local
news here Is not like "across the water"
in England, Wales or Scotland, where It
is largely trivial, where members of the
public are invited to be "Newsmakers",
perhaps to fill time, perhaps to promote
community involvement. She explained
how one year a planed item on storing
chemicals and drugs safely out of chil-
dren's reach was filmed and ready to be
shown on Monday. A major event
occurred on Monday, and Tuesday, and
Wednesday, and Thursday, By Friday, the
poisons information staff had given up
hope, and missed the screening.
On Sunday morning, I walked to
post a letter. Coming up behind an
elderly man, he spoke as I drew level:
"Twenty six dead", then continued with
great sadness and weariness, mention-
ing the women, some pregnant, chil-
dren, babies who were killed and injured.
"Makes you ashamed to be Irish" he
said. All I could think of was to say that
not all Irish people do things like that. Per-
haps the only constructive thing I could
do was stay - not get on the first plane
back. Finally, he headed Into a Mace
shop, out of the drizzle, adding a com-
ment about the wet summer.

