Clubs, Small Ads & info 2 October 1998
jikishin Ju-Jitsu Club Pimlico Connection
After recent successes in inter-club cham-
pionships, the Imperial Ju-Jitsu Club (IJJC)
members are preparing for the Jikishin
Nationals in October. There are various
forms of competition Ju-Jitsu, such as
random attacks, sparring and ground-
work, and IJJC are looking to enter at least
one competitor in each category.
Ju-Jitsu is a traditional Japanese mar-
tial art that provides a practical system of
self defence adaptable to people of any
shape, size, age and sex. Competition
work is not compulsory, but members
are helped to train for contests should
they wish to enter. There are many other
seminars, training courses and social
events available to club members
throughout the year, and generally the
philosophy of the IJJC club is to be
friendly and welcoming, whilst mem-
bers concentrate hard on their training.
http://lcstar5.ph.lc.ac.uk/~gbus/jujltsu.html
Sempai Steve Halcrow
shalcrow@knauf.co.uk
Matthew Brown
m.a.brown@lc.ac.uk
Graeme Busfield
g.busfleld@lc.ac.uk
As many of you may be aware, the Pim-
lico Connection student tutoring scheme
has been placing students as tutors in
local primary and secondary schools for
the past 23 years. For a couple of hours
every Wednesday, tutors assist with sci-
ence, maths, and technology classes.
We also send several students to
local after-school homework clubs. If
you are looking for a challenge that is
both rewarding and enjoyable, then
come to one of our non-committal train-
ing sessions:
pimllco@lc.ac.uk
Wednesday 7 Oct 2.30-4.30
G.02 Goldsmiths Building (Royal School
of Mines)
Thursday 8 Oct 5.30-7.30
Room 536 Blackett Laboratory (Physics)
Monday 12 Oct 5.30-7.30
Room 536 Blackett Laboratory
Tuesday 13 Oct 6.00-8.00
3rd Floor Seminar Room, Admin Building,
St. Mary's
Wednesday 14 Oct 2.30-4.30
G 02 Goldsmiths Building
Thursday 15 Oct 5.30-7.30
536 Blackett Laboratory
Attention all BIDS Users!
BIDS to ATHENS Username change
Your BIDS username and password expired on the 31st of August.
However, you should have received your ATHENS username and password by
email, with the following subject heading:
ATHENS Personal Account created
This may be used to access all BIDS and NISS services
Your ATHENS username will normally be a variant of your Imperial College
email login name.
Eg-, icljbloggs
However, your password will NOT automatically be your email password.
For security reasons you are advised to change your ATHENS password as soon
as possible after receiving it by email.
We recommend that you do not change it to your College email password.
To change your password, go to http://admln.athens.ac.uk/personal.athtml
Please contact your Department/Campus Librarian if you need further assistance
Private Accommodation Office
A new Private Accommodation office
has opened in the basement of 15.
Prince's Gardens offering a wide range
of services to help you find accommo-
dation in the private sector. We will be
open from 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m., Mon-
day to Friday. A full-time assistant is
already in post and we will be appoint-
ing a full-time Private Housing Officer
shortly. The services provided include
lists of private accommodation (updated
every Tuesday) and the University of
London accommodation lists (updated
every Wednesday). There are also notice
boards advertising various other types of
accommodation. Regular services
include lists of estate agents who deal
with students, hostel information, hotel
information, short term accommodation
information, and guidelines to average
rental and living costs. In addition, we
can let you have information about your
rights as tenants.
There are also some new services on
offer! There's a room especially pro-
vided for students' use, which includes
access to the University of London lists
on the Internet (2 computers) as well as
access to a 'phone (only for use with an
ACC card - application forms available at
the Office). There is also space for stu-
dents to read through the lists and
friendly advice on to how to use the
information available.
We're here to help, so feel free to
come and see us if you have any ques-
tions. You can also call us on 0171-594
9428 (Int. 49428) or e-mail us at
a.colquhoun@lc.ac.uk. Ask for either
Anna or Chantal.
Access to the
SCR
Access to the Senior Common Room
(SCR) from 5 October is restricted to
PhD students and staff only. Under-
graduates and postgraduates on taught
courses should now use the Junior Com-
mon Room (JCR) and the Main Dining
Hall except for pre-booked special func-
tions.
Students from
Southwell Hall
Last Year
There is a large amount of unclaimed
mail in the hall. Please collect it by 16
October - after this date it will be thrown
away.
Microsoft Needs Students
Postgraduate Maths Help Desk
e-mail: g.stephenson@lc.ac.uk
Tel: (0171 59)48533
URL: www.ma.lc.ac.uk/mathematlcs_advlce_centre.html
Microsoft is looking for a small number
of second year students from around the
country to get involved with their Student
Brand Manager programme. The pro-
gramme is open to all second year stu-
dents interested in IT and marketing.
Ownership of a PC and a passion for
using it is essential but the technical
expertise of how it all works is not.
Interested students should look at
www.mlcrosoft.com/uk/educatlon for
more details. The closing date for appli-
cations is 21 October 1998.
Office assistant
required
Office assistant required on part-time
basis (flexible hours) for local estate
agency.
Usual office work, good typing essen-
tial as well as good telephone manner.
Please contact Farnaz or Anna on
0171 581 1631

