8
Feature 2 October 1998
The Cavemen of IC?
Imperial College Caving Club are held In high regard by caving circles worldwide for their expeditions Into previously unex-
plored subterranean Slovenia. In Summer 1998, they returned once more to the dark depths. Jan Evetts describes the pitfalls.
M
ost people will never undertake
an expedition in their lifetime,
because expeditions are for only
the elite, and certainly not for students.
Most people will never put themselves in
an unfamiliar position, outside of normal
everyday experience, so that the only
reliable guide that they have is them-
selves, because that is for the fearless (or
the mad!). And least likely of all, nobody
is going to wake up one day and discover
something! What I would just like to say
is: bollocks. This year twenty members
and ex-members of Imperial College
went to Slovenia (formerly Yugoslavia)
and did just that. Six weeks were spent
living on a plateau at eighteen hundred
metres, surviving on dried food and rain-
water, whilst exploring a cave one thou-
sand metres deep, and sometimes
spending three days underground at a
time.
T h e A r e a
Exploration by cavers from IC has focused
on a plateau at eighteen hundred metres
above sea level on the southern edge of
a region known as the Juliske Alps (Julian
Alps). The Juliske Alps run from the
dolomites in Northern Italy, through
north-west Slovenia (roughly south-west)
and are about one hundred miles long.
It is a stunning area: the mountains rise
abruptly from three hundred metres to
two thousand metres. The
limestone of which they are
made has been forced up
from beneath the sea over
millions of years and the
action of water, eroding
deep gorges and valleys, has
also created huge under-
ground cave systems. In 1995
and 1996 these caves were
eventually broken into by
members of IC caving club
The plateau known as
Migovec is saddled between
two mountains to the north
and south, whilst to the west
it plummets nearly 1.5 kilo-
metres into a gorge known
as the Tolminka and the tor-
rent which runs along the bottom comes
straight out of the mountain sides. What
incites exploration is that in theory the
cave too could be fourteen hundred
metres deep. This is in the top 10 deep-
est in the world, the first being 1600m
and the deepest found by a British team.
The Logistics
This was big: I
could make
out a floor,
maybe forty
metres down,
but my hel-
met light
seemed sud-
denly feeble.
Preparation for such an expedition starts
early, contacting sponsors for dried food,
chocolate bars and money. Before leav-
ing London a Union
minibus is loaded wilh all
our equipment; the journey
to Slovenia is a non-stop
twenty-four hour drive.
Migovcc is at eighteen hun-
dred metres and access to
the cave has to be easy for
exploration to be efficient.
This means living, sleeping
and having all equipment
near the entrance. Unfortu-
nately the highest road goes
to a village at only eight
hundred metres. This vil-
lage, Tolminske Ravne, is
our low level base camp,
lor the first six days equip-
ment is carried to the top
camp. It's a hard, three hour climb, but
the best way to prepare for four weeks
of equally hard caving. The top camp or
bivi is a large depression on the plateau
straddled by a rock bridge. The bivi is the
living area for the expedition, all the
food, cooking equipment and caving kil
is stored there - we lack only two essen-
tials: water and electricity. Electricity is
obtained from solar panels, whilst rain-
water is collected from tarpaulins which
are hung across the bivi. Tents are
pitched on the hard ground nearby.
History of the Expedition
Exploration on Migovec was started
nearly twenty-five years ago by the local
caving club. They found a cave five hun-
dred metres deep that ended in a huge
cavern eighty metres high and one hun-
dred metres wide. They named it Galac-
tica, whilst the cave was given the
glorious title M16. Expeditions from
trance and England explored the area
but found little more. In 1994 the head
of the local club replied to a enquiry
from a member of IC about possible
sites for exploration in the area. Migovec
was mentioned; in 1994 and 95 the area
was recced and explored again. Little
was found except for several tight caves.
One named Torn T-Shirt was proving par-
ticularly grim, but it was pushed and
pushed, not to an end, but through
increasingly challenging squeezes. The
breakthrough came late on in 1995, the
last grim squeeze. The Nutcracker in
Torn - T was passed and an impressive
horizontal passage two hundred metres
long greeted the weary explorers. It was
intersected by large shafts and offercd-
numerous routes for exploration. Opti-
mistically . it was named Level 1. In 1996
the excited cavers returned and almost
immediately found Level 2, a passage of
epic proportions. Level 2 immediately
showed many similarities to Level 1: hor-
izontal, and intersected with shafts, but
on a much bigger scale. The really big
shafts had to be traversed around. Level
2 ran east to west: to the west it grew in
size until it was twenty-five to thirty
metres high and fifteen metres wide. In
1997 a small passage at the west end of
Level 2 led to a large pit; it was the start
of the vertical stuff! from minus three
hundred metres at Level 2 the cave
dropped, in a series of stunning shafts,
to minus seven hundred metres, and
beyond.
Pushing in Sistem Migovec in
1998
My first pushing trip (a caving trip when
you are exploring a new cave passage)
was in Sistcm Migovec, in Slovenia, and
the situation was comical to say the least.
I was also quite nervous because it was
the first time I had hammered in a bolt.
(When caving with rope the rope obvi-
ously must be tied to something; either
around a convenient rock, or more
commonly to a bolt which must be man-

