2 October 1998 Feature 9
consists of one knot ("bowlinc-on-thc
bight") positioned where you want the
rope to hang from, and two loops of
rope that go up from the knot with an
angle between them of less than 45
degrees. These arc fixed to the bolts.
"Seems okay to me, you're ready to
go then..."
I nodded, picked up the remaining
coil of about forty metres of rope, dou-
ble-checked there was a knot in the end
(I didn't want to abseil off the rope),
leaned over the slit and dropped it. You
could hear it whistle through the air, and
then there was a 'thud' as the rope was
pulled taut. I leaned over to check it was
hanging freely and then set about attach-
ing my descender to the rope. Slowly, I
cased my weight onto the newly-placed
bolts until I was hanging off the rope.
(The bolts held, of course.) Cautiously I
inched down the rope, dropping through
the slit. The start was a bit tight but then
I slowly emerged into the top of a large
shaft. Looking down through my feet I
could see nothing but empty space and
the rope snaking away into the dark-
ness. This was big: I could make out a
ually hammered into the wall of the
cave). I then intended to trust my life to
this bolt while I abseiled into the
unknown. I stood at the bottom of a cir-
cular shaft (about 15ft wide and 25ft
high) with my legs straddled across a slit
in the floor about 6ft long and 2ft wide.
I also had a descender (a device used to
go down ropes at a controlled speed)
attached to a rope in case I slipped and
fell.
"The next step is to decide where to
put the bolts. They need to be high, oth-
erwise it proves too awkward for the
next person to get his descender on the
rope. The rock has to be strong, other-
wise the bolt may pop... you don't want
that, the surface needs to be flat, and the
bolt must go in exactly perpendicular to
the surface, otherwise it won't be able to
go in fully, and you won't be able to tie
the rope to it. Finally, and this is most
important of all, the rope must hang
freely from the bolt otherwise it will rub
on the rock and snap. Happy? So you
know what to do. You'll have to excuse
me now, I need to go and have a shit.
Don't worry, it's not that difficult, and any-
way I'll be right behind you!"
Before I started hammering, I used
the back-up light on my helmet to illu-
minate the slit beneath my feet. I could
see it was about four feet long, going
down vertically. After that It seemed to
open up, but the beam of light failed to
pierce the darkness beyond. I was quite
nervous and had that sort-of-empty sen-
sation in my stomach. I knew that once
the bolts were in and the rope was tied
I was going to have to go down; the
anticipation of what I might find was
almost frightening. Hammering a bolt
into solid rock is quite tiring and whilst
resting I knocked a rock down the slit. It
clattered down the hole and then there
was silence for 1 second... 2 seconds...
3 seconds ..bang! How deep was it?
Forty-five metres, maybe? I carried on
bolting, while trying not to think about it
too much. In the meantime my partner,
the much more experienced half of our
duo, was just finishing his business and
hiding the evidence in a plastic bag.
"Have you finished yet?"
"Nearly." I replied, as I finished attach-
ing the rope to the bolts. He came over
and checked my rigging and the bolts;
the set-up was now a classic Y-hang. This
floor, maybe forty metres down, but my
helmet light seemed suddenly feeble.
"It's quite big!" I yelled excitedly to my
partner. "I am going on down..."
I descended slowly for another ten
feet, then stopped. I suddenly felt a lot
smaller and a lot less confident as I stared
into the dark pit beneath my feet. It
dawned on me that the 'floor' I had
seen was a mere ledge, perhaps only
10ft wide, and certainly not the bottom.
At the ledge the pit was oblong in shape,
at least fifteen metres long and ten
metres wide. "Jesus Christ, it's huge and
it .goes on down," I shouted. I swung
around, looking for a rock to pick off the
walls. I then dropped it into the black
hole by the ledge; it fell for three or four
seconds, indicating a pitch between sixty
and eighty metres deep.
You don't become an experienced
expedition caver by caving a lot; you just
have to do a first expedition, and that's
the big step. If you are interested (and it
is definitely worthwhile) get in contact
with the Caving Club, or come and see
us at freshers' fair.

