www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 19 May 2005
10 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 19 May 2005 11
“We’re hanging on by our shirt tails”
Sir Richard Sykes, Rector of Imperial College, says that UK universities are “dominated by Government,” and finds it “amazing” that they can still compete internationally.
Dave Edwards talks to him about tuition fees, 24-hour libraries, rebranding, Charing Cross Hospital and the future of the University of London
“I’ve never met anyone who didn’t
have a high opinion of Imperial
College,” says Sir Richard Sykes, the
Rector. He worked as Chairman and
Chief Executive of GlaxoSmithKline
PLC before taking on the College’s
leading role in 2001.
“To be very honest with you,” he
says, “it’s the only job in the higher
education sector I would have taken,
because it plays to my strengths. I’m
interested in the integration of sci-
ence, technology and medicine, so
there was only one job and this was
it.”
When he first began work at
Imperial, Sir Richard was “shocked”
by the political arena in which the
College operates, “being a private
institution in a sense, but being total-
ly dominated by Government.”
He thinks the Labour party is “the
only one with a sensible policy on
higher education,” and appears to
regret that their majority has been
reduced. “Even with a big majority
they had difficulties getting their bills
through, so making big leaps forward
will not be easy.”
A proponent of university top-up
fees, the Rector believes that stu-
dents should make a greater contri-
bution to the cost of their education.
According to him, the new system is a
step in the right direction but doesn’t
go far enough.
“To educate someone at Imperial
College in the subjects we teach and
the way that we teach them is expen-
sive,” he says, outlining an argument
he has made many times before.
“Even with the £3000 contribution per
student, we’ll still be making a loss on
each student we educate. That money
has to come from somewhere.”
So if £3000 per student per year is
not enough, what would be the ideal
solution to this complex problem?
Anti-fees campaigners should look
away now...
“For the top institutions in the coun-
try, and you can count them on one
hand, let them operate in a market...
let them make the decision about
what they want to charge. We charge
competitive fees for those who come
from overseas now, and that is what
we’d charge.”
Based on the 2005-6 figures, this
would mean that home students
would pay enormous tuition fees of
between £11,750 and £24,900 per year,
depending on their course of study.
At first glance, it would appear that
such proposals might completely
deter all but the richest prospective
students from applying to Imperial
College.
Sir Richard disagrees. “We did
some modelling going back three
years. If we charged 30% of students
the full fees, we could pay for the 70%
who couldn’t afford the full fees. It’s a
question of balance.
“In my opinion it’s totally wrong to
say that you’re charging students to
come to university therefore you’re
denying those from financially disad-
vantaged backgrounds. It’s absolute-
ly not true and the evidence is exactly
the opposite – the higher you charge
those who can afford it, the more you
can use to pay for those who can’t.”
Although top-up fees of £3000 per
student per year will not be enough
for the Rector, the new system will
still bring millions of pounds into
the College. How will the money be
used?
“As you know, a third of it will go
into bursaries,” he says. “Then I
think we’ve got to make sure that
we try to ring-fence that money for
students and teachers as much as
possible. We’re already, as I’ve said
to you before, still losing £2500 a year
on average for each student, so it will
help to make up that, but also we’ve
got to put it into the infrastructure for
good teaching, because teaching is
critically important in an institution
like this.”
Education and the
Government
The Government is still persisting
with its infamous ‘50% target’ of
school-leavers going to university. Sir
Richard would prefer to set a differ-
ent goal: “Our target should always
be to educate people to their maxi-
mum potential. Whether that’s 40%,
50% or 80%... you’ll have achieved
your target by developing them to
their maximum potential.”
He believes that “we have to help
everyone,” but he stresses that peo-
ple are different and have different
needs when it comes to education.
“Let’s not pretend that we all have
the same potential, because we don’t
have the same potential.”
He also finds time for a dig at the
so-called ‘new universities’. “We call
everything a university today, so of
course there’s no differentiation.”
Sir Richard would prefer a move
towards a US-style system, where it
is easier to return to further or higher
education after a few years out. “We
need to give people the flexibility of
choice, because not everybody will do
well at the same time.”
Overseas students and
postgraduates
National newspapers reported in
December that Imperial College
planned to increase its numbers of
overseas students and postgradu-
ates in an attempt to raise funds.
Government restrictions on tuition
fees do not apply to these groups,
allowing the College freedom to
charge whatever it wants.
Sir Richard acknowledges that the
number of overseas students will
continue to grow and that “it is diffi-
cult to believe that this College could
operate at this level if we didn’t have
access to that money.” However, he
claims that the numbers are increas-
ing not for financial reasons, but
because Imperial is receiving more
applications from overseas students
and because they are usually better
educated.
Better educated? “It isn’t that
they’re smarter, it’s the way they’ve
been taught I suspect, because they
tend to do traditional A-levels in
Singapore and Hong Kong, whereas
here we change things about so damn
much, you can go through A-level
maths without doing any calculus!”
Sir Richard favours a return to tra-
ditional teaching in Britain’s schools,
especially in science subjects.
“Science isn’t exciting from a book,”
he insists, “science is exciting when
you start to apply it. I was brought
up to do biology three times a week,
physics three times a week, chem-
istry three times a week, you know,
in a laboratory, blowing things up in
calorimeters, cutting out eyes and
dissecting them...
“You have to produce the teaching,
you have to produce the money, and
you have to have the commitment.”
Returning to the issue of funding,
the Rector highlights the responsibil-
ity of the Government and stresses
that British universities are in a dif-
ficult financial position: “The govern-
ment of the day have to recognise
that if they want internationally com-
petitive universities in this country,
they’ve got to be funded properly. I
think it’s amazing that we still have a
handful of universities here that can
compete, but you know, we’re hang-
ing on by our shirt tails.”
He accepts that if the financial situ-
ation worsened, the College might
have to take more overseas or post-
graduate students in order to boost
funds. “That’s certainly one approach.
I think that would be a very detrimen-
tal step, but it’s another option...”
The University of London
The University of London (UL) is
a federation of 19 London colleges,
including Imperial. Our degrees are
officially awarded by UL, but today
it has very little involvement in
Imperial’s affairs. So what is the point
of being part of it?
“Not a lot,” replies the Rector
bluntly. He accepts that UL provides
access to sports competitions and
intercollegiate halls of residence, but
is confident that this could continue
in a similar vain through agreements
with other colleges, even without UL.
“Otherwise,” he adds, “we are paying
a lot of money to an organisation from
which we get very little return. So the
intention is to pull out.”
“As far as we’re concerned, we want
ensure that students have access to
the sporting facilities and the halls of
residence, and if that can be sorted
out quickly, that would be good.”
Libraries
A letter in this week’s Felix from an
anonymous central library librarian
[see page 7] says that 24/7 opening is
“a nightmare” and has “transformed
what usually looks like a second rate
polytechnic library into a total dump”.
The letter claims that the College is
aiming “to cram yet more depart-
mental libraries plus their users into
the central library,” which itself has
become “an embarrassment”.
Sir Richard reacts with a smile.
“I think people have to move with
the times,” he says. “Twenty-four
hour opening seven days a week is
not easy because the library wasn’t
built for that. People have to eat and
drink, which does make the place
a bit different, but we have to deal
with that at the moment. If we had
Waterstone’s converted into a nice
café area, it would be much easier.”
He is certain that the central library
is “not an embarrassment, absolutely
not... rest assured, this is the way for-
ward, it has to be 24 hours a day, seven
days a week. We have to consolidate
as many of the departmental libraries
as possible, because you cannot work
in a departmental library 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.”
It soon becomes clear that ‘consoli-
dating’ a departmental library trans-
lates to closing it and moving the
stock to the central library.
He insists that such moves are
“in the best interests of students”,
despite the fact that a petition against
‘consolidating’ the mechanical engi-
neering library was signed by over
500 students.
“The problem is that [the depart-
mental] library is not open 24 hours a
day seven days a week, and I believe
that’s what students want.”
Rebranding
Imperial’s recent rebranding exer-
cise has received particular criticism
from students. The famous traditional
crest has been replaced by simple
blue type on a white background.
“I just think one has to move for-
ward,” says the Rector. “First of all,
the old crest is from a bygone age.
If you look on a page, you see a nice
advert with Imperial College London
and you don’t have to read all this
other stuff about Imperial College of
Science, Technology and Medicine.”
That might be a sensible policy for
job adverts, but what about all those
signs? “They want to be clear and
uncomplicated. It’s not that we’ve
discarded the crest, we’re just using
it for special occasions.”
I ask Sir Richard whether he knows
any students who actually like the
new branding.
“I haven’t actually personally
gone around and done a survey,” he
replies, after a long pause. “I think
it’s an interesting concept, isn’t it,
that students at Imperial are unbe-
lievably conservative...”
The summer ball
This year’s Imperial College Union
Summer Ball will be held on the South
Kensington campus on Saturday 18
June, with £20,000 of funding coming
directly from the College. I ask the
Rector whether the ball is worth the
investment.
“I think that these community occa-
sions are very important. I know why
it went to Alexandra Palace [last
year] but I think it’s very important
to have it here, because students
associate with this place, you’ve got a
beautiful area on the Queen’s Lawn,
you’ve got all sorts of potential, so I’m
happy to give that money for students
to have a nice occasion that doesn’t
cost them the earth, where they can
have a meal if they wish to, and enjoy
themselves.”
He is quick to add: “Speaking of
‘worth it’, what are we building an
£18m sports centre for? It’s some-
thing that is part of the package. If we
want to bring the best students here,
we want to encourage them, show
that we care about them...”
Contrary to statements from the
Union, Sir Richard tells me that
the new sports centre will open in
October.
Charing Cross Hospital
National newspapers have claimed
that Charing Cross Hospital, a main
teaching site for Imperial College
medical students, is set to close.
The Rector reassures current and
prospective medical students that
this will not occur in the near future.
“Hospitals don’t close quickly, it just
doesn’t happen that way. To close
Charing Cross might have been,
in someone’s mind, a good idea in
terms of efficiencies, but it’s going
to cost them an enormous amount
of money to do that, and I don’t see
that money coming from anywhere
at the moment. So I would think that
Charing Cross would still be oper-
ating reasonably well in ten years’
time.”
The future
Sir Richard acknowledges the inten-
sive nature of study at Imperial
College. “This is a College where
people work, it ain’t a College where
people play.”
He is proud of its reputation and
believes that “Imperial has done
extremely well” to be consistently
ranked in the top three UK universi-
ties. “It’s an amazing feat when you
think we’re not even 100 years old...
and that’s excellence, that’s quality,
that’s standards, that’s bringing the
best people here both in terms of
staff and students. That has to be the
future, and that can’t change.”
He stresses the importance of links
between higher education and busi-
ness. “It’s pretty obvious to me that
if we [the UK] are to remain competi-
tive in the world, our higher educa-
tion system has to be turning out the
right people. Otherwise people aren’t
going to invest in the UK.”
He tells me that the College must
“get more financial support from
wherever we can. We’ll continue to
rebuild this campus and the other
campuses, because if we want good
people we’ve got to give them a good
environment.”
● Next week: are you getting
a world-class education at
Imperial? We talk to Professor
Rees Rawlings, Pro Rector for
Educational Quality
THE FELIX INTERVIEW felix@ic.ac.uk
“It’s the only job in the higher education sector I would have taken” – Sir Richard Sykes, Rector of Imperial College (right), with Dave Edwards
“If we want to bring
the best students here,
we need to encourage
them, show that we
care about them”
“What’s the point of
being part of the
University of London?
Not a lot. The intention
is to pull out”
“It’s an interesting
concept, isn’t it, that
students at Imperial
are unbelievably
conservative”
PHOTOS: WILLIAM TURNER
The Rector enthusiastically highlights some data about Imperial’s student intake
“The higher you charge
those who can afford
it, the more you can
use to pay for those
who can’t”

