www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 19 May 2005
6
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
Ahmad extradition will set
dangerous precedent
W
ithout presenting any evidence or allowing lawyers
the opportunity to respond to its allegations, the US
government has moved a huge step closer to extradit-
ing Babar Ahmad, the former Imperial College student and
ICT worker.
The judge called the case “difficult and troubling,” and told
the court that “if evidence were available, [Ahmad] could
have been prosecuted in this country”. What possible reason
could US prosecutors have for withholding evidence from their
British counterparts? Perhaps they know that their evidence
would not hold up in a British court.
Babar Ahmad’s extradition could set an extremely danger-
ous precedent – the ‘one-way’ Extradition Act does not allow
US citizens to be extradited to the UK without a case being
presented, yet this case could open the door for dozens of ‘ter-
ror suspects’ to be sent in the opposite direction. We can only
look to the Home Secretary to take a step back, realise the
absurdity of the situation, and order that Babar Ahmad be tried
in Britain or released.
Why Southside can’t stay
Intrusive behaviour
Obsession with someone else can be
quite healthy if it doesn’t cause problems
for you or the other person. But some-
times, it can go too far.
Stalking or harassment can be very
frightening for those on the receiving
end. It can also make the person doing
the harassment very emotionally dis-
tressed.
What is stalking?
Stalking or harassment (continuous
tormenting) is any form of continued
unwanted attention, and can happen
through any of the following:
• Internet chatrooms
• Text messaging
• Phone calls
• Letters
• Personal contact (directly with you, or
via your friends and family etc)
• Emails
Who are stalkers?
Stalkers can be people you’ve dated,
people you’ve been in a relationship
with, or someone you’ve never even met.
If you know the person harassing you,
that doesn’t give them right to make
your life difficult.
What causes stalking?
There are many causes that might trig-
ger such behaviour, including:
• Many stalkers have psychological
problems and may not be able to form
relationships in the normal way.
• They may convince themselves that
they are having a relationship with their
victim, or suffer from other delusions
about their victim.
• They may be an ex who can’t accept
that a relationship is over.
• Some may be motivated by revenge.
• A lot of stalkers believe that that their
feelings for their victims are recipro-
cated.
Is the law on my side?
Yes:
• The 1997 Protection From Harass-
ment Act makes it a criminal offence for
anyone to harass another person.
• The 1984 Telecommunications Act
makes it an offence to send a mes-
sage that’s offensive or indecent,
obscene or menacing by a type of public
telecommunications system.
What can I do if it happens to
me?
Firstly, don’t respond to any messag-
es that you receive, because this may
only encourage them to send more.
Depending on the type of harassment
you’re receiving, you can also do a
number of other things:
• Report it to the police. Whatever the
situation, they’ll listen and advise. In
extreme cases they can also issue warn-
ings or injuctions.
• Tell your phone company. Most phone
networks, whether you have a mobile or
a landline, have a malicious calls policy
and can give advice to people about
what to do if they’re receiving unwanted
calls.
• Tell your friends and family. If you’re
travelling, make some contingency plans
to be picked up or meet someone, so that
you’re not on your own.
• Approach the Information and Advice
Centre. We can help you. We also have
close links with the Student Counselling
Service, which we can refer you to if you
feel that something like this is affecting
you emotionally.
Remember that harassment, in any
form, is not acceptable. It’s not your fault
and you don’t have to put up with it.
If you have been affected by this arti-
cle, please do not hesitate to contact the
IAC on 020 7594 8067 or advice@ic.ac.uk.
Don’t let your concern turn into a crisis
– make the IAC your first port of call.
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
An apology
First off, I ought to apologise for my
choice of wording last week. I’ve been
told that some readers felt I was accusing
customers and/or staff in the Southside
Bar of racism. I didn’t intend to suggest
either covert or overt racism and if I gave
that impression then I’m sorry I did so.
I had made a throw-away comment
about an observation that others had
made to highlight the difficulties of ade-
quately serving student needs when the
demographic is changing so markedly.
More careful readers would have noticed
that I did also say that I felt the Union’s
own facilities did not do much better.
Why can’t Southside bar go into
the new building?
This is a question I keep getting asked
and, whilst no-one (sober) has disput-
ed my explanation, they have said that
I ought to print it. I must admit that
when you’ve known the background for
months it is easy to forget that everyone
else doesn’t know the details as well as
you do.
The basic problem is that Princes
Gardens is in the Knightsbridge con-
servation area and the existing building
is Grade II listed by English Heritage.
This makes it incredibly difficult to do
any building work. In order to get per-
mission for demolition, the College had
to produce an architectural masterp-
lan for ‘restoring’ Princes Gardens. This
involves replacing the concrete mono-
liths (Southside and Linstead) with
buildings that blend into the Edwardian
houses still standing (such as Garden
Hall on the north side).
The conservation issues impose prac-
tical difficulties. The new Southside will
effectively have four less floors to be
‘inkeeping’ with the Edwardian houses.
Something has to give...
Let’s look at the priorities. The first is
bed space. We need more – student num-
bers have grown considerably over the
years but accommodation has not. The
plans for Southside will provide around
70 more beds than at present, utilis-
ing every floor other than the ground
floor (hardly a great leap forward, but
a welcome step). The second priority is
that the Medical Centre has got to be
housed somewhere and the only space
large enough is the ground floor of the
new Southside. Along with a security
lodge, that leaves 200 square metres for
a social area/café. That’s not a lot once
you include a counter area. There cer-
tainly isn’t space for a bar cellar.
So what’s wrong with Linstead?
I’ve said it before – installing a bar on
the first floor would deprive Linstead hall
of its main private communal space. It
wouldn’t be a replacement for Southside
bar – the area is much smaller and
security would have policed it tighter
because it overlooked the wealthy neigh-
bours who are influential with the local
council. So it just wouldn’t have had the
same feel.
Yes, I agree that the ground floor shop
in Linstead is going to be a waste of
space. I’ve said it many times to College
but they are hell bent on it – I cynically
suspect because they will make a good
coffee trade with the building contrac-
tors.
Long term
None of this is to say there shouldn’t be
a bar in the long term. The sports centre
café will be licensed. The other new cafés
probably will be too. And when Linstead
is finally rebuilt (probably not for a few
years whilst the College finds the money)
there is space ear-marked for both a
restaurant and a bar (and an extra 300
bed spaces).
STATE OF
THE UNION
MUSTAFA ARIF
UNION PRESIDENT
Survey sends clear
message on campus food
F
ew will have been surprised by the results of last week’s
survey on campus food. The figures send College cater-
ers a clear message: cut your prices and introduce
healthier options.
There is a large body of evidence showing that what you eat
has an enormous impact on your health. So it is entirely plausi-
ble to suggest that by providing healthier food, the College can
improve exam results and produce happier students who work
harder. As for the cost, last week’s ‘price check’ feature showed
most local high street outlets to be significantly cheaper than
the infamous JCR shop.
What can be done? Well, these issues, like most others, can
be raised through the students’ union. You can ask caterers
why they are not providing enough healthy choices. And ulti-
mately, you can take your business elsewhere. It might be less
convenient, but it might also make a difference to what hap-
pens on campus.
Send us your views: felix@ic.ac.uk.
Plagiarists must pay penalty
H
onest, hard-working students will find few things more
infuriating than the small minority who cheat. Many
at Imperial College can recall moments when, having
spent countless hours on a piece of coursework to the detri-
ment of the rest of their lives, they notice one of their colleagues
hastily copying from a friend as the deadline approaches. Same
piece of work, same grade perhaps, only one of you has put ten
times more thought and effort into it than the other.
It can be equally frustrating when such blatant violation of
the rules is not punished, and so the chemistry department
should be applauded for taking a tough stance on the “signifi-
cant amount of plagiarism” amongst third year students.
It is regrettable that students have been “sent into panic”
at such a crucial stage of their degrees. More effort should
have been made to explain the situation, confirm exactly what
constitutes ‘plagiarism’ and reassure the innocent majority.
However, we are optimistic that the cheats will be outed and
everyone else will receive their marks on time without any
further inconvenience.

