FELIX
Chris Riley reports on the feelings of Beijing students, one year after the event
Tiananmen: Riot or Massacre? FELIX
'Beijing experienced a horrifying counter-
revolutionary rebellion on June 3 a n d 4,
1989. T h e purpose of the rebellion was to
overthrow the leadership of the Chinese
Communist Party and subvert the socialist
People's Republic of China'.
This is how the official Chinese
government publication 'The Beijing
Riot—A Photo Record' opens its
explanation of the events which took
place last year.
The most offensive aspect of the
atrocities is the blatent denial b y the
authorities that they ever occurred: the
official version is that the massacre didn't
happen. T h e propaganda continues...'A
handful of rioters instigated innocent
people w h o were unaware of what was
going on to intercept the martial l a w
enforcement troops in a n attempt to
prevent them from advancing into
Tiananmen Square. T h e y smashed or
burned military vehicles a n d public
buses...and went as far as brutally
murdering P L A soldiers a n d armed
policemen.' 'During the rebellion more
than 6,000 officers a n d m e n of the
martial law troops, armed police a n d
public security police were injured a n d
several dozen were killed. Also, more
than 3,000 civilians were w o u n d e d a n d
over 200 died, including 36 college
students. A m o n g the non-military
casualties were rioters w h o deserved the
punishment, onlookers as well as doctors
and other people killed and injured
accidentally while carrying out various
duties at the scene of the riot.'
No sooner had the blood been washed
off the streets than the wave of witch
hunts a n d executions began. Even n o w
those caught speaking to a foreign
journalist c a n be arrested for 'rumour-
mongering'. A Japanese geologist whose
company headquarters are six kilometres
from the Square estimated that over
100,000 people were executed in the area
during the crack-down which followed.
In July of this year I visited Beijing as a
tourist to attempt to talk to students still
studying there.
It was already uncomfortably hot a n d
close at 8.30am as I cycled north along
Beichizi Dajie. T h e vastness of Tiananmen
Square on m y left stretched into the smog
and was thronged with Chinese tourists.
At the north of the square I turned right
onto the wide Jingshan Qianjie a n d the
front wheel reached a series of ruts
which shook the already rickety frame
and caused the bell to ring. It was one of
a series of tank tracks fossilized in the
tarmac as testament to the atrocity which
took place just over one year ago.
Beijing is almost devoid of university
students during the uncomfortable humid
months of July a n d August, but a
sprinkling of postgraduates can still be
found in their squalid, dingy halls of
residence. A surprising number are still
Tiananmen Square after the massacre.
prepared to risk the little freedom they
have to speak about China's problems.
China is facing difficult times
economically, because of last June's
movement.
Has this put China back a long way?
Yes, somewhat, but I think it is only a
temporary setback.
The Chinese system is still very
unpopular worldwide, and this cannot
be helping to propel China towards a
democracy.
Yes, it is easy to understand that
Western countries think the Chinese
system is not right. W e students have
discussed this and w e also understand
China very well. I think the attitude of
the West is wrong. T h e Chinese people
come from a different cultural
background; a different system. W e have
had some discussions together, fellow
students and teachers and professors. W e
analysed the Chinese situation and the
system, and agreed that no one can solve
China's problems. No matter w h o comes
to control the government, they will still
face the same problems. It is not going to
change quickly.
This year, especially i n Europe,
there have been some very big
changes; the Berlin W a l l came down
within a few months last year.
Yes. T h e Chinese intellectuals were
shocked by the rapid changes in
Europe...but they realised that it is easier
for the Eastern European countries to
change.
W h y is there this difference? W h y
was it possible for Romania to change
almost overnight and for Germany,
East and West to unite?
It is the difference in the cultural and
educational background. People in
Eastern European countries have better
democratic minds than the Chinese
people. T h e y are surrounded by capitalist
countries and the people cannot avoid
contact with such countries. China only
opened ten years ago. T h e people have
only just begun to experience the
Western world which they cannot
understand.
Many people still don't k n o w what life
is like in other countries. H o w do you
explain colours to a blind person? H o w
can y o u ask Chinese people if they want
democracy a n d a better kind of life, w h e n
they have nothing to make comparisons
with. T h e majority of people are simple
farmers, peasants w h o cannot
comprehend democracy. A t present there
is no education for them: even if they
tried to understand they could not.
Eastern European people have a m u c h
higher level of education.
But last year it was the students
which started the move towards
democracy.
Yes...young intellectuals, this is also
Chinese tradition. It is easy for them to
start a revolution, but not easy for them
to bring things to a conclusion; it has
happened before.
The locals still refer to the Square
as 'The Crematorium'. Looking round
Tiananmen Square now, i n my mind
the memories of the bloodshed have
hardly faded, yet there are families
photographing their children, people
flying kites and everyone seems
happy again. A r e they really so
happy?
It's easy for Chinese people to accept
the facts. Most of the people, even the
intellectuals, think that it is best for us to
accept the situation now, it is no use to
protest.
How can y o u accept the massacre?
The Chinese government tried to
...and one year later.
'smooth' the people, providing food to
convince the people that they are happy
and that things have not changed. Most
people are easily pleased a n d they just
want a peaceful daily life, like (I suppose)
most people in the West, not worrying
about what democracy a n d freedom are.
But still it is hard for us to imagine
how forgiving you can be and how
you seem to forget things so quickly.
No. In people's hearts they can never
forgive such a thing. W e will remember it
for life. If in the future an intellectual
writes history, this scandal will be
remembered.
Do you still feel bitter inside
because of what they did?
We k n o w that in the senior government
there are still conflicts. Running the
government is easier said than done.
Many people went to the street to protest
but if you invited them to form a
government they would not be able to
change anything. W e k n o w some of the
democracy movement leaders, they are
not qualified politicians, they are simply
intellectuals w h o are interested in politics.
It is simply not time to think of
democracy a n d freedom. W e still have
old generations from the 'Long March';
after they die perhaps things will change.
This is the last generation; the next have
received a different education. China as a
country depends a lot on the governors'
minds. W e think of this as democracy.
The people are used to being led by a
person, to have a n example to follow. If
education doesn't improve this situation
will not change and democracy will not
work. If the students had changed things
to a democracy the workers and peasants
would not have k n o w n h o w to react.
But last year some of the workers
were involved i n the movement.
It is not because they think the same as
the students. Some workers a n d general
citizens came onto the streets out of
sympathy for the students without
knowing w h o to follow and without fully
understanding the implications of the
students' demands. T h e Chinese people
are accustomed to think as the
government thinks and to believe what
the papers say.
Isn't that w h y the changes last year
were so radical and alien to the
people because the students were
thinking for themselves a n d going
against what the government thought?
Do you think radical changes will
ever take place? What are your hopes
for China's future?
Some people still have some hope, yes
perhaps...but China is still a communist,
socialist country. W e have to depend o n
our government for almost everything;
our policies, our beliefs, our views. But
nowadays the world is changing a n d
China can no longer remain isolated. T h e
government must face this a n d take n e w
steps to develop the country. They have
tried their best to compromise with
Western countries by helping them to
invest i n China a n d only in this w a y can
China develop more quickly. Sanctions,
which would starve Chinese people of
business, economic, cultural and political
contact, are not the answer. F r o m a
historical point of view China hasn't gone
through the natural process of
development that capitalist countries
have. O u r e c o n o m y a n d education are
still backward a n d in this situation it is
very difficult for us to change overnight
into a Western culture. W e have become
more open since the economic revolution
and it is easy to see w e will have to face
a lot more problems especially in these
initial stages before companies are in
profit. T h e economic revolution is just
like the western evolution, but our system
is different a n d there are bound to be
some conflicts between the people: some
are not satisfied and try to protest. A few
Chinese became rich overnight while
others w h o w o r k e d in factories
maintained the same economic status.
This is not natural, and people have to
show their disagreement. M a n y young
people don't understand the enormity of
the problem.
10 11

