What's the difference between a bus and a Rhino? Nothing to a tsetse fly.
Dr John Brady explains this and more including what turns them on as he
explores the life of...
African Vampires
Question One: W h y did Africa never
invent the wheel?
Answer: Because it was prevented from
doing so by a small in-offensive looking
insect the size of a housefly.
This beast—the tsetse fly—has maintained
for centuries a strangle-hold over tropical
Africa. Some 5,000 years ago, when
Middle Eastern civilisation was
discovering agriculture and building the
first agricultural surpluses to fuel the first
market economies, the tsetse fly was
already beavering away in Africa biting
all the large vertebrates it could lay its
eyes on—and giving them sleeping
sickness as it did so.
Further north, meanwhile, the
domestication of the horse had led to the
development of the plough, and thus
indirectly to the trade in food surpluses.
This in turn demanded transport and,
with the horse to hand, invention of the
cart followed. In Africa, b y contrast, the
sickness carried by the tsetse prevented
the domestication of any beast of
burden—then as now. A n d without
draught animals there was no reason to
invent either wheel or plough. Hence, an
economy based on the hoe and the head-
load: no plough, no surpluses; no
surpluses, no wheel.
Question Two: H o w did the tsetse fly
manage this?
Answer: Because of an unholy alliance
welded by evolution between the tsetse
and the tyrpanosome.
The fly needs blood to live o n (it feeds on
nothing else), and the trypanosome (a
microscopic blood parasite) needs to get
from the bloodstream of one host to
another in order to survive. What
evolution did was to select the tsetse as
the unwitting transmission vehicle for the
trypanosome. The fly imbibes the
parasites with its breakfast, and passes
them on with its supper. W h a t the
parasite then does to its victim is to so
debilitate it that it cannot be used for any
kind of work, and if it is an animal new
to Africa, like the horse, it usually dies.
Question Three: What is Imperial
College's interest in all this?
Answer: The Department of Biology has
a two-fold interest. Some of its
parasitologists are w o r k i n g away at the
defences of the trypanosome—a
formidable challenge to both drug and
vaccine development. A n d m y o w n
interest is in how the tsetse finds the
larger vertebrates it feeds on.
Visualise the problem from the fly's
point of view. It has poor eyes, seeing at
best two orders of magnitude 'worse' than
we do. In good light we can resolve an
object occupying about one minute of arc
(0.02°) of our field of view; the tsetse is
lucky if it can manage to resolve two
degrees. But that is not its only problem.
It lives in thick African bush that
normally blocks off all lines of sight more
than a few metres long, and it is, of
course, rather small. In finding its next
meal, it is thus faced with a situation of
fluttering leaves or, worse, passing
insectivorous birds; and slower speeds
can only be m o v i n g shadows.
A nice irony is that this is the reason
w h y tsetse are so strongly attracted to
vehicles. Evolution did not allow for the
arrival of the tourist bus? A n intriguing
side question is w h y evolution did not get
tsetses to fly over the bush, as if they
were helicopters. That w o u l d seem an
excellent way of finding game—just like
hot-air ballooning in the Serengeti.
The fly's second trick is to use its nose.
Like all good predators, w h e n it smells a
host it flies u p w i n d to look for it. This is
the kind we might experience in trying to
locate a friend from w h o m we had got
separated while on a walk in a vast
wood—and to do so without shouting.
The tsetse has two tricks up its sleeve
to solve this conundrum. T h e first is a
neat piece of neural economy provided
for it by evolution. Unlike us, it is not
impressed by the appearance of things. In
our experiments at Silwood it shows little
interest in the shape or colour of
potential targets; all that really turns it on
is the speed the targets m o v e at.
Specifically, it is the targets' angular
velocity past it which matters, and which
the fly finds really attractive only
between 2 and 5 ° s _ 1
. The clever thing
about this is that it is precisely the speed
one would expect any large vertebrates
within the fly's visual range (say 10-30m)
to move at as they browse through the
bush. Faster speeds are likely to be only
simple enough to say, but the words hide
a multitude of navigational problems.
H o w does the tsetse k n o w where the
wind is c o m i n g from? H o w does it head
upwind while flying? Does it, indeed,
head upwind at all, or does it do
something else? It certainly does not
arrive at a potential meal in a straight
line, since even though it flies at over 5
m s_ 1
it takes minutes to find a host
animal after first smelling it. These are
problems that interest me and m y
colleagues very much, and we are
currently pursuing them—with a video
camera.
What we do is to fly out to somewhere
nice in Africa with good research
facilities—such as a bar and swimming
pool—and then set up the cameras.
Usually we suspend them from a kind of
sky-hook, so that they look down at the

