SCIENCE
P u z z l e d ?
ground and, with luck, capture on tape
shots of the tsetse flies that pass by
underneath. Because tsetses are so small,
however, we can only look at about 2 m
by 3 m of bush at a time. A n d as the flies
move so fast (7 m s~' = 15 mph) we see
only fleeting glimpses of their flight tracks
as they respond to the artificial host
odours we have floated on the wind. It is
a bit like trying to work out the rules of
football by watching a videotape
restricted to close-up shots of the players.
Things are beginning to emerge,
however. The rules of the game we have
identified so far are, first, that if you are
a tsetse looking for a whiff of host odour,
you search d o w n w i n d . If y o u then chance
to fly into a stream of air that smells
appetising, rule two says that you should
perform a U-turn to get back in.
There are complicating rules about
what to do w h e n you find an obvious
large object as you fly through the bush.
If it turns out to be animal, you may land
and eat. If, however, as is more likely, it
turns out to be only a tree trunk, or some
irrelevant structure stuck out there by an
inquisitive entomologist, more subtle sub-
rules about the direction to fly away from
it must be followed. A n n e x B should be
consulted if y o u meet along the way
another fly of the opposite sex, since for
the sake of the future it is more
important to have it off with them than
to look for breakfast.
While I freely admit that I find
analysing this game highly entertaining, it
does actually have a practical purpose,
too. In Zimbabwe they have spent years
devising an environmentally friendly
system to control tsetse flies—to get
round the alternative, rather less
environmentally friendly approach of
killing them by blanket coverage of
Africa with insecticide sprayed from
aircraft. The Zimbabwe system is based
on a 1 m 2
screen baited with essence of
ox and soaked in quick-acting insecticide.
This 'artificial cow' is evidently
irresistable to the flies and, scattered at
500-m intervals throughout the bush,
attracts and kills all the local tsetse within
a few months (a vache fatale perhaps?).
Our role in this work appears at the
subsequent development stages, w h e n it
becomes useful to k n o w what aspects of
artificial odour streams attract tsetse, how
the flies approach the screens, and how
they behave w h e n they get to them. Only
with such knowledge is it likely to be
possible to optimise the design to best
attract flies and induce them to land
firmly on the screens.
Complete the above figure so that all the lines total 38.
SCIENCE
• Can you write interesting and informative features
on scientific matters that affect our everyday lives?
• Are you interested in a particular branch or aspect
of your course?
• Are you doing some revolutionary research that will
change our lives forever?
If so, I want to hear from you.
Come into the FELIX office any lunchtime and ask for
Ian or dial 3515 internal.
13

