| ^ Montpelier Setback
Montpelier Hall has been taken off the
market for up to three months whilst
legal documents are scrutinised. Gordon
Marshall, the new Director of Estates, said
that he had some queries over the
wording of the contract d r a w n up by
Cluttons which, he thought, did not
'maximise the benefits' for college.
The hall was to be sold in mid-
December, after student's accommodation
contracts ran out on the 16th. M r
Marshall said that it would now be sold
sometime after mid-February but that the
situation as regards students still had to
be 'sorted out'. He thought that students
would not want such a short contract but
Miss O'Callaghan, the A c c o m m o d a t i o n
Officer, said that students w h o wanted to
stay on until March could approach her.
On accommodation, M r Marshall said
that there would be a document sent to
all students detailing the state of affairs
with regards to Montpelier Hall and the
Clayponds estate. Rather than directly
transfer students between the residences,
he said that he would like to offer
students 'more suitable accommodation'.
Miss O'Callaghan confirmed that there
had been no policy decision on allocation
to Clayponds, the first phase of which
should be completed by January. She said
that this phase should consist of '25 single
rooms, 12 double rooms and six bedsits
for married couples without children',
hopefully to be filled 'for the rest of the
academic year'.
Mr Marshall, explaining w h y Montpelier
had been withdrawn from the market,
said that by accepting a tender the
college would enter into a binding
contract. This meant that the tender
documents had to be TOO per cent
b o m b p r o o f and that the college had to
include searches that would be performed
by the purchaser in the case of a normal
house sale.
Starting with the post of Estates
Manager, w h i c h has been recently
advertised, M r Marshall will be building
up a new team for Estates. He intends to
produce a pamphlet in the near future
setting out his plans for the section.
Could You Survive 9-6?
A n increase in the length of the College
day to start at 9.00am and finish at
6.00pm, and a staggered lunch break, has
been recommended by a W o r k i n g Party.
There will be a student referendum on
the proposal, during the voting for the
non-sabbatical Felix Editor, on the 3rd
and 4th of December.
As well as starting lectures on the hour,
the change would introduce a staggered
lunch break, splitting the college in two.
One section starting at 12.00pm and one
at l.OOpm.
Paul Shanley, Union President, said that
the split may be made by department
with, for example, all of Guilds taking
lunch at l.OOpm. He said that this would
not mean four hours of lectures as the
mornings would be broken up with
tutorials and seminars.
Mr Shanley agreed that a staggered
lunch break would force clubs to
reorganise*but did not think that any
clubs would be killed off b y the change.
He said that there would be certain hours
set aside for club activities in the same
way that Tuesday and Thursday
lunchtimes remain free at the moment.
He added that queues for lunch would be
reduced, meaning more time for other
activities.
The referendum, M r Shanley said,
would consist of an extra ballot sheet,
handed out at the Felix election. It would
ask whether the student was for, or
against, the whole proposal as a package.
This, he thought, would give a better
representation of student feeling than the
response from the last Union General
Meeting.
W h e n asked about the views of
students. Mr Shanley said that he thought
that some would be in favour but that
half would be against any change. He
explained that certain groups would not
find the proposed hours practical.
Miroslav Holub Lecture
The internationally renowned
immunologist and political poet Miroslav
Holub talked last Tuesday in a lecture
arranged by the Humanities department
and the Huxley society. O v e r a hundred
students were there to listen to him.
In his speech he explained the peculiar
symbiosis of science and politics in his
native Czechoslovakia. This, he explained,
was due to the nature of science which
'teaches us not to fool ourselves' and
which had a 'habit of truth'. This, he said,
was the reason w h y science was
instrumental in the destruction of Marxist
ideologies. A s an example he cited an
experience he had whilst being a
pathologist in northern Prague. He said
that he saw the corpses of patients w h o
had trusted in the officially approved
spiritual healers being carried away by
the police to prevent a public autopsy.
He quoted a fellow philospher in saying
that science needs the values of truth,
trust, dignity and dissent to function -
making the comparison with the political
system in his country to which these
values were anathaema.
As well as being chief research
immunologist at the Institute of Clinical
and Experimantal Medicine in Prague,
Miroslav Holub is also a poet. He said
that art and science, though distinct,
relied on one another to be effective. He
recited his poem 'Reflections on a Test-
tube' towards the end of the lecture.
He accepted the presidency of the
Huxley society, and on their behalf
handed over a cheque for £ 5 0 0 to the
National Poetry Society, launching a fund
to pay for a resident poet at the College.
A l l of Holub's books can be bought from
the Union Bookstore.
2

