A Man Escaped Darkman
I
This is an escape story, with a
difference. The focus is on one
man, Lt Fontaine, captured and
imprisoned by the Gestapo. F r o m the
moment of his capture, he tries to escape,
again and again.
Robert Bresson is well k n o w n for his
sharp and minimalist style, and this film
is an excellent example. W e hardly see
the faces of the German guards or of the
Gestapo. They are not important. W e see
Fontaine not as a lieutenant of the
French Resistance, but as the caged
animal they have reduced him to. Yet
they are unable to strip away his human
dignity.
In a place aimed totally at breaking the
human spirit, where confinement is
solitary and betrayal commonplace, men
still manage to befriend and support one
another. Bresson draws a careful contrast
between Fontaine and a fellow prisoner,
a priest, who, the Gestapo having
deprived him of his Bible, borrows a
pencil (forbidden in the prison) off his
fellows, that he may write d o w n his
beloved verses. For, as he says, every
man must have a religion, an occupation,
to stop him going mad. 'Moi, je
m'occupe,' says Fontaine, and goes back
to his religion, the act of attempting to
escape.
The spirituality of this act is simply and
beautifully illustrated by Bresson. His
camera makes us love Fontaine, root for
him and hold our breaths in turn, as he
quietly and patiently concentrates on his
task, under sentence of death from his
captors.
Bresson employed non-professional
actors in this film. Francois Leterrier is
wonderful as Fontaine, without stealing
the show completely from the supporting
cast, who help integrate the film
effectively.
A warning: if you're interested in a
good old rollicking, untaxing comedy for
a night's entertainment, this is just the
opposite: stay away! O n the other hand, if
you have a single shred of humanity in
you, that shred will beg for a film like
this. Bresson has long been an inspiration
for many of today's famous directors. It is
not difficult to see why, nor to
understand how this film w o n him the
award for Best Director, at Cannes in
1957.
Zia Akbar.
The Reflecting Skin
1y favourite occupation of a
Iweekend evening (after the bar has
•closed) is to watch films on Channel
4 or BBC2 that an Irish gentleman that is
often also in the c o m m o n r o o m describes
as 'Fuckin' Wierd'. This film would slip
beautifully into that category. A l l the
characteristics of an art-house movie are
there, the amazing, visually stunning and
quietly symbolic photography, the bizarre
sequence of events, the odd characters.
The last might be explained by the fact
that the film is being told from a child's
viewpoint (reminiscent of Yaaba - another
art house reference) w h o is trapped in a
nightmare only partially of his o w n
making. He has a pervert for a father, a
brother involved in atomic testing and a
domineering mother. His friends are one
by one being murdered, and he believes
the widow his brother has fallen in love
with is a vampire.
F r o m exploding frogs to self-
immolation, this film deals w i t h the
darker sides of our natures and fears as
Seth tries to make sense of the adult
world and makes decisions that will affect
the rest of his life. Some of the sequences
are rather disturbing, and not a little
grizzly, so the film is not for the faint of
heart, but it's worth the effort. This really
is a imaginative and original film that I
enjoyed far more than I expected to do.
Hopefully its normal theatrical release
will give it the recognition it deserves.
Pendragon.
iDarkman opens with the unlikely
premise that Larry Drake is a
bloody hoodlum with a penchant
for amputation. This may seem perfectly
sober unless y o u recall that M r . Drake is
the gentleman who portrays the retarded
office clerk, Benny, in LA Law. Alas, the
latter part is stronger than the first, and
so the first scene is somewhat surreal as
Benny's dark alter ego (replete with grey
silk scarf draped round his neck)
rampages through a rival gang. Numerous
pieces of heavy artillery w a v e around in
the background, although a few truly
dreadful gags are sufficient to see off
most of the bad guys.
Having firmly established the baddies,
it's time to meet the hero. Peyton
Westlake is a (sorry, I feel a Capital
Letter Atttack coming on) Mild-Mannered
Scientist w h o has made a Stagggering But
Flawed Discovery; to wit, the production
of synthetic skin. Unfortunately, the skin
is only stable for 100 minutes...
Peyton's girlfriend is an accountant (or
something) w h o stumbles into a big Gang
Thing. Predictably enough this results in
the hapless Peyton being beaten up.acid-
scarred and generality not flying Business
Class. Believed dead, he is treated by
experimental surgery w h i c h shorts out his
finer feelings. Being, not unnaturally,
somewhat peeved, he escapes and sifts
through his laboratory wreckage...
The rest of the film concerns itself with
the mutilated Peyton's shift into the
Darkman, w h o uses his artificial skin to
make perfect masks of his adversaries,
revenge himself and w i n back his
girlfriend from the Big B a d Guy. This
appears to consist of a tiresomely large
number of bad jokes, an unarguably well
choreographed but overfamiliar sequence
of stunts and some staggering overacting.
Darkman is visually very slick, and the
whole thing (plot (!), effects and
directorial style) is taken directly from
comic-books of the '70's. Regrettably, this
is not as entertaining as it might sound.
Stay home and watch Neighbours.
The Flying Gerbil A n d Friend.
6

