M y B l u e H e a v e n
I
My Blue Heaven is v e r y very very
very happy. It really is happy. If
you've seen a sad movie, it
certainly isn't this one, because this
movie reactivates, exhilarates and
exterminates (possibly not the last).
To summarise the plot : Rick Moranis is
happy. Until his wife leaves him. Steve
Martin is happy. Until his wife leaves him.
(We should point out that Steve Martin is
a supergrass w h o has been given a new
identity and Rick is the FBI agent
assigned to babysit. Not that Steve has a
baby but we're sure he was one once (or
twice)). Steve has extreme difficulty with
a) adjusting to small-town life b) his^ tailor
c) his kleptomania. A s such he is
perpetually being arraigned by the local
district attorney (Joan Cusack, late of
Working Girl). Undisturbed by this he
continues in his naughtiness under the
comfortable duvet of FBI security. Rick is
forced to confront Joan (who finds the
small hairs on the back of her neck rising
in his presence) amidst Steve's attempts
The Colony
a Cropper
I
This is actually two plays. The first
The Colony by Marivaux was
written in the eighteenth century
and some of the ideas he comes up with
are very surprising for their time.
A group of men and w o m e n are
shipwrecked on a desert island and
therefore no country's laws can have any
authority over them. So a new
government has to be set up and a new
constitution written. Of course, the
government won't include the women—it
never has, w h y should they worry their
heads about it? The w o m e n however
have other ideas and stage a protest
about their non-inclusion in affairs of
state and law and justice. Marivaux was
not a feminist but many of the ideas put
forward in this play are interesting in
view of the time. There was a lot of
debate going on in France at this time
about women's rights. Despite this, I
found this play rather drawn out, it didn't
hold my interest to the end. It also
seemed rather artificial, although at times
it was quite amusing.
The second play Comes a Cropper was
especially written for the c o m p a n y -
Monstrous Regiment—as a kind of sequel
to the previous play. It is set in the
present day and once more people are
stranded on a desert island—only seven
this time though. Predictably, released
from the law of a country, the men once
more try to intimidate the w o m e n into
letting them take charge.
This play is amusing at first—a few of
the characters are modern stereotypes
but again the play loses interest towards
to improve her footwear. A n d so on.
The square (but not, thankfully, a full
physics fresher) Moranis grows cooler as
time goes by under Steve's influence and
Comes
the end and the ending is v e r y contrived,
merely used as an escape mechanism,
and really rather spoils the play—had
there been any sympathy left for it by
then!
These plays were really rather
disappointing as the ideas were good and
could, I feel, have been developed better.
The plays are showing at the Battersea
Arts Centre. T h e box office is on 071-223
2223.
J L W .
—Films
—Comics/Graphics
—Theatre
REVIEWS
Steve grows reciprocally more stable.
Rick learns to dance the merengue (yes
we thought you ate it too) and gives big
happies all round.
By the end of the film everybody is in
love with the right people and Steve has
turned over a n e w leaf (maybe). Rick has
managed to beat some-one up for no
particularly good reason (most enjoyable).
Everything is fluffy bunnies all round (we
don't feel we have denied you the
surprise of the ending).
In conclusion : This film offers the
chance to see Steve Martin acting the
role he does best (although not at his
funniest), Rick Moranis in a new role (ie.
not a card-carrying nerd) and a turtle
doing what turtles do (no martial arts
involved). Light to the extreme, well-
sectioned (split with nice little captions),
forgettable and happy happy happy
happy happy.
See it if you've got a spare afternoon (it
beats lectures).
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
The Complete
Spiderman
i Happy Memories. In m y post Beano
I and pre-Dr. Who days Marvel UK's
'Spider Man comic was one of m y
main delights in a week of tables reciting
and story writing. Nowadays those eyes
of mine prefer X-men, a break from the
toil of an English Degree. It's nice to see
Marvel U K return to the Spidey reprint
fold after the success of the U K originated
Knights Of Pendragon and Strip (both
well worth a look, especially since
Knights is n o w a regular monthly title).
H o w things have changed. Peter Parker
(the Spectacular Spider Man) is now
married to his old flame Mary Jane
Watson. His A u n t M a y appears to be in
the throes of geriatric love and J. Jonah
Jameson doesn't o w n the Bugle anymore.
This reprint book actually incorporates
4 US issues, one each from Amazing
Spider-Man, Spectacular Spider-Man, Web
of (you guessed it) Spider-Man and the
two and a half million selling, Todd
McFarlane w r i t t e n / d r a w n / i n k e d , new
Spider-Man. A t £ 1 . 7 5 an issue it
represents a considerable saving on
buying all the US books separately (I
know, I checked in Mega-City), and the
print quality is better than some of the
originals.
A s for the stories, well, the writers are
no Chris Claremounts, but the art is
pretty good and the storylines interesting.
Enough to keep any comic fan, with a
liking for super-types, happy. Well worth
a trip to the local Newsagents for.
(How about a Mutants' combines reprint
book now, Marvel UK?)
Pendragon.

