Honeychile
b o n e v t l ) i l
Moonflowers
-LSE
The Moonflowers look at life in a special
way—'We tried to hug everyone today as
w e walked d o w n Oxford Street...only four
people let us'.
This figure surprises me not. The
Moonflowers are not the most attractive
band I've ever seen—but w h o can tell
under the masses of hair, greasy face
paint and funny hats?
It was time to forget the 90s, return to
the 70s and pretend that Manchester
didn't really exist for a couple of hours.
The L S E bods were conquered by both
the head-beating, body-churning, meaty
numbers and the low-geared, head-
wibbling creations {prompting m y
neighbour to mutter something about
'vibes' and 'love-making'). Legs were
danced off and bodies c o m m u n e d
together-whichever seemed appropriate at
the time.
The Moonflowers' sound is a mongrel
breed—a unification of 70s rock, Doors,
Led Zepplin, T-Rex with a few rough
patches thrown in to keep it human.
Their enthusiasm rolls over their
audience—an audience transfixed by a
swirling, projected backdrop, an utter
craftsman of a guitarist and a chappie
whose ponytail can only be described as
'misplaced'. They're a gulp of fresh air, an
escape from the current pattern of
College bands, and a challenge to grab.
They're happy and they're not out to
change the world. But they're going up—
under scrutiny from several record
companies their first single is out now.
Listen and learn. See them if you can.
They're going to be huge. IC Ents take
note.
Now, where did I put m y face paint?
Jimmy Rimmer
Honeychile are happenin'. Described as
'London's hottest new dance band,' their
version of the Hendrix classic sounds
fresh off the mixing desk of any
innovatively creative dance group.
The m i x is genuinely stunning. The
original song is by no means alien to the
racy dance beat, complete with blips and
thumps. The rappy verses flow effortlessly
between the soulful catchy choruses.
There's nothing especially adventurous
about it, it's simply contagious.
L u s h
Steppin Stone 12"
The flip starts with the Live Mix of the
lead, a sharper version, completed by ad-
lib hip-hop piano and funk guitar sounds.
The highlight is then the next track,
entitled Bee- Side, a superb snide at the
compulsion to produce an inferior track
just to fill the flip. Laced with such classic
lines as 'So sing it now or we won't get
paid,' it's a jovial tale of desperate song-
writing in the traffic jam o n the way to
the studio (sounds a bit like The Cure).
Utterly brilliant.
SJH
-T&CC 5.11.90
Lush as you would k n o w if you came
from North of the T y n e means dead
good, brilliant etc, and Lush the band
certainly are.
A four piece band from London
consisting of Miki (guitar/vocals), E m m a
(guitar/backing vocals), Steve (bass) and
Chris (drums) they met (apart from
Emma) as students at North London Poly
a few years ago.
Lush have a distinctive sound
combining jingly-jangly guitars with sweet
harmonious vocals. A sort of Cocteau
Twins meet Ride.
The gig began with a spectacular
entrance by E m m a who tripped over a
guitar lead, but all the laughs were lost as
the band plunged into their first number.
The set consisted of all their releases—
from their debut E P 5car, through Mad
Love (which made the top 50) to their
latest EP Sweetness and Light. They even
had to repeat a song for their second
encore! Lush have apparently given some
awful live performances in the past, but
tonight they sounded confident, fluent
and accomplished. If you've got any
sense, you'll go out today and spend the
rest of your grant on A L L three Lush
EPs.
Finally the fresh-faced support act
deserve a mention—Faith Over Reason—
who, despite having popped straight out
of the Sundays mould are a good band in
their o w n right.
Pinky and Perky.
F e l o D e S e—Trap Door
After what seemed an eternity at City
University's Trapdoor, some life on stage
gave the c r o w d something to stir about.
Admittedly, as two sparklers were lit o n
stage, 1 would rather have been round a
bonfire watching a stuffed Guy Fawkes
being burnt.
Felo De Se finally started despite
problems with the P A , namely someone
putting a compressor on it. However the
distinctive band sound, somewhere
between the Breeders and B-52s, pulled
through m a k i n g the first song, Fantasia,
one of the most memorable.
Despite the over-zealous drummer,
there was some immaculate guitar work,
which never lost its excellence. Felo even
attempted Hendrix's Foxy Lady (the
cheeky sods) and coped admirably.
The vocalist's dancing around the stage
with much a r m waving and hanging from
the mike stand was entertaining, but he
should still do the Right Thing, and leave
his female counterpart to do a lot more
singing and less backing. T h e one song
she performed herself, Close The Door,
was superb with beautiful dreamy vocals;
a song you would want to die to.
The keyboards filled in the spaces and
the overall effect was very pleasing. Ents
would be doing no bad thing to have
them play here.
M A K with thanks to Brian
8

