F E L I X 3
Re: UNION MEETING
So Mines have a Chemical Engineer as president then. Ho! Ho!
And he came along to our Union Meeting disguised as a Mines
president. After stripping down to his essentials he humbly requested
leave of absence from the Guilds Union. He further indicated his
desire to exchange R.C.S. for Bedford to provide fresh openings for
social intercourse. Year rep. elections followed and a corpse was
brought up .wrapped in candlewick shroud. He was resuscitated by
the Kiss of Life Method and was promptly elected 2nd year Aero'
rep. He shuffled off, and replaced his trousers.
Mike Cox was measured for his Maroon and Grey Guilds Coat,
using a micrometer and a plumb line. Rod 'Monty' Jones (I. C.
and Bar) gave a lucid tactics briefing for Morphy Day. He also
proposed a minor assault on London Transport to include a punch-
up of 300 6d tickets. He suggested training might be necessary.
He warned us of the danger of R.C.S. men who wet themselves and
implied that they should be hung out to dry. A t the end of the
meeting about 200 U L U handbooks were rapidly distributed on
mass and instantaneously Bob then Boomalacked.
Seven-tenthsv
of
top dons
and teachers
take THE TIMES
So only this: these particularTop People must
jkeep themselves fully and widely informed.
They must be aware not only of happenings
in their particular field, but of discussion and
comment onquestionsofthe day, internation*
al news, politics and the arts. For all this, they
turn to The Times. •
You may not want to be a top don or top
teacher: lots of people don't. But the same is
true of top civil servants, top businessmen,
top politicians. Whatever kind of top person
you hope to be, it's not too early to get in
training now by taking The Times regularly.
Especially since, as a student, you're entitled
to it at half price: ask your newsagent or
write to The Times Subscription Manager.
* The exactfigureis 69-82966%, We are aware
that this is a little less than seven-tenths: please
do not write to point this out. Do write, however,
if you would be interested in an account of the
research which produced these and many other
revealingfigures-.Who are Top People? What do
they think on the important issues of the day?
Write to The Times (Department SP), Printing
House Square, London EC4,
ROYAL VISIT
When I looked out of my
window on Tuesday (Royal
Visit) morning, I chanced to
notice the flag pole which had
been erected for the visit, gainly
painted in Guilds colours. It
looked most tastefully done, but
an O M O man had washed it
shining white again by 2.00. I
wonder if it was a Guildsman
who designed the chairs used for
the seating of guests at the
opening? The Ned Spoons Tea-
Roome Ensemble stopped play-
ing '76 Trombones' (for violin,
viola, harp and trumpet), a
gentleman whispered "Stand up"
—Every-one stood up, and
Silence-^one could ^ hear a
Spanner drop ... except for the
continuous creaking of a^million
Death Watch Beetles (aren't the
Beetles fabulous!) creak, creak,
the timbers of the chairs un-
stressing after 395 assorted bot-
toms had left contact.
M O R P H Y DAY
Finally a pre-reminder of the
Morphy Day date—October
30th. When you have read and
remembered this date carefully
erase it from your copy of
Felix so that neither London
Transport nor the News of the
World get to know about it.
Write it in code in your U.L.U.
diary. And why did the book-
stall sell out before I could get
mine?
—Departmental—.
Column I
This column is being started
as a regular item; contributions
from departments are welcomed.
Professor R. A . L . Black has
been appointed the new Head of
Department of Mining and Min-
eral Technology at the R.S.M.
Professor Black is not new to
the R.S.M. since he graduated
from there in 1946. His studies
were interrupted by the war,
during which he served in the
Royal Naval Air Branch and
was awarded the D.S.O. In 1946
he went out to South Africa and
held positions with a number of
mining companies before being
appointed Professor of Mining
Engineering and Head of De-
partment of Mining, University
of Witwatersand. He served as
Dean of the Faculty of Engineer-
ing from 1958-1960.
Research in the R.SJV1.
A number of research pro-
jects are. being carried out in the
R.S.M. One member of staff and
two P.G.s are concerned with the
deformation of strata and the
way it is affected by friction at
the interfaces; also with the
mechanical behaviour of fractur-
ed rock and the manner in which
this depends on fracture pat-
tern.
Mick Gibbons
60 SOUTH H I L L P A R K , LONDON, N.W.3.
Hampstead 1684
ACCOMODATION Research Students ACCOMODATION
A T : T E Y F O R D A V E N U E , ACTON, W.3.
near Ealing Common (Piccy.)
& West Acton (Cent.) State.
Fur. S/Cont. Garden Flat: own entrance & hall; 3 large
rooms, kit. & bath. Suit four p.-grads.
10 guineas a week.
Fur. S/Cont. Maisonette: own entrance; 6-7 rooms kit. &
bath. Suit six p.-grads. £18 a week.
—both about to be redecorated—
Enquire Harcourt at the above address.
AVAILABLE on 12th Oct.:
Small flatlet for two ladies or gentlemen. Linen and light
supplied. Use of phone, room service. £2.2.0 each.
Similar flatlet available from 26th Oct.
Ring V A N 1952. 49 bus route.

