E D I T O R I A L
F E L I X
THE STUDENT AND HIS POSITION
As the years pass and old students are replaced by new, the
responsibility for the affairs of the Union passes into fresh hands.
Council and the Executive are replaced annually and inevitably the
transition from experience to inexperience takes place over the long
summer vacation. This is unfortunate, for it means that the threads
of the previous body are not easy to pick up after so long a lapse.
Thus a logical and progressive line is difficult to maintain over the
years.
This system plays into the hands of the College Authorities. In
the perpetual struggle for power the Union and the College have not
always worked together. Every year it seems, in the absence of
the Executive to protect the interests of the students, the College
takes another step in what appears to be a steady transfer of res-
ponsibility from the Union to the staff. Each year the newly
elected President must either accept his diminishing power (and
that of his Union) as inevitable, or he must take firm stand at the
time at which he is most vulnerable.
This year we had the sad saga of the Hall Regulations as reported
elsewhere in this issue. But for firm and prompt action by the
President and Secretary, the occupants of the Halls would have
found themselves under a set of rules which had no constitutional
basis whatever. Paragraph 19 of the Hall Regulations states that
no change of regulation may be made without the approval of the
Tall Committee; to introduce new regulations over the summer
vacation was clearly an attempt to circumnavigate the wishes of
the student. The Union must in its own interests familiarize itself
thoroughly with the various aspects of its constitution. The Hall
Committees themselves might do well to study the booklet of re-
gulations, whereupon they can bargain from a position of strength.
Now that there are 7 halls it might prove sensible to coordinate
the various Hall Committees by forming a central committee; this
would ensure that the expansion and growth of all the halls re-
mains uniform.
DISCIPLINE OR BE DISCIPLINED
It may well be argued that the Union is unfit to govern itself
because of its increasing immaturity. If we are to continue ad-
ministering our own affairs as it is seemly for a University so to
do, then we must prove ourselves capable of maintaining discipline.
This is especially necessary in the Halls of Residence; the disciplin-
ary officers must perform a positive function and must work from
a position of respect.
The past year has shown that it is often those in the positions
of highest authority that turn up night after night in an advanced
state of alcoholic inebriation. To respect these people is impossible,
and to expect the authorities to believe that they are capable of
administering the regulations is ridiculous. THE PEOPLE IN
THESE POSTS MUST REMAIN AWARE OF THEIR RESPONS-
IBILITIES AT A L L TIMES. Perhaps a student body with the
authority to fine offenders might help improve the image of the
College.
In short, only if the Union can prove itself responsible, especially
with regard to the Halls of Residence, can it possibly present a case
for the retention of its authority.
FLY WITH UNIVERSITY
AIR SQUADRON
F E L I X
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
J. M . C O M B E S
E D I T O R
Nick Walker—Production Manager
Chris Bagnall—Assistant Editor
Howard Moore—Sales Manager
Ian Jones—Advertising Manager
Jo Smith—-Sports Editor
Peter Riding—Social Editor
Ian Williams—Stop Press Editor
Edward Babb—Stop Press
Printer
Roger Henson—Publicity
'The University Air Squadron'
—you think this means marching
about in heavy uniform perhaps,
or else spending hours cleaning
it, or just a mass of Bull? Well,
you're wrong, you see.
The Squadron's sole reason for
existence is to teach undergradu-
ates, like yourself, perhaps, to
fly aeroplanes really well. You
are even paid most handsomely
for your trouble, including a tax-
free bounty of £35 annually.
Now some facts; the squadron
was formed in 1935 to promote
a serious interest in flying
throughout the University. It's
primary aim is not to recruit,
but to make undergraduates 'air-
minded', and it doesn't matter
what degree you are reading for.
The Squadron is an R.A.F.V.R.
unit but is staffed by regular
R.A.F. officers and airmen.
There is no commitment
whatsoever to join the R.A.F.
But of course if you do decide
to join, then you're off to a fly-
ing start (literally).
"What is there in it for me?"
you may ask. Well, you get an
annual minimum of forty hours
flying on Chipmunk aircraft un-
der highly qualified professional
R.A.F. instructors. You get a
fortnight's continuous flying on
an R.A.F. station during the
summer vacation. During your
training you aim to reach basic
'wings' standard, after which you
are commissioned as a Pilot Of-
ficer. During all your training,
however, you live like an officer
in an Officers' Mess. That's not
all, though.
You get an admission to the
most exclusive Social Club in
the University with regular part-
ies and dances in first rate com-
pany. Ask anyone who's been
there.
"This sounds all right", you
say to yourself. "What's the
catch"? Well, you're expected to
fly for one week-end a month
and to attend the Squadron
Headquarters in Princes Gar-
dens, just next to the new Halls
of Residence for lectures on
Thursdays evenings, after which
the bar stays open until the last
member leaves. You must also
go to the annual camp, mention-
ed above; hardly a catch!
Above all, you must be good.
About 250 people compete for
approximately 25 places each
year and there is no room for
a person who just wants cheap
flying or the excellent pay.
Why do we bother to advert-
ise?
We advertise because we need
more really good people, who
must incidentally have excellent
eye-sight, and you may just be
the person we want. If you feel
you are good enough, then we
want to see you.
The Editor will be pleased to
supply application forms on re-
quest through the Union rack,
or you can apply direct to
University of London
Air Squadron,
48 Princes Gardens, S.W.7.
Good flying!
P.S. You don't have to grow a
handle-bar moustache but no
beards need apply!
NOTE : Applicants must be
between 14J and 26, with at
least two years to go at Univers-
ity.
LATE NEWS
A late news sheet will be
printed on the Gestetner at the
last possible moment (Tuesday
Night), and distributed free
with Felix. There will be a l i -
mited number printed, and these
must only be taken when you
have bought your Felix.
FELIX SALES
1500 copies of the Freshers
issue were printed, and only 50
remain. Money was collected for
about 1300. This means the
paper has lost about two pounds
ten. PAY FOR YOUR FELIX.
SHORT TAKES
Dept. of History of Science
and Technology: Prof. Rupert
Hall will make his dept. known
to students by a series of 16
lectures on Mechanism in
thought and practice in E E 408
at 5p.m. on Mondays, starting
Oct. 14th. AH students may at-
tend.
The General Studies organis-
ers are planning a pre-election
address by representatives of the
three political parties some time
in the spring.

