F E L I X 7'
Ex-Editor Interviews
CAMERON
Dr. Cameron, Warden of Tizard Hall, studied at both I. C. and
Cambridge, and is now on the Mechanical Engineering staff.
At an interview with Felix, he was asked his views on the new
Halls of Residence.
"These halls, unless we make use of them, will be a failure.
They are not for use merely as bed and breakfast efforts; they are
built as separate units—the architecture clearly indicates that. One
floor in four is designed for student activities, and if it is not used
for this purpose, all that money will be wasted.
"These halls are designed for the students of I.C. to lead a
better, fuller life. We want to contribute something to this—that
is my job as far as I see it."
"I refer you to the comments that you are trying to compete
with the Union."
"Not at all. If the units are small, more people will take an
active part."
Dr. Cameron then went on to
say that since so many students
take no part in Union or sport-
ing activities, because of the
organisation's unwieldy size, the
only solution is to start a rival.
"Would you be quite happy
to leave the constituent college
unions as they are? Don't you
think there would be rivalry?"
"There is plenty of room for
all."
"So much untapped talent for
rival societies?"
"Not untapped; not rival—ad-
ditional. This question assumes
that everybody in the three con-
stituent colleges is fully occupied
in the three Unions. That is not
true. There is a vast number of
people who do nothing in the
college. If a student is in a small
unit, he is automatically brought
into the activities. In a unit of
120 in residence, 240 out, mak-
ing 360 in all, everybody would
know each other over the three
years in College. As I see it, if
a man is a member of a Hall, he
remains a member whether in
residence or out. I refuse to con-
cede this as rival to the Union.
People must realise that I.C. can-
not go on without being pro-
foundly changed by these Halls."
Felix then asked Dr. Cameron
whether he had any plans for
future activities in Hall:—
"Heans, but all so nebulous.
We are auite good at running
parties. The Sherry Party for
local residents was a great suc-
cess, they were most interested
in the students. It is interesting
for the ordinary student to meet
and get to know a Managing
Director, or Television Produc-
er."
Dr. Cameron finished by say-
ing how much regard he held for
last year's President and this
year's-—they were really interest-
ed in the proper use of these
Halls, and had had many dis-
cussions together on the matter.
"What we really want", he said,
"is to have some positive sug-
gestions as to how best use these
Halls of Residence."
A. T. Pawlowicz
BLACKETT RESIGNS
The resignation of Professor
Blackett, head of I.C. Physics
department, has been accepted
by the Governing body. The
Governors wish to record their
great appreciation of his service
over the crucial years of expans-
ion of the College. Professor
Blacket will remain as a Profes-
sor of Physics and Pro-Rector
of the College.
POLITICAL FUTURE
This new move by Blackett
adds weight to the speculation
at present in Fleet Street, that
he is a serious contender for a
post in Harold Wilson's govern-
ment—should Labour get in.
Professor But'.er has been ap-
pointed in his place.
| *0PEN
The idea that having an account with a nation-wide bank like the
Midland is something reserved for people of substantial means is a
fallacy. So also is the belief that banks are interested only in those
who are older and already established. The Midland Bank is inter-
ested in YOU — and all young people like you. You would find a
bank account extremely useful for, besides the convenience of pay-
ing bills by cheque, you will find that it helps you to keep track of
your expenditure.
M i d l a n d B a n k
THE GO-AHEAD BANK FOR GO-AHEAD PEOPLE

