20
Notes to a fresher: What would you say to a fresher?
FELIX
FRIDAY, 21ST
FEBRUARY, 2020
BOOKS books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With a click and a twist, the coffee grounds fit snugly inside me. I watch
your bleary morning eyes perk up as the familiar smell hits. You look me
up and down, eager for my taste, but be patient. Soon I’ll have that cup
hot and steaming for you, keeping you warm, soothing last night’s head-
ache - I can make you feel oh-so alive again. Don’t think me a hollow
temptress. Have a sip… a touch of foam so soft on the lips, a bitter kick,
liquid silk. Drink up fresher. How could you resist?
-Your caffeine-laden lover, Nadia
4th Year Mechanical Engineering
It doesn’t smell like fall yet, but already the faintness of copper outlines
itself in the sunsets. I see it everyday, how the sun rises a little less over the
glass of the library’s top floors.
They are soon coming. Freshers who will quickly forget to appreciate
these things. The beautiful ones, the simple ones. Instead, they will bury
their heads in coursework and lecture notes. They will swarm in minutes
before nine, late again with their hair dripping wet. And I? I will watch
them as my shadow stretches in winter and cold until I am no longer a
source of pride but a reminder of once incredulous awe.
I will only be the backdrop in their parents’ photographs: one taken on
move-in day and one on graduation, but otherwise? I wonder if they even
noticed me.
-Ines
3rd Year Materials Science and Engineering
Don’t be gullible! The accidents? They’re tall tales. Rumors manifested in
the gruesome minds of students acting as a lure. As you are soon to find
out, I don’t need rumors for allure; I am allure.
When the twilight fades to blackness, and the tempo of the city slows, this
is when I come alive. The streetlamps and windows dim to my presence;
a radiant, blue aura that defies the night sky. I invite you to stare. And for
that one fleeting moment, allow me to show you how the darkness can
suddenly feel like home.
-George Papasotiriou
4th Year Mechanical Engineering
Are these really the best years of your life? Watching pigeons fight sea-
gulls on Queen’s lawn and waiting for the scorching scoop of slop they’re
serving today at Fusion? Well, don’t look so dour just yet.
It’s true that after these years you’ll no longer be told to live to the fullest.
You’ll just be expected to live. A cog in the globalist machine, your wild-
est dreams will be clocking out early once in a fortnight. What should
you do then?
Cherish the fleeting fits of passion and water the blackened earth with
your tears of disappointment. Stand tall on the platforms of success where
all before you looks conquerable; don’t look down. If you’re not foolish
now, when will you be? Take that leap. Tune in and turn on. Whether you
do or you do not, I guarantee that Future You will neither forgive nor
forget.
-Martin Flerin
3rd Year Chemistry
I appreciate your curiosity. Taking a moment to look around, finding a
folded note taped under these handrails. Then, drawn by the allure of
some secret within, left no choice but to open it. Now please, don’t slow
down on my behalf, but do tell me about yourself?
I see. I remember my first day here. And since then, a constant erosion
and reassembly of that person under a surgery I myself supervised. Yes,
this is a ship entirely in your hands, even if I am giving my blessing to
your mutineers. But don’t look so afraid. That fear of change will have to
be the first thing to go!
Now, look up! Here’s the last step. There’s the sign that says CAGB, 6th-
floor. But what do you see through the window? You will pass by many
times a day, for years now, but don’t let that gradually shield your eyes,
from the wonder of what you behold at this moment. Maybe we will even
speak again. Ah, you want to know who I am. Well, does it really matter?
-Anon
3rd Year Bioengineering
You should really have bought me. I was—after all—on the reading list.
But you didn’t. Not when you realised that my cost could go towards
other things, like coffee, or ballpoint pens, or those little packs of salted
cashews they have at SAF Café. How lucky you are to have found me just
lying here. Go on, slip me into your backpack, and ignore the suspicious
remains of a library tag barely hidden inside my cover. Instead, notice
my 51-page index, added to guide you through my 3,082 grams of uncut
waffle. Please, take me home with you. I’m awfully lonely.
-James Hooker
3rd Year Biochemistry
All icons are obtained from Icons8 // Icons8

