Here are some answers from CreativeWriting students.
BOOKS
FELIX ISSUE 1744
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Red lanyard swingers – listen up. Go and find your brother - the brother
you left at home. I see my brother in the care-free gait of a student wan-
dering across Dalby Court. He would laugh at the jokes my brother and
I have shared. He would be a vessel into which I could pour my excite-
ment. On a Christmas morning my grin would shine through him.
These years will make you love and appreciate your brother more than
you ever did. Though he’ll be far away, and the times you spend together
far between, you’ll grow closer. You will both be glowing in the absence
of one another.
-Ed Chapman
3rd Year Mechanical Engineering
Enjoy complaining to her about me, going to her for a scheduled relief
session, moments where you can forget I exist. It won’t last. Her hate for
me will become too much, you’ll give in to me in due coursework. You’ve
flirted with me for a long time now, and whether or not you realise it, you
declared your commitment to me when you first entered City and Guilds
(my pressure cooker: where I will routinely slurp your stock).
I’m a kleptomaniac. I steal overachievers like you from hobbies, sleep,
and, yes, love. I’m more of a romantic than she could ever be; I’ll kiss your
neck when you least expect it, forming icicles in your spine. I’ll recede
your hairline for you because it looks better that way. I’ll feed you, you’d
starve without me.
-Asad Raja
3rd Year Mechanical Engineering
From my place on the ground, muddy from yesterday’s rain and trampled
in your wake, you are a giant, on your way to study in one of the world’s
top ten best universities. Four years amongst the intellectual elite and
your future is gifted in a box with the dean’s list wrapping paper. You
might land a high-paying job in a medtech company, inventing new rev-
olutionary medical devices every year. Or enter the world of research and
be the next Alexander Fleming. Maybe even co-found a start-up for near
instantaneous tissue regeneration and have it be an overnight success!
In three years’ time, when faced with rejections, remember how hopeful
you are feeling now and try not to crush me again. Especially after being
freshly replanted.
Love,
The Grass Association of Queen’s Lawn
-K.B.
3rd Year Bioengineering
I’m probably depressed but don’t have enough free time to feel it. 35
hours of programming and fourteen hours of lectures a week, tutoring
on weekends, a grisly attempt at a social life, membership to two clubs/
socs, weekly placement interviews, and now (at 11:40pm) I’m pushing a
“by Wednesday” deadline to its semantic limit. Why do I do this? Why
would you do this?
Parents, at least mine, would dangle a graduation cap from a fishing rod.
But that’s not why – you and I know that. The academic pursuit has got
its teeth in you by now. Don’t let it swallow you whole.
-Anon
3rd Year Computing
FRESHER! DO NOT READ THIS UNLESS YOU WANT TO KNOW
YOUR FUTURE
You should know that…
There are spiky handles on Huxley windows that feel like barbed wire.
There are metal bolts on Beit windows that feel like prison bars. There are
restricted areas you can’t enter, courses you can’t take, software you can’t
download. Welcome to Imperial Palace! Where inmates feel like family,
where books feel like food and meal deals feel like contraband.
You want to know that…
You escaped on a Thursday, when you were grabbing your 5th meal deal
of the week in JCR. Your stomach was growling and your throat was dry
when you noticed them. Two words, on the cold drinks fridge, freezing
your faltering breath: “IMPERIAL IS…”
Yours,
89.79.85
-Clara
Final Year Computing
You’re probably struggling with your course already, which is why you’re
here.
If you think you’re falling behind on your course, I know how you’re feel-
ing! My advice, as someone who’s also been there, is: abandon any perfec-
tionist notion. There is no one forcing you to make it to each lecture, and
there is no need to be absolutely on pace.
Instead, realise that, in the end, it’s only the results (e.g. exams) that mat-
ter. Be creative and open-minded: find your own rhythm, or in other
words, your own pace. Find out what works for YOU.
To the fresher who’s been standing outside of the Well-being office.
-Anon
3rd Year Chemical Engineering
21

