Thinking about standing?
Union Page
Grab your Early Bird Summer Ball tickets
Are you ready for Varsity 2020?
Nominations deadline is fast approaching
#icuElections
Not sure why you should stand for a position in The Leadership Elections? If
elected to represent the student body, you will have the opportunity to shape
the College and Union, helping drive change within your CSP
, the Union or
wider College. By nominating yourself for a position in the elections, you’ll get
the chance to meet other students and also develop relationships across the
Imperial community. Standing for a role will also help you gain transferable
skills and incease your employability.You can make a difference in almost 800
roles available. From Union President to President of a Constituent Union, you
can be the voice of your fellow students. You could also lead your peers as a
Departmental Faculty Rep, Liberation & Community Officer or even a Student
Trustee. If you know someone that would make a great candidate, you can give
them a ‘nudge’ at imperialcollegeunion.org/nudge.
Read about all the roles and find the one that best suits you at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections. Nominations close at noon on Friday 28
February.
The ImperialVarsity 2020 is just a week away! Come and cheer along Imperial
College and Imperial Medics as they compete across multiple sports for the
18th year.
Join the teams on Friday 28 February at Ethos and on Saturday 29 February at
Heston, as well as hockey fixtures onWednesday 26 February at Harlington.
In addition to all the matches, there will also be many activities, including live
entertainment, a chillout zone, face painting, food and drink stalls and more.You
don’t want to miss the biggest event in the sporting calendar, so buy your ticket
before they sell out at imperialcollegeunion.org/varsity.
For a limited time, there are still Early Bird tickets available to Summer Ball -
Enchanted Forest.This year your ticket includes a choice of a main and a dessert
from one of our delicious food vendors, a Prosecco reception, and one of the
biggest headlining acts we’ve ever had! You can also expect all of your usual
favourites, including fairground rides and a fireworks display.
In the lead up to our headliner announcement, we’ve been dropping hints over
on the Summer Ball 2020 Facebook event page. In case you missed it, our first
clue is: Our headliner’s debut album reached number 1 in the UK charts, and
one of their songs has over 31 MILLION streams on Spotify! Be sure to hit
‘attending’ on the event, and get your Early Bird tickets now at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball.

