Last year's editor, Bill Goodwin faces a possible maximum 12 year jail term
tomorrow as he defends his journalistic integrity
Felix Editor to bejailed?
Last year's FELIX Editor, Bill Goodwin,
may be sent to prison today for contempt
of court after refusing to reveal the source
of a news story he was working on.
Mr Goodwin, who is a trainee journalist
on The Engineer, was ordered to hand
over the notes of a telephone conversation
with the source by 3pm yesterday. He
refused to comply with the order and could
be sentenced to up to twelve years in
prison and fined an unlimited amount at
a hearing at 2pm today.
Mr Goodwin is to appeal against the
judgement in the Court of Appeal next
Wednesday. He has been backed in his
actions by the National Union of
Journalists and the Press Council.
The source is believed to have stolen a
report detailing a draft business plan for
a company which is seeking a large loan
from city bankers. The source telephoned
Mr Goodwin the day after the report went
missing from an unattended room at the
company's offices.
The company cannot be named, but has
been described as 'privately owned and in
the past successful in its field'. It wishes
to bring proceedings against the source tor
recovery of the document, an injunction
against further publication and damages
for the expense to which it has been put.
Mr Goodwin gained a degree in
Mechanical Engineering at Imperial
College before becoming FELIX Editor
in 1988. He has worked for The Engineer
since leaving College last July.
The case will make legal history if M r
Goodwin's appeal fails. It will leave the
path open for many other courtroom
plaintifs to force the imprisonment of
journalists who fail to reveal their sources
in non-state offences.
St Mary's Dean destroys FELLX in burst of moral outrage and bad manners
Farenheit 451
And what seems to be your problem?
The Dean of St. Marys Hospital Medical
School, Professor Peter Richards, ordered
the 'binning' of last weeks Felix following
his disapproval of the cover and contents,
thus denying his students the opportunity
to read it and wasting an estimated £40
of ICU money. Professor Richards refuses
to talk to Felix about the incident, despite
being pressed to do so.
He has sent a memorandum to Felix
explaining the reasons for his actions.
Reasons include the possibility of causing
serious offence to patients inside the
hospital, patients often suffering from
sexually transmitted diseases .In this
memo he claimed that students from St
Mary's and all the other constituent
colleges would support him if consulted.
The Rector of Imperial College told
Felix that he thought the pornography
article 'was reasonable', though he
expressed doubts as to the wisdom of the
photographs on the front cover. On being
asked if he would ever resort to the same
censorious action he replied 'I've been in
many awkward situations in my life—I
don't have to imagine any new ones'.
FELIX Editor, Mr. Dave Smedley "
responded by saying ' I cannot believe his
(Professor Richards') arrogance'.

