Scientists know a geat deal about the beginning of the Universe. Religion still lays claim to thefirstfr
ofa second however. John Hassard explains the latest work at CERN's new Large Electron Positron (LE
God: reducing Her job description
Recently, the Pope endorsed the efforts of scientists
studying the beginnings of the Universe. Our theories
and experiments say that about 15 billion years ago
our Universe began with the Big Bang. The Pope has
claimed the period before that event as the exclusive
preserve of theology but he need not worry about the
scientists' encroaching on his turf: to look at Big Bang
energies, we would need particle accelerators the size
of the Universe! One Physicist recently bragged that
the new accelerators were not doing away with God,
but merely reducing Her job description. The most
important lesson to be learnt from particle physics is
just how little we know, and how the Universe's
imagination is so much better than ours.
When we study particles at high energies, we are
probing the Universe at its extremes: we are studying
the fundamental building blocks of nature and the
nature of the Universe almost at the beginning of time.
As we increase the energy with which we probe the
universe, we decrease the size of the smallest
structure we can resolve. Our most usual tools for this
'microscope' technique are accelerators.
Last week saw the official opening of a new
accelerator, LEP. The King of Sweden visited the site,
as did the President of Switzerland. Even President
Mitterand took time out from worrying about Germany
to marvel at LEP's extraordinary engineering and our
preliminary results. Britain sent Mr. Robert Jackson.
Big science is very expensive, the UK alone provide
£50m for CERN, but its goals are correspondingly
large. It could be said that the statesmen and women
who attended saw the best example of huge,
ambitious international collaborations cooperating
towards profound goals and with technologies
unrivalled in complexity outside the military arena.
We think that the Universe began as an
extraordinarily hot burst of energy. As It cooled,
structures 'froze' out. These are well described by a
remarkably simple picture, in which phenomena at all
ranges of energy and distance are governed by the
same sort of rules. There would appear to be four
forces and only a limited number of fundamental
particles, all related to each other by the so-called
Standard Model.
The model describes the way the building blocks of
nature - the quarks and leptons - are related to each
other and to the four known forces. The LEP
accelerator is the biggest, most accurately made
machine in the World and will probably provide the
best insight into how the model performs.
So what are we doing at LEP? Science consists of
taking a hypothesis and testing it against experiments.
If the experiments disprove or are not quite compatible
with the theory, the theory is thrown out or modified.
LEPers would like nothing better than to expose the
weaknesses of the Standard Model, find its flaws, and
if possible smash it to bits.
It is more likely that we will find something that says
that the Standard Model is OK as far as it goes but
is not the whole picture. As babies, we knew about
gravity: our food fell on the floor when thrown. As
adults we can write down gravitational equations
which can predict the way the mass of a star can bend
light itself. In the same way, our view of the Standard
Model might be correct, but bears as much relation
to the real picture as my young nephew's view of
gravity does to Einstein's.
It is already known that the Standard Model is
inadequate in many ways. It EXPLAINS almost
nothing, although it provides a framework for
describing a lot. For example, where does mass come
from? Prof. Higgs of Edinburgh suggests that it is due
to a particle known as the Higgs' Boson. How are the
particles responsible for forces related to those
responsible for mass? A new symmetry known as
super-symmetry has been put forward, but as yet
there is no evidence to back it up.
There are also many issues which are ill-understood.
Where is the last missing quark, known as the Top
Quark. Why do we get violation of a simple symmetry
in nature, known as charge-parity? It is like looking
into a mirror, raising your right hand and seeing your
reflection also raise its right hand.
We have not really begun to answer to really
important questions:
• The generation puzzle, why are there distinct
families of quarks?
• Why does our universe appear to have more protons
and neutrons than anti-protons and anti-neutrons?
• The quark-lepton connection, why do their families
look so similar?
• Unification of all forces, why do all forces appear
the same as we probe deeper? Some people have
proposed a theory incorporating string-like entities
known as Superstrings but no experiments have ever
been proposed to test it. Is it a theory if it is
untestable?
• What is the Universe made of anyway?
Gravitational studies imply that the Universe cannot
be explained in terms of the matter we can see. One
suggestion is that 9/10 of the universe is not made
up of quarks and leptons but of something now called
Dark Matter. Imperial College is heavily involved in an
experiment to study this possibility. It involves making
a new detector capable of measuring the SOUND a
particle of Dark Matter makes as it hits a crystal
lattice.
LEP will be a surgeon's scalpel to the Standard
Model. It is already established, after only a couple
of weeks, that there are likely to be only three families
of neutrinos, 3.2,^0.3 in physics parlance. That
information might not sound like it is worth £50m, but
it implies a lot.
Physics relies and sits on beautiful intellectual
edifices, highly dependant on symmetries. If there are
just three families of neutrinos then there are probably
just three families of quarks. In other words, all visible
matter, whether in Geneva or in the Crab Nebula,
whether now, or a thousand millionth of a second
after the Big Bang, belongs to one of these three
groups.
Another result already out concerns the way that
the primeval burst of energy turned into mass, literally
how the universe began. This transformation is
certainly governed by Einstein's E = mc2
, but the
precise process, known as hadronisation, lies in the
realms of the difficult subject of Quantum
Chromodynamics. Many models have been proposed
over the last few years and our data will help model
builders in their next attempts.
What next? We may get a chance at the Higgs and
the Top. We will study in depth the possibilities of
Supersymmetry. It could be that, in a few months time
we may find out that there are 3.2^0.01 families.
Since a fractional number of families is impossible, it
will tell us that there is more out there than we
thought. Optimists think that we may see
substructure in quarks. Best of all, we will get
something not on this shopping list, something
unexpected, something that gives us INSIGHT.
Page 10

