Nathalie Lieske retells her experience as a studentfrom Imperial College
at CERN during the summer.
A student's viewpoint
As a scientific site CERN is unique. Your first
impression is of stark buildings and large warehouses
scattered at random. Gradually the organisation
becomes apparent and the excitement and energy of
the people involved makes the place vibrant and
attractive. There are two cafeterias, a hostel for
people on temporary stays, a bank, a post office and
a few newspaper shops.
The people at CERN enjoy what they are doing; at
meal times the bars are full of people chatting and
joking, and talking enthusiastically about their work.
There are both experimentalists and theorists at
CERN, some of whom are there permanently, some
visiting. This flow of people from all over the world
creates an environment in which any manner of
attitudes and outlooks are acceptable.
CERN is humming 24 hours a day. The bar stays
open until 1am and opens again at 6am so there is
no feeling of working in an isolated place.
To run an experiment it takes resources. The
technology involved in these experiments is so
complex that specialised groups are responsible for
different parts of it. The machinists who take care of
generating the required particles, for example.
Different experiments are given different priorities and
the machinist's time is dictated by many factors.
Thus, there are many constraints, and when a group
is allocated time to run, they must make 24 hour use
of the facilities. Therefore, all the members of the
group, from all the different universities working on
the experiment, must go to CERN and work in shifts
around the clock. Usually these shifts are eight hours
long; the number per week depends on the number
of people available to take them.
At the same time, these people must also do
physical analysis of the data. This usually involves
working on computers, running and writing programs.
Afterwards, the results must be matched to the
theory.
I went to CERN as a summer student for three
months during the summer, and was placed on a
'target experiment', where particles are thrown at a
target surrounded by detectors all around and behind
the target. I was there from the installation of the
experiment until the end of the run.
I learnt what was involved in the trigger electronics,
helping to make sure it was wired correctly and I ran
shifts. There was even the excitement of firemen
turning up one night; a false alarm! This experiment
is one of the smaller ones, comprising only 30 people
and I was therefore able to grasp the main elements
of the experiment.
Now I am doing a PhD in high energy and working
on ALEPH, one of the four detectors on the LEP ring.
My responsibility is analysing the data. It is very
exciting and challenging, and the more I study, the
more I like it.
'A funny thing happened on the way to the lab'
Scientific Humour Wanted
Please send all entries to: The Science Editor, FELIX
^his
Week
• Are children living near nuclear power stations
more likely to suffer from leukaemia and Hodgkin's
disease? Even the nuclear industry admits that there
are unusually large numbers of sufferers near its
power stations and reprocessing plants although it has
always refused to accept any blame. Now it has the
backing of a medical report.
The report, in a recent edition of the Lancet,
concludes that there is some unidentified feature of
the sites, other than the low-levels of radioactivity,
causing the disease. Researchers working at the
Imperial Cancer Research Fund's Oxford Laboratories
compared childhood mortality rates from areas near
nuclear plants to those from similar but 'clean' areas
being considered for nuclear plants. The two sets of
results were said to be 'strikingly similar'.
There is now more evidence that low-levels of
radioactivity do not cause disease. The researchers
have less certain results for the one site where both
the level of radioactivity and the risk of cancer are
both unusually high. The site is Sellafield.
• In America, the Cold Fusion Advisory Panel of the
Department of Energy (DoE) has recommended that
cold fusion experiments should be given no special
support. However, the Panel is split as to whether cold
fusion is possible. One of its co-chairmen, Professor
John Huizenga of the University of Rochester claims
that there is now no plausible evidence of heat-
producing cold- fusion. The other co-chairman, Nobel
Laureate Norman Ramsey, believes that the process
has yet to be convincingly disproved. All agreed that
more work was needed, but it should not have too
high a priority.
• Physicists will be travelling to Antarctica to start
building the first optical telescope at the South Pole.
The telescope will consist of an array of ten 1 metre
wide heated-mirrors arranged on the ice and designed
to detect the flashes of light made as ultra-high-energy
particles pass through the upper atmosphere. It should
be completed in three-years time.
• A West German court has stopped the Hoechst
chemical company from finishing the construction of
a plant designed to produce insulin using genetically
engineered bacteria. The court ruled that it could not
grant a licence for the plant as there are no legal
regulations covering genetic engineering. The German
Government has been discussing such laws for the
past year and the court's decision will increase the
pressure to implement them. Hoechst may try an
appeal to a higher court.
• An increase in solar activity has been blamed for
blacking out most of the Canadian province of
Quebec. The unusually high electrical activity tripped
safety cut-outs in the power lines. Expect more such
incidents as the Sun builds up to its 11 year maximum
in February.
• In California, creationists fighting plans to give
evolution a more central place in the school
curriculum, have scored a minor victory. To appease
the christian fundamentalists, members of the
California Board of Education insisted on adding extra
phrases to the guidelines for science teaching. Classes
will now be taught that some people reject evolution
on religious grounds.
• Plug. On Tuesday 28th November Nigel Henbest
will be talking about 'The New Astronomy' in Physics
LT2.
Page 11

