Mascotry bargain basementby Simon Banton
Early in the morning of March 14, 1989, two people
climbed into the Mines ground floor storeroom through
an open window. They emerged several minutes later
carrying the RSMU mascot, Davy. Everyone expected
that Davy would be handed back in return for a large
amount of money raised for Rag. Sadly, everyone was
wrong.
The Royal School of Mines Union, possibly the most
autonomous of Imperial's Constituent College Unions,
is justly very proud of its traditions and history. The
annual rugby match against Cambourne for the
'Bottle' is the second oldest varsity match in the
country, and receives great support. This just makes
the lack of interest in present college traditions, more
specifically Davy, all the more curious.
Perhaps the hope that RSMU would actually make
an effort to raise any money for Rag was ill-founded.
After all, the last time Davy was violated, in 1983-84,
RSMU were less than keen to get him back. After
months of trying to get the miners involved in any kind
of fund-raising activity, RCSU eventually had to give
up. In the end, Davy was returned for the proceeds
of six hours collecting outside Harrods, a mere
£167.83.
It is sad to see that in the years since then, nothing
much has changed. Even in a time of more and more
mergers, RSMU seem content to let their identity slip
away into Just another insignificant part of the
University of London.
The attitude of Mines is in complete contrast to that
of City and Guilds College Union who, last year, after
the theft of Spanner and Bolt, managed to raise
£1,100 for their return. This was accomplished in
various ways, some silly (showing your knees to the
Rector), but all of them fun, and not impossible to
achieve. At least City and Guilds seem to want to keep
their individuality and self-respect.
Is it really too much to ask that Mines should at least
attempt to raise some money. It is surely a damning
indictment of the apathy present in RSM as a whole,
that even at four days notice, not one miner could be
bothered to turn up to the RCSU Smoking Concert as
requested. Even at six days notice, not a single
member of RSMU could struggle out of bed by early
evening to accompany RCSU members on a pub crawl
in order to raise money for Leukaemia Research. In
fact, it was even too much of a struggle to inform
RCSU of their impending non-arrival.
Many people will argue that mascotry is a waste
of time, achieving nothing. Apart from helping to
preserve colleges' identities, each year on average,
mascotry raises around 5-10% of Imperial College's
Rag total, not an insignificant amount. This is, of
course, providing that people can be botherd to get
out and do something.
In an attempt to keep tradition alive, and to keep
Davy within Imperial, the RCSU has a proposition to
make. Davy will be sold to any department, hall,
house, landing, staircase, lecture or tutorial group,
sports team, club, society, group of friends, or even
to Guilds. In fact, anyone who can be bothered to get
out there and raise a decent amount of money can
have Davy. Davy will, of course, remain a violate
mascot. If you're interested, there are a few things
you'll have to do first, just to show us you really mean
business.
Firstly, some publicity. A banner should be hung
across Beit Quad, from the west to the east walls,
facing so as to be readable from the main arch on
entering the quad. The bottom of the banner should
be at least 15 feet off the ground at it's lowest point.
On it should be the following message, in letters no
less than 30cm tall, and of an appropriate width to
their height. The writing should be in constrasting
colour to that of the banner.
The message is 'Dear RCSU, RSMU are useless, we
want Davy'. The lettering must be exactly that written
above, in English, and with nothing else on the banner.
Also this banner should be the only one in the Quad.
Secondly, the banner must remain up for the
duration of the opening hours of the Union Bar on that
day.
Thirdly, as soon as possible afterwards, a letter
stating who your group is, and containing
photographic evidence that it was in fact you that put
the banner up, should be delivered to:
THETA, c/o The RCSU Office, Old Chemistry.
Further negotiations as to the amount required, and
the manner in which it is to be raised will then be
entered into.
MOTAQUIP
Win two tickets to !WJ8fH«
The Rallycross event of the year takes place on
December 2nd/3rd on the custom built 0.9 mile part-
tarmac, part-gravel Brands Hatch track. All the top
runners will be out in their four wheel drive cars, led
by last year's winner Will Gollop in his MG Metro 6R4.
Backing up the home challenge will be British
Champion Michael Shield and Steve Palmer, both
Metro mounted, Tyrrell Grand Prix star Jonathan
Palmer in a Ford RS200E and Vauxhall's John Welch.
The overseas entry is as strong as ever, with all the
top Scandinavians making the trip. Current Champion
Matti Alamaki of Finland drives a Peugeot 205 T16E2,
as does spectacular Norwegian Terje Schie. Also from
Norway is 'Mr Rallycross' himself, Martin Schanche,
heading the Ford challenge along with Thor Horn and
Pekka Rantanen.
BBC TV's Top Gear presenter Tiff Needell will be
carrying the in-car camera, guaranteeing spectacular
views for the television audience.
The action starts on Saturday with practice, timed
qualifying runs and the Finals for the 2 wheel-drive
cars. Sunday sees the fastest 60 drivers take part in
18 qualifying heats, the fastest 60 drivers take part
in 18 qualifying heats, the fastest 9 going into the
Grand Prix, along with the winner of the B final, for
the next 9 quickest.
Brands Hatch is situated on the A20, about 20 miles
from central London, the nearest BR station is
Swanley, with trains every half hour from Victoria.
Admission tickets are £4 for Saturday, £6 for Sunday,
but any booked today will save £1 each day. Bookings
and information are available on 0474 872331.
All you have to do to win a pair of tickets for both
days (value £20), is answer these three simple
Questions.
°age 12
Trevor Hopkins looks from his RS2WE as Steve Palmer tries to drive past on his door handle. Wouldn V it he easier
tofita turbo to try and go faster?
1. Who won the 1988 Motaquip British Rallycross
Grand Prix?
2. How long is the Brands Hatch Rallycross track?
3. Which Grand Prix driver will be taking part?
Answers to FELIX, Beit Quad, by 1.00pm on
Wednesday 29th November. Drawn from a hat. The
Editor's decision is final.

