Fencing
S u r r e y — 6
K e n t - 1
IC — 2 1
l m p e r i a l - 2 6
Last Saturday, IC hosted the first rounds of the UAU
fencing tournament for the South East North and
South East South divisions. At 10am, fencing teams
from 8 universities and colleges descended on
Southside Gym. By 9pm, 297 bouts and at least one
nervous breakdown later, Imperial had vanquished the
opposition in the South East South division and UCL,
our arch rivals, had won the South East division.
The ladies competition passed off uneventfully for
us, as unfortunately two out of three of IC's female
fencing team could not turn up. For the record, Royal
Holloway were the eventual winners.
The men's competition started with the sabre. IC's
truly 'international' sabre team started in splendid
style, with the enthusiasm of Tony Chambers, the
Gallic flair of Maruice Ricou and the elegance of Joerg
Pollok combining to produce 8-1 victories over both
Surrey and Kent. The foilists t!ien continued to
clinically dispose of both Surrey and Kent (8-1 and 9-0
respectively), with Gully Burns in fine form and
newcomers Nick Hills and Simon Laight putting in
excellent performances. Finally came the epee. Our
team started hesitantly and to our dismay lost the first
three bouts against Surrey. However, led by an
aggressive assault from Adam Sadler, they fought
^ck to win 5-4. Having thus warmed up, Adam, Peter
Cripwell and Simon Evans cruised home with an
awesome 9-0 victory over Kent,
Octopush
Before departing for Putney a few of us couldn't resist
attending Nicky's and Sabine's training lectures, we
thought the hyperventilating and resuscitation might
come in useful later on.
After a quick warm up, and loans of equipment to
the opposition, the game got underway. Putney
opened the scoring with a few quick goals. At this
point our subsitution strategy was a little disorganised
but a cunning tackle by Keith, a short sprint up the
pool followed by a good pass to Colin Waterhouse
meant all he had to do was tap the 'squid' (puck) into
the goal. Annoyed at this, Putney scored a few more
goals. Seth then circled a tew times in front of their
gull (goal) and then flicked the squid past their two
defenders into the gull. Our remaining goals were
rumoured to have been scored by Phil and William.
The final score was, a not too embarrassing, 8-4
to Putney.
Football
Charing Cross 1 s t - 3 IC 3rd-3
Searching for their first league win of the season IC
made an impressive start going 0-3 down within 20
minutes. Attempting to double their league points IC
had played their joker-Alan Sinclair in goal. Following
a good performance during the half-time team talk,
things went drastically wrong when Ian Evans pulled
one back. Gary Stephens rattled the woodwork with
a looping header before Karl Gill made up for an earlier
miss by rounding the keeper and eventually deciding
to score. IC completed a fine comeback against the
league leaders when a rasping Mike Dewey 60 yard
piledriver was too hot to handle for the keeper and
Carlyon Knight-Evans gratefully bundled the ball in.
For the last 10 minutes Karl Gill booted everything into
orbit believing IC were winning 3-2.
Page 14
Hockey
Kent I I I - O IC 111—1
Kent provided us with changing rooms and pitches
that, after the opulence of the RHBNC facilities were
beyond belief, and an 'international' umpire who
provided some of the best decisions ever encountered
by the thirds. They also fielded the only other
Boat
On Saturday, IC Boat Club reaffirmed their position
as the most successful boat club in Britain by winning
four divisions in the Head of the River Fours, raced
over the Boat Race course in reverse. IC's first IV
achieved the boat club's highest ever position,
winning Senior I coxless fours, finishing only 1 second
behind a Great Britain crew. The other division
winners were the Senior II coxless four, and women's
quadruple scull composite crew and the novice coxed
four. The Novice Pennant has now been won three
times in succession by IC.
The other coxed fours, however, were unlucky and
all finished 4th in their respective divisions behind
some excellent crews. Nevertheless, all competing IC
crews finished in the top 160, out of an entry of 500
and all looks well for the future when eights races
start.
Orienteering
Oxford, Cambridge, Glasgow, Sheffield, Newcastle,
Nottingham, Leeds....beaten by IC in a boat race! Yes
folks it's true yet again.
Last weekend Imperial College Orienteering Club
went to Cambridge for the annual university 'sprint-
o' championships. The standard was very high with
almost the entire Junior and Senior British squads
competing. The first round was over 6km with the
first 50% going through. Tone Nystron and William
Power from IC went through to the next round, but
due to the high standard no one got through to the
finals.
We all got back for the 'alco run' - a drink at each
of the five controls.
The evening was far more exciting. Firstly dinner
at Trinity College after a sherry reception and, most
importantly, the boat race. The prestige of IC was held
of course, and we won despite starting last.
undefeated third eleven in our division.
In a tough first half, neither side dominated until
Nigel, the pink elephant, picked up the ball in our 'D'.
He proceeded to dribble the ball the full length of the
pitch, avoiding all attempts by the opposition to tackle
him, before selflessiy passing to the excellently placed
Robert Powell, allowing him to score a well deserved
goal. Nigel was then forced to leave the pitch, and,
without their pink pachyderm, the Imperial team lost
their characteristic flare.
The second half saw a change of umpires and
several dangerous attacking runs by the reinvigorated
Kent side, who were just held by our strong defence
of Eric Sie and the 'other' one. The many attacks
mounted by our offence were repelled by the Kent
back row who threw themselves bodily into their
defence.
Special praise should be given to Kevin Hill who has
now led us to victory in every match of our UAU
division. His last minute appointment of Nigel to the
team was the final stroke in an excellently planned
campaign that has brought us to triumph in the local
division. We will now go on to the next stage to meet
an, as yet, unknown opposition.
PS. We want all you budding hockey players who
play, or have played, for the Mens IV's, and any
potential lady players, to turn up to a meeting on
Tuesday, 28th November at 12.30pm in the Union
Snack Bar. Refreshments provided!
Kent 1 1 - 1 IC II—3
IC entered the game with high hopes of victory, and
a place in the last 16 almost guaranteed. They came
across a resiliant Kent defence, and far from inept
attack. During the first half the honours looked like
remaining, even until two minutes before half time.
A fine ball from Dom Howard gave Colin Wright acres
of space and bags of time to slot the ball home and
put IC one up at the interval.
After the break IC came out in an attempt to put
the game out of Kent's reach as quickly as possible.
They took no time in gaining a short corner and in the
ensuing- melee in front of the goal, Steve Burton
scrambled the ball home. This, it was hoped, would
kill Kent off. Far from it-they replied almost
immediately to make the score 2-1.
IC's third goal came as a result of another short
corner. The 'clean' stop by Dave Millard taking a
deflection after being struck, and as it looped goal
bound, a deliberate offence by a Kent player on the
line gave IC a penalty flick. Colin Wright stepped up
and only just hit the ball past the stranded Kent keeper
to give IC a good lead. On the final whistle the
victorious boys returned for a night of celebration, less
the first team who had pissed off early leaving their
sense of humour at Heme Bay. What happened to
those 'scales'??
Golf
After drawing away against Surrey University-
thanks to strong performances by Robin, Jon and
Rhys-the next match was away against Kent
University. Playing in difficult conditions, Imperial
College Golf Team came through winning 4-2 at
Prince's Golf Club, Sandwich. This result means that
Imperial College top the league putting us through to
the last 16 in the knockout round of the UAU
competition.

