Mary's
Whitehouse?
Dear Dave
I have just heard that the Dean of St Marys Medical
School, on seeing the delivered copies of the last issue
of FELIX, had an attack of the Hitlers and destroyed
them. The reason, as I understand it, was that he felt
concerned about the possibility of their being seen by
patients, who would presumably be unable to cope
with the admittedly contentious subject matter. If this
is the case, why didn't he simply tell his students this,
or even send back the copies? This would have cost
him nothing, whereas it cost IC Union about £40 to
produce them. No, he had to destroy them.
Someone should tell Professor Richards that we left
the nineteen fifties behind some decades ago, and
that the modern day senior academics of teaching
institutions are generally expected to behave rather
less like crusty old tyrants. Not, of course, that I am
implying that the Dean of St Mary's is a crusty old
tyrant; perhaps we should ask a Mary's student?
Professor Richards is obviously used to having his
students under his thumb. He should be made aware
that non-medical members of this College need not
worry about getting a reference in order to start
hospital or practice work, and therefore can feel free
to say and print their opinions of him and his actions.
Being called to book for his actions by students could
be quite a refreshing experience for him.
In case IC students on the South Kensington site
are wondering what all the fuss is about, imagine how
you would feel if the Dean of C and G, RCS, or Mines
destroyed your Friday morning read, especially if their
best reason was that it was 'unsuitable' - in their eyes.
Imagine how you would feel if you perpetually had to
stay in the Deans good books, on pain of getting a
sour reference and no job.
Perhaps we who have no need to fear this
censorious man should rename him Mary's
Whitehouse.
Name witheld by request.
Crap posters
Dear Dave,
Re. Mr Meyfroidt and UGM Publicity.
Is putting up 100 hundred posters one day before
an event regarded as doing a good job? If UGMs are
so crucial, and the motions debated there of the
utmost importance, then shouldn't people be allowed
to mull over them, and try to rearrange their diaries
over a long period of time than 36 hours, 16 of which,
on average are spent sleeping?
Yours,
Tony Spencer.
Comment
I have received a number of letters on the issue
of pornography. A few of them were well thought
out. I was pleased to see a variety of viewpoints.
A common feature of most of them, however,
was a complaint about the cover. I tried to tone
the cover down to an abstract image by printing
it in a faint orange; this was not good enough for
some it seems. The comment that summed up my
feelings on the whole issue was that made by one
of the plaintifs. 'What was wrong, you could
hardly see what was on the cover,' somebody said
to him. 'Yes, but if you hold it up really close...,'
said Mr Ritzperis. The summary of the argument
is that if you did not want to look you didn't have
to. Those who wished to ogle and complain later
were perfectly at liberty to leave the issue in the
department. Too many people obviously hadn't
bothered to read the feature. Their arguments
were facile and uninformed.
The only viewpoint that really got my goat was
the Christian one. It seems I am somehow related
to Satan, the evil one. I have checked my family
history carefully and Mr B. Eelzebub does not
seem to figure in it. I have not studied the Bible
to the point of mindless quotation either, although
I thought the bit on Solomon was quite naughty.
I am sorry if I do not hold such strictly blinkered
religious ideals, but I prefer to remain open to
reasonable debate. As one person said, 'Jesus
saves, but Felix scores on the rebound.'
I still feel that the article was worthwhile. It
raised an extraordinary amount of debate
throughout College on an issue which many
people would prefer to push under the carpet. If
it had been presented in a more restrained form,
it would have been 'just another feature.' I tried
to wake people up a little and make them think
about something other than the next problem
sheet-admit it, you did.
Having said all that I still apologise to anyone
who was immensely upset by the photographs.
I do not want to see any more letters on the
subject of Ms Marsh and the Life Science
department. I think the matter has gone far
enough. I shall allow one more week on the
subject of Cyprus before it bores me to death. As
for ConSoc-you can have as much rope as you
want folks.
Ed
MONITOR COMPANY
STRATEGY CONSULTANTS
invites all undergraduates and graduates
who would like to discuss career opportunities
with Monitor to attend a presentation
at
The Chesterfield Hotel, 35 Charles Street, Wl
on Wednesday 29th November 1989 at 7pm
Further details from Rebecca Mayhew, Monitor Company Europe Limited,
14 Grosvenor Crescent, London SW2X 7EE

