A well reasoned letter
Dear Editor,
I was interested to read the feature by Liz Warren
in last week's edition of FELIX, but was sad to find
that apart from one exception (a reference to a report
published by Everywoman), it was based upon
hearsay and unsound arguments. My response rs as
follows:
1. The given definition of pornography was,
'writing, pictures, films etc designed to stimulate
sexual excitement', and NOT '...which stimulate...'
as she tried to construe. It matters little whether the
group gathered to write an article against pornography
found the pictures erotic or otherwise. If the rate at
which the copies of FELIX disappeared last Friday is
any indication then the rest of IC certainly disagrees
with them.
2. In 'a word of warning' at the end of the article,
it was said that soft porn could readily give access
to 'hard core extremes'. This follows the old
assumption that human personality is at root evil, and
if we give it free reign, pornography will eventually
gravitate into more and more violent forms. But this
is demonstrably false. In countries such as the USA
and Sweden, whre the laws are much freer, the
percentage of violent pornography has consistently
remained small despite having few restrictions (see
Porn Gold pub. Faber & Faber).
3. Another contention is that pornography is
degrading to women. There are two sides to consider.
(a) The models. Many articles have been written
on pornography which include interviews with the
models themselves, a good example is that in the
weekend Guardian of November 18 (see also Porn
Gold pub. Faber & Faber). None tht I have seen have
shown them as degraded or demeaned. In any case
it seems unlikely that anyone would be forced to
degrade themselves for a one off payment of about
£200.
(b) Women in General. Pornography is often
criticised for portraying a one-sided, and unreal picture
of women. It shows them as sex-objects. This is
certainly true, but could not the same argument be
used against the fasion industry's use of models? If
we see an image, say, of a woman reading the news,
do we condemn it for showing an image of a woman
as a reading machine? Our society is full of images
of women, and why an image of her as a sensual being
should not be included among them, I do not know.
If Liz can find a way of portraying women which is
more erotic to the majority of men, then I am sure that
she will soon become rich. What matters is the totality
of images, not any particular one. In my opinion, the
low number of women MPs and company directors
is a much more pressing problem.
4. Let nobody misunderstand that rape is a most
repulsive crime of violence, which scars victims for
life. But there has, as Liz admits, been no evidence
to show that exposure to pornography would make
a man more likely to commit rape. In fact most of the
evidence points in the other direction. During the early
seventies, when censorship was reduced, there was
no increase in sex crime, which surely would have
resulted if there was a link. Similar patters can be
shown all across the world. The evidence that she
does provide hints at links between pornography, and
a reduced sympathy for rape victims (among other
things). As I have not seen this report I cannot
comment on it, but can site a similar study which was
disucssed on the recent BBC production on images of
rape in film. It did show the link as described, but not
for pornography such as Whitehouse and Rodox, but
for really violent video nasties.
5. I don't really know why a discussion of penis
length was included in an article on pornography, but
surely the simple way to deal with the advertisement
shown is the same as for all advertisements which
make false claims and trade unfairly on our fears: refer
it to the Advertising Standards Council.
6. 'The Committee against Pornography and
Censorship'. By all means, if pornography is shown
to provide a negative load on society then we must
ban it. But do not let us kid ourselves into believing
that what we are doing is not censorship. We might
as well call black white.
7. A narrative text taken from the hard-core
magazine Rodox was shown as an example of how
pornography demonstrated a fantastic approach to
sex, and it was commented that all pornography is
fantasy. But of course it is. Nobody watches an
edition of Dynasty to gain insights on real life, and
accordingly nobody expects to find a portrayal of real
sexuality in pornography. If we see Tom beating Jerry
over the head with a heavy saucepan, it's hardly going
to make us go and try it, ignorant of its real dangers.
Our lives are full of fantasies, and would be a lot
poorer without them.
8. The suggested redefinition of pornography as,
'anything which portrays human beings taking part in
humiliating, fantastical or degrading activities,
whether sexual or otherwise', seems quite ridiculous
to me. Not only would it exclude Penthouse as
admitted by the group, but would include Alice in
Wonderland, and documentaries on Nazi
concentration camps. Surely the word they are
hunting for is obscene, and this certainly does not
include most of the examples in the feature.
Our censorship laws as they stand would forbid the
distribution of a video showing a woman giving birth
to her child, as the sight of her vagina would be
considered obscene. It also forbids the portrayal of
penetration, both on film and paper. I fail to see what
is so corrupting in this. By all means let us have laws
to protect the vulnerable, and uphold what is right,
but our laws show more signs of being generated by
Anglo-Saxon prudery than anything else. Something
that our European partners thankfully do not share.
If these images offend you, don't look at them.
Matthew G Johnson.
Reasoned?
Dear Dave,
I have read your 'Meat Market' article carefully. I
see no justification for the FELIX cover. I see it as a
rather cheap and incredibly offensive attempt at mass
titillation. Apology please.
Anna Teeman, Geology 2.
Jacqui Houghton, Geology 2.
Alison Alexander, Geology 2.
lain Commack, MG 2.
Peter Sharp, Geology 2.
R Matumer, MG 2.
Sam Spence, Geology 2.
Bog roll
Dear Dave,
Following your recent concern over 'green issues',
I feel that FELIX should take the bold step of
perforating its pages to 'Andrex dimensions'. This
would prove enormously helpful to those of us who
are trying to preserve the tropical rainforests.
Alternatively, you might consider reducing the amount
of news coverage, and hence paper wasted.
Yours Environmentally Friendly,
John Patterson, Mech Eng 1.
Page 16
Fox off!
Dear Dave,
Mr Dylan James (who proposed Miss Nicky Fox for
the position of Chairman of the ICU Conservative
Society) has said that Ms Fox is 'basically lying' in
claiming that the Conservative Society was aware of
her (so called) current political views before she was
elected as Chairman of the Society. I have been
informed that Miss Fox is currently trying to distance
herself from unpopular Government policy in a bid to
become President of the Union. I feel this will be very
much an uphill struggle for her, as all the members
of the Conservative Society that I have spoken to on
this issue, thought that Miss Fox was in favour of
Student Loans and the Community Charge before she
was elected Chairman.
The question that my first letter to FELIX posed was
'Why did Miss Fox inform FELIX that she was
resigning as Chairman of the Conservative Society for
political reasons, when she was actually resigning for
personal reasons?' She has conveniently avoided
answering this question so far by making a series of
cheap pesonal remarks along with her puppet Ashley
Unitt. Perhaps she will now have the courage to
answer the question I initially posed.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Page, Former External Vice Chairman
ICU Conservative Society).
Goodbye
Dave
Dear Mr Smedley,
Arguing about pornography is one thing, exploiting
dehumanising pictures to adorn the front and back
cover of a student publication is another. I strongly
object to all the explicit photographic material used
in last week's issue.
If anyone wanted to see filth, they would have
looked for it amongst filth. To include this material in
a magazine which is available to anyone who walks
through any IC department on a Friday morning is, in
the least, insensitive. Furthermore, it exalts the very
own practise of debauchery and very much defeats
what was said in the article, let alone the editorial.
I think that the presentation of the whole issue was
an extreme misjudgement and immediate rectifying
action is required.
Irrespective of the person, a responsible editor
should realise the gravity of such abuse of students'
funds and follow the only respectable route possible,
by tendering his resignation.
Yours sincerely,
Mark Gialanze, Physics 3.
Elissavet Argiropulu, Computing 2.
Ranjan de Silva, Chem Eng 4.

