Repent!
Dear FELIX,
I found the feature article in last week's FELIX on
pornography informative and shocking; a lot of hard
work and time obviously went into producing an
article on a difficult subject.
However, I have two complaints; the first concerns
the presentation of the article, and the second
concerns the analysis of the subject.
Firstly, your decision to plaster the front and back
covers of FELIX with pornographic photos and to
include two photos of people having sex, a screen
shot of a pornographic computer program, an
advertisement from a magazine and quotes from
stories in magazines in the article was unwise. It was
insensitive, because sexual immorality and lust are
such big problems at IC.
My second, more important, objection concerns
your analysis of pornography. You are right when you
say pornography is 'false'. However, you do not
realise where pornography comes from-it comes
from Satan, the evil one, God's enemy. As 1 John
5:19 says:
'the whole world is under the control of the evil one'
Also, your article offers no hope—it simply states
a problem. It's like someone telling you that you've
been doing a problem sheet the wrong way for five
hours and then walking away. The human condition
is one of sin-rebellion against God. But, Jesus Christ
came to meet man's greatest need -for forgiveness,
and deliverance from Satan. Again in 1 John 2:2 it
says:
'Jesus Christ is the atoning sacrifice for our sins'
i.e. Jesus Christ paid for our sins-the price we
could never pay. His blood, shed for us, can purify us
from all sin.
Yours,
Richard Marett (Maths 3).
Confusion
Dear Dave.
Further to the letters you have published from the
Committee of the Hellenic Society and the Chairman
of the Greek 'Cypriot Society', both of which no doubt
represent the interests of Greeks in Cyprus, and the
reply by STA, there appears to be a confusion about
holiday adverts to the Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus and the human rights.
It is indeed ironic that the Greek Cypriots, seemingly
oblivious of the fact that they have even since 1963
pitilessly violated every conceivable human right of
the Turkish Cypriot population contrary to each and
every article of the international human rights
covenants, and would have certainly continued to do
so had Turkey not intervened in 1974, are now
complaining about violations of human rights in
Cyprus and trying to cover up their past disreputable
record in this field.
There are no true reasons why holidays to Northern
Cyprus should not be advertised the same way as they
are advertised to Southern Cyprus. Indeed they are
highly recommended. The unspoiled beaches with
crystal clear seas, the breathtaking historical
monuments and the tranquality of the Girne harbour
are some of the Turkish delights that should not be
missed.
Yours sincerely,
Friends of the Republic of Northern Cyprus.
Name withheld by request.
Lock your
doors
Dear Dave,
I would like to make it clear to all present ana future
Hamlet Gardens residents, that the burglary featured
in last week's 'Hamlet Horror', was in no way due to
any inadequacies in flat security.
The main contributory factor to the flat 131 break-
in (apart from the burglar's upbringing), was the fact
that the last occupant to leave on Monday morning
failed to lock the Two 'Dead Locks' on their front
door. Had these locks been on (whether the villain
broke the window in order to open the Yale lock or
not), the front door would have been virtually
impenetrable.
Due to a mass of recently implemented security
measures, burglaries at Hamlet Gardens are becoming
increasingly rare events. We now fare, in my opinion,
far better than the average Hammersmith residence
and probably at least as well as other college
accommodation.
So don't have nightmares, and keep 'em peeled.
Matthew Bridgwater, Hamlet Gardens Warden,
Laser Optics, Physics.
Multissimi
Fascisti
Dear Dave,
Contrary to popular belief, Imperial College Union
Conservative Society is nor a society devoted to the
support of neo-Thatcherite or ultra right wing political
dogma. Why is this view so prevalent?
Could it have anything to do with the fact that
beside the Society's entry in the Union Handbook
appears a cartoon of Adolf Hitler in full salute, proudly
bearing a Conservative Party badge? Surely not-after
all that's just a bit of fun.
Could it have anything to do with the fact that FELIX
scrawled the word 'fascisti' across the front of a
number of the Conservative Society's own
handbooks? Surely not-the Union's enthusiasm to
print our handbooks was entirely due to their
willingness to impartially help all IC clubs and
societies.
But not all the inaccurate, not to mention blatantly
false, portraits of the Conservative Society exist
without its bounds. The public squabble between
Mark Page and Ashley Unitt over the former
chairman's conduct do not help matters. But this too
boils down to the non-political matter of whether you
choose a true devotee of a society as a chairman, or
whether you should choose someone not so
committed, but having better skills of leadership and
organisation. This is clearly demonstrated by the fact
that not one objection was raised against Nicky Fox
becoming an ordinary committee member of the
Conservative Society.
The truth of the matter is that the Conservative
Society welcomes members from a broad range of
political beliefs. Nicky's predecessor as chairman, for
example, was a devoted Tory who did not himself
believe in the merits of either the Poll Tax or Student
Loans, or even Mrs Thatcher.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Wyatt, ICU Conservative Society.
Hard to
understand
Dear Dave,
In reply to the letter by George Kalisperides I would
like to point out one or two facts that people seem
to be largely misinformed about. I find the insinuation
that Northen Cyprus is an 'illegal state' somewhat
paradoxical as it was the Greek violation of the 1960
constitution, that recognised two separate Cypriot
cultures and catered for the needs of both societies,
that led to the 1963-74 conflict. It should also be
stressed that to depict the Turkish army as the only
aggressor in this situation is both false and misleading
as the Greek armed forces had been in partial
occupation of the island for some considerable time
before the Turkish counter-invasion and are still there
as an antagonistic force today. The stated position of
the Greek Cypriots for Cyprus has been, and is still,
that of Annosis, a complete unification with Greece.
This policy leaves no room for a peaceful solution to
the Cyprus problem when, implicit within this policy,
is the removal of the Turkish population that makes
up 30% of the Cypriot populace. I would also like to
point out in the same very emotive fashion as Mr
Kalisperides that many members of my family were
uprooted from their homes, unfortunately I am not as
fortunate as to have met all these relatives as some
never reached Northen Cyprus. The pressure brought
to bear on the STA to remove advertisements for
holidays in Northen Cyprus can only be considered to
be a stifling of individual's free choice that in a
supposedly democratic country, I find hard to
understand.
Friends of Northern Cyprus.
Holbein
squalor
Dear Editor,
In a recent issue of FELIX, you congratulated house
wardens, sub wardens, etc on the lack of complaints
received. I am sorry to have to contradict this
situation, but it is getting beyond a joke now.
Holbein House, when I arrived had one operational
shower (operational meaning a hot trickle for 63
people). Six weeks later this is still the situation; also
for the people on the first, second, third and fourth
floors not wanting to carry food and utensils to the
basement there is one cooker, in which only the grill
and hob work, and these with no temperature
markings (although for the last three weeks a
microwave has been available).
The vacuum cleaner has been stolen (three weeks
ago) leaving no means of cleaning our rooms, and a
leak on the first floor landing leaves a sopping floor
for us to stand on while we answer the telephone las
no outgoing calls have been available for the last two
weeks).
I realise that this is the cheapest hall, and was never
expected to be the Hilton, but decent, hygenic
facilities are not unreasonable to ask for.
Also, I realise it is the College bureaucratic system
for repairs, insurance claims etc whichis at fault, not
the Warden, but from remarks by friends in Willis
Jackson and Southwell, it seems some similar
problems exist there.
I for one am already seeking private accommodation
for next term.
I C R Jewyes, Geology 1.
Page 17

