Muddy waters
Sir,
With reference to the debate over Ms Marsh I would
like to make a couple of comments as an ex-student
of the department.
1. The whole issue was caused by a trade union.
Overall there was little net effect to students, but in
this case there was a great effect.
2. We are a 'centre of excellence' and rightly or
wrongly regarded as one of the best Science and
Technology colleges in the world. It seems silly for
people not to be able to use the knowledge and
expertise that the department has so painstakingly
thrust down the students' throats by not letting them
take up placements in which they have an interest.
To not allow someone to take a placement because
of a petty 'industrial dispute' borders on insanity.
2. A paper is not any easier because three out of
eight questions were the same-it probably made it
harder because who would bother to revise those
questions? Answer: Most departments recycle exam
questions anyway (the buggers are too lazy to set
completely new ones) so it's always pot luck how
many old ones will turn up.
4. I personally think Ms Marsh is pretty, although
I don't agree with her politics. The amount of weight
that such arguments carry depends on individual
examiners and departments-some still refuse to have
a number identity system (like GCE) and the fact that
your name appears on the top of the paper leads to
obvious bias in marking or the possibility of such bias
at any rate. Somebody thinking the opposite to me
may come up with very different marks.
5. Given the above arguments, it is the
department's fault, and greedy or misguided people
in it if there is a subsequent problem. I feel that the
fact that somebody wishes to go and do something
useful in Gambia, rather than work for a bloated multi-
national drug company, or some poxy project
involving a lecturer's best bum chum is far more
worthy, and of infinitely more use to the planet and
civilisation than some greedy academic living in
comfort in the first world and polluting the planet.
Good luck and well done to Ms Marsh, and I hope the
whingers get run over by a bus.
The Life Sciences Division (it is made up of more
than one department) is unfair, but so is life. I am
prepared to be called as a material witness on both
issues.
Yours,
Tony Spencer.
PS. 'Name withheld by request' still had some good
points to make. Let's kick ass!
Felix=porn?
Dave,
Re. your article on pornography:
The text itself was well balanced and made a lot
of very good points-with all the best intentions.
But, I think that, within the FELIX Office, there
exists many of the people that this article was meant
to offend (the 'funders of the industry'). I come to this
conclusion because of the sick nature of the FELIX
cover and the pictures accompanying the article. They
greatly offended me and many other people that I have
spoken to -and I consider them to be an unnecessary
part of the article-which degenerated itself into a
piece of pornographic sensationalism.
Yours sincerely,
Jim Watson (Bee Eng V
PS. The warning given on the cover is a little too
late-don't you think?
Blinkered?
Dear Dave,
I would like to thank FELIX and particularly Liz
Warren for the most interesting and thought-
provoking article it has published this term. However,
I feel it expressed a somewhat blinkered point of view.
It seems to be based on the assumptions that
women do not read the soft core magazines aimed at
men, nor do they look at Playgirl unless they are the
sort of woman who 'When walking down the street
minding their own business are in fact simply waiting
for a man to leap on them and drag them away for
sex'. What is the evidence for the assertion that many
of the women who buy from 'tupperware' style sex-
aid parties would find harder pornography offensive?
I have been amused, and, yes, even had my sexual
excitement stimulated by men's magazines such as
Mayfair and Knave (although I have never read
Playgirl), 'blue' films and even the Sunday Sport. Yet
I consider myself to be a normal female with a healthy
heterosexual appetite. Perhaps your discussion group
was not sufficiently representative?
Name witheld by request.
Dark glasses?
Dear FELIX,
If you take away a blindman's cane, he finds
another. If you 'shock' a blindman into dropping his
cane, he stumbles on for a few steps, and then starts
looking for the cane again.
It is good to see FELIX raising such emotive issues
as pornography, but what did you hope to achieve in
making people feel 'disgusted'? Why supply hundreds
of IC students with pictures to drool over, or be
offended by? True you wanted to disgust some away
from pornography, but realistically they are only likely
to 'give up' for a short while, before 'giving in' to
withdrawal needs. Either they will have to harden
themselves against the criticism of pornography, or
learn to live with an inner guilt of its emptiness.
As Christians, we believe that all people are
precious, and loved by God. We were made in the
image of God, a loving God, but by our actions we
reject Him, and His gift Jesus Christ, who shows us
the fullness of God's love. So we feel an emptiness
in our lives, which we fill with many things, including
misuse of sexual pleasures. God wants to fill this
emptiness with love.
God has given us the gift of sexuality, designed for
loving relationships. Intimate sexuality being reserved
for a relationship with special stability and
commitment; marriage.
Pornography is superficial, going deeper we find
that people are exchanging truth for a lie, people are
substituting sex in place of love. No one can live
without being loved, and people are looking in very
many places to find love, or its nearest available
apparent equivalent.
'But God demonstrates his love in this, while we
were still sinners, Christ died for us.' (Romans 5:8).
Rememebr, the blindman's cane isn't the problem,
the blindman needs to see!
Yours, IC Christian Union Committee.
Keith Adeney IEE4), Mark Godfrey IEE3), Dave Kirk
IAero 31, Claire Millar (Aero 2), Athos Ritspehs (Maths
3), Alison Baylis (Chem 2), Katherine Goy (Physics 2),
Andy Lewis (Mech Eng 2), Jonathan Pike (Civ Eng 2),
Jim Tinnion (Physics 2).
Historyectomy
Dear Dave,
We are concerned that the Committee of the
Hellenic Society of IC and the Chairman of the Greek
'Cypriot Society' are using FELIX for publicising their
Greek interests in Cyprus, and therefore they deserve
a reply. They seem to have a lack of knowledge
concerning the Cyprus issue, however, they can be
forgiven as most of them would not remember the
formation of the Republic of Cyprus in 1960 as a
partnership between the Turkish and the Greek
Cypriots, its downfall in 1963 with the Greek-Greek
Cypriot armed onslaught against the Turkish Cypriot
population when thousands of Turks were killed and
many thousands rendered homeless in the name of
Enosis, union of Cyprus with Greece, and the
oppression and suffering of the Turkish Cypriots until
1974 when Turkey as a Guarantor intervened to stop
the extermination of the remaining Turks on the island.
The Greek Cypriots who caused the problems in
Cyprus by wanting union with Greece, and denied the
right of the Turkish Cypriots to life, liberty and security
of person which undoubtedly constitutes the most
fundamental right of any human being are now
complaining about violations of human rights and
trying to cover up their past. It must not be forgotten
that more than half the Turkish Cypriot population are
also refugees having left their homes and land in the
South, however, can now live in peace in the Turkish
Republic of Northen Cyprus with the knowledge that
they are at last safe from the Greek tyranny.
Yours sincerely,
AGOTS.
Habib Umur.
Kenan Yuce Sanliturk.
No more!
Dear Dave,
Surprise, surprise, the wingeing idiot anon writes
yet another very silly letter. Unlike anon, I don't want
to make an issue of this, which in any case at this
stage smells strongly of a wind-up (surely no-one
could be this petty).
If anon did not intend personal abuse when he
directly implied that I 'simpered and flattered male
lecturers to get on in the department', then he/she has
no idea of the significance of what they are writing.
I strongly suggest you do the sensible thing Ed, and
refuse to publish any more of this pathetic drivel.
If it was intended as a general comment then I
suppose the whole department-with particular
reference to the women, is angling for social
intercourse as a means to an end and the annual wine
and cheese party is a glorified orgy-obviously held
at the beginning of the year-to prevent lecturers
being swayed by anything as trivial as exams or
course work!
I also repeat that Applied Biologists have never been
banned from going abroad. Evidently anon can neither
read nor think.
As for the comment about the exam papers-is it
really an advantage to have a similar paper to the
previous one? I'd have said not. In any case, I did not
show my papers to anyone-and neither did the Life
Sci office.
Yours,
Felicity Marsh, Applied Biology 4.
PS. Surely anon is not in league with 'the lecturer'?
I consider correspondence on this item closed.
Page 18

