F e l i X
I have decided that this week's editorial should take
a different form. Professor Peter Richards has voiced
his views on FELIX to several people now. He has said
that FELIX is a rag no better than the Sun, although
not to my face. Last week he took such offence to
it that he had it destroyed. I do not think that he will
bother to read FELIX this week. I am therefore printing
the letter which I shall be sending to him as my
editorial.
Dear Professor Richards
It was with great regret that I heard of your decision
to have last week's copies of FELIX destroyed.
I am most grateful for the statement which you
have graced my news editor with. It was nice to hear
what had happened by rumour and hearsay initially,
rather than the usual courteous message which one
expects to receive on such an occasion. At least we
have a concrete set of excuses now.
I should like to start by informing you about FELIX
since you seem to have been missing out on the idea
of a student newspaper for so long. FELIX is
recognised as one of the top five student newspapers
in the country by the national press, and here I do not
include the Sun. It does not win awards as such since
the students union is not affiliated to the NUS, which
runs them. (NUS stands for National Union of
Students.)
You say in your statement that FELIX 'is not noted
for' being a journal concerned with 'serious
comment.' I can only presume that this is based on
your own narrow viewpoint, and amounts to nothing
more than what you would call 'misrepresentation.'
Taking aside the attitude problem which you seem
to suffer in this area, I have to question both your
decision to 'bin' FELIX and the way in which you did
it. I accept that the cover was a bad thing to have on
display to members of the general public, especially
if there was a danger of minors getting hold of it,
however I have no control over the distribution point
for FELIX at St Mary's. The issue was designed with
a limited distribution in mind-if I had realised the
situation at Paddington I would have sent special
instructions for its distribution, or maybe not even
sent it. Now I know better.
I could have accepted a decision to remove the
copies and either return them to me or ring me to pick
them up or even distribute them in the students'
refectory. What I found disgusting was the arrogant,
Lord-almighty attitude which lead you to destroy
property which did not belong to you. This was
annoying. What was just downright rude was your
reluctance to speak to me or even let me know what
you had done.
The idea of actions without consequences by hiding
from your victims is one which I do not think is a wise
one for a Dean to promote. By destroying those copies
of FELIX you have wasted money and, more
importantly, students' valuable free time which they
donated to the production of FELIX.
I would like to end this letter by pointing out that
your action was a form of censorship. Students from
St Mary's will not be able to 'obtain a copy from
Imperial College' as you put it (funny I thought we
were all IC now); there are none left at the South
Kensington site.
Yours sincerely
Dave Smedley
cc Students of Imperial College of Science
Technology and Medicine.
Staff Meeting
I would like to call a staff meeting for next Tuesday
lunchtime, 12.45pm. We will be discussing the
Christmas issue. If you have any ideas please drop in
for a chat.
Credits
Firstly, thanks to last week's collators, especially
Italian Society, including Ramez Kawar, D
Doughramachi, Kaleem N Ahmed, Andrea Grillo, Stuti
Sahajpal, Valeria Arrighi, Sonia Torrengo, and Rony
Douer. Many thanks also to Jim lucy, Lisa Ingram and
Jan. including brief staff. Thanks this week to Adam
Harrington, Liz Warren, Jason Lander, Chris
Stapleton, Andy Bannister, Jeremy Burnell, Stephen
Chisholm, Roland Flowerdew, Chris Adams and
Richard Ayres, Andy T, Toby, Ian Hodge, Steve
Meyfroidt, Paul Shanley (who swept the floor),
Matthew Johnson, Adrian and Steph, Ramin, Sydney,
Neil Lavitt, Dave Millard, John Hassard and Nathalie
Lieske, Adrian Bourne for the motor competition,
Simon Banton, Guy Hilton, Dominic Wilkinson, Chris
Leahy, B G. Thanks also to Andy and Rose for putting
up etc..A special thanks to Susan Appleby for the
interview and anybody I have forgotten, plus the
anonymous sources, who shall remain forever so,
even in court.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
U G M
THE NEXT IC UNION
GENERAL MEETING
WILL BE ON THURSDAY
7th DECEMBER AT 6pm
IN THE JCR
SHERFIELD
BUILDING
BE THERE!!
ULU TRAV
• L o w cost w o r l d w i d e flights • S p e c i a l fares for students
• Expert advice for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks & s k i holidays * G r o u p b o o k i n g s
• Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
from
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College „ _
London SW7 JSim E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
i.ABTAi
79525
ULU TRAVEL

