Wht Ha% graft
BRITISH ASSOCIATION
Promoting Science and Technology
Young Science Writer Awards 1990
WIN A WEEK IN THE USA
A.
*.re you aged between 16 and 28? Does the
world of scientific discovery fascinate you?
Yes? Then how would you like to spend a
week i n the U S A - at the 1991 American
Association for the Advancement of Science
Annual Meeting, in Washington D.C.
TOUR WRITING TALENT
CAN GET YOU THERE.
We are looking for articles of about 700
words on a scientific discovery or research topic
of your choice. It could be anything from
astrophysics to animal behaviour or A l to HIV.
You select the field - and then write an article
that both informs and entertains specialist and
general newspaper readers alike.
THE PRIZES
The competition is divided into two age
groups: 16-21 and 22-28, with a total of 12
prizes in each age group:
• The best article will earn its author a trip to the
DR. ROGER HIGHFIELD'S
COMPETITION GUIDE
General points:
1. Your article should be about 700 words in length, and
not more than 800 words.
2. Your article should be clear and informative and
understood by the non-specialist newspaper reader.
Scientific jargon should cither be explained or avoided.
3. If you feel diagrams or illustrations would be helpful,
include them in your entry. It doesn't matter how
sketchy they are.
4. 16-21 age group entrants and 22-28 age group
entrants not engaged in original research: Write about
any scientific discovery, for example, a project being
pursued locally or perhaps topics discussed recently in
scientific publications. Whatever you choose, you must
identify your sources.
5. 22-28 age group entrants engaged in original
research: It doesn't matter whether your research is
complete or not; citing other work is perfectly
acceptable if your own has not yet borne fruit.
For a more detailed guide and copies of last
year's winning entries, please write to the
competition address.
U S A in 1991, as well as the satisfaction of seeing
the winning piece published i n The Daily
Telegraph's Monday Sciehce and Technology
page. They will also receive an invitation to
attend Science 90, the British Association's
Annual Meeting, in Swansea.
• Second prize is a year's donated subscription
to Nature, and a year's subscription to New
Scientist, plus an invitation to Science 90. All
runners-up have a chance of seeing their entries
published in The Daily Telegraph.
• There are 9 runner-up prizes o f a year's
donated subscription to Nature, and a year's
subscription to New Scientist.
• A further 25 entrants whose articles are
of particular note, will be awarded The
Daily Telegraph-British Association Certificate
of Merit.
• In addition - for every school pupil reaching
the final round of judging, a prize will be
awarded to their school.
THE JUDGES
Professor Lewis Wolpert: President, British Associationforthe Advancement of Science. Sir Walter Bodmcr: Director of Research, Imperial Cancer Research. Mr. Richard Fifield: Executive Editor, New Scientist
Magazine. Dr. Peter Newmark: Nature Magazine. Professor Sir David Phillips: Laboratory ofMolecular Biophysics, Oxford University. Professor HeinzWolff: Institute ofBio Engineering, Brunei University'. Dr. Roger
Highfield: Science Editor,The DailyTelegraph. Dr. MaryArcher: Scientist and Company Director. The judges will assess your articles on content, quality ofwriting, your age, and anygraphic illustrations you may propose.
Sendyour entry to: Ms. Julie Daliison, British Association, Fortress House, 23 Saviie Row, London W1X 1AB, ro arrive not later than 24 February 1990. Make sure
that your entry clearly shows the category you are entering, your full name, date of birth, school/university/place ofwork, contact address and telephone number.
COMPETITION RULES
1
. Entrants must be aged between If) and 28 (inclusive) at 24.2.90. 2. Entries must be typed or legiblv written in ink or ballpoint. 3. Entries over 800 words in length (not
including description of any graphic illustration) will be disqualified. 4. The judges decision is final and no correspondence on the nature of assessment or the results will
be entered into. 5. Competition is open to U K residents only. Employees (and their families) of The Daily Telegraph pic, subsidiary or associated companies, advertising'
and promotion agencies arc not eligible. 6. The Daiiv Telegraph Standard Competition Rules apply. They can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to
Ms. Julie Dallison at the address shown above.

