14 people were arrested on an anti-loans march by
3000 students last Wednesday. The National Union
of Students, London branch (NUS London) organised
the demonstration, which started at 1:00pm outside
the University of London Union (ULU) building in
Malet Street. It included students from most London
colleges, as well as Bristol, Brighton and Manchester.
The Police estimated numbers to be between 2500
and 5000, though the organisers thought there were
'greater than 5000'. The march was preceded by a
number of speeches calling for the solidarity of
students and college staff over the loans proposal and
staff pay rise claims.
The march was accompanied by a heavy police
presence throughout, though the only trouble occured
at 2:45pm outside Euston Station when a group of
demonstrators realised that the march was going to
take them through backstreets and started marching
to Westminster instead. A number of people were
arrested, and the march continued after half an hour,
with cooperation between the Police and NUS
BOOZE-CRUISE
t Stock up for Christmasi
Ifyou'd like to join us on
Thursday December 14th for a
trip across the Channel to
Bologne come into the FELIX
Office today and sign up. The
cost should be about £17.50
depending on the number of
people who are interested.
stewards.
The march took its course through the back streets,
where the numbers of people involved dropped off.
Five more people were arrested at Islington, where
the Police were abused as 'Thatcher's Boot Boys'.
The march ended with another series of speeches in
which members of the NUS executive claimed they
had been 'conned' into taking this route. Speakers
from the Polytechnic of North London called for the
march to be continued to Westminster. There were
ugly scenes as a speaker from the NUS tried to explain
their plans for next term.
A marcher told FELIX that 'Student feeling was
that a potentially good demonstration had been ruined
by NUS London's choice of route', and that they had
'been betrayed by the N U S . '
Imperial College Union (ICU) banned the use of
their banner, and no member of the executive attended
the march. ICU President M r Neil McCluskey, told
FELIX that in view of the arrests, their choice had
been a good one.
Rag to riches
Rag Chairman, Hal Calamvokis presented a cheque
for £2028.33 to Mr PC Robert Shaw of Action Aid
yesterday. The money was raised by the tiddlywinking
on the 7th October.
The dance club will have raised £5200 for BBC's
Children in Need appeal after its 24 hour .dancing
session last weekend, if all the sponsors pay up.
Bank ban
Imperial College Union (ICU) are considering a
motion on student loans and banking to be proposed
at the next U G M . The motion notes that all banks
except Lloyds bank, the Clydesdale bank and the
Royal Bank of Scotland are presently willing to
participate in the Government's Student Loans Bill.
The motion goes on to say that students oppposed to
the loans should not invest in the banks that are taking
part in the scheme.
The motion instructs the ICU President to ask the
National Westminster bank to withdraw from the
scheme , and if they do not reply before New Year's
Day next year the college will be called upon to
remove NatWest from its premises on the campus.
The Government's Top Up Loans for Students
scheme was announced in Tuesday's Queen's speech.
The Bill was released on Wednseday.
Dracuia
The blood transfusion held in Southside gym last
Tuesday resulted in the donation of over 150 pints
of blood, with about 170 people attending. Guilds
President Chris Home said that this was better than
last year; the next transfusion will be on the 8th May
next year.
Life saver
The police have asked if they can use Imperial
College's ambulance for the duration of the
ambulancemen's dispute. The vehicle was donated
to the Red Cross by students of IC from the proceeds
of the 1979 Rag.
The ambulance will continue to attend to the needs
of IC students, but it may also be called upon to help
people who are not part of the college if they are near
the campus.
The matter is known to be a point of dispute
between the College and trade unions, although
representatives were not available for comment
yesterday.
SPORTS RESULTS
H O C K E Y
Saturday 18th November
MENS
I C - 0 Boyne Hill—2
IC II-1 Boyne Hill II—1
IC III Kodak
LADIES
IC II—6 St Barts II—0
Sunday 19th November
MIXED
IC—3 LSE—3
Wednesday 22nd November
MENS U A U
IC—0 Sussex Uni—1
IC II—2 Sussex II—0
LADIES U A U
I C - 1 Sussex Uni—0
IC II-1 Sussex II—0
MENS L E A G U E
IC III—6 U C M II—0
R U G B Y
Sunday 19th November
Gutteridge Cup
IC—29 Kings—6
Wednesday 22nd November
U A U
I C - 3 2 Sussex Uni—0
IC 11-36 Sussex II—0
BOAT CLUB
Crew Time Division Overall
position position
Sen I 4 19.13 1 11
Sen 11 4 1958 1 48
Women Quad 20.02 1 59
Novice 4 + 21.28 1 156
S I 4+ 20.23 4 82
S II 4 + 20.47 4 117
S III 4 + 20.56 4 127

