Back to the future II
At the end of 1985's blockbusting hit Back to the
Future, the time travelling Delorean (so much more
classy than an old police box) crashed back into Marty
McFly's garden. The Doc lept out and said to Marty-
'It's your kids, something's got to be done about your
kids!'. BTTFII picks up the plot from here, with the
Delorean making the jump to 2015, but with someone
watching...30 years later this same person sees the
same Deloreon and an implausible young Doc Brown
and starts to put two and two together.
Director Robert Zemeckis has reassembled the
majority of the cast members from the first film. Once
again they get to play their characters at different
stages in their lives (1955/1985 and 2015) in
surprisingly good make-up. Two of the cast actually
get to play different members of the same family-
Michael J Fox as Marty, and his son and daughter (!)
(!), and Thomas Wilson as Biff and Geoff Tannen. The
future handily allows Doc Brown to be rejuvenated
thus letting Christopher Lloyd avoid playing most of
the film under heavy ageing make-up.
The jumping makes for a complex plot, but one that
is reasonably easy to follow-especially as the Doc
draws a diagram to explain it all! The jaunt to the
future is a fairly light-hearted affair with a fair amount
of jokes dependant on comparisons with our
A siren sounds. Six people in varous stages of undress
burst onto the stage. They walk round and round the
stage in silence, the two of them dress for dinner.
The Origin of Table Manners deals with the
absurdities of our social behaviour. As a liner, on its
maiden voyage, heads for destruction, its passengers
continue the bizarre social dance, that forbids any
breach of normality or deviancy.
The cast of seven perform a very stylised play,
mixing music, movement, commonplace props, and
even speech (occasionally) to try and provide us with
a dark comedy of manners.
Some of their targets are easily identifiable-the
rigid restrictions on eating habits, and the 'romantic
dinner', and the social interplay of men and women.
Other messages are obscured by the surrealistic
method by which they are presented. Much of the
comedy is slapstick, and very funny, but you are
present-an advert for Jaws 14 ('This time it's
personal'), a Cafe 80 nostalgia cafe and a virtual
repeat of the skateboard chase scene from the first
movie-with one vital difference.
When the travellers return to 1985 things take on
a much darker tone, as they find themselves in a bleak
and violent alternative time line, when California is
controlled by Biff, Marty's arch-enemy, and his family
life has taken a horrific new twist.
In an attempt to put this right they travel back to
the same day in 1955 that Marty left in the previous
film, and to another visit to the 'Enchantment under
the sea' dance. Now, though, the Doc and Marty have
to avoid their earlier selves! Humour reasserts its grip
as Marty desparately tries to get his hands on a certain
object.
The film is a worthy sequel to its predecessor,
managing to develop the basic idea given there, while
also being much funnier. You could never accuse it
of being an intellectually challenging film-but who
cares? It makes for a great evening's entertainment—
laughs, drama, action—what more do you need?
It also leads directly into BTTF-Partlll, which was
filmed back to back with this, and is due in Summer
1990. A Delorean in the Wild West? I can't wait!
Adam T.
always confused as to exactly what it's there for.
Virtually everything that happens seems to be
symbolic of something-the problem is that you are
never quite sure of what. When you lose sight of what
the actors are trying to tell you, their actions seem
only ridiculous.
As the play draws to a close the atmosphere grows
darker, as they face death and come to terms with
the ghosts that haunt their past.
To be honest, the play left me bemused but
thoughtful. If you enjoy challenging plays that will
keep you thinking for days after, this is for you. If
you're looking for an evening's entertainment-forget
it.
The Origin of Table Manners is on at the ICA, The
Mall, SW1 until Dec 1. A concessionary ticket costs
£4.60.
Adam T.
Theatre
A winter tan
A Winter Tan is based upon the letters written by
Maryse Holder on Holiday in Mexico. It follows her
unabashed quest for sexual gratification through the
night clubs of Acapulco. Her encounters are relayed
as frank confessions to camera, and while revelling
in them, she is resentful at being tethered to her base
compulsion. Eventually her exploits lead her into an
affair with whose growing emotional involvement she
is unable to cope, and she rebounds into another bout
of promiscuity.
Maryse as a character is both sensual and
intelligent, yet is wracked by fear of her ageing body,
and its fading ability to attract the Adonises that she
so desires. Although in her behaviour, she is largely
unconstrained by existing roles, she struggles to
discover her own identity. Like many other women
who seek liberation, she is caught in the gulf between
traditional values and newer ideologies; the term 'slut'
makes her recoil in anguish. Nevertheless she cannot
reconcile the forthright independence of feminism and
her pathetic dependence on men, and is left drowning
in her own angst. It is interesting to note that had the
sexes been reversed, we would probably have
accused this film of being crude and exploitative. As
it is, the clear victim is Maryse herself.
Jackie Burrough's performance as Maryse Holder
is highly convincing, and is clearly the work of a
talented actress. The cinematography is generally of
a good standard, although it does betray signs of the
documentary background of some of the team of
directors. Whether this democratic approach to film-
making will prove productive remains to be seen, but
this certainly does not discourage it.
A Winter Tan is both bold and incisive. It grabs its
subject matter by the throat and refuses to let go.
However, the film is lacking in content, and tends to
repeat itself. It cannot be criticised for its lack of
answers, for that is not necessarily the role of cinema.
But the questions that it poses have all been asked
before, and that unfortunately is its one weakness.
Matthew G Johnson.
Theatre
The origin oftable manners
Page 3

