Pet Sematary
Film
'I don't want to live again,
I don't want to be buried
in the Pet Semataryl'
The cynical amongst us may say that this just about
summed up Stephen King's version of his celebrated
book of the same name. All horror films are incomplete
without the same old corny setting: 'Young family
move into small, backward town in Maine unaware
of the evil that lurks there, but they're sure gonna find
out...' But giving the cat and the 2 year-old their due,
they command a pretty scary last half hour.
The Pef Sematary itself is a place where local kids
have buried little Rover or Felix for nigh on sixty years.
One of the characters observantly points out that you
can tell the sign at the entrance has been done by kids
'cos it's spelled wrong'. And so it is. Hero, Louis Creed
is warned not to venture into 'the place beyond the
Pet Sematary', but sure enough the next day his
neighbour initiates him into the place's chilling
secret...His daughter's cat gets killed, Louis buries it
in 'the place' and it comes back to life; but this time
with fluorescent eyes and a decidedly rabid
temperament. The fun starts from here-or as the
publicity says-'Louis Creed has begun a deadly,
terrifyinc. exploration'.
It's interesting though how a film can be both
laughably predictable and seat-grippingly frightening
at the same time. There's no shortage of 'classic
horror' camera shots and the dialogue and plot are
considerably 'cringeable' in places.
So, as horror films go this isn't too bad. In fact, for
all the philosophers out there it even has a catch
phrase: 'Sometimes dead is better'. Nice
performances too from the two children and the cat,
who in particular showed considerable versatility. We
were left feeling slightly shaken and amused,
especially by the ridiculous title song by The Ramones
played with the credits; 'I don't want to be buried in
the Pet Sematary'.
Stephanie Kivi & Adrian Pagan.
Poor beast in the rain
Theatre
A betting shop in Wexford, Ireland, on the eve of the
all-Ireland hurling final. Several townsfolk pass
through the shop that evening, but all their lives are
about to be changed by the reappearance in the town
of Danger Doyle...
The play examines the relationship of people who
grow up together in a town, and their attitude to those
who 'escape'. At times moving, at times funny, the
atmosphere is great, enhanced by the smallness of the
theatre.
The Bush Theatre, above the Bush Pub on
Shepherds Bush Green, would be straining to hold
feel as if you are actually in with the actors-but
makes you acutely aware of one of the play's main
problems: characters are often left on stage for long
periods of time, with nothing to do. They end up
lurking on the sidelines, gazing vacuously into the
audience, while other characters pour their hearts out
to one another.
Off stage action is handled well though, with
enough references made to build up a feel for the town
and its inhabitants outside. The acting is uniformly
good, although Danger Doyle does come across as
rather more Dirty Den-esque than the words he was
The plot, although interesting, does tend to wander
a bit and the final conflict when all the characters
finally meet on stage is so catastropic it barely fits in
with what went before. One is left feeling not that
consequences of Danger Doyle's visit have not been
delt with, but that they are just beginning-almost as
if the play had finished at the wrong place.
Poor Beast in the Rain is on at the Bush Theatre,
Shepherds Bush Green, Tue-Sun at 8pm. A student
ticket costs £4.00.
Adam T.
much more than a hundred people. This makes you saying seemed to indicate.
The sprouts of wrath
Book
By Robert Rankin
Many have tried, and all but a few have failed in
producing a book with both wit and content that is
worthy of print. Sadly I feel this book fails to meet
these most demanding requirements. Don't get me
wrong for as a light-hearted read, that passes through
leaving no evidence of its passing, this books scores
quite well. As for literary skill it can only be described
as disappointing.
Based in Brentford the story chronicals events
following the mysterious destruction of the Olympic
Stadium in Birmingham. In the quiet suburban town
the council is shocked into resignation when Jennifer
Naylor proposes that they bid to host the games. Ms
Naylor is a Mrs Thatcher clone without the stupid
haircut but with a large chest that she uses to good
effect on the male members of the council.
Now that might seem crazy and insane but the
events that follow are so unbelievable to be laughable.
Mysteriously a plan has already been made and with
the aid of a little of the green folding stuff, planning
permission is obtained.
The stadium is to float five hundred feet above the
ground on five pillars. Floating is not exactly true for
it is to be built out of 'Gravitite', a substance that
appears to defy gravity (but even I know that's
impossible, I think).
From here to the end the story is of occult and
Page 4
mysterious forces (the stadium is in the shape of a
pentacle) which eminate from the gasometer that
does not belong to the Gas Board and has existed for
over a thousand years.
As I said earlier I feel the book has failed in its goal
but it does have some funny moments, although it is
normally character actions that produce slight
chuckles rather than any of the narrative.
In a book of this ilk it is often the case, and this is
no exception, the characters are no more than names
with little or no development.
Neville the part-time barman who has worked
behind the bar in the White Swan for twenty years
is perhaps a slight exception. He believes, wrongly,
that the reason the paperboy throws the morning
paper at the pub, landing in various places, is that he
had some sort of sexual trauma when he was
younger. Thus the idea of placing the paper through
the hole in the door brings back bad memories. Infact
he's just lazy.
The rest of the characters such as Jim Pody and
John Omally, who have set up a smuggling and
poaching business (the P and 0 Line) are typical in
their lack of detail.
It is a fairly easy read, you can get through twenty
pages and not notice it, although perhaps that is a bad
sign.
So overall if you want a humourous, light-hearted
story, one with little plot which does not tax your
mind, then perhaps this is the book for you. In
summary I would class this book as one of the
thousands of non-descript books that haunt the
shelves of shops for years, not a classic, but passable.
Ian Hodge.
50 FREE TICKETS
Sylvester Stallone in
'LOCK UP'
National Press Preview
Odeon Leicester Square
Sunday 26th November, 10.30am
FELIX has a free ticket for the first 50
people to come into the Office today!
There are no catches—this is a genuine
offer.

