Royal Albert Hall
10,000Maniacs
7.15 came and went while the man three rows behind
me russled his Guardian. I glanced from left to right
in the vague hope that something would remind me
that this was a 'gig'.
Up in the gods Queen Victoria sniggered as Prince
Albert pissed in my ear. And then there were two.
The Indigo Girls tell stories of middle-class angst.
Of how on foreign-exchanges their boyfriends left
them, post graduation trips to Europe become Edna
O'Brien-esk discoveries 'There are mountains in
Switzerland with snow covered tops', and that love's
fire does burn eternal. Their passion and sincerity left
For 90 minutes the Dominion Theatre is heaven on
earth, presided over by an angel of music in the form
of Mary Margaret O'Hara. Mary, dippy diva of the folk
world, hails from Canada but has strong Irish roots.
The result is a true original. On stage she seems
slightly out of step with her surroundings, though she
soon wins over the audience with her kooky charm
and oddball sense of humour, but then most of us
have been under her spell ever since her bewitching
debut album Miss America burst onto the scene a year
ago.
When she sings magic is involved. Her unique vocal
style ranges from hauntingly beautiful ballards like
Dear Darling and High in the Dark, to the furious,
me cold and I wondered why the grabbing hand of the
music business and the talent of Tracy Chapman had
unleashed such a non-entitity to chug up the middle
of the road. They were nigglingly pleasing in a faceless
sort of way but comfort can always be found in the
company of the bland.
The 10,000 Maniacs have the same sedating
effect. If asked why I like them I couldn't answer but
their music has a soothing, calming quality about it
which draws you closer but never allows you to touch.
Live, the Maniacs are a distant beauty. Natalie
Merchant a figure akin to Heidi on acid but with a
nerve-jangling rants that are Not be Alright and Year
in Song. She becomes totally caught up in her own
performance, seemingly oblivious to ourselves as her
voice soars and carries us with it, deep into inner
space.
About five songs into the set she jokes about it
being time to say goodnight. We laugh, and then she
says 'Don't laugh, soon it will be true' and, indeed,
the thought that this wonderful experience will
eventually have to end is not at all funny. Then Mary
is off again and rational thought becomes impossible
under her vocal onslaught.
Guy Hilton.
personality that could never hope to fill the vastness
of the hall, but what a voice.
The seating as ever acted as some form of perverse
contraceptive between band and audience. They
wanted to respond but seemed almost apologetic in
their polite aplause, only daring to stand up after
Colour Me and here they remained as Like the
Weather and the recent Eat for Two passed by.
I left feeling faintly warmed as if I'd been shaken
firmly by the hand rather than orally assaulted.
We may have been amused.
Dominic Wilkinson.
To Slay the Rock Pig
Membranes
See the dude starfleet transform and transpose to a
deep black disc of Guinness wit and doom. Injecting
the stereo with rushes of stabbed rampant hot sonic
sensation the music twists and lurches, vomiting out
of the mighty sound towers in saliva spitballs covering
all in its path with its lusty stain...savaging the fear
cadet imprisoned within the slob fortress. The space
hopper ignites but the freak flag remains high phlegm,
phlegm of the couch potato command, flows through
the collapsed sewer veins with the caretaker mentality
inversed at the vile antics of superyob...the
Euroseparists with tuff veggie agro go 24 hours at
Northern prices. Sweating to be kept at a minimum.
And if you think that's weird, listen to the record.
B.G.
Kevin McDermott Orchestra
Healing
This new 12" from Island Records is a nice sounding
record by a band with some obvious talent.
The title track on side one sounded good with nice
rhythm and harmonies all the way through. The
slightly indie rhythm guitar was alright, but I was
never too convinced about its sound. There was some
subdued piano playing in the background which
sounded suspiciously like Bruce Hornsby-friends in
high places perhaps?
I felt the song was a little over-produced, espeically
on the vocals and this could have been the fault of
the person who remixed the track. Also, it wasn't
really suited to a 12" single-it could have been much
shorter and had a proper ending instead of a really
obvious fade out.
Side two has To My Diary, a solo piece very much
in the vein of Tracy Chapman. The acoustic guitar
gave a really nice sound and this time the vocal
sounded real despite the master tape having been
stretched half way through!
The record finishes off with a cover of a Beatles
track, You Can't Do That and is the band having some
fun. Good to dance to, it feels like a song they would
play live.
Overall this is an interesting record with three totally
different songs showing the diversity of this relatively
unknown band.
B.G.
Margaret O'Hara
Page 5

