Susan Appleby interviews 'Tite Man From Delmonte' at l.C. Radio last Friday before their gig at the Guilds Carnival.
Fruit A n d Tunes
Playing at the Guild's Carnival last week for what was
a return gig at IC were The Man From Del Monte,
primariliy a live band with a strong following in the
North, based around Manchester. While the fruit juice
flowed I spoke to Sheila, the bassist and Howard,
drummer from the band, about football fans, babies
and peculiar pop songs.
I was going to ask you about fruit juice; that was
going to be my main question. Tell me about fruit
juice.
Sh. Never buy Del Monte, it's very dodgy.
Well I don't anyway, but...
Sh. The name...just seemed like a good name;
something that would stick in people's minds. It
worked at the beginning, mainly because people
thought they'd heard of us.
H. 'Seen you on the telly!'
Sh. That's right. But then it worked against us,
because people thought we were something to do
with South Africa, apartheid, I don't know.
H. It's a bit of a cross to bear. I'm surprised, now, how
many people aren't offended by it.
You've been together for three years now; have
you changed much in this time?
Sh. I think we've got better...the line-up hasn't
changed. I think we've got more professional.
H. We can play now!
Sh. But some bands start up and they're really good
at the beginning.
H. We were really awful!
Sh. And then don't progress...
How would you describe your music?
Page 6
Sh. John! Where's our manager? He can answer that
one.
He's not in the room.
It's good for dancing to. ..and it's got lots of tunes in it.
H. Thoughtful and melodic.
Thoughtful, in what sense?'...A lyrical sense?
H. Well in a way, this is why the music press don't
mention us-they can't attach us to anything—Mike
writes very peculiar songs.
How are they peculiar?
They're very personal, all about him, all on acoustic
guitar...we've only just gradually worked out what to
do with it all now.
Sh. We don't try to sound like anyone else...I mean
I listen to Tina Weymouth, bassist from Talking Heads
and I think yeah, I could do that, because she's not
a great technical player-for me it's to do with playing
tunes on the bass. That's changed in the past few
years: we've become more rhythmic.
We're a very live band. There's an energy that
comes from the live playing, and it's really hard to
reproduce that in the studio...it's really hard to get the
sense of what the song means.
What's the Manchester scene like...you seem all
one big happy family almost? Is it really like that?
NO! We don't know anyone, no. I s'pose there are a
lot of bands and you do see them around, so everyone
does know of everyone else.
But you're not all going to wild parties together?
H. No, I suppose if you're really trendy you've got the
Hacienda, places like that, but...
Sh. I think our manager goes.
H. He likes to keep in touch.
Sh. Yeah, but I have a kid, I don't go out very much.
What did you think about the Smiths leaving
Manchester after they said they never would?
Sh. It was probably just as well they left when they
did, or there wouldn't have been room for all the
things that are happening now.
H. The fans in Manchester are all hysterical. If they
spotted Morrissey in the street he'd be ripped apart.
Although Mick Hucknall wanders around freely-he's
a bit ugly though.
Sh. He's not got the same sort of star quality as
Morrissey, I suppose...
H. We live in Manchester, but we're not really a
'Manchester band'. Maybe that's what we're doing
wrong with the music press...
Sh. Yes, we should say it's all lies that Mick's
Australian and I'm Scottish-we're all true
Mancunians really! Actually we get a lot of people at
our gigs who, if there's a bit of a gap between songs,
start shouting 'Manchester, Manchester' you know.
I really hate that.
H. Yeah it's surprising, I mean James get it too.
Sh. We played in Leeds once, and James had warned
us about the crowd in Leeds-and right at the end of
the night there were these guys fighting in front of
the stage: It was really scary...
The Man from Del Monte have an album due out
'sometime next year'-you can catch them
supporting the Primitives tonight at the Town and
Country Club though. This interview will be
broadcast on IC Radio on Monday between 7 and
8pm.

