The dark side of job hunting
What a jungle the whole recruitment process turns out
to be for us final year studes. The fact that there is
a real shortage of graduates available, does not seem
to make our job of choosing a career any less time
consuming or bewildering. Few of us are complaining
about this glut of opportunities; the staggering number
of companies vying for our attention does no end of
good for the ego. There is much talk among us of
whether to choose a job which is rewarding, fulfilling
etc, but 'only' pays 11,000 big ones, or to go for the
'boring, but financially rewarding career choice'.
Decisions! Decisions! It's tough being a prospective
graduate jobhunter I don't think.
As if the notorious IC workload and the prospect
of finals looming weren't enough to get our
workaholic (well, you have to be if you're at IC) spirits
into top gear, we are bombarded with information and
opportunities in every direction. If you are smart
enough to navigate your way through the maze of
careers talks, seminars, Christmas vacation work
experience courses, Careers Library handouts,
company 'glossies', fairs and the like, and survive
unscathed, then all those forthcoming interviews and
aptitude tests should be a breeze.
Speaking of Careers Fairs, wasn't it awfully difficult
to try and find ot exactly what jobs some of these
company employees actually do? Probably easier
getting blood from a stone, because these people
went into hyper-bullshit mode and subjected us to a
barrage of flowery company prose about 'challenging
opportunities', 'problems analysis', and 'testing your
resources'. All we wanted to know was what they
by Parvez AH (Aero III)
actually got up to in a working day, apart from being
fussed and fetted over by their graduate hungry
employers. If any of them quoted any figures for their
salaries, it would be wise of apply an exaggeration
factor of about 10%.
The whole concept of the Careers Fair has a sordid
and sinister nature about it. Can we honestly be
expected to absorb a feel for the working
environment, company culture and fulfillment by
wading through the pages of glossy brochures and
lending our ears to the carefully chosen phrases of
carefully chosen company representatives?
Having mentioned fulfillment, it comes perilously
close to dicussing the meaning of life, a subject far
too arty for an average IC student to digest. Anyway,
most students when in a brutally honest mood, will
happily admit that they do not really care for a career
even it it's challenging, testing, fulfilling and all those
other qualities that are supposedly attractive. How
much better, they admit, it would be if they could flit
from job to job, have lots of leisure time, and still get
good financial rewards, i.e. the 'perfect' job. The
problem is, that many of us would-be rat racers
actually believe that this is exactly what their degree
certificate offers them.
The point of it ail seems to be that a degree makes
working life more bearable than the average workers'
job; not the most persuasive argument for slogging
away like we do. But then, you wouldn't be at IC if
a cushy, easy time was what you were looking for,
right.
Get drunk painlessly and raise money for IC Rag.
Southside vodka promo
For the past three years Herburt Heybowicz, a Polish
firm, have been producing a vodka using a
revolutionary new process. This produces a vodka
which has all the traditional 'Polish' features, i.e. the
burn, but one startling difference, it has negligible
detectable acohol content.
Distilled and refined in a similar way to the other
famous Polish vodka's, Wyborawa, and Zamoyski, it
then undergoes a patented chemical process to
remove, or at least dissipate the alcohol. The final
product is then bottled and sold in the normal way.
The vodka, which by the way is pronounced 'push-
nosh-chay', will be marketed nationally in this country
in April of next year. However, due to links established
through through various European societies with
Warsaw University in the past year, we have been
sent six bottles as a gift. These six bottles will be put
on sale in Southside Bar today, between 6 and 9pm
and will be available at these times until they run out,
or until the following Friday, the 31st. As they were
a gift, it has been agreed with the company that any
revenue resulting from their sale, will be donated to
charity, i.e. Rag.
Come and feel the burn, and your legs afterwards!
In Southside tonight, try the new painless
Screwdriver.
POJXOZCE
:POLSIC\
75CL W a r z a w
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Keep-Fit Club: Anyone wishing to join should
come to Southside Gym during a lesson. Details of
classes in What's On guide. (Trial lessons
available.I
• Shit Hot Sax Player required for London-based
jazz-pop band. Contact Andy T. in FELIX Office
(Ext 3515).
• Every Wednesday and Sunday 'War Gaming and
Role Playing Society' regular twice weekly
meetings. 1pm First Floor, Union Building.
• The Jewish Society is having a meeting on
Tuesday 28th November at 1.30pm in the Union
SCR. The meeting is entitled 'Reincarnation, a
case study' with Steven Greenman.
• Gain experience and earn £1000 working in the
USA next summer. For further details contact G
Narine, Physics 2.
• Wing Chung Kung Fu. There will be a
demonstration in the Union Gym of this street-
practical self-defence system this Sunday at
7.30pm. All members of Imperial College
welcome.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• For sale-JVC Stereo Radio/Cassette Player.
Double tape, dolby nr, digital tuner, detachable
speakers, etc. Excellent condition. £85 ono (cost
£170 new). Contact R Mortimer, Min Geol 2
(pigeonholes) or 371 4772 (after 6pm).
• For sale-Electric keyboard: Yamaha Portatone
PSR-16. Full-sized keys, hardly used, complete
with keyboard stand, adaptor, and all the useful
manuals and receipt. Price £120.
• Wanted: Translation required. Chinese to
English, must have a knowledge of Elec Eng
terms. Will pay for service. Contact Brian Dorriott,
Elec Eng UG4 for details.
• Novelty bike sale: naff colours, silly shape.
Apply AMCH.
PERSONAL
• Two weeks till Woyzeck. The play that drove
the director to the bottle, drives Woyzeck mad,
and which will drive you to the point of ecstacy!
• Carol is small
Carol is brave
But dear oh dear
She could do with a shave
• Would the young lady who disrobed me at the
Smoking Concert last Thursday please return the
offending article. Ian Rogers ME4.
• Daily Telegraph-'Woyzeck-what a pisserl'
• A man called Horace cannot be seduced that
easily-but nice try RCS. PS your brakes don't
work.
• Time Out-'Lummy! You won't get all that in
sailor!'
• Congratulations AMCH-The Gauntlet Club.
• Sunday Spurt-'A hood-scoffing knob-
wrangling throbber of a production.'
• Well since by baby left me,
I've found a new place to dwell,
It's down at the end of the M11,
It's called Fenn Poly!
• Financial Times-'No comment.'
Page 7

