Highgate Cemetery
ondon has masses to offer;
unfortunately most of it is
either too expensive or on
the wrong side of a locked
door. If you want to try
something different that
doesn't cost too much,
why not try something
bizarre, something reeking
with history and horror film
gothic, something so romantic it is hard to believe it
wasn't built as a self parody.
When I visited this cemetary last, the guide who
took our small group was a rather eccentric-looking
Australian, dressed all in black. He put up his
umbrella-black, of course-as it started to drizzle
outside the entrance chapel.
: r %
ยง ? i *
'Right', he said, 'Shall we go?', and he strode off,
across the cobble stoned courtyard towards the brick
colonnade opposite. We trotted after, zipping up
jackets and opening umbrellas, and followed him up
some wide stone steps leading up from under the
colonnade. At the top we were treated to a dramatic
first view of the wild and dingy foliage delineating a
stony path leading deep into what looked like
intractable forest.
Marble crosses and angels green with age peered
out from the ivy and sycamore trees.
Neil, the photographer, and a student at Imperial,
muttered darkly about drizzle ruining his lenses and
hid the camera inside his jacket.
The guide chattered happily to his congregation
about irrelevant details of the graves, whilst we
hovered behind hoping to get a person-free picture of
the graveyard.
The murky path led to a grandly romantic gateway,
a massive arch leading into darkness flanked by
Egyptian columns and trailing ivy. Inside was a
corridor lined with rusty iron doors and roofed by
dense vegetation.
'This is the Egyptian Avenue', said the guide, 'The
entrance to a necropolis. Peter Cushing has been
filmed here complete with dry ice mist and red lined
cape'.
The avenue led to a ring of doors in a sunken moat-
like affair.
'These doors have got holes in them because
decaying bodies produce a lot of gas', he said. 'A
number of nasty explosions have occurred when
people wanted to forget this unpleasant fact.'
Up a flight of steps out of the moat, which was seen
to encircle an enormous cedar. 'I gather that during
the last century they played A Midsummer Night's
'A very romantic gesture. However, a few years later,
her husband had financial difficulties so ordered the
body to be exhumed and took the book to the
publishers.'
On the other side of the road, the other half of the
cemetary contains the grave of Karl Marx. This is
worth a visit if only to enjoy the strange experience
of feeling that his grave monument has outlasted his
philosophy. I expected the bust of Marx, in red granite
and bronze, to be cracked and decrepit. It wasn't-it
still proudly proclaimed:
Karl Marx, 5 May 1818-14 March 1883
Philosophers have only
interpreted the world in
various ways. The point
however is to change it.
The epitaph doesn't scan very well, not to mention
the rather painful irony it now contains. The 'Marx
Dream there. Very atmospheric, no doubt.'
Overlooking us was an enormous white
mausoleum, built in a very exotic eastern style, behind
which was a Victorian brick church set on a high
terrace, just an imposing grey shadow through the
drizzle.
'There were anti-aircraft guns on that terrace during
the war,' he said.
At about this point I started to get intensely irritated
by being guided, as I much prefer my own random
wandering-l think you see more that way. Anyhow,
the guide did insist on shepherding his flock.
He pointed out the Rossetti grave near a less
overgrown part of the cemetary reminiscent of a
country churchyard.
'She was buried with her long gold hair wrapped
around a book of unpublished poems,' he said lyrically.
Cat'-a fat ginger stray cat lives around here, living
off the goodwill of the cemetary keepers and the
scraps of the many visitors. In this way it manages
quite well without doing any work at all. Analogies
seem to breed in this place.
Highgate Cemetary is a nature reserve as well as
a trip into the past. It ceased to function as a
graveyard shortly after the Second World War and has
been left virtually unattended for nearly fifty years.
It is suffocatingly atmospheric and is one of my
favourite places in London. The nearest tube station
is Archway, you have to walk a bit, across Waterlow
Park. A longer but much more pleasant route is from
Hampstead tube, taking a stroll over Hampstead
Heath where John Constable painted many of his
landscapes which are now in the V&A Museum. The
entrance charge to the cemetary is ยฃ2.00.

