Nothing on? See Noises Off
Shamini Bundell has and is still giggling from the experience
13
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
n days gone past, the front row
was the place to be – the most
expensive and exclusive tick-
ets, the tickets that showed you
had power and position in the
world. In short, theatre-seating hier-
achy was simple. The closer you were
to the front, the more important you
were. I guess this has something to do
with being closest to the stage (and
supposedly having the best view) as
well as being closest to the stars.
So what has changed? Most front
rows are now taken up by loudmouth
teenagers with no theatre dress sense
(I once saw a girl wearing a t-shirt and
not much else). I think this progres-
sion is twofold (or maybe three if I can
think straight!) and its results also give
the appearance of ouroboros: that of
a snake biting its tail – or in theatre
terms, well we'll get to that later.
Over the years, set designs have be-
come vaster if not more imaginative. In
the sixties and seventies we saw some
of the most amazing designs such as
the set of Grind that completely rotated
between scenes to show the inside and
outside of a club. A pioneer of outland-
ish set design was Eugene Lee, one of
my favourite set designers if only for
the way his sets perfectly set the atmos-
phere of a play. Among his crazy ideas
was a production of Candide in which
the Broadway Theatre was broken up
into small stages connected by walkways
and seats ripped out in favour of wooden
benches and stools. This closed pretty
soon after opening. His other attempt at
completely demolishing the Broadway
was Dude! by Ragni and Rado. The stage
and seats were separated into different
areas such as forest and sky with each
area also representing a different price
range (Producers know how to make
theatregoers pay more without them
realising), as the floor was strewn with
feathers and soil. Needless to say this
closed even quicker than Candide.
But sets continued to grew, especial-
ly through the 80s when the recession
meant people wanted more for their
money and so wanted huge extrava-
ganzas with sets to match. Into the 90s
and to the present day we have looked
at huge automated sets that look pret-
ty, change within the blink of an eyelid,
and have the potential to decapitate a
poor unsuspecting ensemble member
with one blow. So what does this sort
of set mean for sightlines, especially
for the front row elite?
For the cheap seats, things get bet-
ter; big sets mean you can see more
of it from further away and there tend
to be larger ensembles hence more to
see if you sit further back. For the first
class front rowers, things get worse. A
large set means more will be played
upstage meaning you can't see jack
all. The stage will be further above the
seats to accomodate all the mcgubbins
controlling your swanky automated
set and the larger ensemble will mean
more feet for you to stare at! Two
friends of mine recently found them-
selves in the front row of Hairspray
where the view was so bad they had to
move back a few rows just to see any
of the show. In short, only foot fetish-
ists and those who like peering into
the orchestra pit would ever pay full
price for these seats.
Another reason for the decline in
popularity can be traced back to Rent.
In an attempt to be hip and "down
wiv da kids", and also in an attempt to
honour Jonathan Larson, Rent imple-
mented the first lottery ticket system.
People would line up at crazy o'clock
in the morning to obtain $25 tickets
for the front two rows of the theatre.
This idea became a phenonemon with
Rentheads camping out multiple times
a week and even creating their own lit-
tle universe within these lines. Other
shows started taking this idea for
themselves until almost all musicals
on Broadway had some sort of lottery
or student rush. Now London is start-
ing to catch on with cheap front row
seats that tend to be full of screaming
teenagers, or worse screaming drama
students. My point about lottery seats
Ouroboros, or snake eats tail. WTF?
Lucy Harrold takes a look at the history of front row seats from posh snobs to screamy teenagers and beyond
is that now the front row is notorious
for being where the desperate fans
sit (even if they don't realise they are
now possibly the worst seats to have).
Perhaps another reason why we don't
want to sit in the front row anymore is
to escape the grasps of crazy fan girls.
And finally to the ouroboros moment
– audience interaction. I guess Hair
started this back in the 60s, when front
seats were still the place to be and hoity-
toity types were stunned when a hippy
suddenly jumped onto their chair or
gave them a flower. As time has carried
on, interaction has continued and those
who do not wish for a negative interac-
tion have distanced themselves from the
front. Blue Man Group tend to sell off
their front seats cheap and I think they
also provide disclaimers as many of their
stunts can "leak" out to the front row.
In Denzel Washington's Julius Caesar,
the production was so bloody that the
front row were provided with pacamacs
to protect themselves from flying blood.
As negative effects like this increase, the
value of front row seats decreases (unless
you're in for a cheap thrill).
But we have now come full cir-
cle. The new production of Hair has
brought back the thrill of being in the
front row. People are now willing to
pay as much money as they can to have
Will Swenson sit on their lap or Gavin
Creel molest them. (I would.)
I blame these people, it’s their fault.
W
hen it comes to a
play within a play,
DramSoc’s latest
production takes
full advantage of
the confusion. Although I set out with
the noble aim of relating to you the
witty intricacies of the plot of Noises
Off, at the time I was too busy wiping
away tears of laughter to work out ex-
actly what was going on.
Noises Off is Michael Frayn’s smash
hit comedy about a bunch of actors at-
tempting to put on the not-so-smash-
hit farce ‘Nothing On’. DramSoc have
joyfully embraced the shabby setting
of the Union Concert Hall as well as
their own extensive experience with
wobbly and suspiciously familiar sets.
Aided by some impeccable acting
talent, director Fran Buckland has
crafted a beautiful piece of visual thea-
tre that is one of DramSoc’s most pro-
fessional productions for some time.
Newcomer Nigel Fullerton keeps the
audience in fits of laughter, often with-
out saying a word, while Gilead Amit’s
god-like voice is all we need to find
ourselves empathising with the long-
suffering director. The whole cast
displays a wonderful comic flair that
barely allows the audience to catch
their breath.
Watching the dress rehearsal last
Tuesday was a thoroughly surreal ex-
perience as characters discussed their
imminent opening night, real and fake
techies wandered around fixing things,
and copious amounts of sardines were
flung around the stage. I’m pretty sure
the sardines were supposed to be there
(they may in fact have been integral to
the plot) but it was usually impossible
to tell whether the strings of hilarious
screw-ups were really in the script or
not.
The play gets off to a slow start and
there is some initially quite confusing
mime in the second act but it doesn’t
take long for the pace to pick up and
the gags to start piling up. Solid per-
formances from the whole cast carry
us through as each act grows into a cre-
scendo of farcical events. Tom Veitch
for example embodies a consistent
and utterly believable helplessness in
his character, while Simon Worthing-
ton gives the endearing impression of
having just accidentally wandered onto
the set.
Having watched the dress rehearsal
I am not entirely sure where DramSoc
ends and the cast and crew of ‘Noth-
ing On’ begins. Director Fran sat in
front of me watching the dress with
her head in her hands at times while in
front of her the ‘Nothing On’ director
sat despairing. I’m informed that set
designer John Winters didn’t sleep for
days in order to create the ridiculously
ambitious set which is essentially what
happens in the play. In fact I’m pretty
sure Nigel smashed the fourth wall in
with his foot at one point while falling
down some stairs.
For a taste of what to expect from
Noises Off you could try checking out
the photos that accompany this re-
view, that is if there are any – at several
points I saw the photographer unable
to hold his camera steady due to be-
ing collapsed against the stage giggling
– but for some good laughter therapy
you’re probably better off going along
and watching it for yourself.
Noises Off continues
tonight and concludes
tomorrow evening.
If you fancy going in a big
group, DramSoc have a
special deal for you! Bring
20 people along and you can
get 20% off the ticket price-
that’s a bargainalicious £4!
Just as good as the West
End but a tenth of the price!

