14 felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
MUSIC
Music Editors:
Music Editors: Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com www.felixmusic.tk
Stellar Sweet Symphony
T
he concert began with
an ICU Dance Company
and ICSO (IC Symphony
Orchestra) collaboration
for a Mexican Huapango
which, probably due to my lack of ex-
perience in the art of dance, made me
cringe slightly. The dancing was not as
well synchronised as the music was,
but the orchestra’s high-point of the
concert was yet to come.
Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No.2
followed, which the orchestra opened
with elegance and poise, taking its
good time with the sweeping harmo-
nies. The music was commanding,
although stronger dynamic contrast
might have helped to build more mo-
mentum. Nevertheless, this allowed
the orchestra to fluidly introduce the
piano.
The attention to detail and accuracy
of the pianist, Shuang Huang, during
the technically demanding scalic pas-
sages must be commended, for she
made it look and sound enviously ef-
fortless, which it surely was not. Evi-
dently, she did not lack the technical
ability to tackle such a concerto, and
her performance was thorough and
loyal. The phrases in the music were
wonderfully ornamented, although
more assertive dynamics would have
given more shape to the phrases, and
would have done more to convince.
Perhaps it was the numerous fast pas-
sages that caused a loss in depth of
sound in other parts, namely the sec-
ond movement. The orchestra con-
tinued to accompany stylishly, which
threatened to make the piano sound
flat; but again, the flowing scalic piano
passages were impressively executed
and marked the performance as a show
of great technical ability on Huang’s
part.
After the interval, came the headlin-
er of the concert: Holst’s The Planets.
There is no way that a piece of music
which spans the astrological solar sys-
tem can be thoroughly reviewed in an
article of such a small size. The epic
mood of The Planets was done justice
by the ISCO, who had obviously pre-
pared hard for this suite. Their efforts
were compensated with a performance
which oozed confidence: the impres-
sively seismic as demanded from the
music had the audience gripped to
their seats and almost breathless.
Holst created this music for a large
orchestra featuring harps, timpanis
and a celesta (which looks like a tall
piano but sounds like a glockenspiel),
amongst the usual string, woodwind,
brass and percussion instruments. The
myriad of sounds were all seamlessly
brought together by the conductor, Ri-
chard Dickens, and it was truly a feast
for the senses. The inspirational sense
of team-work amongst the musicians
could clearly be felt; and it was heart-
warming to see a full-house of proud
families and friends in the audience,
some of whom were forced to sit on
the steps.
Each movement transported eve-
ryone swiftly from one planet to an-
other, in such a colourful and dynamic
fashion that it felt almost like a test on
the stamina of the audience, let alone
the musicians and the conductor. The
journey through astrology culminated
at Neptune, at the end of which the
human voice of a women’s chorus ap-
peared. The chorus was beautifully and
authentically integrated into the or-
chestral music just as Holst had meant
it to be. The sopranos of the chamber
choir sang from the room adjacent to
the stage, and the door was closed as
the voices became fainter, eventually
fading to silence.
For someone who has never heard
The Planets in their entirety, I was glad
to have done so for the first time played
by the ISCO because I was genuinely
blown away by their talent. I recom-
mend their concerts to everyone, even
and especially someone unfamiliar
with the music. It is a great opportu-
nity to become impressed and inspired
by our colleagues in a context that we
might never have seen or imagined
before.
Of the two support bands, Canterbury
were by far and away the best of the
bunch. They provided a gig that was
miles better than the “High School Bat-
tle of the Bands” performance given by
their opener, Brigade. The poppy, synth
laden sound of “Peace & Quiet” along
with the beautifully harmonious vocals
of the two singers made sure I couldn’t
stop tapping my feet. As Canterbury
energetically jumped around the stage
for their last song, I thought that Twin
Atlantic would have a hard time better-
ing their support’s performance.
Before the headliners even made it
onto the stage, an intense feedback
rose, resembling a war-cry from Wil-
liam Wallace’s army. This noise grew
and grew, creating an almost unbear-
ably tense atmosphere. Suddenly the
feedback was killed, and the opening
riff of Twin Atlantic’s “You’re Turn-
ing Into John Wayne” drew whooping
and cheers of satisfaction from a very
excited crowd. Three songs in and “Hu-
man After All” ensured that the crowd
filling the room jumped up and down
the Twin Atlantic
Brixton Academy
3rd March
★★★★✩
IC Symphony Orchestra spaces Joanna Cai out with a fantastic
performance of Holst’s The Planets
One day a Hot Chip obsession existed.
It faded and an album was released.
It faded more and another album was
released. A bit after that they played
Brixton and I re-acknowledged their
existence. Although, this was deeply
unappreciated because I hadn’t heard
half the songs.
However, one of the things that truly
is appreciable is the difference between
the live and studio recorded material.
Whilst the beats from the stereo can
hardly be blasted, and the majority of
their songs either make you want to
stare into space and imagine brightly
coloured dots or, let’s just admit it, are
just plain emo; they managed to enliven
every song into a fresh, new, and most
importantly danceable interpretation.
Despite my disgusting ignorance, it
was clear to see that every other devot-
ed fan there was enjoying their trium-
phant homecoming set as their sweetly
sounding electro pop created raucous
waves of bodies in the crowd and spec-
tators that refused to sit down in the
balcony. Oh how naughty.- Lily Le
like a colony of ants on a bass sub. The
audience’s reaction to Twin Atlantic
was imense and resulted in the only
case I’ve seen of both crowd and band
pleading for an encore. The majority
of the last song was performed after
the venue was permitted to play live
music and this just added to the punk
feel of the gig, sending members of the
crowd wild as they careered into one
and other. After the last of the feedback
had died off and I began to hear more
than a faint ringing in my ears, I had no
doubts that Twin Atlantic deserved this
headline appearance and I think they
may have had fun performing too!
- Andy Roast
Twin Fantastic
Hot Chip
Brixton Academy
26th February
★★★✩✩
They only want to be your
one life stand...
Ooh... pretty space things. Note to self: send a photographer next time

