15
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk MUSIC
More than music at Latitude
L
atitude festival is back for
its 5th edition this year and
promises to be bigger and
better than ever. Building
on the success of the past
four years it will be a unique experi-
ence bringing together the very best
of theatre, comedy, literature, film, po-
etry, dance, art, fashion, cabaret and of
course music for four days in July on
the glorious Sunrise Coast of Suffolk.
The music will be the focus for most
people going, and this year’s recently
announced line-up is effectively a wet-
dream for any indie-rock fan. Flor-
ence + The Machine will grace the
stage with their chart-topping brand
of pop on Friday 16th. Belle & Sebas-
tian, one of the better things to come
out of Scotland along with whisky, will
bring their wistful pop to the main
stage on Saturday 17th, alongside Brit-
ish depresso-pop sensations The xx.
Brooklyn pretty boys Grizzly Bear
and Franco-English beauty Charlotte
Gainsbourg will churn out some saucy
songs on Sunday 18th, before Vampire
Weekend bring the festival to a close
with kick-ass tunes from their recent
“Contra” outing. And these are just
the headliners, with many, many more
(and probably more interesting…)
bands to be announced.
Comedy legends like Emo Philips
and Ardal O’Hanlon (also known as
Father Dougal McGuire from Father
Ted) will be sprouting nonsensical side-
splitting gibberish on one side of the
forest whilst the Royal Opera House
and Royal Shakespeare Company
prance around in tutus and call each
other “filthy bungs” across the lake.
You could sit by the waterfront and
watch degenerate hippies in a per-
formance of “Hair: The Musical” or
get away with a cheeky game of grab-
arse at the Masked Ball in the Faraway
Forest but if you prefer your art a tad
more freaky, then Latitude has some-
thing for you too baby: punk perform-
ance poet John Cooper Clarke will
diss the Man straight up at the Poetry
Arena, and provocative homo-erotic
cabaret troupe Duckie will get you all
hot and flustered late at night.
Unless you’re some kind of douche
then there is definitely something for
you at Latitude Festival, whether you
are going with your whole family or
just your ravenous gang of dope-fiend
buddies.
“More than just a music festival” is
indeed one way of putting it, as you
run across the woodlands among or-
ange and pink-coloured sheep wearing
nothing but your boxers. It may sound
like an acid trip, but this is just one of
the many ways to appreciate this di-
verse and brilliant festival.
In fact it is a festival like no other in
Britain. Featuring over 700 perform-
ers across four stages, it is closer to the
continental European festivals where
the focus is not necessarily on the few
famous bands headlining, but rather
on the lesser-known acts that you have
never heard of - whether it’s a random
band, theatre performance or purple-
coloured sheep. (Seriously they paint
sheep at this festival – why wouldn’t
you go??)
Latitude is exceptionally well con-
ceived. The organisers have fully com-
prehended the spirit that made early
70s festivals like the Stonehenge Free
Festival joyous and extraordinary gath-
erings, and assimilated the financial
and logistical implications of letting
loose thousands of delirious people in
a field without it turning into a bloody
riot. So instead of travelling to some
shithole in South-East Asia this sum-
mer, just go to Latitude – I’ll say it one
more time, they have purple sheep!!!
- Greg Power
FABRIC 51
DJ T
FABRIC
COMPILATION
The press release for DJ T’s Fabric mix
informs me that “there are very few
who can be fairly categorised as a true
music lover more than ... DJ T.” and his
CV is impressively filled with own-
ing club nights, setting up labels with
self-confessed electronic music obses-
sives and creating and editing a semi-
nal dance music magazine. The dark
ambience and oppressive lyrics of the
opening track provide a beautiful start
to this obviously eclectic mix. The
mix develops tantalisingly slowly, with
more beeps, bass notes and drums be-
ing introduced in the next few tracks.
Eventually, DJ T brings in a sunnier,
more open ambience and at times I
felt I had literally been transported to
TEENAGERS IN
TOKYO
PETER PAN
BACK YARD
SINGLE
I liked this after three seconds and
got bored after three listens. It would
fit comfortably in a Kitsune Compila-
tion and has a remix by the Horrors to
super-size your super-sceney needs; so
come on kids, pop this on your tape
deck and pretend you didn’t reject
UCL. You know you could have been
cool and that’s all that matters.
- Lily Le
Could you give a quick overview
of how you got into dubstep and
producing?
Well I went to uni, about ten years ago
now, and I was really into drum and
bass. We used to dj drum and bass, or
jungle back then, and then my friend
who I’d hooked up with at the time
said we should start making tunes.
We started to make drum and bass to-
gether on a shit program called ‘rave
dj’… from there we started giving our
tunes out and playing them out. They
sounded pretty whack but we still
played them and we were convinced
they were good.
I hooked up with RSJ who lived in
Sheffield where I studied. I used to
go round and play my tunes to him.
He would say that I should start using
proper stuff, at that time ‘Reason’ had
just come out so I got my first copy and
worked up from there really, got my
head around the programme and then
we moved into cubase and RSJ taught
me a few things on there and I taught
myself really, like I’m doing right now.
I’m just sat here watching some tutori-
als on how to use ‘Massive’ (a plug-in
by Native instruments).
How did the group Virus-Syndicate
(MRK1 and MCs JSD, Goldfinger &
Nika D) come about?
Virus-Syndicate is my group that has
in the next few years?
I reckon that there’ll be a lot more dub-
step vocal tunes, which might possibly
even start going into the charts but
hopefully they’ll keep dark. Obviously
you’ve had a couple of tunes in the
charts recently. The sort of tunes that
you wouldn’t necessarily think were
dubstep. Chase and status have had a
couple of tracks on Rhiannas new al-
bum and some of those were dark dub-
step tunes originally but because they
were made more mainstream you don’t
necessarily know if they’re dubstep.
Do you see it as a problem having
mainstream dubstep chart releases?
I think it depends on what the tune
is, it can be positive. The worst thing
would be if we started getting watered
down dubstep entering the charts and
if that became the dubstep brand. If
it continues being the dark dubstep
with heavy baselines which are out and
about at the moment and they go into
the charts, thats not necessarily a bad
thing, [it] just depends on who’s vocal-
ising them. Obviously if you get cheesy
pop acts covering dubstep tunes then
its not going to give a good image. I
reckon it would kill it off pretty quick,
but if you get reputable artists doing it,
then it could be a good look.
Interview by Jack Massey
LAURA
MARLING
DEVIL’S SPOKE
VIRGIN
SINGLE
I wish Laura Marling was dead. I joke, I
joke! I say this only out of pure love for
the fact that she still makes me insanely
jealous of her poetic command. Love,
really! A sinister guitar resonance ac-
companies her vocals which are more
fierce than ever, and effortlessly gets
across the message that she is not here
to fuck around.
- Lily Le
Being a dubstep DJ essentially means
you live a life controlled by the words
“whomp-whomp”
been about since the start. We’re all
mates that live in Manchester. We’ve
just signed a tune to Defected records,
which is a house label but we’re offi-
cially signed to Strictly Rhythm which
is the UK version, where we have
signed a single called ‘Move It’. I don’t
know if you remember ‘Reel to Reel - I
Like To Move It’ from back in the day.
We’ve done a different version of
that, gave it to a few people, it got back
to the label and eventually went to Eric
Morillo (owner of Defected records)
who produced the original. He gave
it the go ahead, so we signed up with
them. We’ve got a few different tunes
coming out but thats the biggest one.
You own Contagious Records, whats
lined up for 2010?
I’ve got my album coming out in April
called ‘Sound of Contagious’. It’s a
compilation of all the good Contagious
releases... well they’re all good so the
main contagious releases over the past
few years on CD format. It’s not just
me on there, there are tunes from peo-
ple like Skream, Chimpo, Jack Spar-
row, RSJ, just different people. We’ve
got a new Virus album coming out as
well in April and apart from that just
the usual singles by myself at the mo-
ment, MRK1
Out of all of your releases, which one
stands out as your favourite?
It changes all the time, I often get bored
of listening to my own tunes but ‘Talk
to Frank’ is pretty recent and one of my
favourite ones. I got the samples from
one of the ‘talk to frank’ adverts, it was
recently used on the tv programme
Skins.
Where abouts are you playing over
the next couple of months?
I go on tour to America on the 10th of
April, for 3 weeks, starting off in Aus-
tin at the South by South-West festi-
val and then up to Washington, then
down to Houston, Chicago and then
back for another set at South by South-
West. Then all the dubstep heads that
are at South by South-West will be go-
ing out out to the Miami Winter Mu-
sic Conference and I’m playing about
6 or 7 sets out there. Every night we’re
doing different sets out there like pool
parties.
Which artists and which tracks in
particular should we look out for in
2010, or is it hard to tell until after
the Winter Music Conference?
Well that will be what decides it; all the
big DJ’s and producers will be out there
playing their new tunes and because
it’s big crowds you’re playing to, it’s
easy to see how good the tunes are go-
ing down. But from what I’ve listened
to recently, I’ve got some Doctor P new
tunes and they’re sounding pretty big
at the moment. He’s a pretty new guy
but he’s got a good sound going on and
then Chimpo, who’s signed to my la-
bel, he’s got some big tunes. He’s been
around for a while but I think that this
year he might take off a bit more. Also
there’s DZ the American guy, he’s real-
ly good and he’s got some great tunes.
He’s constantly releasing them.
How do you see dubstep progressing
the Mediterranean via the use of tasty
Mezze-style mixes of funk and Middle
Eastern singing.
Continuing into this record, the au-
daciously named “Jesus Was a B-Boy”
introduces a hip-hop element while
still managing to keep the flow and am-
bience of a house mix. Unfortunately,
like most fabric mixes, the vast eclecti-
cism of collected sounds is the record’s
downfall. I found myself wanting to
keep listening to songs of a particular
style. The constant changing of styles
and ideas makes feeling the groove of
a house set or being transported to
Brooklyn for a Hip-Hop extravaganza
difficult. DJ T is obviously an awe in-
spiring musicphile and has picked
some groovy, funky and occasionally
chilling tracks and this mix works well
as an introduction of new artists to
anybody wanting to find some chilled,
ambient music. As a dance mix, how-
ever, I would prefer something with a
little bit more identity. - Andy Roast
Where: Henham Park, Suffolk
When: 15th - 18th July
Cost: £155
www.latitudefestival.co.uk
Why would I want to go?
It’s the easiest way you’ll get to see
Florence + TM and also they have
awesome Arts and coloured sheep!
MRK1 isn’t going to let dubstep go soft anytime soon

