unionpage
After a 3 week election period, the results of ICU’s Sabbatical
Elections were announced in Da Vinci’s on Monday night.
A record 19,849 votes cast by 3,393 people have elected next
year’s Sabbatical Team. Congratulations to:
President – Alexander Kendall
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) – Heather Jones
Deputy President (Education) – Meera Ganeshadevan
Deputy President (Finance & Services) – Ravi Pall
Deputy President (Welfare) – Victoria Masding
Felix Editor – Kadhim Shubber.
Turnout was higher than in previous years with 3,086 students
voting in the President election.
In addition to the full-time posts Jamie Henry, David Oliver, Melissa
Lever and Hoi Yeung were elected as Student Trustees of
Imperial College Union.
Thanks to all who voted in this very closely contested election. Well
done to all the winners and commiserations to all the unsuccessful
candidates.
Additional congratulations need to be given to the Departments
of Life Sciences and Physics whose percentage turnouts were far
The Results of the Sabbatical Elections 2010
imperialcollegeunion.org
Y
ou voted in your thousands to elect next year’s Union leaders
Your new Sabb team
Daniel Hill
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
Voice your opinions on College life!T
ake the NSS
Final year students: READ ON! The National Student Survey is your
opportunity to tell Imperial – and the world – what you really thought
of your time here. It really is the big mother of all surveys. It’s
funded by the government, and the results go online (Unistats.com)
for everyone to see. They go into league tables and everything.
What’s more, College actually listen to the views sourced from it.
Last year, College set up a committee specifically to address issues
found in the NSS. It met regularly and encouraged each department
to write an ‘action plan’ based on where they did badly.
Go to thestudentsurvey.com to complete the survey. It takes
about 10 minutes and it’s mainly multiple choice.
If you’re still not convinced it’s important, we’ve donated eight
prizes you could win if you fill it in. Up for grabs are:
4 x Life Membership to Imperial College Union (usually costs £98!)
4 x Entertainments tickets to the Summer Ball 2010, which needs
no introduction.
higher than other Departments in College. Their votes were a major
reason why the Faculty of Natural Sciences emerged victorious to
beat the other faculties’ voting turnout percentages:
Faculty of Engineering = 22.9% turnout
Faculty of Medicine = 18.1% turnout
Faculty of Natural Sciences = 29.4% turnout
Win prizes!Win prizes!
Take the NSS, head to: thestudentsurvey.com
Jonathan Silver
Deputy President (Education)
dpeducation@imperial.ac.uk
Thanks for
voting all you
lovely people!

