19
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
Drunken-Mate Photo Of The Week
Time is the sly fish that slips so easily through our drunken fingers. How can you
save time: Multitask the important stuff and dump the dross...and your clothes.
Got a picture
of your mate
being an
absolute waste
of oxygen?
Well, get your
camera out
and email your
drunken mates
to catnip.
felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
EASTER BREAK:
DEATH BY REVISION OR CHOCOLATE?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
The Best Of “Overheard At Imperial”
Who’s Going To Win
Varsity?
Me. With everyone else out knocking balls about, I’ll have the
Library all to myself. Bliss!
Third Year Biologist
Imperial. The Medics think it’s all about the rugby but we’ve
got the rest of the sports sewn up!
Second Year Chemist
Us. Even if we lose Varsity, we’re still gonna take the JPR Cup!
Medic’s Rugby Fan
Trips away are a great way to suspend the normal social graces and be yourself
for a change. Just remember, what happens in Lyon...ends up in Catnip.
“My motto is “Never say never.”
Which makes it difficult to tell people my motto.” - In the Library
Talking about Heisenberg and his family...
A: Heisenberg didn’t have kids. Wasn’t he gay?
B: He was uncertain. -Chemistry Students
“Look at all those people in there not having fun! That could be us!” -Looking in on dBs
“JPR, where’s your car?!” - Crowd chanting at Varsity after JPR Williams was charged for drink-driving
“Come on then, I’ll take off my head and f*cking have you!” - Weedy Medic in Medics’ bird mascot suit starting on IC rugby players
“That bloke just got twatted by a half -man-half- bird!” - Spectators to the fracas that (barely) unfurled at Varsity
Overheard something funny at Imperial?
Post it on the “Overheard at Imperial” facebook group

