21
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
felix
Kit Kat Senses Egg with Senses Bar and Mug, £4
Egg ★★✩✩✩
Extras ★★★★✩
“Standard, standard, standard."
"Lolz I are in ur offices stealin ur mugz!
Brilyent!"
Potential use as sex aid?
“Mug in bum? Could try 2 girls and one
mug.... and an egg?”
Lindt Gold Bunny Egg with Gold
Bunnies, £5
Egg ★★★★✩
Extras ★★★★✩
“People think the 'd' in Lindt is silent. It's not. Say it prop-
erly: 'Lin-duh-tuh."
"It's ‘Lint'" and it's also the only useful thing the Swiss have
made, ever." [Objection! Dep. Ed.]
Potential use as sex aid?
“I RUV WABBITS IN MAI BUM” - Dan Wan
“There are rabbits inside but they’re not very rampant.”
Galaxy Promise Minstrels Egg with Minstrels,
£5
Egg ★★★★✩
Extras ★★✩✩✩
“Tasted a bit like floor... I LOVE FLOOR!”
“Extras was just packets of Minstrels. Meh...”
Potential use as sex aid?
“Specially designed for prostate arousal.”
Maltesers & Friends Egg
Egg ★★✩✩✩
Extras ★★★✩✩
“Extras are just a pack of Maltesers, Minstrels and
Revels.”
“I’m glad the Maltesers have friends.”
Potential use as sex aid?
“String up the Maltesers and use them as anal beads.
Then throw minstrels at each other? Oh fuck knows
what to do with those stupid Revels.”
The Felix Fresher Girls: Lizzy vs Renny
They’re both as annoying as each other, but we decided to let them out of their cages for
the sake of our own entertainment. They’ve come into our lives this year and insist on
playing Robot Unicorn Attack and bullying Editor Dan Wan. We let them do what they
do best though: stuff their faces full of chocolate.
It’s like the last day of term at school here in the felix office. Cookies, movies and
chocolate. We pitted two equally (un)able adversaries from the office against each
other in a timed eating competition. What they have to eat is a full bag of approximately
20 mini-eggs (pictured). They must both unwrap the foil and eat the egg entirely.
Renny: 3 mins 17 secs Lizzy: 3 mins 40 secs RENNY WINS!
The Sportsmen: Mus vs Indy
Our Sports Editors claim to be the most manly out of all of us. Can they beat small
Fresher girls? Mus, the footballer is adamant he can beat fencer Indy. Indy thinks
otherwise. After first refusing, “It’ll upset our tummies” they both exclaimed, they took
on the challenge... with some embarassing results. Pathetic.
Indy: 3 mins 11 secs Mus: DNF INDY WINS!
Mus struggling.... and failing
As Lizzy (right) blames her tongue piercing for her slow pace, Renny triumphs
Sainsbury’s Belgian Milk Chocolate Egg £2
Egg ★★★★✩
Extras ✩✩✩✩✩
“Nice lickiness, but no extras.”
“White spots are hot. I’ve got plenty.”
Potential use as sex aid?
“It’s not going to win over any girls quickly. You could
probably knock out the girl with it and then do what-
ever you want...I just use rohypnol normally though.”
MINI - EGG EATING CHALLENGE
Layout by Holly Farrer
f h l R i
r tongue piercin
g
ght
gh i f
ht) blames her tongue pi
)
h ) bl h i

