TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
The Touchscreen Patent Wars
Simon Worthington looks at the broken world of international patent law as Apple and
HTC fight over Google’s Android operating system and it’s use of a touch screen interface
O
n March 2nd, Apple Inc.
filed a suit against mobile
phone manufacturer HTC
in which they claimed ten
of their patents relating to mobile de-
vices had been infringed. The case cov-
ers nearly every Android-based phone
that HTC manufactures, including the
new Google-endorsed Nexus One and
the T-Mobile G1. If the case is success-
ful, HTC may have to pay damages to
Apple and could be banned from sell-
ing any of the offending phones in the
US. The suit was brought to the Dela-
ware State Courts in the US, partly be-
cause this claim would not be admiss-
able in other regions such as the EU.
The patents in question refer to por-
tions of mobile phone design which
Apple pioneered with the iPhone, with
most specifically to do with touch-
screen technology. The way a user’s
finger can slide a list and the ‘pinch-
to-zoom’ feature are amongst the con-
cepts covered but without any specific
detail about how these features should
be implemented. This means that any
device which makes use of a finger to
move up and down a window would
technically be covered by Apple’s pat-
ent. These ideas are so blindingly obvi-
ous and fundamental to touch screen
design that it’s hard to think they could
even really be classed as ‘inventions’.
Apple are not however completely to
blame, as in some way they are ‘vic-
tims’ (if you could call them that) of a
broken patent law system.
In the US, software patents are grant-
ed for almost any new concept or idea
in the software world. The point about
patents is that you are only meant to
be able to patent actual implementa-
tions of an idea meaning only a par-
ticular system of components would
be covered by it. However, the patents
granted to Apple, and many other
software com-
panies be-
sides, are so general as to cover any im-
plementation where the system could
be used. For example, the patent for
list scrolling covers any touch screen
device that has a processor, memory
and is trying to move or resize a docu-
ment or window. It’s hard to think of a
situation where a touch-sensitive ma-
chine would be trying to move a win-
dow without a processor, so this is so
general as to cover any touch screen
device invented. This means that any
device which does this, violates Apple’s
patent.
The objection to situations like this
is that patents should not cover in-
ventions that many people could eas-
ily create independently of each other
and should not impede development
of ideas, like the list scrolling example
above. Clearly though, software pat-
ents can and do protect some genu-
inely good and useful ideas, such as
security or cryptographic concepts
that took a lot of work to create. The
line between trivial and non-trivial
software inventions is not universally
agreed upon, being drawn in different
places in different countries. The US
system is notoriously lenient on how
original or obvious the new software
design needs to be.
What this leads to is companies ap-
plying for as many patents as they can
for ideas that are as general as they
can get away with, effectively buying
up patent ‘real estate’ for their own
use. Obviously, this can lead to prob-
lems with one company owning
some pieces of a design
and another company
owning the rest,
meaning that no-
one has enough
patents to make a
finished product with-
out licencing. As this is
clearly ri-
diculous, there seems to have been a
‘gentlemen’s agreement’ between the
big mobile companies over the past
few years, creating a ‘don’t sue me and
I won’t sue you’ situation. As long as
no-one sues anyone else the system
works, because the companies know it
only takes a court case for one patent
to open the floodgates for themselves
to be hit by a load of litigation in retali-
ation. So why has Apple now decided
to break this unwritten rule?
Earlier this February, Google ena-
bled ‘pinch-to-zoom’, a feature that the
iPhone is famous for, on some of its
newer Android phones including the
Nexus One. This is technically in viola-
tion of one of Apple’s software patents
mentioned earlier, and this time Apple
have decided to sue. HTC are liable be-
cause even though they don’t make the
software they do manufacture and sell
the phone, and so are responsible for
its features. It may be that Apple is try-
ing to indirectly harm Google, who is
now beginning to be seen as a serious
competitor, by stifling its phone busi-
ness in the US. Compared to other in-
dustry leaders like Microsoft or Nokia,
Google and HTC have relatively few
software patents relevant to Apple’s
business and so are limiting the dam-
age that any return litigation can do to
them via the same method.
Some commentators have also sug-
gested that Apple may have taken the
adaption of its original ideas by Google
and HTC personally. It’s impossible
to deny that the iPhone was a revolu-
tion in mobile design. Most phones
up to that point had relied on a hard
keyboard, navigation keys and a sty-
lus. Apple pioneered many new ideas
that have been universally taken up by
almost all other touch-screen phone
manufacturers. Some have suggested
the powers that be at Apple are dis-
gruntled at working hard to create this
‘design revolution’ and seeing
others reap the rewards. Is Ap-
ple simply frus- trated
I
t’s been a short week for technol-
ogy here at the felix towers and
as such we haven’t got a Weekly
Wrap-Up for you, sorry. But Si-
mon this week has a good look into
what’s going on with what could be the
start of the Touchscreen Patent Wars
(you heard it here first folks). Apple
Vs. HTC, which is actually Apple Vs.
Google with HTC caught in the cross-
fire, in a fight over touchscreen inter-
action patents. Messy stuff, but check
out the article on your left for the in-
side scoop.
Apple’s iPad went up for pre-order
this week in the US, with some 50-
90,000 rumoured to have been bought.
Apple’s already warned people in-store
that there’s going to a shortage of the
fabled tablet when it launches on the
3rd of April. Of course in the UK, we’re
going to have to wait till ‘late April’ be-
fore fanboys can rush to the church of
Apple and get their grubby mitts on it.
Will it be a run-away success? Well if
pre-orders are anything to go by, it’s
going to be at least as successful as the
original iPhone launch.
Support documents, that went live
this week, also showed that the iPad is
treated a little differently by Apple than
it’s staple, the iPhone. When your iPad
battery needs replacing $50 will buy you
not only a new iPad battery but a whole
new iPad. Deal of a century if you ask me,
but then again it’s unlikely to be a new
‘off the shelf’ variety and more likely a re-
furbished unit. Nothing to sniff at mind
you, because by the time your battery
is getting tired, so too is the rest of the
device. Gone will be that perfect fin-
ish and ‘Apple lustre’; so getting all
that back and a new battery for $50
sounds great to me. Now all I have
to do is figure out wether an iPad re-
ally has a future in my device port-
folio. Not convinced myself, yet.
that their key design has been copied?
You have to wonder though if they
could really be so naїve as to think
that creating such an original device
wouldn’t set new standards in phone
design.
You’ve also got to wonder how Ap-
ple think winning this case could pos-
sibly help them. Ignoring the fact that
this is really bad publicity that could
result in a consumer backlash, it’s very
unlikely that Google will simply walk
away from this case and leave the mo-
bile market altogether. The more likely
situation is that they’ll go back to the
drawing board and keep working until
they come up with ideas that are even
more revolutionary than the iPhone.
You can bet your bottom dollar that
whatever they come up with they won’t
be willing to share with Apple. Does
Apple really think that it’s the only one
who can come up with new ideas?
The natural extension of behaviour
like this is that everyone keeps their
new patents and technologies to them-
selves. It’s ridiculous to think that the
next generation of iPods or Zunes
could end up with fewer features than
their predecessors because everyone is
so scared of violating patent law and
unwilling to pay huge licence fees. This
just stifles innovation and sets back
progress on mobile technology. Plus,
all these suits cost money and eventu-
ally that cost has to pass on to the con-
sumers. If Apple really care about the
mobile device marketplace (and they
should, because it makes up a large ma-
jority of their income) then they should
do the intelligent thing and drop the
suit, using the money they would have
spent
Samuel Gibbs
Samuel Gibbs Technology Editor

