26
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
x
MusicTechSoc give us House for Haiti
I
C’s Music Technology Soci-
ety collected just under £350 for
charity putting on a club night in
dB’s a few weekends ago on Sat-
urday 20th February. Many many
many thanks to all who came and/or
contributed to the event! It was a huge
success in terms of charity fundraising
for such a new and modest society.
However, the more groundbreaking
achievement was drawing in a substan-
tial crowd of boogie-lovers to the Un-
ion on a Saturday night with barely 4
days of advertising AND smashing the
£500 minimum bar spend on the late
licensed bar. Icing on the cake came
from the many intoxicated and merry
revellers stopping to say “cheers for the
awesome music!” on the way out.
The scale and impact of the event
would have surely doubled, if the event
had taken place on a Thursday/Friday
night. More money would have been
collected for a good cause. More peo-
ple would be drawn in by the music for
a jive, and the Union would have made
even more money on the bar.
So why is it so difficult to for clubs
and societies to be given the chance to
run a prime-time Union night during
the week?
Music Tech is not the first society to
face rejection when requesting to book
dB’s on Thursday or Friday evenings.
Often the reasons for rejection are
largely down to money - the Union can
never afford to risk losing the modest
but steady income from its ‘official’
scheduled events. However, although
this is an understandable cautious
stance, the case for giving students a
chance to entertain their kinsmen is
compelling.
Firstly, clubs and societies are ruth-
less with their marketing because there
are much deeper motivations than just
making money. Clubs and societies are
filled with students passionate about
their activities and keen to share their
passions with others. This passion is
what comes across when you are per-
sonally invited to club events; passion
provokes intrigue and at the very least,
respect for the effort put into whatever
it is on offer.
In contrast, Union events are rarely
(ever??) advertised in person or per-
sonally. I get faceless Facebook invites
to Union events that get deleted on im-
pulse without a shred of guilt. Further-
more Union posters on the Sherfield
walkway are often just confusing with
busy colour schemes, randomly-titled
events and nothing new.
Secondly, linked to the first point, the
Union do not give enough marketing
support to club events. One has to ap-
plaud the efforts enabling club events
advertising on the Union website, but
even this does not ensure space on the
homepage. Freshers are presented with
an ‘official’ Union calendar each year
that does not hint at the possibility of
clubs and societies putting on events in
the week. There should not be such a
stark difference in advertising between
‘official Union events’ and club events
because the students are the Union.
The ‘official’ posters on the walkway
should be in regular rotation with both
club and society events at the Union
- even if they are on a Saturday. Also,
the TV screens in the Union could be
used for the benefit of clubs and socie-
ties too.
Finally, and most importantly, letting
clubs and societies into the Union to
put on events creates a diversity of en-
tertainment reflective of the diversity
of the student body. Instead of ‘know-
ing what the Union has to offer’, why
can’t we have a Union where you’re
never quite sure of how you’re going to
be entertained? Yes, it’s a risk for the
‘Letting clubs and
societies into the un-
ion to put on events
creates a diversity of
entertainment re-
flective of the diver-
sity of the student
body.’
MusicTech takes a bold leap in running an event in dB’s. Their success should inspire more clubs to follow.
precious steady income, but the risk
goes both ways - there is a real oppor-
tunity to draw in spectacular numbers
(and money) by marrying the efforts
and resources of both the paid staff
and passionate students. Above all,
this would stimulate a paradigm shift
in attitude towards what the Union has
to offer.
I should stress that in order to jus-
tify this proposal, clubs and societies
need to show a level of discipline and
maturity in their events organisation.
This has never been easier than now
with the comprehensive Union Offic-
ers’ Handbook and online wiki pages
rammed full of useful events planning
information. I encourage any other
clubs and societies to publicise their
successful organisation despite not
being able to run events in dB’s dur-
ing the week. Coupled with the full re-
sources of the Union, these events can
only get better.
Music Tech hopes to put on many
more successful events offering a more
stylised selection of music than the
usual choice put on by the external DJs
on Union weeknights. Hopefully, more
opportunities for clubs and societies to
provide entertainment to their peers
will arise with the opening of Metric!
If you’re interested in what else
Music Tech Society has to offer
please email musictech@ic.ac.uk

