3
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he smoking debate had to
reach the Union in some
sort of manner at some
point. It turns out it hap-
pened in the form of a
paper presented at Council this past
Monday. The paper came by way of
the Representation and Welfare Board
meeting where it was proposed by John
James, the Deputy President of Wel-
fare. Council mostly whizzed through
the Sabbatical reports with its usual
rubber stamping before discussing the
“Smoke-free campus” paper.
According to minutes from an RWB
meeting, available publicly on the Un-
ion website, the constituents of this
body voted to accept one of the re-
solves of the original paper, which was
to “lobby college to implement a smoke
free campus”. RWB suggested that this
should take the form of a referendum,
should Council agree to it. The refer-
endum was to propose a “Do you want
a smoke free campus?” question.
From the get-go, questions and ob-
servations started pouring in from or-
dinary council members and observers
present.
Mark Flowers, who has been involved
in the Union for many years and has
Union consider smoking ban on campus
previously been described as “possibly
the only person (...) seen time and time
again doing immeasurable good for the
Union”
, criticised the call for a referen-
dum through Council by pointing out
that never has a referendum been called
through this committee, rather than by
amassing the necessary signatures from
the student population.
Kadhim Shubber, Felix Editor elect,
pointed out that referendums should
not be a tool to gauge opinion or senti-
ment of the student body, but rather a
device for decisive action. Mr Shubber
suggested instead that a survey be car-
ried out, and that the sabbatical team
find the time to carry out this survey
on the ground as well as online in an
effort to truly engage with and feel the
beat of the student body. Many other
people seemed to echo his views that a
referendum is perhaps the wrong way
to go about starting to deal with the is-
sue at hand in a formal manner.
It was also pointed out that the there
was no research done by the proposers
regarding implementation of a poten-
tial ban on smoking, including neces-
sary patrolling and staffing. Danny
Hill, Deputy President of Finance and
Services raised the issue that stopping
the sale of tobacco in Union outlets
(including the Shop and Newsagent)
could be commercially detrimental to
its bottom line figure. Other issues
that were raised were the impos-
sibility of moving all smoking
to the streets outside the Union
building because of possible neighbour
complaints that could affect the late li-
censes held.
The debate was somewhat heated
and almost completely unmoderated
by the Council Chair, which meant that
a conversation was going on between
those present. Rebecca Coxhead, who
is the Clerk to Council, had to inter-
vene and ask members to be quiet and
stop talking over one another.
The evening was not complete with-
out a procedural motion that proposes
that there is a move to a vote. While
this motion was seconded, it was over-
ruled by the Council Chair. Of note is
the fact that several people who were
seemingly against, and rather quite vo-
cal about this paper, namely the Equal
Opportunities Officer Chris Darby, the
CGCU Welfare Officer Alice Rowlands
and International Officer Matthew
Fitch, actually all sit on the RWB, the
body that brought the paper to council.
Alice Rowlands (foreground) looks to question John James (background in black) who brought the paper to Council
Durham has enough with the NUS and follows Imperial by withdrawing
Last Friday Durham University Stu-
dents’ Union announced the results of
their recent referendum on continuing
the Union’s affiliation to the National
Union of Students. Only 1217 students
voted yes, compared with 1295 who
voted no to staying in the NUS. This
means that Durham will be following
Imperial College’s lead. Imperial left in
2008 after a similar referendum pro-
duced a resounding 70 per cent for the
‘No to continued affiliation’ campaign.
Durham’s ‘No’ campaign used the
experience of Unions such as Im-
perial’s to strengthen their case, “a
number of other unions have disaf-
filiated and see it as a benefit, not a
problem. Students are still able to get
discounts, their bars are competitive,
and they are still able to campaign on
issues which are important to their
students.”
Like Imperial, Durham has been
in and out of NUS membership in
recent years because of inconsistent
voting in multiple referenda. For ex-
ample, as late as November 2009 the
last vote revealed 80 per cent sup-
port for continued membership. Ac-
cording to Durham’s Union, “recent
events, especially by the NUS Black
Students Officer and the LGBT Of-
ficer, have caused enough students in
DSU to come forward to sign a secure
petition to create another referendum
about this issue.” That comment refers
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
to a shocking letter sent by the NUS
in response to the Durham’s invitation
of a British National Party politician
to a debate on multiculturalism. The
full text of the letter has been posted
on the facebook group of Durham
University Students for Freedom of
Speech.
The last part of the letter has caused
the greatest offence.
It reads, “Should you fail to listen to
our advice [to cancel the event] you will
have a colossal demonstration on your
hands. The National Union of Stu-
dents, Unite Against Fascism, and oth-
er anti-fascist organisations are already
mobilising nationally and organising
coach loads of students to demonstrate
at your university on Friday evening.
This will no doubt bring with it a lot of
negative media attention and if any stu-
dents are hurt in and around this event
responsibility will lie with you.
“We would appreciate it if you could
outline how you will now proceed with
this issue and ensure that those stu-
dents who are under threat from the
BNP’s racist and homophobic princi-
ples will be protected. We await your
prompt response.”
Durham students will not be represented by the NUS, following Imperial’s lead in withdrawing membership
Afonso Campos reports on Union Council’s deliberation upon the implications of a campus-wide smoking ban
No smoking a national trend?
A
fter smoking was banned in 2007 in all enclosed public and work
spaces, the issue of smoking on campus is one that many universi-
ties began to take heed. Felix research has found that no univer-
sity in the UK is fully smoke-free at the moment; some institu-
tions, Cambridge University being one of them, even allow smoking in some
residence halls. In the United States only around 10% of universities are 100%
smoke-free. Most top institutions in the US were notably missing from this
list, with no Ivy League currently on it.
A report by pub trade magazine, The Publican, found that
there was no increase in the sales of food as was expected after
the smoking ban came into effect. Contrastingly, Punch Taverns,
the biggest public house conglomerate in the country has claimed
the increased variety of customers, including families and happier
staff.
The Union lies somewhere in between these two, as it is part of a
university but is also host to a bar running a busy revenue-making
activity. The decision of whether or not to become a smoke-free
campus must take hints from a myriad of industries and organi-
sations to hopefully come up with a decision that is in touch
with the rest of the country.
21%
of people smoke regularly
(twice or more a week)
in the UK
24%
of people smoke regularly
(twice or more a week)
at Imperial College
24%
of people at Imperial College
believe that College should be
a smoke-free campus
Survey was based on 250 people from several strategic locations on the South
Kensington campus on a single day. Both staff and students are included
p
e country.

