32 felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BUCS CHAMPIONSHIPS FEATURE
Fencing fall short of a double victory
Indy Leclercq Fencing
“Well done, and commiserations!”
That sentence, uttered by one of the
IC fencing club members to the Mens’
and Womens’ teams upon their return
to London, pretty much sums up the
fencers’ performances over the BUCS
championships weekend.
Both teams had fenced extremely
well to get to the championship finals
in Sheffield; making it into the top four
university teams in the country was no
mean feat. However, falling just short
of a gold medal left a bittersweet taste
in everyone’s mouth.
The men started off their cham-
pionships with the semi-final match
against Edinburgh University. A lucky
drawmeant that Imperial were able to
fence in the order they wanted: the first
match in the foil, the second in sabre
and with epee rounding off the lot.
Rob Shaw, Colin Auclair and captain
Indy Leclercq started off proceedings
with a very strong match, never losing
the advantage to eventually win it by
seven hits, 45-38.
The sabre team, comprised of na-
tional fencers Maiyuran Ratneswaran
and Henry Gann and resident Korean
Seung-Wook “Wookie” Lyeo put in a
solid performance after a slightly shaky
start to win by eight hits, 45-37.
With the team now ahead by fif-
teen points, the epeeists Marcello Co-
lombino, Alessandro Costamagna and
Ed Gilhead just needed to stay level
with their opponents to win the match.
Imperial never dropped their lead and
won the match 45-42, for an overall
score of 135-117. They were now to
face their premiership rivals Cam-
bridge in the final.
On the adjacent piste, the Womens’
team began their championships with
a semi-final against last year’s winners,
Oxford. Indeed, the fixture had some
history as Oxford pipped the girls to
the title by two points last year. Re-
venge was in the air. Ater beating Ox-
ford twice in the premiership this year,
though, the girls made it past the dark
blues once again, winning 113-101.
Celebrations ensued as the IC women’s
team joined the men in the final, the
girls fencing against Edinburgh. Impe-
rial were, more than ever, up for the
double.
After a short wait, both teams were
called to the piste for their respective
finals. The men got their preferred or-
der again: foil, epee then sabre. This
time round, though, the foilists got off
to a rough start. Trailing by five points
for most of the match, an inspired
piece of fencing by Auclair got them
back to just two hits behind. However,
IC couldn’t hold on and Cambridge
proceeded to re-forge the gap. The
match ended on a rather large defeat,
45-32. Everything was yet to be done to
as the sabreurs stepped up to the piste.
Unfortunately the Cambridge team
proved to be slightly stronger on the
day, edging out Imperial 45-40. The
IC boys were now trailing by eighteen
points overall, which meant that the
epeeists couldn’t concede more than
27 hits. The match was unbearably
tense, but in the antepenultimate bout,
Cambridge crossed the magic thresh-
old. The championship was theirs.
A similar story was unfolding across
the hall. The women’s team went into
their final full of confidence, but saw
their hopes for a gold gradually eroded
weapon by weapon, until they too were
left powerless against a very strong Ed-
inburgh side.
Disbelief and disappointment tinged
everyone’s faces. It was all over. After
setting their hopes quite high, both
teams had stumbled at the very last
step. Settling for second was a hard
one to swallow, but both Cambridge
and Edinburgh were the better teams
on the day. Lined up in their track-
suits, looking every inch the part, the
Imperial fencers accepted their silver
medals, (as well as a fair play medal for
Marcello Colombino and player of the
tournament for Hannah Bryars) and
realized that second in the country
wasn’t, in fact, that bad at all. There’s
always next year!
The fencing club would also like
to thank Sport Imperial for the huge
amount of support they gave us over
the entire weekend, from the tracksuits
to the mascots...Thanks guys!
discDoctorsmakeDivision2final
Last weekend the discDoctors traded
London for Sheffield and the BUCS
Outdoor Nationals, having qualified
for Division 2 .
The first game of the Saturday was
against Trinity College Dublin. We got
off to a slow start which allowed them
to take a decisive early lead, and despite
bringing it back to 8-8 we couldn’t keep
the momentum going, and lost in sud-
den death.
The next game was against Aber-
deen. We showed our quality by scor-
ing easily and totally shutting down
their offence for a comfortable 13-3
Pierre Mcarthy Ultimate frisbee win. More importantly, in the other
game in our group, Trinity lost to Uni-
versity of East Anglia, which created
the possibility of a three-way tie.
Knowing we had to beat UEA to have
a chance to winning the group and an
easier route to the final, we started the
game very well and took a command-
ing 5-0 lead. UEA didn’t recover form
this, and we went on to win the game
13-4. Because we trounced the other
two teams in the group, our points
difference made us top of the group,
avoiding having to play an extra game.
Our Quarter-final on the Sunday was
against Durham in windy conditions
which made playing difficult. We knew
that they were a good team and they
didn’t disappoint, but we managed to
take the lead straight away before rid-
ing the rest of the game out, winning
10-8. Next up were Stirling, which
was a very tight match. Nevertheless,
we managed to stave off our tiredness
towards the end to sqeeze a winning
point in and set up the final versus
Bath.
Last year’s second division champi-
ons, their hard work ethic and good
structure gave them the edge. We put
in one of our best performances of the
year and still were found wanting, with
Bath winning 6-9.
Slightly disappointed at not winning
Division 2, we are still pleased with the
performances we put in. Special men-
tion must go to the outgoing Captain
and MVP Magnus Wilson who lead the
team to the Division 2 Indoor Nation-
als and to second place this weekend.
Don’t trust the massive grins, they were a bit disappointed. The mascots made it all better later that evening though.

