33
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
BUCS CHAMPIONSHIPS FEATURE
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Incredible medal haul for Imperial Judo
Ten judo players travelled to Sheffield
last Friday to take on the best from
across the British Universities in the
BUCS Championships. Team Impe-
rial started excellently with Alexander
Murphy winning a gold medal in the
kyu grade (green and blue belt) divi-
sion. Alex finished all his four fights
with an Ippon – the judo equivalent of
a technical knockout. Ualikhan Yesbo-
lov, an ex-wrestler from Kazakhstan,
dominated all of his six fights in the
under 81kg kyu grade category with
some nice shoulder throws and a huge
counter in the final. Tomasz Zamac-
inski (u90kg) reached the semi-final
after four comfortable wins then man-
aged to win the semi-final ten seconds
before time with a spectacular drop
throw. He won the final with a stran-
gle to secure the 3rd gold medal for
Imperial.
In the Dan grade (black belt) division
our two women’s entries, Bronwyn
Dawson and Thalia Laing, were drawn
in the toughest round-robin pools of
the u57kg and u70kg categories, re-
spectively. Both lost to the eventual
gold and silver medallists. In the men’s
u66kg and u81kg Dan grade catego-
ries, team captain Wilhelm Kleiminger
and Benjamin Browne also faced tough
opposition and one win from each was
not enough to qualify them for the
knockout stages.
In the u73kg black belt category
were Edouard Desclaux and Rahul
Bose. They both stormed through
their respective pools, finishing first
and winning all their fights by Ippon.
Progressing well, Ed won his quarter-
final in a tough fight against a former
French junior national player. Ed lost
the semi-final to a physically stronger
British squad player placing him in a
fight for the bronze medal, where he
had narrowly missed out last year. Ed
swept his opponent of his feet, scor-
ing Ippon to win his first medal at the
BUCS Dan individuals.
Having previously won three indi-
vidual bronze medals, Rahul Bose was
participating in his final BUCS Cham-
pionships. Using his dynamic judo he
won six fights and reached the final,
where he fought the player who had
knocked out Ed. Rahul started really
well, not allowing his opponent to set-
tle, but was caught with a drop shoul-
der throw, which ended his day with an
impressive silver medal.
After a tiring first day, we were back
on the mat for the team events. Our
women’s team (Bronwyn, Claudia
Craven and Thalia) were unable to
progress from a tough pool including
Bath (gold) and Oxford (silver).
Our men’s team, consisting of Wil-
helm, Alex (substitute for Wilhelm af-
ter the pools), Ed, Rahul, Ualikhan and
Ben, was keen to continue the success
of the previous two years where Impe-
rial had finished 3rd. A straight 5-0 win
against Manchester and a 4-1 against
Glasgow placed the team in the quar-
ter-finals, where they faced a strong
team from Birmingham. After an over-
all tie (2-2), a single weight category
was drawn at random by the referees:
In a nerve racking decisive fight Rahul
won with a counter to keep his team in
the running for a medal.
Once again, in the semi-final, we
failed in the near-impossible task of
defeating Bath. Now we would fight
for the bronze against Loughborough
who fielded only four players mean-
ing that we only had to win two fights.
Alex outclassed his opponent then Ed
brought us the victory by winning a
hard battle against an excellent Japa-
nese player. Rahul followed with an-
other win, bringing the score to 4-1 for
Imperial.
This was the most successful BUCS
Championships for the club since
started to enter separately from the
University of London. Along with our
win with London A at USIST 2010 this
ended a great season for the Imperial
College Judo Club. The club would like
to thank Joe Doherty for his coaching
and Sport Imperial for their support.
WaterPolo:historicfirstwin
For the first time in Imperial College’s
illustrious history, the men’s Water
Polo 1st team won the BUCS trophy
this year. It was a hard fought victory,
well deserved after a long season. Un-
beaten on the road to the final, the
first game of three over the weekend
was potentially the hardest. Our first
match was against Sheffield Hallam,
who despite coming second in their
semi final had a much stronger squad
than the other teams. This was proved
true when during our tense encoun-
ter Sheffield were leading 10-7 going
into the final quarter. However, Impe-
rial’s tactic of working the opposition
hard by pressing them in defence with
quick counter-attacks on offence paid
off. A quick flurry of goals including
those from Ian Welch-Phillips, Miles
Lindsey-Clarke and Tom Gannon with
strong defence from Brad Sanders and
John Livesey brought Imperial back
to 12-12 with one minute left on the
clock. A strong attack lead to Imperial
getting the ball to resident GB water-
polo player Adam Scholefield, who
clinically smashed a shot past Shef-
field’s keeper. With 25 seconds on the
clock, Imperial’s solid defence stole the
ball back and held on to end the match
at 13-12. The next day Imperial met
Plymouth, the only team that Impe-
rial did not gain full points from dur-
ing the semi finals, but again superior
tactics of coach Adam Walzer led to a
convincing victory of 23-11. The final
game was St Andrews whom Imperial
beat 17-13 with goals from Aly Ma-
wardy, Tom Beales-Ferguson and Peter
Mason as well as good performances
from goalkeeper Vlad Besprovany and
Jamie Lee. Imperial ended the season
unbeaten with a first BUCS trophy of
IC waterpolo history.
Ian Welch-Phillips Water Polo
Rahul Bose & Ben Browne Judo

