34 felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SPORT
New decade, new
venue, same story
>> Continued from back page
College centre Joe Brown. With the
Medicals down to 13 players for the
remainder of the game, it seemed like
the opportune moment for College to
get some points on the board, starting
with the penalty in front of the posts.
With two men extra on the pitch,
it was expected that College would
take advantage by running at the un-
dermanned back line of the Medicals,
however, some superb defending by
Sharples stopped one such attack.
Poor decision-making crept in again,
with College deciding to kick the ball
time and time again to the deadly
Medicals fullback Nzekwue, who sim-
ply glided through the ragged defence.
To add insult to injury, it was the Med-
icals who managed to score again with
Fisher-Black scoring in the corner that
effectively finished the game at 29-13
to the Medicals.
Poor decision-making was the
downfall of the College side, which
JPR Williams attributed to their age
and relative inexperience compared
to the Medicals. Nevertheless, it was
a thoroughly entertaining match, with
JPR Williams commenting that it had
“more flair and excitement than some
of the Six Nation games this year”.
Make sure you’re here next year!
MEDICALS 29 - 13 COLLEGE
JPR WILLIAMS CUP 2010
TRIES
J. Sharples x 2, J. Fisher-Black,
B. Davies
CONVERSIONS
D. Neville x 3
PENALTIES
D. Neville
TRIES
T. Zeal
CONVERSIONS
J. Newton
PENALTIES
J. Newton, A. Johnstone
The winning Medicals side, JPR Williams Cup winners 2010
American football
end inaugural season
Geoffrey Chow American Football
It’s been a tough first season in the
BUAFL for the Imperial Immortals.
Playing vastly more experienced op-
ponents with larger squads to choose
from has meant the team has gone into
most games as underdogs. However
in a season that has seen them stead-
ily improve it was perhaps fitting that
they saved their best performance for
last.
Playing on a Wednesday afternoon
after the fixture had been rained off the
previous Sunday, the Immortals head-
ed down the A3 to Guildford to take
on a Surrey team still in the hunt for
a place in the Challenge Trophy. The
Surrey Stingers needed to outscore the
Immortals by 68 points to extend their
run into the post-season and their be-
lief that they could achieve such a high
score no doubt spurred on the Impe-
rial team.
The game started rather patchily for
the Immortals with the defence unable
to stop Surrey adding two scores, to go
in at the half 12-0 down.
The second half saw the Immortals
come out firingThe defence stepped
up with the defensive line of Azu Osa-
Afiana, Quirin Grossmann and Maciej
Kurek snuffing out the Stingers inside
running game and the defensive sec-
ondary led by an inspired Thomas
Rhoades keeping the pass game in
check.
Scoring has been a weakness for
the Immortals this season, but late in
the 4th quarter, Edward Fisher, play-
ing his last league game for the club,
made sure his team got some points
on the board. A 48 yard touchdown
run followed by a 2 point conversion
by Tino Millar, put the score at 8-18
and bought the Immortals to within 10
points of the Stingers, just as the clock
ran down ending the game.
So the Immortals ended the season
with a closely contested match and
have every reason to look forward to
next year. A lot of lessons have been
learnt and valuable experience gained
and with the majority of the squad set
to return, the Immortals have an excel-
lent chance to be a competitive team.
One thing is for sure, the Immortals
took everything that their opponents
could throw at them this year and will
return stronger, wiser and ready for the
fight next season.
Imperial Immortals 8
Surrey Stingers 18
Athletics sweep ULU Champs Football 4s clinch ULU league
In their quest for the much cov-
eted Division 1 title, ICUAFC 4th
XI, IC Football’s flagship Wednesday
ULU team, faced a mere ninety min-
utes more, finishing the season with
a tricky tie against Queen Mary’s 3rd
XI. QM had comfortably ejected the
4s from the cup earlier this season,
though were on the receiving end of a
masterclass in champagne football in
the reverse league fixture and a win in
this game would guarantee the title for
Imperial.
The core squad was depleted by the
absence of long term injury victims
Marcus and Raam, as well as recent
Marc-Viven Foé impersonator Lobb.
The deadlock was broken midway
through the first half by Ahmad, whose
free kick hung like a London fashion
designer before finding the back of the
net. IC came close to doubling their
lead when a near post corner was too
much for the ‘keeper to handle and
the ball fell to either John or Edward,
whichever is more annoying, inside the
6-yard box. However, he shanked his
shot wide of the post.
The 4s were made to pay for their
profligacy in front of goal as QM
equalised just before half time. A free
kick was swung over from the right and
Max,lost his mark-ee. allowing him to
Damian Phelan Football volley in at the far post.
A stirring half time team talk from
Marcus Megson left the team in no
doubt what needed to be done, and the
front four began to show the neces-
sary heart, attacking with both speed
and guile. Josh powered a header just
over the bar after great trickery from
Ahmad on the left, before contriving to
miss an open goal, despite having more
time to think than Jon Venables.
Josh redeemed himself soon after by
winning the ball in midfield and split-
ting the defence with a well weighted
through ball to Tom. The striker con-
tinued his rich vein of scoring form to
finish across the face of the ‘keeper and
put IC ahead. Another mazy run from
Rich (exponent of the world’s worst
throw-in) ended in him going down in
the box easier than John Terry on his
best mate’s missus. Rich dusted him-
self off and lashed an unstoppable pen-
alty low to the ‘keeper’s right.
IC were able to ward off any further
threat with ease, and rapturous scenes
greeted the final whistle as it was con-
firmed Marcus had led his team to
the first IC Football league win in re-
cent memory. The team captain led
the celebrations with champagne and
rumbuccas in the Union and manager
bashing in the Rocket. A fantastic sea-
son had been capped with an excellent
win and credit must go to everyone
who has played a part in such a suc-
cessful campaign.
For the very first time the University of Lon-
don Athletics Championships were held
indoors, at the fantastic Lee Valley Athletics
Centre. Aswellasindividualtitles,therewas
the intercollegiate competition for the UL
Trophy,andthemedicalschoolscompetition
fortheenormousUnitedHospitalsShield.
The field events kicked off with the high
jump;thewomen’seventwascloselycontest-
ed, eventually won on countback by Magde-
lena Szuszkiewicz (King’s) from Suzanne
Clifton (Imperial), both clearing an excellent
1.55m. The men’s event was won by Chris
JonesofImperial.
The 1500m provided the first track finals
of the day, with a high quality field in both
themen’sandwomen’sraces. Bothprovided
closefinishes,withScottBastek(LSE)taking
firstplacefromImperial’sSamMurpheywith
a time of 4.15.3. There was a very large field
in the 3000m, but Scott Bastek completed a
double with an emphatic victory in 9.22.1;
the women’s event was won by a consider-
ablemarginbyImperial’sTamsinCargill.
UCL achieved a fantastic one-two in the
men’s 60m, with Adrian Stamp winning in
7.0s. The women’s 400m was tightly con-
tested, won by Laura Carmichael of UCL
fromSianMitchell(ICSM). Inthemen’srace
Aaron Mason (ICSM) cruised to victory by
quitesomemargin.
The 800m was of extra importance this
year, with the great John Parlett attending as
aspecialguest. Themen’swinner,takingthe
Parlett Pot, was Tom Beedell (2.03.8), with
Sam O’Neil (ICSM) taking second place
(2.04.7). Thewomen’sracewaswonbySara
LuckofKing’sCollege.Themen’s200mtitle
went to Ajay Mohite (Imperial Medics) in
whatwasaveryexcitingblanketfinish.
Arealstand-outperformancewasDarren
March’sexcellent14.33mintheMen’sTriple
Jump. Thewomen’seventwaswonbyKandi
Ejoifor (Imperial Medics) with 10.51m, who
afterwardswentontowinthewomen’sLong
Jump (4.92m). The men’s Long Jump title
went to St. George’s Sion Whittaker. The
shotwasthelastfieldeventoftheday,wonby
SamCoe(Imperial)inthemen’scompetition
andbyL.Haruna(RUMS)inthewomen’s.
The competition was rounded off in ex-
citing style with the 4x200m relays, both of
which were won by the Imperial Medics
team. Whilst their victory was comfortable
inthewomen’srace,themen’swasveryclose
withUCLonlyjustbeatenintosecondplace.
The final points score gave an emphatic
victory for Imperial in the UL Trophy com-
petition, with 403 points. The United Hos-
pitals Shield went once again to Imperial
College School of Medicine who scored a
massive 259 points. Well done to everyone
who took part and a big thank you to all the
helpers and officials who worked incredibly
hardthroughouttheday.
Angela Barrett Athletics
Photography by Ian Gillet

