5
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How voting panned out
A
rocket attack from Gaza killed a Thai person who was
working on an Israeli farm. This is the first death as a result
of rockets in three years and the thirtieth rocket to be fired
this year.
The attack came as the European Union’s top foreign minister, Baroness
Ashton, visited Palestine and Israel to discuss the peace process; she is
the most senior European official to visit Gaza in three years. The peace
process came into question last week when Joe Biden, U.S. Vice President,
also visited the region to re-engage negotiations: nearly simultaneously,
the Israeli government announced plans to build nearly two-thousand
homes in East Jerusalem, an area which has been a major point of conten-
tion since the Six Day War of 1967. Israel and the U.S. have had extremely
heated exchanges over the past week; meanwhile, Baroness Ashton’s visit
has put additional pressure on Israel. Gaza has been hurt badly since Eg-
pyt and Israel instituted a blockade on the region, put in place because
Hamas refuses to agree to tenets set by international members of the
peace process including Europe, Russia, and the U.S.
The world beyond
College walls
By Tom Greany
R
ussia and the United States came closer this week to an-
other nuclear weapon reduction treaty.
The U.S. still has over two thousand weapons while Russia has
over three thousand; the two countries last reached an accord
on the matter in 1991. At that time, both sides agreed to reduce eighty
percent of all weapons and this reduction was finished in 2001. Both
sides have now agreed in principle to reduce their numbers to slightly
over 1,500. Sergei Lavrov, Russian Foreign Minister, and Hillary Clinton,
U.S. Secretary of State, were due to meet Thursday to discuss the agree-
ment whilst ministers worked behind the scenes to reach an agreement
on terms. Still under debate is how the reductions will be verified as
well as the Russia’s displeasure regarding the U.S.’s continuing plans for
a European missile defence system. On Wednesday, Ukranian president
Viktor Yanukovich promoted Kiev as the place for the eventual treaty to
be signed with the hope that Ukraine will be seen as a symbol of progress
between Russia and the West.
Russia & United States
I
raq’s electoral commission delayed the release of the 7 March
general election results.
The two major candidates, Nouri al-Maliki, current prime minis-
ter, and Iyad Allawi, former prime minister, have been in a heated
battle, with results expected to be very close. Allegations of misconduct,
particularly vote rigging, have been put forth by both sides. Maliki’s con-
tingent, called the State of Law, has demanded a complete recount of
votes, which the IHEC, the Iraq Higher Electoral Commission, has not
agreed to. Instead, the commission, along with the U.N., states that the
election was fair and relatively free of manipulation. Voter complaints
have been low compared to past elections, including provincial elections
early this year. The majority of recent complains have come from Allawi
supporters, with the most recent available data showing him behind by
40,000 votes. Maliki supporters’ complaints have reduced dramatically
as this data became available. It is currently unclear when IHEC intends
to release the final vote count.
Iraq
Israel
against Girton College, Cambridge on
University Challenge, the election re-
sults were announced.
Although many thought the Presi-
dential Election was down to Alex Ken-
dall and Chris Darby, Serge Vasylechko
stormed to second place, but fell short
of 128 votes to the triumphant Kendall
in the most tightly contested election.
Tarasov’s mistake, that resulted in a
blank manifesto on the voting website,
was evident in the final figure as he
was beaten by RON, finishing in last
place with 148 1st round votes.
A victorious Kendall said: “I’m glad
I now get the chance to show I meant
what I said in campaigning. Still got
butterflies and adrenaline though.”
When questioned about his compe-
tition he singled out Darby as who he
was most worried about, but reckoned
that experience counted for a lot in the
end.
“He knows the Union very well and
he had a big support group. He was also
the first to put himself up for nomina-
tion and someone eager is always go-
ing to be a threat. We get on really well
actually and I hope he’s still around
the Union next year, but ultimately I
don’t think you can call yourself expe-
rienced if you’ve only completed one
full year at Imperial, regardless of how
many meetings you’ve sat in. One day
though,” he said.
Darby was wary of the task ahead of
the elected team for next year.
“Next year is going to be incredibly
challenging for the Union. I sincerely
hope that the current sabb team has
time to train all of next year’s lot to
their full potential and I look forward
to another successful year for the
Union.”
Victorious Deputy President (Educa-
tion) candidate Meera Ganeshadevan
was delighted despite only doubling
RON’s vote count.
“Winning feels great.... It still hasn’t
really sunk in that I am DPE. I am sure
it will feel more real once I start train-
ing and doing some work,” she said.
Heather Jones, who will be in charge
of Imperial’s 296 clubs and societies
next year described the announcement
as “surprising and overwhelming”, add-
ing that “it took a long time to get over
the shock!”
The Sabbatical team for the academic
year 2010/11 is a mix of experience in
Alex Kendall, Heather Jones and Ravi
Pall, and fresh enthusiasm in Victoria
Masding and Meera Ganeshadevan.
President-elect Kendall said he was
happy with the team he’ll be com-
manding next year.
“By the time the President’s elec-
tion results were read out, the rest
of the team were ideal so I lost all
worry about that. It could have been
different.”
Beit Hall senior Victoria Masding
took a surprisingly calm approach to
celebrations despite a fierce battle be-
tween herself and Mike Richards for
Deputy President (Welfare).
“I just had a few drinks and watched
University Challenge like everyone
else. Then I simply acknowledged
messages of congratulations on face-
book in my room and had a big long
conversation with a friend about un-
related topics. I’m saving my celebrat-
ing for a house party!”
After his disappointment of losing
the Felix Editor election last year, cur-
rent Music and News Editor Kadhim
Shubber has worked hard all year to
secure the Editorship for this follow-
ing year.
Student Trustees Jaimie Henry,
David Oliver, Melissa Lever and Hoi
Yeung were also elected.
Alex Kendall
Union President 2010/11
How did you celebrate being announced as President?
Imperial Ale was the obvious choice. I’ll be celebrating properly at
the weekend.
What are you looking forward to most as President?
Seeing all the Freshers integrate into the Union and College next
year. I think a big part of this is making the structure a bit easier to
understand so it’s easier to get involved. I also want to dispel the idea
that Imperial students are apathetic. There is a lot of enthusiasm for
getting involved, and I want the Union to help everyone more next
year.
Who’s your dream act for the Summer Ball?
Empire of the Sun or MGMT!
Alex Kendall 1197 (elected)
Serge Vasylechko 812
Chris Darby 688 (3rd round)
Re-open Nominations 243 (2nd round)
Stanislav Tarasov 148 (2nd round)
President
Ravi Pall 1186 (elected)
Andrew Bromfield 850
Re-open Nominations 316
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Victoria Masding 1043 (elected)
Michael Richards 820
Re-open Nominations 462
Deputy President (Welfare)
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Heather Jones 1073 (elected)
Joey Ra 723
Emma Beresford 463 (4th round)
Adam Gill 411 (3rd round)
Paavo Schafer 243 (2nd round)
Re-open Nominations 216 (1st round)
Meera Ganeshadevan 1366 (elected)
Re-open Nominations 679
Deputy President (Education)
Kadhim Shubber 1628 (elected)
Esther Kang 460
Re-open Nominations 308
Felix Editor
The Sabbatical Elections 2010 was run with an STV (Single Transferable
Vote) system. Each voter made 1st, 2nd etc. preferences when voting.
The candidate with the least votes in the round is eliminated and their
votes are transferred to other candidates respective of next preference
vote accordingly. This occurs until there are no more next preference
votes to affect the outcome of the election.

