9
felix FRIDAY 19 MARCH 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
his Friday 19th March,
Imperial College Entre-
preneurs will be holding
the finals of their Ideas
Empowered Competition.
Vice President Jonathan Webster was
kind enough to give felix a quick inter-
view about the event.
What were the biggest challenges
and the best aspects of organising
this event?
The biggest challenge lies in finding a
prize fund! We want the competitions
to get bigger and better each year, to
help our start-ups succeed and learn.
So we approach all kinds of companies
for our prizes. eOffice, a very funky hot
desking company provide office space,
Connect London, a fantastic organisa-
tion provide mentoring, and our cash
prize is derived from a multitude of
sponsors who support entrepreneur-
ship. This year it’s been mainly Micro-
soft and a grant from the Rector.
There is a lot of “generic” sponsor-
ship available, but accepting them with
various strings attached runs the risk
of turning into a careers service when
we are actually promoting an “alter-
native” so we must always maintain a
high standard of sponsors.
For example, Microsoft are not so
generic. They support students & en-
trepreneurs with programmes such as
DreamSpark.com and BizSpark.com.
DreamSpark provides FREE software
to all students with a university email
address – worth thousands of dollars,
and often provides the perfect tools to
start a technology company. You can
create the next Facebook or twitter
with these kind of tools!
Tell us a bit about your own Compa-
ny, Web-Port. Did you enter it into
the competition?
Web-Port (.co.uk) is a start-up I have
with my high school friend, (perhaps
obscurely) centred around cargo man-
agement. We entered it into Ideas Em-
powered last year (before I was on the
committee) and although we didn’t
win the competition the experience
was fantastic, which drove me to be-
come involved in the committee for
the society. What the Ideas Empow-
ered competition did for Web-Port,
through mentoring and rigorous com-
petition rounds, was make it a realistic
and viable opportunity. However in the
process it significantly scaled-up the
size of the business and thus requires
far more planning and research & de-
velopment. So we plan to remain quiet
with this for a few years!
Jonathan has also been working on
another project:
Yearbook Builder (.co.uk) is a project
I have been quietly working on for 3
years with a friend in Cambridge.
It is an online yearbook compiler,
allowing students to very efficiently
and socially create their yearbook.
It has recently come to fruition with
successful trials and external interest.
What advice do you have to budding
Entrepreneurs who may be looking
to compete next year?
Join our mailing list! Our mailing list &
blog is only getting better and better,
it’s a fantastic way to keep up to date
with current entrepreneur networks
and news.
Next, attend our events in the Au-
tumn Term. We put on drinks and very
simple talks, from real entrepreneurs
who know what they are talking about.
A significant part of my entrepreneuri-
al ideas and thinking is from attending
such events.
If you have an idea, submit it to the
competition, and if you don’t – attend
our events to meet people with ideas
to get involved. We also incubate for a
Microsoft Competition, Imagine Cup
– who this year provided a list of prob-
lems directly faced by charities, and
challenged students to create sustain-
able models for success. This is a fan-
tastic chance for someone to gain ex-
perience who isn’t quite ready to push
on with their own ideas yet.
Any final words for Imperial’s bud-
ding entrepreneurs looking to join
your society?
Imperial Entrepreneurs receive a sig-
nificant amount of internship offers for
start-ups, so you’re not working for a
BIG name, but you are given responsibil-
ities for a critical component of a compa-
ny’s development. Your involvement can
be make or break. These opportunities
are fantastic and we need to see Imperial
students benefit more from these!
Muzaffar Khan, professional mentor and Principal of Space Energy AG
Jonathan Webster’s five favourites
Move-IT
Move-it is a simple kit of self-adhesive cardboard parts,
which transforms a package into an easy-to-use trolley.
Later London
LaterLondon is a smartphone app guide to London
nightlife featuring dynamic map displays and micro-
reviews.
Size-Connect
A size recommendation engine for clothing: a revolution
for online retailers.
Power-Fi
Game Controlling Balls: Making a Game Controller out of
a Gyroscope.
Medissential
Medissential is a durable, water-proof, customisable wrist
band that reminds children should they forget continuous-
demand medical products like inhalers.
These companies, all started and run by students here at
Imperial, will be battling it out in the Ideas Empowered
finals: 6-8pm, Friday 19th March. Featuring: press
coverage, free refreshments, and brilliant ideas!
Get more on all of these ideas on younoodle.com.
O
n Tuesday, Imperial
College Finance Society
hosted former banker
and professional men-
tor Muzaffar Khan. He
delivered a talk on getting a front office
job in the City. He started at the very
beginning, explaining that front office
jobs in investment banks are the rev-
enue-generating ones such as trading,
sales and research.
The audience covered a broad spec-
trum of students and Muzaffar offered
something of value to everyone. At first
he explained the benefits of sitting at
the front of lectures and gave everyone
a minute to do so. He then elaborated
on this and gave audience members an-
other opportunity. He then conjectured
that the number of people still at the
back showed a key difference between
students of Imperial versus the LSE. He
estimated the average IQ at the two in-
stitutions at 120 and 150, respectively.
Yet he pointed out that LSE graduates
enjoy higher average salaries and linked
this to egos rising with intellect.
Muzaffar’s interest in mentoring
students began by helping his younger
brother pass GCSEs, expanded when
family friends started asking for simi-
lar help, and later turned into a profes-
sion focusing on university students.
To date he has mentored over a thou-
sand people, mostly from underprivi-
leged backgrounds. But when he went
to the LSE to gain a Masters in 2007,
he met many already successful people
who wanted his mentoring. At first he
was reluctant, but was persuaded to
reconsider by their persistence. He re-
alised that he could have more impact
per student through focusing on peo-
ple who had already achieved a lot, by
persuading them to then try to make a
positive difference to society.
The reason he talked so much about
his own experiences, he revealed at this
point, was because he wanted to struc-
ture his talk like a good interview. He
suggested interviewees start by dem-
onstrating sound overall knowledge of
the financial industry. He argued that
exhibiting specific knowledge of the
firm applied to should come next.
Specific information, such as the
absolute necessity of knowing the in-
terviewing company inside-out was of-
fered sparingly as Muzaffar instead fo-
cused on motivating students to have
the “hunger for success.” He would not
have done it this way ten years ago, but
felt this to be a more appropriate ap-
proach now that we live in an age when
almost everything one needs to know
is easy to find on the internet. Finally,
after establishing their thorough ac-
quaintance with the financial indus-
try and the firm to which they apply,
he asked interviewees to explain how
their employment will deliver a mar-
ginal benefit to the bank.
Last week felix mentioned this talk
and reminded readers of a similarly
popular event that included Muzaffar’s
most successful mentee to date, Jan
Sramek. If you attended Tuesday’s talk
or missed it, but wish to know more,
go to racing-towards-excellence.com.
This website has contact details for
Muzaffar, who will respond to further
queries.
In particular, Muzaffar offers one-
on-one mentoring and also runs work-
shops. These typically last five hours
and are for groups of around eighteen
students. The general workshop will
contain similar content to his talk but
goes into more individual examples
from his mentees and those present.
Imperial College Finance Society Pres-
ident Craig Young attended one and
felt that it was a worthwhile event.
Muzaffar Khan delivers talk to ICFS members
IC Entrepreneurs Compete in Finals
Ahead of their biggest competition of the year, Imperial Entrepreneurs’ Vice President is interviewed by felix

