10 Arts 10 May 1999 10 May 1999 Arts i i
Ayty HCghllghty
IZ&quure/ respite/ from/ reA/Uuyvv? tyhxMA^ed/frowv e w w ? Stuff the/ KI&
cw\d/ ch&ch out }f<yme/cyfthe/ ejchthitumfr hhxy\\)0n^ On Londo
WILLIAM KENTEKIVGt
Serper^Uvie/QaXlery
JACKSObJ POLLOCK
Tate/Gallery
W
illiam Kentridge (bom in 1955)
is a powerful South African
film artist. Rather than being
specifically concerned with apartheid,
he explores wider issues of suffering.
The films he creates are potent attacks
on contentious aspects of society, par-
ticularly with regard to the injustices of
the capitalist system. This artist Is not
afraid to deal with contentious, pow-
erful issues head on and close up. For
those turned off by politics, it is quite
possible to appreciate the work just for
its vigorous energy.
The m e t h o d e m p l o y e d to pro-
d u c e his graphic portrayals is
unique. After drawing the first frame
- with charcoal and sparse use of
pastel colours - he photographs it.
Next he modifies and reforms the
image, blending and erasing. This
step by step approach leaves trace
markings of the previous frames,
s h o w i n g the passage of time within
every moment. He does not pull any
punches. Very original, very striking.
J
ackson Pollock's frenzied paintings
are a feast for overactive imagina-
tions. When you squint at the ani-
mated swirls, each observer invariably
forges his own original interpretation.
During the late 1940s, Pollock dis-
carded the conventional brush and laid
his canvas down on the studio floor.
This radical 'action painting' - the appli-
cation of paint by pouring and splatter-
ing - earned him the nickname 'Jackthe
Dripper'. His eloquent work has been
described as the visual equivalent of
jazz improvisations.
Critics revel in psycho-analysing his
troubled personal life, marred by self-
destructive bouts of depression and
alcoholism. His untimely death undoubt-
edly fuelled his icon status. Jackson Pol-
lock is an inspirational, if somewhat
tortured and intangible figure. The mon-
umental scale of his mature designs is
at once intimidating and breathtaking;
vibrant and glorious in the flesh, they
must be seen to be believed and
entirely appreciated.
SILWK AhJV SYRUP
Victoria/ avid/AlbertMu&euwi/
KAMVIbJSKY
RoyaLAcademy ofArty
I I lis temporary installation is a show-
I case for the V&A's acclaimed 300,000-
I strong collection of photographs. Far
from being incoherent, the phenomenal
diversity turned out to be a refreshing and
stimulating asset. The contrasting styles
and topics range from landscapes to
abstract compositions, from glamorous
celebrity pictures to provocative fashion
shots. The picture of two students semi-con-
scious on a sofa after a night at the union
will almost certainly conjure up fond mem-
ories. Each skilled composition is brought
to life by its dynamic texture. "A photograph
is not an accident - it is a concept."
SuQcit and Syrup includes images by
a variety of international photographers
working between 1845 to 1998, applying
a variety of traditional as well as uncon-
ventional techniques. The exhibition
explores the evolution of the medium
throughout the century in an attempt to
prove its overwhelming significance as a
contemporary form of art. As the author
Emil Zola explained, "Our artists have to
find the poetry in train stations, the way
their fathers found the poetry in forests
and rivers."
H
V
asily Kandinsky, pioneer of the
abstract style, was something of a
mature prodigy. He abandoned
an auspicious career in law at the age
of 29 to study art.
The substantial collection of prints,
sketches, watercolours and gouaches
provides a comprehensive overview of
Kandinsky's innovative artistic evolution
throughout the 20th century. Initially
influenced by Russian fairytales and reli-
gious icons, Kandinsky's folkloric motifs
gradually evolved towards the intrinsi-
cally geometric, non-figurative compo-
sitions for which he is renowned.
Besides being gifted with a pho-
tographic memory, Kandinsky was a
d i a g n o s e d synaesthesic - distinct
shades of colours stimulated power-
ful s o u n d s and sensations in his
brain.
The most fascinating element of
the exhibition was the inclusion of a
video, s h o w i n g the artist at work.
Within a matter of minutes, a blank
page was covered in dynamic swirls
and grids, revealing his swift and
spontaneous approach to art.
H
UvytCb 30th Hay Untd/ 6thJUYKJ^
Admission; FREE
Nearest tube: South Kensington
Opening hours: daily 10am - 6pm
Admission: £7.50, concessions £5
Nearest tube: Pimlico
Opening hours: daily 10am - 5.40pm
Uattl/August Untd^thJuly
Admission: FREE to students
Nearest tube: South Kensington
Opening hours: daily 10am - 5.45pm
(Mondays from 12)
Admission: £6, students £4
Nearest tube: Green Park
Opening hours: daily 10am - 6pm (Fri-
days in May until 8.30pm)

