10 May 1999 FlIlYI
Reviews & competition
Artemisia * * *
Starring : Valentina Cervi, Michel Serrault, Miki Manojlovic
Director: Agnes Merlet
I t's never a particularly good sign
I when the press release for a new
I movie explains that it's a biopic of
someone you've never heard of. In this
case, it's Artemisia Gentileschi, who was
(apparently) "the first significant female
figure in western art". Ever heard of
her? No, I thought not.
On the other hand, the benefit of
not having a clue w h o or what the
movie's about is to allow the writer and
director to pretty much make up large
chunks of the artist's life. Consequently,
whether or not this tale of doomed love
actually bears any relationship to reality
is somewhat questionable - either way,
it makes for an engaging story. You see,
the young lady in question was a very
gifted artist, with a tendency to paint
subjects considered 'unsuitable' for a
young lady at the start of the seven-
teenth century, who fell in love with her
teacher - who is then charged with rape
by the girl's father.
Effectively, it's the tale of a brilliant
but weak willed young girl, trapped
between two forceful men, and forced
to suffer before she can make good her
escape. However, Cervi's depiction of
13
How to act In 20 easy lessons.- Number 7 - the love-sick adolescent.
the central character doesn't suggest
any of the strength which a woman
would surely need if she were to
become a recognised artist four cen-
turies ago, and the meticulously drawn
renaissance style only serves to detract
from any sense of realism which might
remain. Consequently, as a biopic it's
certainly lacking in credibility, but as a
textbook tale of doomed love it's effec-
tive if uninspired.H
Dave
Win tickets to Forces of Nature with the
KENSINGTON
This week it's the turn of new romantic
comedy Forces of Nature to get the
free tickets treatment. The Sandra Bul-
lock/Ben Affleck vehicle attempts to
recreate the bickering, opposites-attract
style of the great Cary Grant/ Katherine
Hepburn movies, with Affleck striving to
make it to his wedding on time despite
all manner of travel catastrophes and
weirdo companion Bullock. Just email
your answer to the following question
to fllm.fellx@lc.ac.uk before Wednesday
evening:
In which recent movie did Sandra Bul-
lock star alongside Nicole Kidman?
The first ten names out of the virtual hat
will win a pair of tickets.
The winners of last week's competition
to win tickets to see Adam Sandler's
smash hit comedy The Waterboy were-.
Dave Hellard
Tom Blaza
Thanawat Meesak
Lisa Huhalov
Tony Shudbury
Scott Edmunds
Jo Pollott
Lisa Frank
Pete Daplyn
Bob McCannon
Well done on correctly identifying Henry
Winkler as the seventies icon who links
The Waterboy, Scream and Happy Days.
Please drop into the Felix Office (in Beit
Archway) as soon as possible to collect
your prizes.
Ideal Husband
soundtrack CDs
up for grabs
Fancy a copy of the soundtrack to all-star
smash hit An Ideal Husband? Well,
thanks to some very kind PR people, the
CD can be yours for the expenditure of
exactly zero pence. A chance not to be
missed, I'm sure you'll agree.
The movie itself is an adaptation of
Oscar Wilde's classic play, and may well
be the first of a spate of Wilde related
movies to hit our screen. It stars current
Hollywood favourites Rupert Everett,
Catc Blanchett and Minnie Driver, and
has received widespread critical acclaim.
To win your copy of the soundtrack,
simply answer the following question:
At what awards ceremony did Cate
Blanchett recently pick up the best
Actress award, and for which film was
she nominated?
Email your answer to fllm.fellx@lc.ac.uk
before Wednesday evening to enter the
competition. As ever, the first ten ran-
domly selected names will take home
the prize.
PDATE
Out of Sight
Finally George Clooney breaks into the
big-time through yet another brilliant
Elmore Leonard (Get Shorty, Jackie
Brown) adaptation, which somehow
merges old-fashioned caper flick with
romantic comedy. (George Clooncy is
the Cary Grant of the nineties? Hmm,
maybe not). Sexy, funny and enthralling,
it's simply one of the best films of '98,
thanks to a brilliant combination of per-
fect acting (from Clooney, Jennifer fopcz
and Ving Rhames), a cracking script and
spot-on direction from Steven Sodcr-
berg (Sex, Lies and Videotape) - which
has catapulted him back into the big-
time. If you haven't already seen it, then
do so. At once.
Snake Eyes
Brian De Palma is undoubtedly a very hit-
and-miss director - contrast Scarfacc or
The UntouchablcswiXh the dire Bonfire
of the Vanities - so I guess it shouldn't
come as too big a surprise that this is a
very hit-and-miss movie. The first half-
hour or so is pure brilliance, with some
incredible steadicam cinematography
taking you through the entire introduc-
tory scene in a single (twenty-minute
long) shot. Sadly, however, it goes
downhill dramatically from there; the
unmasking of the villain is phenomenally
obvious, and the finale is plain daft (div-
ing out of the way of an oncoming boul-
der was only ever cool in Indiana Jones).
Which is a shame, because underneath
there's a really good Nick Cage movie
trying to get out.
Elizabeth
There are few things that Britain
undoubtedly does best; snooker, heavy
drinking, armchair football, urban
riots...and costume drama. Fortunately,
Llizabeth falls into the latter category
(well, I certainly don't want to sit through
a ninety minute Steve Davis biopic), util-
ising the key tools of the trade - meticu-
lous attention lo detail, an all-star cast
and gravity defying bodices - to produce
an effective but uninspiring addition to
the genre. Sadly, despite its supposedly
revolutionary approach to the story of
England's young queen, director Kapur
actually employs a fairly static approach,
leaving the impression that the movie
could have been far better.
Dave

