10 May 1999
Singles Round-up
T
here were a fair few single
releases over the Easter and
even before the holidays. They'll
all probably still be in the shops and if
you don't find them in the music mega-
stores, I'm sure they'll be in some
dodgy shop down Berwick Street.
Welcome to the late review.
First up is the Fun Lovln' Criminals
with Korean Bodega. The Criminals
recently found themselves in a studio
next to Garbage and consequently had
this single remixed by the Garbsters. The
favour will be returned by FLC on You
Look So Fine. So, what of it? Well, It's OK
but you're far too tempted to switch to
track 2 and revisit the sublime Fun Lovin'
Criminal.
Supporting Ftuey and the crew on a
now finished UK Tour were Indian Rope-
man. 66 Meters is laid-back and chilled
in its radio edit but things really get
going nicely in the lower the tone edit.
Good stuff to de-stress your mind in this
wonderful period of multiple examina-
tions.
McCabe's Nothing is a poppy little
number with cute vocals and even cuter
lyrics - 'You are nothing that I want but I
want you anyway....you are nothing that
I need but I need you anyway.' Now, by
rights, I should now slate this over-sim-
plification of relationship angst but some-
times you're in a mood where lines like
this make all too much sense. D'you
know what I mean?
Altogether more light in content is
Sprung Monkey's Get 'Em Outta Here
who are seeing 'what trouble we can get
into' A chorus that's reminiscent of some
early Red Hot Chilli Peppers and gener-
ally a lot of fun to be had. This is the
sound of a band enjoying themselves.
Good luck to 'em.
A good rock n' roll record can occa-
sionally change the whole music scene.
It takes it, grabs it by the scruff of the
neck and smacks it about the face a
couple of times, before discarding it in
the gutter and leaving a path for others
to follow. Sometimes it happens, some-
times it doesn't. Examples of where it
doesn't include Early Warnings by\up\Xer
and Baby Britain by Elliot Smith. The for-
mer reminding me far too much of Bon
Jovi despite its mildly interesting 'Wild
West showdown' riff and the latter being
likeable yet little else.
Old-fashioned type of rock comes in
the form of Lukan, who'll be in London
at the Shepherds Bush Empire on June
3rd. Not really my cup of increasingly
stronger coffee, but I can appreciate that
they're a band with full command of
their instruments. Standing With The Gun
shows their ability to knock out a decent
song with some dynamic guitar work in
the chorus.
Michael Parker of Appliance has
been known to construct his own effects
pedals and tone generators from parts
liberated from rubbish skips and there is
definitely a uniquely interesting sound to
the appropriately titled Food Music and
their other work. May I recommend that
you postpone that music diet for a touch
longer and indulge yourself with a slice
of Appliance.
And while you're at it, why not just
pork out entirely with some lashings of
Sleater-Kinney? Get Up is just as good as
all the other stuff they've done and if
you're not too familiar with their sound
let m e just give you a short summary.
Exhilarating vocal deliveries and spiky
punky guitars executed with an ice cool
confidence. Fantastically irresistible.
How about this for appropriate?
'Don't wanna stay in, don't wanna go
out, don't wanna keep calm, don't
wanna any help, but I wanna get drunk,
I wanna stay straight, don't wanna get
up, don't' wanna sleep late.' Double Six
deliver a near perfect description of the
Imperial College blues. And the music?
Who cares - apathetic anthemic lyrics
don't come much more precise than
this. For the record though, Breakdown
is distortedly delivered over a second
rate Underworld sounding tunc.
SpeedyJ's leee Mitten Menu - that's
not a typing error, by the way - is so frus-
tratingly irritating that it makes me want
to smash up my stereo. I cannot describe
the feelings I get when I'm forced to lis-
ten to this. It's like my fists really need to
grab something and twist it until it
breaks. Good job it doesn't turn me on
at the same time, isn't it?
And here's another one. Rico's
Attack Me is in a completely different
vein but still pumping the same blood.
Whereas the above is some sort of excur-
sion into future fucked up funk beats,
this is a journey into futile frustration
filled aggression rock. Attack you? Get
stuffed. I've got far more important and
interesting things to do. Doesn't that bin
need emptying, for instance? O h ,
whoops, look what accidentally slipped
in.
I thought we were going to have a
barren run of songs there but we've
been thankfully saved by Medal. Up Here
ForHoursls cracking. Full stop. Building
from simple beginnings, it ascends into
an effortlessly uplifting and fulfilling
beauty that transcends other bands'
1 » / ~ J
'
sfflll
r
1 /
i H i
Appliance
• i i A
attempts at glorious epics. It sounds stu-
pid but listening to this makes me think
that everything is actually gonna be
alright. That sort of feeling is precious.
Prolapse have a new album out enti-
tled Ghosts of Dead Aeroplanes and this
is more than likely a good indication of
what to expect. Fob.com is a great rush
of sonic mayhem. Driving rhythm,
angelic melodic female vocals, Scottish
deadpan vocal delivery sometimes run-
ning simultaneously and some screech-
ing paranoid guitars to top it all off.
Inspiring.
Melky and Seldeckjean are respec-
tively younger sister and brother of
Fugees' man, Wyclef Jean. Despite the
first few seconds of fewsounding almost
like Gone Till November, this pair are alto-
gether more varied. It's sexy, cool and
classy. In the current RnB climate, a part-
nership of this musical quality should
reach fruition quite quickly. Watching
them blossom will be the enjoyable part.
To tell the truth, I have never heard
anything from Gus Gus ever. For those
who have, you can imagine that I ended
up being pleasantly surprised by the
catching electro-rhythms and everyman
lyrics that arc present on Starlovers. I
was also surprised to find out that they
consist of nine members - not an ideal
situation when it's your turn to get the
round in.
To finish off this marathon singles
review - and if you've read this far I con-
gratulate you; surely revision can't be
that boring - is the Goo Goo Dolls and Iris
It's alright. I can live with it contentedly
but I think I expected something else.
That's always the way though, isn't it?
Expectations are broken in moments and
you don't always get what you want. No
matter how much you want it. H
Dennis

