18 Games 10 May 1999
Ability Office (PC)
Ability
According to economic theory an
monopoly is prevented from occurring
within a totally free market environment
by the entrance of new competitors
whenever excess profit
is being made. Well
despite Corel and Lotus's
best efforts the Microsoft
Office suite has effec-
tively been the suite of
choice for a very very
long time.
These suites over the
last ten years have
become large corpulent mKBKM
bodies of programs tak-
ing up huge amounts of disk and mem-
ory space, offering features that are used
rarely. In fact modern office suites have
become the equivalent of taking the
Volvo estate down to the shops to pick
up a pint of milk and the morning paper.
Finally someone has decided to hack
the unwanted features and has pro-
duced a office suite containing a Word
Processor, Spreadsheet, database and
Drawing Package for less than fifty
pounds (even less if you go for the inter-
net based download) and taking up less
I i m i , than 20 M e g
on the disk.
iimniiniiiniMi i.; Ihese peo-
ple are Abil-
and output to a range of formats - pretty
much everything except Word 97 actually,
after using it for a week the only prob-
lem was the lack of an automatic con-
tents page.
Ability Database and Spreadsheet
also worked well in their week's use,
and despite not running a customer data-
base containing thousands
)f records using complicated
I search and report routines,
. . . • „ : . . . : . . . • : . . . . • . . • • : : • . . . . • : : . . • • • • . •
ity, and | | [
while I t ^ — -
they per- :
""*""
haps don't deserve canonisation yet,
they are definitely on their way.
The word processor, Ability Write,
does exactly what a WP should do. It pro-
vides a simple text layout tool for every-
day letters and does it well. It can accept
the CD database? con-
verted and ran just as
well (if not quicker) on
ye old workhorse Pentium.
Finally the drawing package. Expect-
ing PhotoShop 5 or Corel 8 was a little too
much to hope for. Instead it is a useful
drawing package providing simple poly-
gons, text objects, and colouring in tools
for the crayon mad infant in all.
So for fifty pounds is it really worth
it? Well yes absolutely. The equivalent
office professional package from the col-
lege computer shop is over twice the
price and is definitely not twice as use-
ful - though it does occupy more than
twice the disk space. If you are the sort
that buys IBM branded PCs because of
l l ^ m m m x ! ^ m ^ m m ^ m their reliability,
drives a Volvo
and shaves with
a chainsaw then
this package is
not for you. Every-
one else, take a
closer look. It
might just save
you money.
Competition Corner
work, Wear and Whack your way through the prizes
NELL MCANDREW' S GOT THE BEST HITS
IN TOWN
wm. fresh5jj^ecticn.co. uk
London's students find themselves in a 24-7-365 steaming mega-
metropolis. Fran music, games and videos, to puts, clubs, museum,
theatres and cinemas - there's never a dull moment in Europe's most
shining cosmopolitan capital.
TA 7 E > V E
F u t : t
^ e s e
i^gcedie^ts together and. created the uLtirrate
MM aTtertairrrent guide for the high octane young city ckeUer.
A :regular mix of attertaiment listings, vsjiesS, enrped-tixs and celebrity
irtervieAS jbrctght to you by sore of the capital's meet infonred journalists.
If you're new to lorefcn or just planring a hedonistic trip to the sreke --
Fresh Direction., the studsnts' faucurite guide to Ixrriri i s rtw available online
az imtf.freshdirection.OD.uk. ItedkEd full of ns\s, reviews, interview and
features i t ' s ntre than just a website, i t ' s a v£y of life...
WIN A T-SHIRT
Vfe've sidled up cult cyber-fcabe
Lara Croft, (the cue and only Mall M^ndn
online celebrity colirtnist ard shs'll give y
lew dam. on what she's up to ard pick cut
favairite Ixrtfcn bctspots. We've got five
vjxw.fresrrlirecrdm.c^ as v o n
Nail bfc?ndrew, to give a«\ay.Tb he a lucky
winner sirtply put your name, address arr
vjbere you're studying cn a postcard ard s
to the address bakw.
Fresh Direction
T-3rdrt Offer
Unit 4 Heathgate Place j
75 Agincourt Road ft
London NW3 2NU
Work,Work Work... let Ability Office take the strain
We all like cheap goodies, especially when
they are actually quite useful, but we love
free stuff which is very useful. To win a free
boxed copy of Ability office just answer
the following question and send it in to the
felix office by Wednesday (fellx@lc.ac.uk)
Abllty Office contains which four compo-
nents?
Usual rules apply, first out of the virtual hat
or highest bribe wins... ok, no bribes
Face Off and Die. Actua Ice Hockey 2 strikes out
Gremlin has generously given away another
copy of the next in the series of their ice
cool sports simulations for the PC. This time
it is the turn of ice hockey to get the Actua
Treatment - and a pretty good job they do
to as you will find out next week. In the
mean-time, answer the question, send it in
to the above address and you could be
hooking from behind till the early hours.
What is the small cylindrical rubber thing
that Is pushed and hit on the Ice?

