News in May 1999
Sports Centre Faces Opposition
Plans for the development of the
sports centre in Princes Gardens could
end up mired in planning problems
and objections from local res-
idents.
A meeting of the Kens-
ington Association last month,
where plans were shown lo
various interested parties,
gave the impression that res-
idents of Montrose Court in
particular are unhappy with
the proposals.
The s c h e m e involves
building on top of the existing
sports centre, up to the level
of the terraces next door. This
would provide three floors of
recreational space, and two
floors of residencies - ear-
marked for visiting academics.
A large sports hall is planned
for the back of the building.
Although those present at
the meeting expressed relief
that there would be no stu-
dent accommodation, several
By Gareth Morgan
concerns were voiced. These included
less light reaching buildings behind
the centre, and noise and light
pollution.
The architects have
taken pains to ensure that
the new buildings will not
be out of character with the
area. Despite this, refer-
ences to Imperial's less than
glowing architectural record
were made. O n e speaker
claimed that £20 million
needed to be spent on "the
Southside monstrosity", and
suggested that the Estates
department offices should
be converted into a sports
centre.
With the level of oppo-
sition evident at the meet-
ing, developments s e e m
doomed to become delayed
by negotiations, revisions
The South Kensington Campus prepares to expand upwards and consultations. The
Photo: Archive future of the sports centre is
still far from decided.
issue 1144
10 May 1999
Editor: Ed Sexton
\ssistanl I ditor & I ilms Da\ id Roberts
News team: Andy Ofori, Gareth
Morgan, Mansoor Choudhury
Music Editors: Dennis Patrickson
Sjason Ramanathan
Arts & Books Editor: Helena Cocheme
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Photographic Editors: Jonas Lindsay &
Rachel Urwin
Tea Maker: Imogen Lucas
Cigarette Provider: Tim Wrighl
Political Commentator: lain
McNaught
Inopportune interruption & Distrac-
tion provided by: Dave Hcllard
Massive Lxam Stress provided by: Sir
Ronald Oxburgh kBL
Stimulants & Relaxants courtesy of
the Caravan of Love, Brixton
Hope on the Horizon
for AIDS Sufferers
An significant step
forward in the war
against AIDS has
been made by Dr Harriet Robinson of
the Yerkes Regional Primate Research
Centre (part of Emory University) in
Atlanta, Georgia.
Dr Robinson, the chief of the
Microbiology and Immunology
research division, has developed a
new vaccine which is reportedly very
effective in the treatment of HIV-
infected monkeys. If the scheduled
tests on humans prove successful, a
vaccine proficient in halting AIDS
transmission could not be too far from
coming.
The vaccine itself was made from
harmless fragments of both HIV and
the simian version of the virus, SIV. The
animal's used in the experiment first
had their immune systems primed by
a DNA vaccine. Their bodies were then
provoked into Immune responses by
booster doses which had been
inserted into a pox virus. The pox virus
however, did not replicate itself. The
By Mansoor Choudhury
vaccinated monkeys
were then tested
with large doses of
HIV. The blood samples of these ani-
mals were later found to be totally
free of any traces of the virus while the
unvaccinated control monkeys were
found to have up to a billion
viruses.
Up till now, AIDS sufferers have
had to rely on a combination of drugs
to combat the effects of the ever-
mutating virus. The treatment,
although generally effective in pro-
longing life, is prohibitively expensive
for the vast majority of AIDS-sufferers
who live in the Third World. If an effec-
tive and cheap vaccine is developed,
the number of people being infected
with AIDS (currently 16,000 per day)
should definitely undergo a massive
decrease and HIV could go the way of
smallpox. This however, is still a long
way away. The Terrance Higgins Trust
and the British Medical Research Coun-
cil meanwhile, have both given care-
ful welcomes to the report.
Clayponds Subwarden
An enthusiastic applicant is sought for the post of Sub Warden
at Clayponds Village, from mid May 1999. Clayponds is a com-
munity of 309+ students (PG&UG) living in self-catering flats
and houses and is situated in Ealing. Duties will include assist-
ing the Warden in the pastoral care of students, promoting
social life and good order in the village and some general
administration.
The post is open to substantive members of College and would
suit someone with experience of pastoral care and a desire to
live in a student community. If successful, the applicant will
live in a rent-free studio flat in the village and will normally be
resident in Clayponds throughout the year.
Application letters should state why you want the post and the
relevant qualities or experience you can bring to the team.
Two referees should be given (including email addresses).
This should be sent to Dr Mark Tyrer, Department of Materials,
Royal School of Mines as soon as possible.
Informal inquiries to:
Dr Mark Tyrer, Warden
1017159) 46860 •Jyrer@fcJCJk
Mr Stewart Thompson, Assistant Warden
[617159) 45451 stewaitthompsaH@lc.acjk
Miss ioanne Christer, Sub Warden
61713518173 Ixhrlstertgicjejak
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 - 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040-0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

