10 May 1999 News
C a n n a b i s C o m e s t o t h e C o m m o n
The International Cannabis Coalition's
march, held in South London on Saturday
May 1, has been heralded as a success. A
gathering of protesters, supporting the
legalisation of cannabis, joined other
marchers in London as traditional bank
holiday demonstrations took place around
the capital.
Demonstrators gathered on Rush
Common in Brixton late on Saturday morn-
ing. At the same time a protest organised
by the anti-Nazi league began marching its
way from Brixton to central London, in a
demonstration against the nail-bombings
of recent weeks. Indeed, it had been
rumoured that the cannabis march may
itself be a target of the bombers. Super-
intendent David George, who headed the
police operation surrounding the march,
confirmed that the route was indeed
checked for explosive devices during the
morning; "we had to treat very seriously the
safety of policemen and the public" he
explained.
As it was the 3000 strong crowd left
Rush Common on schedule at 12.30pm,
heading for Clapham Common. The mood
was happy and peaceful and, although
there was little evidence of a real campaign
in progress, both organisers and police
were satisfied by the outcome. A sound sys-
tem led the march for much of the way,
By Ed Sexton
entertaining and inciting the crowd,
becoming silent as it passed Electric
Avenue, the site of the Brixton bomb.
By the time they entered Clapham
Common for what was to become a long
afternoon festival, the crowds had swelled
to an estimated 5000, although police
sources mentioned 8000. The common
was filled with sound systems, stalls, music
tents and speakers. The 'cannabis festival'
was the highlight of the day, although for
many this simply meant the ability to break
the law in public. The organisers saw the
event as a success, however, as it demon-
strated that "grass root action" can be as
effective as national media campaigns,
such as that organised by the Independent
on Sunday last year.
Howard Marks, the famous former
drugs-smuggler turned writer, spoke at the
festival. Defending his view, he claimed
that two thirds of all British voters under 25
years old take cannabis. He summed up his
view of New Labour in one sentence,- "This
government stupidly forces itself to lie and
arrogantly disapproves of the recreational
putsuits of millions of really good people."
Back in the crowds sprawled on the
grass the mood was jubilant. No arrests
were made and there were no incidents;
superintendent David Geotge said he was
"very happy" with how the event pro-
gressed. Protesters, mostly stoned, agreed;
"I think it's been very peaceful" commented
one. When asked why they were at the
march, two young men replied "to support
it, and because we smoke a lot of weed".
Few of those enjoying the afternoon sun
seemed to think the festival would have
any political consequences, however.
Danny Kushlick, spokesman for Transform,
who campaign for drug policy reform,
agreed; "I don't know whether rallies like
this actually change anything, and we are
deluding ourselves if we think that they
do".
The festival was due to end at 8.30pm,
It was a warm evening, however, and
many stayed on until much later. This did
not bother the authorities, though; David
George sympathised with those that
stayed; "it was a nice evening, so under-
standably some people stayed until 11pm,
and so we obviously stayed with them."

