A key question a lot of people in relationships may ponder is: would I be happier with someone else? Not according to
theresultsofourSurvey.Onaverage,over70%ofthoseinrelationshipssaidtheywere‘verysatisfied’withtheirrelationship,
and a further 22% said they were
‘somewhat satisfied’. A little over
1% of people in relationships said
they were ‘very dissatisfied’ with
their current partner.
The satisfaction levels would
vary between departments:
Mechanical Engineering, Life Sciences, and Aeronautics were the
most likely to say they were very satisfied with their relationship,
while no students from Earth Science and Engineering, Materials, or
Aeronautics said they were dissatisfied. Students in Maths, Medicine,
andBioengineeringwerethemostlikelytosaytheyweredissatisfied.
ThosewhomettheirpartneratImperialwerealsomorelikelytobe
very satisfied than those who met their partner elsewhere: out of the
couples who met at Imperial, 74.9% were ‘very satisfied’, compared
to only 67.3% for thjose who met outside the Imperial bubble.
COUPLIN
G
U
P
SCHO
O
L
L
O
N
G
DISTANC
E
RELATIONSHIPS
Anything
else?
‘A sex survey at
Imperial, really?!’
‘Doing this
questionnaire led
to me having sex –
cheers Felix’
‘How would you
ever chat someone
up in the Library?’
‘The reality is I’ve
never enjoyed
getting blowjobs or
handjobs’
‘I’m horny now,
thanks’
‘It’s shocking how
nasty people are
about trans and
non-binary people
still’
‘This was extremely
thorough’
‘We should be more
sexually liberal’
‘Too much
Googling of sex
terminology…’
‘Bit
heteronormative as
usual’
‘Sex is healthy’
‘Sex is really weird
if you think about
it’
‘Sex’
With Imperial being such an international
university, long distance relationships are
common. Overall, out of those in relationships,
26.4% were in a long distance relationship
– what that individual considered as ‘long
distance’was up to them.
The majority of these relationships were
100-400km, a distance that made up 29.4% of
LDRs. As you may expect from a student body
with a significant number of internationals,
27.6% of LDRs had a distance of over 3000km.
Overall, most respondants who had been in
a long distance relationship said the distance
had made them weaker as a couple. This was
most significant at the 100-400km range,
which, from London, would cover most places
within England and Wales.
Interestingly, there was a positive correlation between distance and strength of relationship – the
further away the individuals were away from each other, the more likely the respondant was to say
their relationship had been strengthened. Those who had a distance of >3000km – which would
essentially exclude much of Europe – were the most likely to say their relationship had been made
stronger thanks to distance.
AP
P
S
R
E
L
A
T
I
O
NSHIPS
CHEAT
I
N
G
S
A
T
I
S
FACTION
The number of respondents who
cheated on their partner, or were
cheated on by their partner, were
roughly similar: 25.6% of respondents
hadbeencheatedonatleastonce,while
25.9% had cheated on their partner at
least once. 10.5% of respondents had cheated on their
partners more than once.
But what constitutes cheating, exactly? Men and
women were found to have largely similar views on what
constitutes cheating, although there were some slight
differences. Both thought sexual contact and kissing were
the most likely to be cheating, although men were slightly
more secure in their belief it always counted as cheating.
Women, by contrast, were slightly more likely to count social media chat,
thinking of other people, flirting with others, and chatting with people on
dating apps as cheating.
Overall:
54.3% in relationships 45.7% flying solo
Moving on to relationships: overall, more than half the
respondents were in a relationship, with 54.3% having met
their match. Heterosexual people were more likely to be
in a relationship than non-heterosexual people: 55.4% of
heterosexualrespondentswereinarelationship,while50.8%ofnon-heterosexualrespondents
were in one.
In terms of departments, Aeronautics students were the least likely to be in a relationship,
with just under half the respondents being part of a couple. Materials students were the most
likely to be in a relationship, with 62.5% of respondents having found a match.
Of these relationships, the majority had been going for over 6 months: 40.2% had been together for more than a year,
with a further 24.6% together for 6-12 months. A small minority were in the very early stages of a relationship, with 5.1% of
those in a relationship having got together only in the past month
Would you always consider the following cheating?
Men
Women
It’s a university trope that
relationships carried over from
secondary school tend to break up
pretty quickly. With the Sex Survey, we
decided to check out whether or not
that was the case. Around 250 students
carried over a relationship from their
secondary school, and currently 34.8%
of these are still going.
Looking at how long these relationships tended to last on average,
we can see there is a steady decline over time, but this decline is at
its sharpest over two time periods: within the first few months of
university, and the period approaching the year anniversary.
While at first glance it doesn’t seem to conform with the idea
students break up as soon as freshers’ hits, we can see that after the
one month mark the number of relationships begins to drop more
dramatically. It could be this is because of post-freshers’ regret, or
guilt at what they might have gotten up to at the mingle…
Dating apps are now ubiquitous
in modern society, but which ones
reign supreme? At Imperial, Tinder
is king, with 22% of those using
dating apps making use of Tinder.
The next most popular was Bumble,
where in straight matchings the
woman is the one who makes first
contact, with 16% of the market share. Plenty o’Fish
and OK Cupid were the next most popular, while
Grindr, which arguably first started the dating app
trend, only has 6% of the share.
Those looking for love on the apps might have to
look out, however. 49% of those using apps did so for
easy or convenient sex, with a further 7% looking for
‘lewd conversations’. 10% of users were looking for
friends, while only 32% of those using the apps were
looking for a real relationship.

