ISSUE 1697
FELIX
BOOKS
FRIDAY, 15TH
JUNE, 2018 FELIX
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk BOOKS books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
50 51
//Carcanet
/
/
H
a
rper
// Granta
/
/
P
e
n
g
iun
I
often find that when summer rolls along, and
we, as students, get to take a break, it is a
good time to think about where we are going.
These ruminations inevitably lead to thoughts
surrounding mortality, the transience of life, and
its fragility. Perhaps, while we contemplate these
ideas, it is worth checking out Mark O’Connell’s
candid but thorough exploration of the
transhumanism movement. Winner of this year’s
Wellcome Book Prize, To Be a Machine is the first
full-length book on the topic. Transhumanism
is science fiction come true – an attempt to use
technology to fundamentally alter the human
Felix recommends – reading for summer days
Jingjie Cheng and Fred Fyles take you through their books for the perfect summer day, as well as brand-new
titles for you to check out over the break!
V
irginia Woolf’s most well-known work
crackles with a vibrant energy and zest.
Set on a ‘Wednesday in mid-June’, it
remains one of the best portrayals of
London in the early summer, full of the vibrant
optimism that characterises long days in the city.
Taking place over the course of a single day, Mrs
Dalloway is propelled along with a fierce internal
motion, taking on a vast range of viewpoints and
ideas.
Woolf’s prose is a vivid stream of consciousness
that skips from character to character, like a vast
bird swooping through London, creating an
incredibly sense of lightness. At the same time,
Woolf explores a number of significant themes,
such as the nature of temporal reality and the
treatment of mental illness (something Woolf
herself had experience of), as well as a radically
daring look at sexuality and sapphism. 20th
June
is ‘Dalloway Day’, and I recommend setting it
aside to read this brilliant novel, ideally in the
garden, with a gentle breeze blowing through
the pages. – FF
Y
es, I am aware a book about deep loss
and a journey through grief might not
be the first thing that comes to mind
when you think of what you might
want to take with you on the beach, but hear me
out. The Year of Magical Thinking is Joan Didion’s
account of the year following the death of her
husband, the novelist John Gregory Dunne, who
died suddenly in 2003: “Life changes fast. Life
changes in the instant. You sit down to dinner
and life as you know it ends.”
Over the course of the year, Didion explores
her reaction to grief, and continually replays the
events of her husband’s death. It’s an incredibly
moving portrayal of the extreme loneliness of
grief, as well as a brilliant tribute to the life she
and Dunne built together. Didion’s prose style is
instantly recognisable – she occupies a certain
middle distance, cool and detached, located
halfway between the investigative reporter and
the unreliable narrator. While her earlier essay
work might be more evocative of the Californian
dispatches for which she is known, The Year of
Magical Thinking has a sense of weightlessness
that I always associated with long summer
evenings, when time blurs into nothingness. – FF
Mrs Dalloway by Virginia Woolf
condition, to transform humans into something
completely different. Or rather, to improve
humans in various aspects to make us better than
the flesh-and-bones animals that we are. These
ideas range from isolated body enhancements
to people who believe that technology can
help us solve the problem of death. O’Connell
writes about the movement’s philosophical and
scientific roots, key players, and possible futures.
Amid the optimism is, of course, the question of
ethics, and to some, these ideas should remain
in the realm of dystopian films. Pick up this book
over summer and decide for yourself! – JC
To be a Machine by Mark O’Connell
The Year of Magical Thinking, by Joan Didion
O
ver the course of three works of non-
fiction, Olivia Laing has established
herself as one of the most important
writers working today, describing
individuals ranging from Virginia Woolf to Andy
Warhol with a sense of beauty and wonderful
pathos. It is difficult, for me, to think of a more
generous writer than Laing, who always treats
her subjects with the respect and attention they
deserve. This summer sees the release of Crudo,
W
inner of the 2016 Forward Prize
for Poetry, the prolific Trinidadian-
British poet Vahni Capildeo
published her eighth poetry
collection earlier this year. VenusasaBear is about
objects and the natural world, putting them at
the centre and delicately describing how humans
and humanity revolve around objects. From
waiting for lambing at a friend’s farm, to a tour
with poets around the Ashmolean Museum in
Oxford, to criss-crossing the British Isles, Capildeo
draws on the life of the non-human world, and
explores our affinities with things. Many of the
poems in this collection are short, exploring
objects of different times, places and origins.
Capildeo does not shy away from Romantic
anthropomorphism, because stripping objects
of our human projections is so difficult. Capildeo
embraces it instead – with love, sensitivity, and
wit. -JC
F
ew recent writers can claim to have as
much influence on the short story form
as the late Irish writer William Trevor, who
died in 2016. Published posthumously, his
aptly titled final collection Last Stories is in stark
defiance of Martin Amis’worry that a writer in old
age will naturally go slack. The New York Times
described Trevor’s last collection as ‘seemingly
quiet but ultimately volcanic’, full of stories that
are simply told but cut deep. Known for his
impersonal,precisewriting,Trevorhasbeencalled
as a virtuoso of the short story. Most notably, his
opening sentences are spare and mundane, yet
one can see the magnetic draw of something like
“‘Yes?’Olivia says on the answering system when
the doorbell rings in the middle of‘The Return of
the Thin Man’”. Limited by their brevity, a good
short story describes complex relationships and
situations in snapshots. For Trevor, they can be
described in one sentence. – JC
Venus as a Bear by Vahni Capildeo
her debut novel. Set over the horrific summer
of 2017, when Trump was (and is) edging us all
towards nuclear war, Britain was (and is) trapped
under the weight of Brexit, and the world seemed
to be ending all around us, Crudo shows us life
through the eyes of Kathy, a writer about to take
her first steps into her forties. It’s released in
bookstores on 28th
June, and I’ve already marked
it down in my diary – so should you. –FF
Crudo by Olivia Laing
Last Stories by William Trevor
// Picador
//Penguin
I
n an era of Amazon drones and book-sellers
closing up shop, it’s up to independent
publishers to keep us alive. Peninsula Press is
one such an imprint. Established little over six
monthsago,it’salreadyputoutthreeessaybooks,
and this summer will publish The Waterfront
Journals, a collection of short fictions by the
late artist David Wojnarowicz. If Wojnarowicz’s
memoir Close to the Knives is anything to go by,
The Waterfront Journals should be a collection
that fizzles with energy and exuberance, one
that explores the underbelly of American life by
giving voice to those living in its shadows. Taking
on hustlers and addicts, hoboes and runaways,
The Waterfront Journals are expected to provide
a much-needed portrayal of America in the latter
half of the 20th
century. – FF
The Waterfront Journals by David Wojnarowicz
/
/
P
e
ninsula Press

