Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 15 June
Student Support Strategy Consultation
Summer Ball ticket information and more
Use the Snapchat filter!
If you’ve bought a Summer Ball ticket and are planning to attend, or plan to
transfer your ticket to someone else, take note of the following dates:
18 June: ticket transfer instructions emailed
19 June: transfer day for tickets
20 June: age checks/refund those under 18
21 June: e-tickets emailed
Alongside your e-ticket email, you’ll receive all
the information you need to know about the
Ball - as well the full programme.
We’ll be on social media all evening! Find our
special Summer Ball filter on Snapchat, and
whentaggingonsocial,use#icuSummerBall- we’dlovetoseesomepictures
of you in your finery (or costume!) - and we may share or retweet.
The Union and the College have been working together on a student
support strategy, and to ensure that it reflects our membership, we are
now asking for your feedback on it.The strategy outlines how the College
will support its students at every level of decision making - with a specific
focus on wellbeing, which has been identified as an overlooked area.
Now that the groundwork has been laid, your feedback is vital to the
structural integrity of the strategy, to ensure that it works for everyone.
We’re running a survey, as well as stalls between 18 and 26 June at
different points on campus. You can also provide feedback directly to
Fintan O’Connor, Deputy President (Welfare), who has worked on this
alongside our Union president, Chippy Compton.
If you’d like to read more: imperialcollegeunion.org/support-strategy
World Cup fever spreads to our bars
FiveSixEight was jam-packed with students watching the first game of
the FIFA World Cup on our big screens yesterday, and - something that
should bring joy to the ears of all football fanatics (unlike those dreaded
vuvuzelas - remember them?) - we’re showing every single game of the
tournament. Special beers imported from selected participating countries
will be on offer, as well as some food deals.
h-bar will be showing all Monday - Friday games throughout Summer,
with themed burgers for each of the 32 countries - that’s a lot of toppings!
Reynolds Bar will be open Monday - Friday until June 30. On offer is an
incredible 2 pizzas and four drinks deal, enough to keep yourself and a
mate sustained for all 90 minutes of the action.
Union Brand Survey
The Union would like feedback on your perception and experience of
the brand. We’ll be doing consultations on the logo, and other aspects
of our visual identity, as well as seek to better understand members’
experiences of the Union.
The research will form part of a larger effort to refine our brand so
members can feel clear on what we offer, and improve their connection
to the Union and each other.
To start, take our survey at imperialcollegeunion.org/brand-survey

