18 January 2002 p The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
Issue 1224
Tony Hawks Pro
Skater 3 Soundtrack.
Yum. (Page 14)
We like this helicopter,
Black Hawk
Down
reviewed (Page 23)
Summer Ball Axed
Council, the sovereign body of the Union,
decided last Tuesday that this year's
summer ball should be cancelled.
This decision w a s suggested by a
'working group' headed by Union
President, Mr. Sen Ganesh, which also
consisted of a number of others formerly
involved with the Summer Ball, who have
had prior experience with the problems
associated with this event.
The main reasons cited for the decision
were financial, and the meeting, which
occured last week, w a s finalised with the
decision that if College were to announce
unconditional sponsorship for the Union
to have the Ball, then it would go ahead.
However the deadline for College to show
their support w a s before the council held
on Tuesday evening (see page 2 for more
detail on that event), and sadly it had not
been forthcoming, therefore Mr. Ganesh
was forced to suggest the cancellation of
the project.
In the past, the Summer Ball has acted
as a leaving party for the graduating year,
as well as just being a general get togeth-
Happy revellers at last year's Ball
er for all students to have a good time.
Previously it has been held off-campus,
but last year it w a s held on the College
grounds themselves, and this proved a
success both as far as student enjoyment
was concerned, as well as financially.
The reasons for its feasability last year
are complex, however, and mostly involve
many personal favours being called i n by
members of the Drama Society, DramSoc,
who acted as technicians for the event.
Many of DramSoc have external friends
with equipment that w a s borrowed for
the event, but it is impossible to repeat
that again this year, and as such £25,000
is required i n order to put on the event,
whatever the venue.
College had offered to underwrite the
venture, but only using money that the
Union inists is owed to them anyway,
which would therefore count as a huge
deficit i n the Union budget, and has
therefore been deemed unacceptable.
On top of this, not one student has vol-
unteered to organise this event, meaning
that everything would have to be done i n
the next four months. It has been sug-
gested that plans for next year's Ball
should start being drawn up now.
will
an t!
a Wednesday m
olun /••-

