felix talk
With just four weeks to go until the start of
Rag Week 2002, the final elements of this
year's line-up are now falling into place -
check out the Rag website at
www.su.ic.ac.uk/rag for more details.
This week, however, rather than telling
you what we're doing, it's time to find out
where all the money's going, and what it's
going to buy. This year's nominated charity
is the Shooting Star Trust, a charity set up in
1995 to help children in our area who are not
expected to live beyond early adulthood.
They're currently trying to pull together the
funding to build and kit out the first spe-
cialist children's hospice serving West
London. Rather than focusing on one partic-
ular disease or illness, they want to provide
help to local children with all sorts of life-
threatening conditions - everything from
cancer to muscular dystrophy to cystic
fibrosis to cerebral palsy. The new hospice
will give them somewhere to live safely and
comfortably, away from the sterile, depress-
ing environment of hospital. Obviously, this
kind of care is particularly important to chil-
IC Radio goes drinking!
For those that missed the fun and frolics
yesterday, IC Radio had a huge relaunch
party, involving drinking, silliness and all
those things we're good at. It was a
chance to meet some of the ex-members
from yesteryear and find out what things
were like in days of old. Or at least, that's
how I imagine it will have been, but due to
print deadlines, I'm actually writing this
Monday night and none of it's occurred
yet. But be assured we'll let you know the
full story next week, when we'll have a
special full page feature all about IC
Radio, some of the history, and photos of
the new studios, and the carnage at the
relaunch party. So if you were there, be
afraid, you may have been caught...
Happy Birthday
A little known fact, but IC Radio reached
the grand old age of 27 this Monday
(14th). Back then we were operating off a
reel to reel tape deck and a microphone, in
a room in Linstead, so we've moved on
Rag Ramble
dren who have no chance of recovery and
no medical treatment left to try, but it's also
incredibly valuable to their parents, who
would otherwise be left to tend for them
and the rest of the family alone.
So for the charity have bought a site in
Hounslow, and are bringing together the
last of the funding to put up some walls
(and perhaps the odd ceiling) this summer.
However, they still need more money to kit
out the hospice - and that's where we come
in. They need everything from beds to
kitchens to PCs with special controls, and
we're looking to provide enough funding to
make real progress. Indeed one of the best
things about working with the Shooting
Star Appeal is that our efforts can make a
really big difference - potentially helping to
make the project a reality by the end of the
year. So, in true Blue Peter stylee, we've
made up a wish-list of the kind of things
that we want to buy...
• For £1000, we can provide a fully-
equipped music room.
IC Radio
quite well, and from such humble begin-
nings, we've grown to be London's pre-
mier student station.
Learn to mix
That's right, the famous IC Radio mix mas-
terclass is back. We've not finalised when
it will be yet, but we'll advertise the date
and time here and with posters around
college. For the uninitiated, the basic
premise is that some of our DJs give some
tips and tricks for those who'd like to be
the next Judge Jules, and then give one-
on-one tuition to people in turn. It's a
great way to get started if you've always
wanted to have a go, but have never had
the opportunity to, so watch this space for
more details.
The Breakfast show
As some of you may know, this academic
year we've started producing breakfast
shows every weekday morning from 8 till
10am. The idea is to you tune your alarm
clock to 999am (in Southside and
• £2000 would fund an electric bed for a
childs room.
• For £5000, we can supply a children's play
area (complete with paddling pool).
• Next, £7000 will fit out an entire child's
room, including a state-of-the-art bed.
• £10 000 will provide a complete multi-
media room.
• For £15 000, we can fit out a video and
book library and a family lounge.
• £20 000 provides four bedrooms to house
families visiting sick children.
• Finally, £25 000 will fund and run a new
minibus, complete with wheelchair lift
So that's what Rag Week is for, and that's
why we want you to come along to events,
get out on the streets and raise money for
the Shooting Star Appeal. The most cun-
ning part of the equation is that it'll happen
while you're out doing mad stuff, maybe
getting drunk and definitely having a laff
with your mates. Nice, huh?
See you in Rag Week!
helen & dave
Linstead) or switch on your PC when you
wake up, and we'll ease you into the day
and make sure you're up and about in time
for your lectures.
Requests
Of course, as your radio station, we're
more than happy to play your requests.
Let us know what you want to hear and
any dedication you want to make, on
phone extensions 58085 and 58100, or e-
mail requests@icradio.com.
Listen!
As ever, we're broadcasting quality radio
programmes 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. You can listen on 9 9 9 A M in
Southside and Linstead halls, and on the
internet at www.icradio.com anywhere.
i c r a d i o i i
www.icradio.com II

