Station 17
Hitparade
Out now on Mute records
There is a fantastic, bizarre story behind
this album. Station 17 originated in a
Hamburg mental institute in 1988. Social
worker Kay Bosen thought that a number
of his patients could benefit from being
allowed to express themselves musically,
however they liked. 13 years and four
albums later, the band has prospered,
and I am a satisfied listener.
Hitparade is their fifth album, and is a
collection of their most famous tunes
remixed by some of Germany's better
dance DJs in a variety of styles. A n d it is
odd. Having not heard the band before,
my initial expectations were for some-
thing typically German - perhaps indus-
trial metal worthy of a nuclear war, or
gabba techno worthy of a thousand
nosebleeds. But this is miles away from
either - unusual, chilled techno electroni-
ca, with more than a few nods to hip-hop
and trip-hop.
For me, the glorious moment on this
album is the very understated Der Weg
Nach Nirgendwo. It's slow and brooding,
but pleasant too, like a ray of sunshine
falling on Tricky's dark musical world.
The vocals on this track, as on most of
the others, are supplied by simple
speech - we hear old men and young chil-
dren smoothly rounding off the electronic
rhythms, and it matters little if you can't
understand the German.
There are some unfortunately cheesy
moments too, with a significant minority
of tracks sounding like sub-standard Daft
Punk grooves. But don't worry too much
about that - in general, the tracks on
Hitparade are usually fine and some-
times excellent.
Derek
Various
Tony Hawk's...
Out now on Maverick records
[The full title is Music From And Inspired
By Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3].
So this is a first - a soundtrack album for
a computer game. Not surprising really,
since music is being used more and more
in computer games now. I confess
though that when I played Tony Hawk's
(the game, that is), I didn't really pay
much attention to the music 'cause I was
too busy grinding.
Listening to this album, you can tell
that the songs are in the game. It's got
the skateboardy nu-metal and hip-hop
feel. It's got a few well known popular
artists too, like Sum 41 (pic above), Alien
Ant Farm, Outkast and Papa Roach.
This is guite a good compilation, with
only one or two songs (out of 13 in total)
which weren't worth another listen. One
track that stood out was the NOFX song
What's The Matter With Parents Today?,
which has a classic line: " M u m and Dad,
I think you oughta stop smoking so much
pot".
The Sum 41 track is just like their pre-
vious songs, with its upbeat theme, and
Outkast's Bombs Over Baghdad has a
cool beat.
The album also comes with an interac-
tive CD, which has some clips' of Tony
Hawk talking about his various battle
scars and some skateboarding stunts.
The menus would have looked a lot more
impressive played on something better
than a dying laptop.
So, to round up, this is not a bad com-
pilation if you like your nu-metal/hip-hop
thing, although I think only the biggest
Tony Hawk fan would contemplate buy-
ing it. Go on, prove me wrong.
Oscar
music reviews
O U T T H I S W E E K
Due out on Monday 21 January:
SINGLES
ALKALINE TRIO - Private Eye
BLACK REBEL M ' C CLUB - Love Burns
STELLA BROWNE - Never Knew Love
A L B U M S
C H E C K ENGINE - On Top
Fugu
Fugu 1
Out Monday 4 February on Ici d'ailleurs
From the cover - a '50s beach picnic
scene - and the song titles - Ondulations,
Angel Fair With Golden Hair - we can
make a good guess as to what this is
going to sound like. French orchestral
lounge music. Not that it sounds any-
thing like A i r - the production and
arrangements give it more of a Beatles
feel, circa Abbey Road.
The tracks with floaty female vocals
sound incredibly like similar efforts from
Stereolab, though much less contrived.
On the flip side, the tracks with male
vocals sound very much like Olivia
Tremor Control. In fact, most of the album
sounds infuriatingly similar to some
indeterminate one or another, almost as
if it were a compilation of tracks by like-
minded '60s-inspired combos.
Of course, Fugu 1 flows along better
than any compilation would. The tracks
are so short (18 in 45 minutes) that the
listener drifts along, barely aware of the
shifting tracks and the variety of instru-
ments tickling and teasing the ears.
The album is loosely split into two
parts and, although the interlude is bare-
ly noticeable, the subsequent track Au
Depart indicates that something has
changed.
This is an exotic delicacy that can lead
to disaster if incorrectly prepared.
Perhaps I should give you a sardonic
warning of: "don't try this in your bed-
room". Fugu's efforts haven't led to a
cloying muzak disaster, because they're
not trying to be too clever. The end prod-
uct is not quite a delicacy, but an aural
connoisseur would have little to com-
plain about.
Robert

