INTERVIEW with King Adora
reviews music
LIVE: King Adora
@ Electric Ballroom
Teenage drama queens in feather boas and glittery fairy wings
crammed inside the Electric Ballroom (home of the highly rec-
ommended Full Tilt night) to see the much-revered all-singing,
all-dancing King Adora. The impression I got was not of a band
who were some kind of "glam revivalists" just because they
wear eyeliner and sing impolitely about sex, but of a pretty
wicked pop band.
The sparkly butterflies were in for a shock when their pop
idols inflicted us with not one but two relatively mediocre sup-
port bands. One could have been led to think that the Candies
and their fellow minion posse were strategically positioned to
make even a lacklustre King Adora seem excellent in compari-
sion, but was this the case? Definitely not, for King Adora blew
the Ballroom apart. This was one of Maxi Browne's "glory gigs"!
From the moment they took to the stage with a rousing rendi-
tion of live favourite Bionic, moshing was taken to stratospher-
ic levels, with people flung to the far corners of the room by the
brute force with which we were musically moved. With the
crowd whipped into a frenzy, the band experimented with some
material from their forthcoming album, the Suede-esque Tokyo
Honey. Even Maxi's facial expressions and poses would have
done Brett Anderson proud, for imitation is the finest form of
flattery. This track, which wasn't extremely stunning for such a
talented bunch, was greeted with so much favour that it
seemed like the crowd would have lapped up a performance of
the Yellow Pages.
Highlights included the excellent Law, the intense Smoulder,
the distinctive Suffocate and the Pixies-influenced Big Isn't
Beautiful. Suffice to say, these were the singles, and the pure
energy put into them by both the band and the moshers made
them memorable. However, the "album-fillers" weren't done
justice live as the band simply churned them out one by one.
The set being short but sweet, I conclude that King Adora
have the talent for writing instantly likable and infinitely mosh-
able songs, all of which sound just different enough from the
others to be interesting.
Before their recent gig at the Electric Ballroom (see review, left),
Felix spoke to Maxi and Nelsta from King Adora.
FELIX: Can you please tell us what King Adora are all about?
MAXI: Our band is about decadence, rock and roll, having fun,
decent tunes, live music, debauchery and glamour. Things a lot
of bands out there don't have.
So h o w would you describe your music to the untrained ear?
MAXI: Sleaze-rock!
H o w did you guys get together then, and w h y " K i n g Adora'"?
MAXI: I was making music when I saw Nelsta performing with
another band, and I thought "right, I'm poaching him for my
band". Nelsta knew the other two, and so we started jamming
together. A s for the band name, we were out shopping one day
and we saw this huge six-foot vibrator in a shop window. It's
name was King Adora, advertised for "maximum, heightened
sensation". A n d that's what we're all about.
What's your favourite part of being i n a band?
MAXI: There's lots of things I like doing. Touring, both playing
live and having fun on the tour bus.
Explain "fun" to me. I hear your band is notorious w i t h the
groupies...?
MAXI: Groupies?! Lets just say we're young and we like to
enjoy ourselves. We have a laugh on the bus, you know, playing
a show, partying, getting wrecked. It's quite like the stereo-
typed notion of the tourbus, in films and all.
I understand that you took part i n various prestigious tours.
Which was your favourite and why?
MAXI: M y favourite was the Mansun tour. We're quite similar to
them, as we dress up and like to have a good time. The crowd
found us easy to relate to; we were poaching their fans.
NELSTA: We learnt a lot from them as people, about the busi-
ness and touring - they've gone so far and done so well.
What was the highpoint of being i n King Adora for you?
MAXI: Touring in Japan. We learnt lots about the culture in the
six days we were over there.
You have a new album coming out soon...
MAXI: Yes, we're going in to record it next week.
NELSTA: We've just finished doing a demo actually.
Is it a massive change of direction for you? H o w is it different
to Vibrate You, the last album?
MAXI: It's a lot darker and heavier, less feel-good. We're techni-
cally more tight on it; it's the album we've always wanted to
make but never had time. The last one was done in such a rush.
NELSTA: We've used different producers on it too.
If a fan asked you for your socks, what would y o u do?
MAXI: I'd give them away.
Can I have your socks then?
MAXI: Yeah, sure.
If the fans could give y o u a Christmas gift, what would it be?
MAXI: Just to keep supporting us and coming out to our gigs.
NELSTA: Fags, booze, socks... but what I'd really like is a
Hohner Professional L90 Goldtop guitar! So if anybody's got the
money, please give me one!
Sajini Sajini

