clubbing reviews
Dekefex
@ Mass
The touring club collective that is
Dekefex brought their awesome sounds
to one of the most down places to be in
South London. A s ever Dekefex had put
together a night that took in guest artists
such as the established - but not estab-
lishment - alt hip-hop D J Vadim, and
banging sounds of B a d Company.
Always one to promote upcoming artists,
less well-known but soon to be heard in
good clubs everywhere, collectives such
as Moorish Delta 7 were a welcome
inclusion in the night.
The residents, D J Skeletnx and D J N U ,
laid down a scratchy stylee mix of old
skool, new skool, and any skool. I have
not heard such a flow of poetry for a
while. And, mercifully, emcees seem to
be getting a lot more intelligent (or the
true ones always were) than in the dubi-
ous days of the birth of jungle and 'intel-
ligent' D n ' B . One favorite lyric (on a free
sampler CD given away on the night)
was 'I'll strap a Nokia to your head and
ring you till your brain fries'. Nice.
The main emceeing acts of the night
were Moorish Delta 7 and Phi Life Cipher.
Both of these gave amazing performanc-
es. Beats ranging from funky to dark rap
cuts to pure and simple hip hop gave the
backdrop to tales of urban strife and
everyday life.
Then it was down to some serious beats
that demanded serious dancing from D J
Vadim (with Demolition Man), and the
occasional b-boy breakdancing making
us all feel temporarily inadequate.
Anyone who has heard D J Vadim does
not need me to explain the maestro's
fusion of beats, breaks, and found
sounds. Never heard of D J Vadim? Why
not? Get yo' ass on the dance floor boy!
Moorish Delta 7:
Interview
Moorish Delta 7 are a three-piece hip-hop
outfit from Birmingham. The trio - Cipher
JEWELS, 'The Captain'; Malik, 'The Street
Poet'; and, Jawar, 'The Bull' - grew up
together on grimy council estates. In
addition to putting out their own tunes,
they also have an agenda to promote
local underground artists. The latter
includes their 7 Entertainment project
and the compilation 'Experiment T. I had
a chat with them at Mass, ...
Jawar, I read an interview where you
described Cipher as 'serious' yet 'chilled,
and said that there was a kind of
'yin/yang' thing about his character. Also,
you're the 'Life of the Party' but also the
'livewire'... There's a lot of duality here?
Malik: Exactly.
Cipher: You get that in the songs any-
way, you can feel it in the expression.
Take A r t of Survival' that's there in the
feeling, it's experience. But again, some
of our sounds are more simple love of hip-
hop.
Jawar: It's the voice of the people ...
That's something I wanted to ask you.
You grew up on council estates in
Birmingham... On your website you talk
about 'Silent Screams' being the voice, but
whose voice? Is it yours? The people you
grew up with? Yours and their collective
experience?
Jawar: It's the voice of the people. We
have no-one to answer to but the people
on the streets. We don't need to answer
to the record companies saying 'play like
this' or the media. The people on the
streets is the only people we have to
answer to.
Malik: How we represent, it's our genera-
tion. A l l of our past experiences are in it.
Like you said before, your music falls into
two broad categories: the urban tales,
and the hip-hop for the sake of hip-hop.
fd like to ask about the former. You
describe Art of Survival' as a futuristic
urban song. In what way do you mean
futuristic? Is it prophetic? Apocalyptic?
A vision? An inevitability? Or is it a warn-
ing?
Malik: Every day people are getting hun-
grier and hungrier. It's just the way it is.
It's the feeling on the streets and in the
cities.
Jawar: It's at the level of the streets,
those are the sounds in every tune.
Malik: It's not a prediction, it's just that
that's how the vibes is going right now.
One final question: what's your favourite
sound, each of you? I don't mean like a
genre like 'soul' or whatever I mean a sin-
gle sound like this [snaps fingers] or this
[drums on wall].
Cipher: A drum.
More specific?
Cipher: Oh, I like all drums. A snare
drum.
Malik: Piano.
Jawar: A woman.
Cipher: You know, there's a duality. We
argue, of course w e argue, but we will
always back each other up. This is three
in one. It's more than music. This is what
keeps us going, it's what we depend on.
We give each other counsel and support.
Even if it's not music, whatever it is.
That's w h y it doesn't sound manufac-
tured. If any one of us left, it wouldn't be
Moorish Delta 7. MD7 is the three.
Malik: We've had so many tunes over the
years. A n d certain vibes happen. We
don't look to the next man.
Cipher: We do something different if it
feels right. That's why it's genuine.
Robert Robert

