reviews clubbing 17
New Year's Eve with Ministry Of Sound
@ The Millennium Dome
There are two sides to every story, or so
the cliche says, and Ministry of Sound's
New Year's Eve event at the Millennium
Dome is no exception. People's expecta-
tions for the event were as extreme as
those for Episode I, and when you build
something up like that, all you can real-
ly expect to be... is disappointed.
I have heard people complain that
they spent an hour in the queue to get
in, and another hour to get bar tokens.
They bitch about the state of the toilets
after midnight; they moan about
Brandon Block being completely
mashed. For me, these were no problem:
I saw this as a festival and anticipated
such things as eventualities. History has
shown that the organisation of an event
of this magnitude is guaranteed to be
less than perfect. A n d sure, this wasn't
the best night of my life, but it was a
great, messy way to see in the New
Year.
I arrived at 7pm (when there was no
queue), and went straight in to find
myself in the belly of a monster: five are-
nas, fifty DJs and only fourteen hours to
do it all in. As the Dome slowly became
populated, there was an opportunity to
explore the site as the sounds of MoS
resident Gareth Cooke gradually
warmed up the crowd. Everything about
the place - the fairground, the food
stalls, the stupid hats, the hooters - said
that this was a summer dance festival in
mid-winter. The only difference being
that there was to be no mud, no sun-
stroke and definitely no rain.
For me, the party began with Frenzic
in the World Dance tent. When this tent
opened its doors at 8pm there was a del-
uge of people eager to get some of its
deep, high-energy vibrations. Within
half-an-hour this place was boiling over.
Back at the main stage, Ferry Corsten
got the crowd on their feet with a siz-
zling set of uplifting trance. By now, the
god-like sound system was thoroughly
shaking the foundations (I stood near to
the left speaker stack and boy, do my
ears know it). Thousands of people of all
denominations were united by the
desire to party, and Ferry Corsten was
giving it to them.
Looking over the event from the bal-
cony of the Rulin arena, the whole thing
was put into glorious perspective. The
rippling audience of the main stage, the
distant fairground, the lasers cutting
across the diameter of the dome. It was
awesome.
Dick Clark duties for the night were
taken by Dave Pearce. For some, the
thought of a "Dangerous" Dave Pearce
set is as appealing as the Paul Daniels
Magic Show. Whilst there was a minor,
yet noticeable, tempo drop from Ferry
Corsten's set to Pearce's (some people
behind me actually sat down and start-
ed rolling at this point), it was actually
comprised of some creditable records
bolted together in a pleasing fashion.
At 11.50pm a giant countdown began
in the main arena, and as the iron
tongue of midnight tolled twelve they
cracked open the visuals and a shitload
of spectacular pyrotechnics exploded in
and around the main stage. But once we
had hit the climax of midnight, I felt
spent and in desperate need of a tiger
nap. However, a belated Anne Savage
set put a spell on the crowd like a
voodoo incantation, summoning us to
dance like zombies to her frenetic sound.
By the end of it I had used up that very
last drop of serotonin. No amount of
energy drinks could save me now.
It was three in the morning and the
floor of the dome was awash with empty
plastic bottles and beer cans - which
made it a complete fucker to dance on.
Around about this time, Siamese twins
Alex P and Brandon Block appeared. It
seemed that legendary caner Brandon
Block had gone a little too far in his cel-
ebrations - his awkward mixing stopped
me in my tracks every time. This aside,
his shambolic DJing still entertained,
and his calling card "Oi! Oi!" was not
left out. Thankfully, Alex P stylishly fin-
ished off their set w i t h some tight,
thumping house.
The pristine toilets of the Millennium
Dome had by now descended into full
faecal chaos - inch-deep brown water
greeted anyone unlucky enough to need
any kind of number. This was when I
realised that the festival experience was
finally complete.
When Tiesto eventually arrived, I was
hoping he would revive my flagging
spirits. Like his Gouryella co-producer,
Ferry Corsten, he specialises in uplifting
trance, and so I was hoping a little bit of
that might be just what the doctor
ordered. Alas, he just didn't get my fire
burning.
The dawn set was taken by Judge
Jules, who turned in a diamond-edged
performance, pleasing the crowd with-
out feeling the need to go anthemic. But
I was aching for bed, and no DJ in the
world would have got me to dance.
Sunrise: brilliant lemon-coloured light
cut through the glass of the east side of
the dome, gilding the interior, and dis-
solving the distant silhouettes of people.
That, and the clarifying morning chill,
gave me a moment of lucidity, and for
the first time I felt like I was in 2002.
Patrick

