arts reviews
The Thief of Tears
Etcetera Theatre, Camden
The Oxford Arms Pub on Camden High Street is an ideal place
to get some shelter on a winter day after wandering through the
Camden Market all the afternoon. The pub looks old and worn
out, but what's special with the place is that upstairs it hides a
cosy connoisseurs' venue: the Etcetera Theatre.
The current production is Jeffrey Hatcher's "The Thief of
Tears", a monologue from the trilogy "Three Viewings", awarded
in 1993 with the Rosenthal N e w Play Prize. Natalie Bromley
graduated last summer in English at Cambridge, and she has
already shown her skills as an actress at the Edinburgh Festival.
Her first appearance on the London theatre scenery sees her in
the challenging double role of producer and actress.
The show lasts for half an hour and the stage is as static as a
stage can be: the only object on it is a bench that at some point
the character turns into a coffin, but through her convincing act-
ing only. The thief of tears is a young American woman, of
granny's funeral. She's a thief of tears because she hangs around
the funerals of unknown wealthy people and as she kneels down
on the coffin to moan she tries and steals jewelry from the dead
body. She's content with her way of living until she tries to steal
the ring that she has dreamt about during her childhood that her
past starts to pour out through the leaks of her conscience.
The dynamism of this play is terrific, you can say anything,
except that it is boring. The mood switches so many times
between comic, dramatic, and tragic tones. The skilled light-
work transforms the scenery accordingly but is on Natalie the
most of the burden. Hatcher has managed to write a monologue
fit to challenge the actress and to strip bare her skills and short-
ages, but I must say that Natalie comes out very well from this
trial, showing a confidence worth that of an experienced actor
and proving herself able to act in both dramatic genders.
Concluding, the theatre is a bit far away and a trip to Camden
for a very short play could seem wasted but if you happen to be
in the right place at the right time, then it's value for money at
£5-9. For those with thespian ambitions instead it is a must:
take it as a technical challenge. Could you do that?
A H f * • •
Rent
Prince of Wales Theatre
The nation was consoled at Adam Rickett's departure from
Coronation Street only by the steamy launch of his scantily clad
pop career. So imagine the delight of his latest project, promising
a bubbly fusion both his soap acting talent with his boyband-
esque dulcet tones. After torturing the rest of the country for the
past months, Rent is now back in London for a disappointing 8
weeks only (disappointing in its longevity, not brevity).
Ominous from the start, the show begins with Rickett setting
the scene. Playing Mark, as an amateur arty-film-type, he
annoys most of the characters as he introduces them, poking his
cine-camera in peoples' faces. This introduction, and most of
Adam's performance is startlingly confusing. His Peewee
Herman-ised American accent stutters and vomits its way
through the show, tearing into his songs. The set, around which
the characters bounce, is faultless. Graffiti scarred brickwork,
misted in steam as it drifts from sewers provides a convincing
backdrop of a rundown N e w York side street. The said street
gives rise to the characters squat in which most of the charac-
ters live (legally thanks to the generosity of Benny, an evil-type).
The basic plot (and it is basic) follows A d a m and his band of
squatters as they are faced with eviction from the squat. But
there's a twist <gasp>. Benny's ultimatum is for the squatters
to help him stop a "homelessness demonstration" or face evic-
tion. Confusing HIV/AIDS subplot emerges which seems to
affect all the characters, but which unsurprisingly the publicity
material makes no reference to.
The emotional tumult of friendships, romances, arguments
and deaths should engage you, even at a musical, but so
plucked from thin air, and so quickly do they surface and disap-
pear, that it's hard to feel anything but pity for people as they
writhe around the stage in pretend agony.
There have to be more entertaining ways of spending three
hours (and £15), than seeing Rent. The pure energy from the
cast, and sterling singing performances from several, are not
enough to demystify poor acting, unemotional situations, and a
flat, confusing plot. Did they lose it or did I?
Sergio Wayne

