reviews book
The Third Policeman
Flann O'Brien, £4.99
The Third Policeman is a truly unique novel with obvious Irish
origins, a tale set in a reality where the basic rules of our world
no longer apply. It surrounds an individual who is forced from
one strange situation to another, the fact that you will never
know the name of the main character is an indication of the
style of this novel.
He is brought up in circumstances that are a little strange. A n
only child whose parents both die when he is very young, he is
sent to an expensive boarding school. Meantime somebody else
is left to look after the family farm, namely John Divney. At
boarding school he starts to develop an interest in de Selby, an
eccentric physicist/ philosopher from the end of the nineteenth
century. By the time he leaves boarding school and returns to
the farm he intends to devote his time to cataloguing all of de
Selby's works and the work of all his commentators. However,
once this is complete he needs money to publish it. The farm is
not doing well, however. At John Divney's suggestion the deci-
sion is eventually made to murder old Mathers who keeps his
money in a black metal cash box. John Divney hides the box
until it is 'safe' to use the money but does not reveal the hiding
place for three years, during which time a rather strained rela-
tionship builds up between them. Once the hiding place is
revealed our protagonist goes to collect it. What follows is a tale
of his attempts to get hold of this box.
This tale moves from strange to, bizarre to completely
obscene, an army of three legged men and bicycles with per-
sonalities are just two examples from the world created by
O'Brien. The aura of surreal abnormality within this novel makes
it a wonderful book to escape into and I warn you, you will prob-
ably want to read it twice. What starts out as a murder becomes
a black comedy, eventually reaching a dark conclusion, do not
be fooled by the appearance that this is a comedy of circum-
stance, there is a very grave moral underlying.
The Third Policeman by Flann O'Brien is published by
Flamingo priced at £4.99.
Pest Control
Bill Fitzhugh, £5.99
One of the most humorous books published in 2000 was Dave
Barry's Big Trouble and was reviewed in Felix in the autumn of
that year. Although nothing this year came close to the hilarity
of this story I did happen to read over Christmas a very amus-
ing and well-written debut novel by Bill Fitzhugh called Pest
Control. Bob Dillon (you can see where some of the jokes comes
from straight away) is an unhappy exterminator in New York
City. Bob is trying to find a better way of dealing with the city's
dirtiest and most unwelcome creatures. You see, Bob is an envi-
ronmentally friendly bug exterminator and decides to quit his
job in the hope that he can breed "super" bugs that will kill your
common household pests without the need for pesticides and
poisonous sprays.
Bob places his advertisement for his new extermination serv-
ice in the local papers and the ad falls into the hands of a mid-
dle man for a world-wide assassination service who believes
that Bob and his title of "The Assassin" is a veiled reference to
his status as a hit-man. Getting an idea of the trouble in store,
Bob begs off the lucrative job he's offered. But when the victim
is accidentally killed anyway, the middleman, assuming Bob's
managed the job with unusual finesse, duly sends him his fee.
Every thing sounds status quo until the UPS package with the
money gets held on the way to Bob; his wife and daughter,
impatient with his approach to pest control, walk out on him;
and the brother and murderer of a Bolivian drug-lord who wants
to cover up his own crime informs the world that it was the
work of the Exterminator and offers a $10 million bounty to who-
ever kills Bob, attracting all the top exterminators in the field.
Pest Control is a very well written and humourous novel. The
characters stand out as very real people and Bob is the your typ-
ical "man in wrong place at the wrong time." The two main
stars of this novel without a doubt are Bob's young daughter
and the bugs themselves who finally come to Bob's assistance
towards the end of this very light but highly entertaining read.
Pest Control is the first of four books by Bill Fitzhugh and is
published by Arrow, priced £5.99.
Jennifer Jonathan

