22 film reviews
Lord Of The Rings:
Fellowship Of The Ring
As one of the most hyped and eagedy awaited releases of last
year, many of you may have already seen Lord Of The Rings. For
those who haven't, it is a truly excellent film. It may not live up
to its hype as the new Star Wars or the best move ever made,
but it's still definitely worth seeing.
The film opens with a brief run-down of the story of the ring
that immediately draws the viewer into Tolkien's fantasy world.
The special effects in this scene - and, indeed, though out the
film - are among the most realistic I have ever seen. Director
Peter Jackson follows in the epic footsteps of Ridley Scott (in the
likes of Blade Runner and Gladiator), creating a real yet alterna-
tive world, full of rich textural detail that aids the suspension of
disbelief. Moreover, the film as a whole is very atmospheric,
fuelled throughout by a dark, brooding sense of dread.
Foreboding runs throughout, especially in the scenes with the
ring wraiths.
After this opening, the pace slows as we are shown Hobiton
on the eve of Bilbo Baggins' birthday. Again the special effects
are excellent, with the three and a half foot hobbits played by
digitally reduced actors. The film could quite easily have fallen
into farce and high camp without the naturalistic, solid per-
formances by Elijah Wood and the other hobbit actors.
One of the most memorable scenes of the film is the fight
between Gandalf and Saruman in Orcthanc (the tower of
Isengrad). Christopher Lee and Ian McKellen are perfect for the
roles of warring sorcerers and are truly realistic and frightening.
However, there is a glaring continuity error: Saruman takes
Gandalfs's staff from him, yet it turns up later (with no explana-
tion as to how it was returned).
Another major flaw with the film is the ending. Despite
remaining true to the book, it's comes across flat, offering no
sense of completion or finality - and consequently the film
works far less well as a movie in its own right than Star Wars.
It is this ending that stops Lord Of The Rings being as out-
standing as other films like Goodfellas and Die Hard and moves
it into the 'very good but not great' category.
Va Savoir
released 8th January
Life is story, story is life. The Arts and their connection to the
lives of those involved in them is a particular fascination of
Jacques Rivette; and he is back with it again in his new come-
dy. In a previous film Rivette used Pericles as the central axis of
the narrative, and now for Va Savoir he has chosen Pirandello's
As You Desire Me, a piece about illusion and identity. The film's
six lead characters are all related in some way to a touring pro-
duction of the play and the long sequences we are shown from
performances of it let us draw parallels between the actors'
lives and those of their onstage personas, whilst at the same
time not allowing us to forget that the film we are watching is
itself fiction.
With audiences dwindling, their production arrives in Paris,
and the female lead, Jeanne Balibar, immediately reacquaints
herself with an old beau, in an effort to alleviate boredom. This
leaves her director, co-star lover, Sergio Castellitto, alone in his
attempts to find the long-lost Goldoni manuscript that he
believes will save his flagging company. Fortuitously he comes
across a beautiful young graduate, Helene de Fougerolles,
whose family just happens to have the entire Goldoni back cat-
alogue - but de Fougerolles' loutish half-brother stands in the
way of obtaining it and some careful manoeuvrings ensue.
The troupe's love-interest musical-chairs is a central to Va
Savoir, with much farce-like humour coming from all the various
partner swapping. The art/life blurring is good to watch, with
coincidences and overplayed scenes adding to the feeling of
artifice, as exemplified by the huggy-kissy, onstage happy end-
ing.
Having previously made the titanically long Out One (over 13
hours, if you were wondering), Rivette manages to stretch out
this comedy to a lengthy two and a half hours, but this does
allow for a leisurely accumulation of humour and characterisa-
tion. The first act is a little slow, but after that we are treated to
the fantastic, intellectual musings about love and art of the sort
that is only found in New Wave cinema. Quite simply, this is just
a lot of fun.
Alex Dunbar Adam Joyce

