reviews film 23
Blackhawk Down
released 18th January
17:37, 3rd October, 1993: American UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters
drop 120 elite soldiers into downtown Mogadishu to kidnap
Somalian warlord Mohammed Farrah Aidid's top advisors and
military officials. The operation is scheduled for an hour.
09:11, 4th October, 1993: 18 Americans are dead and 73 wound-
ed in the biggest single firefight involving American troops since
the Vietnam war. Somalian officials claim that one thousand
militia have been killed; independent observers place the esti-
mate somewhere around five-hundred.
In 1993, Somalia was suffering from terrible famine, hundreds
of thousands had already died and millions were facing starva-
tion. The country's most powerful warlord, Mohammed Farrah
Aided, was quelling food distribution in an attempt to w i n
Somalia's long and bloody civil war. Faced with a humanitarian
disaster on a biblical scale, the United Nations intervened, with
food airlifts and peacekeeping forces.
In the meantime, the U.S. military set up operation Task Force
Ranger, to root out and remove Aided and his staff. The opera-
tion culminated with intelligence pointing to a building in cen-
tral Mogadishu, where Aided's top lieutenants were hiding. A
highly trained team was assembled to kidnap them. If every-
thing went according to plan then the mission would take one
hour and there would be no American casualties.
Blackhawk Down tells the story of the kidnapping and the
subsequent Battle of Mogadishu in graphic detail. Rarely before
has the American public been exposed to the bare physical real-
ity of warfare. Ridley Scott's movie should put off any prospec-
tive army recruit. I mean, who wants to have their legs blown
off by a rocket propelled grenade? Not me. I would prefer to get
legless down Southside.
Despite the breath-takingly realistic action sequences the
movie's centrepiece is a message about friendship, heroism,
and the true nature of war. But this is really a case of Hollywood
rewriting history. The truth is that the operation was charac-
terised by incompetence on behalf of the American leadership,
a complete failure of intelligence, and infighting.
Felix On Film Competition
When a routine drug deal is not what it seems. Clayton Pierce,
anti-terrortist agent, working undercover, finds out that the
deal is actually a nuclear bomb. In a world where the truth has
a price. A n d the price is the truth. Timelapse is a straight-to-
video B-movie which you have a chance to win. Just answer
this simple question:
Who directed this year's The Lord Of The Rings:
The Fellowship Of The Chicken Wing?
a) Peter Jackson
b) Barrie Osborne
c) Colonel Sanders
Answers to: film.felix@ic.ac.uk
Francis Ford Coppola once said that the artistic obligation of
any director making a war movie is to make an anti-war movie.
Ridley Scott's Blackhawk Down is not anti-war. It is an attempt
to hide historical events such as this behind a wall of cliched
sentimentality, in a patent refusal to serve up the real truth
about the sheer idiocy of American involvement in Somalia. It
also champions the ignorance of the individual soldiers as they
sacrifice their lives unquestioningly for a cause that proved to
be so trifling for US policymakers that President Clinton called
off the whole of operation Task Force Ranger the next day.
In the light of recent events in Afghanistan this movie will
provide real insight into the methods employed the US in their
covert operations abroad. The importance of intelligence gath-
ering. This is modern American warfare. No longer the inter-
minable struggle between the huge armies of two nations.
Instead you have short and isolated encounters between high-
ly trained and equipped American forces and third-world militia
armed with rocks and Soviet machine-guns.
The sheer mismatch between US soldiers and Somalian mili-
tia makes painful viewing at times. A n d as so often in Ridley
Scott movies, the plot and characters take a back seat and you
are left with a series of dazzling and often disturbing images
and impressions of a terrible battle.
The acting is completely forgettable and Ridley Scott is the
only star of the show. The characters are all faceless cliches.
There's the idealist who cries, the pragmatist who smokes, kills,
and lives life on the edge, and the guy who always has a picture
of his wife and child handy just when he's going to die. "Tell
her...ugh... that I lo... lov... loathe cheesy deaths," I clearly
remember him saying, before realising that he's missing a torso.
The dialogue is always corny to the point of hilarity.
Producer, Jerry Bruckheimer's presence is felt only too well.
There is a clear parallel here with Pearl Harbour and
Armageddon in terms of the moralising and hero-worship. But
what partly redeems the movie is the action, at times on a par
with the opening twenty minutes of Saving Private Ryan, with
the only criticism being that there is too much of it. The action
becomes diluted, especially with cliched characters. Because
who cares when a cliche dies? It's already dead.
So overall, it may look and sound spectacular, but Blackhawk
Down is boring.
Darius

