break coffee
GFQQ - The Great Felix Quote Quiz
b y B o b b y C y c l o p s & D r . H o t F u d g e
Bond Quotes Special!
1. "Red wine with fish. Well, that should have told me something!"
2. "His name's Jaws....he kills people."
3. "Tve never killed a midget before, but there can always be a first
time!"
4. " I feel a slight stiffness coming on."
5. "You defy all my attempts to plan an amusing death for you!
You're not a sportsman Mr. Bond! Why did you break up the
encounter with my pet-python?"
Bonus Question. To what does Bond liken drinking Dom Perignon
]
53 above a temperature of 38 degrees Farenheit?
Number of players: 60
The Leader Board - top 15
Name Score
Andrew Ince 73
Simon North 73
Daniel Sauder 72.5
Christopher Dent 69
Chris Ince 68.5
Anthony Rodriques 67
John Anderson 65.5
Rebekah Hymas 62.5
Arosha Bandara 61
Gregory Mann 59.5
Geoff Lay 58
Kim Randell 58
Vuk Cerovic 55
Fred Marquis 51.5
Chris Toffis 51
Answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or
West Wing
to the Felix Office
Basement, Beit Quad.
o
j—j
a
t e
OPPOSITE
WAITROSE
T . i i i 7 e 3 s n i l
Answers to lyric special:
1. Raindrops Keep Fallin' On My Head/B. J Thomas - Butch
Cassidy & the Sundance Kid
2. Windmills of Your Mind/Noel Harrison - Thomas Crown Affair
(orig.)
3. Up Where We Belong/Joe Cocker - A n Officer and A Gentleman
4. Fame/Iren Cara - Fame
5. Moon River/Audrey Hepburn - Breakfast at Tiffany's
Bonus. A l l of these films won an Oscar for best song in the respec-
tive motion pictures.
'You amuse me, Mr. Bond!'
Welcome back 'Packers! I hope you accept my apologies for my
absence last week, but the 'Doc is such a demanding actor to work
with: he refuses to shoot unless he gets his two fudge-fingers at
9am. Back to more pressing matters: it's time for another helping of
GFQQ! Remember, the quiz ends in March at the end of the Spring
Term, so keep sharp and send in your entries if you want to win the
super Grand Prize! The end-of-term prize ('Bad Motherfucker' wal-
let) at Christmas was won by Simon North after a tie-break ques-
tion with Andrew Ince. These two characters are still tied at the top
of the leaderboard - we need challengers to dislodge them from
their perch.
To start the year we have a special Bond G F Q Q featuring famous
quips from both 007 himself and various villains/henchmen from
Bond films from across the years. I'm surprised we haven't touched
upon this subject before... where else can you find names like Holly
Goodhead, Fatima Blush, Plenty O'Toole and, of course, Pussy
Galore? Well, same rules as always (Film, Character/Actor) - good
luck, see you next week! Bobby Cyclops
ESQUIRES
C O F F E E H O U S E S

