lifestyle feature
All offers of employment
HOLLY BARNES
If there's one thing that I've learned this
year, it's that being unemployed isn't all
it's cracked up to be. Believe me, few
things in this life are more depressing
than the queue to sign on of a Wednesday
morning - except perhaps the realisation
that it's the most exciting part of the
week. At university there's always some-
thing you could be doing and, more than
likely something you should be doing -
but there's simply bugger all to do if
you're unemployed. A n d , of course,
there's the fact that it's pretty hard to live
on £42 per week. Basically, it may be a
learning and growing experience, but it's
certainly a lifestyle that I strongly recom-
mend you avoid at all costs.
But I'm sure you know all that already -
after all, it's fairly unlikely that any of you
are genuinely considering unemployment
as a lifestyle choice. The real question is,
what's the solution? How do you avoid the
dole queue and the exciting world of the
Job Seekers Allowance? Well, a good
degree, a wealth of knowledge, bucket-
loads of experience and a real desire to do
whatever it is you want to do would cer-
tainly be a good starting point. A n d
charm, good looks and a nice shiny suit
can't hurt, either. But the real sticking
point isn't what you know, or even who
you know - it's how you talk about it.
According to the latest research by the
Association of Graduate Recruiters, 43% of
leading graduate recruiters "reported skill
shortages in three of the attributes ranked
most important by employers - interper-
sonal skills, initiative/proactivity and oral
communication" (and before you get car-
ried away thinking that the other key
skills they were looking for were technical
or scientific, you may as well know that
they were "for graduates to be good team
players, motivated and enthusiastic, flexi-
ble and adaptable"). These findings are
backed up by the results of an Industry In
Education study of the nation's largest
employers, which concludes that employ-
ers are "looking at personal skills more
than degree content" when it comes to
hiring recent graduates.
So what do we conclude from all this?
Well, firstly, my Careers Advisor wasn't
lying when she started wittering on about
the importance of 'Personal Transferable
Skills'. Secondly, that a good degree does
not automatically entitle you to a good job.
A n d thirdly that it might, perhaps, be a
good idea to get some practice at this
communication, teamworking and leader-
ship malarkey. A n d how do I do that, you
ask? (OK, so you don't, but play along
here). By getting involved in clubs and
societies, charity work or local volunteer
projects, I reply. Well, actually, I don't - the
employers do. You see, yet another report
(this time by TimeBank) indicates that
three-quarters of the UK's top employers
give preference to candidates with volun-
teering experience on their CV, whilst over
half of the companies surveyed said that
"voluntary work experience can actually
be more valuable than experience gained
in paid employment". And, whilst most of
the figures I'm quoting here refer to 'tradi-
tional' graduate recruitment fields (bank-
ing, consultancy, engineering, manage-
ment, IT etc), remember that they apply
just as strongly (if not far more so) to less
technical fields like media, law, the arts
and teaching. Oh, and apparently they're
pretty important for doctors too...
So, anyway, volunteering. It's a decep-
tively simple concept, which actually
encompasses a massive range of possibil-
ities - and almost certainly includes some
of the work that you're already doing. At
one extreme, it could mean making a huge
commitment to changing the world, sav-
ing lives or raising tens of thousands of
pounds for charity - but on the other hand
it can mean much simpler things like get-
ting involved in running your favourite
society, working in your local school for a
couple of hours a week, or just helping out
with the next Rag event. And, if you do
want to do something "worthy" (a tired
and cliched phrase I'll admit, but you get
the idea), there are lots of opportunities for
you to get involved on campus, with the
Pimlico Connection (teaching in local
schools - head to www.su.ic.ac.uk/pimli-
co to find out how to get involved) and the
Community Action Group (who deliver
food to the homeless, help out at local
homes for the elderly and repair tools for
Central African farmers - check out
www.su.ic.ac.uk/cag to find out more) the
two most obvious examples.
Aside from these clearcut examples,
however, volunteering also includes all
sorts of other activities. Responsible for
running publicity or arranging fixtures for
your society? Year Rep in your depart-
ment? Help out with collections, work in
the Union or get involved with organising
events? That all counts. A n d so does car-
ing for elderly relatives, looking after small
relatives or your friends' children, and a
million more things besides. To be honest,
it's almost certain that you're already
doing (or have done) some kind of volun-
tary work (and, indeed, part of the point of
this article is just to make you realise its
value) but it's also fairly unlikely that any
one activity could possibly have taught
you every one of those key skills.
Fortunately, though, there are lots of
opportunities available on campus - head
over to the Union to find out more, get in
contact with a new society or just think
about getting more involved in what
you're doing already.
Hopefully, however, you'll know all that
already, too. Two schemes that you might
not know about, however, are Millennium
Volunteers and Insight Plus. The first is a
major government initiative to increase
the number of young people volunteering
in their local community. Anyone aged
between 16 and 24 can register online (at
w w w . millenniumvolunteers. gov. uk) to
"use what you're in to to help yourself and
others", and whilst the scheme does
include plenty of opportunities to work at
your local shelter or home, there's also the
potential to get involved in anything from
sports coaching to the environment to
youth groups to music to journalism.
Moreover, the scheme is backed by a host
of big employers, there's support and
mentoring every step of the way, and
you'll receive a recognised award after
contributing 100 hours.
Insight Plus (www.insightplus.co.uk)
approaches the problem from a slightly
different direction. Like I said before, lots
of us already do a lot of voluntary work, so
instead of encouraging you to get involved
with new projects, it's designed to help
you to make the most of your current com-
mitments. Basically, you look at what
you're doing (be it voluntary work,
involvement in a society, a part-time job or
family commitments) and analyse what
skills you've gained as a result - thus turn-
feature lifestyle
gratefully received...
ing you into a much hotter prospect at
interview. The scheme also includes a
series of tutorials and workshops, plus the
promise of official accreditation on com-
pletion of the course. Sadly, however,
Insight Plus is currently only available to
students at participating universities,
which (at present) doesn't include
Imperial. Sorry.
Anyway, if all this isn't enough for you,
the final option is to head to your local
Volunteer Bureau - for example, the
Kensington & Chelsea Volunteer Bureau
(check out www.voluntarywork.org.uk);
the Hammersmith & Fulham Volunteer
Development Agency (www.hfvda.co.uk)
or Wandsworth Council Volunteer Bureau
(check out www.wvb.co.uk) - who should
have lots of information on local schemes
and volunteering in general. For a com-
plete list of centres, check out the National
Volunteer Bureau's central website (at
www.navb.org.uk), where you'll find
details of pretty much every voluntary
group in the country - so wherever you
live in London, there should be a support
group for you.
The only negative thing to say about
these initiatives is to contrast what
Imperial's doing with the investment and
involvement with that made by other uni-
versities and student unions. The current
Insight Plus roll-out is unlikely to include
Imperial (although that may have some-
thing to do with the fact that the NUS was
a founding partner in the scheme), whilst
the Union has not chosen to get involved
in Millennium Volunteers (unlike several
other student unions - such as Leicester,
Birmingham and Brunei - who both back
the scheme and provide their own volun-
teering opportunities). Fortunately, the sit-
uation is likely to improve in the near
future, as the College, the government
and the funding councils all seem to have
recognised the importance of volunteering
and student development in the modern
job market, and are thus making a major
investment (including dedicated staff) in
this field over the next few years. In the
meantime, however, there are still plenty
of opportunities all around you (we are in
the centre of London, after all), so stop
making excuses, get off your backside and
do something with your life.
So, yeah, that's about it. Volunteering is
good, basically Good for lots of reasons -
and, quite frankly, I'd like to think that
enhancing your employability is the least
of them. It's (mostly) fun. It's a diversion
from lectures, lab and revision. It makes
you feel better about yourself. And, by and
large, it makes the world a better place.
But you know all that - it's just that, faced
with a hundred other things that you
should be doing, "doing some good"
tends to fall to the bottom of the pile.
Which is perfectly understandable. But
hopefully, all you need is that one extra
reason that'll get you to make that first
step towards getting involved - and I hon-
estly hope that the prospect of joining me
in the queue at the Job Centre every other
Wednesday is it.
Holly Barnes is currently unemployed.
All offers of employment, freelance work,
a regular income, unbridled gratitude,
free love or one way tickets to Acapulco
should be addressed to not@ic.ac.uk.

