union talk
Night-line is a confidential listening and
information service provided by student
volunteers for students from all across
London. Nightline, as it is now in London,
can find its roots here at Imperial where
it was set up in 1971 following the sui-
cide of a student the previous year. Over
time it expanded from Imperial to many
parts of London and is currently associat-
ed with about '50 different institutions
including Imperial. There are even
Nightlines in America, Canada and
Germany.
It is essential for those students in dif-
ficulty, with emotional problems or wor-
ries to have someone they can talk to. To
ensure that someone is always available
for students to talk to, Nightline operates
every night during term time from 6pm to
8am. Thus when offices are shutting
down and it is the normal time for coun-
sellors and advisors to go home there is
someone there for you to talk to. Thus it
doesn't act to replace others you can go
and talk to (such as your friends, Warden,
Personal Tutor, College Counsellors etc,)
Nightline
but aims to provide a service when they
are unavailable or if you want to talk to
someone outside of where you study or
live.
Nightline isn't a counselling service. It
provides those that ring with someone to
hear their worries and problems. What
they do is listen, and then provide you
with any information you may need. They
can supply you with information on agen-
cies and organisations, which you can
then contact in you own time, or phone
lines, which can provide advice. The
phone number is 020 7631 0101.
They also have a website from where
you can find out more about Nightline
and how to volunteer if you wish to get
involved. Also if you wish to talk to them
by "email listening" you can find out more
details on the website. Email listening is
a new service offered by Nightline and
allows you to email them with you wor-
ries or reguests for information. The web-
site address is www.nightline.org.uk
If you think you want to talk to some-
one, regardless of the problem, the
Nightline website is a very good place to
start. It contains the links to many of the
nations most frequently used welfare
related websites, ranging from those
concerning Finances, through to Travel,
Crime & Safety as well as the more "obvi-
ous" ones on sexuality, sexual health, and
the law.
It should also be noted here the bene-
fits that could be obtained by helping to
run a service such as this. To volunteer, in
a manner such as this, in a truly unselfish
way can bring personal rewards that will
stay w i t h you forever. Helping on a
phoneline like this one is an excellent
way to give something back to the com-
munity, whilst making friends. It's not
about C V points, or job applications, or
first/second/third interviews or theses or
money; it's about doing something good.
Simple as that. If you think you'd like to
help, just call the number or visit the
website. I promise you you won't regret
it.
David
Deputy President (Education & Welfare)
Students there for students. Confidential listening, support and information 6pm to Sam every night of term
night line
r
-'S)^ 020 7631 0101 www.nlghtllne.org.uk

