30 January 1998 FEATURE INTERVIEW
unaware of it. This may < hange. "There is ni r:>e
having two people doing the same job", he said,
adding, "budgetary pressnre on people will be to •. .to-
nalise. If it's not to rationalise, then thi '(•'«, something
seriously wrong." This seems to be a significant el. ige
of policy. Only last year, i is Kector said that .-. ad
one of the lowest cost, m( si eflicient administrations
in the country. M r Mitche: >n continued by savinp, that
we should "put decision making w h e i e tin* expendi-
ture is created... if you < • \ou get downwards pres
sure and people do rationalise without a hand from
above coming d o w n to tell t h e m to." If this is seen
through to completion, wi may see an end ro arbitrary
decisions coming from the centre th, • . •
people and tie the hands of the ]•••<. | 'o w h o should
have decided in the first | ace Despite thes«- 1
its,
the College Secretary feels that the administration here
is "very g o o d " , which 1 suppose is no surpnse Yes
there will be cockups.,.1 subscribe to the cockup rhe-
ory, rather than the con: -irary rheory". a view ,\ilh
which most of us agree. Less: likely to find support is
the idea that poor admin "could equally be because it
has been forced below a < i-nain thieshold . you can
force it too i ., ... • I .. i . . , , -
Trilby wii; be ot my menu.
•One worn: font f
no • - ii.-pn ', ?M-, •
>
< h •<{ <; i • > 1
is "com o/hindi . on fond Wong ann1
'
his mili' 1
' 1 1 ,
'1
' ' 1 1 , 1
it, help' i , ,' •
•
departments and central administration. It is "one
thing that definitely could be improved throughout the
organisation." Steps to achieve this more effectively
have already been put in place, involving among other
things, residential weekends and Thursday lunchtime
meetings with the Rector. If anyone wants to extend
the invitation to student journalists, you know where
to find me... The College Notice is a powerful weapon
in the information arsenal for disseminating the deci-
sions of the mighty, or so our newly arrived Secretary
though. You've never heard
of one, and by you I mean
all of you, from 1 st years to
Heads of Departments.
Coming from the Army, this
came as a bit of a surprise.
"I was s t o p p e d in m y
tracks... when a Head of
Department said, iwhat is a
College Notice?'" H e aims to sort this out, and
although he admits that most of these are less than
riveting, we might one day find out when some impor-
tant decision is taken that affects us through a channel
other than Felix. It is also hoped that Felix will cease to
be the only conduit through which reports of the
Messed-up Project Group (known in Sherfield as M P G )
reach the masses, as their publication is "under dis-
cussion". As for Felix itself, The College Secretary feels
that it does its job well, quashing rumours that he feels
the cat should not be entirely free.
As regular readers will know, I a m fulsome in my
praise of the College's "commercial" activities. Indeed,
if you ignore such o u t m o d e d measures of effective-
ness as profit, customer satisfaction and management
competence, they are a m o n g some of the best to be
found in Western Europe. W e are about research and
teaching, not building management, not security and
certainly not catering. M r Mitcheson's views on con-
tracting out were very encouraging. Though his is not
convinced that things are as bad as many suggest, he
said, "we should bear it in mind... y o u would be fool-
ish not to keep all the various permutations and
options in your mind. You would be failing in your
duty." This is in stark contrast to the Rector's opinion
last M a y , and if things have
changed this significantly, the
• l e g e Secretary deserves four
cheers. As he points out, if our
S B i n
S operations are up to
scratch, they have nothing to
l j | i f r o m market testing these
• H - c o r c activities. "I firmly
• B t v e [they] are doing a good
• H a n d therefore it should not
• B p threat." Once the medical
merger has settled down, let us
wKKf that these fine words are
turned into actions.
C a m p u s Renaissance is
now firmly upon us, with the
BMS nearing completion, and a
jlljj of other projects about to
H p . such as the Beit Q u a d
• • b i s h m e n t . This had led to a
fair amount of disquiet in
• l e g e on account of the dis-
• J H t in College, if you follow.
Asked whether the impact of
H f p projects was fully consid-
ered, M r M i t c h e s o n replied
• J B "any work is inevitably
going to cause you to divert off
a pavement and walk around,
and you may be slightly incon-
venienced." I suspect students
in Chemistry may put the level
of disruption at a slightly higher
level than that, but it is certain-
ly difficult making omelettes
without breaking eggs. The
Estates' view that they do not have enough time to
plan projects in such a way as to minimise such dis-
ruption - often a fair
comment. The real test
of.'this vvHi • ''he level
of' inconvenience that
the medics will have
tolerate w h e n the
M u l t i - D i s c i p l i n a r y
Research Building goes
up next to the B M S .
After just over two hours with Tony Mitcheson, I
found myself fairly impressed, and 1 don't say that
about many in Suite Five. He has been here for about
eight months and, miraculously, has avoided 'going
native', the fate that; seems to befall almost ail who
enter the upper echelons of Sherfield, stripping them
of their thoughts, hopes and dreams. Here is a man
who seems unafraid to 'think the unthinkable, for
w h o m change in not anathema. W e need I >
are not deflected from:the right course, rather than
those who get jumpy at the first sign of ripples on the
Imperial pond. H i - nee of the Army, of which I
was sceptical when I first heard of his appointment,
iooks very of-rlkmit. Conversations wstn tnn doicnoy.
of Sherfield revealed him to be a tough cookie, who,
once he had made his mind up, saw little need for
confirmation by a thousand committees. I found him
to be perfectly pleasant and far less defensive than
some of his colleagues; either that or, Heaven forfend,
I gave him an eav 'inch rests on his shoulders
over the next few years, and as long as he keeps mov-
ing in the right direction, we can expect major
improvements. Not bad, not bad at all. A n d I'm not
being a creep, Tony.
"Yes there will be cock-
ups...I subscribe to the
cockup theory, rather than
the conspiracy theory"

