30 January 1998
SINGLES
Vitro - Set It Down
Dance and rock combined, everybody's doing it
so why can't Vitro. W o r k s well, but this is far
from original.
Ce Ce Peniston - Somebody Else's Guy
Pianos, quality female vocals, this is the David
Morales O l d School Radio Edit! Alleged club
classic with an unmistakable hook.
Kinane - Business
Forgettable inoffensive dance that will sounds
great with the volume turned d o w n to a mini-
mum.
Dubstar - / Will Be Your Girlfriend
Dubstar have a way with w o r d s . Unfortunately it
seems to be the same way with each single they
put out. If she was better looking I might be able
to forgive her.
MUSIC
Dave Hollister featuring Redman + Eric
Sermon - The Weekend
Starts off well enough, but soon goes downhill
as it moves from hip-hop to swing. Another
example of higher credible artists putting them-
selves d o w n .
James
Smokin Beats featuring Lyn Eden - Dreams
Six smokin' tracks on this C D , including various
remixes. This dance track is pretty g o o d with a
g o o d singer on it, but too few lyrics, and some
nice beats (!)
Headswim - Tourniquet
Hardly a departure from the norm, guitar-driven
British indie music... lyrics are nice ... decent
effort from these guys from their forthcoming
album Despite Yourself. A bit like someone else,
but who? We've heard it all before...
Sounds of Blackness - The
Pressure/Hold On (Change Is Comin')
The first track is a dance version of the Gospel
sounds that this group is renowned for. A beau-
tiful voice on top makes it g o o d . The flip side
has the lovely original version in all its glory. The
Roger Troutman remix with the vocoder makes
it much more upbeat and most people should
like this one.
Oran Juice Jones featuring Stu Large - Players
Call
The self-styled player from the 70s in full
mackin' m o d e with this nice tune. Changing his
player ways, singing this song for his girl, this is
wonderful. The flip side has the track Let's Stay
Together, where he gets back together with the
w o m a n he cast off from the earlier track.
Unusually, it's just a beat with him talking with
his girl. Back to the old school.
Convert - Nightbird
This week's dance favourite. It's got it all. Basic
formula, lyricless vocals, and the mixing mans
dream of a constant beat.
Earl Brutus - Come Taste My Mind
Senseless Things music, new vocals. Highly
acclaimed Earl Brutus may have more appeal,
but their career will probably be just as short
lived. However, they d o win the cover of the
week award. Look out for the tattooed man with
the bra on.
UNBELIEVABLE TRUTH - Higher Than Reason
A Faithless looking cover with sub-standard
indie-pop on the inner sleeve m e n u . If only all
bands could be as g o o d as The Verve
THA BOMBI
Family of Free Love - Days Like These
Decent uptempo record... but it sounds too
similar to many groups nowadays. G o o d back-
ground music ? Perhaps.
Dawn of the Replicants - Candle Fire
Thought this would be some kind of future-age
music but it turns out to be more indie.
Average... but it seems that there are too many
indie tracks c o m i n g out trying to sound like the
successful groups. It's a new turn on the usual
songs about a w o m a n . It could grow on y o u .
Superstar - Every Day I Fall Apart
U p t e m p o track with an irritating chorus that will
stick in your head. The much sombre haunting
tunes on Every Second Hurts is much different
and much better.
Above the Law - Adventures of.../X.O./Clinic
Niggaz
Clever laid back production by Cold 187um
c o m p l e m e n t i n g the incisive lyrics from the
California's Above the Law. Well worth checking
out.
Usher - You Make Me Wanna
This R8J3 track has been massive in the clubs for
a while, finally gets its UK release packaged with
three mixes as well as the original hit, which was
number one in the US for the summer and is a
contender for that title over here. Produced and
written by Jermaine Dupri, it should appeal to
everyone, for its u p t e m p o style and catchy
lyrics. A definite must - have. H
Roni
Whats up II! The return of the Tha Bomb, I'm
back! Hope you all caught the last issue of
Felix with the special review of the year, a
whole fucking page - 1 must be moving up in
the world. Yeah, I know it woz a bit late but
that was nothing to do with me, I had it fin-
ished before Christmas, but the boys at Felix
had some problems and you all know how the
story ends. But hold up the story don't end,
due to lack of space the 'phat selection of 97'
missed out last week, but here it is now! The
essential selection - if you disagree, I don't
give a fuck - you need to have these tunes, if
you ain't got dem get your arse into gear and
get them.
I ain't got much time so just a quick few
things Usher, blowing up all over and
now even over here, released last week and
goes straight in at number one, whats' hap-
pening? Everybody in the know woz chatting
'bout this years ago and the record company
seems to have got the message and released
it. Its success has been huge but its only been
out a week and it'll be interesting to see
whether it holds up or just drops out of the
charts. Those who know me know the way I
feel about Will Smith, funny guy, but why does
he continue to release this pop style music,
out this week is 'Getting Jiggy With It'. It's
doing the rounds in the clubs and will proba-
bly do pretty well in the charts, but really its
poppy shit. The Brit Awards - Method Man's
gonna be there, doing his thing on a duet with
Texas, she's sings he raps, any good? I'm
gonna wait to hear it, and then decide. 'No,
No, No, No' by Destiny's Child this did the
rounds late last year, and I hear it and hated
it, but its slowly grown on me and got to
admit I may have been wrong, if you checked
it and didn't like check it again, and thrust me
the more you hear it the better it gets. Alright
well I gotta go, so much more shit to tell y'all,
but 1 just don't have the time.
See Ya Next Time
Milen
Tha Bomb - Phat Selection of '97
Mo Money, Mo Problems - Biggie feat. Puff &
Mase
/ Can Love You - Mary J Blige feat. Lil Kim
In My Bed (So So Def Remix) • Dru Hill
Feel So Good - Mase
Big Bad Mama - Foxy Brown
Ladies Night - Lil Kim, Missy, Left Eye & Angie
Martinez
Can We - SWV
Don't Leave Me - Blackstreet
Fee/in You - Yvette Michelle
Hypnotise - Biggie
You Make Me Wanna - Usher
Nothin' But The Party - True
On and On - Erykah Badu
New York - Rakim
G.H.E.T.T.O.U.T. - Changing Faces
Supa Dupa Fly - Missy Elliott
Let Me Clear My Throat - DJ Kool
Pony - Ginuwine
Never Seen Before - EMPD
Toss It Up - Tupac
You Bring Me Up - K-Ci & Jojo
Digital - Golie and KRS-1
No Diggity - Blackstreet
Triumph - Wu Tang Clan
Gotta Get You Home - Foxy Brown
Step Into My World - KRS-1
Don't Wanna Be A Player - Joe
Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Can See -
Busta Rhymes.

