14 MUSIC 30 January 1998
CLUBSCENE - THE UNDERGROUND MUSIC GUIDE
The mid 1980'$ saw two styles of music from
America causing a stir over here in Europe.
One was the abstract, conceptual electronic
music from Detroit which became known as
techno. The second, from Chicago was more
party-orientated; a hybrid of gospel, soul and
disco. This was house.
Both found their way to our shores at
approximately the same time. However it was
house that made the biggest impact, initially.
The early records of the genre were not only
nightclub smashes, but even found their way
into the pop charts. Steve "Silk" Hurley's Jack
Your Body is a notable example. Detroit tech-
no was equally as important to the develop-
ment of modern electronic music, but that's
another story.
During this period, Chicago was a party
paradise. The records fuelled the party scene,
and the party scene inspired more artists to
put out new records. DJing developed from
changing records to mixing, scratching, and
other turntable techniques. Single-handedly,
one city lit a flame that would fire up the
dance floors of the planet.
The original innovators (Frankie Knuckles,
Farley "Jackmaster" Funk, Adonis, Fingers
Inc., Marshall Jefferson, etc) were creating in
the true sense of the word. Here was a total-
ly fresh approach to making music - sam-
plers, synthesizers, drum machines. There
were no rules to be obeyed, and the only lim-
itation was the imagination of the creator.
Don't get me wrong, I don't think that
music is stagnant nowadays, but we probably
won't see such a complete transition, execut-
ed in such a pioneering way for a long time.
One of Chicago's main house labels at
this time was Trax. Many of the original
artists claim that if it wasn't for Trax we
wouldn't have been able to enjoy musical
moments such as Your Only Friend from
Phuture, Mr Fingers' Washing Machine,
Adonis' No Way Back and Farley "Jackmaster"
Funk's Love Can't Turn Around.
Trax was the collaboration between Larry
Herman, a successful entrepreneur, and the
young artists and DJs who had so many ideas,
but no capital to produce them. Larry, a for-
mer musician himself, put his faith in their
talents. Thus Trax was born.
The late 1980s saw House move into new
pastures. Acid captured the mood of trancing
to dance. Described as the second generation
of house, it consisted of a slower and more
psychedelic groove.
Adonis
Trax enjoyed a string of hit records and
many of its top artists are still going strong
today. One might expect Trax to have decided
to obtain some of the commercial rewards it
deserves and sell its tracks to a major label
for large sums of money. But this is a difficult
prospect for a label whose foundations were
built on innovation, and the spread of records
for the sake of a musical message.
This brings us onto Trax UK, a label set up
to introduce this music to a new generation of
party-goers. A series of ten inch singles have
aimed to highlight the importance of the orig-
inal tracks in today's rich spectrum of elec-
tronic music. These are all available now. If
you would prefer to pick up some classic
tracks at a reasonable price as opposed to
paying extortionate prices for the original
pressings then they come highly recommend-
ed from the Electric Cafe.
I really admire the concept behind Trax UK
for another reason. It would be so easy to just
put out the old classics and market them as
being "cool then, cool now!". Of course, this
would be seen by many as counter-productive
to the cause of progress and change, myself
included. The past does contain our roots,
but sticking to it can be a very negative thing.
From its beginnings in 1996, Trax UK
decided to keep its approach fresh and inter-
esting. So, to complement the ten inch eps
and two albums (The House that Trax Built I
and II) of old material, some of the best of
artists of today were commissioned to remix
give it a new edge to this work.
You will find the Advent, Claude Young,
Felix Da Housecat and the Basement Jaxx, all
accomplished remixers and artists on a series
of twelve inch eps. They have been entrusted
to keep the spirit and philosophy of the label
alive and healthy.
Trax is shaping today's music in its own
way. By bringing together such a diverse range
of artists to remix and release on one label, it
is pointing to the fact that categories and
cliques didn't play a role in the early days of
house music. A message for today, perhaps?
It's reassuring to know that the past and
future of house music is in such good hands.
I'm lost in music - I'm lost in sound
Too far gone, ain't no way back
As I hear the sound, I wanna go
underground
As I hear the sound, I wanna move...
Adonis - No Way Back
Listen to the Electric Cafe (Monday
02/02/98, midnight to 2am and Tuesday
03/02/98 10 to 11pm) for a special hour
devoted to the past and present of Trax
records.
Many thanks to Angie @ Trax UK for
invaluable help in compiling this report and
the show.
Al;ck
Marshall Jefferson

