30 January 1998 COLUMNS
Good to hear from my old friend
Ashton McGregor, who the last
time I looked was ICU Labour
Club Chair. As with all final stu-
dents, Ashton is a busy man, so
clearly Peter Mandelson helped
with the drafting of his letter in
last week's Felix. I would, howev-
er, watch your back if you con-
tinue to ascribe any aspect of the
New Labour doctrine to 'ethical
socialism.' Starting with the
Straw incident, it is impossible
to believe that instructing the
Solicitor General to issue a court
order barring publication of his
son's name represents a 'wholly
responsible' attitude. Of course,
he eventually came clean and
found that honesty, albeit after
the event, did him no harm at all.
The suggestion that Robin Cook's
shenanigans are 'of no conse-
quence to the general public
whatsoever' is a little naive.
When a member of the Cabinet
uses public funds to pay for a
mistress's travels, and apparent-
ly sacks a Foreign Office employ-
ee in order to give her a job, as
has recently been alleged in the
Daily Telegraph, I feel it is very
much the concern of the public.
Furthermore, when one reads,
'families are the core of our soci-
ety... the breakdown of family
life damages the fabric of our
society' on page 25 of the Labour
manifesto, it
reinforces the
idea of double
standards. I have
never believed in
'trial by tabloid',
choosing to read
newspapers edit-
ed by those who
have mastered
m u l t i - s y l l a b i c
words, and it is
certainly true
that some of the
tabloid tactics
against both parties are repre-
hensible. Nevertheless, Labour
should realise that the moral
high ground is a very tricky place
to occupy. As I indicated in my
article, the fact that Robin Cook
did the dirty on his wife is in
itself irrelevant, but when looks
at the supplementary actions in
this case, his behaviour becomes
unacceptable, hypocritical and
denigrates this important office
of State.
While we're on the subject of the
m a n i f e s t o ,
Ashton, let me
suggest that
you pop across
to Chemistry
and read my
copy. New
Labour is not
about 'remain-
ing true to its
socialist ethic'
C h a n g i n g
~~*' Clause IV can
I | hardly square
with what you
Your leader said 'in
each area of policy a new and
distinctive approach has been
mapped out.' You say on one
hand that Labour won because
of Conservative mismanagement
of the economy (so bad that
have said.
Labour chose to stick to
the spending plans), and
then go on to say it was
due to 'remaining true to its
socialist ethic' You can't have it
both ways, Ashton. Dragging reli-
gious values into politics will
always end in ears, for it
inevitably degenerates into
moralising and puritanism. Given
the broadly non-religious nature
of the country, it is never long
before resentment develops.
'Back to Basics' was never my
favourite policy of the
Conservatives. After being
shamelessly rebadged by Blair
and Mandelson, it still holds lit-
tle attraction.
Finally, it is nice to see that ICU
is capable of keeping up with
College trends, despite the
greater fiscal firepower of the
latter. I refer, of course, to the
lovely new signs on the ICU
Store. Radiant? Certainly.
Informative? Without doubt.
Straight? Well, two out of three
ain't bad.
THE IDIOT'S GUIDE TO GETTING A FIRST with COLIN DALE
Part Two: Lectures
Can you hear me at the back? I said, Can you
hear me at the back? O h well, never mind, this
week's installment is about lectures. These
exist primarily as an opportunity for depart-
ments to keep their most incompetent m e m -
bers of staff occupied for a few hours a week.
Also, by judicious timetabling (e.g. one at nine,
and the next at five), students can be forced to
spend vast amounts of money at College cater-
ing outlets in order to sustain themselves dur-
ing the intervening periods. From a less gratu-
itously cynical point of view, they represent an
excellent chance to hear the central ideas of
your chosen subject presented by those at the
forefront of advances in the field. But don't
despair: it may still be possible to make con-
structive use of the time.
There are a variety of techniques used by
lecturers to get the material across, but they
rely mostly on boring and confusing the audi-
ence into a kind of hypnotic submission. As a
rule, the content of a lecture is designed to be
either insultingly obvious or beyond the c o m -
prehension of mortal men; never anywhere in
between. The classic non-examinable deriva-
tion is a favourite crowd-pleaser. N o self-
respecting lecturer would ever begin without
his trusty overhead projector, so n a m e d
because any information displayed on it is
guaranteed to go completely over the heads of
those at w h o m it is projected. Their popularity
arises from the fact that they allow almost infi-
nite scope for getting transparencies upside-
down, back-to-front and completely obscured
by chalk dust. Sometimes, you will arrive at the
lecture theatre to find that they have dragged
out an incoherent old buffer to talk irrelevant
drivel at you for an hour (to replace the usual
incoherent old buffer). This is called a guest
lecture,.and usually occurs after you have been
waiting around for it all afternoon with nothing
to do. Other special entertainments may be
laid on. I once saw a brilliant farce in my lec-
ture theatre, called 'Mathematics for Physicists'.
The only character was a burbling physics lec-
turer whose ineptitude was so great that he
had to cover four boards with corrections to his
previous lecture. The protagonist has since
been made a professor. Another time, I saw a
graphic reconstruction of what it might have
been like to visit an eighteenth century freak
show. It was called 'Electromagnetism1
.
But I digress. By mercilessly ripping the
piss out of our respected staff I seem to have
been forgetting my duty to give useful advice.
In future I will make more effort to keep to the
rule, 'business before pleasure'. So here are
some tips:
You don't have to spend your entire course
being threatened and intimidated by your lec-
turers. You need to show them who's boss. Try
picturing them in their underwear. (Actually,
no, that would probably unhinge you c o m -
pletely.) The best line of attack is to laugh
heartily at all their jokes (if you can spot them).
That'll really scare the shit out of them and they
will do anything you say, even move the board
up if y o u fall behind copying the notes.
Projectile banana skins are another tried and
tested method of keeping them on their toes.
However, there is one thing more scary than a
dull unmotivated lecturer, and that's a highly
enthusiastic one. H e is quite a different beast.
To deal with him requires careful planning and
co-ordination. Take aim with tranquilliser darts
making sure that you have friends sitting near
the front ready to close in with nets as the
drugs begin to take effect.
But even with docile lecturers you need to
make a supreme effort to concentrate. There is
only one sure-fire way to get anything out of a
lecture at IC. But be careful: even possession
carries a mandatory two-year sentence.
W h e n your enthusiastic desire to copy
down every valuable word of w i s d o m has worn
off (i.e. after you've sat down), you will want
something useful to do. I recommend an infor-
mative little booklet called Ten Interesting
Diversions Involving Pen Tops and Rulers. You
may also like to contribute to the ongoing and
highly-informed graffiti debate about the rela-
tive merits of Guilds members and their sexual-
ity by engraving the word 'Bollocks' into the
desk.
But at the end of the day, don't forget that
you will be examined on all your courses.
Bribing the examiners is not generally a good
idea. You will inevitably be sent before a spe-
cial tribunal whose silence may cost up to ten
times as much as your original offer. So on
second thoughts 1 suppose you'd better start
taking some notes. Any questions?

