10 FEATURE INTERVIEW 30 January 1998
IN
2
i
I
Who runs Imperial
College? We can't really
say. Even Simon Baker
wasn't sure, but he
knows a man who
should be...
I
'll be honest with you. I was slightly apprehensive
about this interview. Firstly, I felt sure that Lynda
Davies and her cohort of IC Secret Police wouldn't
miss this time, and secondly I had heard from many
people that the College Secretary was a tough opera-
tor. Still, we journalists are always prepared to suffer
for our art, so I headed for his office in the inner sanc-
tum of Sherfield, Suite Five.
Tony Mitcheson joined the College in M a y , having
retired from the Army at the rank of Colonel. Selected
fiom over 50 candidates, li<* was [wcviuusK riaiming
"' ' i • \
:
•
•
• ' . •
-
• - I o < •-•:•• onsi-
bid for dog .v.dnJnfonxooi, of Voodd 'y-.r ; -ino tooi.o,
encc
and supplies managing a buclger or £3 billion. His
career began in 1 ° o 1 with t u o years at Sandhurst, .mil
o1>/ In i
Hertford College, Oxford. Before his final posting, he
was responsible for all troops in southern England. H e
is married with two children and lists his interests as
History, DIY and photography.
At first glance, running Her Majesty's Armed
Forces seems a very different job to keeping this place
on inc srraigln and narrow V k e d ho.\ he had lourid
the transition from overseeing a tightly disciplined
:
ot' ['•!;. •„'.'• jf stu-
dents, he said that he wasn't "sure if the students are
the problem." W h o could he be referring to? "It is dif-
ferent. It was described to me before I came here as
like 'herding cats.'" M r Mitcheson claims that there
are many parallels to be drawn between the manage-
ment of the two organisations, though I like to think
the Defence of The Realm has the upper hand. Both
are run on a committee structure - "the processes are
very similar... [there has not been] much of a culture
shock" - but he suggested that Army is probably
"more focussed in its aim." He added, "there is a
sense in which decisions are made more quickly",
something which few would doubt. Is this a result of
the way Imperial is run, or is it symptomatic of acad-
emic institutions in general? " N o , 1 sense the decision
making at departmental level is very fast. The problem
lies in that the College is a very large organisation and
is going through a fairly turbulent period with the med-
ical mergers. From what 1 can see the structure is fine.
It's more the sheer number of decisions to be made.
It is the degree to which stand-alone organisations are
having to be brought together which is the complicat-
ing factor." It is certainly true that there is a huge
amount of decision making at IC, but how much of it
is really necessary, as distinct from those which stem
from inefficiency, bureaucracy and empire building.
It is fair to say that most members of College, both
staff and students, will have little dealing with the
College Secretary, so many of you will be wondering
exactly what he does; it seems that even some senior
Sherfield staff are a little unclear on this issue. This
confusion is not helped by the fact that each Secretary
seems to have a different remit. In recent times we
have had John Smith, the infamous Angus Fraser,
Peter M e e and now Tony Mitcheson. While M e e and
Smith were very much in the traditional mould, Fraser
was referred to as 'Managing Director of I C , a role
that w o n him so much respect from the academic
community that he was effectively forced from office.
So in whose footsteps does the present incumbent
follow? Though he very wisely denies it, it seems that
there are shades of Fraser. M r Mitcheson described
his job as consisting of four parts. Firstly, he is Clerk to
the Governors, akin to the role of C o m p a n y Secretary.
This involves servicing the Governing Body and the
Executive Committee, which normally would not be
too arduous. However, things have livened up at the
moment because of work relating to the Nolan and
Dearing Committees and also the planned changes to
the structure of the Governing Body, to be replaced by
a much larger Court of 150-160 people, as you may
have read about elsewhere. The College Secretary part
consists of co-ordinating the administration of
Imperial, though M r Mitcheson was keen to point out
that his role stops at co-ordination. The Sherfield
directors - Messrs Caldwell, Hansen and McClure and
•• • .• I .
•>oo ;?on in:
B o r n e parts of that building. The similarity with Angus
•raser stems from the assumption of control of
:
- ' i'.:-;.i ,,-iand
, >
'
•
.
:
'
'
-
.
•
•
• 'firms
1,10 susj"!
< n . •
an unnecessary extra post. "By the time you've
employed a Bursar, it's going to be pretty expensive...
it was agreed therefore, that we wouldn't appoint a
Bursar, and we would continue with me covering that
role." He did add that "[the plan] has been shelved...
it may be resurrected." Since he believes that the
pressure ol work makes him 'reacriw rather than
proactive" in this role, it may yet rise from the ashes.
The ffiu.l part of his job relates to the St. retary of the
School of Medicine, of which more later. Another
rumour suggests that M r Mitcheson's role will be
restyled as Deputy •Rector; for administration, denied
by the man in question, o
The medical merger is clearly the biggest issue
affecting the College at the moment. As 1 have said
until blue in the face, this gives us the perfect oppor-
tunity to rationalise the whole way that the College is
administered. Somewhat frustrated by the Rector's
view on this, 1 was delighted to see that the new boy
has an altogether more encouraging viewpoint.
Acknowledging that they may be short term rise in
numbers and costs - the new School of Medicine will
cost £ 4 8 0 , 0 0 0 per year more to administer than pre-
merger- M r Mitcheson said that it; should happen
"over time... there obviously shouid be some scope
for rationalisation, but that is obviously not the aim of
the exercise. The aim is to achieve a better academic
result." A n d what better way to achieve that than by
diverting money from administration to teaching and
research. A n early sign of cost saving was the
removal/resignation bf-'fKi'iuiiarij'iA^^ the Medical
School Secretary. Despite compelling evidence that
the C o l l e ^ l S e p e t a r y is of the opinion that these
posts should not be separate, he denied this. He
believes that the differing needs of the School of
Medicine will require the post to be filled. "That is not
a permanent union", he said, saying that the post has
already been advertised. "The aim is to achieve the
best academic outcome by not duplicating structures
where there is no need."
Rationalisation is a word that unsettles most peo-
ple, save Tor those in Sherfield, who for most part are

