b o o k : a n a n t h r o p o l o g i s t
o n m a r s - o l i v e r s a d c s ^ , ™ * ™ *
'Adaptation follows
a different path in
each person". So
states Oliver Sacks
in the preface to this
book of neurology
case studies. Sacks is
a Professor of
Neurology in New
York and has writ-
ten numerous other
works including
"The Man Who
Mistook His Wife
for a Hat".
In the studies of his
personal patients presented here , a sense of care
does shine through, even when the subject
seems at their most perplexing. Cases are pre-
sented in a digestible thirty-odd page format and
it is quite possible to dip into this book from time
to time - indeed a continuous read could prove
heavy going. Amongst others there is the story of
the painter who went colour blind, painting an
entirely new perspective of the world, and a
Grateful Dead fan who lost much of his mind.
At the same time, the studies are darkly
humorous: the Grateful Dead fan referred to by
Sacks had effectively had a frontal lobotomy - a
process misguidedly carried out on other unfor-
tunates by a Nobel Award winner in the 1930s
according to the following procedure:
"Knock them out with a shock... thrust an ice
pick up between the eyeball and the eyelid
through the roof of the orbital actually into the
frontal lobe of the brain and making the lateral
cut by swinging the thing from side to side... [the
only side effects have been] a very black eye in
one case[I] There may be trouble later on but it
seemed fairly easy, although definitely a dis-
agreeable thing to watch." Mr Sacks is quick to
comment on the horror of this operation but
goes on to say that is was used until the 50s,
when drugs to 'shut the patient up' came into
vogue.
Oliver Sack's writing has been described as
"wonderfully iUuminating" by other newspapers,
but I found the book dry and technical; there are
an awful lot of footnotes which often just dis-
tract from the case study. I thought this book
would be of interest to amateur psychologists,
but it seems more appropriate for the neurolo-
gists, or at least the biologists, among us.
an anthropologist on mars bv
pap'ib.K.k this week by
Picador, price £6.99
s i m o n b a k e r
As some our finest sages and
philosophers have pointed out,
it's a funny old world. The
Duchess of York, facing die
threat of bankruptcy, starts cut-
ting costs by flying to New York
on Concorde. The Maxwell
Brothers, who everyone allegedly thought were
as guilty as puppies sitting next to piles of poo,
are acquitted. The ICU Rag Chair allegedly
blames the poor Rag week total on 'the weath-
er.' To raise a mere 20°/) of last year's total from
broadly the same range of events must surely
imply that something more serious is to blame.
He goes on suggest the problems concerning the
Rag chair (sounds like a piece of MFI furniture)
are responsible as well. Does he seriously believe
that half the beer was left undrunk because peo-
ple were concerned by the actions of Richard
Willis, a man who very generously dished out
free vodka? I thought that I had got this off my
chest last term, and apologise for banging on
about it (doing a Trev Addenbrooke as we call it
in the trade), but Rag has now made the transi-
tion from joke to embarrassment and is failing
miserably in its sole task.
Those of you, God bless ya, who are regular
readers of this column will remember my rant
on College Catering early last term, in which I
said 'the sandwiches in the JCR are fairly good,
and I challenge anyone to find a better pint at
such a price as Southside provides.' While the
latter is as true now as it was then, the comment
on sandwiches has haunted me ever since. I did
not realise at the time that the prices had been
jacked up enormously, as
much as 30-40%, but the
quality remained about the
same. This term I have
noticed that standards have
clipped very noticeably. There
is now no way that their price
can be justified at a time when
inflation is low and wage claims are fairly mod-
est. This appalling situation, where very success-
ful ventures such as Southside Bar and QT are
used to bail out the laughably unprofitable
M D H is unacceptable. These separate business-
es should be split and the main catering put out
to tender. The current management are clearly
not up to the task, using their effective monop-
oly position to stick two fingers up at the long-
suffering customers by raising prices, rather than
fighting to keep costs down and quality up.
Enough is enough.
I'm sure that I was not alone in shedding a
tear on hearing of the divorce of Michael Jackson
and Lisa Marie Presley. A partnership hadn't
seemed so perfect since Liz Taylor and... thingy.
Hopefully this marks the beginning of the end of
Whacko, who seems capable of absolutely any-
thing to suppress allegations of child abuse.
Marriage contract has never been such an appro-
priate term. Most people make do with a couple
of bridesmaids, but these two spent more on
lawyers than OJ Simpson to stitch together a
deal to keep him free and, judging from the pic-
tures, her miserable. The chances of those two
finding love were about as good as finding
amusement in a Rag mag. Oh bugger, I'm at it
again!
n

