zin *ght°
Magnets to Heal our Hearts and Minds
Michael Faraday would almost certainly have liked it. It seems magnetic fields can now be used to treat
patients with weak hearts, neurological diseases and even mental illness.
A
ctually, it has been known for a long
time that you can use magnets to
induce electric currents in living tis-
sue. The principle is very simple.
Faraday came up with it in the 1860s. The idea
is this: you have a magnetic field and you make
the strength of this field vary with time. Then,
when you put this 'wiggly' magnetic field near
something that conducts electricity, you will gen-
erate a wiggly current (radios, motors, and
dynamos all rely on this phenomenon).
The human body's has its own circuitry - the
nervous system. Electrical signals in the nerves
cause chemical changes and also make our mus-
cles work. This means a magnetic field can be
used to artificially stimulate muscles and nerves.
Last May, a company from Wales called
Magstim and a research team at the Department
Sdentopical
r~nhe Government has again refused to set up |
JL a commission to oversee all areas of activi
ty in the field of genetics. This "complacence
has been slammed by MPs who are concerned
that lack of controls could lead to serious abus<
in areas such as gene patenting, genetic screen
ing and detection of genetic disorders.
the
'the
ocu-
tliis problem is being drafted
from the Jupiter space probe Galileo
3 by
fter
Left: Silvanus P. Thompson tries to magnetically stimulate his brain, (london 1910.) Right:
A patient receives treatment for depression with a clinical magnetic nerve stimulator.
of Physiology at Liverpool University started
clinical trials on sheep to test a prototype 'mag-
netic stimulator' device.
Shoulder Transplant
Magstim is looking at how their stimulator can
help people who suffer from a particular heart
condition where the heart muscle is too weak to
function properly. The obvious solution is a
transplant but unfortunately new hearts aren't
easy to come by. Instead surgeons use a tech-
nique called cardiomyoplasty. A muscle is
stripped from the patient's shoulder and
wrapped around their heart to strengthen it.
The problem with this procedure is the new
muscle gets very tired - shoulder muscles are
A magic wand for healing the brain?
just not designed to contract thousands of times
a day. But Magstim hope to solve this problem.
Dr Jalinous of Magstim says, "The idea is to
reduce the time taken for the patient to recover
from the operation by stimulating the patient's
shoulder muscle for a couple of hours each day
before the operation." When the muscle is trans-
ferred to the heart it will be more effective. The
tests on sheep will determine how much stimu-
lation is needed.
Therapy for Depression
It sounds unlikely, but by just placing a magnetic
nerve stimulator near the head it is possible to
cure depression. Mark George's research at the
National Institute of Mental Health in
Washington had a lot of success with this treat-
ment last year. And now Magstim are looking at
using their stimulator on the brain for some ther-
apeutic effects. The tiny currents generated by
the stimulator cause the brain to produce
enzymes and other chemicals. Psychiatrists think
that these play a key role in certain types of men-
tal illness.
Although this research is very promising, Dr
Jalinous remains aware that there are problems
associated with magnetic stimulation. "During
stimulation of the brain, if you are not careful
with the frequency, the patient can suffer a
seizure. Currently doctors use the unpopular
electrical stimulator which can cause short term
memory loss... However, the low powered,
more focal magnetic stimulator may avoid this
side effect. Of course, anyone with a pacemak-
er, a metal corset or a metal implant wouldn't be
a suitable candidate for
magnetic stimulation." Katharine Lewis

