g i g : c a s t + c h i n a d r u m + —
m a n s u n + p l a c e b o * ™ ,
Placebo sound like a three-piece, anti-Britpop
band in the making. 'Bruise Pristine' and 'Come
Home' shine out amongst a set full ofteeth-grind-
ing, guitar noise churned out at a helter-skelter
pace.
Next band on, Mansun, have a lead singer
who sports an attractive, Reni-style hat. They
begin with recent single, "lake It Easy Chicken'.
Unfortunately, it seems that they only have one
song, and this lack of originality offsets the stage
presence that they do possess. Never mind.
On come Geordie rockers, China Drum,
whose fast and furious melody-shredding thrash
sends the crowd into a frenzy. Between songs
there is some abuse shouted about Northerners
which the band join in with until some unpleasant
comments are made about the lead singer's
widening girth. As a result, die Dmrnrnies decide
to culminate their fine set by leaving in style: they
stage-dive on to the crowd.
John Power and company have been busy
over the last few months since the release of their
first single, 'Finetime'. They have played numer-
ous shows and their experience is beginning to
show. They look relaxed and confident on stage,
but they don't have the arrogant swagger of Oasis
- more the look of a group who know that things
are going their way. The bulk of their set comes
from their debut album, All Change'. Highlights
include 'Alright', which gets everyone pogo-ing,
and the psychedelic jam, 'History'. Alas, all good
things come to an end, and we are left to despair
as a powerful performance of near epic propor-
tions comes to an end.
IMiMXM
C U S f
a l b u m : s p e c t r e -
t h e m i s s i n g t w o w e e k s i ™
There is no doubt about it - dub is undergoing
something of a renaissance at the moment and
this work of art could well be a Da Vinci, even if
he has been on the ganj... and watching too much
James Bond. This rebirth has been helped by peo-
ple like Spectre investing in some state of the art
equipment and putting some interesting new
sounds on top of the ageing dubframework.It has
also been helped by an increased interest in music
for chilling out to.
Spectre have taken their name from bad guys
in 007 films (g'duh) and tried to instil the essence
ofVincent Price or Telly Savalas. It sounds cheesy,
especially with the '70s wah-wah guitar and ham-
mond organ sounds, but it's all very subde.
Consequentiy, this is an excellent post-club
soundtrack, and provides something to unwind to
at 7 a.m. on Saturday mornings, or indeed at any
other time that you're feeling mellow.
This is possibly the first post-modernist take
on dub, but far from being wallpaper music,
instead it contains walls which have eyes that fol-
low you around the room. This is well worth
checking out by dub afficionados and chill-out
merchants anywhere. (9)
a l b u m : d e e p p u r p l e -
p u r p e n d i c u l a r i u c a
For a moment, forget all the connotations associ-
ated with Deep Purple - perpetrators of the awful
'Smoke on Water' - and their image as a real-life
Spinal Tap widiout even the merest hint of irony.
They had two (and only two, mind) good songs.
Ritchie Blackmore, riffmeister horribilis, later to
be associated with the emetic 'Since You've Been
Gone' (with Rainbow) showed surprising sensi-
tivity and emotive guitar artiuclation with the
cathartic 'When A Blind Man Cries', while on the
somewhat funky 'Emeretta', strains of Hendrix
can be heard to good effect (without being obvi-
ously derivative).
Now in their 27th year, Deep Purple are
releasing their 26th album. Cries of, "Oh dear"
were heard from my fellow reviewers when I vol-
unteered to take this album. Sure enough, Deep
Purple are not th emost credible band. But that
didn't bother me -1 was merely interested to hear
how they had evolved.
With the "Classic Mark 2 line-up" minus
Blackmore and plus Steve Morse, they trawl
through regions that lie between soft and hard
rock, playing (just as I had expected) smug, self-
congratulatory muso-rubbish. This isn't necessari-
ly bad, but judging by their press release, they
obviously take themselves really seriously, and
that is baaad. For example, Roger Glover
describes the recording sessions as 'magic
moments'. Any fool who listens to this album can
see that is about as magic as watching your wash-
ing machine do the laundry. And what kind oftide
is 'Purpendicular? Oh, pur-lease (er, sorry -
please), what a bad pun.
This is definitely best avoided. (1)
Ambient dance music that I
can't get enough of. Brilliant
sterling - lucy is fine
1 suppose you would call this
of distortion that covers up
any melody that may be here.
W$MSBBB^Wk •h;^J:
:9i&:
the inbntls - any sense ol
The Manic Street Preachers.
The b-sides aren't bad either.
y#
s
cix ^BMUSMB'Sx : •
I don't know what to sav
y i l M S P r :.BA;ABXS9&>
larly get you going In a neither
Qmnised? So am I...
original son - mcnxlswings
Boring soul-reggae fusion.
new and it's done much bet-
l.Th\ ittJu-n
speech - like marvin gaye
Development. Moody and
This could be Nirvana. It's
your classic c|tiiet start with
crashing heaviness in the middle
lhiM'ifiMh tl it'ir K s i suti
so l.ir l.iink's V I M *
his age, but that's no bad
thing. Hie slide mix of Tret's
f j AH GoTbgether' is worth a

