l i s t i n g s :
26 \in - astona - £7.50
.. ' . . . . . . • • .
(l-ii)Hiuiiii' + ktvLili |iini!>
4* hfak twang - 27 jan -
'My ™11
dawsoa -27 p a - wahham-
stow assembly hall - fcring
foetus - 28 tan - garage - £8
bottierline - £5
sill + bennct + sparklehorse
jan * d u b l m tattle 5 3 *
>
<
:
'iPCi•;--:
r:i
)!5|;
(iOh. dolls + uitaionia - 30
dr. robert - 3i jan -gatsge -
sparklehorsK * 31 jan - hor-
firm 3 ieb - shep bush
emj •
!
.'..
•
•
•
•
•:
T T f *
- a l b u m : g a l a c t i c c o w b o y s -
m a c h i n e fishik
There's only one possible reason why you should-
n't buy this album: you've never heard of the
band. Thankfully we can deal with that faster
than it takes the Southside Shop to sell something
with a 100% profit mar-
gin. After all, you d never
heard of Portishead,
Oasis or Metallica once
upon a time had you?
On the other hand, I
can think of numerous
reasons why you ought
to buy this album. Firstly,
the Galactic Cowboys
are plain funny. Not content with having a second
album called 'Space In Your Face', they have now
released an album that pokes fun at the fact that
so many bands these days seem to use the words
'Machine' (Rage Against The Macbine, Machine
Head, etc.) and 'Fish' (Fish, Fishbone, Phish,
Jellyfish etc.) in their monickers.
Secondly, they sing about serious matters but
their sense of fun pervades throughout and they
are neither preach-y nor teach-y 'Psychotic
Companion bemoans the unwarranted credence
given to fortune-tellers and astrologers, while
'Stress and'Fear Not are positive but honest sto-
ries of personal struggle.
Thirdly, they are one of the most original
bands on the planet. Heavy guitar riffs collide
with angelic harmonies,
and although the quirks
of old have mainly been
dispensed with, there's
more musical talent and
great songs than you'll
find in the average per-
son's record collection.
Fourthly, the Galactic
Cowboys, far from
being macho metal-heads, are sensitive and are
not afraid to show it. Listen to 'Easy To Love' and
Arrow' and check that you end up brushing back
the tears. If you don't cry then find a sledgeham-
mer and take it to your ice-cold heart.
In summary, the Galactic Cowboys have a
sense of humour, are innovative not derivative,
and play music that scales the heights of sublim-
inity. Buy or remain forever unfulfilled. (9)
- m i n i - a l b u m : s a i n t e t i e n n e
d a h o - reserectiontroutface
This is strange indeed. For a start, it's mosdy in
French. This is because 'Reserection' is the result
of a collaboration between Saint Etienne and
some French bloke, Mr. Daho, who raps a bit.
Hence, the snappy name...
We kick off with the tide track. Fifty-five sec-
onds of that French bloke talking French. Great.
We move on to 'Jungle Pulse'. This is surprisingly
pleasant, with Daho's and Sarah Cracknell's close,
bilingual harmonics rising over a hypnotic, wah-
wah inspired groove.
The fun stops there and it is with a heavy
heart that I must condemn this record to rot in
the bargain bin at Woolies. The final tunes ( X
Amours', Accident' and 'Le Baiser Francais') do
not raise any hopes. Saint Etienne Daho were
obviously hoping for a Portishead-style trip-rock
effort with some kind of mysterious, Gallic twist.
Instead, they ended up sounding awful. (4)
g i g : m a r c a l m o n d
+ d i f f o r d & t i l b r o o k
~T" m C a l m O n t i i t t l e j a c k h o m e - y
I had serious misgivings about this gig. The devil
on my shoulder was asking tricky little questions
like, "Why does it always come down to 'pop
stars' to do benefits for things a responsible
Government should be funding?" and, "Why
does such a big issue always seem so ghetto-ised.
Another hospice benefit with a predominantly
gay line up, playing to a predominandy gay crowd?
Where are the Take Thats of this world when you
need them?" Still, I was here to review the music.
This bit of the review could write itself -
McAlmont had a point to prove, namely that he
was the new diva in town. He was everything a
true pop star should be - sassy, flamboyant and a
flirt - he just needs another song that gets within
snogging distance of 'Yes' and he could be winning
hearts and minds.
Difford & Ttlbrook seem to concentrate on
minds, and their place on the bill seems a strange
one. Yes, they've written more classic numbers
than McAlmont's had songs, but it doesn't make
them interesting. Imagine two geography teachers
armed with guitars, and you're virtually there.
Messrs. Dull-but-Eamest.
This is not an accusation you could level at
Marc Almond, the ultimate diva. As the song says,
he's still here. The trouble is that he's brought the
band with him. The words "delicate touch" do
not enter this band's vocabulary, but what can you
expect when they contain an ex-member of Sigue
Sigue Sputnik? We get some Soft Cell songs and
a few new things, and though Marc seems gen-
uinely happy to be on stage, I don't believe in him
anymore. It's all one dimensional, and it careers
once too often towards Gary Glitter for comfort.
I remember how he used to make your jaw drop
with his nerve, with the things he tried on stage,
with the quality of the material. Tonight he was
okay, but for someone who really has meant
something, okay isn't enough.
Ah well, I didn't have high expectations, and
they were matched. At least money was raised for
the Trinity Hospice, and at the end of the day I
guess that's what really matters, not the bitter
whingeing of someone who should know better.

