theatre: the glass menagerie
claire samuel
Set in St Louis during the 1930's, just before the
Great Depression, this is the story of an over-
bearing mother, Amanda Wingfield (Zoe
Wanamaker), brought up on the affluent Deep
South plantations, and her children, Tom and the
crippled Laura. Amanda awaits daily a stream of
'gentlemen callers' to court her daughter but
unlike in her own youth, they never arrive. The
constant reminder of the mother's hopes and
plansforher children has made them 'different'.
Laura escapes her deformity and pressure of
marriage by doting on her collection of delicate
glass animals, her menagerie. Tom, however,
finds the excitement and romance he craves
away form the mundane warehouse job he has
taken to support his family since his father left,
and escapes the frequent family rows by writing
poetry and going to the movies.
Zoe Wanamaker portrays excellently a domi-
neering mother who is determined her children
should make something of their lives and not
make the mistakes that she made, but in her
pursuit is blinded to the situations and desires of
her clildren. Ben Walden as Tom Wingfield won-
derfully expresses the frustration and repression
of Iris circumstances drat is contrasted with the
silent introspection of his sister (Claire Skinner).
The set, Simple and atmospheric with its
blue/grey lighting, has the appearance of a well
kept, affluent home but with the backdrop of
the American metal fire escape which encircles
the auditorium, is a constant reminder of the
conflict of fading hopes and reality. This delight-
ful and powerful play with its themes of need,
self expression and personal responsibility has
been well received by the critics with five nomi-
nations in the forthcoming Oliver awards (Best
Actress: Wanamaker, Supporting Performance:
Chaplin and Skinner, Direction and Set Design)
and each one is thoroughly deserved.
comedy theatre
0171369 m i
pauton street: piccadilly circus
I Sundays),
: . 7 7 7
!
7
01 HI 743 3388
golhawk road/shepherds
goldhauk road by simon
musing directed by pad
miller, mon- sat Spin.
£9-SO, £6 concs> plus 50p
7::
;|;":
wprn^mn ^m7
Mstabk rnoT.-tiiurs ~ -l^pm, nv i
£"",tu ^ : i ^ t
* I'n'lj jfnpun Z4ir.

