-film: sabrina™
| 7 .
: >.3%
• •
20,9.45-4.::
;
• • . y-;<
I
seven 6.25,9.15
. | i l l • 1
1
- • \
savcii 12.50, 3.30,6.20,9.i 5
goldenm- 12 45,3.30,6.15,9.05
I - • • •
16, E3.50 students and before 6pm
1.15,3.10,5.05,7.05,9.05
• • • • • • • • : ,
1
;
;:
.:.,-7:
1.30
4.1 K
>
carrington 6.30
jfls
rockv horror fi 6, cones £3]
11.00-
. • • •
£2 all seats
agpie
Replace Humphrey Bogart with Harrison Ford,
Audrey Hepburn with Julia Ormond and keep
the name of the film almost the same and you
have a remake of 1954's Sabrina Fair. Like cover
versions of old top ten songs, Sabrina has been
refurbished and rewritten to go with a 90's social
melody. Sabrina Fairchild (Ormond) is the
daughter of the Larrabee's chauffeur, her girl-
hood spent watching a particular member of the
Larrabee family, David (Greg Kinnear), who's
charm and love of parties had captivated her
heart. This voyeurism ends when the slightly
awkward and shy Sabrina is shipped off to Paris
to work for Vogue magazine. Two years later she
returns and the Parisian atmosphere has rubbed
off on her; gone are the goofy glasses and in place
is mature sophistication.
Sabrina's return causes a flutter with David
which in turn rocks the rest of the Larrabee fam-
ily. David's impending marriage to Elizabeth
Tyson is put at risk, and this endangers a merger
between Elizabeth's father's company and the
Larrabee family business (confused yet?).
David's older brother, Linus (Ford), who runs
the family business, then intervenes to prevent
the merger from going sour.
Sabrina is a love story but also a fairy tale, so
any hope of a serious study of a love triangle,
where money is a motivation for love, goes out
of the window in the first few minutes. This film
is nothing if not sickly sweet, its romance
adapted well to today's attitudes. However it is
easy to see the 1950's influence seeping round
the edges; in a formal dinner party and a scene in
an arboretum.
This film is very easy to watch and requires
no effort at all, and this is probably where the
film falters as it is extremely easy to forget.
Harrison Ford and Julia Ormond are a mis-
matched couple for this film, but I suppose this
is why fairy tales exist. Sabrina's cast and reliable
story line prevents this film from being
mediocre. Despite being a rehash of a golden
oldie this is undeniably romantically satisfying.
ndals
"film: angels and insects
This film may not be what you would expect
from your standard historical drama. Granted,
it has the sumptuous costumes, the incidental
chamber music and the somewhat formalised
speech. However, there is no glorification of this
past, and it is into its own future that it is look-
ing.
The story centres around a young explorer
scientist, recendy returned from a period in the
Amazon and now residing in a stately home. His
stay in the household rests on the charity of his
patron for whom he is cataloguing a large biolog-
ical collection. Although highly intelligent his low
class makes him wary of expounding his new
fangled Darwinian views. To complicate matters,
the young man also falls for the physical charms
of his patron's daughter, far above his realistic
class aspirations. Surprisingly she agrees to marry
him.
However, this was not the crux of the film,
and the story is far from closed. His new brother-
in-law can barely hold at bay his antagonism for
this lower class usurper. His wife's love for him
swings by great degrees, and this seems to be
expressed only physically. The only intellectual
companionship he can find is that of the chil-
drens' governess. Obviously this is not a stable
state of affairs.
As mentioned above, the raison d'etre of the
film is not to wallow sumptuously in a glorified
past. Instead it contains two things. One is a
wonder of nature. Together with the governess
and her charges they observe and record the nat-
ural life of the grounds around the house, partic-
ularly the yearly cycle of a colony of ants. The
second is a sense of relief that the depicted class
structures of the past are, if not extinct, very
much marginalised. Instead, intelligence and
hard work have their rewards, monetary and
otherwise, and it is the 'otherwise' part that
counts when it comes to happiness.

