S C C WEEK DIARY SPECIAL FELIX FRIDAY JANUARY 26TH 1 9 9 6 . NINETEEN
S C C Week is the annual event,
publicising the clubs and societies
of ICU's Social Clubs
Committee.
The Social Clubs Committee
encompasses both of the union's
political societies, several
religious societies and various
miscellaneous societies siLch as
ArtSoc, Science Fiction and
Imperial Queers.
SCC Week is designed to
give these these societies an extra
chance to promote themselves by
holding stalls in the JCR, and by
holding other special events dur-
ing the week aimed at a more
general audience than their usual
events.
All events are free, unless
stated otherwise.
In next week's Felix
Imperial Queers' main contribu-
tion to S C C Week is the publica-
tion of Out Here. This special
insert into next week's Felix will
give everyone at IC a chance to
get to grips with a range ol issues:
from coming out on campus to
labels and stereotypes.
Speaking about Out Here,
IQ's president Ashley Lumsden
explained, "The bad old days
when people considered Imperial
'a difficult place to be gay' are
truly coming to an end. IQ was
formed with this aim and Owf
Here is the latest event in our on-
going programme of events that
is making IC a more open and
relaxed place for all staff and stu-
dents whichever minority they
may be in."
IQ - Imperial Queers - is
the Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual
Society of Imperial College.
Producing Out Here for S C C
Week is the latest in a number of
events designed to raise the level
of awareness at IC.
Out Here will be the centre
pages of next week's Felix,
available on Friday 2 February,
and you can contact IQ on
pink-help@doc.ic.ac.uk, or
http://pink.doc.ic.ac.uk/IC/
s t a l l s i n t h e j u n i o r c o m m o n r o o m diary
monday Bag Society Conservative Society
Labour Club Finance Society
Sikh Society Socrates Society
Wednesday ArtSoc Catholic Society
Jewish Society Industrial Society
Third World First Pimlico Connection
thursday European Youth International Tamil
Islamic Society Methodist Society
Science Fiction Welsh Society
Stalls will be open from at least 12pm to 2pm.
o t h e r e v e n t s
tuesday 30 jan conservative society: "Speak Your Mind"
1:15 pm, room 542, mechanical engineering
ConSoc have organised this event as part of a commitment to improving
public presentation skills. W e invite people to stand up and talk about lit-
erally anything, whether it be politics or Bet Gilroy!
more information: e-mail consoc@ic.ac.uk
thursday 1 feb
friday 2 feb
sunday 4 feb
tuesday 6 feb
imperial queers / consoc: "Homophobia debate"
1:00 pm, southside upper lounge
This meeting has been arranged by ConSoc and Imperial Queers to discuss
how homophobia can be eliminated within Imperial College,
more information: e-mail consoc@ic.ac.uk.
labour club: tony banks
Labour Club have invited Tony Banks as their guest speaker. A t the time
of going to press the location and timing has not yet been confirmed. For
more details e-mail sed.webb@ic.ac.uk, or look at the S C C Week Web
page.
science fiction: "Picocon 2 3 "
all day, union building
ICSF present their annual science fiction convention with guests of honour
Robert Holdstock, Christopher Priest and Steven Baxter. Admission is £2
for icsf members, £4 for non-icsf students and £8 for non-students.
For more information see the Picocon 13 Web page at:
http://www.ph.ic.ac.uk/moontg/PICOCONli/index.html
Jewish society
all day, various locations
Jewish society have invited the holocaust centre to put on a whole day of
events. The afternoon will see a holocaust exhibition in the Ents lounge
from 12:00 pm to 5:00 pm. Later on there will be a talk from a holocaust
survivor followed by a discussion in the Senior Common Room. For full
details see the feature in next week's Felix, or look at the S C C Week Web
page.
For more information on any of these events, take a look at the S C C Week W W W Page on
http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/sccweek.html

