FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 26TH JANUARY 1 9 9 6 . FIVE
In a week when
we'll see the second
double rollover in a
row, we ask:
A r e w e g o i n g l o t t o c r a z y ?
Welcome... This week, I have
consulted the runes of
Bottomley to make my predic-
tions. The crystal ball is clear-
ing, and I seeee that if you have
lots of money already, yooou
will not be playing the lottery. A
cleaning team will be lucky this
weeeek. A generous maaan
with a ginger hair and a virgin
interest will not be pleased.
Black cats and four leaf clovers
will also be lucky. The numbers
5, 31 and 42,000,000 will be
significant this weeek. If you
like cheese, yooou could be
lucky todaaaay. If you truly
believe that you willll win this
weeeek, then you are crazier
than meeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
N u m b e r Q
So now to the most impor- C
tant question: how to pick 3
those six numbers? The
majority of the population „
seem to go for birthdays, 3
'lucky' numbers or numbers
that have come up in draw
before. I myself favour drawing
little matchstick men with the
boxes, but I've never won so I
can't recommend that method.
If you're really stuck then you
can buy a lotto pen or even a
mini version of Ihe machines.
Just remember that whatever
numbers you choose you have
the same chance, and anyone
who says otherwise is wrong.
The queues stretching for miles from the kiosk
at Sainsbury's can only mean one thing - it's
Saturday afternoon, and the nation is once
again possessed by the maniacal desire to get
rich quick. And with the second opportunity to
win £40M coming up, the queues this week
will be even longer. It wes estimated that in
the last double-rollover week, 80% of the pop-
ulation succumbed to temptation and parted
with at least one ticket in the quest to become
a: multi-millionaire.
Virginia Bottomley claimed that our Lottery
is 'more successful' than most others in
Europe. But how can you measure the suc-
cess of something like a National Lottery? If
it's measured by the amount of headline news-
it makes, then ours is definitely the most suc-
cessful. The £42 million jackpot even made
headline news on, German television. The
near-miss of two planes at a German airport
(the worst air-traffic control mistake in recent
history) was the second news item that day. If?
this is a measure of success, then we are
doing very well indeed.
But who really stands to gain from this?
Our government certainly receives substantial
amounts through it. Perhaps this is Virginia
Bottomley's definition of success. Or it could
be the profits made by Camelot Group, who
run the lottery. These would probably indicate
success for the lottery.
There are also the charities and so-called
good causes to which some of every pound
goes. After the fiasco at the beginning, the
charities are at last receiving their money. The
arts council and the sports council are contin-
uing to receive very large grants for their pro-
jects, but smaller charities seem to be some-
what less successful.
:?»„. Titen of course, there are the priz
ners. jrely gain fror
prize-wirt-
lottery. So
eiot arranges Tinancial advi-
rsfor the winners! After all,
idual do with £40M? Build
>nal motorway, perhaps? Or
srhaps a hospital for the
:
or the many victims of the
ten I come to think about it,
with £40M. But I am also
I walk straight past the queues at the kiosk
in Sainsbury's every week. 1 walked past them
in the last double roll-over jackpot, and I shall:
buy a copy of the Big Issue instead. It costs
30p less than a lottery ticket, it's entertain-
ment value lasts for longer, and it benefits the
people who really need it. And, perhaps best
fif all - it doesn't involve watching Anthea
Turner or Mystic Meg on T.V.
Marcia Symonds & Mark Baker
F l y i n g t h e f l a g f o r c h a r i t i e s :
T h e N a t i o n a l L o t t e r y C h a r i t i e s B o a r d
The National Lottery Charities Board exists to
make grants to organisations which are estab-
lished for charitable, benevolent or philan-
thropic purposes.
Eligible organisations include tenants' and
residents' associations, Housing associations
and some self-help groups. Individuals, profit-
making companies and health authorities are
not eligible for grants, and the Board has indi-
cated that it will not fund activities that are the
responsibility of the Government. So far the
board has approved over 1200 grants totalling
£160 million. An organisation can apply for
any amount from £500 upwards, and does
not have to 'match' part of the grant with their
own fundraising.
The Board has decided that the best way
to deal with the huge amount of applications
for grants (over 14,000 totalling £2 billion) is
to allocate grants in themed blocks. The
themes are as follows;
Communities, families and individuals
disadvantaged by low income for the first
round.
Health, Disability and Care this spring.
New Opportunities and Choices this sum-
mer.
Improving People's Living Environment
this winter.
Community Involvement in spring 1997.

