FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 26TH JANUARY 1 9 9 6 . SEVEN
Stakeholding:
Blair's n
e
w baby examined
Was M r . Blair, in a past life, employed to make
the F.A Cup draw? I ask only because the manner
in which he brings forth his election slogans is
similar to the way in which Graham Kelly and
friends drew their own load of balls from from a
smooth velvety bag. The latest offering to ooze
from the pores Labour's Doctor of Spinology, M r .
Peter Mandelson, is the 'stakeholder economy'.
An idea which has won the Labour leader an away
win in Singapore, but as everyone knows, it's the
home form that counts. M r . Blair's choice of city
to launch his latest idea illustrates the cautious
nature of the Labour leader, and his incisive
thinking: if the people of Derby (not so much a
city as a perpetual lottery queue) can understand
his message, then the intellectual masses to whom
he is really appealing will have no difficulty.
From the reception his latest toy received at
Derby, it seems he will have difficulty in selling
this one. If, as Mr. Blair affirms, "the stakeholder
economy is at the heart of the political battle
today", then the only people fighting it are those
on the Left searching for a definition of
'stakeholder'. The unions think that the existence
of stakeholders will return their lost power.
Managers believe that non-institutional
shareholders will have greater power and Mr. Blair
(I think) is promoting people power. Significantly,
equal power.
In fact, the term is borrowed from business
and modern management (hence the Singapore
connection). In the corporate world, a stakeholder
is any group or individual who has an interest in the
way the company is run and can, by their actions,
affect the decisions of the company. The most
clear example of stakeholders wielding power is in
the relationship between big business and the
environment. Many companies recognise that
ignoring the pleas of environmental lobbyists can
be detrimental to the company in the long term.
There is no assumption in management, that
different groups (such as customers, shareholders,
environmental groups etc.) have an equal stake.
Rather, it is accepted that some peoples' stake will
be bigger than others. The stakeholder concept is
simply a recognition that there is a population
outside the customer who are affected by the
activities of a company. The quandary that the
Labour leader will find himself in if he attempts to
apply such a concept to the nation, is that if people
are told that their 'stake' in the nation determines
the rewards they receive, then they will want to
know how big that stake is. The necessity to
quantify how much each person holds will be
unavoidable and several implications follow from
this.
If Mr. Blair is proposing real equality through
stakeholding, then he can't achieve it without
monstrous legislation. More than would be
required if the U K were to accept the Social
Chapter of the Maastricht Treaty. The appeal of
stakeholding to Mr. Blair is clear, but it is a clever
paradox which (unintentionally) displays the true
party colours that have been changed more often
than The Manchester United strip: in order to give
people greater power and a bigger say in their lives,
it is in fact the Government that would end up
dictating the terms of our lives. Lord alone knows
how long a Parliamentary session would be needed
to ensure that the legislation was passed giving all
sorts of rights and imposing inefficient practices on
business. The return to Centralist authority would
entail all the traditional punitive tax measures and
an inefficient bureaucratic regime to rubber stamp
all decisions. This is on top of the new department
that would be charged with measuring our stakes.
New Labour would dismiss such a scenario as
fantastical, but they seriously need to ask
themselves exactly what this future Government
will do. The next election is approaching and could
even be called in November of this year. Thus far
there has not been the semblance of a policy idea
or a commitment of any resources to any purpose.
At least nothing more than the predictable
opposition set pieces of better health care, better
schools, safer streets and less tax.
Instead of opting for a common sense approach
to policy making, Mr. Blair seems determined to
utilise the methods of management gurus and
apply them to U K Pic; in aping the behaviour of
these self styled Corporate Healers, he should be
aware that whilst they may inspire and create
enthusiasm through exposing what is essentially
common sense, they also manage to avoid
prescribing detailed solutions to specific problems.
The guru doesn't actually 'do' anything. Mr. Blair
can't do that with the Country. His policies need
substance - the discerning voter is unlikely to find
much joy in any of Mr. Blair's current dishes,
especially his stakes.
Nooman Haque

