ELIX
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Nol028 12MAY95
NUS...
B Y A N D R E W S M I T H
The referendum on Imperial
College Union's (ICU) proposed
affiliation to the N U S is i n
danger of degenerating into a
farce today as the pro-campaign
continues to flout election rules.
Illegal campaigning could result
in claims that the ballot was
unconstitutional and thus lead to
a rejection of the results.
A c c o r d i n g to the U n i o n
Executive, posters which appear
around College have to be
checked by Ian Parish, Deputy
President Clubs & Societies, but
the pro-campaign supporters
have repeatedly failed to do so.
M r Parish has rejected sug-
gestions that the whole refer-
endum could be put in doubt by
the pro-campaign's failure to
follow the rules.
The U n i o n Executive
Committee, which is responsible
for running the referendum, has
already decided that a previous
breaking of their rules by the
'Yes-lobby' should be over-
looked. M r Parish thinks that
this is likely to be repeated.
Saying that it would be 'silly' to
disqualify the pro-lobby for
poster irregularities, he sug-
gested that he would have
probably passed the posters had
he seen them initially.
Ms Sarah Thomas, chair of
the anti-campaign, seems
inclined to let her opposition's
activities pass at present. Speak-
ing to F E L I X , she admitted that
it was doubtful that the
offending publicity would have a
major influence on the outcome
of the referendum. Ms Thomas
(Continues on page two)
'Bonjour, guten morgen, sabaah el foul, hello', writes Ivan Chan. Last Friday morning saw the official op
Imperial's New Language Laboratory. Very well-equipped, it has twenty video machines and twenty aud
as well as two computer aided language terminals. "The group ofpeople who will most benefit will be overse
They have a great incentive to learn the English language," said Ms Katie Gent, supervisor of the New Lang
"Students who would like to continue with a second language and students preparing for a year in Europ
benefit," she added. Speaking during the opening Sir Ronald Oxburgh, the Rector, (pictured above in he
placed great emphasis on the merits of learning a second language. Facilities for studying a new langua
'extremely important'. He went to say that if there is a demand for further equipment for the language
Imperial will 'get more!' The language lab is situated in Room 305, Mechanical Engineering and is open f
9.00am to 9.00pm Monday to Friday. Every Wednesday at 2.00pm there is an introductory demonstrat
appointment is necessary). Both students and staff are welcome to use the facility. For further informatio
48756 or contact the Humanities Department in Mech Eng.
Bottomley Battles Through
B Y R A C H E L W A L T E R S
OUR C O R R E S P O N D E N T A T
W E S T M I N S T E R
Proposed changes to London's
healthcare seem certain to go
ahead w i t h the government
overwhelming Wednesday's
Labour Party motion calling for
the plans to be reconsidered. The
House of Commons discussion
focussed on the implementations
of the Tomlinson report, which
considers the proposed merging
of the capital's medical schools as
well as the closure of hospital
wards and services.
The plans for the amal-
gamation of teaching facilities in
London include the new Basic
Medical Sciences building which
is set to open in Imperial College
in 1998. Virginia Bottomley, the
much criticised Secretary of State
for Health, asserted her commit-
ment to the future of teaching
and research.
Mrs Bottomley maintained
that merging the present nine
undergraduate medical schools
into four multi-faculty colleges
based at Imperial, King's, Queen
M a r y and Westfield and
University College will benefit
medical teaching. "We have got
to b u i l d for the future, not
fossilise the past," she said.
Margaret Beckett, presenting
the opposition motion, quest-
ioned her logic in suggesting that
the amalgamation of so many
(Continues on page two)
1
3 news one&two&three • editorial&credits three • incoming five • feature: a bridge too far
seven • feature: a moving experience eight • union: raftracing and the taste of hardship
nine • xtra curricular: in the air and underwater ten&eleven • standby: art for you
twelve&thirteen • eight day guide fourteen&fifteen • sport: politically correct sportspeak sixteen 1
3

