Xtra Curricular
Another week of temptation
Keys: Harry Hill, Carnival
So, here we go again, another week, another
set of choices - should I revise or should I
sunbathe or watch " G o i n g for Gold"? I
remember (vaguely) what it was like. But I'm
afraid we're about to put more temptation in
front of you (as if you needed it). So, for those
of you luckily enough to have finished your
exams, or i f you're just seeking a well
deserved break - here's where it's at.
Friday May 12th: A bit of a coup this
one, and definitely worth taking a night off
for. I.C.U Ents is proud, and very excited, to
present one of stand-up's soon to be
megastars, Harry H i l l . This is an exclusive
show, prior to Harry shooting his live video
in the West End and we guarantee it will be
your last opportunity to see this act in such
an intimate venue. So, if you want to catch
the winner of the 1994 "Independent on
Sunday", " T i m e Out" and "City L i m i t s "
Comic of the year awards, and the star o'f
Harry Hill's "Fruit Fancies", then the doors
open at 7.30pm prompt. It's just £2 a ticket -
providing that "Bust a Gut Comedy" really
does bring you the best value for money in
the capital. Please note admission is strictly
limited for this event, and will be allocated
on a first come basis, so don't be late. Also
we've been asked to point out that this event
is strictly students, staff and guests only.
A n d i f that wasn't enough fun for a
night, we're also giving you the chance to
indulge in a little E L I X I R , to refresh your
tired minds. From 10 'til 2 free yourself to the
pumping House and Garage sounds as we
give the Ents Lounge over to the coolest cuts
in clubland. (If that doesn't sound too much
like one of those terrible Dance Zone T V
ads). Admission is £1 after 9pm, or F R E E
before or have been to the comedy.
Monday May 15th: Chill out in the Quad
while taking advantage of our weekly £1 a
pint offer on a chosen product. Bar opens at
5pm and it's strictly a 'while stocks last'
scenario.
Wednesday M a y 17th: A very slight
change to the format for Club Spanque -
since most of you are either revising or just
enjoying your evening in the Quad, the disco
will now be ending at 11.30pm and the Quad
will be cleared by 11.45pm.
Thursday 18th: Ideal for those balmy
summer nights (there's a song i n there
somewhere) - grab yourself one of our exotic
C O C K T A I L S and imagine yourself on a
beach. The most sophisticated way to spend a
night.
Friday May 19th: Another chance to
witness the success of "Bust a Gut" as one of
the country's top student comedy venues, as
it stages a prestigious London heat of the
National Comedy Network Open M i c
Awards. This acts as a showcase for some of
the best, as yet, undiscovered comic talent in
London. The show features five acts and is
compered by one of the currents stars of the
circuit, Boothby Graffoe. Entry is £2, doors
open at 8.30pm, the show starts at 9pm
prompt and there's a F R E E bottle of
Newcastle Brown Ale to the first fifty in.
Again, if you just want to dance and drink the
night away there'll be a disco 'til 2am with a
lam bar. £1 after 9pm.
So, there you have it, another week of
dubious pleasures. But that's only the start of
it... Here are some more edited highlights for
the rest of the term.
Friday M a y 26th: Leave your pre-
tensions at home, and put on your sling
backed dancing shoes, as we give ourselves
over to a night of classic pop and disco
sounds at " S H A F T " . So, if you long for the
chance to dress up and dig the sounds of
anyone from A B B A to Yazoo, or Duran
Duran to Wham! then this is the night for
you. T h e r e ' l l be A B B A and M u r i e l ' s
Wedding prizes for the funkiest threads, and
as usual it's only £1 in.
Friday June 2nd: N o w for a bit of a
change and just to prove we do listen
occasionally, a chance to try out I.C.U POP
T A R T S . A night with less of an emphasis on
dance music, and more on that much
neglected pop and indie tip. So, if you think
we've ignored guitar pop and 'student
classics' for too long, then tonight is just the
night to stomp around!
Friday June 16th: Just in case you'd
forgotten - this is the date for Midsummer
Night's Carnival. Tickets have started to sell
fast and are only available from the Union
Office in Beit Quad. As well as all the goodies
advertised already, we can now confirm the
line-up in Whirl-y-Gig as: DJ Monkey Pilot,
Joi and Earthribe. We're also in the process of
confirming support of a barbecue to add to
the fun in the Quad. This is going to be the
highlight of the Ents. year the best £5 any of
you spend, so don't miss out.
I hope you all agree that we've got a
decent end to the year planned, but we're
already looking forward to next year here in
the Ents Office, so if you feel like getting
involved, and making your opinions known
then why not come and see me anytime, or
attend our weekly Ents Meetings at 1pm on a
Tuesday - everyone is welcome.
E M F E L I X icings

