®0M3..S.£I.
Easter Trip to Shropshire
Keys: Ridge, Wave, Bungee
As Easter approached this year the gliding
club decided to re-visit the venue of last
year's escape - L o n g M y n d A i r f i e l d ,
Shropshire. For club members used to the
flat site at Lasham the Long Mynd counts as
a fair hill and reports of the previous years
conditions sounded good!
Arriving at the bottom the first challenge
was to get 496 (our twin seat training glider)
and its towcar up a 20% incline single track
road, with some sharp looking bends thrown
in for good measure! The solution was to
leave the glider at the bottom of the hill and
get a local with a land rover to tow it up,
especially as the locals knew how to cope with
oncoming traffic that panicked at the sight of
a glider trailer on such a narrow road.
Most of the people who were coming for
the weekend arrived a couple of hours after
the glider, around lish on Friday, and after
rigging 496 we enjoyed some flying in the sun
and our first taste of ridge soaring.
Relying on rising air as they do, gliders
tend to congregate on ridges. (The air blows
up the side of the hill, and carries on up), and
the ' M y n d is no exception. T h e added
complication of hang glider pilots drifting
around the airfield ensures that your lookout
improves dramatically - as Matt will testify
(and no doubt his instructor, Sarah, as well...)
Our hosts for the weekend, the Midlands
G l i d i n g club, were very welcoming and
friendly and we rapidly found the bar in the
evening. In fact we ended up running the bar,
probably because it was self service and the
taps were so difficult to stop when trying to
pour half a pint. Relations were so cordial
that Andrew managed to get thrown i n a
stagnant pond at midnight on the Saturday,
together with the lady who orchestrated his
ducking. He should have been suspicious
when he was asked outside to participate in
'races' to cries of 'we need more M y n d
people', when there were already about ten
people gathering around him...
Sunday dawned grey and wet so we
packed the glider and waved it off before we
took down our tent. In the meantime it had
become suitable for bungee launching off the
edge of the hill, so we stayed to watch and
help with this spectacular sigh, before we left
for Lasham and home. Next year? Back to the
'Mynd probably.
For more information about membership
or a trial flight, or if you just want to see the
photo's of a very wet Andrew, come along to
our Thursday meetings (Aero 266, l-2pm) or
email: jhm@doc.ic.ac.uk. We are currently
organising a summer trip to L e Blanc,
France.
Underwater Club's Easter Trip
Keys: Suck, Blow & Go
Mention to someone that you've just spent
the first week of the Easter vacation SCUBA
diving off Falmouth and their response can
be virtually guaranteed: "Diving? in Britain?
in M a r c h ? you must be crazy!" N o just
suffering an addiction to Britain's fastest
growing sport. T h e Easter trip annually
marks the start of the Underwater Club's
diving season. After six months of training
dives in the dregs of Imperial's swimming
pool, everyone lucky enough to get a place
was desperate for some "real" diving. For the
novices present, including myself, these
would be our first open water dives ever....
After loading up a transit full of
equipment and a minibus full of students we
started our crawl out of L o n d o n traffic,
heading for the open roads that would whisk
us to Falmouth! After seven hours of sitting
on wooden benches i n a traffic jam, we
arrived in Falmouth. Cue the first pleasant
surprise of the trip, our home for the week
was one of half a dozen caravans: more
luxurious than my digs in London. As we
were too late to do any diving that day, there
was nothing else for it but to go to the pub.
The 7.30am briefing signalled the start to
each day, during which details of the days
activities were given and questions answered.
Being a newcomer to the game I was
uncertain of what to expect. Any images of
the glamourous sport that appears on the
Holiday program quickly disappeared, when I
found myself huddled i n the lee of a
particularly old and knackered I C U minibus,
pulling my way into a wet-suit amid a late
March hail storm.
T r a i n i n g had been i n the swimming
pool, where the water was warm and clear,
this was substituted for the cold waters of the
sea. Any familiarity that had been built up
with the equipment we'd used throughout
training vanished the minute all the extra kit
needed for open water dives appeared. After
you'd worked your way into a wet-suit, hood,
gloves, weight-belt (the list goes on...) not
only were you knackered, but even the
simplest of exercises became an ordeal.
The week's diving was to vary from
introductory shore dives i n the sheltered
waters of Porthoustock cove, to meticulously
planned dives to a 38m deep wreck. (Novices
need not apply!) Many of the dive sites were
quite a way from the harbour where the RIB
(a rigid hulled inflatable) was launched; in
what were apparently "moderate" conditions,
just the trip out to the dive site would put
even the biggest roller-coaster to shame.
Virtually all of the dives were on a wreck
of one form or another and the majority still
had huge sections of steel, teeming with sea-
life and begging to be explored. During the
week, people surfaced talking about
everything from wrasse to conger eels, small
swimming crabs to the Godfather of all
Lobsters.
The week was fittingly brought to an
end, as it started, in the pub with after dinner
awards for all the people who had "excelled"
themselves during the week. A couple of the
more unusual being "Hurler of the week",
awarded to Dave Taylor for being the only
club member to throw up both above the
surface and 20m below it. Steve Foster went
home the proud owner of "The Albatross" (a
broken propeller) that is passed down
through the club to the biggest liability of the
moment, for running the boat that he's spent
so many hours maintaining onto a submerged
reef.
amm F E L I X H i

