A B
As we all know, male
nakedness is an
acceptable part
University tradition.
But get a woman in
that position and you
get national coverage
for a week.
Jon Jordan
investigates a cultural
phenomenon.
You'd think that nothing would be more
traditional than the annual M a y D a y
festivities at Magdalen Bridge, Oxford. As
the Choir break into song, twenty or so
drunken students, i n various states of
undress, take a leap of faith from the bridge
into less than four feet of water. Does
anything better demonstrate the glorious
stupidity and zest for life of the Oxbridge
upper middle class? In fact so popular has
the scene become that over fifteen thousand
spectators gather to watch it. But what was
different this year? A certain Jocelyn
Witchard, that's what.
"Every year drunken fellas jump in. I
wanted to be the first girl to strip off and do
it," said Jocelyn, 22, quoted in The Sun the
next day under the headline ' D i p , dip
Hoorays'. 'Jocelyn splashed around swigging
champagne as Hooray Henry pals whooped
with delight,' The Sun continued i n its
'crayon style'.
The Mail also covered the story,
although they chose to use the title, 'Miss
Witchard', and managed to publish a slightly
more circumspect picture (it's amazing what
you can hide with long, i f wet, hair).
Sensitive to its audience however, the
article's leader included the phrase: 'How
would you feel i f she was your daughter?'
The breakfast tables of A level students
around the country must have trembled.
Just i n case any mothers were
unconvinced, The Mail also decided to
conduct an interview with M r s Francis
Witchard: 'a community housewife who is
married to Maurice, a retired R A F chief
technician', it eagerly informed readers. "Oh
dear," was her first pearl of wisdom. Still,
further questioning resulted in "I expect she
RIDGE TOO
was a bit drunk at the time" and "She's never
done anything like this before". With a last
vague foray into feminism - 'She does feel
women should have equal opportunities in
life' - it appeared that was the end of the
whole matter. A sudden rush of blood and
alcohol to the head, a couple of photographs
and no harm appeared to have been done. At
most there would be a brief period of fame or
embarrassment and a couple of worried
phone calls from home but that would be all.
'Girl from St. Thrillda's' screamed The
Sun's banner. 'Now she takes the plunge as
the star of page 3'. Whoops!
T a k i n g The Sun's Penny (actually
£1,000) was probably the stupidest move
Jocelyn, or 'Joss' as The Sun now familiarly
called her, could have made after leaping
feature
over the bridge in the first place. Not only
was she described as 'bawd and gownless', a
'diving belle' and a 'water babe', she became a
bit player in The Sun's continual attempt to
justify Page 3. Joss' quasi-feminist line now
read more like a battle cry. "I'm proud of my
body and I'm happy to share it, especially for
The Sun" she said. Words which have graced
the mouth of many a bimbo were now aped
by The Sun-styled 'brainy beauty'.
There was also mention of two further
developments. One was that she had lived for
three years with a 37 year old man and the
second was a confession: "I take my clothes
off all the time". So much for the homely
suggestions of dear old mum. Still The Sun
did manage to include a picture of her
parent's house with the helpful description,
'respectable'.
Of course that was not an end to the
matter. O n the same day as the page 3, the
late editions of The Evening Standard replied
with the headline, 'Why Joss is the shame of
St. Hilda's'. Taking The Mail's lead, this
echoed the now latest sentiments of 'midwife
Mrs Witchard, 57' concerning her wayward
daughter. "She is naked in this picture but
she is wearing her college cap in a way that
makes fun of the college," Frances was
reported as saying.
The Sun kept the story firmly on the
boil with a follow up double page spread the
following day. Although Joss's ex-lover had
mysteriously aged six years, from 37 to 43 in
24 hours, at least he now had a name. 'Hippy
Barry Raithby' was pictured showing The
Sun's photographer, 'inside the cramped van
where they shared nights of love on an old
brown bed'.
"She is just a beautiful genius," Barry
remarked, echoing a line that The Sun had
already made quite clear. He also repeated
that Joss had a habit of stripping in public
and said that he had watched her go in on
that 'fatal' bridge-jumping morning.
Back the dreaming towers, Joss' college
authorities were becoming none to pleased
with all the attention. In particular the use of
phrases such as 'Hildabeasts' to describe the
antics of the college's all female members was
not being taken lightly. "We are a serious
academic college," their common room
president, Ms Diola, commented.
A n d so to the moral. What initially
seemed to be simple case of clothes off and
into river at second sight now appears rather
more byzantinian. Can we really still swallow
that it happened on the spur of the moment'?
T h e differences between 18,000 Oxford
onlookers in the flesh and four and a half
million Sun readers in the 'black and white
and red all over' has never looked so small. Q
IW95 FELIX H |

