Union
ne hundred miles of the river Wye
will be the challenge over the next
Bank Holiday weekend for members
of the Union and College Staff. A team of ten
will be rafting down the river Wye for charity.
The race w i l l take three g r u e l l i n g days
covering the distance from Hay-on-Wye to
Chepstow, some of the river is even in Wales!
It all started from a simple idea and one
phone call, and has now grown into a major
event for the Union team entering this years
"Annual 100 Mile River Wye Charity Raft
Race", taking place over
27 to the 29 May. The
team is made from all
walks of College life.
Dan L o o k and Ian
Parish the Deputy
Presidents of the Union
lead the team of Security Guards, Union Staff
and Students. "We wanted a Union team, but
we now have a team from a mixture of College
and it works well", said Dan, "There are 73
other teams in this race. We are the only
Students' Union team. It takes quite a bit of
organisation." The raft is named "The Prince
Consort", this was thought to be a suitable
name considering the Unions' surroundings.
"With the team made from all walks of
College life, this is a great exercise i n
industrial relationships", Dan continued, "all
the team realise that although this is going to
be a very tough weekend it is also going to be
good fun. We have already attended two
meetings in Hereford, but still no-one has
answered our biggest worry - how to go to the
toilet in the middle of the race?"
To give you an idea of what is going to
happen to these people I shall run down some
facts for you: The raft is 50 foot long, 10 feet
wide, takes fifty 25 litre barrels and weighs
about 600 lbs. The main structure of the raft
is aluminium piping, with a foam filled fibre-
glass bow. We expect to be rafting for about 6
hours each day. If we end up with a time
under 20 hours for the
100 miles we shall be
pleased, the fastest teams
win i n about 13 hours!
The likes of the Army,
and B r i t i s h Telecom
enter this race so with our
limited funding we w i l l be happy just to
finish. "This event is similar to a marathon
on your arms for three days running", was the
only advice the rafts previous owners could
come up with! Apparently we are able to steer
our raft. The only problem being is that when
we find ourselves heading for trouble we
actually have to speed up, or else our rudder
won't work!
The ten rafters will be relying on our
backup team for support, food and mending
any damage to the raft. The back up team are
the real workers, it will be the rafters who will
bask in the glory. Luckily we have two Chefs
Rafting
Wild on the
River Wye
by Ian Parish
on the team, so we shouldn't end up down the
Dog and Duck every night. The organisers of
the race, C H A R , have managed to find a 2000
person marquee and bar for the evenings'
entertainments, so as long as we are still alive
we should have a good time.
If you would like to sponsor the rafters,
then there is a form in the Union Office. The
first £500 raised will go the Pymlinon Trust
and the rest to our nominated charities: the
College Day Nursery and the Mangotsfield
Opportunity Group.
This event has cost the participants a
total of about £1000. Both D a n and I are
thankful to the mad men and women willing
to give up their time for this adventure. We
also have to thank the following people for
their support for us entering the race: Union
Management, Transport Committee, The
Bookstore and STA Travel.
Student
Hardship
Rising
"W* t is evident from the number of
1 students using the U n i o n advice
i l l ? * service that student financial
hardship is continuing to increase. There are
cases of students working long hours for low
wages and others who have not eaten for
several days in order to pay essential bills
such as rent or fuel bills.
The budget at the end of 1994 was not
good news for students. Gillian Shepherd,
Secretary of State for Education, revealed that
institutions will have to make a financial cut
of almost 3.5% per person as student numbers
risej. The rates for grants will be reduced
which will result in more students having to
rely on loans. Mature students will be badly
affected by the abolishment of the allowance
received by students over the age of twenty-
sixi. A l l in all, funding for higher education
is to be cut by £25 million in each of the next
two academic years and will continue at the
reduced figure into 1 9 9 7 / 8 T o make matters
worse, students are facing long delays i n
having their student loan applications
processed and this has had a knock-on effect
on paying rent etc.
While looking at the financial problems
faced by home students, we should remember
that international students outside the E E C
do not receive L E A grants and cannot apply
for student loans.
^%ff^
essentia! bills"
There are discussions taking place
which consider ways in which students can
pay for their education. Recent suggestions
include the idea of students repaying
maintenance and possibly fee costs through
national insurance and tax. T h i s added
burden would be very worrying when most
students already face having to repay student
loans and large debts when they leave college.
It is thought that 18 to 21 year old students
are accumulating debts over £2000 and it is
possible that older students may owe up to
£60002- The growing financial pressures may
discourage people from poorer backgrounds
from entering higher education in the future.
In addition, it is increasingly difficult to
obtain funds from charities for students.
It can be said that student poverty exists
now, and measures which may worsen the
situation should be strongly opposed. How
can students who have to worry about
meeting their basic finances be expected to
cope with the pressures of their studies?
It may be possible for institutions to
introduce schemes to assist students in
financial difficulties such as p r o v i d i n g
cheaper accommodation, cheaper meals, help
with the cost of books and cheaper nursery
places. Some colleges have set up systems to
waive or reduce fees i n cases of extreme
hardship. Current provisions such as the
access and hardship trust have helped many
students to cope with the pressures that
financial hardship brings.
We are rapidly approaching exam-
ination time - surely the most stressful time
of the year for many students. This article is
intended to highlight some of the financial
problems which can increase the pressure on
students. Please be aware of this and refer any
students under stress to people who may be
able to help, such as the U n i o n Adviser,
Counsellor, or College Tutors.
J. Cummins and M. Kavlak
Union Advice Office, Beit Quad
1 Times Higher Education Supplemement
2 The Guardian 23/3/95
l » 9 5 F E L I X 1 1

