14 MUSIC M a y 1998
C L U B S C E N E - I N T E R V I E W
IS IT A LONDON THING ?
Scott Garcia is the man behind probable the biggest garage tune of this and last year It's A London Thing, bridging the gap between under-
ground garage and accessible dance music. Quoted by Norris Da Boss Windross as one of the first tracks to cross over bringing the "speed"
garage style of big bass-lines with more traditional garage beats. The boys done good after leaving school at the age of 13 few would have
expected the success that has followed and he's still only 19. It's nice to see someone so young having such an influence on the scene.
I asked Scott how it all began
I left school at 13 and just got into music and 1
didn't stop a lot of people that were into the
scene went their o w n ways and got jobs and I
just stuck with it, because 1 had nothing else to
go for that's been my one goal. 1 just gone for it
and stuck at it, it's taken a few years 5 or 6 actu-
ally to get to where I a m now. I've put a lot into
it and it's just been general nagging promoters
doing all the stuff that up and c o m i n g DJs need
to do. If y o u want to d o it but don't send the
time on it, y o u w o n ' t get it.
Have you always been strictly into garage?
N o , N o , I started off with D & B then got into
deep house, then more vocal sort of house and
that, but then it was pre-speed garage. It was
speed garage, but no-one called it that silly
name. I used to have a record shop near
Wimbledon - that was were I found the music
that was hitting the spot for me.
What is happening with garage scene at the
moment?
We're getting to a stage where the music is
more accepted and it's not as alien to people
now and they are trying to get their heads round
it and I think a lot of people are catching on to
what it's all about
Is it a London thing?
It ain't no more but it was, now I'm playing all over
the country more and more. At the time It's a
London thing was made it sort of s u m m e d up the
vibe at the particular moment and that's why it
was so successful. I like to make tracks that cap-
ture a vibe and give you a picture in ya head. But
in a way it still is a London thing cos we still got
the most of it. It's something Londoners should be
proud of. The track wasn't made as a cross-over
track to try and get in the charts, it was just gonna
be a dubplate for me to play, then w e decided to
run with that mix and try and shift a few thousand
copies and get a little vibe out there. N o w a few
months on it's sold over thirty thousand and
counting. Respect to everyone that brought it,
because they're locked onto the groove.
Do you think that people tend to go out to
house/garage clubs for a night out, whereas
before it was more about the music?
Yeah, but the thing is w h e n your into this under-
ground movement thing your always trying to
spread the w o r d , but when you've spread the
w o r d it's all na na don't c o m e thou, it's g o o d but
it's ours. You can't really run like that and the
end of the day it's about sharing it, the fact that
people want to go to these clubs, makes people
that are in the scene feel g o o d because w e have
promoted another movement in London that
has taken over, again.
Do you think there are a lot of shit DJs out
there?
There always are; there are a lot of overrated DJs
out there and I don't know how they get where
they are.
Is it to do with who you know not how good
you are?
Well yeah but I look at it in a positive way, peo-
ple finally cotton on to these people then peo-
ple like me and many others in the scene more
deserving will get their chance and they will be
around a lot longer than the others.
"Fuck CDs, People that do CD
mixing are people that tried
vinyl and could not do it."
What do you feel about all these remixes, like
the Cape Fear and Dread Bass remixes on
your tape? does it annoy you that there aren't
more original tunes coming out?
Personally, I make fresh music, I'm not into
recycling - I'm not ozone friendly. W h e n other
people d o it as long as they d o it well it's alright,
but if it's a pile of shit they deserve to be dissed
for it. I don't worry about other peoples produc-
ing skills, 1 worry about mine. If the tune moves
a c r o w d I'll play it. With what is on the tape/CD
it crosses the spectrum and that's what interest-
ed us in doing it, it covers the full range.
Was the big break Kiss FM picking it up?
Well yes, but really and truly they had to pick it
up if they are the only dance station in London
they had to. It was inevitable u know w e knew
people would pick up on it, in a way it was naive
to think that it would just bubble around on the
underground. N o w looking at it with hindsight
it's a powerful track and know we're releasing it
all over the world and it's going d o w n every-
where it just hits the spot.
What are you playing out at the moment?
It's always changing but mostly my dub-plates,
Baffled, Tuff Jams, Anthill M o b that sort of stuff.
Is C D mixing going to catch on?
Not for m e at all, I don't think y o u can beat vinyl
It's an art-form, it's hands on, C D s aren't.
They're nice to listen to at home quality sound
and all that but w h e n y o u go to a club you want
to hear s o m e rugged beats not s o m e C D , fuck
C D s man. People that go o n to C D s are for me
the people that tried vinyl and couldn't do it.
Is your music going more vocal?
Well yeah, the thing with not using vocals is that
it's a deeper, more sort of druggy music, you're
locked onto the music and y o u don't need the
lyrics to get the vibe or message across, but the
garage scene's m o v i n g away from such a drug
orientated scene, so vocals are needed more to
get your message across - it explains it to peo-
ple not using drugs.
When you make a tune do you have it all
planned out beforehand?
Well I have my o w n style, but I don't sit there
and think the drums are going like that, w e just
flex it, it's got to be spontaneous.
What's the philosophy behind your tunes?
I don't go into the studio and think right I'm
gonna make some cheesy commercial tune
today and the next day I'm gonna make some
underground shit. If I've had a bad week u know
I'm more likely to c o m e up with dark under-
ground track, if it's been a g o o d week I might
make something that will cross over, it's about
h o w your feeling at the time.
What or who are your influences?
Bob Marley, is the lick he's the d o n , even though
it doesn't sound like it there are a lot of his influ-
ences and some deep related shit in my tunes.
Little vibes and ideas in there. Because he could
be political and catch the vibe of a nation at the
same time and that to me is what I'm about. I'm
not saying that I'm the next Bob Marley or any-
thing but there is no point just making music
aimlessly. There has to be something behind it.
M u s i c that is made solely to make money is just
plastic, plastic shit.
What are you listening to at the moment?
Everything, hip-hop, soul, swing it varies from
day to day. But recently I've been all Mary J
Bleiged up, just chilling.
What up next from you?
The new track is called This Ones For The Ladies
and features Jody Breathwait on vocals along
side Scott and M C styles should be released mid
too the end of M a y .
Thanks Scott and Jodie at Phuture trax for mak-
ing it possible. I'll leave y o u with a little message
from Scott " look out for the future releases
and just keep it real." jo Public

