1 M a y 1998 MUSIC
ALBUMS
CECIL
Subtitles • • •
"Are You looking at
me? Well, are ya?!"
I
' m a great fan of judging an album by its cover and
have been known to purchase them on the strength
of the artwork. Subtitles looked like a g e m . It's got
the band walking across a wide open space with a ray
of light streaking through them casting long shadows
and an empty glass case catching their reflection. I was
ready for an intelligent album with thought-provoking
lyrics encased in wonderfully melodic bodies. Is that
too much to ask in this day arid age?
Probably. As y o u may have guessed, Cecil did not
turn out to be the find of the year. Great expectations
c o m e before a fall, or something like that, anyway.
However, I was impressed; not overwhelmed, just
impressed. Full Stop is great single material. It's prob-
ably the most coherent lyrically but it's the quick
acoustic strumming rhythm creating a sense of panic
and urgency that fixes this track into your memory.
Larger than a Mountain to the Ant and The Most Tiring
Day are also memorable and demonstrate m u c h of
what is g o o d about Cecil. At times they are able to
paint some brilliant lyrical imagery and wrap it inside a
unique yet familiar sound.
Even so, most of the time the songs fall short of the
mark. This is disappointing as the signs are there for
Cecil to release an inspirational album. Lock them in a
studio with various instruments and a g o o d producer
and with time you'll be sure of a great album. In
today's impatient climate, though, people want results
now and are not prepared to wait for things to blos-
s o m . Like subtitles themselves, the beauty can be lost
in translation. Perhaps their next album will see them
finding their o w n personal sonic language that we, the
consumer, can enjoy without having to resort to listen-
ing to Subtitles. E l
Dennis.
IMAN I
COPPOLA
Chupacabra • • • •
I
mani C o p p o l a is an angelic
faced chanteuse, with a touch
of the bizarre about her. Her
debut single, Legend of a Cowgirl,
is a cheerful s o n g about a female
legend with a song, who's gonna
pack her bags and mount her
horse, and ride on into the next
town, and it went quite high in the
charts. It's a g o o d sample of her
work, which is bizarre rap, with
strangely pertinent lyrics. Her lat-
est single, I'm a Tree, is about her
being a tree in the city, and need-
ing somewhere to live, and how a
tree seems out of place in a city.
True. I think that it's really about
isolation, but correct me if I'm
wrong. You may have caught Imani
singing on jools Holland on Friday
night, in a bright green wig, with
hair-slides with daises on. She was
also playing an extremely cool
electric violin. If you did, you'll
have a g o o d idea of what the
whole album is like. The album is
very g o o d , very funny, and inter-
esting to listen to. There's a hidden
track at the end, which is of such
stunning beauty that it is worth
buying for that s o n g alone. Overall,
for its sheer weirdness, cheerful-
ness and bouncy pop-i-ness, this is
great fun to listen to, and should
be bought by weird, cheerful and
bouncy p o p kids. Julia
m
SINGLES
Sister Hazel - All For You
A memorable sing-along of the much-loved
long-haired American rock ballad variety. This is
already an anthem in America, if the c r o w d
chanting in the live version is anything to go by.
Lower - Crime Satellite
This is what used to be called a well-crafted
song. It is along the traditional indie path but
filled with wonderful sonic pulses and blips, and
sung by a sober follower of Julian C o p e .
Umajets - Half Man Half Wrecking Ball
This song begins by imitating M a n i c Street
Preachers, right d o w n to the angry vocals, but it
soon melts away into innocent soft rock territo-
ry. A d d e d hippie flourishes might appeal to
Lemonheads fans.
Wireless - Banana Tea
Simply w o n d e r f u l tune a l o n g the lines of
Lightning Seeds' "perfect 3-minute p o p songs."
The lyric tells the story of every monkey's plight
of being forced to eat bananas and, erm,
appear in tea commercials in unfashionable
clothes. Top tune, though. Honest.
The Dandy Warhols;
Not junkies, then.
The Dandy Warhols - Not If You Were The Last
Junkie On Earth
You've probably made your mind up about this
song by now, due to its s u m o - s i z e d airplay on
the radio. Either it's excellent, and sums up pre-
millennial tension in 3 minutes of raw post-
grunge pseudo p o p . O r its a depressing drag
through the group's twisted beliefs that the only
reason not to take heroin is because it's just not
cool, man.
Penthouse - Remix E.P.
Lots of angry shouting and repetitive trumpets
cling on to the Lo-Fidelity All-Stars manic beats
in the leading track White Coal. Elsewhere, Kris
N e e d s ' chunky remix disrupts the Hawaiian
tranquillity of Voyeur's Blues. M a k e s y o u w o n -
der what the original tracks sounded like.
Satellite Beach - Psycho
This debut single starts with some rocky Fifties
D o o - W o p before giving way to Bowie-style
glam-rock with a repeated cry of "You're such a
psycho!" A very promising start. B]
Ed

