CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
a m n e s t y
international
Since 1961, Amnesty International has
campaigned on behalf of men and women who
have been imprisoned due solely to their
religion, political beliefs, or race. Victims of
torture or "disappearances" are also helped by
Amnesty International, which is a strictly non
political organisation.
These 'Prisoners of Conscience' have
neither used, nor advocated, violence.
Tragically, the same cannot be said of the
governments in Russia, South America, and
Iran, to name but a few.
The IC Amnesty Group is campaigning for
the release of a man in Benin, in Africa, who
has been imprisoned (without being charged)
for twelve months. Fund raising, petitions, and
publicity are also vital to us.
Students at IC C A N help prisoners of
conscience. You choose whether you write one
short letter per week, get completely involved,
or somewhere in between.
Amnesty International's task is vast. If you
want to give practical help, please come to our
meetings on Tuesdays at 5:30pm, in the Green
Committee Room (top floor, Union Building).
If you can't come to the next meeting, but are
interested, please contact Alistair Kirk,
Physics 2.
Labour
Coming Soon
Councillor Dave Wetzel, Greater London
Council transport spokesman, has agreed to
speak at Imperial College. Dave Wetzel is in
the words of one newspaper "one of Red Ken's
leading henchmen", and is the man responsible
for the massive cuts in fares on London
Transport.
Elections
Club officers will be elected at the Labour
Club meeting on Tuesday, November 3 at
12:45pm in the Union Upper Lounge. A
representative on the National Organisation of
Labour Students will be speaking about its
Work.
Further details about Labour Club activities
from J. Stanley, EE3.
Bridge
For all of those athletic types who are
otherwise engaged on Wednesday afternoons,
and anyone else, there will be a Pairs
Tournament on Monday, November 2 at
6:30pm Brown Committee Room (third floor,
Union Building).
Also, if there is sufficient demand, there will
be a beginners class one lunchtime per week.
Would anyone interested either contact M
Stirland via Maths 3 letter racks or put their
name on the form in the Bridge Club.
Mark Stirland
Bookshop News
Sitting in my office, I hear the various
comments you all make "Let's go to Foyles,
their books are cheaper". There are even
some of you who think IC Bookshop is owned
by Dillons. The first point is: Books are priced
by the publisher, this by law is the price A L L
bookshops have to charge. The second and
more important point is: IC Bookshop is
owned by the College unions and its profits are
returned annually to the unions to assist the
financing of students' activities. So, it is in your
own interest to use your Bookshop.
This week, Longman are exhibiting a
selection of their titles in the window. If you
wish to see any of the titles, my staff will be
only too happy to get them for you.
New Titles
Dracula's Bedtime Story Book, Victor
Ambrus, OUP, £4.50.
Dracula, Victor Ambrus, OUP, £3.95.
Freafcs, Leslie Fiedler, Penguin, £4.95.
Puzzle Mountain, Gyles Brandreth, Penguin,
£4.95.
Best Seller
Marshall & Renwick, Allen and Unwin, £4.95.
London Pub Guide, Nicholson, £1.95.
Obviously no one wanted the £2 book token
offered two weeks ago.
If anyone knows the whereabouts of two
of our ex-staff Dorothy Trotter and Hannibal
Martin, could you please let me know as they
are still owed back salary.
H.G. Wells and the
Aetherius Society
The society was founded in 1955 by George King, then a Fulham taxi
driver. It is a quasi-religious society with the aim of spreading the
teachings of godlike interplanetary beings for 'the good of all mankind'.
This is the society's history of how the interplanetary rapport developed.
"One Saturday morning in 1954 Dr George King was addressed by a
mysterious voice, which gave him the following instruction 'Prepare
yourself! You are to become the voice of interplanetary parliament!'
The voice made this pronouncement in perfect English and held a
peculiar musical quality, not possessed by an ordinary earth voice.
Dr King did not fully understand the command at the time but believed
it to be of vital significance. Eight years later Dr King who was sitting
alone in his West End flat was visited by a great master of yoga from
India, who gave Dr King instructions in advanced yoga, which enabled
him to gain telepathic rapport with a Being from the planet Venus. The
being was given the pseudonym Aetherius.
As time went on the messages from space intelligences increased in
length, regularity and urgency giving Dr King messages of wisdom and
advice to mankind.
On July 27, 1958 Dr King gained contact from the Master Jesus, also
from Venus. The great Cosmic Master of love gave the twelve blessings,
and the first chapter of his aquarian age bible, teachings which were
published by the society and adopted as a doctrine."
The main function of the society is to propagate vital transmissions
from the Master Aetherius, the Master Jesus, Mars Sector 6 (also a
cosmic master) and other highly evolved cosmic intelligences.'
The society organises prayer-circles during a 'spiritual push' or
'Magnetization Period'. (The Magnetization Period is when a giant inter-
planetary spacecraft called Satellite No 3 is brought into orbit around
Earth by the Cosmic masters). The prayer circles are held around holy
mountains in Europe, America, Africa and Australasia, where 'pilgrims
radiate dynamical power to help all mankind'.
Currently the Aetherius Society is involved in two main operations
Operation Sunbeam is a means of using prayer power to repay some of
man's collective debt to earth—the goddess Terra. Operation Prayer
Power is a a means of storing prayer in a special battery, which is
discharged during major disasters, such as earthquakes and floods, to
help the stricken areas.
Sir Richard Lawrence from the Aetherius Society will be addressing the
H.G. Wells Society on Monday in Elec Eng 408 at 7:30pm.
Page 8 FELIX, October 30, 1981

