film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak & Jonathan Dakin
Once more, but with a bit
more feeling please
Two sexy spies (one named Strawberry
Fields) a brush with the Bolivian se-
cret service, a fighter jet spinning out
of control, two memorable car chases
and a body count climbing with every
scene. Pistols, fist fights, explosions,
a white shirt that seems to never get
stained, jet-setting from London to
Haiti to Bolivia and to top it all off, a
villain named Dominic Greene with
lank hair, a manic expression and a sa-
distic streak who is determined to take
over the world. What could be more
Bond than that?
This film takes up where the bril-
liant Casino Royale left off, with James
(Daniel Craig) vowing revenge against
We give the newest Bond film another chance, but will the new
reviewer be kinder than last weeks?
the men who caused him to lose the
only woman he ever loved, and the
woman who eventually betrayed him,
Vesper (the beautiful Eva Green). He
discovers that the men who black-
mailed Vesper into deceiving him, con-
trol an organisation (Quantum) more
complex than the CIA or MI5 had ever
imagined. Thus, he sets out on a con-
fusing mission to uncover the truth be-
hind Quantum and prevent Dominic
Greene who heads this criminal group,
from exploiting the world’s natural re-
sources. Absurdly, there is also a flim-
sy sub-plot, which Bond gets caught
up in, involving a General Medrano
and a attractive young spy for Bolivia
(Camille) who is on her own personal
assassination mission. Both are tied up
somehow, in relations with the treach-
erous business of Quantum.
So why was I so very disappointed
with Quantum of Solace? It had all the
elements of a ‘true Bond’ but the pieces
were put together without any feeling
or wit. It was clumsily arranged and too
focussed on the shaky camera action
during the fight scenes to get back any
I
’m wondering whether like me
you are sick and tired of the
newest James Bond film. If you
are, well I’m very sorry but I’m
going to reap the benefits of this
English blockbuster finally coming out
and I’m going to take an example from
the ‘proper’ media and continue with
the same story until you either know it
by heart or want to slash your wrists
any time you even hear the word quan-
tum (which, when you’re a phycisits
like me and the majority of the felix
staff, can become quite dangerous ).
So this week we have yet another re-
view of Quantum of Solace and quite
unsurprisingly the critique isn’t very
favourable. There seems to be a gener-
al consensus reached about the movie
– rubbish editing of action sequences,
lack of proper story line and no chance
for Daniel Craig to use his acting skills.
And since I am not a particularly vig-
urous Bond fan (read: I probably care
more about what my biophysics lec-
turer had for dinner than whether they
ever make another movie in the series),
I’ll take any chance I get to see the film
run down by reviewers.
But don’t you just hate it when mov-
ies disappoint? Guess that’s what par-
ents feel when their kid does something
stupid and shows up pregnant (unless
they are Juno’s parents that is). Other
highly anticipated films that turned out
to be cold, bland dishes include, well,
almost every sequel ever made (apart
from the Godfather maybe, and even
Quantum of Solace HHKKK
Director: Marc Forster
Writer: Paul Haggis et al
Cast: Daniel Craig,
Olga Kurylenko,
Mathieu Almaric
Priya Garg
18 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Saw I, Saw V, saw them all
Imagine you are a convicted murder-
er and you wake up one day in a squalid
room, strapped down to a mechanical
machine. A video begins playing on a
monitor adjacent to your face and a
scary clown toy tells you that because
you were let out of prison early on a
‘technicality’youhavenotpaidforwhat
you have done. You then have a minute
to decide whether or not to crush your
own hands in a rusty grinder, and by
doing so survive the ordeal, or chicken
out and so let a swinging axe cut you in
half. What do you?
This life or death scenario is the first
one of many presented to the audience
in the fifth paint-by-numbers sequel
to the popular Saw franchise. Having
begun immediately where the forth
instalment left off, Saw 5 immediately
lets rip, both figuratively and meta-
phorically, and quickly descends into
another bland and torturous hour and
a half.
The plot involves the serial killer
Jigsaw’s protégé continuing his work
of forcing people into sick games in
which they have to torture themselves
or others to survive, the purpose being
that if they are successful in their plight
their survival will allow them to truly
appreciate their lives. The plot focuses
on the new killer (Mandylor) and a
cop (Paterson) trying to catch him, but
while this cat and mouse chase plays
out five criminals have to work their
way through a series of rooms, each
containing a survival game, until only
one of them is left standing at the end.
Violence ensues. Heads roll. People
are torn, shredded, electrocuted and
blown apart. Then it ends.
This time Bond is overshadowed by mindless violence and lack of plot.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
that’s still not certain) or originals like
Troy, Oliver Twist and countless others
that have convenietly escaped my mind
at this particular moment in time. Now
let me tell you who’s to blame, so that
you can join me in my loathing and
scathing (even though I rather doubt
our joint effort will amount to anything
seeing as we can’t even get the Union
to notice us). No, it’s not the directors,
it’s not the actors, not the editors, nor
the producers - on the whole they work
hard, as long as they detach themselves
from perusing the ‘Suns’ of the world
for any mention of their humble perso-
nas for long enough. I hold the publi-
cists responsible.
They are the ones who get paid ridic-
ulous money to sell you a product that
doesn’t exist, a film so gripping, so new,
so exhilarating that you’ve never seen
one like it before. And that’s probably
true, but what is rarely mentioned is
that you will, in fact, never see a movie
like that. Because the truth of the mat-
ter is that the PR people have quite
remarkably realised that our imagina-
tions are our best worst enemy. So long
as something stays only a vague idea in
our tiny brains we can’t become disil-
lusioned about it. It’s no secret that the
more publicity a film gets, the more
we think about it. But beware, cause
the moment you start thinking about
a movie before having seen it, you ef-
fectively sabotage it. P.S. Did you know
that they use CG effects to blot out
Keira Knightley’s spot marks?
Already sick of
Bond The plot is only interesting when it
tellsyouhowJigsaworiginallyrecruited
the new victimiser, but the new ‘games’
that are played out are tired and dull,
mainly because we have seen them all
before. This film will only make sense
to those of you who have already seen
the first four Saw films, because if you
haven’t then you will have no idea
what is going on, as no exposition is
presented.
The advertising campaign for this
film states that ‘you won’t believe how
it ends’. And I agree with this, because
the ending is of such a poor, predict-
able and disappointing quality you will
leave the cinema not quite believing
just how awful the denouement really
was. It is this reviewer’s opinion that
the Saw series should have stopped
after the second one, as the first two
were both original and intelligent, but
each subsequent film is just the same
thing, but worse, repeated over and
over again.
Why pay to see this film? Well if
watching random people dying in dis-
gusting ways is your cup of tea, then
I recommend it. But for the rest of us
who like to watch something with a bit
of originality, written by someone with
half a brain who isn’t just trying to cash
in on a popular idea, then I would say
don’t bother.
of the fun and exhilaration that Casino
Royale had left us with. We were ex-
pecting a tantalising new type of Bond,
hot, sexy and ready to go. This brings
us back to the old Bond who was fail-
ing to raise an audience and ready to be
shelved. I wanted to be on the edge of
my seat, but instead I was half-asleep.
It was mediocre and left me longing to
be watching its predecessor.
The storyline is poorly thought out
and its translation onto screen is even
worse. There is little or no dialogue
worth remembering in this film and
Daniel Craig’s acting talents seemed to
be limited to a few grimaces and nu-
merous encounters with M. The Bond
girls are limited in their roles and far
too clichéd. It feels rushed, over-pro-
duced and too concerned with its own
flashy exterior to worry about the sto-
ry it is trying to tell. This should have
been the film of the year, and it could
have been!
Quantum of Solace, all style and un-
fortunately, little substance. Bring back
Martin Campbell and let’s have some
proper Bond direction.
From the early origins of cinema peo-
ple toyed with the idea of synchronised
smell. In 1906, even before sound was
introduced to cinema, a family thea-
tre in Forest City, Pennsylvania used
scents to accompany their newsreel of
the Pasadena Rose Bowl. They dipped
cotton wool into rose essence and then
used an electric fan to waft the scent
towards the audience.
Then in 1929 a cinema in Boston
added a lilac fragrance to their venti-
lation system while the opening cred-
its were rolling for Lilac Time and the
same year at the premiere of Broadway
Melody, a New York cinema released
orange blossom fragrances from the
ceiling during the screening. But these
early experiments did more to dis-
tract the audiences than to add to film
experience.
Adding to the film experience was
also the idea behind ‘feelies: cinemas
of the future envisaged by Aldous Hux-
ley in his cult novel Brave New World
(1932).
Alongside 3D vision and sound, these
cinemas would offer the physical sen-
sation of touch and movement (‘feely’
effects) and “synchronized scent-organ
accompaniment”, all of which were in-
tended to enhance the spectator’s im-
mersion into the film by increasing the
illusion of reality.
In the 1940s a Swiss scientist, Hans
Laube, who studied ‘osmics’, the sci-
ence of olfaction (smell), developed a
machine he called Scentavision. This
was eventually picked up by a film pro-
ducer, Mike Todd Jr., who re-named it
Smell-o-Vision and used it for a film
called Scent of Mystery in 1960. “First
they moved (1895). Then they talked
(1927)! Now they smell!” went the ad-
vertising slogan for Smell-o-Vision.
The machine had a central ‘brain’ with
a rotating drum that housed the bottles
of different scents.
This was connected to the film tape,
which contained markers that would
indicate when the scents were to be
released. The scents would then travel
through a system of plastic pipes until
they reached the audience, and were
then released from under their seats.
A similar contraption known as
Aroma-Rama was invented by Charles
Weiss: it released scents through the
cinema’s ventilation system and over
30 scents were used in the 1959 film
Behind the Great Wall. Aroma-Rama
was advertised with the slogan, “You
must breathe it to believe it.”
Neither of these technologies were
accepted by audiences or critics. One
New York Times film critic said, “if
there is anything of a lasting value to
be learned from Michael Todd’s Scent
of a Mystery it is that motion pictures
and synthetic smells do not mix.” Time
magazine similarly slammed Aroma-
rama: “most of the production’s 31
odours will probably seem phoney
even to an average, uneducated nose. A
beautiful old pine grove in Peking, for
instance, smells rather like a subway
restroom on a disinfectant day.” The
What if you could smell napalm in the morning?
main problems were that the scents,
once released, would linger about and
mix with other scents, causing unpleas-
ant smells, allergic reactions and nau-
sea for some people in the audience.
The release of these scents were also
accompanied by a hissing sound which
would distract from the movie, and
in the case of Aroma-Rama, the scent
took a while to diffuse (although freon
gas was used to facilitate this diffusion)
and would reach some people too late,
when the appropriate moment in the
movie had already passed. Although
the media hype predicted scents to be
as important as sound in cinema’s evo-
lution, the first public appearance of
‘smellies’ also marked their immediate
demise.
Paying homage to Scent-o-Vision,
John Waters used system called Odo-
rama in his 1981 film Polyester, with
the ad slogan, “Smelling is believing!”
In Odorama, the audience would re-
ceive scratch-and-sniff cards as they
entered the cinema. The cards had 10
scents covered by 10 numbers and the
audience would have to wait until a
number would flash on the screen to
scratch and sniff a scent related to that
moment in the movie.
The scents included pizza, leather,
flowers, a skunk, natural gas and farts.
The cards were printed with an emul-
sion of essential oils containing an aro-
Mićo Tatalović ma-forming chemical. The emulsion
contains millions of tiny scent bub-
bles only microns in diameter. Once
the cards are scratched, the bubbles
rupture and release volatile scents that
then find their way to people’s noses.
Smell-o-Vision and Odorama have
only been used in a handful of films
since, including the 2006 screening of
The New World with Collin Farrell
in cinemas in Osaka and Tokyo, and
several in amusement parks such as
Disneyland.
At one point you could, but incorporating smell into movies is an old and tried idea that simply didn’t work.
At the Film Cynic Clinic
This week it was suggested that as part
of this column, I might actually consid-
er reviewing a film. True, over the past
few weeks I’ve tended to avoid com-
menting on current films and instead
focussed on some of the other aspects
of cinema in general. However this
week I will try my hardest, to produce
a succinct, accurate and fair judgement
on a new release.
I mean, to quote a popular BBC car
and caravanning show, “how hard can
it be?” All one has to do is to pick a
film at random from the week’s deluge
of celluloid and string together an ar-
ray of outlandish archaic adjectives,
interspersed like tiny gravel islands in
a river of contrived metaphor. As long
as you don’t state: “It was nice, I had a
real good time, and I would probably
say that you ought to see Shrek 3 too”,
then you should be fine.
But what is the critics’ role? What pur-
pose should a review serve to the read-
er? Is it a mere quantitative assessment
of a film, based on a number of discrete
well-defined categories that allow the
generation of a meaningful integer be-
tween 1 and 5? Sure we can rank the
thousands of films out there with a
dynamic range of 5. The silliness and
frivolities Hot Fuzz easily place it as a
firm 5, alongside the achingly beauti-
ful (damn those darn pesky adjectives
again) Lost in Translation, with its el-
egantly composed scenes (and lack of
ending/purpose). Hang on a minute,
so the Cornetto-munching, shotgun-
toting cops, are numerically the same
as Bill Murray’s masterfully disparate
character? It doesn’t make any sense.
If you take the review and shine the
infallible *cough* beacon of science
upon it, then things get even worse.
So you’ve got this experiment and each
time you change this variable called
“the film”, and you then change the var-
iable called “the reviewer”, which inci-
dentally means that pretty much none
of your results are recorded on compa-
rable scales. Are the results repeatable?
Ah well, that depends on what mood
the experimenter is in on the day.
At least there’s no danger that the re-
sult, or the review in this case, could
bias future data. Actually, well no, that
could also happen. It follows logically
that someone reading a good review
about a movie will be more encouraged
to see it, thus making it more popular
and therefore leading to more good re-
views. Most critics are unlikely to turn
around and criticise something that is
blatantly doing well, and this all leaves
us in a rather muddled situation.
It is likely therefore that my initial prog-
nosis was wrong. A review cannot be
a numerical assessment of a film; this
system simply doesn’t work due to the
subjective nature of pretty much every
aspect of the process. So what should a
review be? Perhaps it is simply enter-
tainment. Something to read, perhaps
trusting the writer’s judgement a little
in your own decision making. Perhaps
not. Either way however you interpret
it, enjoy this weeks’ reviews and nor-
mal, more cynical service will resume
shortly.
Comments? Please respond to:
not_gavin@hotmail.com .
This Week:
Imperial Popcorn Recipe
Ingredients: 400g of Popping Corn
2 Cans of Red Bull
4 Cups of JCR Coffee
10 ml Union Dregs
Place all ingredients together in a suit-
able container, subject to intense pres-
sure for 3-4 years and serve on a bed of
lost hope.
A teenage girl falls in love with a vam-
pire in this romantic-fantasy. Wait a
minute. Did you just read that correct-
ly? A chick flick about vampires? Are
you losing your sight? Are you crazy?
No you aren’t, but if you haven’t heard
about Twilight until now, then you
should be questioning your awareness
of the outside world.
Twilight, the novel this film is based
on, is an extremely popular and suc-
cessful series of books for young
adults, mainly aimed at girls who like a
little bit of horror on the side. Isabella
(played by Kristen Stewart, who you
Stuart Higgins
Coming Out Soon
might remember as the girl who looks
like a boy in Panic Room), a seventeen
year old who moves to a new town is
immediately smitten with vampire Ed-
ward (Robert Pattinson, who is famous
for being Cedric Diggory in the awful
Harry Potter films), but their forbid-
den love threatens to destroy their lives
and tear them apart.
Although Twilight is a hugely antici-
pated film within a certain community
(Buffy fans I’m looking at you) it has
such wide mainstream appeal that it
should be worth a gander. And if the
romance is too schmaltzy for you, then
hopefully there will be enough ac-
tion and horror in it to appeal to the
masses.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Teenage thrills with Twilight?
Maybe this young cast can do a better job at entertaining us than
their older colleagues.
This guy has clearly gone over the top for the Masquerade Ball

