244 felix Friday 14 November 2008 25
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
I
n 1215, King John allowed the
City of London’s residents the
right to elect their own mayor,
or the first time. The new Mayor
was to be presented to the Sov-
ereign, and so was accompanied by his
supporters in a parade through the city.
This was the first Lord Mayor’s show,
which has been an annual feature ever
since.
The modern Lord Mayor’s show
has evolved into a grand parade that
includes the old and new livery com-
panies, charities, various armed serv-
ices and representatives of Londoners
from all walks of life. The 3-mile long
parade winds its way passed the sights
of the city of London, converging on
the Royal Courts of Justice, where the
Lord Mayor takes an oath of allegiance
to the sovereign.
This year’s Lord Mayor is Ian David
Luder, born and educated in London,
it is his role to promote the City of
London, both at home and abroad, as
the world’s leading financial centre.
Officially, he also takes on a number
of other roles, including Admiral of
the Port of London, Chancellor of City
University and presides over the Court
of Aldermen and the Court of Com-
mon Council.
As the constituant college of the
origninal livery companies, City &
Guilds College Union enter a float in
the Lord Mayor’s show. This years en-
trywasconceivedandcreatedbyOwen
Connick and Tom Murray from the
Aeronautics department. Owen tells
felix about the float, the theme and the
day itself:
Every year the City & Guilds Col-
lege Union enters a float into the Lord
Mayor’s Show. In the last few years,
the theme has involved; an MRI scan-
ner, a suspension bridge, a mock-up
of ‘The Queen’s Tower’ and a football
goal. So, we thought it was about time
Aero chipped in to remind everyone
how cool aeroplanes can be! With that
in mind and the 100th anniversary of
the first British powered flight occur-
ring in October we thought it a fitting
tribute to build a replica of that origi-
nal plane complete with wooden wing
spas, stretched canvas wing coverings
and simple riveted propellers.
Work began on the organisation back
in June, securing sponsorship from
BP and registering our entry with the
Pageantmaster. Tom worked tirelessly
to set up a top-notch CAD model us-
ing his solidworks skills to create a set
of drawings and part-numbers which
proved invaluable during the build
stages.
We waited until coming back to Lon-
don for the new term to start construc-
tion. After we were kindly loaned
some garage space from the motor
club we ordered the timber, screws
and bolts, begged and borrowed tools
and favours and finally the construc-
tion began. Many a long night was
spent measuring, marking, cutting,
gluing and screwing in our cold but
homely garage tucked away under-
neath the ACEX building. Bit by bit
and assembly by assembly the model
began to take shape, first the fuselage,
then the wings, then the tail and finally
on a cold Thursday evening the canvas
went on and the Cody Flyer replica was
complete.
Aside from the main build we had to
sort out lorry hire, design banners and
leaflets, make playlists, hire speakers
and post off essential security paper-
work. We ordered Helium balloons, pa-
per aeroplane flyers and had matching
T-Shirts and scarves. The Cody Flyer
would be accompanied on the float by
the C&G motor club mascot Bo’ and
following proudly behind would be the
RCS motor club fire engine Jez.
The motor club also made them-
selves useful by giving Tom and Owen
a lift to collect the generator and speak-
ers in the back of the RSM motor club
mascot Clem, a 1926 1-Tonne truck.
Cruising down Kings Road we man-
aged to get the Ferrari driver in front
pretty annoyed as people stopped to
take pictures of us completely ignoring
his £100,000 pride and joy.
When the day of the parade came
around months of hard work and ef-
fort came together and with the help of
willing and enthusiastic volunteers the
day went off with barely a hitch. By the
time we arrived at our start point the
balloons had been blown into a single
tangled mass of red and white and the
chalk boards had been washed clean by
driving rain. The boards were quickly
addressed by John and Sam with some
rapid chalk overwriting and the bal-
loons were sorted out by Suzie and
Amanda who settled on large bundles
on each corner of the float.
Nobody could’ve predicted how ef-
fective a fake moustache and some long
coats could be to transform Harry and
Veronica, two 21st Century Londoners
into the spitting image of Mr & Mrs
Samuel Cody, but I saw it with my own
eyes and it was so. With the finished
plane, Sam Cody himself and a stiff
breeze we were more than tempted to
cut the ties and let her fly, the Marshals
however were not quite so keen so we
erred on the side of caution and kept
everyone and everything on board the
lorry. It was for the best really.
Through some combination of Dam-
busters, Top Gun and paper aeroplanes
we won over the hearts of the watching
crowds. Owen provided entertainment
alongside the lorry trying to catch pa-
per aeroplanes thrown from on board
the float and even attempting to aqua-
plane a large puddle which inevitably
ended in a wet foot and much laughter.
Suzie and Betty also braved the crowds
The Lord 		 Mayor’s Show:
City and Guilds College Union 		 celebrate 100 years of British aviation
and discovered just how demanding
8-year-old children really can be when
they think they might get something
for free.
The procession passed by many City
of London landmarks including The
Bank of England, Mansion House, St
Paul’s Cathedral and Embankment.
Impressively large crowds braved the
weather to ensure that the entire route
was lined with cheering and smil-
ing faces. Lunch was provided by the
girl guides (no joke) and many people
chose to supplement their sandwiches
with a warm glass of mulled wine al-
though Phil Lui opted for something a
little stronger.
It was at the signature point of the
whole parade, right in front of the
Grandstands that Phil (call him Rich-
ard) picked as his 2 minutes of fame.
Sighting out an unsuspecting lady in
the crowd, Phil lined her up and with
an aeroplane flight of pinpoint accu-
racy and managed to spear her right
between the eyes. Much to the be-
musement of the target and her hus-
band, the entire population of our float
simultaneously swivelled on the spot
to look the opposite way and deny all
knowledge of the incident.
Thedayendedwiththeratherstrange
picture of Sam Cody in full 1908 cos-
tume happily riding around Moorgate
on a Segway, we held up the army for
a few minutes so that we could take
some pictures and then we went home.
Via the pub of course.
Special thanks go to all who helped
with the organisation, and most of all
to everyone who came along and made
it a day to remember.
Samuel Franklin
Cody
Born: 6th March 1867 (Davenport, Iowa)
Early life: Cody grew up on the plains of Iowa,
living the life of cowboy.
1898-1901: Cody became interested in kites
while touring Europe giving shooting and
horse riding displays.
1901: Cody patented his kite design and of-
fered it to the War Office for use in the second
Boer war.
1905: Cody begins to work with kites for the
Royal Engineers. He later works on airships,
which were the British armed forces’ primary
interest for flying machines at the time.
1908: Workking for the armed forces allowed
Cody to develop an aeroplane. On 16 October,
1908 made the first powered, controlled flight
in the UK of a heavier than air machine.
Died: 7th August 1913
Article written by Owen Connick
Design: Alice Rowlands
For more information see
www.sfcody.org.uk
www.codyflyerproject.com
PhOTO:
Suzie
Squire’s
Mum
Owen demonstrates their modern replica
PhOTOs:
Julien
weissenberg

