27
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
coffee.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Stuff IC Students Like!? :)
Photoshop Competition - 7
Y
ou may notice this week
that things are looking dif-
ferent. That’s right the edi-
tors columns have become
less column like and more
like an editorial. We here at felix like to
think we’re constantly striving for per-
fection. Always thinking about how we
can make the paper better. I hope you
agree with me when I say it’s the little
things we change every now and then
make the paper that bit better.
Things in the FUCWIT league are
really flying. Since we started to bribe
you with a free iPod, entries are still fly-
ing in left right and centre. This weeks
Sanky B is an obvious choice, which
we happened to forget about until one
dedicated reader emailed us (pointing
out how idiotic we’ve been). Please do
give us suggestions. It’ll help out a lot.
Now to use this section for what it
is meant to be for. A rant. Now I love
the Union. I pretty much live there.
There has been many a time where a
day of intense lectures has resulted in
what can only be desribed as carnage
in the Union. Cheapest drinks in South
7. Whisky:
Now i’m not sure if everyone agrees
with us here. But damn do we love
whisky, and as students of Imperial
College we can be a bit presumptuous
and assume that all student at IC stu-
dents also love whisky. Except those
who don’t drink obviously. Back to
the topic in hand (no pun intended),
whisky is a fine drink with plenty of
flavour, kick and a reasonable level of
alcohol. Some people are fans of Jack
Daniels, not us. We’re fans of other,
non - American, brands such as chi-
vas regal, Jamesons or the Famous
Grouse.
Coffee Break
This weeks winner. Team Rubbish Next weeks RAW image for you to go wild. See www.felixonline.co.uk
Congratulations to this week’s win-
ner, Team Rubbish. This week you’ve
outdone yourselves. Ypu were almost
beat by “Top of the tables” entry, but
lets face it the ligh saber through the
face was mega awesome. Again with
the laser eyes, but the physicists here
tell me light doesn’t bend. Oh well.
Also whadufuh is David Cameron do-
ing there eh?
Keep up the good work, and please en-
ter again next week. We like.
Drink with me, I’m Snaky B
and this week I’m dressed as Mr T. If it got wheels I can fix it.
W
hat up fools!. I
said quit you jib-
ber jabber. I’m
Snaky B dressed
as one bad mother
funky. That’s right Mr T! I believe in
the Golden Rule - The Man with the
Gold.. rules! That’s right jive turkey.
Get up and eat that snickers fool, or
I’m going to hit you so hard I’ll knock
you into next week. That’s right people
I’m going to teach you suckas a lesson.
You better not be talkin’ to no invisible
animals! Ain’t nobody gonna say, shut
up fool ain’t got no secret weapon. He’s
just crazy! Just a minute, now let me lay
down the rules of this establishment. I
deal with every kid with an even hand.
Ain’t nobody givin’ me no back talk.
Now go play. I’m just tryin’ to pull
you of the streets little brother. Maybe
you can do us some good, and maybe
we can do you some good. Don’t be
thinkin’ “how long we gonna listen to
this jive. When can we get something
to eat?”
I have one last thing to say, I ain’t get-
tin in no plane. Quit druggin’ my milk
Murdock!
The high res picture can be found on-
line. Click on Coffee Break in the sec-
tions tab. Email your entry to coffee.
felix@imperial.ac.uk with your team
name and .PSD file and you’ll be en-
tered into the FUCWIT league.
This week’s image is of ACC Vice
Chairman Chaz Murdoch. While get-
ting drunk on Wednesday night, IC
hockey club decided to tape him to
this tree of woe. I particularly find the
expression on his face hilarious.
Ravi Pall
Coffee Break Editor
Kensington, so why go anywhere else.
It also makes me happy to see more
and more people turning up to the
Union to drink, socialise and even eat
the “excellent” cuisine offered during
the week days. Of particular note, the
Union entertainments have been awe-
some as of late. This has been the best
freshers’ week, and even first time in
IC history. I find it a shame though that
there was such a conflict between the
faculty unions and the central union
over the masquerade ball, which was
highlighted in last week issue of felix.
It seems that a great misunderstanding
between the two cause such an upset.
Sure things were not timetabled in the
greatest way, but I assure there is no
war between the Union and the other
parties. I personally didn’t think that
last weeks article came out a little un-
just toward the efforts both sides made
for their events. I hope that now things
have “blown over” the faculty unions
can work with the central union to bet-
ter co-ordinate events. This can surely
result in bigger better and higher at-
tended events.
The Union
isn’t all bad
26 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
It all began on one still Friday evening
with twelve brave Fellwanderers lining
up outside the union ready to venture
to the Lake District.
Unrest was in the air, will the weather
be a repeat of last weekend causing
many people to be rescued as a months
rain fell in a few hours, or will it just
rain like the last two Lakes trips. Ga-
reth and Jon got the minibus away with
all ready for their seven hour drive.
President Nathaniel wasn’t so cleaver
getting stuck in traffic on the M3 as he
was bringing the car to collect another
four unsuspecting victims on this Hal-
loween night.
Even with the car leaving an hour
and a half later than the minibus it still
arrived in High Wray Village Hall, our
5* accommodation for the weekend,
before the minibus. Nathaniel wasn’t
sure where he had overtaken the mini-
bus, never mind he must have been
half asleep at the wheel. In the wait for
the minibus the hall heating, yes it had
heating, was cranked up to the max
along with the stereo and it’s slightly
off-putting record collection.
Saturday’s weather was calm, sunny
and just plain gorgeous for the Lakes
in November. It was decided to try and
bag Helvellyn and Striding Edge mak-
ing the most of the weather. Helvellyn
seemed like a great idea until we ar-
rived at the car park, £12 for a minibus
For those of you who were somehow
unaware, Saturday 1st November saw
the IC Debating Society play host to
the IC Intervarsity Debating Competi-
tion (IV), sponsored by Glencore and
the IC Finance Society. Universities
from across the buzzing debating scene
were invited to participate. Teams from
as far afield as the European Business
School near Frankfurt along with more
familiar faces from institutions such
as Oxford and Cambridge all com-
peted for the highly coveted title of the
“Master-debater”!
Thought provoking, amusing and
at times bizarre points of view were
heard along with numerous opinions
that were more often than not stated
as facts! A variety of subjects were ex-
plored in depth, including the legiti-
macy of public funding in science and
the evaluation and reassessment of the
role that our democratic system should
play.
The final rounds saw Sam Block
and Aliyah Akram of Cambridge (A)
triumph over Middle Temple, King’s
College and LSE on the motion that
‘This house would be pacifist’, by argu-
ing that the United Kingdom should
disband HM Armed Forces and adopt
a new defence policy of passive resist-
with the machine only accepting £1
coins, which genius decided that. With
all pockets emptied everyone set off up
towards a snow, ice and cloud covered
summit. A change to the route was
made as Striding Edge wasn’t passable
due to ice. Nathaniel managed to miss
the summit of Helvellyn arriving at the
trig point one meter below. On the way
down Nathaniel slipped, landed in a
puddle and took out Evelyne making
her new trousers muddy, she wasn’t
pleased.
Most awoke on Sunday with a slight
hang-over to beautiful clear skies and
a 15km walk ahead of them. Nathan-
iel decided to beast everyone around
the Coniston Fells which includes The
Old Man, Swirl and Wetherlam with
a small amount of scrambling in be-
tween. The views from the top were
brilliant stretching from Lake Winder-
mere to Scafell Pike making the hours
of pain in the minibus worthwhile. Jon
celebrated at the top of the Old Man
with a cup of Pims, something that’s
becoming quite a tradition.
Leaving later than planned and get-
ting stuck in endless M6 roadwork
traffic our weekend of fantastic weath-
er finished with a gourmet meal from
either KFC or Burger King at Warwick
Services. All in all a great trip, check
the photo’s at www.fellwanderers.com.
If you fancy a trip to the countryside
any time soon, come and join us; 12:30
in Beit Quad on a Tuesday for more
information.
BlessedbysunshineintheLakeDistrict
Intervarsity Debating Competition at IC
ance “as Gandhi would have wanted”.
Fred Cowell and James Prior of Mid-
dle Temple also took home the title of
best team on the tab; James Prior also
clinched ‘the best speaker’ position.
If you have read this far down the ar-
ticle and any of it sounded provocative
and of interest (or perhaps you just feel
compelled to have your point of view
heard on any number of controversial
topics) then do come along to one of
our meetings at 6.00pm every Wednes-
day in the Sir Alexander Fleming build-
ing – room 119, or email debate@im-
perial.ac.uk. This year promises to be
an active one for the Debating Society,
presenting members with the oppor-
tunity to receive coaching from world-
class debaters and participate in many
competitions at different universities
nationwide. We also have a team go-
ing to Cork in the Republic of Ireland
this New Year to partake in the World
Universities Debating Championships,
so all in all it looks set to be an excit-
ing year.
Thank you, once again, to our gener-
ous sponsors, Glencore and the IC Fi-
nance Society - without their support
the IV would not have taken place.
Nathaniel Bottrell
Fellwanderer
Kadhim Shubber
Does anyone else think I look like Mussolini

