felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Fencing on form again!
Brown nosing...
...we like it, read all about in on page 31
Maurice Berk
Fencing
Imperial Men’s 2nd 103
Royal Holloway 1st 135
Imperial went in to this game 2nd place
in the league behind their opponents
Royal Holloway but with a game in
hand. With both teams unbeaten thus
far this season, this match was highly
anticipated as setting the tone for the
outcome of the entire competition and,
only three foil matches in to the game,
it was clear the tone would not be set in
Imperial’s favour.
Vice-captain Nathan “Badger” Harm-
ston, Alex “Leukemia” Bishop and
Nathan “Bicycle” Blundell all found
themselves on the wrong end of 0 –
5, 2 – 5 and 3 – 5 defeats respective-
ly. Alex again faltered in his second
match, suffering an even worse 1 – 5
loss before Badger clawed some pride
back for Imperial in an 11 – 5 win that
left him exhausted and in severe res-
piratory distress. The joy was short
lived however as Nathan B. proceeded
to lose the following match 1 – 5. Alex
was clearly inspired by Badger’s hero-
ics and managed a 10 – 5 win, but with
Nathan and Badger following this up
with 1 – 5 and 0 – 5 losses respectively,
it was not nearly enough and Imperial
were a massive 17 points behind at the
end of foil, scores standing at 28 – 45.
Epee was up next and the epeeists set
themselves the lofty target of improv-
ing upon the foilists’ performance, even
if victory seemed impossible. Tim Har-
ford-Cross set hearts a-fluttering with
a fine 5 – 3 win in the opening match
before Sjoerd “Eye of the Tiger” Mie-
dema reminded Imperial their cause
was hopeless with a 1 – 7 defeat against
the infamous Tom Bennett. Chris and
Sjoerd continued to drop points with 4
– 5 and 3 – 5 losses before Tim actually
put Imperial into the lead for epee with
a stunning 12 – 2 victory. Chris failed
to capitalize, going down to a 2 – 8 loss
and Bennett again proving impossible
to handle. Sjoerd and Chris kept Impe-
rial in it right until the end with 7 – 5
and 5 – 4 wins before it was Tim’s turn
to face Bennett’s unrestrained wrath,
crumpling to a 0 – 6 defeat to leave the
final epee scores at 39 – 45 and Imperi-
al’s chance of victory vanishingly slim.
Charlie Hennings opened the sabre
in much the same fashion, losing 3 – 5
to a Bennett who seemed unperturbed
fencing an unfamiliar weapon, and
Nathan B. ensured Imperial stayed on
the inexorable path to defeat by then
suffering a 1 – 5 loss. Team captain
Maurice Berk gave Imperial one last
glimmer of hope with a resounding 9
– 5 win in his first appearance of the
game before Nathan B.’s 3 – 5 defeat
finally put the result beyond doubt.
Charlie and Maurice compounded
Imperial’s misery with 4 – 5 and 1 – 5
losses respectively, and neither Nathan
B.’s following 5 – 5 draw nor Maurice’s 6
– 5 win proved any consolation. Char-
lie went down to a 3 – 5 defeat in the
final match to a backdrop of Imperial’s
hope and dreams going up in flames –
final scores for the game standing at
103 – 135. System down, generic photos are great. Slash slash you are dead!

