4 felix Friday 14 November 2008
felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
International
felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Edited by Hassan Joudi
Thousands of anti-nuclear activists have
protested against a train transporting nucle-
ar waste between France and Germany. For
several days there were attempts to block
the railway route including sit-ins, protest-
ers cementing themselves to the track and
clashes with police involving water cannons
and batons. With no nuclear waste process-
ing facility of its own, Germany sends an
annual shipment of spent fuel to France
and Britain to be processed, before being
returned to a storage depot in Gorleben,
Lower Saxony. Nuclear power is high on the
political agenda in Germany ever since the
government embarked in 2003 on phasing
out nuclear power within two decades.
Germany
The trial of five Muslim men has begun
in Sydney after they were arrested in 2005
when their homes were raided by police.
They pleaded not guilty to the charge of
‘conspiring to commit acts in preparation
for a terrorist attack on Australian soil’. If
convicted, the men - aged between 24 and
43 years old, will face life imprisonment, the
maximum punishment in Australian law.
With criticism that this will be trial against
Islam, the judge made a point of countering
this and telling the jury to clear their mind
of any anti-Muslim bias for the duration
of the trial which is expected to last up to
a year. Recently Indonesia executed 3 ter-
rorists who were convicted of perpetrating
the 2002 Bali bombings. Back in Britain, an
Iraqi doctor is currently on trial for an at-
tack on Glasgow airport in 2007.
Australia
A wave of protests by factory workers has
hit eastern and southern China in recent
weeks, caused by job losses for workers of
struggling businesses. The global financial
crisis has meant consumers in the west are
notspendingasmuch,soChinesebusinesses
can’t sell as much in exports. Consequently
many have been forced to reduce produc-
tion, or shut factories altogether. With lower
exports, China’s economic growth forecast
has been lowered to 9%. Lower export de-
mand is a problem also being faced by In-
dia, South Korea and Japan. All this comes
as Chinese President Hu Jintao announced a
£390bn public works programme.
China
Once again fighting has intensified in the
Democratic Republic of Congo between
several armed groups over control of the
country’s vast mineral resources. Political
and social unrest has marred the country
since gaining independence in 1960 from its
status as Belgium colony. Despite reaching a
peace deal in 2003 after a bitter 5-year civil
war, the so-called ‘Kivu conflict’ has con-
tinued. Like many conflicts on the African
continent, hundreds of thousands of civil-
ians have fled their homes in fear, as well
as children being forced to fight as soldiers.
The UN’s 17,000 peacekeepers stationed in
the Congo have already engaged with armed
rebel groups using helicopter gunships in
attempts to stop them reaching the capital,
Goma.
Congo, DR
World leaders are converging upon Wash-
ington for an emergency economic summit
of the G20 on Saturday 15th November. The
meeting was originally suggested by Presi-
dent George Bush after the G7 meeting a
month ago on 10th October. The G20 is a
group of the 20 largest economics in the
world, representing 90% of global GNP and
66% of the world’s population. Varying top-
ics are being pushed forward for discussion.
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged
that global warming not to be ignored but
discussed along side the global financial cri-
sis. British Prime Minister Gordon Brown
has called for co-ordinated tax cuts across
the G20 economies to lessen the impact of
the global financial crisis. China and India
are also expected to seek a bigger say at the
summit.
USA
A bill making abortion legal for the first 12 weeks of
pregnancy was passed by the Uruguayan Parliament
this week by 17 votes to 13. However the bill is unlikely
to become legislation as President Tabare Vazquez,
himself a doctor, has made it clear that he will veto
the bill on ethical grounds. Abortion is illegal in most
South American countries except in cases of rape or
if the woman’s life is in danger. The country’s Roman
Catholic Church, which 47% of Uruguayans follow,
campaigned against the bill. Uruguay is usually consid-
ered the most secular of South American countries, so
the issue has resurfaced the debate between the separa-
tion of Church and State in the continent.
Uruguay
The pro-democracy movement received a blow
this week when 14 democracy activists were
sentenced to 65 years in prison each. They were
arrested during the anti-government demonstra-
tions in September 2007 when several thousand
students and Buddhist monks marched peaceful-
ly through the streets. The protests, nicknamed
the ‘Saffron Revolution’, were violently put down
by the Burmese military government, who siezed
power of the country in 1988 and have remained
in control ever since. Additionally a blogger was
sentenced to 20 years in prison for posting car-
toons of the military leader Than Shwe, and 70
other dissidents, many of whom are members of
the opposition National League for Democracy
party are still on trial. Human Rights Watch and
other pressure groups have called the trials un-
fair and campaigned for their release.
Burma

