6 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Comment
Angst – You are doing it wrong
A. Geek
S
orryfortheabsencelastweek,
I was temporarily paralysed
from the brain down by New
Imperial Girl, and had to be
treated with 20ccs of David
Dimbleby and my girlfriend’s cooking.
Once I’d managed to clamber to my
feet, the deadline was past. Alas. And
unfortunately it seems that Gilead was
drowned out by the emotional freak-
show that turned up, which can only
mean one thing. Ladies and Gentle-
men, I hereby declare a State of Emer-
gency within the nation of Imperial. As
a people, I compel you all - cheer the
fuck up, you miserable cunts.
What the hell are you people whin-
ing for now? “Anonymous”, a probably-
female student who seems to be one
Facebook friend rejection off of slash-
ing her wrists, was just the entrée last
week.
New Imperial Girl follows that up
with the heavy suffering of not being
able to shower in order to stop herself
from wasting her life away - inciden-
tally, my dear, if you’re curious as to
why men aren’t interested at Impe-
rial, it’s because it’s not just the shal-
low ones who appreciate clean women.
Then the delightful “Watcher” who
wishes that those golly-gosh darned
life-saving medics could just be a bit
more polite when they’re trying to give
unprepared, equipment-less, off-duty
emergency medical assistance. Yes!
Damn them. Those selfless bastards.
Look, if the worst thing in your life
is that a doctor doesn’t doff his cap to
you and bow on his way to perform
an emergency tracheotomy, then my
friend, you’ve got a pretty fucking
sweet existence.
Probably the cream of the crop last
week was Mr. da Flex, a man so ridicu-
lous I half expected the text to fade
out as I read it and Rick Astley to start
playing in the background. What in the
name of Jar Jar Binks were you talking
about, man? You drifted between bit-
ter, angry lyric quoting and badly-hid-
den regret so frequently that I could
smell the tears of grief in the ink. Being
depressed is not a good justification
for asshattery, especially not the brand
you’re peddling; and by that I mean the
brand that dresses you up as a char-
ismatic ladies man with a penis like a
french stick and enough testosterone
to fuel another Madonna world tour.
Let me tell you, right now I’m sipping
a coffee in an exploitative franchised
outlet, listening to The Andrews Sis-
ters on my mp3 player. Angst? What
angst? Yes, there are tasks to be com-
pleted before set deadlines and some
tasks may require time periods that
overstretch those given. Yes, this cof-
fee is a bit milky. But hey, guess what?
I’m living in one of the greatest cities in
the world, studying at one of the high-
est levels possible, and I’m not even a
quarter through my life. I mean, once
WALL-E arrives in my postbox, it’ll be
hard to see how I can complain about
anything, really. Tickler cheddar was
even on offer in Sainsbury’s. Fucking
Tickler cheddar, everyone. Are you
getting this down? What’s there to be
depressed about?
We all know depression is fun and
god knows I love a good wallow too.
But the trick is to try and not spread it
around everyone else. Because the last
thing people need is another reason to
be depressed. Happiness is fashionable,
folks. And according to Starbucks, it’s
officially Christmas now, so you don’t
really have an excuse. Chin up now.
If you were affected by any of the is-
sues raised in last week’s Felix, please
crawl into a hole and die. Alternatively,
get in touch with us on our 24-hour
Insult Helpline by emailing anan-
grygeek@googlemail.com. Keep smil-
ing, folks.
Music felix is my hot, hot sex
Geek Woman vs Promiscuous Girl
Imperial Girl
L
ast night was horrific.
Let me walk you through
it. Imagine I am studying
in my room on a Thursday
night, dressed in glasses
and baggies like a right Imperial nerd.
A couple of days ago a friend had men-
tion his friend was having a few friends
around at a club night so I was think-
ing by 8pm, “screw this work- I need
to go out”. I didn’t actually want to go
out, but I somehow had to reconfirm
my sanity or more that I was a stu-
dent and do actually have fun beyond
studying... That was my first BIG mis-
take. Did I mention that this cute guy
was going to be there so I was perhaps
persuaded to go. Yes, you’ve guessed it-
Mistake Number 2.
So imagine this, I’m throwing off
“Geek-Woman” clothes and transform-
ing into “Promiscuous-Girl” clothes.
Within seconds you would have never
of guessed I was a straight-A-student,
studying at Imperial with a promis-
ing and intellectual future ahead of
me. But whatever, that’s fine. A bit of
a “Dr Jeckle and Mr Hyde” never hurt
anyone.
No! Mistake Number f*king 3. If my
life was the lottery draw I would have
been a multiple-time millionaire win-
ner. Right so I am off out in my, dare I
say it, “fuck-me pumps” walking down
to Earls Court station when an old
man comes up to me and asks “do
you want to go for a coffee”. What the
hell is wrong with this guy? Doesn’t
he know Starbucks isn’t open at 9pm
and more to the point if I needed and
found a pimp, no money could afford
you even a touch of my hair you ugly
loser.
Okay, but at least he confirmed I
looked hot or minx-like. Same thing
at a club night I tend to find; no room
at the inn for elegant beauty. So I get
into the club and see Cute Guy. Great!
Now I am stalking the guy. “Why on
earth...” I am thinking at this point “...
do I actually like this guy?” So the night
goes on and I am getting cosy with this
guy but obviously not in the view of
his friends. Mistake Number 4. Heard
the song “Love locked down” by Kanye
West- well quite literally it wasn’t lock
down, it was stealth affection that I
was getting.
So the night is over and I am drunk/
tipsy/drunk (DTD) and I am thinking
this Cute Guy will see me home. No
I tell you. For all the flirting and af-
fection over the night all I got was a
walk to the bus stop. Did I mention I
wouldn’t of even got that walk if the
bus stop wasn’t on his way home.
Where the hell did chivalry go? What
happened to opening doors, pulling
out seats, walking on the outsides of
the pavement ... dropping a girl to her
door and perhaps receiving a precious
kiss on the cheek? No! No! No! That
would be too much. So here I am in my
“Promiscuous-Girl” clothes that I put
on to impress this guy who has now
left me at this deserted bus stop, tem-
peratures in negatives at 5.30 in the
morning!!! I have lectures in 4.5 hours.
What a bad show of him. All I wanted
to do is get back to being “Geek-Wom-
en”- where I felt comfortable and in
control.
But that is exactly it! I figured it out.
By day I am in control, I am powerful
and a self-knowing woman. When I go
out, I sometimes become this fragile
girl, who demands the attention of cute
guys with the hope that their acknowl-
edgement of me will confirm that I am
desirable. Speaking to others, I know I
am not alone. So I am thinking, are we
trying to tackle the balance of a being
successful women with being a more
emotionally vulnerable one?
Do we let ourselves believe that be-
cause we do well in work we should
be able to let our love lives slip?Argh,
Mum was right- boys are trouble. Let
me know what you think. Email: Impe-
rialGirl@ic.ac.uk
A
ll around me people are
rushing for their trains
and seemingly being
outfoxed by the ticket
barriers, but my mind is
elsewhere. Not on the assessed prob-
lem sheet that I have to hand in the day
that these words are published, nor
the lab report I have just a few days to
complete. I’m at Victoria station and
my mind is thinking about felix; the
italics should inform you that I’m talk-
ing about this newspaper (which you
should never let the Associate Editor
Gilead Amit hear you call ‘the felix’, lest
he strike thee down).
It’s a peculiar thing to be concerned
with on a Friday night. In a few hours
I will see my parents and sister for the
first time in months, something that
one would expect to be taking up more
space in my mind. But questioning my
motives for giving myself more work at
the end of an exhausting week invites a
deluge of further self-questioning.
Why do I spend my otherwise empty
Wednesday mornings, afternoons and
evenings editing this newspaper? Why
do we writers and editors of felix throw
our degrees down the pan as we obsess
over every word and line in our belov-
ed publication? Why do the majority of
us study Physics?
These are questions that admittedly
I struggle with each day, much as the
Coffee Break/Technology/Layout/
Seems-Like-He-Does-Everything Edi-
tor Ravi Pall and I will struggle with
out studies as we guiltily pass sunny
days in the West Basement of Beit.
felix has an unmatched ability to
provide you with work, a simple step
into the officeis enough to ensnare me.
There’s a page to re-edit here, format-
ting errors there, Shock! Horror! A sec-
tion editor has left a big white space on
their page. Don’t even get me started on
researching news articles (which eas-
ily makes the time between dawn and
dusk seem like five minutes, and not in
a good way – as the Editor knows all too
well). I might complain more if it were
not entirely self-inflicted: which brings
us to the first question. Why do I, like
others, spend so much of my free time
on this newspaper? It would be cynical
to suggest our CVs were the culprits
and condescending to imply that we
have little else to do. The reason that
I, like Katya-Yani Vyas (the unceasingly
upper-crust Politics Editor), am behind
on academic work is because it is more
fun to work on felix than on equations.
Of course this is far too much of a flip-
pant reason to justify abandoning all
hopes of attaining a 1st class degree to
my parents, but it is the truth nonethe-
less. It’s hard for me to apply myself in
a boring lecture (as I’m sure the ever-
growing number of 2nd year Physicists
annoyed by my constant chattering
will tell you) but it’s easy for me to get
down to work when the ‘work’ is writ-
ing with my friends. It’s mind-numbing
to worry about whether I’ve quoted the
correct number of significant figures
but it’s exhilarating to worry about
the number of lines separating images
when you’ve got the Fashion Editor
Dan Wan thinking up funny captions
for the aforementioned images sitting
beside you.
Perhaps I’m really skirting the is-
sue here: maybe the felix team is full
of students who really wish they were
doing a different degree (I know that
Caz Knight, the Arts Editor, would be
gone in a flash to live a life of Bohe-
mian abandon if she didn’t think it was
a waste to quit in her last year). This
brings me neatly onto the last ques-
tion: who are the felix team and why
do so many of them call the Blackett
Kadhim
Shubber
The felix magazines
L
ast week, the first of the free
magazines that felix pro-
duces was released. There
are effectively three maga-
zines plus a one-off special,
that felix produces. I, science is, funni-
ly enough, the science magazine which
is produced by students, primarily
from the Science and Communication
course at Imperial. This means that the
quality of this magazine is very, very
good as these guys will be doing it for
a living. It is full of informative science
(including engineering) news, as well
as opinion articles and reviews. The
best thing of all is that it is free. Some
of you who picked up your copy of felix
from the library last week will have re-
alised that it was shoved in the middle
pages. Some of you looked quite sur-
prised to find it there, I should know,
I was there putting the thing in as you
lot were picking it up. But it is free, and
very informative, and, according to
the Guardian, one of the best student
magazines out there.
Next week, we shall be releasing
phoenix, which is in fact older than fe-
lix. It was started by H.G. Wells who
many of you will know was a renowned
science fiction writer. This magazine is
focused more on the arts and literature
side, with short stories, poems, visual
art and photography. phoenix is the
one where we really let our hair down
with the visual design, so check it out
and see what we’ve come up with.
Finally we have Another Castle. This
is new to this year, and will be the gam-
ing magazine. Imagine all those pages
that we had in felix last year, all neatly
compiled into one 56 page mammoth
edition.
I said finally, but actually there is one
more magazine, and that is the sports
magazine that will appear after varsity.
So as you can see, we have a maga-
zine that will cater to the whole col-
lege. Most importantly, I want you all
to realise that they are free, and that
they are worth a read. The copies will
mainly be found next to the library
cafe, as well as next to most of the drop
bins.
So sit back, relax and enjoy the vari-
ety that felix has to offer.
The Editor
Laboratory home? Unfortunately the
phenomenon that is the high propor-
tion of Physicists in the felix office has
not been investigated by sociologists.
I could suggest that it’s because Physi-
cists are more enthusiastic, better writ-
ers or more creative editors – but that
would be crossing the line between in-
trospection and self-indulgence (so I’ll
stick to: I just don’t know).
Undoubtedly you are not lucky
enough to know us personally. I’m not
saying that we are happy about it but
we are too busy ignoring our social
lives to rectify this problem. I won’t be
able to give you a comprehensive per-
son-by-person breakdown of our per-
sonalities: Food Editor Afonso Campos
defies rational thought in any case, but
I will give you a few important snippets
of information.
Like the fact that Arts Editor David
Paw is incapable of using an actual pic-
ture of himself as his Profile Picture
on Facebook or that we have varying
degrees of skill in Photoshop and a
few have no idea why everything dis-
appears when they move the cursor to
the top right hand corner of the new
iMacs that inhabit our desks. It may
interest you to know we enjoy playing
a variety of music, from Tchaikovsky
to Tomb Crew, very loudly when other
people are trying to work (well I enjoy
it anyhow, I suspect that Music Editor
Peter Sinclair’s opinion of me lowers
every time I blare out Boyz II Men “I’ll
make love to you”).
The people who worship at the feet
of the cat are different, that much I can
say with confidence. We are the stu-
dents who will never go into research
but also have little interest in the world
of finance. We read stories, watch films
or see another pint of snakebite being
chugged at the Union and instantly
ideas and headlines form in our minds.
There is no question of stopping. I
would gladly miss a lecture; I wouldn’t
miss working on an edition of felix. To
others my priorities need rethinking,
to the members of the felix team, my
life gets in the way of far more impor-
tant activities.
“There is no
question of
stopping. I
would gladly
miss a lecture;
I wouldn’t miss
working on an
edition of felix”
Promiscuous girl, or an attractive geek woman?
“A homage to the felix team”, by Kadhim Shubber

