8 felix Friday 14 November 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Comment
I
n the last few weeks, I have had
more good intentions rammed
in my face than I could ever
hope to deal with. Some are
relatively harmless, for example
my mother washing my jeans and con-
fronting me with yet another dubious
foil packet that has materialised in the
wash. Most, however, seem to be just a
good old fashioned waste of my time.
However, contraception based emer-
gencies aside, I can think of no bet-
ter example of time-wasting than the
petition.
According to a highly valued internet
source (that may or may not have been
thrown together by a despotic bunch
of unemployable English Literature
graduates and passed off as an ency-
clopaedia) the petition has its origins
in Imperial China, whereby Emperors
would remove corrupt members of
government office by the will of ordi-
nary people. Clearly that idea took off,
seeing as now in China ordinary peo-
ple are “removed” by corrupt members
of government office.
And so hundreds of years of point-
less endeavour recently culminated in
Petitions: a waste of perfectly good ink
someone thrusting a piece of paper
in my face and demanding that I sign
in order to get the Gaza strip border
area opened and allow some student to
come and study at Imperial. I signed,
and along with the sheer millions of
other signatories, I of course had the
effect of going up to the parties in-
volved in this long running religious
and political conflict, slapping them
both around the face with a wet mack-
erel and proclaiming loudly “Just sort
it out, douchebags!” At that instant, the
student in question would magically
appear at Imperial’s pearly gates and
several extraordinarily well endowed
women would materialise with frozen
Capri-suns and feed them to me. The
word “empowerment” doesn’t even
come close.
In fact (and much to my personal
dismay), none of these things hap-
pened. All that happened was that it
made me feel a little less guilty than my
other possible course of action, which
was to tell the petitioner to entertain
themselves with a part of my anatomy.
I appreciate that once upon a time
petitions used to work- back in a time
before Pigs had evolved to lose their
wings- governments believed in the
wholesome notion of democracy and
listened to the paper based woes of
their citizens. But you can hardly blame
them for not caring anymore when they
are inundated with thousands of mind-
numbingly stupid requests. I have
taken a few choice requests from the
number10.gov.uk e-petition website:
• “Make all animal killing illegal”- 3
signatories; admittedly most of these
are from people who have taken the
“name” box to mean “comment” and
filled it with hilarity such as “we’re
meat eaters you dope.”
• “Stop VATing chocolate biscuits”- 6
signatories, including an amusing aside
about Jaffa cake classification.
• And my personal favourite, from
a Lady called Lisa with most intui-
tive economic mind I’ve seen in years:
“Print lots of money to clear the debt.”
This was alongside the comment: “why
would it ruin the economy??? It’s al-
ready near to ruin, if extra money was
given to the banks from a machine,
rather than our taxes, this could only
help everyone.” Thanks Lisa. (In fair-
ness, someone did ask “Lisa, is igno-
rance really bliss?”)
These were all, rather worryingly,
genuine. Even the petitions with the
most signatures have just become
an opportunity for government spin,
where the PM’s press army replies
with how the government has actually
already tackled this issue, and they in
fact are the shit. The problem is peo-
ple have become so self-absorbed that
they feel they can write about their
insignificant woes and post them into
the public domain; actually we couldn’t
give a damn about Johnny Bellend’s
chocolate digestive dilemma. In fact,
even causes that deserve public recog-
nition are lost in a swarm of insanity,
which is a shame; despite the pointless
nature of the petition, it can very oc-
casionally be a pathway to something
bigger.
So the next time someone tries to
force feed you good intention, don’t
bother in subjugating yourself to their
whims.
Be more man than I was and actually
do the planet and civilization a favour-
save the ink and the paper.
Jaimie Henry
S
o, for the last fortnight my
boyfriend has been pretty
much constantly in and out
of hospital. No, I realise you
don’t care, just bear with me
for a minute. There’s a really satisfying
rant you can get all opinionated about
coming up in a second.
I’m a chemist. Largely, this means
spending 2-3 hours a day in lectures,
6 hours a day in labs, 2-3 hours a day
writing up reports and problem sheets,
and 8 hours a day whinging about it.
Sometimes we even sleep. I could be
wrong but I’m pretty sure most courses
at IC have at least that workload by the
start of the second year. Hence, when
you’re actually not just skiving, being
forced to miss large chunks of college
is worrying, especially if you’re actually
planning on coming out of all this with
a degree.
My boyfriend then. He has Crohn’s
disease (yes, I know you’ve all figured
out who I am now, shut up for a sec).
The other weekend I had to take him
into hospital for a major flare up,
where we were terrified his intestines
had ruptured. This week, he’s in for
major surgery, and there’s not much
which can really be done about it. Both
times we were majorly dicked around
Stop treating us like snotty teenagers
by the hospitals – not really anyone’s
fault, but no less annoying for having
to sit around waiting for 3 days, each
night being told they’d defnitely have
a bed for us by tomorrow morning.
There’s been stress, there’s been sleep-
less nights, there’s been tears. This isn’t
a request for sympthy, you understand,
just an explanation of the situation to
emphasise the next point.
When I found out, last Friday, that I
was probably going to spend a lot of the
two weeks after that up and down from
Oxford, I sent an email to a bunch of
people in my department, explaining
the situation, and that I would proba-
bly be sporadically absent for a while. It
took them until Monday for even ONE
person to reply, and I quote:
“I am sorry to hear of your boy-
friend’s unfortunate medical condi-
tion. However, it is difficult to give you
very much leeway as you are not the
one who is actually ill.”
Ok, this is an angry article, so I
should probably also note that I was
given a “few extra days” to hand in my
next report, but still. The idea that it’s
only if you’re ill that you should be up-
set? Bullshit. His parents, obviously,
have time off work. The institutions
which are PAYING them for a service
are prepared to let them off because,
obviously, they’re upset that someone
they love is going under the knife. The
institution I am paying to educate me
can’t be flexible for two damn weeks.
I’m prepared to bet that if I was a mar-
ried, mature student whose husband
was having surgery, they’d feel differ-
ently. In fact, I know this is the case,
becase it happened to my mum.
Another example: I don’t know about
your department but mine has always
rammed it down my throat that if you
don’t revise/work over Easter you’ll do
significantly less well in your summer
exams. During my first year, a mem-
ber of my immediate family attempted
suicide over the Easter holidays, which
definitely damaged my attempts to
work. The response of college? “You
have the whole of the summer term
to revise.” The whole of the summer
term? We have LECTURES in summer
term! We have new shit to learn, never
mind revising the old stuff.
I get there are rules. I get that the
academic and adinistrative staff are
just doing their jobs. I also get that
undergrads at Imperial are treated
like a fucking afterthought. I’ll admit
I’m not the best student, even when
healthy and in college, but speaking
as someone whose university time has
been plagued with illnesses and family
emergencies I can tell you that the gen-
eral attitude of the institution is one of
contempt. They act as if giving you full
credit retakes should remove all your
worries – as if it’s not doubly stressful
doing the exams twice AND having
other issues in your life. The first as-
sumption is always that the student is
trying to get something for nothing.
The stereotype is that we’re lazy, self-
ish, immature... - fuck that.
I don’t want this to be taken as an at-
tack on the staff, who by and large are
sympathetic on a personal level and
in any case just doing their jobs, but
the frustration of having metaphorical
eyes rolled every time you have to ex-
plain something is draining to say the
least. Particularly if it’s not like you’re
not proposing to make up the work.
Imperial students are, in the majority,
either hardworking or bright enough
that it doesn’t matter. I don’t person-
ally know anyone who doesn’t, when it
gets right down to it, work their asses
off for the best grade they can acheive.
It’d be really nice if the people who
write the rules could stop treating us
like snotty teenagers. And now I’m off
to make up some time in labs.
Calliope Muse
Student Television of Imperial College
Got an issue with the Union?
Take it to Jenny Morgan, the Union President, in stoic tv’s exclusive
‘Ask the President’ program, where the President is faced with your
burning questions. Autumn 2008 Episode Friday 21st November.
Email your questions to:
askthepresident@stoictv.com
S
o, who thinks Healthy Liv-
ing Week was a success? Oh,
did you not know it was on?
You know those hideous pas-
tel yellow t-shirts that were
dotted around college last week? Yeah,
they were for HLW, organised by our
DPCS and Sport Imperial. When I say
organised though, I am using it in the
loosest possible terms.
That’s right, this is going to be a bit of
a rant peeps so take this as your warn-
ing; I’m a woman scorned and I’ve had
a lot of caffeine!! It’s a long story folks
and I’m liable to go off on one about
it given half a chance but I’ll try and
keep this concise if only to keep you
reading…
All sports clubs were given the op-
portunity to run a session as part of
HLW. Netball girls vs. Rugby boys –
the grudge match – seemed like a great
suggestion to me and original feedback
from the “powers that be” was equally
positive. We were envisioning a simi-
lar event to the one we ran last year for
charity where the boys wore dresses
and got majorly put in their place by a
bunch of girls who like to wear pink,
happy times :) Everyone that I spoke to
was looking forward to it.
Fast-forward to Wednesday 6th, the
day before the session we’d been allo-
cated. Whilst conversing with a friend,
and after checking a HLW flyer, I real-
ised there was a clash: Netball/Rugby
and Kondi were scheduled at the same
time – quelle horreur!! I immediately
got on the phone to SI to alert them of
this most disastrous discovery!!
Not so happy with Healthy Living Week
Cue lots of shizzle “behind the
scenes” (this I’m still investigating into
as everyone involved is being oddly
secretive, hmmm…). Eventually I was
called late on Wednesday evening with
some alternative offers:
- Kondi were given preference and
we were booted out of our original slot,
no room for questions.
- Then we were offered an area the
size of a Badminton court (bearing in
mind that we need a space four times
that size and netball court markings)
so that was a definite no from my end
straight away.
- Finally we were told we could share
Handball’s slot (great idea – drag an-
other sports team into the mess you’ve
created. Have they been apologised to?
I doubt it). This would involve sharing
for half the session and then being able
to have the full court for a game after
that.
Ultimately when I turned up on the
day I was told this had been changed
yet again though to us only having
10minutes of full court game time.
Clearly lots more shizzle had happened
behind the scenes. Is it too much to ask
that if I’m running a slot I be kept in-
formed and be consulted on decisions?
Apparently yes.
To top it all off I was told that we
were actually supposed to be running
a “come and try” session and that our
planned event did not comply with
the intended criteria of HLW. Where
was this opinion of us two months ago
when I originally suggested it? Who
knows, least of all the DPCS or SI.
Basically – sort your lives out people!!
If you want to masquerade as some
sort of professional unit then please do
attempt at least a vague level of organi-
sation and communication.
Sport Imperial have offered to pay
for the umpire we hired and are com-
ing round to the idea of an alternative
slot but the proposal is accompanied
by many conditions that still need to be
finalised so watch this space; you know
if I’m not happy I’ll be back for further
bitching.
In conclusion though, what we hope
to receive is a proper apology for be-
ing messed around and another hour-
long slot in Ethos for free where we can
run our session as originally intended.
It will be for charity so if I promise to
keep you informed you guys have to
promise to attend and support. Guess
I’ll see you all soon at Netball vs. Rugby
– the grudge match (take II).
PS. I’m sure I was supposed to get
one of those granny-yellow tops for
running a session? Holla back to me on
that note too pls whilst you’re at it SI.
PPS. Imperial Girl, whadafuh? I love
the idea of a Sex and the City style arti-
cle but if that’s going to be the concept
behind it then I want to see it written
by someone who’s getting more action
than me or it’s not what I’d call enter-
tainment. Plus, it’s not like there’s a
shortage of guys at Imperial so you’ve
no excuse!!
Spanky Pants
The rugby boys before they got embarrassed by the girls

