politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
I
have a poster of Stalin on my
wall.
I don’t actually; I just wanted
to see how you would react. I
also don’t have a poster of the
hero of communism Ernesto “Che”
Guevara like all those pretentious uni-
versity jerks who think it is cool even
though they have no damn clue what
he stood for. That includes you, yes
you. Nice one.
If I were to choose one communist to
parade on my wall, it would be Lenin.
Or Trotsky. At any rate I prefer my dic-
tators benevolent to tyrannous.
If I were to have a poster of Hitler on
my wall not only would I be disgracing
my whole Jewish heritage (if you hadn’t
guessed from my money-grabbing Jew
name) and my communist nature but
there would be outrage.
Let’s not dwell on the two fellow
Fulham-inhabiting Germans saluting
in the corner.
It is painfully clear that World War
Two was no more than a bet between
Stalin and Hitler as to who could kill
more Russians.
As far as I can understand, Stalin was
better at killing people than Hitler. So
why the hatred for the Kraut? Hitler
rampaged through Europe wiping out
a race because of a ridiculous ethnic
cleansing program whereas Stalin did
what he had to do in order to stay in
power of his own country and keep
communism alive.
Because those lives were worth los-
ing. Long live the revolution.
Gordon Brown has announced his sup-
port for “unfunded” tax cuts to combat
the recession this country is headed
for. He told a news conference that
“fiscal stimulus” is necessary to “get the
economy moving again”.
These cuts would “initially” be un-
funded which drew criticism from the
Tories who accused him of planning a
borrowing “splurge”.
The Conservatives have proposed
“targeted” tax cuts which they claim
will not need rises in borrowing to
fund them. Conservative leader David
Cameron said the proposals to give tax
breaks to small businesses who take on
unemployed workers were “fiscally re-
sponsible” as they would be paid for by
savings from benefits.
The government’s plan to bor-
row even more money not only goes
against Brown’s own golden rules but
would throw Britain into deeper debt
at a time when owing money is not a
good economic policy.
But Mr Brown said Mr Cameron’s
proposal was “an expensive one that
doesn’t necessarily guarantee that
more jobs will be created overall”.
Pressed on whether there would be
unfunded tax cuts in the pre-Budget
report, expected next week, he said:
“You have to take action that is initially
unfunded because that is actually how
you do a fiscal stimulus.
“The aim is to get the economy mov-
ing forward by higher levels of eco-
nomic activity and that is precisely
what we are doing.”
Employment minister Tony McNulty
said that any “tax cuts or adjustments”
would be “funded in a transparent
fashion, albeit from borrowing” while
the Conservatives’ plans were “pie-in-
the-sky on a hope and a prayer”.
He said if the economy recovered
quickly and receipts to government
“shoot up” “then the balance, if there is
a balance, may need to be found from
taxation”.
The Liberal Democrats have prom-
ised tax cuts to those on low and mid-
dle incomes. Those on low incomes
spend more proportionally of their in-
come than middle-income earners.
Lowering taxes for the lowest paid
will help boost the economy as it is this
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
Gloomy days for Brown as parties clash over his “unfunded” tax cuts
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
It is horrifying to think that at the
next General Election, voters will have
the choice between 3 right-wing main
parties, one of which has sucked into
itself the communist party and disre-
garded all it stood for. Perhaps I am be-
ing harsh on the Liberals. They try.
New Labour is simply what the con-
servatives should always have been.
You stuck-up, pipe-smoking fools, you
were beaten at your own fascist game
by a Scot.
And a dirty lying one with awfully
grating mannerisms at that.
All the parties are trying to find ways
of lowering taxes to help working fam-
ilies and it is a theme that was found
throughout the US election campaigns.
Stop jumping on the bandwagon peo-
ple and start jumping on the European
bandwagon instead. You know you
want to; they have better food, better
weather...hell, even better fascist dicta-
tors than us.
What do we have? Bad schools, bad
public transport, no national secrets
(what is it with our idiot civil service
and trains that combines so badly?), an
ex-PM guilty of war crimes, a failing
economy; evidently 10 years of New
Labour has done great things for us.
The preceding Conservative years
and those which will probably follow
the next election are not much of an
improvement.
I personally hope the spirit of the
communist revolution can spread
through this failing nation and pros-
perity will be ours again.
In honour of
communism
Recession in 2009
group who will spend the money saved
from taxation bringing economic stim-
ulus to Britain.
These plans come as the Bank of
England warn of a recession in 2009.
Governor Mervyn King said that the
UK probably entered a recession in the
middle of 2008.
In the Bank’s quarterly inflation re-
port, it says that the UK economy could
shrink by 2% over the next year, on a
par with the Thatcher-era recession.
The governor said: “we have seen the
biggest banking crisis since WWI”
Defense Intelligence cuts “risk another Iraq”
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
The government is cutting its Defence
Intelligence Staff, despite warnings it
could lead to serious mistakes.
Former defence chief John Morri-
son says the move makes a repeat of
the errors which produced flawed in-
telligence ahead of the Iraq war more
likely.
In 2004, the Lord Butler inquiry into
the scandal called for the DIS budget
to be increased as well as extra jobs
created to prevent further failings, but
now 122 jobs are to be lost.
The current head of DIS insisted
the department was still of "critical
importance".
Defence Intelligence currently has
590 people working in central London.
These are both civilian and military
personnel and are the government's
largest organisation for analysing se-
cret information about our security
and the world.
They are the main source of exper-
tise within the intelligence community
on subjects such as the science and
technology of weapons systems and
arms proliferation.
They also provide direct support
to UK operations overseas, including
those in Afghanistan and Iraq
in the run-up to the Iraq war, the DIS
was the only part of government that
seriously questioned the way the case
was being argued, showing a grasp of
the information not found in other
departments, certainly not Downing
Street.
The Butler report said the depart-
ment needed to be integrated “more
closely” with the rest of the intelli-
gence services in order to serve “wider
national priorities”.
At the time, ministers said they ac-
cepted those recommendations, but
critics say they now appear to be ignor-
ing them.
In a statement, Air Marshal Stu
Peach, Chief of Defence Intelligence,
said: “The Defence Intelligence Staff
remains of critical importance to de-
fence and security and is recognised
across Whitehall as a key asset.
“The area is funded for what it is be-
ing asked to do from the central de-
fence budget and will continue to sup-
port the armed forces and contribute
strongly to the intelligence communi-
ty’s work across government.”
Prospect, the trade union represent-
ing many of the civilian intelligence
analysts, said the MoD was hoping
to shrink the staff so far to allow it to
close the Whitehall DIS headquarters
altogether. The DIS, a department of the MoD, has its home on Whitehall but maybe not for too much longer
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Politics
Neil Dhir
Calls for referendum over EU’s Lisbon Treaty
On the 17th of September 1778 men of
exceptionally high stature attended the
Constitutional Convention in Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania. There they laid out
the fundamental guidelines which were
to rule state and people for centuries to
come. Guidelines which could not be
crossed yet not set in stone but set in
the hearts and minds of the populace.
Naturally The Articles of Confedera-
tion and Perpetual union have been
amended no less than twenty three
times to follow the course of time and
the ever changing zeitgeist. The Euro-
pean Union set out to copy the Ameri-
cansbyadoptingasimilarstanceforthe
federation of Europe. The story of the
European constitution starts with the
Laken declaration in 2001. The Laken
declaration derives its name from the
European council meeting which was
held in Laken, Belgium in December
2001. The declaration introduced the
European Convention which was a
body set up to produce a draft of the
European constitution (now known
as the Treaty of Lisbon) it was chaired
by the former French president Valéry
Giscard d'Estaing and this is where our
story begins.
In 2004 the then 25 member strong
union signed the Treaty establishing
a Constitution for Europe (TCE) but
is more commonly referred to as the
European Constitution. Establishing a
constitution is a messy business by any
standards, this any barrister with train-
ing in constitutional law will tell you.
Furthermore it is ironic to say the least
that the Americans managed to, 230
years ago, compose a document that
was more comprehensible than what
the supposedly learned citizens of Eu-
rope compiled in the 21st century.
In true democratic fashion some-
thing so substantial and which affects
the state as much as a constitution has
to be ratified by the people (though
most countries preferred to adopt
what some call ‘backdoor democracy’
whereupon the parliament denies the
people a say, through parliamentary
representation, on an issue which will
have a considerable impact upon their
lives). The first country to put the
With the influx of new member states, the European Union must adapt by developing a new treaty, or constitution, governing the organisation
The European Parliament, an important political arena or a greedy, undemocratic body?
constitution to the people was France
on the 29th of May 2005 the people
voted. Three days later the electorate
of the Netherlands were called upon
to deliver their judgement. Rather em-
barrassingly for Brussels both nations
delivered a resounding ‘no’ (54.68%
against in France and 61.54% against in
the Netherlands). Alas the constitution
was dead. Or so it was believed…
In view of the fact that such a sig-
nificant member of the EU (France)
had rejected the final piece of the Eu-
ropean federation project they could
not be bullied into voting again, ap-
parently smaller nations, however,
are not allowed to speak their minds
(like Ireland) and have to be politically
beaten into submission i.e. by hav-
ing a second referendum for daring to
defy the powers that be. Consequently
Mr. d’Estaing and his team had to go
back to the drawing board to appease
the people of France and the Nether-
lands. What they produced was the
Treaty of Lisbon. The workings of the
former treaty and the latter are dif-
ficult to understand, as we shall see
later, for good reasons. But just to give
a good example of how arrogant and
ignorant the EU is consider this: one of
the problems the people had with the
constitution was that it gave too much
prominence to the notion of the EU as
a state. Thus all references to the flag,
anthem, motto and a public holiday
were removed (the treaty is still 231
pages long as opposed to ten pages
for the American constitution). But in
true EU fashion they reinstated them
in October this year in the midst of
the financial crisis – when one would
have thought that they would have bet-
ter things to do. Former Italian Prime
Minister Giuliano Amato succinctly
sums up the mood of the EU towards
the people: “They decided that the
document should be unreadable. If it is
unreadable, it is not constitutional, that
was the sort of perception… Should
you succeed in understanding it at first
sight there might be some reason for a
referendum, because that would mean
that there is something new.”
From the continent to the “sceptical
little isle”; in their 2005 manifesto the
Labour party promised, if they won a
third term in office, they to would put
the constitution to the people. Looking
at their manifesto from this period fur-
ther reinforces this pledge; “The new
Constitutional Treaty ensures the new
Europe can work effectively… we will
put it to the British people in a refer-
endum”. As previously stated the TCE
was thrown out by voters in France and
the Netherlands and was thus judged
dead by politicians in the UK hence
a referendum on a dead constitution
is illogical and the issue was not fur-
ther pursued. As always with the EU
a ‘no’ is considered a complete rejec-
tion of the entire European project
and is thus deemed unacceptable (Ire-
land was made to revote on the Nice
treaty in 2002 so was Denmark on the
Maastricht treaty in 1993 – for hav-
ing rejected both initially). Hence the
'Draft Treaty amending the Treaty on
European Union and the Treaty es-
tablishing the European Community'
more commonly known as the Treaty
of Lisbon was put before the world in
July last year.
Little time passed between the an-
nouncement of the treaty and the calls
for a referendum. Most voters were
shocked, as was the media, to learn
that the government, now lead by Mr.
Brown, did not consider the Treaty
of Lisbon equivalent to the European
Constitution. There are a few reasons
for this: the constitution attempted to
replace all earlier EU treaties and start
afresh, whereas the new treaty amends
the Treaty on the European Union
(Treaty of Maastricht) and the Treaty
Establishing the European Community
(Treaty of Rome) - the UK was particu-
larly adamant for a modest "amend-
ing treaty", which could be ratified by
means of a parliamentary vote, like
earlier EU treaties, i.e. circumventing
their 2005 manifesto pledge to hold a
referendum on the constitutional trea-
ty. Another reason being that Eurosc-
peticism is very much alive in the UK,
for example recently the Bedfordshire
town of Luton, in a mock election,
voted 54% to 35% to leave the EU, thus
the prospects of winning a referendum
on a treaty which effectively creates
the state of Europe are slim. In conclu-
sion their stance became as such: since
it is not the same constitution New
Labour does not have to honour their
manifesto, indeed YouGov (a market
research firm) poll for the Telegraph
in October 2007 showed that 94% of
the people did not believe the Govern-
ment’s argument that the Treaty is dif-
ferent to the constitution. This breach
of trust between the government and
the people would turn out to be par-
ticularly embarrassing for New Labour
and Gordon Brown.
In 2008 Paul Stephenson and Lor-
raine Mullally of I want a referendum
(iWar) wrote an article for the Specta-
tor where they address the key issue of
the government’s broken promise; that
the treaty is not the same as the con-
stitution. In their article we find that
no less than twelve heads of state re-
gard the treaty the same as the rejected
constitution yet the omniscient British
prime minister appears to running an
entirely different agenda by contra-
dicting his European counterparts by
stating that the two documents are
fundamentally different. Angela Mer-
kel, German Chancellor, Telegraph, 29
June 2007: “The substance of the Con-
stitution is preserved. That is a fact”.
Guy Verhofstadt, Belgian Prime Min-
ister, Agence Europe, 24 June 2007:
“[the new treaty] takes up the most im-
portant elements of the Constitutional
Treaty project.” Even a European Com-
mission representative in the form
of Margot Wallstrom had something
cheerful to say about the resemblance
of the two documents: “It [the Treaty
of Lisbon] is essentially the same pro-
posal as the old Constitution.”
Open Europe (a think tank) pub-
lished a mammoth 263 page-by-page
comparison of the Lisbon Treaty and
the TCE. In 2005, Brown in an inter-
view with the Evening Standard told
the reporter in regards to the EU treaty
“It's not as though this is being im-
posed on the country. People will have
the chance to put their views." This is
in stark contrast with "[if it] were the
old constitutional treaty, we would
be having a referendum" yet the iWar
campaign along with Open Europe
found that the treaty contains 96% of
the old content and only 6 articles of
the original 448, relating to symbols,
had been removed – but they have
already been reinstated as shown (ar-
ticles of symbols) and the 448 articles
have been amalgamated into 70 larger
ones yet with the same content.
Regrettable is not a strong enough
word to describe this great deception
for never before have so few decided
so much for so many. This should be
enough compelling evidence to con-
vince anyone that the treaty is in fact
the same as the old constitution and
that the government with Mr. Brown at
its helm should honour their manifes-
to. However just to make it irrevocably
unambiguous consider the words of the
chief architect of both documents Mr.
d’Estaing “The treaty of Lisbon is the
same as the rejected constitution. Only
the format has been changed to avoid
referendums”. Davy Crockett once said
that “I would rather be politically dead
than hypocritically immortalized”. Mr.
Brown clearly does not share this senti-
ment for in October 2007 he was quot-
ed as saying “The manifesto is what we
put to the public. We’ve got to honour
that manifesto. That is an issue of trust
for me with the electorate”.

