business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
How Wii’s kill people in the Congo
The link between consumer electronics and civil unrest in the Congo.
No doubt you’ve heard of the worsen-
ing situation in the Congo, but do you
know where the rebels are getting their
funding? Do you know why interna-
tional governments seem more willing
to step in to help the Congo as opposed
to the other humanitarian disasters
around the world? Because unless you
think about the hand that corporations
have had in the Congo it becomes hard
to appreciate exactly why Congo’s his-
tory is such a tragedy.
Like most of Africa’s pains, Congo’s
story starts with a white European
colonist. Our particular colonist for
this country was King Leopold II, a
cheeky Belgian chappie who acquired
the Congo in 1885 and named it The
Congo Free State. Of course, consider-
ing that the entire country was legally
his personal property the name was a
lie, but apparently no-one bothered to
call him out on it.
Congo in hand, Leopold then went
on to extract all the resources he could
from the country in a brutal, oppres-
sive and deceitful manner. But to be
fair to him, everyone was doing it; un-
der the guise of humanitarian aid, col-
onists built a transport infrastructure
that would move resources efficiently
to the sea. They then took whatever
they could fit onto their ships and left.
Road and Rail infrastructure was set
up to take plundered goods out of the
countries as quick as possible but did
nothing to improve transport between
different parts of the country, setting
the tone for the interactions between
the Congo and the West.
In the ‘60s, after the Congo had
gained independence, Congolese sol-
diers started rebelling against remain-
ing Belgian officers. In response Chief
of Staff of the Army Mobutu was sent
round to rally troops back into a co-
hesive Army. When violence broke
out in the south of the country, then
President Lumumba turned to the So-
viets for military aid to stamp down
the rebellion. Then Chief of Staff of the
Army Mobutu managed to get hold of
an absurd amount of money, paid his
army privately, staged a coup, arrested
the President and eventually (in 1971)
took over the country.
But where did he get the money?
How did he get the technical know
how to beat a Soviet led force? Who
started all the strife in the south in the
first place? And why?
Up to the 60’s Belgian companies had
enjoyed special access to the Congo’s
resources and had significant commer-
cial interests in the region. So when
the Congolese army started rebelling
against remaining Belgian influence, it
became apparent that the government
would need to step in to protect it’s
companies. So while the army was in
strife, the Belgian government encour-
aged unrest in the south to destabilise
the country. Sure, some people got
killed, but it was good for Belgium.
When Lumumba looked to the So-
viets for technical assistance in deal-
ing with the southern troubles, the US
stepped in with some classic cold war
maneuvering: The CIA sponsored the
most anti-communist power player
they could find (Mobutu) and led him
to taking over the country, regardless
of his ability to run a country. There-
by (hopefully) making the country a
new ally in the fight against the Red
Threat.
Since then, the world and his mum
have been trying to get a piece of the
Congo pie. Congo has 80% of the
world’s cobalt, massive copper and
zinc deposits and vast quantities of dia-
monds, but getting to these resources
is usually too dangerous for compa-
nies. So instead of setting up shop in
the Congo, they just pay people to
smuggle the resources over the borders
and sell them on the international mar-
ket. Western exploitation has made the
Congo much poorer than it should be,
exacerbating ethnic tensions and push-
ing Congo deeper into trouble.
One of the most interesting of these
smuggled goods is cobalt. Cobalt is
used to make capacitors, which turn
up in just about anything electronic,
from mobile phones to airbags. East-
ern Congo is a readily available source
of cobalt but because of the situation
it’s in the country can’t exploit the re-
sources for it’s own benefit. Instead the
cobalt mines in the Congo are largely
slave operated and the cobalt is then
smuggled into countries like Rwanda
before being sold on the international
market. Because cobalt is fungible
(meaning that one kilo of cobalt is the
same as any other kilo of the stuff)
it gets traded and re-traded several
times in the commodity market before
it usually reaches the final user. This
means that a lot of companies don’t
know where their cobalt is coming
from – and to be honest, they usually
don’t care.
The demand for cobalt has meant
that coltan mines have become key
strategic areas for fighting groups in
eastern Congo. Rebel and government
groups have battled fiercely for control
of the mining operations, and utilis-
ing the funds to intensify the conflict.
Both groups have been accused of us-
ing slaves (made up of prisoners of war
and unlucky civilians) to mine the re-
sources worsening the damage of the
war.
Now before we start it’s worth point-
ing out that the Congo only provides
about 1% of the worlds cobalt, and
critics of the link between cobalt con-
sumption and the fate of the Congo
are always keen to point this out. That
argument is ridiculous. Firstly, the 1%
figure is likely to be an artificially low-
ered figure because of the difficulty
involved in tracing smuggled cobalt.
Secondly that 1% is enough to cause
serious damage - it’s estimated that the
Rwandan army has made $500m from
coltan (the impure ore form of cobalt)
smuggling in the last 18 months alone.
And finally, just because the Congo
only provides a small amount of the
worlds cobalt doesn’t mean that it isn’t
affected by global demand.
When the Playstation 2 was launched
cobalt prices rose from roughly $50 a
pound to about $275 a pound. That
put huge pressure on the coltan mines
to produce more, forcing more people
into slavery. With the last console cycle
(Wii’s, PS3’s, Xbox 360’s) coltan prices
spiked and according to some report-
ers, so did the price of slaves in the
Congo. With everyone rushing to buy
Wii’s for their kids this Christmas, it’s
a sobering thought to think that you’re
contributing to the trauma of slaves in
a faraway land.
Conversely in times when cobalt
prices drop (as they will once enough
people have bought consoles) things
get worse for coltan slaves. In 2001
(following the internet bubble burst-
ing) cobalt prices plummeted leaving
miners in dire straits. When the mines
closed down, slaves were abandoned.
For some this was a wonderful chance
to get back to their old lives. For oth-
ers, who knew nothing beyond min-
ing, this was horrific. Unable to farm,
uneducated and without any means to
support themselves many perished.
It’s not a big step to think that the
recent increase in cobalt prices has
helped fund the new wave of civil
unrest in the Congo. It won’t be a big
step to think that when this funding
disappears, things will become harder
for people in the area. A lot of people
point out that companies can respon-
sibly source their cobalt, and while this
is true, it doesn’t change the fact that
not all companies do, and it doesn’t
protect the Congo from cobalt price
fluctuations.
So, they’re screwed if we consume
and they’re screwed if we don’t. Seems
like a no win situation huh?
No.
The DRC (Democratic Republic of
Congo) has vast potential. If developed
it could provide investors with huge
returns in a very short period of time.
The problem is making the region sta-
ble enough for companies to move in
and trade fairly with the Congolese
people. That’s where governments
have been trying to step in, that’s why
countries with little or no history with
the Congo are getting involved with
peace talks now. They’ll claim that hu-
manitarian interests are at the heart of
their concerns, but that’s just a sham.
If the Congo becomes a stable region,
I’ll bet anything that investors will be
flown in, in UN helicopters to buy up
the area. But – and here’ the shocker –
that’s a good thing.
Companies do more for the third
world than charity does. Government
aid usually has political strings at-
tached, which just leads to trouble, and
the majority of charity groups don’t
provide any useful long-term solu-
tions. If anything is going to save the
poor, it’s corporations.
Now don’t get me wrong, there
have been plenty of examples of com-
mercial exploitation of the poor and I
don’t condone its practice in any way –
which is why we need to watch what’s
happening. Corporations shouldn’t just
be allowed to do whatever they want,
but they should have the freedom to
operate and should have protection
from extremeist groups. If you let that
happen, it would change Africa quicker
than aid ever could, and then, maybe,
we wouldn’t have to worry about slaves
making our stuff.
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor

