14 felix Friday 14 November 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Greyburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Arts
My own private Gethsemane
Benedict Fraser relives the good times of New Labour at the National Theatre
That guy. You know – he was kinda important at some point. He was good at beating around the bush. I think.
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
Retro tripping on the Shad Thames
Caz Knight embarks on an epic voyage to see an Alan Aldridge retrospective at the Design Museum
No wonder the dodos are extinct, if that’s the way they used to carry on. Is that a patchwork-backed cow-turtle?
M
y recent trips to the
Design Museum and
to the Cold War De-
sign exhibition at the
V&A got me think-
ing about design. I find it to be a bit of
a confusing word and unless you are a
“designer” yourself, it can be difficult
to know one exactly means.
“Art” is a term very much instilled
in us since those days of macaroni
artwork and glue munching in kinder-
garten. So, for someone who thinks
she knows a little more about art, de-
sign and culture than the average Joe
Imperial, I was still struggling to im-
agine what I would encounter in an
exhibition entitled Cold War Design.
Strolling through the rather redundant
exhibition Design Cities at the Design
Museum, I came to my own conclu-
sions about what I think design is.
Design is, in a sense, art with a
function; something that strives to be
useful, attractive (even beautiful) that
requires skill and creativity to make.
Designers bridge a gap between the
methodical approach commonly found
in the Sciences and the creativity of
art. Except what design lacks (which
art often has), is a supposed meaning-
a message and a richness of emotion.
That is not to say design cannot
conjure these things for certain people.
Everything in the world is subjective to
a certain extent. I am certain there are
those who see the sublimity in physics,
I think I certainly would if I were a little
less ignorant.
So, design can include a panoply of
‘things’: furniture, crockery, cutlery,
kitchenware, fashion, patterns used
in decorating the above, technology
and even cars. All of the above serve a
function but a certain style and allure
is required of them to give pleasure
as they are used and to attract the
consumer.
One thing I appreciated from Design
Cities was the huge gap created by
the Industrial Revolution. We went
from craftsmanship where everything
was made by hand, resulting in a
significantly less amount of product,
to mass production with consumer
culture in mind. Craftsmen had to
rethink their design and patterns: a
patterneasilyetchedbyhandwouldnot
be as easily undertaken by machine.
Design (exhibitions) gives us an
insight into historical context, the
culture of a time. Perhaps it is the
modern equivalent of unearthing
ancient artifacts at a dig, a snapshot
of an age. This is certainly true of the
other exhibition currently showing at
the Design Museum, a retrospective of
the work of illustrator Alan Aldridge
which goes a long way to evoking the
saccharine, sugar cube-filled days of
the 60’s. All this has me wondering
why people ever stopped taking acid.
A
dd ‘psychedelic’ to any
sentence, phrase or word
and I’m there. So it was
with Alan Aldridge’s ret-
rospective at the Design
Museum. The Independent’s Informa-
tion the previous weekend advertised
the exhibition as “psychedelic images
and designs” and that is all the per-
suading I needed. A quick peruse on
Google images and my intrigue turned
into excitement as I made my way over
to Shad Thames, located right next to
the bastion of English Heritage: Tower
Bridge and the formidable Tower of
London. The world I was about to visit
couldn’t have been further removed
from the medieval nostalgia just a riv-
er’s breadth away.
Please pardon my hideously unimag-
inative turn of phrase but this trip was
seriously far out…man. One climbs
the two flights of stairs to be greeted
by a huge version of one of Aldridge’s
bold creations, serving to half conceal
the entrance of what we are about to
receive. One step in and already we are
in another dimension. The very high
ceilings of the space are made use of, to
cover wall and floors completely with
blown-up versions of his work. The
effect is warren-like – making us feel
strangely small, dwarfed by the giant
Aldridge himself, and many others, set
against a black background.
Aldridge had an auspicious start
to his career by managing to pass off
another’s work as his own to establish
himself in a career until his natural tal-
ent as an illustrator impressed Penguin
publishers, when they asked him to
redesign covers for their fiction books.
It would be the start of a long career
in which he always strived to seek new
challenges and styles, pushing himself
further.
As well as working on album cover
art with many bands such as the Roll-
ing Stones and Elton John, one of his
better works includes illustrating the
Beatles lyrics book with each song
translated into a beautiful, surreal and
colourful image. Aldridge describes
them as illustrations of the 60’s, con-
veying the decade’s social and cultural
history.
The second “Beatles” room changes
the tempo and feel of the exhibition as
we emerge from the dark and into the
considerably lighter. Again, every inch
of walls and floors are white, covered
with all the illustrations.
The effect is like being suspended in
the clouds with these dream-like crea-
tions encircling you rather than them
being a 2D decoration and encased
in frames on the walls. In each draw-
ing he has managed to encapsulate the
very essence of each song whilst add-
ing more of his own interpretations
into their meaning.
In awe of Tenniel’s illustrations ac-
companying Lewis Carroll’s (magic)
mushroom-inspired novel, Alice in
Wonderland, Aldridge decided he
wanted to illustrate a Victorian chil-
dren’s novel as well. The Butterfly Ball
and the Grasshopper’s Feast put a pre-
viously unheard of novel to the fore-
front of public attention and looking
at the illustrations through an adult
eye’s, I was delighted at the world he
has created to bring the book alive. In
homage to this effort, a funhouse-style
room has been installed in the exhibi-
tion with green, mirrored walls and
larger-than-life sized cutouts of hang-
ing butterflies and insects to recreate
this fantasy land.
There is nothing childish about this
exhibition but it has all the optimis-
tic innocence which characterises
Aldridge’s work and childhood itself; a
place where the mundane is forgotten
and replaced by a sense of ease, a sense
of exploration and a hankering for the
strange. Perhaps the very antithesis
of the society in which we live which
doles out pressure, encouraging us to
conform, be in control and be normal.
Throughout my meanderings back
and forth and round the space, I felt
like I was getting a treat and as if I was
on the brink of an amazing new dis-
covery and in a way I was. A feeling
I always get when I see or hear of or
unearth some fantastic new thing. I felt
the same way when I was introduced to
the art of H.R. Giger for the first time.
Put into artistic terms, to quote H.S.
Thompson, “it just never [gets] weird
enough for me”. There is just so much
going on, so much colour, vibrancy,
freshness and beauty but without ever
making one feel overwhelmed.
Aldridge shares a quality with Giger
of being able to be intensely dark,
twisted and masculine. Yet he also pos-
sesses a quality of the intensely ethe-
real, mystical and feminine which is
not necessarily evident in each of his
illustrations.
One of the more memorable pieces
was a Mini decorated in true hippy, 60’s
style encompassing both a feminine
energy on one side and masculine style
on the other. The piece is a commemo-
ration to both the 1965 Mini Aldridge
designed for the Sunday Times cover
as well as Mini’s own 50th anniversary
in 2009. Just to make me even more
content was an animated compilation
of Aldridge’s art work with a sublime
Pink Floyd soundtrack, projected onto
the wall taking us hurtling though vor-
texes with kaleidoscopic effects: think
iTunes visualiser on a kooky concoc-
tion of psilocybin, acid and mescaline!
I left feeling elated but deflated
too, frustrated that I live in a decade
in which it sucks to be young, where
music, fashion and youth culture are
trite and where no one cares anymore
about being original and outrageous.
True, the hippy ideals of the 60’s could
not be maintained in any progressive
society or beyond one’s twenties, but
the kids then did appear to have a lot
more fun.
If Shad Thames is just too far east for
you then check out www.alanaldridge.
net or purchase his autobiographies
Phantasia, or the recently published
The Man With the Kaleidoscope Eyes.
T
he hypocrisy of political
life, and existential crises
when faced with the sti-
fled individualism of the
modern world: themes
running through the heart of David
Hare’s latest political offering – and
occasionally jumping up to slap us in
the face, with mixed results. Meredith
Guest (Tamsin Greig), the Home Sec-
retary has a couple of problems, in
the form of a teenage daughter look-
ing to get herself expelled from the
private school she’s been put into and
an over-anxious party fundraiser (the
ominously named Otto Fallon, played
by Stanley Townsend), conveniently a
governor of the school, who has made
moves to stop that from happening –
specifically a new gym. Ideal fodder
for the ever-loving press, the face of a
judgmental public.
Hare does well to create that rare
sense of the politician as human being,
at ease away from the soap box. The
play asks questions about morality in
political life (where does the boundary
lie between public and private, party
and individual?), but gives few an-
swers; Meredith, through her own pri-
vate Gethsemane, comes to terms with
her driven political nature but there is
no final resolution with her daughter,
and we are left with a lingering lack of
sympathy for such an intelligent yet
emotionally detached character. This
is not helped by one-dimensional por-
trayal of bullyboy Blair, complete with
drum kit and weights bench. Yes, she is
sympathetic in comparison, but is that
really saying much?
The subplot, however, centred
around Meredith’s daughter Suzette
(Jessica Raine) and her mentor figure
Lori(NicolaWalker),whogoesthrough
her own crisis of conscience, remains
genuinely touching. Her husband has
become a fundraiser for the party. His
disenchantment grows culminating in
that tried and tested technique, the ex-
tended-diatribe-from-nowhere, which
felt like deus ex machina, Hare himself
bursting onto stage. Though bewilder-
ing in the extreme, this is one of a few
borderline absurdist elements to pro-
ceedings, within the context of a finely
wrought balance between the subtle
and the stylised. This is a good play.
With more character development it
could be very good.
The set design is impressive and
exciting: a cosmopolitan modernist
cube-like shifting structure, dancing
with tinsel-town lights (at the first
scene change I thought I’d entered a
modern art exhibit). Tamsin Greig
handles things well from the excellent
opening scene, although she is ulti-
mately let down by a part which trails
off towards the end of the play. Jessica
Raine is excellent as her daughter: by
turns acid-tongued, by turns delicate,
thoughtful and genuine, I couldn’t im-
agine a better harmony between writer
and actor. She deals admirably with a
script (otherwise pitch perfect) whose
knowledge of teenage dialect stretches
to fitting the word ‘like’ into appro-
priate places in the sentence – thank-
fully the audience were uniformly over
40, but I felt for the actress. Stanley
Townsend, playing the amoral Otto,
the most consistent character, domi-
nates his scenes to imbue proceedings
with the pout and swagger of New La-
bour in its heyday. “Remind me why
we shouldn’t be in power forever?” he
asks. A line about the booming econo-
my immediately dates the piece; see it
now as a reminder of the good times,
before that ticket money goes on your
mortgage.

