arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 14 November 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 14 November 2008 felix
Arts
Warning: may cause adverse effects
Substance-fuelled creativity – up to the hype or a sorry cliche? Rosie Milton explores what happens when
Russian artists get on the hallucinogens at Mushrooms of the Russian Avant-Garde
I’m sure the exhibition won’t look this terrifying when you go. Also, despite appearances, the exhibits are not edible.
Six Characters in Search of an Author
The Gielgud’s latest production offers a modern slant on a classic. Natalia Jardon King reports back
The modern take reinterprets and gives Pirandello’s (r) work a decidedly fresh and modern slant. It seems they’ve carried his classic and impeccable sense of style too.
T
he last time I wrote for
felix, it was regarding
the Cold War Modern:
Design exhibition at the
V&A museum. From this
perspective we were able to see the
direct impact the Cold War had on
the creatively-minded of the era – do-
mestically in terms of propaganda and
most importantly, the strong impres-
sion of nationalism which it implied.
Moving along a few years, Igor
Makarevich and Elena Elagina reveal
to us the strong connections that
they ‘experienced’, whilst under the
influence of psilocybins, to the culture
and history of their Russia.
Through the creative media of
sculpture, photography, film and
painting they have chosen to share
with the public the truths (and lies,
should we say) that the world of
magic mushrooms presents to those
who choose to indulge in a trip
down the rabbit hole with them. Not
being someone who can at first-hand
share the visions of a “mycophiliac
menace”, as artistically described by
the exhibition’s curator Nadim Julien
Samman, I can only reveal to the reader
my interpretation from a critical point
of view.
About the mushroom: Amanita
muscaria, or the fly agaric (the most
well recognised of the basidiomycete
fungi), is effectively a poisonous, yet
psychoactive toadstool – instantly
recognisableforitsdeepredmushroom
with white spotted spores on its
surface and its white stalk. Reactions
from ingestion vary in individuals and
can range from nausea, euphoria and
relaxation to delirium – in the case of
severe poisoning. It is made very clear
to visitors of the exhibition that the
artists not only ingested but encourage
the use of mushrooms for recreational
and revelatory purposes.
Mushrooms & Russia: the
connection? There is certainly a lot of
history behind the exhibition, implied
through multiple depictions of Russian
architecture, the realised and the
‘fantasized’ also, including especially
Vladimir Tatlin’s constructivist,
utopian tower – ‘Monument to the
R
upert Goold and Ben Pow-
er have produced another
classic with a twist. After
combining the Chapman
Brothers with ‘Dr Faus-
tus’, they have re-interpreted Piran-
dello’s ‘Six Characters in Search of an
Author’.
In the 1921 original, six characters
storm into a stage rehearsal and de-
mand that their story be told. Aban-
doned by their creator, this is their
only hope of release. The modern pro-
duction at the Gielgud Theatre sees
the family intrude on a TV drama-
documentary about assisted suicide in
Denmark.
Before the six characters invade the
scene, the producer and her colleagues
are striving to construct an engaging
but faithful representation of death.
Once interrupted, the family introduce
the more controversial debate as to
who is real in the play- the characters
themselves, the actors hired for dra-
matic reconstruction in the Danish
documentary, or the producer?
This is definitely a fresh interpreta-
Third International’ (1919).
“the exhibition
offers a
fresh and
understandable
version of events
far removed
from the dusty
accounts of
historians”
To Makarevich and Elagina
retrospectively, the idea of the ‘tower’
was a dark and oppressive image. It was
Tatlin’s design for a new headquarters
of a world communist government.
The implication therefore is that Tatlin
was acting in the spirit of irrationality,
yet simultaneously was driven by the
force of objectivity.
Makarevich and Elagina want
us to understand what they have
understood from the past, from their
perspective. Although ideas filtered
through psychedelics are not exactly
stable, it offers a fresh and bizarrely
understandable version of events
from history that are far removed
from the dusty and factual accounts of
historians.
Turning now to the works
themselves, we are presented with a
room of several similar paintings -
roughly cut, grainy photographs are
used to frame silhouettes of the iconic
fly agaric - in the thinking of these
artists it has become symbol for their
own (mind) revolution.
There are wooden toadstool
sculptures like the onion (or
mushroom)-shaped domes of Russian
churches and one with the Tatlin
tower set upon it, with an ornamental
Corinthium column base – further
suggesting the direct relation to
architecture.
These images raise all kinds of ironic
and interpretive questions regarding
religion and the social systems of
Russia, inviting consideration. In a
featured fascinating video recording,
Sergei Kurehin proceeds to inform us,
in all seriousness, that he has proof that
Russian revolutionary and communist
Vladimir Lenin was a mushroom.
Through simple, technical diagrams
he shares his claim (available to view
on YouTube if you need convincing)
and in turn allows us to understand
the structure of Makarevich and
Elagina’s work more clearly. Out of
the mushrooms grow ideas and it is
this method of presentation that the
artists have chosen, all the time in
keeping with the notion that ‘seeing
is believing’ and with the inspiration
provided by the hallucinogenic power
of mushrooms, we can see the world
through Makarevich and Elagina’s
eyes.
Mushrooms of the Russian
Avant-Garde will be on view at
Club Row, E2 until 22 November.
Admission is free.
tion, but the engrossing tragedy of Pi-
randello’s family steals the lime-light.
Suicide, sibling murder and incest
seem more interesting when compared
to a discussion concerning levels of re-
ality in art.
There are moments when the audi-
ence squirm silently in their seats- in
particular at the re-enactment of
the Father’s assault on his own step-
daughter.
We are entranced as McDiarmid
sinisterly snips Denise Gough's sus-
penders before transforming her into
a doll-like child. It shocks and justi-
fies the previous accusations that the
Father had exposed his paedophiliac
preference by his daily visits to the
girl's school gates. McDiarmid and
Gough give the best performances by
capturing the guilt and desperation
that inhabit their lives. The scene is
brilliantly capped off by the mother’s
interruption and sudden rendering of
pain through an operatic aria.
But it fails to present an awe-inspir-
ing production. Perhapsbecause the
subsequent tragedy of the producer is
dwarfed by that of the family or maybe
because as clever as the producer’s
wandering backstage is, stumbling all
the way to next door’s Les Miserables
seemed redundant, time-consuming
and even absurd. It’s a pity, for the
20 minute stretch was in fact a detri-
ment to what should have been a very
moving end. That’s not to say however
that Noma Dumezweni doesn’t give
her character force. And it’s worth the
visit- if only for the beautiful depiction
of chaos, pain and dark fears of the Pi-
randellian family.
phoenix
OUT NEXT WEEK
Pick up your free
copy with felix

