18 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Arts
Teenage sexual discovery in
nineteenth century Germany
Self-confessed theatre geek Lucy Harrold lives her dream and
sees Spring Awakening at the Hammersmith Lyric
time.
The play follows eleven early teens
as they learn about life and growing
up in 19th century Germany. This was
most definitely a time where children
were seen and not heard, and babies
were delivered by the Stork, as shown
by the innocent Wendla Bergman. But
for some it was also a time of Bohemi-
anism and discovering who one was –
represented by our hero Melchior Ga-
bor. We follow the characters as they
go hurtling towards adulthood with
dire consequences, in a world where
the adults keep their children blink-
ered from reality until it is too late.
The stage of the Lyric is the perfect
size for Spring Awakening, creat-
ing the appearance that the set could
burst free from the stage at any time.
The set, like many aspects of Spring
Awakening, at first appears simple and
nondescript but on further inspec-
tion is chaotically quirky and detailed.
Favourite set pieces include a giant
butterfly and a blackboard listing the
musical numbers with suitable graf-
fiti. Everything is on stage including
a live acoustic-rock band and a small
portion of the audience. At present
these on-stage seats cost £15 on the
day and give a completely different
view of the show although you may
miss some parts. As compensation
you get to sit among the actors and
experience the action up close. I loved
how the whole lot was integrated on
stage, with actors jumping amongst
the audience and even playing a song
or two on the upright piano. And the
lights! I’ve never been so obsessed
with lights. We switch between a vast
I
had a stressful journey into col-
lege today. I was running a little
late (read: hungover) so I decid-
ed to get the bus instead of my
usual brisk walk. This managed
to lengthen my journey time. Firstly,
there’s a set of roadworks at the traf-
fic lights near South Ken station that
are pure evil, meaning my bus sat out-
side the Royal Marsden hospital for a
good 15 minutes. At this point I was
“fortunate” enough to watch a Har-
rods van deliver Jade Goody’s wedding
dress, with the paparazzi swarming.
Anyway, eventually my bus reached
South Ken and I realised I was in the
midst of the sheer horror that is HALF
TERM. Argh, it was vicious out there.
The streets were awash with screaming
ankle biters and over-sized, cup-holder
wielding pushchairs. The queues for
the Natural History Museum and the
Science Museum were not only merg-
ing, but doubled back on each other
so the ends were impossible to iden-
tify. The pavements of Exhibition Road
were so full of mummies, daddies and
kiddies that I had to walk in the road
with cars honking at me just to get to
college. Because obviously if I am not
a kidlet, a mother or heavily pregnant,
then I am not entitled to pavement.
It’s a shame that Britain’s parents
don’t have enough imagination to go
somewhere other than the Science Mu-
seum or Natural History Museum. Or
rather, as I overheard on the same bus
this morning, just the Natural History
Museum because the Science Museum
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
“doesn’t have much stuff in it”.
I am not trying to say that children
should be banned from museums and
art galleries. I got where I am today
(hungover, studying fungus, in debt,
soon to be unemployed…) because I
spent my weekends being taken round
National Trust properties and V&A ex-
hibitions. I have a very distinct memo-
ry of getting out of the car on Exhibi-
tion Road to go the Science Museum,
looking up and saying “what’s Imperial
College?” and my Mummy saying “it’s
a university where very clever people
learn about science”. And here I am.
My point is: don’t go to museums
and art galleries at half term. It’s hell.
Yes, for the first time ever, I am telling
the students of Imperial NOT to go see
nice artsy cultural things. Save it for an
odd weekend or a day off lectures in
about a month’s time.
Which brings me to telling you about
some of the very exciting stuff soon to
be arriving in London. Already on at
the Royal Academy is an exhibition
on the architect Andrea Palladio. By
the time you read this, “Van Dyck and
Britain” will have opened at Tate Brit-
ain. Opening on 25th February is the
National Gallery exhibition “Picasso:
Challenging the Past”. The V&A are
displaying an anthology of hats from
next week, and will have an exhibition
on Baroque in April. Phew. If you’d be
interested in reviewing any of those,
or you’ve got something in mind that
I’ve neglected to mention, email us and
we’ll get you in for free.
Step away from
the art
sea of lightbulbs to represent reality
and harsh neon lighting that extends
into the auditorium during the musi-
cal numbers.
The general premise of the show is
that these period characters sing con-
temporary songs suited to the MySpace
generation. Sheik and Slater have clev-
erly interwoven everything – songs and
story, old and new. The characters use
handheld microphones to convey their
feelings and the entire stage takes on an
electric charge as they jump and leap
around. The choreography is not your
usual high kicking fare as Bill T Jones
has created a jerky style that fits bril-
liantly into the angsty feel of the show.
The music has a definite rock edge to
it with some clever lyrics borrowing
both from the original text and mod-
ern teenage language (although I think
the phrase “My Junk” may have disap-
peared a few years ago). I can’t think of
a single song I didn’t like, even songs
that didn’t thrill me on the soundtrack
suddenly made perfect sense within the
story. Highlights include “Touch Me” –
a hauntingly beautiful and poetic song
about masturbation (why do all the
best songs have to be about something
dodgy?) and “Totally Fucked!” a rous-
ing rock anthem about how shit life is.
It felt so good to hear the songs live as
the CD just doesn’t live up to the real
experience.
The teenage cast of Spring Awaken-
ing could out-act most on the West
End. Aneurin Barnard as Melchior and
Charlotte Wakefield as Wendla portray
the loss of innocence without straying
into cliché. They are never contrived
or annoying, as many young charac-
ters seem to be on stage, although we
decided Barnard’s sex face left a little
to be desired. Iwan Rheon was incred-
ible as Moritz. He gave off a Brit-Rock
vibe while also maintaining a feeling of
despair as his character plummeted to-
A trip to the theatre you’ll Enjoy
Caz Knight sees Alan Bennett’s Enjoy – two and a half hours of far-fetched witty commentary on 80s
working class culture, complete with trouser-based comedy and roaring northern accents
T
he audiences of 1980, fond
of and accustomed to
their view of what an Alan
Bennett play should be,
were disappointed when
Enjoy came to the West End – despite
the celebrity cast and its endorsement
by well-known actors. Expecting a
straightforward northern comedy, they
were offered something absurd and ex-
pressionistic. The playwright’s humor-
ous writing, this time interwoven with
some poignant commentary on work-
ing class pride, heritage culture, life in
Leeds’ back-to-backs and socio-politi-
cal phenomena, that turned out to be
quite prophetic: the ASBO-generation
and New Labour jargon.
In his preceding plays, Bennett en-
joyed success with works such as Be-
yond The Fringe, The Madness of
George III and Kafka’s Dick. Having
drawn on autobiographical experience
of the bulldozing of the back-to-back
houses (now no longer a feature of
working-class housing estates in Brit-
ain’s cities) in several television dra-
mas, Bennett decided it was time to set
a play in such an environment.
In today’s Britain, reverse snobbery
occurs frequently, with those who have
done well for themselves emphasising
their working class routes while those
from affluent and ‘cushy’ backgrounds
B
eing a bit of a theatre geek,
I had high expectations
of Spring Awakening. I’ve
had the cast recording for
a year now and followed its
progress on Broadway with a yearn-
ing for it to come to England. Instead
of opening straight onto a depleted
West End, Spring Awakening has had
a somewhat subdued premiere at the
Hammersmith Lyric. Based on Frank
Wedekind’s forbidden play, Spring
Awakening combines what was, at the
time, a radical story, with contempo-
rary rock by Duncan Sheik. Appar-
ently Sheik is something of a rock star
in America, but I must admit I hadn’t
heard of him until Spring Awakening.
He has teamed up with poet/writer
Steven Sater to create something that
hasn’t been seen in theatre for a long
Iwan Rheon as Moritz. Lucy wants to take him home in her pocket
Mam is played by Alison Steadman, of Pride and Prejudice fame
scorned for their unfair advantage.
Bennett cannot be accused of celebrat-
ing his blue-collar heritage, and in En-
joy even pokes fun at this working class
sentimentality through Mam’s desire
to cling onto their back-to-back and
neighbourhood that comes with it, but
at the same time always aspiring to the
ideal of being classy and moving up
in the world. Representing the city’s
urge for modernisation is Dad, who
does nothing but complain about their
dowdy living conditions and fantasise
about their shiny, new maisonette.
A letter arrives from the council ask-
ing that a sociologist observe them at
home in their normal day-to-day life,
as part of a survey on neighbourliness
and happiness in the community.
The first half, witty as it is, gets off to
a slow start and by the end one won-
ders whether this dysfunctionally com-
ical snapshot of northern family life is
going anywhere.
The second half explodes into a
hectic and energy-brimming series
of events, each one more far-fetched
than the next with the jokes getting
dirtier and earning progressively more
roars of laughter from the audience.
Not only this, but its emotional po-
tency and Bennett’s messages are put
across much more clearly and suc-
cessfully, earning it a lot more weight
and respect as a play and for its enter-
tainment value. There were moments
when the elderly Mrs Clegg tried in
vain to remove the supposedly-dead
Dad’s trousers off him, all the while
seeming as though fellating him, that
had one cringe a bit given the age of
both actors and audience, but laughs
it got. The sadness at the thought of
homes that instilled happiness, a sense
of community and pride (much of this
lost in today’s Britain) being ripped
apart was conveyed and served to give
balance to the previously silly slapstick
comedy, as well bring home clearly the
loss that was experienced during the
70s plight to modernise.
True to style, Bennett devised the
characters first before concentrating
on the themes. And the cast utterly
does justice to Bennett’s creations. All
of them loud and larger than life are
played superbly with unfaltering Leeds
accents (one American lady behind me
complained of being unable to under-
stand a lot of what was said!). After her
previous role as Mrs Bennett in BBC’s
1995 production of Pride and Preju-
dice (the better one), Alison Stead-
man is perfect for playing the none-
too-clever, optimistic Mam while the
gruff, grumbling Dad, played by David
Troughton, adds a glorious contrast to
his wife.
The age-old parent/offspring rivalry
issue is fueled by another great per-
formance from Josie Walker as the
daughter with loose morals, Linda,
with reference to the 80s social en-
vironment in Gregory the skinhead
sporting Dr Marten boots, no less.
Alan Bennett has succeeded, albeit
28 years after its creation, in compel-
ling us to ‘enjoy’ this play: we should
remember that a play is play, it should
be fun and it should be playful, he says.
This is theatre at its least contrived,
least academic and most jovial. Al-
though two hours and a half gave me
my fill of booming, northern accents
for the night!
Enjoy is on at the Gielgud Theatre
until 14th May
Dad, played by David Troughton, in a handsome set of braces
ward failure; I just wanted to take him
home in my pocket!
I’ve loved Spring Awakening for a
while now and so was really apprehen-
sive about what the Lyric would do to
it. What they have done is made it a
sublime, funny, poignant and rocking
new musical that is going to take some
beating. Many people will come for the
shock factor of swearing, sex and the
odd bit of nudity, but I hope they can
see beyond that to find a really clever
combination of classic storytelling,
modern music and choreography with
some amazing new talent to portray it.
For the first time in a long while I’ve
found I show I want to see again and
again and I think I’ll find something
new and fresh about it every time.
Spring Awakening is on at the
Hammersmith Lyric until March
14th Aneurin Barnard, playing Melchior, could out-act most of the West End

