nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Catherine Jones (CJ)
Silent crowd-surfing at Trafalgar
If you had happened to walk past Tra-
falgar square on Friday evening you
would have seen an odd sight; a thou-
sand plus people dancing, conga lining
and crowd-surfing to... well... silence.
The silent disco flash mobs are back.
After a T-mobile ad campaign showed
us what professional dancers can do
when grouped “randomly” en-masse,
Social networks plan to show what
they can do with the trend that is right-
fully theirs.
It is safe to say that “flash mobbing”
is one of many characteristics that will
define the tech savvy, socialites of Gen-
eration Y. A group of people gather-
ing in one place at short notice, doing
something out of the ordinary. And if
you had walked down the Strand on
Friday you would have seen the out of
the ordinary charge straight at you, fol-
lowing a man with the boom box and
police vans ambling behind them.
But ultimately, what is the point?
When you first arrive to participate in
a silent disco mob the mood is bizarre.
I knew why I was there. The girls in
neon tracksuits knew why I was there
(unless I’ve missed a disgusting new
fashion trend) and the police knew why
I, the girls in the neon tracksuits and
the fat man in a vest prematurely dis-
coing on his lonesome, were there. All
of us, including a few hundred more,
loitered waiting for 7:00pm.
When the clock struck 7:00, nothing.
Everyone still stood wandering round
the square waiting for something.
Some sort of signal to start.
It wasn’t for another 5 minutes when
a man on top of a lion rallied everyone
to come between the barriers. The
crowd took little convincing and soon
people were leaping over barriers,
iPods and mp3s in ear, ready to throw
some serious (yet stealth) shapes.
You might think that this would be
quite an awkward thing to participate
in, reserved for outgoing performance
artists. But once you’re plugged in,
you’re transported to a massive sum-
mer festival atmosphere, via Nelson’s
column.
Mosh pits were formed, conga lines
circled the main pit, and crowd surf-
ers leapt from the lions’ columns. The
two events definitely worth mention-
ing were when a ten year old (and yes I
did verbally query the whereabouts of
his mother) was carried in a superman
pose right to the back of the crowd,
and a horizontally challenged fellow,
who quite frankly didn’t leap with such
grace. After he got the crowd going
to cheer him on with some passion-
ate bare belly rubbing, the key carriers
failed miserably, and the sound of his
self hitting the concrete could be heard
from the back. Not to worry – he didn’t
die, just collapsed with unsympathetic
police standing over him afterwards.
Regardless, the discoing continued, cli-
maxing with a charge on to the nation
gallery and a group of police vans on
the ready to disperse the revelers.
The satisfaction of passers by, who
had no idea what was going on, was ap-
parent. With this alone, it is easy to see
why these flash mobs are so fun.
Obviously there are security issues
and concerns about public order. How-
ever, with a “mob” of people brandish-
ing boards with the manifestos “free
hugs” and “good times” it’s hard to see
any malice.
Flash mobs are appearing all round
the world. Pillow fights, silent discos,
mass tooth brushings, zombie walks
and water fights are taking on cities us-
ing text, email and social networking
sites. This is essentially performance
art, but so clearly reflects two exciting
factors of this generation. The abil-
ity to communicate en masse with the
broad social circles we have, and more
importantly, can rally these social cir-
cles into doing something absolutely
mindless in the name of a good laugh.
Personally I’m sold. Like all street art
in this city, it can make the daily grind
far more interesting. And if the fat kid
who failed to crowd-surf dies of inter-
nal bleeding, he is a victim of stupidity
and not of the flash mob. As long as the
good nature of it remains, I hope to see
you at the next beautiful waste of time.
this fine city has to offer.
James Mossahebi
Mass pillow fights,
silent discos and
zombie walks are
taking on cities
using text, email
and online social
networking. This
is essentially
performance art
phoenix
OUT NOW
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair James Houghton & Alex Ashford
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
Do the
locomotive
F
or most Londoners the Lon-
don Underground forms
both the backbone and back-
drop of life in the capital. On
the daily commute, we spoon
each other with an imposed intimacy
which would be unthinkable in differ-
ent circumstances. We make fleeting
eye contact, step on feet and mut-
ter hasty apologies as we manhandle
our way to the exit. The Tube is often
where we are at our most fragile. We
are there moments after waking-up,
before the nauseating taste of undis-
solved toothpaste has been swallowed.
We are there after a late evening spent
in the library, before a job interview,
on the way to meet friends who we
haven’t seen for too long, who might
have changed but we hope haven’t.
Luckily, many activities are available
to distract the commuter’s attention
away from this emotionally intense
situation. The dismembered London
Lites and London Papers that pepper
the aisles are staple for the morning
traveller. For the more literary and
dextrous, one handed book-reading is
also an option. For most though, time
is most efficiently killed by the iPod.
Selection of exactly what to listen to
on the tube is crucial for the preserva-
tion of emotional wellbeing. Choosing
an inappropriate tune for the situa-
tion can both ruin the music and leave
you alienated by the absurdity of it.
Most often one is tempted to select
intellectually-challenging music – jazz
or classical, for example – in order to
mentally stimulate away the tedium of
the commute. However you must not
be swayed by ideas of intellectual ex-
pansion, which is no more possible on
a packed-out carriage than is physical
expansion. The Tube is a place to yield
to the subconscious whims. Here, sur-
vival is the only objective.
Morning commutes are the most
crucial. The music you listen to for the
first hour of your day will have a dras-
tic effect on your mood. It is best to
select energetic pieces without going
into all-out electro-breaks (when I hear
the relentless snare kicks from a pair of
tinny white iPod headphones playing
Scooter’s latest hit single, I cringe not
only for my own sake, but for the sake
of the listener’s mental state). Hip-hop
is often a good choice, with the slow
tempo and confident elocution of the
monologists setting up a mood of bold
self-assurance and optimism. “Today”
you may think, nodding your head to
another sublime Dilla joint “I’ma fuck
all them bitches”. And for that first
hour of your day, you just might.
The music of the evening commute
is more about indulgence. For many
weary travellers, the evening’s beats act
as a substitute for a hot bath or a cup of
cocoa. It is a time for sumptuousness
and warmth, a time for comfort music.
Folk is good here; pop or electronica
often are not. Nothing too produced
– the evening commute’s soundtrack
needs to be human. It needs
to hold you to its bosom and
tell you that perhaps tomorrow
won’t be quite so awful.
The selection of music on the Un-
derground is an endeavour strewn
with potholes and potential hazards,
but hopefully with these tips the daily
commute will be slightly less grue-
some. Now all you have to remember
to do is mind the doors.
A spot of cribbage?
Esser can’t quite work it out
Tytus Murphy
“Lee Reynaldo
of Sonic Youth
remarking on
time, space and
love”
Following the success of their most
recent album, Men’s Needs, Women’s
Needs, Whatever, the three Jarman
brothers who make up The Cribs are
surfing the wave of momentum that
comes with critical acclaim and teen-
age adoration. Not content on
resting on their laurels, the
Jarmans have recruited
quite possibly the most
melodic guitarist of all
time in the form of the
eternally youthful Jonny
Marr (formerly of The
Smiths and Modest
Mouse). This evening
the Wakefield trio com-
bined with Mancunian Marr
are rounding off a flying tour
of more intimate venues with
the aim of road-testing some
new material to a loyal, diehard
legion of fans as they work on
their eagerly anticipated fourth
album.
Support from Oregon
3-piece The Thermals pro-
vide a retrospective of The
Cribs in 2003 as they once
arrived with their ferociously
energetic shows onto the live
circuit. But the crowd in this
venue (Heaven being more
accustomed to drag queens,
frolics and the like) are here to
welcome a seminal band back
into the medium in which they
are most comfortable and
make most sense. Few venues
can match the compactness,
intimacy and sweat of Heav-
en and this provides the per-
fect setting for a raucous, intense and
exuberant gig. Opening with new track
‘We were Aborted’ the anthemic na-
ture of most Cribs tracks is immediate-
ly evident. I have to say that being quite
the Cribs fanatic, Marr’s addition had
me worried with the worry of his pres-
ence perhaps upsetting the dynamic
of this buoyant band. How pedantic
my concerns now appear as the addi-
tion of his ambient, jangly guitar parts
provide a delightful foundation for the
distinctive Jarman guitar-hook and vo-
cal. From the start, it is so captivating
to see Ryan, Gary and Jonny interact
with a brotherly affection that ranges
from crazy love to cool aloofness. The
opening track is followed by a trio of
songs that send the enthusiastic crowd
into frenzy: ‘I’m a Realist’, ‘Hey Sce-
nesters’ and the snarling ‘Our Bovine
Public’. Collective cries of ‘You’d never
exist without being generic’ are uttered
in unison by Ryan and the 300 or so
crammed into this venue as everyone
vents a little anger at pretentious ‘sce-
nesters’ and their flaccid shenanigans.
This evening is all about road-testing
the new material and we are shown five
new songs. The most impressive being
‘Cheat on Me’ and ‘Victims of Mass
Production’. It is difficult to judge the
songs at this stage, the instrumental
parts are as expected and are all suc-
cinct, with the Marr contribution giv-
ing the rawer material a melodic edge
that in tandem with Ryan, Gary and
Ross (the unsung hero of this band
whose relentless drumming keeps this
beast ticking over in true pop-punk
spirit) creates a frantic sound.
The crowd are then invited to rep-
licate the delightful hook of ‘Another
Number’ and they duly oblige as Gary
demonstrates the often overlooked
tender and thoughtful side to this band,
“I disappear for hours, over the small-
est things” and in ‘Womens Needs’: “In
the radius of a thousand
The boys are back on tour. Tytus Murphy heads to Heaven
to witness the new Cribs lineup and some new Cribs tunes.
miles, I find it strange, no one makes
me smile”, capturing moments of isola-
tion in a dramatic contrast to the anger
of ‘Mirror Kisses’ – “You’re not allowed
to say, that you’re better!”
Very few bands can pull out a cou-
plet back-to-back as powerful as ‘Mir-
ror Kisses’ and ‘Mens Needs’ with both
songs being strong candidates for the
most anthemic reflections of adoles-
cence since the turn of the millennium.
At this stage of the gig, I am pogo-ing
with the jubilant jerks of someone who
is defying his twenty years of existence.
This band encapsulates youth in such a
powerful way and in the live setting the
energy and feeling is immense. ‘Be Safe’
is giving an epic airing with an intrigu-
ing spoken-word section provided by
Lee Reynaldo of Sonic Youth remark-
ing on time, space and love, juxtapos-
ing amazingly with the cry of “I know
a place, where you fall in love so hard,
that you wish you were dead”.
The Cribs continue to deliver at their
live shows and the addition of Marr is
going to further improve an already
excellent band. The set is concluded
with ‘Wrong Way to Be’ and a stage
invasion by an agile young chap who
after being crashed into the ground by
a security guard is consoled by a car-
ing hand from Ryan Jarman and invit-
ed to join the band for the end of the
set. I, for one,
think those
bruises will
definitely
be worth it.
This is the latest single from ex-Lady-
fuzz drummer Ben Esser, released just
as he heads off supporting the Kaiser
Chiefs on a UK arena tour. signed to
Transgressive last year, a label which
has a reputation for being on the cut-
ting edge of new musical talent, so ex-
pectations are high already.
‘Work it out’ has Esser showcasing
his trademark electro-pop with all the
key ingredients - electronic blips and
bleeps, synthesised backing vocals and
several accompanying remixes. It’s
these that could see the song easily de-
scend into indie discos, but the single
itself has a very easy going laid back
feel making it quite a relaxed listen.
Stylistic elements alluding to art-
ists like The Streets, Jack Penate, or
Jamie T can easily be found. Esser has
a habit of invoking quirky lyrics like “I
have a habit of getting my foot stuck in
my mouth / You are the only person I
know who can get it out” which make
the song feel a lighthearted affair. This
does however leave the song feeling a
little shallow, but although there’s little
that’s particularly ingenious or ground
breaking here, it still remains a very
likeable song on the whole.
There is a lot of potential for Es-
ser, especially given the current love
for electro/indie/pop at the moment.
‘Work it out’ may not propel him into
the glaring eye of the mainstream,
but there is plenty of promise for the
future.
Christopher Walmsley
Esser
Work It Out (single)
Merok
HHHII
25
Friday 20 February 2009 felix

