film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Vampires and werewolves never die
“We’ve got to go see this film” – en-
thused my fella – “They say it’s every-
thing that the last Indiana Jones should
have been!”
By ‘they’, he’s referring to The Metro
reviewer. I, looking forward to a Friday
night of cosy slouching around, am less
than sure. Mentioning the last Indiana
Jones film brings a sour taste to my
mouth, like bile, and I’m not enthused
by westerns. To cut the story short,
shortly afterwards we are hustling
into a cinema to watch the film on its
opening night. The audience is pretty
sparse and there are no problems find-
ing seats.
My knowledge of South Korean cin-
ema is pretty limited to Park Chan-
wook’s chilling Vengeance trilogy – de-
spite having lived in Seoul for a year,
I spent most of my TV time watching
glossy Korean soaps and historical
melodramas where understanding of
the spoken language is entirely arbi-
trary to understanding the plot. None-
theless, I anticipated that if The Good,
the Bad, the Weird would be anything
like the few films I had seen, it would
most likely be visually slick and good
looking, with bits of dark violence, in-
teresting camera angles, hints of black
comedy and intense, moody stars.
It is. It is all of that, and then some.
The Good, the Bad, the Weird is in-
spired by Sergio Leone’s The Good, the
Bad and the Ugly. The three protago-
nists referred to in the title are Yoon
Tae-goo (Song Kang-ho) – ‘the Weird’
(and endearingly so) – a carelessly
reckless, middle-aged gangster, Park
Chang-I (Lee Byung-hun) – ‘the Bad’, –
a psychotic and sadistic young gangster
with a penchant for tailored suits, flop-
py hair and knives (as these types do…)
and Park Do-won (Jung Woo-sung) –
‘the Good’ – a young, unflappable and
enigmatic bounty hunter. The action
in the film starts almost right away
with a rowdy train-robbery by two of
the protagonists and it scarcely lets
up from thereon. Intensely colourful
and cluttered sets are smashed up by
flying bullets and dying henchmen as
Yoon Tae-goo procures a precious and
mysterious treasure map from trav-
elling aristocrats, taking him across
the desert plains and towns of 1930s
Manchuria with Park Chang-yi and
his nasty cronies in hot pursuit. The
film is a peculiar mix of wild action,
extreme violence and quirky comedy.
Tae-goo provides the film’s comedic
moments by his pained expressions of
harassment and sheer disregard for the
deadly forces pursuing him. Do-won
appears to be the film’s calm, moral
centre and steady hand. Chang-I is
simply, purely disturbing – what the
film provides in intense visual colour
and detail, it also provides in graphic
gore and I had to fervently close my
eyes at certain points of the film when
Chang-I brought out his knives.
Unfortunately, the thin plot of the
film – ‘life is about chasing, and being
chased’ – cannot stand up to the even-
tual pacing and credibility, which really
begins to falter in the final third. There
is an initially amusing (but then inter-
minably long) chase-scene across the
desert involving horses, motorbikes,
jeeps, machine guns, packs of venge-
ful Manchurian bandits, gun wield-
ing gangsters, the unflappable bounty
hunter and a section of the Japanese
army who are depicted as Shakespear-
ian-ly evil. But by the convoluted end of
it, I found that I no longer particularly
cared what the treasure would turn out
to be and wished the protagonists –
friend, foe or weird alike – would hurry
up and bump each other off. The char-
acters’ lack of depth had carried on for
too long and I found myself bored and
caringlessforthe‘good’guys.Although
Not a masterpiece, but close
Few films, debut films at that, have
managed to portray the grandness and
the pitfalls of youth as accurately as
Joachim Trier’s Reprise. The Norwe-
gian production, first released in 2006,
has garnered a significant amount of
recognition at awards and festivals
around the world, particularly Europe.
Most praise was aimed at the young
Danish director who certainly is one
to look out for. However, it would be
a severe shortcoming to ignore the
quality of his film as a whole, an au-
thentic and complex rendering of the
emotions and experiences two friends,
Phillip (Anders Danielsen Lie) and Erik
(Espen Klouman-Høiner), go through
in their search for fulfilment.
The two are both young, aspiring
writers, filled with idealism and a crav-
ing to establish themselves as crea-
tive individuals in their world, which
leads them to different paths along the
treacherous cliffs of young adulthood.
Phillip, on the one hand, finds himself
intoxicated with an obsession of love
which turns him into a confused mess
and leaves him searching for lost time.
Erik, on the other hand, is driven by his
ambitions, hardly holding his own on
loose moral ground. The film explores
their anxieties, their attitude towards
friendship and the world around them,
their grand clichés seemingly dis-
guised as originality, their uniqueness
obscured by their commonality. It’s
such an overwhelmingly truthful ex-
perience, that it made me wonder why
I sacrificed the perennially ambiguous
meritocracy of the artistic plane for the
calm and prescriptive life of a business
graduate.
Still, I’ve come across a few com-
plaints in reviews of this film and they
mostly relate to the excessive editing,
the muddled narrative or the seemingly
uneventful storyline. Unfortunately, it’s
hard to argue against such statements,
as everyone finds his or her own bal-
ance, especially in terms of what is ex-
cessive and what is uneventful. How-
ever as far as the narrative goes, even if
it may seem a bit raw at times, as long
as the viewer is immersed in the film, I
sincerely doubt there will be any issues
pertaining to the comprehension or
the logical coherence of the story.
In conclusion, I won’t go so far as
to claim that Reprise is a masterpiece
but it is certainly has my vote as one of
the not-quite-so-many good films re-
leased of late which really spoke to me
in a substantial way. There are several
things to enjoy about it and even a few
to contemplate when it’s finished, in
what amounts to a poignant and well-
articulated piece of art.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
the finale of the film delivered a couple
of twists, I felt as though my enthusi-
asm for the film’s odd, scrambled mix
of tones and genres had waned and I
did not feel particularly bothered by
the sudden revelations in the ending.
Overall, this is still an entertaining
piece of action, a messy but great-look-
ing, rowdy, Korean-Western. While
moments of harsh violence may kill
your smiles as much as daft moments
will make you chuckle, I was suffi-
ciently entertained to be glad I forsook
a Friday evening of slouching, and in-
stead spent a couple of hours rushing
along with Tae-yoon through the Man-
churian desert. No Raiders of the Lost
Ark, but no Crystal Skull, either.
Bleak, dark and sexy. What more do
you expect from a film about vam-
pires and werewolves? For those of
you who may not know, Underworld:
Rise of the Lycans is a prequel to
2003’s sleeper hit Underworld and
its follow-up Underworld Evolution,
so it covers no new ground – just a
sub-plot from the first film that was
briefly mentioned as the motive for a
character’s crusade of vengeance.
If you haven’t seen the first two films
then this film will seem original and
intriguing, although you may find
yourself lost in a sea of pre-established
characters and codes for this already
well-developed alternative reality.
But whether or not you have seen the
other films, Underworld: Rise of the
Lycans is a stylish action/horror that
you can sink into and lose yourself in
for an hour and a half – that is if you
enjoy fast-paced action, gory horror
and sexy vampires.
Set hundreds of years ago, a com-
munity of vampires living within a
huge castle in an undisclosed Europe-
an country decide to use werewolves
as their slaves. Now this is where the
tricky definitions appear: werewolves
are vicious, monstrous beasts trans-
formed from humans into overgrown
canines. Lycans are werewolves that
can control their transformations and
can change back to human form, keep-
ing their humanity, logic and thoughts
intact while they are in wolf-form. If
you don’t understand that, think it
is stupid or don’t care, then maybe
you should stop reading now and not
bother watching this film. It is, after
all, the only bit of thinking you have to
do throughout the course of the entire
film, but if it is too much for you then
maybe horror just isn’t your thing.
For the rest of you: werewolves are
too dangerous to vampires and so are
forced into the forests, whereas Lycans
are kept within the citadel as slaves.
Lucian (Sheen), the very first Lycan,
is the trusted and valued leader of
the Lycans and he works for Viktor
(Nighy), the ‘big daddy’ and ruler of
the vampire world. But what Viktor
doesn’t know is that Lucian is hav-
ing an illicit affair with his smoking-
Underworld : Rise of the Lycans
HHHKK
Director: Patrick Tatopoulos
Writer: Danny McBride et al.
Cast: Michael Sheen,
	Billy Nighy,
Rhona Mitra
What is it about the desert that makes it so appealing to film-makers?
Apparently, neither do the Underworld sequels. To be fair, why kill a perfectly profitable series when the
new films still manage to be entertaining, sexy and action-packed, as Jonathan Dakin reveals this week. Reprise HHHHH
Director: Joachim Trier
Writer: Joachim Trier & Eskil
Vogt
Cast: Anders Denielsen-Lie,
	Espen Klouman-Hoiner,
Victoria Winge
Reprise is a piece of art that should not be missed by anyone; it’s
a film debut that has put Scandinavian movies back in the game
Ah, to be young and carefree again! Those where the days...
Shot on location in London, Gerald
McMarrow’s first full-length feature
is different and original enough to be
mentioned.
It’s hard to summarise the plot with-
out giving away the not-so-surprising
conclusion but that’s actually not a
problem because the movie’s strength
is not its imaginative storyline which,
even for a fairy tale, is slightly too unre-
alistic. What makes Franklyn stand out
is the pristine detail of the wonderfully
offbeat, decidedly sombre and murky
world created by the camera, scenery,
Coming Out Soon
make-up and visual effects.
Ryan Phillippe, Eva Green, Sam Ri-
ley and Bernard Hill play four souls
inhabiting two parallel worlds (con-
temporary London and Meanwhile
City) whose lives are interweaved by
fate, tragedy and, of course, love. As
these worlds come closer together
our heroes (or rather anti-heroes) go
through the process of self-discovery
that comes to a gripping climax when
Meanwhile City and our beloved Lon-
don collide.
Sounds a bit childish, but believe
me, this is one fairytale you would not
want your child to see. Unless you like
freaking out little kids, that is.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
See London as you’ve never seen it before
in this noir fairytale – Franklyn
Eva Green ditches her Bond-girl look for a disturbing emo-goth one.
hot vampire daughter Sonja (Mitra),
which is seen as an abomination as the
two races should never get too inti-
mate with one another. A very strong
Romeo and Juliet love theme quickly
develops and when impending doom
suddenly embraces the lives of those
within the fortress, Lucian decides
that it is time the Lycans made a stand
for themselves, cast off their shackles,
and be free to live life how they want.
Filledwithmanyracialanalogiesand
sword-wielding violence, I don’t think
I have ever seen an action film attempt
to make such a profound point before.
Perhaps I was reading too much into
it, but even so the film works on many
different levels which makes it even
more enjoyable.
With good performances from all
the central roles, including screen si-
ren Rhona Mitra who burns up every
scene with her incredible sexiness,
served alongside a healthy dollop of
gore and monster slaying, Underworld:
Rise of the Lycans does exactly what it
says on the tin. Although the plot will
seem strange to someone who has no
idea about the films that preceded it
and there are a few slow-scenes too
many, overall the film is an interest-
ing, paint-by-numbers action film.
Saying that, there is a very unexpected
ending but this twist will only come as
a shock to those who have not yet seen
the first Underworld film.
The directing is okay but some of the
quick cuts can be confusing and irri-
tating, although the Matrix-like slow
motion looks cool but lacks original-
ity. The director is trying his best, but
can’t compete with the director of the
previous films, Len Wiseman, who
was much better at building suspense
and atmosphere.
So if you want to begin your journey
into the world of vampires and were-
wolves, I’m sure that this is probably
the best place to start, as the films
that follow it chronologically are well
worth-seeing. It may be a turn-off-
your-brain-sit-back-and-enjoy stand-
ard action/horror, but when you have
nothing else to watch, what is so wrong
with that?
The Good, the Bad, the Weird
HHHKK
Director: Kim Ji-Woon
Writer:	Kim Ji-Woon & Kim
Min-Suk
Cast: Song Kang-ho,
	Lee Byung-hu,
Jung Woo-sung
Annabel Slater
Korean western that has the good, bad and weird
Stefan Carpanu
I think this photo summarises the film very well – swords stand for the violence, black for everything else.

