food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
Tupperware is so,
so cool
even [well cooked] omelette can be
perfectly edible the next day. I am
guilty of eating half a day-old cold Café
Forum pizza for lunch – if you just roll
it up, it tastes as good as those wanky
wrap things they sell in the library.
Now we go from fast-food for lunch
to slow-food at the weekend. If you’re
stuck in on a Sunday doing a lab report,
there is no better feeling than having a
big pot of slow-cooked stew on the hob
waiting for you to gobble down with a
hunk of old bread.
To get a good bargain on meat, pop
down to your local butcher to get a re-
ally cheapo cut of beef or lamb. If you
are lucky enough to live in or near Bat-
tersea, you had better get acquainted
with Luis and Ricardo’s Family Butch-
ers on Battersea Bridge Road. Far from
the extortionate steak and chicken you
can buy on the supermarket shelves,
this butcher offers unusual and tasty
cuts of meat at wholesale prices. And if
you get to know him well he’ll pop in a
couple of free onions into the bargain.
Legend.
Once you have your meat, the sim-
plest slow-cook can be done by just
adding your meat to a couple of car-
rots, onions, tins of plum tomatoes and
herbs, then cooking for a few hours on
a low heat with plenty of seasoning. To
save on the old gas bills, it might make
sense to invest a couple of quid in a
mini-slow cooker which makes enough
stew for two.
To continue with the ‘slow’ theme
our Keeper of the Stove, David Wallis,
conjures up a delicious slow-cooked
pork belly. Belly of pork is another of
those cheap cuts making a comeback.
We’ve had our economic growth with
a side of rack of lamb and fillet steak.
The recession, sir, comes with a por-
tion of pork belly, shin of beef and a bit
of imagination.
Another way to ward off the budget
blues is to happify your belly with a
good-value meal out. Near Pembridge
Halls is a fantastic Mexican serving
fresh Latino grub. James ‘I am Giles
Coren’ Copley checks it out this week.
As for me...writing has made me hun-
gry. I may go for a Happy Meal. Bye!
Me gustan los ricos burritos
sion is awash with presenters showing
us how great Latin American cuisine
can be.
With hopes high and bellies empty,
we tucked into a light starter of fresh
guacamole and requeson (a creamy
Mexican cheese similar to ricotta) with
tortilla chips. It was a most welcome
surprise upon sitting down that Car-
los, the restaurant’s co-owner insisted
we sample the margarita menu. After
an oh-so reluctant acceptance we were
then presented with a pomegranate
margarita and the house speciality –
the Margarita Santo. A delicate bal-
ance of sour lemon and lime juices and
a sweet pineapple flavour, all capped
off with a rim of chilli on the glass.
Cocktails are deceptively difficult to
perfect and the barman at Santo truly
has mastered the margarita. With the
bar open until 1am at weekends, can
you think of a better way to escape the
English February than supping cock-
tails late into the night?
The staples of the standard Mexican
restaurant are present at Santo: burri-
tos, quesadillas, enchiladas etc. But
the diverse range of fillings, from the
conservative chilli con carne to orange
juice marinated pork, slow-cooked in
banana leaves and served with pickled
red onions. It is clear, however, that the
dishes that the owners are most proud
of serving are the cazuelas, main meals
cooked in traditional terracotta dishes
and served with hot flour tortillas.
There seems to be a reluctant accept-
ance at Santo that, despite the owners
Santo Village HHHHH
299 Portobello Road
0208 968 4590
www.santovillage.com
Best: The food, the ambience,
the margaritas... todos!
Worst: Que?
Price: From £4.50 for mains
Student Discount: 10% off Tues-
days to Thursdays
strongdesiretoserveauthenticmodern
Mexican cuisine, to succeed they must
serve the food that people expect. This
is exemplified by the chef begrudgingly
serving his burritos in the American-
style, with lots guacamole and soured
cream. Even though this may not be
traditional, the sheer quality of the ac-
companiments makes Santo’s burritos
an excellent choice for lunch when you
find yourself in the area.
The more adventurous diner has the
opportunity to make the chef’s day
and select one of the many delicious
mains on offer. Having recently seen
the Hairy Bikers cook it, I chose the
chicken mole. This is a thick brown
sauce, which the chef informed me had
more ingredients than Portobello Road
has stripey emo socks. Famous for
containing cacao, it also has ground al-
monds, dates and other such wonder-
ment. This initially smoky and sweet
dish, with a surprising chilli aftertaste,
is mainly cooked for special occasions
in Mexico due to its complexity.
Santo have started to serve takeaway
food, but it would seem a shame not to
enjoy the full experience with the won-
derful decor and vibrant music. It real-
ly is a heart warming experience dining
in a cosy little corner, courtesy of some
of the most welcoming and passionate
men in London, let alone in the restau-
rant industry.
Something of a hidden gem, then,
and the perfect location for a cliché-
free romantic meal.
P
ortobello Road. Chances
are you will have been there
fairly soon after arriving at
Imperial. Chances are you
will not have been amused
by the array of dubious antiques and
generic tourist tat on offer. Chances
are you will not have met Hugh Grant,
but rather been the flattened filling
in a baseball-cap-sporting-American
sandwich. Chances are you won’t have
hurried back. If this is the case, then
you will not have noticed that at the far
end of the road, just past the wonder-
ful concrete monstrosity of the West-
way flying over your head, there lives a
small Mexican restaurant named Santo
Village.
Now a fair percentage of us that grew
up in the ‘90s in middle England may
associate Mexican food with yellow
cardboard boxes full of rubbery tortil-
las and mysterious sachets of “spice”.
However, in the past few years we fi-
nally appear to be catching on, televi-
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Food
James Copley spies with his little eye, something Mexicano
B
efore I even attempt to put
my spoon into the broth of
delights that is these food
pages, I wish to apologise.
Last week, I noticed I had
written an article that I hadn’t writ-
ten at all. Unfortunately, the brilliant
Vapiano review was not written by my
hand but by the lovely Natalia Jardon-
King. Please correct your copies from
last week with a large, red, felt-tip
pen.
Earlier today I was imbibing my
daily fix of radio-broadcasted female
empowerment (a.k.a Woman’s Hour).
In between the bitter divorcees and
reproductively-challenged couples was
an absorbing piece about sandwiches.
They had sent out a young and enthu-
siastic researcher to collar Mancunian
workers on their midday breaks and to
reveal their darkest luncheon secrets.
Unsurprisingly, most people (includ-
ing you) can spend up to £100 a month
on lunches alone. This adds up to
about £600 being spent on bread, but-
ter and mayonnaise for the average un-
dergraduate in an academic year and if
you think about opportunity costs, you
could make double that amount of food
if it were homemade, or just not be in
as much debt at the end of the year.
Unfortunately, I am a Libra and I
am aware of another side of this ar-
gument: what about The Sandwich
Shop? If we all made ourselves lunch
everyday, amazing local eateries like
this one would certainly go out of busi-
ness. What would we do without our
lukewarm samosas and foot-long ba-
guettes wrapped in 5 layers of Cling-
film? I think most of the student/staff
population of Imperial would go to
ruins without The Sandwich Shop. As
usual we must make a compromise:
save yourself some money for one half
of the week and make yourself a big,
Tupperware lunch or club sandwich.
For the rest of the week, indulge in a
Sandwich Shop outing or a lardy Pani-
ni from the JCR.
If this sounds like far too much ef-
fort, it might be easier to just make a
little bit more of the dinner you had
last night. Cold pizza, pasta bake and
Serves 2-3
500-600g Belly Pork (make sure there is a good layer of fat under the skin)
1 small or half a large onion sliced
2-3 Cox’s apples, peeled, cored and sliced into 8 half-moon shaped segments
2 teaspoons fennel seeds (optional)
1 tablespoon of fresh sage, chopped (if you haven’t got sage, thyme will also work well)
Olive oil
2-3 mashing potatoes, peeled and chopped and left to soak (this stops them being too starchy)
Good handful Kale chopped
1 portion of Laughing Cow cheese
Milk
Butter
100ml good-quality dry English cider
2 tablespoons double cream
1 teaspoon grainy mustard
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Pre-heat the oven to 220o
C. Score the skin of the pork with as sharp a knife as you can find, taking care not
to cut down into the meat. Pour over some boiling water, drain and dry well with kitchen towel (this process
causes the skin to contract and gives you better crackling). Once dry, rub the skin lightly with olive oil before
sprinkling with a good pinch of salt and a teaspoon of fennel seeds. Work the salt and fennel seeds into the
cuts you have made in the skin. Put the onion, apples, sage and a teaspoon of fennel seeds in a deep roasting
tin and large enough to accommodate the meat. Add a dash of olive oil and give a good mix together.
Arrange the apple and onions into a bed that the pork can rest on, trying to keep all of the mixture directly un-
derneath the meat. This may take a bit of fiddling but once you are happy, gently place the pork in the centre of
the hot oven and roast for 25 minutes. After the 25 minutes are up, turn the heat right down to 160o
C and leave
to cook for 1.5 – 2 hours. Half-an-hour or so before the pork is done cooking you need to prepare the mash
potatoes. Simply drain the chopped potatoes and boil in fresh water for 15 -20 minutes or until soft. Once the
pork’s time is up, check it to see if the skin has transformed to the state of crackling-crispiness you desire. If
it still seems a bit soft, just bung it back in the oven on maximum heat and check it every couple of minutes
until the job is done (don’t worry too much about burning the meat, belly is very forgiving). When happy with
your pork, remove from the oven and leave to rest. Drain the potatoes thoroughly, ensuring that there is no
water left in the pan. Return the cooked potatoes to the pan with a good knob of butter, a splash of milk, the
Laughing Cow cheese, a pinch of salt and a few turns of freshly-ground black pepper. Mash the potato until
smooth, check seasoning and set aside – keeping warm. Cook the Kale for 5 minutes in boiling water. In the
mean time, heat a small frying pan on high. When hot, pour in the cider and boil vigorously for two or three
minutes before adding the mustard and cream. Stir together, add a bit of salt and freshly-ground pepper and
set aside. Finally, cut the belly pork into thick strips and plate up with the mash and cooked kale. Put a spoonful
or two of the apple and onion mix alongside the meat and pour the cider and cream dressing over the veg.
Breathe a sigh of relief and eat with gusto whilst sipping the rest of your cider.
Written and Created by David Wallis
Slow-Roast Crispy
Pork Belly
Slow Cooking: Worth its Wait in Gold
As with a particular brand of Irish stout, the old adage, “Good
things come to those who wait”, is never more true than when it
comes to home cooking and fat, considered the scourge of food
of the fast variety, is positively essential when it comes to taking
a more scenic route to the dining table. Fat means flavour, and,
when left to gently bubble along over the course of a few hours,
will slowly melt away and release untold richness of flavour leav-
ing you with meat so tender and juicy that you may well find your-
self slumping to your knees, sobbing in unbridled ecstasy. The
recipe here, whilst requiring a bit of forethought and effort in the
kitchen, is more than worth it for the pay-off. When you cook pork
belly like this, for example, the resulting sensation that comes
with the salty, piggy crunch of crisp golden crackling, coupled
with the rich gooey melt of velvety flesh, is probably the closest
you can get to the meaning of life. So, like Sting in the bedroom,
slow is definitely the way to go.
Want it... want it now. Who says homemade lunches aren’t cool when
you have one of these!!?
I C U F a i r t r a d e S o c i e t y p r e s e n t s …
FAIRTRADE
FORTNIGHT
Monday 23rd: Launch
in the JCR
Wednesday 25th: Talk
and discussion in
Huxley 311 at 12.30.
Free raffle tickets for
everyone attending.
Free coffee for everyone who
buys Fairtrade! Exchange a
recent receipt showing you
have bought a Fairtrade item
for a coffee voucher.
Friday 27th: Sampling in
Sherfield during lunch
time.
Thursday 26th: Wholefoods
visit in Sherfield.
Discounts on
Fairtrade snacks
and drinks in JCR
Buy raffle tickets for your
chance to win chocolate
hampers, Fairtrade wine, or
PeopleTree vouchers.

