Alex
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
Staying fresh for function
Seemingly nomadic Music Editor Alex Ashford has migrated across the pages of felix.
She brings you her fashion essentials that allows her to stay fresh for any situation.
Boater Hats
Straw boaters, you know,
like the ones those guys
wear as they ply their trade
on the rivers, er, streets, er,
rivers, er....streets of Venice.
Adds another dimension to
an otherwise plain outfit. I’m
imagining a dark blue or white
outfit. Sick.
Collar Buttons
The inbetweener of sick and
shit this week is that of the col-
lar buttons. Go 60s mod style
and do your buttons right up
to the top. Go one step further
and find that classic Ben
Sherman shirt with the ever-
coveted button-down collars.
Some say geek-chic is cool,
but others have been telling
me it’s not.
Lady Gaga
Could there be anything more
tacky than a woman who
despite her zany exterior, has
the personality of a brick? Oh,
look at my bow in my hair!
Haha, you’re the fool, because
its actually IS my hair! Well,
probably extensions, but Paris
Hilton described Lady Gaga as
a musical and fashion ‘icon’.
She is neither. It’s also been
reported that her infamous
vintage sunglasses have been
snatched by a ‘crazed fan’. To
the fan, good on you. Now
put them up on ebay for other
morons to buy.
SICK
SHIT
Imperial’s own Gok Wan and Fashion Editor, Dan Wan, suggested I write
something for this page (probably because he’s too busy whining about
something in a different section of the paper!). I realised because we’re
students, we’re always going to be poor (any spare cash is for booze),
and this whole economic meltdown isn’t really helping us. So here’s a
rough guide of fashion necessities that can be worn for pretty much every
occasion, and keep you looking natty: not nasty. Kate Moss has worked out
that you only need to wear about five different things ever, and she
always gets it right. This is really just for girls, because boys only
ever have about five things to wear anyway. Get these right
and you don’t need to own anything else.
Unless you’re not into the idea of wear-
ing the skin of another species, this will
be a brilliant investment. It has been
a consistently good look since it was
pioneered by cavemen. The best thing
though, is that they both keep you
warm in the cold and don’t overheat
you when it’s warm. Fur coats are good
for winter (80% of the British year is
winter anyway) but leather jackets are
suitable for the entire year, anywhere in
the world. Vintage shops (Beyond Ret-
ro, Absolute Vintage, Rokit, etc.) are
the best places to rummage through
(and in the case of fur, it at least means
you aren’t directly funding the killing
of cute furry things).
No,youdon’twantbootcut,straightleg,
boyfriend cut, wide leg, high-waisted,
whatever. You want plain blue skinny
jeans. You don’t want embroidery, silk
screen prints, weird pockets, extra belt
loops, studded rhinestones, coloured
piping, deliberately distressed jeans.
You want plain blue skinny jeans. Even
if you’re fat, you want plain blue skinny
jeans. Black and grey are also good.
You can get these anywhere, I’m a fan
of the Cheap Monday brand which you
can get at places like Urban Outfitters.
Have you seen Lilly Allen recently in
one? She looked simply gorge and just
wore head to toe black accented with
red lipstick. Feel free to be as slutty as
you like, it will still look classy if you
wear all black. American Apparel has a
really nice long-sleeved very short one
with a big scoop back.
Grey Zip-up Hoody
Layer under a leather jacket or blazer,
they are cosy and lazy and warm with-
out looking like you just rolled out of
bed. Once again, American Apparel is
ideal for basics like this.
Cardigans are just so lovely. Everyone
wears them: boys, girls, little kids,
grannies and grandads. They unite
people of all ages with their cosy loveli-
ness. Again, material is the key factor.
You can get some really nice cashmere
ones from vintage shops for less than
you’d think.
Killer Heels
Get the most outrageous, ridiculous
and divine pair you can. Go for bright
colours and space age-looking things.
Loads of these sorts of shoes are on sale
right now because people aren’t buying
as extravagantly as before; take advan-
tage! Shoes make or break an outfit, so
have the fiercest shoes and the rest of
your outfit doesn’t matter that much.
Wear it to bed on its own, wear it to
the pub with jeans and boots, wear it
to a nightclub with oil slick leggings
and heels, it’s appropriate for almost
every occasion. Big baggy and comfy
are best, and if you want, make it less
frumpy and cut the neck and sleeves
off. American Apparel has a plethora
of different t-shirt styles in different
colours.
Sexy Black Dress
A Big Warm Cardigan
Grey Zip Up Hoody
Killer Heels
Plain Boys’ T-Shirt
Leather Jacket or Fur Coat
Skinny Blue Jeans

