felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Andrew Lavery
ICUGFC
make
1/2-finals
Gaelic football produce a respectable
performance in their first season.
1st XV shear Baahdiff
Max Joachim
The final match before Varsity was
upon us and who better to play than
Cardiff University in order to prepare
for the Medic scum? Everything went
according to plan before the game with
the Welsh being confused by the in-
conceivable shortage of sheep on the
road, which meant that one of their
minibuses, got lost. They made it to
Fortress Harlington in the end and
didn’t know what hit them when the
first whistle sounded.
Even the referee immediately rec-
ognised that there would only be one
team dominating this pitch today. So
while refereeing and, even more so,
commenting the game he decided that
there was no point to give any favours
to the visitors. The game was all in IC’s
hands and after a few kicks from their
sheepish 10 which were promptly re-
turned by the Imperial backs, the hosts
started to play some fabulous rugby
which pinned Cardiff in their own 22.
A few chances to score were blown
but then the outstanding fly-half Joe
Brown decided to take matters into
his own hands by seeing off the guests’
pathetic excuse for a back-line before
scoring in the right corner. Alex John-
stone missed the conversion. In de-
fence, Imperial was sound and could
work well around the rucks whilst the
backs made some great runs off turno-
ver balls. One of them could only be
stopped deep in the Cardiff half. Some
quick hands towards the left touchline
saw fresher Jack Newton touch down
for a try in the corner. 10-0 wasn’t good
enough for the hosts, though, who de-
cided that a larger result would reflect
the first half a lot better which meant
that Flannan O’Mahoney, actually a
wolf in sheep’s clothing, stole yet an-
other Cardiff lineout after a kick deep
into their half from the Imperial back-
three. A few phases later, prop Joe
Saunders found himself in the middle
of the IC back-line so once he realised
that running sideways is not what you
do in rugby, he gave the ball to fullback
Max Joachim who, still influenced by
the 2009 Super Bowl, dummied a quar-
terback pass to the wing only to find
himself a clear line towards the Cardiff
try line. This time, Johnstone wanted
to put his name on the score sheet, too,
to make it 17-0 at half-time.
The second half started slowly but
some aggressive defensive work by Im-
perial’s back row and centres produced
a fair number of turnover balls which
were eventually put into points when
scrum-half Freddie Chalke finished
Rugby
Imperial College 1st XV 38
Cardiff University 1st XV 7
Last weekend ICUGFC competed in
our first British Universities Gaelic
Football Championship. Getting to
Birmingham to compete though was
not going to be easy. Unfortunately
due to the snow the week previous, the
tournament was postponed from their
original date with the result that many
teams (including Southern rivals Ox-
ford and Cambridge) were unable to
field at such short notice – the Gaelic
playing boys of IC were not going to
quit though.
In the dark of early morn, on Satur-
day we gathered at the Union, it was
a much-depleted IC team that were
making the journey but the atmos-
phere was buoyant and every man
there was in anticipation of the battles
that lay ahead, our man from Galway
perhaps more so…
The format of the compeition was
for four 30 minute matches for each
team to be played in a group stage
that would see the top two qualifying
for the semi-finals the following day.
Those unlucky enough to be drawn
in the ruinous IC group were: Aber-
tay, Nottingham, a guest French entry
from Rennes and from our first fixture
in October - Bedford.
The basic line began with Chris Far-
rell in nets, playing behind Pat McMul-
len and Andrew Lavery in the full back
line. Edward O’Hare was marshalling
the half back line with Fergal Stran-
ney and Tom McFadden on either side.
Finian McCann as usual was in mid-
field playing alongside Niall O’Shea.
Our prolific half forward line was
James Haugh, Conor Taylor and Paddy
Heugh with Frank O’Neill and Stephen
Gallagher up front. It was a strong line
out with an experienced central spine
with very proficient draftees brought
in to replace our missing players, spe-
cial mention to rugby’s McFadden who
came in at late notice and had a fault-
less day at left half back.
Our first match featured Abertay,
a team that in 2001 had actually won
Gaelic football’s top-flight competi-
tion for British Universities. They were
however were a shadow of their former
glory and although IC were sluggish to
start we ran out comfortable winners
with a score line of 3-04 to 0-01.
IC watched the next two group
Continued on page 41
Continued on page 39

