4 felix Friday 20 February 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
Madagascar is in the middle of a standoff between current President
Marc Ravalomanana and Andry Rajoelina, the mayor of the capitol
Antananarivo.
The two are vying for political control of the island nation, which lies off
the coast of East Africa and is home to 20 million people. Both men have
appeared on their television stations and traded accusations, and their sup-
porters have made themselves heard in rallies in public places like the Ma-
hamasina stadium and May 13 square. However some of the protests have
turned violent ending with civilian deaths.
The position of Madagascar’s Army is unclear at the moment, their state-
ment reads “The army is part of those looking for a rapid solution to the
current situation” but also that
the Army is “ready to fulfil its
duties.” Ripples of the stand-
off have already been felt in the
economy with South Korean
conglomerate Daewoo saying it
will delay its plans to invest in a
new huge intensive corn planta-
tion in south Madagascar.
Madagascar
This week chief Khmer Rouge torturer Kaing Guek Eav, better known as
“Duch”
, went on trial for crimes against humanity in a specially set-up
joint Cambodian-UN tribunal.
Since 2006 the tribunal has had a mandate to try senior leaders and those
responsible for the most atrocious part of the country’s history for crimes
against humanity, including genocide.
The Khmer Rouge (Communist Party of Kampuchea) came to power after
a coup in 1975, and immediately emptied all of the cities and towns in an
attempt to create a utopian agrarian society. In the four years until their fall
from power due to the Vietnamese invasion in 1979, an estimated 1.7 million
Cambodians died due to famine, forced labour and organised violence. Al-
though their notorious leader Pol Pot died in 1998, other senior officials have
been caught in recent years and await trial.
Cambodia
Kosovo
While the UN’s International Court of Justice still debates the legality of
Kosovo’s unilateral declaration of independence, its people were rejoic-
ing on February 17th, Kosovo’s “independence day”
.
Thousands crowded the main streets of the capital Pristina to hear Prime
Minister Thaci’s address. Despite the sceptics’ warnings of renewed violence,
displacement of the Serb minority, and predictions that Serbia would fall to
extreme nationalism, none of this has happened, and the country has re-
mained relatively at peace.
Keeping the peace is a large NATO led force, along with the EU’s largest po-
licing force, deployed in December. So far only 54 of the UN’s 192 countries
have recognised Kosovo, previously a province of Serbia. Serbia’s President
Tadic has vowed never to recognise its lost province, and to “defend its legiti-
mate rights by legal and diplomatic means, not force”.
Maldives
Maldives’ new president Mohammed Nasheed has decided to sell off
large portions of his government’s assets in order to “cut back on the
trappings of power” left over from his predecessor.
20 years ago Nasheed was imprisoned for political activism, but in October
2008 he won in Maldives’ first ever free presidential elections, thereby ending
the 30-year reign of Abdul Gayoom, the man who put him in jail.
On the auction list are Gayoom’s presidential yatch with a reserve price of
£5m, several luxury beach villas and a private cricket pitch. Being an island
nation in the Indian Ocean, Gayoom also had the private island of Arah for
personal use on weekends. Nasheed estimates that maintaining the presi-
dency used to cost the Maldives £105m a year, now it will cost under £3m.
Gaelic Football cause
disturbance in the Union
twice in one week
Two separate incidents have been
brought to the attention of Impe-
rial College Union that have involved
members of the newly formed Imperial
College Gaelic football society.
The first of these two incidents oc-
curred at the last Athletics Club Com-
mittee [ACC] Bar Night last week
where one of their members punched
a member of the Imperial College Un-
ion Rugby Football Club [ICURFC].
It is believed that the individual from
ICURFC, under the influence of alco-
hol, went over to the area of the Foot-
ball Club and picked up one of their
pints. He then proceeded to drink half
the pint before throwing the other half
over his head, which landed on the
footballers. One of the members then
told the rugby player to just leave them
alone, which resulted in both of them
‘squaring up’.
The Gaelic Sports members were sit-
ting behind the footballers at the time,
one of their members is alleged to
have stood up and punched the rugby
player. On the same night, there was
a separate incident involving another
member from the rugby club who was
apparently pushed off the stage and
then kicked by others on the floor.
As a result, the club captains of the
rugby club, Gaelic football society and
the football club have all been called to
a meeting by ACC Vice-Chair Charles
Murdoch to obtain the full story. The
night also saw a fire alarm that re-
quired the evacuation of the entire
building which eventually led to the
bar night being cut short at the request
Jovan Nedić
& Alice Rowlands
of the management and the fire safety
officer. Mr Murdoch has since told fe-
lix that he “fears the future of the ACC
bar nights might be in jeopardy after
several incidents over the past few bar
nights.”
The outcome of that particular in-
cident is yet to be determined, mean-
while the conduct of some members
of the Gaelic Football society in DaV-
inci’s on Sunday evening has brought
the club into further disrepute: After
returning from a successful match,
the club descended upon the Union
for some celebratory drinks and were
clearly under the influence of alcohol
upon entering the bar, starting to get
rowdy. Eyewitnesses told felix that the
group quickly became quite loud and
boisterous, climbing on tables and
singing songs.
Though very drunk, most of the
group were good-natured and not
obviously threatening. However, one
of the group became quite aggres-
sive and appeared to be “looking for a
fight”, he turned to face the rest of the
bar, particularly a group of sportsmen
three tables away and began shouting
such things as “you English bastards!”
and “I’m going to slit your throats”, be-
fore turning back to his group to lead
a more sinister round of singing that
involved chanting about the IRA [Irish
Republican Army]. A number of the
people in the bar found this extremely
offensive as the IRA were responsible
for a number of bombings in England
as recently as 1996 when bombs were
exploded in the London Docklands
area and in Manchester city centre kill-
ing 2 people and injuring many more.
While joining in with the songs that
offended at lot of the clientele in the
bar, most of the group did not show
the same sort of animosity towards the
English as was displayed by the indi-
vidual leading the singing. The indi-
vidual then turned around to further
antagonise the sportsmen on the other
side of the bar, before picking up one
of the bar stools and moving towards
the group of sportsmen on the other
side of the room. The rest of the Gaelic
football group encouraged him to put
the stool down, at which point the in-
dividual threw the stool at the floor,
close to another group of students try-
ing to enjoy a quiet drink. One of the
legs of the stool was broken. At this
point the bar manager asked them to
leave the bar.
When asked about their behaviour,
one of the Gaelic Sports members was
heard to say they “never really thought
about the songs and the offence they
could cause. They’re just songs we grew
up knowing and heard sung in the pub
along with many other songs.” This
comment has since then been refuted
by the Gaelic Football Club Captain.
Some of the Gaelic football members
tried to make it clear that they hadn’t
meant to cause offense with the songs
and saw them as a celebration of Irish
Republicanism rather than anything
more sinister or particularly offensive
to the English. Their actions both on
last Wednesday and Sunday are not
likely to be overlooked by the Union,
who are currently looking into the
events.
In response to these events, the Club
Captain of the Gaelic Football has
written a letter which can be found on
page 12.
Imperial College becomes first university to
recycle 50% of its waste products
Imperial College London has set a
powerful precedent by becoming the
first university in the UK to commit
to halving the amount of construction
waste sent to landfill by 2012.
The College has signed up to the
WRAP (Waste & Resources Action
Programme) voluntary agreement
through which organisations set tar-
gets to reduce landfill waste from con-
struction, demolition and excavation
work.
WRAP was established as a not-for-
profit company in 2000 and is backed
by UK government funding. The
‘Construction Commitments: Halv-
ing Waste to Landfill” project was set
up by WRAP in October 2008 and
Imperial joins over 40 organisations
who have already signed up; including
Sainsburys and ASDA.
This commitment is made even more
relevant by the magnitude of new con-
struction works at Imperial, including
the new Eastside halls which were re-
cently “topped out”.
Imperial is currently spending £100
million a year on constructing new
buildings and refurbishing existing
buildings across the College’s cam-
puses. It plans to build similar recy-
cling and reusing techniques into all
projects in order to meet the goal of at
least halving its construction waste.
Imperial is also developing guide-
lines for future construction projects
that include working with materials
that are renewable and long lasting,
and designing buildings efficiently, so
that the amount of materials used is re-
duced and less waste is generated.
Steve Howe, Director of Building
Projects at the College, says: “As a uni-
versity we recognise that we have a
duty to our neighbours and to society
to spend money wisely, to reduce wast-
age wherever we can, and to support
Government and EU targets for waste
reduction.”
Denis Murphy, Construction Safety
Manager in the Building Projects Di-
vision at the College, adds: “Imperial
wants to be a leader in this field and we
are determined to cut our carbon foot-
print and increase the use of recycled
materials. We hope to push ourselves
further and set our own targets aiming
to reduce waste sent to landfill by up
to 85%.”
Dr Mike Watson, Head of Construc-
tion at WRAP, said: “We are pleased to
see Imperial College’s commitment to
the agreement, leading the way for oth-
ers in the education sector to follow.”
The College will also reuse and recy-
cle more furniture, fittings and fixtures,
such as chairs, desks and filing cabi-
nets, by identifying materials which
can be reused internally or offered to
outside organisations. In addition, a
new general waste recycling scheme
introduced in 2008 has recycled over
900 tonnes of waste such as paper and
plastic over the last year.
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy Editor
Eastside Halls construction is to
be opened for September 2009

