6 felix Friday 20 February 2009 7
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Last week we met the man and found out about his past
as a student at Imperial. Now we look into what he really
thinks of the higher education system, the government
and Imperial’s role in research and development. Jovan
‘John Humphrys’ Nedić and Tom ‘Jeremy Paxman’
Roberts report back from their epic interview last week.
The government
and the higher
education system
Teaching time and research split
felix
Do you not think this business side of things affect the student life
because for the last seven years or so, the researching hours have
gone up by about 10% but teaching hours have dropped by about
5%. Do you think that there is too much focus on research and not
on teaching like there should be?
Rector
No I don’t actually. I have no trouble with high quality researchers
saying that they don’t have time for teaching. Very very good peo-
ple in their discipline are almost invariably very good teachers, and
there is a trivial reason for that; if you’re very good at your subject
and can understand it well, then it will be easy for you to pass on
that information. Good researchers will be good teachers.
felix
So would you say that teaching hours will increase over the next
few years?
Rector
I’ll be brutally honest here, so much depends on the economic cli-
mate and the attitude of the government in the coming years and
how we come out over the next few years. If the volume of money
for research, whether that comes from businesses or the govern-
ment, is severely stretched, then maybe we will have to spend more
time on taught degrees which will see the teaching hours rise.
We also might need to focus on international teaching. Every year
we get a huge number of internationals students applying, who do
have exceptional qualifications and we could take double or triple
the number, but we don’t have the space available here so that is
why it might lead to a footprint overseas.
Setting up an overseas footprint
felix
In your Commemoration Day speech you also mentioned the pos-
sibility of Imperial setting up footprints overseas, and in a recent
interview with the Financial Times you said that there were a few
places where a campus might be set, with locations such as India,
China, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. Is there any par-
ticular reason for choosing these places?
Rector
Well, first of all, where do we get most of our students? Then also
there is a slightly different reason for the Emirates. They are the
most liberal Arab communities in the world in terms of structural or-
ganisation which one can have some empathy with. For example the
rulers are very oil wealthy and they want to use that wealth to firstly
improve the health of their peoples, secondly to improve the system
of education from primary all the way up to higher education and
thirdly that they want to be remembered in world history for being
the source of the generation of technologies for after oil and after
gas, in other words non carbon technologies. Now those three vi-
sions are something that we can empathise with very strongly with
here so that makes that part of the world very attractive.
The story behind top-up fees and what Imperial
College Union thinks about them
In his eight-year reign at Imperial, the one topic that the previous Rector Sir Richard Sykes was vocally
in favour of was top-up fees. After only a year into the job in 2002, he, along with a number of Vice-
Chancellors from leading universities, all stated that they would be in favour of increasing the price
of tuition fees if the government lifted its cap on the then price of £1,100 a year. Whereas most of the
Russell Group universities – the UK’s answer to the Ivy League – said that they would probably increase
the price to about £3,000 a year, Sir Richard Sykes mentioned that he would much prefer a value of
around £10,500 a year.
Rather unsurprisingly, this value angered a lot of students, as they could not see why higher educa-
tion would cost so much with some arguing that “education should be free and accessible to all”. The
then Rector’s reasoning behind it all was a simple, business-minded one. He stated that, back in 2002,
it costs Imperial College £10,500 to train a student, yet they only receive £6,000 per student from the
Higher Education Funding Council as well as the £1,100 tuition fee from the student itself. This left a gap
of £3,400 per student, or a total of around £18 million a year back in 2002.
The argument that followed then is the same one today. Where should the money come from? There
are two main options available to the Vice-Chancellors and Rectors of the different universities in the
UK; they can either increase the tuition fee to cover the costs or the government can increase the
amount of money given to the institutions.
In his interview with felix, Sir Roy Anderson was very clear on his thoughts on the government and
where their money is being spent. He, like his predecessor, has pointed out that if the government don’t
do anything to help the universities, then the money would have to come from the students themselves,
although he does disagree with the number going to £10,500 as suggested by Sir Richard Sykes.
The one other method that he does hint at, however, is one similar to that that is employed in the US.
Interestingly, Sir Richard Sykes mentioned a similar thing to the BBC back in 2002 where he told them
“If, for example, the fee were set at £10,500 ... then £16.9m would be generated if 30% of students paid
full fees and 70% received bursaries.” It was an early indication that there stood the possibility of Impe-
rial having a bursary scheme to aid the incredibly gifted student, something that the current Rector also
seems to favour.
If a change to top-up fees were to go ahead, there is one main obstacle that the university would have
to overcome, that being a policy that was made by Imperial College Union back in 2006 where it stated
that it would “actively campaign against any attempt to lift the cap on top-up fees”. With the govern-
ment review of top-up fees around the corner and the Union policy on top-up fees expiring October
of this year, it will be interesting to see what the outcome will be, especially with the current economic
situation.
Higher Education funding and Top-up fees
felix
We’ve deviated a bit here. The top-up review is coming up, what are your views on top-up fees?
Rector
It’s a very fine balance. Personal views, I would like to see them go up and particularly because it is
my task to protect Imperial College through this tough time and coming out of the recession. How do
we survive? It depends so much on government funding and I think the imbalance between what it
costs to train a home-grown student and what the government gives in support to its universities is
problematic, so I see no other solution apart for it to rise. I’m not in the debate of it rising to a terrible
market force level that would be double digit thousands, but if it did rise, Imperial has to find a way of
creating these endowment funds that would create scholarships. These would support students from
less advantaged backgrounds and it would mean that we could choose people purely on ability and
not on their ability to pay.
I started life at a Grammar school so I was very privileged in my generation; we got County Council
grants if you did well at school and got certain grades to go to university, so I’m a deep believer in the
value of education for all independent of whether or not they could pay.
felix
Do you not think that it would be a perpetuating cycle that once they do start to go up, the trend
will continue?
Rector
I don’t know. If you look at places such as Harvard and Yale, they have staggering scholarships which
support bright kids from all backgrounds and areas of the world, so don’t always equate fee paying and
standards. What they both do is charge the very rich an awful lot of money to go there and they then
use that money to support the very bright who come from less advantaged backgrounds.
The government and its public funding
felix
You mentioned in your Commemoration Day speech that the huge number of international stu-
dents and staff are ‘enormously to our benefit’ and that ‘we will continue to seek them out’. Will
there be an actual cap placed on the number of international students at Imperial?
Rector
I can’t give you an answer to that as it really depends on the economic climate. At the moment the
cap is 60/40 in favour of UK students, since we have a duty to teach home students as we are domi-
nantly funded by the British tax payer and therefore our objective is to train high quality scientists,
engineers, businesspeople and physicians who are British. As long as the British students have got
the qualifications, we will continue to take them!
felix
Many people say that because this university is run more like a business, it explains the high
number of international students because they pay substantially higher fees.
Rector
Well they do because we can make a profit on them which we use to support the homegrown stu-
dents because we make a loss on them normally, and that is because of the government. Of the G8
countries, the British government spends the second smallest fraction of its GDP on higher educa-
tion and yet we have four universities in the top ten in the world. What other sector do we have such
dominance on the international scene?
The amount of money the British government spend on research and development again is almost
at the bottom, yet R&D is crucial in developing sophisticated high-tech manufacturers and industries,
it’s crucial to the solution of both socio-economic and technology problems. We have always over
performed, but yet we do that on a smaller amount of money than most other economies and if we
are to remain in the top two of these in the world, the government needs to support.
felix
Where do you think that money should come from?
Rector
Let’s just say that there are three or four areas of government expenditure where a lot of money
could be saved. If I were to ask you what were the top five areas of R&D in the world what would
you say?
felix
Well we would guess defence. Then followed by possibly medical. What about automotive?
Rector
It was, but now they’ve cut back. Well there is a lot of spending in certain areas where it is not im-
mediately clear that it is what the world needs at the current point in time. What we need are some
technological solutions to some really urgent problems and that includes alternative sources of en-
ergy, and in the interim before those arrive, we need solutions to carbon absorption.
I’m deeply cynical about agreements that are made: politicians and diplomats can talk as much as
they like about agreements like the Kyoto one and how X amount of emissions will be decreased
by year Y, but those are meaningless unless we have the technological solutions to those problems.
Who’s going to generate those technological solutions? The new ideas come out of universities!
“Let’s just say that there are three
or four areas of government
expenditure where a lot of money
could be saved!”
“The imbalance between what
it costs to train a home-grown
student and what the government
gives in support to its universities
is problematic”
“Imperial College Union will
continue to fight any increase in
tuition fees” – Jenny Morgan, ICU
President

