Who do you think you are?
Jenny Morgan
Union President
Christian Carter
Deputy President
(Finance &
Servxices)
Hannah Theodorou
Deputy President
(Education &
Welfare)
Lily Topham
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
T
he Imperial College Union Sabbatical Elections are upon us once again! Nominations have now been open for
a week and already there are some candidates who have enough seconders to run, which should hopefully lead
to an interesting and fiercely contested election period. As part of its build up, felix decided to carry out a lit-
tle survey of the student population, asking students around campus if they recognised the lovely faces below
and if they knew what they do. To add a bit of spice to it all, we also threw in the two of our regular columnists,
Angry Geek and Imperial Girl, just to see if they were more known around campus than the Sabbatical Officers. Not giving
anything away, but the results were certainly interesting.
In conjunction with the survey, Dan Wan and Kadhim Shubber also interviewed the current Sabbatical Officers, asking
them about their achievements, their failures and their role in the Union. The Union’s slogan for this year’s election is ‘Stand
and Deliver.” Have the current Sabbaticals delivered and could what they say entice you to stand too? We were also going to
get the felix editor in, but that would have ruined the page, so we didn’t.
Elections 2009
So, what does your role in the Union entail?
Well, I’m the Deputy President of Clubs and Societies, and essentially its what it says on the box. I’m here to represent the needs and interests of different
clubs and societies, and most of what I do is as a mediator, either between individuals and different clubs, or within a club. One of the largest tasks as
mediator is between clubs and societies and College.
What have you enjoyed about your role this year?
So many things, its been amazing to meet all the different people and get the chance to meet all the students who run clubs and societies. As a sabbati-
cal, you can actually make a difference. Also, there’s been various events, which I’ve organized and found incredibly rewarding to do so, one of these
being Freshers’ Fair. It was loads of work and loads of stress, but at the end of the day, it was so incredibly rewarding its unbelievable.
How did you decide you wanted to take up your role as Deputy President of Clubs and Societies?
I’d always be involved in different clubs and societies, as just as a member and running them. I wanted to take it to the next level and see if I could
make a difference.
So what do you think is needed to carry out your job, and do you think prior experience of lower authority is vital?
It is not the case that if you haven’t been a club chair, you can’t be DPCS. It’s not that black and white, but it is important to know how clubs and
societies work, what and how things will affect the students involved in them, and to have an understanding of clubs and societies in respect
to the Union.
What do you think was the greatest benefit for you personally in taking a sabbatical year out of studying/ finding a real job to take?
The experiences, I think. They’re not something I would not have ever been able to have anywhere else or any other situation.
Was it a nice break away from studies?
I would say for anyone wanting to run, do not do it because you want a break from your studies.
It is totally not a break from your studies.
It is hard work and very stressful, but it is an absolutely wonderful experience. I don’t think you can go into it thinking you’re going to doss around and be able
to do nothing for a year, because you won’t.
Have you managed to achieve any of the goals you set out at the start of the year? If not, why not?
Obviously, everyone has their main manifesto points. My main one was to make things easier, or to at least explain things better to people running clubs, and
I think we’ve made a good effort, but we’re still to see how effective we’ve been through a Clubs and Societies survey. The Clubs and Societies Handbook was
to especially put all the information about running a club into one book, and I’ve had feedback that its been really useful. So, hopefully that will be developed
and kept going.
What major change would you like to see happen to the Union in the following years?
This should be done by the end of the year, but the completion of the Beit Development, as well as the parts of the building such as the Ground floor that have
not been touched in this redevelopment. We do need to do something to the building to give the students, clubs and societies the facilities they deserve.
Lastly, why should people stand for DPCS?
Because you can really make a difference.
So, what does your role in the Union entail?
Looking after the best interests of the Union and most importantly our members. The President is ultimately responsible for everything, but day to day
then, cattle prodding the Union’s minions; clearing up the day to day crises; being (realisticly) strategic and visionary about the Union’s direction and
getting the students voice raised at the highest levels of College, whilst maintaining good relations.
What have you enjoyed about your role this year?
Being in charge of a multi-million organisation aged 22 is quite an experience! Bringing changes that benefit the student community is incredibly
rewarding and engaging with the most brilliant people! It’s such a pleasure to have worked with people who genuinely care about students of Impe-
rial College like the Rector, Lord Robert Winston, Ram Gidoomal and so many others!
How did you decide you wanted to be President? It’s a mighty task to take on.
I’ve always been a bit of a rebel and I’ve never liked being told what to do, especially if its rubbish, like a stupid rule or regulation. If something
needs changing then let’s do it! In all my roles at ICU I’ve been able to do that, but it wasn’t always so easy, I think a really strong factor in me
running for President was actually to try and make it easier for everyone to get their voices heard.
What do you think was the greatest benefit for you personally in taking a sabbatical year out of studying/ finding a real job to take?
Learning about how a large organisation runs warts and all at a very young age will certainly put me in a good position for the future. It’s also
been an opportunity of a lifetime which will always be one of my greatest achievements and I count myself very lucky indeed.
What do you think is needed to carry out your job?
Enthusiasm, courage and heart. You’ve got 12500 students to represent and often what you’ve got to say to the bigwigs won’t be pleasant
but you need to learn to stand your ground or compromise if you have to get the best possible deal for the students. You can’t be overly
sensitive, as president you have to take some tough decisions and you can’t always please everyone. And let me take this opportunity to
dispel the myth that you have to be top of your class and have sailed through Imperial to stand for a sabbatical position.
Have you managed to achieve any of the goals you set out at the start of the year? If not, why not?
I have reached most and I’m confident that by the end of the year it will be all. But the real challenge is achieving all the goals you set when you actually get into
position, you’re perspective changes a lot as you learn more and more and you keep coming up with ideas, so a key skill is being able to prioritise.
Do you think the student body really care about what the sabbaticals do?
The Union has a long way to go in making students aware of what the Union can do for them that’s for sure. Imperial’s never going to be revolutionary, that’s not
in the nature of our subjects here, but we’re sensible. So, no not enough do care, we need to improve the numbers drastically, but some people will never give
two hoots and that’s fine too, as long as we’re providing the best possible service to all our members, even in terms of the bar and entertainment,
What would you say to the fact that the majority of students recognise Angry Geek’s face and name more sp than they do yours?
Generally people become a sabbatical to bring benefits to the students; less of a priority is getting the credit for it and I think it’s fantastic that we have a news-
paper that can bring that level of fame to its writers!
Has the role been what you expected?
It’s been ten times harder but also ten times more rewarding.
So, what does your role in the union entail ?
I’m in charge of all the finances for the union, as well as the clubs and societies finances. Dealing with all of the clubs and society’s enquiries takes a lot of
your time, the rest of the time is for union things like commercial services.
What have you enjoyed most about you job this year?
I would say getting to know people, it’s quite an interactive job, especially with the clubs and societies. You also get to go to lots of cool events; the
Summer Ball, for example!
What can you tell us about the summer ball?
Ah, I’m afraid it’s top secret the moment! It’s going to be good though…
What do you think are the key skills needed to do your job?
You have got to be approachable, have good interaction skills with people and be able to have a friendly chat because a lot of the clubs and socie-
ties officers come to see you and often they can be quite intimidated by being up in the union offices, so you want to make them feel welcome.
You’ve also got to have a sound head on your shoulders, because you’ve got to deal with an awful a lot of money and have a lot of financial re-
sponsibility. And I think you’ve really got to care about the Union, if you don’t care about the union you don’t stand a chance of doing anything
beneficial.
Have you managed to achieve most of the main goals set out in your manifesto, as yet?
Funnily enough, most of the things I had in my manifesto were actually achieved by my predecessor before he left the job last year! There
were are a couple of things to do improving the clubs and societies finance systems, like the new online transaction systems and the new
budgeting system- they had a few things to sort out. which are now finished, and they’re working well. The next stage is to get claims forms
etc. fully automated online, which is really kicking off now – that will be something nice for my successor to take on, I think.
Do you think the student body really cares about all of your efforts, in the sense that I guess your job isn’t really that visible?
Yeah, I think mine’s the least visible of the Sabatical positions, the main people I really deal with are the clubs officers. I think people do care, at least I think
the clubs care, but I don’t think anyone else really knows or cares at all, half the student population probably don’t even know what a sabbatical is and the rest
probably can’t even remember who they voted for!
How does that make you feel? Imean, we did a survey and more people knew who Angry Geek and Imperial Girl are…
Erm, it’s not depressing or anything like that! It’s perfectly understandable; I hesitate to say we work in the background, we don’t - we should be out there, but
there are an awful lot of students and those that take an interest in the Union know about us and know who we are, if the rest aren’t really interested that’s fine.
Has your role been as you expected it to be when you first began the job?
Yes and no. The clubs stuff is as I expected it to be and that’s half the job, but there’s a lot of behind the scenes work that you don’t know about, and wouldn’t,
unless you had a one-on-one chat with the DPFS. To an extent, I got that from Chris [Larvin]- but this why I put a note in felix saying people should come and
chat with me if they’re thinking of standing because they should have a real idea of the role before they stand!
One final question, and it’s going to be a shameless plug for the Summer Ball! Do you think known as the DPFS who gave the best Summer Ball ever?
Hopefully. I will say, I can’t tell you anything about it, but it’s going to be epic- we’ve got some really good stuff going on!
What does your role in the Union entail?
I represent students on academic and welfare issues, both to College and nationally, as well as informing and consulting students about academic and
welfare issues and campaigns.
What have you enjoyed most about your job this year?
Meeting people in college that you would never have had contact with as a student.
Meeting people in College has been the most fun thing about your year?
Yeah! Realising there are really astute people within College, who care about student issues, that’s something you never realise as a student.
Why did you decide to stand for the position of Deputy President of Education and Welfare?
Erm, I was quite involved in extra-curricular activities, I’ve really enjoyed participating in this side of College, so much so it was interfering with
my degree, so I thought I should take a whole year out, to get it all out of my system!
What do you think has been the biggest benefit to you, personally, from this year?
I’ve learned to express my views, stand up for myself and stand up for what students believe in. So next year, when I’m being bullied by a con-
sultant, during ward rounds, I won’t be reduced to a quivering mess. I’ve learned a lot about how to achieve things by talking things through
and finding mutual benefits; there’s no point in going in all-guns-blazing, all that does is alienate people- both students and College staff.
That brings me on to my next question; what do think you you need to be able to carry out your job?
You need to passionate, but you need to have a level head too. You need to be able to make your point without alienate people and a willing-
ness to put in a lot of hours.
Have you achieved all of the goals you set out at the start of your term?
Not at all! There’s so much more I would have liked to have done; there’s personal passions such as providing more information on welfare
campaigns, greater progress on environmental policy and green at Imperial, which had to take a back-burner.
Why do you think you haven’t achieved your goals?
Not enough hours in the day! I spend the vast majority of my day in meeting, which are really productive, but other tasks, like responding to emails, have to be
done out of hours. That means weekends are taken up by bigger projects, evenings by answering emails, and there’s only so much you can physically do before
you start going to bed and dreaming about Outlook reminders!
Do you think students appreciate what you do?
My greatest frustration, this year, has been my lack of an ability to communicate to the students about what I’m doing for them on a day-to-day basis. A lot of
the changes they’ve seen, that impact on their education and welfare, have been through student efforts in the past. But unless we’ve been able to communicate
this to the students through felix or through face-to-face meetings, it’s almost completely pointless.
So, does it frustrate you that more people recognise Imperial Girl and Angry Geek than the sabbatical?
(laughs) I don’t know what more I could have done! I’ve appeared in felix almost as frequently either Angry Geek or Imperial Girl, it worries me that the subject
matter they’re writing about is more engaging to the readers- but I think that’s just a reality of student politics.

