comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Comment
10 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
T
his weekend my house,
well flat (well place with
a ceiling that I’m going to
move out of as soon as my
contract allows), will be
subjected to that terror of terrors that
is a house party. This intriguing type
of event, which strikes fear into the
hearts of middle-class parents, has the
power to motivate entirely unreasona-
ble and inexplicable behaviour in both
the hosts and the drunken revellers;
although I’m ready to admit, much of
the unreasonable behaviour is from
myself.
A house party must be planned with
military precision and all possibilities
must be considered. We begin with
preparing the home for the invasion of
100+ people. Rooms are judged less on
their aesthetic appeal or general com-
fort, but on two simple factors, capac-
ity and potential for increased capac-
ity. I peer into the rubbish heap that is
my bedroom and I mentally re-arrange
it, I remove pieces of furniture in my
mind and imagine the added stand-
ing room that the desk might offer if
it simply vanished from being. With
great anguish I mentally dismantle the
pillow-fort (oh yes, I built a pillow-fort
in my bedroom… you may scoff but I
know that secretly you want to sit in
it and fight off an imaginary army of
barbarous Native Americans) but I am
consoled in the knowledge that there
will be more room for somebody to fall
over, throw up or pass out (or perhaps
all three in one humongous epic fail).
Capacity is of course not the only
concern, there is always the worry of
having your finest china tea set bro-
ken by an uninvited hoodlum. For to
hear the sound of your prize crockery
smashing onto the kitchen floor fol-
lowed by a group of your friends ex-
claiming “Balls!” must be the greatest
fear of any house party host. Luckily I
am not one of that group of people who
own anything that could be described
as ‘china’ but still there are a great deal
of breakable, stealable and flammable
objects in my house. These must be
taken away from view and secured.
We have arbitrarily designated my
roommate Carlos’ bedroom as the
storage room and with merry abandon
it has slowly become filled with every
single piece of non-essential furniture
in the house. The dining table, our
desks and every piece of electronic
equipment; if it’s not nailed down and
indestructible, it’s going into Carlos’
room! Re-arranging an entire flat is by
no means an easy task but after party-
proofing my abode, it resembles a Cold
War nuclear bunker.
The next step, of course, is providing
alcohol. Bring your own is an admira-
ble idea but make a good house party it
does not. If you don’t provide alcohol
(food isn’t essential, have some dinner
before you come) you are essentially
inviting people to stand around your
house; remember you’re having a house
party not a political rally. Of course, as
a result alcohol constitutes the greatest
expense that one encounters but with
some experience and effort you can do
it on the cheap. Indeed I have become
the greatest alcohol bargain finding
fiend that mankind has ever known.
Doubt it? Those bottles of vodka pic-
tured above this text number 12, 12 li-
tres of vodka in all. And the price? £16.
Ah the wonders of tax-free diplomatic
privileges (I won’t say anymore, I can’t
give away all of my secrets).
But undeniably the thing that de-
termines the success of a house party
is attendance. Your belongings may
be safe and the alcohol may be cheap
and plentiful but ultimately if you’re
alone this just means that when you
pass out after drinking alone you won’t
knock anything over. It’s in the pursuit
of a well-attended house party that I
probably exhibit the most peculiar be-
haviour. Normally it’s only our close
friends that are given the privilege of
crossing the threshold into our homes
but when it comes to house parties, I
find myself saying things like “Sure,
come along and bring some friends,
extended relatives and anybody you
happen to meet on the way here” and
this is to people that I’ve met on the
street. You of course are invited, you
just have to find my house... a hint, it’s
in London.
Kadhim Shubber has 12 litres of dodgy vodka
“Ah the wonders
of tax-free
diplomatic
privileges (I won’t
say anymore, I
can’t give away all
of my secrets)”
Mark Mearing-Smith was ‘pwned’ by the
RAG team. He put up a bloody good fight
though; it was eight on one
S
trange thoughts go through
your mind when a bunch of
fellow students raid your of-
fice dressed in RAG t-shirts
and dust masks. Fantas-
tic was not something I would have
thought I would think in such a tight
situation.
You might or might not have heard
that on Tuesday evening the RAG team
entered the Guilds Office to capture
the Guilds’ violate mascots Spanner
and Bolt. Go to Live! (live.cgcu.net) for
full details of the actual event.
But as with most situations involv-
ing mascotry there will be a hoard of
people who will shout “What a waste
of time”, “Get a life”, “You’re not serv-
ing your student” etc, ad nauseum. (I’m
sure by the time you are reading this
Live! will be full of it). I don’t subscribe
to this mantra even in the slightest.
Here is why.
Firstly mascots can be used as an im-
portant focal point of a club. In organi-
sation the equivalent is the logo, who
might give a PR/Media firms vast sums
of cash to produce, as London 2012 in-
terestingly puts it, an “Emblem [that] is
simple, distinct, bold and buzzing with
energy.” Obviously I’m not calling for
the Union to spend it’s cash reserves
on a flashy logo, but stating that it is to-
tally normal to try and find something
that a group of people can feel a sense
of loyalty to.
Secondly it is a way of getting more
people involved with a Union. I must
firstly point out that it is only one of
many ways of building interest with
new students. My first position in
Guilds was infact as Spanner Bearer.
But what everyone must be aware of is
that no event is ever totally inclusive.
Even the Masquerade Ball, only had
about 10% of students attend, and mas-
cotry is just another thing that we do.
Thirdly, and I believe the most de-
fensible is that it raises money for char-
ity, which if any reader is not a good
thing then yours truly has truly no idea
what is.
But let me get back to to the issue of
why I was happy that our prized mas-
cots were being stolen right in front of
me. It was because some one was play-
ing back. Over the last couple of years
it has mostly been Guilds stealing the
other mascots, with it all drying up
when the other party said “No we are
not playing”.
What I believed was that we were so
afraid of our own being stolen we never
had it out or even on display. I feel very
strongly that if you hide the mascots
really well (which is not very difficult)
you then completely stop mascotry in
it’s tracks. Even an old hack from the
RCSU boasted that Theta Mark IX
was so well hidden with it split into 4
pieces all hidden by different people.
It is like having a silver dining service
and never using it. You have to let them
smell blood.
So all I say now is that I hope Guilds
paid the ransom, and that this light
hearted fun may carry on, and be a les-
son to everyone about realising that
most things in life should be fun and
don’t knock the things that are.
Enter a lab with Gilead Amit at your own risk
“The technicians
have simply not
been trained to
deal with walking
statistical anomalies
such as myself”
I
t is said of the physicist Wolf-
gang Pauli that he was a theore-
tician of such brilliance that his
proximity to any piece of experi-
mental apparatus was guaran-
teed to lead to faulty and inexplicable
results. His mere presence in a labo-
ratory would cause complex wiring to
fall apart and coloured smoke to rise
from unexpected outlets in machinery.
Once, an unusual set of readings in a
laboratory in Göttingen was explained
away by Pauli’s brief presence on a train
platform in that city, while waiting for
a transfer from Zurich to Copenhagen
at the same hour.
This has since passed into physics
folklore as the Pauli Effect, which dic-
tates that theoreticians of increasing
ability are responsible for ever larger
Pauli fields of experimental turbulence.
The resulting fields can be measured
in units of explosions per second, li-
tres of blood shed per unit of person-
nel present, or billions of dollars lost
per minute spent in the laboratory. For
obvious reasons, no exact value has yet
been measured.
I am intimately acquainted with this
particular problem. Expensive ma-
chinery was able to function only once
Pauli had left the city; by a doubtless
similar effect the LHC could only be
put into operation on the day I flew out
of Geneva to start the term in London.
I attribute the subsequent helium leak-
age on the 20th of September entirely
to my having spent most of the day fac-
ing in a South-Easterly direction.
Now, I am not claiming to be a theo-
rist of Pauli’s calibre. Not at all. I am
perfectly content to be stuck with the
whirlwind of practical misadventure
and misfortune without claiming any
of the gift for theory that usually goes
with it. But I think I probably stand a
chance of being at least as bad an ex-
perimental physicist as Pauli ever was.
Or, indeed, is ever likely to be.
An old joke stuck to the office door
of a mathematics teacher of mine
probably best sums up my attitude of
mystified incompetence towards labo-
ratories. “Theory is when everyone
knows everything, but nothing works.
Practice is when everything works, but
no one knows why. Here we combine
Theory with Practice: Nothing works
and no-one knows why.”
That represents me in the labora-
tory – absolutely nothing works and I
have not the foggiest beginnings of an
outline of a trace of a clue as to why.
Often, neither do the poor lab techni-
cians whose training did not extend to
walking statistical anomalies such as
myself. How are they supposed to ex-
plain why semiconductors capriciously
decide to catch fire at low tempera-
tures? It’s not their fault if overwhelm-
ing background radiation clouds my
radioactivity detector like a solitary
thunderstorm overshadowing a car-
toon Bavarian castle. And they’re cer-
tainly not responsible for the wicked
sense of humour displayed by the ap-
parently perfectly calibrated equip-
ment. The inside of a laboratory is to
me a vast and incomprehensible cave
of wonders, where I play the role of
Aladdin – melting solid barriers with
a single touch.
My aura of incompetence follows me
even into the comparatively safe and
uneventful realm of the computing lab.
Alone and confused at my keyboard,
the programming syntax errors I seem
to come up with prompt horrified and
confused expressions from the demon-
strators, who stare at me as though I
had just carved the code into the moni-
tor with a USB stick.
As an aside, I don’t know how many
of you are familiar with the loveable
idiosyncracies of C++, but I will say
that it goes a long way to explaining
my overfondness for semi-colons and
complex, winding statements that
go on for far too long and objectively
speaking add very little to the flow and
coherence of a piece.
For six hours a week, therefore,
when confined to a stuffy, overheated
laboratory full of uncommunicative
equipment and marginally less expres-
sive supervisors, I feel like I have been
placed in the queue for the waiting list
to get into Purgatory. Stick a pen in my
hand and give me a set of associative,
distributive and commutative variables
to play with and I will be treading air.
Stick a radioactive source in my hand
and give me an oscilloscope to play
with, however, and you will see the
petulant child on Christmas morning
who is starting to doubt whether Santa
even bothers to check his inbox.
There is only one solution open to
a student who derives as much enjoy-
ment from lab as from scalding his
hand on a boiling kettle and who has a
fruit fly’s grasp of experimental proce-
dure. And that is to find a lab partner
whose tireless enthusiasm, unparal-
leled ability and experimental insight
are such as to ensure that work gets
done, data gets measured and errors
get calculated at every step of the way.
The problem, of course, is that the
Pauli Effect treats people as merciless-
ly as it does tape measures or particle
accelerators. My lab partner, God Rest
His Soul, was once a bushy-cheeked,
rosy-tailed maestro of an experimen-
talist capable of reducing error bars
at twenty paces and quelling rogue
lightmeters with a raised eyebrow. My
lack of hand-eye coordination and in-
ability to find the on switch, however,
has gradually worn him down to a gib-
bering wreck of a physicist with an un-
healthy glucose addiction for which I
am largely responsible.
This, the sixth week of every term,
is a tremendous week for me and all
those who share my affliction because
there are no laboratory sessions. The
same monotonous and relentless grind
picks up again next Thursday, but
in the mean time I am savouring the
fresh air in my lungs, the time to mess
around with mathematical symbols to
my heart’s content, and the slow recov-
ery from radiation poisoning.
O, for the life of a theorist.
O
n a soggy Thursday
night, I was just nod-
ding off for my perfectly
timed 9 minute nap on
the bus back home when
the sound of Imperial students woke
me up. They weren’t being particularly
loud though. What woke me up in an
alarmed arousal was what they were
doing. Two guys and one girl sitting
on the front row of the upper deck
of a bus; with the window laden with
condensation, most people would take
this opportunity to draw a smiley face
or sadly for most, a massively unrepre-
sentative penis. Not these three crazy
kids though. Instead, they were dis-
cussing mathematical symbols, using
the entire front upper window of the
bus as it were a blackboard, there for
them note their ideas as they bounced
them off each other. This all within the
thrilling discussion of coprimes and
contour integrals. As I looked around
the bus, commuters looked a little be-
wildered whilst fellow Imperial stu-
dents, like me, were distinguishable by
their heads in their hands, all in disbe-
lief as we recieved this unwelcome and
impromptu lecture. However, my own
Dan Wan would do Fine Art, if he were ‘cool’
“At school, I bet
we were the kind
of kids that itched
to have a serious
conversation about
science once in a
while.”
rhetorical questioning of “do they not
having anything better to talk about
on the way home?” sparked the same
question, but not in the rhetorical
sense. Did they actually have anything
better to talk about on the way home?
How many times have you heard
someone interrupt their own conver-
sation, with a wry smirk on their face,
and exclaim “this conversation is so
Imperial”. Light titters in agreement
ensue. Then the conversation will,
more than likely, divert off the previ-
ous ‘Imperial’-esque subject.
It is just inevitable when you bring
thousands of scientifically-tuned peo-
ple together, ones that spend hours a
day dedicating their mind to science,
that every day conversation will skirt
around so-called ‘geeky’ topics. It is
not uncommon for a conversation to
start with the simple and casual ques-
tion of ‘What did you do today?’ And
when you’ve spent the last 6 hours try-
ing to purify DNA from bacteria, your
answer, is in all probability, going to
involve the words ‘purifying’, ‘DNA’,
and ‘bacteria’. The more inquisitive of
us will then ask “why?” Since you’re
so proud to have actually successfully
completed the horrifically long lab
procedure and yieled the expected re-
sults, you answer the question “why?”
so comprehensively you get ahead of
yourself and suddenly, with a wry smirk
on your face, interrupt yourself and ex-
claim “this conversation is so…..”
But aren’t we all just pretending we
have ‘better’ things to talk about? We
wouldn’t be here at an all-science and
engineering university if weren’t all
geeks underneath the layers of appar-
ent cool. If we were that ‘cool’, we’d
probably be doing what others per-
cieve as a ‘cool degree’, like Fine Art
at Goldsmiths. I mean at school, I bet
we were the kind of kids that itched to
have some sort of serious conversation
about science once in a while.
My point is, if two Philosophy stu-
dents were having a conversation about
Schopenhauer’s criticisms of Neo-He-
gelianism, I doubt anyone would bat an
eyelid about how much their pub-talk
resembled the work of their degrees.
Having, or at least thinking you’re
having, a deep conversation about the
beginnings of life or the boundaries of
man-made law whilst baked-off-your-
face may prove to have some value.
You may think in different avenues
you wouldn’t do whilst sober. Some of
the most influential music and art are
products of substance-use. I believe
your best, along with your very worst
ideas come to you whilst not fully in
control of yourself. I’m sure any re-
cording artist in the 1960s would agree
(The short chorus of The Beatle’s Yel-
low Submarine is sufficient to prove
my point). However, drink and science
do not mix. I’ve been told that on a
vodka-fuelled night out, I once men-
tioned to a girl that her dress looked
like it had immature B lymphocytes
on it. She was either not impressed or
utterly confused, and either way, that
short-lived conversation died on its
feet right there at the bar.
We’ve all seen the hundreds of com-
mon situations to be found at Imperial
on the ‘ You know when you go to Im-
perial when….’ Facebook group. Yes,
most of them are true, but aren’t we all
a little bit proud to realise we do most
of the points listed?
Isn’t it something that we even have
the knowledge of these subjects to have
a conversation about it? It comes down
to the fact that, if we weren’t genuinely
interested, we wouldn’t be at an all-sci-
ence university doing a science degree,
and we wouldn’t be willing to hold the
few lines of conversation about science
before you interrupted yourself, with
that wry smile on your face.
However, I am not trying to insinu-
ate every single one of us talks about
our degrees for 25 hours of the day (Al-
though I do have a friend that prefers
to subconsciously quote the second
law of thermodynamics over and over
again rather than snore or anything
else relatively normal whilst sleeping.)
I have met people at Imperial that have
a passion in art or literature equal to
that of the passion they have for the
subject of their course.
It is not Imperial that has brought us
to talking about physics or chemistry in
the pub. It’s something that’s been hid-
den away inside all of us since the mo-
ment we realised that physics, chemis-
try or any other subject, was what we
wanted to be doing for the next three,
at the very least, years of our lives. We
should all embrace the fact we have
like-minded people, in terms of inter-
est and intellect, as our best friends,
lab partners and even as enemies.
“I hope that the
ransom is paid and
this light-hearted
fun carries on”
The RAG team still has Mark locked up in their basement...

