12 felix Friday 20 February 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Kawai Wong is confused. Is it Tesco Value Day or Valentines Day?
Letters
Dear felix,
After reading this week’s edition of felix
(13th February 2009), I was appalled by
the comportment and attitude of your
Deputy Editor, in response to Henry
Marsden’s letter entitled ‘An Outraged
Gnome’. In the original complaint Hen-
ry Marsden pointed out that Kadhim
Shubber had quite blatantly taken ma-
terial from an unreferenced source, in
his article published on 6th February.
Although Mr Shubber does apolo-
gise for not including a bibliography,
his very quick to refute Mr Marsden’s
claims of plagiarism.
Mr Shubber is quick to defend his
corner; yet seems incapable of appre-
ciating the definitions of the words
‘quote’ and ‘plagiarism’. In the article he
admits he quoted the theory ‘word for
word’, yet the definition of quote en-
trains with it a degree of referencing or
acknowledgement (a fact to which Mr
Shubber seems ignorant). Mr Shubber
states that ‘While [he] did use the lan-
guage of another author [:] it was not
[his] intention, nor was it the result,
that it was represented as [his] original
work’. I personally do not believe this a
valid argument, as at no point did Mr
Shubber direct people to a valid source
and because of this the result was in
fact that he DID represent the work as
his own (be it his intention or not). I
believe Mr Marsden’s underlying point
was not that Mr Kadhim should not
“Remember when
secret admirers
slipped notes into
your homework?
Remember the
thrill?”
have plagiarised HIS work, but rather
that the use of any authors work, with-
out a correct reference, could lead to
poor quality, unoriginal writing.  
As a student paper, my understand-
ing was that the paper should repre-
sent the students ideas and thoughts,
whilst retaining the ability to publish
wholly-original, un-censored material
(a right solely reserved for publications
such as this). I find most disturbing
that that the Deputy Editor of such a
prestigious student newspaper as Fe-
lix must ‘use the language of another
author’ in order to create an interest-
ing article. By Mr Shubber doing this I
believe he risks harming the reputation
of the paper.
I think the most we can hope for
advancement of ‘Gnome Theory’ is
not damaged due to the renegade and
A disgruntled
gnome
I
f you are cynical like me, you
would have ferociously defend-
ed your wallet from being raped
by restaurants and chocolatiers.
I sat on the sofa and did noth-
ing on St. Cupid’s Day. Because it is a
day for the Stupids. Do I want a brief-
case carrying money-thirst counts my
banknotes while I ponder what have
I gotten out of this “special day”? No,
thank you.
As the hours grew on the 14th, how-
ever, my disappointment was not con-
cealable when it became clear that my
boyfriend had completely forgotten
about it. (How? HOW?) Over dinner
he apologised for the lack of memory.
“No card is better than an 8p card from
Asda”, I replied while I put another
spoon of baked beans into my mouth.
And then he gave me a hand-drawn
card. Phew.
During the credit crunch, shops
came up with outrageous products to
attract those whose wallets are choked
and wilted but still feel compelled to
treat their other halves.
But if you cannot laugh off the “Val-
entine’s Half Price Basket” or “Value
Valentine’s Meal”. Would you gravitate
towards a bit of introspectiveness and
question your self-worth?
Or simply wish that this day doesn’t
exist at all?
Why bother with a £25 bottle of Tait-
tinger when you can spend a fiver and
get a bottle of carbonated Rosè and a
box of heart shaped chocolates from
Tesco? It’s the thought that counts!
Wait a minute. A box of chocolates
handmade by somebody’s somebody
counts as a thought. A cheap bit of
cardboard churned out by an over-
worked machine in Manchester isn’t.
Receive this and you feel dazed. What
day is it? Tesco Value Day or Valen-
tine’s Day?
Of course how much you spend on
Valentine’s Day is not indicative of the
amount of love you share. It is only a
bit harsh that during this commercial
celebration, couples cannot joyfully
stroll down a street without getting
cornered by a businessman who forces
them to price each other.
While the normal portion of the
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
cavalier attitude of certain members of
the editing team at felix.   
Thanks,
Nicholas Thornton
3rd Year Undergraduate
Department of Aeronautics
Dear Nicholas Thornton,
‘Gnome Theory’ is known widely
enough for any reader of my comment
piece to know that the idea of explain-
ing physics with gnomes is not my own
original work. In addition, the point of
quoting the gnome theory of electricity
‘word for word’ is a joke in itself; buying
into the idea that it is a real scientific
theory. While I understand that in lab
reports, scientific essays and papers
we are encouraged to ‘direct people to
a valid source’ in the case of a com-
ment piece, it isn’t appropriate to add
footnotes at the end of every sentence
especially in the case of a well known
‘theory’, similarly if I were to say “the
universe is made of tiny little vibrating
strings” it wouldn’t be necessary to ex-
plicitly reference the source.
I am equally disturbed, Nicholas
Thornton, that you must misrepresent
my article to create an ‘interesting’ let-
ter. The article in question included
only one reference to Gnome Theory
that was only a sentence long. The ref-
erence didn’t make “an interesting arti-
cle” and at the very most it was an ad-
vertisement for “Gnome Theory”.
Deputy Editor,
Kadhim Shubber
economy struggles to find a reason-
able price tag to justify their love, the
rich struggle to find a meaning to the
price tag. Coleen Rooney was showing
off her £250,000 rock on a night out.
In the world where a Bentley has the
worth of a cucumber. Only a fish that
can blow heart-shaped smoke can ig-
nite those hearts in her eyes.
Remember those February-the-14th
when your secret admirer slip a grotty
I Fancy You note into your geography
textbook? Remember the thrill when
you read it?
“Some of our
members’ actions
brought disrepute
on the club and
such actions will
not be repeated”
I
t’s been quite a week for Gaelic
Football this week. We do hope
you feel compelled to read the
back page this week about the
team’s performance in BUCS
Championships and would congratu-
late us on proudly representing Impe-
rial so well in this National competi-
tion. I can say last weekend has been
the highlight of my year and to lead the
team from its inception last year to our
recent success has been a privilege and
honour and remains a source of per-
sonal pride to me.
However I also to write this week to
address the other issues that felix has
reported on, prominently attaching the
name of our club to.
On Wednesday last week at ACC
Barnight it is reported that a member
punched a member of Rugby for “pick-
ing up one of [our] pints”. This does not
even closely resemble the whole story,
and fails to make any mention (or even
any investigation) of the provocation
involved.
What I can categorically state is that
the club were not involved in the inci-
dent and what is being reported are the
actions of one individual. We can also
say that the rugby and football clubs are
not to blame either for the actions of
individual members. I am fully aware
of the details of the occasion and de-
cline to make further comment at this
stage as the matter is currently under
further discussion.
On a more serious note, the club
is alleged to have been singing “IRA
songs” and being rowdy. As you’ll have
gathered we were returning from our
Championship weekend and had been
celebrating our performance in the
best way many sports teams see fit –
with a lot of alcohol. Speaking for the
club, I can understand how our behav-
iour on Sunday night could have been
offensive or even threatening and will
take this opportunity to apologise une-
quivocally to those who were offended.
I can clarify the actions somewhat, we
were singing songs, not directly about
the IRA, but about events in Republi-
can history which several of our club
members have been directly and close-
ly affected by.
It is understandable how this may
cause offence. I would like to point
out that although this may well have
caused some alienation among Impe-
rial students this is not the official pol-
icy of the club or the GAA, nor has it
ever been or will be. We are committed
to following with dedication the ethos
and rules that govern both Imperial
College Union and the GAA, whereby
we are compelled to be non political
and non sectarian.
The actions of some of our mem-
bers brought disrepute on the club and
may have caused some doubt as to our
ethos, for this we apologise and would
like to assure the Imperial student body
that such actions will not be repeated
nor tolerated by the club.
Andrew Lavery, Gaelic Football Captain, responds to allegations

