Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 20 February 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 20 February 2009 felix
Research into paranormal phenomena
is now a trendy, if not yet well-respect-
ed line of scientific research. Some sci-
entists now believe that the existence
of telepathy and other similar phenom-
ena has been demonstrated in experi-
ments and the need arises to explain
and incorporate these phenomena into
mainstream science.
Others refuse to even engage in se-
rious debate about the issue. Who is
right?
Rupert Sheldrake studied natural
sciences at Clare College, University
of Cambridge and then philosophy at
Harvard University. He did his PhD in
biochemistry at Cambridge, where he
was later a fellow of Clare College and
Director of Studies in biochemistry
and cell biology.
His research was initially focused on
plant molecular biology but currently
focuses mainly on the investigations
of paranormal phenomena such as te-
lepathy. Some of his current research
is funded by Trinity College’s Perrott-
Warrick Fund for the research on ‘the
unexplained human and animal abili-
ties’. Because of the nature of his re-
search he receives a lot of media atten-
tion and has taken part in various TV
and radio programs, as well as newspa-
per interviews.
Although an established scientist
with degrees from some of the best
universities in the world, many of his
mainstream colleagues are not con-
vinced by, or even interested in, his re-
search. Many in the scientific commu-
nity consider paranormal phenomena
to be fraudulent fantasies, so anyone
researching these issues risks ridicule.
This is as much a philosophical issue as
it is a scientific one.
Sheldrake believes that healthy skep-
tics are those who are open-minded
and accept evidence obtained by appli-
cation of the scientific method, regard-
less of the topic of research.
On the other hand, he says, dog-
matic skeptics hold a priori beliefs that
paranormal phenomena do not exist
and so dismiss research that attempts
to shed light on these occult taboo
issues.
But should not the scientific method
be employed for furthering our un-
derstanding of all natural phenom-
ena? Even those which we now see as
supernatural?
Would not many of the technologi-
cal achievements we nowadays take
for granted be considered paranormal
some 200 years ago (think airplanes,
space travel, mobile phones, comput-
ers and internet..)?
Telephone and e-mail
telepathy
Recently Sheldrake and his colleague
Smart empirically tested the claims
that some people make about the exist-
ence of telepathy: that they often think
about someone just before they get a
phone call or an e-mail from them,
or that they can guess who is calling
them. The usual scientific explana-
tion for such phenomena is that people
think of others often, but forget those
instances and remember only the in-
stances in which that person called
them while they were thinking about
them. For this reason many scientists
do not believe in the existence of telep-
athy. However, Sheldrake and Smart
argue that maybe telepathy really does
occur, but “the means by which it oper-
ates is not yet understood. Its existence
or nonexistence is not a matter of be-
lief but of evidence”
In this test for e-mail telepathy, one
person nominated four other people,
one of whom was randomly selected to
e-mail the nominator. The nominator
then sent an e-mail to the researchers
one minute prior to the nominee’s e-
mail to try and guess which one of the
fournomineeswasgoingtoe-mailhim/
her a minute later. Basically, people had
to guess one out of four possible peo-
ple who could e-mail them within the
next minute. Overall the correct guess
rate was 43%, significantly higher than
the 25% guess rate expected by chance
only. As in other studies, distance be-
tween the two people e-mailing each
other did not seem to play a role in
the rate of correct guesses, but emo-
tional relationship between the people
did. Similar results were obtained for
telephone telepathy (53% guess rate),
while text message telepathy experi-
ments are also underway.
The author admits that he did not
sample the population at random: fifty
people who took part in the email ex-
periment applied after reading an ad-
vert about the experiment. This means
that those people probably thought
of themselves as telepathic or were at
least interested in telepathy in the first
place. However, Sheldrake did not ask
them if this really was the case. Instead
he argues that it is to be expected that
different people would have differing
telepathic abilities, just as vision, hear-
ing or olfactory senses do not all work
as well in all people. Sheldrake thinks
that a randomly chosen sample of peo-
ple for such an experiment would not
yield results supporting the existence
of telepathy because many people do
not have a good telepathic sense.
Nevertheless, his results suggest
there really are individual differences in
telepathic abilities among people, with
some participants constantly scoring
no better than if they took random
guesses, and others constantly over-
scoring. Additionally, people tended to
guess better when the e-mailers were
people they knew, rather than those
unfamiliar to them. Sheldrake con-
cludes that future studies should focus
on people who think they are telepath-
ic and should test their ability to detect
thoughts of people they know rather
than strangers.
Although this study seems at first to
be a good support for the case of exist-
ence of telepathy, one big issue which
the author focuses much of his discus-
sion on is the fact that the people in-
volved in the study could have cheated
in various ways. Ways participants
could have cheated include receiv-
ing information from the e-mailer in
advance or re-setting their computer
clocks. Given his conviction that those
people are a priori interested in te-
lepathy, this gives them an incentive to
cheat; yet he dismisses it as unlikely.
The Sixth Sense
Due to the lack of precautions to pre-
vent such fraud it is difficult to accept
the telepathy results as trustworthy.
But even if one did, what would this
tell us about telepathy? Perhaps that
it exists but does not always work. If
it works some of the time it could still
be the product of natural selection, if
indeed it is or was an adaptation dur-
ing our evolutionary history. Just as
any vision is better than none, any
telepathy may be better in predicting
the uncertain future and so help indi-
viduals in survival. Evolutionarily then,
telepathy may make sense. But how
does it work? What is the non-verbal,
non-visual medium of transmission
of thought from one brain to another?
The answer to this question remains
unanswered in spite of research into
the issue. The obvious candidates such
as electromagnetic radiation have been
excluded and Sheldrake thinks the
medium may be morphic fields, part
of his theory of morphic resonance.
These fields are thought to extend
from our brains in a similar way to that
in which the electromagnetic field ex-
tends around the Earth. The problem
is that there is also no firm evidence
for the existence of morphic fields and
the idea of morphic resonance as a way
that animals communicate has been
discarded as too complicated; simpler
mechanisms have since been found,
and provide a better explanation (if
we apply the philosophical principle of
Ockham’s Razor).
Although no textbook on animal
behaviour will mention telepathy as a
way animals can communicate, Shel-
drake maintains that they do use this
method. In a special supplement to
the Journal of Consciousness Studies
he presents evidence for the existence
of yet another parapsychological phe-
nomenon: the sense of being stared at,
or the ‘sixth sense’. Although the first
two papers on this issue (one of which
was published in Science) dismissed
its existence, subsequent research has
consistently found evidence for the ex-
istence of such a sense, as people and
animals have scored above the level of
chance in guessing when someone is
staring at them from behind, through
binoculars or even CCTV. There is
some experimental evidence for the
existence of telepathic abilities in ani-
mals and humans, and perhaps this is
as far as biological research can take
us with regard to understanding these
phenomena. If they indeed exist, their
benefits to organisms could readily be
explained evolutionarily. But just how
they work may be a question of quan-
tum physics rather than biology.
Genius or Heretic?
Professor Brian Josephson, Nobel
prize winner from the Theory of Con-
densed Matter Group at the Cavendish
Laboratory, Cambridge, thinks that the
current scientific evidence for the ex-
istence of paranormal phenomena jus-
tifies further research in the area. He
also suggests that better understanding
of quantum theory may ultimately ex-
plain phenomena such as telepathy. He
believes that the problem with many
mainstream scientists is that they of-
ten overlook the empirical evidence for
Researching the paranormal
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor
Recently, I went to the cinema. A
stream of supernatural and superhu-
man trailers preceded the main fea-
ture, all boasting grimy urban city-
scapes, and polished special effects
that showed photogenic people defy-
ing the laws of physics as they deflected
streams of bullets with nothing but de-
termined sneers and held frightening
mind-control battles. Franklyn, Push,
Watchmen, even the Lesbian Vampire
Killers… all these trailers highlighted
the 21st century’s continuing taste for
cinema to show us humans stepping
beyond the normal, into the realms of
mayhem and mysticism and film he-
roes pushing themselves beyond the
mundanity of our own normal physical
capabilities. In the hush that followed
the trailers, the audience stared at the
screen as one, thinking something
along the lines of ‘Cool!’.
Who wouldn’t like some secret pow-
ers of their own? How many times
have we reached uselessly for some-
thing just out of our grasp, wishing it
would somehow fly to our fingertips?
Looked at someone else and wanted
to know what they were thinking.
Dreamt of being able to know exactly
what the next few months would hold.
Psychic powers would make my life so
much easier.
No longer would I try to second-
guess every choice I make. People
who annoyed me would simply punch
themselves in the face. Eating and
drinking would be intensely simplified,
especially in those difficult morning-
hangover times – why, I could simply
lie on the sofa and let the food fly into
my mouth.
In this vein, I decided to see if there
was any scientific glimmer of hope
that psychic powers really could exist
in the human race. By that, I mean I
searched online using Pubmed, Google
and Wikipedia. As it turns out, the sci-
entific answer was still ‘No’, although
psychic powers were investigated seri-
ously in the recent past by the US mili-
tary. During the Cold War $20 million
were invested in a ‘psychic arms race’
with the Soviet Union. To put it more
simply, although no consensus at the
The Science of the Paranormal
time agreed that psychic powers ex-
isted, the military were concerned
enough about the Soviets developing
and using psychic forces to start their
own research and development pro-
gram, Project Star Gate.
Project Star Gate went on for 25
years and cost $20 million, research-
ing invisibility, levitation, telekine-
sis, walking through walls (I’d love to
witness videos of those trials), remote
viewing, and if men could kill goats
just by staring at them. (Why goats?
Well, ‘why not’, one supposes.)
Star Gate came to nothing except a
lot of paperwork to be revealed and
gleefully reported by the media many
years later, though hope and belief
persists in the human imagination
that psychic abilities are real, not just a
dying defiant gasp of romantic mysti-
cism, or are the next stage of human
evolution. For now, though, there is
real, reassuring, reality. For although
psychic powers can’t be found by sci-
ence, they can yet be crudely mim-
icked by technology.
Mind reading
Toreadamindistoknowwhataperson
is thinking, and a thinking person gen-
erates electric nerve impulses through
their brain cells. Electroencephalogra-
phy (EEG) has long been used to show
and measure these electrical changes,
caused by changes in ion concentra-
tions around the cells. This is a crude
form of mind reading – to know what
activity is taking place in certain ar-
eas of the brain. In 2007, Microsoft
announced plans to patent a form of
EEG technology to provide more ef-
ficient feedback from people testing
their new user interfaces. Yet EEG can
only read electrical activity from areas
of the brain closest to the scalp, from
thousands or millions of neurons at
a time, and even simple physical mo-
tions like scratching your head can
cause a wave of neuronal firing, as well
as thinking careful constructive criti-
cism of the new Windows Vista. Thus,
distinguishing thoughts via EEG is still
impossible.
But there are other ways of scan-
ning a brain. In a study published this
month, researchers in Canada’s larg-
est children’s rehabilitation hospital
used infra-red light and fibre optics
to map patterns of oxygen absorption,
and thus mental activity, in brain tis-
sue. With an impressive sounding 80%
accuracy, the researchers were able to
decipher a person’s spontaneous pref-
erence for one of two drinks, without
the subjects requiring special training
beforehand. Though it is doubtful that
this method could ever pick out indi-
vidual thoughts too, it is hoped that it
can be used to give choice and control
back to individuals with disabilities
that prevent them from communicat-
ing their desires.
And finally, the complexity and scope
of the brain may not mean it is ever
possible to read thoughts, but could
we ever see them? In 2008, researchers
at the University of California devel-
oped technology that used fMRI data
to ‘read’ information from a person’s
visual cortex. Previous research had
shown that fMRI can pick out brain
activity associated with viewing differ-
ent images, but it had only been pos-
sible to identify very distinct images
(such as faces), from fixed categories,
with prior scanning and knowledge
of brain activity. Yet this new method
was able to produce much more com-
plex images without prior knowledge
of the brain’s activity.
The lead researcher hopes that one
day, complex images like dreams,
memory and mental imagery could
be visualised, if the brain processes
dreams in a way that is analogous to
visual stimuli. What about it? Fancy
watching someone else’s dreams? (Ed:
Not really, No!) It could be a whole
new form of cinema.
Mind control
Tabloids have recently been wetting
their pants over studies that show lesser
emotional response and recall of trau-
matic events if subjects are given beta
blockers, ie. “like Eternal Sunshine of
the Spotless Mind, innit” while in the
1950s, the CIA secretly administered
LSD to men in fake brothels under the
hope of investigating mind control, and
that they would be shamed out of tell-
ing anyone else about the funny thing
that happened to them in the brothel
after work. (Apparently, the most com-
mon result was that the dosed-up sub-
ject was convinced they would be able
to withstand pretty much any form of
interrogation).
However, researchers at the Uni-
versity of Oxford reported in January
that involving oneself in a ‘visuospatial
cognitive task’ after viewing a trau-
matic event helped reduce the occur-
rence of post-traumatic flashbacks. In
short, it appears that performing such
tasks in the ‘6 hour window’ after see-
ing trauma disrupts the consolidation
of memories. To do this, they showed
volunteers a highly unpleasant video,
and then made some of them play Te-
tris for 10 minutes. As it turned out,
this ‘80s Russian puzzle game… actu-
ally helped.
Telekinesis
Can electrical signals from the brain be
used to move objects without touching
them? Perhaps the closest that exists
thus far are machines that again, read
electrical signals from the body, but
translate them into motions elsewhere.
For example, since 2007 researchers
at the University of Illinois have been
developing a motorised wheelchair
that moves when the operator thinks
of particular words, translating electri-
cal impulses sent to the larynx when
the operator thinks of particular words
using a sensor-laden neckband and on-
board computer.
On a different level, Emotiv, an
American/Australian company found-
ed by neuroscientists, electronics, and
technology specialists, have designed
technology like ‘Epoc’, a ‘neuro-head-
set’, which uses EEG to translate neu-
ral activity into commands for video
games. Players can move objects, or
induce 30 different authentic facial
expressions and motions to their ava-
tars in virtual gaming worlds. And,
they add, which can also be used to
direct electric wheelchairs too. One
of the most obvious and applications
for mind-machine interfaces would be
for paralysed individuals or sufferers
of ‘locked in’ syndrome, who are con-
scious but often unable to physically
communicate.
Remote sensing
Finding where something is at a given
time with your mind might not be
possible, but feeling a space without
actually touching it is – if it’s a vir-
tual space. Literal remote sensing of
virtual three-dimensional objects and
spaces is becoming possible due to the
development of new haptic/computer
interfaces. These bowling-ball sized
devices use magnetic levitation to lev-
itate an enclosed lightweight moving
part – a ‘flotor’- which is controlled
by a handle. Users move the handle
to move the flotor, and this informa-
tion is used to control the position
and orientation of a virtual object on
a computer display. As this virtual ob-
ject encounters other virtual surfaces
and objects, corresponding signals are
transmitted to the flotor’s electrical
coils, resulting in realistic tactile feed-
back to the user.
Research professor Ralph Hollis
of the Carnegie Mellon University’s
Robotics Institute said that possible
applications included precise micro-
surgery, computer-augmented design,
remote control of robotic vehicles
and military drones, and even data
visualization.
Clairvoyance
This’d be a useful skill to have, but
perhaps the closest we can work with
now is learning more about the psy-
chology of our decision making here
and now. Contradicting a pair of 2002
Nobel Prize winners, researchers at the
University of Rochester state that their
latest study shows the human brain is
hard-wired to allow a person to make
the most rational decisions possible,
with the available information, but
only when their unconscious brain
makes the choice. People performed
poorly on a gambling style test when
they were given information before-
hand and told to ‘think’ consciously
about risks and probabilities.
Meanwhile, in his book Stumbling
on Happiness, Dr Gilbert of Harvard
University has pointed out that the
human brain is prone to frequent mis-
takes when trying to imagine future
consequences. The pleasures of posi-
tive events are usually overestimated,
while negative events are imagined
worse than they usually are. Think-
ing about the future is pleasurable and
imagining bad events is functional,
because fear, worry and anxiety evoke
action.
Finally, researchers at the Univer-
sity of Rochester have boldly declared
that the human brain is hard-wired to
allow a person to make the best deci-
sions possible, with the available infor-
mation. Usually, study of rational deci-
sion making focuses on the conscious
brain, and how it measures future pos-
sible gains, risks and feelings.
But this Rochester study directly
contradicts a pair of Nobel Prizewin-
ners, who received the prize in 2002
for illustrating that humans are usual-
ly irrational decision-makers. Instead,
their study suggests that people can
and do make optimal decisions—but
only when their unconscious brain
makes the choice.
“Researchers
were able to
decipher a person’s
spontaneous
preference for one
of two drinks”
Researchers were able to correctly guess a drink choice 4/5 times.
Annabel Slater
Science Correspondent
OFFERED $1,000,000 Prize in a
Paranormal felix special
By definition science cannot
explain reported paranormal
events, but this has never
deterred the committed believer.
In 2006, Bryan Farha and Gary
Steward found that 42% of
Americans believe in haunted
houses, 41% believed in satanic
possession and 36% in telepathy.
This week felix shines a bright
light into the dark world of the
paranormal, as we highlight
research into mind-reading
techniques, long distance
telepathic links and telekinesis.
Prepare to test your disbeliefs
and wonder at the millions spent
investigating paranormal events.
the topics that are on the fringes of sci-
ence, based on their dogmatic beliefs
and narrow-mindedness. Dismissal of
an idea without even looking at the ev-
idence supporting that idea is not how
open-minded scientists should behave;
and yet some do. Professor Josephson’s
website has a link to a separate web-
site dealing with his research into, and
media treatment of, parapsychology.
Intriguingly, there are articles that dis-
cuss exactly these issues and show how
some media, even journals such as
Nature, appear to deliberately mislead
their readers with respect to evidence
for parapsychology. People like Profes-
sor Josephson insist on accepting the
possibility of the paranormal, while
maintaining the rigour of the scientific
method and abandoning such claims
if they are clearly shown to be false.
The need for open discussion of par-
anormal phenomena led to a multidis-
ciplinary conference at the University
of Cambridge in 2000, at which many
prominent scientists discussed ideas
that are regularly featured in peer-re-
viewed journals such as University of
Bournemouth ‘s European Journal of
Parapscyhology.
Scientists who are open to research
into parapsychology, homeopathy and
the like are concerned that mainstream
science is becoming an authoritative
apparatus which refuses to look into
issues which have not traditionally
been considered legitimate; and which
makes claims about such phenom-
ena without an empirical basis. Open-
minded scientists think that although
we do not know how paranormal phe-
nomena work, there is now ample evi-
dence that they do work and need to be
explained by further research. Should
we view these people as heretics or
geniuses? Only careful empirical inves-
tigation can resolve this issue.
Despite the number of believers
nobody has claimed the million
dollar prize offered by the James
Randi Educational Foundation,
for anyone who can demonstrate
a paranormal or supernatural
power.
Daniel Burrows
A wonderful image of mind control... sorry ­
– could not resist
“Fancy watching
someone else’s
dreams? ”
An actual ghost... The Brown Lady at Raynham Hall in Norfolk

