Compiled by Phil Webb
R e s u l t s and Reports for
Wednesday, January 21,1981
Rugby
IClstXV V LSE 0-10
IC2ndXV V LSE 9-7
Football
IClstW V Chelsea FC(APP) 2-4
IC4thXI V K C H 7-2
Hockey
IClstXI w Royal Holloway 9-0
Guilds w U C L 0-0
Mines V Middlesex 1-1
Ladies V Barts 3-3
Football
Fourths
IC took to the field without Captain Chown
who was replaced in defence by Hatton with
Buckley Captain for the day. Kings took the
lead after five minutes but the Fourths soon
levelled the score when a BURNS header was
deflected into the net midway through the
first half. Kings again took the lead with a
shot just inside the post. Towards the end of
the half Oolan scored from the edge of the
box to level the score.
After an 'uplifting' half-time chat from
Buckley the Fourths looked more determined
as they paced up to the second half. After a
good pass from Archer to McNicholas and
then an accurate cross BURNS put IC into the
lead for the first time. Almost immediately the
Fourths scored again when BURNS scored
from outside the box. A competent per-
formance by fullbacks Maddy and Milner and
goalkeeper Gilbert ensured Kings had little
opportunity to get back into the match.
BURNS headed in his fourth of the match
after a good cross from Buckley. Two more
goals followed quickly when first Lay and
then Hawa successfully beat the opposing
goalkeeper after good attacking moves.
TEAM: Gilber, Mady, Lay, Hatton, Milner,
Archer, Buckley, Dolin, Nicholas, Burns
Hawa.
Snooker
THE C team didn't play last week and it looks
as if they have lost their position on top of the
league. The other two teams, both won 4-1
and so are now competing for the number
one position.
The B team played Charing Cross Hospital
who even struggled trying to find a team.
They managed to find five players, some of
which were bar staff and night watchment.
Anyone I suppose you are all wondering how
• (Last Chance) Kelly managed against
C h a r i n g C r o s s . Well, I am please d to
announce, he won and so retains his position
in the team. Some people have suggested a
cover-up by his fellow team mates and that he
actually lost. Well if this is true the person
involved in such a folly will feel my wrath, fist,
boot etc. . . . . .
The boring, dull, A team won again and are
brilliant, great . . . .
Cross Country
THE penultimate league race was held at
Guildford last week. This course is the
longest and muddiest that we normally
encounter, but the overnight rain made
conditions atrocious.
The Imperial team split into two groups:
one travelling by train, the rest waiting for the
Q E C minibus. The latter group never arrived
at Guildford and our arch-rivals from UC
romped away to win the race. Pickard and
Kelly headed the IC contingent in ninth and
thirteenth positions, with Thwaites, Virk,
Weston, Hayward and Frost all arriving in
about fourtieth to sixtieth positions, without
any losses claimed by the mud or sabotage.
Commiserations must go to our stars left in
London and congratulations to Virk and Frost
who produced improved performances.
Ten-Pin
IN their last home match of the session the
Bowling Club at long last gained victory. A
very strong A team turned out against the
Southampton opposition and convincingly
won 4-0, in the process bowling one of the
top games and series in the country this year.
The performance wqas assisted by a 204
game from Cook, a 539 series by MacGowan
and a 513 series by McMullan. The B team
also managed to win 4-0 with a good all-
round performance bowling 270 pins more
than the opposition, who bowled worse than
their own C team. Our C team in fact lost 3-1,
but they were a team member short, and the
game they did win was by only two pins. The
hero of the moment was Bob Thong who
remained calm under pressure and ended up
with a 440 series. The ladies team was also a
member short and, as ever, lost 4-0 but
should be thanked for turning up as every pin
bowled counts.
Results and Reports for
Saturday, January 24,1981
Rugby
IC 1st X V V U C 12-10
IC 2nd X V V U C 0-28
Football
IC 6th XI V U C H I I 4-2
H o c k e y
I C 1st XI V Ashford 2-2
I C 2 n d X I V Ashford 0-3
I C 3rd XI V Ashford 5-3
Basketball
IC 1st V V Ealing 51-21
Hockey Thirds
THE farce started when nine IC players were
given lifts to something that was referred to,
jokingly, as the pitch, and two IC players
weren't. (Not that pitch again? - Ed.)
Eventually we got eleven players and
started the game. Well, we never really
started, but the umpires began to blow their
whistles and several opponents proceeded to
hit us.
After five minutes of random mediocrity
Pete Hughes had scored twice to give IC a
comfortable lead. We then prepared for a
long session of mud-slinging. But, Cathy
Crossley, a guest transvestite, had different
ideas. She scored. Not that surprising, but it
was enough to totally confuse IC, who, by
way of apology, let the opposition score.
3-1 at half-time.
The second half was diabolical, Pete
Hughes was again forced to score twice, and
for added amusement our defence ensured'
that the opposition scored twice as well.
Note: Would whoever dug up eight pounds
of potatoes from the 'pitch' please return
them.
Water Polo
THIS WEEKEND, the 'polo team made their
annual trip to Bristol to play their university
team.
The match started with the IC team looking
suitably sharp and in control, and the first
quarter passed without a goal. Bristol then
took advantage of their huge pool and scored
three times. Due to good play by our team, a
tightening-up of marking and goals by
Richard, Mike and Nick, play improved. The
final result, 4-4, was an honourable draw,
after which both teams retired to the bar.
The Bristolians proved to be very hos-
pitable and great fun was had by all!
Sailing
THE IC team finally found form on Saturday
at 'The Harp' when sailing against St Thomas'
Hospital and University of Kent. The 'A' team
finally 'got it all together' with a 1-2-3 victory
over Thomas'. In near perfect conditions
some of the finer points of team sailing were
used by IC and the second race was won
convincingly.
Kent became fodder for this IC team in fine
form — IC winning in two races.
A fine day's sailing was had and some well
earned points.
TEAM: Chadwick, Kennedy, Mills, Murray,
Redman, Younghusband.
Canoe
White Water Championships
T H E Universities White Water R a c i n g
Championships were held on January 24 and
25 at Llangollen on the River Dee. Several IC
paddlers were among the UL team. Redding
put in a good time in the individual K1 event
but was unable to beat the very fast time put
in by the winning paddlers. Benter was the
fastest paddler down the course in a slalom
canoe, beating a lot of people in racers. Neil
MacMillan put in a good time for his first ever
race.
In the Canadian event we had more
success. Crofts finished fifth in the C1 event,
which was won by the European Champion,
Martin Hedges from Bath. In the C2 event
Crofts and Graham made a good start had
after an unfortunate incident with a rock
capsized and lost a lot of time. After a quick
recovery they still managed to finish fourth.
Taking advantage of their team mates
misfortune Redding paddling with Williams
from Kings moved up to take third place.
These results reflect the growing interest and
success with Canadian canoes within the
club, the previous weekend Crofts and
Graham had won the non-ranking C2 event
on the River Usk.
We must thank Tim Clark for spending
most of the weekend ferrying canoes and
competitors and also the other reserves
(Jones, Kilgow, and Redding) who provided
valuable support.
Now for some club news, a new indoor
slalom league will shortly be starting, so
come down to the pool and get promoted. We
have trips coming up on February 7/8, surfing
on the Gower, February 21/22, a river trip to
Wales and on March 20/24 a surfing tour to
Cornwell.
The big event this summer will be a surfing
tour to either Portugal or the Biarrik area of
France, anyone interested please let a
committee member know.
Page 10 FEUX, January 30, 1981

