CONTACT WEEK '81
CONTACT WEEK is an annual event organised by the West London Chaplaincy.
The Chaplaincy operates in three colleges in West London: Imperial College, the
Royal College of Music and Queen Elizabeth College. We exist as a network of
small groups which meet regularly in the halls of residence and student houses,
and at lunchtimes in College departments.
During Contact Week each group of students acts as host to one of the
members of the team. As you can see the team, are a varied and interesting
bunch of people who are bringing their insight and their experience of the oustide
world to the various informal discussions and meetings which will be hapening
around them.
The team are not coming just for the benefit of regular members of the
Chaplaincy but to stimulate thought and discussion about personal, ethical and
religious questions in the halls and departments where they are based, and to
respond to the issues you might want to raise.
The Contact Week team are not coming to recruit or convert people — that's
not the Chaplaincy's style — but they will be happy if their presence this week
helps to activate and catalyse some fresh undestanding and new growth in the
people they meet, so look out for the notices in your hall or department and come
along and join in. You will find us open to your point of viewl as willing to give you
ours.
BETTY COMBIE (New Kings Rd and
Chem Eng): went to boarding school.
Invited to India for six months, stayed
two and a half years. Saw Bombay,
Calcutta and the Punjab, Kashmir and
the mofussil, all in the days of the raj.
Spent six and a half years in Jamaica.
... two with husband, then as a widow,
when I was invited to return to work as
organiser with the Girl Guide move-
ment. On return to the UK I was
accepted for training for Church work
at Gilmore House, Clapham. Joined
the staff of St Matthews, Brixton.
TONY ELLIS (Evelyn Gardens): Born
in March 1956, brought up at Bramhall,
an outer suburb of southern Man-
cheser, moved to Keble College
Oxford as an exhibitioner to study
theology with a view to ordination.
Became concerned about the gulf
between the theology that I learnt
there and the attitudes of the wider
church, exemplified in my home
church. Consequently, I launched into
this topic and after 3 years of work at
Manchester University have just
submitted a PhD thesis. During that
time I spent 2 years as a resident
'tutor' and latterly the Sub-Warden in a
men's hall of residence. This involved
taking responsibility for 50 men and
assisting in the administration of the
hall of 150 students. Now in the first of
four terms at Lincoln Theological
College. Main interests are drawing
and painting, walking and listening to
music.
SISTER PAMELA (Weeks and Garden
Halls and Maths): a member of the
Community of the Sisters of the
Church, aged 27. Trained to teach in
Bradford, then taught for 2 years in
the North of England before joining
the community. At present on the
Southwark Pastoral Auxiliary training
scheme, and on the chaplaincy team
at a remand centre for boys at Ham.
ANNE HORTON (Formosa St, QEC):
born 1944 in Maidstone, Kent. Edu-
cated Maidstone Grammer School for
Girls, University of Leicester (BSc
Maths) Cert Ed. Taught secondary
maths in Leicester and Norfolk, some
years of which I was a member of an
Anglican Religious Order. Since 1979
a student at Lincoln Theological
College preparing for ministry as a
deaconess in the C of E. Enjoy playing
games, acting, disturbed adolescents.
ELIZABETH MORRIS (Castellain
Road): Scottish and NW England
family background. Education:
Finchley and Hampstead; and Scottish
boarding school. Graduated 1950 —
Hons Economics — UCL. Married,
daugnter ana son, both married, and
graduates in mathematics. Husband:
wartime RAF pilot; chartered accoun-
tant and management consultant,
works for a firm in the City. Present
work: as a Pastoral Auxiliary in the
diocese of Southwark.
Wednesday, February 4
12:30 C h e m Eng C o n c o u r s e
L U N C H
followed by a D E B A T E
This House believes that arms sales organisations should be
disbanded forthwith
Proposer: B r u c e K e n t , Director C N D
Against: Barney H e y h o e , U n d e r Sec State for A r m y
Contact Week: January 31 - February 8 1981
DONALD GREEN (Stephendale Rd,
Mech Eng): nearly fifty, married with
3 children aged 23, 21, and 17,
national service 1950/1, read English
at Cambridge, followed by a year's
teacher training, 1955-66 school
teaching, mostly in urban compre-
hensives, then teacher training
college. 1973, study leave, switched to
English and part-time student coun-
selling. Twelve years a magistrate
(resigned last year) with interest in the
probation service. Twelve years on
board of visitors of an open borstal
with which still involved.
SISTER ELIZABETH-CLARE (RCM
and QA); at university read history, did
various kinds of social work in Canada
and the UK. In 1964 joined the
Community of the Holy Name, Malvem,
following from that has taught with the
Community in Africa, though now
back in Malvern as Guest Sister.
NORMAN JEFFREYS (Holland Rd): A
parish priest from Great Barford,
Herts. Married with baby daughter.
Especially interested in 'wholeness' —
the place of healing in the Christian
faith.
MARY WRIGHT (Bloemfontein, PGs):
Anglo-Dutch parents, born in
Brussels, educated there until 14, then
English Methodist boarding school.
Presbyterian in Brussels, became
Anglican at Oxford. Graduate in
modern languages, and subsequently
theology. Short spell in industry.
Taught 2 years. Assistant editor of
religious weekly for 4 years then
trained for church work. 13 years in St
Marylebone Parish church and made a
Deaconess there in 1961. Two and a
half years on staff of Lincoln Theo-
logical College. Three years in parish
Weybridge. For 4 years on staff of
Roehampton Ecumenical Parish
(Anglican-Methodist) with special
responsibility for students as well as
some hospital wards and a new
housing estate.
SISTER LORNA BROCKETT (Chem,
Linstead): member of the lay training
department of the Anglican diocese of
Southwark, and a member of RC
religious community of the Society of
the Sacred Heart. Read modern
languages at St Andrews, theoloav at
Oxford and did a PhD in French part-
time at Birkbeck. Was head of RE at a
school in Surrey and lecturer in
religious studies at colleges in
Newcastle and London. Involved in
Ecumenical activity at a local and
national level. Committed to a fuller
involvement of the laity in the life of
the church. Interested in counselling.
Worked for BBC Radio London's
Quest programme.
DAVID TRUBY (Falmouth, floating,
RCM): born and raised in Liverpool,
now aged 23. Spent 3 years at
Liverpool Polytechnic doing a social
studies degree. Worked in Liverpool
docks for Mersey Mission to Seamen,
later sold T-shirts at agricultural
shows and trade fairs. Now in second
year at Lincoln. Interested in looking
at new forms of ministry .
JOHN MORRIS (Keogh Tizard, Elec
Eng): bom 1956, Worcester Royal
Grammar School, University College
Swansea, now at Lincoln. Brought up
as a Methodist. Converted to Ang-
licanism. On leaving College worked
as a car mechanic and night shelter
worker with alcoholics. Interested in
mending cars, politics. Christian
apologetics.
ROBERT FIELDEN (Queen Mary Hall,
QEC): bom 1932, married, two sons ..
. Peter a graduate of IC. Left school at
16. worked in a bank for 8 years,
trained for youth work with YMCA in
Nottingham, Huddersfield and Durham
University, charge of Hereford YMCA.
1965, Lincoln Theological College,
ordained 1967. Now rector of a group
of seaside villages on the Lincolnshire
coast.
Page 6 FEUX, January 30, 1981

