Postgraduate Questionnaire
A t present (Monday) I have received 83
replies to the questionnaire sent out. Many of
which complain about the role of supervisors.
The issue will be discussed at Graduate Studies
on February 3, so it is necessary that replies
reach me before then. All registered research
students have been sent a questionnaire but it is
impossible to contact writing-up students or
research assistants who are also doing PhDs. So
if researchers could fill in questionnaires and
encourage others to do so I would be much
appreciative.
Refectories
Yes folks I do honestly believe that since I arrived
at College, Refectory food has improved, one of
the main features being the introduction of cook-
freeze food. I was elected on a policy of
cooperation with College authorities to try and
improve things in that matter. This I have tried
and will continue to try until a U G M instructs me
to change. I feel that such actions as refectory
boycotts should only be taken as a final course.
The one which happened two years ago was
taken really as a final a c t i o n because the
Refectory Committee would not listen to the
Union's arguments on price increases.
A refectory boycott would cost the Refectories
£1000 per day, which in order to express the
student feeling can be done through the Union
representatives.
It is really a matter of accepting that food prices
increase as do wages and these are subject to
external factors. There are only certain bills
which can be covered by College under U G C
regulations and as College is running £750,000
deficit budget this year due to lack of money from
Government, these will be kept to a minimum.
Prices went up 772 % at the start of the year to
cover projected wages costs and as food prices
have only now made a signficant increase have
prices gone up again (only by 1%). In fact the
Financial Times F o o d Index went down in
September and there was a possibility of the
prices going down.
I do not consider the quality of the food to be
Hiltonesque but it has improved (e.g. try living in
International Hall). Mr Mooney is willing to hear
complaints of a general and specific nature
particularly through Suggestions and Complaints
Committee but as he says if you have a specific
complaint it is best to bring the dish back at once.
I myself w o u l d like to see a c o m p l e t e
reorganisation of the service as there is too much
duplication at present i.e. too many outlets
providing the same type of food. However, things
will not change overnight and since the last
refectory boycott there has been a steady
improvement.
Perhaps like the Holland Club we should try to
take over the Union completely i.e. the bar and
Lower Refectory. A feasibility study was done by
several outside catering firms several years ago
on this very idea and they all said they would not
touch it with a barge-pole. Remember it is open 30
odd weeks of the year for only 4-5 hours per day.
Suggestions please? (PS I know yours, Steve.)
NUS
I have received a letter from B i r m i n g h a m
U n i v e r s i t y U n i o n about N U S a s k i n g for
information, ideas, etc from myself to which I
have replied.
Their president suggests the formation of a
National Union of University Students for 'the
sole purpose of National negotiations on major
student issues like grants, Hall fees, etc' thus
reducing the present bureaucracy, size and
unrepresentative nature on N U S . I am interested
to hear your opinions.
ICCAG
B L O O D D O N O R S . In case you missed their last
visit, or chickened out, the Blood Transfusion
Service is returning to college on Tuesday, 10th
and Wednesday, 11th February. Your blood is
badly needed to save lives in all sorts of situations
from car crashes to childbirth, so please go to the
Union Dining Hall, 1st floor of the Union building,
between 9.30 and 12, or 2 and 4 on those days. H
you want to know more, see the display in the
JCR. Giving blood doesn't hurt, but it does save
lives.
H O M E INSULATION. The cold is a terrible threat
to old people. If you would like to help by insulating
their homes one afternoon soon (probably Wed
11th Feb) contact Sean Coyle Elec Eng 2.
Matters
Raised
Personal Alarms
House Committee has now purchased some
small personal 'shrill' alarms, for the use of any
woman using the ladies changing rooms alone.
They will be available from Beit Security in
exchange for your Unioncard, or if anyone would
like to buy one, they cost £4.50 from my office.
However I would like to stress that they are not
a joke or a toy, they are designed to tepeB an
attacker by causing pain in the ears and head, and
could do serious permanent damage if misused,
so please don't play with them, they are for use in
genuine cases of emergency only.
Union Building
By the time you read this all the rooms in the
Building should have a complete set of matching
chairs, so please don't move chairs from room to
room unless absolutely necessary, in which case
put them back afterwards please.
The Senior Common Room is back in use now
after being painted and when the curtains and
light fittings are finished it should look very smart,
so can users please take care and let's keep it that
way.
And finally: Elections are drawing ever nearer,
so if you fancy doing this job come and see me
and I'll tell you all about it.
Cheers.
Rae
Travelling
Abroad
If student life is settling down into a rather dull
routine why not step into a new r6Ie for a few
weeks in the summer. Become a cowhand in
Uruguay, a barman in Brazil, a community
worker in Aberdeen, or even a sailing instructor
on the Ivory Coast. These and a vast selection of
other placements can be bound in Working
Holidays, 1981 edition, published by the Central
Bureau for Education visits and exchanges, 44
Baker Street, W l , price £2.30. In comparison with
other books in this field it certainly sems to live up
to its claim to be the most authoritative and
comprehensive guide.
Now is the time to apply for many of the
placements listed, so if you're interested we have
a copy in the office (15 Princes Gardens) which
can be flipped through for a glimpse of life in far
away places. It's the sort of book which is useful
to own however since it also contains a lot of
information concerning the possible hazards of
living and working abroad, together with details of
student fares and insurance cover. Since the cost
of any kind of medical treatment abroad can be
quite a shock to those of us reared under the
N H S it is important to make sure you are
adequately insured. The D H S S leaflets in the
office on reciprocal agreements for medical
treatment in the E E C and certain other countries
provide a useful starting point.
Sue Telling
Student Services
MART1ANE
+• M EXTRA I T * M
MECH ENG 2*0
F E B R U A R Y 3 ^ >
IC Symphony Orchestra
Requires more string players!
especially violas
Rehearsals 7-10 p.m. Wednesdays in the Great Hall
Mussorgsky: "Night on Bare Mountain" Dvorak: "New World Symphony"
FELIX, January 30,1961 Page 9

