Jesus claimed in John 14:6 – “I am the
way, the truth and the life. No one comes
through the Father except through me.”
This raises the question of whether Je-
sus’ teaching, and consequently Chris-
tians’ attitude towards human freedom,
is fundamentally oppressive. I wish to
show how the teaching of Jesus is not
oppressive, but is actually in line with
the heart of the idea of human freedom.
There is a difference between engag-
ing on an endeavour to truth openly, and
deviating from the existence of absolute
truth. To engage on a pursuit to the truth,
one accepts that there are absolute truths
to be found, and it is human’s task to
seek evidence to arrive at them. That is
fundamentally different to asserting that
there is no absolute truth in life, and one
must be willing to accept the possibil-
ity of many different mutually exclusive
propositions being true simultaneously;
it is not pluralism.
At the heart of desiring freedom of
speech, there is an underlying hope in
wanting to arrive at absolute truth with
certainty. Often freedom of speech
comes to the spotlight when we think
our perspective that we regard as true in
life is being suppressed. This automati-
cally presupposes a belief that certain
propositions about life are absolutely
true. Thus, it is the engagement to a par-
ticular endeavour to truth that we wish
to obtain through the freedom of speech,
not the denial of the existence of truths
POLITICS
FELIX
14
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Should there be limits
M
inister for Communi-
ties and Local Gov-
ernment, Andrew
Stunnell visited Im-
perial last month to
speak at Interfaith’s student led debate
on the right to freedom of speech. Views
were heard from members of the Jew-
ish Society, Islamic Society, Christian
Union and a secular member of the De-
bating Society.
The Minister explained that he pre-
dominantly supported the current British
legal framework regarding free speech.
He considered the UK as not completely
secular but pluralist, and called legal
amendments to allow Kosher and Ha-
lal foods and the allowance of turbans
rather than motorcycle helmets as the
right thing to do. Below are summaries
of the speeches from each of the speak-
ers. Please note, these are the views and
religious interpretations of the individu-
als, not their respective societies.
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Iraq
Thailand has extradited suspected arms dealer
Viktor Bout to the United States to face terrorism
charges.
He stands accused of attempting to sell arms to the
FARC rebels of Columbia and faces a potential life
sentence. The extradition by Thailand has prompted
an angry response from Moscow who claims that
the charges faced by the Russian national were
politically motivated and could harm warming ties
between the two nations. Viktor Bout’s extradition
comes after months of legal wrangling in the Thai
courts the extradition request.
Thailand
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has refused to sign
the execution order of former Deputy Prime Minis-
ter and Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz.
President Talabani has refused sign the order on
the grounds that Mr Aziz is a Christian, aging and
reported to be seriously ill. Mr Aziz was previously
sentenced to death by an Iraqi tribunal for persecut-
ing Islamic minorities in Iraq which was classified as
a crime against humanity. Tariq Aziz was the interna-
tional face of Iraq under Saddam but was not seen
as one of Saddam’s evil insiders. Several countries
and groupings including the European Union, the
Holy See and the Russian Federation have called on
Iraq not to execute Mr Aziz.
Sudan
Voter registration begins in Sudan on Monday for a
January referendum that would allow the country’s
oil reach South to secede from the north.
The South is expected to vote for independence in
the referendum to be held in January, which comes
as part of the 2005 peace agreement. South Suda-
nese living in the North have begun the long journey
back to the South to register amidst fears of intimida-
tion in the North and that their vote with be miscount-
ed as part of an attempt to prevent the South from
leaving. The UN Security Council will meet to discuss
the possible dangers of an independence vote in the
South and
to press
Sudan to
ensure that
the vote is
carried out
as sched-
uled.
Friday 19 November 2010
Freedom of speech is a precious gift that
should be bestowed to all. Restricting it,
especially in religious settings, is inher-
ently bad.
In our personal lives, we exercise
our right to freedom of speech to be
perceived as a unique individual with
personal thoughts and opinions. From
the rhetoric of politicians to the gossips
of neighbours, speech is used by all to
express their innate humanity and per-
sonality. Constraining the freedom of
speech, therefore, is analogous to dehu-
manising individuals.
In broader society, freedom of speech
is essential to political and religious cri-
tique or dissent. Voicing the public opin-
A secular view
from IC Debating
Society
A Christian
perspective from
Edward Ip
That poor chap doesn’t look particularly healthy... Hey bro! Let go of him already!
themselves and consequently arriving at
an ad hoc freedom of speech (ability to
say whatever we want.)
To summarise, freedom of speech
must mean a possibility to engage on an
endeavour to arrive at the true proposi-
tion of life, rather than the acceptability
of any feasible attempt to this task. Our
end goal is to arrive at the truth via this
engagement, which is an exclusive po-
sition (excluding propositions that are
contradictory to the supposedly true
proposition), but where engagement is
still possible having arrived at this posi-
tion. Further, this is to be done in harmo-
ny with each other, with mutual respect
and care for each other.
The teachings of Jesus are of such a
nature. He proclaimed his teaching is
unique and exclusive. This means that he
excludes the possibility of all other teach-
ings being true, apart from his own. But
what is at the heart of this exclusive mes-
sage? Firstly it is a message of love; that
we should love God’s character and love
our neighbours as ourselves. Secondly,
it is a message of truth; the accessibil-
ity to the truth is possible through Jesus
himself. Thus at the heart of the gospel
of Christianity is one that wishes man to
love each other and to pursue the truth,
namely, knowledge of God’s personal
and infinite nature. This is what is non-
negotiable and exclusive about Christi-
anity, and whatever opposes that, Jesus
claimed, is a false description of life.
Jesus’ teachings concur with the heart
of why man desires freedom of speech.
I challenge the reader to carefully distin-
guish the difference between promoting
freedom to engage openly in finding the
way to truth and the seeming freedom
created by the acceptance of any feasible
claims of truth, which is not freedom at
all. For in doing so we have completely
betrayed the whole purpose of desiring
freedom of speech.
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Illustration by Mitesh Patel

