POLITICS
FELIX 15
s on the extent of free speech?
Friday 19 November 2010
A Muslim perspective from Yasser Mahmoud
The Universal Declaration of Human
Rights says, “Everyone has the right to
freedom of opinion and expression; this
right includes freedom to hold opinions
without interference and to seek, re-
ceive and impart information and ideas
through any media regardless of fron-
tiers.”
Cutting through the jargon, most peo-
ple understand that freedom of speech
is the right to say what you want. The
wording is often a source for disagree-
ment but the notion in itself is laced
with hypocrisy; the way we conduct our
lives, interact with others and raise our
children is not in line with this. Chil-
dren are taught that if they cannot say
anything nice then not to say anything
at all. In our interactions at work and
our social lives we do not “freely” ex-
press ourselves- our speech is limited
by common courtesy and if we hold a
bitter thought about our supervisor or
co-worker we keep that to ourselves for
the fear of losing our jobs or upsetting
our peers. Some may say you are still
free to say these things, when in effect
your freedom is limited by the fabric of
the society in which you live and so this
idea of truly free speech is alien to us.
Some may argue it should be a funda-
mental right that if we find an ideology,
As a student it is important to me to ex-
press my opinions and stand up for what
I believe in, but with Judaism playing
a central role in my life what limita-
tions does this make on my freedom of
speech, or is it a right?
In Judaism there is the principle of
Lashon Harah, negative speech, which
is the principle of not speaking negative
comments about a person even if they
are true. This is sourced from “You shall
not be a gossiper among the people”.
This would generally encompass bitchy
comments, or gossip magazines which
cause hurt to the celebrity.
A Chasidic tale vividly illustrates the
danger of improper speech: A man went
about the community telling malicious
lies about the rabbi. Later, he realized
the wrong he had done, and began to
feel remorse. He went to the rabbi and
begged his forgiveness, saying he would
do anything he could to make amends.
The rabbi told the man, “Take a feather
A Jewish
perspective from
Charlotte Levene
ion and holding decision makers to ac-
count is crucial to democratic function.
Constant electorate feedback should
form the basis of a responsible govern-
ment’s mandate.
The freedom of speech prevents the
build-up of discontent in the society by
allowing one to vent his grievances. Un-
vented struggles are prone to escalation
and thus lead to the breakdown of so-
ciety. Regimes that allow little freedom
of speech are akin to a pressure cooker,
building up pressure until the destined
violent explosion.
History shows us what freedom of
speech has awarded us. The abolition of
slavery, universal suffrage and other hu-
manitarian achievements were not gifts
from above, but struggles from below.
Freedom of speech allowed these pio-
neering social leaders to effect change
and spread their message of revolution
to their fellow citizens.
In the religious setting, freedom of
speech in our society is especially lim-
ited. Many religious dogmas and prac-
tices are taboo subjects for believers as
well as others. Children or new converts
are encouraged to accept things without
question. If God says the Amalekites
need to be exterminated whereas the
Israelis are His “chosen people”, that
is just the way it is. Douglas Adams
questioned at great length why “certain
issues...we’ve decided are holy, above
questioning” unlike for say sports con-
troversies or economic policies. We are
especially “tolerant” to religion. We
treat the criticism of religious practice as
“politically incorrect”. However, our so-
ciety’s implied restriction of freedom of
speech to religious issues had incurred a
Speakers Corner in Hyde Park gives people a platform for their opinions
huge toll. Recent incidents of Catholic
priests molesting children are prime ex-
amples of how silence and inaction cre-
ate problems. Victims, overwhelmed by
the idea that priests are absolutely holy
and that the Church has unquestionable
authority, were afraid to come forward
to exercise their freedom of speech and
testify against their faith. That reluc-
tance allowed perpetrators to remain at
large and harm more individuals.
How about radical and hate speech
made by religious groups? Take the re-
striction of extremist preaching in the
interest of national security because
of the hatred and anti-governmental
feeling it incites. Terrorist attacks are
abominable. However, restricting the
freedom of speech meant that the re-
quests of extremists are unheard and
discounted by the society. That would
lead to more discontent in extremists
groups and drive them to be even more
extreme. Moreover, extremist organisa-
tions recruit members often by invoking
the restriction of their freedom of speech
by the government and convince poten-
tial supporters that they are the victims
and should be sympathised. By letting
extremists air their views and rebut them
outright in public, we can extinguish
their major propaganda tool and show
potential members of extremist organ-
isation we are on the right side.
Noam Chomsky famously said, “If
you believe in freedom of speech, you
believe in freedom of speech for views
you don’t like. Goebbels was in favour
of views he liked. So was Stalin”. We, as
citizens of a democratic nation, should
strive to remove all barriers to the free-
dom of speech.
pillow, cut it open, and scatter the feath-
ers to the winds.” The man thought
this was a strange request, but it was a
simple enough task, and he did it gladly.
When he returned to tell the rabbi that
he had done it, the rabbi said, “Now, go
and gather ALL the feathers”. The man
protested, “But that’s impossible.” “Of
course it is” replied the Rabbi, “although
you may regret the evil you have done
and truly desire to correct it, it is as im-
possible to repair the damage done by
your words as it is to collect everyone of
these feathers”. This shows how careful
you have to be when speaking; a hurt-
ful word may spread and not be able to
be recovered, as you never know who it
might reach. Lashan Harah isn’t saying
that one can’t voice an opinion, but not
a personal attack and respect for others
must be kept.
Judaism also has a strong principle of
love your neighbour as yourself. One
can express one’s opinions but why
would one want to hurt people’s feelings
or incite hate? This is one of the main
problems that are brought on by Free-
dom of Speech today.
The Talmud is the basis of Jewish
Law, however it also contains all the
arguments and thought processes that
caused the Sages to come to their deci-
sions. The Sages often had completely
differing opinions. The fact that all these
arguments are recorded shows how valu-
able the process of arguing and standing
up for your beliefs are in Judaism. G-d
gave the responsibility to man to choose
the law via a process of democracy – a
majority decision.
However, even through all the argu-
ing, one must have great respect for
their ‘rival’. Two of the greatest rivals
who had differing views on everything
allowed their children to marry in the
end, being at peace with each other.
So, what has this shown me about my
role as a Jewish Student, am I allowed
to stand with placards at a rally? If
we didn’t live in a place with differing
opinions, society would be quite boring!
There are different ways of publicizing
my views: I can cause hate and single
people out, or I can be composed and
treat people with respect. The Talmud
shows that that standing up for beliefs is
very important, and as a student I have
great power to make a change in society
– and I should take it.
Judaism gives me the tools of how to
speak. It is not freedom of speech - it is
responsibility of speech.
state or person that we have genuine
disagreement with we should be free to
express our beliefs. This freedom to crit-
icise is very important; the prophet Mo-
hammed (pbuh) practiced this right with
idol worshippers. It was a fundamental
part of Islam to be able to critique that
which you believed to be wrong, even if
the view was held by the vast majority
of society.
This freedom to criticise construc-
tively was very important, yet alongside
this there was a very careful line drawn
in the Quran (surah 16, 125) “call to
the way of your Lord with wisdom and
beautiful preaching.” Although there
was complete disagreement on funda-
mental issues between the early Mus-
lims and their countrymen they did not
transgress beyond the bounds of good
manners. One of the sayings of the
prophet (pbuh) was “whomsoever be-
lieves in God and the day of Judgement
should say good or stay quiet.” The idea
of freedom of speech being absolute and
without bounds does not agree with Is-
lamic tradition. Furthermore in Islam
there is a large weight given to what an
individual says as well as what he does,
not an arbitrary line drawn between ac-
tions and words where you can say what
you want to me but not physically hurt
me. The prophet (pbuh) said “A slave
of God may utter a word without giv-
ing it much importance and because of it
he will be raised degrees of reward, and
he may utter a word carelessly which
displeases God without thinking of its
gravity and because of it be thrown into
Hell.”
So what is the solution? Disagree-
ments stem mainly from interpretation
of meanings; one individual may believe
he has a particular right and another may
disagree on what that right entails. As
long as there is no consensus on defini-
tion of freedom of speech, we cannot
move forward. When this definition is
set, it must be protected by law so in-
dividuals that practice it are not subject
to attack and those who go beyond it are
held accountable. In a fair society, dou-
ble standards cannot continue; we invite
Belgian M.P. Gurt Wilders to visit the
House of Lords and show his film Fitna,
yet ban another foreign national, Zakir
Naik, from even entering the country.
We cannot use the excuse that we are at
war or under threat from terrorists- we
have to stand for justice for all. But prin-
ciples of freedom of expression must
also be in line with the values we live by
and individuals must not be allowed to
change that. Only then can we succeed.

