16
COMMENT
felix
FRIDAY 19 NOVEMBER 2010
I
’m beginning to like Facebook.
Fact-fans out there will know
that the first A Geek was actu-
ally about Facebook and how
terrible it was. But even then
I noted that at least it would offer a
convenient way of sorting you all into
groups that could be easily avoided.
To be honest, my feelings about Face-
book have evolved around that point,
the idea that you’re all now happily
pigeonholed and I can observe you,
clipboard in hand, and pre-arrange any
avoidances and meetings.
Earlier this month, some angry people
burnt some red paper poppies and got
onto the news. “Oh dear me,” I thought,
as I sipped my pureed copy of that day’s
Sun newspaper prepared for me by Mrs.
Geek, “It appears that some angry peo-
ple have done something inflammatory
on these darling, Christian shores.” In
a world without Facebook, a magical
world where farming is still a job, that
is the end of the matter. At any time, I
could bump into someone and discover
their opinion on that news story. The
little opinion-laden buggers are every-
where, lying in wait with their reckon-
ings and thoughts.
Despicable, isn’t it? So I’m thankful
that Facebook is here. I simply put down
my mug, saunter over to the computer,
and begin taking notes on people’s re-
sponses. Linda thinks they should “fuk
bak off to their own country”. Thanks for
sharing, Linda. I’ll make sure I take your
nut allergy into account when choosing
your Christmas present, then. Chris has
liked Linda’s post. Nice to know, Chris.
That mouse click really carried a lot of
gravitas. You’ve earned yourself a one-
way ticket to the Card And A Smile list,
departing from Small Gift And A Man
Hug list immediately.
See? It’s easy. You just get a pen and
paper, scroll through your Facebook
home page, and make two lists. Twat-y
and Nice. Would and Would Not Piss
On If On Fire. And it’s not being vin-
dictive, it’s genuinely helpful. You’re
picking people you like based on the
opinions they’re willing to express
online.
Alright, it’s a bit vindictive.
I’m sticking by it simply because it
never ceases to wheedle out the particu-
larly covert nutcases. The old school-
teacher who thinks that homosexuals
basically should be second-class citi-
zens. The young art student you used to
know who believes America is being run
by communists. Oh, hey! Your neigh-
bours are complaining about students
who smell and suck the country dry of
money. That’ll be you they mean.
It’s depressing, sure. Of course it’s
depressing. Because the further you go
through those news feeds, particularly
those of your younger siblings and their
friends, the more you realise not only
that most of the people you know are
dicks, but that the useful 1950s habit of
keeping the crazy tightly nailed down
under a saucepan somewhere at home
has fallen out of fashion. People love
this shit!
Facebook used to just be a terrifying
waste of time. Then it became a magi-
cal place where you could see the words
“Occupation: Judge” and “Fukin ell the
ppl at work were shit 2day” in the same
web page. Now it’s just this morass of
personal confessions and unwanted,
Antisocial Network
too-much-information diatribes. We like
this. They like this. We think this.
As an Englishman, I just feel it was
better when we refrained from discuss-
ing politics, religion or Justin Bieber
on public transport and in court. I wish
there was some way to retrofit more
repression of emotion into our society,
to bottle things up a bit more and fight
back any kind of release. How are we
supposed to get things done otherwise,
eh?
But as I say, that’s not the world I’ve
got. Instead I’ve got a world where my
brother can lead a silent online revolu-
tion merely by stating that Justin Bieber
is dumb and getting fourteen people to
agree with him. You’ll forgive me, then,
for indulging in the small mercy that I
can at least write down the names of
those fourteen people and append them
to the end of the already arm-length gal-
lows waiting list. Be warned, reader.
The streets of the internet are no longer
safe. A Geek is watching you.
Got an opinion? See if I give a shit
at anangrygeek@googlemail.com.
Facebook is a great opportunity for me to extend my
hitlist without having to leave the comfort of my room
So the Union’s £2.5 million refurbishment
is finally coming to a close. The horrendous
blue shed outside Metric will disappear and
smoking builders in high-vis jackets will no
longer grace Beit Quad. Even the decrepit
lawn is being renewed. But as memories of
asbestos grow faint in our minds and the
constant thud and screech of construction
work fades into the air, what will we think of
our new Union?
In the past students have had good rea-
son to complain. Queues in what is now
FiveSixEight were unmanageable on busy
nights and the decor gave little reason for
either students or bar staff to respect and
enjoy their bar. The club that came before
Metric (we shall not speak its name) was
beyond salvation. It was a muddled mess
and frankly an embarrassment. And that’s
before we get on to the service provided
in these venues. Suffice it to say that the
food in FiveSixEight is much improved and
that the emphasis on live music in Metric
shows that the Union is at last listening to
its students.
The real test now, is less of the Union and
its ability to deliver but more on the Impe-
rial student. We shall now see whether it
is actually possible to please your average
Imperial student. Is there a way to satisfy
his or her demands or will we be doomed to
an eternity of: “It’s still not good enough?”
On balance, most students with any ex-
perience of other student unions in London
will recognize that they now own something
truly special. In fact, most students with ex-
perience of other bars and clubs in London
will recognize that the new Union is pretty
damn good.
But a few will continue to moan that the
Union is lame, or full of guys, or some
other intellectually lazy gripe. They will try
to perpetuate the myth that Imperial is a
place where it’s impossible to enjoy music
and art and where the chance of finding
love or adventure is virtually nil. It’s time
to say ‘enough’ to those people. We can-
not expect to have life handed to us on a
plate, we must grab all the opportunities
we encounter with both hands. And with the
number of clubs and societies at Imperial,
the overflowing excitement of London and
the new Union bar and club, it’s time to quit
moaning. The question “Why would anyone
from UCL want to come to Imperial to hang
out?” is redundant. It should now be, “Why
would anyone from Imperial want to go hang
out at UCL?”
FELIX
Angry Geek
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
The Union has done all
it can.If you’re still not
having fun,perhaps it’s
time to look inward
What happens on Facebook doesn’t stay on Facebook. It is used by me as comedy material
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“The little opinion-
laden buggers are
everywhere”
nd
nd
ok
k
-y
“
“
“
ay on Facebook. It
”
See? It’s easy. You just get a pen
and paper, scroll through your
Facebook home page, and make
two lists. Twat-y and Nice
Comment Editor: Anna Perman

