GREEN WEEK
FELIX
18
18 million tonnes of edible food ends up at
the landfill each year, worth £23 billion or five
times what the U.K. spends annually on inter-
national aid. If we stopped wasting this food,
the reduction in U.K. carbon emissions would
be equivalent to taking 1 in 5 cars off the road.
According to FoodCycle, an estimated 400,000
tonnes of surplus food can be reclaimed each
year from the food retailer industry to be made
into healthy and nutritious meals.
FoodCycle tackles food waste and malnutri-
tion in disadvantaged communities at the same
time by empowering local communities to
set up groups of volunteers to collect surplus
produce locally and prepare nutritious meals
in unused professional kitchen spaces. These
meals are then served to those in need in the
community.
To get involved in the Imperial branch of this
initiative, email foodcycle@imperial.ac.uk
Walk – it sounds simple, but taking time out
of your day to walk, rather than bus/train it,
isn’t just good for the planet, it’s good for your
health and your wallet.
Go meat free for a day – like our VegSoc
President says, going meat free for a day can
reduce your carbon footprint without the health
homework of going fully veggie .
Buy a reusable bottle – there are tons on the
market now, from reusable plastic to steel, so
ditch the bottled water habit.
Stock up on reusable bags – if you’re short
on space, get handy ones that fold up, eg. Fiz-
bags.
Be label aware – Some supermarkets now
have labels telling you how much carbon is
generated in the manufacturing of a certain
product. Most packaged fruit and veg has
the country of origin on it. Buy locally to
reduce your food miles – try local farmer’s
markets for a better range. When buying
eggs, meat and fish look out for labels saying
‘Free Range’ or that animal welfare standards
are adhered to. With fish, look for a Marine
Stewardship Council logo which shows that
the fish has been sourced sustainably. Buying
line-caught tuna also guarantees that no non-
tuna marine animals have died in the tuna nets
as bycatch, which gets wasted and can easily
include endangered animals.
The student guide
to going green
Charlotte Ivison
Small steps that you can take to help the environment
Eat out sustainably – look out for affordable
restaurants like Wahaca that commit to sustain-
able sourcing.
Common sense – Turn your heating down,
watch your water usage and turn off gadgets
and lights when not in use – it’s well worth it
Recycle – Dispose of harmful substances re-
sponsibly (e.g. batteries) and if you don’t re-
cycle at home ask your council if you can get
recycling bins or if not, where the nearest re-
cycling facility is. Give your junk to charity
shops, freecycle or eBay it – make sure that
anything that can be reused finds a loving home
instead of going to landfill.
Charity shops – Go to charity shops the next
time you want clothes, a book or some music
– you’re recycling and giving to charity. With
some charities you can also buy online.
Have a responsible Christmas – consider
eCards and look at non-material gifts such as
the Oxfam Unwrapped range rather than giving
people things they don’t want.
O.k. don’t take it too far. That’s definitely not what I meant by going green... jeez
REDUCE FOOD
WASTAGE
WITH
FOODCYCLE
A FoodCycle volunteer serving a meal
What’s On
Yes, that week full of all things environmentally
aware is here again! Whether you’re interested in
climate change, what being ‘green’ means for indus-
try or you want to make your lifestyle a little more
environmentally friendly, we’ve got something for
you. Check out the timetable and drop by one of our
events to get involved.
Monday – Meat Free Monday. Look out for plenty of
veggie goodness at selected outlets across campus
including the Union.
Renewable Energy Private Equity – Talk by Hg Cap-
ital: 18.00, LTUG, Business School.
Tom Murley from Hg Capital will be discussing
trends, opportunities and challenges in renewable
energy investing. Sign up: email ‘HG Capital’ to
k.brandon@imperial.ac.uk
Tuesday – Business and the Environment Work-
shop: 13.00-14.00, SAF 119.
Dr. Mike Tennant (Centre for Environmental Policy)
will lead an interactive workshop on how businesses
become more sustainable.
Wednesday – Biofuels: Can we have our cake and
eat it? 13.00-14.00, SAF 119.
Dr. Richard Murphy (Life Sciences) will be talking
about what biofuels are, how they’re made and
whether they’re a viable environmental solution.
Pickling and Preserving Workshop: 13.00-14.00,
East Basement Rm3, Beit Quad.
Waste Watch will show you how to reduce your food
waste the old fashioned way - make and take away
your very own pickled produce for free!
Marketing Excellence in the Low Carbon Industry –
Talk by The Carbon Trust: 18.00, LG Square Lecture
Theatre, Business School.
Thursday – Freecycle Day, Swap your unwanted
clothes: 09.00-18.00, SAF G70:
All of us have unloved clothes sitting at the back
of our wardrobe - give them a new lease of life and
swap them for something you’ll love.
Student Switch Off Social Media Workshop and
free lunch + T shirt (Halls students only): 12.00-
14.00, Activity Space 1 & 2, Union:
Want to learn how to better promote causes you
care about? The Student Switch Off team are here
to help, with a free lunch and T shirt!
SSO Green Film: The Yes Men Fix the World: 18.00-
20.00, RSM G20: A screwball true story about two
gonzo political activists who, posing as top execu-
tives of giant corporations, sneak their way into big
business conferences and pull off the world’s most
outrageous pranks.
Friday – KnitSoc Make Your Own Ecobag Work-
shop: 12.00-14.00, East Basement Rm 4, Beit Quad.
Turn old plastic bags into handy reusable eco bags
and learn to knit at the same time!
Green Week Finale@Metric with Swaparama:
20.00-01.00, Metric.
Club night at the all-new Metric with a great line-up
and more clothes swapping.
Ivy Wong
Friday 19 November 2010

