HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 19 November 2010
2
FELIX
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox Middleton
Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo
Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson
Copy Editors: Alex Nowbar, Hannah Thomas, Kai Li Loh, Ayyub Kamaludin, Shruti Mishra
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK
Felix Radio Show
Every Monday. 19:00-20:00
Union Notice
Environmental Policy
The Union has taken big leaps forward over the last
three years to become more sustainable and more sen-
sitive to the environment. Motion sensor lights are now
in use around the Union to save energy, only recycled
paper is used and paper usage has been reduced by
moving as many forms as possible online.
It’s time to formulate a new Environmental Policy for
the next three years. Your opinions and ideas on envi-
ronmental sustainability are needed. Email Alex Kendall
at president@imperial.ac.uk to find out how you can get
involved.
Shape the Union’s policy on environ-
mental issues for years to come
On campus
Global Energy Goals
Professor Robert So-
colow, of Princeton Uni-
versity, discusses the
response of the global
energy system to en-
vironmental and secu-
rity constraints including
carbon capture and the
deployment of energy
technology in develop-
ing countries. Registra-
tion in advance, email
r.walters@imperial.ac.uk
The Untapped Potential for
Radio Innovation
Although radio spectrum is thought of as a limited
resource, the utilization of the spectrum doubles
every 30 months, in what’s called ‘Cooper’s Law’.
David Cleevely, an entrepreneur and once govern-
ment advisor, will talk about how this is possible
and how innovation in radio technology will ensure
that this growth continues into the future.
Room 408, EEE Building
24 November 17:30-18:30
LT 220, Mechanical Engineering
23 November 18:00-19:30
Can’t get enough of Felix? Do you pick up
the paper on Friday, read it cover-to-cover
and then find yourself wanting more? No?
That’s understandable...
However if you find yourself sitting bored
on a Monday evening at your computer,
tune in to Felix’s pioneering radio show (we
use the word pioneering loosely...) You’ll
hear candid discussions about the news
that week and get an insight into the on-
goings of the newspaper, as well as some
great music provided by the Music section.
Every Monday at icradio.com. Tune in!
Editor
It’s so awesome, it’ll make your ears bleed. Wait that’s not right...
Plastic Electronics and its
applications
Plastic electronics is currently a hot research topic.
Members of the Centre of Plastic Electronics talk
about it’s applications from solar cell efficiency to
patterning of polymer films. Wine reception after
talks. No registration in advance, free to drop in.
Lecture Theatre D, RCS1
23 November 14:00-17:00

