CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
Friday 19 NOVEMBER 2010
20
What’s On
Justice Week
Monday 22nd
‘Faith and Law’: Can religion solve moral dilemmas?
– Interfaith event at 6PM in Skempton Building
Tuesday 23rd
‘Exploiting the 3rd World’
– student panel on how we can make a difference,
6:30PM, EEE LT408
Justice Exhibition in SAF Foyer
– 12-4pm
Wednesday 24th
‘Capitalism: A Love Story’
– Showing of film by Michael Moore, followed by
commentary by Islamic economist Jamal Harwood
– 1PM, Skempton LT 201
– TICKETS: £3
– FREE PIZZA AND POPCORN
Thursday 25th
‘Injustices in recent wars and policies’
– Talk by Asim Qureshi of Cageprisoners
– 6:30PM, EEE LT408
Justice Exhibition in SAF Foyer
– 12-4pm
Friday 26th
‘This Time We Went Too Far’
– Talks on consequences of the Gaza Invasion of
2009 by Norman Finkelstein
– 6PM & 8PM, Clore LT Huxley
– TICKETS: £5
Imperial students make
mountaineering history
O
n day 6 of our mountaineer-
ing expedition to India’s Obra
Valley we were sat outside a
small wooden hut, our 200 kg
of equipment nestled under its
overhanging roof, participating in perhaps the
most tenuous game of eye-spy ever played.
We had spent the last four days traveling north
from Delhi, of which the first 600km were eas-
ily dispatched by the New Delhi – Dehra Dun
Shatabdi Express train. We had sped along
the recently burst banks of the Yamuna river
and looking out across the dark red and green
landscape, barely illuminated by the metal-
lic grey sky, we didn’t think twice about the
road ahead. With a mere 100km by jeep left,
that we would cover in 6-7 hours, we realised
we had underestimated the destructive power
of the monsoon rains. The ‘road’ we were to
follow to the road head didn’t live up to its
name. We found it was blocked in sections,
by vast landslides of shale, saturated mud and
truck-sized boulders, or in the worst cases,
reduced to a single precarious strip of earth,
the remnants of the highway strewn across
the slopes below. Three days later we finally
made it through, and now we were sat, hiding
from the rain, next to a wooden hut, playing
eye spy, waiting to meet our in-country team.
Silently hoping that the overall situation was
about to improve, it finally did. Norbu and
Darwa had arrived, along with the rest of our
9-strong base camp team. A series of clipped
commands from these two hardy Sherpas and
half a ton of base camp supplies were unload-
ed, tents erected and chai served.
Three days of trekking later and we were
settling into our base camp, located beside a
meander in the glacial torrent of the Obra Gad
(river). At just under 4,000m (13,000 ft) we
could feel the effects of altitude, although low
clouds had so far prevented us from getting
a good look at our climbing objectives. A re-
connaissance was needed and so we left camp
to explore the valley floor and the access to a
high glacier, which we believed would enable
access to the valley’s highest peak – Dauru, at
5,877m. After exploring a rocky spur and es-
tablishing a gear cache we left all but the es-
sentials and returned to base to prepare a multi-
day outing. Unsure of conditions higher up we
packed loads to deal with any eventuality and
once again headed up the valley. Carrying a
load up to 4,900m we made a second cache in
what we considered to be a good campsite at
the edge of a glacier, a safe distance from cre-
vasses and avalanche prone slopes. To aid ac-
climatisation, we descended for a final night of
sleep in the valley before moving our tents up
to our high camp, rising early the next morn-
ing to make the first ascent of Peak 5,480m at
the back of this hanging valley. The going was
difficult in soft, fresh snow, mixed with the oc-
casional rocky step but we were rewarded with
our first peak of the trip and a fantastic view of
the potential route up Dauru – it looked entirely
achievable!
After a second night up high we returned to
base to spend a rest day bouldering and recon-
noitering an approach to another mountain of
interest – Ranglana, 5,554m. With a resup-
ply of food we made a push up to, and past,
our previous high camp and pitched tents at
5,175m, close to the valley headwall. An early
start the next morning and some cold climb-
ing up the headwall gained a narrow col that
would give access to the upper slopes of Dauru.
After a close call with a collapsing cornice (a
wind-sculpted, overhanging edge of snow) we
decided that following the ridge directly to the
summit would be rather dangerous, and instead
made an ascending traverse of the mountain’s
North West flank. Reaching the 5,877m sum-
mit under clear skies we were afforded spectac-
ular views across not only the Obra Valley, but
of hundreds of snowcapped peaks (many still
unclimbed) to the North, South, East and West.
After many panoramic and group photographs
were taken we began the 2,000m (vertical) de-
scent to base, pausing to clear our camp, re-
turning just after nightfall to enjoy yet another
excellent meal.
By this point in the expedition our thoughts
were turning to the journey back out - our latest
update revealed that since our arrival, condi-
tions had worsened in the proximity of Jakhol
and we would need to allow extra time on the
walk out. The consequence, fewer remaining
climbing days than we had hoped, and one
major objective still unattempted: The majes-
tic Ranglana. We knew the peak had been at-
tempted at least twice previously and on visual
inspection its northern aspect of steep face and
complex ridges appeared to be a major moun-
taineering challenge. After studying the map
of the area we believed the key to a rapid as-
cent was in accessing a col at the base of the
mountain’s West ridge. Leaving base camp in
the afternoon we approached the mountain and
established a camp below this col (4,800m).
With the end of the day fast approaching, Andy
and Phil ascended to the col and immediately
realised that the West ridge, although appearing
climbable, would require more time than we
could possibly commit. Disappointment? No,
by descending from this point we could gain
the South face and from there follow a ridge-
line directly to the summit! Another early start
and we were on our way to the opposite side of
the mountain; baked by the sun we made slow
progress until gaining the ridge, and a breeze.
Some steep snow slopes led to a few rocky
steps as we neared the narrow summit. After
some attempts we eventually found the line of
weakness to the summit and Jonny led up to
the top across snow covered slabs, complet-
ing our Obra Valley hat-trick. With some light
clouds building we took the obligatory photos
and began a largely uneventful descent back
to our camp. Uneventful, except of course for
Phil managing to step into a deep hole filled
with powder snow. The consistency and ef-
fect was similar to quicksand and so a quick
digging operation was required to free him. A
final night was spent in our cold mountain tents
before we could descend back to the warmth
of base camp and prepare for our withdrawal
from the valley.
Our retreat from the Himalaya was, thank-
fully, much more straightforward than our ap-
proach. With the assistance of about 15 porters
we carried the gear out on foot for two days
before once again meeting our jeep, and on
the third day were able to make Dehra Dun. A
day was spent sampling local fruit and greasy
treats, followed by a sleeper train to Delhi, giv-
ing us a full day to enjoy the track cycling and
athletics at the Commonwealth Games.
The Imperial College Obra Valley Expedi-
tion consisted of Boris Korzh, Philip Lead-
beater, Kunal Masania, Andrew McLellan
and Jonathan Phillips and was supported
by the Imperial College Exploration Board,
Mount Everest Foundation, British Moun-
taineering Council, Welsh Sports Associa-
tion, Lyon Equipment Award, SIS (Science
in Sport) Ltd, PHD. Gratitude is expressed
to Dominic Southgate, Outdoor Club,
Mountaineering Club and Recreational
Clubs Committee for the loan of equip-
ment.
In September, five students summited three unconquered
Himalayan mountains. Here’s their first-hand account
“Looking out across the
dark red and green land-
scape, barely illuminated
by the metallic grey sky,
we didn’t think twice
about the road ahead”
“We knew the peak had
been attempted at least
twice previously. It was
a major mountaineering
challenge”
Friends of Medecins Sans Frontieres
Film screening: ‘Living in Emergency’
(back by popular demand!)
23rd November @ 6pm in the Glenister
LT at the Charing Cross Campus.
EVENTS
RCSU Buddy Bar Night
At Metric
23rd November, from 7pm
‘4 pints for £5’ wristbands can be
bought from the RCSU office or
DepSocs.
University Challenge
The much anticipated inter-faculty University Chal-
lenge face-off is almost here. Teams from RCSU,
CGCU, RSM and ICSMU will battle it out before
four students are chosen to represent Imperial in
front of the nation. Gilead Amit will be in the quiz
master’s chair for what is sure to be a nail-biting
contest.
22nd November, SAF LT G34

