ARTS
FELIX
22
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
As cold winds start to blow in the typical London
winter squalls and chills, many of us will no doubt
get our moaning caps on and curse the unfriendly
British winter. But, for the determined companions
of the famous Arctic explorer Captain Scott, de-
picted in “The Worst Journey in the World”, such
a trivial winter would have been yearned for. Writ-
ten by one of the youngest members of the 1912
expedition to the Antarctic, Apsley Cherry-Garrard’s
gripping account records the fateful journey to the
frozen deserts of the South Pole. The first-hand ac-
count tells the human story behind the famously
tragic race, as well as ‘the worst journey’, the equal-
ly disastrous scientific mission to collect penguin
eggs in the Antarctic midwinter.
The twin missions of Polar exploration and scien-
tific advancement came at a time full of excitement
for British ingenuity and exploration, buoying the na-
tional mood. Taken up by this excitement, Cherry-
Garrard was eager for adventure, but was not the
archetypal explorer. Taken on board the mission as
a “zoological assistant”, Cherry-Garrard was initially
thought of as little use, with bad eyesight and only
modest experience at just 24. He quickly however
became vital as a member of the core team, forming
close bonds with crewmates Captain Scott, ‘Birdie’
Bowers, Dr Wilson and the famous Titus Oates.
Along with Bowers and Wilson, he would under-
take the challenge to collect penguin eggs for re-
search, and this epic struggle, set in harrowing con-
ditions and beset by bad luck, forms a significant
portion of the book. Cherry-Garrard describes feats
of unimaginable endurance; marching across ice,
dragging sleds by foot, traversing ice-chasms, and
persistent frostbite and snow blindness, all faced
with an earnestness and sincerity that reveals the
nature of the human spirit when faced with seem-
ingly insurmountable challenges.
The courage and heroism that characterised this
brotherhood is what forms the heart of “The Worst
Journey in the World”, and is what lifts it from mere
travel account to a masterpiece that reflects on the
finest qualities of human endeavour and determina-
tion. It also saves the book from melancholy when
faced with the fact that, despite the men’s bravery,
there was no victorious conclusion. Through “The
Worst Journey in the World”, Cherry honoured the
selfless British spirit he encountered, and, with it
as a reminder of the possibility of such spirit, re-
gardless of circumstance, we should be grateful
that he did.
If you read nothing else
this week...
Georgia Hole chooses a book to put
the wintry weather in perspective
The Worst
Journey in
the World by Apsley
Cherry-Garrard
What’s your favourite book, and why should we read
it? If you want to see it in Felix, send 300 to 400
words to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sam Whitcomb
Every now and again London will present
something which will not only impress and as-
tonish you, but leave you buzzing for the rest
of the week! It’s been a long time since this
has been the case, and I look back fondly at the
time I found out the IMAX was free for Im-
perial students, and someone told me I could
pair my student rail card to my Oyster. Well yet
again London delivers and this time it comes
in the form of free alcohol, more art galleries
than you could shake a stick at, and a fantastic
array of twee bars (that’s twee not free). What
I’m talking about is an astonishing, somewhat
mysterious event which takes place on the first
Thursday of every month at precisely 6.30pm:
the simultaneous opening of all the galleries in
East London.
We chose Redchurch Street as the focus
of our visit which is just a short walk from
Shoreditch High Street tube station. The walk
in itself is more than pleasant; passing by are
the charming frontages of the local bars, the
warm glow from retro chandeliers, and 1960’s
interiors. For those who have never strayed out
of South Kensington, a trip to the Shoreditch/
Brick Lane area of London will quite literally
transport you from the London you know to a
somewhere so dissimilar you will need more
than a night to digest it all.
The galleries themselves were not disap-
pointing. Bunched up together on that lone
street were about ten, each one a disorientat-
ing step from the other, and each one so dis-
tinctly different from the last. That’s what was
so great about the whole thing; you’ll be in a
photography gallery following the fortunes of
Michael Hess as he explores the ‘BINGO &
SOCIAL CLUB’, then step into another world
of vibrant Dulux painted spirals whilst listen-
ing to jazz, hip-hop or house – the choice was
actually yours!
I think it was this which was so fantastic
about the whole experience; you were pushed
and pulled through a series of completely dif-
ferent ideas, squeezed into feeling happy, and
stretched into re-understanding a fear of cats.
Some of the exhibitions were weirdly appeal-
ing, I mean who would have realised an angelic
monkey was actually a stand against animal
testing? Or that a school of fish in a sea of red
symbolised the desperate problem of overfish-
ing, and more interestingly the human/animal
equality issue?
Whether you see faces in paint splatters, see
your sister in a melting cat, or toads in islands,
the experience is totally consuming and I was
sad when the end came at 9 – far too early. Oh
and I didn’t mention the beer. Either go to the
larger galleries, or arrive early: confronting the
weird and wonderful is easier with a comple-
mentary glass of white wine in hand.
Late Night Art runs throughout Shoreditch
every first Thursday of the month. www.
firstthursdays.co.uk has all the details.
Leonardo Fine Art and Photo-soc are run-
ning an open trip to the next, on Thursday
2nd Dec. Join them (join their mailing lists
for information).
Over one hundred
galleries before 9pm
Shoreditch is the hotbed of all London’s most cutting-
edge, original talent and a monthly evening of late night
openings promises to let you into its heart
Friday 19 November 2010
Oh Art, I totally do not understand you at all. But you look pretty, which is fine for me

