C
alling themselves the
world’s first dubstep su-
pergroup, this talented trio
have definitely stepped up
their live act (from what
initially resembled a Warcraft LAN par-
ty) to a blitz of lights and torrent of bass.
For those of you who have been living
in the library too much, they are com-
posed of dubstep giants Skream, Benga
and Artwork (who? precisely) and have
recently released their kick-ass epony-
mous debut. On Wednesday 3rd they
shook Heaven’s foundations with the
excessive dub that incited chaos on the
dance floor as they were joined on-stage
by guests that included the likes of Katy
B and Ms. Dynamite.
Magnetic Man towered over the
Daniel Oppenheimer grills the enigma that is...
An interview with
Micah P Hinson
M
icah P Hinson’s mu-
sic combines lyrical
wisdom beyond his
twenty-nine or so
years with the kind of
deep, reassuring voice your dad might
use to read bedtime stories to you in.
Hailing from Abilene, Texas he is of-
ten introduced as ‘the guy who dated
the Vogue model and went to prison for
forging prescriptions,’ but in person, he
comes across as incredibly articulate,
grounded and open. Since 2006 he has
brought out several EPs and five albums
the most recent of which, Micah P Hin-
son and the Pioneer Saboteurs, just
released.
What was the trigger for your new re-
cord and where did the material come
from?
Most of my records come from the same
place. I had started writing half way de-
cent songs around my seventeenth or
eighteenth year so you have a good five
or six years that I was writing songs a
lot before I got signed. There’s a lot of
stuff in the past that I can go back to and
kind of re-live and bring to my modern
and my present. I think that’s a really
good way to keep solidarity or continuity
between the albums, it’s not just music
recorded between each release it’s stuff
that’s spanning my whole career.
Your early records had quite a melan-
choly style, why did you choose to re-
turn to that in The Pioneer Saboteurs
having deviated from it in its prede-
cessor The Red Empire Orchestra?
I did The Red Empire with a guy
called John Congleton from The Pa-
per Chase; a really fucking frightening
band-amazing epic stuff. He was kind
of the one and only producer I’ve ever
had and been able to say to ‘here’s what
I’m doing, what do you want me to re
do, how do you want things to sound?’
That’s why that sounded so different,
but I still think that record has its hefty
bit of darkness. I guess I see this new
record as a culmination of the sound I’d
been gathering in all the different re-
cords. It was good to head back in that
direction but I guess I never really went
away from it because there are a lot of
strange, loud and haphazard things on
The Red Empire. It’s hard to catego-
rise things man, when you get down
to the nitty gritty there’s similarities
between so many things you wouldn’t
even guess.
You’ve been defined on many occa-
sions by the dark stories of things that
happened in the past. Does that frus-
trate you?
As we were coming in to London this
morning I was telling a story about this
interview I did in Australia. This woman
comes up and is like, ‘Hello! This morn-
ing we have Micah Hinson, drug ad-
dicted, woman toting, complete ass hole
– he’s actually been in a mental institu-
tion!’ Then she went on to ask me the
same question and I told her it’s actu-
ally a good thing for me to speak about
it because the more I speak about it the
less real it becomes. Clearly, I need to
remember things to learn from them,
you have to remember certain parts of
the past in order not to relay them in to
the future but it does help to talk about
them. I mean I was born in to a higher
middle class family in Texas, my par-
ents were church goers, there wasn’t any
real reason for me to twist off and do
the things I did, whether that be drugs
or going to jail and all this. I made those
decisions myself whereas some people
in life they aren’t given a chance, their
parents are cock-suckers, their broth-
ers are drug dealers et cetera et cetera.
I was given much more of a chance and
made bad decisions that led me to hard
times so it’s kind of a strange thing to
have sympathy on any of those matters
because they were my choice.
There are people with a similar mod-
ern folk sound to your own who’ve
broken in to the mainstream. Does
it bother you to see other people, for
whatever reasons, blowing up?
Oh no, no man that doesn’t bother me
at all! With the idea of a bomb blowing
up, it has to go out. That’s what I fear. I
would never want to be a bomb, I would
much rather be the slow burning fuse
like four miles away from the enormous
warehouse full of gun powder, know
what I’m saying? It takes forever to get
there, I mean it may even only get there
in my death but slow and steady wins the
race. Unless you’re fucking U2 or The
goddamn Eagles, bands don’t last. I’m
just thankful for every minute that I get to
keep doing this. You just hope that when
people go up they don’t come down too
hard. Some people can rise and they can
stay but it’s few and far between. The
masses are pretty unforgiving and the
gods are pretty unforgiving too.
Magnetic Man rumbles Heaven
crowd from a suspended cage plastered
with screens sporting images that had
even the teetotallers tripping balls be-
yond belief. An impressive light show
always goes down a treat with this sort
of thing and theirs was certainly flaw-
less: they even hopped on the festive
bandwagon producing Halloween imag-
ery, which I hesitate to admit was pretty
scary at times. They banged out all of
the greats from the album in perfect se-
quence in addition to some new mixes, a
real Halloween treat.
A personal highlight was the live ad-
aptation of ‘I Need Air’ which is by far
the best live dance tune I’ve boogied on
down to for a while, if not ever, even in
spite of the rushing, gurning mess of a
guy stood next to me who insisted on
covering me in sweat through gritted
teeth. People, eh? The set was a se-
quence of carefully interwoven melo-
dies that quickly turned dirty and by
contrast made the drops seem much
more dramatic.
If you enjoy adrenaline-fuelled noise
coupled with temporary blindness and
a total inability to hear whatever your
lecturers happen to be talking about the
subsequent morning (assuming you’re
alive) these are definitely ones to watch.
Get in there fast because no doubt the
tickets won’t be £15 for subsequent tours
as they make a name for themselves as
one of the filthiest (apparently words de-
noting dirt are synonymous with ‘good’
in this genre) groups on the scene.
Christopher Richardson
Drug addicted, woman toting, complete ass-hole... Nah
Magnetic Man or Magnetic Men: Skeam, Benga, Artwork I believe that’s 3
Photo by Christopher Richardson
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 19 November 2010
28
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com

