FASHION
Fashion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 19 November 2010 29
Santi: A South Kensington sanctuary
Saskia Verhagen reveals the tucked-away West London spa which caters for worn-
out professionals and students alike – luxury and affordable? Show me the way...
T
here is a place, inconspicu-
ous and elusive to the un-
trained eye, where the
weathered creatures of West
London emerge calm, bright
and restored.Aspa, in South Kensington,
which offers the most advanced tech-
niques to enhance and perfect the skin.
Only what they don’t tell you, is that it
all goes a little deeper than that.
As soon as you set foot inside the el-
egant Georgian building, you are wel-
comed in a sprawling front room of
purest white; you are checked in and en-
couraged to help yourself to some of the
perfectly placed fresh fruit and berries,
and perhaps a cup of tea (Earl Grey, one
sugar please). Believe me when I say,
a shroud of calm seems already to de-
scend – peace and quiet that you didn’t
know you needed.
With a Spa Menu spanning from Mas-
sage and Facials to Laser Epilation,
Tariq Karim and his team of delightful
staff are very well equipped to bring you
a few hours of much-needed indulgence,
some rest and a retreat from the hustle
and bustle of the outside world.
Did I mention that all this, and more,
is available to Imperial students at a
discounted rate? Bring your copy of
Felix with you to your appointment at
Santi and receive 50% off all services
on weekdays between 11am-3pm. This
could mean an hour’s massage for £30,
or a facial for £50. They are also offer-
ing a student Laser Epilation package: 6
full treatments for lower legs, bikini and
underarm for £700 – a highly discounted
rate for permanent hair removal which
usually costs upwards of £1800.
Laser hair removal uses Intense
Pulsed Light (IPL) to selectively target
the melanin concentrated in the hair fol-
licle. When caught in a particular phase
of hair growth, the follicle dies perma-
nently causing the hair to fall out, never
to grow back. In comparison to years of
shaving, waxing or electronic epilating,
it is actually quite an economically sen-
sible option, and is suitable for all skin
types.
I implore you, for an afternoon of
much-needed you-time, Santi will re-
juvenate the tired and over-worked of
students. For this level of luxury with
a price point that is now actually acces-
sible, this is an unbeatable cure for the
winter blues.
Santi Skin Spa, 33 Thurloe Street
SW7 2LQ – 0207 584 7000
An iconic life in pictures: Audrey
Hepburn by Bob Willoughby
A photography book chronicling Hepburn’s ascent
to fame from 1953-1966 by her friend and renowned
Hollywood photojournalist Bob Willoughby
Saskia Verhagen
Yet another photographic tome on the
ubiquitous Ms Audrey Hepburn – there
are so many out there now that if you
didn’t know better, this one, by the late
renowned Hollywood photographer Bob
Willoughby is just another one on the
shelf.
I would beg to differ. Bob Willough-
by’s favourite subject, amongst all of
the 1950s Hollywood starlets including
Marilyn Monroe, Elizabeth Taylor and
Jane Fonda, was Audrey, whom he pho-
tographed from her ascent to fame after
her Oscar-winning performance in Ro-
man Holiday until her brilliant turn as
Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady in 1963.
He said of her, “She took my hand like...
Well, a princess, and dazzled me with
that smile that God designed to melt
mortal men’s hearts.”
“She took my hand
like...well a princess,
and dazzled me with
that smile that God
designed to melt
mortal men’s hearts.”
He captured her on and off-set, in the
most beautiful, tender photographs – a
product of a great friendship – which
are chronicled in this breathtaking Tif-
fany blue-bound book. With stills from
Breakfast At Tiffany’s, Paris When It
Sizzles and My Fair Lady to intimate
photographs of Audrey at home with her
pet deer, Ip, the book is completely de-
lightful, a glamorous insight, and a be-
hind-the-scenes look at one of the most
beautiful faces of the 20th century.
Published by Taschen, who ran a lim-
ited run of one thousand Collector’s
Editions retailing at £450 which sold out
almost instantly just on pre-sale, there is
talk of a more affordable edition com-
ing out soon - fingers crossed - this is
definitely one for the Hepburn-lover’s
Christmas list!
You know you want to feel as shiny and new as this woman. Go on – indulgence is good for the soul.

