30
FILM
felix
A cracking series
Classic Cinema
Annie Hall
Considering Woody Allen’s current wife – adopted
daughter of his previous long-term partner and thirty-
four years his junior – I feel pretty reluctant to say
that I appreciate his take on love. But, in Annie Hall
– before Allen got into slightly dubious Lolita-esque
territory - that’s exactly what’s so charming. This is
a film about a relationship that goes through all the
regular things – bad advice from friends, clinging to
something you know won’t work, and the last-ditch
attempts to give it one last shot.
Woody Allen is perfect, playing a character who is
essentially himself, alongside Diane Keaton as An-
nie Hall, alternately accelerating and trying to halt
the car crash that is their relationship. Keaton also
deserves a mention for portraying a brilliantly lov-
able, New England oddball with an amazing sense
of style. Also, cameos from younger versions of Jeff
Goldblum, Christopher Walken and Paul Simon (of Si-
mon & Garfunkel) are all pitch-perfect and very funny.
In a classic Woody Allen-style tone, his character
Alvy Singer opens with a neurotic, twitchy monologue
directly to the camera that perfectly encapsulates the
nature of what is to follow in a couple of nervously-
blurted jokes and stuttered statements. “Annie and
I broke up,” he says, “and I still can’t get my head
around that.” This is one of Annie Hall’s many won-
derful qualities – for a film that is a romantic comedy
(albeit an off-beat one), it begins with the break-up.
It isn’t a fluffy, skipping-through-fields-with-open-
arms, kind of love story – it’s a very human series
of events. One of my own personal favourites is the
lobster scene, which sees a near-slapstick fumbling
with live lobsters as Alvy and Annie try to stop their
dinner escaping. This scene is endearing, beautifully
exemplifying one of those perfect moments in a rela-
tionship where everything is going well. What makes
Annie Hall so great, though, is later in the film, after
the break-up, where Alvy shamelessly tries to recon-
struct this moment with a new girlfriend. She leans,
disinterested, against the kitchen counter as Alvy
fails to recreate that same charm Annie had. The
disappointment is almost palpable, and continues
to be with the caricatures of girlfriends Alvy Singer
dates, who never quite compare to Annie.
One of Allen’s best, this film is warm, sharp and
really very funny. More than that, though, it is one
of the most honest portrayals of a relationship I’ve
ever seen.
Jade Hoffman
Down it, Allen.
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Last week I visited a preview of Sky One’s new
series of Christmas specials, Little Crackers, as
hosted by BAFTA. They are a part of a plan by
the channel to introduce more original comedy
and make Sky One a “warmer, funnier place”,
with the series consisting of twelve stand-alone
shorts. Showing as a double bill every evening
in the weeks leading up to Christmas, they give
some of Britain’s best known comedic stars the
chance to bring their vision to the nation’s TV
screens.
Fans of Stephen Fry will be very pleased
by his film, Bunce: A Christmas Tale, which
is directed by Peter Cattaneo of Full Monty
fame. An autobiographical work about his
experiences as an 11 year old at boarding
school, it details Fry sneaking out to the local
village shop to buy sweets. Fry has stated that
he wanted this to represent our desire for “the
forbidden”, but in the safe setting of child-
hood and this is done brilliantly, contrasting
the shop’s rich, bright colours and the dull,
grey school to emphasise young Fry’s obses-
sion. This short also examines his friendship
with the eponymous Bunce, a newly arrived
pupil who helps Fry with his escapades and
is used to set up a very heart-warming end-
ing. Above all, however, the film is hugely
funny, especially with Fry’s measured, al-
most genteel, manner of speech being mocked
relentlessly.
My favourite short is probably Capturing
Santa by Chris O’Dowd, best known as Roy
from The IT Crowd. It tells the story of young
Chris’s hatred of Santa Claus, whose “break-
ins” of people’s homes O’Dowd calls “creepy”.
His opinion is not helped by never getting the
Christmas presents that he wants: his relatively
poor parents using two-for-one offers to buy
the same gifts for him and his sisters. Captur-
ing Santa sees him engineering a plan to catch
Santa using a number of inventive traps set
around the fireplace and Christmas tree. While,
for a moment, it seems that this might degen-
erate into a Home Alone rip-off it is saved by
its original humour and the exceptional child
actors involved.
Not all of the shorts are autobiographical. In
his film Car Park Babylon Bill Bailey plays a
self-obsessed man on Christmas Eve, avoiding
his loved ones to buy himself an expensive new
mobile phone in a large shopping centre. Unu-
sual forces, however, conspire to prevent him
buying his present or even leaving, presumably
as punishment for his selfish behaviour. There
are some genuinely eerie moments in this one,
especially in the deserted car park, but Bailey
does well to balance this out with his gentle
brand of humour.
Many Little Crackers episodes showcase
Lucy Lumsden’s (Sky One’s Head of Com-
edy) desire to focus on family and real life
situations. She cites Outnumbered, which she
commissioned whilst at the BBC, as a source
of inspiration for Sky One’s new wave of com-
edy. Though this works in most cases, some
films do seem to be lacking innovation. Dawn
French’s Operation Big Hat, about the Queen
Mother visiting French’s family when her fa-
ther was an RAF serviceman, seems too con-
tent to simply tell the story. The archive foot-
age of the real life event is interesting and the
film itself is quite pleasant, but it loses out on a
Stephen Fry’s quality Movember contribution
Channel Sky One, Sky One HD
Producer Yvonne O’Grady
Cast Stephen Fry, Dawn French, Bill
Bailey, David Baddiel, Julie Davis, Victoria
Wood, Catherine Tate, Meera Syal, Chris
O’Dowd
Little Crackers
Friday 19 November 2010
sense of purpose and, in some places, humour.
Throwing in a subplot about the young Dawn
being afraid of the old Queen Mother after
having been just read the story of Snow White
and the Seven Dwarves does provide a few
good laughs, but not enough to equal the best
shorts. Kathy Burke’s piece about her meeting
her favourite band, The Clash, suffers similar
problems.
There is, however, a lot to enjoy in Little
Crackers. Other famous names to produce
films include Julia Davis, Victoria Wood,
Catherine Tate and David Baddiel. Meera
Syal’s short, which draws on some of her own
experiences to create a fictional story of an
Indian girl who lives in England but whose
parents don’t celebrate Christmas, will be the
first ever British-scripted program to appear
in 3D on television – an impressively ambi-
tious leap.
The almost surreal feeling of seeing so many
of the shorts’ creators appearing alongside
child actors portraying their younger selves is
also very enjoyable – the best examples prob-
ably being Stephen Fry appearing as his school
headmaster, Catherine Tate as her own mother,
or Dawn French as the Queen Mother. Even the
slower of these films are highly watchable. In
addition to the humour and nostalgia, the series
draws further strength from its variety. There
is something here for everyone and I guaran-
tee that you’ll stay riveted until the very end of
the last episode. I heartily recommend that you
watch Little Crackers over Christmas and keep
an eye out for more of Sky One’s promising
new comedic output.
Masiej Matuszewski attends the BAFTA preview of Sky
One’s latest comedy series of all-star Christmas specials
“
“ Fren
Fr
Mo
Mo
ther
ther
tent
ten
age
ag
film
In addition to the
humour and nostalgia,
the series draws further
strength from its variety.
There is something here
for everyone, I guarantee
that you’ll be riveted

