GAMES
FELIX
Friday 19 NOVEMBER 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
various motion captured animations never get
old.
To stave off some of the repetitiveness, Bond
gets behind the wheel at select points to chase
down his latest target – and these are probably
some of the best driving sequences to feature in
the series to date. Bizarre Creation’s experience
in the field as makers of Project Gotham Rac-
ing really comes to the fore in these sections, as
vibrant explosions and debris cascade around
you. One particularly memorable section in-
volves an ice lake cracking around your Aston
Martin as you desperately pursue a dastardly
villain escaping by train. It most definitely puts
Electronic Arts’ interminable 2000 clunker 007
Racing to shame – and the entire focus of that
was the driving.
However thrilling these sequences are, they
do particularly rely on some trial and error –
the fantastic visuals of these sections do help
draw some of your attention away from the in-
coming lake – and, in a similar style to Project
Gotham Racing, Bond’s cars are remarkably
indestructible and bounce off walls like a hy-
peractive child. Probably the main criticism is
that there isn’t enough vehicle-bound action to
balance out the run-and-gun segments, espe-
cially in comparison to Everything or Nothing.
As with every modern shooting game re-
leased nowadays, there is an online multi-
player that tries very hard at being the ‘next
big thing’. Ranks and experience points feature
heavily but sadly more time should have been
spent on the ol’ running around and shooting
itself, as compared to the single player Blood
Stone’s performance here is mediocre. There’s
certainly nothing particularly bad, it’s just not
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/
Achievement Unlocked 2
jmtb02.com/achievement-unlocked-2
Even though it’s the most basic platformer it’s pos-
sible to have – moving and jumping with walls and
spikes – something about this ‘achievements met-
agame’ makes it too compelling to switch off. Pi-
lot your tiny blue elephant around the ‘levels’ for
no purpose other than collecting the game’s 250
achievements. Maybe it’s a hard wired aspect of hu-
man nature, or maybe we just lead very boring lives,
but whatever the cause as soon as you start playing
you’ll instantly be addicted.
Although the game is basic, it doesn’t make it any
the less challenging – simply working out what you
have to make your tiny elephant do from the vague ti-
tles is difficult enough. Graphics and sound, although
again basic, are very well executed to a high level of
quality and make the hours you might spend here a
comfortable enough use of time.
H
e’s blonde, bad and back. No,
Boris Johnson hasn’t won a
snap mayoral election, but in-
stead Daniel Craig has stepped
back into the shoes of James
Bond for two (count ‘em) new videogame re-
leases. 007 Blood Stone is an original adven-
ture for the Bond series, not being based on any
current or future film, which mixes third per-
son behind-the-shoulder shooting with classic
vehicular chase sections. A departure from the
previous franchise entry Quantum of Solace,
Bizarre Creations (creators of popular racing
series Project Gotham Racing) takes over from
Treyarch and Eurocom as developers. They’ve
decided to return to a formula that feels a lot
like that from critically lauded 2004 console hit
Everything or Nothing, but have the new kids
on the block struck gold(finger), or are they
simply dead on arrival?
With the next cinematic installment of the
franchise still a way off, Blood Stone is prob-
ably the closest you’ll get to a new Bond ex-
perience. Bizarre have produced a highly pol-
ished title with some slick graphics and have
enlisted A-list voice talent including Craig
himself alongside Judi Dench as ‘M’ and song-
stress Joss Stone (sans transatlantic twang) as
the obligatory Bond girl.
One thing Blood Stone gets right is that it re-
ally nails the feeling of Daniel Craig’s Bond.
Don’t expect any world domination schemes
by nanobot or platinum tank. This is nearer the
knuckle stuff, involving a global biochemical
conspiracy, copious torture and a villainous
Mongolian chap. If this all sounds a bit serious,
don’t worry – the creators have added enough
extravagant set pieces to remind you that it is
a game, including a hugely entertaining pre-
credits sequence set in Athens which provides
yacht bound espionage, a harbour speedboat
chase, a shoot-out on land and a car chase all in
the space of the first 10 minutes.
Gameplay-wise, the shooting sections play
ssimilarly to Gears of War with a focus on cov-
er-based shooting, though with cover feeling
a lot more natural, indestructible woodwork
aside. One of the unique features is a ‘focus
aim’ system: brutal melee takedowns earn up
to three focus aims which allow the player to
immediately target and even link headshots, for
use either in dispatching difficult enemies or to
speed up progress.
The game manages to create a great sense of
urgency through these mechanics, aided in part
by a fantastic score by Richard Jacques. Gun-
fights are often tense, and while some may ar-
gue that towards the middle of the game many
of the shoot-outs become repetitive, the combi-
nation of frantic shooting and melée action do
help to create a uniqueness to each encounter.
A standout battle that defines the ‘be Daniel
Craig’ mentality of the game takes place on a
hovercraft, where a corridor of heavily armed
enemies lies in wait. You easily blast through
this, moving from person to person in a brutal
series of hand-to-hand takedown moves that
leaves skulls cracked and legs broken, yet the
Double trouble from Daniel C
Matt Colvin tries the new Bond title 007 Blood Stone...
32
Panda’s Big Adventure
tinyurl.com/pandasbigadventure
This point-and-click puzzle adventure sees the titular
panda travelling through time in a somewhat famil-
iar blue box. Although it’s just your standard formula
with no weird time travel effects, it’s still pretty fun
for a quick play and the puzzles, if a little odd, can be
genuinely quite challenging in places.
all that good, and trying to beat big name titles
like Gears at their own game is unfortunately
doomed to failure. The controls become slug-
gish and don’t seem particularly suited for
multiplayer. Trying to use cover is difficult,
and the uninspiring multiplayer arenas are not
designed well enough to accommodate it.
And sadly the criticisms don’t end there.
There is next to no replay value despite the
standard achievements or trophies. Scoring
the player and unlockable rewards have been
overlooked in favour of a more cohesive and
cinematic experience (which, it must be said, is
one of Blood Stone’s strong points).
While the game makes you feel like Daniel
Craig, his in-game face ironically looks a lot
less lifelike than fictional characters, and let’s
not get started on Judi Dench, with an avatar
wrinkled into oblivion. You’re also slightly
aware that Craig is sitting in a voice-over booth
rather than in several exotic locales, matched
by a plot that, while suited to Craig’s interpre-
tation, doesn’t exactly match the depth of the
last two Bond films.
Bizarre Creations have obviously taken
a lot of care in making sure that they do the
franchise the justice that it deserves, deliver-
ing a thoroughly cinematic experience that is
definitely entertaining while it lasts, yet after
it does end, it doesn’t leave a lot to go back
to. It’s definitely a solid experience, though one
that’s more akin to a DVD than a game – you’ll
return to it occasionally and certainly enjoy it,
but have little reason to return to it often.
007 Blood Stone is available now on Xbox
360, PS3, DS and PC.
Yeah, nice cool pose idiot, pity you’re about to get punched in the face

