FELIX Friday 19 November 2010 33
GAMES
“ ”
“The chance to experience a
Brosnan classic if it were given
an anti-heroic Craig makeover”
Craig in Bond games spectacular
Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance (N.O.V.A) is
a sci-fi first person shooter game for iPhone,
Android and Palm mobile platforms. I recently
had a chance to test N.O.V.A. HD on the Sam-
sung Galaxy Tab – a 7-inch Android tablet.
Anyone who has played Halo will have a
good idea of what N.O.V.A. is like – you basi-
cally walk around and blow up aliens. A space-
based first person shooter, the game is set on
Earth in the distant future. The surface of the
planet can no longer support life so huge satel-
lites (“Near Orbitals”) have been constructed
for people to live in. Those satellites are pro-
tected by the Near Orbit Vanguard Alliance. In
the plot of the game, a threat to the satellites
has arisen and you must play the role of a re-
tired marine defending humanity.
I was particularly impressed by the game’s
intuitive and novel control system. The game
makes full use of the gyroscopes available
on smartphones today: to look around and to
aim your gun, you actually have to physically
move and aim your phone! It basically turns
your living room into the game map - think of
augmented reality applications such as Layar
and Google Sky Map but applied to a first per-
son shooter! Whilst playing the game with the
gyroscope aiming mode enabled made it diffi-
cult to play when slumped on the sofa, it really
does add an extra element which was really en-
joyable. For those who prefer to play the game
in a more relaxed setting, there is an option to
disable the gyroscope control system. Looking
around and aiming is then performed using the
touchscreen.
The game occasionally requires you to in-
teract directly with the map using your touch-
screen. For example, doors are opened by plac-
ing your finger over the door and pulling it to
the side. Again, this was a really nice touch
which sets N.O.V.A apart.
The game features 13 single-player ‘cam-
paign’ levels and an online multiplayer death-
match mode. The multiplayer mode can either
be played over your wireless network or on-
line through Gameloft Live. The multiplayer
mode would be a huge lot of fun to play over
a wireless network: imagine a bunch of you in
the common room walking about, cursing and
destroying each other!
At £3, this game is definitely well worth a
download. You could get away with playing
this on an iPhone or a HTC Desire but for
the best experience, it’s well worth playing
N.O.V.A HD on a phone with a large screen and
fast processor: the Galaxy Tab’s 7-inch screen
gives a great immersive experience.
is the darker, understated music, the torrential
rain, the action packed vehicle sequence and
the presence -f Agent 006 to provide you with
some backup and some motivating chat over
the radio. New additions also include a regen-
erating health system and a melee system for
punching enemies in the face with a flick of the
nunchuck, to really make you feel like Dan-
iel Craig. It’s clear from all of these features,
which are staples of console shooters such as
Halo and Call of Duty, that Eurocom’s Gold-
enEye is out to emulate current games rather
than influence them as the original did. Nostal-
gic as the game may feel at times, especially
during classic moments like dropping on a
Russian guard having a cheeky number two, it
Blaster’) to put your Wiimote in for a more re-
alistic experience, or play with the Wii classic
controller.
As widely touted as the Wii controls are for
GoldenEye, we didn’t get on well with them.
In the fast paced world of online FPS, trying
to turn 360 degrees and shoot your enemy in
the head is painfully slow as you have to hold
the Wii cursor at the side of the screen and
wait. Naturally, after thirty minutes of game-
play things weren’t going too well. I was
awarded the “Quantum of Solace” award for
fewest eliminations. It was, however, a lot of
fun trying to sneak up on up to 7 strangers
across the generally well designed multiplayer
maps. Switching to the Gamecube controller
naturally makes things far more accurate – the
game handles like a conventional FPS with the
familiar dual-analogue controls that everyone
is used to. Throughout our session there were
some issues with lag, and there is no support
for WiiSpeak, but otherwise the mode com-
pares favorably with its competitors. It would
also have been nice to have seen a larger influ-
ence from the franchise – you can choose to
play as a generic grunt but not as any of the
Bond series’ many recognisable faces. ‘Golden
Gun Mode’ is the only thing that really differ-
entiates the multiplayer.
Take the multiplayer offline and the action
slows right down. With only two people, the
maps are far too large and multiplayer quickly
becomes a bit dull in the regular mode. As there
is no option for adding AI players, the multi-
player game reduces to just wandering around
the map on the off chance of bumping into one
of your friends doing the same. The N64 may
not have been capable of providing some com-
petent bots but the Wii is more than up to the
task. Surely it wouldn’t have been too difficult
to add in the option to have AI characters?
Although the offline multiplayer perhaps
isn’t high octane enough for modern
players, the finely crafted
single player game is a
delight. The levels are var-
ied, the shoot out and stealth
gameplay are deep and the
graphics are fine for the Wii.
The online multiplayer is a lot
more fun than offline but doesn’t
draw heavily enough on Bond’s rich
history to stand out against others
FPSs. The reason it’s worth play-
ing is for the excellent production
values, the all-star cast, the excellent
Nicole Scherzinger cover of the theme
tune and the chance to experience what a
Brosnan classic would feel like if it were given
a more anti-heroic Daniel Craig makeover.
Whether you are doey-eyed with nostalgia for
1997 or not, Eurocom’s GoldenEye update pro-
vides one of the best FPS experiences on the
Wii and gives another great example of how
movie tie-ins can work well.
GoldenEye 007 is available now for Wii
and DS, retailing at £34.99 RRP.
W
hen it was originally re-
leased on the N64, Rare-
ware’s GoldenEye 007
was hailed as one of the
most influential first person
shooter games of all time and went on to sell
eight million copies. Unlike traditional movie
cash-ins it was released a leisurely two years
after the film on which it was based and as a
result featured a painstakingly crafted single
player mode and the perfectly balanced multi-
player. Every video game fan and almost ev-
eryone else remembers a tense GoldenEye mul-
tiplayer battle far more vividly than Diana’s
death or New Labour’s election. It was im-
mensely popular and every subsequent 3D con-
sole shooter takes inspiration from it in some
way. However, after 13 years of evolution in
FPSs, is Eurocom’s updated version for the Wii
still worthy of such praise? The short answer is;
“of course it isn’t!” But the real questions are:
is it still fun? Does it work on the Wii?
One of the most recurrent problems with the
game becomes apparent before you even get a
chance to don a tuxedo. The text in the menu
and in-game is a real struggle to read. On the
menu, the text is light blue and, over the white
selector icon, impossible to make out. Dur-
ing the training mission in single player mode
instructional text flashes up at the top of the
screen but, by the time you have discerned a
few of the tiny words, your time is up and the
next instruction replaces it. As student review-
ers our TV isn’t huge, and it’s surprising so
little attention to detail was paid in this respect
whilst production values are high elsewhere.
However, once you have found your
way to the single player game you
will be greeted by a Call of Duty
style briefing from Judi Dench
as ‘M’, on the payroll to create
an authentic Bond experience.
It’s clear after the first thirty sec-
onds of gameplay that Eurocom
have taken the decision to create
their own take on the 007 experi-
ence, rather than simply replicate
the award winning formula
Rareware crafted back
in ’97. This new
game is a remake of
the classic, starring
Daniel Craig as his
James Bond, and
has been updated
for the 21st century.
In keeping with
Craig’s films, Gold-
enEye 007 opens
with a far more
gritty and brood-
ing atmosphere. The
campaign kicks off atop
the iconic Arkhangelsk
dam which should be
familiar to all play-
ers of the original.
What isn’t familiar
...while Jamie Gollings and Alex Gray review GoldenEye 007
FPS in your
living room
Kin-Hing Lo
soon becomes apparent what the single player
campaign is all about. It isn’t a duplicate of or
even a tribute to the original game. Instead it’s
a highly polished, slick and modern Bond game
in its own right, designed to slot in right next
to the popular shooters of today rather revive
those of the 90s. It feels more like some of the
better Bond games of recent years, like Every-
thing or Nothing.
After finishing the training mission and a few
single player levels, it was time to try out the
biggest addition to the game: the online mul-
tiplayer. This would also give us the chance
to put the different control systems through
their paces. The two main options are to
play with the Wiimote or the Gamecube
controller. You can also purchase a plastic
holder in the shape of a gun (the ‘Wii

