FOOD
FELIX
Friday 19 NOVEMber 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Curry at naan o’clock:
the real deal about curries
Lucie Jichova
Your review
Dylan says:
Fifteen has received a lot of publicity, not only be-
cause it is Jamie Oliver’s first ever restaurant, but
it also serves as a training ground for underprivi-
leged kids who aspire to have a career in catering.
As much as that motive is admirable, it doesn’t re-
ally reflect in the standards of food that was plated
and delivered to me. Whilst the flavours are of a high
standard, it still lacks the soul and originality that
normally drives the Jamie Oliver brand.
2 red chillies split, cut into quarters lengthways and
deseeded
1 small red onion, chopped
2.5cm piece of fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
1 tbsp vegetable or sunflower oil
1 tsp black mustard seeds
½ tsp fenugreek seeds
14 curry leaves , fresh or dried
½ tsp turmeric
½ tsp cracked black peppercorns
250g jumbo prawns
150ml reduced-fat coconut milk
In a food processor, blitz the chillies, onion and gin-
ger with 3 tbsp water into a smoothish paste - you
may need to scrape it down the sides.
Heat the oil in a heavy pan or wok. When hot, toss in
the mustard and fenugreek seeds, and curry leaves
– they’ll crackle and pop – and fry for 10 seconds.
Add the onion paste, turn the heat down a tad and
cook without colouring for about 5 minutes. Splash
in some water if it starts to catch.
Add the turmeric and cracked peppercorns and stir
the spices around for a few seconds before tipping
in the prawns. Pour in the coconut milk and bring to
a simmer, stirring all the time. The milk will take on
a yellow colour from the turmeric. Cook for 1 min-
ute until everything’s heated through. Squeeze over
some lime, sprinkle with fresh coriander and serve
with rice.
Kerala prawn curry
Rant about your recent meal out in 80-100 words,
send it to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The best things in life are yellow and runny
A visit to a typical curry house in England
would lead one to believe that understanding
curry is pretty straightforward. A choice of
three types of meat (chicken, lamb, or prawns)
with some vegetables (tomatoes, onions, peas,
and sometimes even, oh my God, pineapple),
all swimming in the same sauce, often en-
hanced with food colouring (red or purple) and
adjusted for your desired level of spiciness:
Korma if you’re a complete chicken, Madras
if you’re feeling rather confident in your ability
to tolerate chilli, or Vindaloo if you’ve made a
drunken bet with your friends. Wash it down
with a bottle of Cobra, the authentic Indian
beer that no one in India seems to have heard
of. (The company is based in the very exotic
location of Fulham.)
Before my internship in India three years
ago, I thought that’s all there was to cur-
ry. Then, while visiting Delhi’s legendary
Karim’s restaurant, my friend, Sajid, cor-
rected my mistaken beliefs: “There’s a dif-
ference between spicy and hot. Spicy means
flavour, hot means chilli,” he explained. Sure,
the Indians do love their chilli with just about
everything. After months of encountering the
fiery ingredient in seemingly safe foods like
pizza, sandwiches and burgers, I eventually
managed to get past the overwhelming sen-
sation of burning and learnt to appreciate the
subtle underlying differences in taste brought
on by the myriad of different spices used on
the Indian subcontinent: turmeric, cumin, fen-
Lucie Jichova’s internship in India allowed her to escape British curry houses and sample real Indian food (Photo by Lucie Jichova)
Chicken korma, cobra beer and Slumdog – made in U.K.
ugreek, coriander, mustard seeds, cardamom,
cloves, cinnamon, pepper, fennel, asafoetida,
mango powder, white poppy seeds, star anise
and more. I finally understood the difference
between spicy and hot.
Thanks to Anjum Anand, celebrity chef of
BBC’s Indian Food Made Easy, I also learnt
that it’s perfectly possible to eat a flavour-
packed vindaloo which doesn’t burn your guts.
In fact, she claims the recipe for vindaloo can
be traced back to Portuguese sailors, who used
vinegar, ginger and garlic to preserve their pork
during long sea journeys between their native
land and Goa, their former colony in India.
And, surprise-surprise, it was also the Portu-
guese who introduced chilli to India.
Now, how do you find the real curry in Lon-
don? Indian cuisine varies vastly from state to
state, so search for places that serve cuisine
from just one region, because those are the
ones with chefs who stick to what their moth-
ers taught them. (And, as we all know, mamma
knows best.) Seeing both tandoori grill (typical
of Northern India) and coconut-based curries
(typical for the South) on the same menu is typ-
ically a sign that you are about to be served an
anglicized hodgepodge of food colouring and
ready-made Patak’s sauces from the local cash
& carry of Southhall.
“An anglicized hodge-
podge of food colouring
and ready-made Patak’s
sauces”
Who wants a curry? I want a curry!

