FOOD
FELIX Friday 19 november 2010 35
National Curry Week is happening
next week (22-26 November) so find
yourself some drunken mates who can
take the heat of a Vindaloo, bring some
beer, and give these places a go...
Sheba, Brick Lane
by Vivien Wong
Sunday makes me think of Brick Lane,
the buzz and atmosphere there is perfect
for a Sunday stroll. There is nothing
more perfect than inhaling the smells
of the Sunday Upmarket, but this time,
apart from basking in the delightful
smells, I was going invited to review
Sheba of Brick Lane. This is the place
where my affair with the Mango Lassi
drink began, why it did not enter my life
before is unknown to me. Made with
yoghurt, fresh mangos, crushed ice and
milk, it is healthy yet refreshing.
The Kebab Ke Karishma starter was
spot on, with a mint sauce that was not
too sour or minty but added zing to the
meat. The traditional dish, Dansak, was
the highlight of the night, with an initial
spicy taste that progressed to a subtle
sweetness before ending on a slight sour
taste! I yearn for it as I reminisce. Usu-
ally I steer clear of chicken and opt for
something else instead because there
is nothing worse than having a mouth-
ful of dry chicken that you’re trying to
swallow down with as much saliva pro-
duce as possible. Nasty. But the chicken
in the Dansak is tender, moist and soft.
Dipped with Naan bread, this is heaven
in a curry house.
The King Prawn Malabar combined
coconut, spices and nuts in a puree as a
thick sauce which is smothered over the
prawns and presented to you in a steam-
ing hot plate. Picking up the naan bread
and then slowly dipping and savour-
ing the smell and taste. Finger lickin’
good. Did I mention that the naan bread
here is sweet? It’s also smooth, soft, yet
thick enough for scooping up those ex-
cess sauce puddles on the dish that are
just too good to leave behind. I’m sali-
vating now just thinking about the dish.
Located close to Truman Brewery,
Sheba has been serving Londoners since
1972 so I am not the only happy cus-
tomer they get. What’s better than sit-
ting down to a splendid curry after a day
of browsing vintage clothes and bargain
hunting in Brick Lane. Although located
in trendy East London, (as are all good
things, Shoreditch sigh), it is definite-
ly worth the trek.
Sheba 136 Brick Lane, London E1 6RU.
www.shebabricklane.com Nearest tube:
Shoreditch High Street
Masala Zone, Earls Ct
by George McIntyre
How about this: instead of spending
your ‘hard earned’ student loan on an
unfulfilling Domino’s pizza, why not try
out, very possibly, one of the best Indian
restaurants around, Masala Zone.
This place prides itself on authentic
Indian cuisine at reasonable prices. You
can easily get a meal and two or three
drinks for about £13.50 - way cheaper
than a double decadence extravaganza
with extra bbq sauce! Even better, being
an Imperial student will get you an ex-
clusive 10% off your meal. Interested?
Just across the road from Earl’s Court
tube station, or a twenty-minute walk
from the South Kensington campus, sits
Masala Zone, a modern and vibrant res-
taurant. Your first thought will probably
be to think: ‘Can my student loan actu-
ally survive a hit like this?’Just trust me.
If you’re just feeling peckish, you can
choose from a wide range of authentic
Indian street foods. These little snacks
still pack a powerful explosion of fla-
vour. My favourite being dahi puri –
hollowed-out puffed-up biscuits filled
with chickpea mash and splashed over
with yoghurt and chutney. Awesome. If
you’re just feeling like a decent curry
dish you can choose from a wide range
of types and flavours, or why not try a
delicious Thali. Described as the way
traditional Indian families eat at home,
this will include a curry of your choice
with rice or chapattis, papadums, two
types of spiced vegetables (that change
daily) and a lentil dal. Guaranteed to sat-
isfy and less than ten quid!
Finally dessert, my recommendation
would be the Gulab Jamun, a warm
dough ball covered in sugar syrup
served with a blob of vanilla ice cream.
All this washed down with a lassi yo-
ghurt drink and you will leave very sat-
isfied. Of course, they do take-away too.
What more could you ask for!?
Masala Zone 147 Earls Ct Rd, London
SW5 9RQ. 020 7373 0220 www.masala-
zone.com Nearest tube: Earls Court
Are you coming out for a Ruby Murray tonight?
Vivien Wong and George McIntyre put their curry taste buds through a spin on opposite sides of London
Earls Court’s Masala Zone cooking up a heat, what I’d do to have some...
Sheba’s interior design: more American diner than Southhall curry house
Vindaloo
Ahh the treasured tikka masala,
for so many a delicious regu-
lar takeaway and for a few with
stranger tastes, a pizza topping.
However go to India and ask for a
Tikka Masala and you’ll be greet-
ed with a blank stare for this so
called ‘authentic Indian cuisine’.
Thought to originate not from the
streets of Delhi but rather from
the kitchens of a Pakistani or
Bangladeshi restaurant in Britain.
According to legend the creamy
masala sauce was created to sat-
Tikka Masala
Walk through most high streets
in London and you’re bound to
find an Indian restaurant of some
sort. The curry industry is worth
in excess of £1 billion a year in
the U.K. Curry has captured the
hearts of the nation to such an
extent that the England 1998
World Cup anthem was named af-
ter a dish first concocted on the
other side of the globe. The curry
was only narrowly beaten to Brit-
ain’s favourite dish by the pizza.
But what are the stories behind
these national treasures and are
they even truly Indian or an exam-
ple of multiculturalism working at
its best.
A dummy’s guide
to Indian curries
Alexander Joseph
isfy the British need to have gravy
with all meats. However the chicken
used in the Tikka Masala, known as
Tandoori chicken, can trace its roots
back to the subcontinent. The tan-
door refers to a clay charcoal fire
oven where the fire is in the oven
itself adding to flavour of the meat
being cooked, this technique is still
used in Indian restaurants. The
Chicken Tikka has done a full circle
and is now even exported back to In-
dia from Britain!
Ahh the treasured tikka masala,
for so many a delicious regular take-
away and for a few with stranger
tastes, a pizza topping. However go
to India and ask for a Tikka Masala
and you’d probably be greeted with
a blank stare for this so called ‘au-
thentic Indian cuisine’ is thought to
have originated not from the streets
of Delhi but rather from the kitchens
of a Pakistani or Bangladeshi restau-
rant in Britain. According to legend
the creamy masala sauce was cre-
ated to satisfy the British need to
have gravy with all meats. However
the chicken used in the Tikka Ma-
sala, known as Tandoori chicken can
trace its roots back to the subcon-
tinent. The tandoor refers to a clay
charcoal fire oven where the fire is
in the oven itself adding to flavour
of the meat being cooked, this tech-
nique is still used in Indian restau-
rants. The Chicken Tikka has done a
full circle and is now even exported
back to India from Britain!
It’s a curry with a murky history,
no one is sure where it came
from or the origins of the name.
Some say that it was invented in
Birmingham in the 1980s and
named after a Balti, the Hindi and
Urdu word for ‘bin’. Others claim
that it refers to the Baltistan re-
gion of Pakistan, where people
cook in cast-iron pots similar to
the Chinese wok. Another story
states that it is a slang term
for hubcap since truck drivers
on long journeys would remove
their hubcaps and cook curry
in them by the side of the road.
Whichever story is true, it is fair
to say that Balti has really taken
Britain, in particular Birmingham,
by storm. The Balti-Triangle there
has around 50 Balti restaurants
in the space of 3 streets. Like
whoa?
Balti

