TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 19 November 2010
36
Travel Editor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
Stingy travelling git
Who: Adventure Canadian traveller and film-maker
Cailin O’Neil runs Travel Yourself.
About: The website hosts Cailin’s eponymous travel
TV show, which documents her wanderings. The
show aims to “expose the good and bad of travel
and shares real-life experiences, while focussing
more on the experience than the destination itself”.
Why: Cailin’s superb film-making skills are reflected
in her work. The video’s quirky presentation and
cinematics brings to life her journeys across the
world, and can only encourage her audience to fol-
low her footsteps in real life. Informative, fun, Cailin
lives up to her aims in her show through interviews
with locals, trying out local delicacies and activities.
She also advocates solo travelling – hence her blog-
name-of-choice – and speaks of companionships
made on the road.
Recommended on her website: La tomatina – what
to wear, what to bring, what to do; Copenhagen,
Denmark; Travel Yourself New York; Viti Levu, Fiji;
10 things to do in Halifax, Nova Scotia
Link: http://www.travelyourself.ca
Twitter: @CailinONeil
Travel Blog of the Week
Autumn in Amsterdam by Dylan Lowe
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Needing inspiration for a weekend getaway? Or
some travelling planned ahead of the next break?
Join the discussion #FelixTravel on twitter for ideas.
I
rony simply cannot be expressed in a
better way: I was attempting to explain
the concept of budget travelling to a PR
guy representing Dubai Tourism.
In the previous week I was strolling
through the aisles of stands at the World Travel
Market, a prominent travel expo which annu-
ally lures advertisers and clients alike to The
Docklands, when the stark contrast of grandeur
smacked me in the gob.
Whereas its neighbouring exhibitors squat-
ted in booths drowning in brochures and give-
aways, the United Arab Emirates had installed
a double-decker compound, an area dominating
the space equivalent to twenty of its counter-
parts, completed with furnishings and arte-
facts and manned by cohorts of flamboyantly-
dressed advertising experts.
And I shall not forget to mention Emirates,
UAE’s national airline, whose presence at the
expo consisted of a separate gigantic edifice.
Whilst ebbing closer to their star attraction
– showcase of their latest onboard first-class
“Budget travellers do not
travel for the purpose of
shunning companionship
and social opportunities
– they embrace them”
What really is budget travelling? Dylan Lowe discovers
more to it than counting pennies and baked-bean meals
tels are sought after not solely for the cheap
accommodation they provide; rather, their
hosting of like-minded people, budget travel-
lers and backpackers alike, and allowing them
to congregate and mingle freely within their
premises, appeals.
And whilst luxury-seeking holidaymakers
have a great demand for seclusion, the budget
travellers tends to have a more casual need for
privacy – they compromise it by willingly stay
in shared dormitories, for example. Many of
them do not travel for the purpose of shunning
companionship and social opportunities – they
embrace them.
The sharing of local knowledge also brings
together budget travellers with the veterans
passing on recommendations to newcomers,
who will in-turn transfer them to those who
have more recently arrived at the scene.
Which makes hostels effective advertising
mediums – a word-of-mouth promotion vehicle
that propels itself.
The significance of travelling as a learning
“In countries where the
lucrative, legitimate
scamming of tourists
reigns supreme, locals
are used to handling with
pseudo-fact finders and
dismissing them with
condescension”
seats – the glamour could only repeatedly
prompt the same question in my mind: will I
ever be able to afford this?
I backed off and swore the oath to never con-
template committing such financial atrocity
little knowing that, in a week’s time, I would
receive an invitation to lunch with representa-
tives of Dubai Tourism.
Over mint tea, I steered the conversation to-
wards a field I could self-proclaim to be a spe-
cialist of – student travelling.
Reassurance was made to me that a form of
tourism merciful to the visitors’ wallet does
exist in Dubai. Four-plus-starred hotels – men-
tions of three-stars or lesser rankers were virtu-
ally inexistent – designer-Barbie-doll shopping
and snazzy wagons aside, there are apparently
plenty of budget-friendly options and opportu-
nities.
I had to remind him that he was, in a way,
missing the point.
One dimensional as the etymology of the
phrase ‘budget travelling’ may be, its notion
and, indeed, its philosophy are a lot more com-
plex than mere financial considerations.
Fundamentally it is a culture – one that bonds
together budget travellers with the notion of
maximising their travel experience through
minimal spending.
Take the hostelling culture for instance. Hos-
Especially in countries where the lucrative,
legitimate scamming of tourists reigns su-
preme, locals are used to handling pseudo-fact
finders and dismissing them with condescen-
sion. Travellers – and myself most certainly –
find it frustrating to not be treated with respect
and helpfulness when being genuinely inquisi-
tive.
In a way I was glad to have come away from
the event with better understanding of tourism
in Dubai – for a country largely enshrouded by
secrecy and negative press, the United Arab
Emirates has been regarded by many budget
travellers as unapproachable.
When the culture of budget travelling is
firmly cemented to the UAE’s tourism industry,
when its attention on money-splashing hote-
liers and tight-pocketed traveller reaches equi-
librium, when budget travellers begin to per-
ceive it less as a millionaires’ playground and
congregate, perhaps its appeal as a destination
fit for mere mortals may seize our hearts and
unleash hordes of backpackers onto the streets
in a scale akin to that in Bangkok. But until
then, despite its publicity efforts, reluctance is
what it will receive from the budget traveller.
Can you refuse to help two hot blondes?
process, to many of its wandering advocates,
brings about a whole new level of curiosity –
where travellers lack the financial means they
compensate with doubled eagerness to absorb
knowledge on local cultures, customs, etc.

