TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 19 NoVEMber 2010 37
Chris Richardson has his drink spiked at a sleazy beach bar on one of Thailand’s
most beautiful islands before hitting the streets. Hilarity ensues
When travelling turns trippy
Chris Richardson proves that there’s hope for Imperial guys after all... Damn lucky bastard
T
ightly nestled among the
happy snaps and hilarious
anecdotes lie the problems
you’re bound to run into
while on the road. For the
sake of saving your relatives a heart at-
tack it’s probably for the greater good
that these are reserved for the likes of
memories and private journal entries,
but I’ll share a great one of mine with
you. I suppose my only real regret is
that my evening after getting my drink
spiked was unfortunately nothing like
The Hangover.
So there I was on the beauty that is Koh
Phi Phi in Thailand: I was sat with an
arm around my girlfriend Hannah (with
whom I’d been recently reunited after
two months apart) and a frosty beer in
my other hand, gazing up a blissful night
sky from a sandy white beach thinking
life simply couldn’t get any better. Little
did I know that my blissful illusion was
about to be shattered. Thankfully my life
philosophy is ‘shit happens’ so I wasn’t
too disgruntled.
Hannah is famous for (amongst other
things) her inability to withstand long
nights out, so part of the recipe for di-
saster was her deciding to leave me on
my lonesome for the evening while she
tucked in early (or ran off with a Thai
man: who knows?). No big deal, right?
I’d been travelling solo for months so
was more than acquainted with the tire-
some process of befriending total strang-
ers and so on. And this party island was
full of people looking for good times, so
off I set to the nearest beach bar.
Thankfully I had an accomplice by my
side who I’d bumped into en-route, so
we sat on some bean bags and ordered
“At least my bank
card and anal virgin-
ity were kept intact”
light show commemorating the half
moon (any excuse to celebrate, right?).
By the time I made it to the bathroom I
knew that something was rotten in Den-
mark and proceeded to stuff my bank
card into my pants (classy), leaving but
a few tuppence in my dusty wallet to de-
tract potential thieves.
As the paranoia gripped I decided that
the most discreet mode of exit from the
bar would be via the Hollywood walk-
way that was the back alley. I suppose
the logic in my twisted head was that no-
body would follow me and that I could
get back quickly and get help. I escaped
onto the main street with some minor
injuries and a light coating of mystery
sludge on my shins.
I’d been on Koh Phi Phi for about
five days before this hilarious incident:
I’m not a moron when it comes to di-
rections and besides, the island has one
main street and another branching from
it, where my hostel was located. The fact
is that I knew my way around with ease,
yet in this stupor it was all a blur.
I started being recklessly illogical
with my subsequent decisions on the
way home: I was sort of in control but
compelled to do ridiculous things. At
every hotel I passed I demanded that
“it’s an emergency!” and that the se-
curity guards give me all of their pens,
which I proceeded to run away with.
Cluster of pens in hand and staggering
like Frankenstein’s beast I approached a
gang of Thai youths on motorbikes and
in true lad fashion demanded “let’s have
a go on yer bike son” and was lucky to
be sent on my merry way by a push of
hands rather than a torrent of fists.
By this point my stomach had started
to disagree with whatever it was that
was slowly taking me over and I pro-
ceeded to ‘chunder everywah’ in true
‘gap yah’fashion. Ironically this was the
only time on my trip where I threw up,
or so I remember. When you’re walking
through a party district leaving a Han-
sel and Gretel trail of vomit behind you,
you’re hardly greeted with grins. You’ve
obviously had one (or ten) too many, are
making a fool of yourself, and are un-
worthy of any help.
I thought that good Samaritans only
existed in works of fiction but eventu-
ally one came to my aid. Through bile
coated teeth I managed to dribble the
name of my guesthouse to my new best
friend who was apparently a walking
Lonely Planet – he knew the location of
my guesthouse and was eager to get me
tucked up in bed. I could sense some-
thing wasn’t quite right as he pulled me
closer to darkness and out of town, so
quickly latched myself onto an elderly
Thai lady, waving some money in her
face, just begging to be taken home.
After two hours of wandering the same
50 metre stretch of road, sicky and sob-
bing, it turns out I’d been approximately
outside of my hostel the entire time. She
led me the few paces to my door and
sent me on my merry way, and refused
to take my money. Meanwhile, a certain
someone in the land of nod was about to
be woken by a pleasant surprise.
Any movement or attempted sipping
of water induced nausea, and my knight
(nurse) in shining armour (nightie) en-
sured that I didn’t die overnight. Eventu-
ally I made it to the bed and slept solidly
for a good few hours and when I eventu-
ally awoke I was severely disorientated
and achy. For the few days that followed
I struggled to navigate the streets that
were so obvious the previous day, and
often had problems keeping up with
conversation – my short term memory
had been totally shot.
Koh Phi Phi is still one of my favou-
rite Thai islands and this didn’t detract
from the fun times at all. I’d heard tales
of people having everything robbed, be-
ing held at gunpoint and being spiked
by evidently much worse chemicals like
petrol (which stopped a girl from taking
her flight home), so by comparison I felt
like I’d got off quite lightly – consider-
ing the circumstances I could have came
out of that situation much worse off.
God knows what was in the drink, or
who was responsible, or what would
have happened had I consumed the en-
tire thing. I guess I should have taken the
‘watch all of your drinks being opened’
advice I’d had rammed down my throat,
but you live and learn. Quite an interest-
ing experience while it was happening
and perhaps a tad funny in retrospect.
At least my bank card and anal virginity
were kept intact.
Got a travelling tale to share?
Email us at travel.felix@ic.ac.uk
some shisha with a couple of beers while
the DJ cracked out some good old Ra-
diohead: after being flabbergasted with
nothing but Akon and the Black Eyed
Peas the previous evening this was quite
refreshing. Almost as refreshing as the
beer in hand, which was my first of the
night. Now, I’m no heavyweight, but I
don’t think I’ve ever felt so off my face
from half a bottle of beer in all my life.
Sensing that something was up, I hap-
hazardly staggered to the stinky men’s
room to examine myself in the mirror.
That seemingly simple task was skewed
by my seized up legs and the excessive

