SPORT
44 felix
FRIDAY 19 NOVEMBER 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editors: Jovan Nedic
David Wilson
Baseball: Not just
rounders played by
men... honest!
I would love to say that I am profiling
the Imperial Baseball team as an oath
of allegiance to Boston Red Sox owner
John W. Henry, the not-so-evilAmerican
who is replacing the most definitely evil
American former-owners of my beloved
Liverpool. How romantic it would have
been, after all, to celebrate Mr Henry’s
arrival on these grey shores by engross-
ing myself in anything and everything to
with America.
We Liverpool fans love America, af-
ter all. We’ve always loved it. I for one
certainly do not remember the hatred to-
wards Messrs. Gillette and Hicks spill-
ing over into anything untoward being
said about their homeland. Any flags to
the effect of ‘Yanks Out’ that you think
you may have seen at Anfield over the
last number of years were probably a
figment of your imagination.
However, rather than being the prod-
uct of a definitely-not-xenophobic
football fanatic, this article was born
through far more mundane circum-
stances. Somewhere between studying
stochastic calculus and contemplating
the ramifications of my own withering
Hugh McDowell
This kind of move can get you to the nationals...in Wolverhampton
...Continued from back page
Ultimate Frisbee
qualify for Wolver-
hampton nationals
job prospects, I received a timely and
cheerful message from my editor/supe-
rior, demanding I write something about
baseball. Being the obedient subordinate
that I am, I obliged.
Relatively speaking, the Imperial Fal-
cons are a young club. Founded in the
summer of 2009, the Falcons boast an
impressive record of success, and have
already won this year’s Fall Cup, which
features the top six university teams
in the country. The team remain unde-
feated this season and hope to follow
on from the Fall Cup by defending their
Southern League title.
The team trains every Wednesday,
varying between Harlington, Hyde Park,
and Northwick Park batting cages. Work
on a baseball pitch at Harlington which
will allow Imperial to host matches
is nearing completion. The team is
coached by the club’s senior members,
several of whom are accredited coaches.
One Falcon, Kevin Ling, is keen to
stress the inclusive nature of the club:
“The club welcomes all, irrespective
of ability. A lot of returning members,
which had no experience with the sport
before joining, are now integral parts
of the Falcons and have earned starting
roles.
“The team embodies the philosophy of
camaraderie and team work. One of the
winning factors the Falcons have is the
encouragement that can be heard from
the field and dugouts. We play because
we enjoy being in a competitive team
and have a collective interest in Base-
ball, whether acquired or not.”
The club owes a debt of gratitude to
Sport Imperial, which it says have been
very supportive of the fledgling Falcons.
It provided the club with an equipment
grant as well as helping to construct the
club’s first pitch and mound at Harling-
ton. Ling also cites support received
from the Union and from the Harlington
Grant as instrumental in the club’s suc-
cess.
Although the club is still considered
‘new’, Ling says that they have had little
difficulty in recruiting; there were over
fifty attendees at their first ever training
session last year. He is keen to stress that
the club welcomes beginners. “No pre-
vious experience is necessary; the basics
of the sport can be taught very quickly,
all you need to do is turn up to sessions.
Every single person on the team is learn-
ing all the time.”
structed their zone defence. Recording
a 9-1 victory, Imperial took their big-
gest win of the season so far. Despite
this rout, dD finished third in their pool,
losing on a head-to-head tiebreaker with
Brunel. The final game of the day saw
dD play a crossover against the Uni-
versity of Kent third team who, despite
at one point being 2-1 up, proved little
challenge for Imperial, who duly took
the victory.
Sunday was a very important day, with
each team that Imperial played knowing
that a loss could see them miss out on a
Nationals spot. The University of Read-
ing provided Imperial’s first opponents
of the day and, with both teams evenly
matched, the game was gritty and tight.
Despite a tough performance dD came
out on top, grinding out a win on a sud-
den-death point. Roehampton Universi-
ty, fresh from their defeat of King’s Col-
lege London, gave Imperial their next
headache, giving nothing away cheaply
and forcing dD to play hard and smart.
Another close game saw Imperial win
by a single point.
The mysteries of scheduling meant
that dD knew their opponents for their
next match very well, having played
Brunel less than thirty-six hours ago.
Imperial were a very different team
from the one that played the day before
and competed with the confidence that
developed over the tournament. Win-
ning by a solid margin, Imperial earned
a rematch against Portsmouth. With the
winner of the game qualifying for Di-
vision 1, and the losers Division 2, dD
knew it was all to play for. In front of a
capacity crowd, Imperial played coolly
and had the vast majority of possession,
but mistakes were forced and Sublime’s
transition from defence to offence was
fast and effective. Portsmouth took the
spot for Division 1, but in qualifying for
Division 2 Imperial have the opportu-
nity to defend the trophy they won last
year.
Imperial’s other teams gave good per-
formances and, despite having only a
handful of experienced players, matched
up to several quality sides. The second
team, dD2, started the tournament with
a resounding win over the University
of Surrey’s Mohawks 3, followed by
a tough game against Thrown 2, from
King’s College London. Even playing
teams ranked up to thirteen places above
them, dD2 showed cool heads to score
well-worked points but, owing to the
lack of tournament experience, could
manage only conciliatory scores in their
final match against Kent 3. With an av-
erage of less than a month’s experience
across the team, dD3 suffered a steep
learning curve but no loss of enthusi-
asm. Overcoming the first-tournament
nerves quickly, dD3 kept calm and
played smart. Their team spirit shone
through as they maintained the dream of
qualifying for Nationals until, and even
after, it was impossible.
Once again Imperial College Ulti-
mate qualified for Nationals, to take
place later this month. Gelling as a team
and playing with confidence and style,
dD displayed the qualities necessary to
perform at the highest level and go to
Wolverhampton to defend their Division
2 title. With both of the other Imperial
teams holding their own at such a com-
petitive tournament, the future bodes
well for this year’s influx of new players
who, this time next year, could be look-
ing forward to a place at Indoor Nation-
als 2011.
They were all so happy that they didn’t notice the cheeky chap on the right, nicking their trophy

