SPORT
45
felix FRIDAY 19 NOVEMBER 2010
Before we get on to the frivolities of
SurfSoc’s weekend, we’d just like to put
out a quick word of respect to one of the
biggest names in the surfing world, who
sadly passed away last week of dengue
fever. Andy Irons, 32, was widely re-
garded as being one of the most genuine,
in-it-for-real big surfers, an admirable
trait in the commercial world of com-
petitive surfing. As someone who rep-
resented the true spirit and love of surf,
his sudden death hit the community hard
and we’re amongst the tens of thousands
who wish his widowed wife and child-
to-be our condolescences. RIP A.I.
Awkwardly jumping from that sad bit
of news, SurfSoc’s first trip of the year!
London did its best to discourage our 32
keen surfers on Friday, with classically
grey skies and droplets of rain giving the
weekend a bleak prediction. Undeterred,
moods were high as our buses trundled
their way towards the coast. A couple of
traffic accidents and speed restrictions
meant we arrived in Westward Ho late,
making the scrum for beds in the hostel
all the more vicious. Drinking games
quickly started up and the rest of the
night became a blur of slaps, failed basic
arithmetic and excessive consumption.
As ever, people miraculously man-
aged to ignore an epidemic of sore heads
and shaky limbs the next day, somehow
crawling out of bed to hit the beach
early. Cold water and a bit of sunshine
are still undoubtedly the best cure for
hangovers, sorting out pretty much ev-
eryone except for the SurfSoc president,
who ended up lamely blaming a bout of
“sea-sickness” for his loss of balance.
The Irish contingency showed off their
high calibre, letting Devon know how it
was done with a sweet weekend’s worth
of surfing. Massive kudos to John Mc-
Guckin for managing to pull off a cut-
back on a foamie. Hendrik Frentrup and
Julius Klein brought about some new
class to our ranks with their consider-
able skill, and kindly lent assistance and
advice to the less experienced - good
fellahs. Lanky James Pye looked like
some kind of lighthouse out there, 6’4”
of chilled longboard casualness. Roxy
Jourdain spelt out the opposite, blurring
across waves with her bodyboard and
shouts of ecstatic joy, excellent stuff.
Dario Mazza, Will Hunt and Elliot Tay-
lor and the rest of SurfSoc’s regulars
all had to be dragged out the water by
the day’s end, testament to great waves,
sunshine and good company.
Over the afternoon, people trickled
back to the hostel, hitting the warm
showers and beds for some much-need-
ed napping. A bodged ginger/apple/or-
ange roast pork concoction started off
the evening...our hungry surfers man-
aged to polish off over 11 kgs of meat in
one sitting. Nice! Dessert (Tesco Value
cider, 2 litres of 4.8% death for £1.20)
was immaculately presented in a wetsuit
boot courtesy of Tom Utley. It marked
the start of another long night, with Mi-
lana Shapira most definitely winning
the prize for “Littlest Big Voice”. Lizzy
Griffiths became victim to the “one girl,
two cups [and a bit of duct tape]” game,
but proved her status as our social secre-
tary by leading the party with her smiles
and giggles all night long.
Sunday’s surf died down a bit, but
not enough to stop the extra-keen from
heading out there before 9AM. Devon’s
sun came out to play once again, and it
was good to see everyone willing to don
damp wetsuits, boots and gloves in or-
der to get back into the waves. Things
picked up as the sun climbed higher, and
when the time came to go, everyone left
with water with massive cheesies plas-
tered across their faces.
The Darwin Award of the weekend
had to go to Serkan “Duncan” Karaagac,
who (after a few drinks) decided that
tackling Ireland’s Kickboxing champion
extraordinaire, David Harkin, would be
a really, really good idea. It wasn’t, Dave
rapidly executed a couple of ninja death
moves that turned the rascal into some
kind of mouldable, human-type putty
rag-doll. He then proceeded to dem-
onstrate with great flourish the various
anatomical positions a human body was
never meant to perform. Once Serkan
had been abused enough, a pat on the
back saw him off merrily in the search
for more booze and mischief, some-
how none the worse for wear and still
grinning ear-to-ear. Additional Darwin-
ian mention goes to Alex Bowers, who
unsuccessfully attempted to bounce a
surfboard off his head (in retrospect, he
was quite successful but the board won).
“Hardcore” Harvey could probably use
some mention in the Darwin Award
books, but we’re just going to shake our
heads sadly at him for now, and make
the poor lad put on some clothes next
time. A shout-out to fresher B.J. King
for having the world’s worst initials.
All-in-all, the trip proved to be a mas-
sive success and the SurfSoc committee
are proud to say we’ve nabbed a great
bunch of new Freshers and members.
Hope to see you all, and anyone else
wanting to get in on the action, next
month when we take on Newquay!
Waterpolo travel to Aachen despite their sat-nav
Following a prompt departure we be-
gan our journey and headed North to
Dover then, after consulting a compass,
we turned the map around and were on
our way. Hydration was key for a suc-
cessful tournament and to that end Tom
BF provided the isotonic-like purple
beverage. After a brief encounter with
Customs, which included some inspired
fuel saving measures, we were on our
way to Calais. The inclement weather
conditions during the crossing addled
the brains of some of the younger team
members but a combination of support
and advice from the more experienced
amongst us and a minibus journey
through four countries with suitable re-
freshments rectified the situation. Fol-
lowing a brief loss of power to the Sat
Nav, we decided we would circumnavi-
gate AAcen before heading into the City
Centre for our big arrival. Before turn-
ing in for an early night, Jamie decided
he preferred a yellow pavement and Pe-
ter continued in the civic-minded nature
of the trip by meticulously inspecting
the pavement for cracks. He reported
findings to the water department via a
large porcelain telephone.
Well rested and in high spirits we
headed off for our first game of the
tournament. Our draw was a tough one,
we begun by facing last year’s cham-
pions where, after a well meaning but
ultimately unsuccessful spell between
the posts Ian WP decided to show his
outfield prowess, maintaining his previ-
ous form. Despite this, and after a hard
fought battle, we were narrowly defeat-
ed.
After a light lunch we were ready for
our next challenge. Some Harry Red-
knapp style negotiations in the transfer
market brought some native knowledge
into the team and resulted in David
Martinez grabbing our first goal, fol-
lowed by a dramatic vindication of our
transfer dealings as Tim “The German”
Detert snatched a second. Unfortunately,
a late rally from the opposition saw the
game just slip from our grasp despite a
powerful defence. Later in the afternoon
there were some dubious interpretations
of the rules by Jack Ellis whilst referee-
ing a match. This severely damaged in-
ternational relations with two countries
and ended his otherwise distinguished
career.
After a brief tug of war, which the
conscripted contingent assigned to the
task claimed was only lost due to “wa-
terlogged conditions”, we headed to the
evening’s main event with lofty expec-
tations. Mysteriously titled “The Beer
Relay” we were hoping that the newly
shortened course would be to our advan-
tage. Fresher Will Stocker stepped for-
ward to enhance his reputation by doing
a double leg which put us into the lead,
which was held for most of the race be-
fore Jack was thwarted by the high pool
sides for a solid 30 seconds. Rich Tho-
burn helpfully provided post race analy-
sis by demonstrating the effectiveness of
a commando roll in Jack’s situation.
The evening ushered in the renowned
“Mid Tournament Party”, arguably the
highlight of the competition. After sev-
eral party games, David excelled at the
“Fresher’s Challenge”, even going the
extra mile by providing free childcare
for several of the parents at the party.
Certain members of the team opted for
different ends of the age spectrum, our
tour sec showing us how it’s done by
meeting us at the pool the following
morning, bright eyed and ready for more
Water Polo.
After a team reunion we exchanged
fragmented memories of the previous
night and a renewed sense of optimism
set in as the team disposed of their
hangovers as they plunged into cold
liquid. Joe Gibbs defied the opposition
and made his international debut on
the score sheet whilst Will celebrated
his birthday in style by following suit
shortly afterwards. The second match
was presided over by Alex Ferguson,
who selflessly declined to play for the
good of the team, opting instead to
take on a managerial role. This was in
sharp contrast to Thanasios Platon, who
was the only team member to survive
a whole match in the pool. With some
members of the team feeling a little
worse for wear, rolling subs took on a
whole new meaning.
The journey back was a welcome rest
for many although the game of leapfrog
between the minibus (speed limited to
62mph) and Nick Ball’s car provided
additional entertainment. In the end they
“manned-up” to show us that the ear-
lier ferry was not an unrealistic target
(speeding tickets are in the post).
The team now begins training for
next year’s tournament, having bravely
promised to both win and learn German.
Results: England 0 - 11 Germany;
England 3 - 9 Belgium; England
1 - 7 Switzerland; England 3 - 6
Germany.
IC Waterpolo
Surfers brave the freezing waves of Westward Ho
Ashton Berry
This scene would be even more appealing the sun was blazing and every had a nice cold one in hand

