8 F E L I X
The Rooftops of C a m b r i d g e
C A M B R I D G E
by David Potter
Above: Town and gown meet tentatively
a unique micro cos
To the world at large Cambride arouses perhaps, a schizopnreme
image: weathered courts, sleepy cloisters, aged dons seemingly
frozen into the architecture, abstract learning, traditions passed on
from Newton, Rutherford, Thomson, Tennyson, Byron, Maeauhvy...
O r : May Balls and hearty rowers, the Cam placidly supporting
sluggish punts, bowler hatted College porters, retirement iot weary
politicians, steak sandwiches in 'The Plough', tea in Grantchester—
Rupert Brooke: "...now stands the clock at ten to three,
and is there honey still for tea".
Tweed suited Etonians with gold tipped canes, madrigals, organ
recitals on winter Sunday evenings in Kings College chapel, pre-
tentious) precocious, a citadel of privilege. Neither of these two
hackneyed aspects are Cambridge, they are but part of a complex
whole.
The centre of Cambridge has a unique character—an intricate
microcosm filled with activity but overlaid with a sense of time-
lessness. A composition of two factors produces this atmosphere—
the vast arid often haphazard array of architectural styles and
periods which join to form the Colleges and streets, and the ever-
present undergraduates—individuals who are undoubtedly university
students—stamped in an indefinable way so that they could be no
other type of person.
INDIVIDUALS and
ORGANISATION
T h e undergraduate cross-section
is surprisingly amorphous: donkey
jackets and jeans rub shoulders u n -
A B O V E : "Aged dons seemingly
frozen into the architecture"
L E F T : Soft, silent courts
comfortably with tweed suits; "grey
men' eat i n H a l l near a drama
crowd celebrating their extroversion;
beer swilling rugby players pass b y
searching intellectuals; corduroy-
jacketed earnest would-be politicians
livf next to hedonistic philanderers.
Cliques inevitably form, l i v e differ-
ent lives and gain different things.
The amorphous nature of the stud-
ent body a n d , the formation of
cliques detracts' from a composite
student opinion. In contrast to most
other English Universities, Cambridge
does not have a powerful student
union to coalesce opinion and to
vent that opinion. T h e Cambridge
Union is a society, provides a forum
for debate, and is not a democratic
executive body for the whole univers-
ity. Recently a student's represent-
ative council h a s been formed, but
as yet has little influence and is
treated with disinterest b y the
majority of students. Each College
has a Junior Common Room C o m -
mittee whicE again arouses little i n -
terest and mainly con.erns itself
with ineffectively trying to improve
the quality of food in its C o l -
lege Hall. T h e lack of a strong
central student government might
seem surprising to students elsewhere;
it is due however to the existence
of separate cliques, and to the Col-
leges which fragment a university
consensus. There is a, further reason
arising from the Cambridge under-
graduate mentality. Perhaps because
of a reaction from the authoritarian*
ism of school, and a reaction from
pedantry, there exists a cynicism to-
wards pompous bodies, committees,
secretaries, presidents and all the
rest of the paraphernalia of organis-
ation. They are accepted but not
elevated and in the general run of
undergraduate life play little part.

