imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
This Summer Imperial College Union are teaming up with the Centre
for Academic English (CfAE) to support social events for their
pre-sessional English learners.
Join students from around the world in a range of social events and
activities and get everyone talking together. Students on the
pre-sessional course will be looking to improve their conversational
English and you can play a key role in their learning outside the
classroom.
The most important part of your role is to make students feel part of an Imperial community and grow in confidence when communicating in English.
Be the first to join a brand new team of volunteers and get involved this summer!
To find out more visit: imperialcollegeunion.org/summersocials
Volunteer at the Summer Language Socials
Your Officer Elections is your chance to make a difference at Imperial,
by standing for a variety of roles including Deputy President (Finance &
Services).
Nominations opened this week May and close Thursday 9 June. From
there you can campaign to students, who will be able to vote from
Monday 13 June until Friday 17 June. The results will then be announced
online!
We’re electing the following roles:
A Deputy President (Finance & Services) A Graduate Students’ Union (GSU) committee
A Black & Minority Ethnic Students Officer A Disabilities Officer
A Gender Equality Officer A ICSMSU: Academic Officer for Clinical Years
A ICSMSU: Communications Officer A Dep Reps
Both Undergraduate and Postgraduates can stand for these positions (GSU positions can be filled by Postgraduate students only). Find out about key
dates for your diary online: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections and nominate yourself now!
Make a difference at Imperial - stand in Your Officer Elections
Departure Weekend - get involved!
Can you spare a few hours to lend a hand?
We are joining up with Imperial Estates Department to collect all non-perishable food that is left behind in Halls and donate it to Emmaus, a charity
that works to end homelessness in the UK. Students have been asked to bag any clothes or goods they don’t want to take with them which will be
given to the British Heart Foundation and sold in stores across London.
With just a few hours to clear all Halls, we are looking for a team of enthusiastic volunteers who are willing to get stuck in to help collect as much
food and goods as possible for these worthwhile causes. Last year saw students collect 1.7 tonnes of unwanted food and 144kg of cutlery and over
five tonnes of goods for British Heart Foundation – can we beat this record?!
Join us on Saturday 25 June, 10:00 – 12:00 and see what difference you can make!
For more information and to sign up visit: imperialcollegeunion.org/mass-volunteering

