FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 24 MAY
14
Horizing to the challenge
It’s drawing to the end of another year
at Imperial. Everyone has some kind
of big deadline looming, except for the
lucky few that ﬁnish early. It’s around
this time that extra curricular activi-
ties suﬀer. If you go to level 4 of the
Library and suggest to someone that
they do work for something that will
give them precisely zero marks, then
you’re risking a punch in the face.
That’s what Imperial Horizons has
been doing this year, and it’s been
surprisingly eﬀective. Reasons for this
could be everything from students
wanting to learn a new skill to the
more cynical CV padding. Although,
the idea that an employer would be
shaking with excitement at seeing that
you did an extra course at university is
a bit strange. Either way, people have
been doing these courses. Next year
some Departments will let students
do these courses for credit. Mainly it
seems that students are enjoying the
courses and doing them as a way to
break out of the science and engineer-
ing world, or perhaps just take on a
new challenge. Plus, it’s a good way to
meet some new people.
The ﬁrst thing to address is the
name. The pun department weren’t
exactly on overdrive when they ﬁshed
it out. We get it. Expanding our hori-
zons. Har har. Anyway, more impor-
tantly, what did people think of the
courses?
SOLE feedback shows that 80% of
people think that the structure and
delivery of the teaching was either
good or very good. This is a fact that
the Horizons team say they are par-
ticularly proud of. In fact, nobody said
that the teaching was very poor and
only 2% considered it to be poor. The
majority actually rated it as very good.
At Imperial, where almost everyone
is a scathing critic of teaching, this is
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief certainly impressive.
The content is a similar story. Again,
very good and good dominated the
bar chart: 72% said the content of the
course was desirable.
Lloyd Fung, who took the Energy
and Climate Change course, said that
he took the option as he was “very
interested in related technology”. He
said that it did not get in the way of his
other studies and that he would like to
do a follow up course, if possible. His
favourite part of the course was that
diﬀerent perspectives were given on
an issue. He said it gave him a “wider
perspective” as opposed to “looking
[at] it as a scientist or engineer”.
Shiladitya Ghosh did his Engineers
Without Borders Global Challenges
course as he “was really keen to learn
about the holistic implementation of
engineering design in the real world
out there”. He enjoyed the course but
would want a new challenge and to try
something diﬀerent next year, possibly
Mandarin or German. Shiladitya ad-
mitted that the work got in the way of
some other submissions at the end of
spring, but said: “I have lived to tell the
tale… at the end day, it’s due to such
stress that I felt I really got something
out of the course as well.”
Arijit Gupta’s favourite part of his
Introduction to Mandarin course was
learning his ﬁrst Chinese symbols. It
didn’t get in the way of his other stud-
ies, and he said it was “a nice change
from maths”. He is already planning to
take the next Mandarin course.
On-line enrolment for current 1st year undergraduates entering
their 2nd year in October 2013 is now open.
Find out more:
www.imperial.ac.uk/horizons
Make sure you enrol by 2.00pm Thursday 6th June 2013
IMPERIAL HORIZONS 2013/14
Left to right: Shiladitya Ghosh and Arijit Gupta – both took courses this year

