ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
La Donna Del Lago @ A cinema near you – As part of the Royal Opera House’s on-
going program to bring affordable, live performances out of Coven Gardens and into
cinemas this rarely shown masterpiece by Gioachino Rossini is on the bill. The per-
formancefeaturesthreeleadingcontemporarysingersJuanDiegoFlórez,JoyceDiDo-
nato, and Colin Lee. 27 May
Apestraction@FreudMuseum–ThissoloexhibitionbyMexicanartistDamianOrte-
ga is a result of collaboration between the museum and UCL’s Gashaka Primate Pro-
ject. The artist visited Nigeria to experience Chimpanzees in their natural context. His
response is conceptually dense and intriguing spanning genres of science, sculpture,
photography and installation. June 6 – 1 September
Julie Mehretu @ White Cube Bermondsey – The first major solo exhibition by this
established abstract artist features recent reflections on the Arab Spring as well as a
collection of her older work. Her dense mark-making spans digital and traditional art
to produce huge, immaculately constructed, layered images which fill the beautifully
designed gallery space. 1 May - 7 July
In Dreams @ Cob Gallery – In collaboration with Guts for Garters the gallery presents
aworkshopondreamsanddreaming.Thespacewillbetransformedintoanimmersive
installation,alabyrinthwithinwhichtheviewerwillbeguidedthroughdifferentsleep
states. There is also an opportunity to take part in experiments. June 7 - July 27
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was found in the Bioengineering study
areaandisbelievedtobeacritiqueontheUnionanti-stressdrive.
FRIDAY 24 MAY
22
Shirley Tucker
Boris Vallejo
Michael Mitchell
David Pelham
Boris Valejio is the undisputed king of hyper-representa-
tional fantasy and sci-fi art. His gleefully effusive works
have graced the covers of numerous pulp fiction paperbacks,
none of which you are likely to have read. Often working
with his wife as muse and collaborator the pair’s execution
is immaculate.
Boris’ familiarity with human form so complete he seems to
effortlessly inject near fatal quantities of erotic potency into
his oil paintings. His sylphine, alabaster warrior princesses
and axe-wielding beef-cake barbarians may seem dated, but
for pure red-blooded thrills they have never been surpassed.
As leader of Penguin’s design team from the early 70’s David
Pelham was responsible for most of Penguin book’s fiction.
He did a number of brilliantly eye catching designs for J G
Ballards paperbacks amongst many others.
Most famously Pelham designed the iconic cover for An-
thony Burgess’ A Clockwork Orange. The Cog-eyed Droog
design instantly became a design classic and informed much
of the subsequent imagery that surrounded the book and
film.
The minimal design and sinister featureless face evokes a
disturbing otherworldly sense that compliments the content
of the book.
The Bell Jar by Sylvia Plath featured a cover designed in 1966
by Shirley Tucker. Sylvia Plath’s only novel, published in the
UK a month before her suicide, details the protagonist Esther
Greenwood’s descent into clinical depression.
The bleak outlook is perfectly encapsulated in the striking-
ly contemporary cover design by graphic artist Tucker. The
bold, modernist text set above a graphic image of concentric
circles, creates a strong visual effect. Like all great covers, it
doesn’t explicitly describe the plot, but rather hints at the
story contained within.
She was originally never credited with the design, a hap-
pily defunct convention. Her name now features in all mod-
ern editions.
Almost as mysterious as Sainger himself E. Mishael Mitchell
is hard to get a handle on. Yet the reclusive illustrator is re-
sponsible for the cover on of the most revered pieces of mod-
ern American literature, The Catcher in the Rye.
The bold design is representative of the rest of his body of
work which features bold avant guard pen and ink drawings.
Mitchel spent much of his career as an instructor at Califor-
nia Institute of the Arts. Where he built a formidable reputa-
tion with his students. Mitchell passed away in 2009 at 89,
never again ascending so high in the popular imagination.
1
2
3
4

