ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 24 MAY 23
10
10
Chip Kidd
Francis Cugat
Maurice Sendak
Paul Bacon
Michael Gillette
Josh Kirby
Terry Pratchett was the best selling author of the nineties. The man who
put a cover on every one of his books until his death in 2001 was the oth-
erwise relatively obscure artist Josh Kirby. His highly distinctive paintings
perfectly caught the quirky, caricatured madness of Pratchett’s early Disc-
world novels.
Working in oils, his busy, slightly grotesque depictions of the characters
in the books perfectly caught the surreal atmosphere of the strange comic-
fantasies. Perhaps this is why Kirby was also chosen to design the poster art
for Monty Python’s Life of Brian.
The painting for the first printing of F Scott Fitzgerald’s semi-
nal work The Great Gatsby may be one of the few examples
in history of book covers actually influencing the writing of
the book. The highly symbolic illustration features a pair of
female eyes beaming mournfully through a night sky. The
eyes hide reclining nude figures and hover above a bright
metropolitan carnival. Fitzergeral maintains that the image
was written into the final draft of the book possibly in the
image of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg billboard eyes.
Cugat went on to work on art for over 68 Hollywood films
but it is for this work, the most widely disseminated cover art
of the 20th Century.
Paul Bacon designed over 6500 book covers in his career.
With a portfolio of that size one could argue that a big hit
was inevitable. Bacon also illustrated for Jack Kerouac and
John Cleever but it was his work for Joseph Heller’s Catch 22
this is considered by many to be the most memorable.
Bacon was known for pioneering the “Big Book Look,” char-
acterised by the title and author’s name in large, bold print,
accompanied by a small conceptual illustration. He would
work for around three weeks on each book, saying his skill lay
in “finding something that would be a synthesis graphically
of what the story was about”. His jazz record cover designs
are also worth a look.
Sometimes a young or unrecognisable designer just happens to hit upon an ab-
solute classic. Michael Gillette’s series of covers for Ian Fleming’s Bond novels
was one of those times. The covers were commissioned to celebrate the cente-
nary of Ian Fleming’s birth in 2008.
Everything is perfect from the bold lines and bright colours to the typography.
The images proved extremely popular and were made available as prints and
translated into a variety of languages. They feature delicate, smouldering sexy
retrotastic representations of the girls in each book. “None of them are based
on any one person or image, they are archetypes. I wanted a look of seductive
murder about them,” he says.
Where the Wild Things Are has sold 19 million copies world-
wide since its publication in 1956. This extraordinary suc-
cess marks it as one of the most popular children’s book of
all time.
Uniquely for this list, the illustration and writing are all the
work of one man Maurice Sendak. Sendak includes Disney and
Mozart amongst his influences yet his books were so visually
striking these are difficult to justify. The story describes the es-
cape of a small boy into a land populated with strange beasts,
actually caricatures of his family.
Sendak famously refused to write a sequel, announcing just
before his death in 2012 that this would be “the most boring idea
imaginable”.
Many of the illustrators on this list have sunk into relative
anonymity. Chip Kidd is certainly not one of these. His flam-
boyant confidence and marketing acuity have seen him rise
to the top of Random House’s design team. An early work
that cemented his reputation was his design for Michael
Crichton’s fated publication Jurassic Park.
The design was so popular it came to represent the entire
franchise that followed, including the three Hollywood films,
making Kidd, we suspect, a very wealthy designer.
Like many of Kidd’s covers the image is simple, striking and
creepy. Kidd himself has said that “I’m very much against the
idea that the cover will sell the book”.
5
6
7
8
9

