SEX SURVEY COMMENT FILM
We bashed it out Goodbye HOST Grossly rich
Oh yes. It’s back. This time, it’s
just as personal. We compre-
hensively pry into your lives be-
tween the sheets. Enjoy what
we splashed on the pages.
We have a letter from the for-
mer Imperial librarian Magda
Czigány. She laments the deci-
sion to move the History of Sci-
ence masters elsewhere.
The film industry seems to be
more lucrative than ever. Most-
ly down to the rise of 3D. This
week, Film looks at the biggest
grossing films of all time.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>08 >>21 >>26
FRIDAY 24 MAY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Web
Uploading James Simpson Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen Sex Survey Editor Matt Allinson
Special thanks this week to Philippa Skett for helping with the Sex Survey and the Drugs Survey. And thanks to all that helped, i.e. Matt Allinson, Iulia Gherman, Joe Letts, Chris Witham, Annina Sartor
not-quite-a-LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: A perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Sex Survey’s back
he Sex Survey has come
back for another fucking
year. Well that’s a couple
of puns out of the way, so
I guess we can get onto
more serious(ish) stuff.
We have the pretty infographics for
you to look at, as well as plenty of anal-
ysis. Hope you enjoy it! Flip to page 8
and go testicles, sorry, nuts.
There are some very interesting
things to pick out of the survey. This
small X-Rated picture paints quite
a few words, and has some surpris-
ing, and less surprising, results. For
students that remember the previous
incarnations: don’t worry, there’s all
the stuff you want to see like which
Department are the biggest wankers.
Let’s be clear on a few things: this is
a bit of a tongue in cheek look into the
sex lives of Imperial students. It’s by no
means going to be 100% accurate, but
it definitely has its merits and there are
a lot of interesting things to read. The
data analysis has been a long process,
involving a lot of organising and a lot
of information. Publishing the results
had to be delayed to allow us enough
time to look through everything. There
is no possible way that we can go
through everything and 100% analyse
the results to perfection: we are, after
all, a small student newspaper, and
don’t have the resources to go through
it all in perfect detail. If you spot some-
thing we missed out or messed up, let
us know, and we can correct it for next
year. We know we’ll probably mess up
the wording here are there.
There are also plenty of questions
we could have asked. We wanted to
limit it to not make it too laborious to
fill out and analyse: this was in the
hope that people wouldn’t get bored
half way through completing it and
not bother to finish it off. So some-
times we only touched on a subject
briefly. Maybe next year some topics
that people found interesting can be
explored out in more detail.
There were a lot of responses and
not too many trolls, well, not many
obvious trolls. This does bring up the
serious point: people lie on surveys.
They really do. Every single survey
ever done in the history of the world
will have people lying. Therefore there
is always the worry that people are fib-
bing. Obviously, the best we can really
do about this is just ignore them and/
or point out odd trends.
The British are known for our slight
shyness. It seems it is not a reputation
we fully deserve, but the results still
spat out some interesting conclusions
for us to swallow. One that springs to
mind under the pressure of a deadline
rumbling towards me is the responses
we received for the question about
online dating. We all thought a lot of
people would say they have tried it,
but it didn’t seem so. Whether this is
true or people are (sensually) massag-
ing the truth due to embarrassment or
some perceived social stigma is up to
you – although we quickly investigat-
ed it (page 10). People did seem fairly
willing to try it out though. There were
many more interesting observations to
be made, but I don’t have the space to
talk about them in the three columns I
have here.
We took data protection seriously.
At no point could we find out who you
were. All we looked at when analysing
the results was just the replies: it just
showed the responses that you gave
in an Excel document, it didn’t show
who gave what. After the analysis was
done, the data was deleted. For more
information on this, email felix@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
A big personal thanks to all of the
people that helped with analysis!
Finally, a gigantic thank you to all
of the respondents. We couldn’t have
done this without you. Well, we could
have I guess, but it would just be self
stimulation, which, apparently, a lot
of you like... So maybe that wouldn’t
have been that bad.
CLASSIFIEDS
T
Tutor wanted
Help with Homework for Year 2 and 3 girls - £10/hour
I am looking for a female student who can help with
homework after school around 3 days a week starting
from 11th June until 18th July approximately. We live in
Ifield Road by the Earls Court Tube. Female applicants
only.
If interested, email Lucia: lc261272@gmail.com
Temps wanted
Temp Renewable Energy installers required for east
london project 10th June. Must be fit & strong, practical,
quick learning & a team player.
See www.sogosolar.co.uk& call Ben on 07804 614833.
To place something in Classifieds, email felix@imperial.ac.uk

