MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 24 MAY
24
he gig was hosted at Bar-
fly which provided an in-
timate setting, for what
was a show for competi-
tion winners. Kurt Vile
had not brought a backing band
along on this occasion and he made
everyone wait. The crowds were a
bunch of happy campers though –
true to the stoner spirit. They did
not mind one bit as Vile spent some
time tuning his guitar on stage and
repeatedly asked his sound engineer
for “more reverb, yeaa!”
Hailing from Philadelphia, Vile
was initially a part of The War on
Drugs which was followed by con-
stant touring with his backing band
The Violators. His writings come
across as incoherent, yet purpose-
fully poetic and although he lands
his words in a leisurely way, boy, do
Monday,Tuesday,HappyDaze
Mo Mirza getswithintouchingdistanceofKurtVileinCamden
they pack a punch. Vile’s songs are
unhurried and spacious and have
uncanny knack for conveying his
deep meanderings.
I found his previous album Smoke
Ring for My Halo absolutely superb
and the appearance of a few choice
songs, such as the blissful ‘Jesus Fe-
ver’ and loving ‘Baby’s Arms’, made
my night. One admirable thing to
note about Kurt Vile is that even
though he comes across as overt
about religion, it never really be-
comes annoying. He somehow man-
ages to sing his praises, and not de-
tract from the musical experience
– that is pretty rare.
Once tuned to perfection, Vile’s
guitar squeaked awake as he shared
his stoner wisdom with ‘Wakin’ on a
Pretty Day’, a song from his fifth lat-
est studio album Wakin on a Pretty
T
Daze. “Phone ringing off the shelf…
” he sang, epitomizing his laid-back
nature.
He continued on to play some
more people pleasers which lulled
the crowd into a pretty daze. A kind
of seduction by soothing is how one
could describe it. ‘Peeping Tomboy’,
also from Smoke Ring for My Halo,
came across as a crowd favourite
with quite a few happy campers
chiming in to Vile’s dulcet tones.
With no backing band most of
what Kurt plays has a more subtle
and easy going feel to it than what
you hear in the album versions. Per-
haps this is what he intended. In
Vile’s head, there is all the time in
the world and no need for rushin’
and the crowd acknowledged that.
Like most geniuses Kurt’s mutter-
ings are very erratic, some of them
incredible and some not so. His live
performances are, however, un-
doubtedly exceptional and I am to-
tally looking forward to seeing him
rock out once more at the Field Day
festival tomorrow. Yeaa!
AMS album of the week
Ensemble Pearl is a thoroughly dark
album featuring some big names in
modern avant-garde metal. Steve
O’Malley of Sunn O))) is the best
known, but two members of Boris,
the Japanese noise rock band, are
also present (drummer Atsuo and
live guitarist Michio Kurihara). For-
mer bassist of Jesse Sykes & the
Sweet Hereafter, Bill Herzog, is the
only musician that might seem out of
place.
The four of them set out to make a careful masterpiece of ominous music
like nothing they’ve written before. This is saying a lot, as O’Malley and Bo-
ris’ music has touched upon everything heavy and unholy. Ensemble Pearl is
instead a collection of slow, doomy instrumentals, fleshed out with gloomy
textures. Drums keep a steady dirge pace yet feel loose and improvisational.
Melodies and riffs take minutes to play out and run their course through
moods both dark and ambiguous. The mix never becomes muddied by an
overdose of pedals or laptop effects. Dissonance is not constant, such that
the listener is not exhausted by offensive sounds, but this does not stop Kuri-
hara occasionally lashing out with incredibly loud, fuzzed guitar solos that
the rest of the band are unshaken by.
Tracks average 8-10 minutes with the final chapter, “Sexy Angle”, playing
for a monumental 20 minutes, climaxing in a solo at its 13th
minute that could
be mistaken for a small child, screaming. In the song’s quieter moments, an
assortment of drones rise up from the background, and individual snares and
toms are delayed separately from the rest of the drum kit, making the band
feel like much more than four players.
Some of the album’s best parts are those where the atmosphere surfaces
from its darkest moments. The best example of this is “Wray”, a beatless track
focused on string drones and heavily sampled koto plucks, evoking a differ-
ent, lighter mood, becoming almost ambient. A casual listener might fault
the album on being too consistent, or simply be disappointed that the result
isn’t “heavy” enough, given the talent present. It’s simply heavy in a different
manner – a slow, suffocating manner, rather than the blistering noise that Bo-
ris and Sunn O))) have been treating our ears with for years. Ensemble Pearl
highlightsaprogressionfromdoommetaltosomethingmorematureandagonising.
Ensemble Pearl –EnsemblePearl
Robin Thomas

