MUSIC
Music Editors: Riaz Agahi,
Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
25
FRIDAY 24 MAY
Chvrches@VillageUnderground
Fresh from playing the Alexandra
Palace with Everything Everything
and Two Door Cinema Club the trio
Chvrches came to the Village Under-
ground with the weight of expecta-
tion lying squarely on their shoulders.
They recently won best new non-US
band at SXSW and made it into the
top 5 of the BBC’s sound of 2013. Lit-
tle surprise then that the gig sold out
in minutes and the queues to get in
started an hour before doors opened
Through the delicate vocals of Lau-
ren Mayberry and pulsing synths of
Martin Doherty and Iain Cook, Ch-
vrches have found a winning formula.
Critics have drawn comparisons be-
tween them and the Canadian duo
Purity Ring, but live the ominous bass
sounds more like an epic blend with
their fellow Glaswegians Mogwai.
They opened with their debut re-
lease ‘Lies’, a hypnotic electropop tune
which set the mood for the rest of the
gig. With trippy laser beams and lots
of ﬂashy lights they slowly built up
to the climax of the evening, perfor-
mances of their most commercially
successful tracks ‘Mother we Share’
and ‘Recover’. On the way though Ch-
vrches showed they aren’t just a one
trick pony, with Doherty taking the
mic to perform the intimate ‘Now is
not the Time’. There can be no doubt-
ing the true star of the evening, the elf-
ine Lauren Mayberry. Her immaculate
delivery and presence really captured
the hearts of the audience, as did her
playful banter on themes as diverse as
Game of Thrones (their cover of the
theme went viral on YouTube), kittens
with laser pointers and boy bands in
the audience. Add to that her ability
as an intriguing lyricist and Chvrches
have found a new indie heart-throb.
To round oﬀ the evening Mayberry
performed (as promised) a karaoke
version of Little Kim’s ‘Lady Marma-
lade’ rap followed by a stunning cover
of Prince’s ‘I would die 4 U’, a song
which could have been written for
this band. So did Chvrches live up to
the hype? Although they aren’t quite
the ﬁnished article yet a fantastic gig
showcased their massive potential and
left the audience hungry for more.
Thomas Leeman Writer
The Melvins have long since become
an institution, one of the most inﬂu-
ential bands in modern rock. In recent
years however, they have not simply
been resting on the laurels of their clas-
sic albums, but exploring new territory
and breaking new ground. Their album
as Melvins Lite, a stripped down form
of the Melvins with Ipecac favourite
Trevor Dunn on double bass is one
example, another is their record break-
ing 51 states in 51 days tour last year.
It must be said, however, that a bit of
retrogression from a band as great as
them is always appreciated, so it was
much to the delight of many when two
shows consisting of Lysol/Houdini and
Stoner Witch/Bullhead played in suc-
cession were announced.
Trust me, it was a tough decision,
Stoner Witch is probably the most var-
ied of the four, and the opening track
on Bullhead is so good Boris named
themselved after it. After much delib-
eration, however, I went to the Lysol/
Houdini night.
As anyone familiar with the Melvins
knows, I was greeted by the sight of
four rather eccentric looking guys. If I
seem abnormally focussed on their ap-
pearances, it’s merely because I want
the uninitiated to know how hilari-
ous the Melvins can be. Buzzo wore a
robe and his sideshow Bob-like mane
ﬂopped to punctuate the dropping of
every riﬀ, and I’m pretty sure one of
the drummers, Dale Crover, was wear-
ing some kind of tunic.
One major diﬀerence is that since
2006 Coady Willis (formerly of Big
Business) has been in the band as a
second drummer and there is no doubt
that having two drummers contributed
to the enormity of their sound as much
as it did to the visual presentation, with
Willis being left handed creating a sort
of mirror image between the 2 halves
of the stage, where the four piece
played standing in a row, rather than
most rock bands, who simply hide the
drummer in the back somewhere.
The set opened with Lysol and pos-
sibly the highlight of the night. ‘Hung
Bunny’, the opener of the album and
an absolute monolith was hugely en-
hanced by massive drums and a punchy
bass rumble that practically had me
shaking. Indeed, the sound over the
Melvins: Live Review
Riaz Agahi Music Editor
whole night was excellent; incredibly
loud, with guitar tones forming care-
fully controlled, resonant feedback at
many points.
Their rendition of Lysol continued
very much in this vein. In other words,
it was truly crushing, with a tangible
feeling of euphoria in the audience
any time they dropped a great track,
which was pretty much all of them.
‘The Ballad Of Dwight Fry’ provided
a rare moment of relaxation amongst
this barrage of powerful, sludgy riﬀs.
This response continued throughout
the night, throughout their rendition
of Houdini. This is considered their
landmark album and generally the ﬁrst
album anyone hears, so I’m sure it in-
vited some nostalgia for more or less
everyone there. For those not aware,
this album is more rocky and less
sludgy than its predecessor. The bassy
excellence of ‘Night Goat’ or the par-
ticularly catchy ‘Lizzy’ stood out for
me.
The set ended on a powerful note
with ‘Spread Eagle Beagle,’ as Buzz left
the stage, leaving the two drummers
and bassist Jared Warren, (also for-
merly of Big Business) who was clad
in american football padding made out
of a cardboard box. then proceeded
to enter the crowd screaming vocals
which heavily distorted themselves,
decaying into feedback (possibly with
Friday 24 May 2013
10:00 – 11:00 – Morning Musings
20:00 – 21:00 – Mad Craic
Award-winning Mad Craic features
tunes and banter from the wonderfully
English Craig Woods and the astonish-
ingly Irish Aislinn Hayes
Saturday 25 May 2013
17:00 – 19:00 –ONFM (Orgasmic Noises
For the Masses)
Monday 27 May 2013
20:00 – 21:00The Eclectic Ectoplasm
An eclectic mix of anything and every-
thing. The best music on ICRadio every
Monday evening.
Tuesday 28 May 2013
23:00 – 00:00 – Beneath the Paving
Stones, the Beach
Presenting highlights of the last fort-
nights releases. Occasional guest mixes
too.
Wednesday 29 May 2013
13:00 – 14:00 – Mission Impossible
Thursday 30 May 2013
15:00 – 16:00 – Buttery Biscuit
LISTINGS
To listen, go to
http://www.icradio.com/
and just hit “listen live”
some kind of delay pedal), before it was
left with just the drummers, as in the
album itself, trading ﬁlls and gradually
fading out. A truly outstanding perfor-
mance from one of rock’s best loved
institutions. Equal parts humour, rock
n’ roll showmanship, and familiar, pun-
ishing riﬀs.
The Melvins have recently released a
cover album Everybody Love Sausages
on Ipecac.

