Issue 1548
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
24/05/13
@SportFelix
Going into the Championship semi-
ﬁnals IC Water Polo had the toughest
draw possible against Bristol, Man-
chester and Edinburgh, all of whom
have recently won the competition
– something that IC have previous-
ly never come close to. Thankfully
though to help us out we were joined
by our not so secret weapon Adam
Scholeﬁeld, fresh from playing in the
Olympics for Team GB. The other
teams began to worry as they wit-
nessed our class and tenacity playing
against our ﬁrst opponents Manches-
ter, which ended 10-6 in IC’s favour.
Saturday night saw the team have a
relaxing meal out, whilst resisting the
temptation for a night out in Bristol,
preserving our energy for a tough
Sunday of matches. This however did
not stop the supporting girls who had
a great time with ladies’ man Torres.
Sunday was an early start against
Edinburgh who at ﬁrst proved resil-
ient but tired quickly, ending in an 8-5
win to Imperial. Our last game of the
round robin semi-ﬁnals were hosts
Bristol, who were also tournament
favourites as last year’s winners of the
competition. A strong ﬁrst half from
Bristol lead to them having a com-
fortable lead, until we then had them
ﬁgured out, where we began to then
make a comeback and reduce their
lead. However, the comeback was nei-
ther strong enough nor quick enough
and the ﬁnal score was 8-3 to Bristol.
Bristol’s performance throughout the
semi-ﬁnals proved themselves as the
team to beat for the ﬁnals, with the
other two qualiﬁers from the other
semi-ﬁnal leg, Bath and Durham, not
looking that imposing.
The Finals were due to be played on
the 23/24th of March at Leeds Univer-
sity, which happened to be right in the
middle of England’s freak cold spell.
Communication came through on
Friday morning from the BUCS head
oﬃce that the Water Polo Finals were
to be cancelled, due to heavy snow
and treacherous driving conditions.
Health and safety rules declared that
it would be unsafe for any competitors
to risk travelling into the area, and as
such the Finals were postponed until
the 11/12th of May. As many Imperial
students can empathise, this is right
in the middle of exam season, putting
us at an immediate disadvantage with
the loss of many key players.
News was then later received that
Durham has pulled out completely,
due to them being unable to ﬁeld a
team as exams had got the better of
them. Great commitment was shown
from Andrea, Nick and Jen Wei, who
all had exams in the coming few days,
but they were able to spare some time
for the most important matches ever
of their Water Polo careers.
We left early on Friday evening, ar-
riving in late in Leeds but thankfully
with comfy beds and a nice hotel to
sleep in. As Durham had dropped out
it left us with only Bath and Bristol to
beat and also a guaranteed podium
ﬁnish. Our ﬁrst match of the ﬁnals
were against Bath, which in the end
proved to be one of the closest games
we have played this season, akin to
that of the one against Oxford back
in the preliminary rounds. The ﬁnal
score ended 11-12 to Bath, with their
winner being scored in the very last
minute of the game, an unfortunate
result and one which made the Bristol
match even more crucial for Imperial.
After substantial hydration and
sugar consumption we were ready
to play our ﬁnal and most important
game of the season. Bristol started
strongly putting 4 past us in quick
succession, leaving the team looking
shocked and confused as to what just
happened. Ultimately this set the tone
for the ﬁnal match, with Bristol be-
ing the much stronger team – which
is to be expected of a team who train
5 times a week and also compete in
the national club league. Their perfor-
mance was well drilled and almost ro-
botic in a sense, giving them a strong
advantage over us who had had a long
Easter break without training and the
absence of a few more key players.
After the match we headed to
Leeds Union, where Marco was able
to pull some strings and bag us all
BBQ tokens meant to be exclusively
for Leeds Mech Eng students. Once
BUCS bronze for Water Polo
Alex Simpson Sports Writer
IC Waterpolo make a splash at national championships
we had ravaged their meat stocks we
hastily returned to the pool for the ﬁ-
nal quarter of the ﬁnal match and the
winning ceremony. Bristol produced
a similar result against Bath, securing
their position as championship cham-
pions. Our bronze medals were em-
phatically presented to us and we then
headed back to London. An enjoyable
minibus journey home was unfortu-
nately marred for one anonymous in-
dividual who was the subject of a cer-
tain piss in an apple juice bottle prank.
He neglected to check the colour and
smell of the juice before consumption
and subsequently drank the piss.
Despite this we all had a great trip
to Leeds, and thoroughly enjoyed
playing. A special thanks should go
to Tom BF and el presidente Alex for
travelling all the way up with us to
support us, and also to coach Adam
for the continual hard work he has
put in over the season. This remains
Imperial’s best performance ever in
BUCS Water Polo, surpassing that
of 4 years ago when we won the 2nd
Division Shield competition. We look
forward to next year where we will
again be playing in the top division,
and hope to surpass this year’s perfor-
mance.

