NEWS
4 FRIDAY 24 MAY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College London
Glastonearly – less
expense, more rabbits
Summer is on its way
and festival season is
nearly upon us. Do
you long to frolic in
the sunshine with
live music, alcohol
and food… but don’t
want to spend a
fortune? Have your
heard of Silfest?
Silfest is a music
festival held yearly
on the grounds of
the Silwood Park
campus of Imperial
College London. Sil-
fest will entertain
you with all day live
music, lots of en-
tertainments, food
and DJs playing late
into the night. Will
your summer be
complete without
creating your own
ice-cream with liq-
uid nitrogen? Fancy
yourself a circus performer? Do you dream of a wide selection of alcohol at
student prices? Perhaps you just want to escape London to a land of greenery
and rabbits? Silfest is the place to be.
Silwood Park is the ideal location for a music festival, boasting around 100
ha of land including fields to camp in, woodland, streams and a large Victorian
manor house where the DJs will be playing. And of course only a mere 50 min-
ute train journey form Waterloo station.
Come and enjoy the sun at Silfest 2013 on the 27th of July. Listen to live mu-
sic, explore the woods, drink, eat, dance and drink some more, before crashing
into your tent and camping under the stars with the rabbits and deer.
For more information and to purchase tickets, visit the Silfest website at
www.union.ic.ac.uk/silfest and for regular updates on bands and entertain-
ments join the Facebook events page at www.tiny.cc/SILFEST2013 or follow
SILFEST2013 on Twitter. Early-bird tickets are now on sale, limited numbers
and for a limited time only!
Lara Meade
ZJU will be the ﬁrst Chinese univer-
sity to expand overseas.
Imperial have invited proposals
from potential global partners in busi-
ness, industry and academia to base
themselves at the seven acre site and
collaborate with Imperial. College
say that the early response has been
“strong”. O’Nions said: “Our ambition
for collaborating with other organi-
sations at Imperial West – and cer-
tainly with ZJU – is to achieve a level
of excellence together that would not
be possible apart.” He went on to say:
“We look forward to working with
ZJU colleagues to establish how the
two institutions will beneﬁt from the
potential partnerships.”
At this stage the agreement is to dis-
cuss the new campus and is non-bind-
ing. Both Imperial and ZJU will now
explore the feasibility of establishing
joint academic facilities in the Imperi-
al West campus. The two universities
will also explore ways to collaborate
in postgraduate education and joint
research. O’Nions has hinted as to
how this could be useful. He said that
there are some problems that cannot
be solved by one side and that this is
good opportunity to work together in
a two pronged approach. “For exam-
ple, in the ﬁeld of human health, the
two universities can study the popula-
tion in diﬀerent regions and explore
the treatment of diseases faced by hu-
man beings.”
ZJU seem to be keen on the move.
An article appeared on their website
praising Imperial and highlighting the
reputation for international excellence
that Imperial enjoys. ZJU described
the opportunity as “exciting”. Jin De-
shui said: “We are very pleased to be
able to work together with Imperial
College”. He went on to say that Im-
perial and ZJU will develop a mutually
beneﬁcial model, which will be sus-
tainable and that they will carry out
two-way, in-depth strategic coopera-
tion that will help both institutions.
Imperial West is the new campus for
Imperial College London. Exact de-
tails on what will be there have not yet
been fully released. However, College
say that the site, previously owned by
the BBC, will be a £150 million re-
search centre for up to 3000 scientists.
The site faced opposition from local
residents who claimed that their peace
would be disturbed and their houses
would be overshadowed.
ZJU currently contains around
39,000 students, and houses one of
the largest library collections in Chi-
na. The Times Higher Education sup-
plement (THE) ranked it below 300 in
the world, although its income from
industry is very strong.
continued from the front page
>>
Future partnership on the cards
Looks like they rejected my
pink marble tower with
two side structure design.
Wonder why...

