unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
BOUNCY CASTLE
Tuesday 28 May
11:00 - 15:00
Free
Queen’s Lawn
If you’re not one for Yoga, Tai Chi,
Zumba or BoxfIt? You can always
de-stress by having a bounce on
our bouncy castle.
Join our team! Register online for our
recruitment event on Friday 4 June
We run one of the best student venues in the UK and we need a team to make the magic happen. If you fancy
working in our bars and entertainments team then applications are now open online to our here. We are looking
exciting and dynamic people to work in our teams, people who believe in providing brilliant customer service and
aren’t afraid of hard work.
We are looking for people to help out in our bars and with our entertainments, and also in the Union Shop and
Newsagent. All the roles will require some late-night and weekend shifts.
The recruitment event is at Metric on June 4 at 18:00. To register for a place at the event then you will need to
complete the form at imperialcollegeunion.org/studentstaff by midday Monday 3 June.
imperialcollegeunion.org/studentstaff
Union Survey - tell us what you think
The Union Survey is your chance to let us know what you think about
the many services that we run and provide. The survey only takes a few
minutes to complete and helps us undertsand how to make your Union
better for you.
Take the survey online at imperialcollegeunion.org/survey and you could
win one of the following prizes:
• An iPad Mini (WiFi 16GB Black)
• 2 x £20 Union Shop vouchers
• 4 x £10 Union Shop vouchers
• 4 pairs of Summer Ball 2013 tickets!
This is the third Union Survey we have run and already we have made big
changes as a result of your feedback. Our ‘You said, We did’ campaign
highlights the changes we have made. Some of those changes include:
• Introducing great monthly drinks offers our bars
• Improved the speed of eActivities by moving it to a new, faster, server
• Launched new nights in Metric including our new indie night Indigo
• Started hosting sexual health clinics on campus with free STI testing
• Regular visits to other campuses including Hammersmith and Silwood
DON’T FORGET,THE UNION SURVEY CLOSES ON 12 JUNE 2013!
This really does help us to improve everything we do, so help us keep
improving for you. We will be selecting winners at random for the prize
draw and announcing them online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/survey
Forfiveminutesofyourtime
youcouldwinan
ipadmini
&moregreatprizes!
Nominations close
Wednesday 29 May
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
imperialcollegeunion.org/unionawards

