ffage 6 F E L I X 5th February, 1974
ALQU1N
MOUNTAIN QUEEN
Holland always seems to come up
with bands importing themselves to
Britain and trying to make a name
here. Some succeeded: some didn't.
Focus and Golden Earring are two ex-
amples that have. Earth & Fire and
Sandy Coast are two that are still
working at it.
The latest to try are Alquin. Their
first album, Marks', was released in
March 1973. Their latest, 'MOUN-
TAIN QUEEN' is due February 1974.
The background, especially of the
earlier members of the band, is a
mixture of jazz and R n B. With a line-
up of saxophones, flute, organ, guitar,
bass and drums they have managed
to produce a style that appears to be
Focus, Chicago and If mixed togeth-
CURTIS MAYF1ELD
CURTIS IN CHICAGO
Superfly, as a film, was a success-
ful box-office hit. It also provided
riches for Curton Records, owned by
Curtis Mayfield who sang the title
track. In 1973 Curtis, along with his
original group, the Impressions, made
a TV show for America. From this
show, along with one or two earlier
trapks with dubbed clapping, an
album 'CURTIS IN CHICAGO' was
produced.
, As mentioned, Curtis rejoins the
Impressions both old and new. Also
JIMI HENDRIX
LOOSE ENDS
Hendrix is long dead now and yet
still previously unreleased tapes
appear. The latest offering from Poly-
dor is entitled 'LOOSE ENDS' and
•consists of a collection of recordings
including studio back-chat. The main
line up consists of Jimi with Mitch
Mitchell and Billy Cox with assist-
ance on some tracks from Noel Red-
ding and Buddy Miles.
On listening, and without any
er. A n interesting combination and
one which comes over quite well. The
guitar playing of Ferdinand Bakker is
ably supported by Dick Franssen on
organ with Job Tarenskeen and Ron-
ald Ottenhoff providing the brass sec-
tion. Hein Mars, bass, and Paul
Westrake, drums, complete the line-
up. Vocals are provided by Job and
Ferdinand.
The jazz influences are especially
noticeable in the brass sections whilst
Ferdinand also shows that he is by no
means a bad violin player. A very
easy going album and one that I have
personally found eminently suitable
for listening to in the late evening.
Overall an excellent album and one
which should do well for them. Hope-
fully, more will be heard from them
though I hope that their build up is
better planned than Focus' and that
they are allowed to develop rather
than having stardom forced upon
them.
helping out are Brenda Lee Eager,
Gene Chandler and Jerry Butler.
The tracks span a very long period
of time, from 'Superfly', right back to
'For your precious love' originally re-
leased in 1959.
My main criticism with the album
would be the studio clapping. Audi-
ences in studios just don't seem to
compare with concert audiences and
the clapping always appears to be
falsely dubbed.
There is no doubt that this is soul
at its best and, although not a great
soul fan, I found the change of styles
and the range of artists were able to
present several variations removing
that aspect of soul that I find annoy-
ing: namely sameness. A highly
recommended album for soul lovers.
additional information, it is fairly ob-
vious that it was never intended
originally that these tracks should be
collected on to one album. There are
flashes of Jimi's unexcelled brilliance
especially on 'I'm your Hoochie
Coochie Man', and it would be diffi-
cult to say that the playing is bad any-
where on the album. It is not, how-
ever, an album for the casual collector
and certainly not a Hendrix classic.
It would appeal to those avid Hendrix
fans who insist on collecting all
material issued and maybe as an
interesting addition to a collection
containing two or three other Hen-
drix albums. Not to be recommended,
however, for a one off Hendrix album.
CHRIS MILLARD
BLACK BRITAIN
(George Allen & Unwin£1.95)
Chris Mullard is an ex-official of
CARD and presently the Community
Relations Officer for Tyneside. The
cover blurb claims that his book
brings 'the black voice' to race rela-
tions. Mullard himself claims that he
speaks as
'a black who cannot forget he is
black, a black born and bred in
the UK who still feels an out-
cast'.
Fine sentiments, indeed. Most of
us, whose background is the same
would agree that we are still outcasts,
and that Britain is a racist society.
However, this book gives no answers
to our questions.
'Black Britain', a best seller, is
very obviously directed at a white
audience, and loses by it. Mullard is
at his best when discussing the short-
comings of white society as regards
racism, and rightly identifies racism
as 'part and paitoel' of that society.
However, when he starts to talk about
blacks and what blacks should do to
defend themselves, the book immed-
iately loses conviction. The book
seems to be concerned with pressing
forward many of the ideas beloved of
white liberals about the revolutionary
nature of the black working-class. He
speaks of imminent race civil war and
riots a la Watts and Chicago.
This view totally ignores the
crushing effects of racism. It is clear
to many blacks in Britain that many of
us have been broken and that there is
no possibility of resistance at this
time. The effects of colonialism and
the break-up of black communities
within the colonies have left their
mark, a total loss of self-respect and
self-confidence. And this is where the
British black is crucially different to
his American counterpart. Surely the
first task in combating racism is to
restore that confidence by the con-
struction Of strong independent com-
munities with a voice in conurbations
such as London, Liverpool and Man-
chester.
It is important for students to con-
front this problem. The book is as
good a place as any to start. The
sections on the deliberate stagnation
of the Race Relations industry and on
the police are especially worthwhile;
the reprint of Ron Phillips' article on
the tragic case of David Oluwale
(where an inspector and sergeant of
the Leeds police were indicted for
murder, but convicted on numerous
charges of assault) is also worth,
reading. Mullard's comment on assi-
milation is especially significant as he
h-imself is a half-caste.
"Assimilation is a Utopian dream.
He cannot work in society today as it>
denies the individual the right to an
identity of his own. Whilst racist be-
haviour exists in a society it denies
any equal relationship between black
and white . . . . as colour will always
remain a factor'.
In the final analysis, the book fails
to convince me, and will probably fail
to convince most blacks; as I said
before, it is for a white audience and
fails entirely to delineate the origin
of racism, why it is part of white
society. Maybe the truth is too hard
to take—for those who don't have to
live with it every day.
TREVOR PHILLIPS.
TROGGS
Nostalgia was in the
air last Friday at Imper-
ial College Union. The
reason? The return of
the TROGGS (remember
them?). Believe it or not,
the Troggs are still go-
ing strong and, in fact,
are receiving rave re-
7RIDDLE RHYMES?
Can you guess the names of the eight living per-
sonalities portrayed in these riddle rhymes ?
Answers on page 2.
| He goes around the globe with ease
# And knows how hard it is to please
The people that he meets and sees.
O His panoramic scenes declare
He lives in castles in the air
And knows his onions with his schemes
Of strange and surrealistic dreams.
5
S
3
4
This decent man has raised his voice
And speaks against the things we hide;
He makes the British heart rejoice
And tries to give us back our pride.
He turns the daylight into night
And hides himself away.
I wish that he would see the light
And now enjoy the day.
He criticises great expense . . .
And many chose to take offence!
He criticises great expense . . .
And others praise his common sense!
O let the knighted prophet speak
With sense so sound from week to week.
For he can bridge the gap with tact
—Although he is no knight in fact!
He asks his questions like a fox
And makes us think ' H o w orthodox!"
—Yet winter sits within the box
With falsehood, truth and paradox.
He hears no sound nor speech like you
—Yet he is a sympathetic kind
Of man with brain and heart so true
That he, with Conscience, speaks his mind.
© N. Racine-Jaques, 1974
views at most of their gigs. Not being old enough
(unlike other members of the Entertainments Com-
mittee) to have seen them live last time they were
at the college I didn't really know what to expect.
I'm still not sure if what I saw was what I might
have expected.
Reg Presley, lead singer, seems to have 'moved
with the times'. Wearing a close fitting (he was
too big for it to be fight) black jump suit he
gyrated about in the small space available on the
concert hall stage. His microphone (?!) gestures
fitted in with the lyrics, lyrics such that their iatest
singte was banned by the BBC (though that doesn't
take much nowadays).
The other members of the band, whilst being
accomplished mus'icians, seemed to act mainly
as a backing band to Reg's antics. There is no
doubt, however, as to their success. Combining
numbers both old and new they presented an act
that kept the crowd both happy and shouting for
more (twice). Wild Thing, one of their best known
numbers, set the crowd moving, especially the
ones in front, near the stage. And, despite the
fact that one helping had already been presented,
it was Wild Thing that the crowd requested, and
received, for the final encore.
The concert was soon over and once again we
were left with just memories. I hope that their true
fans who were present (including several con-
siderably older than the average student) will
cherish and remember them.

