Fage 8 F E L I X 5th February, 1974
FOOTBALL
UPSET I N C U P
IC II 1 v IC III 3
With only three IC teams left in the tup out of
seven it was unfortunate that two were drawn
against each other so soon. Despite the fact that
the Third team had beaten the seconds, 2-1, earlier
in the season, the Seconds were confident of vic-
tory—too confident.
One weakness of the Seconds this season is the
midfield. By hard running and determination the
Thirds started to dominate the midfield With Mike
Butterworth and Mike Jakeman in control. The
Second team midfield with the exception of Alan
Peterson, was non-existent. The Thirds started
piling on the pressure and it became only a matter
of time before they would score. After twenty
minutes Mick Butterworth brought a cross from
the right down and slammed it home. Still confi-
dent the Seconds thought this was only a tempo-
rary setback but were brought to earth ten minutes
later. After a mix (Cock) up between Dave Pervis
and goalkeeper John Thornback, Rob Holmes in-
tercepted a back pass and chipped the ball over
the keeper's head to make it 2-0, the half-time
score.
The Second team still failed to find their form
and from a long through ball Rob Holmes scored
his second to make it 3-0 to the Third team. The
Second team now lost their tempers, became fran-
tic and were totally ragged at the back. Karol Sen-
kin saved further humiliation by kicking the ball
off the line. The Second team restored some of
their pride towards the end when Billie Pike
scored. The goal followed a poor gcatkiek, an un-
noticed handball and then only just trickled over
the line from a miskick. Substitute Colin 'Skouse'
Higham hit the post at the very end. And so it fin-
ished 3-1 to the Third team. They do say the cup
is full of surprises.
Teams: Seconds: J. (TootswaHower) Thornback, R. (G.
rule OK) Young, K. Senkin, Dave ('s defected) Pervis, M.
Manning, A 'Fulwelt' Peterson (Capt.), J. Miles, T. Fricher,
B. Day, M. Clarke, B. Pike, Sub. C. Higham.
Thirds:— R. Colston, C. Anastasi, R. Ferret, J. Hey
(Capt), J . Hope, M. (Kamikzi) Butterworth, M. Jakeman,
1. Ponton, T (I've been here longer than Bob) Richards, P.
Singlton, R. Holmes.
IC V 3 v Birkbeck III 1
Also at Harlington the Fifth team beat Birkbeck
Thirds by three goals to one. In the first hah, how-
ever, they defended desperately and only good
work in defence by Steve Parsons and Super Star
Roger Hunter kept the score down to one-nil to
Birkbeck. Aften ten minutes of the second half
Rog Hunter scored brilliantly (his words) from a
penalty and a minute later the Birkbeck fullback
scored an own goal. Feeling very despondent the
Birkbeck players now started blaming the ref and
arguing amongst themselves. A small black mon-
grel, having a rest from the other game, now
made a small appearance before being sent off—
with the aid of a boot. A Dhiflon free kick floated
over the goalkeeper and the Fifths were now home
end dry winning three goals to one. Mike Hesh-
mati, Rog (Super P***) Hunter and Steve Parsons
all played well but the best player was undoubtedly
Reft Bates.
Captain Tony Wilkinson, the Brian Clough of
IC football said afterwards that he was not afraid
of the Third team and that he thinks his team are
on the Motspur trail.
Team:— M. Heshmati, T. Wilkinson, D. Craig, R. Hun-
ter, S. Parsons, R. 'Mills, K. (Geordie Soc) Gowan, S.
Handa, M. Dhillon, I. Q. Haswell, B. Causey, Master Bates.
Finally the Football Club still needs a few more
players and especially referees (£1.25 and a free
tea). If you are interested put your name on the
notice board in the Union.
Pete Davies
2nds R E C O V E R
IC II 9 v Q E C II 0
On a day when organisation hit an all time low,
the stout hearts that beat in the chests (or wher-
ever) (boots perhaps—Sports Ed.) of the men of
IC soccer club combined to produce a resonant
rhythm, the force of which left an uninspired QEC
side heavily defeated and in awe. A personal
apology to Andy Roberts—we didn't mean to bore
you quite so mu^h. The remaining team is beyond
description. Felix has never encountered such
superlatives.
The score, though high, was irrelevant, it was
the mystic combination of limbs and torsos, the
telepathic linking of 11 paranormal intellects,
which made the opposition play not very well at
all really. This sympathy of physical endeavour
was brought to a cataclysmic crescendo of a
climax by the harmonic strains of tight-lipped,
ashen faced Alan Peterson's (captain, referee)
whistle. Alan Peterson is reputed to be 59.
Team: A. Peterson (76), A. Roberts (cardboard replica),
R. Kill, R. Manning, R. Senkiw (kind permission of Lon-
don Zoo), J. Iley (ditto), K. Alamouti, C. Higman (weight
watchers Ltd.), M. Clarke (Rent-a-Thug Ltd.), R. Day
(anonymous author—Sports Ed.), I. Hyslop (co-author—
ditto).
Anom
GOLF
T H E R E A D I N G A F F A I R
With Hill's now quot-
ing ICGS as the 5-4 on
favourites for the league
title it is my pleasant
task to report the defeat
of the mighty Reading
team, pre-season favour-
ites for the title and con-
taining some of the most
forbidding names in
modern golf (I am for-
bidden to divulge their
names).
The society has only
suffered one defeat this
season and that at the
hands of University Col-
lege (4^-11) in the sea-
son Curtain-raiser. Read-
ing subsequently de-
feated University Col-
lege (6-0) so it was not
surprising that the press
colloquially referred our
forthcoming encounter
as a 'pissover' for Read-
ing. At the appointed
'tee-off' time only their
worst two players had
arrived, the rest choos-
ing to arrive an hour
later complete with 'Go-
Go Girls', press photog-
raphers, and sand-
wiches. Little did they
know what was in store
for them. Rain! Yes,
glorious, gushing, form
removing rain, and lots
of it. Naturally our
meteorological man Noel
Williams had forewarned
the committee of this
and thus we had pre-
pared by selecting an all-
weather team for this
encounter (or 'hands up
who's got an umbrella!)
Their tail-enders were
the first to meet their
Waterloo. John Mendon-
ca, not overawed by his
promotion, to the 'Elite'
team squad, strolled
nonchalantly off to a
cool five and four vic-
tory, without ever need-
ing to draw heavily on
his considerable putting
ability. Clearly John's
name is one to watch!
Mike Strickland, now a
seasoned campaigner,
was promoted to the no.
2 spot due to the ab-
sence of 'Drover' Brown.
He adored a Victory.
'Wild Bill' Calder-
wood unfortunately slid
to a 3 and 2 defeat. This
defeat is in no small way
attributable to the fact
that he now putts one-
handed with an umbrella
over his head! Richard
Widdilove, on a snooker
'hot-streak' was in a
hurry to get back to the
felt and consequently
allowed his opponent to
hustle him to a five and
four defeat!! Richard,
however, got his own
back at the snooker table
afterwards. Nigel Foster
didn't really deserve to
beat his opponent by the
5 and 3 margin that he
did (Mind you he had
the flu last week and
didn't deserve that eith-
er). His opponent was
good and in truth would
probably have beaten
him in any subsequent
match. However a touch
of magic for four holes
tied the match up and
both players Willingly
beat a wet retreat to the
clubhouse. Clive Pem-
berton provided the only
massacre of the day. His
6 and 5 victory over a
talented opponent is ap-
parently due to his dis-
like of rain (he loves
snow though).
Thus the society
pulled off a 4-2 victory.
Undoubtably this is our
finest result to date and
represents a giant stride
towards our primary
goal, the coveted league
title.
Nigel Foster (Capt.)
Team:— Nigel Foster
(Capt), Bill Calderwood
(V. Capt), Mike Strick-
land, Richard Waddi-
love, . Clive Pemberton,
John Mendonca.
RUGBY
G u t t e r i d g e C u p 2 n d r o u n d
IC 22 WESTFIELD 3
The game was played in a strong wind with
constant rain at Harlington. Initially due to a num-
ber of dropped balls (and broken voices? Sports
Ed.) and indecisive defensive play, IC came under
a lot of unnecessary pressure. But superior for-
ward power gave IC the lead through a push over
try hogged by jicrum-'half Chris Flanagan (guess
who wrote this—Sports Ed.). Westfield shortly
replied with a penalty goal, awarded for Steve
Booth handling in a ruck!!! From this point on-
wards Westfield were forced to defend vigorously.
Which they did with great success. Good backing
up brought a try for Dave Osborne which drew a
grudging conversion from Dave Rimmer (he didn't
get any more). Next, Martin Cotter, trying to catch
up in the try race, squeezed in two tries, despite
his knee. Then, to finish in style, Dennis (I've got
more tries than you) Shakesheff, scored after a
beautiful blind side break by the scrumhalf (Hen
Heh!). Jeff Hughes won every tight ball but 3 in
the game. R. Hughes also played, R. Jones did not.
HOCKEY
lst X I
Last Saturday the 1st XI travelled to Chalfont
St. Peters and played in a thoroughly enjoyable
match in very picturesque surroundings. The team
lost 2-1 but all decided that we had played well
and that the result was a little unfair. However,
the performance of several players showed that
the potential of the team is still to be fully used.
The half-time score was 0-0 but after the restart
Chalfont scored two very qufck goals while the
defence savoured the juicy half-time oranges. IC
pulled one back through Pun and that was the
final goal of the match.'
On Wednesday IC left for what used to be the
best drinking fixture of the season, Southampton
away. We arrived in time for a quick couple of
pints of beer before the game. The game was
played under very difficult conditions—It was wet,
windy and they played better than us, and IC went
deservedly down 5-1.
Still off the field IC shone and completely out-
drank the opposition, most of whom had had
enough by 7 o'clock. We were content to stay all
night but Mick 'Sticky Tape' Downs decided that
we would leave at 11.30. At 11.30 a well drunk
IC team left Southampton singing on its way back
to IC.
A.B.
2nd X I
The 2nd XI restarted the season in promising
style last Saturday, by defeating Chinnor 2nd XI
1-0. The fine weather and Arthur's good prepara-
tion of the pitch helped make it a very enjoyable
match.
In the earlier stages IC dominated, but in spite
of this shots for goal were far, and few between.
I take heart, however, from the alert performance
of the team, constructive use of the ball being
made 'in all sectors of the pitch. In the second half
IC continued to take the upper hand, with the hard
earned goal coming early on. More goals looked
possible as a result of determined efforts on both
wings stemming from sound built ups in mid-field.
Many thanks to all members for their effort and
I hope the more enjoyable game will inspire a
more conscientious turn out this term.
I.C.R.
Late result:— 2nd XI 3, Chalfont St. Peter
2nd XI 1.
X-COUNTRY
A week last Wednesday, I.C. descended on Brighton to
race against Sussex University and Brighton Poly. Thames
Poly were also supposed to be running, but arrived late
(minus gimp). The race marked lan's comeback, but all
hopes of a good run were dashed on the first bend, when
the aforesaid runner went arse over tit. There then followed
a slight clash with the Law, starting with a few well
known Union Bar songs in the street and finishing with a Uri
Geller act on a station clock, in between, Pete Johnson
was saved from a fate worse than death and Keith failed
to nick a plastic cannon from "The Bosun".
The turnout for the U.C. ' 5 ' on Saturday was piss-poor,
with Pad in the first team at one stage. However, Granny
plugged his brain into his pocket computer, and thus re-
vitalised managed to follow Rob in as 2nd I.C. counter.
Last Wednesday we beat (say no more) London Hospi-
tals and Sussex at Petersham, with Rob managing a per-
sonal best, but the team chunder expert failed to perform.
Later that evening, it was revealed that we had been har-
bouring an under-age drinker, but at least the Natural
History Museum gained from it. I.J.I.

