science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Science
Imperialas One
Marketing Yourself
Creatively
UG Lecture Theatre
The Tanaka Business School,
Imperial College London
South Kensington Campus,
London SW7 2AZ
RSVP:
The forum is free but due to popular
demand, places are strictly limited.
Early registration is strongly advised
and places are offered as first come
first served. If you would like to
attend, please email
k.mistry@imperial.ac.uk
or tel: 020 7594 5558
before 29 January 2008
Imperial as One’s aim is to assist the
College in setting priorities and
raising the profile of equality issues
and ensure the experiences and
views of staff at all levels are
represented.
Student Forum
Is your CV good enough to get you an interview?
What are the industry people really looking for?
What does equality and diversity really mean in recruitment?
Following a successful launch last year, Imperial As One is pleased
to announce the second running of a Student Forum. Our targeted
audiences are particularly Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) students,
including Chinese and Southern Asians, who form the largest groups
of international students.
Not only will you hear from leading academics, alumnis and
speakers from industry giving insights into their own professional
experience in 'marketing themselves' throughout their career, you
will also have the opportunity to ask any questions and obtain direct
feedback from a distinguished panel.
Competition:
Back by popular demand, Imperial As One is once again running
"The Best CV" competition opens to all BME students. This year's
competition offers exciting prizes that money cannot buy, including
the chance of a prestigious internship. Entries can be submitted in
one of the three categories:
(1) Business/Finance
(2) Research/Academic
(3) Engineering/Industry
If you would like to enter, please submit your entry (CV) to Kalpna
Mistry, level 5 Sherfield Building; or email k.mistry@imperial.ac.uk
Competition closes on Friday 19January 2008. Winners will be
announced at the Forum.
Please visit www3.imperial.ac.uk/hr/equality/race/imperialasone
to view the forum programme and a guideline on CV writing.
Wednesday
30 January
2008
14.00 - 16.45
Sea, sex and sun – oh, syphilis too
Along with a handful of slaves and a
couple of pineapples, it now seems
Christopher Columbus may also have
brought syphilis back to Europe from
his travels in the New World. according
to a new molecular genetic analysis.
Columbus returned from his New
World adventure in 1493. Two years
later, Europe suffered its first syphilis
epidemic. Coincidence? Some think so,
but others have argued that the syphi-
lis-causing bacterium, Treponema pal-
lidum, was introduced into Europe
when Columbus and his crew returned
from their voyage, having got up close
and personal with the natives.
The evidence supporting the Colum-
bian hypothesis of syphilis spread has
previously been limited to paleopatho-
Columbus' holiday in Barbados: new study indicates he brought some rather nasty baggage back to Europe
logical data. The characteristic scars
that syphilis leaves on the bones of its
victims have been found on 7,000-year-
old skeletons from the New World,
whereas virtually no such marks have
been seen on European skeletons pre-
dating Columbus’ voyage. But many
scientists do not consider this skeletal
evidence to be conclusive.
A team of American scientists has
attempted to solve this 500-year-
old question using molecular genet-
ics. Kristin Harper and colleagues at
Emory University in Atlanta used an
evolutionary biology technique called
phylogenetic analysis to construct an
evolutionary tree showing the rela-
tionships between different strains of
treponemes – the family of bacteria
that cause syphilis and other related
diseases – from 26 locations around
the world. The resulting phylogenetic
tree sheds light on the order in which
the different strains of treponemes
emerged.
Using this approach, the researchers
were able to show that the strains of
bacteria that cause sexually transmit-
ted syphilis arose relatively recently
and are closely related to South Ameri-
can bacterial strains causing yaws, a
similar disease transmitted via skin-to-
skin or oral contact. This finding pro-
vides strong support for the Colum-
bian hypothesis.
In contrast, the yaws-causing strains
from the Old World arose early in hu-
man history and were similar to strains
found in non-human primates, sug-
gesting that yaws is an ancient disease
that has evolved with us since the di-
vergence of humans and chimps.
In light of their findings, the authors
suggest that non-sexually transmitted
treponemes first evolved in the Old
World before being taken to the Amer-
icas by migrating humans, where they
evolved into the progenitor of sexually
transmitted syphilis. This strain seems
to have been taken over to Europe dur-
ing the renaissance, and it’s looking in-
creasingly likely that Columbus and his
crew were the culprits.
Although, with decreasing world-
wide incidences of these diseases mak-
ing patient samples more and more
difficult to obtain, we may (fortunately)
never know the full story.
Tamsin Osborne
“Syphilis bacteria
strains are
closely related to
South American
yaws strains”
“European
skeletons from
before 1493 do
not show the
characteristic
scars of syphilis"
Syphilis ahoy! Seems the Santa Maria's sailors weren't that saintly...
Syphilis leads to scars on bones. Intriguingly, none were present on
European skeletons before Columbus' trip. The new study reveals
why: syphilis evolved from a New World strain of yaws bacteria

