politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 18 January 2008
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank must deal with an economy in free fall as well as political infighting
Another day, another peace process
There can be little doubt that the car-
nage and division caused by the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict extends beyond
the two states’ respective borders. Even
the countries of the West are not im-
mune to its effects; Al-Qaeda leaders
repeatedly cite the Palestinian cause in
their anti-West manifestos and inter-
views. Peace between the two sides is
the preferable option not just for the
two sides, but for the Middle East and
the world. International leaders too
share that hope; President Bush, on his
first visit to Israel last week as Presi-
dent, said he saw “a new opportunity
for peace here in the holy land and for
freedom across the region.” But how
did one of the world’s longest-running
and deadliest conflicts start in the first
place, and how can it be resolved?
Since 1948, when modern Israel de-
clared its independence (following the
controversial UN Partition Plan), con-
flict has raged throughout Israel, Pal-
estine and the wider Middle East over
land in the area. Israel fought several
wars with the Arab states in 1948, 1967
and 1973, extending its borders and
occupying the Gaza Strip and West
Bank. In 1964, the Palestine Libera-
tion Organization (PLO) was founded.
Its central principles included the de-
struction of Israel via armed strug-
gle, and that pre-1948 Palestine is the
indivisible homeland of the Palestin-
ian people. The PLO and its factions
fought a running battle with the Israeli
army for decades.
By 1993, however, both sides had
become willing to meet for talks, and
the Oslo Accords, the first face-to-face
agreement, was agreed upon as the
framework for peace. The democratic
Palestinian Authority (PA) was created
in exchange for the PLO’s recognition
of the state of Israel. However, progress
on key issues began to stall throughout
the 1990s; the final blow was struck at
the 2000 Camp David summit when
Arafat refused to accept a proposal
drafted jointly by the US and Israel.
Later that year, the al-Aqsa intifada be-
gan, the second major uprising by the
Palestinians against Israel.
The “road map for peace”, a plan pro-
posed in 2002 outlined by George W.
Bush, stated that the PA must adopt
democratic reforms and abandon the
use of terrorism, and in return Israel
would accept the authority of the new
democratic government. After retali-
atory attacks continued unabated, the
road map stalled, with the Palestinian
authority unable to prevent terrorist
attacks on Israeli targets. The conflict
continued for several years while at-
tempts to resuscitate the peace deal
failed; Hamas’ rise to power in 2006
and its failure to recognize Israel put
further strain on the process.
In November 2007, representatives
from the two sides, the Arab League,
European Union and United Nations
met in Maryland in the United States
for the Annapolis Conference, the
most recent in a series of peace confer-
ences. For the first time, the attendees
came to the conclusion that a two state
solution would serve as the framework
for later talks. There are several key
issues that must be solved, including
the Israeli settlements, the right of re-
turn for Palestinians, the status of Je-
Israel has been at the centre of international controversy since its declaration of independence in 1948
rusalem and the occupied territories.
What progress has been made on the
different issues and how will they be
addressed in the future?
Israel’s continued position on the oc-
cupied territories is that most of the
West Bank and the entire Gaza Strip
must become part of a Palestinian
state. In 2000, the Israeli prime min-
ister Ehud Barak offered Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat the opportunity to
establish a state comprising the Gaza
Strip and 92% of the West Bank. Arafat
rejected this, citing Barak’s opposition
to a Palestinian right of return. Some
Palestinians claim they are entitled to
East Jerusalem, as well as the whole
of the Gaza Strip and West Bank, but
Israel rejects this because of security
concerns. Others, including Hamas,
argue that Palestinians must also con-
trol the whole of Israel; the group also
views the entire peace process as “as
religiously forbidden and politically
inconceivable”.
The Israeli government has been
willing to concede on the issue of its
Palestinian settlements, enacting the
Gaza Pull-Out plan in August 2005
to remove all Israelis from the Gaza
Strip and some from the West Bank.
Its settlements of the region have been
viewed by the international media as
an obstacle to a resolution of the con-
flict. However, no further concessions
have been made; some Israelis and
supporters of the two-state solution
believe the settlements should remain
so long as their occupants accept Pal-
estinian rule.
Another contentious issue is the Pal-
estinian right to return; the current
number of Palestinian refugees stands
at approximately four million. The
Israeli government argues that allow-
ing refugees to return to their original
homes (many of which are in what is
now Israel) would create a Palestinian
majority and undermine Israel’s status
as a Jewish state. Critics of the right
to return state that Palestinians were
made homeless because of the Arab-
initiated 1948 war. However, several
UN resolutions call for refugees to be
Matthew Whitworth
permitted to return to their homes
“at the earliest practicable date”. Lit-
tle progress has been made on what is
perhaps the most difficult issue.
Regardless of the differences on both
sides, progress is steadily being made
on the issue, and despite suspicion
from some quarters on both sides of
the peace process, both sides generally
agree that a peaceful solution is mutu-
ally beneficial to constant conflict and
suffering.
From top: Ken Livinstone, Boris
Johnson and Brian Paddick
George W Bush made his first visit as president to Israel this month
Campaigning has started for the
coveted position of Mayor of
London which polls on May 1st.
Labour candidate and Mayor for
the past eight years Ken Living-
stone has said he wishes to see
the 2012 olympics while still in
office. The controversial figure
known through the 1980’s as
‘Red Ken’ for his hardline social-
ist views has overseen enormous
economic growth in the capital.
His most enduring legacy, how-
ever, may well be the congestion
charge he introduced during his
first term which now means pri-
vate motorists must pay £8 to
drive into the centre of town.
He faces strong compettition
from conservative candidate Bor-
ris Johnson, and Liberal Demo-
crat Brian Paddick.
Mr Paddick was the police forc-
es’ highest ranking openly gay
officer before starting his career
in politics. The Oxford graduate
in Criminology says his main pol-
icies are to reduce violent crime
and make the city ‘greener’. He
also claims to be the only seri-
ous alternative to the incumbant
mayor, a jibe at Mr Johnson who
has been described as an ‘em-
barrassment’ to the Tory party.
With the worst turnout of
any large election the last time
around, at 37%, campaigners
will be hoping for greater partici-
pation. Felix Politics urges YOU
to vote! Even if it’s for the BNP
.
London Mayor Election box

