politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Politics
Imperial College
Model United Nations
mUN@IC 2008
1. Security Council: Instability in northern Iraq
2. UN Environment Programme: Climate Change post Kyoto
3. World Health Organisation: AIDS in the 21st century
The 3rd Model United Nations Conference at Imperial College
Saturday January 26th 09:00-16:00
Agenda:
Email: info.icmun@gmail.com
Website: www.union.ic.ac.uk/scc/icmun
Facebook Group: ICMUN
REGISTRATION NOW OPEN!
To register: email info.icmun@gmail.com with
your name and your committee preference
£5 non-members; free for members
I
t’s a Saturday in September and
I’m walking the streets of Ful-
ham fully soaking in the ben-
efits of a fancy new South-West
London postcode. The archi-
tecture is all fantastic (read: period),
none of those grotesque new builds
or that nouveau warehouse farce. It’s
home to The White Horse, that fa-
mously posh pub commonly known as
“The Sloaney Pony”, the London Ora-
tory School, where Tony Blair’s kids go,
Stamford Bridge and The Hurlingham
Club. It’s a Tory stronghold, soon to be
part of the newly formed “Chelsea and
Fulham” constituency and it certainly
fits the stereotype. With the Chelseas
and Mayfairs of London now solely re-
served for the heirs of the world’s vari-
ous dynasties, I have surely hit upper-
middle class heaven.
And then the dream-shattering
sharp return to reality. A group of kids
with hoods, odd haircuts, and fright-
ening expressions approach on their
bikes, slowing only to shout obsceni-
ties at a passing couple. Behind them
an old man, reeking of urine, staggers
down the road in a camouflage jacket
with a can of Tesco Value cider. Just
a few minutes later a group of girls
in their early teens walk by, barely
clothed in the cold, with strange face
paint and a spectacular assortment of
Argos jewellery. Anyone who lives in
London knows this scene well. We also
know how it comes about that mem-
bers of Marx’s lumpenproletariat or
underclass (not to be confused with
the working class) live in areas where
the average house price is three times
the national average. Any confusion is
dissolved by what I see once I turn the
corner around the Town Hall. Surely
the tallest building in the area, this ten-
storey monstrosity of the 1970s stands
in stark contrast to the surrounding
Victorian terraces.
Britain is not the only country in the
world to have government-sponsored
housing built for those who could not
afford homes otherwise but London
does, however, stand out from most
other Western cities in one respect; the
dispersion of council housing amongst
the “rest of us”.
The multi-million dollar apartments
of Fifth Avenue are within reachable
distance of the slums of Harlem but
being within commutable distance is
something altogether different from
living right next door to. Well-off Pa-
risians keep the poor well away from
their central Paris property hotspots.
In London, however, we find billion-
aires who live quite literally right next
door to people on welfare.
We complain about this no end; how
many times have you heard friends
have massive strops about the tower
blocks in their area… from those who
apologise for nearby council housing
when you visit, to estate agents who go
out of their way to hide, or downplay
their existence? It’s an understandable
sentiment; in most other countries in
the world the wealthy do not typically
have to worry about crime on their
own doorstep. It only gets worse and
more frightening once you have chil-
dren; talk of the kids playing outside is
naturally a London rarity… unless said
kids wear Kappa tracksuits and/or are
pregnant. These estates can be a pain,
a blemish, the bane of one’s existence…
and certainly one feature that the city
can hold proudly over its peers.
For kids in this city born into poverty
to be placed in areas that offer a life-
line out is something that ought to be
celebrated, not bemoaned. The alter-
native to this is to designate certain ar-
eas solely for public housing where all
the underprivileged can live together.
These are known as ghettoes. Children
born into ghettoes are often raised in
an environment where they are in a
destructive family, all their neighbours
and associates are poor and uneducat-
ed and all their fellow school kids are
from similarly hopeless backgrounds.
Unsurprisingly, one of them breaking
out and achieving great things is a rare
occurrence. It is obvious that allowing
them to witness first-hand the “better
life” makes it much more likely they
will actually strive for achievement,
reducing the prevalance of the multi-
generational poverty curse that afflicts
so many families.
This argument doesn’t have to be
entirely charitable. Having the estates
spread out rather than bunched to-
gether makes the city as a whole more
peaceful. If you don’t believe me, ask
the people of Paris. Riots in that city
need only the lightest contemplations
of policy change by French parliament
as a catalyst for burning cars, maiming
police officers and raiding shops, be-
haviour virtually unheard of this side
of the Channel. This is, of course, in
part due to the violence-prone nature
of French politics, but is only made
possible in the 21st century by the fact
that the poor typically all live together,
allowing easy organisation of such ac-
tions. Before Rudy Giuliani, there were
parts of New York City that even the
police refused to have anything to do
with. While you hear the occasional
gripe about Brixton and Peckham, the
truth is these places are actually rela-
tively harmless.
The presence of these estates will
undoubtedly continue to cause great
annoyance for the better-off. Many le-
gitimate complaints about their exist-
ence may be made; I must admit I find
it hard to stomach any policy that will
allow the idle to potentially live better
than most hardworking people will
ever have a chance to, but I also rec-
ognise it as, like many difficult political
choices, a better of two evils.
Nice area, shame about the estates
Abioye Oyetunji comments on social housing and why ‘we’ shouldn’t have to live amongst ‘them’
London is a mosaic of wealth and poverty, where the world’s millionaires share postcodes with those on state welfare

