16 felix Friday 18 January 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
D
egenerate: ‘having de-
clined or deteriorated to
a lower mental, moral or
physical level; debased;
degraded; corrupt’. Not,
generally, considered to be a good
thing. However, if you are a fan of Amy
Winehouse (as I am) you may beg to
differ!
You may also beg to differ if you have
seen the Blyth Gallery’s latest offering.
Located on the fifth floor of the Sher-
field Building, this may be the only part
of Imperial which is inviting. The gal-
lery makes a nice change from a lot of
the other rooms we find ourselves in
around campus and until 27th January,
it offers us a chance to degenerate via
the work of Ellie Stanford, Ross Taylor
and Jack Vickridge; three artists explor-
ing and celebrating failure within their
work. One once remarked that a cer-
tain painting “looks as though a three
year-old did it”. You can also expect to
see quasi-spiritual scenes, Geomet-
ric Abstraction and places mysticised
by an artist adopting a ‘menopausal’
mindset. So, if you’re in a particularly
uninspiring lecture, get yourself off to
the fifth floor under the pretense that
you’re off to the loo.
Since we’re on the subject of low
moral levels, I thought I might talk
about a new found love of mine; rock-
and-roll (auto)biographies. Granted, if
the rock star in question decides that
he wants to write his own without so
much as GCSE English under his belt
then the grammar, sentence structure
and use of punctuation may be a little
unorthodox. The entertainment value
is also unorthodox in the moral and so-
cial sense, but that is exactly why they
are so good. For some unknown rea-
son, the recipe for success is to have a
fucked-up childhood. So much so that,
upon reading one rock biography after
another, the formula of no mother/
father figure, divorce, abuse (sexual
or otherwise), drugs, girls/boys/both,
kleptomania and poverty begins to
get a little unoriginal. Unoriginal, but
thoroughly interesting, nonetheless. I
find myself living vicariously through
these child-forms of icons such as
Slash and Anthony Kiedis as I was de-
rived of a deprived childhood and I will
never forgive my hard-working, loving
parents for it! You can imagine my sur-
prise when I learned upon reading My
Life with and without Jim Morrison by
his wife, Patricia Kennealy-Morrison,
that this hero of mine had not only
graduated from high school, but also
had a degree from film school no less.
Less can be said for Russell Brand. He
is in no way, shape or form a rock star
but his book suggests he may as well be,
due to all his hedonistic and wild ways.
I probably have a more active imagina-
tion than most, yet my mouth widened
in awe at Brand’s antics. When I put
it like that, I feel a touch of guilt that
I am revelling in the demise and de-
struction of others. However, most of
these characters have plenty of wealth
to help heal the wounds of doing too
much acid inside an abandoned house
in the Hollywood Hills.
Shakespeare’s Othello at
Donmar Warehouse
Tickets to see Ewan McGregor star in Othello are not easy to come by but somehow
Caz Knight has managed to get her hands on a couple and here is what she thought
E
xactly four hundred and
three years after it was first
performed to His Majesty
King James I in the Ban-
queting House of Whitehall,
Shakespeare’s Othello is still creating
media frenzy. Besides being made into
an unremarkable, American-made film
starring unremarkable actors (O), the
work is currently attracting a lot of at-
tention due to the caliber of thespians
appearing in Michael Grandage’s pro-
duction. It stars Chiwitel Ejiophor (you
may recognise him from films such
Love Actually, Hotel Rwanda and Kinky
Boots) as the Moor, Othello, and Ewan
McGregor, in his first Shakespeare play
on stage, as the Ancient Iago.
To give one an idea of just how highly
anticipated this production was, and
still is, tickets were auctioned on eBay
for thousands, although the actual fig-
ure varies with each review one reads.
Tickets are, sadly, still sold out, so un-
less you have that sort of money or are
prepared to go to criminal lengths to
get it then it is unlikely you will get
to see it. Luckily, your very own Felix
Arts’ editor did the seeing for you and
is about to tell you all.
For those unfamiliar with Shake-
speare’s tragedy Othello, it is set in the
worlds of Venice and Cyprus at the
time when England was under threat
by the Ottoman Empire. The play be-
gins in Venice, home city of our char-
acters, where the cunning and mali-
ciousness of Iago is presented initially
when he exposes Othello and Desde-
mona’s marriage to her Senator father.
Given the period in history, the shock
of having one’s daughter betrothed to a
black soldier would have been enough
to suspect witchcraft on the part of
Othello. The story continues with the
plot moving to Cyprus as Othello, Iago,
Cassio and the rest of the militia aim
to deflect the enemy in Cyprus. Iago’s
wife, Emilia, and Desdemona, join
them but as the enemy is defeated, Ia-
go’s role as evil Cupid continues as he
weaves between characters and their
romances, feeding them untruths, for
reasons still unknown. Slowly, Othello
is persuaded that his Desdemona has
been unfaithful and is transformed
into the “green-eyed monster” with
disastrous consequences.
The Donmar Warehouse was the
perfect setting with its black, sparse
edifices, evocative lighting, meagre
yet highly efficient stage dressings all
teamed with beautiful but haunting
medieval music; perfect in reflecting
both the love and hate conjoured up in
the play.
Breaths were bated as the audience
waited for the man himself to enter. At
first McGregor is not particularly show
stopping (pardon the expression). He
is Ewan McGregor and does as good a
job as we expect from such a great ac-
tor, no more, no less. The duplicitous
nature of Iago suits McGregor’s ability
to take on a variety of roles. The audi-
ence recognises the “honest” as well as
the evil side of Iago in parts they have
seen McGregor take on in the past.
Grandage’s choice to have Iago shift
continuously from centre stage to the
shadows and back also reinforces Iago’s
deceitful and Machiavellian nature.
Jaws really did drop at the perform-
ance given by hidden gem of an actor
Ejiophor, in his portrayal of the Gen-
eral Othello. He is utterly spellbinding,
impressive, eloquent and majestic in
his acting. He achieves great success in
conveying the pendulous sadness and
drama of the last scene, which mirrors
the tragedy perfectly.
It is a credit to the cast that, not only
were they not totally washed away in
the tide of his stage presence, but also
that they managed themselves to each
bring life into what is a very heavy play.
Kelly Reilly as Desdemona shines in
the run up to the last scene by creating
huge pathos and emphasising her char-
acter’s vulnerability. Emilia (played by
Michelle Fairley) momentarily steals
the show in her gripping and powerful
testimony against Iago and in her de-
fense for Desdemona. Tom Hiddleston
is very dashing indeed in his costume
and, as Cassio, gives a superb perform-
ance which is undoubtedly on a par
with McGregor; great things to come
for him I hope, and am sure.
The three hours disintegrate as this
particular production of the thought-
provoking Othello is made thoroughly
accessible and one is able to truly ap-
preciate Shakespeare’s wit and why he
is still revered as the greatest English
playwright.
The boys: McGregor (right) stars as Iago while Ejiophor (left) takes
the title role
The girls: Kelly Reilly (bottom) as Desdemona and Michelle Fairley
(top) plays Emilia

