arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Arts
Hey, can you guess what I am, yet?
Ever thought you’re too rational to be a real artist? Michael Cook meets the little robot that could
I
think we can all agree that some
things in life are designed to be
kept separate. For instance, I try
not to practice my weightlifting
techniques at the same time as
my lying-on-a-bed-of-nails party trick,
for obvious reasons. My subscrip-
tion of Meat Weekly, with free sample
of bloody animal flesh, tends to get
they don’t lend themselves well to art
because they’re always trying to make
the lives of the humans that use them
easier, and we don’t always want that.
Art’s about struggle, not about paper-
clips popping up and offering you as-
sistance in venting your soul.
But this perception of computers
could be about to change, thanks to a
artiste.
Dr. Colton has done much work in
Computational Creativity, the field
of getting machines to work in a way
similar to humans when we create and
invent, but The Fool is his most crowd-
pleasing achievement. and it’s easy to
see why. The Fool doesn’t just look at
a photo and make a rough copy of it.
The pictures you can see littering this
page have been thought about in great
detail. The materials, the brushstrokes,
everything. The Fool isn’t a glorified set
of Photoshop filters. It’s a machine that
wants you to feel something when you
look at its work.
“I’m not sure I’m creative myself yet,”
the project website states, in a slightly
unsettling first-person tone, “I mainly
work from digital images to produce
artworks.”
Now, that might not sound like
much, but to fully understand The
Fool’s talent you have to learn a little
about the other key members of the
team - namely Maja Pantic and Michel
Valstar.
Pantic and Valstar aren’t strictly Cre-
ativity researchers. Their real strength
lies in Machine Vision, the sort of tech-
nologies that can use images and film
to analyse people and places. When
they were brought into the project and
taught The Fool how to understand
what emotions people were feeling,
the creative options really began to
open up.
Late last year the team began to use
their newfound knowledge of human
emotion to make a series of paintings
based on the happy, happy film Ame-
lie. Over 220 portraits were made from
various stills in the film, all capturing
the main character in different kinds
of emotional states. Each painting, as a
result, is a unique blend of styles, me-
dia and colour. The full gallery, which
is viewable online, is an extremely im-
pressive end result.
With a new surge in confidence,
The Painting Fool was ready to enter
the big leagues and begin looking for
that thing every child prodigy craves
- appreciation for their art. And so in
December last year Simon Colton and
Michel Valstar took The Painting Fool
to the annual Machine Intelligence
Competition, sponsored by Electrolux
and held on behalf of the British Com-
puting Society in Cambridge. Though
the third member of their team, Dr.
Pantic, was too ill to attend, The Fool
still performed to its best.
Despite technical difficulties, The
Fool performed two live portaits in just
fifteen minutes, one on Michel and a
second on a member of the audience.
The results, all of which are available
online, show just how well The Fool
can now react to new subjects and set-
tings. Deservedly, the team received a
prize for the best live demonstration,
giving a huge boost to the research
and, of course, The Fool’s needy artis-
tic ego itself.
The story of the first cyber-Cezanne
doesn’t stop there, though. Colton and
his team are already looking ahead to
a far harder, but arguably more cru-
cial milestone - making The Fool paint
something from imagination alone.
“One of the tests of creativity is using
imagination,” Dr. Colton told the Lon-
don Metro, “I want to get the compu-
ter to do this to a create a new image.”
The little fella (lady?) himself is pretty
eager, too.
“Imagination is not something that
is easy to simulate. I’m currently work-
ing on painting scenes which don’t ex-
ist. I hope to launch a new gallery of
these images in early 2008. Watch this
space...”
Why is it so much harder to do? It’s
partly because of the way such tech-
nologies work. At the moment, The
Fool’s strength comes from knowing
how to analyse what it’s seeing. But
for humans, we don’t have to be see-
ing something without eyes to com-
mit it to paper. The world of free-form
creativity is still unconquered, but Dr.
Colton and his creation look like one of
mailed to my home address rather than
my vegetarian best friend’s. So when
I’m relaxing in the leather armchairs
of the Felix Office, beret in hand and
brandy glass resting on my head, I have
to fight hard to keep myself from blab-
bering inanely about all things Compu-
tery. I can confess it to you all – I’m a
Computer Scientist.
At this point it’s probably worthwhile
listing everything that computers have
ever done for the world of the arts, and
they would be as follows: Adobe Il-
lustrator, digital cameras, those funny
little audio guide things you get at the
V&A and that’s about it. Even with
these three, many people would argue
they’ve not made much of a contribu-
tion. The Adobe suite in general seems
to provide ‘artists’ with a quick shortcut
to the end, digital cameras have killed
the individuality and ‘rough’ feeling
to film photography, and those audio
guides are always narrated by someone
irritating.
That’s the problem with computers –
research project in Imperial’s Depart-
ment of Computing that’s really be-
ginning to come of age. In Imperial’s
glamourous Huxley building, past
the XKCD comics pinned on doors
and people swearing at monitors, a
whole host of researchers, Professors
and more are hiding the Department
of Computing’s Artificial Intelligence
group.
Leading up a team of Machine In-
telligence researchers, Dr. Simon Col-
ton spends much of his time thinking
about how to get machines thinking
about how they themselves think. If
that sounds complicated to you, im-
agine how it is for Dr. Colton’s team.
Nevertheless, in 2001 they gave birth
to a very special baby. The Painting
Fool was born.
The Painting Fool wasn’t like many of
the clever ideas born in the Computing
department. It had something special,
something that made it stand out. Oth-
er ideas just wanted to be clever. The
Fool, however, wanted to become an
the best opportunities yet to do so.
But there are many who feel that
perhaps conquering it wouldn’t be
such a good idea. Certainly, there are
those who feel uneasy about the idea
of a robot talking to us, or asking us to
do things, but those fears are generally
borne of the notion that computers
can’t do anything remotely humanlike.
The Painting Fool goes to show that
this isn’t the case.
Does this mean that we’ll feel more
at ease with the idea of artificial intelli-
gence? Will seeing the softer side of the
wires and chips make us more open to
robotics? Or will this ghost from the
mahine actually make us even more
worried that one day, we could have
created something that at least seems
to understand us all too well.
For my part, I think The Fool goes
to show that computers and humans
aren’t all that different. The research
makes me hopeful, too, that in the fu-
ture computers could be put to use in
ways that are currently unimaginable.
But when I’m sitting in the Felix offices
with my beret and my brandy, trying
very hard to look reflective, I have to
pretend otherwise.
The best you can do is decide
for yourself. Find out more by
heading to www.thepaintingfool.
com

