18 felix Friday 18 January 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Pub Crawl The Jerusalem Tavern
55 Britton Street
Farringdon Station
Quite possibly one of the best pubs in London, it is also the only one where you can buy beers from St Pe-
ter’s brewery, Suffolk. Even without these fine brews, this would be a pub that is always well worth a visit if
you’re nearby, but with these beers, poured fresh from the barrels lined up behind the bar, it really is hard
to beat. With a slightly uneven floor and authentic wood panelling you can hardly believe that it’s located
in the City of London; definitely worth a visit.
Hereford Arms
127 Gloucester Road
Gloucester Road Station
Not quite as close as the Queen’s Arms, it’s still worth walking the extra ten minutes; and if you’re
in Evelyn Gardens this is unmissable. Whether it’s stopping off for a drink on the way home or
going to watch the football match (the big screen might be regarded as its biggest flaw), it’s always
got a good range of food and ales. Combine this with a landlord who works tirelessly for it and
you’ve got a pub this’s always a good place to go for a drink or a meal.
The Carpenters’ Arms
12 Seymour Place
Edgware Road Station
Just down the road from Nutford House and a few other halls of residence, this pub is just a standard,
decent local – something increasingly hard to find in London. Even on the Friday evening when we
went in, it wasn’t too busy, being just far enough from the City to avoid the suits and off the beaten
track for tourists. With a small range of decent beers, it’s certainly the best in the area.
The Ship and Shovell
1-3 Craven Passage
Embankment Station
This unique pub is split into two bars on either side of the road, although at quieter times only
one is open. It can get reasonably crowded in the evening, but you can normally get a table
or at least a decent perching spot, or just stop off for a quick pint before heading on to some-
where else. It’s a Badger pub; but the brewery produces a decent range of beers, both cask and
bottled, so there’s normally something you’ll want to drink (try Blandford Fly if you’re more
of a ginger ale fan).
The Market Porter
9 Stoney Street
London Bridge Station
With around 16 different ales on tap at any time, the biggest appeal of this pub is its variety.
Down a back street behind Borough Market it’s frequented by a mixture of suits and traders
from the market alike. Whenever you turn up, you’ll be lucky to get a seat but there’s normally
somewhere to stand, and the crowd inevitably spills out onto the pavement.
Chapter Five – Pubs
Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese
145 Fleet Street
Chancery Lane Station
A real classic pub, you can quite easily get lost in the rooms and cubby-holes here. Combined with the lack of phone signal,
just finding the people you’re meant to be meeting here can be a challenge. However, it is a good pub and, like a few other
city pubs, is Sam Smith’s, meaning that while it only serves a small range of beers, it serves them for prices which are incred-
ibly low for London - £1.70 a pint, anyone? Other Sam Smith’s pubs are the Lyceum Tavern, Aldwych and The Rising Sun,
Cloth Fair, also worth a visit.
Written by Nick Hartley, designed by Rosie Grayburn
The Hansom Cab
86, Earl’s Court Road
High Street Kensington
It’s probably around about the same distance from High Street Kensington
tube station as it is from Earl’s Court. It’s a bit out of the way from campus,
but if you’re heading in the direction of Hammersmith you should stop
by. A good number of traditional ales are on offer and you can get some
hefty olives to chow down on whilst you’re sipping away. The atmosphere
is peaceful and there are a number of nooks and crannies to hide in with a
group of friends. Chaps: beware when you go to the toilet though – when-
ever the door’s open, you’re in full view during full flow

