film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Social Realism gets any remnants of humour terminated
Javier takes his gas canister for a constitutional
Tall, dark, brooding, deadly
Formula can be a blessing or a curse in
cinema. Find something an audience
like, and few directors can let it go.
Worse still, find something that a di-
rector likes, and you find yourself be-
coming perhaps a little self-indulgent.
So why is it then, that the Coen broth-
ers are so beloved?
The Coen brothers are not bad fil-
mamkers, but at the same time they
are not geniuses. Darlings of the Indie
scene since their Eighties break-out,
Blood Simple, they’ve staked their ter-
ritory as the popular outsiders and No
Country seems to have taken them full
circle. In style, this is very similar to
Blood Simple; in everything else, it just
seems slightly underwhelming.
In January, hype overtakes every-
thing and it’s very hard to judge a film
purely on it’s merits without rating it
against your own expectations. This
has been billed as “The best Coen
brothers movie yet”. It’s not.
It’s hard to say where No Country
falls down. The story follows three
men around the Texan desert: A hunt-
er (Josh Brolin) who stumbles across
the scene of a drug deal gone wrong
and walks off with a suitcase full of
money he finds; an almost silent killer
(Javier Bardem) with a pressurised
The Coen Brothers show why Thelma and Louise were right to try to avoid Texas
canister as weapon of choice; and an
aging sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones), com-
pletely dumbfounded by the deaths in
his jurisdiction.
Josh Brolin, who seems to play the
same character in about five films this
year, finds his strongest footing here
with a performance that is sadly be-
ing overlooked in favour of the others.
Bardem’s silent killer is full of menace
without seeming robotic, although his
Social realism is a particularly Brit-
ish field of filmmaking, mainly due to
national bore Ken Loach, yet it seems
that Romania have decided to be the
ones to explore its true heartbreak-
ing potential. 4 Months, 3 Weeks and
2 Days is perhaps the bleakest film of
last year, a mean feat when you con-
sider the Iraq-centred war pieces that
have piled into the multiplex. That said
however, the power of good filmmak-
ing has rarely been so obvious.
A lot has been said about 4,3,2 since
it swept in and grabbed the “Palme
D’Or” at Cannes from the heavyweight
talent of the Coen brothers and Taran-
tino, yet the actual themes of the film
seem to have gone unnoticed. The
central storyline is one of black mar-
ket abortion, set in the horrendously
depressing (and, apparently, extremely
rude) Romania of the Eighties. It is at
this point that many people who have
been crying out “I really want to see
that!” because they heard of it after
Cannes pull their hands down and pre-
tend they never said anything.
4,3,2 is not an easy film to watch, but
is incredibly affecting if you can make it
through (more than one person left the
particular screening I was in). It steers
clear of making outright pro-choice
or pro-life statements and simply ob-
serves, but does so with such brutal
honesty that at least choice would al-
low for the service to be legalised and
regulated as opposed to the illegal sta-
tus it holds here.
There are several fantastic scenes
that show cinema at its most evoca-
tive. The dingy hotel room to which
the friends hide out to keep the se-
cret and the abortionist himself are
the stuff real nightmares are made of,
not a pantomime-like Freddy Krueger.
This is the power of the real in cinema
in a way that hasn’t been tapped into
for a long time, yet Romania are widely
tipped for worldwide recognition of
their new cinematic flare.
Whether Romania will be the new
force of world cinema or not, it seems
that social realism is back on the map.
4,3,2 has again decided that realism is
the realm of the depressing, so if you’re
looking for a perky couple of hours
this weekend, stick with Enchanted.
If, however, you’re still intrigued then
don’t wait - the multiplex will want this
aborted as soon as possible.
Alex Casey
T
he month of January is, as
the old wives would say,
subject to the four-star
curse. As studios churn
out awards fodder, every-
thing seems to be “For Your Consid-
eration” and pretty similar to the year
before. These are generally well made
films, adeptly crafted but lacking any
bite that would make them special,
whilst turning off conservative voters
and hence generally land, regrettably,
in the four-star region.
This year has been a bit different,
granted. Since Crash won awards a
few years back, all the awards bodies
seem to have remembered they can
nominate things released before De-
cember, but sadly this has meant that
January fare has slipped into steeper
decline. This was entirely encapsulated
this year by the exceptionally dire Kite
Runner.
Okay, so it’s a foreign language film
and isn’t your typical Best Picture con-
tender, but Hollywood seem to have
decided on cornering the non-English
speaking categories as well now. Check
the country of origin for this piece of
sentimental bullshit, with less real
emotion than Paris Hilton, and you’ll
find it is actually American.
All the hallmarks are there, yet peo-
ple seem to have swarmed to it because
it’s a foreign language film and imme-
diately this rings bells that say “Like
this!” Why? It was predictable (slight-
ly), wooden (undeniably) and easy
(exceptionally). Trust the Americans
to make it look so easy to just walk in
and out of Afghanistan right under the
nose of the Taliban.
There’s a general problem with for-
eign language films, and that is that
preconceptions often overwhelm
opinion based on real merit. There’s
the one school of people who stay away
completely (“I don’t go to the cinema
to read”) and there’s the others who go
purely so that they can tell their mates
at their next cheese and wine evening
that they saw Das Leben der Anderen
the other night. What one’s that again?
“Oh, in English it’s The Lives of Others”.
Oh. Fuck off, your four words of Ger-
man off the poster do not impress.
To be fair, the quality control on for-
eign imports is higher. The Odeon will
generally restrict itself to something
that has “Palme D’Or” or “Volpi Cup”
winner on the poster and so all the
others are left circulating around Eu-
rope or in obscure cinemas that often
charge something near the GDP of the
small country whose films they exhibit.
All this didn’t make The Counterfeiters
any more interesting though.
So, is this the reason that people
like Kite Runner? It ticks all the boxes
for the crowd who like obvious award
fodder (high-brow use of foreign lan-
guage, living in the US is perfect, Af-
ghanistan equals bad, male rape) but in
the end just tips further than Titanic as
it reaches out for your heartstrings. At
this point you stretch back and tear off
their arms. That’s the only thing these
ass-holes understand.
Perhaps once the Oscars have gone
we’ll get some real films. Oh, but then
it’s blockbuster season. Autumn?
Alex Casey
Film Editor
pursuit of Brolin and the money all
seems a bit too familiar.
Jones is the perfect choice for the
wafer-thin role of the sheriff that only
appears to have been included to justi-
fy the films bizarrely incongruous title.
He has aged to become a fascinating
symbol of a man lost in the wilderness
of modernity, with eyes that convey
perfect pathos.
The Coens however have cheated
him, and the audience, out of a better
film. There is a great deal of mystery
in the story but, with a climax lacking,
it seems flat on reflection. There’s only
so long that the Coens take on different
regional groups will get them through
and with No Country failing to end the
downward spiral which the last decade
has seen them enter, it might not be
too long before the Coens are indeed
too vintage for their own countrymen.
No Country for ★★✫✫✫
Old Men
Director: Joel and Ethan Coen
Writer: Joel and Ethan Coen
Cast: Josh Brolin,
Javier Bardem,
Tommy Lee Jones
Alex Casey
4 Months, 3 Weeks ★★★★✫
and 2 Days
Director: Cristian Mungiu
Writer: Cristian Mungiu
Cast: Anamaria Marinca,
Laura Vasiliu
Comical captions need not apply
22 felix Friday 18 January 2008

