felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
Africa and its magnificent people
4th Year Medic Ammar Waraich visited Africa last summer. Over the next few weeks he will be detailing
his trip in Felix. This week he introduces his travels and talks about some of his key experiences
I
mperial is not generally regarded
as a university that allows much
free time to its students and for
a reason beyond my compre-
hension, Medicine at Imperial is
considered to be a discipline that gives
even less free time. So I hope you can
imagine my bemusement when I found
myself staring at a gaping 4 month
holiday at the end of my 3rd year as an
Imperial Medic (which, incidentally, I
thought was the easiest year in my ed-
ucation after Year 10 at school).
I had taken 2 long gap years before
university specifically to travel to vari-
ous parts of the world. Due to my Pa-
kistani nationality at the time, and the
implied visa restrictions, the heart of
adventure and romance that is Africa
was off-limits. Nevertheless, things al-
ways have a way of working themselves
out and so, with a newly-acquired Brit-
ish passport, I was determined to use
this gargantuan holiday to explore Af-
rica! I was confident I had the money
thanks to a healthy income from my
gap years, but the actual £4000 expense
was a rather crude surprise when I to-
talled it upon return and humbled me
to my first-ever maximum overdraft!
During the 2 months I spent abroad I
focussed on East Africa; visiting Ken-
ya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda and
The Democratic Republic of Congo.
Now, a few important details you
need to know to get you up to speed
with my state of affairs. I got around
using all the local means of transport,
whether it be the matatu, the boda-
boda, or even the 4 seater saloon taxi
that 9 people are expected to cram into
- 5 people in the back and 2 people on
each front seat, including the driver
seat! I couldn’t speak any of the local
languages so relied on the few English-
speakers or those who understood my
body language - although when it was
draped in a 20 kilo rucksack and 2 bags,
I imagine it would be a little more diffi-
cult to interpret. I stayed for more than
half of my trip with local families, get-
ting acquainted with all things African,
but otherwise crashed in the dingiest
of hotels, mingling and making friends
with the natives. I ate mostly local
food, but sadly it is not something I am
going to remember Africa for, with a
staple diet of tasteless Ugali and vari-
ous boiled vegetables.
The final vital detail I wish to convey
is that I travelled alone. Naturally, I was
apprehensive about doing so but I feel
this was very much the defining factor
in all that I learnt and experienced. It
forced me to trust the strangers I en-
countered and dissolve better into the
many environments I chanced upon. It
was definitely a daunting situation to
be in when, for example, encounter-
ing drunken adolescents with machine
guns or huge gangs of glue-sniffing
kids in the slums, or even when some
of the strangers you trusted tried to
take you away from the direction you
knew you should be headed. These
situations were made worse by the fact
that I nearly always had £800 of cam-
era equipment on me and cash split
up into a few separate very secretive
stashes. Thankfully though, the only
thing I ended up losing on my whole
trip was a bottle of Pantene Pro-V and
the vast majority of the interactions I
had were pleasant!
However, by far the most daunting
situation I found myself in was being
stuck in the middle of Congo with only
7 US dollars to my name and with rebel
fighting closing in from all sides! I had
no means of transport or accommoda-
tion nor any associates, or a common
language for communication, and I
needed at least 50 odd dollars to es-
cape via bribing officials and boarding
a boat! All before the gunfire got close
enough to be audible! More on this
predicament some other time…
Anyway, it is nevertheless still with
conviction that I call Africa the world’s
most stunning continent and its people
truly the most beautiful people in the
world. I will talk more about the natu-
ral beauty and the awesome landscape
when I cover the diverse wildlife of Af-
rica, but for now I want to talk more
about its grand people!
I had presumed a lot of danger and
hassle, and even though that may have
been the case in some parts of the larg-
est cities, the reaction I got from most
people was anything but. Perhaps I had
been lucky and not come across trou-
ble or maybe the fact that I was in rural
parts for most of my trip had a part to
play. Regardless, I just want to share a
few situations with you that I want you
to imagine happening in Britain or, for
that matter, in any other developed
country.
In Uganda, a travel operator from
whom I bought a permit (at no profit
to him) comes to my camp site to drop
this permit off but then gives me a tour
of Kampala, takes me to enquire about
further transport, chats to me for a
long while about the horror of living
under Idi Amin and then refuses to ac-
cept money for his time.
At the village of Kinigi in Rwanda
people become incredibly fascinated
by my lighter skin tone. A huge crowd
of 30 plus children follow me for above
an hour while adults stare from behind
the safety of a door or window. The
bravest of the children attempt to com-
municate with me with ‘hello’ and ‘how
are you’ before running away giggling
whilst others repeatedly call me mw-
zungu, which means a white person.
The hair on my arm generated a lot of
interest, as body hair amongst locals is
unheard of, and received much atten-
tion and stroking, as one would a pet!
All this was the result of sincere curi-
osity at my different appearance but
came without the slightest bit of mal-
ice. It left me feeling like the latest ad-
dition at a zoo but nonetheless elated.
A woman who nicknames me ‘Mr
Pakistan’ haggles for 20 minutes on my
behalf to get me a cheap taxi; random
people on the street invite me to join
in with them in their street-size game
of Ludo; a motorcycle taxi driver takes
a big detour from an agreed trip to help
me find a shop that sells chocolate and
takes no extra cash for it; etc.
I have so many stories like these that
there is no way I can relate them all and
no way that I can tell you how welcome
the people of Africa made me feel. Eve-
ryone was warm and not conceited,
with the culture imparting on me a
great sense of decency and dignity. For
example, when I was staying alone in
hotels, many people invited me to have
dinner with their families. Moreover,
people really respect each other and
being a practicing Muslim I never
felt any hostility even when I prayed
The insane matatu stand in Kampala
My new best friends
24 felix Friday 18 January 2008

