games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 18 January 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
F
irstly, a heartfelt thanks to
everyone who offered their
comments and compliments
about Felix Games’ issue last
week. Seriously, it makes the
long hours and hard (but fun) work re-
ally worth it in the end!
This week starts... erm... ends off
rather gently with a simple two-page
spread. However, what’s important
here is the introduction of a new sec-
tion and the revamping of an old one.
I’m somewhat happy to announce
‘Pâté’. The concept is to offer some nice
filling, food-for-thought every once
in a while. We will attempt to bring
forward a news story or event that
should matter to gamers everywhere,
and perhaps, even be of importance to
non-gamers. This first issue is a good
example of such. Between Sebb, Samir
(our newcomer and stalwart Felix
Games writer) and I, the controversial
“Jeff Gerstmann / GameSpot / Eidos”
occurence is discussed from a variety
of angles. Beyond the gaming connota-
tions lies perhaps whispers of the state
of journalism in consumer media over-
all. Or not. Who knows? Whatever the
case, we’re here to offer our thoughts.
Previously, Felix Games would run
the occasional review or two on flash-
based, free games online that repre-
sented a number of impressive and
downright awesome independent (in-
die) efforts. This time, I’ve decided to
promote it to its own section called
‘Byte’. Any puns are well and fully in-
tended, you silly apples. We hope that
it’s going to be a regular column that
you’ll enjoy skimming through when
can’t find anything useful to do on the
Internets. And no, research for course-
work doesn’t count.
It’s quite hard to find new games at
this time of the year that are actually
worth playing. With the sheer magni-
tude of quality brought forth during the
holiday season, it’s not hard to imagine
such. However, this is an excellent op-
portunity to look beyond the main-
stream and start sifting through the
niche. There’s more gratification and
genuine enjoyment to be found than
you’ll ever realise. Browsing around
the PlayStation Network made me trip
over the log that was the Burnout Para-
dise demo and have my fall broken by a
little title called Super Puzzle Fighter II
Turbo HD Remix. Don’t get me wrong.
The Burnout demo was pretty fun but
damn, this little puzzle game was just
pure saccharine joy and should be
coined a Class A Illegal (and Addicting)
Substance. It’s pure awesomesauce.
Of course, the only way to partake in
what makes playing it so fun is to do so
in the head-to-head versus mode. You
will shout. You will yell. You will swear.
And you will have that competitive
streak run rampant, I say! Like I said:
pure, unadulterated awesomesauce.
Okay, so not everyone may like it as
much as I do, but I do implore you to
try it out because you will hopefully
not regret it!
Anyhoo, once again we welcome all
to write to games.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Have a great weekend!
This
Week
To click or not to click?
Fight, honourable gamer-san!
The debate burns on Elementary shapes, mmm
Pâté: The story of dead men
Felix Games debates the morals of gaming journalism as the truth shines harshly
A
zfarul “Az” Islam says:
“You think you’re do-
ing a good job some-
times. Gaming is a pretty
involving, passionate pastime and no
matter how much you promise your-
self that you’re going to be as unbiased
and impartial as possible, you know
it’s not gonna happen. But hey, there’s
nothing wrong in embracing opinion
because well-structured, justified sen-
timent adds not only personality but
spicy variety to the mix.
Or so thought a Mr Jeff Gerstmann.
His rather tactless relief of duties as
GameSpot’s Editorial Director came as
a random bit of shock. How? Why?
Well, a common (and for all matters,
truthful) assumption is that game pub-
lishers have everything to gain when
any reputable gaming authority es-
tablishes a high review score for their
product. It’s one of those brain-dead,
apples-to-apples (except they’re really
oranges) juxtapositions that one can
use to gauge the perceived “value” of a
game. As a result, it is quite prudent to
see that they continually receive these
high scores. Simply making games bet-
ter doesn’t seem to be the option.
Jeff had undertaken the review of Ei-
dos’ Kane and Lynch and had deemed
it a rather average game, mandating it
a Fair rating. Fair enough.
Not so, thought Eidos who had been
Sebastian “Sebb” Nordgren says:
Reviewing is a tricky business. And I
don't just mean the drudging through
terrible games in time for a deadline,
or trying to write 500 words on a game
that is so mediocre it barely deserves
20. When you're doing it for a liv-
ing, there's also the problem of trying
to make sure that the review copies
keep flowing, while maintaining fair
objectivity.
Websites also suffer from shoestring
budgets, which makes compromising
journalistic integrity for a big adver-
tising deal seem all the more attrac-
tive. This, allegedly, is what happened
when GameSpot fired Jeff Gerstmann
for, allegedly, reviewing Kane & Lynch
lower than Eidos would have wanted.
Allegedly.
The wider problem is that this is the
first situation of its kind where it's (al-
legedly) possible to link an honest re-
view score to serious consequences for
the reviewer.
In a fledgling industry like games
journalism, an action such as this go-
ing unpunished signals to other media
outlets and, indeed, publishers that
this type of thing is acceptable.This
is worse than just fudging the review
score into the low 70s for every abys-
mal game that EA releases. It's a wor-
rying worst-case scenario: the end of
honesty in reviews and the beginning
of corporate rule.
Thankfully, the extent to which the
event has been publicised has made it
almost impossible for anyone to miss
and has probably harmed GameSpot's
margins more than they ever would
have thought.
Even if this is, as GameSpot claims,
just a case of bad timing, their refusal
to comment honestly on the events
that lead up to Gerstmann's removal
as editor-in-chief has stirred up more
than a couple of conspiracy theorists
– making it the precedent to follow of
2007.
The Internet has made sure that in-
dividual opinions have lost their value
when compared to the aggregate, with
success being measured by meta-
reviews. The fact that 100 honest 60s
will always outweigh one bought 90
acts as a major deterrent to selling off
journalistic integrity for short-term
gain.
plastering GameSpot with advertise-
ments of the eponymous game. Pre-
sumably, many monies were involved.
Fair ratings mean that a lot of gam-
ers may not buy the game since it’s not
Good enough. Many monies could be
lost.
You see where I’m getting?
Of course his termination had noth-
ing to do with Eidos, trills GameSpot.
To be Fair, it’s not been solidly proven
but if anything, the timing, abrupt na-
ture and consequences (fellow review-
er Alex Navarro took leave by himself)
are just a wee bit too coincidental.
Sowhat’stheoverallmoralhere?Pub-
lishers don’t really like gaming journal-
ists very much. I mean, sure they talk
to them at times and definitely send
them a couple of games to get reviewed
(only if they consider them worthy), but
clearly there’s this ingrained virulence.
Due to the increasingly commercial
nature of mainstream sites like IGN
(owned by Fox) and GameSpot (owned
by C|Net) are, more than ever, subject
to the whims of publishers. Pervasive
marketing through the Internet is
more than valid: it’s a significant part
of any company’s business plan. It’s a
plan that leaves little room for ques-
tion and gaming journalists aren’t in it
if they’re doing the questioning.
And that’s why you should all trust
Yahtzee’s Zero Punctuation. He is,
quite frankly, teh man.”
Samir “Ooblicious” Talwar says:
Reporting on reporters... how very
meta. With my colleagues questioning
the integrity of the GameSpot man-
agement, I thought I’d do a different
take on the situation by analysing one
organisation’s response. You may have
heard of them: it’s a two-person team
by the names of Gabe and Tycho, oper-
ating under a little-known brand called
Penny Arcade.
For the three of you that don’t know,
Penny Arcade makes a very success-
ful web-based comic strip of the same
name which predominantly features
games. As they’re so popular, they of-
ten get requests for advertisements,
similarly to almost every gaming re-
view site. The difference between them
and sites like GameSpot is they insist
on reviewing the game first. If the
game isn’t up to their standards, the
ads are refused.
Two weeks before the entire GameS-
pot debacle, Gabe issued this statement
with regards to Assassin’s Creed:
“...we were huge fans of the first
Prince of Persia game so when Ubi
came to us and wanted to run ads for
the second we said yes. We had no idea
they were going to completely fuck it
over. So, from then on we started de-
manding playable copies of games
before we'd agree to advertising. No
matter how early the build we tell the
publishers that unless we can see it
played in front of us or play it ourselves
we won't run ads for it.”
It seems to me that this is the right
way to go about things. As reviewers,
your customers trust you implicitly in
your endorsement or disdain for the
products in your field. By implying you
support a product without having test-
ed it first, you are betraying that trust
for monetary gain. Penny Arcade take
quite an extreme standpoint on this is-
sue: Tycho states in a news post that
“Game Reviewers Are Wrong” and
“They Will Always Be Wrong” – he be-
lieves the age of the game reviewer is
now over. I see it differently: the age of
consumer ignorance is now over. Cor-
porations can’t get away with this stuff
any more, and it’s about damn time.
Any which way you swing it, the only
way to recover from this honourably
would be for the executives responsi-
ble to fall on their Wiimotes.
Eidos’ men in suits find out about Jeff Gerstmann’s review Mr Gerstmann needs to upgrade his shield – those guns look nasty

