28 felix Friday 18 January 2008
The CES 2008 tech roundup
Samir Talwar and Andrew Slater will let you know the good, bad and ugly of CES
J
anuary is a good month for geeks,
and last week’s Consumer Elec-
tronics Show (CES ‘08) in Las
Vegas proves why. This is the
time where manufacturers get to
show off the next year’s worth of gor-
geous gadgets for you to get ready to
blow some of that hard-earned cash
on – don’t forget to thank the Student
Loans Company for helping you out
there. It’s not just computer stuff, ei-
ther: in fact, the focus this year was on
bigger, better and thinner TVs. That’s
not all, of course: we’ve got everything
from radio to robots lurking within the
next few paragraphs. Read on, and try
not to pass out with pleasure.
First things first: the beginning of the
end for the long-running format war
may be near, with first Warner Bros.
and now possibly Universal jump-
ing ship and switching exclusively to
Blu-Ray over HD-DVD movies. Even
Microsoft, a staunch HD-DVD sup-
porter, has jumped on the bandwagon
and hinted they might be releasing a
Blu-Ray drive for their Xbox 360. Of
course, this is all irrelevant, as faster
and faster broadband speeds mean
we’ll all be streaming beautiful HD
movies straight to our telly boxes by
next year if the industry gets its act
together.
Speaking of the almighty soul-sucker,
CES had a lot of them. Just about eve-
ryone important was invited, and they
had a lot of kit to show off. Panasonic
have made the biggest plasma screen
ever, weighing in at 150 inches of pure
viewing pleasure, and no one cared,
because they didn’t have anywhere to
put it. Perhaps more useful is Pioneer’s
new TV: at less than a centimetre
thick, this one’s prepared for true wall-
mounting goodness.
Companies seem to be bored with
plasma and LCD, and are searching
for more fancy acronyms to dazzle
you while they steal your credit card.
Mitsubishi have decided lasers are far
better looking than mere LCDs... and
y’know what? They’re right. Lasers de-
liver unparalleled colour vibrancy, en-
hancing your already fantastic viewing
experience – screw food, your new 50-
inch flat screen was worth every penny
– and making your favourite cartoons
look even more colourful than before.
Meanwhile, Samsung have swung to-
wards OLED, creating a 31-inch dis-
play that saps almost no power in com-
parison to the behemoth you have in
your parent’s living room.
And my personal favourite: LG-
Philips’ frickin’ awesome e-paper tech-
nology, which allows changing imagery
(updates about ten times a minute, but
that should improve) on a flexible sur-
face. It’s backlit too, which while horri-
ble for games and the like, is perfect for
reading that book you always manage
to leave on your pillow before setting
off for uni.
USB, those three letters that we over-
look every day, have a new member of
the family on the way. The standard
that freed us from the limitations of
the Serial port and provided us with
a single type of connector for almost
any device has transformed the world
of computer peripherals into a sim-
ple case of “does your PC have a USB
port?” has released USB 3 upon us. By
utilising the plastic block that prevents
USB devices being inserted incorrectly
they’ve managed to sneak in a pair of
optical connectors. This boosts USB
up to a massive 4.8 Gbps – a ten-fold
increase – whilst letting you use your
archaic printer and old-school iPod
without worrying about slowing up
your new Blu-Ray reader/burner/
toaster.
By now, the weak will have drifted
off in pursuit of less gadget-oriented
articles, assuming that a university of
science has anything else to talk about.
Nevertheless, they have been culled,
and I shall reward the faithful with
C
ongratulations on suc-
cessfully obtaining a copy
of this week’s umbrella.
Don’t despair – it may
seem less than useful, but
with the right application of origami
principles, it may just serve.
This is the first editorial I’ve written
so bear with me as I summarize what
went on this week and what articles we
have for you to enjoy; or skim over -
you ingrates.
Two massive events took place in the
gadget world with a whole host of toys
that we could preview. In fact we were
so spoilt for choice that we decided to
do two big articles covering each of the
two events and then give you a little
run down of the stuff we missed.
The first event is the annual Con-
sumer Electronics Show, held in Las
Vegas, which is where all the technol-
ogy manufacturers show off what their
investors have put millions of their
hard earned dollars into. The spec-
trum of cutting-edge stuff is as wide
as ever; covering new technology in
laptops, television, audio equipment,
robotics and practically anything you
could dream of. Samir and Andrew
have teamed up to cover some of the
principal releases from the show.
Now the second event of the week
was the fabled Macworld where Steve
Jobs stepped up with yet another black
polo neck shirt and a keynote speech
full of goodies for all the Mac fanboys
and -girls. Will there be another major
product? Who knows, but I’ve covered
as much I can of his content-packed
speech.
On a slightly less important note,
Sony announced that the production
cost of a PS3 has halved since release,
so who knows; we may get lucky and
see another price drop or a new 80GB+
model appear at a reasonable price.
Maybe I should nip down to town and
trade my elite in for a PS3? Life forces
such hard decisions on us.
Doesn’t sound like a bad start to a
new year – it’s just a shame Christmas
has gone, to be honest. We should start
to see all of these new products seep
into the public domain over the next
six months so we can then cover them
from a much more accurate prospec-
tive, rather than all this guesswork all
but the most prestigious of us have
been attempting.
In the works for the next issue we
hope to have a big collection of reviews
on some of the top-end mobile phones
many people are sporting these days
– and no, it won’t just be an iPhone
review. All I now have to do is track
down a bunch of very specific expen-
sive phones, in a building full of people
living on student loans – it should be
interesting, to say the least.
If you would like to get involved with
putting together articles for this sec-
tion then use the email address at the
top of this page and they will, hope-
fully, get sent to the right place.
So without any more waffle I’ll let you
read about whatever breakthroughs
from CES that Samir and Andrew have
chosen to let you know about, or you
can skip it and read my fantastically
fact-filled Apple article.
P.S. No one’s reading this far anyway.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
I hate to pose this question, but do consumers really need a 150” television?
everyone’s favourite electronic play-
thing: robots.
With countless booths dedicated to
them, CES was packed with the first
wave of our eventual overlords. And
while they’re not at the level of Skynet,
the displays of artificial intelligence in
almost all of them was astounding –
clearly, AI isn’t just a pipe dream.
First off is iRobiQ, which does...
everything. Well, not the chores, but
it’ll take care of you, monitoring your
health, your home while you’re away,
the weather, your interests, and even
the news. It’s fully customisable, with
a monthly plan that lets you sign up
for just the services you want. Add
this to a Roomba hoover bot and have
the pizza guy on speed-dial and you’ll
never have to get up again... except to
play with your new Comprehensive
Robot. Built of Lego components by
your overworked fingers, it does pretty
much everything you’d expect an over-
priced toy to do: talk nonsensically,
wander the halls, acting as a hazard for
small children, and pretend to sympa-
thise with your lack of cash following
its purchase – it’s a steal at only $869!
Of course, if you want to go all-out,
there’s always Sunny, NOAA’s weather
bot. He sings, he dances (that one’s a
lie... but the previous one isn’t) and he
knows a lot about the weather. What’s
impressive, assuming what we saw was
all autonomous and there was no man
behind the curtain, was the responsive-
ness and coherency of the artificial in-
telligence powering the bot. Replies to
questions felt natural and usually deliv-
ered the right answer, with a bit more
thrown in for good measure. There
were a couple of slips, but the imper-
fections imply it’s actually processing
the conversation itself, rather than the
hidden human.
I know it seems like it, but CES isn’t
all big technology – there’s actually
some very simple ideas demoed there
too. For example, the Slacker Personal
Radio – a portable music player that
helps you discover new talent by sim-
ply letting you vote on songs, and then
recommending you new ones based
on your tastes. This is similar to the
Pandora music service, which provides
the same service through your web
browser. Unfortunately, both of these
are available only to our friends across
the pond, most Stateside companies
can’t be bothered to branch out to un-
civilised realms such as our beloved
United Kingdom. Perhaps it’s best
we’re not the same as our American
brothers, however. Gizmodo proved
this when they decided to get one of
their reporters a lifetime ban using a
simple device known as TV-B-Gone,
which unsurprisingly is rather good at
turning off TVs. As TVs were arguably
the highlight of the entire event, booth
owners were unsurprisingly irritated,
and while some took it in stride, others
didn’t see the funny side. It could be ar-
gued it was all in good taste if it wasn’t
for them switching off the big screen
during presentations, disrupting the
event and wasting everyone’s time.
Pranks are awesome...when they’re
well thought out.
Thankfully, the rest of the entire five-
day tech-fest went off without a hitch.
Too many gadgets, gizmos and gor-
geous booth-babes to count resulted in
enormous amounts of drool from the
mouths of thousands of nerds, scatter-
ing the floor and causing an immense
amount of work for the clean-up team.
Apparently, that’s all part of the fun
that is CES.
James Finnerty
Technology Editor

