news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
News
The curse of the “technical setback”
Another of Imperial’s major building projects is struck as the Library opening is delayed until July and
despite £10.85m spent on the refurbishment, overheating problems on levels 4 and 5 will not be resolved
Ciaran Ellis
Plans of what the vast Library ground floor might look like when it opens to students
Drilling will continue to disrupt stu-
dents as the opening date for the new
Library is pushed back by 3 months to
July 2008. The work, originally sched-
uled to end in March 2008 in time for
the summer’s exam period, now looks
set to continue for the rest of the aca-
demic year.
The delay has been caused by the
latest in a series of technical setbacks
befalling the two-year project. In what
has been termed a “procurement is-
sue” by a senior member of College’s
Building Projects team who wishes to
remain anonymous, the dimensions
of the rooms, which will house the
air conditioning units for the ground
floor, differ from the dimensions in the
original plans. The air conditioning
units are built depending upon the size
of the room they are being housed in
and now their specifications need to be
reconsidered, hence the delay.
Library staff admit the delay will lead
to “unavoidable noise” associated with
the building work. At times, this will be
a particular problem on the lower lev-
els and near the stairwell where noise
will be funnelled to higher floors.
The Library is extending opening
hours in an effort to provide additional
quiet study time. The library will be
open 24/6 from Monday 3rd March,
several weeks earlier than in previous
years.
Contractors have been given exam
timetables when noisy work is sup-
posed to stop.
Students will be able to avoid the
noise by retreating to higher levels
where work is not in progress. How-
ever, due to overheating, which caused
levels 4 and 5 to reach 30 degrees Cel-
Total cost: £10.85m
Phase 1 cost: £4.6m, Phase 2 cost: £6.25
Project start date: Summer 2006
Original Library opening date: March 2008
Revised Library opening date: July 2008
Phase 1a changes: Relocation of Humanities department to Sherfield
Building, alterations to levels 4 and 5 ventilation system, new roof
lights
Phase 1b changes: Chiller on Sherfield roof and Service Tower to
provide cooling to the ground and third floors
Phase 2 changes: Refurbishment of the entire Library ground floor
plus extensions including a learning café, new IT Suite, group
learning area and quiet study area
Library refurbishment at a glance
sius last year, this is unlikely to be an
attractive option.
The problem of cooling the higher
levels, where students have been de-
scribed as “visibly sweating”, has been
apparent since the beginning of the
project but will remain unresolved
when the £10.85m Library refurbish-
ment finishes.
In 2007, plans for solar shading were
blocked by Westminster City Council
when nearby residents complained on
aesthetic grounds. The solar shading
would have reflected heat from the
top-levels of the library providing a
much needed cooling system.
Despite over £10m being spent on the
refurbishment, including alterations to
existing infrastructure on levels 4 and
5, no solution to the overheating has
been offered since the collapse of the
solar-shading plan. The air condition-
ing units currently being installed will
serve the ground floor only.
The senior College member who
spoke to Felix admits that there is still a
problem with temperatures on the top
floors which “have not been reduced to
an acceptable level.”
An independent mechanical and
electrical (M&E) consultancy has been
called in to propose solutions and they
are due to report to College in March
but work is unlikely to get underway
any time soon.
The £10.85m Library development
project began in 2006 and is made up
of three stages. Stage 1a is now com-
plete which included the Humanities
department moving to the Sherfield
building along with some alterations to
the Library’s infrastructure. Stage 1b is
ongoing and includes the erection of a
service tower and chiller, which will air
condition level 3 and the ground floor.
The first phase comes in at £4.6m.
Stage 2, which costs £6.25m, is now
scheduled to be completed by July
and involves the refurbishment of the
ground floor.
“It is disappointing for everyone that
it is taking a little longer, but building
work doesn’t always go to plan,” said
Trudy Breuss, the Library Redevelop-
ment’s Project Leader.
Ms Breuss insists that the finished
product will be worth it and the stu-
dents can expect a larger and vastly
improved work space.
The ground floor area, which used
to house Waterstones and the Science
Museum Library, has been extended
into the old walkway, to create a space
now totalling 2,600 square metres.
New additions will include a learning
café at the front of the building, which
will be equipped with PCs and will
serve hot and cold snacks providing an
area where students can eat, drink and
study at the same time.
The north side of the Library, where
the Haldane Collection used to be, will
become the Wolfson IT Learning Suite.
The centre of the Suite will be an open
plan area housing 50 new PCs funded
by the Wolfson Foundation. The area
will be a quieter place where individu-
als can go to study by themselves, or
to relax in peace on sofas which will
come equipped with built-in network
and power slots. A few rooms contain-
ing projectors will be made available
to students so they can practice group
presentations.
In the vibrantly coloured “group
work” section, moveable metal screens
and desks will provide an adaptable
working space. Also in development
are 6 semi-transparent “think-tanks”
giving groups an element of privacy.
Finally, a lounge area is also planned,
providing magazines and newspapers.
Left: Work on the Service Tower (which will provide air conditioning for the ground and third floors) is supposedly still on target to finish by
March 2008, and right: a view of the construction work from inside the Sherfield Building
VITALI
LAZURENKO

