31
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Head in the clouds in Snowdonia
Creature comforts mean a lot more when you’re roughing it out in the wild according to Charlie Rogers
T
his Christmas four intrep-
id Fellwanderers set out
from London on a mis-
sion; Destination Snow-
donia, Wales. Okay, Okay,
maybe ‘intrepid’ is not quite the right
word; we didn’t have to be very gal-
lant, just silly enough to face the win-
ter weather and to spend four days in
close proximity to ten members of the
ICMC (enough said!).
Saturday 16th December and after a
very late start, 3pm (too much partying
on the last night of term) Charlie and I
finally headed out on the 7 hour drive
to Wales via South Kensington to pick
up Nick and Catarina, and New Cross
to pick up Nathaniel.
Three hours and a short lesson in
how all the gadgets and chairs work
in my car later (it’s amazing what you
learn about something you’ve owned
for 5 years!) we made it to Tescos in
Earls Court. Leaving Nathaniel and
Catarina to find the seatbelts trapped
under the luggage, Nick and I did the
week’s food shop, which when I got
ID’d put a smile on my face for the rest
of the week!
The rest of the journey was pretty
uneventful and we arrived at St. Mary’s
hut just after midnight to be welcomed
by the ICMC: blood, sweat and beer.
Day One: After an incredible amount
of early morning faffage we left the hut
and headed straight to the hills. On our
first day we decided to take it slightly
easy and walk up Mynydd Mwar, 698m.
Surprisingly the weather was fantastic,
apart from the winter chill, and stayed
so for the whole week.
The start of the hike encompassed
the usual jokes about sheep, the odd
patch of black ice underfoot and Nath-
aniel finding the most rock faces to
scramble; but soon Catarina and I were
striding out for the girls, making it to
the summit about 10 minutes before
the boys (chocolate at the summit was
our prime objective!).
After a long lunch break at the top,
a phone call to Nick’s mum and a cup
of tea we started our own route down
the mountain. Thankfully it was pretty
easy going due to ground frost hard-
ening the otherwise boggy land, and
Nathaniel managed to only electro-
cute himself on the fences twice. Near
the bottom we noticed the sun rapidly
setting and decided to take a break to
enjoy the spectacle. Of course this set
us on a dream plan of hiking up Snow-
don for sunrise during the tour, which
never materialised as we didn’t make it
out of bed before 7:30am.
After the sunset we raced down the
last part of the mountain and along the
road to the hut stopping briefly to film
Nathaniel smash a 3ft by 2ft by 1 inch
block of ice over his head (words can-
not explain our dear Nathaniel!).
Day Two: Leaving Catarina in bed,
Nick, Nathaniel and I made an early
start (8:30am) and drove to Pen-y-pass
to climb Snowdon. As the weather was
looking good we decided to take the
harder ridge scramble onto Snowdon
viaCribGoch.Thegoingwasfairlyslow
due to our need (or desire) to climb to
the top of every boulder avoiding the
‘easier’ path in places, but the views
were well worth every second and the
higher we got the more we could enjoy
the pressure inversion... We were liter-
ally walking on the clouds.
After surviving the ridge climb, we
faced the relatively easy 70m final as-
cent onto Snowdon. I say relatively be-
cause what is usually the motorway of
hiking paths becomes somewhat more
precarious in winds pushing 50mph.
But we’d got this far and a ‘little’ bit
of wind wasn’t going to stop us. We
fought our way forwards and eventual-
ly crawled up the steps to the trig point
so as not to be blown over.
Sitting at the top admiring the view
and holding onto our hats, we quickly
decided the safest way off the moun-
tain, now the winds were ridiculously
strong and sunset was fast approach-
ing (3:30pm), would be to go down the
Llanberris Railway path and bus back
to the car. This route is possibly the
easiest onto and off of Snowdon and
thankfully plenty wide enough when
you get blown around by the wind,
which we did on several occasions; I
in particular had to be pinned down by
Nick a few times, though in hindsight
I wonder if it was more for his protec-
tion than mine (Anchorage!).
By the time we reached Llanberris
at the bottom of the track it was pitch
black (5:30pm), and being rather di-
shevelled it was only right to stop for
a hot chocolate and toilet break. After
30mins we headed back outside and
waited for the bus... and waited… and
waited… and asked the next bus driver
when there would be a bus to Pen-y-
Pass... Buses don’t run after 4pm in
the winter… problem! At this point the
only solution was to start walking, so
putting our torches on we did just that,
trying to hitch-hike as we went.
After a short while a builder stopped
to give us a ride to the next village and
with the boys crouched in the back
of the old Nissan and me in the front
unable to fix my seatbelt we trundled
along to Nan Peris two miles down the
road. Once again we were on our own
and walking to Pen-y-Pass. Eventually
another car stopped to give Nathaniel
a ride so he could pick up the car and
return for Nick and me. After our lit-
tle night time adventure we sped back
to the hut, and to a very worried Cata-
rina, and enjoyed a good bottle of red
wine, sausage & mash and Christmas
pudding with brandy – an awesome
way to relax at the end of the day!
Day Three: Our third hiking day
turned out to be a bit of a joke. After
sleeping through the early morning
alarm clock (I turned it off to snooze)
we eventually surfaced at mid-day! I
blame the adventures of Snowdon the
night before, but regardless it did mean
we only had a few hours of daylight
left.With that we scouted the map and
found a forest walk in nearby Bedgel-
lert and having dropped a poorly-off
Nick at the local pub, Nathaniel, Cata-
rina and I headed out. Arriving at the
car park we discovered from a map
that the forest contained numbered
posts with pictures of animals on. We
took a picture of the map and started
orienteering from a camera to find the
posts. Meanwhile Nick was experienc-
ing real wildlife in the form of a robin
flying in and out of the pub.
Navigation from the camera turned
out to be pretty difficult in the end
and with the fading light Nathaniel
took a compass bearing to find the car
and easiest route back. We walked up
and down the same track twice before
Nathaniel admitted he wasn’t a very
good navigator. This didn’t instil in
me much confidence, but after a short
walk along a railway line marked on
the OS map as a footpath (clearly we
need new maps) we arrived safely back
at the car and headed to the pub for a
pint. Oh, and for Nick!
That evening we enjoyed a good spag
bol without the spaghetti (I had forgot-
ten to buy), mince pies and whiskey;
and Nathaniel and Nick cleaned out
two buckets of ash from the stove so
that it would light properly (men and
fire!).
Day Four: This was our final day hik-
ing and having packed up the night be-
fore we managed to have breakfast and
fit our gear in the car pretty quickly.
We then drove to Trefriw in the Dry-
fryn Conwy Valley, with the intention
of climbing Grinllwm and Cefn Cyfar-
wydd. Halfway along the walk Nath-
aniel decided he’d take us on his ‘spe-
cial’ route (straight up) which turned
out to be more of a challenge than we
bargained for. Nick who had already
managed to crack his head ona low
doorway in the morning didn’t take
too well to the climb; he smacked a tree
branch into his ear and eye and even-
tually slipped over on a rock slamming
his shoulder into a boulder. Nathaniel
took this as a sign to move away pretty
sharpish out of Nicks range, but by the
time we arrived at the top murder was
no longer an option and everyone was
happy again.
For the rest of the day we kept to the
paths, stopping briefly to push Nath-
aniel into an icy puddle, for Catarina
to stroke two ponies and to enjoy more
spectacular views during our lunch
stop. In the end we didn’t make it all
the way up Cefn Cyfarwydd as we
needed to head back to London via a
few route changes to avoid traffic and
closed motorways.
All in all the winter tour was a huge
success and a good end to the term for
the Fellwanderers; unbelievable weath-
er, great food, good company and the
occasional bit of hiking!
The Fellwanderers organise
fortnightly weekend trips to the
mountains, Sunday walks and
arrange tours further afield to the
Scottish highlands and the Alps.
For more information visit:www.
fellwanderers.com or contact
christopher.mark03@ic.ac.uk
Might have been nippy, but were the Fellwanderers downhearted? No! Fellwandering: for those not content to be mere armchair adventurers

