felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
To start with, I need to make a few
apologies. The last two weeks I’ve been
in my finals and as such haven’t been
able to do the pages; therefore I left it
to a ‘competent’ member of the Felix
staff. So firstly, an apology to the Ener-
gia staff for managing to have the same
article from last term in there again, as
a peace offering, and counting for the
fact that many teams haven’t really got
into the new season, we’ve got a bump-
er fitness issue that will surely help you
get rid of that Christmas podge.
Secondly, there was a mistake in
the football article, where James ‘The
Shadow’ Skeen was a co-writer and in-
ventor of the ingenious, and very witty
headline (if you remove the ‘a draw’
bit. Also, if you still happen to have last
week’s issue to hand, and have some
spare time, see if you can find the hid-
den animals in the football report.
And yes, as was briefly mentioned
last week, the league table has been
updated to include the medics. Also a
quick note here, the table and the fix-
ture and results section will only work
if you all get your results in on time, so
please try to do so. Also, keep those re-
ports coming in, guys.
Finally, a note on what to expect this
term. Plans are underway for a spe-
cial Varsity pull-out in the week after
Varsity (27th February). I’d like to ask
ALL THE TEAMS if they could make
arrangements for a match report to
be written, along with a picture of the
captains, more news to follow!
Hitting the Valleys
Cycling Club hit the valleys of Wales for their winter tour. See page 33
So Christmas and the New Year have
come and gone. You’ve over-indulged
on turkey, chocolate and alcohol and
you thought about buying larger-sized
clothes in the sales, as your old ones
are a little tighter than before. You’re
fed up as the party season is over and
exams are looming. Not to be deterred,
you have sat down, taken stock of your
life, and set yourself some New Year
resolutions.
Now answer me this: how many of
those resolutions have you broken al-
ready? How many of the others have
you actually thought about doing since
you proclaimed them to the world on
New Year’s Eve? Don’t feel bad if you
have failed some already. It doesn’t
mean you have to give up completely.
Just start again but this time write
down a plan of action of how you are
going to achieve them. Most resolu-
tions are broken or never happen be-
cause we say we are going to do some-
thing but never actually have a set plan
to follow. You wouldn’t jump in the car
and decide to drive to Elgin without
first consulting a map and planning
your journey (it’s somewhere in Scot-
land by the way, but hopefully you get
New year, new you. Keeping those resolutions
the point).
Good planning for your resolutions
is all about setting the right goal from
the start. I have had many people come
to me over the years and say that they
want to get in shape, lose those extra
kilos, or improve their fitness levels
etc. for the New Year.
My first question to them is always:
what exactly do you mean by improved
fitness levels or getting in shape? How
much weight is there in those extra
kilos? Aerobic capacity, anaerobic ca-
pacity, flexibility, maximal strength,
hypertrophy, speed, agility and so on
are all areas of one’s fitness. Those ex-
tra kilos could be anything from 1 to
20kg- or more! My point is to be as spe-
cific as you can. If you decide to take
a trip to Scotland, you have to decide
which part to go to or you may never
really reach your destination. Another
big thing is that your goal also has to
be realistic. Sorry, guys, but if you are
built like a bean pole you are not going
to be the next Mr Universe. That is not
to say that you won’t be able to increase
your muscle mass, but your genetics
dictate that you are never going to be
a huge guy.
Once you have set a specific and
realistic goal (e.g. increase aerobic ca-
pacity, lose 10kg) you can begin your
strategy to achieve it. Before doing an-
ything else you first need to know your
starting point (my VO2 max is 28ml/
kg/min, I weigh 115kg). For some
goals you can do this easily like weigh-
ing yourself. For others you may need
more specialised equipment or help,
like having your VO2 max measured.
Whatever your goal, the main thing is
to give yourself a starting point with
which to reach it.
Once you have a goal and a starting
point you need to plan your strategy
to reach this goal. This is actually the
difficult part. How do you go about
reaching your goal? How are you go-
ing to measure your progress along the
way and when and how are you going
to do this? Decide how much time you
want to give yourself to reach your goal
and again make this realistic. You are
not going to lose 10kg in 2 weeks!
So for example if your goal is to lose
10kg in 20 weeks you may aim to lose
half a kilogram a week. To do this
you need to create a calorie deficit of
around 3500 calories a week. Are you
going to do this by cutting your calorie
intake in your diet, burning more calo-
ries by exercise, or both? Where are
you going to cut the calories from in
your diet? How many days a week do
you need to exercise for and on which
days are you going to do this? How long
do you have to exercise for to burn the
required number of calories, and what
type of exercise are you going to do to
achieve this?
This may all seem like a lot of work at
first but trust me if you can plan your
resolutions in this much detail achiev-
ing them will be easy. I’ve given you
examples of fitness-related resolutions
but the same strategy can be used for
any resolution or goal you may want
to set yourself throughout the coming
year. If your goal is a fitness-related
one, please come and speak to an In-
structor at Ethos for further advice and
help in achieving it. Whatever your
New Year resolutions are, good luck!
Andy Mitchell
Energia Fitness Instructor
The starting line for your New Year’s resolutions

