4 felix Friday 18 January 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Science Challenge 2008 unveiled
Imperial students can win £2,500 by answering one of five questions set by a panel of expert judges
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Can you guess who’s setting which question, and more importantly what each question will be based on from these pictorial hints?
This year’s Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU) Science Challenge
will be officially launched next Tues-
day 22nd January in room 220 in the
Mechanical Engineering department
building. Daniel Burrows, the Chair
of the RCSU Science Challenge com-
mittee, will host the launch event. He
will be joined by the Rector of Imperial
College, Sir Richard Sykes, who will be
giving a short seminar on the night.
The RSCU Science Challenge is an
annual scientific writing competition
open to Imperial undergraduate and
postgraduate students as well as school
pupils in years 11, 12 and 13. Universi-
ty students compete against each other
to win a £2,500 prize. School students
will be competing for £2,000, double
last year’s amount.
Mr Burrows believes “that as a soci-
ety we must make challanging moral
decisions based on science” and there-
fore “a researcher’s ability to convey his
work in a clear and consise manner to
people in the pub is crucial to our rap-
idly evolving world.”
Entrants will have to write an 800-
word essay, however in a twist by this
year’s organisers, the judges will each
set a question and students will have to
choose which one (or ones since Impe-
rial students can have multiple entries)
they most prefer to answer.
This year’s panel of expert scientific
judges includes the Rector, Sir Rich-
ard Sykes, fertility specialist Professor
Lord Robert Winston, Nature Editor-
in-Chief Dr Philip Campbell, BBC
Science Correspondent Pallab Ghosh,
Shell Vice President Global Solutions
Dr Paul Snaith and the Director of
the Imperial College Grantham In-
stitute for Climate Change, Sir Brian
Hoskins.
Each judge (except Mr Ghosh) will be
setting and unveiling their own ques-
tion in a weekly seminar held every
Tuesday at 6:30pm in 220 Mech Eng.
The first seminar will be given by the
Rector at the official launch next Tues-
day 22nd January.
The idea behind the seminars is to
allow the judges to explain why they
chose their question. Science Chal-
lenge entrants are advised to attend the
seminars where hints and tips on how
to answer each question will be given.
For schools and students that can’t
make the seminars, the Science Chal-
lenge is going online. Each seminar will
be recorded and streamed live over the
internet. To register, email science.
challenge@imperial.ac.uk. The setter’s
slide show will also be broadcast online
simultaneously with the live footage.
This year’s Science Challenge has
generated in excess of £25,000 in fund-
ing. The money is being put towards
the prize fund as well as the awards
On Wednesday, Imperial’s Entrepreneur Centre launched its 8th New
Business challenge, an annual business plan competition which this
year is offering prizes totalling £42,000.
The winning 10 page plan will earn its team £10,000 in cash as well
as a further £15,000 in business services. The two runners-up and 7
finalists will each receive £5000 and £1000, respectfully.
In her opening address, Sabrina Kiefer, Business Plan Manager for
the competition, stressed the broad range of benefits on offer to all
participating students, from simply improving a CV to cashing in on a
great idea. But for those looking to take their ideas into the business
world, the competition can provide a great deal more.
Many previous winners have gone on to create successful busi-
nesses based on their entries. A finalist in the 2002/3 competition,
Omlet (www.omlet.co.uk) is now an established enterprise selling in-
novative hi-tech chicken coups for domestic use. The competition
also boasts many big name sponsors such as Shell, Barclays Capital
and IBM.
To help the teams develop their ideas, a series of six evening lec-
tures are planned on such subjects as ‘Raising finance for a new ven-
ture’ and ‘Protecting your intellectual property’. There are also ‘men-
toring sessions’, in which students can receive expert guidance from
Sainsbury Management Fellows.
“To be successful, competitors will need to show initiative, com-
mitment, and creativity in their business plans,” said, Ms Kiefer. She
added that, “the competition is all about giving students a chance to
experiment in a realistic but safe environment.”
The New Business Challenge is open to all Imperial students. Teams
may include competitors from outside the university, but must com-
prise at least 50 percent Imperial students.
The closing date for registration is Monday 11th February. More de-
tails can be found be found on the Imperial website.
Andrew Turley
More of an entrepreneur than a scientific
writer? Win big prizes for business ideas
ceremony venue. Last year competition
entrants were whisked off to The Ritz
hotel in Mayfair where the prize win-
ners were announced. This year’s ven-
ue has yet to be confirmed, but with a
substantial pot of money to draw from,
the RCSU committee is setting its sight
on something impressive.
Mr Burrows is working hard to en-
sure that the competition reaches as
many students as possible. Students
who sign up for updates on the Science
Challenge website are entered into a
prize draw for a Nintendo Wii at the
awards ceremony on March 18th.
He is appealing for Imperial students
to contact their old schools and invite
them to participate. Two extra tickets
in the Wii draw are offered if students
write to their old school about the
Challenge.
All entries must be submitted by
Tuesday 26th February and the winner
will be announced on Tuesday 18th
March.
The Challenge is principally
sponsored by Imperial College
and Shell. The challenge is
organised by the RCSU and
the Outreach Office, who also
sponsor the schools competition.
For more information on the
competition and how to get
your previous high school
involved visit www.rcsu.org.
uk/sciencechallenge over the
coming weeks or email science.
challenge@imperial.ac.uk
5
The Science Challenge in numbers
unique questions
6expert judges
800word essay
£2.5k
prize for
the winner
The Questions and the Judges
?
?
?
?
?
Lord Robert Winston
Sir Brian Hoskins
Dr Philip Campbell
Sir Richard Sykes
Dr Paul Snaith

