comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 18 January 2008 felix
Comment
A tomato is not a fruit
I
t s unfortunately the case that
the intellectually challenged
can’t help being patronising.
The problem is that if you have
no brain, you cannot connect
one fact to another to create an argu-
ment – a process known in the trade as
logic. You must therefore resort to try-
ing to make statements in such a way
that they appear blindingly obvious (so
much so that your audience must have
been idiots not to know their veracity
in the first place.)
This became painfully clear watching
Jamie’s Fowl Dinners last week. We see
the gormless oaf combining this tech-
nique with crashing around a studio
giving some birds a good cuttin’ so that
we can watch similarly illogical women
bursting into tears. One imagines that
aftergassingsomefluffychickstodeath
the hope is that we will be so emotion-
ally churned up that we’ll believe any-
thing. ‘How many fingers, Winston?’
He follows this up by squishing his way
through some mechanically reclaimed
meat leaving us to conclude, one im-
agines, that because one can produce
meat of a squelching consistency by
forcing chicken carcasses through a
small hole that it must be disgusting
and therefore that the whole chicken
farming process is questionable.
Then the ever popular anthropo-
morphism fallacy kicks in and we’re
forced to conclude that because, one
imagines, we wouldn’t like to live in
a cage rammed up against our mates
then neither would a chicken. Howev-
er alert readers will have noticed that
during the course of the programme
Jamie Oliver completely undermines
himself by pouring a can of tomatoes
into one of his dishes. And it’s that
which I would like to talk to you about
today, dear reader.
You may not know this, but the life
of a battery farmed tomato is not one
of happiness and contentment. Take
Mick, a young green tomato. His fate
has already been written on the wall.
He will be grown along with millions
of others just like him in a huge green-
house at a density of 30 million to a
cubic metre, meaning that he will be
literally pissing and shitting all over
his mates and being fed and watered
through tubes called stems. He will
never see the light of day, rather being
encouraged to grow at a rate of up to
five kilograms a day by use of geneti-
cally modified food and UV lamps. In
fact the situation for Mick could be so
bad that Mick ends up going mad and
cannibalising his best friend Ahmed,
the tomato that he huddles up next to
every night.
Five billion tomatoes die in this way
every second. In this environment
Mick cannot express any of his natu-
ral tendencies as a tomato. He can’t
move about, peck straw bales or perch
on twigs. He doesn’t even have a foot-
ball. And what will happen to Mick if
he doesn’t put on the required weight?
Well, he’ll end up in the gas cham-
ber just like Mary, who wasn’t quite
red enough. Or like Dwaine, who had
knobbly bits on him. He’ll be pulped
into squelching passata and sold to
Heinz for us to squeeze over our KFC.
There are even stories now of toma-
toes being grown directly into a can. In
only two months time, unless the laws
are changed, Emma, one of a seed run-
off of the gas chamber will be grown
straight into pulp. I don’t know about
you, but I can’t imagine how the super-
markets can label Emma, this freak of
nature, a tomato, but you the consumer
will never know her true fate.
Imagine you were a tomato. Is that
the kind of life you would want to
lead? Not me. No, if I were a tomato, I
would rather live in a nice little mews
somewhere in Chelsea with lots of
straw bales and on a Friday evening, I
would pop out to Waitrose to pick up
a rotisserie of battery-farmed human
and suck the carcass clean in front of
a television showing images of babies
being gassed to death and fed to py-
thons, laughing hysterically about how
the wheel is come full circle. Then, and
only then, would I be happy to call my-
self a Free-Range Tomato.
The hooty cream project
S
o I said “…squirty cream…”
and he said “Who-ty cream?”
and I said, “Genius!”
Although no rigorous de-
sign work has yet been com-
pleted, preliminary testing has sug-
gested that more design work is indeed
required. Market research has also
suggested the product would be a com-
plete failure in all markets but an in-
ner sect of die hard nutcases, including
myself. The idea is simple. Take one air
horn and one can of that most amus-
ing of ‘food’ products affectionately
known as squirty cream and, well, you
can see where this is going. Of course,
the easiest solution is simply to tape
the two together and create a nice big
red button. Whilst this would certainly
be entertaining, it wouldn’t quite pro-
duce the desired effect; if a significant
R&D budget was available the cream
itself should emit the ‘hoot’, and if pos-
sible continue to emit it for a consider-
able time after application, molecules
of ‘soundness’ being trapped in the
air in the cream and being gradually
released. Not perturbed by thoughts
of the necessary breakthroughs in sci-
ence and technology required, and
never being one to give up on a stupid
idea I ploughed ahead with a prototype
regardless.
The hooter was removed from the
packaging and attached to the top of
the cream, which conveniently and
somewhat bizarrely had an identical
mounting flange. Pausing, with my
finger on the button, to wonder briefly
whether or not the cream would dif-
fuse well through the hooter or if
boundary layer separation would oc-
cur, I shuddered at the effect mechani-
cal engineering on a relatively innocent
person and pressed. Unfortunately sci-
ence won again. Blooming science…
Upright the horn can be ‘parped’ at
will without discharging the cream,
but in ‘cream-application-mode’ ( i.e.
upside-down) after a very brief sugges-
tion of hoot the horn fills with cream
and the effect is one of silent oozing.
Still, I couldn’t leave it at that, so after
cleaning the horn I filled it with cream,
attached the air canister and aimed at
my own face.
Creamy and slightly deafening I think
are the best words to describe the ex-
perience. Still I remain convinced that
one day hooty cream will become a
reality. The world will be humming
the ditty to the hooty cream advertis-
ing campaign and everyone will be
persuaded that “a little hoot with your
fruit” really is the only way to have a
fruit salad. Football riots will never be
quite the same. Imagine its use in care-
homes, “Would you like some cream
with that dear?” The phrase ‘with hi-
larious consequences’ springs to mind.
So jelly and cheese on a stick had
better watch out, because hooty cream
is going to be well up there on the list
of greatest party food ever. And whilst
we are on the subject, just what exactly
is with food on sticks. I mean, food
on sticks, which genius came up with
that? “I know, since everyone seems to
be so into cheese and all, lets put it on
a stick to make it more socially accept-
able to eat just plain, unadulterated,
unaccompanied cheese. And while we
are at it lets put tiny sausages on sticks
too”. Behold the wonderful powers the
humble stick has to make things which
would be otherwise entirely stupid so-
cially acceptable. Perhaps –insert ap-
propriate celebrity– ought to try it.
The Swiss on the other hand… Now
they know how to do food on a stick. A
couple of New Years back in the mid-
dle of a week of cruising through sweet
foot-deep powder and popping off
rocks on a snowboard I had the pleas-
ure of experiencing it first hand. Firstly
you get yourself a nice pointy stick of
manly dimensions, (that is, one with
which you could probably slay a grizzly
accidentally), attach yourself a properly
proportioned sausage and roast it over
an open fire. Boy, are they good washed
down with gluhwein, and if you can
watch base jumpers at the same time it
makes for a great evening. All the Swiss
need now to ring in the New Year in
like no other is hooty cream…
Addendum: It has recently come to
my attention that squirty cream devel-
opers have in fact been hard at work to
better their product without my realis-
ing and it gave me considerable joy to
Some good ol’ hooty cream
“
Pausing, I
wondered briefly
if boundary
layer separation
would occur,
I shuddered
at the effect
of mechanical
engineering
on an innocent
person and
pressed
Jellybean
David Stewart
discover for the first time that squirty
cream is now available in strawberry
and chocolate flavours.
A gormless Jamie Oliver

