comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Reveal yourself
I
f I were to make a premature
comment on the nature of 2008,
I’d say that it was a year in which
people and groups would reveal
their true colours. The first 19
days of 2008, the year of the potato,
have yielded much evidence to support
my assertion.
In politics we’ve seen some startling
insights behind the curtain of lies that
shield all politicians. The Conserva-
tives have unveiled new plans to end
the benefits culture by forcing people
to work for their benefits. David Cam-
eron summarised by saying “Where is
the dignity in sitting at home, depend-
ent on the state, not having a job?” Ap-
parently he had wanted to say “I’ve got
plenty of jobs on my estate for them,
let the plebs cut my grass if they are
too stupid to get a real job. God I love
Thatcher” but his PR advisor had ad-
vised him against it. After portraying
themselves as normal people via David
Cameron, the conservatives have final-
ly revealed that they are cold, heartless
champions of Satan. Which wouldn’t
be so bad if this proposal was absurd;
unfortunately it’s very sensible. I really
Samuel Black
hate when the Tories have good ideas
as it makes it more difficult to loath
them.
Across the Channel, and indeed the
Atlantic, politicians are also revealing
what’s beneath their dignified exterior.
Hillary Clinton showed us her soft side
by breaking down in tears before the
New Hampshire presidential primary.
This quashed reports that she could
make an onion cry and certainly helped
her to victory in New Hampshire.
However there are lingering rumors
that the tears were false due to reports
that extensive plumbing could be seen
behind her head. The French presi-
dent, Nicolas Sarkozy has also shown
us that he is a real person when he’s not
governing. Indeed it would seem that
he is going to great lengths to show
that he spends most of his time being
a real person, and very little time run-
ning the country. He has recently been
courting, getting engaged to and re-
portedly impregnating ex-supermodel
Carla Bruni (although not necessarily
in that order). Sarkozy has shown us
that he is more interested in getting his
leg over than pushing through difficult
economic reform – insert humorous
generalization about the French.
Environmentalists have shown them-
selves to be opposed to nuclear power.
Government plans to go ahead with a
new generation of power plants have
been met with opposition amid claims
that they will simply create more prob-
lems for the future. Environmentalists
have also opposed government plans
for offshore and on-shore wind farms,
and have been resolutely against at-
tempts to use tidal energy. Strangely
enough, environmentalists have op-
posed all attempts to create clean ener-
gy. Time was, green activists could hap-
pily oppose all and any destruction of
the environment but now that climate
change is an issue, they are forced to
choose the lesser of two evils. Instead,
they choose to remain opposed to eve-
rything and thus reveal themselves as
complete and utter morons.
You, the people, have also shown
some questionable aspects of your-
selves. The obsessively-documented
and overly-reported fall and fall and
fall and fall of Ms Britney Spears has
been watched with voyeuristic en-
thusiasm by the public. Peter Preston
commented in the Guardian: “we are,
in our way, that howling mob around
the arena”. As he put it so well, men-
tal illness has become a new spectator
sport. It would seem that you pick up
stories of Britney’s destruction with
glee; the quiet joy of knowing that
somebody far more beautiful, talented
and successful is a wreck remaining
too addictive to pass by.
One member of the public, however,
cannot be faulted. Azfarul Islam, the
Felix games editor, could speak badly
about Will Smith and I still wouldn’t
be mad at him. Last week’s delightful
games section has sparked rumours
that Azfarul Islam is going to get his
own supplement in Felix, a Nobel Prize
for awesomeness and take over the
world. Az has revealed himself to be
the best sub-editor currently at Felix.
I’d now like to take this opportunity
to reveal something about myself. No
not my real name, rather my ambitions
to become ruler of all mankind. I think
I shall take the title “The Emperor
Black”. Does anyone have a problem
with that?
The age-old art of Expletion
I
have serious problems with
swearing. Don’t get me wrong,
now; I have no objection to
the profanity, I can live with
the associated disrespect and I
can even handle the fact that I’m not
very good at doing it myself. What re-
ally bothers me about it is the lack of
thought and originality that seems to
go into it.
Swearing is one of the purest and
most natural forms of artistic expres-
sion. What raises literature above the
level of trashy paperbacks and free
newspapers is the ability that great au-
thors have to express grand emotion
succinctly.
What one most admires in painters
and sculptors is the skill required to
create feelings from brushstrokes and
to carve sentiment out of stone. The
communication of thoughts, passions,
desires and hatreds is what defines all
Art, and is what forms the core of the
age-old art of Expletion.
Cursing is nothing new. For as long
as we’ve had language there have been
linguistic taboos; words that were
never to be employed in daily conver-
sation. Over the millennia, existing ta-
boos have repeatedly broken down and
been re-erected around other words. I
may quite easily be wrong, but I believe
that today’s society contains fewer of
these taboos than have existed at any
time in recorded history. The easy ac-
cessibility of these words is in part to
blame for the Dark Ages of Expletion
into which we have been plunged.
English is a language particularly
blessed with monosyllabic profanities.
Once securely locked away like pre-
cious porcelain reserved for the most
special of occasions, these are now
constantly in use. As a result, their
texture is tarnished, their effect faded
and their exterior cracked and dirty. In
short, their sparkle is gone. It is a sad
statement about the value modern so-
ciety places on the Arts when one con-
siders that a handful of swear words
is what passes for genuine Expletion
today.
Should an argument break out some-
where in the English-speaking world,
you can be sure of hearing the same
words being batted back and forth
like deflated tennis balls. Almost in-
stinctively, people’s reactions tend to
involve asterisks and bleeps. Where
has the invention gone? The original-
ity, the thought? When will the sparkle
return to our swearing?
As with almost every aspect of the
English language, Shakespeare is the
undisputed master of the curse. Grant-
ed, his language is filled with the com-
mon-or-garden variety of obscenities,
but the heights he occasionally scales
are unparalleled.
How incredibly satisfying it must
be to be able to refer to someone as
a “whoreson, obscene, greasy tallow-
catch” or instead, a “loggerheaded
tardy-gaited puttock.” Their meaning
almost takes second place to rhythm
and pacing as the true conveyors of
emotion.
All the fury and disdain that anyone
can possibly feel can be transmitted in
phrases that require just the slightest
amount of thought and sentence plan-
ning. Instead of instinctively reaching
for the old favourites, why don’t we
make an effort to be more original and
creative?
Let us raise Expletion to the pedes-
tal where it once stood; as an art-form
that required intelligence, care, rhythm
and inventiveness. You loggerheaded
tardy-gaited puttocks.
William Shakespeare truly had a way with words: ‘Why, thou clay-brained guts; thou knotty pated fool;
thou whoreson, obscene, greasy tallow-catch’, Henry IV Part 1. Not one use of the f-word
Gilead Amit
“
Should an
argument break
out somewhere
in the English-
speaking
world, almost
instinctively,
people’s
reactions tend to
involve asterisks
and bleeps
8 felix Friday 18 January 2008

