mix
17
CONCKftT
Jim Youens
Jethro Tull at the Rainbow
STIRLING MOSS at a rock concert!
Yes, I was surprised too but Saturday
16th November saw him introduce the
Jethro Tull concert at Finsbury Park's
Rainbow.
First off were Pan's People, dancing
to a couple of Tull's tunes. I've never
gone a bundle on their choreography but,
oh, those costumes. Clearly not for those
afflicted by high blood pressure, the
girls' costumes for the first dance com-
prised topless black dresses with only
strategically placed stars to hide their
blushes.
Turning to the music, Fanny, the
American all-girl rock group, played a
short but neat set lasting about 35mins.
Their first album I liked, but the
replacement of two of the original band
members by Patti CSuzi's sister') Quatro
on quitar and Cam Davis on drums has,
in my opinion, turned the band into
something very ordinary and predictable.
June Millington (bass) and Nickey
Barclay (keyboards), both of whom have
been with Fanny from the start, played
adequately but therei still seemed to be
something missing.' Perhaps if Patti
payed more attention to her playing and
less to making erotic gestures with her
guitar, then things might improve.
Of course, most people only came to
hear Tull, and they didn't leave dis-
appointed. Surely Jethro Tull must always
have been one of the most entertaining
live bands around and this occasion was
no different.
To be voted the world's best flautist
on five occasions is certainly no mean
feat, but lan Anderson always gives such
a superb performance. Ably supported
by 'Stripey' Jeffrey Hammond — Hammond
(to the power n) on bass, Martin Barre
(guitar), Barriemore Barlow (drums) and
John Evan, dressed in his eternal baggy
suit, on keyboards, the Anderson-led
group are so much together. Their stable
line-up must have a lot to do with this.
The band are heavily committed to the
idea of the concept album (indeed the
last four have been of this type) but this
seems to present few problems with their
live gigs — they are well able to condense
a long work into something more suitable
for a concert. Of their best works, Thic)<
as a Brick must rate highly and a
shortened version of this was warmly
appreciated by the audience.
I think most people were well satisfied
wjth the large number of the old favourites
interspersed with some new songs from
the War Child album. The famous Anderson
dirty jokes and cracks were appreciated
too.
To those of you around a couple of
years ago who saw Tull at the Albert
Hall, this concert was just as good. To
those who missed it, bad luck.
!C0AD8
R i z S h a k i r
Link Wray: The Link W
a
y Rumble
Polydor Super 2391 128
The album kicks off with pounding
guitar playing; has a distinctive style
and rhythm which makes it 'Link Wray'.
Side one initiates with_ 'It Was A Bad
Scene' which is rock '*h' roll with a
difference in so much as that it has a
rock and roll rhythm but has ingenuous
guitar play integrated into it, thus adding
a new dimension to classical rock and
roll. Incredibly so since he has been
around for sometime now and has seen
success but has had his share of failures
as well.
'Good Time Joe' (the second track),
in some ways portrays his life-story and
is obviously the work of a man with
talent. This is followed by 'Walkin'
Bulldog' and '/ Gof To Ramble'.
These two trackshighlighttheexceptional
support by his back-up musicians. The
last track (on side one) 'Backwoods
Preacher Man' features good mixing,
which is not always apparent on super-
ficial hearing, however, subsequent
listening underlines the necessity of this
for this extraordinary piece of music.
The second side continues in the
same vein with 'Super 88' giving yet
another surprise and showing the tre-
mendous versatility of the musicians.
Mark Jordan's piano playing on this track
almost succeeds in attaining the same
unique quality as Link's guitar playing.
Yet again Link succeeds in mustering a
new quality into 'She's That Kind Of
Woman', (the next song) this being the
penetrating and perceptive lyrics which
are so direct that at times one feels
uneasy.
•Step This Way' and 'We Said I Do'
are somewhat slower moving songs,
however, this £>y no means is a retro-
grading statement and is in fact a
compliment to Link's band. The album
finishes with Link's infamous 'Rumble'
which has the effect of 'adding the cherry
to the cake'.
Throughout the record one cannot but
begin to imagine the formats of the
following songs. This does not imply
that the record consists of a random
selection of songs and is in fact in no
way incoherent. In addition to Link's
excellent guitar playing there is some
outstanding performances by the in-
dividual members of the band who by no
means are overwhelmed by Link and
complement his style. The musical
arrangement is extremely good (although
not the best in the world) and Mr. Wray
is to be both congratulated and credited
for harnessing such a wide range of
musical ability in a controlled manner
and utilising it exceptionally well.
A record to be highly recommended.
A n d r e w O s b o r n e
Chicago and All That Jazz (Verve).
A DOUBLE album containing twenty
nine tracks of what can loosely be called
dixieland jazz. And fine stuff it is too!
Jazz standards such as 'Chicago',
'Ain't Misbehavin", and the omnipresent
'Saints' are featured, but less familiar
tunes are played with equal effect.
The records consist of three sessions
the first of 'Max Kaminsky All Star
Dixieland' recorded in 1953, the second
of Eddie Condon and his boys recorded
in 1958 and the last of Eddie Condon
and the others recorded in 1961. Con-
sidering their age the recordings are of
exceptionally high quality although, of
course, they are in mono.
The tracks are of amazing variety,
the mood varying from tantalisingly sedate
to completely riotous but throughout the
three sessions an incredibly relaxed
feeling comes across as though the
musicians were just amusing themselves
in their own front room,
mmlt is perhaps injudicious to single
out any particular track or musician but,
merely to fill out this review, I'll mention
my favourites. 'After You've Gone' from
the 1961 recording shows Jack Tea-
garden's trombone playing and singing
at their best. 'China Boy' from the same
session features some excellent piano by
Joe Sullivan and Pee Wee hussel's
remarkable clarinet style runs throughout
the 1961 recording. Sr. Louis Blues from
the first session Is taken at breakneck
speed with Rex Stewart's cornet out-
standing.
I would recommend this album to
anybody Jazz-buff or otherwise. It could
give you something to play at parties
Continued on page 18

