18 F E L I X
REVIEWS Continued from page 17
instead of Gary Glitter or make a nice
change from Pink Floyd any day.
John Barry: Play It Again (Polydor)
JOHN BARRY conducts some of his
theme tunes from stage, screen and
television. Good though it is, I find it
difficult to imagine an occasion when it
would be appropriate to play it. I have
always wanted to get hold of an album of
marches containing the Monty Python
theme music and play it, full volume, in
Southside, about fifteen minutes before
Monty Python comes on television.
Suddenly the deserted stairways would
become a hive of activity as bespectacled,
pen clutching young men drop their
text-books and race towards thetelevision.
But none of the tracks on this album would
have the same effect.
Theme music is very difficult to
separate from the film or programme it
supports, It summons up the atmosphere
of the film and if the film was bad then
the music, however good it may be, will
not be received favourably. For example,
John Barry wrote the theme music of
'Juke Box Jury' and the thought of David
Jacobs' slimy manner could turn one off
Barry's music for life.
The music on this album certainly
deserves to exist in it's own right. You
may think that film music has to be sloshy
with masses of wai ling viol ins and chanting
ladies. This music is not like that: it is
possible to create an atmosphere without
resorting to sentimental sog. Barry's
music is characterised by pizzicato
strings, simple production, frequent key
changes and subtle hints of piano.
John Barry started out as a rock and
roll band leader and later worked with
Adam Faith as arranger and composer.
This led him into films and he now has
an impressive list of film scores to his
name including 'The Ipcress File', 'Alice
in Wonderland', 'Dr. NO', 'Diamonds are
Forever', 'From Russia With Love' and
many others. If you want to hear some of
his music without getting hold of this
album then listen to Lulu's new single
'The Man With The Golden Gun' for which
he wrote the music. This album includes
themes from 'OrsonWells Great Mysteries',.
'Walkabout' and my favourite, the title
track, 'Play It Again' from 'The Tamarind
Seed'.
Unfortunately, I do not think there is a
market for this kind of music. It is okay
for whiling away a hangover or as a
substitute for Andy Williams at cocktail
parties but presumably the main custom
will come from film-goers attempting to
preserve memories of particular films.
The Hollies: I'm Down (Polydor)
THIS SINGLE is fairly typical Hollies
stuff. They have hardly progressed at
all since the days of my youth when
their popularity was at its height. The
singer wails about some bird who's just
chucked him and a full orchestra provide
the accompaniment for him to wail along
with.
The flip-side is a little better with a
slightly more^ubtle production but the
lyrics are just as inane and on the same
subject.
Maybe it's time they gave up.
Jack Llewellyn
Electric Light Orchestra: Showdown
(Harvest)
THIS ALBUM, which features the
extraordinarily diverse work of Roy Wood
and Jeff Lynne, is basically a retro-
spective compilation of the magic that is
the Electric Light Orchestra. The best
aspect of it all is that none of the tracks
are presented in their commerical, single
form — they are given the full treatment.
Old favourites such as '10538Overture'
'Roll over Beethoven' and 'Showdown'
sound as fresh as ever. There are also a
couple of popular album cuts such as
'Whisper in the Night', 'Queen of the
Hours' and 'In Old England Town'.
Paul Ekpenyong
Wishbone Ash: There's The Rub
(EMI MCF 2585)
THERE ARE only six tracks on this
album and from the first 'Silver Shoes',
an exhilarating rhythmic steady beat to
it through to the last on side two 'FUBB'
which is a truly incredible way out piece
of music, there is not a single dud track.
FUBB stands for Fxxxx Up Beyond
Belief, a rather incongruous title though
perhaps not altogether inappropriate and
the sort pseudo-psychedelic feeling now
permeating the music industry. A touch of
the congas by Nelson 'Flaco' Padron
adds the finishing touches to this
Definitely a collector's item which
faithfully captures the unique sound of
the Electric Light Orchestra.
Tangerine Dream: Phaedra (Virgin)
THIS IS a record which simply stands
head and shoulders above any other on
the market today. It is an incredible
fusion of superbartistry,extemporisations
on the concept of sound and fine stereo
recording technique. There are no other
records around like it except for others
by Tangerine Dream and possibly very
early Pink Floyd. Like, man, you just
gotta let yuh lug 'oles check it out!
The title track, 'Phaedra', takes up
side one and is a multi-juxtaposition of
superbly arranged track.
The other two tracks on side one are
'Don't Come Back' and 'Persephone'.
The former features excellent guitar
playing backed by deeped earthy bass
and drums from Martin Turner and Steve
Upton respectively. The latter is a slow
tempoed piece that drifts, cascades and
flats almost as if on a surrealistic
journey.
On side two there is 'Hometown',
which would probably make a disco hit,
and also 'Lady Fay', the lyrics of which
are based on a Dartmoor folk legend.
The whole album is well arranged and
the production is good and the group have
certainly done well to produce an album
mysteriously compelling themes which
mentally conjure up visions of melancholy
cosmic spirituality. The final sixty
seconds are best described as odd: the
sounds of squealing schoolchildren in
the distance broach ones ears. Too deep
for me, sunshine.
Of the three tracks on side two,
'Mysterious semblance at the strand of
nightmares' is a absolute must to be
heard on headphones. It is a basic texture
of slow cadential sequences (reminiscent
of Bach) played on the organ with de-
corative wisps of white noise thrown in
with stunning effect.
This album has to be one of the most
significant around.
of such high musical quality. Highly
recommended.
James Last: Golden Memories
(Polydor)*.
YET ANOTHER hit for James Last,
His Orchestra and Chorus. The com-
bination of powerful melody, beautiful
arrangement, good solid rhythm and clean-
cut brass — the last trade mark — have
been applied to 27 pieces of music of
various class and background to produce
a pleasant album. Some of the songs and
music featured include 'Toreador's
March' from Carmen, 'Sanfa Lucia', 'Hava
Nagilah', 'If You Know Suzie' and
'Charleston'.
Hie
Country Life (Island
Roxy Music:
ILPS 9303)
THIS IS the fourth Roxy Music album,
following in the tracks of the reasonable
'Roxy Music', the good 'For your Pleasure',
and 'Stranded' a truly fine album pro-
gressing steadily from initial exper-
imentation and gimmickry to musicianship
and consistency.
The guiding influence of Roxy Music
is Bryan Ferry, who produced this album,
but although remaining 'numero uno' the
writing has been shared in part by fellow
musicians Manzanera and Mackay. 'The
Thrill Of It AIT begins the album in
powerful style combining inimitable
vocals from Ferry with a harsh, complex,
arrangement and relentless beat. This
high standard is maintained through
'Three and Nine', the present single
'All I Want Is You', and the excellent
'Out Of The Blue' highlighting the
synthesizer effects of Eddie Jobson, and
the pounding rhythm section of John
Gustafson (bass) and Paul Thomspson's
considerable percussive abilities, who
propel all the numbers along with venom.
As on previous albums a number of
tracks fall short of the overall standard.
These include the rather ordinary blues
'If It Takes All Night' and the opening
two tracks on side two 'Bitter Sweet' —
an interesting piece but one which tends
to drag it's feet, and the rather poor
'Tryptich' — Roxy Music play Steeleye
Span. From then on the music rises in
quality, as 'Casanova' lurches away with
an admirably magnetic riff, guitar swooping
imaginatively around the nucleus of organ,
bass and drums.
'A Rea'lly Good Time' provides the
record's most melodic number with the
vocals in complete control, tastefully
sung over a background of falling piano-,
violins and subdued drums. Closing with
'Prairie Rose', this is an accomplished
album, a good couple of notches above
other recent releases, constantly In-
teresting and varied in it's approach,
notably the emergence of Phil Manzanera
on guitar, adding a further dimension to
the sound.
On the whole a well worthwhile LP.

