FELIX
19
THE ICKY
STORY
SOCCER ciua
PRIOR TO 1969, a large number of yachts had been chartered
commercially each Easter and Summer vacation by IC students
from the Sailing Club. It was felt that a college-owned yacht
would reduce costs and bring cruising within the reach of a
greater number of students. In July 1969, -ICHTHYOSAURUS'
was purchased with a little
financial help from the Union.
An ICHTHYOSAURUS is an weeks. Icky needs crew,
extinct marine animal with a skippers, mates and organisers
hugh head, tapering body, four from all parts of IC.
paddles and a long tail which And then came '73 with a
lived two million years ago highly successful trip to the
'Concise Oxford Dictionary). highlands and islands. Sur-
Nowadays she is one of the vivors report that they make a
most famous yachts of the s o r t 0 f whisky up there that
English south coast. She has j s n ' t a t all bad. At this time a
visited every harbour between n e w generation of fearless
Woodbridge in Suffolk and seamen was about to emerge
Falmouth in Cornwall as well and now that they have done so,
as completing a round-trip to the club has moved into top
the Hebrides through the Irish g e a r _ A f t e r D e j n g brought up to
Sea. During the summer racing standards Icky entered
vacations, 'Icky' has done the Cowes-Dinard race but
extensive journeys around couldn't finish it as she had to
Northern Europe (Norway, rescue another yacht which
Sweden, Denmark, Germany, was about to be wrecked on the
Holland, Belgium, France, Casquets.
Spain and Ireland) making a Under the direction of
total of 11,200 nautical miles. Charles 'Lifeboat' Ellen, never
Icky sails at weekends, seen before events took place,
midweek and vacations. There Starting with two enjoyable
are usually 6 or 7 weekend introductory weekends for new
sails from its berth in Chichester members, there followed a
Yacht Basin during the autumn Cheese and Wine extravaganza
until the lay-up in December. and renewed enthusiasm on the
The winter refit follows and part of new members,
after fittout out, there are four At the time of writing the
or five one-weekEastercruises, boat is being extensively used
ten weekend summer sails and and as far as next season is
then the summer vacation concerned, there is a rumour
cruises, which usually include that the yacht might go as far
one long cruise of four or five as Finland! Anyone interested?
On Wednesday the Thirteenth our brave lads from the II, III and
IV teams ignoring the foul weather conditions turned up for the
matches against University College at Harlington. Jim Cley,
always firm and resolute at the back, led his second team to a
4-2 victory over UC 3rd's. The game, hampered by the driving
wind and rain, (as well as the
state of the pitch) will be our third team played against
remembered by some of the QMC thirds at Harlington and
stern and uncompromising play in an excellent performance
of our midfield trio John Miles, won by 6 goals to nil. This,
C.Higham and B.Woodman. however, was no push-over;
The third team's game is a for the full 90 minutes QMC
sorrier tale - they lost 6-0 were hard and often dirty and
against UC 2nd\s and they at the end of the game our side
obviously missed the dynamic was reduced to 8 men. I.Pouton
Rog Hunter at the back who was taken to hospital with a
was injured, although Paul gashed arm (reports that his
Gainham and Geoff Davies spine was later ripped out as
defended htriocally (most of a result are untrue) and
time). The team however, J.Pedley and John Mills limped
deserved at least a consolation off nursing each others legs,
coal for their undying en- Outstanding play was by John
thusiasm in the face of over- Miles and P.Gainham amongst
whelming odds and also for others. Paul Gainham scoring
their quiet acceptance of the two goals worthy of a place in
distinctly odd decisions of the the Harlington scrap book,
shortsighted ref with bobble The seconds lost 5-3, un-
cap and muscular thighs. Our fortunately, to QMC 2nd's and
4th team went down 3-0, they our only bit of good news from
also blamed the weather. At this game was that Brucie
half time, Captain Ken Cowan, Woodman scored two of our
desperately trying to inspire goals and played exceptionally
his team into some kind of well besides. For the first time
action, gave the lads a song! for many a long day, our first
The success side of the club team dropped a point, when
this year, the sixths, again they drew 4-4 against QMC
did well on the same day Ist's. They have themselves
losing by the narrow margin of only to blame for this. At two
only 12 goals being defeated stages in the game they were
by Kings III. Andy Flowerdays' leading by 2 goals but lapses
lads have now played 5, lost 5 of concentration at the back
goals for 5 against 50. Well allowed the opportunist for-
done lads! wards of QMC to nip in and
The following Wednesday force a draw.
G O L F
NIGEL FOSTER
When I previewed this
season some weeks ago many
people told me that they
believed I was being a little
hasty in regarding this side as
one that might reap in a hatful
of trophies before the summer
term drew to a close. Three
matches and three victories
later I see no reason to revise
this view.
Our first match of the
season against Sussex Uni-
versity produced a 5-1 victory.
This was a most encouraging
start as IC has not won so
convincingly as this against
any side for over eight years.
The result could be construed
as a reflection more of the
decline in Sussex University
golf than a great IC performance,
though anyone familiar with
the IC lineup of How Rosser
(Capt.), Bill Calderwood, Bob
Allan, Nigel Foster, John
Mendonca and Ed Clutton would
appreciate the formidable test
Sussex faced.
If the reader doubts the
quality of our win against
Sussex our second victory by
4-2 over University College
should quash these once and
for all. Last year in one of our
two defeats University College
beat us 4V4-1V5 and this year
their team was virtually
unchanged. Bill Calderwood
and Ed Clutton were our two
vanquished members, in the
former case beaten by a
brilliant display by the London
University Champion Robin
Ellis who started by going 3
under par for the first 6 holes
which left Bill little chance
of recovery. Two UC players
gave up to IC's Bob Allan and
Mike Strickland whilst Nigel
Foster and John Mendonca had
to struggle to win 3 and 1 and
1 up respectively.
By the third match with our
tails in the air, the side now
accelerated. Portsmouth Poly-
technic were unfortunate to
meet us in this mood and were
brushed aside contemptuously
6-0. It was hardly a match so I
shall not discuss it except to
say that Richard Waddilove was
recalled to the team for this
massacre.
Our London University
contingent this year must
surely persuade even the most
cynical reader that this is a
unique year. In my preview I
described the fact that last
year no fewer than six of the
London University team came
from IC was a record for any
individual college. It is a
source of amazement to me that
already this year twelve IC
members have been capped for
the University doubling the
record we established last
year. Indeed many of our future
opponents have written to say
that they believe their team to
be exceptional with two
University players! Our reply
that we could field two teams
of only University players
they have regarded as fiction.
That they are fools we hope
the remainder of the season
will prove as convincingly as
the beginning.

