F E L I X 7
P.G
AFFAIRS
C O R N E R
Tom Abraham
WHILE BEING interviewed for the special FELIX feature on
Should the PG Affairs Officer be on the Exec or not?, I was told
that some postgraduates were against having departmental groups.
I would like to take this opportunity to state that the IC postgrad
group does not intend to smash the place up, have sit-ins,
intimidate anybody, or carry
out any acts of mindless
militancy. All we wish to do
is try and create the conditions
for a better academic and social
life for every postgraduate
student. When, as happened
last summer, it is impossible
to organise interdepartmental
soccer because of the lack of
contacts in many of the
departments, then there is
something obviously wrong
with the set-up. The ICPGG
together with the departmental
groups provides the means
whereby the PG's at IC can
break out of their self-imposed
isolation.
At the moment we have
departmental groups in Maths,
Geology, Elec Eng and Chem
Eng and sectional groups in
Industrial Sociology and
Management Science. There
are moves afoot to form groups
in Civ Eng -and Chemistry.
This, however, still leaves a
number of departments where
cuts and the effect this was
having on postgraduate dem-
onstrating, and finally one
demanding that thesis costs
be met by college. While on
the face of it, our chances of
success with respect to these
motions seem rather gloomy, I
think we have farrly strong
cases with the first two, and
on thesis costs we should at
least (at a time of soaring
costs) be reimbursed for the
copies we have to give IC and
the . University. More about
these Issues in later FELICES.
Finally, we are organising
a Christmas lunch on Friday
20th December. It will cost
10p and we hope you will all
try and make a special effort
to come; there will be lots of
goodies for everybody.
there are no postgraduate
groups at all. If anybody in
any of the departments not
mentioned wishes to help form
PG groups, then please get in
touch with me (Int. 3103). The
ICPGG gets money from the.
Union, and we will be only
too glad to help departmental
groups as far as the financial'
side is concerned. Finally, to
those individuals who scoff at
the PG group, let me point out
that this group was only formed
about eighteen months ago. We
have done remarkably well,
considering that postgraduates
are among the most difficult
of student groups to organise.
Many postgraduates totally
ignore the three constituent
college unions. The CCU's
although a lot of their
activities are undergraduate
oriented also organise a number
of functions which wouldappeal
to postgraduates. In view of
this, and because I feel that
something must be done to
bring postgraduates into the
mainstream of student life, a
joint letter by the ICPGG and
each of the CCU's is being
sent to every postgraduate.
I hope you will respond, by
participating in at least some
of the CCU activities.
The ICPGG had a general
meeting on the 21st November,
and the turnout was very
encouraging. A number of
motions were passed, among
them one opposing the total
ban on tuition, another one
condemning the expenditure
S c i e n c e : S B Y e a r s t i n
P e t e r G l a s s
"WHEN TODAY'S IC graduate
heads into the world of industry and
government, he will find attitudes to
Science and Technology which have
changed markedly from those the IC
graduate of 1949 encountered'.
In the immediate post-war years there
was great optimism tor the future role of
science and technology. Recognising
their contribution to the war effort,
increased support was given by both
government and industry. The Scientific
Civil Service was established, industry
began to Invest in R&D (Research and
Development) on a much larger scale.
The funds allocated to science grew
steadily and educational facilities were
expanded to meet the growing demand for
scientists and technologists. Their status
was changing — they were no longer the
poor relations of the other professions.
There was 'high public faith in the
efticency of science'. It was believed
that there was nothing man could not
achieve through the power of science
and technology.
This euphoria lasted throughout the
50's and into the 60's. Science was in a
'Golden Age'. Funds continued to grow
but the emphasis on national security
and atomic energy gradually gave way to
a more systematic allocation of resources
Jjased on the drive for economic growth.
During the 50's Britian's economic
performance, measured in terms of
growth, was poor compared with many
western nations and it was held that
our poor record in technologioal in-
novation in industry was a contributory
factor. In the light of this, technological
projects like Concoroe wsrtr unveiied,
the Brain Drain scare began (1963),
Harold Wilson spoke of forging socialism
through the white heat of the technological
revolution and the Robbins report (leading
to a massive expansion of higher ed-
ucation) was published.
As the sixties wore on through this
optimism began to fade and was replaced
by a growing disenchantment with science
and technology. They had failed to solve
many of the problems that it had been
hoped would be overcome. The panacea
for all society's ills was not perfect. So
in 1962 with the publication of Rachel
Carson's high-impact quasi-poetic
'Silent Spring', the issue of the en-
vironment began to emerge. This was
closely followed by a fiercer political
critique - 'The Technological Society'
by Jaques Ellul.
The social costs of many scientific
and technological advances are now being
recognised, in particular in terms of non-
renewable natural resources and pollution
of the environment. The growing concern
about these social costs is reflected in
the attempt to develop Technology
Assessment. This is 'the systematic
study of the secondary or higher order
effects or impacts on society of a present
or proposed application of Technology'.
While there are still difficulties in
finding and applying methods of analysis,
here is an important change in the
relationship between science, technology
and society. The scientist and tech-
nologist will need to include new kinds
of variables into their work to account for
these social costs.
There is a growing antagonism towards
science and technology. Antagonism is
hardly new but the current wave is
notable for its intensity and extent. On
one level science is under attack for
what it now produces, e.g. nuclear,
biological and chemical warfare give
humankind the capacity for self-
annihilation several times over. Attacks
of this kind are perhaps misdirected in
that it is the wider society which directs
science towards these goals via the
provisiorr of resources for research in
these areas. Thus science is not neutral,
it is a powerful tool of those who can
afford to finance it. On another level the
counter-culture attacks science itself,
our culture is cominated by science, the
only acceptable mode of explanation is
the scientific mode. So we can experience
the world only in terms which scientific
thinking permi.ts. The counter-culture
reject this domination, they find it
restricting and believe that science
should be but one mode of experience
and explanation, i.e. subjectivity should
complement objectivity.
Graduates from IC will come to work
in a world where their activities are
subject to ever more careful scrutiny.
Both industry and government have begun
to re-examine their use of science and
technology. In industry this led to a much
closer questioning of the relevance of
R&D to its needs. This resulted in the
by now familiar story of the drop in
recruitment, redundancies etc. of the
late 60's and early 70's. Government,
implimenting the controversial Rothschild
report, has sought to bring science and
technology into closer service of the
nations wider social and economic goals.
So the 'Golden Age' is over, though
perhaps its passing should not be
lamented. Science and technology have
brought humankind many benefits and
will continue to do so. Our recognition
that these benefits are won with certain
costs, and our desire to reduce or el-
iminate these costs should mean that we
exploit the potential of science and
technology more carefully. This will
provide the next generation of IC
graduates with a series of new and
stimulating challenges.

