6 F E L I X
ROUND & ABOUT
by Romulus
I thought that I would have a
quick lunch i n Queenie' s, There were
at least a hundred people in the queue.
I raced round to the union. I knew
that I should have to wait at least
twenty minutes in the Lower Refectory
so I went straight for the l i f t . The
doors closed just as I arrived.
Speeding up the stairs I passed a long
over-flow queue from the Dining Hall.
A glance at the stationary figures
around the Upper Refectory was suf-
ficient. I retreated across the
Quad, to the snack-bar.
A short queue here, I only had to
wait twelve minutes for ay cup of tea
and a sandwich. Unfortunately there
was nowhere to s i t down and so I juggled
with my plate and cup, contemplating the
waste of time spent in waiting for meals
1ST VARIATION ON A THEME
by Slg
Quote of the week:
"All I'M interested i n i s men, and
getting a 1st. Class Degree".
This remark, passed by an
attractive trealise this week, goes a
long way to show how wrong the prudes
are when they bewail the incompat-
i b i l i t y of Sport and Work. Consider
that sentence: what devotion and?
unselfishness are here - you may be
sure, SHE will not waste HER lecture
time. This i s only just, of course,
far the words of learned lecturers
are not to be taken lightly as you
would oastor—oil or aspirin although,
admittedly, lectures usually have an
effect identical with one of those.
But i n this institution (and I use
the word advisedly) whioh of you oan
say that he has not glanced covertly at
his watch as boredom set in, only to
find that i t i s only just 10 minutes
past? The truth i s , of oourse, that
most of you are at the stage when your
hormones are doing the most interesting
things.
While the flow of erudite words
flows far ever onwards and the brown-
bagger ahead piles up his ample notes,
requests for Hand to oome into the gar-
den (for no specified purpose) float
easily into the mind and the pleasant
day-dream advances no further Mathema-
tically than 38-26-38, an integrated
area most men would like to approach
in the limit (asymptotically?).
Those of you who are One Degree
Un der notioe the balance of mind the
young lady shows. Not merely a degree
(and the best at that) but also resea-
rch. Research into that subjeot of
endless fasoination to many young
women. I mean of oourse, young men.
The squeamish may cry out i n anguish,
but the hormonal activities of this
(noble)pile - "huntin', shootin' and
secretin'* are everywhere manifest in
College Life - as a walk i n rubber
shoes along the Hostel corridors any
evening w i l l show.
If young men and women of like
persuasion did not have some outlet,
this College would be like a fruit
cake - f u l l of nuts.
At that very moment 300 people
were waiting-far meals. At a rough
guess at least 1000 people wait at I.C.
for 10 minutes each day for their food.
There are 5 days i n the I.C. week and
30 weeks i n the I.C. year, so for those
who are mathematically minded i t i s
not difficult to reckon that i n one
year we waste at least 25,000 hours
waiting for meals.
Stupendous - isn't i t !
A private-eye detective hired by
the Department of Un-Imperial Activities
has been following ex-President Chad
around College this week. Without
doubt there i s proof that Chad i s lear-
ning to speak Russian. He has been
seen in the Me oh. Eng. Department on
various occasions carrying a Russian
primer. Frequently in dark corners of
the laboratory and on the lonely
stairs he has been heard uttering Slav-
onio phrases. We know that after a
year's Presidency a man tends to fade
into oblivion, but we never expected
this ar i s i t , that Chad has a
Russian girlfriend?
.
Though at I.C. we have an excellent
Union of our own with a l l mod. cons,
some I.C. men s t i l l have the time and
inclination to participate in broader
student l i f e at U.L.U. Mr. R, Harford
is the secretary for the U.L.U. Swimming
Club, he i s the University of London
backstroke champion, as well as being
captain of I.C. Swimming Club. Harford
is the man who distinguished himself
last year at the U.L.U. Swimming Gala
by loosing his trunks - but not the
ohampionship.
R.J. Loveman, who actoias Business
Manager for Phoenix, is the Swimming
Captain at U.L.U. B.R. James deser-
ves our congratulations for he is
Captain of the U.L.U. Association Foot-
ball Club.
M E O F F I C E R ?
S U C C E S S A T I.C.
To be someone at Imperial College
office or membership of a committee is
a desideratum. Research has shown,
that this oan be attained by either of
two paths: these we outline now for
the benefit of freshmen and others.
The Character Route: A comic
beard, reputation for indecent exposure,
dirty shirt worn outside the trousers,
height of four feet nine inches ... by
the acquisition of any of these cons-
picuous stigmata i t is possible rapidly
to become known within the college.
To be observed vomitting noisily,
drunkenly and regularly at lunoh hour
within the Beit Quadrangle i s another
recommended, albeit well-tried, method
of becoming a character. Others include
the habit of going barefoot to a l l
oollege functions, bringing two or more
small dogs to a l l lectures and practi-
oals, never being seen except when
aocompanied by a glamourous blonde
six feet two t a l l and with a 38-20-28
figure. Not recommended: noisy home-
built oars; a small handcart con-
taining a stuffed effigy of the Domes-
tic Bursar.
The Character racket must be played
for a l l i t s worth: we knew a student
who took skis with him wherever he went
and who finally beoame assistant sec-
retary of the Chess Club. Useful
adjuncts to the method should be deve-
loped for special use: a man who
loudly demands the Darts Club pot from
the duty officer i n the bar will soon
become known. The dirty-shirt triok
works well i n literary and mountain-
eering circles.
Once recognition as a character
is reached office soon follows: Secre-
tary (Fixtures) to the Youth Hostel
Group, Vice-President of the Bowls Club,
member of the Conmittee of the 23 Club,
these and many others are recent suc-
cesses.
The Bar Route: This i s expensive
but guaranteed. Mark down the Presi-
dent or Secretary of your favourite
club or society - for example, the
Polynesian Club - and buy him a bitter.
Follow this up with two or three
bitters a week up to half-session and
i f the official s t i l l accepts (he always
will) you are assured of getting on
next year's committee: this i s to
ensure that the supply, mysteriously
curtailed at half-session, i s continued.
There are some people incapable of
succeeding by either method: they inc-
lude the impoverished and the goon-like
brownbaggers. However they can get
on by following a further method, the
Club-of-one's-own teohnlque. Find
two oafs interested in dominoes, stiok
l i t t l e papers on notice boards and be-
hold, a new club with YOU as President!
Under-water swimming has accomplished
just this quite recently: we suggest
a Poker club, Guild of Fretworkers,
Mormon Sooiety, a Numismatists Club
etc seeing what the Union gets
stung for, a l l these look like being
sure-fire hits, getting £250 a year
from Union funds.
If you lack oonfindence there i s
s t i l l hope. Bribe one who i s "in*
to mutter "Old Stumblecrumpet might
make a good secretary" at all committee
meetings he attends and, i f old Stum-
blecrumpet coughs up the usual pints,
he eventually attains his goal.
Better, get two "insiders" at this in-
dependently — they oan each report on
how the other one is doing and so save
woeful waste of Whitbreac,

