PRIZE
C R O S S W O R D
Across
Down
10.
14.
15.
19.
21,
22.
23.
24.
Find the hollow one in
anachronistic pennies (3)
Get bored after hearing essay
on topical sarcasm (6)
Arrives with hollow burning (6)
Mixed teas in the Orient (4)
Consider backward editor
free, as planned (10)
Call for more French in the
centre (6)
Want the French to
aggravate (6)
Post Office changes dole
order for the dog (6)
You end mixed loan to five
hundred in dump (6)
Find the Scot, and not the
Navy queen! (10)
Last letter before the seventh
is the sixth (4)
Touch mind vessel (6)
Snoops, or used to, initially
peering right into every town
house (6)
Fish can't start to feel (3)
18.
20.
21
Scribble: search for Eldorado
starting up after the party (6)
Bucket one hears is white (4)
When in river, allowed to
cross out (6)
State of tension in southern
rai Iway (6)
Lumberjack sounds a man of
oak (4,6)
Take in, in three attempts (3)
Circularly, the Spanish last
star is a girl (6)
Being excessive in gold,
noise consumed (10)
Simpleton, old one changed (6)
Quarters scripture before
church, to improve
concentration (6)
As directors, we object to
her opening store (6)
Girl, after the cane, back
at the back (6)
Leader has the answer it is
heard (4)
Fastener speed (3)
Entries should be handed into the
FELIX office before September 4th
1979.
All correct entries received will be put
in a hat and the first one drawn will win
the prize of £2.
E D I T O R I A L
At last I'm Acting Felix Editor. I thank John Shuttleworth for
helping me with this issue of FELIX. It is a shame that he should
find himself in a position where he could no longer continue as
Editor. Harmony has not fully been restored and that is the reason
why there are no contributions form Richard Earl. P G Group
Chairperson, although it would seem that he is willing for the copy
to be transferred from John Shuttleworth to me.
I plan to bring out one more FELIX during this vacation, (I need
the practice), on Friday September 14th. The copy deadline for
that issue will be 5.30pm on Monday September 10th. If you were
incredulous about the strict observance of J. Harris deadlines then
be warned I intend to be as harsh over late copy .... with one
exception. I will include a defaulter's page if vital copy
would otherwise be left out. However the humiliation of having an
article on the page should discourage all the I'll do it presently'
people, who haven't a clue how an issue is scheduled to get their
proverbial digits out and copy in on time.
Fresher's issue deadline will be Monday September 17th. If you
have a legitimate excuse for handing it in late I will only accept it if
you inform me before the deadline because the Fresher's issue is
going to be a large undertaking that has to be methodically
scheduled.
For the next month the FELIX Office is going to be spruced up.
Several litho jobs are coming in and its a good time to get posters
and letter headers printed before the last minute rush.
A surprisingly large number of people have helped produce this
FELIX. Students have written postcards from exotic places in
Europe (thanks but you make me jealous) while others have given
moral support during a difficult period.
Mark Smith - for helping just at crucial moments when more than
one job cropped up and of course his set of reviews.
Gill McConway - for rapid photo typesetting when all the copy
came in at once, and for resetting work when the machine decided
to be naughty.
Ian Morse - for printing and good ideas for improving the
decoration of the FELIX Office.
Tansy & Mo - for their first theatre review. I'm looking forward to
reading about Romeo and Juliet in the next issue.
Sean O'Boyle - tor moral support and coffee.
Jill Dawson - for Day by Day
Richard Earl - 'I don't like being called Chairperson ... call me
chairman' has at last diverted his copy into this FELIX. He would
like to say that this does not represent a capitulation just common
sense.
Janet Sheppard - for writing from far off parts.
Miss L Ewing - for the front page press release concerning the
death of Professor Pryor.
Eric and Pinball - for music reviews.
NUS especially Ian Coxon - for the Fees Campaign press release.
DDA - lor help with film reviews especially for providing stills at
short notice.
Columbia - EMI - Warner - for e v e n m o r e s t i l l s .
Jon Firth - for help in producing this issue.
Chris Fox and the rest of the exec - when they finally produce their
statement .... They are here now so I'll save my comments about
them for the next issue. They will have to learn that my deadlines
apply equally well to them. Malcolm reckons he'll be the
first to use the defaulter's page .... I bet he won t get his copy in
even in time for that.
Colin Palmer (Acting FELIX Editor)
WARNING
Students should beware of a female
that is likely to approach them saying,
"I'm sorry I have missed my last tube."
It is rumoured that the girl is of foreign
extraction and seems to be getting to
know postgraduates by working
through the alphabetical list.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that she
is not dangerous but likes to enjoy
herself. Please contact the FELIX
office if you know of her whereabouts
or if you are the person that is the
cause of the rumours. We would be
delighted to meet you.

