N E W S P A P E R O P I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E O N I O N
NO. tt* I T 4 . O C T . 2 N D 1961 P R I C E 4D
A W E L C O M E
T O A L L
F R E S H M E N
It soon became apparent as I sat down to
write this article that I had three alternatives, a
humourous article, a description of the Union,
or a lecture. After further thought humour
seemed out of my field, a descriptive article
could only hope to summarize the speeches
given by the clubs committees chairmen, and
constituent college presidents — so a lecture.
Why a lecture? Please read on for the an-
swer.
Apathy — the disinterest of students in
their college — is common to all colleges
and universities, and unfortunately Imperial
College is not an exception. The dislike for
apathy is not just a whim of the senior stud-
ents, but it is an indication of the fact that
students are not getting the most out of their
college.
Most of us prefer to have some time to
relax, and many of us have to watch that
this rest period does not become extensive so
that it constituates wasted time. One way to
avoid this is to participate in other activ-
ities,, as here you can find not only a change,
which in many ways is another form of re-
laxation, but you will also reap the benefits
of learning how to meet and work with other
people; and handle business and financial
matters.
Naturally, this participation cannot be ex-
pected of all members of the student body.
There are those whose ambitions are set ->n
a career of post-graduate studies and research,
and it is only sensible for these people to con-
centrate on their academic cereers. However,
the vast majority of students will enter in-
dustry where the demand is for a person with
a broader outlook, and one who can feel con-
fident in an atmosphere of business matters.
So to these students), and this most likelv
means you, I recommend that all temptations
to waste time or make excuses for being dis-
interested be overcome and you make the
effort to participate actively in the Union
activities. You will find no better place 1 0
develope the confidence I referred to above
as here in the Union, where you will learn
these things in a friendly and congenial, but
business-like atmosphere.
While discusing the appropriate use of your
time it is worth mentioning one fact of the
by
I.C.
PRESIDENT
S I L Y L E
Union set up which might appear to demand
twice your time if you were to become an
active member of the Union. This fact is the
dual Union system which exists. That is, each
of you are members of both a constituent col-
lege Union and the Imperial College Union.
However, the I.C. Union is basically an amal-
gamation of the interest of the three constit-
uent College Unions, thus participation in
one Union leads to or constitutes participation
in both. The only sphere where this is not true
is that of Union Meetings. The meetings held
in your constituent colleges should be a must
on your attendance list as here you get the
"spirit" of your college. This in turn leads
to friendly rivalry and enthusiasm amongst
the three constituent college Unions. The I.C,
Union meetings on the other hand are of a dif-
ferent nature as they are the forum of opinion
and discussion of matters and policy which
affect all the students regardless of in which
constituent college they have membership.
Thus you can see that taking an active part
in both Unions is not twice as time consum-
ing, but you will find it is definitely twice
as rewarding.
Well, I have told you only a few of the
reasons why you should take an active part
in your College affairs, but I hope they are
sufficient to encourage you to derive as much
as you can from your college career.
How do you show this participation?
During the afternoon of Oct. 2nd all of
the major clubs will have information booths
set up in the Union Building, and here you
can learn what each club does, and join those
that suit your interests. However, join the
athletics teams and/or clubs with the intention
and ambition that the captaincy or presidency
is your goal. As your ambitions grow you
can expand your interests to a wider scope.
But remember such activities are a two way
streets as your participation in the Union
brings to it new ideas and enthusiasm, thus
not only do you benefit from its experience,
but the Union expands and becomes a
stronger body of students.
So do participate, but do so with properly
appropriating your time so that in three years
time when you graduate you can look back
to both a successful academic and extra-
curricular career.
May 1 wish you all the very best in your
studies and I hope to see you around the
Union. Remember if you cannot find any in-
formation you want in the Blue Book the
Union Office is always open at lunchtime,
and somebody there will always try to help.
Sincerely,
Your President

