F E L I X
Your
President
S E A F O R T H L Y L E
It undoubtedly came as something of a
surprise to many members of the Union to
learn late last term that a Canadian had been
elected President of the Union. For Seaforth
'Si' Lyle, although well known about the
Union for his highly successful management
of last year's Charity Carnival, had rather
belatedly decided to throw his hat into the
Presidential election ring.
Lyle was born in Montreal, Canada, in
1936 and since then has been accumulating
an impressive record in both the academic
and social spheres. While earning his Bachel-
or of Engineering and later his Master of
Engineering degrees in Electrical Engineering
at McGill University, he found time, at the
expense of considerable sleep to be on the
Board of Managers of the McGill Students
Union, and was elected Chairman of the
Students' Union Committee in 1957. Those
who are familiar with the North America
fraternity system will be able to appreciate
the significance of Lyle's election as President
of the Phi-Kappa-Pi in 1957, an office which
can be compared with his present post. He
is still, reluctantly, editor of the {National
Fraternity Handbook, and was, until recently,
and much less reluctantly. Chairman of the
Advisory Board of the Fraternity. For the
sake of the record, it should be added that
for three years he was responsible for the
lighting displays of the very elaborate McGill
University Carnivals ,and took a hand in or-
ganising University and Fraternity social act-
ivities. During his summer vacations he put
in some time with 'industrial organisations,
and was credited with two scientific papers
while working with Westinghouse.
Si came to Britain on an Athlone Fellow-
ship to work on automatic control, and will
stay for two years. It is perhaps, only natural
that he has already made his mark in this
College, but few will know that he is President
of the Overseas Science Students' Association,
and also edits ithe 'Athlone Observer. He
finds English life very agreeable, clearly en-
joys English beer, likes English girls, and has
been known to join in distinctly English songs.
In his rare moments of free time, he plays
tennis, is a demon on an ice rink, and can
give anyone a good game of bridge.
Lyle has no burning ambitions to revol-
utionise the Union, firmly believing that a
smoothly operating organisation is best left
to itself. To confuse this attitude with apathy
would be a grave mistake, for Lyle is con-
vinced that our existing facilities must be
used with the greatest efficiency to ensure the
maximum benefit to the student body as a
whole. He has a watchful eye, and efficacious
remedies, for wasteful or obstructionist pract-
ices.
His energy, determination to get things
done, and his extensive view of current de-
velopments within the College amply qualify
Lyle for the Presidency, and the Union can
have confidence in his experience and ability
to handle its affairs for the coming year.
Your Secretary
M A R T I N S T A C E Y
Martin Stacey, this year's Secretary of the
Union was born in Bristol in 1939. At a
tender age he, (and his family, moved ito
U.S.A. Then they moved to Canada in 1949,
New Zealand in 1952, and returned to
England in 1954.
Martin completed his schooling at Walling-
ton Country Grammar School, Surrey, and
came to Imperial College in 1957. Martin
always an enthusiastic student applied himsell
diligently to his academic work and gradu-
ated in 1960 with an honours degree in Chem-
ical Engineering. During this time Martin
took little interest in Union activities, but
last year as Carnival treasurer he proved that
these years of non-participation did not in
any way handicap his capabilities. It soon be-
came evident that these years must have added
to his enthusiasm and energy as he fulfilled
all the responsibilities given to him with the
utmost dexterity.
Once he had found a balance between his
PhD research project and his Union activities
he promptly set about to enhance ('??) his
social reputation. His social career has now
become widely deversified. and an appropr-
iate part of it is now on the classified list.
We might now say that he is indeed ready for
the position of Secretary of the Union. He is
still enthusiastic, and capable to perform this
task, so he will undoubtedly uphold the trad-
itions of the Union.
I.C.W A .
P R E S I D E N C Y V A C A N T
Because she is unable to hold a grant for
her research work in Micro-biology, Anne
Hodnett will not be returning to the College
for this session. This means a new President
will have to be elected for I C W A early this
term.
The death occured on September 25th of
the Secretary of the College and Clerk to the
Governors, Mr. J.M. Corin.
John Madan Corin was born in Capetown
in 1907. He was educated at St. Paul's School
and Magdalen College, Oxford, and in the
years 1930 to 1946 he was in India as a mem-
ber if the Indian Civil Service. In 1949 he joined
the Ministry of Town and Country planning,
and in 1949 he came to the College as Finan-
cial Secretary. M r . Corin became the Acting
Secretary of the College in 1957, and in 1958
he took the post which he held at his death.
To his wife and two children the Union
tenders its deepest sympathies.
I F Y O U W A N T
T O P L A Y A W I N T E R S P O R T
PLAY
HOCKEY -
TRIALS
WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY
'SEE NOTICE BOARD
Felix
needs staff:
R E P O R T E R S
TYPISTS
SALESGIRLS
A D V E R T I S I N G M A N A G E R
SPORTS EDITOR
P R O D U C T I O N M A N A G E R
CONTACT T H E EDITOR
Room 88 New Hostel
or
via Union Rack

