by COLCUTT
Life at College during the vacation is not
so very different from life during term-time;
nobody has seen the President for weeks, the
Secretary is still running round in little
circles with his leather brief-case tucked neat-
ly under his left arm, and the usual figures can
be seen running straight from their depart-
ments to the bar and returning (not quite so
straight) some time later. There is somehow
an air of farcical scholarship about the place.
One is at first surprised and pleased to see
people moving with a definite aura of purpose,
their faces shining with the yearning for
knowledge, only to find the only knowledge
they yearn for can be summed up in the oft-
repeated question, "Where's the television set?
If we don't find by Friday we'll miss Yogi'."
©
It is interesting at this time to wonder what
sort of year the Union will have. That it will
be different to last year is undoubted, but
how drastic will the change be? After the ter-
ribly English approach of last year's Union
Executive, the aloof efficiency of President
Hill, the down-to-earth-spade-is-a-spade semi-
efficiency of Secretary Carter, and those three
true Englishmen, Buet the talker, Greaves the
dreamer, and business man Logan, the trans-
atlantic approach of Si Lyle and Martin Stacey
will inevitably make a great difference. That
the Union business will be done with great
efficiency beyond doubt. The vast executive
experience of Lyle will stand him in good
stead, and after the terribly efficient way that
Stacey handled the Carnival accounts, no-one
doubts his competence. But what of the life
in the Union?
®
Neither the President or Secretary has been
involved in the social or administrative side
of the Union to any notable degree, but their
brilliant organisation of the Carnival indicates
that they have ability and imagination. One
hopes that they can use their independance to
alleviate some of the strain between those
groups labelled "the boys" and "the politic-
ians" and the President can have a tremend-
ous influence on the life in the Union. In fact
some old hands at the Union game say that
life in Union is reflected in the life of the
President and his asociates. I wish him the
very best of luck for a lively and happy term
of office.
©
THIS S P A C E COSTS O N L Y 6s. T O
U N I O N SOCIETIES;
F I F T E E N INSERTIONS O N L Y £ 3
Advertise
in FELIX
K E N S I N G T O N R O U N D POND
Congratulations to Mike Breggazzi, for not
only did he win the Union General Award
this summer, but he has become the father
of a baby girl. Our best wishes go to Mike,
Jan and the baby.
©
The retiring President of the Union is stilt
'to be seen around the place occasionally,
we wonder if he is going to get a job after
all. The incoming President seems to be ly-
ing pretty doggo, but he has had some con-
tact with the Editor so perhaps, he can fill
us in. Perhaps Si has been keeping a con-
stant watch on the chairs in the hall of the
Geographical Society building. He may not
wish to repeat the performance given by
President Hill with a collapsing chair at last
year's Freshmen's Reception.
©
We overheard a strange remark in the En-
nismore the other evening. M r . Loome was
saying, in the eve of his departure for Africa,
of himself and Mrs. Cox. "We are just good
friends!"
©
Mr, Stacey and the College architect had
had a tour of South Side one afternoon last
week, ostensibly to study colour schemes.
Judging by his comments he expects to see a
new race of moles created in that warren rather
than a new species of avant garde scientist.
His views seem to echo those given by the
retiring Union Secretary, "What with hidden
lighting, shared lighting, half lighting, full
lighting and concealed lighting some of the
rooms have no bloody lighting at all."
©
EDITOR'S NOTE: Re-Colcutt'B ambiguous re-
mark about filling! in, the only contact I have
had with the President has been by the once-
weekly pony express to the Pack Horse at Wid-
dop, where I have been lying doggo. I can only
say that the President has not been there.
It is a little early for me to think of filling in
Colcutt, though things may -reach this pass
later in the session.
by John Jennings
CROSS COUNTRY
CLUB
Runners of any standard are warmly wel-
comed by the club. Fixtures for three regular
teams are held every Wednesday and Satur-
day, both in London and throughout England.
For those who like to train there are frequent
runs in Hyde Park from the Union as well
as weight and circuit training facilities.
The club are present University of London
Champions and League winners with many
members in the U . L . teams. The club also
runs the Hyde Park Road Relay, the largest
of its kind in the world, to which over seventy
in the British Isles enter. A successful tour
of Ireland and an attempt on Land's End —
John O'Groats Relay record have been heid
in the past two years.
We look forward to seeing you at the Fresh-
men's Reception or in the Union changing
rooms on Wednesday. 4th Oct.. for a social
gathering followed by tea in the Captain's room.
Remember that runners of any standard are
very welcomed, however, weak or strong, so
why not join the club and see the country.
O V E R S E A S STUDENTS
ARE INVITED TO AN
International
Social Evening
on Thursday Oct. 12th. at 7.30 p.m.
in the Snack Bar.
This is the time to make
genuine friendships with English Students.
Music items by Royal College of Music,
a film,
free food . . .
and time to get to know people.
A C H R I S T I A N U N I O N V E N T U R E

