FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
10
No matter how frustrated I get from watching sci-
ence television shows I will always watch them in
the hope that they manage to explain an interest-
ing concept in an entertaining and accurate way.
Often, I’m rewarded, but sometimes I find myself
screaming at the TV. Unfortunately, with Horizon’s
‘What Happened Before the Big Bang?’ (BBC Two,
11/10/10) it was the latter.
The program took us through a number of different
theories about what might have happened before
the Big Bang, but there were far too many to really
stimulate any afterthought about their consequenc-
es. One described an eternally rebounding universe
whereas another said that since time didn’t exist
before the Big Bang it was rather a moot point.
Surprisingly, the only shot of the public face of
theoretical physics Stephen Hawking was of him sat
at the back of a lecture theatre, perhaps pondering
not what happened before the Big Bang, but what
was happening to the sales of his new book. How-
ever, Hawking’s pal Roger Penrose was featured in
greater depth as was his theory, the most interest-
ing if not the most realistic of the night: something
about time ceasing at the end of the universe as we
know it being the catalyst for a new universe. He
also has a book out now.
Imperial College’s own evolutionary biologist
Armand Leroi has presented a number of TV pro-
grammes including Channel 4’s ‘Mutants’, based
on his award winning book of the same name, and
more recently ‘What Darwin Didn’t Know’ on BBC
Four. This show was a fantastic exposition of mod-
ern biology with a really interesting perspective on
evolutionary development.
Yes, the graphics were good and the subject mat-
ter was unquestionably timely given the Darwin cel-
ebrations of last year, but what really made it work
was the personality behind the production. Leroi is
a communicator just as much as he is a scientist
and this shines through with passion. He’s not the
only one though.
Imperial actually has a good track record for get-
ting its scientists in front of the cameras. Olivia Jud-
son, now working in Berlin, was the Dr Tatiana of
her eponymous book and Channel 4 show highlight-
ing the sexual diversity of the tree of life. And then
there’s Lord Professor Robert Winston and Profes-
sor David Nutt.
Scientific discovery doesn’t occur in isolation, but
in the thick of a culture of passionate investigation,
among failed and successful experiments, grant ap-
plications, intrigue, infamy, boredom and creativity.
It happens in the natural world and the worlds that
science has created for itself: a hundred metres be-
low the Franco-Swiss border at the LHC, high up on
Mount Kea in Hawaii for the Keck telescopes, or in
the solutions lab of the nearest chemistry depart-
ment.
As Leroi pointed out to me “there’s not one sci-
ence that fits all”, but there are two fundamental
qualities that a successful popularisation of sci-
ence must have: “firstly, it must be new and excit-
ing, and secondly, it must be really, really true”. The
balancing act between these two will inevitably lead
to compromises and as Leroi says, “sometimes it
works”. Sometimes, it doesn’t.
David Carr
Madeleine Staple
Stirred but not shaken
Quick Comment
Science on TV
As I sat down in the lecture theatre, I slowly
became aware of a feeling that I was surround-
ed. I looked around. The audience was a mass
of white and grey hair, glasses, and suits. As a
whole, it was summed up by a rather elderly
man who passed behind me, shouting to his
wife: “Sorry dear, I was stuck behind a buf-
foon!” I was slightly worried for my safety.
Professor Christopher Andrew was to talk
about ‘Science, Technology and Secret Intel-
ligence’ as part of the Vincent Briscoe Annual
Security Lecture. He was introduced to us as
the Official Historian of MI5, and he talked to
us mostly as a historian, of times past.
He spoke of the ingenuity of the Soviet Union
during the Cold War – they gave the US a pres-
ent of a replica of the Great Seal, which hung
over the ambassador’s desk for a few years. It
contained a tiny microphone; it had no battery
or power pack, no wires, and was therefore
virtually undetectable. It was also ridiculously
simple – it worked just like a diaphragm. Quite
embarrassing for the US, really.
In the midst of the Cold War, reports about
the weaponry of both sides were being greatly
exaggerated. Each side worried about the oth-
er, and at one time the tension was so high it
seemed certain that one side would strike first
in ‘self-defence.’ Professor Andrew put forth
the idea that it was intelligence – the spy kind,
not the witty kind – that stopped a nuclear
war. With imagery intelligence taken from spy
planes, each side could see that actually, it was
not as bad as they’d thought, and there was no
need for a pre-emptive strike. With imagery in-
telligence, the situation never escalated.
The spy plane that gave this information took
seven months from the first contract to the first
test flight, according to Professor Andrew – a
true testament to the scientists behind it. Some
of the greatest codebreakers, although they
may not have always studied the sciences, cer-
tainly displayed very typical eccentric-scientist
behaviour. Dilly Knox – who broke an Enigma
code – was well known for doing all his best
thinking in the bath. “Eureka!”
It seemed that Professor Andrew was always
trying to move away from the image of James
Bond; as the Official Historian of MI5, it’s im-
portant to remember that what he talks about
is true. The man himself seemed completely
believable. Compared to what he referred to as
“the unconvincing plots of James Bond films”,
the Professor knew what he was talking about.
He did seem to find the Ian Fleming spy quite
funny...he called Bond a “brand leader”, and
later a gadget from “From Russia With Love”
a “high-tech homicidal briefcase.” I feel he en-
joyed quietly taking the piss.
He almost resembled a typical English spy,
now I think of it: he was distinguished, well-
spoken (Cambridge, anybody?) and had an air
of definite knowledge. He might be a Histo-
rian, but that’s no reason for us to judge him. I
think the best way to describe him is just very,
very genuine... unlike the audience member I
espied afterwards wearing a black overcoat and
large black hat. I think he thought it was a spy
convention.
It was a shame that the average age of the au-
dience was about 57 and that the most popular
hair colour was grey, because Professor Chris-
topher Andrews also talked about the future,
and our role in it as scientists. He perceives
the two biggest security threats right now to
be “International Terrorism” and “Cyber War-
fare”.
Even now, the Iranian nuclear programme is
suffering from hostile cyber attacks. A new US
cyber command unit is being set up this month
to tackle cyber threats. The 2006 attempted
aeroplane bombings, in which planes were
targeted leaving Heathrow for the US, were
averted through constant surveillance. This
could not have happened without the technical
support of many scientists and engineers. We
provide the technology, and without the tech-
nology, there’s not really a lot of point.
Professor Christopher Andrew ended his
explorative and very relevant lecture – with a
rousing round of applause, old chap – with the
words, “there is a lot for Imperial College to
do.”
And I agree with him.
SCIENCE
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial’s ‘Green Team’ dream big
Alexander Karvelas
‘Imperial College Green Dream’, lead by
undergraduate geology students Alexander
Karvelas, Tom Wesby, Edoardo Borgomeo and
Carmen Pinto, has set out to promote aware-
ness of environmental issues within Imperial:
its students, staff and campus.
In May earlier this year, Npower launched
the Npower Future Leaders Challenge 2010, a
nationwide competition that challenges univer-
sity students to conceive, develop and deliver
a project that will positively impact living sus-
tainability within their local community with
a legacy. The two teams with the best projects
will be taken on a fortnight trip to the Arctic.
The initial task for the teams applying to the
Challenge was to produce a 4-5 minute video
outlining their proposals and goals for their in-
dependent projects. The competition attracted
applications from across the country and Im-
perial College Green Dream was one of the 8
teams to reach the final. Each team was then
given a £400 cheque to put towards starting
their project and an invitation to attend a week-
end at Derwent Water in the Lake District.
The weekend involved a mixture of physi-
cal and mental exercises to test the physical
condition of the team but also their ability to
work together. The main physical challenges
involved a 20km hike on and a canoe orienteer-
ing race on Derwent Water. The Imperial team
showed a lot of enthusiasm and made great
effort throughout the weekend, obtaining the
second highest score and demonstrating their
determination to do well in this competition.
Leading the ‘Imperial College Green Team’,
Alexander Karvelas said: “Overall a thorough-
ly enjoyable and challenging weekend! Scram-
bling around one of the most beautiful and sce-
nic landscapes makes you comprehend what
you’re trying to save! The inspiration we built
up together as a team will push us to create and
sustain a legacy with our campus projects. It
makes us want to look further and wider into
London and beyond!”
The team say: “Spending time in such a
scenic untouched part of the country has em-
phasised the importance of looking after the
environment and the need to make positive
change. It is also worthwhile to mention that
the four team members travelled from London
to Derwent Water by train and then by bicycle,
trying as much as possible to minimize their
emissions.”
Following the weekend, the remaining final-
ists are now setting about working on the un-
derlying purpose of the Challenge: to put into
practice their proposals for making some con-
tribution to the reduction of Greenhouse Gas
emissions of their university.
Imperial College Green Dream, intend to im-
plement a whole package of ideas by working
with their university as an institution as well
as organising events with the aim of increas-
ing awareness amongst the student body as a
whole. The university have given us massive
support and now it’s time to pay them back.
At the heart of these efforts will be setting up
mechanisms to streamline and intensify the
creation of environmental policy for Imperial
College London.
Geology students save the environment
MI5’s official historian on science in the security service

