FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 11
SCIENCE
Can we live forever? Why do we age?
And if a starfish can regrow its limbs,
why can’t we? These were the monu-
mental questions addressed by Profes-
sor Nadia Rosenthal in the first of this
year’s Friends of Imperial lecture series.
At first sight, ‘The End of Ageing’
could seem like a hubristic title for a lec-
ture. But as Professor Rosenthal would
explain in an eye-opening hour, we are
already winning (aided no doubt by her
ground-breaking research) the battle
against aging.
But the curiously modest (lecture
titles aside) professor explained, at the
start of her lecture, that the inspiration
for much of her research stems from her
childhood. Recalling her summers play-
ing in rockpools on an island off Maine,
she said that it was the starfish, with
their incredible regenerative ability,
that inspired her and her life’s research.
Watching these wonderful creatures,
from summer to summer, caused her to
ask the question ‘Why can’t mammals
regenerate?’ And while she is yet to an-
swer that question (she says we’re just
evolutionary losers), her research has
shown that mammals can regenerate, if
only with a bit of genetic engineering.
The elusive goal is a world where hu-
mans could regrow their limbs. A world
where that extraordinary ability isn’t just
the preserve of the newt and the starfish.
The long and winding road to that goal
begins with a seemingly magic ingredi-
ent: IGF-1 (insulin-like growth factor
1). This substance comes into play when
there is tissue damage. It promotes re-
generation and regrowth and tellingly
kids, who are much better at regenera-
tion than adults, have a lot of IGF-1, and
steadily lose it as they age.
Arnold Schwarzenegger: Governor of
California, film star and also, a mouse -
one of Professor Rosenthal’s genetically
modified mice. It’s bigger and stronger
than your average mouse. Its muscles
age slower, heal better and faster and
have a highly reduced tendency to atro-
phy. Why? The Schwarzenegger mouse
has been genetically modified to pro-
duce more IGF-1 in its muscles.
Interestingly, as Professor Rosenthal
explains, this miracle-like substance is
linked to white blood cells, specifically
macrophages. These cells which help
form our formidable immune system,
and perversely cause inflammation and
health problems, have a Jekyll-and-Hyde
character. M1, the Mr Hyde in our anal-
ogy, comes into play when we are in-
jured and it bulldozes away any bacteria
to protect us from infection. It then gives
Fighting the never-ending battle against ageing
way to M2, the Jekyll of the macrophage
world, which encourages tissue regen-
eration and crucially secretes IGF-1. The
flourish at the end of this process is that
IGF-1 in turn stimulates more M2.
Ah now, we’ve solved it, IGF-1 is the
answer, the solution to bald hair, wrin-
kled skin and age related degenerative
diseases. An injection of this Elixir of
Life should do the job right? Wrong. It
only works when it has been released at
the site of the injury, immediately after
the injury. It stimulates chemokines,
which act like molecular microphones
and call other cells to help heal an in-
jury. But not just any cells, bone marrow
stem cells. The challenge is to engineer
certain cells to deliver IGF-1 in the right
place, at the right time to stimulate the
process of regeneration.
We haven’t traversed the entire length
of the road towards regrowing our own
limbs (or more prosaically, repairing
damaged heart tissue) but thanks to Pro-
fessor Rosenthal and her team, we do at
least have a road map.
Kadhim Shubber
Discover
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
A research university unlike any other.
Scholarships for Science and Engineering students
Complete a Master’s or Ph.D. programme with:
àń&ULLń4UITIONń3UPPORTńńńńàń,IVINGń!LLOWANCEńńńńàń&REEń(OUSINGńńńńàń-EDICALń)NSURANCEńńńńńàń2ELOCATIONń3UPPORTń
&ORńMOREńINFORMATIONńABOUTńAPPLYINGńTOń+!534ńPLEASEńVISITńOURńWEBńSITEńAT
www.kaust.edu.sa
Discover bold, collaborative research initiatives in science, engineering and technology with state-of-the-art
facilities, globally renowned faculty and students from over 60 countries. KAUST is a merit-based university
dedicated to significant high-impact research. Embark on a new era of scientific achievement for Saudi Arabia,
the region, and the world.
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology builds research relationships with renowned universities
across the world. KAUST is proud to be collaborating with Imperial College London.
&INDńOUTńMOREńATńOURń)NFORMATIONń3ESSION
)NFORMATIONń3ESSIONńREFRESHMENTSńPROVIDED 
2 November
Visit the Careers Advisory Service area of
)MPERIALń#OLLEGEÙSńWEBSITEńFORńMOREńINFORMATION
About KAUST
KAUST is a new university located
ONńTHEńSHORESńOFńTHEń2EDń3EAń
in Saudi Arabia.
The University research facilities
include nanofabrication, imaging and
characterisation labs, a fully-equipped
class 100 clean room, and several
focused research centres.
The community has exceptional
facilities to offer including: housing,
healthcare, shopping, dining, parks and
SPORTSńFACILITIESńINCLUDINGńGOLFńCOURSE ń
gyms, swimming pools, athletics tracks
ANDńSAILINGńFACILITIESńPLUSńMORE 
Prof. Rosenthal heads up groups
at Imperial, Rome and Melbourne
Friends of Imperial are an alum-
ni organisation that arrange
lectures and support students
through the Student Opportuni-
ties Fund. Their next lecture is
titled “How the Sun influence
Climate”. 16th November.
www.friendsofimperial.org.uk

