12 felix
FRIDAY 29 October 2010
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Free App of the Week
iOS - VLC for iOS
Want to play something your iPhone’s built-in Quick-
Time app can’t? You need the iOS version of the go-
to media player, VLC, on your iPhone. Sorted.
RockPlayer for Android can play virtually every format
under the sun, and with aplomb. If you’ve ever want-
ed to play video files, the free RockPlayer is a must.
Android - Rockplay for Android
The iOS App Store: over 250,000 apps and
more than 6.5 billion downloads onto 120 mil-
lion iPads, iPhones and iPod touches, which
are themselves growing, at a rate of 230,000
devices per day.
The numbers are staggering, even more so
when you consider that the store is only two
years old; the App Store concept has been tre-
mendously successful for Apple’s mobile plat-
form, but what’s next?
Last week Steve Jobs, the CEO of Apple, an-
nounced the new Mac App Store – a place to
discover, purchase, and install applications for
your Macintosh computer.
The obligatory technology blog coverage
surrounding the Apple press event made the
new store sound like a potential game chang-
ing, maybe even revolutionary, new way to get
applications. Imagine thousands of applica-
tions available to purchase and install at the
click of the mouse. No serial numbers to type
in, no installers to deal with, just instant grati-
fication. But is this just another example of the
Jobs ‘reality distortion field’ causing the media
to applaud every word that he utters?
Perhaps it is best to start with what appears
to be wrong with the Mac App Store. It will
inevitably become the de facto place for devel-
opers to sell their applications, and the go-to
place for consumers.
Jobs said that it will not be the only way to
install applications, but the average first time
consumer will click on the Mac App Store icon
when prompted, as they turn on their shiny
new computer for the first time, and think that
it’s the only way. The iOS App Store is often
criticised for being overly restrictive, with
Apple explaining that this is to improve the
consumer’s experience by preventing ‘buggy’
applications and ‘questionable content’. The
newly published review guidelines for the
Mac App Store specifically prohibit games,
‘Russian Roulette’for example; perhaps Apple
have had some bad experiences in their Cali-
fornian headquarters?
At any rate, inside the iOS Store, there is a
definite ‘race to the bottom’ with application
prices. There appears to be an emphasis on
quantity, not quality, and this could make its
way across to the desktop. Developers could
spend less time developing good quality ap-
plications if they can only get a small amount
of money from the consumers, especially once
Apple has taken its cut of the proceeds.
They must also write their applications us-
ing Apple’s own developer tools, which may
not mean much to the average consumer, but it
will make it harder for developers to sell cross
platform applications such as Matlab, in the
Mac App Store. Also expressly prohibited are
plug-ins, such as Adobe Flash, although given
Apple’s resistance to Flash on iOS devices it
comes as no real surprise.
Maybe I am being overly harsh, and simply
objecting to change. In my opinion, the pro-
cess of installing applications currently within
Mac OS X can be confusing for new users,
with applications coming with or without in-
stallers, simply packaged within virtual disks
or just compressed straight into a ZIP file.
Users will never have to deal with installers
or dragging applications into the application
folder, if the only source of applications is the
Mac App Store. Yet I haven’t even mentioned
what could become one of the most important
benefits of only installing applications from a
‘walled garden’ – I’m referring of course to
security.
Macintosh users are currently not the main
target for malicious attacks, with only a small
proportion of computers worldwide running
Mac OS X, but this will likely change one day
once it becomes ‘profitable’ to attack Macs.
The Mac App Store would provide a place to
get applications that are not infected or mali-
cious, and if there are any security holes in ap-
plications, they can be updated with a single
click.
Additionally the potential to have every
Macintosh user see your application on their
new computer will attract new developers to
the Mac platform; therefore the variety of ap-
plications will increase (if the large number of
competing applications, and likelihood of low
prices do not put off developers). The concept
of being able to install proper desktop applica-
tions with a single click is certainly appealing;
cheap applications that are easily accessible
lead to impulse purchases (I’m looking at you
Super Monkey Ball!). You may even be able
to purchase and install Adobe Creative Suite
Master Edition or the newly announced Auto-
Cad 2011 for Mac OS X with a single click,
although with the former being almost 30GB
in size I would not recommend downloading it
at College or in halls.
Imagine if Microsoft were to implement a
similar idea on Windows? Ignoring the accu-
sations of a monopoly, and the likely EU an-
titrust lawsuits, it could make software more
secure if every application has to be individu-
ally reviewed, allowing consumers to easily
keep applications up to date and patch security
holes.
Will the Mac App Store change the way we
discover applications on our personal comput-
ers? It opens in less than three months; until
then we can only speculate.
The Mac App Store
Craig Buchanan

