13
felix FRIDAY 29 October 2010
TECHNOLOGY
At Apple’s ‘Back to the Mac’ event last
week, Steve Jobs once again got up on
stage and announced that their size-zero
laptop, the MacBook Air, had gone on a
diet and picked up a little brother on the
way. Apple announced two new models:
a thinner successor to the 13.3” version
and a brand new 11.6” notebook.
The MacBook Air is now even more
knife-thin at 17mm at its thickest edge,
tapering down to an minute 2.8mm.
The 13” model also sheds a little
fat, bringing it down
W
ikileaks is in the
news again this
week after releas-
ing approximately
400,000 formerly
classified documents relating to the war
in Iraq.
The biggest revelation from the docu-
ment dump is the fact that the American
government has seemingly admitted to
far fewer civilian casualties than they
actually knew about, and looked away
from torture they knew the Iraqi army
was committing. The document re-
lease will come at a welcome time for
WikiLeaks, as it will likely help divert
attention away from their other prob-
lems.
Currently WikiLeaks is suffering from
issues regarding its finances, and the
legal problems relating to the sexual as-
sault allegations recently levied against
Julian Assange, the public face of the
Less Air. More lust
Chris Fonseka
American embarrasment as more
documents leaked about Iraq war
From sexual assault to frozen funds, WikiLeaks is under attack from all sides, but
will the whistleblower’s friend survive? Feroz Salam continues his investigation
Miles away from the cringe-worthy
launch of Windows 7, almost exactly
a year ago to this day, Microsoft have
kick-started or ‘rebooted’ their vision
of an operating system for the modern
smartphone. The developers say they
are “proud” of what they’ve achieved
and so they should be – it’s not often that
a new Microsoft product opens to such a
positive reception.
Quite a few new Windows Phone 7
devices were launched at an event in
London, including models from HTC,
LG, Dell and Samsung, with two cur-
rently available for purchase in the UK
– including the impressive HTC HD7 on
O2 (shown right).
Much consideration has been given
to the graphical user interface in WP7,
and this gives the new phone OS a
clean, crisp feeling. It’s almost like
they’ve taken the best features of the
iPhone (swiping, pinch-to-zoom and
other multi-touch gestures), and mixed
them with their own ideas (moving
backgrounds, colourful menus, infinite
scroll), to make something greater than
the sum of the two.
Windows Phone 7 lands in the UK
Jake Lea-Wilson to 1.32kg, while the new 11.6” model
weighs in at just 1.06kg.
The biggest developments however,
are in the internals. Both models feature
a low-voltage version of the Core2Duo
processor, coupled with a decent battery,
proposing seven hours of usable life. In
the interest of shrinking the design as
much as physically possible, Apple has
abandoned off-the-shelf components
and opted for a custom flash-based SSD
storage system, similar to that used in the
iPad, iPhone and iPod touch. While this
allows for much faster memory access
and near instant-on boot up, it brings the
price to £849 for the base model 11.6”,
which is still cheaper than the starting
price of the previous iteration.
There is no doubt that the MacBook
Air is a lust-inducing laptop, the ques-
tion is: will this be a hit with the
general public? Or will it suffer the
same fate as the last Air, simply to
be used to help Senior Managers
show off?
website.
As various mainstream news outlets
pore over the documents published in
the latest leak, Wikileaks itself has quite
a task on its hands in trying to release
funding, which has been frozen the
last two weeks, since its account held
with an Internet payment company was
closed down. This appears to be a di-
rect result of Wikileaks recently having
been placed on a blacklist of organisa-
tions maintained by the Australian and
American governments, and makes it
unlikely that many other popular In-
ternet payment services will want to
deal with them in the near future. This
will cause some serious issues for
WikiLeaks’ progress, but a quick look
at the website shows that you can still
donate to fund their operations. It’s
unclear however, whether they will
ever be able to access funds from the
blocked account.
The funding problem seems to match
the regular escalation of issues that oc-
curs every time WikiLeaks is poised to
release a large amount of data to the
press, and now comes off the back of
allegations of sexual harassment levied
against Assange in Sweden.
The investigation has taken some puz-
zling twists and turns – starting off as a
rape and sexual assault case, before be-
ing hurriedly downgraded less than 24
hours later to a harassment investiga-
tion.
After eight weeks of relatively little
news about the investigation, Swed-
ish prosecutors are yet to formally file
a case based on it. This has lent some
credibility to Assange’s claims that he
is the victim of a particularly callous
smear campaign. Assange is under-
standably refusing to discuss the mat-
ter with the press, storming out of an
interview on CNN recently as the inter-
viewer attempted to press him into dis-
cussing the implications of the charges
on Wikileaks.
When I wrote about Wikileaks for
Felix last year, I ended my article with
a grim prediction – that it would take a
lot for them to stay in business for any
sizeable amount of time, considering the
wide range of governments they seem to
have upset.
Roughly six months on and a fair few
scoops later, they are still hanging on in
there, but the question marks over the
future of their organisation remain just
as prominent.
With the curious rape allegations, it
looks as if Assange might be up against
people who are willing to stoop to re-
markable lows in an attempt to keep
him under control, and only time will
tell whether his resourcefulness will be
able to keep Wikileaks (and himself) in
safe hands.
The default apps have been designed
by designers and not just developers,
giving a new element of style, rather
than just functionality. The main empha-
sis, however, seems to be on integration
and this is, frankly, fantastic. Finally
Microsoft have understood that they are
not just making firmware for generic,
faceless office workers – they’re mak-
ing it for social animals, for people with
character. Right on the home screen,
you can see posts from Twitter, Face-
book, messages, calls and any other in-
formation apps decide to give you.
But what’s miss-
ing? Inevitably
there are short-
falls in the sys-
tem and surprise
surprise, they’ve
decided not to in-
clude Flash, not to
mention copy and
paste. Furthermore
there’s no HTML5,
which is supposed
to be the future
of the Internet, so
there may be trou-
ble looming.
What does this mean for the mobile
phone space though? Is Microsoft just
entering a crowded market place, or is
it pushing the boundaries of mobile
devices further? Now with Android,
BlackBerry OS, iOS and Windows
Phone 7, consumers have never had
more choice, and better quality. Even
the self-proclaimed “dork-talk” man
himself, Stephen Fry, is a convert.
Surely his endorsement can only mean
good things for Microsoft’s newest mo-
bile OS.

