BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
14
Bu
siness Editors: Sina Atherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
G-20 meets amid growing
talk of a currency war
News Summary
UBS forecasts massive growth in fx
UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank and a global leader
in the foreign exchange market, has forecast daily
trading volumes to more than double to over $10 tril-
lion by 2020, from the present $4 trillion.
The Bank’s global head of fx strategy added that this
will make it much harder for central banks to ma-
nipulate exchange rates in pursuit of domestic fiscal
and monetary policy mandates. He gave the reason
for this expansion as increasing volatility in currency
prices incentivising investors to be more active in
managing their foreign exchange exposures.
‘Inflation assult’ on China
China’s commerce minister has criticised the US
for pursuing anti-competitive policies. Speaking at a
trade fair on Tuesday, Chen Deming praised Chinese
exporters but said that they face unfair obstacles
“because the United States’ issuance of dollars is
out of control and international commodity prices are
continuing to rise.”
He further claimed that “China is being attacked
by imported inflation. The uncertainties of this are
causing firms big problems.”
The comments follow weeks of heated exchanges
as the US and China accuse each other of currency
manipulations and other infringments on prior agree-
ments to liberalise their bilateral trade.
BA criticises US on airport security
The Chairman of British Airways, Martin Broughton,
told the annual conference of the Airport Operators
Association in London this week that some security
measures at US airports were redundant.
Singling out the requirements that passangers
remove their shoes and have laptops separately
checked in particular, Broughton argued that the UK
should not “kowtow” to US demands on UK security
procedures, “America does not do internally a lot of
the things they demand that we do. We shouldn’t
stand for that.” “We should say, ‘We’ll only do things
which we consider to be essential and that you Amer-
icans also consider essential’,” he added.
UK GDP growth boosts Coalition
According to figures released by the Office for Na-
tional Statistics on Tuesday, the UK economy has
grown by 0.8 per cent in the third quarter of 2010.
Just hours after the announcements, the ratings
agency Standard and Poor’s said that the spending
cuts of the Coalitionmean that the UK will keep its
AAA rating. The government has taken the news as
encouraging to its bid to eliminate the record budget
deficit by 2015 through cuts that have so far slashed
490,000 government jobs.
After their meeting in Seoul, G-20 finance
ministers expressed optimisim that a much-
hyped global currency war may yet be avoided.
Thoughts have now turned to the longer-term
motivations for countries to manipulate their
currencies to help exporters, and measures that
can be taken against this.
The main focus of these concerns is the seem-
ingly intractable dispute between the US and
China over capital flows and the exchange rate
of the Renminbi (RMB). The US has accused
Beijing of keeping its currency artificially low
in order to boost its exports. US Treasury Sec-
retary, Tim Geithner hit the headlines recently
with his comments on China’s currency ma-
nipulation. China, on the other hand, remains
immutable in the face of protests from the West.
Despite modest appreciation since September,
the RMB has hardly moved since July 2008.
In a floating rate system, currency values are
allowed to fluctuate according to the demand
and supply forces in the market. For example,
when Chinese manufacturers sell their products
in the US, they need to convert their earnings
in US Dollars into RMB. This drives up the
demand for RMB and increases the amount of
US dollars available, hereby causing RMB to
appreciate against the dollar.
The People’s Bank of China, however, can
buy USD and convert the excess Dollars into
dollar-denominated assets such as US Treasury
bonds, effectively preventing the currency from
circulating back into the market and propping
up the value of US dollars. This offers Chinese
goods a price advantage overseas, boosting its
export-fueled growth. Estimates put the under-
valuation from 15% to as much as 40% with
respect to USD.
China is not the only currency manipulator
in the world. Almost every country controls the
fluctuations of its currency to some extent to
create a stable currency. Thailand, for instance,
placed capital controls to stem the volatile in-
flow of “hot money” in October, in an attempt
to prevent excessive appreciation of Thai Baht.
The US is hardly a helpless victim - it is weak-
ening its own currency through a process called
“quantitive easing”, which essentially involves
printing more money to buy government bonds.
Furthermore, if history is anything to go by,
China can hardly be reassured by the possible
revaluation of its currency. In the last instance
of a country demonstrating “responsibility and
commitment to an international monetary sys-
tem”, Japan ended up with a decade of deflation
and stagnant growth.
The Plaza Accord of 1985 led to a deliberate
decline in the value of US Dollars, while at the
same time causing the Yen to almost double in
value against USD. In the 1980s, Japan shared
many of the characteristics of present day Chi-
na: a strong export-dependent economy, a rela-
tively cheap exchange rate against the dollar,
and a booming housing market.
Strengthening the Yen is argued by some
economists to have indirectly led to the bursting
of the asset price bubble in Japan that caused
misery in the years following. The US, on the
other hand, used the same agreement to reduce
its current account deficit and help its economy
out of a recession. In the light of Japan’s ‘Lost
Decade’, China’s reluctance to cave in to the
demands of the US Congress is understandable.
The wider implications of exchange rate poli-
cies have added twists and turns to the issue,
such that the two countries are tangled up in
an intricate web of interdependence. The US
government is running a large deficit for the
stimulus program during the recession, which
is mainly funded through government issued
bonds. China, concerned about keeping its
export-oriented businesses open, swallows up
large swathes of US government debt.
Herein lies the paradox of the Sino-Ameri-
can dispute: the ability of the US government
to run large deficits depends on the actions of
Chinese Central Bank to strengthen the Dollar.
If the Chinese no longer need to prop up the
USD, a Greek-style crisis may loom ahead for
the debt-ridden US government. Moreover, if
RMB corrects for a 40% undervaluation, the
made-in-China goods in Walmart will receive a
similar price hike. For a populace used to cheap
RMB, changing its old habits will involve
rather painful adjustments. A re-evaluation of
RMB, therefore, may not have a happy ending
for everyone after all.
The competitive edge gained from an under-
valued currency is often short lived and unsus-
tainable in the long run. This is especially so
when others soon follow. Trade advantages are
derived from cheapening a currency relative to
all others, but this is no longer possible when
all the currencies devalue at the same time.
Both developed and emerging nations, from
Japan to Colombia, have recently tried to drive
down the value of their currencies. A general
weakening of currencies is now threatening the
global economy, which has just begun to show
some signs of revival.
So far, there is more rhetoric than action in
the currency war between China and US, but if
the skirmishes continue to escalate, unpleasant
measures such as a return to trade protection-
ism may soon follow.
Much of the progress made through years of
expanding international trade could be swiftly
undone by belligerent states attempting to give
their own exporters an edge. In the end, re-
dressing the currency problems may prove to
be the art of choosing between the disastrous
and the unpalatable.
Concerns about the implications of a Sino-American
currency devaluation race continue to rise
G-20 finance ministers gather for a group photo at their recent meeting in Seoul
Lingxi Huang

