POLITICS
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
16
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Debate whether Lib D
The Lib Dems put their country before
party politics, believes Hassan Joudi
The accusations that the Liberal Democrats have
compromised or “betrayed” their principles has
constantly been levelled at them since their rise to
shared power in May 2010. These have only in-
tensified with the recent comprehensive spending
review and the announcement of a higher cap on
university tuition fees. But is it fair to judge them
so harshly?
The Liberal Democrats have found themselves
in a very unique situation. The wrangling and
negotiations between British political parties has
not been seen since 1940, when the pressures of
World War II forged the last coalition government
led by Winston Churchill. Thus few people in liv-
ing memory have experienced a British coalition
government, certainly none of the middle-aged
politicians in the Conservative or Lib Dem parties
tasked with forming it.
To emphasise this uniqueness, in May 2010, on
the day David Cameron was finally ushered in to
Number 10, Nick Robinson, the BBC Political Ed-
itor sighed in front of the camera as he presented
BBC News live and said he’d simply “run out of
superlatives” to describe the day’s events in Lon-
don.
Before the election none of the political parties
seemed to consider too seriously the possibility
they would be working alongside one another to
run the country. Campaigners employed naïve
election tactics like demonising the enemy and
eagerly signing pledges, the most high-profile of
which is the Liberal Democrats “promising to vote
against any increase in tuition fees” at an NUS
event.
But no one has the benefit of hindsight and it’s
obvious this pledge has put them between a rock
and a hard place. However it is rash to roll out pre-
election examples like this in order to accuse the
Lib Dems of “selling out” because no one could
foresee how the election results and negotiations
would play out in the coming weeks. Few people
think the Lib Dems intentionally made that prom-
ise with malice, intending to break it once they
were in power with the Conservatives. They have
now matured as a party, gained experience of co-
alition politics and know better next time not to
make such promises.
The issue of pre-election and post-election
mindsets is intriguingly wider than this. Before
the election, everyone was clamouring for change,
probably greatly influenced by the 2008 Obama-
mania across the Atlantic with his five-word slo-
gan “Change we can believe in.” Britons wanted
something different from 13 years of Labour gov-
ernment, we were told. The expenses scandal was
still fresh with the electorate.
That is what the Conservative Party slogan “Vote
for Change” appealed to. The Lib Dem slogan
proclaimed “Change that works for you, building
a fairer Britain”, and Nick Clegg’s appeal to the
British populace at the end of the first televised
debate was to “try something different.”
Well now we’ve got change! An unprecedented
occurrence in British politics! Three-party poli-
tics is here and the ‘blue vs red’ regime is gone.
But complaints flew in left, right and centre. “Ev-
erything is so different!” or “The Lib Dems have
betrayed us! Sold out!” were some of the typical
comments blaring out on the airwaves in radio
debates or filling the inches of newspaper opinion
columns. Complaining it seems is a favourite past
time for many observers.
To those who argue the Lib Dems got the worse
end of the deal, it is wise to remember that Brit-
ain operates a representative democracy system.
To summarise this in one sentence: we the people
vote for our representatives in parliament which is
the body with most direct influence on our govern-
ment’s policy. Thus if your political party doesn’t
get enough votes, it has less of a right to influence
government policy. Be that outside the govern-
ment as a party in opposition, or inside the govern-
ment as a partner in coalition.
The Conservative and Lib Dems parties were
never on equal footings. The former received 1.5
times more of the votes cast (10.7m to 6.8m), and
owing to the First Past The Post (FPTP) system
5.4 times more seats in the House of Commons
(307 to 57). And this difference is duly reflected in
the 8-page Coalition Negotiations document they
published on 11 May 2010.
Manifestos have been chopped and spliced, and
understandably Britons are not used to this. Capi-
tal Gains Tax was the first issue to crop up in June
2010, with Conservatives giving way to Lib Dem
manifesto policy, and the pupil premium is another
recent example. The Lib Dems have in turn ac-
knowledged that coalition government policy takes
priority over their party manifesto policy in a pleth-
ora of other areas, most painfully on tuition fees.
Such issues are at the essence of coalition gov-
ernment politics. Which do you put first, your par-
ty or your government? To use a crude sporting ex-
ample it is like a football player torn between club
and country match commitments. Because few of
us in living memory remember a British coalition,
it may seem an extraordinary or a special situa-
tion. But take a simple glance at other nation states
with frequent coalition governments, and it soon
becomes apparent that our club and country anal-
ogy is very common. It is not fair to criticise the
Lib Dems for often choosing their country. Soon
we Britons won’t be so surprised when similar is-
sues arise again in future.
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Iran
Indonesia’s Mount Merapi has erupted, killing at
least 25 people and prompting thousands to flee
the local area. This eruption comes after a tsunami
struck the Mentawai Islands following a magnitude
7.7 quake leaving at least 100 people dead. An area
10km around the volcano has been declared a dan-
ger zone and residents have been ordered to evacu-
ate. Many residents however, refuse to leave their
property and livestock behind, in case of a false
alarm. Mount Merapi is Indonesia’s most active vol-
cano, erupting most recently in 2006 in an eruption
which killed 2 people. Indonesia is located on the
Pacific Ring of Fire which is one of the most geologi-
cally active areas on Earth.
Indonesia
Iran has begun loading fuel into its Bushehr
reactor according to the Iranian state media. 163
fuel rods will be loaded into the reactor which is
expected to start generating electricity in 2011.
Fuel for the reactor will be provided by Russia,
which will also receive the spent fuel rods from
the Bushehr reactor, reducing the chance of
proliferation. This marks a milestone in Iran’s
civilian nuclear programme which was hampered
by UN sanctions and there are suspicions that
Washington has
agreed to the
fuelling of the
Bushehr reactor in
return for Russian
support for more
sanctions against
Iran.
Cuba
Cubans have begun queuing outside Government
offices to apply for business permits following eco-
nomic reforms on the island. Cubans will be allowed
to apply for self-employment licenses for 178 job
classes including taxi driver, restaurateur and elec-
tricians. Cuban will also be allowed to hire staff
other than relatives in 83 of the approved job class-
es for the first time since 1968 when small busi-
nesses were nationalised. The Cuban Government
have also introduced income tax on the island for in-
comes of over 5,000 pesos (£142) and hope these
reforms will improve the Cuban economy which is in
the midst of a severe crisis.
Do the Lib Dems need to regrow support fro
“Few people think the Lib
Dems intentionally made
that promise with malice”
Have the Liberal Democrats lost their way o
“Which do you put
first: your party or your
government?”

