POLITICS
FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 17
Dems betrayed voters continues
Samiha Hayek
Stereotype of women wrong
om the grass roots level? Lembit Opik gets some early practice
“Building a Fairer Britain” – the slogan
of the Liberal Democrat manifesto. Is
this just another promise that the Lib-
eral Democrats have compromised on in
their frantic grasp for power? A question
not only being asked by Liberal Demo-
crat MPs, but one that is also at the fore-
front of public interest.
The announcement of the Conser-
vative-led coalition government just 6
months ago is still fresh in the memory
of the public, and the question from
them still remains, can there be any gain
for the Liberal Democrats from this?
Even at the very outset of the coalition
it seemed plainly obvious to everyone
that it was the Liberal Democrats who
would, and have conceded nearly all of
their manifesto promises. Comments
like these are often made in the media,
but what has the Liberal Democrat Party
really conceded in this coalition agree-
ment?
Let’s address the long-nosed fat grey
animal in the room first, tuition fees. It
had been Lib Dem policy for some time
now to scrap tuition fees. With this be-
ing the case it would have been expected
that Vince Cable, Business Secretary
and big campaigner against tuition
fees, would have had a whisper in the
ear of Nick Clegg before endorsing the
Browne Report. So concession number
1, endorsement of possible tuition fee
rises.
The comprehensive spending re-
view announcement last Wednesday is
equivalent to taking a lightsaber to the
Liberal Democrat manifesto. First and
foremost it increased the rate at which
the Liberal Democrats believe cuts to
the deficit should be made. Along with
this Nick Clegg endorsed and applauded
the chancellors announcement of a 50%
cut in social housing budget, reduction
of the police budget by 16% over 4 years
and 490,000 public sector workers be-
coming unemployed. All of which are
unthinkable compromises from the Lib
Dem manifesto promises of 3,000 more
police on the beat, only minor cuts in
2011/2012 and a government that helps
the poorer in society. So that’s conces-
sions 2 – Lib Dem values 0.
Right back at the start of this saga in
May, the Liberal Democrats made pos-
sibly some of the most damning U-turns
on their electoral promises. One of the
most decisive policies during the elec-
tion was the commitment to not build
a new generation of nuclear power sta-
tions within the UK.
This U-turn on policy took no more
than a week after the formation of the
coalition, announced by Chris Huhne,
who described it as “failed technol-
ogy”. At the emergency budget in June
it was announced that there would be a
steep VAT increase to 20%, something
which Vince Cable and the Liberal
Democrats were unequivocally against.
This U-Turn should have spelled out
to the Liberal Democrats that taking
such compromises wasn’t in the nature
of their grass-roots members, with a
YouGov/Brand Democracy survey, an-
nouncing that 48% of those who voted
Lib Dem were less likely to vote for
them again primarily due to the VAT
increase to 20%. Along with this, Har-
riet Harman’s announcement that “half
the 30,000 new recruits are previous
Labour supporters but regard voting
as not enough to change things. A third
are former Liberal Democrat support-
ers angry with the way in which Nick
Clegg formed a coalition government”
is a sure sign that things aren’t all that
good for them.
It seems that the only real thing the
Liberal Democrats appear to have got
out of the bargain is a vote in commons
on a referendum on electoral reform, a
bill which includes specific policies that
are contrary to the their manifesto, such
as reduction in the number of MPs. A
referendum in which Conservative MPs
are able to campaign against it.
The question in all of this is not wheth-
er this coalition will survive, but rather
can the Liberal Democrats survive this
coalition?
Nick Brown argues Lib Dems have lost support
She’s probably uneducated and unful-
filled. Captive to her religion, subservi-
ent and invisible. These are just some
of the inherent stereotypes that are em-
bodied in our modern society, obscur-
ing the Islamic female identity under
the guise of oppression and inequality.
But did Islam really intend to undermine
the female existence? If so, are Muslim
women victims of a chauvinistic spiri-
tual ideology or simply a misrepresenta-
tion by an unchanging historical label?
‘Women in Islam – Dispelling Stereo-
types’, held by the Imperial Ahlul Bayt
Islamic society, sought to unmask and
challenge this 3-dimensional debate, ad-
dressing and teasing those very stereo-
types that are classically conditioned in
our society. The event, held on Monday
18th October, attracted an audience of
many demographics, faiths and ethnici-
ties. Led by world-renowned speakers,
the audience were captivated in an inter-
play of historical and modern referenc-
ing.
Amina Inloes, who has an MA in Is-
lamic Studies and currently teaches at
the Islamic College for Advanced Stud-
ies, London, resurrected the silenced
voice of the Muslim woman who was
proactive, influential and well estab-
lished even at the advent of the life of
Prophet Mohammed, the rebirth of
whom is testament alone to the strong
female presence in Islam. Similarly,
Shelina Janmohamed, named by The
Times as one of the UK’s 13 most in-
fluential Muslim women, challenged the
myths that stem from this polar debate.
As this award-winning author, journal-
ist and blogger explored the levels of the
Islamic gender hierarchy, and the pre-
sumed absence of female autonomy, it
became evident that the roles of men and
women in Islam were never intended to
be consanguineous but rather comple-
mentary to one another, in perfect syn-
chrony. Thus, to argue that the only es-
cape for a Muslim woman is to abandon
Islam, is unethical and misguided.
The discussion was topical, current
and academically debated, exploring
the many avenues of this tentative topic
in an innovative and intricate manner.
Whether or nor the stereotypes that ar-
guably define Muslim women have been
eradicated is difficult to ascertain or
judge. However, in all matters of stigma,
it is indubitable that open discussion and
freedom of speech are far more effec-
tive at uprooting and remoulding mis-
conceived ideas, and it is fair to say that
the Ahlul Bayt Society’s event achieved
this.
on the journey towards acting on their values?
“The audience were
captivated”

