18
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 29 OCTOBER 2010
I
t was a very ordinary day when I
realised I was a superhero.
I was walking through Hyde
Park with nowhere in particu-
lar to be. As I was by myself, I
granted my tongue the freedom to do
as it wished. It entertained itself with a
delightful series of clicks and clucks as
I walked.
I stopped – I had company. There was
a squirrel in my path, watching me ex-
pectantly. My tongue’s merry rhythm
continued, unaware of its audience. My
sciurine friend began to dance about me
in rapture because of my lingual acro-
batics. I then realised the power I held
over squirrel-kind. It is my gift and my
curse. Who am I? I am…the Squirreler!
Ahem.
The reason I am not currently cavort-
ing about the Royal Parks in my under-
pants is that, as a super-power, com-
municating to squirrels is over-rated.
All they ever talk about are acorns of
interest. That, and whether peanuts are
nuts or not. (To any squirrels reading
this: they’re legumes – deal with it!).
No, global conquest will not come in
squirrel-form.
But watch out for the pigeons. Squir-
rels are very obvious. When you see a
squirrel, you remember the encounter,
perhaps even using it as a talking piece
on social occasions if you happen to be
that conversationally challenged. Con-
versely, when did you last see a pigeon?
Can’t remember? Of course not; they
barely flicker on your perceptual regis-
ters. And why would they? Pigeons are
just so commonplace.
Being hidden in plain sight allows pi-
geons greater room for manoeuvre. Are
those in Trafalgar Square milling about
or are they reconnoitering the strategic
entries and exits into key tactical loca-
tions? Are those flocking about Big Ben
trying to roost or are they clocking the
security shift changes at Westminster.
What better cover is there than being too
innocuous for suspicion?
What’s really worrying is that the lead-
ers of this pigeon army may not just be
among us – we might be training them!
Exhibition Road is a geat academic and
cultural hotspot and plenty of pigeons
call it home. With so much informa-
tion passing back and forth, a pigeon
could eavesdrop all it needs to know in
no time. After all, who would consider
censoring themselves because of a mere
pigeon? How many times have you seen
a pigeon flying about in the SAF build-
ing? It’s there for a reason.
You might scoff at this and say that
the average pigeon is no smarter than a
scatter-brained squirrel. This is a mis-
take you make at your peril – never un-
derestimate your enemy. B. F. Skinner
demonstrated that pigeons show an un-
canny capacity for operant conditioning.
Through trial and error, they can quickly
learn and adapt to their environment.
Pigeons of prey
Thus, they can take the fight anywhere
without going on the back-talon. The
SAS, the Taliban? Amateurs compared
to a pigeon with a grudge.
There are 7.5 million people in Lon-
don. Do you know how many pigeons
there are? No? Neither do I. No-one has
an accurate grasp of their numbers. How
can we develop counter-strategies when
we lack such basic intelligence? We are
woefully under-prepared for a pigeon in-
surgency – a certain leaked government
dossier indicates that London could be
buried under their guano in as little as
forty-five minutes.
The big question surrounding this
columbine coup for total domination is
not “if…” but “when...” We are living
on borrowed time. If we don’t do some-
thing soon, it will be too late. There is
one thing I know for certain.
We won’t be getting any help from the
squirrels.
The next threat to British security could be coming from
closer to home than you think...
Imperial is proud of referring to itself as the
university of the future. After all, few univer-
sities can boast graduates who predicted
the 20th Century as keenly as H.G. Wells
or who contributed to our advancement
throughout it as significantly as Alexander
Fleming, Dennis Gabor or James Ellis. It is
therefore deeply disappointing that a univer-
sity so keen to promote technical innovation
in all fields should be neglecting an area
much closer to home.
One of the most tired and overused clich-
es that new Imperial students are exposed
to is that their departments do not care
about them. Their priority, we have all been
told, is to perform cutting-edge research.
Students can come to the lectures, pick up
the handouts, attend one or two tutorials
and then find themselves shoved into the
examination room. If they somehow manage
to come out of the process with a high-qual-
ity degree, the system will suck them into a
research position and force the next year’s
intake to run the same gauntlet.
While the truth may be nowhere near this
bleak, students are given little reason to
doubt the received wisdom. Teaching meth-
ods in most departments have changed lit-
tle since they first opened, whereas the ca-
pacity for innovation has increased beyond
measure.
We need look no further than our own
Mathematics Department for proof of this.
Professor Richard Thomas is embracing
modern technology, not simply for the sake
of it, but as an effective tool to improve
learning and understanding. His students
are full of praise for his techniques; again
and again they say that the mobile app ap-
proach is helping them engage with the
content instead of simply skimming through
lectures, mindlessly scribbling down notes.
One would be tempted to ask “What’s
taken so long?” if the answer weren’t so ob-
vious. There is a lack of ambition and crea-
tivity when it comes to teaching at Imperial.
And innovation is often not taken seriously,
as Professor Thomas knows all too well.
The College believes that it can retain its
reputation through high quality research
and ruthlessly high entry standards. It
doesn’t hold itself to the same standard of
excellence and innovation in teaching as it
does in research, and it thinks that this has
little effect on its image. The pitifully poor
level of donations from Alumni is sure proof
of their folly. Had H.G. Wells been told, over
a century ago, that blackboards and chalk
would still be used in today’s lecture thea-
tres – would he not be disappointed?
FELIX
Rhys Davies
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Imperial is woefully
unambitious when it
comes to teaching
Thought the biggest threat to Britain was from human terrorists? Think again
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“We’re living on
borrowed time. If we
don’t do something, it
will be too late”
“”
A leaked government dossier
indicates that London could
be buried under their guano in
forty-five minutes.
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
Illustration by Mitesh Patel

