HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
2
FELIX
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design
Editor Victoria McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzy Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina
Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox
Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon
Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor
Thomas Welch Travel Editor Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson
Special thanks to: Slobodan Radosavljevic, Shruti Mishra, Mitesh Patel, Gilead Amit, Matt Allinson, Lizzy Griffiths and Dylan Lowe for all their invaluable help this week
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest Road, Derriford, Plym-
outh. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK
Photo of the Week
Union Meetings
Council
On Monday the Union will debate their Higher Education
Funding Policy at Council. If passed the policy will become
the official position of the Union and by extension of
the students that it represents; i.e. you. Students are
encouraged to attend and voice their opinions. The
meeting will be at 6:30pm in the Union Dining Hall and
papers can be found online at www.imperialcollegeunion.
org.uk. See Page 5
Higher Education Policy Debate
On campus
Adaptive Control Seminar
Dr Emmanuel Guigon, a researcher from the Institut
des Systèmes Intelligents et de Robotique, Paris,
will hold a seminar exploring computational motor
control and attempt to show how action is part of a
goal oriented behaviour. The seminar will look into
the framework of reinforcement learning and Dr
Guigon will derive principles for motor control.
Room 2.28 Royal School of Mines
3 November 15:30-16:30
Robotics in Surgery
Speakers including pro-
fessors from Imperial
College and King’s Col-
lege London will give a
seminar on the use of
surgical robots and the
demand for higher accu-
racy and how these ma-
chines allow new proce-
dures not practicable by
hand and eye. For more
information, contact:
b_miah@imeche.org
Quantum Age Lecture
Professor Alain Aspect speaks on a lecture exploring
the advancement of quantum theory from Einstein’s
intuition to quantum bits, a new field of research
where the concept of a superposition of states is ap-
plied to computing. Having shown quantum entangle-
ment to be a reality in 1964, John Bell’s inequalities
are applied to shed light on entanglement in qubits
(quantum bits) and how large scale implementation
may revolutionise our society.
Great Hall, Sherfield Building
11 November 17:30-18:30
G16 Sir Alexander Fleming Building
3 November 9:30-17:30
Monday 1st of November
A fellow cat collecting on Thursday on the
walkway for Charity Week, organised by the
Islamic Society
Photo by Marie Chkaiban

