I
sn’t it about time that eve-
ryone gave Wayne Rooney
a break? Let’s get things
straight from the off. I am
not going to try to defend
some of Rooney’s actions over
the past few months: some of his
off-field behaviour is quite sim-
ply indefensible.
As for his form, just go easy on
Shrek. The age old saying that form is temporary and class is permanent
will certainly stand up in this case. Yes, Wayne had a bad World Cup,
yes, his form for Manchester United since his injury against Bayern Mu-
nich in March has been questionable. But he is the most talented English
footballer of his generation and he is carrying a United side as weak as
any since they first won the Premier League under Ferguson. Carrying
not only the nation’s hopes, but one having the additional weight of one
of the world’s biggest clubs on your shoulders is enough to wear anyone
down.
It is important to remember that not only is Rooney no Ronaldo (in
terms of pure footballing ability – Rooney more than makes up for this
in his dedication and work rate) but in this weak united team there is no
Rooney or T*** from Argentina to support him.
Last week, after announcing he wanted to leave Old Trafford for pas-
tures new Rooney made a miraculous reversal and signed himself a new
£250,000 a week contract. Should this make him Public Enemy Number
One? No. All he has done is negotiate a fair deal for a player of his qual-
ity. In comparison to £250,000 a week for Yaya Toure of Man City, it
seems a bargain. At the £90,000 a week he was on before, Rooney was
arguably the best value for money player in any major European league.
Now for United fans. Should they be getting up and shouting abuse at
him for his apparent disregard for their club? Again, almost certainly not
– Wayne Rooney has arguably done the club a huge favour. With Giggs,
Scholes, Neville and Van de Saar set to retire in the near future signifi-
cant investment in the squad is essential to keep up with the likes of
Chelsea and their noisy neighbours. Rooney has single handedly forced
the Glazers to cough up some money to invest in high quality replace-
ments who are ready to win league titles now and for this United fans
should be singing his praise.
20 felix
FRIDAY 29 October 2010
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
s we enter the
thick of the win-
ter job applica-
tion season, final
year students will
doubtlessly be vying for a lucra-
tive starting salary in investment
banking. One 25 year-old has
pipped the lot, however, by securing a ludicrous £250,000/week deal.
And whilst budding bankers will be working 16 hour days, sacrificing
their weekends, and experiencing skyrocketing levels of stress, all this
bright lad has to do is kick a ball for 90 minutes per week.
To be fair to Wayne Rooney, he will also be required to attend the
occasional training session when he is not busy spending valuable time
with his £1,000/night prostitute. Well, come on, give the guy a break - he
does have a moaning pregnant WAG to deal with.
Poor Wayne has had a difficult few months. The prime reason he is
paid is to score goals. Yet he has not managed to net one from open play
in all competitions this season, and tallied zero in the World Cup. But the
fans were so unfair, being disloyal and booing him in South Africa – it
transpires that the deprived chappy was demoralised and concerned that
his counterparts at Manchester City were earning more than him. How
dare we be so disrespectful, and how dare we intrude on his questionable
out-of-hours habits
Wayne got so depressed recently that he threatened to leave Manches-
ter United. Why? Didn’t they pay him enough? Oh, no. Sorry, my mis-
take. “The club lacks ambition.” Come again? A club that has won the
Premier League and FA Cup 11 times apiece, and the Champions League
3 times lacks ambition? Well Wayne, you better leave – why not go to
Manchester City, a club whose greatest achievement was the FA Cup
back in 1969.
But Wayne, why did you take such a radical U-turn and stay at your
club? Was it because they doubled your pay check? Oh, sorry, that’s
me being cynical again. It’s because “the manager’s a genius and it’s
his belief and support that convinced me to stay.” Wayne, your excuses
are as thin as Michael McIntyre’s comedy routine. And the next time
you accuse your fans of being disloyal, take a look in the mirror – you
might just see an adulterous, club-hopping, bald ape staring back at
you.
“All he has done
is negotiate a fair
deal for a player of
his quality”
Tom Welch
“His excuses are
as thin as Michael
McIntyre’s routine”
Freshers’initiations are a
chance to do something
special that we should
embrace
Charles Betts
A couple of years ago, at some rather re-
mote University in England, a student died
as a result of an initiation ceremony, appar-
ently involving physical activity and alcohol.
The details were never quite made clear, but
it left many Universities and Colleges across
the land with no option but to ban such cer-
emonies formally.
This of course, no one could argue with
— it would seem dangerous and futile at
best, to attempt to. Our own College was
particularly clear on the matter. As one may
expect, Imperial students were able to ad-
here to this but retain a pervasive sense
of celebration. Thus, I am pleased to say
that welcoming parties do still continue, de-
spite the excesses reported of other places
which would have otherwise damaged this
tradition.
It does, however, raise the question of
what they could or should be, instead. Add-
ed to which, from the perspective of running
a club, it is unthinkable not to welcome new
members and start proceedings off in a cel-
ebratory mood, and so the current crop of
chairs/presidents/captains/[insert other
pompous name here]s may be justifiably
congratulated on their efforts in treading
this delicate line.
This year has seen several such parties, in-
volving various sorts of fancy dress, physical
exertion, food, venues, and even measures
of (usually ill-advised) nudity. The knees-ups
have been apparently spontaneous, starting
as bar nights or ‘meet and greet’ affairs—
suggesting that planning of these events is
limited, for good or ill.
A range of parties and ideas and themes
is all very well — possibly even statistically
likely, given the number of clubs — but are
we not missing a trick here? Some commen-
tators would dive in here with a long-winded
and self-important tract about ‘disappoint-
ment and failure of originality and things not
being as good now as they were in their day,
and aren’t these people supposed to be in-
telligent and don’t you know about Oxonian
or Cantabrigian tradition...’ but even making
that up is boring me. Even the more concise
“Is getting pissed on blackthorn and strip-
ping down to your knickers the best way to
welcome freshers?” still retains something
of being told what to do by someone whom
should never be involved in doing it.
Trouble is, with welcoming fresh blood,
and even re-kindling semi-past-it blood, we
do have a superb opportunity to really cre-
ate something immense and even special.
Sabbaticals consistently make the effort to
provide an arena for it — and why shouldn’t
they? —so how about we grab it by the pro-
verbial and run with it? On your marks...
By Samuel Furse
After weeks of controversy,Wayne
Rooney has signed a £250,000 a
week contract with Man United. Fans
are angry, Sir Alex Ferguson blames the
agents but the big question is:
IS WAYNE ROONEY
WORTH IT?

