A R T S
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
22
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The most pant-
wettingly scary
Halloween ever
We braved London’s darkest streets to
search out the most terrifying theatre on
offer this Halloween
As one of the bigger names on the Edin-
burgh Fringe Festival scene, Pleasance
has nearly 25 years experience in giv-
ing highly unconventional productions
a stage. Halloween thriller The Insti2ute
is no exception to the trend, being poles
apart from your West End night out in
both setting and, sadly, in substance.
As an audience, we are taken on a
promenade tour of a defunct genetic
research facility, the Avernus Institute,
recently the site of a “tragedy” - a ref-
erence to last year’s prequel. Now ac-
quired by the Coalition Government as
part of its campaign to rebuild broken
Britain, the delightfully servile civil
servant James (the superb David Reed)
and his hapless, blue-rosette-wearing
Minister Hector (capably played by
Paul Foxcroft) invite us to inspect the
institute firsthand. Swiftly however the
scene shifts from satirical Government
publicity event to a hair-raising bid to
escape the laboratory that forces us to
confront the walking, groaning myster-
ies that abound in its corridors. Bril-
liant use is made of its semi-industrial
surrounds, easing the audience’s near
total immersion in the warped world of
The Insti2ute. Had I not failed in my at-
tempts to pick up an Evening Standard, I
might’ve missed the show entirely, such
was the subtlety of the cheap-suited
lackey entering the foyer and calling all
those there for ‘the tour of the Institute.’
Sadly such finesse was not constant
throughout the performance: whilst the
show had some ingenious moments (the
Tory MP taking time out to check the
legality of everyone’s presence in the
country springs to mind) elsewhere the
performance seemed at times wooden, a
fault of the script or the acting, it’s hard
to tell.
Whilst I don’t want to get bogged
Will Prince
As one of the film editors of this beloved rag, it’s a
tad embarrassing that I haven’t seen the film ver-
sion of this infinitely re-readable and mind-blow-
ingly touching tour-de-force of mid 20th century
American literature. British librarians voted To Kill
a Mockingbird as the top book you should read in
your lifetime. Having worked in the mighty Maiden-
head public library in my teenage years, I shall in
400 words or less attempt to explain why my fellow
comfortably shoed and perennially be-cardiganed
brethren feel this way.
If you read nothing else
this week...
Take some time out from ghouls;
Matt Allinson really loves this book
and you will too, we promise.
To Kill a
Mockingbirdby
Harper Lee
Which book deserves to be read next week? Tell us
why in 300 to 400 words and send them to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Now, let me make one thing clear – I
don’t ‘do’ horror. As in, it doesn’t work
on me. Those twin girls in The Shining?
Whatever. The wild-eyed clairvoyant in
Don’t Look Now? I encounter scarier
religious nutcases every morning out-
side Brixton Tube. Ringu? Boringu,
more like. You get the picture. All bril-
liantly imaginative entertainment, of
course, but collectively about as scary
as a cheddar ploughmans. This, coupled
with the well-known fact that anyone
who believes in ghosts is a gaspingly
incredulous dumbo of the highest order,
meant that I was slightly disdainful of
the warnings accompanying the post-
ers for Ghost Stories: “…CONTAINS
MOMENTS OF EXTREME SHOCK
AND TENSION… WE STRONGLY
ADVISE THOSE OF A NERVOUS
DISPOSITION TO THINK VERY SE-
Bone-chilling
West End Ghost
Stories
Eccentric drama horrifies in Islington
Jack Jelfs
“I was driven by a
genuine, tingling
sense of terror”
‘Til Sunday at The Pleasance
Theatre, Islington. £15
Set in depression era Alabama; this first person
account of 6 year old Scout Finch centres around
the major events of the small town in which she
lives with her brother, widowed father and maid.
Throughout the book, Scout’s candid observations
of her surroundings combined with a precocious
but endearing child’s interpretation of events build
a complete but unforced picture of the town, its
residents, and their interactions with each other.
The believable and amusing scenes of childish an-
tics build within the reader a connection with their
own memories of childhood and the connotations
of trust and truth that come with them. As a result,
when the story passes through its darker or more
menacing passages, for example the night before
the Tom Robinson court case and Scout’s own re-
sponse once the Verdict is given, the reader sym-
pathises immediately and unreservedly with scout,
making the novel incredibly emotionally engaging.
The book’s other strength is its characters. It has
been said that no real-world lawyer has done as
much for the reputation of the legal profession as
Atticus Finch, and it’s not hard to see why. The bas-
tion of truth, honesty and diligence in his daughter’s
eyes, Atticus’ reputation is cemented in the readers
mind by the occasionally begrudged but as near as
universal respect from the rest of the town. While
degrees of his character are hidden from the reader
by the perspective of the narrator, it is easy to build
a complete picture of the man from what can be
gleaned. The same can be said of almost all the
main characters, with the only possible exception
being Aunt Alexandra, whom I find a bit underdevel-
oped. Faint criticism indeed for a book that, within
its commuter friendly size and font will constantly
and bountifully re-reward you each time you visit. So
listen to your librarian, and borrow this book.
down in debating what’s theatre and
what isn’t, it was evident that The Ins-
ti2ute is sailing close to the wind. As a
play, the plot seriously lacks depth, but
as an intensely interactive and involved
house of horrors, it fits the bill perfectly.
Never did I find myself distracted and
the only time I wondered how much time
there was left I was driven by a genuine,
tingling sense of terror. A little suspen-
sion of disbelief is necessary – the props
and set still retaining an air of fringe –
but the resultant fruits are plentiful.
At a fast-paced forty-five minutes,
the show is a little on the short side
but the maxim of quality over quantity
clearly reigned supreme in the minds
of David Puckridge, Dave Scullion and
Brendan Dodds. The latter’s involve-
ment in ‘Pappy’s Fun Club’ suggested
great things, the show being described
by a friend as the funniest thing he’d
ever seen. And whilst I wouldn’t hurry
to beckon George A. Romero over the
pond for a viewing, it certainly makes
for a satisfying night out, if more in gore
than in profound thought. I don’t want
to give too much away, but before The
Insti2ute I had never been in a situation
so eerily (and fantastically) reminiscent
of the tunnel scene in 28 Days Later; just
substitute Cillian Murphy and that girl
for me and a bunch of North London
20-somethings. It makes a highlight of
the show that nearly singularly justifies
the admission price.

