FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 23
ARTS
RIOUSLY BEFORE ATTENDING”.
Not even the sight of two St John Am-
bulance men conspicuously overlooking
the audience (presumably armed with
smelling salts and a copy of New Sci-
entist) could prevent me from striding to
my seat with the bravado and swagger of
the terminally un-afraid.
Ghost Stories is co-written by Jeremy
Dyson, one of the creators of superlative
TV series The League of Gentlemen.
If ever there was a play that led you in on
false pretences it’s The Woman in Black.
This production in the small and pokey
Fortune Theatre is ideal to set the scene.
Consisting of only two actors and a very
limited set, you really wonder how this
play will send a chill down your spine.
Michael Mears and Orlando Wells play,
respectively, Mr Kipps and The Actor.
The two perform a play of Mr Kipps’
experience as a young solicitor after the
death of a client name Mrs Drablow. The
old lady used to live in an old and expan-
sive country house in the remote reaches
of England. The Actor plays a young Mr
Kipps and the other acts out the charac-
ters that he meets. The house sits beyond
some quicksand and that in turn lies by a
tidal body of water that prevents visitors
from reaching the property for most of
the day. Add to this a frequent and thick
fog and the viewer starts to picture that
typical haunted house so often depicted
in horror films.
Don’t let this deter you from experi-
encing a first rate show though, the play
is far from an imitation of anything you
would likely have seen before. The suc-
cess lies in the show’s simplicity; for
most, a dark room and torch conjure
up images of campfire amateur dramat-
ics but hell this scene will turn even the
most hardened of people into insomni-
acs.
The fortune is a claustrophobic the-
The Woman in
Black
Jordi Brown
“blends classic
horror-film elements
with a twisted
narrative”
‘Til February at the Duke of York’s
theatre, special performances this
weekend, from £15.
The Woman in Black has run for
20 years, and is currently at the
Fortune Theatre, from £16.50
Like this earlier work, the play blends
classic horror-film elements with a
twisted narrative and blacker-than-black
humour. Production-wise, it’s highly in-
ventive - much of the play is set in near
darkness, with the actors often illumi-
nated by a single spotlight. The clever
set designs, surround-sound effects and
a host of other technical tricks all serve
to keep the audience’s senses in a state
of heightened and nervous awareness. (I
won’t give anything away, but suffice to
say I’ll never view a bottle of TCP in the
same way again). The acting by the five-
man cast is excellent throughout – spe-
cial mention must go to co-writer Andy
Nyman as the intense parapsychologist
Dr Goodman..
Discretion prevents me from revealing
any details of the plot, but it’s an intel-
ligent and engaging piece of writing that
weaves several separate stories together.
Although I had a feeling that the sense
of apprehension could have been ratch-
eted up further in some of the earlier
slow-moving sections, when the shocks
do come they are sudden and effective.
After a while, the pervading gloom and
unease begin to have a genuinely unset-
tling effect, which slowly grows as the
drama progresses. When the plot even-
tually starts to fold in on itself, the ten-
sion is brought to an almost unbearable
peak until the final, sudden climax.
At which point, dear reader, I got a bit
scared.
atre, the seats pact tightly together and
the upper levels near head height. This
lends a hand in drawing the audience to-
gether; a creepy nervousness resonates
through the rows as everyone anticipates
that next fright. The simple ingredients
of a small cast, humble set design and
few sound effects really lay the founda-
tions for what is a superb ghost story.
“the most terrifying
night out in a
theatre you will ever
experience”
It is a wonder whether the actors are
themselves scared to death as they act
out this play within a play or find it
hard to not laugh. Both are very adept
and put in a solid performance, Mears’
ability to jump from character to charac-
ter is especially noteworthy as is Wells’
emotional mastery. This is a good thing
too, as the play relies on the grasp of the
audience’s imagination and emotional
vulnerability throughout. Wells’ char-
acter, shut out by the inhabitants of the
local town, depends on his spectators to
accompany him on his journey through
Mrs Drablow’s past. This works to great
effect when, at one time in the play, he
chooses to go back into the house and
my friend beside me, turns around, cries
“why, why?” and grips my arm with
such intensity that it shows it is really
scaring her.
This is director Robin Herford’s 21st
year in charge and The Woman in Black
is still the most terrifying night out in a
theatre you will ever experience.
This is the Woman in Black - obviously this is actually a man. Spooky eh?
The Insti2ute - Zombie Based sequel to the Institute

