Halfway through Yeasayer’s set singer
Chris Keating pauses for a moment,
looks at the crowd and says “Look at
this place…Pink Floyd played here”. It’s
a telling moment: Yeasayer have come
a long way since the first blog hype for
their stunning debut single ‘2080’. The
live band has expanded to five mem-
bers, replete with multiple keyboards
and synths to aid the move away from
their folkier debut to the ‘80s influenced
prog-pop of the new album, and the light
show is suitably slick, complementing
the band’s natural stage presence.
Opening with a slow pulse and red
lighting that segues into a seamless
rendition of ‘Madder Red’ to rapturous
applause, Yeasayer know they have the
crowd on their side and play with the
force and precision that they have been
dutifully praised for. After this storm-
ing entrance however, an early lull oc-
curs when the band overindulge on too
many weak album tracks. The switch to
older songs, reconfigured and reworked
to better reflect their new sound, has
mixed results; while the approach strips
‘Red Cave’ of its intimacy, the stunning
‘Tightrope’ remains unblemished and is
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
26
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Steve Skaith
Latin Quarter
Revisited
Westpark Publishing
2010
This album is a re-working of much of the back cata-
logue from the 80’s band Latin Quarter, released with
new technology but the same old message. Latin
Quarter have something important to say, and they’re
not afraid to do so through music, with their politi-
cal activism ranging from racism, to man’s dominion
over animals.The songs keep the old themes echoing
harmoniously 25 years on, with their african touches
and folky guitaring, the music is diverse but simple,
the lyrics however hit a harder note. Ideas of morality
and fainess highlighting some pressing issues this
world we live in has decided to neglect in an act of
selfish ignorance. The point is that although released
20 odd years ago, the change has been minimal, this
is coming from a band that predicted the abolition
of the apartheid. So unless you believe we live in a
perfect world, forget about the generation difference,
as Einstein put it, “The only reason for time is so that
everything doesn’t happen at once”. - Luke Turner
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
The Black Keys & The Walkmen
02 Academy Brixton
2nd/3rd November
7:00pm
Get ready for some fat blues rock as the duo called
the Black Keys hit up London town. They now sever-
al albums now under their belt, from the raw fuzzy
debut ‘The Big Come Up’ to their slick Danger-
mouse produced ‘Attack and Release,’ all the way
through to their latest groove monster ‘Brothers.’
Support comes from a band that drew alot of atten-
tion a few years ago from their epic angsty classic
‘The Rat’ and their feature on the OC. Don’t hold
that appearance against them; they since have qui-
etly released some very good albums, just missing
the killer single to get them airplay in a more public
sphere. Their latest record ‘Lisbon’ has received
much praise. This gig promises to be a good night.
O
ver the coming issues of Felix I
will embark on a quest to dispel
the popular belief that electron-
ic dance music begins with Tiesto and
finishes with David Guetta. I will try
and dip into as many genres as possible;
highlighting what’s big at the moment,
what was big 20 years ago and just gen-
erally stuff that I’m into at the date of
publication.
This week I will start by testing your
tolerances and try to persuade you that
disco music is not just flares, ‘fros and
something to be buried in the depths of
the 20th century. Over the past couple
of years, disco has had an enormous
resurgence in dance music and one of
the biggest labels pushing many great,
new producers through is Permanent
Vacation. Founded in 2006 and based in
Munich, Permanent Vacation champion
a marriage of new and old disco with an
overall ethos of having fun, something
that seemed lacking in a lot of dance
music for a number of years. The chim-
ing guitars, rich synths and bouncy bass
lines of disco of old are all still present,
but a freshness has been injected into the
Suckers, crammed in front of all of
Yeasayer’s gear, burst out the gate with
the simultaneously majestic and care-
free ‘Roman Candles’. The band show
their influences on their sleeves – ev-
ery Animal Collective-esque wordless
chant breakdown is matched by a woozy
chorus with freewheeling vocals in the
vein of Frog Eyes – but are not bound
by them, and the band pack in so many
inspired moments in the first few songs
of the set that it becomes hard not to
sense a lull in the middle when they play
a couple of songs too reliant on a singu-
lar melody. Despite this, any pace lost
is regained when they play the dramatic,
marching single ‘A Mind I Knew’, and
they bring things to a powerful close
with ‘It Gets Your Body Movin’’, where
group singing and a regal horn melody
culminate in a beautiful mess of crash-
ing drums. Stunning.
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
Yeasayer
Roundhouse
21st October 2010
★★★★✩
Jamie Fraser
TECHNO
NONSENSE
The first in Simon Hunter’s
new series introducing the best
electronic dance labels
scene by the likes of Tensnake, Azari &
III and Todd Terje. Tensnake makes clas-
sic, borderline cheesy disco that never
fails to put a smile on your face. In fact
the Hamburg producer’s Coma Cat EP,
originally released in January, brought
summer forward by about 5 months.
Todd Terje, on the other hand, has been
providing some of the smoothest Balear-
ic moments of the past few years. From
his incredible remix of Balearic Incar-
nation by Dolle Jolle to other remixes
for the likes of Jose Gonzales and Shit
Robot, Terje has been taking music from
across the spectrum and whipping it up
into a cosmic bliss.
For a taste of Permanent Vacation try
their Selected Label Works series. Or
if you’re still undecided as to whether
you’re willing to dive that deep, Coma
Cat by Tensnake and Beam Me Up
(Jacques Renault Remix) by Midnight
Magic are essentials. As winter draws
in and university work starts to consume
your life, so that you may not be able to
play World of Warcraft as much as you
once did, the new wave of disco is wait-
ing to restore a smile to your glum faces.
Suckers
★★★★✩
Yeasayer and
Suckers bring down
the Roundhouse
an unmistakable highlight of their set.
And when the band finish with the one-
two punch of ‘O.N.E.’ and ‘Ambling
Alp’, which the crowd go suitably wild
for, it’s easy to see their appeal as band
and audience alike get lost in the vibrant
lights of the stage and the music, as all
around people sing and dance, enjoying
every moment.
Photo by Christopher Walmsley
Photo by Christopher Walmsley
Suckers did not live up to their name
Yeasayer fully engrossed in their performance
1. Bloc Party
2. Daft Punk
3. Florence + the
Machine
4. The Killers
5. The xx
6. RHCP
7. Bon Iver
8. Yeasayer
9. Sufjan Stevens
10. Blur

