30
F
I
L
M
felix
FRIDAY 29 OCTOBER 2010
Felix’s DVD Guide
to October 31st
If there’s one thing that the movie industry has
taught us in recent years, it’s that movies can be
so stupidly ridiculous that they can just about
pass as ‘cult classics’ thanks to an equally stu-
pid and easily amused general public. This is
not the case for this bizarre 70s murder mystery
horror, where the only mention of a lizard is a
passing reference. That’s not to claim that it’s
anything less than genius: with an eerie score
to rival Psycho, blinding performances from
the cast and twists and turns in the plot, Liz-
ard is sure to be a great addition to your horror
repertoire.
The trippy opening scene introduces our dis-
gruntled protagonist, Carol, a corridor of nude
hippies and a torrent of lesbian lust with a mys-
terious mistress. Needless to say this is pos-
sibly one of the most engaging openings I’ve
ever seen and sets the standard for the rest of
the film.
In a dream Carol butchers her mistress.
Standard, were it not for the fact that the wom-
an was also murdered in reality, which sets up a
jamboree of questions as the whodunnit keeps
you guessing. Action, suspense, and emotion
throughout, it’s sure to make you leap from
your chair in surprise at several points. My
only criticism of this masterpiece would be that
probably the scariest thing in the whole film
is the abundance of unkempt seventies pubic
bush on display.
Chris Richardson
Classic Cinema
Donnie Darko
The eponymous character of Donnie Darko is a men-
tally disturbed, but in many ways distinctly average,
teenager who barely escapes death when a jet en-
gine crashes into his house while he is out sleep-
walking. Aided by Frank, a hallucination of man in
a Halloween rabbit costume, he realises that this
strange event has created a time loop which will lead
to the end of the world unless he can stop it.
This is a rather absurd concept but this is a story
which thrives on the unusual and confusing. While
some might find this infuriating it gives the film a
unique feel and perfectly mirrors the uncertainty and
fear of the main character as he tries to figure out
what is happening around him. Leaving things un-
clear forces the viewers to come to their own conclu-
sions, a sure sign of a good movie. The atmosphere
is helped by the striking visual imagery. Particularly
memorable are the scenes of Donnie’s eye overlaid
with other images, such as Frank’s hideous mask.
While the film has a number of very unnerving mo-
ments, such as Frank’s sudden appearances and his
unearthly voice, I particularly enjoyed watching Don-
nie’s interactions with his family. Heartfelt moments
such as his talks with his parents make us believe
in, and care about, these characters. Fortunately
this complements, rather than clashes with, the
main themes and makes the tragic ending especially
poignant. While not contributing to the main story
the moments of humour in the story were also very
enjoyable, with Donnie’s innovative use of swearing
while arguing with his sister and his gym teacher’s
unbelievable naivety being particular highlights.
Surprisingly the film also manages to touch on
some very serious issues. The best-developed is that
of religion, as the characters realise that perhaps
the time loop cannot be explained by science alone
and that there may be some force guiding them. On
the other hand we see the problems of authoritar-
ian religious systems in Donnie’s highly conservative
school, where personal and educational develop-
ment is often stifled by a rigid system of values.
This film rightly deserves to be called a cult classic
and, if you want to see something that makes you
think, I thoroughly recommend it.
Maciej Matuszewski
The Heath Ledger jokes had gone too far this time
Film Editors: Matt Allinson
Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The title really gives most of the plot away be-
fore you’ve begun. I sat down fully expecting
a cheap copy of every other zombie movie out
there, with visual effects rivalling those of the
original Dawn of the Dead (some poor intro-
ductory camerawork, a trashy critique on city
life and some full frontal nudity in the first five
minutes). This was going to be a long hour and
a half. I was, however, pleasantly surprised. In
this scenario, the dead, true to form, come back
to life, but this time it’s thanks to a parasite kill-
er that uses “ultrasonic radiation” to make crea-
tures with simple nervous systems attack each
other. Now I’m not a scientist, but I thought
most types of radiation were ultrasonic, how-
ever we’ll let the ambiguous science slip. Also
troubling was the questionable ethical commit-
tee that approved something which could en-
rage anything in a 5 mile radius, but then it is
just a film. Apparently babies and the departed
have simple nervous systems, with predictable
consequences. Quite upsettingly, they didn’t
cash in on the mad baby swarm front. The
eviscerations looked convincing, as opposed to
someone bursting a balloon of ketchup (which
has been tried before), and further bonus points
should be given to the plot, as it held together
well, and I did actually enjoy watching it, and
not in a ‘it’s so bad it’s good’way (think “Mega
Shark versus Giant Octopus”). They had some
nice self-parody with our protagonist stating
that the dead come back to life only “in very
bad paperback novels”, and some comical
scenes involving boobs being torn off. What
more could you ask for?
The acting was adequate, the effects and plot
were good, but the camerawork could have
used a little oiling, and the sound-man was
really quite capricious. Worth a watch all the
same.
Jonathan Messing
The Living Dead at
Manchester Morgue
The Woman
With Lizard’s Skin
H
alloween parties are like sex:
either a dark, lusty and twist-
ed extravaganza enhanced
by elaborate costumes; or an
over-hyped and disappointing
charade we do once a year because we feel so-
cially compelled to. Helping you make yours
the former, here is our guide of some new and
re-released Horror DVDs to get you going.
Cue red sea, cue zombie, cue blind man and
80’s text; I’m in for a good one here. The film
in question is Zombies of Mass Destruction, a
satirical comedy/zombie horror set in the small
American town of Port Gamble. The main
characters are the token gay couple, the hippie,
the god-loving preacher, the fit Iranian girl and
a shit load of wobbling, brain-eating, moaning,
groaning Zombies.
When we first meet the Zombies, the thing
that comes to mind is “Thriller” by Michael
Jackson, then she/it gets pinned to a wall by
the gay couple and a fire poker (insert pun
here). After this attack it quickly comes appar-
ent that Zombies are invading the town, and
in true American form, it’s terrorists that are
responsible.
...more killing....
As with most horror films, we have a scene
like Big Brother, where several people who
don’t match are trapped together in the church
and can’t escape. After many arguments, more
killing, more arguments and a bit of comedy
on the side, the few normal people are rescued
by the US Army. Six months later and all is
well with the town re-populated, God bless
America.
To be fair I quite enjoyed the film, its piss
take of America and zombie movies in general
is spot on, not to mention there are some fan-
tastic one liners.
Oliver Calderbank
Zombies of Mass
Destruction
...our disgruntled
protagonist, a corridor
of nude hippies; and a
torrent of lesbian lust...
“
“
“
same.
same
Jonathan Messin
Mes
...our disgr
...our disgr
protagonist
protagonis
y
y
only c
only c
proba
proba
is the
is the
bush o
ush
Chr
C
orridor
orridor
and a
and a
n lust...
ust
When nerds get vegetables and knives: The Death Star blowing up Alderaan. Awesome

