31
felix FRIDAY 29 FEBRUARY 2010
FILM
Erin Brockovich, eat your heart out. We
have another tough-as-nails, hard-work-
ing single mum who is going to court to
fight an unfair, losing war. This time, it’s
Betty Anne Waters (Hilary Swank), who
is determined to put herself through both
college and law school to argue for, and
hopefully free, her wrongly-convicted
brother Kenny (Sam Rockwell). This
is sibling love at its most powerful. Ms.
Brockovich was up against a massive,
evil corporation with Ms. Waters on the
other hand facing the government and
its judicial system. Take your pick on
which is more challenging.
Kenny is not a nice guy. He is hot-tem-
pered, foul-mouthed and rude, which is
why it’s hard to suspect something shady
when he is pinned for murder and armed
robbery. All the evidence is against him,
and with no plausible alibi, he is sent
straight to jail. Rockwell plays this char-
acter to perfect precision. He may be
violent when under the influence of alco-
hol, but he can also be a genuinely nice
guy as quite clearly shown in the touch-
ing scenes he shares with BettyAnne and
Rockwell’s beautifully nuanced perfor-
mance is undeniably excellent.
Swank seems to have a knack for
playing real-life characters and there is a
does have some help from a fellow
classmate, “the other old lady”, as Abra
(Minnie Driver) so charmingly puts it.
It’s unclear why Abra is so willing to
help – she is even willing to get up at
five in the morning for our heroine – but
Driver provides some excellent, comic
relief that we don’t mind whenever she
tags along by Betty Anne’s side, sup-
porting her like all loyal gal-pals should.
Not much is told about Abra, apart from
the fact that she has a heart of gold and a
cracking sense of humour.
Many crucial details are rushed past
for the sake of pushing on with the core
plot. Betty Anne’s supposed struggle
at law school is only very briefly ad-
dressed with everything becoming so
much clearer to our heroine in a sud-
den jump of several years in time. It
reportedly took the real-life Betty Anne
18 years to crack the system. The fact
that it only takes Swank two hours is
inevitable, but because the film moves
so frantically, both backwards and for-
wards, some of its focus is lost. Director
Tony Goldwyn tends to use flashbacks
whenever he is trying to make more of
an emotional/dramatic impact on the
screen. The problem is, he uses one
While Roberts eats, prays and loves,
Swank outclasses with Conviction
too many of those, and places them in
awkward moments. Yes, we understand
the fact that Kenny and Betty Anne de-
pended on one another ever since they
were young. The child actors (Tobias
Kendall and Bailee Madison) portray
this to impressive standards, but do we
really need several individual episodes
that mirror the various circumstances of
the adult siblings?
“Conviction” is your typical, conven-
tionally-told autobiography that could
have worked just as well as a TV movie.
But how does it manage to be so memo-
rable? And how does this cheesy story
pack in such a strong emotional punch?
The flawless performances. Aside from
Swank, Rockwell and Driver, the two
actresses who have very brief moments
to shine make the most out of their key
roles. Juliette Lewis, playing a low-life,
white trash with the scariest set of teeth
is an unforgettable scene-stealer. Melis-
sa Leo’s character, the vengeful cop who
has it out for Kenny, remains shockingly
one-dimensional throughout, but Leo
manages to bring a touch of humanity
out of the otherwise unrealistically soul-
less character.
Not as courtroom heavy as “Erin
Brockovich” but with as much emo-
tion and a set of actors who have been
perfectly cast, “Conviction” feels ma-
nipulative at times, but as the film cre-
scendos to the grand finale, you can’t
help but being swept up by the sustained
drama, no matter how predictable.
reason why she keeps getting these dif-
ficult parts: her dramatic performance
truly draws the audience in. Looking
more seasoned and modest than Julia
Roberts ever did in Brockovich, Swank,
at the heart of the story, instantly wins
the audience over to her side, and her
magnetic performance makes us cry
whenever she does.
Despite the growing tension in her
marriage and the difficulty she faces
whilst balancing law books, a part-time
job and raising her two children, it’s her
determination that gets her through. In
this seemingly impossible war, Waters
17 hours after Inception ended, the sit-in protest at the lack of closure at the ending was still going strong
Director Tony Goldwyn
Screenwriter Pamyler Gray
Cast Hilary Swank, Sam Rockwell,
Minnie Driver
John Park
Despite attempting to cite Tony Stark as precedent, Rockwell was still sent down for criminal facial hair
ICU Cinema’s glory
Matt Allinson
As reported in the last issue of Felix,
ICU Cinema re-launched this week with
a showing of Inception. The event was
a runaway success, completely selling
out within 10 minutes. A combination of
brilliant choice of film, perfect timing at
the quiet end of the beginning of term
and incredibly friendly pricing – £3 a
ticket – taken altogether resulted in the
perfect first night for the reborn Cinema
Society.
So much so that they have decided
to re-show Inception next week after
the scheduled showing of Toy Story 3:
Tuesday 2nd of November at 6.30pm,
resulting in perhaps the most endearing-
ly bonkers double–billing this film edi-
tor has ever seen. A staggering amount
of work from very committed people
went in to getting the Cinema back on
its feet, and those of us down here in
the Felix basement who love our films
on the silver screen for cheap wish them
every success in the future. Bring on
next Tuesday.
For more information about Tues-
day’s Toy Story 3/Inception double-
bill, email cinema@imperial.ac.uk
Do You Like Films?
Whether you do or not, or if you
just find your eyes drawn to box-
es on pages, then you should
write film reviews for Felix. The
whole box thing is actually a
test. People who make good re-
viewers are 80% more likely to
find their eyes drawn to boxes.
So do it. Email us.
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

