Another issue of paramount importance, what
weapon you use very much depends on the
type of zombie about. Fast and ferocious? Bul-
lets are your safest bet. Slow and shambling?
Melee might be a wiser choice. If you’re going
down the gun route, for God’s sake make sure
you know how to use them. If you pick me-
lee, get something that’s actually going to last a
good few whacks, like a cricket bat or a frying
pan. Maybe Chuck could back me up here?
2. Get the right tools
“Try and get your creative juices flowing and
think outside of the weapon locker. A fire axe is
a good weapon, but then so is a sledgehammer.
Try taping them together and bam! Axe-ham-
mer! Pugilists might want to try out oversized/
flaming boxing gloves to get the adrenaline
pumping, or, for the more mechanically mind-
ed, jam three power drills into a rusty bucket
for a novel way to liquidize zombie heads.”
CHUCK GREENE’S WEAPONRY WISDOM:
GAMES
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Felix’s guide to surviving
the zombie apocalypse
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Laurence Pope
32
So we all know the zombie apocalypse is com-
ing at some point, most likely arising from
some combination of a genetically modified
virus, a dodgy business venture and a mad Im-
perial graduate. When it does strike, what on
Earth do you do? No idea? Well, after days
of careful thought I’ve come up with a list of
five important things you need to take into
consideration when you’re battling though the
infected hordes, with additional notes supplied
by my celebrity guest Chuck Greene, star and
survivor of Dead Rising 2 and true zombie kill-
ing expert.
Moving about in a zombie infected world is
perilous on foot, yet most roads will be locked
up with abandoned cars and trucks. If travelling
alone, a motorcycle or dirt bike may be your
best bet. If in a group, finding a heavy truck to
plough through the vehicular blockade would
be a shrewd decision. Don’t forget to scavenge
for petrol and diesel as both will become very
sought after resources. Let’s get Chuck’s word
on this:
4. Start your engines
“When fighting off the zombies in malls or
close quarters, gasoline based transport is im-
practical. Two wheeled bicycles are too unsta-
ble, so my preferred method of transport is the
tricycle. My favourite one was a pink kiddie’s
bike – others laughed, but they weren’t the ones
smugly pedalling their way to safety.”
CHUCK GREENE’S TRANSPORT TIP:
A vitally important issue, trust me on this one;
what you wear determines how long you’ll last
outside in the cold, cruel world of the undead.
Body armour is probably a sensible bet, as is
any form of protective headgear. A belt or two
to hook weaponry onto wouldn’t go amiss ei-
ther, but let’s see what Chuck has to say on this
point.
5. Dress to impress
“Comfort is extremely important when trying
to survive. Since there are very few people
around to judge you, feel free to wear what-
ever the hell you want. My personal prefer-
ence is split between pink floral dresses and
superhero green spandex, both of which can
be looted from any abandoned clothing or
fancy dress store.”
CHUCK GREENE’S ATTIRE ADVICE:
Food and water will be in limited supply when
the world goes to hell. Looters will have pil-
laged many food stores, so scavenge what you
can, when you can. If possible, grab multi-
vitamins from any chemist you find – a lot of
the time you’ll end up eating tinned food and
you’ll need every nutritional advantage you can
get. Mr. Greene, your thoughts?
3. An apple a day...
“Snack food and booze, snack food and booze...
it’s like being a student again! Snack machines
are common as muck, and booze is free to en-
joy in any abandoned bar. Just try not to drink
too much... ‘scuse me... *blughhh...*”
CHUCK GREENE’S NUTRITIONAL NUGGET:
So someone’s infected, and you both know it.
Maybe it’s you – maybe you were careless and
got scratched or bitten. Maybe you can feel that
growing headache or that sick feeling in your
stomach. Either way, you know it’s the end of
the line for someone. There’s no shame in put-
ting someone out of their misery, and if you’re
the unfortunate one... well, I’d always advise
you keep one bullet with you at all times. May-
be Chuck can spread his words of wisdom on
this very dark subject...
1. Keep taking the pills
“I recommend ZombrexTM
, the revolutionary
over-the-counter drug available at all good
pharmacies. Bitten? Scratched? Knowing the
end is near? Never fear, ZombrexTM
will fore-
stall your zombification in handy, easy to use
epipen-delivered doses. It truly is the ‘gift of
life’. See your local pharmacy for more infor-
mation... sponsorship? What gives you that im-
pression?”
CHUCK GREENE’S INFECTION INFO:
Next week in the Games section...
We’ve got an exclusive review of WWE Smackdown Vs. RAW 2011, another
fresh selection of web games and... your article!
Here at Felix, we need your input! E-mail games.felix@ic.ac.uk with your articles, feedback or suggestions!
Gretel and Hansel Part 2
newgrounds.com/portal/view/550407
This role-playing point-and-click adventure game is
really not the sort of thing you should be playing on
Halloween night. Don’t let the beautiful hand-drawn
beige graphics lull you into a false sense of security,
this one is a genuine chiller of the blood. After a
fairly normal start (despite a rather odd introduction)
the game quickly turns up the weird level to a truly
shocking magnitude. Five minutes is all that’s need-
ed to freak out even the most hardcore of players.
That’s not to say the odd content is all that’s on of-
fer here, as the game is technically perfect and a joy
to wander around in. The walking around sections
mix flawlessly with the point-and-click puzzles, and
thought and speech balloons provide a very intui-
tive way to control Gretel. There’s also a substantial
amount of things to do and secrets to find and it
should keep you playing for a very long time indeed.
Haunt the House
tinyurl.com/hauntthehouse
A twist on the classic ‘haunted house’ idea, in this
game you play a disgruntled ghost trying to scare
a boatload of party-goers out of his once peaceful
mansion. There are lots of objects for you to inhabit
all with unique actions which you can use to terrorise
the guests, and more can be unlocked later. A cute
style and spot-on physics add up to great visuals.

