“
FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 33
GAMES
it’s written. The writers understand that some-
times morality is not just black or white, that
there is ambiguity and that it can be subjective
which I feel is a great addition to role playing
games. You are forced to make awful decisions
for a greater good or to decide the better of two
horrific options. The central conflict between
the New California Republic (NCR) and Cae-
sar’s Legion sometimes hides this morality,
and although it may seem like a simple fight
between lawmakers and barbarians, it is impos-
sible to say that either is a force for good and in
the entirety of the game you quite easily see the
worst of both factions.
Black humour is very prevalent in New Ve-
gas. On one corner of the map NCR Rangers
are slowly changing into Ghouls due to over-
exposure to radiation without noticing. The ab-
solute preposterousness of the situation forces
you to laugh despite the darker undertone run-
ning beneath it. The game leaves the depression
of the apocalypse to express itself via the ruins
and the landscape, which the writers play to
their advantage to bring a more realistic feeling
from the characters. They don’t portray their
“Futuristic laser guns
along with old themed
clothes and music give
the game a very surreal
atmosphere.”
F
allout: New Vegas brings us back to
post-apocalyptic America to travel
the vast wastelands once again. The
story begins with you awaking in a
room to discover you’ve just gone
through surgery after being found shot and left
for dead.
You immediately are given the option to de-
sign your character. The options here are very
limited – you are forced to start from a small
number of presets with little room for change.
Trying to create a character resembling you is
nigh on impossible or at the very least extreme-
ly time consuming. Next you choose what style
of character you wish to be by varying your
stats, skills and perks. There is an extensive ar-
ray of choices for what style you want to use: a
confident speaker, an agile thief, a technologi-
cal expert or a raging semi-automatic wielding
gunman. The possibilities really are endless
and I feel this is an integral part of the game.
This whole chapter of the game is essential.
It very quickly closes off doors you may wish
to follow in the future – you can’t be a heavy-
gunner shooting down every enemy in sight
whilst charismatically charming your way into
massive discounts at stores. The vast amount of
choices you have makes New Vegas feel unap-
proachable. You must play to your characters
strengths and it’s impossible to fulfil every role
in one playing of the game. This can, of course,
be considered a positive as you can return to the
game hundreds of times, each playthrough end-
ing up with a completely different character.
Gameplay will easily be recognised by ex-
perienced Fallout players yet is also easy to
pick up for newcomers. The tutorial teaches
you all the basics and is very easy to follow,
and thankfully it’s possible to skip if you’re
a veteran Fallout player. While you can carry
straight on to the main story, the game allows
you to explore for yourself and find the quests
that interest you. I personally love the fact that
I can wander through the wasteland exploring
new areas without feeling pressured to stick to
the main plot, which can often be a problem in
modern games.
It is easy to see that the game shows many
similarities to the earlier Fallout 3, for example:
the combat, with the same VATS (Vault-TecAs-
sisted Targeting System) allowing you to target
limbs or gun arms to cripple the enemy’s ability
to fight back. The aesthetic follows the same
idea of crumbling buildings and vast amounts
of dusty wasteland with the occasional shrubs
and ruins giving a glance into a happier past.
The PIP-Boy still organises all your weapons,
armour, quests and allows you to see the map.
The theme remains in a 50s style with many
old songs which give an eerie atmosphere to
the game as you wander the far-reaching waste-
land. The bizarre mixture of futuristic laser
guns along with old themed clothes and music
gives the game a very surreal atmosphere.
New Vegas is, however, a very different game
from it’s predecessor and that’s due to how well
New Vegas comes up trumps
Fresh out of his Vault, Sean Harbinson is bowled over by Fallout: New Vegas
depression through their words but through
their actions. This gives room for much darker
characters to develop.
The greatest part of Fallout: New Vegas, as
with Fallout 3, is that you are never forced to
follow the main story line. It is possible to play
the game for hours whilst completing only side
quests. The immeasurable wastelands give you
400 locations to visit with 163 individual quests
to complete. The Mojave Wasteland, where the
game takes place, is incredibly realistic and
not only through the impressive graphics. It’s
a continuous mystery with so many unexpected
turns. Unprompted by the main storyline you
may stumble across a terrible event that it
would have been easy to miss. Merely a side
story in the game, and yet so striking. Simply
by exploring the ruins of Nevada you might find
the most interesting part of the game despite it
not being part of the main quests. The pure at-
tention to detail of the smallest characters and
the areas to explore keeps the player interested
throughout. The clever dialogue returns along
with great writing and quest design. Characters
are desperate, deceitful, suave, crude, or a mix-
ture of all these features. This produces a more
in depth story and a much more relatable game.
The voice acting has also improved allowing
you to connect to the game’s hundreds of inter-
locking stories.
The new hardcore mode forces you to be-
come a true wastelander. You must follow a
normal sleep pattern, keep hydrated and fight
off hunger. You will end up collapsing onto
whatever roadside mattress you can find, lap-
ping dirty water from toilet bowls and going
through every bin and abandoned building to
find scraps of food just to survive. Skills which
you would normally ignore, such as Unarmed
and Survival, end up being a necessity. It’s not
like a ‘Hard mode’ which ends up giving your
enemies vast amounts of ammo and infinite hit
points – it changes the way you play the game.
Ammunition has weight giving you more rea-
son to explore the improved variety of melee
weapons. Stimpaks (the health packs) heal over
time rather than immediately and crippled limbs
can only be healed by doctors. Instead of focus-
ing on your next quest you are forced to hunt
for water, food, a bed, or a ‘doctor bag’ to fix
your wounded appendages. This is a great new
idea for the game and I thoroughly enjoyed it as
it forces you to think outside the box in order to
complete even the most basic of quests.
The combination of realistic graphics, great
storyline, in-depth characters and massive va-
riety of choices make Fallout: New Vegas an
impressive game. It would easily be possible
to play hundreds of times over without get-
ting bored, especially with the new hardcore
mode. Despite the similarities to Fallout 3 the
game reinvents itself with the style of writing
and clever quests. If you enjoyed Fallout 3 then
Fallout: New Vegas is definitely a game for
you. Anyone who hasn’t played Fallout before,
I suggest that you start now!
This guy’s meant to be dressed up as Darth Vader for Halloween. Oi mate, you’re doing it wrong!

