FOOD
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lunch at The Rembrandt
Dana Li
Your review
Alvin says:
If you tire of jostling for a space to eat in the mosh-
pit that is the JCR, or find the cuisine of the SCR
a tad too monotonous, then you could do worse
than to make a visit to Bugis Street. Less than 15
minutes walk away and conveniently located for a
college lunch, Bugis offers a good value set price
lunch menu with decent sized portions, and whilst
not completely authentic, it’s close enough that you
won’t be too bothered. The Hainanese Chicken rice
is especially delectable.
4 plum tomatoes
12 tiger or king prawns
50 grams unsalted butter, softened
1/2 teaspoon dried chilli flakes
50 grams Kalamata olives, stoned
20mL mirin
3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 tablespoon chopped basil
salt
Prepare the tomatoes by first cutting a small cross
at the bottom and put them in boiling water for 30
seconds. Remove, and run under cold water. Unpeel
the skin and cut into 4-6 wedges. Set aside.
To prepare the prawns, peel the shells but keep the
tail segment of the shell on. Cut a shallow slit along
the back of each prawn and remove the dark vein.
Place a frying pan over high heat. When very hot,
add 20 grams of butter and sauté the prawns quick-
ly for about 2 minutes, shaking the pan as you go.
Add the tomatoes, chilli and olives and cook for
another 2-3 minutes, until the prawns are nearly
cooked. Add the mirin and simmer for a minute be-
fore adding the remaining butter, garlic and basil.
Toss for a second for everything to come together in
a runny sauce then serve immediately with bread.
Buttered prawns with
tomato and olives
Share your favourite restaurant or cafe in 80-100
words with us, send it to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This prawn doesn’t cost £18.90
The mere mention that I am having lunch at
The Rembrandt in Knightsbridge brings gasps
of excitement and jeers of disbelief. It’s not ev-
eryday that you dine in the Knightsbridge area,
so I made every chance to boast about it!
Home to Harrods and resident restaurants
such as Zuma, Petrus and Ottolenghi, it is not
uncommon for students to have the ‘Look,
Don’t Touch’ view on eating in Knightsbridge,
apart from say, Wagamama and Yo! Sushi
along Brompton Road. Well, fear not, The
Rembrandt answers to the problem of having
a decent lunch without jeopardizing the meagre
student bank balance.
Located on the doorstep of the Victoria and
Albert Museum, the hotel prides itself on its
Edwardian style architecture and furnishings,
in particular the 1606 lounge in which guests,
like me, are able to have their G&T before be-
ing served in The Palette Restaurant. Of course,
there’s plenty more than just gin and tonic on
the menu.
Lunch here is a relaxed affair and can be
served as a three-course carvery, in which
guests first help themselves to an overflowing
counter of platters that include salmon terrine
and various cured meats as well as countless
vegetarian options with grilled aubergines tak-
ing my fancy, and other vegetable salads. There
are usually two meats available for the carvery
on the day, with tender roast beef and a very
brilliant pink gammon steak on the day that I
visited. The best thing is that what you choose
to put on the side of your mains is entirely up to
you, portion-wise and selection-wise: and with
that thought in mind I loaded three Yorkshire
puddings, slithers of grilled salmon, spinach in
the most brilliant form unlike the normal boiled
Let’s talk about coffee - what else?
greens I frequently find myself eating… and a
dozen more sides I could bore you to death with
the mundane details of. As for the best course
of the meal, that is, if you aren’t bursting at the
seams from the two previous ones, is a choice
of dessert cakes and other miniature fancies.
On quieter days, lunch is the more conven-
tional 3 course set menu, with an impressive
array of choices that changes with seasonal
produce. Lunch and dinner is priced at £24.95
including service charge, a steal when you
could think about Zuma along the road charg-
ing £18.90 for one prawn. I exaggerate not.
The Rembrandt also serves as a brilliant choice
for evening functions with its location being just
five minutes walk from the South Kensington
campus and tube station as well as its superb
dining facilities. Whether it is simply a drinks
reception, Christmas dinner for the residence
halls, or an annual sports club function – The
Rembrandt has an answer to any Imperial Col-
lege student’s needs with a special evening func-
tion package, prices from £30.00 per person.
The Rembrandt, 11 Thurloe Place, Knights-
bridge SW7 2RS. 020 7589 8100
Highly unreflective of The Palette Restaurant, it isn’t normally empty...
This Knightsbridge hotel doesn’t do snooty or pretentious
Charles Betts snubs George Clooney’s Nespresso for coffee at the EEE café
Dark, very intense, balanced, unique, mysteri-
ous, delicate and smooth with a strong charac-
ter, body and deep sensual aftertaste. Or at least
that’s how the ladies in the Nescafé Nespresso
adverts put it (much to the disdain of George
Clooney). Indeed, not much compares with the
pleasures of an early morning espresso.
Sadly, Taste Imperial generally miss the mark
when it comes to coffee. A good espresso re-
quires employees who are experienced in han-
dling a traditional espresso machine and a ce-
ramic cup. Cardboard, whilst great for people
on the go, will taint and destroy a coffee. Yet
the Mechanical Engineering café doesn’t seem
to know what a ceramic cup is and the chaps
in the SCR hate serving coffee in one, sighing
heavily if you ask for a proper cup. It’s as if you
had personally asked them to go to John Lewis,
buy a cup, bring it back, wash it, and serve your
drink. And the Business School always makes
the coffee too strong.
Surprisingly, then, there is a place on the South
Kensington campus where you can find a decent
cup of coffee. Laura, Barbara, Paulo and Driss
of the Electrical Engineering café are all well
versed in the subtle art of handling an espresso
machine, and manage to consistently make a cup
of java that’s not too strong or weak and with
just the right level of bitterness. You get a perfect
coffee everytime, served in a posh cup by enthu-
siastic and cheery staff that take pride in serving
good quality beverages to its customers.
Hopefully Taste Imperial learns from this
brilliant microcosm of coffee loveliness, and
improve the other cafés around campus. “What
else?” as Mr Clooney would say.
“Not much compares
with the pleasures of an
early morning espresso”
The awesome staff at the EEE café

