FOOD
FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 35
So, I was recently asked about the best perk
of working behind the new bar at the Union.
Now, before you say, it’s not the verbal abuse
from the pretty much universally hated miners
and no, it’s not the funky shirts. It’s without a
doubt, the free food.
Mid-shift there is absolutely nothing you want
more, than to get your Jäeger stained hands on
a juicy impala burger with some curly fries. I’m
not just an isolated case either. Ever since the
new bar, kitchen and menu have arrived I’ve
heard ethereal whispers of ‘guest burgers’, ‘did
he say bison?!’ ‘What even is an Impala!?’ all
around campus. Either that or it’s in my head…
Halloween is on Sunday this year… so no ex-
cuse not to dress up and embrace the festival of
the dead then! Though the United States has sig-
nificantly influenced how Halloween is celebrat-
ed around the world, London is leading the pack
in showing that we Brits can do it just as well.
Forget the spider web cookies in Sainsbury’s
and the skull-shaped marshmallows at M&S.
The ‘Eat Your Heart Out & The PRETOX Po-
tion’ cake shop in the ‘dungeon’ of Maiden
(classy card shop located on Shoreditch High
Street) has fun with porn and gore inspired
cakes and miniature fancies. The patisserie is
given an 18+ rating, need I say more? Well, yes
I do, because I just can’t rave about it enough.
Forget the kids. ‘Eat Your Heart Out’ slams ev-
ery dainty looking cupcake in the face with its
eccentric concept. Road kill cake decorations
by David A. Smith; pornographic images by
George Morton-Clark brought to life on cup-
cakes and a heart cake by Lily Vanilli that, if
you’re not a medic, might make you heave
if you saw someone tucking into it in public.
That’s not it: there is also a Russian Roulette…
with cookies. Harmless, you say? All fine and
dandy until you chance upon the cat food-fla-
voured cookie. And the Hangover cake that is
the project of bakers, artists and potion makers
to induce a student’s worst morning-after feel-
ing. The only quick-fix remedy is the PRETOX
Potion that features in the name of the cake
shop, unless it is your desire to nurse a cake-
induced hangover.
So if the idea of food looking pretty and
dainty really grates you the wrong way, and the
Saw movies are what you’d sit down to on a
Sunday afternoon, check out ‘Eat Your Heart
Out’. Open from 11am on Friday and selling
666 items everyday until Sunday 31st.
Maiden, 188 Shoreditch High St, London
E1 6HU. Nearest tube station: Shoreditch
High Street.
An Argentine legend in South Ken
If you’re not salivating at this, the Churrasco steak, there is definitely something wrong with you
I’m talking about the no-non-
sense, unadulterated steak - and
the Argentines are the experts
Situated underground, just a stone’s throw from
the station, lies South Kensington’s best kept
culinary secret. Those with a proclivity for ex-
cellent steak can often be observed venturing
down the narrow steps into the basement area.
Those curious enough to discover its visceral
delights will follow. And those who are veg-
etarians, well… look away now.
This is not your standard clinical bistro seen
on the main streets of pseudo-upscale areas.
Instead, El Gaucho is an intimate restaurant
that radiates warmth and character – from the
friendly attentiveness of the service, to the cosy
décor. But I was here for their steak. I’m not
referring to the sort offered by the typical Ab-
erdeen Angus Steakhouse chain littered around
most tourist hotspots. Nor am I alluding to the
wholly unsatisfying, thin-cut variety served
slathered avec une sauce-we-cannot-pronounce.
I’m talking about the no-nonsense, unadulter-
ated steak - and the Argentines are the experts.
So, does the product live up to its reputation?
Absolutely.
El Gaucho’s selling point is flavour backed
by authenticity. On tasting a selection of their
most popular cuts, neither was compromised.
Rib-eye, Sirloin, Rump and Fillet are all on
the menu, and the staff are more than happy
to explain the differences between them with
regard to flavour, fat and texture to those of us
who are not yet aficionados on such epicurean
subtleties.
Bife Angosto A Caballo (£16.90), twelve
ounces of prime Argentine sirloin, arrives on a
sizzling hot-plate, served the authentic way –
topped with two fried eggs. Without even cut-
ting into it, you know this steak is going to be
plump and juicy. Smoky, charred and slightly
caramelised all around, with a good amount
of give when the all-important fingertip test
was carried out. The taste did not disappoint
– perfectly seasoned on the outside, allowing
the natural flavour of the succulent pink meat
to follow through. This is a steak that speaks
for itself. No need for sauces, no elaborate gar-
nishes, just a cut of Argentina’s finest export,
served in the traditional manner.
The waitress,Anna-Maria, tells me their meat
is imported weekly from Argentina, from cows
reared on open ranges, fed on rich green pas-
tures. In short, bovine mecca. As we emerged
discreetly from the basement of this hidden
establishment, satiated from our meaty fix, we
smugly yet seamlessly blended back into the
throng of the crowd. Happy cows. Tasty meat.
Happy customers. Simple – the best pleasures
in life usually are.
El Gaucho, 30b Old Brompton Road, SW7
3DL. 020 7584 8999 Nearest tube station:
South Kensington.
Elizabeth Mann reviews the world renowned Argentine steak at El Gaucho
Union food worthy of a Michelin star?
A far-fetched idea but new
Union menu is a hit
by George McIntyre
Halloween
happenings
Hannibal would find this delectable...
Eat Your Heart Out & the PRETOX Potion
Bompas and Parr Chewing Gum Factory
Renowned for their glow in the dark jelly and
a bowl of punch large enough for customers
to row across, Bompas and Parr brings their
chewing gum factory to Whiteleys in Bayswa-
ter, where customers are treated to one-on-one
sessions creating their own artisanal chewing
gum. Let your imagination run wild with what
flavours you’d like. Just head to the atrium, and
look for a golden ticket. Free admission end-
ing 31st Oct. Opening hours 10am-6pm.
which, on second thoughts, it probably is.
Being a newbie to IC means I didn’t have the
privilege of enjoying the old menu, but I’ve
done my extensive research (asking the boss) to
find out what’s new and most improved.
Most of the snacks are new to the menu like
the samosas and haddock and spring onion fish-
cakes and you can even get yourself some was-
abi tempura vegetables, all these bringing a bit
of much needed diversity to the menu. Nachos
return as an old favourite, now with a combina-
tion of three dips and they even comes in shar-
ing size! Nice. For the healthier of you, there are
two new salads to choose from. A simple ‘bis-
tro’ salad or a pretty decent Caprese. However,
if you’re normal, like the rest of us, you’re go-
ing to be focusing on the right-hand side of the
menus looking at pizzas and burgers. The new
Texana pizza has been an instant best seller as
well as the classic Napolina, both of which are
just £5.50 for 12”. However, winning the award
for best newcomer has to be the FiveSixEight
burger. Having not actually had one myself, I’m
basing this on the fact the entire stock was eaten
in two days. As they’re made out of bison, the
environment side of me is slightly worried at
this. To top it all off they also do desserts now
too! A lemon tart, chocolate fondant and pecan
and maple cheesecake. Come on, you must be a
little tempted?
Anyway, I just want people to know, there’s
a new menu and it’s fairly cheap. It’s not Mi-
chelin starred dining and yes the menu is made
from greaseproof paper, but who cares? It does
the job. The menu is well-priced so even if you
just fancy a few (12) onion rings with some
sweet chilli dip, you can get them for just £1.50.
So, if you can’t be bothered to cook (or mi-
crowave) get down to the Union have a cheap
yet ultimately satisfying meal and possibly (as
I heard one guy, who I won’t name, call it the
other day) a “cheeky snakey B” too. Ouch.

