TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
36
TravelEditor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
It scared me shitless
Who: ‘y Travel Blog’ is the brainchild of Caroline
‘Caz’ and Craig Makepeace, seasoned travellers
from Australia who brought their passion to their
marriage.
About: Combining their eight-year travel experiences
and memories into their mission to inspire people to
travel, Caz and Craig aim to eponymously justify your
appetite for travel and encourage you to enrich your
life through travelling.
Why: Extremely knowledgable in this field, these
life-enthusiasts are two of the most outpoken travel
bloggers within the community. Their travel advice
is fantastic – ignore at your own risk. Their sense of
community is reflected by their ‘Favourite travel blog
posts of the week’ – a fantastic starting point for
anyone getting into travel blogging literature. Craig
and Caz regularly interact with their readers on so-
cial media platforms like Twitter and Facebook.
Recommended: Tips for staying in backpackers
hostels; 5 best Mother Earth natural wonders of
the world; Land of exoticness; Favourite travel blog
posts for the week of.
Link: http://www.ytravelblog.com
Twitter: @ytravelblog
Travel Blog of the Week
Fijian hairstyles by Dylan Lowe
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Needing inspiration for a weekend getaway? Or
some travelling planned ahead of the next break?
Join the discussion #FelixTravel on twitter for ideas.
A
couple of things you can never
forget about a bungy jump: the
expression of your co-conspira-
tors’ faces, and the fateful count-
down that mount to your eventual
plunge.
Conspirators because you and your fellow
jumpers are cheating on death, defying gravity
and your natural instincts.
As for the countdown, there is nothing more
mesmerising than the trickles of adrenaline
dripped into your ears, the urge represented by
mere numbers, the suspense that spans for as
long as Johnny Cash’s 25 Minutes to Go when,
in fact, the deal is sealed within seconds.
Bungy jumping doesn’t just represent one
of the highlights of my excursions – it simply
epitomises my appetite for travel. Likewise
with skydiving, hitchhiking, sandboarding,
anything involving overdoses of adrenaline –
thrill-seeking essentially provides me with the
motivation to un-hang my rucksack and trot.
Which isn’t that dissimilar to other travellers
out there.
The evidence lies with the positive feedback
the ‘fear’ tourism industry has been enjoying
for the past decade: with ever-increasing num-
“The ‘danger biz’ works because it allows people to
push their limits and conquer their worst fears”
How far will the tourism industry go to empty our bowels
and our coffers asks Dylan Lowe
minutive, yet distinguishable.
Yet, we still jump for things for that extra
kick of excitement.
The ‘danger biz’ works and receives popu-
lar acclaim because it allows people to stretch
their limits – limits often imposed upon them
in normal-day lives of which travelling is a
op as, unlike the horror-movie industry, sparks
of imagination and innovation are in no short
supplies. Nor are would-be entrepreneurs. Are
we descending from the status of holidaying
adrenaline-junkies to that of voluntary lem-
mings? I certainly hope not.
What is certain is that our society wouldn’t
beg to have all the action rebuked and con-
demned like a Class-A drug. The element of
thrill-seeking is too firmly incorporated into
our nature as humans – it’ll continue to urge
us to discover new ways to test our capacity
for danger.
In the meantime I’ll stick to what is already
available – mind you, the ‘already-availabili-
ties’ still translates as an endless list of oppor-
tunities, enough to shower me with adrenaline
for a lifetime.
bers of adrenaline-junkies looming from the
horizon the market is expanding at an unprec-
edented rate, giving rise to popular adventure
destinations like New Zealand and Namibia as
well as new inventive ways to entertain oneself
while on the very brink of death.
And, whilst I may bemoan about how squea-
mish the modern-day tourist has become, given
the right circumstances and safety procedures
the holiday-makers and vagabonds can display
some admirable boldness.
But then, the whole point of danger-lusting is
that it’s not entirely safe – one may even take
risks for granted.
Urban legend has it that, while the jet boat
he was on was speeding through a crevice, a
Japanese tourist disregarded instructions to re-
main seated and – rather predictably – stood
up to take a shot at photographic perfection.
Horror ensued when the remaining passengers
were splattered with crimson and found a de-
capitated body in their midst.
Another equally as far-fetched, yet frighten-
ingly practical, story depicts a female bungy-
jumper slipping out of her harness mid-freefall
and tumbled, concluding her near-death expe-
rience with a few excruciating breakages.
And I’ve recently been told that doctors have
a way of identifying bungy jumpers by look-
ing at an X-ray of their spine – the recoil could
leave behind a signature dislocation that is di-
liberation – in the somewhat-full-but-not-quite
knowledge that their wellbeing is safeguarded
by regulations and constraints. And much to
the delight of post-activity ‘phobes’, they find
themselves having conquered their worst fears.
Despite the sequential warnings the Jaws
series has beseeched its audience, despite the
number of swimmers and surfers recovered
from beaches mauled and dismembered, shark
cage diving remains a hit because of the metal
bars which separated spectator and beast – by
all means still an alarmingly close encounter
with the infamous big-whites.
Though how far will our affinity for ‘fear fac-
tor’ stretch? Once our gutsy selves exhausted
the Edinburghian ghost tours and charging
downhill encased in inflatable orbs, what will
we come up with?
A J Hackett, man who commercialised bungy
jumping and daredevil-ism, is now rumoured
to be expanding his business interest to include
BASE jumping, a highly-technical and hazard-
ous thrill-seek, which regularly sees even the
most-experienced veterans end up on the list of
fatalities. To virtual novices, this is practically
suicide.
And with characters like Dean Potter con-
tinuing to put their lives at risk to achieve nail-
biting yet awesome feats, little wonder that the
general public would seek to mimic them.
I cannot predict how the industry will devel-
Yup, this is what you think it is – bungy jumping from a helicopter
Dean Potter highlining in Yosemite

