TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 37
Aggressive off-road biking, token temple exploration and a cheeky mud spa –
cruising along Vietnam’s South Central Coast. By Chris Richardson
Drifting Through South Central ’Nam
I
was already well–acquainted
with Vietnam’s somewhat in-
convenient electricity shortages
and Facebook firewall (hey, who
needs an international social net-
working site when you’ve got access
to ‘go.vn’, where the Communist Party
are more than happy to be your ‘friend’)
by the time I arrived in Nha Trang, a
quaint little town in the South Central
Coast. Unfortunately this place is often
twinned with Koh Phangan, Thailand’s
infamous full moon party island, when
in actual fact it has a lot of hidden plea-
sures beyond the cheap beer and easy
girls (and/or guys).
Night buses and trains are the way
forward: not only do they save you
money that you’d otherwise fork out
on accommodation (negligible as that
amount may be), but they also allow you
to maximise your exposure to sunlight
in these exotic places. I relied on them
hand and began to set the agenda. Af-
ter soaking up some rays we hopped
on some bikes and headed for the mud
spa. The mud spa was the beginning of
the end of my camera but did my skin
wonders: obviously its claims of heal-
ing powers weren’t at all mythical. It
was quite the hotspot for Asian tourists
who all wanted photos taken with me for
some reason, which kind of killed the
mellow atmosphere, but whatever. We
smothered ourselves in tepid, creamy
mud before showering and heading to
some good old temples.
By this point I wasn’t ‘all templed out’
and the novelty of all things old was still
glistening. The Po Nagar Cham Towers,
built by the Cham civilization sometime
between the 7th and 12th century, were
quite spectacular. I guess it’s a little like
Angkor Wat but much more condensed
and placed on a hill. The intriguing ar-
chitecture, lively dancing from perform-
ers and agreeable aromas from incense
sticks made the climb well worth it. I
don’t know why but I still find it a little
weird when Buddhist monks ride around
on choppers and whip out their digital
cameras to take some cheeky snaps – it
just doesn’t fit the image at all. Anyway,
the hill offered a superb view of the
town below.
If you haven’t tried Vietnamese
cuisine I’d highly recommend it, par-
ticularly the obvious choice of ‘pho’,
’nam’s national dish. Like most of the
dishes in this part of the world, such
simple ingredients somehow manage
to conjure up amazing flavours that get
you craving for more. It was also here
that I developed my undying passion
for Vietnamese coffee, best mixed with
a drizzle of condensed milk and poured
over ice. But the real gem is Bia Hoi,
a pitcher of mighty fine beer that’ll set
you back a whopping 50p and get you
absolutely tinselled. We indulged in all
of the above and checked out the alleg-
edly booming nightlife. Unfortunately
the punters were mostly disillusioned
Aussie diving instructors and their
newly-found Vietnamese wives: isn’t
true love magical?
The next day was a little more cul-
tured as we got well off the beaten track
cheery I’ve come across to date. It’s a
shame that a lot of travellers don’t do
this more often: the breeze in your hair
as you zoom around on your bike is a
great substitute to bus air-conditioning
and you get to converse with the local
people so much more. It may seem in-
timidating to do this kind of thing but
in reality, you’re probably a lot safer
in these kinds of places than walking
through Central London.
A few of the characters I’d met decid-
ed to head over to Vin Pearl, a water park
much like the ones you can find back
home. I’m still not sure why you’d jet
across the world to get involved in this
kind of thing when there are so many
better things at your disposal. Instead I
went on a mission in search of the Ba Ho
waterfalls, famous for their crystal clear
waters – the perfect place to unwind and
get away from the clutches of the water
park. Two hours and a bucket of sweat
later and I was stood atop the ultimate
waterfall gazing into the distance, ad-
miring the forest and the lack of people
in the vicinity.
After an unexpected encounter with a
bloody massive (and probably harmless)
spider I took another little trip to Bia
Hoi, quickly guzzled down a few glasses
of beer, and headed further up the coast
to Hoi An. A far cry from the antici-
pated reclusiveness induced by a bitter
regime, fun-loving Vietnam was quickly
turning out to be a favourite destination:
my only real regret is that I didn’t stay
for longer. Next time, next time.
Inspired by Aussie divers, we set off in search of wives Little did I know that my camera was in my pocket all along
A bit of strategic photo–cropping and you’re left with paradise
heavily throughout my travels and got
used to the sleep deprivation induced by
the stench of nearby feet. In retrospect
the smell was probably coming from
me. So I hopped off of the bus and was
in sunny Nha Trang. I wandered aim-
lessly attempting to find a guesthouse
based on a recommendation from back
in Cambodia, and eventually stumbled
across it, only to find that single and
dorm rooms were full. Thankfully the
extrovert within compelled me to have a
two–minute icebreaker with a guy in the
lobby who was also looking for a room:
after a quick assessment I decided that
he wasn’t going to kill me and he’d be a
suitable room buddy for the time being,
and we checked into a twin.
For some reason we were charged the
full amount for an air-conditioned room
(an extra 50p – big whoop) despite the
fact that the power was set to be off for
a couple of days for reasons I still don’t
fully understand. So we took off to the
beach with Lonely Planets and beers in
“Who needs an in-
ternational social
networking site when
you’ve got access
to ‘go.vn’, where the
Communist Party is
more than happy to
be your ‘friend’”
and motorcycled up the coast and into
the mountains. Travelling by bike cer-
tainly beats the bus, and I’ll be bearing
this fact in mind on my next trip. We got
to interact so much more with the places
we visited: every time we rode through
a fishing village we’d slow down to soak
up the atmosphere a little, and every so
often we were greeted by local children
who just wanted to say ‘hi’ or wanted us
to join in on a ball game. In spite of the
horrors imposed on them, these people
are still amongst the most hospitable and
“In spite of the hor-
rors imposed on
them, these people
are still amongst the
most hospitable and
cheery I’ve come
across to date”

