SexyOsama69
lol
38 felix
FRIDAY 29 OCTOBER 2010
H AN GMAN
Ever tried explaining
quantum theory to a cat?
A
s Imperial students, you will
often find yourself confronted
with the task of explaining
and diluting science for stupid
people. This is no easy feat, as
most Imperial students find it difficult enough
to talk to each other, let alone some amoeba
sitting behind the Asda checkout, repeatedly
scanning the same pack of biscuits and star-
ing at you blankly with those unusually large
pupils. Apparently amoebas simply don’t care
about the amazing science behind barcodes
and laser scanners, LOOK WILL YOU JUST
GIVE ME THE BISCUITS AND LET ME DO
IT!!!?
So how do we go about breaking down com-
plex theories into simple digestible facts for
simple detestable people? Well firstly we need
to be aware of the universal stupidity grading
system. There are three grades of stupidity that
you should be aware of when approaching the
sticky challenge of communicating with the
mentally-inferior. You will need to tailor your
explanatory discourse accordingly.
Twatter
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
e
They usually catch on quicker than the cashiers at Asda...
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to
felix@imperial.ac.uk (go on...)
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
tbh Osie you did keep taggin him
as Samuel L Jackson
SexyOsama69
Obie, whys ur Shelly tryin to add
me on facebook?
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
she thinks ur a bad influence on
me and wants to keep an eye on
u lol
SexyOsama69
lol
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
Yeh and u tagged me in those tor-
ture photos. Not cool
SexyOsama69
lol. I didnt know da whole wikile-
aks fing was gona happen. Gor
wat u up to?
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
Writin my play
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
hahahahahahahahahahahaha.
wats it called?
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
‘Prime Winister’ its a semi-
autobiographical dark satire
These people normally have a non-academic
qualification of some kind, such as a degree in
History of Art or English literature or Poetry
or something else illogical. They tend to think
that they have a heightened understanding of
their surroundings and an ability to see things
that others do not. This means that you can
tell them absolutely anything and they will be-
lieve it. They will then try to make their own
interpretation and find some way of applying
it to ‘the human condition’ or a pretentious
philosophical statement, e.g. ‘If the gravita-
tional force simply brings us closer together,
then perhaps love is also a force.’ You can
write that in your facebook quotations if you
want.
Avoid any word that is even vaguely scien-
tific. You will have to turn every theory; every
formula into some really tenuous analogy
involving elephants and mon-
keys. They only understand
spatial dimensions in
units of football pitches
or buses and you should
always try to involve
friendly talking animals
in your analogies. They
have an average attention
span of about three seconds,
so try to bring in a new talk-
ing animal every time you see
them switching off.
It is futile even trying to explain anything
to these people. This is because everything
amazes and confounds them. They wake up
and go ‘Wow, I just woke up! That’s awesome!
How do we wake up? What is waking up?’
After thinking about this for an hour they will
walk down stairs and open the fridge, ‘Wow!
How is it so cold? Everything inside here is
cold! Fridges are awesome’. After grabbing a
bottle of milk and marvelling at its unworldly
shape, they sit down and have some cornflakes,
‘Oh my God! Cornflakes! What? What are
they? What are cornflakes? What? Who am I?
Am I a cornflake?’ As of yet, no-one has suc-
cessfully managed to explain anything to a
GRADE 3.
The Hangman Gradient of Stupidity
GRADE 1 (Ignorant Stupid) GRADE 2 (Stupid Stupid) GRADE 3 (Clown Stupid)
How to explain the Large Hadron Collider to these people... well, I say ‘people’...
GRADE 1 – (just regurgitate some Wikipedia
and make up the rest) The large hadron collider
is the world’s largest particle accelerator with a
circumference of 27 kilometres. This synchro-
tron is designed to collide opposing particle
beams of either protons or lead nuclei, with the
hope of answering some of physics’ most fun-
damental questions. The collider operates on a
quasi-symmetric dipole oscicalliminator and
the protons travel in a Guassian-Einsteinian
vector-matrix formation. Analysis of the col-
lision residue should determine the existence
or non-existence of the Higgs
Boson and quasi-anti-
quasi-su- per-string-
symmetric dimensions.
GRADE 2 – Ok, the elephants are having a big
cycle race. When the starting gun blows, half
the elephants cycle in the opposite direction.
The circuit is about the length of 270 football
pitches, so when the elephants meet half way
around, they’re travelling near the speed of
light – elephants are really good cyclists. Be-
cause they’re travelling so fast, there is no way
of stopping the gruesome collision. There are
elephant limbs and bike wheels flying in every
direction. The scientists – who are monkeys –
are observing the horrific crash scene. Why? Be-
cause they’re looking for something special; the
Higgs Bos- err – a special key, which holds the
answers to many questions. They think the el-
ephants have swallowed the special key and that
smashing them up is the only way to find it. No,
they can’t just ask the elephants, or X-ray them,
or make a duplicate key – LOOK THIS IS THE
ONLY WAY! No, the monkeys haven’t found
the special key yet. No, that doesn’t exonerate
the elephants. No the monkeys aren’t working
for anybody. What do you mean you think the
giraffes are behind this? It’s an analogy. An
ANALOG- ok, yes the giraffes are behind it all.
GRADE 3 – The LHC, sorry the large hadron
collider, sorry the large proton collider, sorry
the large particle collider – the large really
really small football collider – What’s a col-
lider? Ok, the large really really small football
smasher-upper. Imagine a big race track and
all the elephants are having a big cycle race.
Why? I don’t know, to raise money for dying
gazelle or wounded zebra or something. Be-
cause they all got shot by the giraffes. What?
I don’t know, because one of the zebras was
having a secret love affair with one of the
giraffes. It’s like Romeo and Juliet, but with
giraffes and zebras. I DON’T KNOW WHY
THE ELEPHANTS GOT INVOLVED, GOD-
DAMNIT CAN WE JUST GET BACK TO
THE FUCKING RACE!? Right ok, so it’s
the big day and the elephants are getting their
bikes ready. However, half of the Elephants
think it would be funny to race in the oppo-
site direction. Of course it’s not that funny
when they meet halfway round the track and
smash into each other. There are limbs and
bike chains flying in every direction; a truly
gruesome scene of blood and entangled guts.

