NEWS
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
4
Government ministers have confirmed
that university tuition fees will be
capped in England, meaning that the
government is rejecting a key element
of the Browne report.
The report, led by Lord Browne, sug-
gested universities should be allowed
to set their own fees but face a levy
on amounts over £6000. Speaking this
week, the universities minister David
Willetts dismissed Browne’s proposal of
unlimited fees as “neither sensible nor
sustainable”.
Meanwhile, business secretary Vince
Cable said that the government was still
considering its reform of higher educa-
tion and nothing could be ruled out yet.
He did, however, add that “I think that
particular approach [of unlimited fees]
was one we’re not going to pursue”.
This news comes as great relief to stu-
dents who already face substantial debts
of over £30,000 upon leaving university.
It has been argued that if elite universi-
ties charge fees of upwards of £10,000
a year, applications are more likely to
be based on financial means rather than
ambition.
The Russell Group, representing the
UK’s top universities, has objected to
this latest news. “Rowing back from
Browne and re-imposing a cap would be
a real waste of an opportunity to allow
our leading universities to provide the
high quality education that their students
deserve,” said Dr Wendy Piatt, the direc-
tor general.
The government is aware that im-
posing a cap on tuition fees may leave
universities no better off. A minimum
of £6000 for the cheapest degrees is
required to replace the £2.9 billion cut
in government funding to universities.
They will therefore generate no extra
income than before. In order for univer-
sities to benefit from a reformed system,
David Willetts has suggested reducing
the levy proposed by Browne on fees
above £6000: “You could have a lower
rate of levy or no levy and that would
enable universities to hold onto more of
the resources that they collect”.
The arguments against the proposed
steep rate of the levy are reinforced by
top universities. An institution seek-
ing to receive £9000 per student would
have to charge about £13000. Malcolm
Grant, of UCL, said it was “a disincen-
tive to invest in the improvements to
facilities and staffing support for an ex-
cellent student experience that globally
competitive universities simply must
make”.
Every university is likely to end up
charging the maximum tuition fees.
When top-up fees of £3000 were in-
troduced in 2006 we were told a mar-
ket would be created where competi-
tion between universities would drive
down the fees. However, only two
universities, Leeds Metropolitan and
Greenwich),currently charge less than
the maximum amount. So when the cap
is potentially doubled, Browne’s pro-
posal that a market will be established
is unlikely considering past experience.
Willetts hopes that measures of fee
levels will be put before parliament “be-
fore Christmas”, in order for changes to
be introduced in 2012.
Government rejects
Browne Review
Sophia David
Read this article
online at
felixonline.co.uk
In brief
Record number of students miss
out on university says UCAS
After record numbers of applicants to university this
year, figures released by UCAS have shown that a
staggering 30.4% of students have not managed to
secure a place.
A total of 688,310 people applied, whereas only
479,057 have been accepted, leaving 209,253 peo-
ple who have missed out. Of these, 188,697 were
eligible for clearing but received no offers, 18,081
have withdrawn their application, and the final 2,475
applicants are still waiting for a decision.
The increase in demand for places was partly due
to the recession, with many workers opting to re-
turn to education to avoid the job cuts or to improve
employability. There were also around 60,000 re-
applicants from 2009, which is just under 10% of
total applications, pushing the amount and level of
competition even higher.
This ‘flux’ of application numbers also happened
in 2005 because of the proposed introduction of top
up fees in 2006, but the major difference between
then and now is that there now exists a government-
imposed cap on the number of UK and EU students
a university can take, which was introduced by the
previous government in 2008-2009. Universities
which ‘break’ the cap have to pay a hefty fine of
£3700 for every student taken over the limit.
These recent figures from UCAS will make univer-
sities even more cautious with their offers in the
coming year, not eager to splash out money on fines
when resources are already stretched, perhaps one
of many reasons why entrance requirements have
increased dramatically for next year. A noticeable ex-
ample at Imperial is mathematics, which has seen a
standard offer of AAA with A’s in all maths modules
grow to an offer of A*A*A, within the space of one
year.
The statistics reflect a growing level of competition
for University places, and with the coalition govern-
ment’s plans to increase the tuition cap or to re-
move it entirely, and potentially around 190,000 ap-
plicants from this year reapplying, next year’s cohort
could be in for a particularly rough ride.
Ian Wei
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dr Judit
Nagy
killed in
car crash
Election Results
Results of the Autumn Elections were announced
ahead of the Council debate on Higher Education
Funding on Monday, though several postgraduate
positions and the S.H.A.G. Week Co-ordinator posi-
tion were left unfilled.
Alice Rowlands, Stephen Long and Thomas Hills
were elected as Union Council Ordinary Members
for the Faculty of Engineering. Aislinn O’Malley, Alex-
andra Burke-Smith and Hannah Tullett were elected
as Union Council Ordinary Members for the Faculty
of Medicine. Lewis Palmer, Angad Rekhi, Alan Ita-
kura and Karmen Chiu were elected for the Faculty
of Natural Sciences. Edafe Edivri was elected as the
postgraduate representative for Engineering and
Physical Sciences.
Ali Rezaei Haddad and Theo Pavlakou were elected
to the new Ents Committee while Tharanny Srisat-
kunam narrowly lost out on the position of S.H.A.G
.Week Co-ordinator by two votes to R.O.N.
Naida Dzigal was elected as Court Advocate.
Universities Minister David Willetts dismisses unlimited
fees as neither sensible nor sustainable
Dr Judit Nagy, a leading scientist who
headed the Proteomics Research Facil-
ity in the Department of Biomedical
Engineering, was killed in a car crash
on Monday 18th. Aged 47, she was de-
scribed by her husband as “a person who
enchanted everyone she met’’.
She died on impact as her blue G-Wiz
collided with a red Skoda Octavia in
Cricklewood, North London. Her hus-
band said she was driving to a parents’
evening at her child’s school. The cou-
ple have four children with ages ranging
between 8 and 22.
Dr Nagy was taken to the Royal Lon-
don Hospital, where she passed away
later that evening.
A spokesperson for Imperial Col-
lege said: “Judit will be greatly missed
by everyone who knew her at Imperial
College London. She was a talented and
popular colleague.’’
Throw a Barbour and flat cap on this chap and you’ve got a proper country bumpkin

