SPORT
44 felix
FRIDAY 29 OCTOBER 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editor: Jovan Nedic
David Wilson
Archery
Forgotten Sports
This week, Felix Sports leaves the
ice rink and heads into the for-
est, as that is the logical place for
Archery, as Carina Carter finds out
Modern target archery has two main disciplines,
categorised by two different types of bow. The re-
curve and compound bows.
Recurve archery is the more familiar, since the
bow most resembles a traditional bow, and uses
the same basic principles. However the equipment
has become consideraby more advanced in the last
40 or so years. The riser, or handle, is usually made
from aluminium and the limbs (the bendy bits) are
made from carbon fibre or laminated woods. Arrows
have also come a long way, and are now made from
extruded aluminium or carbon.
Target archery in its current form has been an
Olympic sport since 1972, where it was reintro-
duced after a 52 year absence from the competi-
tion. This year saw the successful reintroduction of
archery into the commonwealth games, where the
English team won a total of seven medals, with four
golds! There are over 250 archery clubs in the South
East of England alone, and over 40 university clubs
actively competing.
Despite the technological advances in archery, the
fundamental principles of accurate shooting remain
the same, which may explain why long after the bow
and arrow’s use in warfare is over, it still remains an
enduring sport.
Jordan Muscatello
What is Archery?
Want to be Robin Hood?
Then go to IC Archery
“It’s fun, it’s social, it’s different” are the wise
words of this year’s archery club captain Ste-
phen Wood when asked why people should
try archery. Founded in 2000 when it split off
from the rifle and pistol club, the IC archery
club is a highly successful university archery
team that welcomes both experienced players
and novices. The club competes against nine
other teams in the south east archery league
and are current indoor and outdoor champions.
They also compete in BUCS, where uni teams
from all over the country turn up to compete
against each other. “It’s a very inclusive com-
petition, we take as many competitors as we
want, there’s no A and B team; everyone who
wants to can shoot”. The club did well finish-
ing fourth in the indoor competition this year.
In terms of new members, the club had an
excellent freshers fair with 265 people signing
up- something of a record for the club. “Turn
out has been great, at the first have a go ses-
sion there were 60-70 people, it was manic.
The freshers are showing great enthusiasm
and everyone’s integrating really well which
is nice to see”. Their new captain is also keen
to emphasize that no previous experience is
needed: highlighted by the fact that they kindly
(or foolishly) let me have a go at one of their
novice sessions. Having managed to avoid
shooting my fellow archers, I can also confirm
that it’s not a problem if you’ve never done it
before.
The novice training course has now been
running for two weeks and allows the novices
to shoot on their own, receiving coaching from
the senior members of the club. The sessions
seem to be fairly relaxed and flexible (you
don’t need to attend the whole two hours if you
don’t want to) and focus on a specific area of
the shot each week. With sessions on a Tues-
day, Thursday and Sunday night (8-10pm) at
Wilson House it’s quite easy for anyone who
fancies giving it a go to fit it in one night a
week.
Sessions in the hall seem to be followed by
sessions in the pub but the social side of the
club is something that the current committee
are trying to improve. With the appointment
of a social sec for the first time this year the
club is looking to add another string to its bow
(apologies) by introducing more social events
like curry nights and a presence at ACC bar
nights.
So how much will joining set you back? “It’s
£39 to join and this includes all your equip-
ment and all your tuition for the year”, says
Stephen, “if you want to buy kit you can but
you don’t have to”. Pretty reasonable then re-
ally compared with other ACC clubs. If you
fancy giving it a try pop along to Wilson house
or email archery@imperial.ac.uk for more in-
formation.
Carina Carter
What you don’t see is the next image, where his arrow splits the winning arrow in
two! Oh, wait, no, that was Robin Hood, my bad...
Ed Lacey
Men’s Hockey
Imperial 1’s 2 - 4 Hertforshire 1’s
In the first game of ICHC 1st XI’s BUCS cam-
paign, confidence was riding high, on the back
of a solid fresher intake into the 1st XI and the
improving JD making his 1st team debut. Hav-
ing been relegated at the end of last season,
ICHC are looking for an immediate return to
the top flight of south-east BUCS hockey.
The first half was a hard fought affair, with
mistakes on both sides leading to plenty of
goals. With seemingly any offence in the ’25
warranting a short corner, it was a battle of
these much practised routines, a battle in which
Herts came out on top, scoring 3 goals from
short corners, despite some heroic (read sui-
cidal) defending from Matt James on the line.
As IC pressed in the early stages, a 60 yard
aerial from the herts defence caught IC nap-
ping, as the herts forward rounded the keeper
to slot in. The IC response was emphatic, with
Hockey: Slow start to
season for hockey men’s
1sts against Hertfordshire
a deadly break from midfield from Tom Koch,
which ended with him rifling the ball into the
bottom corner past a helpless goalkeeper. A
herts short corner saw the home team take the
lead again, but within minutes IC had equal-
ised as captain Ewan Quince selflessly passed
across goal to leave a sitter for veteran Nick
Jones. With the scores level at 2-2 after 15 min-
utes, a high scoring game looked likely. After a
couple of defensive errors from IC, herts con-
verted another 2 short corners, leaving IC trail-
ing at half time 4:2.
After the break, with IC backing themselves
to turnaround the 2 goal deficit, the dominance
of IC was clear. With the majority of posses-
sion and a series of clear cut chances, the herts
goalkeeper was the only obstacle, making save
after save as IC ripped through the defence. As
the last 10 minutes dawned, with IC still failing
to find a breakthrough, the start of season lack
of fitness began to tell, and IC became more
and more desperate. The second half ended
goalless, a rare occurrence in hockey, and herts
walked away 4:2 victors.

