SPORT
45
felix FRIDAY 29 OCTOBER 2010
Japan gets its
second dose of
tourists, this
time IC Judo
This summer saw three players of IC
Judo visiting Japan in the frame of a
British University Judo Association
training tour. Wilhelm Kleiminger, Ben
Browne and Edouard Desclaux, all part
of the team who secured a Bronze at the
BUCS Team Championships in March,
were the three College representants;
with the rest of the delegation including
UCL, Cambridge and Oxford players.
Shortly after landing in Tokyo, we
rapidly realised we were not the only
gaijin (understand foreigners) in town.
Passing the door of our very first hostel,
we encountered our fellow IC Rugby
Boys, recovering from what had seemed
to be a very intoxicating night.
After a week of travelling around
the mainland Honshu , including sake
brewery and temple visits in Takayama,
Sumo tournament in Nagoya, Gion tra-
ditional festival in Kyoto, we got back to
Tokyo, all set for the start of the training
camp.
Edouard Desclaux Tokai University, just outside Tokyo
was our first stop. Tokai was renowned
for excelling in Sports and most impor-
tantly had recently won the National
University Championships, which rep-
resents the biggest of all team champi-
onships in Japan.
There we also met the rest of the
coaches and players, most of whom we
knew from previous competitions.
After a warm welcome by our Japa-
nese host we got to settle down in our
student accommodation were Portu-
guese and Swiss nationals team were
also headquartered; in preparation for
the Judo World Championships held in
Tokyo the following month.
We were then guided to the dojo
gymnasium for our first training. Upon
arrival, we were not disappointed by
the training facilities: 1600m2 of mat
surface area filled with hundred of coli
flowered eared bust most importantly
stocky and very well trained Japanese
judokas. Gym training started every
morning from 7am, followed by three
hours of Judo in the afternoon, 6 days
a week on top of their university course.
Technically, it seemed like they came
from another planet. They use a very
supple and explosive judo. Their very
upright stance allows them to combine
sweeps, hip and shoulder throw with
style and elegance. What we were most-
ly amazed by was probably the culture
of respect. On and off the mat, people
always minded great respect and dig-
nity, especially towards the older senior.
This didn’t prevented us, from time to
time, to end up getting thrown in the
wall by the youngsters who wanted
to show what they were made and es-
tablish themselves in front of the head
sensei (understand ex-world champion
Coaches).
Slowly we got used to the intensity
and technical level of the training, even-
tually, managing to give the Japanese
some good fights.
Our next stop was at Tokyo Univer-
sity, number one academically speak-
ing, which were not as physically tough,
although the quality of Judo and inten-
sity was unchanged: 10 times 4 minutes
practice with no rest killed more than
one of us. Highlights of our time spent
in Tokyo also included a formal recep-
tion at the British embassy as well as
a memorable night in the Keio Univer-
sity old boys’ members club. Finally we
headed to our final destination, the In-
ternational Budo University near Chiba,
south east of Tokyo, which marked the
last 5 days of our two week trip.
The very modernly designed univer-
sity was based on the top of a hill and
the block of concrete reminded us of a
prison. The intensity of training was the
same, although this time we could en-
joyed some technical session with their
ex-World Champion head coach.
At night, the delegation found com-
fort in a delicious local tempura fried
food restaurant, before ending at the
local convenience store for ice cream
for some and cold Asahi beer for oth-
ers. Sometimes we were joined by a
few Japanese players to go to some lo-
cal Isakaya, Japanese typed pub , who
could escape from their daily routine, al-
though everyone was up at 6.30 the next
day for the morning jog... Apart from a
few dislocated toes and broken fingers,
everyone survived to what was a once in
a lifetime and very unique experience.
The club would like to thanks our
coaches Joe Doherty from ULU, Chris
Doherty from Oxford and Tony Swee-
ney from British university Judo for
their kind support.
This year’s committee is looking for-
ward to more success in this new aca-
demic year and would like to invite any
new beginners or advanced players to
our sessions on Mondays and Wednes-
days in Ethos and at the Budokwai. For
more info, please contact judo@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
The British University Judo training camp members in Tokyo
TOP: Probably more suited for the Travel Section, but if you do stay in To-
kyo, the ACE INN is the place to be, as can be testified by both IC Rugby
and Judo. BOTTOM: Two of our Judoist’s outside Tokai University
Despite the scrappy start, 1st XV gain third win
the gain line.
Imperial opened the scoring through
man of the match Chris McGeough; the
ball was worked through the backs who
were attacking within the Kent 22 be-
fore reaching McGeough who was lurk-
ing out wide; a recurring theme within
his playing style, who charged for the
line brushing off the lame tackle from
Kent’s outside centre with Max Joachim
unable to convert the try.
Fly half George Lane scored a drop
goal to increase Imperial’s lead at the
break although Imperial’s backs coach,
Joe Brown, let it be known to everyone
Continued from back page he felt the team could have gone for the
try.
Imperial’s performance in the second
half was much better than that of the
first with the penalty count vastly re-
duced. Imperial found their lead reduced
to three points soon after the restart but
their response to this was exceptional.
Centre Joe Harris scored Imperial’s
second try of the day which Joachim
converted before Ollie Garnett scored
an oportunitic try following a terrible at-
tempted clearance from Kent.
Kent had no answer to the strong
mauls that Imperial were producing and
on more than one occassion Imperial
produced a drive which surged up the
pitch, deep in Kent teritory.
Playing in a calm and collected man-
ner allowed Imperial to score a fourth
try for Nathan making his first appear-
ance for the 1s; carrying out the basics
of clearing rucks effectivly produced
quick ball allowing the backs to run at-
tacking lines. This eventually paid divi-
dends; sucking in the Kent defenders
and producing space out wide for XXX
to run in his debut try for the last play of
the match.
Despite having a player called ‘Big
Time’, Kent never threatened upsetting
Imperial’s unbeaten early season form.

