Felix Sport sponsored by
SPORT
29.10.10
ISSUE 1471
Sun, sea and sand.
Sun, sea and sand.
A Surfer’s Paradise
A Surfer’s Paradise
Page 46
Mind the arrows!
Archery: Page 44
Avi Murthy & Pio Monti
Tennis - Sponsored by KPMG
Imperial 4 - 2 UCL
The Men’s 1st team arrived at our temporary home
of Teddington eager to put last week’s demoralising
defeat against a scholarship laden Roehampton team
past us. However initial optimism quickly turned to
nerves and doubt as the weather and our opponents
made their presence felt. Whilst there were some
familiar faces in the UCL 1st team had narrowly
scrapped victory against us twice last season, there
were also some new ones. The club’s President Rob
Bush and fresher Victor Knobe, fought hard to take
a satisfying win 7-6, 6-3 despite being 3 set points
down in the 1st set tie-break. The other pairing did
not fare so well as Captain Pio Monti had to retire
with an injured shoulder and 2 cracked rackets….
Adam Gunasekera, who went unbeaten through-
out last year, opened up the singles against the
UCL number 1. This was a match of high quality,
in which Adam’s opponent showed why he was
once the Slovakian number two before he put his
education ahead of tennis. Adam fought valiantly
but unfortunately came out second best in a tight en-
counter. Victor Knobe and Rob Bush both won their
singles matches with relative ease.
Therefore, with the tie at 6-4 to IC it was down to
Avinash Murthy to bring home the points. He played
out a long match against a crafty opponent who ap-
peared to adapt to the conditions very easily. After
splitting the first two sets,Avinash battled through in
the third 6-4, to achieve a vital win below the fading
evening sun and allow the team to celebrate. Overall
an outstanding performance and a heartening result
which they will seek to reinforce with another big
match against LSE 1st next week at Hyde Park. ...Continued on Page 45
TECHNOLOGY
Will Wikileaks
survive the media
onslaught?: Page 13
GAMES
Want to survive the
zombie apocalypse?:
Page 32
SCIENCE
Imperial attempt
South Pole speed
record: Page 8
TRAVEL
Is ‘danger’ tourism
the future of
holidays?: Page 36
HANGMAN
How to explain QCD
to cashiers at ASDA:
Page 38
Tennis:
IC edge
rivals
UCL
Rugby: Third win for 1st XV
David Wilson
Rugby Union
Imperial
Imperial’s 1st XV secured their third win of the sea-
son after seeing off a spirited Kent team who were
determined to cause an upset. Despite not reaching
their top gear, Imperial were able to produce a con-
trolled display emerging 27-8 victors.
The overcast weather and intermitent rain pro-
duced greasy conditions with a lot of the early ex-
changes producing pick and go drives from both
sets of forwards. Imperial had focused intently on
such situations in training during the week and it
paid off as the forwards prevented their Kent coun-
terparts from gaining valuable ground with props
Toby Spittle and Angus Tenison-Collins provid-
ing strong defence around the breakdown. How-
ever, Imperial were not able to reduce their pen-
alty count and were still being freely penalised
for infringements at the breakdown. The Imperial
forwards dominated the scrums continually forcing
the bearded Kent number 8 to pick from the base of
the scum, however, scrum half Olly Cox routinely
pressurised how refusing to allow him to get over

