FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 5
NEWS
“The Rector has
formed a new
committee to look
at how Imperial
provides bursaries”
It seems like a lifetime ago now when,
on the 12th October, Lord Browne final-
ly published his review of higher educa-
tion funding. Already, it is a topic that
has been endlessly deconstructed and
analysed and which every student in Im-
perial and the UK feels strongly about.
Two weeks have passed since then and
Imperial College Union Council will
formally meet on Monday to debate and
decide the Union’s Higher Education
Funding Policy.
Firstly, the policy put forward rec-
ognises the need for a shake-up in the
way universities are funded. Since
1992, average spending per student has
dropped due to the massive increase in
Union presents tuition fees policy
Union’s tuition fees policy, to be debated at Council on Monday, backs Browne
Review but demands greater focus on postgraduate funding
the number of young people going to
university. This lack of funding has been
felt by universities across the country;
Middlesex University has had to close
its Philosophy department while Kings
College London has had to shut down
its Engineering department to name but
two. The reshuffling of the Life Sciences
department at Imperial is another way
universities have been trying to deal
with this shortfall.
The Union is largely supportive of
Lord Browne’s recommendations. It
believes that raising the threshold for
repayment to £21,000 means that most
PhD students will not have to repay their
loan while working towards their PhD.
It backs the raising of maintenance
loans and grants, resolving to increase
bursary and scholarship provision, and
to promote opportunities for these more
readily. It will also try to encourage busi-
nesses to provide their own bursaries for
students. Together, these will hopefully
reduce the amount of loans that all but
the richest students will have to repay.
On this subject, the Rector has formed
a new committee to look at how the
university provides bursaries, with the
view to increase them. The Union has
been invited to take an active role in this
committee. If an improved endowment
scheme is drawn up, the Council will
consider whether commercial revenue
from the Union (from FiveSixEight and
ICU Shop, for example) should be fed
into such a scheme.
However, it also backs the Review’s
suggestion of a levy after £6000 per
year on the price of a degree. This will
incentivise universities to only charge
the real cost of a degree. It is also hoped
to discourage universities from selecting
applicants based on their bank balance
instead of their personal statement.
The Union feels that the Browne Re-
view lacked details towards postgradu-
Rhys Davies
Get there faster. Start here.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy.
Visit us at oliverwyman.com.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy. We combine deep industry knowledge with specialised
expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organisational transformation and leadership development.
We are looking for talented Imperial graduates to join one of the fastest growing consulting firms in the top 10
Application deadlines
Full time: 7th
November 2010 for December offers
19th
December 2010 for January offers
Internships: 30th
January 2011
To find out more about Oliver Wyman or apply online for full-time or intern positions
please visit our website at: www.oliverwyman.com/careers
ate education. To this end, it will lobby
for postgraduate taught Masters degrees
to be included in the same payment
methods as undergraduate degrees, that
no fees are paid up-front.
The Union firmly believes that, re-
gardless of financial situation, any stu-
dent can go to the university of their
choice. It also welcomes the realisation
in the Review that universities are in
dire need of more investment. In asking
students to shoulder more of the cost
but recommending the spreading of
repayment, it believes the Browne Re-
view has struck a fine balance and has
pointed the direction for fairer funding
for universities. Thus, the Union has
decided to support Lord Browne in his
proposals.

