FEATURE
FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 7
IS THIS THE
FUTURE OF
LEARNING AT
IMPERIAL?
substantial fears about constant interruptions
by a harmony of ringtones, Professor Thomas
says that he has yet to be interrupted once.
Excitingly only 5 minutes into the lecture I
have the opportunity to link my iPhone up to
the interactive web page set up for the class
in order to test out my maths skills. Professor
Thomas writes out a rather complicated look-
ing question for the students, which means
nothing to me but looks impressive. The stu-
dents seem to know what it means though,
which is good! These examples are not pre-
pared in advance: Professor Thomas just
writes down questions “on a whim” and gives
multiple choice answers.
On the screen in front of me I am given a
list of different options. Each member of the
class then chooses which option they think
is correct and ‘vote’ by ‘pressing’ the button
next to their option. I decline from voting and
let the person sitting next to me vote in my
place. After a short delay a simple bar graph
depicting the lecture hall’s answers pops up in
front of me of the screen. It’s very basic but
effective. When I ask Professor Thomas about
this straightforward process he says that some-
thing “as simple as possible meant that [he]
can use it at the same time as writing on board
or visualise without disrupting the lesson.”
Professor Thomas believes that the use of
this technology wakes up the students in the
room. It “disrupts the ‘copy down lecture
notes’ mentality and has [the students] think
hard for a minute about something.” I can see
from the undergraduates sitting around me
that this method provokes discussion and also
induces a competitiveness to get the answer
right. But for the shyer members of the class,
it allows them to contribute without having all
eyes on them. Professor Thomas explained,
“[I] can use one example to illustrate a whole
piece of theory, and be sure [the students] re-
ally thought about it because they answered a
question on it.”
This interactivity is not new: the class had
previously used physical ‘clickers’. It had
however turned out to be a logistical night-
mare and so the use of devices that the ma-
jority of the students already carry round with
them seemed like a logical step.
Although I am no expert in education prac-
tices and theories, the ability to actually exper-
iment and test ideas just learnt in reality surely
must provide each student with immediate
feedback about how well they have picked up
what is being taught. Interaction may be ben-
eficial but when there are over 200 students in
a lecture, it turns into a challenge.
In the maths department, Professor Thomas
is the only lecturer to be currently using the
online technology and I believe it is no coin-
cidence that he is one of the younger mem-
bers of Imperial’s faculty. Professor Thomas
assures me that his efforts are being closely
watched. Some others may soon follow but
others remaining dead against it. He explains
that there is the occasional playful joke by oth-
er members of the faculty, teasing him about
the technology use, but most of the faculty are
very supportive.
Technology now invades every single place
in our lives and has revolutionised society. Al-
though thus far technology in education has
lagged behind the rest of society, surely it is
only a matter of time before it fully invades?
The fact that the internet is now portable gives
us the ability to access our digital world and
integrate it with our physical one. It seems
prudent for Imperial, as one of the UK’s lead-
ing universities, to start integrating it now and
lead the way.
“It’s basically one big experiment at the mo-
ment,” Professor Thomas said. What is the fu-
ture for Imperial? It’s a tricky one. Although
the influx of technology into teaching seems
both inevitable and positive, have a one size
fits all approach may actually be detrimental.
Each lecturer is unique in the methods they
employ and style of teaching. The ultimate
question therefore is what method should Im-
perial adopt to being greater technology inte-
gration into the classroom?
“Of course [other technologies] get forced
on us all the time, and various people have
various incentives to get us to use as many
as possible as soon as possible. But usually
they’re not ready for easy robust use,” Pro-
fessor Thomas explains, “If they’re good and
easy to use then we’d use them. The problem
is that education seems not to be a big enough
market for them to get developed properly.
So they’re often clunky/unusable/etc. It’s
only when business or ordinary people have a
use for something that it gets developed well
enough to be useful.”
Interactive technology is widespread at Im-
perial. The old style clickers that Professor
Thomas used to use are in use amongst a large
number of departments. John Conway, senior
learning technologist at Imperial says that re-
searchers are getting excited about using dif-
ferent types of technology more. In fact, he
has heard that the Business School are inter-
ested in developing an iPhone app!
There are, however, many considerations
that need to be made when trying to introduce
these technologies. For example, what kind of
devices can access it, and what ICT support
is needed. Mr Conway says that pilot studies
need to be done to tease out these problems
early on but that there is much promise. He
also commented that in the economic times
where more people are vying for a smaller
funding pot, it will be interesting to see how
use of more technology in education could
help improve financial efficiency without
jeopardising quality.
Back in the Clore Lecture Hall, the lecture
draws to a close. Unfortunately, I haven’t
picked up any more mathematical knowl-
edge, but I am excited about this development
which is encompassing modern technology. I
ask some students around me who had been
voting what they think of the ‘voting sys-
tem’. “It gives us a break and time to think,”
says one. Others explain that it gives them
a chance to check they understand every-
thing as they go along, both things Professor
Thomas is aiming to achieve! The consensus
is that it’s definitely a good thing, and it will
be interesting to see if the rest of the Maths
Department and even other faculties will de-
velop their own version.
Despite teasing from his
colleagues, Professor Richard
Thomas is embracing new
technologies to help engage with
students. By Lizzy Crouch
It “disrupts the ‘copy down lec-
ture notes’ mentality and has [the
students] think hard for a minute
about something.”
...Continued from Front Page
Professor Richard Thomas explaining a
problem to a 1st year student
Photo by Marie Chkaiban
Photo by Marie Chkaiban

