SCIENCE
FELIX
Friday 29 October 2010
8
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Strangest
Man
by Graham Farmelo
And a few suggestions...
Upcoming Science Events
Oct 29th
Royal Institution
Rhythms of the body
8.00pm – 9.15pm
Natural History Museum
After hours
6.30pm – 10.30pm
Nov 1st
Natural History Museum
Magetherium: A big animal from America
2.30pm – 3.00pm
Nov 3rd
Natural History Museum
A problem shared: securing a future for our
planet
6.30pm – 8.00pm
Nov 4th
Wellcome Collection
Eureka! Live
7.00pm - 8.30pm
This week, we have another biography of a great
scientist. Paul Dirac is best known for his contri-
bution to the mystifying realms of quantum me-
chanics that eventually earned him a Nobel Prize,
however, there was so much more to this shy, awk-
ward man than just genius. He had a wide range
of interests from a fascination with Mickey Mouse
to an unlikely soft spot for Cher. Graham Farmelo
paints a picture of an endearing and gentle char-
acter that one can’t help but develop a fondness
for. Leading us through Dirac’s life from his strict
and protected childhood which he came to resent,
through to his glory days of achievement and then
his later days where he struggled with the pace
of new physics. Farmelo gives an honest account
that does not employ a tone of hero-worship that
ruins some biographies. Dirac’s life was complex
and mesmerising, Farmelo conveys this admirably,
I could not put it down!
Katya-yani Vyas
Imperial bid for
Antarctic record
Kadhim Shubber
Peter Greenish
“The UK is a trading nation...if we’re going to
earn our keep against fierce competition, there
is no room for complacency.”
Prof Dame Jane Finch
“It needs to be people that we invest in - our
SOUNDBITES
‘Science Question Time’ at
the Royal Institution
own best people and those around the world”
Colin Blakemore
“If there’s any outcome from this week, it is the
clear evidence that the government has put sci-
ence at the top of its priorities, and listened to
its arguments”
Imran Kahn
“It is a sign of the times we live in that a 10%
cut can be regarded as a triumph”
Mark Henderson
“Adding tonight to the spending review, the
overall message is that the government has put
science on the agenda. Having more people like
Pioneering new vehicle set to beat the record for fastest
journey to South Pole
David Willetts and Vince Cable on-side has
helped us get through to senior people in the
government.”
David Willetts...
“It would be great to have a system where sci-
entists had more time to do science and less
time filling out paperwork.”
...and some good news for IC students
“Not enough is done for pure science students
to get experience in industry. There should be
more opportunities for students to make links
with industry. Compared to other universi-
ties, Imperial is actually ahead of the curve on
this!”
Imagine skimming across the icy wastelands
of the South Pole. You’re sitting in the cockpit
of the prototype Winston Wong bio-inspired
ice vehicle, the cold air biting through your
clothes. Your heart rate, temperature and other
bio-functions are being continuously monitored
by an array of innovative sensors and suddenly
your radio crackles to life. It’s the support ve-
hicle saying that your time is up and it’s time
to rotate the driver again. Five more minutes
you say to yourself as you push the accelerator
to the floor and listen to the strangely hypnotic
sound of the rotors spinning ever faster.
In a collaborative project involving the Moon
Regan Transantartic Expedition and Imperial
College London, two science support vehicles
and the Winston Wong Bio-Inspired Ice Vehicle
will travel 3,600 miles across Antarctica carry-
ing a range of hi-tech monitoring equipment
developed at Imperial. The team will be moni-
toring the emissions of the vehicles, detecting
trace metals in the snow to help understand the
distribution of pollutants in the southern hemi-
sphere and measuring fine-scale turbulence in
the air. The team themselves will be continu-
ously monitoring their health and the effect of
the cold environment on the human body
David Pierson, an PhD student in the Aero-
nautics Department who is going on the ex-
pedition, said: “it’s going to be an amazing
experience, it’s difficult to put into words how
exciting this whole expedition is and all the dif-
ferent elements of it coming together.”
Robin North, Lecturer in Transport and Envi-
ronmental Planning in Civ Eng and the Science
Lead on the expedition, said “it’s an amazing
opportunity to get the sorts of scientific data
that you can’t get any other way. We don’t ever
get the opportunity to do a surface level transect
of Antarctica. we have a unique opportunity to
monitor the impact of our expeditions.”
Chris Toumazou, Director of the Institute of
Bio-Inspired Technology which is behind much
of the technology, was confident about beat-
ing the record saying: “we’ll do it. So it’ll be
double win, we’ll beat the record and get all this
science done as well.”
The team set off on the 16th of November
from the west coast of Antartica at Patriot Hills
and will return by the 15th of December. With-
out wishing to jinx the expedition, it seems that
our boys really will be back before Christmas.
Hopefully PhD student David Pierson won’t get a ticket for speeding on the ice...

