FELIX Friday 29 October 2010 9
SCIENCE
Imagine an electric car powered by its
chassis, with no need for a battery. This
may sound like an environmentalist’s
wet dream, but Emile Greenhalgh and
his multidisciplinary team of collabora-
tors across College and Europe, might
make it happen sooner than you’d ex-
pect.
The largest problem facing manu-
facturers of electric cars is the issue of
weight. Currently, an electric car, such
as the Tesla Roadster, weighs 1200kg,
of which 500kg is battery. A vast 76%
of energy expenditure in electric cars
comes from having to move its own
weight about. This figure rises to a stag-
gering 98% when considering city driv-
ing alone.
Clearly the way forward for electric
car manufacturers is to reduce the car’s
dead weight. If the chassis could be
used to help power the vehicle, carmak-
ers would be killing two birds with one
stone. Other than at Imperial, the major-
ity of the research into structural batter-
ies is being conducted in Sweden with
Swerea and their composites division,
SICOMP working alongside car manu-
facturers Volvo. They are all a part of the
STORAGE programme, a Europe-wide
initiative led by Imperial College, focus-
ing on meeting the energy demands of
future hybrid vehicles.
A major issue to be considered when
dealing with any battery-powered tech-
nology is the power spike. This is where
Dr Greenhalgh and his team in the
Composites Centre come in, working
in partnership with SICOMP. When an
electric car accelerates it draws a vast
amount of power in a short space of
time, draining the stored chemical en-
ergy of the battery. This sudden increase
in the battery’s output is detrimental
to its overall performance. To get the
most out of a battery, the output should
be constant. In order to overcome the
damaging effects of these power spikes,
Emile Greenhalgh et al have devised a
composite material, made of layers of
woven carbon fibre seperated by glass
fibre mats, which acts not only as a rigid
mechanical structure, but also as a su-
percapacitor, in order to level the load
on the battery.
With a large number of engineering
obstacles involved in the manufactur-
ing process, it’s hardly surprising that
Greenhalgh’s team is multidisciplinary.
Dr Greenhalgh himself trained as a
physicist at Imperial. We also spoke to
Milo Shaffer, a Materials Chemist who
notably is one of Imperial’s youngest
professors.
“The timing is great,” said Dr Green-
halgh. What started 5 years ago as a
commission from the MOD could see
the group’s members rocket on to the
rich list, according to Wired magazine.
However, a fully integrated structural
battery is still some way off. That’s
not to mention the hurdles that must be
overcome to get such a car approved
for commercial use. “Not only would it
have to pass extensive crash-worthiness
tests, it would also have to pass electri-
Imperial Profile: #2
Dr Emile Greenhalgh
Composite Materials
cal safety tests…There’s a lack of spe-
cialists trained in both areas.”
“In nine to ten years time we could
get rid of the battery altogether.” Ap-
plications of this technology are wide-
spread, ranging from aircraft to laptops.
Basically anything that needs to be low-
weight and/or portable.
“We are still a long way off on power
storage,” says Dr Greenhalgh. The pro-
totype they have produced has caused
a stir and earned them larger grants for
further research.
Ilse Daly
Adam Falk
Charlie Harvey
M ini x-ray
madness
“Laser Technology is
advancing rapidly –
we are optimistic”
When one mosquito becomes two
A new study from Imperial College Lon-
don has suggested that, in our race to
battle Malaria, a new threat has emerged.
The Anopheles gambiae is responsible
for about half of the 500 million Ma-
larial cases in sub-Saharan Africa. It has
been found that two physically identical
strains of mosquito are becoming sepa-
rate species, known as ‘M’ and ‘S’.
There have been recent developments
in combating mosquitoes and the dis-
eases they carry. From new insecticides
to genetic technology, much hope and
money has been invested in new control
tactics. However, this new discovery is
potentially problematic for researchers.
“From our new studies, we can see
that mosquitoes are evolving more
quickly than we thought and that un-
fortunately, strategies that might work
against one strain of mosquito might not
be effective against another. It’s impor-
tant to identify and monitor these hidden
genetic changes in mosquitoes if we are
to succeed in bringing malaria under
control by targeting mosquitoes,” said
Dr Mara Lawniczak, a lead researcher
from the Imperial College London Divi-
sion of Cell and Molecular Biology.
Previous research had indicated that
there was a genetic difference between
the two strains localised to specific parts
of the mosquito chromosomes. How-
ever, in this, the most extensive analy-
sis of both strains’ genomes, it has been
revealed that the genetic differences are
more numerous and widely dispersed in
the genome than previously thought.
It is believed that the ‘S’ strain is the
ancestral species as it is found over all of
Benjamin Good
A next generation of table-top X-ray
machines could soon be made available,
thanks to research from Imperial Col-
lege.
Scientific and medical advances de-
pend on the development of better di-
agnostic and analytical tools. Sources
of high quality X-rays are in huge de-
mand for scientific research, yet few
dedicated synchrotron facilities exist
worldwide due to their huge size and
cost. The study, published in the journal
Nature Physics, outlined a future where
these high energy X-ray systems could
be housed in a chamber only 1 metre on
each side. The Diamond Light Source
synchrotron, for comparison, is half a
kilometre in circumference.
“This is a very exciting develop-
ment”, said Dr Stefan Kneip, from Im-
perial’s Department of Physics and lead
author of the study. “We have taken the
first steps to making it much easier and
cheaper to produce very high energy,
high quality X-rays.”
The new technology uses a process
similar to what happens in other syn-
chrotron sources, but on a microscopic
scale. A high power laser is fired into a
stream of helium gas, creating a jet of
ionised plasma. A bubble of positively-
charged helium ions forms, causing
some of the electrons in the plasma to
form an energetic beam that ‘wiggles’.
As the electron beam wiggles it produc-
es a high quality source of X-rays. While
previous laser driven X-ray sources ex-
isted, this new technology will result in
X-rays 1000x brighter.
Dr Zulfikar Najmudin, the leader of
the experimental team for this research,
said: “we think a system like ours could
have many uses. For example, it could
eventually increase dramatically the
resolution of medical imaging systems
using high energy X-rays, as well as en-
able microscopic cracks in aircraft en-
gines to be observed more easily.”
Due to the high cost and complex-
ity of high power lasers today, this new
technology won’t be on our laboratory
benches any time soon. Dr Nahmudin
remains hopeful that his research will
lead to cheaper sources of high quality
X-rays soon, adding: “laser technology
is advancing rapidly, so we are optimis-
tic that in a few years there will be reli-
able and easy to use X-ray sources avail-
able that exploit our findings”.
sub-Saharan Africa; in contrast the ‘M’
strain is localised to more central and
western areas of Africa. As well as this
the ‘M’strain seems to be better evolved
to laying its eggs in rice paddy fields.
The next stage of the investigation
will involve the use of a specially de-
signed genotyping chip which will help
to detect whether or not these genetic
variations affect their inclination to be-
come infected with malaria and other
parasites.
Despite this new development and the
mosquito’s well-deserved reputation as
a significant threat to human life, there
is still plenty of hope and optimism that
treatment and control is heading in the
right direction. Another lead researcher
in the project Professor George Christo-
phides concludes, “Our studies help us
to understand the makeup of the mos-
quitoes that transmit malaria, so that we
can find new ways of preventing them
from infecting people.”
New mosquito strains have been found by researchers from Imperial

