REVIEWS
Moscow Gold
Gorbachev's glasnost and perestroicka are
arguably responsible for some of the most
significant events on a global scale since
the end of WWII. His struggles to rebuild
the Soviet economy are still going on
even as you read this. Surely then, it is a
trifle early to be staging a play about the
Russian leader? Apparently the RSC think
not.
The basis of the story will be familiar to
anyone who has read papers or watched
television reasonably frequently over the
last five years. The play gives us a
chance to consolidate what we know and
to be shown little pieces of information
that have not really entered the public
consciousness, for example, did you know
that Andropov was Gorbachev's mentor?
Insights into the character of the man
himself are not to be expected. Despite
David Calder's more than competent
performance, we see no more of him
than his stateman persona, even in a
G h o s t
This film has much in common with
brown bread; to wit, it is thoroughly
wholesome, full of moral fibre and
bursting with goodness. Also like brown
bread, it contains no gratuitous killings,
Patrick Swayze and a modicum of
humour. Unlike the aforementioned
dietary staple, it contains one swear-word
and Whoopi Goldberg. However it's also
more entertaining that brown bread and
also features a plot.
Briefly stated the storyline goes; he's
alive, he's dead and then he hangs
around a lot. Demi Moore, as his
girlfriend, is naturally somewhat upset
about the second of these events and
exhibits this by bursting into tears at any
given moment. Since Patrick doesn't
make it to the end of the first reel you
will be pleased to hear he spends his time
massage scene with his wife he asks her
to pummel various parts of his anatomy,
naming them in turn after his problems.
Despite this, the play doesn't stay
within the realms of docu-drama. Nancy
Reagan's astrologer descends from the
sky, asking a food queue if they are
waiting for theatre tickets, before
launching into a song and dance routine.
Sequences of politburo politicing are
mixed with bizaree symbolic tableaux
walking through objects, people and
startling kitty-cats. This continues until he
happens upon a medium named Oda Mae
Brown (Ms Goldberg herself) who is
staggered to discover that she can
actually hear the dead, after a busy
lifetime of fleecing the ignorant. Oda Mae
then has the enviable task of convincing
Demi that she is in contact with her
stiffed fiance. There then follows a
sequence of sensitive (read ikky sticky)
emotional reunions until Demi finally Sees
The Light and Patrick can explain the
Dastardly Plot to her. Because, you see,
Patrick was Taken Before His Time and,
powerless to affect the physical world,
must communicate his beloved's Dire
Plight to her. The only 'people' he can
talk to are his fellow denizens of the
afterworld who seem content to leave
C o m m u n i o n
On the surface, this film suffers from
what could be the worst piece of
miscasting in history. Being a film about
aliens, why has Christopher Walken (The
Deer Hunter, Dead Zone) been chosen to
play the lead role of a human, when he
looks so much like an alien in the first
place?
The answer reveals itself in the
watching of the film. Christopher Walken
manages to portray a frightened man,
trying to come to terms with what he has
seen, with such skill that his resemblance
to E.T. seems totally trivial.
So, what has the man seen and, more
importantly, what do we see? Well, if you
are expecting a re-run of Close
Encounters of the Third Kind, then you
will be sorely disappointed. This is a very
personal account of some very strange
incidents in a man's life and, since they
are intended to be true, their reason will
never be explained in the film.
This leaves us with a film which is
rather sparse on material for the SF
enthusiast and quite thin on plot line for
the film buff. Despite slowing down at the
end, the film is a good watch for anybody
with an open mind who is prepared to
accept the supernatural as possible and is
willing to view the film as at least a
possible scenario of alien encounter. For
and scenes of Russian home life.
This is a fairly lightweight piece of
political drama which is certainly far
inferior to the protest plays of writers like
Vaclav Havel, who is in fact quoted in
the programme. It is clearly a play
written by an outsider, which
unfortunately results in little of the feeling
being caught. It does though make an
interesting counterpoint to the pre-
revolution Barbarians still being staged in
the Barbican. It's definitely not great
theatre, but it manages to be reasonable
entertainment, so if your knowledge of
recent events in the USSR is a tad shaky
this is worth a look.
Moscow Gold is in repertoire in the
Barbican Theatre, with student standby's
available half an hour before the
performance on production of a Union
Card and a five pound note. The nearest
tube is Barbican.
Pendragon.
him to it. Many unpleasant events follow,
but Our Hero manages to maintain his
Hovis-like determination to the bitter end.
Which, as you may guess, is not
particularly bitter.
Special effects are excellent, although
almost entirely concerned with the
passage of the dearly departed solid
objects and well-trained feline gymnastics.
The plot, while heavily predictable,
manages to neatly package every social
insecurity known to mankind and come
out smiling. Again, unlike brown bread.
A film for all the family, including the
dead ones.
(The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
would not like to thank the staff at the
Empire for their complete lack of
co-operation.)
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine.
those of you who have read the book,
the film sticks quite closely to the story
line, with a couple of extra incidents
included to show off the aliens.
Stef Smith.

