Nikita
Our first meeting with Nikita (Anne
Parillaud) is when her drug-crazed punk
friends do over a pharmacy in search of
a fix. She crouches in a zombie-like
trance while the rest of the street-gang
shoot it out with the police. Several
deaths ensue and Nikita tops it all off
with the murder of the policeman who
finds her hiding.
Her family are told that she is dead and
she is whisked off to be trained as a
government assassin. Not content with
teaching her just to use a gun, the
government have to rehabilitate her so
that she can live in society like a normal
woman. While learning to smile and
apply make-up she also acquires some
useful techniques for killing.
Bob (Tcheky Karyo), her instructor,
treats her to a birthday dinner and a
rather special birthday present which she
uses to great effect on her first mission.
It's now time for Nikita to go out into the
world. Efficiently she carries out her
duties for the government although she
becomes confused about her existence
when she falls in love with Marco (Jean-
Hugues Anglade).
From the director of Subway, Luc
REVIEWS
Besson, this film is brilliantly thought out
and every bit of action is precisely put
together to make the finished product
highly watchable. The fact that the hero
of the film is a girl made the film even
more appealing to me, although not
overtly raunchy the character is quite
F a c t o r y G i r l s
sexy.
Nikita is released in London today at
the Lumiere, Chelsea Cinema, Screen on
the Hill, Notting Hill Gate and Cannon
Oxford Street. It's subtitled from French
but don't let that put you off.
Rose Atkins.
Video
Competition
Let us travel to County Donegal in the
early eighties. A shirt factory is under
threat from cheaper foreign competition.
Rumours are flying of redundancies and
possible closure, permeating even to the
girls working in the examination
department. When it becomes apparent
that the Union is not totally on the
member's side, they decide to take things
into their own hands.
This is a typically Irish play from
award-winning playwright Frank
McGuinness appropriately staged in the
Tricycle in the middle of Kilburn. The
Catholic undertones are all there, and
there is something about the characters
and their attitudes to the English that is
quintessentially Irish. The situation is
bleak, the remedy doomed to failure and
the outlook gloomy.
Luckily, underlying it all is a feeling of
companionship and endurance that
develops as the ladies get to know each
other in the course of their ordeal. There
is also an incredible sense of humour to
the play that manages to make this both
The funniest and one of the most
dramatic plays I have seen in a long time.
The performances are uniformly good,
with Eileen Pollock's (Lilo Lil in Bread)
portrayal of Ellen, the fiery leader of the
group and Michelle Fairley's nicely
understated Rebecca being particularly
worthy of note. From the opening
moments of lightweight backchat, to the
closing moments of conflict all are utterly
believable, both comic and tragic.
Without doubt a superb production, that
is well worth the effort to see it.
Concessions are available on Thursday
and Friday night at £5.50, and on
Saturday Matinee at £2.50. There is a
special student Matinee on 31 October,
£1.50 booked in advance. The Theatre
itself is situated at 269 Kilburn High Rad,
NW6, and is easily accessible from both
Kilburn underground and Brondesbury
BR.
Pendragon.
This is your chance to win a pair of
videos staring Michelle Pfeiffer. There are
three copies of both Dangerous Liaisons
and Tequila Sunrise to be won by
answering these three simple questions.
In the event of more than three correct
answers winners will be pulled from the
editor's hat.
1. Dangerous Liaisons tells of Michelle
Pfeiffer's seduction. In which film was she
seduced by a devilish joker?
2. In which film was Michelle Pfeiffer the
sucessor to Olivia Newton-John?
3. Michelle Pfeiffer recently played a
singer opposite two real life brothers
playing brothers. Who were the brothers?
Entries should arrive at the FELIX office
no latter than Wednesday 17th October.

