CLUBS
Clubs & Socs
Amnesty
International
The week of 15-21 October is Amnesty
International Prisoner of Conscience
Week. A prisoner of conscience (or POC)
is defined by Amnesty as being someone
who is imprisoned on account of their
political or religious beliefs, or their race,
colour or sex, who have not used nore
advocated the use of violence. The
adopted prisoner of the Imperial College
Amnesty Group is Alaattin Sahin, a
Turkish chemical engineer.'
During the 1970s a large number of
political groups and parties were formed
in Turkey. Following the military coup of
September 1980, all political groups and
the publications associated with them
were banned. Their editors and journalists
were arrested and tried because of
articles they had written or published
quite legally at that time.
Alaattin Sahin is one of these
journalists. He was arrested on 26 May
1980. In 1977 he had been the editor-in-
chief of a journal called 'Hallein Yolu'
(People's Way). He was charged with
making communist propoganda, insulting
the authorities and inciting to crime. He
received sentences totally more 130
years' imprisonment. These were
combined to the maximum possible
sentence of 36 years—the equivalent to
life imprisonment.
Amnesty International knows of no
evidence that Alaattin Sahin used or
advocated violence. He is, therefore,
considered to be a prisoner of concience
imprisoned in violation of his right to
freedeom of expression as set out in
Article 10 of the European Convention on
Human Rights to which Turkey is a state
party.
The Amensty group at IC regularly
writes letters and campaigns for the
release of Alaattin Sahin. To find out
more about the work of Amnesty,
internationally or at IC come along to our
first meeting on Tuesday 16 October in
the Clubs, Committee Room (top floor
Union Building) at 5.30pm. We will be
showing an introductory video.
UROP
shall hopefully act as a catalyst to greater
things to come. The last few summers
have mostly been a case of my treking
around employment agencies to find that
there is no job available for me. When I
was at school, it was the college students
who had priority, but when I entered
college, somehow the school students
were taking my job.
Thus, last autumn I vowed to do
something different. Most of us have
heard of the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Programme, UROP—a
scheme which I admire for giving
opportunities to students to participate in
the research being done in the college.
There is a joint UROP summer
programme with Delaware University,
USA, which is fully paid and a great
opportunity for anyone. I got myself on
this scheme, only to hear about a similar
scheme at MIT—this time unpaid and
mainly a case of a UROP office at MIT
making room and time for an Imperial
student. This idea enthralled me—doing
research work at the top technological
establishment in the world. So I wrote a
few letters, made a few long distance
phone calls and voila!! I was accepted to
do work at the Center for Space
Research, there. So off I went.
Things were not cheap in Boston, but
being a student gave me experience in
handling this problem. Only the food
there is a lot worse! The research that I
was doing was in a relaxed atmosphere,
with a lot of team enthusiasm being
generated. For example, every Tuesday
evening we all went out and played
softball—a game termed as 'the old man's
version of baseball'. I was not pressured
by my supervisor, mainly because the
project I was doing required a lot of
referrals to him, and he was much more
busy than I was. So while I was there, I
got interested in the work being done at
Harvard Business School which is only
two miles away from MIT. I decided that
I would like to broaden my horizon, and
maximise the usefulness of the trip. So
after a bit of newspaper reading, I found
a topic which I was interested in—Europe
1992! Then made a few phone calls and
found a professor who had time to
accommodate me. My professor did not
act as a supervisor as such, but more like
The summer of 1990 proved to be a very
unique experience for me and one that
a guide. He would tell me what he was
looking for in the report and I would go
out and spend time myself compiling the
relevant information. The result was a
report on the British Non-Life Insurance
Industry, and a lot of experience.
The opportunity for anyone to make
their summer as interesting as mine is
open to anyone. I was actually at MIT
with two other Imperial students. Both
these students apparently had an
excellent time and one of them (Miss
Agoropoulou, Biochemistry), who is
working in the Biology department there,
has been invited back there to do further
research work, next summer. If there are
any students who are interested in
working for MIT for a summer (remember
no salary or expenses must be assumed,
although things might change by next
year!!), go to the UROP office (Mech Eng
313), copy the relevant pages in the MIT
UROP booklet, and then write letters,
with CVs, to everyone. And then wait.
Good luck! And it is worth noting that
this opportunity is not restricted to MIT
only. It is possible for a persistent-enough
person to get to any university of his
(her) choice, ACROSS THE WORLD!!! (As
long as money is not a problem. Let's
face it, who would turn down an
intelligent Imperial student to work in
their laboratory?
Eric Kochhar, Elec Eng 3.
FilmSoc
When Arnold Schwarzenegger leads a
squad of crack commandos deep into the
South American rain forests it's pretty
obvious it's not, for a picnic. Add extra
terrestrial Elmer Fudd (hunter anyway)
and all the ingredients are ready for a
macho sandwich. The film however has a
lot more style and suspense than it should
and brings the IQ level of the film into
double figures. Good SF! Good action!
Some plot! Great value! Only 80p for
members or £2 membership with a free
film. Come to Mech Eng 220 at 7pm on
Tuesday October 16.
P O S T G R A D U A T E S
p l e a s e n o t e
[The Maths Advice Centre gives guidance
to PGs on mathematical problems
connected with their research projects.
Please contact:
Dr Geoff Stephenson,
Room 6M24, Maths Dept.
Tel: 5752
for an informal dicussion of your probleml

