ICESC
Imperial College European Sailing
Challenge (ICESC), the syndicate from the
IC Yacht Club which took part in the Spi
Dauphine Challenge last Easter, is back,
and is now in full charge of the IC Yacht
Club, and aiming to make it a race
orientated club.
The club is starting off the season by
taking part in the Hamble Winter Series
on a hired First Class Europe from
Benetteau. The races will be held for
eight consecutive Sundays starting on
October 14. We will be practicing on
Saturdays and will give everyone a
chance to enjoy the thrill of racing.
For those of our members who have
never sailed before, we will take you out
the weekend of 20 and 21 October, if you
are interested, please contact one of the
members of the committee ASAP.
Cruises will be organised later during
the term.
If you want to join us, contact one of
the members of the committee. The IC
Yacht Club will be have having a meeting
on Friday 11 October at 12.30pm in the
Huxley Building, room 413. All members
please attend, if possible.
Hang Gliding
Firstly, I must apologise for the absence
of the hang gliding stand from the
Freshers' Fair, I am sure one or two
people must have noticed. Consequently
there has been no chance for me to
persuade prospective hang gliders to sign
up, until this.
Previous chairmen have started by
attempting to compare hang gliding with
other pasttimes, but there is little point.
Most people can imagine what it's like.
I am also trying to start a parapente
section, which is becoming an
increasingly popular sport. Parapentes are
the garish square parachutes that you see
floating up and down the Alps, it is quite
big with French skiers who are bored
with Black slopes.
Now for the rather tedious business of
cost. Both hang gliding and parapenting
have to be taught by a qualified
instructor. This is done by 'Freeflight
Hang Gliding', also known as Eddy, who
is based on the South Downs, just outside
Brighton. I am going to phone him some
time and negotiate a discount, but the
following is a rough guide.
£15 BHGA membership (including third
party insurance for the fence you fly
into).
£35 per day for Eddy's beer money.
£6 per day for train travel to Brighton
and back.
If there is enough interest we can take
a minibus, reducing the travel cost. There
is a 40% subsidy that can be reclaimed
from the Union for all of these expenses.
1 cannot guarantee when you will get a
licence, but something like five days may
get you the first stage, slightly less for the
parapenters.
If you need further persuasion or
reassurance, or if you are already
converted, then please come along to a
meeting. These will be held upstairs in
Southside bar at 12.30pm on Friday
lunchtime. Otherwise write to me, Simon
Cole, via the Mech Eng pigeonholes.
Micro
This is just a little note to inform all the
budding computer wizzadz out there that
Micro Club exists again. Like the beautiful
phoenix in that wonderful BBC tv kiddies
programme, we have once again risen
from the ashes and are back in (serious)
business.
And now for the news: at the end of
last term we managed to prize an Amiga
500 out of the RCC together with a
monitor, extra half meg of ram and a few
bits of software. The atari is still going
strong (though the mouse is completely in
the toilet! Any budding sparkies are more
than welcome to come and take a look).
Secondly, Micro Club is going to be a
lot better this year. I am completely fed
up with the shoddy manner in which it
has been run in previous years and
intend to pick it up off its bottom and
really do something useful with it. There
will be proper club meetings at which
members can come and put forward their
views and ideas on how they think the
club should be run and what else the club
needs. At present, I am the chairman,
acting secretary, acting treasurer and
acting publicity officer and being a busy
third year, I would more than welcome a
few hands to aid me in the running of
Micro Club. Consequently, once there are
enough members, 1 will hold elections for
all the posts. Remember, if you're not a
member, you can't vote or stand so come
along on Wednesday afternoon at 1.15pm
and sign over your hard earned cash.
If you are interested in computers for
whatever reason please come and join
up. If you already have a computer,
especially one of those that we already
own, you'd be mad not to join.
To find us, climb the Union stairs and
turn left. Follow the corridor round past
STOIC and the Ham radio society and
you'll see the sign directing you to us.
Snooker
The 1990 Freshers' Tournament was won
on Sunday by David Johnstone in rip-
roaring final. The competition attracted
fewer entrants than recent years, mainly
due to poor publicity. The champion won
the princely sum of £12 and a trophy yet
to be presented.
Students should note that signing up at
the Union fair does not make them
members or entitle them to play int he
club. A £4 membership fee must be paid
to receive a membership card. You can
join by bringing your money any
lunchtime to the club (top floor Union
Building).
The Club will be holding the November
Open into which any member can enter.
Watch the walkway and your pigeonholes
for details.
Table Tennis
Anybody who is interested in playing
table-tennis come along and join the club
on Wednesday afternoon (1.30pm) on the
top floor of the Union Building through
the Snooker room.
Membership fee is £4. Further
information can be obtained from the
Club noticeboard in the clubroom itself.
Equipment is supplied for members.
15

