H Power Swamped
A massive power failure closed the
Mechanical Engineering Department on
Wednesday 10th October. A flood was
reported at 11.45am and power was lost
at 12.00. Geoff Reeves, Imperial College
Chief Security Officer, said that a water
tank on the eighth floor burst and the
drainage system couldn't cope. Some of
the water went into the main power
ducts supplying the Mechanical
Engineering building causing a circuit
breaker to cut the supply.
Many people thought that there had
been an explosion and called security. All
floors lost power except for the
basement, first and second. The lifts and
phones were not affected and lighting
switched to the emergency backup.
The Mechanical Engineering Building
was emptied and sealed at dusk. The
mainframe computer was not hit as it has
it's own power supply but data was lost
from Personal Computers on mains
supply.
Caught Review Technical
Mr Geoff Reeves, College security
officer, has warned the college about a
walk-in theif who has been active in the
area. He is described as black, tall (about
six foot) and slim, wearing black tracksuit
trousers. Mr Reeves said that it would be
worth while to challenge any strangers.
He added that bicycle theives are
having a great time now that the new
intake is here. He said that D-locks are
for sale at cost price from the security
room in Sherfield as the cable locks used
by first years in particular are no use
whatever.
The opening hours of the Haldane music
library are to be put under review,
according to Mr Richard Hall, Lyon
Playfair sub- librarian. He said that the
present hours of 11.00 until 4.00 in the
afternoon was due to a redistribution of
staff in the library so that books could be
issued for longer and the issue of music
could be guaranteed for those hours. He
said that the library was looking at
alternative and less time consuming ways
of issuing cassettes.
The Lego Motor Show, Auto 2000, opens
today at the Science Museum and runs
until the 24th March. Entrance is free to
members of IC on production of a union
card.
The exhibition is on the third floor and
contains a hands-on area, a shop and an
exhibition of models of futuristic cars. A
full size prototype and a 1:3.5 scale
model of a Lamborghini Countach L.P400S
are on display in the foyer.
Nightmare on Queens Lawn
The Union faces college wrath over the
siting of the Careers Fair on the Queens
Lawn. Estates had given Dave Ensel,
Careers Fair Manager, permission to use
the lawn but top level officials, including
the Rector, had not been consulted.
Yesterday, when work started on the
erection of the marquee, contractors
vehicles parked in an area of the college
car park which was to be used by some
visiting VIP's.
The marquee has also caused two other
problems. The company providing stands
to go inside the marquee had measured
the size of the Queens Lawn incorrectly.
This was corrected by the marquee
company removing two panels from the
side of the marquee, shortening it by
eight metres. They have not charged the
Union for doing this.
The other problem has also been
caused by the stand company. They want
the Union to purchase special armoured
cable for the electrics. This is normally
only used for permanent installations and
would cost the Union £1300. The Union
were told of this requirement on
Thursday morning. Dave Ensel
commented to Felix, 'It's all gone horribly
wrong'
The Careers Fair will run next tuesday
and Wednesday (16th/17th October) and
will be free to all students, from Imperial
and other colleges. There will be
2
refreshments and a bar available inside
the marquee.
The Union expect 5000 visitors to the
Fair, 3000 of which will receive a glossy
conference folder in which to place the
Careers Fair brochure, providing
information on all the companies in the
fair. This year the cost of attending has
been increased drastically - up to £1075
for a two day stall. The extra cost has
not proved to be a deterrent to
companies, for the extra revenue has
been used to provide a better service to
both the companies and the students
visiting the fair.
Included in the cost of the stall is the
£15,000 cost of the purpose built
aluminium marquee. This was the
brainchild of Dave Ensal who visited
European Careers Fairs this year. He also
produced the idea of providing
partitioned stands for visiting companies.
They also get two pages in the Fair's
brochure.
This year the Union lost 30 companies,
mainly petro-chemical and banks due to a
change in the market. They gained over
30 "industrial companies, however,
including BP research, ICI and Unileaver.
There will also be several international
companies and a stall run by international
students (the B.E.S.T. stall).
Ben Turner, the Careers Fair
Coordinator, has arranged for two parties
to be held in the marquee before it is
removed and for the profits from 'The
Big Gig' on the 23rd and 24th October to
be donated to the Careers Fair fund.
Further information on Careers can be
obtained from the Careers Advisory
Service, on the 3rd floor of Sherfield.

