Wham-bam-a
WEEK
The Freshers' Week events are definitely
the place to be. For those of you who
missed out on tickets or were too pissed
to remember, it was great fun.
The Week kicked off with the New
Year's Party. Two bands and a disco
extravaganza lay in store. Walking into
Beit Quad you were met by an
impressive sight. The walls of the Union
Building had been lit up with projected
images of spiders webs, arrows and
broadway. Jean Michelle-Jarre eat your
heart out. And if that was not good
enough the inside was even better.
Swirling elephants, ultra-violet lights and
arty pictures everywhere.
First stop before the bands; the Cocktail
Bar. Banana Banshees (yummy), Killer
Zombies and Ocean Rollers, but no
straws. The Rugby Club would profit
more if they didn't drink it all themselves.
The first band on was Ruff Ruff and
Ready. They looked it! A psycho-billy on
lead guitar, a trainee MacDonalds
manager on bass, a skinhead on drums
and two singers. The resulting sound is
not disimilar to Big Audio Dynamite. An
underlying reggae rock rythmn with punk
thrash choruses. The majority of their
songs did not agree with Imperial's
Conservative views as in Robbing the
Rich to Feed the Poor, but at least they
have a couple of silly songs such as
Errection. The best part of the band was
the highly animated, ethnic dancing. They
were amusing and fun to watch.
The main band of the night was the
Levellers. Playing jiggy Irish folk music
for most of the time, they were similar in
sound to Pogues and looked like New
Model Army (although they obviously
could not afford the clogs). I was
expecting something brilliant from this
band, but I was disappointed. With the
usual handful of political songs I couldn't
help thinking I've heard and seen it all
before. As for their last song it was a re-
hash of the Happy Mondays. At least the
fire alarm relieved this torment for a bit.
The Levellers did not aid the evacuation
however but played on even when the
lights had been turned off and several
Union officers had told them to stop.
To end the evening the Levellers and
Ruff Ruff and Ready got together to play
one of the latter's songs. But because of
the fire alarm only half the people were
left to appreciate it.
The big event of the night was Disco
Amnesia "90 (unforgettable!) starring some
extremely famous DJs who no one had
heard of or really cared about. The noise
they were playing was LOUD. The lights
were amazingly impressive (better than a
lot of night clubs). I will admit it I hate
'Rave' music, but I think half the people
there would prefer to dance to a wide
variety of musical tastes. And at least
everybody would be happy at some
stage.
My urge to dance was satisfied when
the Lounge rocked to sounds of Abba and
the Bee Gees. I could have sworn they
were more people in the Lounge than
Disco Amnesia '90.
Who the hell was that band upstairs? I
can now reveal that they were none
other than the Wild Angels. Playing pure
Rock 'n' Roll all night long this was one
bunch of cool dudes. They had the
punters dancing and for the last song
(which went on and on) one of the
audience played the drums. This was the
place to sit down, relax and chat. They
were great, so why weren't they billed?
laughed at this year's comediens.
The compere of the evening, Jeff
Green, knew his stuff and was good.
Playing on American-Iraq affairs and
those IC statistics (no women) we all
know too well. He had the audience in
hysterics before the acts came on,
providing perfect introductions.
The first act of the night was Simon
Day. Specialising in impressions of 'House'
Parties and American screen stars, neatly
timed to backing tracks. This is where the
problem lay it was all too neat and
smooth. The jokes were lost beneath it,
1
One last drink, a burger and then it was
off to bed.
Recollections of last year's Comedy
Night meant I was not overjoyed with the
prospect of going to this one (all the jokes
had been based on masturbation,
condoms and fucking). I was in for a
shock, I actually smiled and occasionally
and it just was not funny.
After a short interval Jeff Green the
Laughter Machine (it rhymes honest) was
back to introduce Pat Condell 'I am the
Master of the Universe, I am the man
who says Mind the Gap'. He was so
sincere about it all you could almost
believe him, but then again. He was in
boogie A review of Freshers'
Week by Colin Toombs
WEEK
the laughter business and after a few digs
at the Police (someone has to do it) had
earned his applause. Not bad at all.
And so we move on to DOON. From a
name like DOON I don't think anyone
could have anticipated the next act.
DOON is a sexually liberated women who
manages to delivery the taste of what it
would be like if women had the mentality
of men. She opened with a rap totally
taking the piss out of male chauvenist rap
artists. She then enlightens us about using
vibrators at the bus stop. 'Guaranteed to
make you come before the bus does'. Her
act is very clever and full of humour, but
I cannot help thinking that some of the
audience will probably seriously believe
women are pining and waiting to get laid
at every opportunity. Are they?
As usual to end the evening there was
a Joke competition. All you had to do
was provide a witty punchline for this
joke. 'What did Nigel Lawson say when
he met Sir Eric Ash' No one entered. So
to get rid of the four cans of Castlemaine
X X X X a stand-up joke competition was
run.
The Americans entered in full force, but
we had a Yorkshire lad to keep up the
British end. The result was a tie between
California and Yorkshire and was a
splendid climax to a good evening's
entertainment.
After another night spent recovering it
was the Final event of the week, the
Freshers' Ball. With a whole list of things
happening through the night there was
no excuse for boredom.
The lights were still there in full
glorious technicolour. A new Links
cocktail bar with a new drinks list. A
closer look found this to be purely
cosmetic and they were in fact of the
same composition.
My Tropical Trauma in hand it was off
to see the first band of the night: Boy Girl
Soup (more of a Boy Soup as there are
no girls in the band). I would class them
as pop rock, playing a few love songs
and a handful of meaningful ones. The
volume was too loud as the sound was
distorting, but they wre nothing special.
Next up was the Trudy. The
psychedelic lights began to swirl and an
extract from the first episode of Lost in
Space hummed out the speakers. The
Trudy are lost in that late seventies
period of drainpipes and science fiction,
when similar bands like the Revillos were
around. The Trudy, however, are living
on in the Nineties with loads of silly
songs about outerspace. The lead singer,
Melissa, has a dance style which would
have been considered naff at Disco
Amnesia '90 but gots loads of people
dancing (until some prats started moshing
and stage diving). To put it simply they
were brilliant.
Death Bang Party. Who ever put this
band together I take my hat off to you.
They were amazingly mind blowing. With
no fewer than nine people on stage at
any one time providing the music the
atmosphere was ecstatic, positively
orgasmic. A costume change was required
by the high priest of the cult of Death
Bang for most songs with 101 ludicrous
stage props. The songs had highly
repeatable choruses so everyone could
join in, with 'Where's the party? The
party's up your arse' and 'Fuck, Fuck,
Fuck, Fuck, Fuck, Fuck You!' being some
of the tamer ones. The absurdity of the
show rose to astonishing heights: starting
off wearing massive bull horns on his
head, the high priest stripped to a loin
cloth, complete with phallic vacuum
cleaner hose (industrial size) attacked,
then it was into a swimsuit and rubber
dingy, and ending up in the cult of Death
Bang ceremonial cloak and wig.
Everyone in the Lounge was on their
knees to the almighty Death Bang. I
escaped quickly before I too was
converted. I now knew the answer to
B J
S a y s
T h a n k s
Thanks to all of you who turned up to
the events in Freshers' Week, I hope you
all had a good time. If you have any
comments or suggestions about anything
to do with the events no matter how
good or bad, please let us know by either
dropping a note into the Ents pigeonhole
in the Union Office or, if you recognise
any of us, by telling us personally.
It is important as we are here to
organise events for you so if you don't
tell us what you want we will assume you
like what we like. Even (especially) if you
liked it tell us!!
The next Ents event is not until
October 26 when two up and coming
bands will be grooving on down in the
Lounge.
They are Spirit of Ecstacy and Miss
America (see FELIX for preview). Details
for this and the event the following week,
The Muscle Shoal and support, will
appear in FELIX nearer the time.
But the Ents disco raves on! On
'When's the Party?' it was in the Union
lounge.
C&G were running a Casino with Black
Jack, Farmers Glory and Roulette being
played. The first prize for the person with
the highest winnings is a personal stereo.
Since I lost all my chips on a chaotic
game of roulette I have not won.
The headlinging band of the night was
The James Taylor Quartet and all the
guests they could think of inviting. The
music conjures up images of Starsky and
Hutch and Hawaii 50. I did not
appreciate it. However, I was reliably
informed by a non-biased watcher that
they were good. From the number of
people dancing I will believe him. And so
the only fun week of a whole year at
Imperial College slipped into the past as
the sun rose.
I enjoyed myself and I'm hard to
please. My only gripe (as usual) is against
the disco's music. That aside, Rave on
Hacienda Boys!
F R E E D I S C O
EVER/ WEDNESDAY
IN THE UNION LOUNGE
Wednesday and every Wednesday Libido
will be raging in the Lounge from
8pm-12-ish. The top Ents DJ's will be
pumping out the latest and greatest in all
types of music from House music to
Heads, Shoulders, Knees and Toes music.
It's great, and free, so come along and
shake it out.
Also there are Ents meetings every
Tuesday to talk about world problems
and world solutions—if you want to get a
head, get involved—the rewards are
endless. Also Ents card holders (or non-
holders); some still have not been
collected, come into the Union Office
anytime or Ents meetings on Tuesday
lpm in the Lounge to pick them up.
If you still want one come into the
Union Office, ask for the Ents crew and
shout 'Poulet-frites' while shaking your
body frantically. Also you will need £7
and a photo. Bye for now.
BJ.

