B i r d l a n d Rock 'n' Roll Nigger EP
Birdland get back to their original roots
on this four track EP. The infinitely slow
intro heralds an obviously outrageously
fast track with all the usual vigour and
speed. Fans who thought that they'd lost
'the edge' with the relative tranquility of
Sleep With Me will already be back
slamming in their bedsits. At last, they
have got half-way to ensnaring their
precocious live mania to disc.
The shame of its controversy over the
word 'nigger' (which they gloatingly and
teasingly relish over) is the song's coup.
Birdland always set out to be
nonconformist. Thats why we love them,
along with vivacious liveliness and
exhilarating sound.
When you've cought you're breath,
Protection over the back begins with
more gently rocking harmonics and gives
the collapsing listener a chance to
recover a little with his feet just on the
ground. The slower tempo does not do
wonders for his voice which tends better
towards impromptu scrawl than holding a
melody. But this is what Birdland are
there for
All too soon, Rollercoaster swoops in to
destroy any club venue. Similarly to the
Mary Chain's Rollercoaster in principle
but not performance, some phrases are
almost Arabian and the drumming is
flawlessly accurate, making the near
tuneless vocals even more gratifying. As
ever, Birdland look at life, and get on
with what they're good at - having a
great time.
The flip climaxes with Fun Fun Fun
which leaves you dying to turn the
record over back to the lead track again.
This is Birdland at their most typical—
recklessly young, frivolously jolly and
aggressively noisy. It's a track for anyone
fed up with moping lyricists mourning
broken relationships. Birdland get straight
on with live and to the full. Have fun
while you're young; and when you're old
too, and Birdland don't get any
profounder than that. Call them
outspoken.
Call them young and foolish. But if this
is what comes out of it, that must be
good. All together, Birdland prove that
diversity is still posible without sacrificing
originality, ideals and a downright
cockiness.
SJH
B l u r I Know Single
Oh dear, in / Know we have yet more
baggy music. Hammond organ, sixties
groove, boyish voice (and no doubt-
blowy haircuts)—sounds suspiciously
Cnar/afanesque. Having heard nothing by
this band before, we were expecting better
things. At a guess this is the band's dance
chart attempt, but they're obviously
reluctant to sell out completely and this
'indie'-cisiveness has left them with a
rather drab sound.
On to the other side with She's So
High. Top intro with very Spaceman 3
groovy noises in the background. It
moves on with an unexciting vocal
melody and poor lyrics (she's so high,
she's so high—I want to crawl all over
her, etc—honestly!!!). What's more, it's
very repetitive and as this isn't a dance
record, they've got no excuse. She's So
High does, however, have a redeeming
middle eight hippy sitar-like bit.
Despite this, Blur are talented musicians
and this record is well produced. With a
tad more originality they could do well.
See Blur at ULU on November 11—we'll
be there.
Pinky & Perky
P r e f a b
S p r o u t
Jordan LP
I question record companies motives for
starting albums with tracks that have
been released as singles. Along with the
inevitable 'featuring the hit singles it is
all an attempt to sell copies to the boppy
chart market. Prefab Sprout don't need
any of these gimmicks as they have
produced what may be their best album
yet.
On the first hearing many of the songs
sound similar, gentle ditties that will
offend nobody. But, on the second play a
whole new world opens up, full of
surprises and inspiration.
The sequencing is perfect, each track
flows neatly and sensibly on to create a
well rounded whole (this is one CD I
won't put on random play.) Saying that,
any of the songs could hold its own,
except 'All boys believe anything' as its
only half a minute long.
Excellent value with nineteen tracks
and well over an hour long.
In the words of one of their own song,
'any music worth its salt is good for
dancing.'
Ian Hodge

