Leather, Lace & Transvestites
A darkness was growing like a verruca
outside the Electric Ballroom on
September 27. Like a plague, the black
seething mass flowed out along the
pavements and then over the kerb and
into the road. Eventually the doors
opened and the fuzz of hair, mascara,
rubber and skewering stilletos crammed
inside. It was the night they had been
expecting.
Within, the scene was set for a night of
terror and transformations. The bars were
oasises of light—a haven for those too
distraught to continue. The smoke pooled
about the floor and the chatter silenced.
The only colour was in the green-grey
mist which clung to the empty beer
glasses like sludge. Bodies imprisoned in
taught rubber were stilled and the first
band came on.
Cristabelle Children wear black.
Cristabelle Children have lots of hair.
Cristabelle Children put quotes from the
Bible on their lyric sheets. Cristabelle
Children don't play soppy music. What
they do give is a hair-raising turmoil of
sounds and deranged experiences. The
bodies seethed and the rubbered flesh got
funny little drops of condensation on
them.
Sister Midnight have spent the last few
months building up an inshatterable
reputation for kinkiness and general on-
stage perversions. Anyone who had come
to see contouring body-stockings and
black leather whips was not disappointed.
Anyone who had come to listen to the
music had been mobbed out long ago.
Shockingly, Sister Midnight itself used to
be a bloke, but was now part way
through that operation which entails the
removal of certain unmentionable and
irreplacable parts (bollocks—Ed). It
seemed quite happy to display this fact to
us all by wearing a leopard-skin body-
stocking and flaunting his lack of tackle,
particularly in the direction of any
11111111
Hail Ave Demntia Marionettes
available camera lens. The photographer
is now in a stable condition and out of
intensive care.
In an especially subdued mood for this
refined gig, they refrained from whipping
each other on stage and contented
themselves merely with gyrating PVC-clad
females who were not as well clad as
some of the barer embers of the
audience. No disappointment was the
sound, a ranchy, kinky, rocky perversion,
ably captured on their debut EP. When
all was silent once more, the beasts were
again rounded up into their cases.
Rosetta Stone are being hailed as the
sart of a Goth revival—help us!! They
unashamedly carry on where the Sisters
of Mercy and The Mission left off years
ago to become commercialised. They are
an astounding two-piece, completed with
Darkness and Light: Rosetta Stone
the compulsory ill-named drum-machine.
What makes them still more remarkable
is tht the talented intricate guitarist can
give a most refined and tuneful vocal at
the same time. This was flourished with
another imaginative bassist. The blatent
rip-offs of entire musical lines from such
classics as Walk Away and almost every
decent Mish piece just added to their
appeal. Firmly distanced from the
rituallers by a sheath of dry ice, those
who did not suffocate and managed to
peer through the gloom and racing laser
effects will have seen a chillingly
emotional performance, yet beautifully
composed and still, in extreme contrast to
the insane mayhem of dancing and
bewitched circles spinning wildly to the
incantation. The pair vanished briefly
from the stage, only to be drawled back
to complete the experience.
Still ravenous to complete this musical
fix, the Ave Dementia (previously
Screaming) Marionettes. Easily the biggest
band there, they release their debut
album Ave Dementia, next week and are
about to undertake a major tour of the
UK, finishing at the London Astoria. They
drained every bit of energy and sweat
from the rabid crowd, some of whom
were near collapse after Like Cristabelle,
their second single. They've come far
since Obsession, developing melody and
anger as they blast minds and today.
Bodies flew from the stage and still
remained elevated on the excitement.
And then they were gone, and the
Goths skulked back to their chambers,
now fired on a renewed hope of a day
when they would dare show their faces in
the light again, and be able to buy Sisters
of Mercy records without being laughed
at.
SJH.

