V
FEATURES
Part 2 on the ground display. Text and pictures by Roland Flowerdew.
Farnborough International 1990 V
FEATURES
'The shadow of a Sukhoi' Sukhoi Su-27
While many people go to the
Farnborough airshow to see the air
display, the static displays are equally
impressive, with the latest technology and
innovations often being on view for the
first time. This week's feature on the
airshow concentrates on some of the
interesting ground and exhibition displays
seen this year,
HOTOL
The prospects of the HOTOL project
getting off the ground seem much more
likely with the announcement of a study
into the feasibility of using the Antonov
An-225 Mriya (Dream) to piggyback
HOTOL part way into space. BAe has
been negotiating with the Soviet Ministry
of Aviation to use the aircraft as a low-
cost launch platform. The An-225 was
originally designed to aid in the Soviet
space program as a transport, and has a
proven ability to carry vehicles on its
back: last year when displaying at the
Paris airshow, it brought the Soviet space
shuttle 'Buran' in in this fashion.
The new proposal breaths life into the
project, which was refused funding by the
UK government despite the promise of a
cheap method for launching satellites,
because the revolutionary dual mode
propulsion system need not be used. This
system caused the now-temporary
shelving of the project, because the
Ministry of Defence insisted on keeping
the engine technology secret, thus barring
international funding of the project.
The proposal is that the An-225 will
take HOTOL up to 30,000 ft where the
two craft will separate, and HOTOL will
use interim, Soviet-derived rocket motors
to launch itself into orbit. The study will
conduct wind tunnel tests to determine
the viability and safety at the moment of
separation. The combination should be
able to put into orbit a payload of up to 7
tonnes, at under half the current cost.
Supersonics
British Aerospace (BAe) and Aerospatiale,
the builders of Concorde, have been
working separately on the next
generation of supersonic transports (SST).
They have now decided to share all
information although the designs each has
produced so far are too different to be
amalgamated. Recently a wider study has
begun between BAe, Aerospatiale,
Boeing, McDonnell-Douglas and Deutsche
Airbus. The basic requirements of such an
aeroplane are that it should be capable of
around Mach 2-2.5, while carrying up to
300 passengers over 10,000 km. At the
same time it must be environmentally
acceptable, with low noise, and good
economy so that operation is profitable.
Such an aircraft is unlikely to be flying
before 2000, with another 10 years before
it enters service. '
SNECMA and Rolls-Royce, the
collaborators for the Concorde engines
are also engaged in a joint study on SST
propulsion. Any such engine will need to
be variable cycle - running as a turbofan
for subsonic flight, and as a turbojet while
supersonic - to meet economy and noise
requirements. Rolls-Royce is less
enthusiastic about developing an SST
engine because of the limited number
required: the faster an aircraft travels, the
fewer required to carry a given number
of passengers a certain distance in a
specified time period.
Both Japan and the Soviet Union are
also interested in developing an SST, and
it is possible that they will join with the
five companies above in producing such
an aircraft.
Sukhoi and Gulfstream have been
collaborating in a venture to build a
supersonic biz-jet. In order for the
program to be justified, a minimum of
100 examples would have to be sold at
around 40 million US dollars each, but it
is believed that such a market exists.
Sukhoi reckon that up to 20 could be sold
to the Soviet authorities. Gulfstream had
a model of the Mach 2 biz-jet on their
stand, but a detailed specification is yet to
be finalised, although it will probably
carry up to 16 passengers with 3 crew
over a range of 4000 nmi. Engine design
studies are being carried by Lyulka of
USSR and Rolls-Royce. A proof-of-concept
prototype is expected to fly around 1994,
with full production by 1998.
New Engines
Rolls-Royce had on display an example of
their new engine, the Trent turbofan.
This engine is being developed to meet
the increasing thrust requirements of new
airliners: current engine designs can
produce over 60,000 lbs thrust, but are
reaching the end of their development
life. The Trent has been designed to
produce thrust in the range 60,000 to
90,000 lbs, and has already been ordered
by several airlines to power McDonnell-
Douglas MD-11 and Airbus A330 airliners.
The new engine uses the latest
technology in its wide-chord fan, which
uses fewer but wider blades than in a
conventional turbofan.
The advantages of this configuration
include greater fuel efficiency, and
greater resistance to bird-strike and other
ingested foreign bodies The engine was
test-run in August of this year, giving it a
head-start on its rivals, the General
Electric GE90 and Pratt & Whitney
PW4082. It seems likely that Boeing will
use the Trent in its new airliner, the
767-X, later to be known as the 777.
However, General Electric claim that
their engine will be more suitable for the
767-X as this will require thrusts of over
85,000 lbs, for which the GE90 is
specifically designed.
No Stealth
The Civil Aviation Authority showed
examples of the new radar systems used
for air traffic control. These displayed
images of the current state of the skies
over a user-selectable area: up to the
whole of the South of England could be
seen on the screen. Unfortunately, none
of the air traffic controllers on the stand
seemed to know how to use the system...
The United States Air Force (USAF) had
on static display a Lockheed TR-1, the
long-winged and black painted high flying
spy plane. The type is due to be re-
engined next year, replacing the '50s
technology system currently in use. The
new engines are lighter and more fuel-
efficient, thus increasing the range of the
aircraft. The type is expected to stay in
service for many more years for airborne
intelligence purposes. The USAF missed
stealing the show by not bringing another
product from the Lockheed hangers, the
F-117 stealth fighter, to Farnborough.
They claimed that the 2.4 km runway
was not long enough for the aeroplane.
Lockheed has delivered all examples built
to the USAF, hence were unable to bring
one over themselves.
The new Boeing 767-X, which will
receive official approval providing
sufficient orders are obtained, may have
folding wing-tips. The envisaged wing-
span of the aeroplane is 198 ft, compared
to the 211 ft of the Boeing 747-400, the
latest long-range version. The advantage
of such a system is that airport gates
designed for use with aircraft such as the
Boeing 707 will be able to be used. The
disadvantage is the additional weight and
cost penalty, but Boeing say that the
percentage weight increase would be
minimal. Whether such a system will be
fitted will depend entirely on what the
majority of customers require.
Sikorsky displayed their flying dough-
nut, the Cypher, on their stand. The
proof-of-concept prototype consists of an
outer ring six feet in diameter—the
doughnut—with two contra-rotating rotors
inside, one above the other, so there are
no torque effects. The rotors are powered
by two model aero-engines buried inside
the doughnut, and no other control
surfaces are required. Intended usage
includes remote pilotless surveillance and
law-enforcement.
According to Flight Daily News, an
airshow newspaper, someone was found
training a thermal imaging device on
young women walking the aisles of the
halls. The device revealed all the body's
hot-spots, and was said to be particularly
good at revealing black silk and nylon.
Concorde: Successor in sight?
British Aerospace by Sarah Harland
British Aerospace (BAe) had the most
prominent exhibition this year, with two
sizeable outdoor display parks, advertising
both civil and military aspects of their
work, as well as a line of chalets and
notable display in the halls.
The better presented of the parks
showed Military Defence. The set route
toured land and air vehicles, weapons
and systems, all set against a background
of combat conditions. The emphasis on
the recent acquisition of Rover Group was
fulfilled with a Land Rover and Discovery
liaison vehicle on show. The latter runs
on a 2.5 litre turbo-diesel engine and
carries seven passengers, particularly
useful for police work. Among weapons
demonstrated was the new Laserfire
system. This is a development of the
Rapier low level air defence system
which can be mounted on a single
vehicle. It offers millimetric surveillance
radar and laser tracker making it fully
automatic. As it is also air-portable, it can
rapidly be brought into action.
Military aircraft on display included the
new Hawk version, the 200, the Tornado
IDS, Tornado ADV, two Harrier GR5s
under camouflage netting, and a military
freighter variant of the BAe 146, the
146-STA, complete with air-to-air
refuelling probe.
In the civilian park were two more 146
versions, the -200 and -300QT 'Quiet
Trader'. The latter is again a freighter
version, currently used by TNT, the
courier company. It has a side loading
door and pallet system: one of the pallets
was shown with a Rover Metro on it.
On their hall stand, BAe was operating
an innovative computer training system.
The Integrated Computer Based Training
system uses a standard PC with a touch
sensitive screen to familiarise a potential
pilot with an aircraft and its system
operations. Each student will study at an
individual terminal, being led through
every item of cockpit equipment, and is
then invited to operate it himself by
turning the dials on the screen. It
replaces the OHP in conventional classes,
having the benefits of individual tuition,
and freeing the instructor. The pupil can
thus perform his 90 hrs training
whenever he chooses. The system also
replaces complex and specialist
instrument replicas for basic hands-on
familiarisation and training, and, available
in any language, is a cheaper and readily
transportable aid for foreign customers. It
can simulate more real conditions and
tasks than a conventional system.

