Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 10 November
SleepImperial
Winter Carnival
Disabilities History Month
22 November - 22 December
The 22 November to 22 December, 2017 marks Disabilities History
Month in the UK.This year Imperial College Union’s Disabilities Officer,
Hisham Abdel Aty, is asking Imperial students help raise awareness
about disabilities by spending a few days simulating a visual, hearing or
physical impairment.
These activities will help raise awareness of the different disabilities
that people within the Imperial community suffer from and also
highlight how accessible teaching and resources are for students - and
not forgetting all the while to be raising money for a charity which
supports members of the public with the disability being simulated.
This is an exciting month worth of events... but we can’t do it without
you!
Get involved: https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/your-union/
your-representatives/liberation-zones/disabilities-history-month
SleepImperial Launch
MONDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2017 | 12:15 - 13:15
Garden Room, Chaplaincy
Join us for an introduction to the motivations of Imperial Sleep Week,
some fun sleep-related activities - including calming meditation and
4-7-8 breathing - culminating in some ‘collective napping’ in the rich,
luxurious and indulgent environment that is the Garden Room at the
Chaplaincy. Our resident expert in mindfulness meditation, Multi-faith
Chaplain Karuna Priya, will lead the guided meditation.
There’s limited space. Sign up here: https://www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/whats-on/event/5393
‘The Importance of Sleep’ EveningTalk
MONDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2017 | 18:00 - 19:15
SAFB Room 122, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
Join us for an interactive and fun seminar with world-leading sleep
researcher, Professor Mary Morrell. Discuss the importance of sleep
for leading healthy and fulfilling lives. Understand and use techniques
to improve your sleep quality and life satisfaction. Finally, learn further
about this exciting field of research.
Sign up here: https://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on/
event/5395
....Let’s have & Rock n Roll Christmas this year to celebrate the last
day of term!
Super Early Bird Tickets SOLD OUT already!!! Standard Early Birds
now on sale...get them before they run out too!!!
Early BirdTickets - Monday 6th to Sunday 26th of November £2.50

