Congratulations to the following, who have
been awarded colours. The Boat Club deserve a
special mention as they have several interna-
tionals in their team and they are the most
successful team in College by a long way.
(Apart from badminton, of course!)
Colours
Cricket Club
Full Athletic Colours
S Tear
P Eastland
E Helsby
Half Athletic Colours
A Harlow
R Kelly
K Jarrett
N Shaw
K Ackford
S Bell
Boat Club
Full Athletic Colours
J P Thorn
I W Harrison
W D Downing
J D Griffiths
R J O'Brien
W M S Bradbury
A D Spalding
G H Harding
E R Mendez
M L Greaves
P M G Allen
T J Anderson
IC vs L H M C 485-474 Won
Last Wednesday Imperial College continued
their highly successful season by walking all
over the London Hospital Medical College,
and thus maintaining their unbeaten record.
Despite L H M C bringing along too many
people, and choosing their team after they
had all shot, fine performances were seen
from top of IC's top sportsmen. Surprise of
the day was Ed Ashford's 99, the top score of
the day. This was highly commendable for a
first year marksman with little match
experience. Other IC scores: Steve 'Gut'
Harrison 98, Gordon 'Shred' Bowser 97,
Andrew 'Baguettes' Hamilton 96, Gareth
Jones and Tim Gigs 95 each.
Last Saturday Bowser and Harrison went
off to help U L gain revenge on Cambridge for
last year's defeat. U L fell for Cambridge's
usual tactics again of providing a range lit and
heated by candles, despite Grodon's 192 ex
200, London lost yet again.
ICRPC are happy to announce yet another
innovative, original and startling social
evening. After the amazing success of last
term's Sloane Ranger Pub Run, we are going
;down the dogs. No—not the Isle of, but the
greyhounds at the White City. Sign up in the
range, and don't forget to bring a dirty mac
and a fiver. Date for this cultural evening is
yet to be fixed by our Ents committee.
All for now—happy banging!
Page t 2 H H H H H H H m
In response to questions asked, I feel 1 must
explain that all reports written concerning
table tennis in F E L I X are usually one week
out of date. This is due to the fact that
matches are played mid-week and so it is
impossible to submit reports for the week's
matches before the deadline of 5:00pm
Monday. Thus any references to days are to
the week preceding the week for the FELIX
issue.
Last Monday (16 Jan), Team 1 restarted
their season with the promised positive
attitude (to avoid relegation). They beat
Sainsbury are up with the leading group of
Division 2.
Team 3 continued on their way to a good
overall performance for the season by
vanquishing City University 9-0 (partly due
to two-thirds of the opposing team missing
the match).
Team 4 slacked a little in their second half
season rally by losing 9-0 in their second
match. However Brian Norminton showed
continued improvement so the match was not
a total loss.
Team 5 played (I think) but, no report was
forthcoming, unfortunately, as they stood a
good chance of beating City of London
Police. No doubt the report will be submitted
to me in time for the next F E L I X issue!
Mens 1 v R H C Won 9-0
This was the game that no one wants to play
in, as it means travelling all the way to Egham
to play a team incapable of beating anyone in
the whole club.
Their court resembles a shoe box from the
outside, but the inside feels more like an
igloo.
The highlights of the match were few and
far between, in fact, come to think of it, tlicie
werer't any. Ian ana myself managed to do
the impossible and lose a set to their third
pair, but we rectified things by beating their
first pair 15-0, 15-7, though still not playing
well. Dominic Demento and Ave Allen do
damned war dances together and I can see
that Dom will have a difficult task holding on
to the title of 'Club Nutter". Steve and Lee
should really have played left-handed, in fact
we all should.
Mens 3 were fated by me last week and
somehow managed to lose 8-1 to Chelsea of
all people. They'll still win the league though.
The Ladies couldn't get a team together for
the first time this year, but could still do well
in the legaue.
More names for the Dublin tour please,
leaving 10 Feb, coming back on Sunday. I
really need names by today, if possible, as I
need to give an indication of numbers and
expenses to Exec.
• • • I Friday. January 27, 1984 B H M
St Georges Hospital 1-2 IC2
'It's a great weight off my shoulders.' So
proclaimed centre forward Leroy Wint jafter
netting his first goal of the season as IC
Seconds continued their recent run of good
results with a 2-1 win at Cobham. The result is
remarkable when set against the outcome of
the previous encounter between these two
sides when IC Seconds went down 5-0. Field-
ing for the first time this season an unchanged
side IC had the better of goalless first half.
Captain and left-back Tony Wilkinson in-
curred an early injury but this had little dis-
cernible impact on the game. Midway
through the second half St Georges broke
through and took an ill-deserved lead.
Undeterred IC rallied well and Leroy
headed in a spectacular equaliser following
good work on the right wing by Tom Dutton
and Dave Lynne. The latter it was who scored
the winner from an acute angle as St Georges
drifted out of the match. The result left the
side jubilant having taken seven points out of
the last eight, following a shaky beginning to
the session. Recent editorial trends debar
team lists so rather than single out any
individual for special praise it suffices to
commend the team in anonymity.
After being unbeaten for two years in the
U L U Challenge Cup IC were unable to show
very much live football on Saturday due to a
technical dispute amongst the players. IC
shop steward Gary Lawrence blamed the dis-
pute on unfavourable playing conditions
such as 'the opposition keep beating us', 'too .
many long balls for not enough reward', etc.
There were several unofficial stoppages
and lightening strikes during the first half
hour during which the Goldsmiths blacklegs
crossed our picket-line three times, without
much resistance, despite chants of'Out! Out!'
and 'Offside, ref!' from our members. After
consultation with an A C A S official dressed in
a black suit, IC members voted for a return to
work for twenty minutes either side of the tea
break. During this period productivity was
good and IC were well recompensed by a
header from flying picket Dave Griffiths, and
a fine shot on the turn from striker John
Rigby. However IC did lose one order when
Rob Clarke contravened a union rule inside
his own box and Goldsmiths scored from the
resulting fine.
Despite several attempts before the end of
the game to reach a suitable solution IC
finished the period with a deficit of 5-2. IC
Union leader Dave Griffiths blames our re-
cent poor industrial performance on the de-
fection of a number of former comrades to
the rival University of London Company.
This company offers a better management
and playing conditions and supposedly a
higher quality product. In spite of claims by
the U of L team to be a representative side of
the best players at College in London it re-
sembles at the moment at IC old boys team.
Of its 20 members 50% are ex-IC 1st X I and
2nd X I . Clearly this imbalance lowers the
standards of both the U of L XI and, unfor-
H n a n H m n H H i F a i x

