tunately, IC Football Club as a whole, and it
would be beneficial if the U of L team was
truly representative and could take a maxi-
mum of three or four players from each col-
lege. Without wishing to lessen the personal
ambition of rurrent IC players they are urged
to considf ae future and the reputation of,
what is aiier all, their own college football
club, beofre making similar moves.
Congratulations to the first team on being 8
points clear at the top of the Universities of
London League—that makes us the best
student team in London.
Other teams have not fared so well,
particularly the third and fourth teams who
were both demoted to the fifth league for this
session. We're jstill looking for some keen
players—it's not too late to join us!
Coming up this term are two knock-out
tournaments: one open to non-club members
played to S R A rules, the other a handicap
competition with American scoring. There
are going to be one or two afternoons in mid-
February devoted to getting through the early
rounds: these should be social occasions too
so I expect to see most members partici-
pating!
Finally, but importantly, is the clubs
proposed tour of Southern Ireland. Dates
have now been aired for 30 March to 8 April.
We will be driving around the country—
subject to the transport committee letting us
hire one of the College minibuses—playing
both university and club sides: our final
match should be a memorable one in Dublin
against Guinness Breweries.
My thanks to Dr Oliver Dolby (Biochem)
for all the organisation he has done so far to
get the tour on the road. I don't think we're
going to be short of numbers for this, so if
you're keen, you had better sign up rapidly!
Remember that last year's tour to Germany
included two people who had never played a
competitive match before, but they had great
fun.
Good squashing!
Way out on the Western Spiral arm of the
galaxy, near a small yellow star, orbitted at a
distance of roughly 93 million miles, by an
insignificant blue-green planet, there is a
small hole in the space-time conintuum. To
plug this void, occuring at 6:30-8:70 on
Tuesdays and Thursdays, in the Union Gym,
the inscrutable monoliths of 208 Hamlet
Gardnes occasionally employ a tiny imper-
ceptible device known as the IC Judo Club.
Their ability to do this effectively is slightly
hindered by those members whose atten-
dance has fallen off lately. However seven of
us resently helped London at Brunei's inter-
university competition (attended by the likes
of Bristol, Brunei, Cambridge and Norwich).
FEL K mWkwmkwmmkWkWkWk^kwm
The men's A team smashed all of the
opposition into, the mat, taking gold for the
second year running. The men's B team
narrowly missed the semi-finals, and the
women's team, comprised entirely of IC
regulars, took bronze in their event. Thanks
go to Mark, Tim, Graham, Andy, Rachel,
Anna and Gabi.
IC have a friendly contest with London
Hospital on 31 January, which promises to be
a very good practise for beginners and higher
grades alike. The annual inter-collegiate
competition is looming, and we get to keep
the trophy if we win it again, so a strong
turnout from all, please. There is a grading on
4 March, and everyone, especially lower
grades, are capable of doing well.
Well, here at last is the first I C H G C report of
the year. Last Saturday saw four IC fliers
brave the bitter cold at Dunstable (200ft;
wind light, W / N W with scratchy lift). Our
President, Dave Rusby, took to the air first on
the Vortex and managed a good soaring flight
in marginal conditions. However, on top-
landing, the bushes claimed yet another
victim and it was a good forty minutes before
the wing deflexor was temporarily repaired.
Dave Thorns was next to lob-off and, after
much pedalling for his stirrup, was forced
down. Mel took advantage of the mild
conditions to convert from seated to Budgie
(with no problems whatsoever) and, after
much gentle persuasion, Dave. Evans
managed to get signed off for his three high
flights. All in all a fair days flying marred only
by Dave Rusby's clutch slipping on his *
•
Passion Wagon Sunday's flying was non-
existent due to the North wind and
rain—preventing Pete from converting to
Budgie on his Scorpion.
Don't forget meetings Mondays at 12:30
above Southside Bar or see you on the hill.
2nd X I v Goan 3-0
After the draw last week in a friendly against
Chalfont, the seconds got down to the serious
business of avoiding relegation to the second
division of the Middlesex League. At nearly
full strength the side soon mastered the skills
of the opposition to dominate the first half
with better control, crisp interceptions and
imaginative passing, but were unable to
breakdown a solid defence, though Roessink
was unlucky on two occasions the surface
preventing better chances. Meanwhile Goan
did not look like scoring with goalkeeper
Slatter only touching the ball once in the half
and Dodds breaking down any threatening
attacks on their right wing.
The half-time talk brought more urgency
into IC's play and in a series of well-taken
shot-corners Whitehead came close to
scoring on several occasions. Finally with
about ten minutes left, frustration boiled over
WWWWFriday, January 27, 1984JkWkWk
in a series of wild tackles from both sides
which affected the opposition more than us.
Indeed one of their players intent on revenge
against a tackle allowed the ball to reach the
right wing, where Eldridge cut inside and
from a tight angle beat the goalkeeper at the
near post.
With the required breakthrough IC now
looked a different side and in the next few
minutes created several chances for Whitten
and Whitehead, though Gean also had its
best chance of the game, a first time shot from
their left-wing. Finally the game was decided
when another attack was stopped just outside
their circle and from the resulting free hit,
Roessink hit a first time shot past a stationary
keeper. The opposition were now totally
demoralised and with minutes to go, Eldridge
picked up a cross from Holgate at the top of
the circle and rounded the keeper for his
second and IC's third goal of the game.
Inter-University Gliding Club Task Week
This year's Task Week was organised by
Imperial College Gliding Club and held in
early August at our local airfield at Lasham
near Basingstoke. Teams from the univer-
sities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Essex,
Southampton,- Surrey, and, of course,
Imperial completed over a number of set •
tasks which typically consisted of a triangular
course, total distance around 120km, with
two distant turning points (distinct land-
marks such as a radio mast or a power
station) which have to be photographed as
proof of ones progress. A complicated
scoring system which handicaps the average
speed around the task (or the distance flown if
the task is not completed) is used to award
points.
Our luck/skill varied considerably during
the week from the day when all three I C G C
single-seat sailplanes landed in the same
farmer's field some fifteen miles form the
airfield, to an impressively quick 120km flight
by Ann Dziwior in the usually docile K8.
On the while, however the week was
extremely successful with five competition
days, and all nine participating IC pilots
gaining excellent soaring and cross country
experience either flying solo, or with an ex- .
student or friend of the club in one of the
three borrowed two-seat gliders. Despite
supplying the computer program which
calculated the scores, Imperial finished third,
with honours going to Cambridge and
Surrey.
Following the tradition of holding the Task
Week at the same venue for two consecutive
years, Imperial is again to host the
competition at Lasham in 1984 before it
moves on, probably to Edinburgh. Hope-
fully, with similar weather and field condi-
tions, a little more luck with the thermals, and
the benefit of more intensive instruction
through our weekend training courses which
started this eyar, we could see I C G C moving
a littler nearer the elusive first place.
WkWH^m
mWkmWkWm
mWm
OBtBBU Page

