N e w s o f t h e S c r e w s
Michael Newman has overstepped the mark this time by
contacting the News of the World about the Mines Porn events.
He knows full well that the News of the World islikely to distort
and blow the story up out of all proportion. Banner headlines
like 'Sin Bin of South Ken' and 'My Life as a Sex Crazed
Student' is something Imperial College does not need.
Until now something that could have been said in favour for
Michael Newman's anti-porn campaign was that he was trying j
to clean up IC's image. Now he insists on muddying our name
in the Sunday screwsheets. The nfect of Mr Newman's
behaviour can only be to make hi .tself, and his cause, even
more unpopular.
W o m e n s S e l f D e f e n c e
The Union are considering running a basic self defence course
for women. The course will consist of four two hour sessions. If
anyone is interested they should send their name and a
contactable address to Christine Teller via the Union Office
asap. If there is sufficient response applicants will be notified in
due course of details.
P h o e n i x
The Phoenix is a literary magazine which is produced each year
to act as a showcase for the artistic talents of Imperial College.
This involves essays, photographs, poetry, short stories and
drawings. You don't have to feel that you are very talented to
contribute. Any original contribution is always welcome. Copy
deadline has been extended 9 Feb. The Phoenix Editor, Tony
Atkins, can be found most lunch times in the FELIX Office to
receive copy or to answer any queries.
F E L I X B i n g o
A number of people have asked me if FELIX Bingo is for real.
The answer is yes. There is a genuine dirty weekend for two in
Amsterdam for the first person to claim a full house. (In the
event of more than one person claiming the winner will be
drawn from a hat.) For those of you starting late, last week's
number was 4. Eyes down.
C r e d i t s
Jon Jones, Hugh Southey, J Martin Taylor, Matt Fawcett, Tim
Noyce, Lynne James, David Rowe, Diane Love, Tony Atkins,
John Scott, Ulysess, David Jones, Peter Rodgers, Dave Parry,
Robert Ettinger, Victor Mooney, Maz and Pete.
P a l l a b G h o s h
I laid some cards from a standard pack face up on
the table, and chose one of the cards there, the ten of
diamonds. I announced that I would tell Bill the value
and Ben the suit of my chosen card, then I whispered
to Bill that it was a ten, and I whispered to Ben that it
was a diamond.
Bill looked at the cards on the table 'I don't know
the chosen card,' he said.
'I knew you wouldn't,' replied Ben.
'I still don't know the card, but now I know its
colour,' said Bill.
'Now I know what the card is,' said Ben.
'So do I,' announced Bill.
What is the minimum number of cards on the
table, and how many of them are hearts?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected win-
ning entry.
Last week's solutions
Chess and Dominoes
If a domino covers two squares, one of them must be
black and the other white. If you cut off two squares
on one diagonal, they are the same colour. Hence it
is impossible.
In the Balance
As a balance scale has two pans, then the minimum
number of weights is four, 1kg, 3kg, 9kg and 27kg.
Anything can then be measured between 1 and 40kg
by placing weights in one or both of the pans.
Only nine correct solutions, and the randomly
selected winner is K S Lim of Elec Eng 2, who can
collect the £5 cheque, courtesy of Mend-a-Bike,
from the FELIX Office any time after 1:30pm on
Monday.
University Prize Crossword
Congratulations to anyone who managed to finish
the Prize Crossword at the end of last term, and
particularly to the two winners, K C Walker, who
works in the Lyon Playfair Library, and Timothy
Lanfear. Though neither managed to win the national
prize, they each won a copy of the Collins English
Dictionary. Well done!
The solution
A C R O S S : 1 Arethusa, 5 Evelyn, 9 Lucky Jim, 10
Ascham, 12 Gosse, 13 Thesaurus, 14 Oriel,
16 Narcissus, 18 Free Verse, 19 Nemea, 21 Trojan
War, 23 Shona, 24 Ayesha, 25 Jeremiad, 26 Kimono,
27 Flashman.
D O W N : 1 Allegro, 2 Excessive, 3 Hoyle, 4 Saint
Andrews, 6 Vespasian, 7 L e h a r , ^ 8 Nemesis,
11 George Orwell, 15 Leviathan, 17 Symposium, 18
Futhark, 20 Abaddon, 22 Odeum, 23 Speos.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince ConsortRd,SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopynghthtUXl<f8J

