Sudden Impact (Warner West End)
Clint Eastwood is back as Dirty Harry, a
'street-tough homicide detective'. The plot
concerns the revenge killings by a girl of the
men who gang-raped her and her sister ten
years before, the shock having reduced the
sister to a vegetable. Rarely have 1 seen so
many gratuitous shootings and killings in a
film—you wonder whether there will be any
one left alive in San Francisco at the end of
the film. The morals are as primitive as the
dialogue, condoning 'an eye for an eye'
pseudo-philosophies whilst yelling 'go kiss
your ass, you godamned mother fucker!'. As
a film, however, Sudden Impact is well
photographed and moves along crisply. It is a
professional Hollywood film. If you like guns,
violence and a stronger plot than is usual in
such films, Sudden Impact is just great.
Vassa (Academy Cinema) is a Russian film
examining the family of a powerful shipping
magnate in the 1913 Ukraine. Vassa is a Lady
Macbeth figure who will stop at nothing to
ensure the survival of her husband's
business. Various people oppose her, and
the plot follows the successes and failures in
Vassa's ambition as Russia slides inexorably
towards the First World War and revolution.
The whole thing has the ring of a 'classic'
about it, like adaptations of serious novels
like Tess or The French Lieutenant's
• Woman. The acting is immaculate and the
photography concentrates hard and long on
each scene. It is all rather heavy going, but
Vassa cannot be faulted as a period film with
a quality and scope perfect for wallowing in.
The Second Awakening of Christa
Klages (Hampstead Everyman) is a title to
put anyone off. The implausible plot
concerns the aftermath of a bank robbery by
Christa & C o who intend to use the money to
save a children's commune. Everything goes
wrong with Christa's plans, and unfor-
tunately with the film. The twisting and
turnings of the plot soon muddle the whole
argument of solidarity between women.
Several interesting characters are intro-
duced but are not developed properly before
Chrisfa dashes away to have her next crisis.
Christa herself is uncompromising and
witty, and until she started daubing feminist
slogans on walls, I thought she was a realistic
and intelligently played character. Because
its cliches are muddled The Second
Awakening leaves you nothing but irritated
and confused.
Carry Greenham Home (same pro-
gramme) is a documentary about the
Greenham Common peace camp. There are
some excellent 'behind the scenes' episodes
especially when you see what Francis
Coverdale of the B B C is really like. There are
no interviews or commentary so in concen-
trating on the set piece confrontations with
the police (often admittedly very funny and
highly effective on film) the film doesn't give
D i r t y Harry and Christa Kluges both doing what they do best.
a full enough picture of what life at the camp
is like. The camera remains a mere recorder,
like a T V news programme, and so the film as
a whole seems superficial, because it does
not concentrate on particular characters.
The best episode of all was a woman talking
about her reasons for having her baby
actually in the peace camp. The film is worth
seeing, if you are willing to sit through The
Second Awakening.
Dream Flights (Gate Bloomsbury) is a
delightful light comedy about a charming
non-comformist. He is used to behaving like
an irresponsible adolescent, but suddenly as
his 40th birthday looms nearer he finds
people are not willing to indulge his fantasies.
Thankfully there's no complex psychological
analysis—the man is attractive yet self-
centred, and the film humorously explores
the dangers and delights of such behaviour.
Well worth seeing.
The Honorary Consul (Classic, Hay-
market) is sadly a mere excuse to show off
Richard Gere's 'delectable bum'. The book is
one of Graham Greene's better works, but
by making the film a vehicle for Gere the
director concentrates too much on the
central triangular relationship between a
doctor (Gere), a beautiful local girl and her
husband, a drunken British consul. The
consul is played by Michael Caine who
provides the major spark of life to a film that,
despite some rave reviews, I found a major
disappointment.
Tony Atkins
Brainstorm (ABC, Empire)
Starring Natalie Wood and Christopher
Walken.
Scientists have invented a helmet capable of
recording feelings and emotions, which can
transfer these experiences from one mind to
another. Initially the helmet is used to
frivolously record thrills of sport and sex
until someone dies while recording. The
'death tape' is immediately locked away by
the authorities. The plot centres on one of
the device's creators, Christopher Walken,
trying to get the tape so that he can play it
through to the end.
A fascinating idea, carried out extremely
well. The 'helmet' sequences are shot in
Cinemascope with extra speakers for the
soundtrack in larger cinemas. The effects
are spectacular, with a breathtaking final
sequence that leaves audiences stunned.
Moon in the Gutter (Lumiere)
Starring Nastassia Kinski (sigh!) and
Gerard Depardieu.
This French language film comes from
the makers of Diva and can be likened to a
magazine cover-glossy and slick on the
outside and totally empty on the inside. The
film, made almost entirely in the studio, is
beautifully shot, and the etherial Nastassia
Kinski is at her brilliant best. The film,
however, is let down by a very poor plot,
which makes an otherwise masterful work
drag rather.
Pallab Ghosh
Page 81 1 Friday, January 27, 1984 \ FELIX

