Arthur Michael, the good but not very helpful
fairy, was all in a tizzy. 'Does my hair look
alright, Nigel?' he asked earnestly. 'And what
about my tie—is it straight?' Unfortunately
for Arthur, his minion had long since left the
room bored with Arthur's perpetual ques-
tions. But what was the reason for Arthur's
vain concern? Was he going to another of
Lady Marigold's garden parties? No, it was
nothing less than an edict from the top floor
of the Surefield Building that was the reason.
Arthur Michael was going to see The Baron
and his sidekick, John Secretary. Glancing at
the time, Arthur realised that his make-up
would have to be left unfinished so, grabbing
his wand, he hurriedly left his office and made
his way to Surefield.
The top of the Surefield Building was just
how he remembered it from his previous
visits. The rows of offices whose occupants
had so little to do. They were all political
appointees who owed their position to the
Baron's patronage and favour. Furtively
peeping around one office door, he gazed
upon its splendorous decorations, the lavish
furniture and fittings. Its occupant sat at a
large desk reading a newspaper.
'I'll soon have one that big' thought Arthur
jealously comparing it with his own paltry
office tucked away on the outskirts of the
kingdom. Turning around, he stared at the
large double doors that confronted him—the
entrance to the Baron's Throne Room.
Arthur gulped, pulled his trousers around his
ample girth and tapped nervously on the
door.
'I wonder if I ought to make a special kind
of knock and shake hands in an odd way,'
thought Arthur who was not fully acquainted
with the unusual habits of his seniors.
However, there were no such requirements
in this case. 'Enter,' cried a distant, familiar
voice. Arthur pushed open the heavy door
with all his might; it revealed a long, narrow
chamber. At one end, seated and upon a
By
Juvenal
raised platform, was the Baron with, as ever,
his loyal acolyte John Secretary. As Arthur
tip-toed towards the two of them, John
Secretary shook the Baron's shoulder to
rouse him.
'He's here to discuss FALIX,' he whispered
in his ear. FALIX was the citizen's newspaper
and its editor, Phallas Goolies, had upset the
Baron and his many cronies. Arthur fell on
his knees and waited to be addressed. 'Who
will rid my Kingdom of this turbulent priest?'
cried the Baron frantically waving his arms in
the air, as if brandishing a sword. Arthur
frowned, worried by the outburst. The odd
libel case was more what he had in mind by
way of retribution, nothing more. John
Secretary was also unimpressed by his
senior's brief ramble into the literary world. 'I,
er we-thought of printing another edition of
FAIRY. That is what we are here to discuss,'
he reminded the Baron.
FAIRY was a newspaper produced by
Arthur—hence its title—and some of the
Baron's employees with time on their hands.
'Ah 'yes,' replied the Baron rather
grumpily. 'Yes, your last effort was rather
good...'
'Did you read it?!' exclaimed Arthur,
flattered by such exalted praise, and
audaciously interrupting the Rector.
'Do you think that I have time to read every
tawdry rag that gets produced in my
kingdom?' shouted the Baron who was not at
all pleased. 'Mr Secretary explained that it
said all the right things I want said and that's
all that matters. So stop asking questions and
get off and dt> as you're told!'
FAIRY was also occupying the thoughts of
another of Cheapskate notables: Gormless
Layon, President of the Citizens Association.
'It's much better than FALIX,' she thought
as she sat at her desk knitting.
'It didn't have a bad word to say about me!
And it criticised Goolies—it's just the sort of
newspaper the Union really needs. I could
even edit myself—well get Pristine to do it,
anyway.'
Gormless leaned back in her chair and
took a long sip of her glass of sherry and
began to think. And she was not long into her
flights of fancy when she heard cackling from
the room next to hers.
'I know, I'll get.Pristine to make a magic
spell! I'm sure that she'll be able to get rid of
Goolies—she's helped get rid of other
citizen's representatives!'
Gormless opened the door that adjoined
her room to Pristine's. There, leaning over a
boiling cauldron, was Pristine, the wicked
Witch of Southside. She was shovelling large
quantities of paper into the steaming pot.
'Bloody estimates,' she moaned stirring
the mixture with the handle of one of her old
broomsticks.
'Pristine, I've had this wonderful idea,'
exclaimed Gormless. Pristine wearily raised
her head knowing that any idea meant more
work for her. 'It's about Phallas Goolies, I
thought that....'
FELIX I
BEHIND
C L O S E D D O O R S
i 6 . T h e R e c t o r
The man you only see twice in your life-once
at the reception in your first year and once
when you graduate after your final year.
Thus speaks the 'average IC student'. It
seems timely, then, to look at the career of
this shadowy figure, the 'hunter of fascists'.
Brian Hilton Flowers became, just over
four years ago, almost a family name. For it
was then that a devastating blow was dealt
to London's medical schools with the
publication of the controversial 'Flowers
Report'. But his career began many years
before this, in Manchester.
It was at the University of Manchester
that Brian was made Professor of Theoretical
Physics in 1958. But the key to his character
was his long term association with socialist
politics, some would say under the influence
of Harold Wilson.
It came as no surprise, then, when he
defected from Academia to the SERC as its
Chairman. In one swift move, he had
achieved a powerful position in the scientific
community. By this time he had met and
married Mary. The circumstances of their
marriage are very odd.
In 1974, without much trouble, he came
back to Academia as Rector of Imperial
College. He professed his disenchantment
with socialism and expressed a desire to live
a totally academic life. Since his elevation to
the peerage, however, he has frequently
spoken in the House of Lords when other
commitments have allowed him.
He was now in the position to launch his
master plan. The medical schools had lost
their image of youth and vitality following
the great post-war change. Together with
Santos-Dyer, the mafia-boss from Cam-
bridge (as has recently been shown) he
executed the blow in his Dulles Report. But
what else could be expected of a
contemporary of Kim Philby?
The Mole
Friday, January 27, 1984 \ Page 9

