Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 09 March
LSE vs Imperial 2018
Voting closes at noon
Spring Carnival 2018
Voting closes at 12:00 today, bringingThe Leadership Elections 2018 to
a close.
Polling opened last Friday 2 March with over 19,000 Imperial students
eligible to vote in an election contested by over 700 students across
positions ranging from Union President to Felix Editor to Academic and
Wellbeing Departmental Reps.
At the close of polling, preparation for the count will immediately begin
at Imperial College Union, with results to be announced at Metric at
19:00. If you can’t make it, keep an eye on our social media.
Last year saw 6,704 students cast their votes inThe Leadership
Elections for a turnout of 36.79 per cent.
It’s hoped that by the close of polling, that figure will be exceeded
allowing Imperial to retain its place as one of the top democratic unions
in the country.
Results Party
All students and staff are invited to Metric tonight for the exciting
results announcement. Come find out who your new student leaders
are for the next academic year, commiserate with those who were not
successful, and celebrate our democracy as a Union.
We start in Metric at 19:00 and continue the party in FiveSixEight until
well after midnight. Entry is free.
We’re still feeling the chill, but with spring just round the corner, it’s the
perfect time to get your tickets for Spring Carnival 2018.
The Spring Carnival is a great way to spend your last evening of term,
and say goodbye to both winter and Imperial before you set sail for the
Easter break!
This year’s event is sea-themed and will take place at The Union
on Friday 23 March. Tickets are being sold in tiers, so buy as early as
possible to get the best price!
Get tickets at imperialcollegeunion.org/springcarnival18
Tickets are out now for the first ever LSE vs Imperial Varsity where
Imperial College London take on the London School of Economics across
12 different sports.
Get your ticket for Heston Sports Ground for Saturday 17 March.We start
at 10:00 with a full day of fixtures.Tickets include transportation, entry to
the grounds, and a VarsityT-shirt.
Tickets are on sale until 12:00, Wednesday 14 March 2018. Don’t miss
out - winner of the inaugural event earns massive bragging rights!
Get tickets at imperialcollegeunion.org/varsity

