0/
15 February 2002
Issue 1228
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
IX
Handcuffs. Parole
Officer. C<
••:! J
Knight Fever?
Possibly the worst
gag on the front
page, ever. (Page 21)
Union Suffers Budget Cut
Following the research assessment exer-
cise last year, the results of which were
described as 'fantastic' by our Rector, Sir
Richard Sykes, the Higher Education
Funding Council for England (the council
that determines government funding for
further and higher education) has decid-
ed to cut funding to College, despite the
fact that our rating (6.68) was higher than
last year.
This seemingly perverse decision is
due to the fact that although we did bet-
ter than we did last year, we actually
improved less than other institutions
nationally, and so get a lesser share of the
available funds, which have themselves
not increased in the last year. This
decrease in funding will hit all non-aca-
demic departments that rely on College
for money, including the Union.
Union finances were already looking
strained for the coming year, as extra
cash needs to be found to fund, amongst
other things, the 8% rise in sabbatical
salaries, necessitated by the increasing of
the grant from the Engineering and
Obsolete from next year?
Physical Sciences Research Council
grant, to which these salaries are linked
contractually. A s College will only fund
the first 2.5% of salary increases the Union
will be forced to cover the shortfall.
These two issues combined are going
to force the Union to cut costs even fur-
ther than had been previously thought,
and it is feared that clubs and societies
will, once again, take the brunt of the
Union's cost-cutting. Sen Ganesh, Union
President, has, however, assured Felix
that although funding is extremely tight
and many parts of College will face cut-
backs, the Union should be able to make
up this shortfall by improving the efficien-
cy of the central administration, without
having to drastically reduce the funding
given to clubs and societies.
All this could, however, prove to be a
blessing for students, as amongst the pro-
posals being discussed by Union authori-
ties to improve efficiency is the scrapping
of activities card. Instead of providing
insurance for those with a card, all mem-
bers of the Union will be covered as a
matter of course.
It has been revealed to Felix that the
administration costs incurred by the sys-
tem of forcing those students who wish to
be covered by the Union's insurance to
sign up for activities cards are far greater
than the savings gained by not insuring
those without cards, and so the possibili-
ty of change is being looked into.
Alex
"Imperial Rag Week begins today,
bringing with it seven full days of
mx^^mo^^m song and good pcL
fashi id si I 1
g |
Sounds good to me...

