union talk
Should Imperial College Union join the
National Union of Students (NUS)? This is
the question that will posed to the stu-
dents of Imperial College and you will
have your chance to have you say.
N U S
So what is the NUS? The NUS was estab-
lished in 1922 to represent the interests of
students. Currently 98% of students
unions affiliate to the NUS and Imperial
College Union is not one of them.
So what's the fuss about? Well, affilia-
tion to the NUS is a matter for referendum,
i.e. the students of the college get to
choose. There will be a college wide
secret ballot with a yes/no question ask-
ing you whether you want to affiliate to
the NUS.
The sides
In the referendum there are two sides; the
"yes" and the "no" campaign. Both sides
will be given exactly the same resources
and will start campaigning shortly. Each
side through a variety of media will
NUS Debate
inform you of the advantages and disad-
vantages of joining the NUS. In addition
there will be a series of official debates,
where you will be able to hear both sides
argue their points and be able to put
guestions to them.
The history
The last time there was a Referendum
was in 1995, when the students voted not
to join the NUS. For the Referendum to be
valid, there has to be a 15% turnout, this
equates to approximately eighteen hun-
dred students. If this turnout is not
achieved then the status quo (disaffilia-
tion from the NUS) remains.
M y Job
My role is as a returning officer is to
ensure that the Referendum is run fairly
and honestly, and to ensure that you are
given the information to make an
informed choice. I am also not allowed to
express any bias towards any one side, in
fact I am not allowed to vote. If you would
like more information about the
Referendum please contact me (presi-
dent©^.ac.uk).
Your Choice
Ultimately, the decision of whether to join
the NUS is yours. So read the information,
attend the debates and make your choice.
It is your chance to have a direct impact
on the future of the Union.
Sen Ganesh
President, Imperial College Union
Election Inferno
Yes folks, it's that time of year again: that
time of year when your walk to the lecture
theatre is hampered by a deluge of
posters. When the Media wing of Imperial
College Union really begins to flex its
muscles, with Felix interviews, STOIC
programmes and IC Radio broadcasting
live into the Southside Kitchens... When
mass e-mails go out, breaking all the elec-
tion regulations, encouraging you to vote
like sheep for some random student who
must be fantastic because they're study-
ing the same course as you. Wow. I love
this time of year.
Hustings
Tuesday, Febraury 26: Wye Campus,
JCR Union Building, 6:30pm
Wednesday, February 27: dBs Club Bar,
6:00pm
This is, historically, where candidates
get a good grilling. Candidates pace
around the main stairs of the Union build-
ing, palms sweating, wishing they hadn't
put so much gel in their hair because it's
starting to trickle down the side of their
face. Some turn to cigarettes. A n d within
minutes they find themselves standing on
the stage. N o w the problems really begin.
Questions are asked by you lot; complete-
ly unpredictable in nature, on a topic that
generally has absolutely minimal rele-
vance to the positions in question.
Fabulous.
Voting
Thursday, February 28: 10:00 - 17:00
Friday, March 1: 10:00 - 17:00
Without doubt the most important bit.
Whether you're voting through gut
instinct, through detailed character
assassination, or by bribe from the candi-
date's other half; the unequivocally vital
thing here is to vote. In itself, the most
powerful tool democracy has ever creat-
ed: The secret ballot.
Results Declared
Monday, March 4, 12:00 - 13:00
Given that voting closes on a Friday,
counting is likely to take place over the
weekend. This means that the "ceremony"
(implying that there might actually be a
winner in all of this) will take place
Monday lunchtime. STOIC will be feeding
live audio streams into the JCR, the IC
Radio team will be poised, mini-disc'n'mi-
crophone combination in hand, and Felix
will be geared up to get an Elections
Special out to the masses by Monday
night.
So all that leaves is you lot. You have
the power to select the direction the
Union takes over the coming years. You
have the ability to change something, to
make a difference. A n d I beg you, use that
power. Whether it be through the tradi-
tional voting mediums, or through proxy-
mg your vote as you may not be in the
country, VOTE VOTE VOTE.

