talk back
More From Sen
Dear Felix,
Following the letter last week from M s
Tasha Newton, I thought it would be
appropriate to respond. I do not intend to
get into an argument over some of the
personal remarks she made, however I
thought I should address some of the
issues raised in that letter.
The main concern seems to be about
Council's decision to call for a
Referendum on Imperial College Union's
affiliation to the National Union of
Students (NUS) and the motivation of
bringing that paper to Council.
To answer the later issue first, the
motivation is quite simple. Earlier this
year with the arrival of the freshers, the
Union had a lot queries about NUS cards.
Many were surprised that we are not
part of the NUS. It is clear that a whole
generation of students do not know
about the NUS and why we are not affil-
iated to it.
Contrary to popular belief, there is no
conspiracy or ulterior motive, it is simply
the conviction that it is time to have an
informed open debate on the issue. I do
believe that we are capable of having a
mature and sensible discussion on the
matter and let the students decide. M y
decision to go for re-election or not is
entirely irrelevant and has no bearing on
the issue.
If students don't care then they won't
vote - the quota won't be met and the
status quo will remain. However by run-
ning a referendum it does give students
the choice and the cost to the Union is
relatively small and easily covered by
contingency funds. A l l I ask of the stu-
dent population is to take an interest in
the issue and encourage everyone to
make a informed decision.
The reason I did not give an opinion
about whether I believe the Union
should join or not, is that as the
Returning Officer and for the sake of
impartiality, I am not allowed to express
my view publicly or indeed vote in the
referendum.
I also strongly reject the claim that the
Union has not done anything this year.
We have built on our support for Clubs
and Societies, increased external fund-
ing and sponsorship, expanded on our
work in the community, secured funding
for the Summer Ball, supported student
development programmes, started vol-
unteer investment programme, refo-
cused on education issues and much
more besides.
I believe we have done a lot but still
need to do more. We need to move for-
ward and take a more proactive
approach and I encourage all students
(including Ms Tasha Newton) to take up
the challenge, get involved in their Union
and help us achieve this.
Sen Ganesh
President, Imperial College Union
Stupid Is A s Stupid Does
Dear Felix,
I have once again become quite
annoyed at something petty. This time it
is stupidity that has got me riled. I
recently (i.e. 20 minutes ago) purchased
a drink whose bottle bore the label "Do
not store on side when cap is removed".
So that's what I've been doing wrong,
how many now stained shirts could have
been saved if they'd warned me earlier.
How stupid must I be?
This incident was not the only one of
its type, a few days ago I was walking
by the banks of the Thames feeding the
partially submerged shopping trolleys
and cooling off from another fit of logic
when I saw a sign that set my attempts
at relaxation back by several years worth
of yoga and incense. "Beware!" It
exclaimed, "Danger of Drowning!" It's a
river, if you are not aware that falling into
the river presents a danger of drowning
then perhaps you truly are in need of
warnings about the spatial orientation of
bottles, that sucking hot tar into your
lungs is dangerous or that dancing
painted black on the M l poses a slight
health hazard. Are we all so damned stu-
pid nowadays?
I am also rather worried about my own
condition, for the past few weeks I have
noticed that my ability to spell has dete-
riorated and my word order pot to gone.
Can some charitable soul please tell me,
is Dyslexia contagious or am I just being
plain stupid? A n d in case you weren't
aware: This letter is flammable; do not
attempt to use as a fire retardant.
Yours furiously,
Pete
Wye Balls
Will,
Hello to everyone reading this in
London and at places other than the Wye
Campus. We thought that we would just
let you all know that life down here is
brilliant, although unfortunately we have
had to start working and can't just con-
centrate on socialising. There are many
activities going on, Old Boy's weekend,
1st - 3rd February, was a great success
with hundreds of people coming back,
although it did see the end to the
unbeaten rugby season that the team
was enjoying, regular activities in the
union are proving to be very popular.
The main reason for this article is to let
everyone know about our
Commemoration Ball which is definetly
on and bigger and better than ever, FRI-
DAY 21st JUNE! The Commemoration
Ball at Wye is an annaul event that is
viewed as the most important evening
on the social calender. It is always a fan-
tastic evening with a funfair, fireworks,
bands, and a great D J all preceded by a
meal in the marquee. The evening is
packed with fun and frolics and ends
with the survivors photograph at 6am.
The bar is open through the night! This
event gives you much more freedom than
is usually experienced in London and
takes place in our fantastic Withersdane
Gardens. Accomodation will, be avail-
able, although it will be on a first come
first served basis. Tables are for 8-10
people although the odd 12 can be acco-
modated and we would love to see as
many of you here as possible. There will
be prizes for the person that organises
the biggest party!
Preceding this event is our cricket
week which you are all more than wel-
come to come down to and is a week full
of fun and games with the bar open
11am til l a m everday, and as you might
expect, the odd cricket match. Both
events are situated in the fantastic gar-
dens with the backdrop of a wonderful
countryside, slightly different to the wall
of concrete that they call London!
If you wish to contact us for more infor-
mation about any of these events or any-
thing else to do with Wye life please feel
free to do so.
Thomas Bradshaw
thomas.bradshaw@ic.ac.uk

