reviews books
The Bonesetters Daughter
Amy Tan
Reading the quote on the back of this book could be somewhat
misleading, "told with originality and humour....keeps you
guessing, laughing and crying until the end." Now, even if I do
say so myself, I have a pretty good sense of humour but this is
certainly not a humorous book, leaving me to wonder whether
the Sunday Express critic had actually read it!
Nonetheless, this is a really great novel, not something that
will brighten your day, but a riveting account of life's ups and
downs from two generations of family.
The first part is told by Ruth, daughter of LuLing, who is liv-
ing in the modern western world. She juggles work, with her
live-in lover; Art, his children; Fia and Dory and caring for her
aging mother whose memory is failing rapidly. Her relationship
with her mother is tense and this book explores how the rela-
tionship evolves as Ruth uncovers secrets from her mothers
past life in China.
The beginning of LuLing's life is buried deep in her memory
and is revealed in the second part of this book. This is where the
book really gets started; the story told by LuLing is both amaz-
ing and tragic. Based in the nineteen thirties in a time where
superstition ruled and women were second class citizens,
LuLing's childhood is continuously disrupted as she is forced to
move from one home to another before finally moving to
America. This novel provides a personal account of the effects
of war on the individual people involved'.
Lui Ling and her sister, GaoLing, are survivors in the truest
form and Ruth realizes this as she hears more from her mothers
tale, eventually she sees LuLing as a selfless woman, scared by
her own superstitions and haunted by her past. LuLing decides
to write her life's story down because she realizes her memory
is fading, and so she writes her tale - the story of the boneset-
ter's daughter.
The Bonesetters Daughter is a wonderfully woven tale of love,
loss, betrayal and the strength of the maternal bond. A n intrigu-
ing book that will keep you turning the pages right until the
end. Published by Flamingo, £6.99.
The Summons
John Grisham
Ray Atlee and his brother, Forrest, are summoned to Clanton,
Mississippi, by their dying father, Judge Reuben Atlee. Once a
beloved local chancellor who gave money and support to who-
ever asked, Atlee became a recluse in his last years after he lost
his last election.
He lived alone and sick, dying of cancer, in a decaying ante-
bellum shamble called Maple Run. Ray has become a success-
ful professor in the law department of the University of Virginia,
while his younger brother, Forrest, has devoted himself to
drugs, alcohol and trouble. Reuben, of course, disapproves of
Forrest's lifestyle, but has spent thousands on rehab and legal
bills for his wayward son.
Life, though, has had its own pain for Ray. His apparently
happy marriage ended suddenly when his wife got a better
offer from an extremely rich older Wall Street operator.
Ray arrives at Maple Run and discovers not only that his
father is dead but also that there is more than three million dol-
lars in cash hidden in stationery boxes in his father's study. A
will instructs Ray to divide the judge's assets with his brother
and to act as the executor.
Ray starts to question where the money came from. He is
reluctant to declare it as it might prove that the judge was not
so honourable. He is also unwilling to share it with his brother
due to what he would probably spend it on. A more pressing
problem for Ray is that someone else knows about the money
and is determined to obtain it no matter what.
The Summons is Grisham writing the kind of novel he has
become famous for while also being the type of novel that his
die-hard fans love. Ray is an interesting character who at the
beginning is keen to do the right thing but by the end is caught
up in the intoxicating effects of money. The novel itself is not as
good as early Grisham works due to the plot taking a long time
to get going and the unemotional and one-dimensional prose of
many of the other characters. The saving grace for the reader is
that the plot does come together well by the end with a very
thought provoking ending. Published by Century, £16.99.
Jennifer Jonathan

