film review
Ocean's Eleven
released 15th February
At the 2001 Oscars Steven Soderbergh made history by becom-
ing the first post-war director to get two of his films, Traffic and
Erin Brokovich, Oscar-nominated in the best director category.
But does that give him the right to make a movie that is so
lightweight that it could get in the ring with Naseem Hamed?!
Apparently so. It does. Give him the right. To.
Having just been released from prison, Danny Ocean (George
Clooney) rounds up a gang of about a dozen or so professionals
to rob three of Terry Benedict's (Andy Garcia) casinos in one
night. For a reason which still remain a mystery to me, he calls
his crew 'Ocean's eleven'. A n d that, listeners, is where
Soderbergh subsequently got the title of his movie. How the
facts fall into place - like the pieces of an elementary jigsaw.
Ocean's Eleven is perhaps more remarkable for its acting line-
up than anything else. Clooney's posse includes Matt Damon,
Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, and famous Chuckle brother, Barry
Chuckle. A n d there's even a cameo from Lennox Lewis. They
must have spent a fair few dollars getting this lot together. In
fact, rumour has it Barry Chuckle was paid by the second.
Unfortunately, the movie suffers from there being too many
'stars'. There is no central performance and none of the acting
is daring enough to carry it through to the ending.
There is very little that can be said about this film apart from
the fact that it is highly predictable and formulaic. Everything
about it is formulaic. The dialogue, the acting, the wafer-thin
plot. You know from the start they're going to get away with the
heist. / don't care if I've just given the plot away! Because as
Imperial Students you should be able to clock that one straight
off.
If you're looking for some lightly flavoured entertainment, I
would recommend salted crisps. Not a bunch of over-paid ego-
maniacs playing out their over-indulgent childhood fantasies
by robbing a casino. Nothing more to say, so I'm just twiddling
my thumbs. Just sitting here typing away, trying to finish off
this review. Look how the end is getting nearer. It's a Monday
morning, and the grumbling of my stomach reminds me that I
forgot to have breakfast. But I never have breakfast anyway. Eh?
• D a r l U S
Cool and Crazy
released 8th February
Though a few degrees colder, this simply made documentary is
a Nordic version of Buena Vista Social Club. Knut Erik Jensen's
film follows the male voice choir of Berlevag, a 30-strong group
from the harsh surroundings of Finnmark. Wrapped up against
the elements, they sing the first of many haunting, melancholic
pieces concerned with the natural world and the trials of life.
We are introduced to various men from the choir including
octogenarian brothers, an ex-addict, the local commie and their
wheel-chair bound conductor. We learn about their respective
private lives and their views on the choir to which they are all
so loyal and which offers respite from the bleak reality of life in
the town. Despite the huge differences in age, the group are
very close and supportive of each other. The local fisheries may
be closing one after the other, but the sense of community run-
ning through all those connected to the choir is clearly strong.
There is little plot to speak of, barring a visit to the Russian
town of Murmansk to take part in a concert. The choir is keen
on taking the trip, and all are amusingly eager to flirt with some
local Russian ladies, teasing their partners about waltzing with
comely babushkas. Once into the former Soviet Union though,
the group are truly shocked at the surrounding environment, so
alien to their unspoilt homeland. A blazing row breaks out on
the coach between the communist and virtually everyone else
onboard, as he tries to defend this raping of the landscape.
The documentary is filmed at a languid pace, without voiceover
or incidental music. A l l we are exposed to is the choir members
themselves. Their personalities come through strongly and their
frequently amusing stories are shot in a deadpan style.
It is a shame that the musical scenes are what let the film down.
With only limited concert footage, we are shown countless
staged scenes of the choir, in varying locations, with the cam-
era panning up and down the line of singers. This gets tiresome
and only adds to the sense that we are being sold the accom-
panying soundtrack, but what we learn in the rest of the film is
fascinating and more than makes up for this repetitiveness.
Cool and Crazy is being currently shown at the Renoir (020 -
7837-8402) and the Odeon Wardour Street (0870 -505-0007)
Adam Joyce

