interview film
Steve Coogan is
THE PAROLE OFFICER
Steve Coogan is probably more famous as Alan Partridge, but
most of us know him as the one of Britain's greatest ever come-
dians. To celebrate the 15th February rental release on DVD and
VHS of his first movie, The Parole Officer, we have this fascinat-
ing interview in which he talks about script-writing, film litera-
cy, and the effect his upbringing had on his choice of career.
Was there pressure on you to make an A l a n Partridge movie
for your first leading role on the big screen?
I think an Alan Partridge film was mooted very early on. It
would have been easier and more straightforward in the indus-
try for me to get the go ahead for that sort of film. But whenev-
er I do something I ask myself what's to be gained from it and
what's potentially can be lost from doing it - and on that I think
there was more to be lost than gained from it.
You co-wrote the Parole Officer. Was it a hard thing to share
out the funny lines, and not keep the best ones for yourself?
It is tricky. I can remember writing the script with Henry
Normal (the other co-writer) coming up with a funny line and
suggesting it for another character, and Henry would say 'don't
you want to say that, it's a really funny line?1
and I'd say, 'okay,
you've twisted my arm'. What I say to people is that I shared out
the funny lines, but I kept the best ones for myself. The other
characters do have some good lines after all. I'm generous but
not stupid.
How different is it, w r i t i n g for film instead of television?
It's completely different, this was a very steep learning curve for
me. When John Duigan (director) came on board he helped in
the writing process and pointed out things that Henry and I
would not have foreseen as being problematic. Also there was
a lot more dialogue than I would have been used to in televi-
sion, where I have more autonomy. I had lots of discussions
with Duncan about the right and wrong way to do something. I
had some verbose conversations with him, which all went to
making the film better. A n y point that was worth arguing about
was argued about and then resolved.
Does coming from a big family have
any connection to your being involved i n comedy?
It brought out the performer in me to some extent, I suppose.
People often talk to me about middle child syndrome, which I'd
never heard of until I became successful, but we were a big
family. We're not particularly touchy feely, because there's too
many of us. So we would express affection by taking the Mickey
out of people and seeing who can be the funniest, and you did
have to shout to get noticed, so there was some of that.
What was the most dangerous or scary stunt you got to do on
The Parole Officer?
Sliding between two buildings on a wire was quite scary.
Actors always say they did their own stunts to maintain the
integrity of the film, but I did them because they looked like a
lot of fun. What you forget is that something simple like falling
off a chair, which most people could do once with relative phys-
ical impunity, starts to hurt when you do it a dozen times.
Fortunately they pad you up.
Do you find acting on film easier than on television?
No, it's a lot more difficult doing this because I know I'm quite
good at is being annoying and funny for half an hour. People are
prepared to sacrifice half an hour of their lives if you make them
laugh, even if you're annoying. The difficulty of carrying a film,
or playing the lead role, is that it's more difficult because I
always find it easier to portray myself as being stupid and
unlikeable and idiotic. To play a character who engages the
audience and is likeable is far more difficult, it's a more subtle
kind of challenge really. I was guided in that by the director,
because in some ways writing it was easier. Doing it on the set
was the difficult thing. How to pitch it, how big to make the per-
formance; often on television you can do a big performance,
because on screen things are amplified. Here more subtlety was
required.
Would you describe yourself as very film literate?
I like film, I'm a film buff, but I'm not a film anorak. Some people
have pointed out references in The Parole Officer to other films
that I didn't know were there. But my knowledge of how to
write films came from watching other films and being influ-
enced by them.
FELIX O N F I L M COMPETITION
For fans of the much-lauded TAXI, TAXI 2 will be a hit. The
same characters, the same jokes, and more of the same mental
car chases. TAXI 2 has been released for rental on DVD and
VHS formats, but why bother when you have the opportunity to
win it in this week's competition? If you want to w i n a copy of
TAXI 2 on video then answer this question: Who wote the
script for Taxi and Taxi 2?
a) Gerard Pires
b) Paul Ree
c) Luc Besson
Just email you answer to film.felix@ic.ac.uk. The winner of the
Timelapse competition was Chris Wright.

