music reviews
Lo-Fidelity Allstars
Don't Be Afraid Of Love
Out this Monday on Skint records
At a recent Felix Music meeting, a fellow
reviewer tried to prise this recording
from my hands with a viciously wielded
bottle of Bombay Sapphire, stolen from
the editor's private gin stash. I stubborn-
ly refused to hand it over, risking life and
limb and probably making an enemy for
life in the process. But was it all worth it?
Let us investigate...
Don't Be Afraid Of Love is album num-
ber 3 from the British beatmeisters and
FabricLive regulars, and it seems like
business as usual. Lord "big-ass" Beats
and his trusty sidekick Prince Bouncy
Funk Bass mingle socially with Mr and
Mrs Indie Vocals, sipping from cocktails
lovingly constructed by the Bigbeat bar-
man at a private seventies-themed party
in the Sheffield suburbs.
Every now and again, Lord Beats dis-
appears to get some more special brew
from the fridge, and Bass and Vocals are
allowed a little privacy to indulge in
what the locals may once have called
"chillout" (a phrase now only heard com-
ing from the lips of Radio 2 presenters
and Telegraph columnists, thanks to a
certain Mr Moby). At various points
throughout the evening, a couple of
friends (star-spectacled Bootsy Collins
included) turn up to share a beer, chew
the cud and use the loo.
The whole event passes swimmingly.
Everyone grabs their coats and agrees
that "Yes, we really must do this again
sometime soon". As the party disappears
slowly over the horizon, I sit back and
think to myself "Sorry Patrick, I wouldn't
trade this for a bottle of ropey spirits any
day of the week".
Nine Inch Nails Tanya Donelly
And All That Could Have Been Beautysleep
Out now on Interscope records
Nine Inch Nails have always been some-
thing of a guilty pleasure for me. Or
rather The Downward Spiral has, since
pretty much everything else they've done
has struck me as either boring or ridicu-
lous, and I'm still unsure as to why their
second album doesn't have the same
effect. Accordingly, I approached this
new live album with caution, as it con-
tains a mere four Spiral-era songs, com-
pared with six tracks from The Fragile
and six earlier songs.
I was thus pleasantly surprised to find
that the album is, for the most part,
excellent. Songs from their debut release
Pretty Hate Machine benefit greatly from
increased guitar and sample content,
with Terrible Lie and Head Like A Hole
rocking like water buffalo.
The songs from Spiral are predictably
great, and indeed the only weak points
are the boring-as-hell tracks from their
most recent work. Aside from their goth-
by-numbers titles, songs like The Frail
and The Wretched must have bored the
arses off the live audience, and they
inspire instant use of the skip button.
The album ends, of course, with Hurt,
still the most moving song to come out of
the industrial genre.
It's a good listen, then. But counting
against it is the fact that a live show from
the mid-nineties - or, more to the point, a
copy of The Downward Spiral - would be
infinitely better. If you have every other
Nine Inch Nails release, you'll probably
buy And All That Could Have Been any-
way. If you don't, then buy my favourite
album-that-you-love-in-spite-of-itself,
and stop there.
Out this Monday on 4AD records
Tanya Donelly is something of an alterna-
tive music legend, having been a founder
member of Throwing Muses, The
Breeders and Belly.
Throwing Muses were one of the great
college bands of the 1980s, with Kristen
Hersh's folk/punk songs providing the
soundtrack to many a tortured teen's life.
The Breeders were formed by Donelly
and the Pixies' Kim Deal, in an effort to
take a break from being second bananas
in their main bands. After a couple of
excellent Pixies-style albums, they went
on a seemingly endless hiatus.
Donelly then formed her own band,
Belly, who seemed destined for the big
time when their debut album went gold
and the single Feed the Tree became a
mainstream radio hit. It wasn't to be,
however, and Donelly disbanded Belly
and released her first solo album in 1997.
Since then, she has released very little,
making this, her second solo album,
something of a comeback effort.
Sadly, Beautysleep is pretty under-
whelming - she seems to have lost the
knack of writing catchy songs in a mis-
placed search for atmosphere.
Consequently, most of the tracks feature
barely-there vocals over a fuzzy
guitar/organ sound, which makes for
nice background music but little more.
That said, some tracks do stand out;
The Night You Saved My Life being a
case in point, with (gasp) audible vocals.
A n d there's the rub: singer-songwriter
material suffers when the songs play
second fiddle to the sounds. It's nice
enough, but you never feel compelled to
come back to it.
Ben Toby G Toby G

