reviews music
LIVE: Alien Ant Farm + Dredg
+ Vex Red @ Brixton Academy
You probably think that Alien A n t Farm are a bunch of twats.
You'd be wrong. That dubious honour goes to Dredg (sic), prob-
ably the worst band I've ever seen live.
As the second support band, Dredg proceeded to utterly
destroy any atmosphere created by openers Vex Red, for whom
the crowd went nuts despite the fact that their music was utter-
ly formulaic. Soft verses, loud choruses? Check. Alternating
breathy and strained vocals? Check. Jumping up and down to
aid the "rock" look? Check. Angsty lyrics? Dyed hair? Snazzy
threads? Check, check, check. Not bad, but I wouldn't slit my
wrists if I never heard them again.
Dredg were four accountants making turgid music in the gen-
eral style of Tool, only worse. The singer had a nice voice, but
his range consisted solely of three notes. Also, the spray-paint-
ed naked woman they had watering plants onstage departed
after one song. None out of five, plus a sound beating.
• • • • •
So the scene was set for A l i e n A n t Farm (pic above) to amble
on, arse about for an hour and annoy me. Instead, they provid-
ed a thoroughly entertaining evening's entertainment. They
stand out from the nu-metal hordes by injecting a healthy dose
of melody into every song and by generally being fun.
They're awesome musicians too. Dryden Mitchell has a fine
voice, and he really sustained the tunes in the acoustically-chal-
lenged enormodrome that is Brixton Academy. The incredible
rhythm section were rock solid, which was even more impres-
sive given that the bassist stomped about like a gorilla in the
heat, playing behind his back and gurning for his country.
Smooth Criminal was undoubtedly the highlight, sped up and
adrenalised into a version that not even Wacko Jacko could
complain about.
LIVE: Staind
@ Brixton Academy
Having sold over six million copies of their album Break The
Cycle, one of the biggest bands in America come to Brixton
Academy for one reason, and that is to rock. Ably supported by
Puddle of Mudd, Staind put on a show consisting of slick
sounds, introspection and sheer power that will be difficult to
match.
Don't make the mistake of tossing Staind in with the rest of
the current crop of nu-metal bands - trust me, they are definite-
ly more like old-fashioned rock, with some grunge chucked in
for good measure. On production albums, they rawk, sing bal-
lads and draw you in close to the speakers to make sure you
don't miss the message. Live, things are no different. No matter
which song they're playing, from the acoustic-sounding
Epiphany to the all-out rock of Can't Believe, Staind get into the
crowd and get your body moving.
Playing live, Aaron Lewis is a bit of a strange frontman - at
times, he is right up front serenading the crowd with his pow-
erful voice, but on other occasions he can seem detached, as if
it hurts to sing the words. At these points, Staind find a more
than suitable second lieutenant in Mike Mushok, who makes his
guitar sing with the passion that obviously flows through him.
A n d this is the ultimate word for Staind playing live: passion.
They ooze passion, right from Lewis' vocals to April's drums, as
if they are begging you to come in closer, expend your energy
and then think about what is wrong in your life and how to
make it better.
Outstanding songs of the night are Open Your Eyes, Fade,
Suffer, a full band version of Outside and encore song It's Been
Awhile. Outside is brilliant, because of the sheer intimacy and
intensity of the performance. Fade and Suffer show the ease
with which the band can transfer from calmness to madness in
two chords and bring the pit along with them. Open Your Eyes
and It's Been Awhile are very slick reproductions of the album
tracks, with a certain extra flavour.
All in all, a very good concert, let down only by the odd bout
of over-introspection from Lewis.
Kunal Tank

