music reviews
INTERVIEW
with Tetra Splendour
Tetra Splendour have released two singles so far, and they
recorded their debut album last year. Felix spoke to Peter and
Gaz from the band before their recent gig at the Monarch (see
review, right).
FELIX: Could y o u introduce yourselves?
PETER: The four of us, we're called Tetra Splendour and we're
from Wales. We all met at school a couple of years back. Three
of us started off the band doing jazz. That's all we were basi-
cally interested in, just playing instruments and stuff. A n d then
we started supporting bands...
How long ago was that?
PETER: About three years ago. Yeah, three years ago, and then
me and Gaz got a songwriting partnership going.
What have y o u been doing since then?
PETER: We toured in September, fourteen dates. We'd never
been on the road before, so that was our first experience.
How did that go? What kind of places were you playing?
PETER: Clubs, toilets...
You said y o u started off playing jazz stuff - was that other
people's stuff?
PETER: I think we kinda jammed our o w n ideas - you try to be
as original as you can, I suppose. A n d we obviously had to
change what we were doing just to try to get a record deal and
make a living out of it. We just took our influences and basical-
ly decided what we'd do. We did the demos and sent them off,
and that was w h y we got record companies coming to gigs.
GAZ: It wasn't a very sensational way to get signed. I mean, we
did it the bog standard w a y - everyone and their bosses had to
come and see us before we got the cash. It took a good few
months, maybe six months, maybe even a year...
Have y o u been touting yourselves around the student news-
papers?
PETER: [Laughs] Yeah! We did that on the first tour actually.
GAZ: Student 'papers tend to be nicer, because they tend to be
less offensive.
What are y o u thinking about the future then, if anything?
PETER: Well, we just want to get out of Britain really. Just gig a
lot, tour a lot. We just want to up the level of the gigs, get them
centred around our live show.
GAZ: I don't know how much more we can get out of gigs where
people just aren't interested, basically. We need to be exposed
to a larger audience.
Sorry, the tape's ran out. I guess that's it...
GAZ: Hang on, can I just say one thing? I read an article earlier
[in Felix], and it was a gig review and I can't remember the
name of the person. We were associated with the Toploader
kind of, er, thing. A n d I'd just like to mention that.
Really?! You remember these things?
G. Yeah. It's just having Toploader on the same page, in the arti-
cle about us. In an attempt to explain what we were doing. We
were quite hurt, frankly.
Robert
LIVE: Tetra Splendour +
Fi-Lo Radio @ The Monarch
Stupidly named three-piece Fi-Lo Radio have all the ingredi-
ents: a female bassist (cf. Pixies, Sonic Youth), a chubby male
vocalist (cf. Mogwai) and a wild-eyed drummer (cf. any rock
band). The first three tracks are delivered in the style one would
expect from such a trio: good energy, loud guitars and fantastic
bass, with plenty of trad metal and stadium rock influences.
All of that goes out of the window on the next three tracks
though, as the passion of the opening numbers is quelled by the
need to sound marketable. Fortunately, their final track is awe-
some - screaming alt-metal worthy of The Bastards or Napalm
Death, with true stadium kitsch showpiece rock attitude.
The N e w Electrics seem to have been touring Camden for
years, playing to their musically and fashionably retarded fol-
lowing. The band are a hopeless bunch of posers and posturers.
This is trash for the sake of it, and they can't even do sleaze
properly.
• • • • •
Gaz seems like the shy, quiet type in person. But when he's at
the front of the stage, equipped with a mike and two keyboards,
an alternative persona is allowed to express itself. A n d there is
a lot of expression to be found in the music of Tetra Splendour.
The background of guitars and drums provides a frame for the
varied emotions and accompanying sounds being coaxed,
wrenched or cajoled from the keyboards. It's not all tortuous,
emotional stuff though. There's humour in the lyrics as well as
simple boy-meets-girl sentiments, sometimes with added
twists.
Tetra Splendour would benefit from a larger stage, as their
music has an enveloping capacity similar to the atmosphere
generated at a Tindersticks gig. Oh, and they sound nothing
like Toploader.
Robert

