reviews music
Singles
Roundup
B E V E R L E Y K N I G H T - Shoulda Woulda Coulda
This British R&B artist (pic above) has never really made it
big, although she's always in the background. Hopefully this
single will elevate her status. You can guess from the title that
it's all about regret and what could have been. There's a lot of
feeling here, but it doesn't sound soppy thanks to a good back-
ing track. This has something more than the standard R&B bal-
lad, which makes me think that it should do well.
ID Oscar
IAN B R O W N - Whispers
This is the monkey king's best 45 since, ooh, I'm gonna stick
my neck out here and say... Fool's Gold. The track starts with
skittering electronic bleeps and synth washes, before kicking
into one of those scally-funk choruses which seem to have
become his trademark. A definite return to form. It's good to
have him back.
Tommy Mack
M U L L HISTORICAL SOCIETY - Watching Xanadu
The latest bout of catchy, bouncy, fun-filled guitar pop from
Colin Maclntyre and associates is well worth getting hold of,
even if the lyrics are a little difficult to understand.
Unfortunately though, the B-sides on the first of the two CDs
leave a lot to be desired. The second CD is a much better bet,
as it contains the delightfully continental-sounding Sad Old Day
To Be Down and the highly amusing video for Watching Xanadu,
featuring Colin himself in a pair of red velvet bunny ears.
Jess
COMPETITION WINNER
Kei-Tee Tiew, a postgrad in EE, has won a copy of the
soundtrack to the film How High. Kei-Tee knew that
Redman's latest solo album is entitled Malpractice.
O U T T H I S W E E K
The following are due for release on Monday 18 February:
A L B U M S
AIR - Everybody Hertz
TANYA DONELLY - Beautysleep
LO-FIDELITY ALLSTARS - Don't Be Afraid Of Love
SINGLES
A - Nothing
MAXIMILIAN HECKER - Polyester
TELEPOPMUSIK - Breathe
V E X RED - Can't Smile
...and also the Beverley Knight, Ikara Colt, Middlerow and
Freeheat singles (all reviewed below)
SPIRITUALIZED - Do It A l l Over Again
This is a happy little ditty - very happy. In fact, so happy that
it will corrode the very core of your cynical self, replacing it with
little fluffy bunnies, so be warned. Bunnies aside, this has the
gospel feel of many a Spiritualized track, with loud piano chords
and even tambourines. It would work very well live, but, as it's
the only track on the CD, this gets very wearing after the tenth
play. Never mind.
» • • • Jamie
IKARA COLT - Rudd
Ikara Colt, it seems, are an up and coming indie band, for
whom random shouting is clearly the order of the day. Indeed,
this single has a large helping. Dischords and distortion are cer-
tainly close to their hearts too. The end result, a strange cross
between The Hives and Clinic, rather unexpectedly grew on
me. If that sounds like your thing, then it might be worth keep-
ing an eye on this band...
Jamie
M I D D L E R O W - Right Proper Charlie
This UK garage pisstake sounds creepily like The Shamen's
Ebenezer Goode (cockney rapping, crap rhymes) and attempts
to do for coke what that track did for E. It doesn't really work,
not least because Charlie turns everyone into a loud-mouthed
self important wanker and therefore deserves no celebration.
It's a shame, because when a decent M C comes on, this isn't
actually a bad track. But it's not as funny as they think it is.
Tommy Mack
F R E E H E A T - Retox
These guys are just your normal indie band but with two
singers - one man and one woman. This makes the first song
The Two of Us sound alright, but the lyrics are a bit dodgy. The
EP starts uptempo, slows down and then is supposed to finish
with a bang, but it all sounds very average. The songs sound
samey and none of them really stand out. Although this isn't ter-
rible, I've heard it all before.
Oscar

