clubbing reviews
Enjoymusicv.2 @
Goldsmiths College Union
After winding its w a y around the various universities in the
land, the Orange tour has finally made it back to London. The
concept is simple: Orange and their expert team of light and
sound people invade a students' union for the night, bringing a
selection of top flight DJs with them. The students get a good
night out, and Orange get their logo plastered all over the union
in question. Felix reviewers, of course, just get plastered.
"Is it any good?" I hear you cry. In a word, yes. Despite a slow
start at its under-attended London launch, the tour has gained
significant momentum and has sold out nearly every venue it's
been to. The stellar line-ups may have had something to do with
this, and the night at Goldsmiths Union was no exception. D J
Touche (pic above) and Cut la Roc were the talent on offer, and
they were well worth a trip south of the river. Goldsmiths, if you
weren't aware, is located near N e w Cross station in south-east
London and is seen by many as the "anti-Imperial", with its
more than generous helping of liberal arts students.
When we arrived at the venue, we were greeted by a multi-
tude of toys, most of which were familiar to veterans of the
London launch. Again, the glow wall proved to be most popu-
lar, with a number of hilarious comedy shadows being pro-
duced. The giant text screen was less good, having been
altered by the thought police so I couldn't use any rude words.
The main difference between this and the launch night was
the atmosphere - a packed dance floor of drunken students con-
trasting with the handful of competition winners and assorted
"we're too cool to dance" media types.
Touche (see interview, right) worked the dancefloor well, mix-
ing a good variety of records over llObpm. M y favourite tunes
of the evening were M a x Linen's fantastic Soulshaker and a
remix of a Mary J Blige track. In general, Touche's selection of
records, suited the night well.
After shaking my thing for some time, all that remained was
the long journey home. Incidentally, I have worked out why
night buses now have plastic rear seats upstairs - it's for their
useful wipe-clean property.
INTERVIEW
with DJ Touche
DJ Touche plays regularly at some of the UK's biggest and best
clubs, such as London's Fabric and The Boutique in Brighton.
Formerly known as The Wiseguys, he scored a huge hit with
Ooh La La (the Budweiser theme), which made it to number two
in the UK singles chart. Touche is now one of the star names
involved in the Orange student nightclub tour, and Felix spoke
to him before his headline set at Goldsmiths (see review, left).
FELIX: So how's the Orange tour going?
DJ TOUCHE: It's going all right, it's not too strenuous 'cause it
only goes in term-time and you're only doing weekends or close
to weekends. It's not like doing a normal tour when you're play-
ing, you know, every day.
What sort of stuff are y o u going to be playing tonight?
House stuff really, funky house, nothing too schmaltzy.
Whatever I play, I like it to be funky, you know, quality shit.
There's no point in coming on and playing four hours of really
blokey breakbeat - you've got to make it a good set.
You've got two n e w tracks coming out soon - will they be a
new direction for you, or more of the Wiseguys sort of thing?
Basically, The Wiseguys is finished. The Wiseguys was those
two albums, it was on Wall of Sound, and I'm not The Wiseguys
any more. That was just one part of my career. But even before
I made The Wiseguys in '92 I was producing house records so,
you know, that's always been a part of me. I learnt my trade, as
it were, making hip-hop beats and house beats.
So house music, your n e w face, it's not about becoming more
commercial...
No, no, no, it's not commercial. Hip-hop is probably more com-
mercial than house music, d'you know what I mean? I'm sure
Jay-Z sells more records than the house guys.
What do you think to people w h o only play one type of
music?
Well, it depends what that one style is. If you're there playing
one style of music for ten, fifteen, however many years, that's
fine, so long as you're good at it and you're innovative. I'm not
saying you should try to be really clever and play everything,
'cause often that's just a complete bodge - you just have to play
what feels right, you know?
So w h i c h other current established DJs a n d artists do you
particularly like?
DJs I don't know... I've always found that a hard one, 'cause I
don't actually go out and listen to a D J unless I'm playing myself
or whatever. There's loads of artists I like -1 love the Neptunes,
they're amazing, and Timbaland as well.
You've played loads of the best venues around - what's the
best gig you've ever done?
A top gig for me was Tokyo - playing in Tokyo was amazing. I
can't remember the place, it was that one on the Fatboy Slim
documentary. Manumission in '97 I played about four times,
that was pretty amazing. Also playing in Sydney was a real
highlight for me.
Alex Dave

