reviews clubbing
Made
Browns
I doubt that we should really believe
reports that such luminaries as Omar,
Kele Le Roc, Wookie, Sticky, Masterstepz,
Tymes 4 and Selina from Honeyz were
here for the launch party on January 22.
But who knows? I wouldn't recognize a
host of music industry names even if I
were sober, so maybe I shouldn't be so
cynical. Anyway, the relaunched Made
(previously at C C ) is still playing a rock-
ing mix of tunes to shake your booty to,
so who cares who's there, so long as they
are dancing.
Browns itself hardly deserves the
"infamous" and "exclusive" tags, unless
they got them for overpriced warm beer
poured by disinterested staff in an
attempt to make the liggerati feel out of
place. The beer aside though, the venue
is ideal for this select night. With its
shiny red leather, opulent paintings and
subdued lighting, the almost Parisian
interior allows the stylish gents to
lounge by the D J box whilst the honeyz
cluster across the dancefloor.
The list of DJs leaves us in doubt about
the music policy. None of these names
are known for surprising us, but all play
a cool, chilled, bootilicious (or whatever)
variation on the same vibe. On rotation
are: Manny Norte from Kiss F M , Lonyo
from Garage Girls, Jamie Binns from
Soul2Streets with some soulful (but not
soul) flavas to gyrate to, Rachel Bee and
Steve Webster from Green Island. Mostly
its a pretty dull, charty, popular slab of
vaguely R&B sounds.
Overall, a harmless evening, with noth-
ing to offend the ears and something to
groove to, or even drink warm beer to.
You might even spot a few celebrities.
Bling! Bling!
Robert
Fabriclive
@ Fabric
Fabric wouldn't be Fabric without the
usual mile-long queue, but once I had got
in, that familiar Fabric atmosphere hit
me: ground-shaking noise and the smell
of weed. Aii.
Unfortunately, all the name checking
meant that I could only hear one song
from A l i B's set. Good as it was, I wanted
to hear more from the guy from my local
town of Kingston. But I shouldn't have
feared, because after him was Howie B
doing a live breakbeat session with all
the drum machines and synths. Now this
was good shit.
A bit of an unusual name in the line-up,
John Peel was in Room 3. Room 3 is nor-
mally the more chilled-out room, but for
his set it was heaving. He played some
old funky vinyl whilst even spinning
some new stuff. He wasn't exactly the
most active of DJs (well, he is older than
my dad); as we stood right next to him,
he looked like he was twiddling his
thumbs deciding what to put on his gro-
cery list rather than choosing which
record to surprise us with.
James Lavelle was next, playing some
damn fine tunes. Smoke Machine, which
lasted about ten minutes, was simply
ace. During the Smoke Machine vocal,
they covered the dancefloor with smoke.
See what they did there?
Lavelle played a more commercial set
than usual, with songs like Goldtrix and
The Next Level also making an appear-
ance.
If you haven't been to Fabric, you gotta
go - but hurry, because it's beginning to
get "underagey". It's a quality night out,
but drink before you get there to ensure
that the beer monster doesn't eat those
notes and use your switch card!
Oscar
. ; ' ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ i i ^ ^ i ^ ' •::
a-::a:|a:
The Best Of The
Rest
Hey, pop-pickers. Now, you might be ask-
ing yourself what is the best way to get
rid of all of those bank notes which are
sitting in your wallet and not doing very
much at all. Well, here are a few ideas...
Fabriclive @ Fabric (15/02)
The usual subterranean monkey busi-
ness from dark lords James Lavelle,
Jazzanova, Stanton Warriors, Roni Size,
Fabio, Grooverider and A l i B.
The Gallery @ Turnmills (15/02)
It's ladies night at The Gallery as the
UK/US soundclash enters its third round.
Our headlmers are SisterBliss, Lisa Loud
and Sandra Collins.
City Loud @ Turnmills (16/02)
The ultimate party is to be found at City
Loud, the superlative house night. C J
Mackintosh and Full Intention are your
hosts for the evening.
M i x m a g @ Cargo (20/02)
For those of you prefer not to spend
Wednesday night in the Union, there is a
decidedly tasty chance to catch Judge
Jules (doing a funky house set), Lisa
Lashes and Tim Sheridan from the Dope
Smugglaz.
Headstart @ Turnmills (23/02)
The Headstart third birthday celebra-
tions take place, as ever, at Turnmills.
With a line-up featuring Fatboy Slim, FC
Kahuna and Ladytron (four hour set), this
is sure to be heaving.
SoulHeaven @ Ministry (23/02)
It does exactly what it says on the tin.
For your delectation are sets from Joey
Negro and Kenny Carpenter.
Renaissance @ The Cross (23/02)
Renaissance graces The Cross once
again, featuring Graeme Park (five hours)
and Nigel Dawson.
...So many clubs, so little money.
Patrick

