break coffee
GFQQ - The Great Felix Quote Quiz
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr. Hot Fudge
1. "You think that's air you're breathing now?"
2. "Hey, Laser-lips! You're momma was a snowblower!"
3. "Some guys say Bozz died in Vietnam, some say he just disap-
peared, but knowing Bozz he'd probably be pissed I was talking
about him anyway."
4. "I remember every detail, the Germans wore grey - you wore
blue."
5. "Let's not start sucking each other's dicks quite yet."
6. "Sometimes nothin' can be a real cool hand."
7. "What the hell are you screamin' for? Every thirty seconds
there's a bomb or somethin'! I'm leavin'! bzzzz!"
Number of players: 65
The Leader Board - top 15
Name Score
Simon North 112.5
Daniel Sauder 111
Christopher Dent 108.5
Chris Ince 108
Anthony Rodriques 106.5
Andrew Ince 105.5
John Anderson 102.5
Michael Simonds 88
Chris Toffis 71
Rebekah Hymas 62.5
Arosha Bandara 61
Gregory Mann 59.5
Fred Marquis 58.5
Geoff Lay 58
Kim Randell 58
Answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or
to the Felix Office - West Wing
Basement, Beit Quad.
I a * t e
E S Q U I R E S
C O F F E E H O U S E S
OPPOSITE
WAITROSE
Answers to Indiana Jones special:
1. Henry Jones Snr/Sean Connery - The Last Crusade
2. Grail Knight/Robert Eddison - The Last Crusade
3. Indiana Jones/Harrison Ford - Raiders of the Lost Ark
4. Fedora/Richard Young - The Last Crusade
5. A: Willie Scott/Kate Capshaw
B: Indy/Harrison Ford - Temple of Doom
Bonus. The Club in the opening scene in the Temple of Doom is
called 'Club Obi Wan'. Also, Michael Sheard who plays Hitler in the
Last Crusade and Julian Glover who plays Walter Donovan play
Admiral Ozzle and General Veers respectively in The Empire Strikes
Back.
Apologies Fudglings, for I am at fault. After exhaustive investiga-
tions, I have decided that the Jaws' quote I truly believed was from
'The Spy Who Loved Me' is in fact from 'Moonraker'. It seems that
too many Aeros have clouded my once youthfully clear and bubble-
free memory. Thanks to Anthony Rodriques & Co. for their S W L M
vigil - points will be corrected accordingly in the G F Q Q database.
No Special GFQQ theme this week, just pure quotes from all over
the shop, chosen purely because they tickle our fancy. Time is run-
ning out, and from now on the quotes will get progressively harder
until a clear undisputed quidnunc of quote is announced in a few
week's time.
Valentine's Day this week, and our recommendations for romantic
chocolate products with good melting and spreading coefficients
include: Flakes, Mars, Milkybars, Twirls and Buttons but not Twix,
Time Outs, Snickers or the so-called Snowflakes.
»>fd»- »« Good-luck for this week! Bobby Cyclops

