Cupids, hearts, roses, devils and a little drop of Rag
magic will all be on hand this evening in the Union, to
make your Valentines weekend that little bit sweeter,
Aahhh, didums, etc etc. Head over to Beit Quad from
8pm to discover what cheesy really looks like...
Round up three mates and make your way to the Union Bar
tomorrow, where you'll set off on a trip around 20 themed
pubs across London. An early start is advised if you're
serious about making it round - and there are four Eurostar
tickets on offer for the team that collects the most money.
Baad N i g h t s
Catch some of the best bands in College on Monday
evening, courtesy of the Jazz & Rock Society, whilst
on Tuesday the Jazz Big Band will hit you with a
torrent of jazz, funk and swing. Both events start at
8pm in dBs, and are absolutely free to enter.
London Raid
Your chance to create your own little bit of havoc on the
streets of London on Wednesday, with collecting challenges
dotted across the Capital - including the famous tiddlywink
race down Oxford Street. Big prizes are on offer for the best
collectors, and there's a party back at the Union at 8.
SletVe A u c t i o n
House in need of a clean? Friends in need of
embarrassment? Self in need of company? Head
to the JCR at 12 on Friday and become the proud
owner of someone you barely know for the best
part of 24 hours in return for a small fee. Nice...
SCHOOL UNIFORM Vt\Y
Don your gymslip or old school (or even old skool) tie and
get set for more things to do than could possibly fit in this
box. At lunchtime there's a fete on the Queen's Lawn,
followed by collections around the City from 1pm, and the
huge Back 2 School party chez Union from 8pm.
So, Rag Week, huh. Is it really that time of year already? Blimey. Lots of messing
about and being silly, isn't it? Well, erm, yes, pretty much. Except that it's messing
about and being silly for a reason, Y'see, while Rag is supposed to be
fundamentally fun, offering you the chance to have a laugh, try something new or
just make a complete fool of yourself, it's also about raising a shed load of money
for charity along the way - in fact, this year's Rag events have already raised more
than £5000 for a variety of good causes. This week, however, every event,
collection, sale and party will be helping to raise money for Rag's official charity, The
Shooting Star Trust, a Twickenham based outfit who want to open West London's
first hospice for terminally ill children by the end of next year.
Set up in 1995, the Trust will provide a respite for young people suffering from
cancer, muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis and cerebral palsy, so that they (and their
families) can live out their lives in a comfortable, reassuring home, rather than on a
hospital ward. However, having already bought a site for the centre and raised the £6
million needed to get it built, they now need more money to kit out the hospice -
everything from specially adapted beds and toys to IT tools and kitchen equipment.
And that's where we come in. A few hundred pounds will buy a bed or learning toys;
a few thousand pounds will kit out a bedroom or furnish the library or play room; a
few tens of thousands of pounds could buy a new minibus, or fit out an entire wing of
the building... You get the idea. Ultimately, though, the point is that this is a small
charity trying to do something really great on a small scale - they haven't got
hundreds of dedicated fundraisers or national sponsors, so every penny raised this
week really will make a difference. To find out more about what that really means,
visit www.shootingstar.org.uk, or check out the Rag website at www.su.ic.ac.uk/rag.
Of course, much as we might want to, there's no way that any of us could possibly
afford to fund the Trust on our own. However, by getting out onto the streets of
Knightsbridge, Westminster and Canary Wharf, having fun and rattling a few
collecting tins at passing multi-millionaires, together we can make a difference - it's
corny, but it's true. And, as a great man once said, you can't say fairer than that...
Hopefully, you're now fully convinced of two things. Firstly, that Rag
- doing some good doesn't necessarily have to be dull. Secondly,
that all this playing around, dressing up and getting blind drunk
really is all for a good cause. And thirdly that you really,
really, really want to get involved. Sorry, three things - it's
fun. It's for a good cause, and you want to get involved
And that you want to buy a ticket for the Balloon Race
(available for just a pound from stalls in all good
JCRs™). No, four things, four things... And that
you'd better ring your mum and ask her to post
your school tie down to you, ready for next Friday.
And that you could really do with one of those free
t-shirts. And that... Damn, I'll come in again...
is fun

