talk felix
"No pain, no gain" is the mantra of those
who willingly submit themselves to the
tyranny of the regular workout. It also fits
with the caricature of Lent, the forty day
period of self-denial before Easter in the
Christian calendar. If you enjoy some-
thing, then give it up for Lent. If it does not
hurt then it can't be good for you. Get out
your old sack-cloths and start sitting in
ashes, it's the season for self-flagellation.
Of course, there is a more cuddly parody
of Lent. This first reguires that the mean-
ing of Easter be reduced to a mammoth
chocolate puke-athon. In order to be fully
prepared for this Olympian feast Lent is
used as a time to give up all chocolate and
sweets. This is the Lent of delayed gratifi-
cation and binging. This fits much better
with our culture. Self-denial for improved
body image is clearly seen as a very good
thing. Forget the pressures to conform to
an idealised body image.
There is an ancient and more radical
take on the season of Lent. Forget the
Chaplaincy
crude self- denial theme of "give it up".
Instead "take up" something new. What
used to be called "doing good works" is
now known as joining the "volunteering
culture".
Lent could be a good time to start doing
something to make the world a better
place for other people. IC already has a
host of clubs and societies engaged in
social issues. For example, R A G is operat-
ing all year round raising money for good
causes. Students on the Pimlico
Connection help teach in local primary
schools. The Community Action Group
give you a chance to help with the Sunday
Night Soup Run, or work at the
Nightshelter for the homeless. They are
also involved in the "Tools for Self
Reliance" scheme that repairs old tools
and sends them to Africa.
What all of these projects offer those
who volunteer are new experiences. Yes
voluntary work helps others. But equally
importantly it changes us. It can encour-
age us to go beyond the small worlds that
we create for our o w n protection.
Volunteering can be a good way to gain
insight into areas of life and society that
we would not normally visit. By all means
"give something up" for Lent. But also
think about "taking up" something new. It
could do you the power of good as well as
helping others.
In the Chaplaincy we have a file of vol-
unteering opportunities including journal-
ism for Christian A i d , doing DIY for the
housebound, helping community develop-
ment in Notting Hill, supporting a charity
assisting people living with HIV/Aids, or
working on a building site with the home-
less.
Some need regular commitment and
some you can join whenever you are free.
For further information contact
Community Action Group iccag@ic.ac.uk,
or R A G helen.arney@ic.ac.uk or Pimlico
Connection william.mitchel@ic.ac.uk or
chaplaincy@ic.ac.uk
I S R A E L
O N T R I A L
"This House Believes that Yassar Arafat was Right
to Refuse Israel's Terms at Camp D a v i d "
PHYSICS - LT1 - T H U R S D A Y 21st - 6:00pm
IC Secular Society

