Editorial
felix talk
This week, I have mostly been ill. A n d
this is probably the worst part of my job
here. Even when I'm dying with 'flu, and
a temperature of 104,1 still have to get up
and make sure that this gets out so you
lot have something to read during lec-
tures. I wouldn't mind so much if I though
you all read it for the insightful journal-
ism, or the stunning design and layout, or
even for the well rounded editorial, but as
far as I can reckon, you don't. You read it
so you can do the crosswords and the
GFQQ. Is this really true? A m I really
wasting my time (and health) to provide
you people with two pages of puzzles and
a protective covering of emergency toilet
paper. I'd like to think not.
So, what I'm asking is that you, the
reader, take a moment right now (or at
least once you've finished the crossword)
to sit at a computer and e-mail me, telling
me what it is you do and don't read in
Felix. Not only will it make an old man
very happy (or possibly not), but it also
might mean that less of the bad stuff will
go in, which would logically imply that
there would be more good stuff. Or at
least a greater percentage of good stuff.
But yes, ill. I've been. A n d most horri-
bly. I'm too young to die, and too beautiful
too. It would be denying the world of per-
fection, and as such, for all your sakes, I'm
hanging on to this life with a fervour.
Sorry, I get a touch melodramatic when
feeling ill. Also, considering the number
of little pills I've taken, I'm probably hal-
lucinating. A n d much fun it is too. Why,
only this morning I was talking to my
lampshade about the quality of life that
haberdashery enjoys, and I was sorely
tempted to turn it all in and become a
cushion.
But foolishly, I did not, and so here I am,
waffling away. Oh yes! E-mail address. To
e-mail me with your comments about
Felix (and I really do want them), use the
address felix@ic.ac.uk is my advice. You
could use another address and trust in
the mighty god of the internet to guide it,
but I find that's about as reliable as dous-
ing for jam in a sausage factory. A s my old
grandmother used to say.
High time I ranted about something,
now, I think, being an editor and all. This
week we have R A G week coming up, and
to be honest we here in the Felix world
are pretty moist at the thought... many
photo opportunities and stories of drunk-
en debauchery galore. At least, that's
what I've been promised. However, once
again, dear reader, it is you who must
actually ensure that this promise comes
true. A n d you don't want to make a liar of
the person who promised the promise, if
you see what I mean, and I think you do,
do you?
So that was nice. I have one hour until I
have to send this fine tome off to out
friendly neighbourhood printers, so I
should probably cut this short, and just
write blah for the rest of it, but frankly I'm
too professional, so like every good actor,
I will instead whisper rhubarb repeatedly
under my breath. Rhubarb rhubarb
rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb.
Wye Campus, JCR Union Building South Kensington, dBs Club Bar
5pm Tuesday, February 26 6pm Wednesday, February 27
)<n Sabbatical Elections • • • n
c o N e g e
J > u n i o n

