Erratum
William Cortazzi has asked me to point out
that he is not IC's resident fascist as reported
in last week's FELIX. We would wish to
apologise for any confusion that this may have
caused.
CB Radio
Thanks to the Ferret and G8RRD for their
summing up letters on the C B issue. The topic
was a new one to me and I now feel quite well
J formed on the subject. However, the topic is
now closed in the letters page.
Aunt Died re
Please find enclosed a new cartoon series
entirely created from next to nothing by myself
(artist) and Simon Turner (writist). We hope
you will find it stimulating for the rest of the
year and advise you to keep your back issues
to be able to appreciate it fully. Hope you enjoy
reading it as much as we enjoyed creating it.
We need you
If you want to come and join the happy bunch
working on FELIX, don't get thinking it's too
late, we always need people.
We need more people who take photos and
develop them. We need photos quickly which
means films have to be developed and printed
up almost immediately. We do, of course, pay
expenses.
We need people to write news stories, paste-
up pages, typeset, collate on Thursday, etc.,
etc. You needn't have any prior experience,
you'll pick at us as you go along.
I would ask, though, that you bear with us;
producing a paper every week is very hectic —
while we want to attract and encourage staff
we also have to get the paper out. We need
hardened souls who can cope with deadline
panics.
On Thursday night, we collate FELIX, this is
usually quite sociable (shouting above the
noise of the folding machine, slagging off the
Union Exec, etc., etc.). Let's face it, putting
together 4,000 copies of FELIX by hand is so
deathly boring that we have to do something to
relieve the tedium. This will undoubtedly
explain the topless dancer many of you will
have seen if you have passed the office on
Thursday night.
Join the 24-hour, nearly 7 days a week club.
Join FELIX and see the sun rise!
Southside Security Survey
Last Monday morning at 4:00am, I conducted
a security survey of Southside. The freedom of
access to the building has been the subject of
much discussion following the violent incident
in Keogh last week and the rape last term.
I have concluded that it is extremely easy for
anyone (without a key) to gain access to
Southside at the moment.
The Keogh/Selkirk main door was locked
just as it usually is, but the Falmouth/Tizard
doors were not; efficient door-closers must be
fitted to these doors.
I was very surprised to see the fire escape
doors at the Falmouth/Tizard end actually
back on their hinges after my editorial
complaint last week. I was even more
surprised to see how they were locked. In the
past, the two fire escape doors at each end of
Southside automatically unlocked when the
firebell was triggered. However, on Sunday
and at the time of writing (Wednesday
evening) these doors were fastened shut with a
bolt attached to the inside of the door. These
bolts were easily unlocked by slipping one's
hand through the door slats from the outside,
thus offering 24-hour easy access to
Southside.
Monday morning, I phoned Captain Lindley
(Domestic Secretary) who was unavailable for
comment. I then phoned Bob Foggon, Fire and
Safety Officer who didn't like the arrangement
from a safety point of view as the doors should
automatically open in case of fire, and not be
bolted up. Mr Reeves, Chief Security Officer,
told me that all doors in College were being
improved from a security point of view and the
fire-bell-triggered opening of these doors was
at present being improved by the Estates
department, hence the temporary bolts.
IN C O N C L U S I O N ; I find this whole
situation totally unsatisfactory. At the
moment, the doors pose a safety and security
hazard to Southside residents. While
accepting maintenance is necessary, it is
taking far too long for the Estates department
to pull their fingers out. And putting a bolt on
the inside which one can open from the
outside seems, to me at least, a pretty poor
substitute for security. It would be a simple
matter to prevent access to the bolt from the
outside.
Southside Plant
Well, that was a wizard wheeze last week
wasn't it? Within two hours of FELIX 'hitting
the streets' the offending plant had been
watered and someone had cut all the dead
leaves off.
Talk about 'Power of the Press'. Wow!
Stop Press:
Bob Foggon has informed me (Thursday) that
is likely that the firebell-triggered doors will
come into operation from early next week, and
the bolts will be removed.
To meet the occasion of a fire where the
firebell is not triggered, a fire alarm will be'
situated near the escape doors.
Blood Doninq
I forgot to include a blood doning ad last
week. Doning took place yesterday and will
be on today in the Union Dining Hall until
12:00 noon and in the afternoon from 2:00pm
to 4:00pm.
Thanks to . . . .
Patrick, Caroline, Mark, Eric, Steve, Phil,
Colin, Shanne, Dave, Chris, Doris, and her
friends, BB, Ian, Maz and God knows who
else.
Puzzle Corner
By Scaramouche
Meanwhile, back at Primelia College, the
professor of logic has lost his Occam Razor
(used for splitting hairs). Beingcertain he haslent
it to ot,e of his final year students, he asked
them about it.
Amble said: I borrowed it from Eager at
least t\Ace, and lent it to Clumsy once. I
never lent it to Bumble.
Bumble said: Whenever I lent it to Amble
or Clumsy (and I'm not sure that I ever did) I
had just borrowed it from Eager.
Clumsy said: I lent it to Bumble, Eager,
and Fumble just once each.
Drudge said: It passed once between each
of the others and me.
Eager said: I lent it to Fumble once. I'm
not sure if he gave it straight back, but he
never gave it to me on any other occasion. I
never borrowed it from Bumble, but if I lent
it to him, then I never borrowed it from the
man who has it now.
Fumble said: It passed between me and
Bumble once. I never lent it to Amble or
Clumsy.
The professor drew a deep breath and
several complicated diagrams, finally
concluding that a certain number of his
students could be excluded from his list of
suspects.
Which ones?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me
c/o FEUX Office. There will be a prize of £2
for the first correct solution opened at noon on
Tuesday.
Last Week's Solution
10 and 11.
Since Splinter could not solve the problem
he'was set, there are two solutions to x2
+ y2
=
k for k fixed, not divisible by 5, and less than
260. 102
+ l l 2
= 142
+ a2
= 221 is the only
solution. If anyone can explain to me why
there are so many values for k which are
divisible by 5 (50, 65, 85, 125, 145....) but only
one value which isn't, I will be most grateful.
It helps to find the solution if you notice that
a2
+ b2
= c2
+ d2
if a2
- c2
= d 2
- b2
= (a+c)(a-c) =
(d+b)(d-b).
Lots of people assumed that "roughly the
same age" meant "the difference in ages is one
year". Although it isn't necessary to assume
this to solve the puzzle, it does lead to the
correct answer, and offered a short cut which I
hadn't bargained for. Consequently several
people submitted corrected entries. Tim
Lawes, Maths 3, is the lucky winner, and he
can collect his prize from the FELIX Office.
PHOTOSOC flan sale, 12:45 to 1:15pm
Tues, Old Darkroom, Beit Quad.
C O L O U R PRINT FILM
KodacolourH Instamatic C110-20 £1.20
Kodacolour 400 Instamatic C G 110-20 1.35
Kodacolour II 35mm C 135 36 1.80
Kodacolour 400 35mm C G 135-36 2.20
C O L O U R SLIDE FILM
Kodachrome KM 135 36 £3.95
Kodachrome 64 35mm KR 135 36 3.95
Extachrome 400 35mm EL 135 36 3.50
Ektachrome 160 35mm Tungsten
B L A C K A N D WHITE PRINT FILM
Word FP4 & HP5 35mm 35exp £1.30
Diord FP4 & HP5 35mm 5 metres 2.50
Kodak Tri-X 35mm 36exp 1.40
Kodak Tri-x 35mm 4.50
PAPER AND CHEMICALS TO ORDER.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB. (589 5111 ext. 1048/int. 2881) Copyright FEUX 1980. Editor: S.J. Marshall, Advertising Manager: MA. Smith. Registered at the GPO as a newspaper.

