Workin Shell coversII areas
of activity.
Mechanical Engineers make an
important contribution in all of them.
A number of people, including some Undergraduates,
have the idea that an oil company can offer little scope to
Mechanical Engineers. Yet, as far as Shell is concerned,
nothing could be further from the truth.
You will find the wide range of work of many
Mechanical Engineers described in our booklet
'Opportunities for Graduates, 1981', and this should
come as no surprise if you think about the technical
scope of our activities. Spread more widely across the
world of Shell than probably any other group of
professionals, we have a good few hundred Mechanical
Engineers with virtually unlimited scope to move into
any sphere, and there are scarcely any activities
equivalent to the 'shop floor'.
Early management involvement
Right from your early months you will be involved in
the management of engineering projects, for with Shell
you are emphatically not someone who just solves
problems on paper. Planning and co-ordinating
programmes and negotiating with contractors will all
be part of your task, working in small teams.
We shall expect you to do your problem-solving in a
context of great autonomy, while you are quite likely to
find yourself having to work out your own technology.
A n d you are certain to meet human problems as well as
mechanical ones.
Most people seem to like it that way.
Opportunities to acquire new skills
Whatever your engineering interest at University,
Shell can offer an enormous variety of possibilities,
particularly as we diversify our worldwide business.
T h e training and scope for career development,
including senior management opportunities, match the
wealth of experience we provide so that with Shell you
can be qualified for any field. A n d you will be
encouraged to acquire Chartered Engineer status in
your early years, doing professional work that satisfies
the Institution's requirements. We believe in growing
bur own leaders and in making the fullest use of the best
brains around.
If you're among the best of Undergraduates, and
particularly if you're in your final year, you could well
find it worthwhile considering Shell at least to the point
of looking at our 1981 booklet now at your Careers
Service. W e ' l l be meeting students early in the New
Year, telling them how they can
put their qualifications to
rewarding use.
O r get in touch with
A n n Simons, Recruitment
Division (F5) P N E E / 2 4 ,
Shell International
Petroleum Company Limited,
Shell Centre, London S E i 7 N A .
Telephone: 01-934 2947.
FELIX, November 7, 1980 Page 5

