B y B . B . W o l f f e
Hi, I'm back! Hope you missed me.
I notice that while I've been away
the RCS Broadsheet mob have snat-
ched the opportunitv to start up their
Rumour, Crud, Scandal column. Well,
what can I say? They seem to have a
preoccupation with people who wear
yellow trousers. They claim this is the
latest trend. Hogwash Sir! Why, I was
wearing yellow trousers when I was in
nappies!
An interesting snippet came to light the other
day. It was learned that the Department of
Computing owns a kosher gown for use at
such occasions as Commemoration Day. We
were intrigued, firstly, that there is such a thing
as a kosher gown (made of synthetic fibres)
and, secondly, why the DoC should want to
purchase one.
Normally, all gowns for Commemoration
Day are borrowed from the University of
London's store; however, when Professor
Manny Lehman, head of DoC, insisted on a
kosher gown they were a little slow on the
uptake. Consequently, the DoC bought Prof
Lehman the gown out of departmental money.
Amazing!
A rather amusing incident occurred in dear old
Weeks Hall recently. A Chinese student with
an obvious concern over the scarcity of such
wonderful accommodation had allowed a
friend to share his humble abode. Not content
with merely risking detection of the offence, he
made absolutely certain that his charitable act
would be revealed by moving a second bed
into his room.
Eagle-eyed warden, Dr Don Monroe, was
quick to catch on. He swooped (hawk-like)
and removed the offending item while the
culprits were away.
Intending to have a firm word with the
chappie (and presumably to reprimand him)
Dr Monroe re-visited the room later and
rapped smartly on the door. He was admitted
following a series of suspicious noises from
inside and was aghast to see a guest. Two
pillows lay adjacent on the floor.
On asking to inspect the wardrobe, Dr
Monroe was hastily drawn into a discussion
by the occupant involving at least four different
excuses. He feigned interest, but in an instant
deftly flicked open the wardrobe door. Imagine
his surprise when a third Chinaman fell onto
the floor!
Subsequently the founder of the commune
was fined £25 and coughed up without
argument. Well done, Don! That's one in the
eye for Maoism!
B o f t c f a m a RMk
The F E L I X Office has recently received a copy
of Sphinx, the L i v e r p o o l A r t s M a g a z i n e .
Considering that Sphinx was a runner-up in
the N U S / G u a r d i a n best magazine awards, it is
a pity that the issue we received contains such
a glaring boo-boo.
O n the back is a Barciaybank C a s h A r o u n d
T h e Clock advert. At the end it says: "You'll
find your nearest Barciaybank machine at 30
Market Hill o r 35 Sidney Street, Cambridge".
Some of us sitting around in the FELIX Office
had an amusing thought the other day. Heard
of Trevor Phillips? Big. Trev was sabbatical
I C U President in 1974/5. Then he was
sabbatical U L U President, then he was
sabbatical president of the London Students'
Organisation (LSO). After that, he was a
sabbatical member of the NUS Exec later to
become sabbatical NUS President.
Someone had the bright idea that he might
actually have a year of his chemistry degree
still to complete.
THIS Dennis Afolabi chappie seems to be
acting like a man who is going to die of an
incurable disease within a couple of months
and wants to go out with a bang. He is going
out of his way to be as objectionable as
possible to as many people as he can in a
very short space of time. Not only is he
getting up Steve Marshall's nose, he's getting
up the Haldane Librarian's as well.
Richard Williams (the Librarian) has
recieved a letter from Mr Afolabi on behalf of
the /.''ro-Carib Soc demanding that the
library stock the following journals: Africa
(60p monthly), West Africa (30p weekly),
Root (75p monthly), and West Indian World
(30p weekly). The thought behind this is that
as thj Chinese, Turkish, Greek, Arabic, and
Swedish readers have journals in the library,
so should Afro-Carib Soc.
Mr Williams wrote back informing Mr
Afolabi that these Societies bought the
journals themselves and the library very
kindly gave them shelf space; he offered shelf
space to Mr Afolabi for his journals. This was
not good enough for Danny though, who
wrote back asking Mr Williams to justify the
Haldane's subscriptions to Punch and Gay
News in preference to, for example, Root.
T o quote his letter:"...we would be most
obliged if you could kindly let us know the
reason for taking Gay Neujs but not West
Indian World, and Punch but not Root."
Is this jerk for real?
Stop Press
I have just heard that Diogenes has taken his
cause to the Internal Services Committee.
He is demanding that out of the £120
allocated to the Haldane for subscriptions,
£47.40 should be devoted to his Afro-Carib
journals.
Punch readers unite to stamp out this
verminous filth!
H
o
M
f
e
a
t J
c
f
e
e
Scourge of the Nat West Bank, John
Whitehouse, has been complaining to the
bank's student liason officer, Tom Cottrell.
John's been wingeing about waiting two weeks
for his service till card. Tom didn't have the
heart to tell him he's been waiting three weeks
for his.
S
f
e
s Scuidwick
Mr Mooney, Dietician-In-Chief (DIC for short)
hits the headlines again. Victor Mooney first
found fame with our "Mouldy Chickens" story,
then the rotten food in Southside due to the
cook-freeze abuse.
Recently, a young lady was surprised to find
a slug wriggling about inside a sandwich she
had just purchased from the Union Lower
Refectory. The person at the till tried to calm
her down: "Don't make a fuss, love, just take
another one". Reticent at the thought of
finding half a slug in her next choice, she
refused and left in disgust.
After she had gone, the person at the cash
desk deftly removed the slug, rearranged the
tomatoes and lettuce and subtly, replaced the
offending sandwich. Just think, Y O U may
have eaten that sarnie, nice thought, huh! I
don't want to cast aspersions, but just how
many of Mooney's sandwich makers roll
bogies mid sandwich or don't wash their hands
after going to the toilet?
In my time at College I've found one hairpin,
five hairs (and dandruff), 27 assorted pieces of
plastic, one cockroach leg, three pairs of false
teeth, a nail file, two big toe nails, one false
eyeball, an Irish 5p, a 3amp fuse, a ball point
pen refill, a cabbage white pupa, a false
eyelash, a contact lens, a golf tee, and a small
piece of paper with the word B O A Z written on
it. Is this a record?
Page 10 FELIX, November 7, 1980

