Clubs
A T O T A L WAY O F LIFE
Following on after the Christian Chaplaincies highly successful Contact Week these past few days, comes a RELIGIOUS
WEEK organised by the non-Christian religious societies at College, from Monday 13 to Friday 17 February.
The Jewish Society are showing the films Chariot* at hire and Cabaret and will be providing refreshments with a Jewish
taste.
The Baha'i Society are holding an informal discussion speaker meeting similar to their highly successful and highly
entertaining event last year; and the Islamic Society are organising two meetings during the week, a free lunch and a video
presentation, and will have a poster display in the J C R
Those of us who do have a religious conviction would encourage everyone and particularly those of you who do not to
consider the issue of religious beliefs seriously. Perhaps use the week, as v;ell as the previous one, to answer some of the
questions about the different groups.
Incidentally, Christian societies will still be holding their regular meetings.
Nigel Young
Social Clubs Committee Religious Societies Rep
The Origin of Man and the
purpose of Existence
One of the most influential of all
modern philosophers of science
must certainly be Sir Karl
Popper. Last term he came to
Imperial College to speak about
'Quantum Mechanics'. However
his most important thesis, and
one central to all his work, is
concerned with the methodology
and development of science.
In his book 'The Structure of
Scientific Revolutions'; Popper
questions the way that science
develops. We suffer revolutions
in science, he says, because we
blindly follow what is the main
trend of the time—like moths
gathering around a lamp in a
darkened room—and ignore all
other glimmers of ideas, until a
new theory has the power to
overthrow that already in exis-
tence. In the 'Logic of Scientific
Discovery' he goes on to suggest
that if we were more scientifically
honest, we would not only express
assumptions and theories as fully
as possible, but state the condi-
tions which must prevail before
we are willing to relinquish them
and accept others. Consequently,
although science would be just as
methodical, Popper suggests that
the growth of scientific know-
ledge would be more creative,
positive, and certainly less
fraught, whilst losing none of its
dynamic power. Logically, any
such knowledge would then be
seen as a contribution for a
particular time, leaving our intel-
lect and creative energy free to
explore other avenues unafraid of
change.
Popper's theories apply to
religion just as they apply to
science. The same revolution
happens in religion when change
takes place, facing the same
rejection and hostility as exists in
the scientific and social world.
How many such revolutions can
we recall? Because we have
resisted change so much that we
could not see when it was
necessary. How many times have
we rejected ideas not because
they are untrue but because we
don't like the way they make our
present values or methods out of
date? A n d isn't this the basis of
the continuing dissension be-
tween science and religion? Be-
cause we see them.as competing
rather than, branches of different
knowledge, one being discovered
and the other revealed. No one
seems to realise, for example, that
the acceptance of Darwin's
theory does not make G o d
redundant as far as creation is
concerned.
The consequences of our fail-
ure to admit that a change is
necessary, are very obvious in
society today. N o one seems to
have a purpose to exist. Will we
ultimately disintegrate, leaving no
trace and no fruit? People want to
protect our existence—although
they can't often say why—or to
dispense with it altogether be-
cause there is no point. D o we
really have to reach the brink of
our own destruction before we
change?
The Imperial College Baha'i
Society has organised a meeting
on 'The Origin of M a n and
Purpose of Existence'. Both
scientific and religious points of
views will be presented. The
meeting will be held on Thursday
16 Feb at 6:30pm in the Senior
Common Room. 8th floor,
Physics Building.
Islam and the Muslims
Any religion which does not
demand anything of its followers
or which leaves those who have
entered it more or less where they
were before they embraced it is an
ineffective religion: a mere set of
rituals which do not effect the
conduct of living. I S L A M is not
such a 'religion'—it is not a
simple belief system or ideology
or set of emptv rituals, rather, IT
IS A T O T A L W A Y O F L I F E , a
complete system governing all
aspects of man's existence both
individual and collective.
The meaning of the world
'Islam' is 'submission' and
'peace'. In the course of making
an individual muslim-iz one who
is in a state of Islam or peace
through submission to the O N E
T R U E GOD—Islam profoundly
affects his thinking and be-
haviour. In fact there is no aspect
of a person's life, individual or
communal, which Islam does not
touch and transform in keeping
with its basic concept: that of the
Lordship and Sovereignty of
God and man's responsibility to
Him. The first requirement of
Islam is B E L I E F , and its second
is A C T I O N .
In this age of upheaval and
uncertainty people everywhere
are groping for something that
can save humanity. Though this
is an era of the ultimate in
material civilization and pro-
gress, in the realm of values and
morals mankind is close to
bankruptcy. Islam views these
problems as being fundamentally
of a SPIRITUAL nature: the
result of man having lost sight of
who he is. and who he is in
relation to himself to others, and
above all, to God, in whom,
being itself originates. Islam is a
view of the total reality encom-
passing the existance and attri-
butes of the Creator, man's
relation with Him, his role and
purpose in this world, and the
relationship between this life and
the life of the Hereafter.
It may interest you to know
that the followers of Islam
constitute either the largest single
religious community in the world
today, or constitute the second
largest according to other esti-
mates: which range between
800m and 1 billion. It is a faith
whose followers are found in
every corner of the world and this
universality stems from the fact
that since there is one G o d and
logically the Prophets and the
revelations that they were given
came from this one God: the
message of Guidance to mankind
is O N E , and the religion accept-
able to God is O N E — I S L A M .
I Friday, February 10, 1984
Tuesday Islamic Society l:00-2:00pm Free Lunch Botany Common
Room.
Jewish Society Film Night & Refreshments. Cabaret &
Chariots ofFire. 6:30pm Mech Eng 220. £1.
Thursday Islamic Society Video presentation l:00-2:00pm Mech Eng
342.
Baha'i Society 6:30-8:30pm Physics Common Room.
Regular Events Cathsoc Mass Tues 12.'Opm Chem 231
Methsoc Wed & Thurs 12.30pm Chem Eng E400
Christian Union Fri 6:30pm Muse Rm, 53 Princes Gate
WLC Sun 10:00am. Consort Gallery
CU Fri 6:30pm. Music Rm, 53 Princes Gate
i i n a H H H m H FELIX

