Consoc
Think of Hyde Park scenery. Imagine the
type of atmosphere that can only be created
by a normal male/female ratio—so tragically
lacking at most IC events. Of course the piano
soloist in the background helps. Picture a
menu of mouth-watering dishes, cooked to
perfection—eat your heart out M r Mooney.
Dream of your choice of food being washed
down by a glass of wine which is replenished
before you say 'Margaret Thatcher'. Finish
the evening off with coffee, and a hilarious
talk by one of the wittiest Fleet Street
columnists in the country. If you do not know
what I am talking about, bad luck! You
obviously missed our Annual Dinner.
Our next event is a talk by Peter Brooke.
Many of you will know him as our
constituency M P . He will be talking in his
capaicty as Under-Secretary of State for
Education. As his responsibility is for higher
education, his talk should be very interesting
and relevant. It will be at 1:00pm on
Thursday, Huxley 340.
Indus Soc
The papers for the election of members to the
Indsoc Committee for next year will be
posted on the noticeboard on the walkway
(between the Sherfield Building and Elec
Eng) on Friday 10 February.
The elections will take place on Friday 24
February and will coincide with the annual
general meeting to be held on that day at
12:45pm in Chem Eng LT4.
Hovcrclub
After a quite successful afternoon out on the
Thames earlier this term, we feel that it is time
we unleashed the homicidal drivers amongst
us on the world again. Consequently, another
visit to the Thames has been arranged for the
15th of this month. If anybody is interested in
this or in building a new hovercraft, for which
we now have most of the parts, then come
along to our next meeting in Southside Upper
Lounge on Tuesday at 12:40.
Click....transmission on.
The batteries are running out, not
much time
I found it, the legendary Bic Pen
Planet. I was writing a letter to mother
when time slipped sideways and
swallowed my pen. I felt it being pulled
from my hand through a worm hole in
space time, so I gripped tightly and ended
up here, on this strangest of planets near
the Galaxy's Core. Bic pens have
evolved to fill every evolutionary niche—
huge finned bic pens gliding through the
inky, silent ocean, sabre tooth bic pens
stalking through the steamy jungles, ball
point tipped taloned eagles soaring
through the turbulant air, plastic wings
glinting in the sun. It is from this exile that
I must tell you about PICO-CON, SF
Soc's mini convention on Sat 18 of Feb,
Flesh Gordon, 2 i of Feb, featuring
thousands of
JmWBBmuWCIu
Dcbsoc
Northern Ireland remains Britain's biggest
domestic problem. After nearly 15 years of
violence and numerous attempts at political
solutions, the problem remains. Clive Soley,
Labour M P for Hammersmith will argue in
favour of a United Ireland as the only
solution. Conservative, Sir John Biggs-
Davison will oppose him. Can Britain renege
on the commitment made by Ted Heath to
Ulster protestants? Is a United Ireland a
solution at all? On Tuesday 14 February,
1:00pm in Chem Eng LT2 the matter will be
debated. As ever, everyone is welcome and
speeches and questions from the floor are
encouraged.
Well Tuesday certainly saw a lot of
intoxicated people in Beit Quad, after Field
Cup. I hope everyone's recovered—though
having seen some of you I doubt it.
On Wednesday 15 Feb the 135 Club is
organising a 'mid term' piss up, as all you
lucky second years who only have three year
courses are half way through your stay here.
Meet at the Orange Tree, 45 Kew Rd,
Richmond. G o to Richmond tube and turn
right outside the tube—this is Kew Rd.
On Thursday, 16 Feb, there is the 'Old
Centralians' second year party for which
there are still a few tickets left—only £1 for a
supper with wine—see your soc rep.
Finally we are still running the table
football competition so come and sign your
name up in the Guilds Office.
A Fair Member - That Would Be Delightful
Well, it's February again and IC O P S O C
members are frantically trying to sell you
tickets to see this year's mega-production of
Iolanthe by Bill Gilbert and Art Sullivan.
Before your mind starts bursting with
mental images of elephantine women with
enormous wobbly bits screaming curses in
foreign languages let me tell you something
about the show.
Iolanthe represents something of a break
from O P S O C traditions being less of an
'operetta' style production and more of a
'musical'. The story has been set in a timeless
period which means that the costumes and
set suggest mood and characters rather than
the usual Victorian image. Thus Strephon can
wear a 'Save the Whale' T-shirt while the
Lord Chancellor wears traditional robes and
wig. The plot hinges around Phyllis, a ward of
court, and the men who want to marry her
(the entire House of Lords, the Lord
Chancellor and Strephon an Arcadian C N D
supporter). Strephon, who is half fairy, is
aided in his efforts by the ladies chorus
dressed in diaphanous little numbers which
are too small for comfort. All this calls for
considerably more dance routines than
FELIX • i H H B B B B H n
O P S O C are used to but with plenty of
rehearsals it should look good.
The libretto is one of Gilbert's finest with
the biting satire about the usefulness of the
House of Lords still as relevant today as in
the late 19th Century. Sullivan's music
sounds almost like Verdi at the dramatic
points and never fails to produce a good tune.
Some of the most popular G & S music comes
from Iolanthe, such as The Peers Chorus
(Bow, Bow, Ye lower middle classes), Blue
Blood, When Britain really ruled the waves,
The Nightmare Song and the Trio, Faint
Heart Never Won Fair Lady.
If you've never seen a Gilbert and Sullivan
show, give this one a try (peoples'
misconceptions can be quite considerable). If
you've never seen an O P S O C show this may
be your best opportunity. If you have seen an
O P S O C show, this may be different but we
hope you'll enjoy it.
Performances are at 7:30pm in the Union
Concert Hall from Tuesday 14 February until
Saturday 18 February. Tickets are on sale
from O P S O C members, IC Union Office, the
Haldane Library or Level 2 of the Sherfield
Building at lunch times, price £1.50 students
or £2.00.
WKHtFhday, February 10, 1984 WKBMM
PS: If you have ever considered joining the
society (paricularly if you are a man) then
come backstage during the interval or see us
in the bar afterwards when we will be only too
pleased to tell you something about the
society.
Stage Crew finishing off a tree for the
production on Tuesday.
Page 11

