Residence Policy
College Secretary M r John Smith emphasised at the time that the purpose of the
Lauwreys report was merely to provide afocus for discussion and debate over the
future of student residences and that any policy would only be implemented after
comments were received from those concerned. There were a number of serious
reservations about the report voiced not only by the students union but the
wardens and other people concerned with student residence as well. M r Smith has
ignored most of the reservations voiced by the students union at the time and
gone right ahead and implemented the policy.
The policy creates the post of a Superwarden (called a Managing Surveyor
(Residence)) who will be responsible for, maintanence and cleaning and will be the
direct superior to the Hall housekeepers.
This will make the role of Southside Wardens (who do little enough as it is)
superfluous. The managing surveyor and the Student Services Officer will not be
accountable to the Student Residence Committee: which has student representa-
tion, but to the College Secretary directly. Another decision which goes totally
against what the Union has been pressing for concerns the issue of Southside
Wardens. Despite the fact that two years ago the Student Residence Committee
felt that the number of Wardens in the Southside Halls of Residence should be
reduced from four to two. M r Smith has decided he knows better and now all four
Penthouse flats will be occupied by staff wardens. The reason given in the policy
document is laughable:
'...opportunities for undergraduates in particular tomeet accademic staff have
diminished. It is therefore proposed to reinstate the two Southside flats for academic
staff wardens.'
What a load of bollocks! The real reason of course is that the Wardens hate
having students as neighbours.
A draft of the policy was sent to Gaynor Lewis last week. She was asked for a
response within three days. This did not leave her time to consult student opinion
adequately or to formulate a well thought out response. Nevertheless she
expressed a number of reservations most of which were totally ignored. MrSmith
has ignored most of the discussion arising from the Lauwreys report and gone
ahead and one what he wanted to in the first place. It seems as if there is little
point in having a Student Residence Committee or any kind of student represen-
tation in College when comment on an issue as important to students as
residence is just brushed aside. Gaynor is going to face her toughest test as
President so far. Just as John Smith unilaterally implemented residence policy
overnight Gaynor is going to have to (and I'm sure she will) tell College that until
there is further discussion and proper consultation as far as the Union is
concerned this document is not policy.
Education Cuts
Peter Brooke will be speaking at Imperial College next Thursday lunch time. M r
Brooke is not only our constituency M P , he is also the Minister responsible for
Higher Education. He ultimately decides the amount you get for your grant, the
level of government funding universities recieve and the number of students able
to enter higher education in future years. This man directly affects the life style of
students and the standard of living so it is important that IC students go to the
meeting and make their opinion known. The talk will be at 1:00pm in Huxley 340
on Thursday 16 Feb.
Free Love In FELIX
Speed your love to me, or anyone else you fancy, via the Valentine's edition of
F E L I X small ads next Friday. Only three days late but its better to have been
loved and late than never been loved at all. Pallab Ghosh
CUL Invade Primelia College
I was down at Primelia College last Thursday, and
went to a lecture in the morning. Midway through it,
a group from C U L bombarded us with flour and
eggs. They left after about half a minute, and while
we were busy making pancakes from the resulting
mess, they went off to steal some shields.
Four of them, A l a n , Barry, C h r i s a n d Dave,
reached the Mech Eng department, and between
them took sixteen shields. No two took the same
number, Dave taking the most, Chris next, then
Barry and finally Alan who took least of all. As they
were escaping, they were stopped by a policeman
who asked them in turn if they knew how many each
of the other three had taken, given that they knew
how many they had themselves.
'No,
'No,
'No,
'No,
'No,
'No,
said Alan,
said Barry,
said Chris,
said Dave,
said Alan
said Barry.
Assuming that each of them had made all possible
deductions before they spoke and that Chris had
two more shields than Barry, how many did each of
them have?
G o o d luck, everyone.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected winner.
Last Week's Solution
The first two figures of each number give the posi-
tion of the letter in the alphabet, ie A=01, B=02, etc.
The second two figures give the position of that
letter in the complete solution (ie there are fifty-one
letters and spaces in the solution).
Therefore, the message reads 'The mole had been
working very hard all the morning,' which is the first
line from Kenneth Grahame's Wind in the Willows.
Of thirteen solutions, Neil Thornton of Maths 1 was
the randomly selected winner, and can collect his
cheque for £5 from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm on
Monday.
Thanks, Perola.
If anyone has any ideas for puzzles, would they
please put them in my box in the FELIX Office along
with the solution and a pseudonym.
Many people seem to be under the misapprehen-
sion that the weekly £5 prize entitles them to £5 off
purchases or servicing at Mend-a-Bike. Although
they do give discounts to IC students, Mend-a-Bike
donate £5 cash to the w.nner of the puzzle.
Cheques for Barry FranKlin, Robert Macrae and P
M Fisher are still awaiting collection.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager: Peter Rodgers; AdvertisingManager: HughSouthey Copyright FELIX 1984

