IC vs London Hospital
Won 2-0
Bristol University Sailing Club were hosts to
the London Hospital and Imperial teams at
the weekend in the scenic surroundings of
Cheddar.
Imperial sailed Bristol first in rather
blustery conditions. The first race was hotly
contested with some good team racing from
both sides. Imperial had a commanding 2,3,4
combination by the second leg but at the gybe
mark Jones (Captain) was a little too over
generous with the roll and ended up with a
very deserved capsize. By this time with the
help of Howarth, Kennedy had managed to
gain the lead but threw it away up the last
beat. Imperial finally scraped home with a
narrowly winning 2, 3, 5 combination.
In the second race a hasty gybe by Kennedy
when being sailed away from the windward
mark levelled his capsize score with Jones.
But the team did not give up and even with
this handicap managed to herd off Bristol's
attack, and seemed set to take the match.
However discrepancy over where the finish-
ing line was resulted in a resail being
demanded by Bristol. In true sportsman
fashion Imperial obliged, and it was in this
race disaster struck. Jones lost his toestraps
up the first beat. Howarth broke his rudder.
And Kennedy demonstrated the art of leaving
a boat on full plane. It was then our turn to
claim a resail as a result of gear failure—an
event scheduled for tomorrow at Exeter.
Imperial then beat London Hospital 2-0
with 1st, 2nd and 3rd positions in both races.
Watch out Bristol—Imperial take no
prisoners!
This was an exceptional week for the club, as
all the teams put in great performances.
Team 1, although losing gave Met Police 1
a good run for their money, a fact belied by
the wide margin of victory, 8-1, to the Met.
Team 3 sustained their good run by
winning their fourth match in succession.
This was despite a poor performance by
Graeme Cant who showed no initiative in his-
play. However he has been working on his
game and he assures me that the next match
will see a new player.
Team 4 won! Travelling to Rejects 4, Steve
Cesbruslais, Brian Norminton and Kevin
fucKoen expected a hard match. Thanks to
Steve who won all his and a good
performance from Brian, the team came back
with their first three points since the first
match of the season. Let's hope this recovery
will be maintained.
Team 5 also achieved a remarkable victory,
beating Exiles 8, currently second in Division
6. Thanks to Erica Parkes, Mark Cortacans
(who put in an especially good performance)
and Phil Miln for rounding off the week with
a flourish.
Yes folks, everyone's at it. Play FELIX Bingo every week in your fun, fun FELIX.
T
Basketball
ICBB vs St Marys won 86-69
IC have once again shaken the foundations ot
the London Colleges League by inflicting
upon St Marys their first defeat. (They're not
very chuffed!)
Imperial, arriving in style by cab, had only
seven men including latest recruit, American
Walter 'the dude' Morgan, who was to play a .
vital role in motivating the team. There was
doubt that the match would go ahead since
only one ref had turned up.
When we eventually tipped-off the scoring
was pretty even with Marys two big men
taking most of their points from inside moves
• and rebounds whilst many of Imperial's
points came from Walter's excellent drives to
shoot or dump off to Panos for a shot.
Top scorer was Panos with 28 markers.
IC vs London Hospital
Men's team: IC 47, LH50
Women's team: IC 20, LH10
Althougn tne competition was really a
'friendly' it produced some good judo. The
men's competition was closely fought, with
this year's beginners doing very well, but we
narrowly lost, probably due to Graham's
absence at the competition (but not in the bar
afterwards). The women's team did better, of
course, with good performances from all
members, especially beginner, Sarah.- A good
evening was had in the bar afterwards with a
promise of a return visit to London Hospital
in the near future.
The club still meets for a good punch up on
Tuesdays and to practise techniques on
Thursdays, both at 6:30pm in the Union
Gym, and old and new members are
welcome.
Courtman Shield
C & G 770, RCS 756, R S M 538
One .<of ICRPC's most important internal
competitions was held last Wednesday, and
won, resoundingly by Guilds led by Steve
Harrison. The competition required each
C C U to field five smallbore rifle shots, so this
put R S M at a substantial disadvantage since
they could only produce three—and one of
those wasn't a student! Bowser (C&G) and
Higgs (RCS) hit the highest score of L96 ex
200, closely followed by Harrison with 194.
However the result was determined by total
lack of coolness by the RCS team—problems
with match nerves and inability to read a
digital watch correctly by their less experi-
enced marksmen led to their downfall.
There are still two more inter-CCU
matches. The pistol competition is on 15 Feb,
and f
he fullbore rifle match at Bisley is on 18
March. Will R C S gain revenge for their
crushing defeat? Will Mines ever get a team
together? Keep reading our literary master-
pieces.
This past week will have been our busiest yet.
Most important will have been Monday's
elections 'cos that will mean we'll have found
someone 'proper' to do this job. Sorry about
the publicity so far...let's hope it's better from
now on.
Wednesday, of course, was the fabled 'first
outing' where we all got to see each other
making fools of ourselves in the docks behind
Mr Taunton-Fenton's boat. It all goes to
prove that you don't need anything but
enthusiasm to get started. Within a couple of
weeks we hope to fit an 'edge bar' to the boat.
It sort of hangs over the side and makes it
easier to start off. See all you 'still-interested'
folks above Southside Bar, Monday 12:45.
FELIX I I Friday, February 10, 1984\ Page 5

