W R I T E
R E P L Y
Anti-porn campaigner Michael
Newman writes in reply to some
of the criticisms levelled against
him for his recent actions.
Opinion
In My Defence
'Hush, sshhh, no one's to know, it
wouldn't do our College any good.
Keep it quiet. Girls won't want to come
here. Must not tell anyone. Give our
College a bad name. I mean it's OK,
isn't it, as long as it's not noticed.'
It seems that in my College, in my Union it
is alright to tell people about our academic
successes, our sports successes, our Rag stunt
successes, our Union policy on grants,
education, N U S , S Africa, refectory meals
but not on pornography. We must act deaf,
dumb and blind on this College issue.
It may surprise many of you but Imperial
College Union has policy admitting that
R S M U holds, organises and profits from
hard-core pornographic events. Not only
that, our Union also condemns any society,
club or constituent union holding such
events. It was Gaynor Lewis'job to inform all
Imperial College students and staff of this
and to inform the University of London
Union.
'It's OK. I mean I would never go to
such events. Oh, yes I find porn
distasteful. It's not my cup of tea. I
wouldn't stop anyone-else from going.
Of course we mustn't tell anyone that
it happens here. I mean that could
damage the reputation of the College.'
If you have read the motions I proposed, if
you have read the articles I have written, if
you have ever listened to me speak you will
know that I do not support banning people
going to pornographic events or buying
r rnographic material. 1 feel it is and should
remain our right to do so. I want it as a right
as much as anyone else.
Yet pornography is dangerous, hard-core
pornography is sick. It portrays women as
sows to be fucked by pigs; as bitches to be
fucked by dogs; as bodies to be penetrated by-
crosses, bottles and pricks; as bodies to be hit,
held down, chained and whipped. It degrades
all of us, especially women, and even those so
ignorant they llo not understand or, worse do
not care.
'Look I do not feel degraded, let
those who enjoy it go to such events. It
is only once a year in College. If I do
not go then it's nothing to do with me.
Leave them in peace, it's only a bit of
fun afterall.'
I expect a large number of students buy
pornographic magazines. I expect they gaze
at them, fantasize and satisfy their sexual
arousal by masturbation. Indeed I include
myself in this group, though I am not proud
to do so.
My attitude to girls can often be one of
degradation. I sometimes see them only as
bodies to be leered at, as sexual objects, as
prizes to be won and fucked.
I do not want to degrade people. Attitudes
that I have had (since going to an all boys'
school) for most of my educated life, are
difficult to change.
I am a potential rapist. One day I could see
a beautiful body wearing erotic clothes and
ignore the screams, ignore the scratching and
kicking. What right has a sexual object to say
no? After all her whole purpose and function
is sex.
I do not support or want to encourage my
attitude. Should we all allow our Union to?
'That Michael Newman, he wants to
enforce his moral code on everyone
else. The arrogant moralist. Thinks he
has the right to say what we should and
should not do.'
I have no power to enforce my morals on
anyone, even if I should wish to. All I can do
is to make students aware of what their Union
is doing and understand the difference
between supporting freedom and organising,
holding and profiting from events involving
hard-core pornography and strippers. Within
the democracy of the Union we can then
decide upon Union policy.
'Just because he has lost, just
because democracy has failed he goes
to the press to exert external pressure
on College to ban Hon Porn Night.'
I have not lost. M y intent was simply to
create debate, to force students to make a
conscious decision, whether they wanted
pornographic events in their College, organ-
ised within their Union, or not. I still believe
they do not. In the end if anyone has lost it is
all of us, it is the Union.
Democracy has not failed. We, as members
of our Union, have decided by voting or
through apathy that our Union should allow
the pornographic events to continue. One
thing I have always been taught is that you
should accept the responsibility for your
decisions and actions. It is a pity many
students seem to have forgotton this.
How can anyone blame me if people
choose not to come here because of the Union
policy and the events it organises? Aftecall
out of all the students in College I have tried
more than any other to change the policy.
You should look more to yourselves.
'RSMU organises many social
events during the year. They contri-
bute greatly to the cultural life of the
College. Why attack them?'
My campaign, unlike my opponents, has
never involved personal attacks or abuse. It
has not even primarily been an attack on
Mines, I have merely criticized the two events
they organise that involve pornography and
strippers. R S M U might in many ways be a
good Union, yet does this in some way make
Hon Porn Night acceptable?
Chris Crownshaw thinks if he tells people
what a great president he is, what a great
union R S M U is, what great events they put on
that magically Hon Porn Night will be
forgotten. It seems that if degrading women is
only a small part of their calendar then it's 'all
O K with us boys'.
'Michael Newman should be sued for
defamation of character. How dare he
call us pimps.'
How dare we allow our Union to profit
from hard-core pornographic entertainment,
from films that are the product solely of
prostitution. How dare we allow our Union
to solicit for prostitutes by advertising their
services and wares on film. .
I think we are all pimps. This is not an
insult, it is not meant to degrade, it is simply a
term that can be correctly used to describe
one of our Union's activities.
Indeed we are far worse than pimps.! think
my motion does not go far enough. Foi we
are allowing our Union to actively degrade
people. To suppport the mental rape, torture
and destruction of human beings. We are
contributing to the suffering of the victims of
rape, sexual exploitation, pornography and
prostitution.
'Michael Newman is a bastard, a
poof, a stupid prick.'
If you could have listened to some of the
abuse I have been given, the way I have been
insulted and degraded, I feel 1 would not just
have your sympathy but also your support. I
am human. You are human. All women are
human. Please let's not forget it.
FELIX I I Friday, February 10, 1984 ' Page 7

