F E L I X
SAILING
After the somewhat disrupted start
to the season the Sailing Club is once
more forging ahead. The Castaway's cup
knock out competition, which was to
have been our real t r i a l of strength,
had to be oanoelled owing to thick fog
and since then we have been unable to
get a f u l l f i r s t team together.
Two of our f i r s t team are sailing
regularly with the University seoond
team. These high demands on the
oollege club's resources resulted in
our having to field a team with only
one first team regular included to sail
against a strong U.C. 1st team. I.C.
lost the match by 38 points to 40j but
this result promised well for the
second team match against L.S.E. last
Wednesday.
The match was sailed on a damp
and rather dismal day but there was a
pleasant breeze and I.C. sailed to
victory by 42i pta. to 33. The race
waa far from uneventful and near the
finiah of the last race the I.C.
captain, who was leading at the time,
met a gust of wind coming in the
opposite direction and, together with
boat and orew, made a graceful exit
into the water. The next boat piled
right on top and the third was lucky
to escape'.
I.C. i s also doing very well in the
University points series and G.C. Taylor
is leading the "A" points after two
very good races. Several other helmsmen
are also doing well and we s t i l l have
a very good chance of winning both the
"A" and the "B" points series.
At a general meeting of the club
on the 26th November Miss J. Kingston
was elected Hon. Secretary. W
e wish
her the very best of luck and will try
not to work her too hard.
GOLF
This week eaw the last of oar
fixtures for this y«ar-a triangular
match against Kings and U.Q. at
Highgate.
Both Kings and U.C. fielded their
strongest teams and were too good
for our players who did well to take
their opponents as far as they did.
Our Scottish tour begins to take
shape. A l l the Universities contacted
have replied and wish to have a match
with us. When they have arranged their
championship our dates oan be fixed.
This is the first time any Golf tour has
been arranged and I don't think any I.C.
team has ever been as far North of the
Border before. I trust this new venture
w i l l be a success.
JUDO
Last week we fought G.E.C. with a
rather depleted team and after some
spirited and closely fought contests
lost three, drew one, and won one.
The f i r s t three men had to fight
opponents at least one grade higher
than themselves and should have gained
some good experience, especially with
the quarterly gradings taking place
next week.
At the regional championships held
at Liverpool last week-end, Shepherd
fought his way into the English
Universities team and Butler was chosen
as a reserve. W
e hope by next term
to have our team back again at f u l l
strength and .will be glad to have
John Bowles back on the mat again after
bis long rest.
SOCCER
As anticipated in earlier reports,
the soccer olub i s now beginning to show
its true capabilities and results are
improving fast.
The 1st XI have really struck form
in the last three games having scored 7
goals in each of them with only 2 goals
against in a l l . Old Coifelans bad
neither the fitness or s k i l l to compete
against a much improved 1st team and went
down 7-1. On Wednesday 2nd Dec. the
1st really hit a peak and beat the then
League leaders Goldsmiths by 7-1 also.
This form provided high hopes for the
U.L. Seoond round Cup match against
Institute of Education on Dec.5th.
Institute.although fighting hard a l l the
way were outclassed however, and went
down 7-0 making the I.C. goal average
in Cup games this year 14 for to 0 against.
The Cup team did not show their best form
in this game tending to hang on to the
ball too much and not making enough use
of their two very effective wingers.
Welcome back ,incidentally to Colin
Casemore up to his tricks again on the
right wing. More calling for the ball
and quicker moving both into the tackle
and into position for a pass will be
necessary in the semi-final which will
undoubtedly be our toughest matoh so far.
The 2nd XI are continuing their
triumphant way but only drawing 0-0 with
U.C. in spite of being in command for
the whole 90 minutes. With a very
strong team on Deo. 5th they defeated
a gallant I.C. 3rd XI 6-0 in the League
Division I.
The 3rd's unluckily have lost their
last two league games, the f i r s t to
Battersea in spite of playing as well
as ever they have done this season.
The next of oourse was to the 2nd's
but George Webster tells me that he is
determined to get his revenge on Deo.l6th.
The 4th XI are going great guns
having beaten U.C.H. 5-2 and Division
leaders School of Pharmaoy by 8-2! How-
ever they managed to lose to a very
strong L.S.E. I l l (?) by 6-4 after being
4-1 up at half-time. Brian Wheeler
suggests picking "our Albert" (Marshall)
at left-half and left-wing and dispensing
with the winger altogether.
Mike Daroy 5th XI Captain is happy
to be on the winning side at last and
having beaten U.C. 4th in a league matoh
4-3 the 5th celebrated with another win
by 4-2 against Sun Life.
Two badly-needed league points wewe
picked up by the 6th XI against Battersea
on the 28th Nov. and having drawn 3-3
with Woolwich in a friendly they only
lost 3-1 to Chelsea on Lec. 5th. This
was extremely creditable in that Chel-
sea's goal record in three league
games i s 34 for, to 4 against.
The 7th XI continue their incredible
way having triumphantly lost two more
games. This must almost constitute a
record for even an I.C. 7th team.
Paul and his merry men are not dismayed
however and to our perpetual amazement
the phoenix of glory and club spirit
continually rises afresh from the ashes
of defeat.
RUGBY
Last Saturday, December 5th, saw
most of the members of the club f i t and
playing, in faot seven and a half teams
were fielded whioh is the most the
club has achieved so far this season.
With the f i r s t and extra f i r s t XV'i
away i t was left to the five lower
teams to hold the fort at harlington.
A strong A XV had a f i e l d day
against a weakened Middlesex hospital
3rd team to the tune of 37 to 0,
the game being unique in a number of
ways. IC scored three times in the
f i r s t three minutes without a member of
the opposition touching the ball.
Other notable features were four excel-
lent tries by B i l l Hendry on the right
wing and aome excellent second half
place kicking by Aivar Taurine.
The Extra A XV also played Middle^
sex Hospital winning convincingly by
28 to 0. They are beginning to have
the makings of a good team rather than
a collection of individuals.
The Bl XV lost 6 to 17 to a strong
B0AC 1st XV, the game being marred by
the removal to hospital of their cap-
tain Dave Fitley with f a i r l y severe
facial injuries.
The B2 XV, under "Hanks" spirited
leadership, convincingly beat Osterley
B by 21 to 6 and are now very muoh a
team to take note of. The standard of
rugby played by the lower teams i s very
good and although they may have numeri-
cally low rating, that is only because
15 people can play in a game.
.The 1st XV affair at testcombe
Park resulted in a convincing win for
I.C. 11 to 3« This is certainly one
of the best performances of the team
this season, since this was only the
third time that Westoombe Park have
been beaten in several seasons.
TABLE TENNIS
Matches have been played r e g u l a r l y
at the rate of about ip a week, with only
one or two hitches. The results how-
ever have not been very encouraging so
far, very few wins having been recorded.
However plenty of practice is being had,
the room being i n use most of the avail-
able time, and i t is hoped that the
second half-ses3ion will be more success-
ful. . W
e would like to impress jipon
players the necessity for ticking off
in plenty of time, the lower teams being
particularly at fault in this matter.
Also on December 5th was held the
I.C. Soccer Club hop - undoubtedly
the most successful club hop of the year,
thanks to the noble efforts of Malcolm
Crawley, Steve Pick, George Webster,
Brian Wheeler, Lawrie Austin, Chris
Ryan, John Priest, etc., etc., plus the
appropriate g i r l friends of oourse.
Our thanks are due to them a l l . The
coffee bar was so successful that a
special hostel brew-up had to be pro-
duced at half-time to supplement the
rapidly diminishing Mooney coffee.
With improving results, a hop and a
few away tripst the spirit in the Club
i s on the up and up and providing i t
stays that way there need be no limit
to our success.
Published b y F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College Union, S.W.7
Printed b y W E S T L O N D O N O F F S E T CO., 307a Telephone Place, W.14 Tel. F U L 7969

