n u x
Dear Sir,
Laat week I sent you a letter which
you did not publish* due to i t s disapp-
earance from your letter-rank. I would
like, i f I may Mr. Editor,to summarise
some of the points made in this letter,
1. That no anonymous "Viewpoint" be
published in "Felix" because
a) an anonymous writer may l i e and dis-
tort without fear,
b) any writer's qualifications to write
on a particular subject should be
known.
2. That both sides of controversial
issues, raised in "Felix", should be
argued in the same issue because
a) mud sticks, and lies and distortions
are more easily exposed i f replied
to immediately,
b) a Union meeting, an S.C.C. meeting
or some other meeting may meet with-
out its members having had an opp-
ortunity to read both points of view,
e) common courtesy.
Unfortunately, as you are aware Mr.
Editor, this letter disappeared, only
to reappear after "Felix" had gone to
print. In this same issue of "Felix"
an extremely libellous and untruth-
ful anonymous article appeared. Since
a fair number of people knew in
advance of my letter, and the anonymous
Viewpoint was concerned to insinuate
against myself (and others), i t does
not seem unreasonable to suspect that
my letter's disappearance, may not have
been accidental.
The insinuations against myself
I feel should be dealt with f i r s t l y
at the next S.C.C. meeting so, for
the present, I will content myself with
but one comment. On the very same
notice on the Union Council* Notice
Board, whioh announced the proposed
formation of a Marxist Forum, and whioh
was referred to by your correspondent,
there also appeared the constitutionally
necessary l i s t of supporting signator-
ies whioh your anonymous writer implied
were non-existent. It seems d i f f i -
cult to believe that he (or she) oan,
be such a l i a r and yet be a member of
I.C. Union.
lours faithfully,
John Cox
PICCADILLY CIRCUS?
Dear Sir,
I have observed of late many ex-
panses of windowless walls in the new
blocKs under construction. .Might I
asK what function these walls are going
to serve and i f there is any truth in
the rumour that "the Great Little
Cigarette" is going to be advertiaed
(in neon lights) on the wall of the new
Physics block?
If there i s any truth in this
rumour, i t has my blessings and those
of many others. Since i f this stretch
of wall and the many othera which w i l l
soon abound in the new Imperial College
are utilised to their best advantage
Union funds should increase by leaps
and bounds.
I therefore urge a l l Union
officials to contact the College auth-
orities and the leading chewing-gum
manufacturers immediately in order that
the metamorphosis of I.C. should take
plaoe as soon as possible.
BOYCOTT OR RESIGN
Dear Sir,
As you w i l l know, Imperial College
Union today passed a resolution to boy-
cott certain South African goods. I
deplore this motion at the time and s t i l l
do deplore i t . As several people have
since told me that they were unable to
understand the logic of my objection,
(a by no means infrequent occurrence
lately) I would like to repeat i t here.
I firmly believe that the way to
correct erroneous and evil beliefs i s
by argument and discussion. We should
use the constitutional procedure avail-
able to us and try to apply pressure on
our own government until they do this,
rn the meantime I object to the method
of holding a pistol, economic or other-
wise, at someone's head, to make them
change their beliefs - even though I
aa aware that they are not so scrupulous.
Be that as i t may,the point I wish
to raise i s as follows. The inference
of the Union meeting i s that i f the
Union feels morally bound to follow
this oourse, then we, as loyal members,
are surely bound to support i t by
following the same course as individuals.
(I gather that this was not intended by
the proposers.) I, for the reasons
expressed above, have no intentiona of
doing so.
I am writing thia only because I
am a holder of an elected union office
and on this oourse of action I CANNOT
SUPPORT THE UNION AT ALL. In the c i r -
cumstances, aa some people may consider
this to be one of the most important
actions taken by the Union, I should,
i f the union as a whole considered my
lack of support undesirable in a Union
offloor,be reluctantly compelled to re-
sign. - This situation will, however,
I hope not occur.
Yours sincerely,
John R. Loome.
SCRUTINY
Dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
G.M. Harris
(Civil 2)
As editor of Scrutiny I apologise,
firstly, for some technical errors in
our pilot edition and, aecondly, for
giving some people misconceptions as to
the true colours of humanism. But let
me emphasise that i t was a pilot edition.
I am, however, rather sorry that
Mr. Lewis should be so unwilling to hear
the other man's point of view, as to
auggest that Scrutiny should cease to
be published. Particularly ao as Mr.
Lewis has sent me, in my capacity aa
editor of Scrutiny, a very interesting
and reasonable letter. I had assumed
that this was meant for our next edition
whioh w i l l be appearing next term. I
had planned to include Mr. Lewis'
letter,and 1 shall s t i l l do so with his
permission.
I nave, in fact, enough material
to produce a complete issue from the
letters I have received. I feel that
this alone is sufficient justification
for assuming our pilot edition
was, by and large, a worth while venture.
I am not afraid to hear Mr. Lewis'
criticism of Scrutiny: but I shall not
cease to publish, on the advice of a
gentleman who is proud to call him-
self bigoted and dogmatic.
Youra sincerely,
Bob Finch
WINETASTING- UGH \
Dear Sir,
On Tuesday evening I had the
unfortunate experience to attend a wine
tasting society session at the college.
The Wine Tasting Society is ao
shockingly run that the wine is passed
in a small glass from person to person.
To taste the wine after other people,
who have already shaken, sniffed, and
finally mouthed the glass, i s
particularly disgusting.
The only people who truly taste the
wine are the committee who, with
remarkable audacity, s i t apart from the
other people present, making i t a very
unsocial occasion indeed.
The Imperial College, or should i t
be the School of Mines Wine Tasting
Sooiety, is an organised mockery of wine
tasting.
C.G. Davies (3rd Civil)
Dear Sir,
On behalf of the Imperial College
Vine Tasting Society Committee, we would
like to take this opportunity or thanking
Mr. Davies for his letter concerning the
running of the Wine-testing Society and
the remarks contained therein. Hif
suggestions, however, are than that one
might expect from one who has attended
only one meeting for they illustrate an
unfortunate lack of knowledge on the
subject of both wine-tasting and the
finances of Union Clubs and Societies.
One must at a l l times, strike a
compromise between what ia to be desired
and what can be afforded. For example
there have been attendances as high as 70
at a meeting when 6 wines have been tasted,
with the result that 420 glasses would be
necessitated i f each member were to have
his own personal £ dozen) a luxury far
beyond that whioh our finances will
allow. On the other hand, we could supply
each person with a bowl, water and small
towel, with which to remove the traces of
each wine from the glaee following a
tasting. As for the "shaken,sniffed, and
finally mouthed "remark one can only say
in reply that the whole of the wine industry
from Oporto, through Bordeaux and Burgundy,
and into Hungary must consist of some
particularly disgusting gentlemen.
We regret that Mr. Davie* objects to the
fact that the Committee sit with the
speaker, but we would beg to point out
that someone has to be available to pour
out the wines at a signal from the latter,
and i f he feels that, by their geographical
position in the room, the members of the
committee are assisted in disposing of
more wine than he, then we regret that
Mr. Davies is sadly mistaken.
Tne Comalttea, therefore, would be
only too pleased to meet Mr. Davies
personally and endeavour to put some of
hia ideas on wine-tasting into practice,
aa I am only too sure last year's Committee
would have been, consisting aa i t did al-
most entirely of Guildsmen, who, like
Minesmen, are s t i l l members of imperial
College Union.
We hope, therefore, that at future
meetings of the Wine-tasting Society,
we have the benefit of Mr. Davies' wide
knowledge and experience i n wine-tasting,
rather than having to discuss matters of
common interest with him in thia rather
laborious and impersonal manner.
Tours faithfully,
Tne Committee of the Imperial
College fine-tasting Society.

