9
ENG1NEEPJNG NOTES
ON BEARDS
"If the beard were a l l , the goat
would preach." - Old Proverb.
The beard is at once the most
noticeable, obvious, egotistical,
exhibitionist adornment possible -
and the most natural thing in the
world.
Historically, beards have been
revered, saved by their unfortunate
owners from the block (albeit at the
expense of their necks) - and singed.
They have been used to disguise many
intentions from the anarohic to the
amorous; used to conceal disfigured
skins, receding chins and the iden-
tities of their owners. Indeed, the
beard is usually regarded as a
particularly close form of camouflage
whioh is the greatest fundamental error
in the 'lay' publio's beardwise think-
ing. For whilst concealing the lower
half of the face, i t renders the whole
of i t immediately recognisable. Far
from being the gesture of the recluse
and the hermit, abandoning the rasor
is an act calling for the strongest of
characters, the bravest of men. Thus to
step out of line, to leave the oommon
herd, is to nail colours to the mast
and stand by one's every deed. No
more oan the bearded one disappear into
the crowd - his reputation w i l l stay
with him - the regretted deed can no
more be escaped. Imagine the copper's
wry smile as the maiden says "...and
officer, this man had brown hair and
blue eyes ..." BUT - picture the
frenay of file-searching at the Yard
as the incriminating fact i s revealed
- "The police are believed to be
looking for a bearded man."
And we are not without dis-
tinguished support - the fabulous
"Bean" Holbein (Hon. Sec. of the Old
Centraliana) sports a growth that i s
an excellent example of this sort of
tonsorlal art. Dr. Toombs - late of
the Electrical Department and now moved
wisely to be a vacuum cleaner tycoon -
frightened would-be engineers with his
agressive hirsute appendage (endless
euphemisms have been devised for this
natural phenomenon).. And we are not
without our Royal Patronage .......
Practical bints to those intending
to fallow the present trend might not
come amiss. There is no known fert-
iliser. Washing i s not something to
worry about unduly - the frequent
application of hot soup, black coffee
and beer i s usually sufficient to
keep the number of fauna down to
oomfortable figures. Assymetry i n the
trim should be suffered rather than
oarrected as the latter is likely to
lead to the gradual depletion (known
as "whisker whittle" - a trouble often
encountered i n ambitious barbers). And
NEVER l e t a woman "tidy i t up" -
remember Solomon.
Talking of women (subject normal)
-the incidence of whisker has been
statistically proved to depend on a
favourable attitude on the part of
the opposite sex. At the moment there
is s t i l l a novelty value to the man
with a tas; an approach known as the
"I've always wanted to try...." At
any rate - i t is fair proof of.the
girl's depth of feeling (?).
On the question of style - those
who object to the wide range of shapes
and sixes should take comfort from
Bottom i n "Midsummer Night's Dream"s-
"I w i l l disoharge i t i n either your
straw-ooloured beard, your orange tawny
beard, your purple i n grain beard, or
your French-crown colour beard, your
perfect yellow." ,
anyway, Anne likes mine, Jack.
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
Community development has been
defined as: "A movement designed to
promote better living for the whole
community with the willing participation
and on the initiative of the oommunity*.
People have, of oourse, been trying to
improve their own and other peoples'
lives for many oenturies. The new things
about 'oommunity development' are the
standardisation of techniquea and the
deliberate and determined application of
these techniques as a matter of
government policy. As Mr. Kojo Batsio,
Minister of Education snd Social Welfare,
in what was then the Gold Coast, said i n
1951: "Community Development is an
attack on ignorance, aparthy and prejudice
on poverty, disease and isolation - on a l l
the difficulties whioh hinder the progress
of a community. It is an education •••
designed to teach people not merely how
to read but how to live. Passive
reception of ideals or information is not
enough: every programme should be designed
through the stimulation of initiative or...
local self-help." One can imagine
almost the same words being used by Sir
Keith Murray, International Chairman of
W.U.S., to describe many of the aspects
of World University Servioe; indeed the
same vital words, essential to both
organisations, are used - self-help.
Just how closely the two are linked
together was going to be witnessed, and
perhaps even determined, when over forty
participants, from a l l over the world,
oame together this Summer i n West Africa,
financed through the auspices of W.U.S.
by Shell and other such firms.
The programme was divided into two
parts, essentially a theoretical side,
followed by practical experience, and as
suoh i t was a Workshop Conference. The
theorectical side took the form of a
conference held in Sierra Leone, organised
by W.U.S. in conjunction with Fourah Bay
College. Tt lasted a week and contained
a very f u l l schedule of lectures,
addresses and commission meetings.
Leisure time was unfortunately limited,
but the many receptions given by neighbour-
ing towns and villages as well as the
Governor's and Mayor's enabled one to
meet many people from a l l strata of l i f e ,
and also see some of the crude beauty
of this mountainous region. The latter
part of the programme was in Ghana
where W.U.S. with the help of the
Voluntary Work Camps Association, Ghana,
organised three work camps, each in a
village between 100 and 200 miles from
Accra.
The Workshop was not a complete
success - not a l l the participants-were
happy doing manual labour. These
people had been brought up with the idea
that mannual work was below the intellect-
ual. Very few changed that outlook.
The schedule could have been bettered,
for the final evaluation was rather short,
and the experience whioh followed the
early introductions at the conference
would have been more valuable i f
obtained earlier. We did, however,
see many of us left with a far deeper
understanding of the simple words -
self-help.
STOP PRESS
LCWSCl I.CRFC. 3
The project tackled by the group
of which I was a member was in Kikam, a
small village by the sea, where we were
to help build a market place. It i s
difficult to try and describe what
happened in the short fortnight we lived,
slept and worked with these happy, and
yet so primitive, villagers. One must
picture a dusty collection of mud huts,
whose occupants busied themselves only
with the basic essentials of material
need, happy when the whole family unit,
consisting of three or four generations,
is together and i n good health. One oan
catch a glimpse of this l i f e , when one
oonsiders the fact that no-one has ever
been known to steal anything in Kikam.
•With the encouragement of the Mass
Education Authorities, the Chief and
his Elders, and most important of a l l ,
the villagers, had decided that they
would be cleaner, more hygenio and
oomfortable than the dusty mud roads.
The market would also attract nearby
villagers to Kikam and they would bring,
in turn, broader vision and understanding.
It was almost an attack on isolation.
Our organised effort, starting at
6,30 a.m. and continuing into the
afternoon, was.the focal point, to the
villagers, at first of amusement and
entertainment. It was new and almost
unique to see white and black hands
grappling with the hard earth to set
the foundation of this project. But
soon they were with us, shoulder to
shoulder, with their numbers vastly
multiplying the work done. The focal
point had switched to one of common
effort, - this was Community Development.
I should like to reoall two
happenings which illustrate some of the
difference between our societies, and
bring back to me perhaps the happiest
moments of the past Summer. One day,
several tons of sand were required for
the concrete floors and a promised
lorry had failed to materialise. An
Elder called upon the women present to
go and bring their friends and their
cooking pots and pans. Soon, there were
some 200 women gathered, gaily chattering,
laughing and joking, each with a large
bowl on her head. Like an army of ants,
they moved to and fro from the beach to
the work site, a distance of over a
quarter of a mile, and the sand was
moved before noon. On another occasion
we had to carry many concrete blocks
made previously by the villagers, to the
site. At first they were carried
individually, until, inspired by
weariness, the students started a chain,
showing by example, how the blocks could
be moved without walking. Within
seconds the villagers had joined, and
the blocks were swinging rhythmically
along the 100-yard chain, helped along
by numerous ohants and songs. After
that, no matter what had to be moved, no
matter how far i t had to be flioved, a
chain was formed, and a l i l t i n g melody
came forth.
FELIX CONFIDENTIAL
We hear that a young ICWARIAN has
been carrying a torch for a certain miner
for some time. May we wish her the
best of luok.
Another outbreak of spo-o-rt has been
noticed i n the Electrical Engineering
Department. Could this be due to those
renowned French sportsmen Amp, Ohm and
Erg?
Recently the Union has been aware
of a strange figure, to be seen creeping
in and out of the snooker room. What
he does i n there a l l day i s a mystery.
Rumour -has i t , that notwithstanding
the various factors concerned, a young
gentleman of this Union, to the horror
of his friends, has, so to speak, gone
bonkers, as i t were. Tough!

