S
ophisticated machines have become
commonplace in hospitals. They
monitor patients, perform imaging
and treat cancer. But imagine if you
were told the operation you were
about to undergo will not be performed by a
human surgeon, but by a robot.
Picture the scene. You are wheeled in under a
general anaesthetic and connected to the appro-
priate equipment by a team of surgeons. Then a
robot inserts a probe into your body and soon
afterwards, visual and ultrasound images appear
on a monitor. The surgeons instandy see the
problem and mark on the screen the areas which
need attention. Next, the robot is instructed,
step by step, to make a series of incisions using
its cutting tool. Thirty minutes later, the opera-
tion is complete and when you wake up you will
have undergone surgery which is safer, faster,
and will take you less time to recover from. No,
this isn't a wild vision of the future but a reality
made possible by developments in robot tech-
nology at Imperial's mechanical engineering
department.
Dr Brian Davies and Dr Roger Hibbert have
developed a robot which is capable of perform-
ing prostrate surgery by itself. So far several oper-
ations have been carried out at Guy's Hospital in
London - this the first time a robot has been
used for surgery in this way. Dr Davies, who has
previously worked with robots in manufacturing
and powered prosthetics such as artificial arms,
got the idea for the system when he was
approached by the Institute of Urology in 1988.
Prostate surgery is a difficult, messy business.
It requires lengthy taining and involves (cross
your legs gents) surgeons inserting an endoscope
and a hot wire cutting tool into the urethra. The
surgeon must look down the endoscope from an
uncomfortable angle and cut away a section of
the prostrate gland whilst urine, blood and gore
runs down his armpits. Another problem is that
surgeons tend to 'get lost' within the body dur-
ing the operation and need to retract the endo-
scope so they can get their bearings.
Dr Davies saw prostrate surgery as an ideal
Telesurgery Soap Opera
Could robot surgeons replace human surgeons
in the future? One popular idea is long distance
telesurgery in which the patient is operated on
by a robot under the supervision of a surgeon
who could be in a different country. Dr Davies'
opinion is that this would be undesirable, "You
need to have the skill and judgement of a sur-
geon involved in the procedure at all times, sur-
geons must take responsibility for the operation"
He pointed out that if anything went wrong
with a robot operation, who would be responsi-
ble? "There must be accepted levels of liability."
• • •
>in
Robots at the Cutting Edge
of Surgery
A Robot from Imperial has recently been allowed into the
operating theatre. Ben Wilkins finds out what it can do
Look no hands! Surgeons at Guy's Hospital stand back and watch the 'Probot' do its stuff.
xm
application for robots because they are very good
at not losing their way, they are accurate and can
perform many repetitive cutting motions. "It
seemed like an ideal area to start with" he said.
However, an initial feasibility study showed
while robotic prostrate surgery was possible, it
was difficult to perform safely. The cutting must
be accurate, 'otherwise, you'll make make some-
one a wetter' as he put it.
After a struggle to gain funds for the project,
Dr Davies and his colleagues were eventually
able to overcome this problem and develop a
system which was able to operate safely. The
'probot' (prostrate robot) is mounted on a coun-
terbalanced gantry and uses a motor gearbox
encoder to manipulate the endoscope probe.
When the endoscope is first inserted into the
patient's urethra, an ultrasound probe scans in
5mm sections and builds up a 3-dimensional
image of the prostrate. This image is used as a
basis for the cutting program.
Next the cutting tool, called the 'vapour-
trode' is fitted into the endoscope. The vapour-
trode is essentially a little roller with teeth on
which vapourises the tissue and causes less
bleeding. The robot's ingenious mounting sys-
tem only allows it to safely remove small conical
sections of the prostrate. But before cutting
begins, the surgeon uses a light pen to mark the
area on the ultrasound image which needs to be
removed. He can then watch the operation
progress via a monitor linked to a camera system
in the endoscope. "The surgeon is always in the
loop during surgery" explained Dr Davies, "he
build up an idea of what is safe to resect as he
tells the robot to remove successive sections."
The operation can be done faster and more accu-
rately by the probot and is much less labour
intensive for the surgeons. The research team are
currentiy making further refinements to the
imaging system.
Dr Davies has also developed a robotic system
for performing total knee replacement surgery.
Traditionally, the surgeon has to manually cut the
knee bone surfaces to the exact shape of the new
prosthesis. Accuracy and alignment are crucial.
The robotic system uses "force control" which
creates an artificial restriction on where the sur-
geon can move the cutter. For instance, if a sur-
geon has to cut a groove in the bone it will only
let him cut witfrin that groove. If the cutter starts
to stray away from the 3-dimensional region des-
ignated by the robot program, the surgeon will
feel a resistance force. This allows him to cut the
bone faster and more accurately with less blood
loss. It also means that means a more predictable
result, so fewer revisions are necessary. Dr
Davies believes this kind of surgery will also be
applicable to other areas such as brain surgery,
ear surgery and kidney stone removal.

