s i m o n b a k e r
Another week passes, which
means Christmas is not that far
away and, for some of us, exams
are just round the corner. Tis -1 \ * *
the season to be worried. ,
However, in this uncertain
world, it's nice to see some
things don't change. I refer, of IPftfljf
course, to the latest episode in
the Hnstead saga. After a session
of the Spanish Inquisition, a res- fHriUf''
ident has been expelled, and the jflHflk'
shutters of finstead bar, which ^ > ; » ^ 4 ^
seem to rise and fall quicker than
a whore's drawers, briefly closed yet again. There
must be something in the water this year,
because it was never like that in my day.
It made a refreshing change to read in last
week's Felix some calm, objective articles on
Ecstasy, in very stark contrast to that scrawled in
the tabloids recendy. E is no stranger to Imperial,
making it a important subject for debate. The
articles by Mark Baker (no relation!) and 'Iain
Bailie' (I did think the unthinkable for a minute)
rightly put the scale of the 'problem' in perspec-
tive. This is not to condemn or to condone the
use of E, but merely express an opinion on the
basis of the facts as they are. Legalisation is
always going to be a tricky question, but one that
should be discussed rationally. The review of
'Ecstasy and the Dance Culture', which I have
read myself, captured the aim of the book per-
fecdy, to present the facts, and enable the read-
er to arrive at an informed opinion. One wonders
if any copies have reached the Wapping area.
However, I would disagree with the notion that
those who are for and against E can be divided
on party lines. I know of very staunch supporters
of the government at Imperial who are, through
personal experience, able to speak on this subject
with some authority.
One thing that I've been meaning to do for a
while is to attend the Bust-A-Gut Comedy Club
at the Union, so far to no avail. Nevertheless, this
week has not been without the odd laugh, albeit
from an unexpected quarter.
On Wednesday, I found myself
in east London, and decided to
go to the Student Funding
debate at Goldsmiths College,
at which our dear friend
Ghassan Karrian was a speaker,
along with Ian Moss from the
NUS and Hb Dem MP David
Rendel. The NUS call for grants
at 1979 levels by putting 6.5p
on income tax raised a smile,
but it was the questioning from
the floor that had me in stitches.
The first wasn't a question, tak-
:
ing on the form of a rant from
someone who made Dennis Skinner look like
Mussolini. It rapidly emerged that she was a
member of the SWP, who went on and on about
the evils of the Tories and suggested, nay
demanded, the abolition of Trident and the
monarchy, along with robbing the privatised util-
ities in order to pay colossal grants and every con-
ceivable benefit to students. Another, from the
Campaign for Free Education (?!), suggested
that students left university with debts of £15-
20,000 (answers on a postcard as to how), and
criticised Ian Moss for selling out. When some-
one describes the policy that he supports as
'broadly in agreement with Militant Students'
only to be told he's not radical enough, you know
you're in for a giggle. I never realised that any-
body was, or could be, so left-wing and so
detached from reality. The wonderful irony of
enabling more working class kids to get to uni-
versity by taxing their working class parents into
oblivion seemed lost on them. I didn't ever think
I would find myself most closely allied to
Ghassan in such a debate. Still not sure about
him, though.
Nice to see another lively article from our
men's cross-country team, but no news of the
captain 'Swiss Cottage.' As for his mysterious
soubriquet, the only possible inferences are in
connection with a London district or an
unspeakable act in a Genevan public toilet. You
pays your money, you takes your choice.
ICU BARS & CATERING
REQUIRE STAFF
GOOD RATES OF PAY. VARIABLE HOURS
APPLY TO MICK (BARS) OR IAN (CATERING)
Ca/SVi HE UNION IflR

