gig/intemew: built to spill
+ foo fightersvik
We're sitting in some far from salubrious sur-
roundings in Brixton Academy. Built to Spill's
dressing room adds a new dimension to the
phrase, 'Back to basics'. No chairs, tables or heat-
ing here. Just a floor and a cooler box with some
bottles of beer and water.
Not that this seems to phase Built to Spill.
You see, they are not your typical band. They're
just four ordinary guys who make music and have
stumbled upon a worldwide tour supporting a
major band. They're not even too bothered about
that. Guitarist, vocalist and band mainstay, Doug
Martsch articulated his lack of enthusiasm:
"Sometimes we like being on tour but it's a
bit boring because we're playing the same songs
every day. I'm actually looking forward to leaving."
A major contributing factor to this seemingly
blase attitude is the fact that Doug has his girl-
friend and an eighteen month old baby. He is a
lot more exuberant about that part of his life.
"My son totally changed my life. My girl-
friend and I chase him round the house all day!
He's really into our music. For some reason, he
only wants to hear our C D and gets upset if any-
one changes the music. I think that my girlfriend
is a bit p***ed off with the album now."
The album in question is 'There's Nothing
Wrong With Love'. With its cellos, distinctly non-
aggressive stance and progressive musical mean-
dering you wouldn't think that it would be a fetish
for Foo Fighters' fans (alliteration, anyone?).
Predictably, this does not seem to bother them
either, as cellist John Mahon explained:
"We just hope that people are willing to lis-
ten. Too many people go to shows for the wrong
reasons. If they go with a spirit of discovery then
that's okay but if they just go to get angry then..."
Later that evening, Built to Spill take to the
Academy stage and deliver a set that's low on
incident but high on accomplished playing. Doug
is obviously a seasoned veteran in handling hostile
crowds (although this crowd is persistent in its
polite applause) and responds to shouts for Foo
Fighters with, "No, sorry. We are Built to Spill.
That's Built (pause) to (pause) Spill."
The band leave with a parting shot to the
crowd of, "You've been something else." Who
said Americans have no sense of irony?
Thanks to the inter-band songs on the PA, I
didn't have to think too hard for a written link
between Built to Spill and Foo Fighters. Gloria
Gaynor's 'I Will Survive' sums up Dave Grohl's
transition from Nirvana drummer to guitar-wield-
ing frontman of the Nirvana legacy perfectly.
The eponymous debut album is packed to
the brim with uplifting songs that sound like
Grohl is just glad to be alive after all the emo-
tional turmoil of the last eighteen months. Tonight
they are played with a reckless punk abandon that
gives the anticipation-frenzied crowd the good,
clean fun that they have been salivating for.
The biggest cheers are saved for the first two
singles, 'This Is A Call' and 'I'll Stick Around', but
the whole set, from the dreamy 'Floaty' through
to the charging Good Grief (which Grohl otters
to play "The Pixies way or the Def Leppard way"
and unsurprisingly is coerced into choosing the
former option), is an enthralling, energetic ride.
'I Will Survive' may summarise Grohl's
progress to date but Til Stick Around' is more
than an appropriate signature tune for him and
the band from now on.
gig: moondogJT. mr. trout
Stef Kami! Carlens is better known as the driving
force behind dEUS, but it is with Moondog Jr.
that his creative brilliance shines through.
Moondog Jr. are simply incredible. On first hear-
ing, they can be best described as a
bizarre mix of Nirvana, Bob Dylan, Tom
Waits, Rage Against the Machine,
Madness, and a hefty dollop of free form
jazz. On record they are weird, but
strangely engaging. Live, they are breath-
taking.
In the normally reserved and super
cool atmosphere of the Camden Jazz
Cafe, their deliberately understated start
somehow managed to enthrall everyone present.
From the frightening solo blues songs to the near
mosh frenzy of the funkier numbers, the person-
singles
ness. Both are unoriginal.
Look out tor this band. This
infectious, '80s guitar based
whirl is a sure sign ofgreat
A jay/, influenced riff under a
encountered - buy the live
alities (and drug preferences) of each band mem-
ber presented themseves in an intoxicatingly sub-
tle way.
Stef, though, was the manranningthe show,
and he managed to blend raw sulphate energy
with a near vulgar display of sincere emo-
tion, in a way not seen since Cobain. He
even carried off a truly brilliant cover of
"Jackie" (you know, the one where the
guy wants to be for only an hour, just an
hour every day, if he could be for just one
little hour, cool, in a stupid-ass way),
something which demonstrated the
extreme diversity of the band.
Going home, I couldn't help tfrinking I'd
discovered a whole new world. Moondog Jr. will
never be on Top of the Pops, but this is no reason
to ignore their obvious talent.
Psychedelic Fur
doesn't live up t
<
Starts all Sn
like with lu
l i i l l l l l i i
A A A A B
:
;
•-."A
A'A;

