ascends the
f o
ยง ยง
Here I am, sitting in a dark, stonewalled hut
looking out through the holes in the walls at the
bright mountain outside. My legs ache from
their climb up to this place, home to shepherds
who are sole summer guardians of the livestock
from many villages. Now though, the sun is
beginning to set, and the goats on the pasture
are being herded back to their pen next door,
bleating madly as though chased by some ovine
nightmare. The shepherd's son comes through
door grinning, his laceless Adidas trainers
contrasting with his shalwar qameez and
pullover. He is soon followed by the shepherd
himself who has been giving the goats their last
milking of the day.
His daily chores discharged, he turns
his attention to his guests, putting a kettle on
the fire and offering some tea. For a meal, we
supplement his homemade phitti bread with
tinned meats and cheeses of our own. Not
quite a cultural exchange though, as cans of
Heinz beans seem to have made the long
journey to some of the local markets, albeit to
serve the foreign trade.
Later, after some incredibly sweet tea
drunk whilst reclining across their blanket
covered floor, the old man talks to us,
alternating Burushaski with halting Urdu. I am
aware of the fire glowing redly to one side,
completing the circle of our group and
illuminating his face so that it stands out from
the darkly receeding hut. This scene seems
somehow removed from everything else, as our
cultures meet in afragilehut on the side of a
mountain pasture in the midst of some of the
highest peaks in the world.
As an opening gambit, the shepherd
declares that he is still strong enough to knock
me on my head, even though he is three times
my age. Thus satisfied that he has asserted
himself, he goes on to relate his part in the war
Himalayas
The green andfertile pasture was quite an arrest-
ing sight 4000m up in the Karakoram mountains,
especially after an exhausting eight hour climb
through remorselessly barren scree and boulder.
The name Karakoram means 'black rock', and
lends itself well to describing the land around the
Hunza valley, a tiny strip of life clinging to a river,
deep within northern Pakistan.
against India, becoming quite animated with
the stories of his behind-the-lines action. But
now this erstwhile soldier says that he likes to
get away up here during the summer, as he
finds it too hot in the valley, and there are too
many tourists. During the winter months,
however, he looks after one of the many micro
hydro-electric plants that have sprung all along
the valley with development aid.
This revelation was shortly followed
by a request for some medicine for his head, in
which he had a constant pain. Assuring him
that we would send some up with his next
supply of foods, the evening moved on to sleep,
our own heads befuddled by the heavy
woodsmoke trapped in the low hut until it
could escape through the
roof. Up on the roof, I fell
asleep quickly, only to
reawaken a few hours later
shivering and wishing that I
brought more clothes up
with me. Unable to sleep, I
lay staring at the incredibly
bright Milky Way until the
dawn chased it away,
conscious that it was
something I had never
really seen properly before.
Alex Feakes
s
fii&rWAy.

