DIARY FELIX FRIDAY DECEMBER 1 ST 1995 . TWENTY-THREE
mountaineering club
The trip to Swanage: a fresher's
perspective...
This was the first climbing trip
of the season, leaving on Friday
evening for Dorset. Amongst us there
was a number of freshers, none of
who were really sure what to expect,
but we were rewarded in a number of
ways.
We were lucky with the weather
since despite it being late October it
was still warm enough during the day
for people to climb wearing only T-
shirts and shorts. After a breezy first
night, some of us went to Portland for
hard bolted climbs while the rest
went to Swanage for some more
adventurous traditional climbing.
Although some of us were complete
beginners this did not cause any
problems. The club had sufficient
equipment to go round and the more
experienced members taught us what
we needed to know so that we were
able to climb safely.
518
During the weekend we were
able to do a lot of different climbs
ranging from exciting climbs through
sea caves to strenuous climbs up sun
drenched limestone.
Some people decided that the
water was just too tempting so they
indulged in a spot of cliff jumping. As
proof that students are not entirely
made of money the club president
finished the day's climbing with an
after dark abseiling epic merely to
retrieve an item worth about two
pints.
On the whole, the weekend was
a great success for everyone and after
the following trip to the Peak
District, we're definitely going to be
regulars from now on.
Non-members are welcome to
pop along to the climbing wall, just
off the Sherfield Walkway, to have a
go. Another good way of getting
involved is to come to our social
evening every Thursday at 7.00 p.m.
in Southside upper lounge.
n e x t d i a r y
d e a d l i n e :
n o o n ,
D e c e m b e r
7 t h
Imperial College
Dance Club
Including a demonstration by David and Lily Barker,
UK Rock and Roll and US Amateur Showdance champions
9th December 1995 in the JCR
Doors open at 7pm
Bar open late
Cost: £7. Black tie required.
Tickets available /rom committee
members or in the JCR/rom 6pm to
9pm on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays
Subwarden at
Clayponds
A Subwarden post has become available at Clayponds. The
starting date will be towards the end of 1996 with interviews
being held in early January.
Clayponds is approximately 2/3 postgraduate and 1/3 con-
tinuing undergraduate (we currently take no first year under-
graduates). It is situated 6.5 miles from the College in Ealing
(Piccadilly line to South Ealing or BR from to Ealing
Broadway + bus). The job involves pastoral care, organisa-
tion of social events and enforcement of general College and
Hall rules. We are seeking to appoint a postgraduate student
or Post Doctoral researcher with a minimum of 18 months
left at College.
No honorarium is payable but the post offers free accommo-
dation which may be suitable for a couple.
Applications comprising a covering letter indicating any
previous experience that may lend weight to your applica-
tion, and a curriculum vitae should be sent to Dr D.M. Segal,
LASP, Blackett Laboratory, Imperial College. The closing
date for applications is the 15th December 1995. (Late appli-
cations may be considered at the Warden's discretion).

