FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY DECEMBER 1ST 1995 . FIVE
0 n
e
etipoo3 firne,
Freixf] oticlear festii)£...
"Nuclear testing."
Every time I hear these words, I remember
how uncomfortable it is sometimes to be a
French citizen. People are very often
tempted to associate your ideas as an
individual with your government's actions.
Resolved to keep a low profile, I wish to shed
some light on the current controversy
regarding nuclear testing.
Firstly, let's consider the scientist's
arguments, as they do not pretend to carry
out such experiments for the
benefit of debate. It seems
that for research's needs, this
testing will help to refine the
existing numerical model for
the explosion of nuclear
devices. Secondly, there is a
safety concern involved. In
fact, scientists argue that they
need to explode nuclear
devices to assess the effect
that long term storage has on
them. They have to make sure
that weapons will still be safe
as they get older and older. Exploding
twenty year old devices might reveal
modifications that should be made to ensure
safety. This seems to be one motivation for
carrying out the tests. In parallel, the people
in charge are zealous professionals
performing their tasks as well as their skills
allow them to. As fundamental researchers
they will never accept they they are limited
in their approach by anything other than
their own intellectual facilities. All the same,
a researcher in genetics would not give trp his
research on human gene alteration on the
grounds that it could produce a degenerate
creature. It's an intrinsic part of the
dynamics of research to go beyond the limits.
On the other hand, these scientists
depend on their country which sponsors and
controls them. That is mainly where the
political interference in their work comes
from. Away from the research centre in the
Pacific Ocean, the 'qualified' politicians in
Paris are meant to be making the appropriate
decisions. It looks like the recently elected
president, Mr Jaques Chirac, excels in the
art of cultivating paradoxes. Regardless of his
troubles at home, his international
engagements are enough to highlight these
contradictions. By pretending to favour the
completion of the nuclear program, he tried
to revive the tradition from the era when the
tests were previously performed. At the
same time, he initiated and promised to sign
the international treaty of non-proliferation
of nuclear weapons.
Since Descartes, the French have been
seen as rather logically minded, but for some
reason, this time the transmission of the
inheritance failed. In spite of the vehement
protests from people with the slightest
amount of common sense, a research matter
has become the guarantee of monsier le
president's determination and independence.
I am still wondering to what extent a
government can impose its action against
general opposition before becoming
dictatorial. Remember that Chirac won the
elections with a small majority and that the
greater part of people in the country are
opposed to his measures. This is especially
apparent where the future of nuclear
armament is concerned.
So what shall we do? I am not sure
whether such an incautious boycott on the
Beaujolais Nouveau, (as an advert in last
week's press proposed) is really a powerful
persuasion tool. The problem is far beyond
that. The president must first realise that his
interest lies in a better international co-
operation. Once his credibility is lost, any
other involvement of the country in other
fields will not be trustworthy. Economic
consequences particularly
are far from negligible.
Concerning the field of
research, it seems rather
childish to aspire to a
better modelling of
devices that are already
sufficiently powerful to
kill an entire population.
Is it a matter of how deep
the radiation is going to
penetrate their bodies?
How quickly a ninety-
nine kilometre long city
can be destroyed? The population is not
going to survive anyway.
The future orientation of research
should be towards improving safety and
should forget about improving existing
weapons. I doubt the latter is absolutely
necessary for the security of the country,
particularly at a time when the expansion of
worldwide communication should bring
about a better understanding between
countries. And if this doesn't happen, at least
a better knowledge of your opponents'
motivations can be used as a basis for
mediation in a crisis.
Now that things have been explained, I
leave the last word to the French ambassador
in Guatemala who said: "Peace is a delicate
matter which ought not to be left in the
hands of pacifists."
Sabine Louet
Sabine Louet is from Brittanny, and is at IC to do a MSc in Science Communication. With a bit of luck her offering will be the first of a
semi-regular Foreign Objective, looking at international issues from the perspective of IC's overseas population. We would like to hear from
any Nigerians out there, or perhaps there are a few Americans who could explain Newt Gingrich to the rest of us, or Irishmen with strong
views on divorce. And if there's anyone from ex-Yugoslavia, you've got a lot of explaining to do...

