EIGHT . FELIX FRIDAY DECEMBER 1 ST 1 9 9 5 FEATURE
Let's face it, everyone has problems. Fortunately there are people who can help! It doesn't take much time away from home to realise
that life without parents isn't quite the easy ride you would have expected. Childhood dreams of growing up evaporate rapidly into worries
about bills, the chances of your condom splitting, and the fastest possible ways of escaping from your fire-breathing landlord. These and
many other issues are the prime concern of a small (but noble) team of union officers and college staff. Hence Welfare Week '95 - a time
for you to learn more about a bewilderingly large range of issues and pour out your pre-Christmas bank balance worries into the caring, shar-
ing ears of Union welfare.
Your aims for welfare week:
• Meet the Welfare team at lunch on
Monday in the Union Ents Lounge 12.30-
1.30pm i.e. free food.
• Get educated - at the various stalls dotted
around Sherfield and the Union.
• Remember that Friday 1 st (today) is
World Aids Day. Statistics show that if
you don't know someone who is dying of
AIDS yet you will within the next few
years. Maybe it's time to get prepared.
In the meantime get yourself to the Benefit
Disco tonight - all profits are going to be
donated to the Mildmay Mission - with any
willing donations clutched tight in your
sweaty little palms.
The College Tutors, Drs Gareth Jones
and Margaret Goodgame
Drs Jones and Goodgame are the two tutors
who oversee the college tutoring system.
This seeks to fill the gaps which can some-
times exist between departmental personal
and senior tutors and their students, both
under and post graduates. In particular it
provides a forum outside departments
where student-staff disputes can be aired.
Students can raise any matter in confidence
with the tutors, the college tutors also rep-
resent tutors on a number of committees
and Dr Goodgame has a particular responsi-
bility for women students. Dr Jones:
Physics dept. room 525, S x47805.
Dr Goodgame: Chemistry dept. room 238,
8 45722.
Andy Sinharay, C&GCU AAO
Hi! As well as labouring under the grand
title of City & Guilds Academic Affairs
Officer, welfare comes into my job descrip-
tion too: I liaise with ICU staff and sabbs on
all the usual issues (academic or otherwise).
Contact: C&G Union Office, S x58093,
pigeon holes in Office or Aero 2, e-mail:
a.sinharay@ic.ac.uk.
Ben Short, Equal Opportunities Officer
Hi, I'm the Equal Opportunities Officer for
ICU. We can only promote equality within
our College if we know about any discrimi-
nation or harassment that occurs. If you
have any complaints, comments or sugges-
tions, get in touch. Contact: pigeon hole in
Union, e-mail: b.short@ic.ac.uk.
Sudip Dey Chowdhury, OSC Welfare
Officer
I am the Overseas Student's Committee's
welfare representative. My job is to take
care of the welfare needs and problems of
overseas students. If you have any problems
I'll be happy to help you. Contact: e-mail
sdcl@ce.ic.ac.uk, OSC Exec pigeonhole.
Anne Ovens, Women's Officer
Hi! I'm the Women's Officer in the Union,
and I'm here to represent the views of all
the ladies at Imperial College on Union
Council. If you want to contact me about
any matters, my e-mail is: a.ovens@ic.ac.uk,
and I can also be pigeon-holed in the Union
office.
Stephen Webb, Welfare Officer
Hi, I'm the ICU Welfare Officer. That
means I to to solve your problems and rep-
resent you on welfare issues. But I can only
do so if you communicate! Contact: Welfare
Officer pigeonhole in Union, e-mail:
sed.webb@ic.ac.uk.
Sue Thornett, Day Nursey Manager
Please talk to me about your childcare
requirements for children aged from 6
months to 9 years, full time and part-time.
Please note that subventions may be avail-
able from both the College and the Union
to help student parents with fees. 8
x45120 for further details and a fees list.
Camilla Burnett, Accomodation Officer
Living in hall? Got a problem? This is what
your friendly hall accomodation rep is for.
every so often (2-3x a term) the Union
Accomodation Committee meets to try and
sort out problems occurring in hall (such as
recurring fire alarms at obscure hours!).
The committee consists of a rep from each
hall, Matt Crompton (ICU Dep Pres),
Stephen Webb (Welfare Officer), Grahem
Daniels (Residences Area Manager), and
myself. Contact: pigeon hole in Union and
Biology.
Martin Thomas, Union Advisor
I run the Union Advice Office, situated on
the first floor of the Union building. I can
assist with a very broad range of problems
including immigration, housing, debt, hard-
ship, harassment etc. and also provide infor-
mation on other specialist voluntary organi-
sations. The advice service is confidential
and non-judgmental and is open to all stu-
dents and staff. Appointments can be made
via the Union Office front desk ( 8 594
8060). Contact: 8 0171 594 8067 (int
48067).
Tony Cullen, College Assistant Registrar
The assistant registrar assists students having
difficulty with fees and grants. He also
deals with student loan and access fund
applications. For an appointment 8
x58008. Tony lives in room 335 in
Sherfield.
Will Millard, RSMU Welfare Officer
My name's Will Millard and I'm the RSMU
Welfare Officer. I have responsibility for
the welfare of all RSM students. If you have
any queries, problems or suggestions, please
contact me in the RSMU office or Geology
pigeon hole.

