FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY DECEMBER 1 ST 1995 . NINE
Sarah White - ICU President
One of my responsibilities as President is to
deal with all welfare matters including hard-
ship and academic problems. I sit on all
the College Committees responsible for stu-
dent welfare, and many others at University
level. At the moment, I'm partiarlarly
interested in getting more input from
mature and postgradirate students, and as
ever want to hear all of your views on stu-
dent funding and hardship. Funding of post-
graduates, mature and overseas students
seems often to be neglected in the national
debate raging around us, so please, please
help us to help yoir and future students by
telling us about problems you encounter and
how these might be tackled in the future.
If you have any problems or suggestions on
anything to do with your welfare or the wel-
fare of those around you, please don't hesi-
tate to contact me. S? x58061 during office
hours.
Don Adlington, Student Counsellor
Don Adlington is the Student Counsellor.
His job is to help students who run into per-
sonal difficulties of any kind. He operates
independently of the other services in
College, and his work is confidential. He
will see students by appointment - almost
always the same day - or without appoint-
ment if he happens to be free, and is avail-
able in normal office hours including
lunchtime. S x49430, office at 15 Princes
Gardens.
The College Chaplaincy
The chaplains are happy to talk over all
kinds of life problems , whatever your reli-
gion. They also provide spiritual guidance
and anyone is free to visit for advice or
directions to a place of worship. The chap-
laincy is situated in the basement of 15
Princes Gardens and can be contacted on
x49600.
The Health Centre
The Health Centre provides 24 hour care
for NHS registered patients. If students
and staff of Imperial College are not regis-
tered with the Health Centre, they can still
use its facilities during the day, but should
call their own GP for home visits and out of
hours requests.
The Doctors and Nurses give general med-
ical and occupational health care. Help is
available for any matter such as stress, study
difficulties, pregnancy counselling and
health promotion. The doctors and nurses
can help with psychological problems and a
consultant psychiatrist also attends weekly.
Loretto O'Callaghan, Disabilities Officer
During your studies and work at the college
if you need help to overcome any problems
why not come along for an informal chat. If
you are unable to visit Loretto's office, she
is happy to visit you at South Kensington,
Paddington, Clayponds or Silwood Park.
Loretto is also interested in feedback from
students and staff regarding the environ-
ment in which we operate. The College is
active in its efforts to improve access and
facilities for our disabled community so any
information and observations you can pass
on will be invaluable in this work.
Martyn Crook - Silwood Park Welfare
Officer
Problems with Immigration? Passports?
Visas? Police? Boyfriend ? Girlfriend?
Supervisor? Finances? Silwood Bar?
Homesick? Want to know your rights? Just
want a chat? Come and see Martyn Crook.
He can act as a first point of contact or to
give you details of where to go and who to
see. Additionally if you have an issue you
wish to raise within the college this can be
done through Martyn. 9 x289 or 01344
294289, e-mail: m.crook@ic.ac.uk.
Stephen Webb .. ..
.., ,A w . Martin
Welfare Officer
Sarah White
ICU President
4
Camilla —
Burnett
Accomodation
Officer
Matt
Crompton
ICU Deputy
Ben Short
ICU Equal
Opportunities
Sudip Dey
Chowdhury
O S C Welfare
Officer

