The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Northey burgers off
The QT Burger Bar was closed for the latter half of this week
after a boycott by IC Union reduced trade in the JCR to a
greatly reduced level. The boycott was called at last Friday's
Extraordinary General Meeting at which the ICU Executive
were instructed to organise a peaceful picket of QT. Very few
students or staff chose to cross the picket lines, and after
operating at a significant loss on Monday and Tuesday, the
Burger Bar was closed until further notice. The boycott will
finish at 4.30pm today, and it is anticipated that QT will open
as usual on Monday.
The Extraordinary General
Meeting, convened specifically to
discuss the JCR issue, was attended
by the Rector, Professor Ash, and
College Secretary, John Smith, who
put forward the College's case to the
400 students who were present. Mr
Smith said that the College had not
expected QT to be such a popular
outlet, and that, on shelving the
original plans for the switch of the
JCR and the Sherfield Refectory, they
were simply trying to find a solution
to the space problem. There were now
too many people using the refectory
system for the switch to go ahead.
There was no longer, he said, enough
room on the second floor of Sherfield
to accommodate everyone who used
the Refectory services at lunchtime.
IC Union officers, and several
speakers from the floor, argued that
the College had broken the agreement
to go through with the switch of
rooms. The QT Burger Bar was now
operating in a Union-controlled room,
but the Union was not benefitting
from the significant profits QT was
making. Professor Ash replied that
profits were ploughed back into the
refectory system, and were used to
improve the services provided. He
stressed that the space demands of the
refectories was a community
problem, an argument which has been
used by College administration
constantly since the issue arose. There
were also questions about the
financial loss to ICU if conference
bookings were reduced, though Mr
Smith assured the meeting that this
would be made up with an increased
subvention.
A motion was tabled from the floor,
calling for ICU to press for a Union
takeover of QT, and, to this end
organise a boycott as a demonstration
of student feeling. The motion was
carried by a vote of about 2:1.
Since the boycott began on Monday
students have been picketting QT, and
the Union has been running an
' 'Alternative Snack Bar'' in the JCR.
ICU President, Christine Taig, said
that there had been a very good
response to the Union's call for
volunteers, though she was
disappointed by the number of
Council members who had turned
out.
After two days of unsuccessful
trading, a notice was placed outside
QT announcing that the Burger Bar
would be closing until further notice
to prevent "further harassment of
catering staff and customers, and
wastage of materials." Ms Taig wrote
to the College Secretary on
Wednesday, informing him that the
boycott would cease on Friday, and
expressing surprise that Mr Northey,
the College Refectory Manager, had
complained about harassment of his
staff. Mr Northey was reluctant to
talk to FELIX when he was
approached on Wednesday, but did
say that he was not directly
responsible for the notice. The
decision to close QT had been made
at a higher level within the
administration, he added. Mr Northey
agreed that the boycott had been
"successful," but said that the
"losers are the students" since the
boycott reduced profits from QT,
which would have been ploughed
back into the refectory system. Mr
Northey also questioned whether the
boycott had been aimed at QT only,
since the Union's leaflets had not
mentioned the other College refectory
outlets under the heading "where to
eat during the boycott."
In a letter to Ms Taig the College
Secretary said that the success of QT
"indicates the committment to
Refectory refurbishment." He also
makes the point that QT has brought
Christine Taig and Jackie Peirce boycotting QT
students back into the JCR, which had
not previously been properly used.
On Wednesday work began on the
refurbishment of the JCR. This will
include fitting a moveable partition
which will separate QT from the rest
of the JCR. At a meeting of ICU
Executive last Saturday it was decided
not to oppose the commencement of
the refurbishment, since the EGM had
not decided to press College to
cpmplete the original switch of JCR
and Main Dining Hall. Ms Taig told
FELIX that she was not happy that the
work was going ahead during term
time, but added that it would be to the
long term advantage of the students.
The Union Executive met with Mr
Smith and a number of other senior
College administration staff yesterday
afternoon to discuss a settlement to
the dispute. Ms Taig described the
negotiations as "very amicable" and
said that she expected to have written
proposals some'' ne next week.
In the meantime College are to
consult further with the Academic
Staff Association over plans for the
Senior Common Room. The ASA is
to poll its members on their opinions
and may not have a result before the
end of February.
a*6ff a r d c u r r i e r s ' , a r d w a s t a g e cf
Free Friday January 30th 1987 No. 761

