News FELIX, Friday January 30th 1987 3
London Colleges
Fight UGC Cuts
ULU Vice President, Linda O'Leary, addressing the IC UGM about the day
of action.
Students from most of the London
colleges took park in the ULU Day
of Action on Tuesday.
John Pope, President of the Sports
Council, ran over fifty miles, visiting
most of the colleges. Pickets were
mounted outside most of the
threatened services from about 10.30
until half-past two. At the Department
of Extra-Mural Studies, staff relieved
the student pickets and trade union
representatives were present on most
of the picket lines.
The switchboard of the University
Grants Committee was jammed for
two hours in the afternoon by students
calling to complain about the
proposed cut in central funding, and
the postcards signed at most of the
colleges will be delivered to the UGC.
Almost one hundred students sat in
the foyer of Senate House for about
an hour, and the Fencing Club toured
the offices of the building, handing
out campaign leaflets. U L U
President, Jane Cannon, said that the
atmosphere was very friendly, and
she felt that some support had been
won from the staff at Senate House.
In the evening a small colleges
disco was held at the School of
Pharmacy, while Campaign Cocktails
were available in the ULU building.
Talking to FELIX on Wednesday
afternoon, Jane Cannon said "I think
it was brilliant. We let the UGC know
what we were doing."
Asked what the next stage of the
campaign is likely to be, Ms Cannon
said that the University will probably
make a submission to the UGC
contesting the level of the cut, and
told FELIX that a picket of the UGC
may be organised. The best way for
students to support the campaign was,
she said, to keep on signing things;
"If they've never signed anything
before, sign this" she said of the
petition and postcard campaign.
Science In Peril
Tom Quits
Union Welfare Officer, Tom Melliar-
Smith, has resigned his post. In a
letter delivered to Union President,
Christine Taig, yesterday afternoon
he cited academic pressure as his
reason to quit. Mr Melliar-Smith is
the second non-sabbatical officer to
resign this year. A replacement will
be elected at a UGM later this term,
anyone interested in the job should
contact the Union office.
NOTICE
As from Sunday February 1st FELIX photocopier
charges will be 3p for an A 4 copy and
6p for an A 3 copy
There will be no extra charge for
coloured paper.
The 'Save British Science' campaign
was a year old last Thursday. To
mark the occasion, an open letter was
sent to Mr Kenneth Baker, the
Minister responsible for Education
and Science. In the letter, the SBS
outlined their case for an increase in
research funding of £100 million, and
the adoption of a strong policy on
science as a whole.
Professor Connerade of the Physics
department, a senior member of the
SBS, explained that science in Britain
was presently deteriorating at every
level. He said that 25% of secondary
school science teachers are
unqualified to teach science, putting
off would be scientists; of those
students who go on to get a Science
Degree, few are choosing to do
postgraduate work in Britain. Fewer
of those who do stay here are staying
to do post-doc work. In Britain, it
seems young scientists find that they
cannot get the salaries, project
funding, promotion prospects or
industrial backing that they need,
thus, said Professor Connerade, they
move to more sympathetic countries;
in many cases the United States.
Not only is this causing a 'brain
drain,' reducing the quality of the
British scientific community, but the
SBS claim that this in turn makes
Britain a less attractive partner for
European collaboration. The
Europeans will only continue to fund
British scientists if they feel that they
have something to offer.
Professor Connerade also
expressed his concern at the lack of
a coherent policy for science. Again
he cited the problems of trying to keep
collaboration with Europe at a high
level. Without the stability that a
definite policy on science would
bring, Europeans will continue to see
collaboration with Britain as risky.
They wouldn't know, he claimed,
whether funding for any project was
permanent, or subject to
governmental whim. Without the
Europeans, the British would have
even fewer research places in an
already underfunded area. The
consequences of this would be further
deterioration.
Professor Connerade felt that the
subject of science and education
funding was likely to be an important
election issue. The SBS campaign
hopes to maintain pressure on the
government; they have already won
over both the relevant Parliamentary
committees and the House of Lords.
Free student travel
The OCs helps to fund adventure travel.
Well, where are you going this summer? South
American rain forests or South Coast near Dover?
Either way, the chances are that you won't be very
far from the nearest O C member - a valuable
source of advice in any language.
The choice is yours, the know-how is ours.
OCs: A very special link
Old Students' Association Office, Room 303 Shelfield Building
Imperial College. Telephone 589-5111 Ext. 3026

