FELIX FELIX, Friday January 30th 1987
When people announce that they are
to stand for Union posts tongues start
to wag. It seems that Dave Tyler and
Chris Simpson are to go for the dream
ticket of Guilds President and Vice-
President of Guilds Union. However
a less than kindly soul has already'
come up with their election slogan:
"Two head, one brain."
Over a period of weeks a number
of tales have reached this office of one
"Joe 90" of Mech Eng and Motor
Club fame. Apparently our Joe is
quite keen on being a media superstar,
so here goes.
Joe, after a long session in
Southside (the bar, not the gym),
who, deciding that he needed
somewhere to sleep, went off to find
the flat of some friends. The only
problem with this was that he could
remember the road they lived in but
not the number of the house. After
reaching the right road he decided that
the best way to find his friends is to
go along the street knocking on each
door and asking if Imperial College
students live there. Trying a number
of houses he eventually comes across
number 52. He rings the basement
first, thus endearing himself and the
students living upstairs to them
evermore. As luck would have it this
flat is the right one. However Joe 90
is probably now the most unpopular
person in a certain part of West
London.
Talking of Joe 90, it just so happens
that his lab partner, Bill Goodwin,
found himself enmeshed in a "little
misunderstanding", or more to the
point, thought he was, whilst at the
NUS Conference in December. Not
wanting to break the bank he and
Chris Martin decided to stay at a
friend's hotel.
They took a double room with two
single beds, however Chris, not
wanting to put the hotel staff out,
decided to spend the first night in his
sleeping bag rather than have the staff
make up his bed. The cleaner was
rather suspicious the next morning
when she found that one bed had not
been slept in. She gave Bill a knowing
look and left. Bill instantly suspected
that she suspected that something was
afoot, leapt to the defensive and
explained that Chris had slept in his
sleeping bag, which had been
carefully packed. The cleaner
nodded, trying to suppress a smirk,
and left!
Bill, worried about his flagging
image with the cleaning staff, then
tried to explain to Chris that he should
sleep in his bed the next night.
However Chris thought this was a
stupid idea and proceeded to do the
same thing again, leaving an
incredibly embarassed Bill to face the
music with the cleaner next day, who
in a state of extreme panic did his best
to mess up the other bed to avoid
further embarassment.
Which conveniently leads us on to
embarassment of the do-it-yourself
variety. Responding to the plea to
build a small wooden wine-rack the
intrepid threesome of Chas Jackson,
Alan Clarke and an individual known
only by the name 'Mole' decided to
'Tyler and Simmo: Buddy can you spare a brain?
'Peter Wilson and friends relax after a long recording session. "
go into the construction business.
Despite full instructions being
supplied with the kit, they decided
that they had a better idea. Rather than
build the thing square, as suggested,
they went for a triangular design.
Sounds fine until you consider that
they meant an inverted triangle. They
were even more pleased when they
found that they had several bits of
dowelling left over. Chas was so over
the moon that he decided to try his
hand at sculpture and created a model
by banging the dowels into an old
lump of wood. Thus satisfied the trio
went off to scare some old ladies, in
the way that young delinquents do,
leaving the recipient of the wine rack
too scared to remove any bottles from
it in case the whole thing fell apart.
Chas Jackson will be holding an
exhibition of dowel sculpture in the
Consort Gallery next term.
It was red faces all round in the
Rapide coach from Sheffield the other
day as Pete Wilson wondered what
the little paper bags were for pinned
to the back of the seat in front.
Apparently they are for putting litter
and various fag ends in.-However it
had been a good party up in the
North, and Peter was not feeling very
well. He decided that the best way out
of the potentially disastrous stituations
was to use the paper bag.
Unfortunately Pete soon discovered
that the bags are not completely
watertight.
The early shutdown of IC Radio
after a problematical outside
.broadcast from the Hole in the Hall
bar in Falmouth-Keogh Hall caused
several people to lose their beauty
sleep in the late hours of Tuesday
night. Rolling home after a good
night's boozing at ULU, our intrepid
External Affairs Officer, who shall
remain nameless for fear of his safety,
decided to investigate the situation.
He first rang IC Radio but
unsurprisingly got no answer, and
instead tried Pete Hands. Fortunately
for Mr. Hands, he was out at the time.
Incensed by his lack of answers,
our EAO decided that he would ask
the members of the Union Finance
Committee what they thought of this
poor value for money that IC Radio
was offering. He started with Duncan
Royle, who was suitably unimpressed
with being woken up at one o'clock
on a Wednesday morning.
Unfortunately r'ost of his comments
on the subject were unfit for printing,
except for the remarkably perceptive
question "Are you pissed?"
Having got some juicy quotes from
Mr. Royle, he proceeded to try and
ask the rest of UFC whether they
thought that IC Radio's grant should
be slashed. However, by a curious
coincidence all the rest of the
committee set ned to be elsewhere,
and so he was forced to ring a random
staircase in Linstead to find out the
residents' opinions. The only saving
grace of this approach was that the
Linstead people on the other end of
the line were more pissed than our
protagonist.
So if you get a phone call on your
staircase in the early hours of the
morning, you know it's just market
research.

