There’s a load of crap on TV again
Felix TV comes out of hibernation ready to gorge, but which television celebrity offers the best advice?
The New Year’s TV schedules
wasted no time in reviving our sea-
sonal obsession with obesity and
health, capitalising as ever on the
guilt associated with the traditional
festive excess.
ITV served up Drastic Gastric
Surgery in the wake of the decision
to offer stomach surgery on the
NHS for the first time to severely
overweight children who carry a
high likelihood of developing car-
diovascular disease and diabetes.
Presented by Ricky Grover, the
‘huge and hirsute’ writer and come-
dian, the programme looked at the
risks and benefits of weight-loss
surgery.
Surgery is very much the last
chance saloon for clinically obese
individuals who fail to control their
weight through conventional diet-
ing, exercise or medication. The
various approaches are all designed
to make the stomach smaller so
that less food is needed to fill it. The
feeling of fullness is what makes us
satisfied and stops us craving more.
With a lessened appetite and a re-
duced calorie intake, a substantial
and life-saving loss of fat becomes
feasible.
The BBC3 documentary Fat Boy
To Slim covered the same topic
through the eyes and words of a
morbidlyobeseteenager,JackGlas-
sett, as he first tried unsuccessfully
to lose weight, and then weighed up
his options with family, doctors and
Eddie Wawrzynczak former patients. The programme
showed the long process of prepar-
ing for surgery, the operation itself,
and the necessary post-operative
procedures. The good news is that
Jack lost weight and survived the
temptation of his first Christmas
dinner.
Watching these programmes, one
was left in no doubt that extreme
obesity is no joke and that surgery
is by no means a straightforward
solution to the problem. Leaving
to one side the potential complica-
tions, the full benefits of weight-
loss surgery can only be realised if
the patient is careful to avoid high
calorie food and drink. In effect, the
operation can only be life-chang-
ing if the person’s life does actually
change.
Lifestyle change was also the
theme of the third dish on offer.
Channel 4’s contribution is a new
series of You Are What You Eat,
featuring the infamous Gillian
McKeith and ominously subtitled
Gillian Moves In (Tuesdays, 8pm).
The format involves the self-styled
holistic nutritionist scouring ‘the
fat of the land’ to identify ‘supersize
slobs’ with ‘thick hides’ and diets
like ‘porky pigs’. She traps two un-
wary subjects in her TV home and
then subjects them to a draconian
diet and exercise regime.
In the first programme, Ian and
Sharon were confronted with a
food-laden table showing the full
horror of their weekly intake of salt,
saturated fat, and monosodium
10 felix Friday 19 January 2006
TV tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
glutamate. This gave McKeith the
opportunity to swipe the stodge
petulantly onto the floor and stamp
all over it. Following further humili-
ations, the pair was sent home with
‘recipes, rules and reassurance,’
only to be visited again so that the
evil diet witch could trash the kids’
crisps as well.
McKeith has been the target of
heavy criticism for advocating diets
that have little scientific support,
but there were only fleeting signs
of such barminess here. On the
contrary, the little information and
advice she offered seemed modest
in its claims. And after eight weeks,
both inmates had lost two stones in
weight. Ian could now play football
with his son for more than a minute
and Sharon was out shopping for
sexy lingerie again.
McKeith is also well known for her
obsession with crap. Her goal is the
perfect poo: smooth, soft and easy to
pass. For aficionados, that’s a type 4
stool – like a sausage or snake – ac-
cording to the official Bristol Stool
Form Chart. True to form, McKeith
did not disappoint her fans as she
duly inspected the captives’ disap-
pointing and disgusting turds.
Shitwasalsofirmlyonthemenuin
the first of a new series, The Truth
About Food, going out on BBC2
(Thursdays, 9pm). The series aims
to reveal the science behind the
food we eat and what it does to our
bodies. As the first of six well-known
personalities slated to present the
show, newsreader Fiona Bruce en-
thusiastically examined different
aspects of food with the help of ‘top
scientists’ and guinea pigs plucked
from a willing public.
Amiable truckers Don and Wolf-
gang demonstrated the importance
of dietary fibre as they drove across
Europe. High fibre replaced their
conventional fare of greasy-spoon
fry-ups and tinned food straight out
of the can. The new diet helped the
truckers get their transit time – the
time food takes to traverse the tun-
nel between mouth and anus – from
one to two days down to about 12
hours, helping to clear potentially
cancer-causing toxins from the
Gilliam McKeith demonstrates the perfect type 4 stool in You Are What You Eat – Gillian Moves In
bowels.
The workings of the gut were
further illustrated with the help of
the ‘pill cam’, a neat piece of tech-
nology in the form of a large pill
kitted out with its own lights, cam-
era and video link. Swallow the pill
and it goes with the flow, filming
the sights on the way and showing
us the delights within. There were
also some helpful graphics to show
the pill passing through the system.
It was good science but as Don put
it: “I can’t stop the truck every two
hours to take a shit.”
The young ranchers working in
Colorado, on the other hand, were
more than happy to contribute their
droppings as often as needed. One
group dined on vegetables contain-
ing high levels of ‘prebiotic’ nutri-
ents known to stimulate the prolif-
eration of beneficial organisms in
the gut. A second group ate ‘probi-
otic’ yoghurt containing live healthy
bugs. Faecal analysis showed that
the vegetables were better at in-
creasing the good bacteria over the
bad ones. The side effect of eating
artichokes, leeks and onions was
predictable.
Much farting and latrine humour
was also evident among volunteers
living in a compound at Paignton
Zoo and surviving on 5 kg of raw
fruit and vegetables daily, a diet
similar to that enjoyed by apes in
the wild and by our ancestors mil-
lions of years ago. Just 12 days of
this unusual torture succeeded in
reducing the participants’ choles-
terol levels by more than 20%, a
good thing given the role of choles-
terol in heart disease, and it also re-
duced weight and blood pressure.
The Truth About Food seems to
have hit upon a formula combining
the best of all worlds: the smiling
celebrity presenter shown in a new
light,thelikeablemanandwomanin
the street, easy-to-understand food
trials, genuine scientific experts on
camera, the use of clever graph-
ics, and a range of bite-sized topics.
With presenters like Vic Reeves,
Jan Ravens and Colin Jackson, and
topics like sex, sport and sunbath-
ing yet to come, there is something
for everyone in this series.
If all this were not enough, hy-
pochondriacs may be interested in
another new series to be screened
by BBC2 on Tuesdays at 8pm. The
cheerily titled Don’t Die Young
plans to demystify the inner work-
ings of the body to help us better
understand how lifestyle impacts
on lifespan. Each programme will
look at a particular organ and how
to look after it, the first taking a look
at kidney function with the help of
a bare-backed volunteer and a
paintbrush.
So, the start of 2007 offers the
couch potato multiple opportuni-
ties to cosy up in front of the telly –
home-delivery pizza, bottle of fizzy
rot, and remote control to hand
– to ponder our pre-occupation with
bodily functions and to imagine how
good it would be to escape our mod-
ern, unhealthy way of living.
‘Pill cam’: it goes
with the flow,
showing us the
delights within
“I like my mashed potato with lumps in!” – Hobag
Watch TV? Lots? Be productive with
your viewing and write about it!
Email: tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk

