Campaigns
Unsurprisingly perhaps, most students seem to see
the Union as the provider of clubs and bars, but
we do much more than that. The Union regularly
campaigns on studentsʼ behalf behind the scenes,
both within the College and outside. Some of these
campaigns, such as last weekʼs RCSU Oﬃce protest,
are high proﬁle but many are less visible.
One of the things the Sabbatical team are trying to
do this year is raise the proﬁle and eﬀectiveness of
campaigns in general. We hope to do this by making
sure these campaigns are well resourced, well co-
ordinated and well supported.
This term will see the launch of several high proﬁle
campaigns including “Green Week”, “Fairtrade
Fortnight” and an LGBT Awareness week, however,
we would like to see more campaigns on more
issues in the future. This is why we are working
towards creating new dedicated campaign roles
within the Union and we are looking for enthusiastic
volunteers to take on these roles.
If you are interested in getting involved in
campaigning and perhaps even leading a campaign,
then please get in touch with Ben Harris, the Unionʼs
Deputy President for Education and Welfare (dpew@
imperial.ac.uk). This year we hope to run campaigns
on the following issues:
• Anti-Racism: campaigning for better race relations
at Imperial.
• Disabled students: working with the College to
make it more accommodating for students with
disabilities.
• Environmental: campaigning for a greener
Imperial, focussing on Green Week this term.
• Ethical: raising awareness of ethical issues
amongst Imperial students, focussing on Fairtrade
Fortnight this term.
• LGBT: campaigning on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and
Transgender issues.
• Womensʼ: organising events to encourage women
to pursue a career in science, engineering and
technology.
However, if you want to propose your own
campaign, then please write to Ben or myself. ICU
has a reasonable budget for campaigns this year
and we are able to provide professional support and
advice.
Centenary
Next week the Centenary will really get going with
the build-up to a massive
launch on Tuesday 30th
January. On that day we
will also launch a new
Union Centenary website
that will advertise every
centenary event we plan
to hold throughout the
rest of the year. If your
club or society is planning
to hold a centenary event
that we donʼt know about
then please contact Shiv Chopra (medic.president@
imperial.ac.uk) as soon as possible.
Chips
And ﬁnally, an announcement that is long overdue.
When I stood for President last year I deliberately
didnʼt promise to introduce chips to the Union
simply because I was under the impression that this
would be logistically too diﬃcult to do and recent
Presidents had made this promise and failed to
deliver it. Thanks to hard work by our staﬀ over
the Christmas, we are now able to oﬀer chips in the
evenings! You can buy a small portion of chips from
£1 and potato wedges from £2 any evening from
4:30pm.
unionpage
Campaigns, Centenary and Chips
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
At this time of year many people donʼt feel
themselves. There have been many parties over the
festive period, you have probably all been back to
your hometown, met up with old friends and seen
some of your family for the ﬁrst time in ages.
Christmas can be a strange time of year, many of
you have probably had to buy presents for your
family or perhaps some of you may have just had
a good time catching up with old friends; either of
these cases can be expensive.
As a student it can often be hard to budget for these
things after all you have rent to pay, fees, books
for education and of course need money to spend
on your leisure time, with all this in mind there is
always a temptation to borrow money at Christmas
to fund your gift buying or your social life.
This money can be borrowed from a bank, personal
loans, credit cards or sometimes from friends but
there is always a temptation to spend over your
limit at the festive time of year we call Christmas.
Often after the last mince pie has been eaten and
the eggnog has ﬁnished, the ﬁrst credit card bill
arrives or your bank is on at you because you are
over your overdraft.
The Information and Advice Centre may be able
to help if you have over spent your budget at
Christmas and now ﬁnd yourself in a bad ﬁnancial
situation. If you are having problems with credit
card companies or your bank, we can work out your
income and outgoings and write to these companies
on your behalf to negotiate a payment plan that you
can actually aﬀord; we can advocate for you in this
situation.
It is also important that you prioritise your money
in this situation, something like a credit card debt is
not essentially a priority debt. It is best that you look
to pay things such as your rent, amenity bills and
fees before looking at other debts, this is because if
you donʼt pay these things you will essentially lose
something. For example if you donʼt pay your rent
you will be evicted, donʼt pay gas bill, you will be
cut oﬀ and if you donʼt pay your fees you may be
asked to leave college.
We can also help if you ﬁnd you canʼt aﬀord your
fees or rent to the college. We write to the college
on behalf of many students and try to explain why
you canʼt aﬀord these debts and also sometimes
make oﬀers to them to negotiate a payment plan.
If you ﬁnd yourself in heavy debt, it is important
to tell people what is happening and not bury your
head in the sand. Most companies are willing to
help if you ﬁnd you cannot aﬀord to pay them back
the money you owe them.
Of course debt isnʼt just about the money, it can
bring on other issues such as stress and worry.
These of course, can lead to you not being focused
on your academic work. It is important to talk
to someone if you feel that the stress of debt is
aﬀecting your work.
Your ﬁrst port of call
should be your personal
tutor. If you ﬁnd that they
are not helpful or you donʼt
feel comfortable talking to
them, then the Information
and Sdvice Centre can talk
to your department for
you and explain what is
happening. We can try to
negotiate more time for
you to do your projects or at least let them know
how you are feeling leading up to an exam.
The college oﬀers ﬁnancial help in the form of the
access to learning fund. This is administered by
the student ﬁnance oﬃce and is for students who
have exhausted all other areas of income, not all
students will be eligible for this. The Student Support
Oﬃcer, Phillipa Worley, administers this; you can
contact her on : student.support @imperial.ac.uk.
The Information and Advice Centre also has some
application forms for this fund.
The Information and Advice Centre also gives
general budgeting advice to students with regard
to how to manage your money more eﬀectively. We
can look at your expenditure and advise you on the
areas you need to improve spending on.
If you feel you would like to contact the Information
and Advice Centre on these issues or any other
welfare issues, you can contact us on: 020 7594
8067 or advice@imperial.ac.uk.
Spent Too Much on Eggnog?
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
advicet@imperial.ac.uk

