Give RCSU
their office!
I
’ve always considered protesting as erm… some-
thing for the French. When French students go on
strike (students striking is an oxy-moron but that
is another story) they go and throw bricks at par-
liament. When we go on strike, the only reason you
notice is because the pubs are busier. ICU managed to
get about 12 people to attend the top-up fees march last
term, hardly a sign of student activism being a major
feature in our lives and probably not a sufficient number
for the authorities to invoke the modern day equivalent
of the Riot Act.
But wait a minute. What’s that on the front page? Well,
some of us staged a protest, a protest that Felix will con-
tinue until RCSU get their desired office. The “meeja”
(sic) support the scientists in their fight for a decent of-
fice. As you may know, the Engineers and Medics have
thriving Faculty Union offices in prominent, easily acces-
sible parts of campus whilst RCSU (currently operating
out of a broom cupboard) were offered a dingy basement
in Princes Gardens, hardly the beating heart of College.
Our friends at the RCSU are naturally not best pleased
at this. Felix believes that College are not only needless-
ly inconveniencing students but they are also shooting
themselves in the foot as RCSU have done a lot in the
few months they have been in existence which has had a
huge positive impact on the atmosphere of the College.
Have a look at their website. They’ve organised a fresh-
ers ball, several bar nights and a football tournament. On
the less frivolous side they also hold regular welfare sur-
geries whose potential is hamstrung by the aforemen-
tioned broom cupboard they are currently soldiering on
with. Surely College should be encouraging volunteers
who give up their time to enhance the non-academic
side of student life for everyone? This demotion is a slap
in the face to a group of individuals who, according to
the Colleges own website, are giving up their time to run
tours of the Queens Tower when the centenary celebra-
tions launch at the beginning of February.
In recognition of the contribution made by the RCSU
to College life and their tireless support for both the cen-
tenary celebrations and outreach programmes Felix are
asking that College re-instate their original offer of the
room by the Walkway. As far as demands go, its hardly
the biggest one that you will ever hear and not the most
difficult one to accommodate. It has been commented
that the room in Princes Gardens was so far out of the
way that you might as well have offered them a room out
at Wye! By re-instating the original offer you’ll make a
lot of people very happy, the same people who you are
relying on to contribute towards the success of the cen-
tenary launch. Go on, you know you want to! If only in
appreciation of the comical value of our makeshift office
in Upper Dalby Court staffed by a Union Sabbatical look-
ing out of place wearing some rather snazzy golf gear.
I
t is pretty standard for people
from most cultures to make new
year resolutions. It’s like a shed-
ding skin for a snake, except that
for human beings it doesn’t re-
ally work! It looks like as if we, like the
snake, had an infinite amount of similar
layers. Let me explain.
A perfectly common new year’s reso-
lution is to lose weight. Even your fel-
low writer (a.k.a. FatFlaps 3000) that
is presenting you this masterpiece of
contemporary literature did it! And that
it’s why the gyms are always full of gi-
ant pieces of bacon running the shit out
of themselves on treadmills or dislocat-
ing their shoulder while trying to bench
5kgs. But don’t worry fellow vain and
brainless buffers: your lovely Ethos will
soon be back to normal and you will be
able to walk around showing your guns
or new 8-pack to all the three girls in the
world that actually care.
People also usually try to convince
themselves that “Yeah! This year I’ll
start going to the library and do at least
half an hour of work everyday!”. This
would be perfect and actually work if it
wasn’t for the small problem that every-
one with half the normal amount of sex-
ual hormones needs to go out and hunt
for the opposite sex. And this implies,
for most people, drinking in moderation,
and drinking in moderation implies sex.
What a theory! If life was this simple I
would have 10 kids right now and made
love (notice that I’m not insensible
enough to write fuck the shit out of) to as
many virgins as there are waiting for su-
icide bombers in heaven. But unluckily
for me and for the fellow-reader-who’s-
Resolutions for 2007
Diogo Geraldes
penis-is-about-to-fall-off-due-to-exces-
sive-self-loving-at-night-while-watch-
ing-Rachel’s-perfect-boobs-in-Friends
life isn’t that simple, specially if you
come from countries where girls are
actually fit. The theory then changes to
going out implies drinking, then walking
around the club trying to find someone
good enough to deflower, drink, walk,
drink, drink, drink, walk, drink, cab ride
to fuckland, fat girl on top of you (or
fat guy), then bang, congratulations!
You’re a dad! Did you revise that day’s
lectures at all? No! And you´ll probably
feel like shit after you wake up missing
Mr. Kidney in a bathtub full of ice the
next day and won’t feel like it either.
Another quite popular resolution is to
quit smoking! I have actually witnessed
people quitting at midnight and never
touch a cigarette again until 10 min-
utes later I see them smoking like as if
their lungs committed crimes against
mankind and deserved to be punished!
And if they do quit they have to stuff
themselves with chocolate and other
sweet things like 13 year old teenage
girls who didn’t make it in to the cheer-
leading squad! Why did most people
start smoking? Not because they liked,
but definitely because when they were
young it was cool to do it. I’m sorry if it
isn’t anymore, but guess what: you are
stuck with a vicious habit that will prob-
ably take both your lungs and your right
testicle away from you! So don’t fight it,
just enjoy it while you can!
There are more new year resolutions
that I could talk about till your ass feels
numb from seating on the toilet for so
long, but I think I made my point. They
are useless but we still make them any-
way! Do we make them to actually try to
change our lives and become new peo-
ple? I do personally think that it is only
to make us feel better, newborn, capa-
ble of everything, even if for 3 or 4 days.
But I have to stop with this mind
ramblings since I have more important
things to do: I have my second personal
training session after revising today’s
lectures! Oh, but first I need to stop
by the chemist to buy some nicotine
patches!
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,369, Friday 19 January 2007.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2007.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor
Alex Antonov | Deputy Editor Tomo Roberts |
Politics Editor Omar Hashmi | Business Editor
Michael Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew Hoban,
Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Andrew
Somerville | Arts Editor Emily Lines | Fashion Editor
Sarah Skeete | Comment Editor Stephen Brown |
Environment Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs &
Societies Editor Kirsty Patterson | Grammar Nazis
Edmund Henley, Jesse Garman, Besart Robo |
Beardie-in-chief Hugh Stickley-Mansfield
felix
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
7
felix
Friday 19 January 2007
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
Telephone 0 2 0 7 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
w w w. f r e s h h a i r d r e s s e r s . c o . u k
CASH ONLY
‘Still the best student offer in
South Kensington!’
ONLY BY EXPERIENCED STYLISTS
£26 ..... LADIES
£20 ..... MEN
Normal Price £48
NOW 10%
DISCOUNT
ON ALL
COLOURING
SERVICES
Does the New Year signal the end of smoking biftas for you? Nah, no chance

