THE N - k OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Students charged to pay off landlord
College backs
down over deposits
The College is to reconsider damage charges made against students living inflats25, 54, 79 and 81 in Lexham
Gardens. The move comes in the wake of complaints from students that damage by previous occupants has
not been taken into account. Senior Assistant Finance Officer, Mr Malcolm Aldridge, told FELIX that students
who feel they have been unfairly assessed for damage charges last year in Lexham Gardens should write to
him or speak to Mr David Parry in the cash office on level four of the Sherfield Building.
lexham Gardens, where Managing Surveyor Peter Hallworth and Senior Assistant
Finance Officer Malcolm Aldridge were caught with their trousers round their ankles.
The unusually high damage
charges were made after the College
was forced to return the Lexham
Gardens Head Tenancy flats to their
landlord, Mr Dangor, last year. Mr
Peter Hallworth, Managing
Surveyor (Residences) and Mr
Dines, Assistant Clerk of Works,
negotiated an overall charge of
£8362 with Mr Dangor, for the
damage to the flats returned to him.
The College has attempted to
recoup £3345 from student deposits
as damage charges.
Mr Aaron Kotcheff, Ex-Student
Manager of flats 25 and 54, told
FELIX that students were being
charged for damage done in
previous years. He claims that the
College have not consulted the
damage reports given to him by
students as they moved in at the
beginning of last year. Mr
Hallworth, who is responsible for
assessing damage charges for
students in Head Tenancies, told
FELIX that he had not recieved the
reports from Mr Kotcheff. Mr
Kotcheff said that he had not been
asked for the reports until students
started to complain. Mr Hallworth
claims that the reports should have
been sent to him as a matter of
course.
The remaining £5000 of the
payment made to Mr Dangor is to
be met by the College Residences
account. Mr Aldridge explained that
the College is unable to charge the
amount to any other account due to
restrictions from the University
Grants Committee (UGC). The
further burden to the Residences
account will put further pressure
upon the College to increase rents
in Halls and Houses again next year.
The Head Tenancies are budgetted
as separate units, which should not
place a burden upon the residence
finances.
The cost of the damages comes
after a £21000 deficit from the Head
Tenancies the year before. The
deficit was caused by poor
occupancy rates and was funded by
the residences account.
Mr Aldridge told FELIX that he is
currently 'looking into delapidation
being covered by charging a bit extra
on rents'.
Mag
halted
Imperial College Union Rag Mag
Editor, Mr David Williams, was
forced to postpone printing on
Tuesday after an outcry from the
magazine's Censorship Committee.
Confusion between Mr Williams
and the Censorship Committee
meant that the Rag Mag was sent to
the printers on Monday evening,
before a firm approval was made on
its contents. Rag Chairman Fiona
Nicholas, has threatened to block
funding for the publication unless
the Committee is allowed to censor
it before printing.
The Censorship Committee, made
up of the three sabbatical members
of the Union Executive, the Rag
Chairman and the Rag Mag Editor,
was set up three years ago. The
committee is required to approve
the Rag Mag before its publication.
ICU Honorary Secretary (events)
Ian Morris was given a copy of the
Rag Mag by Mr Williams at 12.30pm
last Friday and was told to check it
over by 3.30pm. He handed it on to
President Nigel Baker at 1pm who
spoke to Mr Williams and asked for
more time to check it over the
weekend.
continued on back page
I Dave Williams: 'One of the best'?
I S S U E 8 1 2 7 OCT 1988

