Felix
Union Cards
Dear Bill,
I have just collected my new Union card, a
cardboard and plastic monstrosity that will
become really dog-eared in my pocket. Where
have the handy, credit card sized pieces of plastic
gone? Every friend I have at another College with
the large, cardboard type of Union card expressed
envy that ours were so practical. Now we have
sunk to envying other people. I think I will cut
off the spare card (the telephone numbers are not
so useful that I want to constantly carry them
around).
I also noticed that the colour of the reverse side
of the card no longer indicates your Hall of
Residence which I feel is a step backwards.
What will we be given next year? Perhaps a
filofax size card with six ring binder holes
punched into it, or maybe a huge badge that we
have to wear.
Yours,
Clare Crippen, Physics 3.
Fire Hazards
Dear Bill,
During the Summer I stayed in Falmouth
Keogh, the only time I have lived in an IC Hall.
One night, while slightly under the influence,
some friends and I decided to investigate the fire
and safety precautions of the Hall. No! We didn't
set off the fire alarms or anything irresponsible,
we're all jolly sensible people. We found that on
my landing the door from the staircase had no
handle and, if shut, would trap everyone. The
fire door on the Selkirk level, that is supposed
to be held back by a magnet normally and should
automatically spring back shut when there is a
fire alarm, has no spring. This means that if a fire
alarm went off it would stay open instead of
cutting off the fire. We also found that the door
to the fire escape could not be opened as
something had buckled the metal frame. I would
not live in Southside again. If anyone other than
students were living there, the Hall would have
been closed long ago.
Yours,
Gail Turner.
Spanner
Collections
Dear Bill,
Can I just take this opportunity to remind
Guilds' Freshers that if they did not receive a
copy of Spanner, the City and Guilds Union
Handbook, at the Rector's Reception then they
can collect one from the Guilds Office, situated
on Mechanical Engineering Level 3, at any time.
I would also like to thank everyone who
contributed in any way to the publication,
especially all those who helped stuff them into
the envelopes.
Yours sincerely,
Adrian Bourne, Spanner Editor 1988.
Dear Bill,
I would like to use the pages of your newspaper
(as bog roll—no, I don't mean that) to
congratulate the redesigners of the Union Lounge
for providing the perfect natural habitat for the
chair's that live there. The. perfect camoflage
which the red floor provides for their red seats
seems to be fooling everyone. I myself have
already fallen over five of them. Well done! They
may even feel so at home that we get some baby
chairs after.. .after.. .(what is the gestation period
for a chair?).
Yours,
Daffy Dixon, ME2.
Club Ed
I am continuing my role as Club's Editor, and I
would welcome contributions from any IC Club
or Society. In order to get articles printed in a
Friday's FELIX they must be submitted by 1.30pm
on the preceding Monday lunchtime.
Photographs are more than welcome to add
interest to the article—they may be collected from
me afterwards.
As the Editor of the page I reserve the right to
edit articles. Usually this is so that all the Club's
articles submitted can be printed. If an article is
very long then it could become a feature about
the activity.
Once again I hope to hear from A L L the clubs
out there. Contributions should be put in the
'Club's Reports' pigeonhole in the racks facing
the door in the FELIX Office, Beit Quad.
Andrew M Waller
Hidden Danger
Date: 29/09/88
Disk: Felix.fr
File name: Letters
Dear William,
I wish to protest strongly against the way letters
like this one are used to fill space in FELLX. I trust
that future Felices will be produced in your good
ol' inimitable style (crawl, crawl) and not with
this scandalous waste of paper and ink.
Lotsa luv,
Max Kallios, Vice President C&GU.
Editorial
Collating Blues. The week before term was a very
hectic week for FELIX. In addition to a colossal
amount of photocopying for Freshers Week, we
had a larger than average FELIX to bring out, and
only a skeleton staff to put it together. In previous
years FELIX has relied on the support of those
Union Officers staying in College over the
Summer and on the support of the other three
Sabbaticals.
Last Saturday, however, when we had 4000
copies of FELIX to collate and only two members
of FELIX staff on hand, the Union Officers,
decided that they would much rather get drunk
in the Union bar.
The story runs something like this. The Union
decided to throw a freebie for the Union Officers
on Saturday Night (the FELIX Editor was not
invited). As Deputy President, Chas Brereton,
needed to fold his leaflets for the Overseas
students' reception on Sunday, we decided to ask
the Union Officers to drop into FELIX after their
reception, to help collate FELFX and the Overseas
literature. Chas wandered into the office about
mid evening and reported that none of the
Officers were interested in collating. In my
naivety I approached a couple of the Officers who
were busy reading advance copies of FELIX in
the Union Bar. One of them explained that he'd
much rather get to know the Freshers, the other
had to move a table back into the snack bar and
so would be unavailable.
We were left with 4000 copies of FELIX to
collate and no one to collate them. There is very
little one can do in this situation; I ended up
walking around the Quad five times and praying
for something to happen.
I am therefore grateful to the freshers in Beit
Hall for pulling together in what must be one of
the fastest ever collations for a FELIX of this size.
When the folding machine packed in they even
managed to fold most of the FELLX calendars by
hand. Nevertheless, for Freshers to have to stay
up until the early hours of the morning on their
first night at Imperial is not a very satisfactory.
It is refreshing to know that some people in this
Union are prepared to go out of their way to help
the rest of the students. It's more than can be said
for your elected Union Officers.
Apologies to Dramsoc for the comment in story
3 of the editorial on Monday. Dramsoc would like
to point out that the individuals concerned were
acting as individuals and not as members of
Dramsoc.
The Union Lounge. Since last week we have
been able to confirm the rumour that the firm
Rugglers were able to repaint the Union Lounge
in time at half the fee that was paid to the
individuals in Dramsoc. I am not knocking those
individuals; they worked bloody hard and had
very little sleep so that the job could be finished
in time. Why were Rugglers able to do the job
so cheaply ? There are two schools of thought:
(1) Rugglers are nice guys (2) They overcharged
for the rest of the Snack Bar refurbishment.
Staff Meeting. Today 1pm. Drop in to
constructively criticise
this issue.
Page 2 FELIX October 7 1988

