Opinion
Reprinted from FELIX issue 808. Feedback on this article is welcome.
God Chose America
Julian Butcher casts a critical eye over the
faith and beliefs of the Mormon church..
I think we are all aware of the presence of the Mormon Church with its
impressive gold steeple immediately opposite the Mechanical Engineering
building, but it is surely less certain in most people's minds as to who
they are or what they believe. Often they are regarded with some caution,
being seen as not quite on a par with evangelical Christians, indeed rather
more readily being equated with the Jehova's Witnesses due to their
mutual door-knocking activities. For many they seem to be just another
denomination, after all their name seems quite inoffensive—'The Church
of Jesus Christ of the Latter-Day Saints', and of course, the Mormon choirs
are reasonably famous and respected throughout the western world.
Perhaps the only well-known peculiarity about them is their history of
polygamy, which found its way into the faith under Brigham Young, but
which is no longer encouraged. My intention is to show that Mormonism
is full of peculiarities, that it is not Christian and that its foundation is
one of blind faith.
A short history runs something
like this: In the early part of the last
century a young American lad, who
was a 'keen seeker after Truth',
found himself totally exasperated by
the disunity in the Church. He was
particularly averse to the doctrinal
nit-picking and apparent impotence
of the Church with regard to
spiritual gifts from God—(eg
prophesy, healing, etc). The lad's
name was Joseph Smith, and
despite his having received a poor
education, he was chosen and
enabled by God to perform a greatj
task. This task was declared to him|
by an angel, who appeared to Smithj
whilst in prayer, and who informed!
Smith was
miraculously able to
translate 'Reformed
Egyptian' into
English
— — — • I I M H a
m
him of an ancient set of gold and
brass plates, which contained many
'precious' things that had been
omitted from the Bible, and which
he was then required to translate
into English. For four years, on the
same date each year, the angel took
him to the hill in which the plates
were buried, but not until the fourth
year was Smith allowed to view the
writing. Eventually however, the
box was opened (with the use of a
lever) and the plates revealed,
together with a pair of divine
spectacles the Urim and Thummim)
with which Smith was miraculously1
able to translate the 'Reformed
Egyptian' spontaneously into
English. This he claimed to have
done, and the 'Three Witnesses',
David Whitmer, Martin Harris and
...Mormonism is full
of peculiarities...
Oliver Cowdry testify to this.
(Martin Harris was the financier for
the first publication). (Interestingly,
the Mormons claimed to have
consulted a respected authority on
hieroglyphics with regard to the
'Reformed Egyptian', who is said to
have recognised the characters and
praised the text for its unique
quality. In a later letter however, he
denies this vehemently.)
The result of all this was the Book
of Mormon—Another Testimony of
Jesus Christ, which was claimed by
Smith to have equal (if not superior)
authority with the Bible. After all,
if God had miraculously generated
perfect translation through the Urim
and Thummim, the Book of
Mormom must be devoid of all
errors and other translation
problems, (such as idiomatic
variations and changed emphases
etc). Indeed he accepted the Bible's
authority only insofar 'as it was
translated correctly', which
(although seemingly innocuous)
actually exposes the Bible Scripture
to be subject to any and every whim
of Joseph Smith. Granted it is no
longer generally used, but Joseph
Smith's version of the Bible includes
extra passages 'clarifying' certain
doctrinal position, which have no
basis in early manuscripts
whatsoever. The Book of Genesis
for example includes completely
The Mormon Church in Exhibition Road
new passages concerning the
rebellion of Satan, which Smith has
inserted with impunity; since the
Book of Mormon explicitly states
that the Mormon Church leadership
enjoys the privilege of direct
revelation from God, the authority
of which is comparable to that of
Scripture, if not superior to it.
(Hence polygamy under Brigham
Young, when both the Bible and the
Book of Mormon blatantly condemn
the practice). This fact of 'divinely'
inspired leadership (with apparently
little constraint) is clearly the most
disturbing aspect of Mormonism, its
foundation is shaky and open to
abuse; especially in light of the fact
that for the Mormon, God can be
seen flatly to contradict Himself in
Scripture and revelation.
The Book of Mormon claims to be
a set of historical writings, handed
down from generations of Jews who
had travelled from the Middle East
to settle in America around 600BC.
Most of the pages are preoccupied
with boring pseudo-histories of
wars, factions and prophesies (and
of course genealogies). A lot of it is
padded out with straight copies of
Moroni appeared to Joseph Smith in 1823
Page 4 FELIX October 7 1988

