{
JUDO AGAIN
THE IC JUDO Club came top in all three divisions of the London Col-
leges League Championships.
'Ihe first team met little real opposition from Kings, LSE, and City Univ-
ersity, and defeated West Ham so conclusively that they scratched from
the first division and entered the second division. The second team had
narrow victories against Chelsea and West Ham(l), but easily beat the
other teams entered.
In the third division the College beat U.C. and Q.E.C. and at the
final venued drew with Sir John Cass. This left I.C. and S.J.C. equal top,
and so- a deciding contest was arranged. R. Butler battled heroically for
I.C. against a strong opponent, but after six minutes there was still no
decision.
After a d.cussion between the officials, it was agreed to have one more
cpu'-cst, to continue until a full point was achieved. Keyte, a beginner
last term, was sent out to fight the S.J.C. man. After six minutes Keyte
sr.ored a half point with a ko-soto-gan counter to a hip attack. The S.J.C.
man now attacked furiously but eventually they went to ground, and
Keyle held his man down for a full point.
Thus IC had made a clean sweep of the league.
TEAMS :—
First team : K. Glover, R. Jackson, M . Mathews, M . Reilly, D. Shaw.
Also J. Gwyther and P Crossley.
Second team :• R. Butler, J. Gwyther, B. Connong, M . Hincher, P. Crossley.
FINAL GAME
AT SHENLEY on Saturday the third eeven^ IC's last remaining team
in the ULU football cup competition, went down in the semi-final to a
strong UC second eleven.
The match opened with IC doing most of the attacking and several op-
portunist shots from the forwards went just wide of goal. As the game
progressed UC came more into it but the IC half backs held control of the
mkltield and UC never lookde dangerous. Meanwhile IC kept attacking
and after a good run tiirough the middle, Horlock was obstructed in the
penalty area when it looked as if he would score. Soon afterwards the
best chance of the match was wasted, when the UC defence was caught
on the wrong foot. Perry jumped over a centre from Ebbutt, but Wellfair
shot wide of the open goal.
Two minutes before half-time IC scored when Ebbutt took advantage
of a bad back pass, and ran through to score. However, the jubilation was
short-lived as U C scored straight from the restart, and half-time appeared
with the scores equal.
UC attacked strongly in the second half, but Hayes in goal looked un-
beatable. Then some slack marking in the IC defence allowed the opposing
centre forward to put in an unstoppable shot, to give UC the lead.
The match ended with IC still attaacking but, unfortunately, time ran
out before they could force an equaliser.
R.D. Holmes
IMPROVING HOCKEY
TEAM MARCH ON
Hockey: IC3, UC1
IN THE SEMI-FINAL of the U.L. cup competition, a balanced
1C eleven gave U.C. a lesson in hockey. After the club missed
many chances, Goddard twice found the goal. The first followed
a clever free hit by Phillips and the second came from good work
between Mayes and AnketelL
In the second half a coasting IC were energised by a deserved
U.C. goal, and the game hung in balance. A fine save robbed
Goddard of his hat trick, but Phillips made sure from a short
corner shot, which no-one saw.
TEAM : Green, Grics, Peters, Ramsel, Hill, Phillips, Barlow,
Cotton, Goddard, Mayes, Anketell.
IC lst, 1- High Wycombe 1st, 0.
AFTER A POOR first half of the season die hockey club has been
showing more promise, and after a 7-2 win over a weak Royal Vets, diey
were prepared to meet a stronger challenge when High Wycombe visited
llariinglon, on Saturday.
The game negan rather scrappily with the visitors well on top while
IC struggled to settle down. There was little or no co-ordination in at-
tack and the defence, several times, only just managed to keep out the
opposing forwards. After the interval, however, the College defence
stood firm and, building on this, the attack began to show some hint of
thrast. A fine goal, mid-way through the second half, by Pete Cotton was
the only scores—leav.ng the College side feeling a trifle lucky to win.
However, it the defence remains as solid, they are unlikely to concede
many goals, so it only requires the forwards to find some shooting power,
to finish the season in a blaze of glory. As they are now in the cup final
the season cannot end as a failure.
Saturday Next
Hyde Park Road Relay
Saturday next is the day of the Hyde Park Road Relay, starting at 3 p.m.
I ne riyde tark Road rtelay was inaugurated by the Cross Country Club
of the Imperial College of Science and Technology in 1949, when there
were 9 entries The entry has grown steadily each year to this year's
ngi're of cvei 100 teams, representing universities and colleges from all
over the country, and this year, for the first time, several from the Con-
tinent. This fixture is now the most representative of all university athletics
fixtures and tne largest relay race in Europe, if not the world.
Each member of the 6-man teams will run the 3-mile course; which
encircles the Serpentine, on roads and pathways passing through Hyde
Paik und Kensington Gardens. The start, change-over, and finish will be
near the west end of Rotten Row.
Many famous athletic personalities have taken part — Bruce Tulloh,
Ron Hill, Herb Elliot, to name a few.
Last year saw Mike Turner and Fergus Murray racing, Mike breaking
the course record lor the third fear running. Now with the almost certain
die most representative of university athletic fixtures.
ending of the London-Brighton Road Race we have the honour of staging
Thi- year the relay again breakes new ground—we have our first Con-
tinental etries. but although only 5 teams are actually competing we are
limited by financial reasons rather than by iack of enthusiasm.
Also this year we intend to calculate the resufs by computer and so
eliminate the sight of 6 people bent deep over a table in Hyde Park, hours
after the relay has finished, checking and double-checking lap times.
Last year IC finished 23rd. but is is expected that the college should
finished in the first ten this year, as the team contains several first class
limner*. The IC team is :
N. Barton, T. Mason, H. Smith, I. Jones, D. Dallman, D. Holmes.
NASTY
NIGHT
BELOW
Five members of IC Caving
Club spent an uncomfortable
night down a pothole near
Ingleton, in Yorkshire, last
weekend. The trouble arose
when the party became separ-
ated from their leader and all
the lights failed.
... This occured as the group
was making its way out of Disap-
pointment Pot, on the Saturday
night, and had only twenty yards
to go when the carbide lamps
failed. The leader, Dave Sweet-
ing, had gone ahead to reconoitre
the passage and had taken a
wrong turning when his light also
failed.
All concerned, not knowing
how close to the entrance they
were, decided to wait there rather
than risk getting hopelessly lost.
Meanwhile at about 2.00 a.m.
search parties from the remaind-
er of the caving Club set out. Un-
fortunately a very thick mist pre-
vented them finding the entrance,
and they spent most of the night
stumbling across the moors. At
about 8.00 a.m. the cave rescue
organization was called, but they
arrived to find everyone safe,
though cold, wet and hungry,—>
an IC party having found the en-
trance just before.
The event was rounded off by
an interview with BBC TV in
which various members, who had
not spent the night down the pot,
and two, who had, were filmed.
This" appeared on the BBC news
Hhat night.
Chris Palmer
CITY O F LEEDS
E D U C A T I O N COMMITTEE
CARNEGIE COLLEGE OF
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
A one year Post-Graduate Course
for Men
APPLICATIONS are invited from
graduates who wish to qualify as
teachers and specialise in Physical
Education as well as their degree
subject. The course is grant-aided,
recognised by the Department of
Education and Science, and leads
to a graduate certificate in educa-
tion and a diploma in physical
education.
For prospectus and application
form apply to The Principal,
Carnegie College, Beckett Park,
Leeds 6
CRITICAL PATH
for finalists—whether you
plot it out and calculate
your plan, or just leave it
to sort itself out, there are
going to be a lot of events
you will have to programme
between now and July.
Amongst the events you
should certainly plan for is
a contact with STC. We
are a large, diverse, lively
outfit covering the whole
range of electronics, radio,
and telecommunications and
we have attractive openings
for engineers and scientists,
and for graduates in other
disciplines.
Find out about us—our
booklet "Information for
Graduates 1967" is available
from Appointments Boards,
and our interviewers will be
at Imperial College
on Thursday 23 February
If you miss us then, drop'
a line to :—
Central Personnel
Department (Graduates),
STC House,
190 Strand,
London, W.C.2.
STC

