F E L I X
Exploration Society: on survival
For Sale : Special offer of
numerous 2 year old lumps of
cheese, and chocolate, in as new
c-rl-'rion. for o^lv 8 pounds, in-
clusive of special alumiium foil
wrapping. Please apply to the
Catering Branch of the Defence
Ministry.
Or so the exploration society
Were told at last Thursday's meet-
ing, by the head of the Air
Forre's Survival Training School in
Devonshire. They were also in-
formed that a machette, as includ-
ed in all airmen's survival kits,
makes an excellent wood chopper,
"my wife always uses one," that
a King Cobra does not "freeze"
when you grab its tail (as one
tropical su'v.val instructor found
to his cost) and that the survival
school is provided with 30 knot
launches so drat thev ran supple-
ment Nature's wave making efforts
off the Devonshire coast (Boat
Club Beware).
The lecture was interesting, but,
in view of the nature of the soci-
ety, a little more information on
survival, rather than the Air
Force Training Schools, might have
been useful—even the game traps
in die photographs were empty!
N. Clarke
Means Test:
Tony Lunn
nominated
In order to relieve the pressure
on the Welfare Officer, Pete Finch,
who will now !)( dralin" with •!><'
Student Houses, Tony Lunn, Civil
3, has been appointed to the sub-
committee on the Means Test. It
is not expected that the sub-com-
mittee will achieve anything t is
year which is as well since Tony
is leaving in June.
at Metal Box some engineers
become administrators others go
on being engineers—
cither way they find fulf{Intent and
this is worth a great deal today
which Is one reason tony people who
come to Metal Bo*
generally stay. Here are some others:
MB10-1N
The Metal Box Graduate Training Scheme
•quips you to do a sound job almost
anywhere, but it equips you to get to the
top of Metal Box.
You assume responsibilities immediately
you complete the appropriate training.
And while your first appointment
may not be a very high one it will be
sufficiently important for somebody who
is very senior to worry about how
well you are doing it.
Metal Box does not discourage inter-
department mobility. This means that it is
possible for you to start in production and
to go to research. Or start in research and
go over to the commercial side. In short you
get the opportunity to find your metier
by testing your ability against a diverse
variety of problems-practical and
theoretical, technical and administrative.
Metal Box don't believe in labelling people.
In their view a science degree no more
precludes sound commercial thinking,
than an arts degree means one cannot
comprehend technicalities.
With Metal Box you can work abroad
without joining the brain drain, and return
to the U.K. without feeling like an expatriate.
Metal Box acknowledge ability in the
way that matters most.
It's the largest packaging organisation
outside the United States.
38 factories in Britain, 32 overseas..,
in Africa, India, Malaysia, Singapore,
Jamaica, Trinidad and, more recently, Italy.
A fast growing light engineering and
marketing organisation, that employs
graduates as company administrators,
factory and commercial managers,
production engineers, research engineers
and market researchers.
A research and development team of over
800 continuously engaged in a wide variety
of projects involving food technology,
physics, chemistry and microbiology.
®1U«& Mafc JsAefeC »*l£l Jbo/>e*
They're leaders In metal, paper and plastic packaging
The Metal Box Company Limited, P.O. Box 1 AN, 37 Baker Street. London W1 Telephone: HUNter 5577

