CO NOES?
P a u l E k p e n y o n g
Five measly clad guys shuffled on to
the stage with intermittent applause,
spied their instruments (how can you
miss a miniature grand piano?) and n r / \ / \ i >j J _ | o r " l i m
nonchalantly produced the unique sound I I V J O U I F l d l U l
that is Procol Harum.
The concert was in two halves each
lasting one hour, in the first they per-
formed several numbers from their very
early albums plus a whole host of new
material, one of these being a "song
called 'Al Guadio', (hope the spelling is
correct) which the pianist assured us had
references to 12th century music in some
way and a fantastic new sound involving
some incredible keyboards (Gary Brooker
reminding me of Phibes). This half was
brought to an end with a drum solo by the
Jrmjimer 3.J. Wilson which involved some
intricate cymbals and sophisticated
thunderous drums. A superb'solo.
The second half featured the lead
guitarist Mick Grabham in fine form and
in Concert
was devoted exclusively to their best
known works. This included 'Conquistador'
(so well performed that it outshone the
recorded version). 'Salad Days', 'Homberg'
and an interesting ballad entitled
'Dedicated To Chairman Mao'.
A standing ovation (with feet stamping,
hoots, whistles and larynx straining yells
for 'More', 'More',, 'Encore' etc.) brought
to an end two hours of stupefying musical
entertainment. Predictably, an encore
consisting of three songs followed,>the
last one being 'A Whiter Shade of Pale_,
a befitting end to a really great concert.
BOOKS
P e t e r H u g h e s C a n d i
L.T.C. Rolt: Victorian Engineering
(Penguin)
THE Great Exhibition of 1851 marked
the high point of nearly a century of
British domination of all forms of
engineering. At the time of the exhib-
ition, Britain was rightly known as the
'workshop of the world', a status which
she was soon to lose and never.again
recover. The story of this rise and the
people who helped to bring it about is
one of inventiveness, ingenuity and
daring. It is this story which Mr. Rolfs
book tells.
Starting with the earliest form of
steam engine, the Newcommen Engine,
Mr. Rolt traces the development of steam
power upto the invention of the turbine.
The book also describes the many other
developments which took place as a
result of increasing use of steam power
and the money which this made available.
Thus we also find histories: of steam
trains, and the rails and bridges which
carry them, metal ships, and the iron they
were built from and the propellors which
drove them, and of steam powered
factories, and the gas and electricity
which lit the homes of the factory owners.
In fact, the branching process which
took place in engineering during the
Victorian era seems endless, and the
book attempts to cover them all.
During the course of the book Mr.
Rolt also tries to show some of the
social effects of the Industrial Revolution,
unfortunately because of the tremendous
emphasis on the 'wonder of engineering'
this comes across as something of an
afterthought and out of place in the book.
Having just been told what a magni-
ficent thing steam power was and how
awesome was the size and might of steam
engines,, the brief mention of the appaUng
conditions in the industrial north seems
trivial.
As a history of the Industrial
Revolution from an engineer's point of
view, i found the book both interesting
and enjoyable to read, I was especially
Interested in the comparison it made
between the modern, highly specialised
engineer and his general and almost
omniscient equivalent in the Victorian
era. My only critisism of this book is
that it attempts to cover to much material
in too few pages. The result of trying
to mention every last item of Victorian
engineering and also pass social com-
ment on them is that the book seems
slightly disjointed and the changes of
subject from one paragraph to the next
are a little abrupt at times. Despite this
critisism, I enjoyed reading this book
and can recommend it as an informative
and highly readable account of the
Industrial Revolution.
Stanley Ellin: 'The Man from Nowhere'
(Penguin). I
THIS IS a straight, ordinary crime
story concerning a free-lance insurance
investigator, Jake Dekker and his attempt
to prove that Walter Thoren committed
suicide — thereby preventing his widow
from collecting a double indemnity . . . .
and making himself $100,000 for his
trouble (which is considerable).
The story is well written and carefully
thought out, with crisp almost Chandler
dialogue, first-class characterisation
a/id a tightly worked and convincing
plot. All the same, it is just another
good calculating and cynical crime
story — when I came to write this I
Cent, page 15

