l-r IL
'
-
AKC0RD5
Andrew Osborne
Little Feat - Feats Don't Fail He
Now — Warner Bros.
Too many groups take themselves
seriously and claim they are contributing
to aesthetic pleasures of the masses.
It's refreshing to hear a bunch of lunatics,
once in a while, and Little Feat fall
comfortably into that category. Their
humour Is Zappaesque; their music soul
orientated.
But soul music never sounded like
this before. The album could so easily
have been over-produced but somehow
the music comes through and the pro-
duction really works. Take 'Down the
Road' for example: phased guitar zooms
back and forth across the stereo and
effects generally freak out, but it never
gets heavy. There's some fine guitar
work throughout the album and every now
and again some honky-tonk piano pops
up. Worthy of note is the track 'Skin it
i Back' which sounds like a demented
I Pink Floyd playing reggae ('I wonder
.how. I'm gonna tell It to you. skin it
back') and it ends with some enigmatic
i scraping.
Honours for the best track go to 'The
Fan' which Is zappaesque in the extreme.
It's a song about a groupie, in 7/8. with
excellent synthesizing.
I've never heard of Little Feat before
and the cryptic sleeve notes are no help
(apart from suggesting we stop them on
the street and ask them about it). The
sleeve notes also say the group
experienced 'a lets get it out in the open
and make some money off it syndrome
that creeps into our unfettered post-
general sarnotf lites'.
This album will give one or two
people some pleasant surprises.
Mike Oldfield - Hergest Ridge
Take one Irish Wolfhound, 'Avon
Calling' tunes, a bunch of kids who
cannot play recorders (or lhat equivalent)
the best of the tapes which did not make
Tubular Bells, do 19,760 overdubs and
call it Hergest Ridge. Bells' was beautiful
shame Ridge is an anticlimax.,... ;well, at
least the first side is.
The album starts with a blast of
various horns breaking into the 'Avon
Calling' chimes which are then over-
dubbed a million times. This then breaks
into some distorted recorders which
gradually die away and lead into the
first bit of serious music. The most
refreshing part of the first side, I con-
sider to be the bass-guitar break, which
shows the ability of Oldfield to combine
rock music with classical overtones,
This concludes side one, with the sound
of a Wolfhound being castrated.
The second side is totally different
(Oldfield must have really excelled
himself writing this). This is Hergest
Ridge, the first side being but a filler.
This side is pleasantly orchestrated,
however, extrapolation from Bells are
extremely evident The strings are
predominant and carry through a furious,
rhythm with some impressive acoustic-
guitar playing building aft to a fins!
crescendo. Oldfield manages 'to Mend
Marmalade - This House is Rocking -
EMI Records'.
REMEMBER the sixties when groups
were a l l composed of minors and the
generation gap was in vogue? Well, the
young rebels of those days have proved
they have staying power, though little
persuasive power, and they still pound
out music as they approach middle age,
even though they have neither mellowed
nor changed their values. Couid it be that
the establishment has acted on that old
maxim 'if you can't beat them join them?*—
maxim 'if you can't beat them join them?'—
i could have sworn that the muzak I heard
flowing, almost inaudibly, from the hidden
speakers in the plush lounge bar of that
respectable Watneys pub, was an in-
strumental version of that song that just
five years ago was urging me to revolt.
Sort of Bert Kampfaert meets the Rollings
Stones.
It's sad but all our old fave raves
soldier on turning out the same old stuff
but becoming more and more uninspiring.
The new generation haven't produced
anything except reggae and Jimmy
Osmond and they haven't exactly got
impact.
Marmalade never have been w,orId-
shattering and I'm surprised they're
still around, but here they are with
'This House is Rocking' which contains
but unoriginal music.
Most of the tracks start off In a
promising way but due to lack of in-
novation leave the listener unmoved.
Old Country Rhythm features a sadly
forgotten relic of the past-the drum solo.
The first track is a fine rocker with some
tasty brass. A song about Douglas (Isle
and remix these sounds (old and new),
creating a new refreshiiig theme. Well
worth checking out.
Hie
Richard Betts: 'Highway Calf (Super)'.
SOME SLIGHTLY stronger fare for the
music-loving palate. A rendition by
Richard 'don't call me Dickie' Betts -
I'ace fingerboard flitter from les freres
Allman, exuding solid, cultured, southernt
'country' picking, if that's your taste.
He's a damned fine guitarist but be
warned if you're expecting Allman raunch,
this is undiluted, laid-back-and-lazy C
and W. Not normally liking (some would
say appreciating) country music, I was
surprised to find myself initially enjoying
these pleasant finely-textured ramblings
which above a l l . are expertly played.
It's nice music but sometimes you
just don't want to go to sleep and after
a while country can get damned boring.
For one particularly fond of Carlos
San tana in full slight, percussion pack
at his heels, this is mindnumbingly slow,
if technically accomplished. Still, if you
are fond of country and western, give it
a listen.
of Man) appears on the second side and
why not? When is someone going to write
a song about Ladbroke Grove?(*Where'ere
i wend, where'ere I rove, I always think
of Ladbroke Grove. The dirt, the slums,
the drunks, the bums' etc).
Neil Sedaka - Bad Blood — Polydor
(single).
AND I said Marmalade are getting
old — Neil Sedaka is a relic from some-
where around Neanderthal Man's time.
S should admit that whenever I listen
to Neil Sedaka's record I conjure up
visions of a fat jerk, wearing a sports
shirt and grinning inanely behind a piano.
Which means I'm biased.
He sings it as though he's in some
degree of pain and while a flute screams
out, he sings 'doo run doo run ditty ditty
doo run'. No doubt a chart buster
Philip Webber
Eric Clapton: Willie and the Hard
Jive (Polydor)
JUST in case you don't know this is
a single record, the name track being
taken from '467 Pacific Boulevard'
Clapton's recent L P . Side A with the
name track is very nearly reggae (good
reggae) and sounds like a new version
of a very old tune. Side B is rock in
contrast, which I prefer personally. Com-
pared to the run of the mill single this
is a good one but I think you would be
better off listening to the L P having the
benefit of a lot more variation.
Georges Moustaki: Declaration
(Polydor)
This is predominately a French L P ,
because even though Georges Moustaki
is Greek, he spent most of his life in
France, so if you can't work out the
words you are going to miss a lot of the
lyrics which are quite funny and/or
subtle depending on the mood of the
track. The one track in English would
give you a good idea though.
However, not to worry, this LP is very
pleasant to listen to without knowing
what it says. A l l the tracks are very
different, Moustaki does not seem to get
into a rut of one particular type of
rhythm, the general type of music singing
to the accompaniment of his guitar and
his four piece support band, occasionally
with a chorus thrown in. To give some
idea of the variation here are the tracks
on this LP (his fourth): Declaration
(Je declare I'etat de bonheur permanent)—
I declare a state of permanent happiness;
Les Enfants d'Heir — Tomorrow's
Children; L'Apolitique; Le Quotidien;
Why Les Eause de mars - The Waters of
Mars; Nos Quinze Ans - Our Fifteen
Years; Xu Xu Be/eza; Nadiejda; Ballade
pour Cinq Instruments — Ballad for five
Instruments.
This is generally music rather off the
beaten student track but well worth
getting a listen to, to see if you like it
or not and if you are multi-lingual he has
recorded in Italian, Spanish, English,
French, Greek and Arabic. I hope not
all on the same LP.
Michael Swidzinski

