Reviews FELIX, Friday February 13th 1987 1 3
The Fly T H E A T R E T h e A m e n Corner
The Fly (1958) was a film in which
a scientist, whilst experimenting with
a matter transmitter he had built,
accidently gets mixed up with a fly.
The scientist acquires the head and
one foreleg of the fly, and the fly
acquires his head and arm. The film
was remarkable not only for the
unusually large amount of money
spent on it but for the morbid
attraction that its man-fly image
holds. Nevertheless, the film had one
big logic problem. The fly's head the
scientist acquires somehow still has
his brain, as he finally persuades his
wife to kill him in a hydraulic press.
However, the fly with the man's head
also seems to have his brain, as the
film ends with it trapped in a spider's
web shouting for help as an arachnid
bears down on it. Matter transmission
and a fly are all David Cronenberg's
remake have in common with the
original.
Seth Brundle (Jeff Goldblum) is the
scientist who discovers the secret of
teleportation. His first experiments
misfire—but he solves the problems,
and finally tests the device out on
himself. Except that he shares the
teleportation both with a fly. And
when he rematerialises in the
receiving booth, he is—alright. But
the fly has disappeared. And Seth
slowly begins to change; his skin
discolours, he develops an animal-like
strength, his sex drive increases, At
first it's something he jokes about.
Then he thinks it's cancer. But finally,
interogating the computer which
controls the teleportation process, he
discovers the truth.
The Fly is about the loss of external
humanity, and the effect this has on
the inner man. Jeff Goldblum gives
a superb performance, even when, in
the latter stages of the film, he is
hidden behind layers of make-up. His
depiction of the bumbling scientist
who suddenly finds his body revolting
against him is heart rending.
(Goldblum is a strong candidate for
an Academy nomination).
Also giving worthy performances
are Geena Davis as a reporter who
agrees to cover Brundle's discovery,
and John Getz as Stathis Borans,
editor of a physics magazine
'Particle'. Both play a large part in
the film's highly suspenseful, exciting
and ultimately emotional finale.
Director and co-writer David
Cronenberg has up-dated the story of
the 1958 film, and stays within the
scientific boundaries which he defines
for himself. That is to say that
although he uses such ideas as matter
transmission and 'chromasomal
fusion', he doesn't then go and spoil
the film by introducing some totally
illogical phenomenon. He
acknowledges that transmission of the
actual atoms of an object is not
The Fringe Theatre may have some
disadvantages, but one great asset is
its ability to provide you with
something completely different. The
Amen Corner at the Tricycle Theatre
until February 28th, is exactly that—
and much more besides.
As a member of the white middle-
class, James Baldwin's play took me
into a whole new world—that of black
Harlem in the 1950's.
The storyline is a simple one: that
of a woman seeking refuge in the
church to escape a drunk husband and
the death of a baby; a woman who has
buried herself so deeply in her beliefs,
that when the Husband returns and the
son wishes to leave, she starts to
crack; a woman for whom reality
occurs to others.
What really makes this production
so believable is the atmosphere
created in the 'store front church'.
Coupled with the intimacy of the
theatre, we become part of the
congregation during the church
services, but feel like eavesdroppers
during the more personal moments
such as the touching reunion of Pastor
Margaret (Carmen Munroe) and her
estranged husband (Al Matthews): "If
only we could start again."
The show, almost three hours long
with two intervals, goes exceptionally
quickly—almost too quickly as Pastor
Margaret is forced, somewhat
brutally, to realise the limitations of
her particular style of faith. Ms
Munroe is excellent in this role, and
is admirably backed up by a talented
cast all of whom have managed to put
a real zeal into their performances.
Although one or two scenes may
appear a touch over-directed, it isn't
hard for the audience to have fun and
concentrate when the actors on stage
are obviously enjoying themselves so
much with the rare humour and the
possible. So in his version of The Fly
the object or person is reconstructed
using a 'plasma pool' as a source of
raw matter. The result of the
chromasomal fusion is that Seth
Brundle sL "tamorphoses into
an organism that is a sort of half-way
point between a man and a fly. All
this may sound trivial, but more often
than not it's this sort of thing that
treated illogically, totally spoils an
otherwise good story.
You'll definitely need a strong
stomach to see this film but
unpleasantness aside it's a real tear-
jerker. As Brundle's physical
humanity is slowly disintegrated by
the literal 'fly in the ointment' his
make-up challenges us, the audience,
to stick by him when no one else but
his new found reporter girlfriend will.
Brundle finally faces what is
happening to him, and quotes Kafka;
"I am an insect who dreamed he was
a man and now the dream is over."
Charles Robin
irrepressible music. But as Luke says
to his son, on the eve of his leaving
home, "Music is just a moment, life
is a long time." This production is
well worth such a momentary visit—
and much more besides.
Aidan Kershaw.
The Merry
Wives of
Windsor
The Royal Shakespeare Company has
recently brought back its production
of the Merry Wives of Windsor, now
playing at the Barbican, and how wise
they were. Merry Wives is arguably
the most comical of all the
Shakespeare comedies, and this
production effortlessly plays on all the
farcical elements right to the hilt.
To claim that the cast were slick
would be a gross understatement, they
were completely atune with both the
lines and each other—the effect was
to produce a superb show. Set in the
1950's, the designer William Dudley
(who received the Laurence Olivier
Design Award for this show), takes
us back to days of Morris Minors,
jive music, mods and rockers and the
sexual oppression of women.
In fact the sexual politics of the play
are all very much tongue-in-cheek,
purely so that they may be knocker!
down later, when the women finally
'discredit' Sir John Falstaff. Sir John,
played by Peter Jeffrey, assumes that
he may seduce, through his natural
charms, two 'wives of Windsor'. All
does not go to plan, and they lead him
a merry dance to prove his arrogance.
Throw in the subplot of a mixed up
courtship (almost obligatory to
Shakespeare's comedies) and you
have the usual complex plot. But the
beauty of this prouction is that within
minutes, we forget that the language
is over three hundred years old, and
find no problem following the story.
This of course is due to superb
performances from all the cast, but
notably Sheila Staefel in the role of
Mistress Quickly. Ms Staefel has
magnificent timing and can provoke
laughter from the most mundane of
lines. Several rounds of applause
came her way for beautifully
controlled comic moments during
scene changes, although credit for
these must also go to Bill Alexander
(Director, winner of Laurence Olivier
Director Award) whose direction was
consistently on the mark. The farcical
aspects were all wonderfully
performed, especially Mistresses
Ford's and Page's conversation under
the hairdryers, and for comedy this
show cannot be beaten—who said
Shakespeare is dull?
Aidan Kershaw

