MOTION ON ENVIRONMENTAL WEEK. MOTION ON THE PUBLIC ORDER' A C T 1986
Proposed by: Stuart McFarlane.
Seconded by: Christine Taig
Dave Colley,
ICU Notes:
That within the timescale of the past few generations, human activities have had a
colossal and largely detrimental effect upon the environment in this country and
across most of the world.
ICli Believes:
1. That the quality of the environment is intrinsically linked with the quality of
life and the general well being of everyone on the planet.
2. That we should strive to put into practice more sustainable methods of utilizing the
earth's resources, resources upon which all our wealth, and that of future
generations, ultimately depends.
ICU Accepts:
That the Environmental Week, to be held at the College in the first week of March
(2nd to 6th) this year is a relevant way in which to raise environmental awareness
in an institution where much of the teaching and research carried out has direct or
indirect implications for the environment. (Details of the weeks events can be found
in the January 30th edition of Felix).
ICU Instructs:
That the Union Executive should give its full support to the Environmental Week.
ICU Requests:
That anyone interested in helping out in any way during the week contact Theresa
Lisher or Stuart McFarlane via 721* internal, or through the MSc pigeon holes at the
Imperial College Centre for Environmental Technology, 48 Prince's Garderfs, (adjacent
to Southside).
Motion on ULU versus UGC
proposed: C Taig
second: J Pierce
ICU NOTES
1. ICU's commitment to fighting against the UGC's proposed 50% cut
in central funding to the University of London.
2. The ULU march from Malet Street to the UGC on February 26th
in support of this fight.
iCU REQUESTS
1. All members to support the march and be at ULU at 12.30pm on
Thursday February 26th
LOST
In Southside bar on evening of Wednesday 12th
February; brown leather wallet containing Union card
library card, etc. belonging to John Ranson, Mech.
Eng. 2. Also blue wool scarf. Whoever took them,
please return.
proposed by: Iain Stewart (Computing III)
Seconded by: Mark Harman
Sarah Alsop
Sunny Bains
Adrian Baldwin
Lesley Belcher
Jon Burn
Mark Cottle
Rosie Dickin
5haun Dunlop
Adrian Grainger
Chas Jackson
Grenville Manuel
Chris Martin
Dylan Mathias
Jackie Peirce
Phil Reeves
Jane Rogers
Alan Rose
Dipti Shah
Guy Sims
Christine Taig
Pete Wilson
ICU Notes:
1. That on Friday 7 November 1986 the Public Order Act became law.
2. That this Act specifically infringes on the right of free assembly by requiring
police to explicitly grant permission to assemble, as a privilege and not as a
right.
3. That any organizer who is not granted explicit police permission will be liable to
a £ 4 0 0 fine; and even bystanders acting outside police instruction can be
arrested, fined and jailed.
*. That this infringement contravenes Article 20 of the United Nations Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, Principle VII of Section I of the Helsinki Final Acts
1975, the Madrid Concluding Document of the Helsinki Accords 1983, and Article
1
1 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
5. That the Act as written places a historically unprecedented discretion on
individual police officers who were not selected for their jobs because of any
special ability to decide whether a demonstration is "acceptable".
6. That U L U , the National Council for Civil Liberties and the Trades Union Congress
are working against the Act.
7. That a rally is planned from 23.OO to OI.OO on the night of the coming into
effect of the Act [details available later] to mark the ending of the human right
of free assembly in Britain.
ICU Believes:
1. That the right to protest by assembly, march and demonstration is a fundamental
civil liberty, an integral and historical part of the British democratic process and
should only be restricted under exceptional circumstances.
2. That the Public Order Act will, by its serious disregard of international human
rights law, have a serious effect on individuals' and groups' right to assemble and
march as a form of protest.
3. That the Act departs dangerously from British constitutional principle and practice
by giving police the power to render ineffective any form of protest they do not
like, even before it has started.
ICU Requests:
1 Every member of ICU to write a letter to their MP expressing concern at the
Public Order Act and asking them to work for its repeal.
2. Every member of ICU to join the rally announced in point 7 of "ICU Notes" above
in solidarity with the other groups acting against the Act.
ICU Instructs:
The Executive to support ULU and other organizations working against the Public
Order Act.
IC Union Council
IC Union Council will meet on
Monday 16th February at Silwood
Park, Minibuses will leave from Beit
Arch at 5.30pm or a soon as w e are
quorate. A n y observers wishing to
attend either get there yourself or
see Dave Colley immediately.
Papers for the meeting are n o w in
the Union Office for collection
I C U G M
1pm, Great Hall
Tuesday February 1 7th
Come and see all the
sabbatical candidates trying
to cash in on some pre-
campaign publicity

