Feature FELIX, Friday February 13th 1987 6
Mention the word pollution to
someone today and a whole series of
loosely connected images will spring
to mind. Oil slicks and dirty beaches
with stricken flightless birds; dead
fish in the Rhine; the thick smell of
car exhaust fumes and the
accompanying city pedestrian's
headache; and radioactive sheep.
Most of these images are formed in
the wake of some catastrophe,
sensationalised by television and the
newspapers. However, pollution is,
for the most part a gradual process,
with chemicals accumulating steadily
throughout the environment. In this
article we outline what we see as the
main problems of pollution in the air,
in water and on land. Pollution is
the presence of any damaging
substance at greater than naturally
occurring levels in any part of the
environment. We argue that
institutional complacency on the
grounds of cost and lack of
information over environmental
problems is no easier than reactive
measures; furthermore it gives a lot
of opportunities for industry to
develop new applications of
Chemistry, Engineering and other
sciences. "Proof is not a product of
Science but evidence is, and there is
now sufficient evidence of, not only
adverse ecological effects, but also of
financial costs of various pollutants.
Pollution used to be an acceptable
side-effect of the demand for
manufactured goods but now we have
reached the point at which it is costing
industry. For example, much of the
activity on Acid Rain is based
strongly on the possible economic
damage which could occur in the
Scandinavian Forestry industry.
Acid Rain is the major pollution
issue in the news today. The skies
over Europe are more polluted than
anywhere else on earth. The
emission, mainly from cars and
power stations, produce a complex
chemical cocktail containing NOx and
SO2, which in moist air form acids.
These acids cause toxic metals to be
washed out of soils into water
systems; an increased incidence of
early dementia in adults, caused by
high Aluminium intake, has been
reported in areas of Norway with high
acid rain input. The impact on forests
has been devastating: 87% of German
trees are now damaged.
The UK contributes to the cocktail,
the Selby Coalfield power stations
now producing more air pollution
than Norway, Portugal, Ireland and
Switzerland together. Abatement has
been slow due to disagreement
between EEC countries over
implementation of legislation and
actual limits set. The CEGB is now
fitting desulphurisation equipment to
just 3 power stations whereas East
Germany and Czechoslovakia have
agreed to introduce anti-pollution
equipment to 30 power stations.
There has been increasing concern
recently over observations of a
significant decrease in the ozone
layer, particularly over the Antarctic
where a "hole" has appeared and is
growing larger. Chlorofluorocarbons,
found in aerosols, solvents and
refrigerants, are thought to have
caused this reduction, through
interference with free radical
reactions in the upper atmosphere.
This layer protects usfrompotentially
harmful ultraviolet radiation. A 1%
decrease in this layer is thought to
result in a 6% increase in the
occurrence of disfiguring skin cancer.
Irreversible climatic changes may also
occur.
As usual, the International
Community is split on how to tackle
the problem. However, there was a
gleam of hope on the holding of the
Vienna Convention on the Protection
of the Ozone Layer in March 1985,
it being the first of its kind on global
pollution. Hopefully, a precedent has
been set for united action on other
worldwide pollution problems.
The other major issue of this nature
is the build up of CO2 in the
atmosphere. This is thought to be
causing increasingly unstable weather
and it was suggested this was the
cause of the recent cold spell over the
Northern Hemisphere. In addition
there is fear that it will result in a
general global warming (the so-called
Greenhouse Effect).
Coastal pollution is a problem
rarely highlighted by press coverage:
only the oil tanker disasters such as
the Torry Canyon and the Amoco
Cadiz make the headlines. Sewage is
pumped into the sea in many places
around the coast, usually at a distance
too close inshore so that the phrase
being "in the sxxx" takes on a new
meaning: there is evidence to suggest
that swimming on such beaches
increases the risk of catching disease,
eg polio! 25 beaches in the West
Country failed to meet E E C
standards. Again the benefits of
pollution control can be seen: Local
Authorities have been instructed to
clean up our beaches at a cost of about
£400 million. Better treatment of
sewage although more costly at the
time of treatment would have been
less costly in the long run.
Of the pollutants pouring into
Britain's waterways, the various
pesticides and fertilizers which are
used in farming are causing most
concern. Nitrates have two worrying
effects: they cause eutrophication in
lakes, etc. enhancing growth of algae
resulting in deoxygenation of the
water and subsequent loss of fish.
More worrying is the effect on human
health: as with so many things there
is thought to be a carcinogenic effect,
but it is also well known that high
nitrate levels cause asphyxiation in
young children, the so called Blue
baby syndrome. There is much
evidence to suggest that nitrates have
leached through to the ground water
supplies which provide water to many
parts of southern and eastern Britain.
Almost a million consumers in the
Midlands and East Anglia drink water
which contains greater than 50mg of
nitrate per litre, which is prescribed
as safe by the EEC.
River pollution was recently

