Opinion. FELIX, Friday February 13th 1987
hy Europe? This is one of
the most important questions in the
West today. It puzzles many people
that the UK should belong to
European organisations such as the
EEC when the sole benefits, as
depicted by the media, are apparently:
butter mountains, grain mountains
and wine lakes; endless petty
squabbling over seemingly
incomprehensible problems, and
pampered, over-privileged Eurocrats.
It is unfortunate that these
shortcomings in the infant Europe's
political system serve solely to mask
the Treaty of Rome's ultimate goal:
the political unification of Europe.
The political unification of Europe
must strike most people as being, at
best, highly improbable; at worst,
completely impractical, but there is
an important historical precedent for
this step forward.
In the 1830s, Germany did not
exist. In her place there writhed a
rabble of disorganised monarchies
such as Saxony, Baden-Baden or
Thurn and Taxis, which were
insignificant on a global scale. Trade
between these states was impeded by
each having its own customs, which
would often levy a duty and require
documents to be in order before
allowing goods though. This was a
large constraint as it was often
necessary, during export, for goods
to pass through two or three states
before arriving at their destination. It
soon became obvious that this state
of affairs was retarding the economic
development of the whole region, in
these, the early days of the Industrial
revolution. In response, the
Zollverein, a treaty abolishing import
duties and protectionism, was signed
by the states concerned, effectively
creating a free trade zone. It had two
profound effects. The first was the
evolution of the states' separate
economies into one, linking them
inextricably despite their political
independence. The second was that
this economic interdependence led, a
mere thirty years later, to the political
unification of Germany. By the end
of the century, Germany's Gross
Domestic Product had surpassed
Great Britain's and was second only
to that of the United States. This result
is staggering, and was certainly not
generally forseen.
There are many important parallels
with what happened to Germany in
the 19th century and with the
evolution of Europe in the late 20th
century. The countries of Europe are
simply too small to be important on
a global scale compared with the USA
and the USSR. Yet were they to unite
politically, they would be potentially
as important as any other country is
now. There are enormous economic
benefits to be had from belonging to
a free economy of more than 100
million people. One major benefit is
that the capacity of the internal market
is sufficiently large to support any
industry, eliminating dependence on
export. In the UK, this is not so.
Heavy industries such as large 5cale
car or steel manufacture must seek
markets abroad, contrasting
significantly with the USA and Japan,
which have the two largest economies
in the world. It should be noted that
the EEC is, at least in principle if not
totally in practice, a free trade zone.
The economies of its member states
have become, and are still becoming,
progesstveiy more integrated. For
example, French agriculture has
become geared to this fact by
producing more fruit, which its
Mediterranean climate encourages,
while decreasing its production of
livestock, which has been taken over
by countries such as the Netherlands.
Throughout the agriculture of the
EEC, one observes a drift towards
specialisation, which is one of the
W h y
E u r o p e ?
David Bottomley assesses the Possibility of a
United Europe
aims of the Common Agricultural
Policy.
The great nations of the world
today are undoubtedly the USA and
the USSR, as are arguably China and
Japan. If any nations are likely to join
their ranks in the near future, they are
Brazil and India. Yet the countries of
Europe seem to have the necessary
credentials: fairly prosperous
economies and educated workforces.
But the one major credential all the
countries of Europe lack is sheer size,
and without this their influence
globally will continue to deminish. A
united Europe (or a united EEC at
least, since countries such as Sweden,
Switzerland and the Eastern Block
seem unlikely to participate in a
united Europe) would have a
population of about 250 million,
actually slightly larger than that of the
United States, and would thus have
a potentially huge global influence. It
is not necessarily for the use of this
influence that Europe would want to
unite, but rather to escape the
influences of the super-powers, in
particular the United States with
whose foreign policy Europe is
increasingly ill at ease.
It is clear then, that there are good
reasons for the UK to participate in
the political unification of Europe.
Yet there will be those who will ask
why such an apparently favourable
event should not already have taken
place. The cynics will remark that the
cultural differences across Europe are
so huge as to make a politically-
unified Europe a mere academics'
fantasy. While it is true that linguistic
and cultural barriers have presented,
and will continue to present, a large
obstacle to a unified Europe, it is
totally fallacious to assume that the
existence of such barriers
automatically implies a unified
Eurppe cannot be made to work and
a national identity arise. This, surely,
is one of the great lessons of the
United States of America, which
comprises not only people with roots
in countries of the EEC, but includes
people with ancestors from the
Eastern Block; people of Jewish,
Japanese or Puerto Rican ancestry,
and numerous others. Furthermore,
there already exists within Europe
very strong evidence in organisations
such as ESA, JET and CERN that
Europeans can work as successfully
together (arguably even more
successfully) than people of any other
grouping. We should not look upon
the chaos in Brussels as how a
politically united Europe would work.
The choice facing the countries of
the EEC is stark. Either they can
become increasingly less prominent
in the world, losing economic
significance and political prestige, not
at any particularly dramatic pace, but
slowly, quietly, like a tired old man
in his sunset dayss slipping into
obscurity as he drifts towards life's
horizon, passing slowly away. Or
they can unite in the hope of a new
Renaissance of the West, which will
be to the benefit of all the citizens of
Europe.
David Bottomley.

