Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 12 January
Rewarding excellence
in academic and support staff
Logging volunteering hours
Cashless pilot in College outlets extended
and expanded
Survey on staff sexual misconduct
in UK higher education
The cashless-only payment pilot service which ran from 4 to 22 December
across four catering outlets on the South Kensington Campus has been
extended into January and expanded into four further outlets: Fuel;
Queen’s Tower Rooms; SCR restaurant; Electrical Engineering Café;
Business School Café; SCR Café; College Café; H-Bar Café.
On average, over 80% of all College catering transactions are already
cashless. Imperial College aims to improve your experience by reducing
queuing times and improving security.
During the pilot, you will be able to pay at these outlets using yourYoyo
account,contactlesscards,chipandpincards(exceptAmericanExpress).
The groundbreaking national survey into staff sexual misconduct in
UK HE, in partnership with the National Union of Students’ Women’s
Campaign, is open now until midnight 15 January 2018.
If you are a current UK higher education student, please fill out the survey
here: imperialcollegeunion.org/smhesurvey
The survey is open to current and former students of all genders who
may experienced sexual misconduct from HE staff while at a UK HE
institution.
Get more out of your volunteering experience by logging your hours
online through Imperial Plus. Imperial Plus provides an online record of
all your volunteering and allows you to be recognised for your efforts.
You earn a Volunteer Certificate when you log more than 25 hours.
Imperial Plus also provides training opportunities for volunteers. So take
your learning one step further and complete the Skills Development
Programme (SDP), aimed at equipping Imperial volunteers with the
leadership skills they need to be successful in their roles and beyond.
Places are limited – so sign up now at :
imperialcollegeunion.org/sdp
If you have any questions, please contact a member of the team at
imperialplus@imperial.ac.uk.
Nominations are now open for the annual Student Academic Choice
Awards (SACAs). SACAs are an opportunity for students to recognise
and reward excellence among teaching and support staff.
There are eight categories, from teaching to innovation to support,
and each student can nominate as many staff members they think are
worthy! Every nominee will receive a coveted SACAs mug.
You have until Sunday 11 February to submit your nominations. Just go
to imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas now!
ACADEMICCHOICE
STUDENT
AWARDS

