politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 2 May 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Looking forward Tibetter times
Kadhim Shubber welcomes you back to university with a light discussion of China and its Olympic Games
T
he Olympics have turned
out to be a double-edged
sword for the Chinese.
Rather than an opportu-
nity to show off Chinese
economic progress, it has become
a gift for anti-Chinese protestors to
voice their anger over Tibet. Behind
the protests is a violent story that is
rarely heard. Who is the Dalai Lama?
What is the history? What is going on
in Tibet? Join me on this story of con-
troversial struggle, violent oppression
and a bitterly contested past.
Born a Leader
The institution of the Dalai Lama has
led the Tibetan people for centuries,
stretching all the way back to the 14th
century. Each successive Dalai Lama is
a re-incarnation of the previous and as
a lineage, the Dalai Lama is believed
to be an embodiment of compassion.
In 1938, at the age of 3, Tenzin Gyatso
was identified as the 14th Dalai Lama
(the 13th had died 5 years earlier). Just
twelve years later, he was given his full
political power as leader of the Tibetan
people; he was only 15 years old. He is
the world’s longest living leader, sur-
passing Queen Elizabeth II by 2 years,
and is surrounded by controversy.
For the Tibetan people, he is the
ultimate spiritual and moral leader,
with no competitors. He has led them
through 50 years of Chinese rule and
the turmoil of the Cultural Revolu-
tion to the modern day with a strict
adherence to non-violence. Ordinary
Tibetans are mostly obedient to him
and have for the most part followed his
doctrine of non-violence. However, his
tactics and policies have come under
criticism from certain quarters, such
as the Tibetan Youth Congress, who
want complete independence even “at
the cost of one’s life”. Recent rioting in
Tibet is a striking example of the fact
that ordinary Tibetans do not always
adhere to the Dalai Lama’s standard of
non-violence.
In the West, he is regarded foremost
as a pacifist icon, and received the No-
bel Peace Prize in 1989 for his dedica-
tion to non-violence and peace.
He is, however, also a source of em-
barrassment to governments around
the world. The Chinese apply pressure
on national governments not to meet
him when he travels. He often only
meets low-ranking officials and in May
2007, Belgium went so far as to ask the
Dalai Lama not to visit their country.
In November 2007, the Pope refused
to meet him because he didn’t want to
upset negotiations with the Chinese
on the Church in China. On the other
hand, if you want to pay lip service
to criticism of Chinese human rights
abuses, he is your man. Some Western
leaders have made superficial snubs
to the Chinese by meeting the Dalai
Lama and in 2007 he was awarded the
Congressional Medal of Honour by the
U.S., something that is sure to aid the
people of Tibet. In the West, the Dalai
Lama is a man who will always receive
lip service, perhaps even funding but
never the kind of real support that
would jeopardise relations with China.
The Chinese establishment detests
him; his image and works are com-
pletely banned in Tibet. In China he is
not regarded as a pacifist; instead he
is a ‘splittist’, a troublemaker seeking
to break up China. They don’t believe
him when he says that he isn’t seeking
complete independence. He is accused
of masterminding the recent riots in
Lhasa and even organising suicide at-
tacks against the Chinese. Phrases that
are commonly used to describe him
include, a “wolf in monk’s robes”. He
is seen to be a puppet for Western at-
tempts to split and undermine China.
The accusation that the Dalai Lama
organised the recent riots in Tibet is
likely to be false, but his dedication to
non-violence should not be viewed un-
critically. In 1998 the New York Times
reported that the Tibetan government-
in-exile received $1.7 million a year
in the 1960’s from the CIA which was
partly used to pay for guerrilla opera-
tions against the Chinese, an allegation
which was confirmed by the Tibetan
government-in-exile. Does this mean
that the Dalai Lama isn’t a pacifist? No,
but it does show that there is more to
the Dalai Lama than the hagiographi-
cal Western view suggests.
Similarly, although the Dalai Lama
rejects claims that he wants Tibetan
independence, this has not always been
the official line. It is since 1979 that the
Dalai Lama abandoned pursuing inde-
pendence, in part because in 1979 Chi-
nese leader Deng Xiaoping stated, “ex-
cept independence, all other issues can
be resolved through negotiations”. The
reason why he only asks for ‘autonomy’
is because he knows that independence
is off the cards, off the negotiating table
and out the window. The Chinese fear
that if they discuss ‘autonomy’ with the
Dalai Lama, independence might be
forced back onto the table; i.e. if they
give him an inch, he’ll take a mile.
Peaceful? Certainly. Complex? Of
course. It wouldn’t be far from the
truth to describe the Tenzin Gyatso as
a peaceful pragmatist.
A Contested History
Since 1959 this peaceful pragmatist has
lived in Dharamsala, India, which is the
seat of the Tibetan government-in-ex-
ile and the first port of call for Tibetan
refugees. The events surrounding the
Lama’s exile and Chinese control of
Tibet in the mid-20th century are the
source of fierce controversy.
In the first half of the 20th century,
China was a weakened nation. Co-
lonialism and civil war between the
Nationalist Kuomintang and the Chi-
nese Communist party meant that it
was unable to exert real influence in
Tibet. So after 1912, when the 13th
Dalai Lama declared complete inde-
pendence from China, Tibet was a de
facto independent country although
no Western countries recognised it as
such. As the civil war came to an end in
the late 40’s, the Chinese Communist
Party was powerful enough to bring
Tibet under its control again. In 1949
Chinese forces entered the area of Ti-
bet outside the current Tibetan Auton-
omous Region (TAR) and then in 1950
entered the whole of Tibet proper. An
agreement between the Tibetans and
the Chinese, called the 17-point agree-
ment, was signed in 1951 and formally
recognised Chinese control in Tibet;
Tibetans consider this agreement to be
forced upon them and it was later re-
pudiated by the Tibetan government-
in-exile. In 1959, after a failed uprising
by the Tibetans, the Dalai Lama fled
Tibet fearing for his life and set up the
Tibetan government-in-exile in Dhar-
masala, India.
This much can be asserted without
too much trouble, though whether
you see these events as an invasion or
reunification depends largely on your
historical perspective. The arguments
about the shared history of Tibet and
China lead us to ask: was Tibet part of
China or not?
Chinese historians consider Tibet an
integral part of China from the Mongol
Yuan dynasty to the modern day. Evi-
dence of Chinese administration in Ti-
bet is cited as proof of Chinese sover-
eignty. As dynasties rose and fell, these
historians maintain that Chinese sov-
ereignty did not change and Tibet re-
mained part of China. With the ascent
of the Qing Dynasty in the 17th centu-
ry, Chinese control of Tibet increased
but this is seen as the natural manifes-
tation of Chinese sovereignty rather
than a development in Sino-Tibetan
relations. A prime piece of evidence
cited by Chinese historians is the fact
that China repelled Ghurkha troops
from Tibet in 1792, thus proving their
position as protector and sovereign of
Tibet. The decline of the Qing dynasty,
and Tibetan independence from 1912
had no impact on Chinese claims to
Tibet. Therefore the events of 1950
represent the reunification of China
and Tibet. The period 1912-1950 is a
blip in an otherwise continuous his-
tory of Sino-Tibetan relations in which
Tibet was politically, economically and
military subordinate to. and definitely
an integral part of, China.
Tibetan historians see no such sub-
ordination in Tibet’s history. The re-
lationship between Tibet and China
is a priest-patron relationship. This
personal understanding between the
Dalai Lama and the Chinese Emper-
ors involved the patron, the Emperor,
giving military and political protection
to the priest, the Dalai Lama, in return
for spiritual guidance and legitimacy.
This mutually beneficial agreement
between independent states is a stark
alternative to the Chinese viewpoint.
However, unlike the Chinese narrative,
Tibetan historians place a distinct em-
phasis on 20th century events. The in-
ability of the Qing dynasty to intervene
effectively in Tibet is shown clearly by
the British march on Lhasa in 1903.
Pro-Chinese and pro-Tibetan protestors mingle outside Downing Street during the London leg of he Olympic torch relay
CARLOS
JOAQUIN
KARINGAL

