politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
Politics
As further proof of Tibetan independ-
ence, the period 1912 – 1950 is cited as
a modern-day example of a sovereign
Tibetan state.
Both the Tibetan and Chinese ar-
guments are ultimately modern con-
structs, which fall down when the true
complexity of Sino-Tibetan relations is
examined. Tibet was neither an integral
part of China, nor was it completely in-
dependent. In the Yuan and Ming dy-
nasties, Chinese ‘sovereignty’ in Tibet
was nominal at best; the existence of
administrative offices does not equate
to political power or sovereignty. No
Chinese taxes or laws were implement-
ed in Tibet during the Yuan and Ming
dynasties. A look at the geographical
records from these times distinguishes
between China and Tibet as two sepa-
rate entities. Although Tibet was under
Yuan control (through the Mongol in-
vasion) the reality strongly contradicts
the phrase ‘an integral part of China’.
As we move into the Qing dynasty,
the Tibetan argument is weakened as
Chinese control increased and direct
rule even existed at times. The Tibetan
proposition that Tibet was completely
independent simply does not carry any
weight when looking at this period.
The priest-patron relationship, with no
subordination, becomes impossible to
apply to Qing dynasty relations. How-
ever, again this does not mean that the
distinction between Tibet and China
disappeared.
The closest Western definition to
such a complex relationship is one of
vassalage. As Chinese power waxed
and waned, so too did the level of in-
fluence it exerted in Tibet. However,
a sense of Tibetan nationhood has ex-
isted throughout its long history with
China. Tibetan rule in Tibet was a
reality for many centuries, along with
a native Tibetan bureaucracy, which
conducted its business in the Tibetan
language. Although Tibet has been
subject to varying degrees of control
from its powerful neighbour, the de-
scription ‘an integral part of China’
does not stand up to critical judgement
and ignores the obvious historical dis-
tinctions that separate Tibet and Chi-
na. Unfortunately, the complex history
of Sino-Tibetan relations has largely
been painted over to construct politi-
cal arguments for the modern day con-
flict. Regardless of historical evidence,
the Communist Party in China has
successfully inculcated in the minds of
the Chinese people that Tibet is and al-
ways has been part of China.
How can this historical analysis help
us with the modern day conflict? I con-
cede that the historical argument is a
greater tool for Tibetan nationalists
than it is for the Chinese government
but it does show us that a rejection of
Chinese influence is not justified his-
torically. The argument that Tibet has
been ‘an integral part of China’ is per-
haps inadequate rather than errone-
ous. During the Yuan, Ming and Qing
dynasties, Tibet was part of a larger
Chinese Empire. The fact that Tibetans
have a distinct political and cultural
history does not immediately suggest
that Tibet should be independent; such
a suggestion implies that by principle
multi-national states shouldn’t exist.
In many ways, the historical narra-
tive does not and should not carry too
much weight in the question of mod-
ern day Tibetan independence. There
are a multitude of national groups that
do not have their own country; the As-
syrians, for example, but that there are
also national groups that have 2 coun-
tries, the Koreans for example. The
crux of the Tibetan issue lies not with
its contested history and the lottery-
like manner with which states gained
or lost independence in the 20th cen-
tury, but with the modern day issues
and challenges that face Tibetans and
Chinese today.
China’s record in Tibet over the last
50 years is the most important issue in
this debate and is equally if not more
controversial than the history of Sino-
Tibetan relations. The Chinese govern-
ment points to the economic progress
Tibethasseenwhilesteadfastlydenying
orignoringaccusationsofhumanrights
abuses. Pro-Tibetan groups accuse the
Chinese of economic discrimination
against Tibetans and a wide range of
human rights abuses from torture to
forced sterilisation. Furthermore, pro-
Chinese groups accuse the ‘West’ of
purposefully destabilising China by ex-
aggerating or falsifying human rights
abuses. In such a controversial arena,
two facts should be noted; China has
gone to great lengths to transform Ti-
bet’s economy and also that the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China is bound by its
own laws to respect the autonomy of
the people and culture of Tibet, with-
in the Tibetan Autonomous Region
(TAR). The controversy surrounds two
questions: who has benefited from Ti-
bet’s economic development and has
the Chinese government respected the
autonomy of the Tibetan people? The
difficulty in answering these questions
accurately is that information on the
situation in Tibet is severely restricted.
All of the information coming out of
Tibet either comes from the Chinese
government or pro-Tibetan groups.
However this does not mean that it is
impossible to understand the nature or
the ‘truth’ of this conflict, it means that
an understanding of the source of the
information is almost as important as
the information itself.
Economic growth, but for whom?
A white paper released by the Chi-
nese government in 2003 highlights
the benefits that Tibetan people have
seen due to Chinese rule. It empha-
sises the modernization of Tibet, from
a rural, backwards society – described
as ‘feudal’ – to the modern and vibrant
place it is in the 21st century. The paper
points to successes such as increased
tourism (with 600,000 tourists in 2000)
and the fact that Tibet now has 25 sci-
entific research centres. The project
that best symbolises the development
of Tibet is the railway from Xining all
the way to Lhasa. By anchoring Ti-
bet to China with a railway line,
it physically demonstrates
China’s policy of winning
Tibet over economically.
Pro-Tibetan groups
argue that the Tibetans
have been swamped
by Chinese immigra-
tion and excluded from
the economic benefits
of development through
discrimination. Chinese cen-
sus figures often omit military
personnel and unofficial resi-
dents such as migrants,
and so the true
magnitude of
Chinese migra-
tion is swept
under the
carpet. The
Free Tibet
organisation
claims that
the actual
population
of Chinese
people living
in Tibet is up
to 5.5 mil-
lion, a million
more than of-
ficial figures
and larger than
the number of
Tibetans in Tibet;
4.59 million (ac-
cording to the 1990
Chinese census). As a
result, it is argued, eth-
nic Chinese immigrants
both in the cities and
in the countryside now
dominate economic ac-
tivity in Tibet. To com-
pound this situation,
official business must be
carried out in Mandarin,
thereby discriminating
against Tibetans and giv-
ing Chinese immigrants
an instant advantage in
the job market.
Who are we to believe? Apart from
our own pre-conceptions, there is lit-
tle that makes one argument much
more credible than the other. The
truth, however, can still be sought out.
While Chinese census figures indicate
that 90% of the population of Tibet is
Tibetan, this ignores the important
fact most Tibetans (87.2%) live in rural
areas. The Chinese have aggressively
invested large amounts of money in
Tibet and the economic development
has been focused in urban areas. The
successes that the Chinese point to
are urban successes and this immedi-
ately gives us an answer as to who has
benefited most from Tibet’s economic
development. Lhasa, Tibet’s capital, is
now at least 40% Chinese and it is this
high-profile immigration to Tibet’s ur-
ban and economic centres that moti-
vates pro-Tibetan arguments. Tibetans
have benefited from Tibet’s economic
development, though the concentra-
tion of Chinese immigrants in urban
areas means that Chinese immigrants
are the ones benefiting most. The large
majority of Tibetans have not benefit-
ed from Tibet’s economic progress pri-
marily because they mainly live in the
countryside.
A shameful record
But what of the Tibetan people’s legal
right to political and cultural auton-
omy? It can be asserted, with confi-
dence, that many of the human rights
abuses claimed to occur in Tibet, are
commonplace and are not falsifica-
tions. This is not to say that the report-
ing of human rights abuses in Tibet
has been perfect. The Chinese gov-
ernment has accused Western media
Pro-Tibet protestors outside Downing Street
groups and pro-Tibetan groups of ex-
aggerating abuses and the attack is not
without substance; the most famous
example perhaps was when Germany’s
RTL television used a photo of Nepa-
lese security forces confronting protes-
tors as an example of the recent riots
and protests in Tibet. However, despite
the shortcomings of Western media
groups, these should not be exagger-
ated; there is evidence from the U.N.,
independent human rights groups and
the media that vindicates accusations
of human rights abuses. This is not an
attempt to demonise China, but a real-
istic assessment of the situation.
Regardless, the interesting debate is
not on the existence of human rights
abuses but rather on the difference in
reactions to news of these abuses. The
visit of Dr. Manfred Nowak, U.N. Spe-
cial Rapporteur on Torture, to China
in November 2005 is a perfect example
of the vast gap between the perception
of events in China and the rest of the
world. He reported forced personality
altering, beatings, submersion in sew-
age, denial of medical treatment and
electrocution by electric shock batons.
He also stated that ethnic minorities
like the Tibetans were persecuted as
a result of having “exercised their hu-
man rights to freedom of speech, as-
sembly, association or religion”. In the
UK, this is a further re-enforcement
of the view that China as an oppres-
sive state. However the Chinese state
media Xinhua reported the same event
much differently. It ignored the critical
aspects of his report, instead empha-
sising the progress that the visit repre-
sented. It turned the story into a slight
against the U.S. by reporting that the
Special Rapporteur received greater
Tibet’s spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama
CARLOS JOAQUIN KARINGAL

