14 felix Friday 2 May 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
access than in a visit to Guantanamo
Bay; which was cancelled due to lack
of access to prisoners. This is more
than a case of differing angles; rather
the drastic difference of reporting rep-
resents the fact that the Tibetan issue
is judged on completely different terms
in China than it is in the UK.
The treatment received by the Ti-
betan people, while deplorable, is not
hugely different from that received
by most people living in the Chinese
state. Land seizures, surveillance and
lengthy imprisonment for dissenters
is not unique to the Tibetan people.
One might expect this fact to generate
sympathy amongst ordinary Chinese
people; however, the sensitivity of the
issue of Tibetan independence means
that this is not the case. The threat of
imprisonment is often dealt with as
a common sense issue for many Chi-
nese citizens: ‘if you don’t protest, you
won’t get into trouble’. Furthermore, in
China, the Tibetan conflict is framed
in terms of national unity vs. foreign
interference rather than human rights
vs. oppression. The Tibetan rioters
are commonly referred to as part of
the ‘Dalai Lama clique’; the violence
being engineered and orchestrated by
the Dalai Lama. The clique also refers
to the plethora of pro-Tibetan groups
outside China as well as the celebrity
backers of the Tibetan movement. As
a result, the motives of the rioters are
not connected to the general plight
of the Tibetan people (or the general
lack of civil freedoms in China) but
instead they are connected to foreign
interference and meddling. The very
real abuses perpetrated by the Chinese
government are swept under national-
istic pride. It is not a matter of whether
the Chinese respect Tibetan autonomy,
but rather whether pro-Tibetan groups
in the West and the Tibetan govern-
ment-in-exile respect Chinese unity
and sovereignty in Tibet.
Although the Chinese fear of Tibetan
independence is not a phobia, there is a
failure to address the root cause of the
recent protests and riots. They do not
merely stem from the larger historical
dispute but directly from the gross dis-
regard for Tibetan self-determination.
The protests in London and Paris,
which coincided with the arrival of the
Olympic torch, were not spurred on
by the principle of Tibetan independ-
ence. Although the protests called for
‘a Free Tibet’ they were motivated by
the treatment of Tibetans at Chinese
hands. By framing the dispute in terms
of splittism and national unity, the Chi-
nese ignore the fact that it is not simply
the 1950 invasion that burns in Tibetan
hearts but 5 decades of oppressive rule.
This doesn’t mean that the Chinese
perspective is delusional; it might be
asked how many pro-Tibetan groups
would disband if China ceased human
rights violations in Tibet. I should im-
agine very few. Similarly, the percep-
tion of this conflict as a human rights
issue isn’t groundless; it is the existence
of human rights violations that gives
weight to this perspective and only
when the rights of the Tibetan people
are respected will moral human beings
empathise with the threat to the unity
of China.
The future
Unfortunately there is little hope that
the Chinese government will seek rec-
onciliation with the Tibetan people or
the Dalai Lama; what are the reasons
for this?
The Beijing Olympics are on the
horizon and any shift in policy will
inevitably lead to a huge amount of
domestic and international attention
on Tibet. Also, there is no certainty
about what might happen if control
was relaxed; would the situation spiral
out of Chinese hands? Regardless, for
the Chinese government it is a much
safer bet to continue with their current
policy in order to prevent disturbances
in Tibet, minimise negative publicity
and appear strong for the Olympics.
There will still be negative publicity
surrounding the Chinese Olympics -
pro-Tibetan groups will try their best
to ensure this - but for the Chinese
government, now is not the time to
embark on an uncertain shift in policy
regarding Tibet.
More generally, there are powerful
reasons why a change in course is un-
likely. In the last 50 years, the Chinese
government has invested a lot of time
and money establishing China’s claim
to sovereignty in Tibet. This includes
massive economic investment, ensur-
ing China’s historical narrative justi-
fies Chinese control, continuously
denouncing the Dalai Lama and per-
suading the Chinese people that Tibet
is an integral part of China. The word
U-turn is grossly inadequate to de-
scribe the magnitude of a shift in policy
regarding Tibet. Importantly, a change
wouldn’t be perceived as benevolence,
but at home and abroad it would be
a sign of weakness. By responding to
international pressure on a domestic
issue, the Chinese government would
signal a willingness to be swayed on
its domestic affairs by foreign govern-
ments and NGO’s. At home, fears of
foreign interference, that the Chinese
government has succumbed to ex-
ternal pressure, would be vindicated
and the Communist Party’s authority
would be undermined by a perceived
subservience to the ‘West’. For the
Chinese Communist Party, appearing
strong and in control of China’s af-
fairs is much more important than ap-
pearing to be concerned about human
rights. This is not the same as saying
that change is impossible. Internation-
al pressure can work; but the type of
pressure has to be tactful. High-profile
protests and shrill denouncements by
foreign leaders will likely bolster hard-
liners within the Chinese government.
A boycott of the Olympics is exactly
the kind of action that is unlikely to see
results, though I concede that there are
worthy arguments for a boycott. Un-
fortunately, the lengthy and difficult
low-profile work required in order to
begin to see progress on the Tibet is-
sue will not reap instant rewards for
Western leaders. Without the public-
ity and PR potential of ‘standing up to
China’, Western governments are un-
likely to risk straining their relations
with China.
Pessimism seems to be the order of
the day for Tibet. The Chinese govern-
ment are more likely to wait for the
Dalai Lama to die, rather than begin
the politically risky process of opening
relations with him; a policy similar to
the U.S.’s when dealing with Fidel Cas-
tro. They will continue to strengthen
Tibet’s economic ties with the rest of
China with continuing investment, the
newly built railway signals this inten-
tion, as well allowing greater immigra-
tion in order to blur the distinction
between Tibet and China. The end
result is the slow choking of the con-
cept of Tibetan independence as new
generations of Tibetans grow up in
secular prosperity with an increasingly
Chinese culture. Chinese is already
the language used in Tibetan schools,
universities and local government. As
with the rest of its citizens, the Chinese
government hope that the stick of op-
pression, in conjunction with the car-
rot of high living standards, will teach
the Tibetans to accept Chinese rule
once and for all. In the long-term, this
may well be the result; the near future,
however, does not seem to reveal such
a peaceful path. Although the Dalai
Lama has led the Tibetan people along
a path of non-violence, signs suggest
that they may not continue on his path
after his death. The recent riots suggest
dissatisfaction with the lack of results
non-violence has achieved and also a
simmering anger and resentment to-
wards the Chinese. When the Dalai
Lama dies, it is likely that his devotion
to non-violence will die also. The next
Dalai Lama is unlikely to have similar
influence amongst young Tibetans liv-
ing under Chinese rule. The Chinese
backed Dalai Lama won’t be accepted
by the Tibetan people, while a ‘true’
Dalai Lama will probably be born in
exile; by definition disconnected from
his people. Leaderless, and no longer
tied to non-violence; the repressive
tactics of the Chinese government are
likely to provoke violent reactions in
Tibet. Both the Chinese governments
wish for a subdued minority and the
Dalai Lama’s effort for a peaceful fu-
ture are unlikely to be fulfilled. It is for
this reason that the Chinese govern-
ment must seek a solution with Tenzin
Gyatso; rather than China’s archenemy
he is their most valuable ally. By refus-
ing to budge on the Tibet issue, they
discredit the Dalai Lama’s peaceful ap-
proach and force the Tibetan people
to push the other button. In order to
evade bloodshed, a solution must be
sought now; pro-Tibetan’s may argue
that China doesn’t care about blood-
shed while China’s supporters will
blame the Tibetans for the violence but
it is obvious to all that China’s policies
in Tibet are unsustainable, offensive to
the Tibetan people and lead inevitably
to the Chinese equivalent of the chick-
ens coming home to roost.
Dry Wit & Tonic
The calm after the storm
CARLOS JOAQUIN KARINGAL

