fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editors – Sarah Skeete and Daniel Wan
Looking good at this year’s festivals
As summer reluctantly approaches, festival-fever gives a whole new reason to buy a whole new wardrobe
Daniel Wan
Fashion Editor
It’s now officially not a ‘new year’ any-
more and hence we can get on with our
lives. As we approach the more sum-
mery months of our annual cycle, the
cries of unbridled delight at the first
sights of sunny weather is immediately
crushed by the thought of demon-
ised torture (or exams, as others call
it). Whilst exam season is upon us, it
means wasting entire days inside. With
the British summer being the length
of Wotsit most years, there’s only one
thing to make the most of it, and that’s
heading off into the countryside, scar-
ing some sheep with loud rock music
and drinking several local villages dry
of their booze. Festivals have become
a mainstay of an event of my last few
summers, and a change in my sched-
ule isn’t looking likely for 2008.When
Rage Against The Machine decided
they were going to reform and play at
Reading Festival this year, I’m not sure
what would have stopped me from get-
ting my £165 ticket of pure joy. Noth-
ing did stop me; in fact, I got a little
bit too excited and ended up with six
tickets. Thank the gods of Natwest for
their student overdrafts.
Its not just Reading and Leeds that
willbeinvadedbythousandsoffestival-
goers this year. Glastonbury is back on
the 27th-29th of June, Rosklide in Den-
mark in early July, and with California’s
massive super-festival Coachella just
gone in April, festival season has now
officially commenced.
Music, entertainment and intoxi-
cated (we’re not saying which intox-
icant…s) antics aside, festivals entail
realms of eccentricity when it comes
down to clothes. ‘Anything-goes’ fash-
ion is the only way of really describing
what you might expect to see people
wearing at a festival. Personal experi-
ence tells me wearing a wedding dress
whilst watching Metallica is actually a
little disturbing, but it didn’t occur at
the time.
Festival clothing needs to strike a
balance between style and practical-
ity. You may look awesome, but if you
come home with severe heat stroke,
Mummy and Daddy won’t be too
pleased will they? There are many fac-
tors you need to consider before pack-
ing your bags for the festival, and obvi-
ously the weather is major one.
So, you’re going to need layers. Both
you and the weather will be smoking
hot during the day, but don’t forget
you’re camping in the middle of a field
and it will be get surprisingly nippy as
night falls. Oh, there’s also a chance
of it turning into a classic Glasto-
style mudfest. Be prepared, as the Boy
Scouts say, or was it the SAS? I never
remember.
My personal favourite, and the one
thing I always end up wearing are
hoodies. Whether its raining, boiling
or freezing, a zip-up hoody is an awe-
some piece of festival clothing. Check
out American Apparel’s or Topman’s
ranges of block-coloured zip up hood-
ies that can be worn by both boys and
girls. Solid, bold colours are still good
to wear, whilst simple patterns such
as thick stripes seem to be making a
comeback after a short hiatus.
I’m going to guess floral-print dress-
es will be popular at festivals this year,
and expect to see hordes of girls in the
same Topshop ones. For something
a little different (but admittedly not
all that much), try Urban Outfitters’
range of floral-print summer dresses.
The most common pieces of vintage
clothing, and hence most easily found,
are dresses. For those concerned
Spending three days in the sun and mud: Vintage dresses (right) and floral dresses (left) will be featuring
heavily this summer’s festivals
about looking like a high-street clone,
here’s your chance to show off some
individuality. I’m really digging the
whole 1950s-housewife look. An
awesome vintage twist to a summery
dress which might be a bit too flam-
boyant on the streets, but fitting for a
festival.
The best places to look out for vin-
tage dresses are in markets; sadly no
more Camden (and not just because of
the fire). Portobello Market in Notting
Hill will inevitable have a lot of vintage
clothing on offer, but an acceptable
price for a 30 year-old dress may come
into question. Otherwise, try local ret-
ro and vintage clothing shops, such as
Beyond Retro or Blue Rinse.
Cropped trousers, as I predicted
at the start of this year, will be big
amongst the more alternative crowd;
the exact crowds that make up the ma-
jority of British festivals. The ankle-ex-
posing garment will inevitably become
more popular at the weather gets more
reliably summery, and actually have a
practical use to them when using the
disease-ridden cesspit the festival or-
ganizers call the toilets. Since there’s
nothing to drag through the grotty
toilets at your ankles, cropped trou-
sers guarantee a lesser-so degree of an
odour-laden tent.
Shorts are also making a return.
Three quarter lengths are out, and tai-
lored above knee length is in.
Wellington boots are classic festi-
val wear, and not only are they great
for keeping your feet dry (seriously
girls and guys, keep your feet dry at all
times at a festival), they do a good job
of ‘bottling’ My Chemical Romance,
or other equivalently unpopular acts.
Funky patterned wellies with flowing
summery dresses are the way to go for
lasses. Other than waterproof foot-
wear, hi-top Converse are ideal for the
stresses and strains of jumping up and
down like a pill-popping kangaroo to
your favourite bands. They’re pretty
much certain to stay on your feet even
in the most rib-cage crushingly large
crowds. Losing your footwear at an
indoor gig is bad enough, just imagine
the size of the task of retrieving your
footwear at a festival; before you know
it, your shoe will probably be headed
for Gerard Way’s face anyway. For any
My Chemical Romance fans out there,
I’m sorry, but you should also be sub-
ject to a severe beating by delinquent
shoes.
Though festivals can be a chance to
impress, it doesn’t really matter what
you look like; as long as you have the
most fun you’ve ever had in your life.
I know saying that appears hypocriti-
cal after telling you what to wear at one
for the last thousand words or so, but
festivals are a chance to wear anything
you want without disapproving ques-
tioning, or even worse, being arrested
for indecent exposure. I’ll see you lot
at Reading.
Festival wear for 2008: Red and white plaid shirt (Urban Outfitters) twinned with white smart shorts (Topman) and rockabilly sunglasses. The retro look for girls with a candy dress
(vintage) and black 1950s style sunglasses (Urban Outfitters). Rose themed wellington boots also make a pretty addition when things get a bit soggy
15
Friday 2 May 2008 felix

