16 felix Friday 2 May 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
elcome back to an-
other term of Fe-
lix’s fabulous Arts
pages! I hope you
all had a relaxing
Easter holiday. I made the most of my
Easter break by mostly sleeping, sit-
ting in pubs, watching back to back
episodes of The West Wing and play-
ing Guitar Hero for hours (I’m getting
quite good at it, you know – though I
did spend several weeks with ‘Hit Me
With Your Best Shot’ and ‘Talk Dirty to
Me’ stuck in my head).
But, good little arts editor that I am,
I also managed to cram a fair bit of art
into my Easter. For a start I spent a
day frolicking through London armed
with my iPod, trying out some podcast
tours (find out more by reading the
article!). While I was in Tate Modern I
was heartily disappointed to find they’d
filled in ‘Shibboleth’. I think it’s been
my favourite turbine hall installation.
It’s quite amusing how you can still see
where it was in the floor, and the tour-
ists still walk along it anyway, scuffling
their shoes on the uneven surface.
I spent a week in Madrid, one of Eu-
rope’s greatest capitals for art. Have
you been? Why not? Now’s a ideal time
to go because your Imperial swipe-
card will get you heavily discounted
or even free entry to the best galleries
and museums there. And everybody
needs to see Guernica at some point in
their life. Plus you’ll be in Spain! Sun!
Tapas! Paella! Drinking beer at ten in
the morning! I had a fine time. High-
lights included drinking San Miguel in
a butcher’s shop, being whistled at by
creepy Spaniards and ingesting what I
have since found out to probably have
been eels.
Aside from the eels, I go to the major
London art galleries so often and get to
know them so well that it’s refreshing
to see something new and different.
Madrid has many works of Picasso,
Goya and Velazquez, and more old
masters than you can shake a stick at,
plus countless other delights. But at
the same time I couldn’t help thinking
that it would never beat London. We
fail to appreciate how vast Britain’s art
collections are, and how many influ-
ential and valuable pieces are in our
possession.
You’ll read in one of our articles this
week that the Queen owns 600 Leon-
ardo da Vinci sketches. How many oth-
er countries can come anywhere near
that figure? It probably isn’t fair that
our tiny island nation gets to dominate
the world’s cultural scene, but I’m not
exactly complaining. As a student in
London you have such privileged ac-
cess to so much culture. Get out and
see it, reader!
In addition to my little podcast jaunt,
the fabulous Ms Rosie Grayburn her-
self has been to see some very amazing
and rare things courtesy of Her Maj-
esty, and her article is bound to delight
you with its tales of David Attenbor-
ough and civet anal glands. Mmm…
civet anal glands.
Some amazing, rare things
courtesy of Her Majesty
T
hinking about it, I suppose
we all expect some amaz-
ing, rare things whenever
we visit an exhibition or
an art gallery. Conse-
quently the title of the newly opened
exhibition at Buckingham Palace kills
two birds with one [non-fatal, in fact,
quite harmless] stone. Not only are
there some amazing, rare sketches by
Leonardo da Vinci himself, but all the
works of art are a kind of catalogue for
the new, amazing species that were be-
ing discovered during the period the
pieces were created in. Expect lemons
with fingers, dissected porcupines and
the anal glands of an African civet.
This exhibition is really quite special,
and has been selected from the Royal
Library with the help of Sir David
‘God of the Animals’ Attenborough. It
brings together the work of four artists
and one collector who all shared a pas-
sion for nature, no matter how bizarre.
No, not Prince Charles’ ears. Rosie Grayburn explores Queen’s Gallery exhibition
They are seeing these new and exciting
species of plant and animal with inno-
cent eyes. For the first time, art and sci-
ence came together in the mainstream,
leaving religion out.
The Queen’s Gallery is situated on
Buckingham Palace Road, just a stone’s
throw from Victoria. The gallery is
plush. There is gold everywhere! I
love it. And it is just what one would
expect from one’s monarch. You rise
up the lavish main staircase to the gal-
lery and pick up an audio guide from
a lovely, polite lady. The Queen obvi-
ously knows how to do customer serv-
ice. Every member of staff is practi-
cally perfect in every way, and are all
too happy to show you the way to the
loo or hang the audio guide about your
neck like you are receiving an Olympic
gold medal.
The audio guide is free, so you may
as well pick it up anyway. There is not
an audio blurb for each piece, unfortu-
nately, but when there is one, it is not
too long to bore and not too short for
me to complain about. Rosie is happy.
The dulcet tones of David Attenbor-
ough accompany most of the blurbs
as well as soothing piano music. The
whole experience is rather mesmeris-
ing! Once you are plugged in, you enter
the first room of the exhibition: The
‘Leonardos’. Don’t tell them I told you,
but the Queen owns 600 Leonardo
sketches!? OMG. These 18 exhibited
here are just a snippet! Apparently,
Charles II went a bit mad one day and
decided to collect them.
Having never seen ‘a Leonardo’ be-
fore, I didn’t know quite what to ex-
pect but I was absolutely blown away
by Leonardo da Vinci. His sketches are
awesome. So much so I actually raised
my eyebrows in amazement and in my
head I was saying “Oooooh” as one
does when one is very impressed. It
is even more fantastic when you hap-
pen to glance at the date of the work.
The first piece, ‘The Star of Bethlehem’,
was done in 1505! I couldn’t believe it.
This was a time when the art world was
saturated with very primal depictions
of brightly coloured saints and martyrs
and it is highly unexpected to see such
talent and detail.
‘The Star of Bethlehem’ sets a very
high standard. It is a type of flower-
ing plant and is done in red chalk, like
most of these sketches. Da Vinci seems
to have captured the flower as though
it were swaying underwater. Next up,
Leonardo sketches some blackberries
and shows off his technical talent as
every single leaf is studied exactly.
Soon enough, we find out that all
these sketches were part of Leonardo’s
scientific observations of nature, like a
Renaissance lab book! You become ac-
quainted with his famous mirror writ-
ings on various sketches, in which he
makes various notes about the subject
Aww... poor dead birdie! The Queen can keep this one - I don’t want any slaughtered animals up on my walls, ta. Pretty flowers though
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor

