arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
Arts
matter. Ever wondered what a cow’s
uterus looks like? Leonardo knows,
and his sketch even includes a tiny cow
foetus in the shape of a fully formed
miniature cow. Awww bless.
Leonardo also had to concentrate
on his day job as a very famous artist,
so we get to see some of his sketches
for various commissions. He sketches
horses from all positions with various
muscles tensed, like a gym rat flexing
in the mirror. His sketches of kittens
playing are wonderfully lively, but we
also see his train of thought as across
the page, kittens turn into miniature
dragons. See if you can spot them.
Leonardo was using feline move-
ment to imagine how dragons would
move, possibly for a commission for a
‘George and the Dragon’ themed piece.
Leonardo really did think outside the
Renaissance box.
I could have stayed in that room for-
ever, but it was time to move on to the
next. The corridor between the two
rooms displays an old map surveyed
in 1752. America looks very odd… The
cartographer has added bits here and
there which make North America look
like The Elephant Man. The presence
of the map in the passage between the
two rooms of the exhibition is very
significant as we pass from the 16th to
the 18th Century. Time has passed and
much has changed. Welcome to the
age of the Gentleman Gardener.
The difference between the two
parts of the exhibition is stark. Where-
as with old Leonardo you stood in awe
and amazement to marvel at his talent,
this next part gives you the opportu-
nity to have a giggle at some weird and
wonderful creatures and, sometimes,
the way they are portrayed. Some of
these guys struggle with the concept
of scale!
You first come across a sloth. But
hang on... It’s the wrong way up! Sloths
are usually found hanging upside-
down, completely stoned off their
faces from consuming cannabinoid-
containing leaves. This unidentified
artist obviously worked from a pre-
served specimen and just presumed
it stood on all fours, showing the in-
nocence of one seeing a species for
the first time. The drawings with this
theme are all quite entertaining as the
artists struggle to catalogue the influx
of new species brought in by explorers
from exotic lands. Art and science are
clearly coming together now for a solid
purpose. Among these drawings is one
of an African Civet, known throughout
history for its smelly poo. The artist
therefore shows the civet’s anal glands
very prominently, perhaps exaggerat-
ing them for educational reasons or
just for a laugh.
I came across a wonderful selection
of fruit drawings. They are accompa-
nied with a brilliant quote: “We are
horrified by monstrosities in humans,
but we love them in fruit”. Quite so.
The piece entitled ‘Lemon’ (my new fa-
vourite insult) shows a mutilated lem-
on which has grown finger-like protru-
sions. This is the stuff of dreams, or the
So here we have ‘The Star of Bethlehem’, all swirly and swishy like it’s underwater, one of the 600 Leonardo Da Vinci pieces our beloved Queen
has tucked away at Buckingham Palace. In my flat I have... zero Leonardo da Vincis. That’s not fair. She should share them round a bit
Waitrose organic section!
The rest of the exhibition is just
flowers. Alexander Marshal is one of
the four featured artists of the exhi-
bition. He was an amateur enthusi-
ast who walked the earth in the 17th
Century portraying plants with sharp
detail and beauty. I thought his draw-
ings were really touching as he drew
with such love for the subject matter.
I really like ‘Crocuses, anemones and
jay’ where he has drawn the flowers as
usual and then he had stuck a dead jay
at the bottom of the sheet so it looked
like it had just fallen onto the page of
flowers. Marshal also spreads his love
to the insect world where he draws in-
sects and dragonflies fluttering across
his page, sticking their delicate spiral
tongues out at me.
It is quite a shock at the end of the
small exhibition to be cast out of the
quiet A.R.T. gallery and into the gold
splendour of the ‘Treasures’ gallery. It
took me an hour or less to have a look
at Amazing Rare Things so I recom-
mend having a good coo over all those
jewels too. If you haven’t felt too cheat-
ed by the admission fee, have a look in
the shop. There is a host of dainty bits
and bobs to tickle your fancy!
Amazing Rare Things is for everyone,
but especially you zoologists, botanists
and amateur explorers. It adds a touch
of the exotic to your grey, London day,
so get in there, you lemon!
Amazing Rare Things is on until
28th September so you have no
excuse to miss it. It costs £7.50
for entry into the Queen’s Gallery
which includes this exhibition,
a fabulous audio guide and all
the other galleries showcasing
Her Majesty’s fist-sized jewels,
Faberge eggs, and priceless
works of art… An absolute
bargain.
The eternal debate that is alligator vs snake. I’m not convinced the artist was working from life on this one. I doubt he’d have stuck around, pencil at the ready, to find out who won

