18 felix Friday 2 May 2008
Artistic explorations with my iPod
Emily Wilson might have found the Next Big Thing in art galleries: downloadable podcast audio tours. But
will small children, inane Americans, absent paintings and questionable music be their downfall?
Y
ou may have noticed in my
articles that I have some-
what of a grudge against
the audioguides offered
by art galleries. Now that
access to the major museums and gal-
leries is free, they seem keen to extract
your money by pressing their over-
priced handsets upon you. And then
you spend an hour being patronised
and listening to panpipe music. But fret
not, reader, there is a solution! Several
of the major galleries have their own
podcasts, which you can easily find
free on their websites, and offer guided
tours which you can download to your
iPod (or equivalent portable music de-
vice) then listen to at home or in the
gallery at your leisure. We can finally
be selective about how much panpip-
ing we need, and without paying a
penny. However, let’s not get overex-
cited. There is clearly opportunity for
an informative and useful service here,
but are these podcast tours any good?
I set out with my little pink iPod nano
to find out.
While all the galleries have up-and-
running podcasts, there aren’t many
art tours available specifically. I found
three to review; two at Tate Mod-
ern and one at The National Gallery.
I downloaded all of these through
iTunes, but even at this early stage I
had problems. I was unable to get the
introduction to the National Gallery
tour to download automatically, and
had to get it directly from their website
and stick it in my iPod as a song. And
then the tour seemed to start off with
painting number four. Oh well...
I started out my day at Tate Modern. I
decided to kick off with ‘Modern Paint’,
a tour about art techniques and con-
servation, in particular how different
types of paint have been used by differ-
ent artists. The first painting, accord-
ing to my podcast list, was ‘Forgotten
Horizon’ by Salvador Dali. OK, where
is it? I assumed it would be alongside
the other Surrealist works. It wasn’t.
I wandered round and round but
couldn’t find it. We were off to a bad
start, but I decided to press on. Paint-
ing number two was ‘The Fig Leaf’ by
Francis Picabia. I couldn’t find it, pre-
sumably because it’s been moved to
the current exhibition ‘Duchamp, Man
Ray and Picabia’. And then I couldn’t
find the third painting either. This was
not good progress.
But the work by Cy Twombly I
could find. Let’s face it, after wander-
ing round and round searching for an
hour, I was getting pretty familiar with
what was there. The podcast is inter-
esting. The speaker is an expert on art
conservation, and I’m impressed by
how much she can tell just by looking
at a painting, including the size of all
the brushes he used. She points out
details I’d never have noticed on my
own, including cracks and damage to
the paintwork. She talks about how
her team attempts to repair this dam-
age, and how they clean the canvas. I’m
fascinated by this whole new side of art
galleries which I knew nothing about.
The same is true of the podcasts for
the other paintings – all thoroughly
interesting and enjoyable. Some of the
paintings I wouldn’t even have given
a second glance to before. I always
though Mark Rothko’s blocks of colour
were dull and simple, but now I’m see-
ing the detail and complex techniques
that went into his work.
So the podcasts I adore. But there are
whole chunks of the tour I lose out on
because I can’t find the painting, or it
simply isn’t there. Clearly the podcast
suffers from featured works being put
into storage or loaned out to other gal-
leries. Even if it is there, in some cases I
have no way of knowing what I’m look-
ing for. Finding a Picasso or a Matisse
is easy, but do you know what works by
Cy Twombly and Fiona Rae look like?
I’d recommend tracking down the im-
ages online before you go. Something
that helped me immensely was the rev-
elation that Tate Modern has touch-
screen computers where you can look
up locations of different artists’ work.
I could have kissed the screen. Had I
known of these magical machines in
advance, they’d have been my first port
of call.
I use these computers during my
next tour, called the ‘Raw Canvas On-
lookers’ tour, which I think is more
aimed at young people. It’s basically
members of the public talking about
what they think of the art. I start off
by listening to the section about Ma-
tisse’s ‘The Snail’, which I have seen al-
ready today. I have to listen to a bunch
of school kiddies giggling and making
such contributions as “I had a snail on
my hand once, and it left white stuff
all over me”. Hum. There a couple of
musical contributions – the one for the
Rothko I already saw was a pretty tune,
but didn’t seem to reflect the painting
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
“There are a
disproportionate
number of
smooth-talking
Americans”
‘The Rokeby Venus’, one of the highlights of The National Gallery’s ‘Be Inspired’ podcast tour. Because who isn’t inspired by naked women?
Mark Rothko. Clearly a rubbish artist if this is all he does, right? Wrong! It’s actually very cunning and technical stuff, according to the podcast

