arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
Arts
in any way.
There are a disproportionate number
of Americans rattling on. The one talk-
ing about Miro is a smooth-talker
and gets a bit philosophical at times,
but says nothing of substance (“it’s all
like... symbols”, “isn’t that a trip?”). I’m
moderately amused by his ramblings
about his beard: “you might be able to
hear me scratching my beard, which is
something we art-lookers like to do.
Everyone, rub your beard, or at least
rub your chin a bit... 50% of going to
galleries is the looking cool”. Don’t get
me started on the family of nutcases
(The Trachtenburg Family Slideshow
Players, as they call themselves) sing-
ing about the Giacometti. “We are the
world’s first and only indie vaudeville
conceptual slideshow family band”
makes me want to start my own indie
vaudeville conceptual slideshow fam-
ily band (whatever the fark that is)
to make them and their stupid guitar
strummings shut up about it. Addi-
tional highlights include a man who
spends his life building piles of banan-
as in public places as an art form (and
likes to talk about it), and the sounds of
somebody wheeling a trolley through
the building.
At times hearing other people’s
opinions is interesting. You come to
appreciate that for every person look-
ing at art there is a whole new way of
interpreting art, and they highlight
things you don’t see for yourself. But
after a whole podcast tour of people
blathering on, you might feel the urge
to punch somebody. I far preferred the
style of the ‘Modern Paint’ tour.
Now on to The National Gallery. The
website had filled me with optimism,
promising that I could collect a map to
accompany the ‘Be Inspired’ tour – the
obvious solution to all my problems. I
asked at the information desk and they
knew what I was talking about but said
such a map would be at the audioguide
desk. Despite asking at two different
audioguide desks I was unable to find
anybody who knew what a podcast
was, let alone provide me with a map
to one. Had this mysterious podcast
map existed, I would be singing The
National Gallery’s praises right now.
Filled with despair by the thought of
wandering around the huge galleries
aimlessly, I headed for the ArtStart
room, a room full of computers offer-
ing databases of the NG collections. I
could have had ArtStart’s babies.
The NG ‘Be Inspired’ tour was beau-
tifully done. A soothing female narrator
described the paintings and introduced
various speakers. These speakers were
generally artists themselves, but there
was a poet, a political cartoonist and
a cookery writer amongst others. All
were discussing their favourite paint-
ings in the NG and how they had been
influenced by them. But instead of just
gushing about what the painting means
to them personally, as in the Tate tour,
they also talk about the painting’s his-
tory and meaning and this made for a
good balance. This tour was definitely
the best, despite the lack of a map.
The most amusing piece on the tour
was a Crivelli painting of ‘The Concep-
tion’. And when I say ‘The Conception’,
we’re talking about God impregnat-
ing Mary. Who knew there would be
paintings of that? And apparently the
method of conception was via a beam
of gold light penetrating her head. But
the podcast focuses on food. The cu-
cumber and the apple at the front sup-
posedly represent the purity of Christ
and the fecundity of Mary (!). The
beautiful peacock with its tail swishing
down, I’m sorry to say, was considered
food too. Apparently back in ye olde
times you’d skin the peacock, then af-
ter cooking it you’d put it back in its
feathers and use clockwork mecha-
nisms to make it walk up and down
the dinner table before you ate it. Now
that’s entertainment.
Something I’ll praise The National
Gallery for is putting images of the
paintings in with the podcast down-
loads. This means you know exactly
what you’re looking for in the museum,
though obviously not everybody’s mu-
sic player will be able to use this. More-
over, having the pictures in front of you
could mean you don’t even have to go
to the museum to enjoy the tour. This
is a very cunning idea indeed.
Overall, the podcasts themselves
were wonderful. The idea of audio
tours on your iPod has the potential to
go far, but I’d like to see more of them
and I’d like some supporting material.
If Tate and The National Gallery pro-
moted these tours and offered some
kind of handout either online or onsite,
with a map and information about what
might have been taken down, podcast
tours could be much improved. There
is so much potential for expansion into
different themes and different target
audiences. My iPod and I look forward
to hearing what London’s art galleries
have to offer us.
“Highlights
include a man
who builds piles
of bananas in
public places as
an art form”
Some young gents being positively fascinated by an audio tour. Fellas, why aren’t you scratching your
beards like real arty types? We’ve been informed today that 50% of going to galleries is the looking cool
The podcast said this is a self-portrait, and that it’s vibrating. Vibrating
chairs? There’s a joke there
This unexceptional painting inspired a political cartoon where Tony Blair was failing to build a cabinet.
Charles Clarke was a torn-up joker

