music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 2 May 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor The Long Blondes
Amersham Arms
11th February, 2008
Long Blondes double bill
If I was in my 40s, I think I would feel
extremely depressed. I would feel like
I had completely lost touch with the
cool music being played on the radio,
and which all the cool kids were listen-
ing to. I would change my car radio to
BBC2, feeling that is all I deserved, so
out of touch was I with popular mu-
sic, while despondently inspecting my
hairline in the rear-view mirror for
signs of recession. I am not, however, a
40-anything. I am in fact 19 years old.
I am currently a member of the much
courted 18-30s demographic, the pre-
cise demographic which decides who
or what is hot, and which or where is
not. I therefore assert that, rather than
me not understanding why The Long
Blondes count as good music, I know
that the Long Blondes in fact make
bad music. Dull, generic, derivative,
unoriginal, uninspiring boring fucking
music. The colour and texture of wall-
paper paste, but without the practical
use. Just like a pale greyish mass. Well
not grey, kind of a greyish maroon.
Um, so anyway, I went to see The
Long Blondes last term at The Amer-
sham Arms. Earlier on in the evening,
I had been fortunate enough to have
largely avoided any exposure with
said Long Blondes, other than a bit of
YouTubing before I went to the show,
so I arrived open-minded and ready to
embrace the group’s collective creative
talents. Almost as soon as the show
started, it became fairly obvious that
there was very little creative talent to
embrace. Consisting almost entirely
of 80s throwbacks, from the saturated
guitar twangs, to the glam-punk style
of the songs, even down to the per-
formance mannerisms of lead vocalist
Kate Jackson (look left, pout, rotate
shoulders forwards, rotate shoulders
backwards, repeat), The Long Blondes
seem lost in the collective styles of
their musical influences, themselves
bringing little to the scene except a
conglomerated discography of ironic
80s disco trash that people pretended
to like a couple of years ago when it
was cool.
The one single, solitary redeeming
feature of the night was the perform-
ance of ‘Giddy Stratospheres’, the last
show of the gig, which is actually a
pretty good song. Well, to be more pre-
cise, it’s got a funky chorus. To be even
more precise, there was one chord
change in the chorus that was pretty
good. I wish I were joking. Have a lis-
ten, you’ll see what I mean.
So an all-round disappointment. Do
not go and see the Long Blondes un-
less you want to pay to be bored all
evening. They released a new album
‘Couples’ on the 7th of April, but you
probably shouldn’t buy it, and they
are on tour all over Europe and North
America until the beginning of June,
but you probably shouldn’t go.
Peter Sinclair Kate Jackson making her best attempt at eating the mic
Part two: It doesn’t get much better
The Long Blondes
Couples
★★✩✩✩
Teamed with DJ Erol Alkan, The Long
Blondes are back with their trouble-
some second album, ‘Couples’.
In difficult, second album style,
the Blondes have chosen to begin by
changing their sound with some self-
indulgent electro. Sure it still has the
Kate Bush influences, but they’re the
bad, bland parts. The instrumental
sounds like the demo on a cheap Casio
keyboard. The problem is, it’s meant
to sound like that which just makes it
even more grating. It’s called ‘Century’,
which is fitting, as the song is so boring
it seems like it lasts that long. To make
matters worse, it is their first single.
Where has the punk gone? Where has
the half-decent taste in music gone?
Erol Alkan, you’ve got a lot to answer
for. ‘Guilt’ (has nothing to do with it) is
the title of track two and probably had
something to do with chucking that
crap Casio keyboard out and reverting
back to a slightly more familiar sound.
Familiar for a Girls Aloud single, that
is.
Predictably, the production is far
sharper than the debut album. I think
most people would rather listen to
the grit of ‘Lust in the Movies’ any day
though. Even the most anthemic of
songs are polished up like a bimbo’s
nails. How Kate Jackson manages to
make a chant sound glam I just don’t
know (‘Here Comes the Serious Bit’).
She could sing Ave Maria and still
somehow make it sound sexy.
As well as a DJ producer it seems
like they’ve nicked Pulp’s keyboard-
ist in certain aspects. Well they cer-
tainly ain’t having Jarvis. ‘Round the
Hairpin’ could be a B-side on a Pulp
single, except it is more soft porn than
hardcore.
It comes across as though this band
are trying to emulate their idols, rather
than doing what they’re good at - being
themselves. ‘Erin O’Connor’ is another
indie disco number which will no doubt
be a single, but it is everything that
Blondie has already done before (nice
grimey guitar though). Then there’s
‘Too Clever By Half’, an understated
falsetto number that should have been
left to a hidden track, and ‘Nostalgia’ is
only worth listening to because it uses
the word ‘breakfast’ - an under-used
meal in love songs.
However we do end this disappoint-
ing album with a lovely lyric “I’m going
to hell so I may as well make it worth
my while”. But come to think of it,
‘lovely’ shouldn’t really be an adjective
for a song about going to hell though,
should it? It sounds more like a lit-
tle girl cheekily admitting she’s been
throwing out the fruit her mummy
puts in her lunchbox and eating penny
chews instead. It’s hardly hell-raising
and the 50s rock ‘n’ roll style piano
doesn’t exactly help the situation.
The Long Blondes tried to do some-
thing a little different with ‘Couples’
but got cautious after only the first
track. They’ve accessorised their sound
rather than having a complete makeo-
ver. Minus the dire opening, any die
hard Long Blondes fan should prob-
ably listen to this album, but the rest of
us would do better to steer clear.
Lara O’Reilly
The Long Blondes looking less terrible than above
They may not have much talent, but The Long Blondes certainly have a new album.
What’s more, they are on tour to pimp it. Music Felix braced our ears and had a listen
A
s a heterosexual male,
it is a rare and notable
event when I fall in love
with a man. It is an even
rarer event when I fall in
love with a man through the medium
of podcast. But that is this strange situ-
ation I found myself in over the Easter
holidays when I discovered that my fa-
vourite radio DJ, Gilles Peterson, here-
tofore subjected to the crematorium of
graveyard slots from 2:00 until 4:00am
on a Thursday morning on Radio 1,
has his own podcast service – Gilles
Peterson Worldwide. This is probably
the sweetest musical discovery I have
made since I got creepily into hip-hop
a few years ago.
For those not in the know, Gilles Pe-
terson is a giant of the slightly left-field
jazz/funk/soul/latin scene (as well as a
DJ and owner of Brownswood Record-
ings), doing more to bring that kind of
music to a popular audience than any
other DJ on mainstream radio. Grant-
ed, there are other DJs who play jazz on
the radio, but no-one I know of does
it with more passion. Even when inter-
viewing guests on the show, it’s always
just as interesting hearing Gilles ask-
ing the questions and getting into his
element, spouting facts and knowledge
about Japanese latin artists or Aus-
tralian dubstep nights. I have heard
rumours that he had to move out of
his house because he had too many
records, and now stores them in a pur-
pose-built warehouse. Introduced to
the show by a friend a few years ago, I
have fucked up far too many Thursdays
staying up all night to listen to it. The
discovery of this podcast virtually rep-
resents an additional day in my week.
A 1/7-fold improvement!
This is all so new to me. Podcasts
have been around for years, but I’ve
only just started to bother about them.
Why wasn’t I told? They are such a
great way of keeping up with new mu-
sic if you are too lazy or don’t have
the time to do it for yourself, making
them a lifeline during long library eve-
nings. Most labels will have some kind
of service showcasing their new acts
and releases, but far from being just
a new advertising platform, they have
the feeling of going back to the roots
of what music is about and why these
labels are around in the first place, in
a music business where their pre-em-
inent status is definitely coming into
question. They too are lovers of great
music. They don’t just want your mon-
ey, they want your mind.
Anyway, this week we’ve got a double
feature of Long Blondes music. They
released an album ‘Couples’ a few of
weeks ago, so we listened to that and
we went to a show. I can’t help but think
bands like that live in an emperor’s-
new-clothes dream world - as long as
they keep raking in the pounds, dollars
and yen, they can put out whatever the
fuck music they want. So read about
that and some other stuff too.
We got a shitload of CDs sent to
us over the holidays, and there’s
always gigs that need going to. If
you fancy getting some free stuff,
give us an email at music.felix@
gmail.com.
JAMES HOUGHTON

