One example of when to avoid Pyramids
A few years ago, when I was a young
and naïve fresher, I was approached by
a business savvy acquaintance of mine
concerning a ‘business proposition.’ By
business savvy I, in fact, mean com-
pletely clueless concerning anything
pertaining to business, commerce, fi-
nance or anything at all, really. He told
me to be at London Bridge station at
a certain time and to arrive with suit,
tie and open mind. It all sounds very
Mafia like, and the ‘open mind’ bit im-
plicated things I certainly wasn’t sure
about. Scepticism and curiosity did
battle within me and, as usual, curios-
ity won the day. Not curiosity concern-
ing whether this would be a genuine
money-making scheme, but more a
casual interest as to what my disaster-
prone friend had got himself involved
in this time.
So there I was at London Bridge at
the appointed time, suited and booted,
looking sharp and feeling … less sharp.
In fact I was feeling distinctly blunt due
to a protracted hangover, but I had a
feeling that I wasn’t going to need to be
particularly ‘with it’ to unravel what-
ever harebrained scheme I was going
to be sold.
After being led through small roads
and back-alleys we arrived at an ultra
modern-looking, glass building and
took a superfast lift to a floor with a
decent view of London. We then pro-
ceeded through an atrium which was
filled with other punters and their
‘introducers’ (the term for people like
my friend who had proposed others
for this event). Light chatter could
be heard throughout the room and
there was a sense of growing anticipa-
tion. Anytime anyone decided to ask a
question pertaining to the upcoming
schedule, they were basically told to
‘wait and see.’ The thought struck me
that the whole thing had the feel of a
modern cult, and that wasn’t the last
time I had that feeling.
Having built the tension sufficiently,
the introducers ushered us into a grand
lecturing hall. The crowds surged for-
wards and found their allocated seats.
Each punter was flanked on either side
by either his own introducer or the in-
troducer of another, so there was no
possibility of discussion with other un-
informed. The introducers themselves
were, of course, as tight-lipped as be-
fore. It was time for the presentation. A
slick, well-rehearsed presentation was
given to whip the crowd into excite-
ment. The applause was lead, naturally,
by the introducers. I realised about ten
minutes into the Powerpoint slideshow
Ahran Arnold
Travel Editor
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
that there was almost no information
being presented. It was just a list of
stuff people liked. “Do you like money
and holidays? … well that’s what we’re
offering and all you have to do is sign
up with a minimal fee” was the general
gist of the deluge.
The way in which this was put for-
ward was ridiculously over the top.
Showers of rapturous applause poured
forth after every single amount of mon-
ey was put up on the mammoth screen.
The presenter, who was a combination
of circus-master and evangelist, gave a
life story about how his life had been
dragged from the gutter of alcoholism
and drug abuse by this offer. It goes
without saying that he claimed he re-
ceived no commission for delivering
this talk. He just wanted to spread the
message, for the benefit of everyone
(in a secret meeting hall, on an invite
only basis… yes, this is when the ‘cult’
thought appeared in my head again).
Anyway let me cut to the chase. Af-
We rightly shun pyramid schemes but aren’t all of us part of the
biggest one of all... probably not
Should you trust a man in a suit? Not if he looks like one of this pair.
These elusive scammers are still on the run
ter the audience were sent into a frenzy
by his tirade of promises, a few details
emerged. You pay about a grand now
and then you recruit people to do the
same thing you do and get a cut of their
fee each time. When they recruit more
people, you get a cut of the fee of their
fee too. And thus your fortune builds!
What if you’re rubbish at recruiting or
you’re a loser and have no friends? No
worries! Here’s the extra carrot dan-
gled in front of you: discount holidays!
Woohoo!! (I bet you are beginning to
see the relevance of this long winded
story now, eh?) Supposedly regardless
of how many people you have recruit-
ed you get great deals on 5* hotels.
So it exposed itself as a pyramid
scheme (which I inferred partly fro
the fact that the sales pitcher was at
pains to state that it was not a pyramid
scheme) and I convinced my friend to
get out of it while he still could. About
a year later on ‘Watchdog’, I saw an un-
dercover reporter’s secretly filmed re-
port of the very same presentation I’d
been to. The whole thing had been ex-
posed and was being dealt with in the
courts. These so-called 5* hotels were
actually very dodgy, almost deserted,
below 1* hostels (which people only
discover on arrival).
The sad fact is that this sort of
thing is incredibly common. Pyramid
schemes have been around for a long
time of course, the great Albanian
pyramid scheme caused people to sell
their homes to invest and farmers sold
their livestock. The other aspect of this
particular scheme was the idea of the
‘Travel Club’: Some kind of arrange-
ment whereby investment results in
discounted travel deals. This has been
seen in other incarnations eg. The
‘Travel Agents Card’ – the idea being
that travel agents get incredible trade
deals on flights, and all you need to
do to prove you are a travel agent is to
brandish a £500 card at an airport flight
desk. Go ahead and invest if you enjoy
paying to be laughed out of airports.
So Felix Travel has taught you how
to haggle and is now teaching you what
scams you’re likely to come up against.
The Times has in fact recently pub-
lished a list of the thirteen ‘best’ travel
scams, which can be viewed on their
website if you search for travel scams.
It is well worth taking a look at before
you decide to shop for or go on holi-
days. They range from the stupid to the
downright malicious. Unlicensed taxis
can obviously have the worst outcomes
(kidnapped, killed etc.) and should be
avoided at all costs, whereas the fol-
lowing scam made me laugh. If you
watch the ‘Real Hustle’ (by far the best
programme on BBC3) you will know
that the best cons rely on the inherent
greed of human nature. This particu-
lar one, featured on the list, is no ex-
ception. You’re approached in a bar or
wherever and offered to get in on a big
scam. All you do is get on a bus-tour
the next day and the guys you’re speak-
ing too will drive up in front of it and
reverse into it. You, along with all the
other passengers who are all in on it,
then demand compensation for injury,
which the bus company will be forced
to provide. You provide these charac-
ters with a fixing fee of about £250 in
advance, which is pittance compared
to the thousands of pounds you’ll be
receiving in compensation. You then
enjoy a completely safe and problem-
free bus tour and realise you’ve been
duped!
Other scams don’t rely on greed but
instead rely on naivety and the general
feeling of disorientation upon arrival
in a strange land. Some friends of mine
had an extremely unfortunate expe-
rience in Cuba when they were ap-
proachedbyanunscrupulouscon-artist
who convinced them to exchange their
money with a guy he knew, since the
banks would all be closed due to a fes-
tival. They went along with this, need-
ing the local currency. They found out
later that the ‘excellent exchange’ they
had been offered was actually nowhere
near the actual exchange rate and they
had been conned out of a lot of money.
These unfortunate travellers were also
caught up in another incident later in
the same trip. Some men boarded their
bus with video cameras for ‘security’
purposes’ and then ransacked their
belongings later while they slept using
the video footage to pinpoint exactly
where their stuff was.
The fact is there will always be peo-
ple trying to con you out of your mon-
ey and belongings when you travel and
when you’re thinking about buying
a holiday. If you want to completely
avoid it then lock yourself in a bun-
ker for the rest of your life (I hope you
enjoy board games). However if you
want to get out there and experience
what the world has to offer then it’s all
about risk management. Be wary and
vigilant, research countries before you
visit them and don’t be greedy and per-
haps most importantly: don’t let being
conned ruin your holiday. Happy trav-
elling! If you have any stories about be-
ing conned on holiday or when trying
to buy flights or hotel stays etc. then
send them to Felix Travel (ftravel@
ic.ac.uk) we may print a compendium
of them soon!
22 felix Friday 2 May 2008
“There will
always be
people trying to
con you out of
your money”
The type of pyramid you shouldn’t avoid

