news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
News
Outspoken Asian politician visits IC
Prime Minister of Malaysian accused of anti-semitism and supporting terror. IC accused of censorship
Andrew Somerville
Deputy & News Editor
Accusations of censorship, racism,
justification of terrorism and heavy-
handed College action have surround-
ed a high-profile visit to IC by Tun Dr
Mahathir Mohamad, former prime
minister of Malaysia. Furore around
what was to be his first public speech
in the UK left international media,
VIPs, invited guests and a crowd of
non-Imperial attendees barred from
entering the Sir Alexander Fleming
(SAF) building as Friday’s event was
restricted at the last minute to College-
ID holders only.
The decision was taken only hours
before the event by the College Secre-
tary, Dr Rodney Eastwood, along with
an attempt to ban all cameras and re-
cording equipment from the lecture
theatre, in order to quell fears of pro-
test over some of Dr Mahathir’s con-
troversial and outspoken comments in
recent years, some of which have been
labelled racist and anti-semitic. The
decision has drawn widespread criti-
cism of College from the Malaysian
news media and from many attendees
angry at having to cancel their plans
and travel arrangements.
Even after the tension surrounding
the run-up to the event, Dr Mahathir
managed to add considerably to the
aftermath by apparently justifying the
September 11th attacks, and Osama
bin Laden’s terrorist activities under
the Al Qaeda banner, as acting in “self-
defence.” These comments were made
during the Q&A session, and repeated
when asked to clarify his position by a
member of the audience:
“When people are desperate, they do
desperate things. Before, there was no
Al Qaeda, no Osama bin Laden. They
came after, and for a simple reason: it is
their only way to defend themselves.”
Figurehead of Debate
Organised over the Easter break on the
topic of “The Case for Criminalising
War” by ICU’s Political Philosophy So-
ciety (no stranger to controversy after
their problematic Israel/Palestine con-
flict case study earlier this year), the
event was a prestigious engagement for
an ICU society to host; Dr Mahathir
is a world leader in the movement to
criminalise war.
Dr Mahathir is the longest serv-
ing Malaysian Prime Minister (serv-
ing for 22 years between 1981-2003),
winning great support in the east for
rapidly modernising Malaysia. He was
considered one of the most influential
and respected leaders in Asia: an out-
spoken critic of western governments
(especially the US) and successfully
mitigating much of the damage done
to Malaysia during the 1997 Asian fi-
nancial crisis, going against the advice
of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF). However, he has attracted wide
criticism over Malaysia’s corruption,
ethnically biased policies and institu-
tional racism, and over anti-semitic
comments that he made in speeches. In
1997 he accused Jews for the devalua-
tion of the Mayalsian Ringgit currency,
saying: “The Jews robbed the Palestin-
ians of everything, but in Malaysia they
could not do so, hence they do this, de-
press the ringgit,” later issuing a partial
retraction. In 2003 he also accused the
Jews of “ruling the world by proxy.”
On the Wednesday before the event,
the ICU President, Stephen Brown, re-
ceived a complaint from the Jewish So-
ciety, after they and the PPS were made
aware of Dr Mahathir’s comments by a
poster on the Live! (live.cgcu.net) news
forum. JSoc’s complaint was resolved
by the PPS meeting Dr Mahathir’s sec-
retary and ensuring that his speech
remained on the topic of criminaliz-
ing war, and contained no anti-semitic
incitement.
Following the complaint, however,
the Union President held a meeting
with the College Secretary, who had
already sought legal advice over con-
cerns about potentially breaching the
Racial & Religious Hatred Act should
Dr Mahathir make such comments at
the event. College was legally advised
that cancelling the event was poten-
tially against the laws protecting free
speech. College representatives or-
dered the PPS to ensure that no re-
cording equipment was present, and
increased security so that no external
VIPs or visitors were allowed in to
the audience. Felix was present at the
event when the subsequent decision
to attempt to ban all still-cameras was
also taken, but proved impossible to
enforce.
The actions of College have been
criticised by many commentators over
their perceived over-zealous and ‘knee-
jerk’ response to the situation, espe-
cially from students who attended the
event and international media. Much
anger has also been directed at Ammar
Waraich, the PPS President, over both
the original booking of Dr Mahathir,
and over his forced announcement
that only IC-ID holders would be al-
lowed to attend at such short notice.
Several commentators felt that College
had abandoned its students in seek-
ing to suppress an extremely interest-
ing and prestigious event, and that a
“World Class” institution such as Im-
perial does not allow its students the
same level of real-world education and
debate that comparative British uni-
versities such as Oxford, Cambridge,
King’s and LSE.
“Who can we invite to speak without
being overruled by the University?”
Ammar asked Felix during the after-
math, “How can we prevent external
students becoming interested in our
events? Why weren’t we [the PPS]
involved at any point of the decision-
making process? College never seemed
to think or care about the personal is-
sues involved, or about what we are
trying to achieve.”
Although contentious and full of de-
bate, all of the students that attended
that Felix spoke to were pleased that
it occurred. “Even though I disagreed
with his opinions,” said one student,
“rational debate, and being exposed to
views on global events is a refreshing
experience at Imperial. We rarely see
the wider issues, even though we are
constantly told that our university pro-
duces world leaders in many influential
fields: not just in science.”
Dr Mahathir answers questions from a packed SAF audience whilst crowds wait outside
Imperial College Vs. Science & Technology Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad: Malaysian elder statesman

