news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
News
Union Council: Serious business
Mines members and supporters storm out of session during heated debate over paper to create RSM Union
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Jon Matthews (right) glares as Deputy President, Chris Larvin (left)
takes umbrage with his paper to change the RSM into a Faculty Union
Jon Matthews paces the room as opposition to the paper increases
Union Council descended into melo-
dramatics once again when on Monday
night a paper proposed by the Royal
School of Mines (RSM) and its sup-
porters was rejected. The paper sought
to return Union status to the RSM,
previously lost in 2002, and required a
two-thirds majority to succeed, how-
ever it gained only 13 votes for and 8
against.
Tempers boiled-over when Council
voted to amend sections of the pa-
per much to the dismay of the RSM
proposers who felt it had changed
too much thus losing its original sub-
stance and purpose. In response to
the amendments voted through, RSM
President Danny Hill stormed out of
the room declaring that he “couldn’t
give a shit now.”
As the evening progressed, Union
stalwart Jon Matthews (who helped
to present the paper) came up against
criticism from Deputy President (Fi-
nance & Services) Chris Larvin, who
was the most vocal opponent of the
paper. The paper was supported by
184 seconders, many of whom were
contacted via blanket email of the RSM
mailing list. The DPFS questioned the
manner in which the seconders were
obtained and also their validity. Mr
Matthews erupted at these sugges-
tions, requesting Mr Larvin to rescind
his comments, which he felt implied
that the proposers had lied to Council
about the way in which they collected
the seconders. In response, the DPFS
asked for the original emails to be read
out to Councillors bringing particular
attention to lines which promised a
“win win situation [for the RSM]” and
“more money for RSM Clubs and ac-
tivities!” if the recipients simply clicked
reply and then send.
The discussions became more and
moreheated,andeventuallyCouncillor
Rosie Smithells and Deputy President
(Education & Welfare) Kirsty Patter-
son became entangled in the bickering.
Finally when the paper was rejected in
its entirety Mr Matthews, Ms Smithells
and Ms Patterson collectively marched
out of the room along with a few other
RSM supporters. Ms Smithells also
later resigned as a Councillor.
The most significant dispute during
the evening centred around the level of
representation the RSM would be giv-
en on various Union committees. The
proposers wanted to bring the RSM’s
level of representation closer to that of
the existing Faculty Unions and also
the Campus Unions of Silwood and
Wye, by creating a position on both the
Executive Committee and Representa-
tion & Welfare Board (RWB). This was
met with opposition since the RSM
consists of 850 students compared to,
say, the Royal College of Science Un-
ion (RCSU) which has approximately
4,500 students.
It was also feared that over-repre-
sentation of the RSM would pave the
way for other Clubs & Societies Com-
mittees (CSCs) such as the Athletics
Clubs Committee (ACC, which rep-
resents all of the Union’s sports clubs)
to request for a member on Exec and
RWB since they represent a far larger
proportion of students than the RSM.
The paper’s proposers countered this
by drawing on the RSM’s historical sig-
nificance within Imperial College Un-
ion, claiming that the collective spirit
of RSM students distinguishes them
from other students and hence their
representation and welfare needs are
different. A similar reasoning justifies
why the Silwood and Wye Unions have
members on committees such as Exec
and RWB, however it was pointed out
that those students have vastly differ-
ent needs since they live far away from
Imperial’s main campus.
A number of other points within the
paper were discussed on the night,
more of which can be found by heading
to live.cgcu.net where you’ll also find a
recording from mid-way through the
serious business.
Since the theatrics of Monday night,
some of the paper’s supporters have
admitted to overreacting and behaving
poorly. However, the proposers main-
tain they were disrespectfully treated
on Monday night, citing particularly
the allegations that they were lying to
Council and the accusations that the
entire exercise was a “power grab” by
the RSM.
Despite all of this though, there
hasn’t been this much talk of the RSM,
its structure and its effectiveness in a
long while. The proposers have stated
that they will follow up the paper in the
future after consulting with as many of
the Union’s committees as possible.
Mr Larvin has also reiterated that he
would love to see the RSM with Union
status and that he looks forward to see-
ing an improved paper return.
One Councillor showing early
symptoms of losing the will to
live
phoenix the arts magazine of imperial college
whatʼs that thing
in the bins
ic doesnʼt know
give it a go
you never know
you might just enjoy it
phoenix 2008 vol 1
out now

