6 felix Friday 2 May 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
D
ear Reader of Felix Issue
1401; It is a great honour
for me to welcome you
back to Imperial Col-
lege, and my pleasure
to endeavour to provide you with the
same standard of service as in the pre-
ceding months. In order to maximise
consumer satisfaction, a short form
has been put together, the responses
to which will inform and improve the
comment-writing service this newspa-
per tirelessly attempts to provide.
If you would like to read a normal
column this week, then please circle
Option A. That is, of course, provided
you would like to read the bowdlerized
version, entirely suitable for the under-
18s. Should a more cavalier attitude
to standards of morality be requested,
kindly choose Option B.
It has come to our attention here in
the Felix offices that there seems to be
a growing demand for light frothy sat-
ire coupled with a trenchant wit. Those
of you for whom such an ‘irony pack-
age’ would be preferable should select
Option C, with the exception of those
seeking a cleaner brand of language,
who should of course go for Option B.
To those among you for whom drollery
and light frivolity have become more
of a nuisance than anything else, Fe-
lix is proud to offer the ‘Dryness De-
luxe’, a choice piece of prose devoid
of all silly puns, jokes, and references
to penguins in mauve underpants. To
avail yourselves of this service, please
choose Option D.
Perhaps the most frequent complaint
made of rival providers is their inabil-
ity to approach the levels of bigotry
and bloody-mindedness often deemed
Bureaucracy is lovely in the Springtime
Gilead Amit
indispensable in such a service. For
egregiously insulting comment pieces
motivated by spurious politics, select
Option C. For the same service with
the added Parental Control, choose
Option B, with the obvious exception
of our London-based clientele, who
should naturally be going for Option
A.
Research into the comment-consum-
ing market has revealed that a large
number of regulars hold politics in
very high esteem. For a more heavily-
politicised helping of opinion, kindly
circle Option C (unless, of course, you
are a sleaze-loving bigot who lives for
tortuously-placed references to pen-
guins in mauve underpants. In which
case, you should select Option B, pro-
vided you can present a valid piece of
identification to verify age, country of
birth, and colour of right nipple.)
Should the above instructions be
in any way confusing, repetitive or
unamusing, feel free to select Option
E. This choice is, of course, reserved
for our Sapphire Club members, who
should send their Club Code to the
given address, with an attached photo,
in triplicate, of a golden retriever.
Those of you wishing to join our Sap-
phire Club are cordially invited to do
so, provided you select Option C and
send us your favourite swearword in
either Xhosa or Aramaic. Replies re-
ceived between Whitsun and Arbour
Tuesday will be treated as applications
for our Ruby Lounge, and will in con-
sequence be fed to the office okapi.
We trust, dear Reader, that the im-
provements in our service will reflect
the changing needs of the expanding
marketplace, and that we will continue
to enjoy your patronage.
I remain sincerely yours,
Gilead Amit
Imperial
College
Union
Steve Brown
President
NUS: Now its time to leave
L
ast year the student body of
Imperial College voted to
re-affiliate by the narrowest
of margins to the National
Union of Students (NUS) af-
ter 30 years of independence from this
dubious student collective. In princi-
ple the NUS is a brilliant organisation.
Which one of us doesn’t have an inter-
est in a well-run, respected, effective
national lobbying voice dedicated to
achieving positive changes on our be-
half? For decades the NUS by its own
admission has not fulfilled this role
and this year a reform package was
proposed that fell tantalisingly short
of being approved. The situation now
is that Unions like ours which were
keen to see the organisation change
are faced with the choice of spending
another year attempting to change an
organisation which in its current form
is described by the NUS President elect
as “not worth saving”.
NUSConference2008sawthereform
package rejected and now the NUS is
faced with spending another year hav-
ing another debate with students as to
what its own internal structures should
be.IfweremainNUSaffiliateswewillbe
spending tens of thousands of pounds
for next year’s President to take part in
the same boring, mindnumbing consti-
tutional squabble that I have devoted
considerable time to this year with no
guarantee of success. Following NUS
Conference I remained hopeful that a
solution could be found this year but it
has now been confirmed that this will
not happen. From the NUS’s perspec-
tive they are now in roughly the same
position they were this time last year.
The NUS claims it wants to reform but
following the failure to do so this year I
have serious doubts as to whether this
can happen within a reasonable time
frame, if at all.
Our 9 delegates to NUS Confer-
ence gave up 3 days of their lives to
try and change NUS for the better but
have returned severely disillusioned.
Questions are now being raised as to
whether the £46,000 could be better
spent within our own Union and in-
vestigating other possible structures
for national representation.
Changing the way the NUS operates
would have gone a long way to pre-
venting the financial mismanagement
and political inadequacy that it has
suffered from in the past. The NUS has
lost money every year this century and
has had to sell assets to meet running
costs. In the medium term it will lead
to the organisation going bankrupt.
Financial problems aside the NUS,
like countless other collective organi-
sations, currently amplifies extreme
left wing voices. These voices drown
out the views of normal students who
want to study hard and look to their
Students’ Union to provide services,
opportunities and representation that
is relevant to their student experience.
The NUS will tell you that they also
share these goals but unfortunately the
things we care about are often pushed
aside by political activists with revolu-
tionary aspirations who think that hav-
ing the NUS there to act as their irrel-
evant mouthpiece is their God-given
right. Now I am a live and let live sort
of guy but whilst Imperial College Un-
ion is bankrolling this farce I think it is
right that we should be questioning the
merits of this reality.
Please be assured that any contact the
priorities of the NUS has with reality is
only tangential. Despite the organisa-
tion being in crisis it found the time
since Annual Conference to decide it
is better to encourage students to take
to the streets to support school teach-
ers on strike than it is to provide NUS
members with a plan that will ensure
that the organisation still exists in five
years time. It is one of these tragic situ-
ations where you don’t know whether
to laugh or cry.
The consensus amongst our NUS
delegation is that now is the time to
leave this sinking ship before we have to
write them another five figure cheque.
The money we save could be spent far
more effectively on what Imperial stu-
dents want rather than continuing to
finance and lend our credibility to this
failing organisation. The NUS is at best
a nostalgic nod back to the worst ex-
cesses of 1970s student absurdity. Their
priorities are so far divorced from our
own they are almost academic so I say
lets leave them to it.
NUS promised us reform and value
for money. They have without doubt
failed on both accounts. Some will ar-
gue that we should stay in it to change
it but thanks to the back issues of Felix
I can tell you that this has been argued
since last time we disaffiliated in the
late ‘70s. They provide Imperial stu-
dents with nothing we can’t do our-
selves. NUS has proved itself too bro-
ken to fix and the question you need
to ask is whether it is worth gambling
£46k to attempt to change it again.
Next week some friends and I will
be around campus asking you to sign
a petition to give the student body the
chance to decide if we wish to con-
tinue remain in this well meaning yet
doomed organisation. If you have any
questions or would like to add your
name to the petiton please email me
your name, course and CID number
to stephen.brown03@imperial.ac.uk. I
look forward to talking to as many of
you as possible about this and would
like to hear what you would like to
spend the money on instead.
“
If you would
like to read a
normal column
this week, then
please circle
Option A
Congratulations! You chose Option E. Welcome to the Sapphire Club

