science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
9
Friday 2 May 2008 felix
The Amazon Molly has managed to do without sex for 70,000 years. But it's not entirely without risk...
Tim Sands
If your love life is somewhat in the
doldrums at the moment, take heart,
things could always be worse. New re-
search has shown that one species of
fish has gone without sex for 70,000
years.
The Amazon Molly, a small fish liv-
ing in rivers in Texas and Mexico, con-
sists entirely of females and reproduces
by parthenogenesis – literally “virgin
birth” – laying eggs that are unferti-
lised and genetically identical to their
mother.
This means of reproduction comes
with some serious drawbacks. When
there are mutations with harmful ef-
fects, sexual reproduction allows these
to be weeded out but asexually re-
producing species, like the Molly, are
stuck with them. These bad mutations
continue to accumulate – a process
known as Muller's Ratchet – and as a
result asexual species rarely last very
long before they go extinct.
The curious fish species (the first
known single-sex vertebrate) formed
by the merger of two other species,
rendering sex impossible and starting
the Muller's Ratchet effect. The new
research has used this effect to esti-
mate that the Amazon Molly has been
without sex for between 40,000 and
100,000 years – even longer than Cliff
Richard.
The scientists, from the Universi-
ties of Edinburgh and Wuerzburg, who
have been studying the species are baf-
fled at how they have remained chaste
for so long. Their calculations also
suggest that the Molly is at great risk
of going extinct. Another curious facet
of their reproduction may give a clue
to their survival. Although the Molly
does not need males to fertilise their
eggs they can't get by entirely with out
them. The eggs need the sperm of oth-
er, closely related species to give them
a mechanical stimulus to start their
development.
The researchers suggest that on rare
occasions these sperm may actually
fertilise the eggs. Researcher Laurence
Loewe of Edinburgh University says
“The Amazon molly must be employ-
ing tricks to avoid extinction. Maybe
there is still occasional sex with stran-
gers that keep the species alive. Future
research may give us some answers.”
This occasional cross-species nookie
could give the fishes' genome just
the sprucing up it needs to stave off
extinction.
Due to the complexity of the calcula-
tions involved in coming up with these
estimates, the scientists enlisted the
use of a distributed computing system
– not unlike the SETI@home experi-
ments that searches for alien life – ap-
propriately enough called Evolution@
home, to simulate the genetic changes
over many thousands of generations
The writer Irina Dunn once claimed
that a woman needs a man like a fish
needs a bicycle – for the Amazon Mol-
ly at least it seems she wasn't far off the
truth.
The research is published in the jour-
nal BMC Evolutionary Biology.
Amazon Mollies do it... well, they don't, in fact. Haven't for the last 70,000 years, apparently. Apart from
suspected "occasional sex with strangers" (other, related, fish species) it seems they live up to their name
A recent poll, collectively carried
out by USA Today, the Kaiser Family
Foundation and the Harvard School of
Public Health, has revealed that 40% of
Americans have difficulty affording es-
sential prescriptive medicine.
The nationally representative tel-
ephone survey of 1695 adults, aged 18
or over, was undertaken in January of
this year in the United States. Half of
the participants were found to regu-
larly take at least one medication.
The research concluded that the
high cost of prescriptive medicine has
serious implications with 29% of indi-
viduals not filing a prescription due to
these high prices and around 23% cut-
ting pills in half or skipping doses in or-
der to make their medication last for a
longer period of time. This can poten-
tially lead to a considerably increased
health risk as a result of the vital drug
treatment not being administered.
The pharmaceutical trade is unar-
guably a multi-billion dollar industry.
The use of prescriptive medicine is ex-
tensive, with half of all adults taking at
least one prescription drug daily. Eight
in ten Americans concur that the cost
oftheseprescriptiondrugsisunreason-
able – a large proportion questioning
the pharmaceutical companies’ moti-
vation and their overpowering concern
with revenue. The study found there to
be mixed opinion with regards to the
pharmaceutical companies themselves
– 47% favourably viewing the indus-
try. They are considered to carry out
their research complying with ethical
and moral regulations, with the test-
ing and monitoring of drug production
believed to be at a high standard, as
would be expected.
A slightly lower percentage of the
public, 44%, view the companies in a
negative light. Making a comparison
across the professions, they are viewed
as faintly more favourable than health
insurers but are held in substantially
lower esteem than doctors.
Despite this attitude being shared by
many people, there is a clear optimis-
tic consensus that drug developments
over the past 20 years have improved
the lives of people in the States. In a
number of cases their availability has
reduced the need for expensive medi-
cal procedures and/or hospitalisation.
There are clearly implausible benefits
from prescriptive medication, which is
highly valued.
Over the years, the progress made in
scientific research and development is
outstanding. This is not contestable.
The problem lies in affordability; re-
sulting in many calling for stricter gov-
Pills, pills, pretty pills. But the cost makes them bitter to swallow, and gilding certainly won't help that...
ernmental regulation to place a limita-
tion on the individual has to pay for
required medicine.
This poll was the third in a series of
polls conducted by USA Today/Kaiser
Family/Harvard. The whole report can
be viewed at http://www.kff.org/kaiser-
polls/pomr030408pkg.cfm.
Laura Starr
Four in ten Americans struggle to pay for compulsory medication
Girls are doin' it for themselves
“Pharmaceutical
companies are
viewed more
favourably than
health insurers,
but less so than
doctors”

