s l u g s a n d l e t t u c e s :
f o o d : s l u g S d e t t u c e r a c h e i
The PR lady tells me that Slug and Lettuce pubs
used to be intimidating men's places, which
made me think we should have reviewed it
before the multi-million conversion. But it seems
to be the done thing to turn lads' bars into girly
places, so comfy sofas, polished wooden floors
and habitat-esque interior decor it is then.
A n d you're rather more likely to get an ori-
ental bean salad than pie and chips, but for £5-7
a throw the food is remarkably good: miles above
your standard pub 'fayre' but it manages to avoid
the nineties poncy food trap as well. I could have
had ham and eggs or Irish stew and mash, but
ended up with leek, pancetta and parmesan flan
with spiced pear relish and then drank too much
Smirnoff mule. Lovely...
There are Slug and Lettuces liberally dis-
persed around London; the showpiece bar is on
St Martin's Lane, but closer to IC stamping
ground, the one on Putney High Street also fea-
tures live jazz every Thursday evening. Okay it
may be a cheap marketing ploy to appeal to
middle class twenty-somethings, but it's also a
whole lot nicer than spending the evening in a
smoky pit. Maybe there is an alternative to the
Southside bar...
Simon Baker is on holiday
standbys £&S0
'.A: :
;fefi 1 1 I I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
- t h e a t r e : r o s e n c r a n t z a n d
g u i l d e n s t e r n a r e d e a d
What exactly is it about Tom Stoppard's
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead - a play
about two of Shakespeare's minor characters -
that is so consistendy funny and intriguing?
The play is excellent. Two men are thrown
out of their habitual world, into a place where
the laws of probability don't seem to hold, where
decisions are not a possibility, identities - particu-
larly their own - are confused, and incidents are
all that seem to happen. Here is there, some-
where, and nowhere. Existential? I think so.
Confusing? Well not as bad as it sounds, we
watch the confusion rather than losing track our-
selves. Entertaining? Definitely.
The strength of Matthew Francis' new pro-
duction at the National lies in its success in
achieving a happy equilibrium between the com-
edy of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern's situation,
and the underlying menace of destiny and lack of
control. The humour includes the cheap - with a
long build up for a gag punning on the trap which
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern have set and the
trap(door) in the stage. Often the dialogue tends
to the surreal "Is he selling toffee apples", and
the stage business steps gracefully into vulgarity.
The essence of the comedy, however is in Simon
Russell Beale and Adrian Scarborough's
Guildenstem and Rosencrantz (or should that
be..). They swing from mood to mood convinc-
ingly, and successfully create the rapport
between the two characters. Russell Beale's
development of Guildenstem as 'purpose
and meaning' become more and more
clearly out of reach is particularly effective
in balancing the comic and the serious.
Whilst the travelling players provide
much of the comedy of the play - brilliant-
ly achieved here, particularly in the dumb
show -the Player King should generally have
an enigmatic, threatening presence.
Unfortunately Alan Howard is disappoint-
ing. Though dramatic, I find that he sacri-
fices his connections with fate and destiny
to bawdy insinuation just a little to often.
The only other performance I would fault is
that of the set. It seems alive. Initially this
is very effective. The first two acts take
place in an interior with concealed doors
unobtrusively emphasising the existential
aspects of the play. This cool interior is
ostentatiously interrupted by each appear-
ance of the Hamlet court members on their the
moving podium. It certainly looks lavish, and
serves to underline the threat to Rosencrantz and
Guildenstem, but it all seems to be a little too
much show for show's sake. Perhaps this is only
because of the teething problems on the techni-
cal side. All the tension of the last scenes is lost
because of clanking and whirring as pieces of set
jerk slowly into place.
Do go and see it. The technical problems
really only crop up in the last ten minutes, and
by then you will have laughed so hard it won't
seem to matter.

