Diary Felix Friday January 1 2th 1995 . seventeen
thursday
18
January
Yacht C l u b M e e t i n g
12.30pm. Lecture Theatre 2, Physics. (R)
Fitness C l u b
12.30pm. Die Hard circuit training
5.30pm. Beginners aerobics. (R)
Gliding C l u b
lpm. Aero 266. (R)
M o u n t a i n e e r i n g C l u b
7pm, Social, Southside Upper Lounge.
(R)
Christian U n i o n
6.30 - 7.45pm. SCR in the Union.
(Right above the bar). (R)
I C C A G
8.15pm. Weeks Hall basement. Soup run for
the homeless. (R)
Ents
5 - 11pm. The return of swizzle stick
heaven! Enjoy the sophistication of Cocktail
Night.
•
t h u r s d a y
e n t s
Welcome Back! And, predictably enough -
Happy New Year! We're back, full of
enthusiasm and all that stuff - with enough
events to cheer up the darkest Winter nights.
The first thing to let you all know is that
we will be opening up the U D H most Fridays
as a second room to chill out in, or with a
second disco. This will give us a bigger
capacity, so you've got a bit less chance of
being turned away, though we'd still say -
"Get here early, not least 'cos it's still free
before 9pm".
So, what else have we got ? Well all the
usual faves are still here, so if you want to win
£50, or a crate of beer then Tuesday is still
Bar Trivia Night. There's also going to be a
regular Afro-Carib Soc event. Wednesdays is
still home to "Frolik!"- a night of sporting
debauchery, with a bar 'til midnight and lam
finish for free. On Thursdays you can
continue enjoying the cheapest cocktails for
miles at our Cocktail Night.
Friday Nights carries on getting better
and better, so we're going on with our policy
of swapping things around so each night has a
different musical style, plus of course, each
fortnight we've got top comedy at the "Bust-
A-Gut Comedy Club" .
The first "Bust-A-Gut" of this term on
Jan 19th features Corky and The Juice Pigs a
night of "Nipple quivering hi-jinx"
apparently, from an act that features
sketches, music and improvisation. And if
you just want to dance the night away, then
friday
19
January
Rag M e e t i n g
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Islamic Society
Friday Prayers
1pm. Southside Gym. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball practice in the union
gym. Bring trainers! Contact Kashif, Aero II,
k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Fitness C l u b
5.30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics (R)
Ents
A night of twin pleasures. For the more
cerebral amongst you, Bust-A-Gut Comedy
features Corky & The Juice Pigs, plus
support. According to the Guardian, they
are "the most hilarious and cerebrally
stimulating comedy acts to emerge this year.
Doors 8pm. £2.50 or £2 with entscards.
Then indulge in the aural delights of "Pop
Tarts", a night of classic pop sounds. £1 or
free before 9 or with entscards.
f r i d a y
music comes from the pouting Pop Tarts , so
expect an eclectic mix of pop, indie and
classic dance tunes from the past 20 years.
On the 26th, it's the return of the
sequinned, flared jewel that is Shaft. And to
encourage you to get into the true bad taste
spirit of the event there's free entry to
everyone who we deem to be dressed in
suitably tasteless clothes - it's £1 to the rest
of you. To complete the event, U D H is given
over to the Cheesy Wotsits Easy Listening
Lounge - a whole new slant on a chill out
room, a night of Charity shop classics.
During the rest of the term, look out for
the return of "Common People", a new night
of upfront club sounds- "Hedonizm", a rock
night, Rocky Horror Night, and an I C U Band
Night. And that's just Fridays !
In Davinci's, Sunday afternoons and
Monday evenings are Standing Room Only -
the only places in College you can see live
football on the BIG screen for that "being
there" atmosphere. We'll also be showing all
the 5 Nations games, starting on Sat 20th Jan.
New for Saturday Nights we've got a DJ
playing in the bar, and what they play
depends on what you want, so let them
know. Also if you belong to a Club or Society
and you want to stage an event at no cost,
check your pigeonholes for details. Finally,
it's darts and boardgames in the Union Bar on
a Sunday night, ideal for a relaxing way to
take your mind off work.
I hope there's something for everyone,
but if anyone has any legal suggestions, you
can always come to an Ents. meeting on a
Tuesday at lpm, and share them.
I est
icsf is producing yet another science fiction
fanzine that will consist of stories , poems,
cartoons, ironing boards and old discettes
which are vaguely connected with science
fiction, fantasy horror and old socks.
However, to be able to do this, we need
material to put into this fantastic magazine.
This is where Y O U come into the picture.
The plan is:
Y O U rummage round in your old
drawer, find all those stories you wrote
down years ago, brush them up and send
them to me. If you haven't written anything
down, but would like to do so, then get in
touch either through icsf@ic.ac.uk or
s.ingebrethsen@ic.ac.uk.
That aspiring writer in you, struggling to
get out, has finally got the opportunity to
produce something that will have a major
impact on history. Also, you will be able to
see your name in print. To get your first ever
story printed without any hassle is more
than what most professional writers have
ever experienced.
p i c o c o n 1 3
The much famed sci-fi extravaganza will
happen all day throughout the union
building on Sunday February 4th.
The guests are Christopher Priest,
Robert Holdstock and Stephen Baxter, who
will feature on the panel "The perils of being
pigeonholed". Other discussion topics will
include "The X-Files: responsible for
heightening American Paranoia?" and "Have
Vampires Evolved?"
Events on the programme will involve
mobbing the Star Trek exhibition, films and
videos, discworld computer games, D & D,
live lemmings, and a bar all day!
Entrance is £2 for icsf, £4 for IC
students and staff, £8 for the rest of the
world.
Information from the usual icsf
sources, http://www.ph.ic.ac.uk/moontg/
for example.

