Feature Felix Friday 1 2th January 1996 . five
Slavery in Britain in t h e 1 9 9 0 s
"I will cut your face. I will kill you i f you ever disobey an order. Y o u are m y slave. Y o u will do exactly what I say; eat only
when I tell you and what I give you. If you attempt to steal food, you will be starved until I decide you have learned your les-
son. Y o u will sleep on the floor outside m y bedroom and only for the hours I tell you. Y o u will have no days off and you will
not leave this house unaccompanied. Remember I hold your passport. If the police find you will be deported to where you
come from. A n d , if you are, you will be killed, i f I do not manage to kill you first. D o n ' t forget there are plenty more where
you come f r o m . " - Employer to domestic staff
Slavery was abolished in 1833, yet the quote
above was made in Britain a couple of years
ago. Slavery has been quietly re-established in
Britain legally and with the sanction of the
British government.
How is This Happening
Behind the doors of some of Britain's most
luxurious residences (many of them not far
from where you are reading this), diplomats,
VIPs and other outwardly respectable people,
keep bonded domestic workers in conditions
of abject slavery. And it is the U K govern-
ment which ties them to their employer - for
any worker considering escape, the sure
knowledge that they will be deported pre-
sents a formidable deterrent. The reason this
situation exists is due totally to government
legislation and could be ended at a stroke. In
1979 under Mrs. Thatcher, Britain's immigra-
tion laws were tightened (as they have just
been again with equally disastrous conse-
quences for the dispossessed) and Britain
stopped granting work permits directly to
persons entering the U K as domestic workers.
However a 1980 concession, which the Home
Office admits is outside the immigration
Rules, continues to allow employers to bring
their domestic workers into the country as
persons accompanying a named employer.
This means that they must work only for that
employer. Thus on the point of entry, the
domestic workers are given no independent
status as workers, although they are admitted
into this country to work. Instead they are
tied to their employer and effectively
deprived of workers rights, all of which ulti-
mately depend on the right to change employ-
Denial of Basic Human Rights
No fewer than 4 of the 30 articles in the U N
declaration of human rights are contravened
as a result of the Home Office policy on over-
seas domestic workers.
What can be done? Kalayaan and Anti-
Slavery International are both working to win
back the rights of these overseas domestic
workers, and their campaign has cross-party
support in both houses of parliament. Their
recommendations to the government are:
• That overseas domestic workers should
have a status which recognises that they are
workers in their own right
• That overseas domestic workers be allowed
to change employers within the same cate-
gory of employment
• That overseas domestic workers who pur-
sue legal action against their former
employers have the right to stay and work
during the life of the court proceedings
• That those overseas domestic workers who
have already left their employers and are
now overstayers should have their immigra-
tion status regularised.
The implementation of these recommen-
dations would put an end to the current abuse
and conditions of slavery, but the government
has refused to comply on any of these points.
There is growing support amongst the public
and MPs for Kalayaans case and if you would
like to help them you can contact any of the
following groups, IC Third World First, IC
Labour Club, Kalayaan (c/o St. Francis
Centre, Pottery Lane, London, W l 1 4NQ) or
Anti-Slavery International (Unit 4, Stableyard
Broomgrove Rd, London SW 9TL.)
The information in this article was taken
from Kalayaan Westminster Briefing Notes
and from the book 'Britain's Secret Slaves' by
Bridget Anderson (1993, Calen and ASI,
ISBN 0 900918 29 2) which is available in the
Third World First collection held in the
Haldane section of the central library.
Jacob
The Facts
The table below was compiled for interview
with 755 workers who had escaped from
their employers:
Psychological abuse
88%
Physical abuse
38%
Sexual assault or rape, including attempted
or threatened
11 % •
No regular food: given left-overs, or other-
wise regularly denied food.
61%
Not having a bedroom: forced to sleep in a
hallway, kitchen, bathroom or store-room.
51%
Not having a bed
43%
Imprisonment: denied permission to leave
the house, or allowed out only with a chap-
erone.
34%
Not paid regularly
55% ~
Paid less than agreed in the contract
58%
Passport confiscated by employer, and not
obtainable on departure from employment
63%
Denial of time off from duties
90%
Average number of
hours worked in a day:
1 7.2 hours

