O f M i c e , M e n a n d M a d C o w s
Current work on genetically altered mice may give us a clue to the link between CJD and BSE
D
o mad cows make mad men?
How do you prove that BSE
will or won't lead to CJD?
Feeding your daughter beef-
burgers doesn't prove that beef is safe,
and the fact that some dairy farmers
have contracted CJD is not evidence
that there is a link to BSE.
In December last year, Sir Bernard Tomlinson,
an Oxford neurologist, said that he would not
eat beef because it just wasn't worth taking the
risk. This started off the BSE debate once again
and a spate of stories about the clangers of eating
beef hit the press. The latest news is that recent
research at Imperial College indicated that BSE
could not cross the species barrier to cause C J D .
The research, headed by Professor John
Collinge, was published in Nature magazine.
What work has really been carried out and what
comfort, if any, can we take from it?
The main problem with research into BSE and
CJD is finding a sensible way to study the possi-
ble links. The incubation time of C J D is some-
times as long as several decades. This is too long
to wait and see if the incidence of C J D will
increase dramatically amongst the nation's beef
eaters. Humans are not practical subjects for
investigation. Professor Collinge and his team
(known as the Prion Disease Group) are work-
ing on this problem by using mice. The mice
have been genetically modified to express
human prion proteins instead of, or as well as,
mouse prion proteins. D r Collinge explains
"These genetically modified mice now allow us
to study C J D in a detailed way that has not been
possible before."
So far the Prion Group have given the results
of two experiments; one with C J D prions and
the other with BSE. In the first experiment, the
team injected C J D prions into four types of
mice: two having different amounts of human
prion proteins and two with only mouse prion
proteins. This way the team could see how
human prion proteins reacted to C J D prions
when present in mice. They discovered that the
more human prions the mice expressed, the
sooner they developed the disease. The mice
with only mouse prion proteins survived around
200 days longer than the "human" mice. This
experiment established that there must be a
species compatibility for efficient interaction of
prions with prion proteins.
The team then moved onto working with
BSE. Mice with various mixtures of human and
mouse prion proteins were injected with cow
prions. There was no significant difference in
incubation times for the disease in the mice.
However, when the brain extracts of the mice
were examined, only mouse prions were detect-
ed. So it would appear that human prion pro-
teins do not interact with cow prions. BSE
appeared only to cross the species barrier with
mouse prion proteins and not the human equiv-
alent.
BSE has also been injected into mice express-
ing only human prion proteins. After 268 days
the mice are still alive. This does not yet provide
conclusive evidence that humans will not devel-
op CJD-like diseases from eating infected beef.
We must wait for the mice to die of old age (a
further 700 days), to be sure that they have not
contracted the disease. Even if the mice do not
fall ill, just one altered gene does not make a
mouse human.
There may be many more factors at work in
the transmission of BSE to humans. "The cur-
rent results are certainly not a definitive answer
with regard to human risk, nor could they be."
says Collinge.
Nat Barb
which cause degeneration of the hi
s but haw twi > important differ m<
1

