12 Clubs and Societies
Theatre West End's Exploits at the 1993
Edinburgh Festival
There is a city which houses the largest and
longest party in the world every summer. A
place where you can watch performances by
Steven Berkoff or The Doug Anthony Allstars,
hear music by Sam Brown or The Honkin' Hep
Cats, see The Little Shop of Horrors or The
Marvellous Mechanical Mouse Organ. From
Shakespeare for Breakfast to Sex After Supper,
the Edinburgh Festival Fringe has got it all.
This August marked the tenth anniversary of
Theatre West End's participation on the Fringe
with three shows: Pinter's The Homecoming;
Campion's Singing in the Wilderness and Can
You Hear the Music; plus our very own version
of The Pied Piper.
Chamber Music
Are you a musician Do you want to meet other
musicians? At the Chamber Music Society we
aim to provide a place for instrumentalists to
meet and singers to form small groups and make
beautiful music. We welcome any instruments
and voices. If there are any budding conductors
out there, you could even start a larger group,
perhaps a flute choir or a brass ensemble. There
will be a concert at the end of term (7th
December) so you can show off all your hard
work. So, whatever your instrument or musical
interest, come to our first meeting on Friday 8th
October at 7pm-10pm in the Read Lecture
Theatre, Sherfield Building, and bring the tools
of your trade. For further details, please contact
Kim Dyos, Materials PG ext 6018.
Chicago Show
If you missed us at Freshers' Fair but would
like to join in, come along to some of our events.
The preparations for our major show,
Chicago start on Monday 11th October at
7.30pm in the Union Concert Hall with a sing
through and introductions to the show followed
by a cold drink or three in the bar. A l l you need
to bring along are a set of vocal chords
(preferably your own) and with no auditions for
the chorus you don't even need to be able to
sing! If you do feel yourself to be a budding
starlet auditions are 16th and 17th October.
As for what happens when a show's actually
staged, Opposites Attract is a must for
discovering all the aspects of OpSoc from
costumes and make-up to rigging and set
building. The fun all starts at 2pm on Saturday
16th October in the J C R and continues on
Sunday 17th at 1pm in the Union Concert Hall.
A l l this is rounded off with the one off
performance of Opposites Attract followed by
the New Year Party on Monday 18th October in
the Union Concert Hall.
Keep an eye on the Diary section of Felix for
other OpSoc dates.
Each show was produced, directed and
performed by Imperial College students; we
even built the theatre which housed them. This
year, we were host to the Guardian International
Student Drama Award winners, the Cambridge
Mummers. Our own shows were also well
received, with large audiences and good reviews.
Working in the theatre was fun, whether it
involved constructing the stage, making props,
working in the Box Office, building the Box
Office or being on Front Of House. Once the
festival had begun, only a few hours a day were
spent working at the venue, leaving the rest of
the day free. As Fringe performers, we joined
the Fringe Club (aka the Edinburgh University
Students' Union) which offered free bands and
cabaret, had three bars and didn't stop serving
drinks until three o'clock in the morning!
If you are interested in becoming involved
with Theatre West End, you can find us in the
DramSoc Storeroom in the Union Building
every lunchtime, or come to the DramSoc party
on Sunday in the Concert Hall. Do not worry if
you have had no experience, performing at the
Edinburgh Festival is an opportunity you are
unlikely to have had before and almost certainly
will not get again. We are always willing to take
anyone with little or no knowledge of theatre
work.
1 4 t h O c t o b e r
The Smashing Pumpkins' latest album is reviewed on page 6

