Clubs and Societies 13
Clubs & Societies Column
by Charlie Leary, Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
The coming week will see most clubs and
societies starting their activities programme.
Many offer a Freshers Buffet at lunchtime where
you can find out more about what they do and
get a chance to meet the members of that
society. At Freshers Fair you will have signed up
with the ones you are interested in and they will
be sending details of their meetings through your
department pigeon holes.
No club is allowed to take money at Freshers
Fair, they can only get people to sign up. This
means that you can find out about that society
both by what you are told at Freshers Fair and by
attending the first club function. Then it is up to
you whether you like what you see and you want
to join. Most clubs cost less than £10 to join for
the year so it is not an enormous amount to pay
for any activity.
There are two new clubs setting up that will
not be at Freshers Fair. One is the Yoga Club,
the other is the Transcendental Meditation
Society. Both have people willing to organise
the meetings and events, but they need twenty
signatures of people wanting to join. There are
lists in the Union Office, so if you are interested
in joining either of these then please come in and
sign up.
Transcendental meditation T M is a simple,
natural and effortless mental technique that
enables the mind and body to attain deep rest.
Over 550 scientific studies have shown T M to be
an effective technique for stress reduction.
Decreased metabolic rate, heart rate and breath
rate are immediately measurable physical
benefits. Scientific studies have shown T M to be
remarkably effective in widening the use of our
mental potential. A free introductory talk will be
held in the Brown Committee Room, level 3,
Students Union Building on Thursday October
14 at 7:30pm.
The Yoga Club want to set up weekly classes
both for the beginner and the more experienced.
The club will also provide a good social
environment for likeminded people aswell as the
classes themselves. As a club starting up the
membership will decide how the club operates
so it is an excellent opportunity to have a hand in
shaping a new Union Society.
One of the longest established societies,
Dramatic Society, have been exceptionally busy
over the past week. They are the unsung heroes
of the Carnival and Freshers Ball, having
worked above and beyond the call of duty
rigging the lighting for these events and
Tiddlywinking and
Tiddlydrinking
Now that your first week of the new term at
college is nearly over, what better way to spend
the weekend than going out and discovering a
bit of London with your new found friends. The
best way to do this is with R A G . Come and
tiddlywink down Oxford Street with hundreds of
other crazy students and raise loads of money
for Action Aid whilst having fun.
After this we all go off to a pub the name of
which will be withheld until the last possible
moment - to partake in the ultimate student
challenge: Drink-a-pub-dry! This involves all
the day's collectors descending upon this
innocent pub with the intention of emptying all
bottles (alcoholic and non-alcoholic) and
shutting off all the taps. Last year we managed
to empty most of the barrels at the but we can
beat that and do better, so come along and join
in, if you don't you'll regret it.
Also this year the event to get involved in
(apart from R A G Week) is the inter-hall
competition. This gives you a chance to win a
barrel of beer for your hall team. The hall that
raised the most money per resident wins this
amazing event and the envy of all the other
halls.
So, importantly, come to Tiddlywinks
tomorrow, Saturday 9th. Sign in at your C C U
offices at 10.15am. If you don't you'll get
woken up by 'Wakey, Wakey Southside'. Then
at 2.30pm you'll get whisked off to a secret
destination to meet people and drink lots.
See you there.
Jane, R A G Chair
Make The Connection
The Pimlico Connection is a tutoring scheme
where students act as volunteer tutors in local
primary and secondary schools. The tutoring
idea aims to solve one of Britain's biggest
educational problems, that of low ambition
among teenagers. Tutoring is also seen as a
method of promoting science and technology, of
encouraging pupils to get more out of education,
and to stay on in education after sixteen.
By joining the scheme, you would be helping
others to learn and learn yourself about working
with others, communication and science.
Last year saw an exciting new development
involving the use of student interpreters at the
Science Museum. With a grant from the Nuffield
Foundation, the initiative should expand during
1993/94 to include more students and schools
from across London.
If you would like to get involved then come
along to one of the no obligation briefing
sessions below or to one of the training sessions
which are necessary before you start tutoring.
operating it on the night. A l l to often jobs like
this go without recognition, but without their
help these events would probably never happen.
Many thanks must go to Andrew Nu for
coordinating the whole thing and to the rest of
the Dramsoc Crew for their work. The
entertainments throughout Freshers Week were
booked and coordinated by Ents. Many thanks to
all the people who helped out with those events.
Dramsoc will be performing their first play of
the year towards the end of this term. They
perform these shows ontop of all the work they
do in conjunction with Ents and the gigs in the
Lounge with Jazz & Rock. They are always on
the lookout for new recruits to help with both the
technical and performance sides. Don't worry if
you have no experience, most people start off
that way and the more experienced members are
more than willing to teach the new recruits.
This column in Felix will feature what's
going on in the clubs and societies world
throughout the year. If you have not signed up at
Freshers Fair then it is still not too late. The
Union Office has all the Details of clubs and
societies so feel free to come in and find out
more about the clubs that interest you.
Rag Term Timetable
Sat 9th Oct Tiddlywinks,
Drink-a-pub-dry
Wed 14th Oct Rag Freshers' Party
Sat 16th Oct Monopoly, Mencap Party
Sat 23rd Oct Rag Raid
Sat 30th Oct Mag 7
Wed 3rd Nov Rag Week Starts
Wed 3rd Nov RCS Beer Festival
Thu 4th Nov Slave Auction
Fri 5th Nov Guilds Carnival
Sat 6th Nov Halls Dirty Dozen
Sun 7th Nov Bungee Jump
Mon 8th Nov Mines Dirty Disco
Tue 9th Nov Hypnosis & Party
Wed 10th Nov Rag Bar Night
Thu 11th Nov Film Night
Fri 12th Nov Rag Bash
Sat 13th Nov Sponsored Nude Kamikaze
Parachute Jump
Briefing Sessions
Mon 11th / Wed 13th / Fri 15th October
lpm - 1.20pm
Rm318D, Mechanical Engineering
Training Sessions
Wed 13th October, 2pm - 5.30pm
Thu 14th October, 6pm - 8.30pm
Room 703, Mechanical Engineering
For more information contact:
Betty Caplan, Pimlico Connection Coordinator
Ixvel 3, Mechanical Engineering Building
Look out for a Sailing Club article next week

