14 Clubs and Societies
Introducing the Japan Society
Well, the time has arrived when once again you
have to decide which societies to choose from.
So here I am writing this article for our beloved
Felix, trying to persuade you that our society is
worth looking at.
The Japan Society exists for both Japanese
students and those of other nationalities. Its main
aims are not only to unite the Japanese
community but also to introduce their culture to
others. Rather than trying to be really boring
about it, we will try to make it as fun and
interesting as possible. This is achieved by
organising loads of social events, where
everybody gets to meet everyone else in, not just
our society, but other related societies.
We have already organised some of our
events and are still planning more. There is a
social meeting every week, currently on
Wednesdays at 1pm in the Ante Room, level 1,
Sherfield Building, where anybody can turn up.
If you aren't sure where this is, ask us at the
Freshers' Gathering (see later in the article). At
these meetings we do some boring things like
discuss coming events and distribute recent
Japanese newspapers (for anybody who can read
them), as well as some more interesting things
like discussing the latest gossip and making fun
of certain committee members (especially me).
There will also be a regular newsletter, about
every two weeks, which will contain information
about coming events and numerous articles on
interesting facts about Japan and its culture.
This year, what is special about our society is
that we are in fact two societies. With the
growing success of Japanese animation (anim6)
and comics (manga) throughout the world, we
have decided to start our own Anime' and Manga
club within our society. If this is a success it will
undoubtedly become its own society, but for the
moment it will be run by us.
Japanese animation and comics are very
different from western style equivalents; they
can be more adult oriented, with deep story lines
and vary from extremely cute to mega blood and
guts, more often than tending towards the latter.
The Japanese Anime' and Manga society will
be holding approximately fortnightly showings
of some of the latest and more popular Anim6,
as well as obtaining information and gossip
about the latest releases from various sources.
We hope to also get hold of various new, as well
as old, manga which will be distributed at our
social gatherings. Currently this year's
membership fee will be £3.00 for both societies.
The Freshers' Gathering, the first event of the
year for Japan Society w i l l take place on
Monday 11th October in the Union Lounge from
12pm-2pm. We hope to serve various samples of
Japanese and non-Japanese food which we hope
will keep you happy for the rest of the day.
(Details cannot be finalised until the Union
management gives us the go ahead!)
This event is the best opportunity to join the
society, by simply paying the membership fee.
We will gladly answer any questions you have
as well as give you our sample newsletter about
the different events we have already lined up,
how we operate and possible future events. We
don't bite, well not all of us anyway.
So, i f you are able to find us, please feel
welcome to come and talk to us, and possibly
become a member. You've got nothing to worry
about; except possibly our president, who has
been known to nip people, especially non
working committee members!
If you've got any questions try e-mailing (if
you know what that is) the president, Taiji, at
to2@doc.ic.ac.uk. or putting a note for the vice
president, Tomoko Isobe, in the Biology
pigeonhole in Beit Quad (on the right as you go
through the archway.
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
the b e s t s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Sta
Call: 071 823 8968
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3 ES
A review of the Czech Music Festival is on page 9

