Feature 15
Don't watch that, watch this!
Tony Grew guides you through the autumn releases and helps you choose
film of your dreams.
Well children, here we are again. Another wet
and horrible term. What, I hear you ask
yourselves, what, you cry as you dribble into the
ear of your new friend in the Union bar and take
another drag of that funny cigarette, which is
quite pleasant really, what is there to do in this
god-awful place?
There are many things which a consenting
adult and the animal of his choice can do to wile
away those lonely winter afternoons, but several
acts of Parliament forbid me to guide you
through the more exciting possibilities.
Suddenly it comes to you in a vision as you
spew the last of your guts into the toilet. The
cinema! That's it! It's warm and dry and the
seats are better for dozing than the ones in the
library. But what to see I hear you cry. Well, I
can help you there children. Are you sitting
comfortably? Then we'll begin.
Tony Scott, the man behind such classics as
Top Gun and The Last Boy Scout is back with a
new thriller written by Reservoir Dogs director
Quentin Tarrantino. In True Romance Christian
Slater and Patricia Arquette star as newly-weds
who decide to honeymoon and smuggle drugs at
the same time. The suitably confused plot then
has them pursued by every sadistic bastard
currently working in Hollywood, including
Dennis Hopper, Christopher Walken, Gary
Oldman and Val Kilmer.
Altogether more light-hearted is R o b i n
Hood, Men in Tights, Mel Brooks' satire on the
vomitous Kevin 'thought it was neat' Costner
history re-write of a similar title, which deserves
ridicule if only for being the reason Bryan
Adams once again became socially acceptable.
That film was so noble and nice and politically
correct, and our Kev was so very predictable in
the lead, that I kept on expecting him to build a
baseball field or try and nail Capone. Anyway,
he is well and truly lampooned here, with the
excellent Cary Elwes in the tights and fighting
evil on all sides with not a hair out of place.
Sean Connery is back on form starring as a
wise and wily cop in Rising Sun, a thriller about
a murder in a Japanese company. He is teamed
with the decidedly Japan-bashing Wesley
Snipes. These are the sort of parts being turned
down by Clint since Unforgiven, the western for
men who like to get in touch with their feminine
side, but yet again Sean excels, not even
bothering with an accent or anything as poncy as
that. What a guy.
Also of interest to the more action-oriented of
you may be Demolition Man, with Stallone and
Snipes as cop and robber frozen in time and then
accidentally released into the crime-free Los
Angeles of 2032 (yeah, right). The screenplay is
from the writer of Heathers and Batman Returns
and is apparently very exciting, if a little weird. I
mean, how does he think of these things, and
doesn't the medication help?
There is always Dave, which stars Kevin
Kevin Costner, who isn't starring in Robin Hood, Men in Tights
Kline as a man who looks exactly like the US
president. It could be worse. You could be a man
who looks like his daughter. Many boxers do
after a few years. Basically he stands in when
the Chief is indisposed and starts to try and
change things. Sigourney Weaver is the First
Lady.
If you think that sounds unlikely, try and
work out the plot of Coneheads, which
apparently concerns the life of a normal family
all of whose heads are conical. It stars Dan
Aykroyd and Jane Curtin, who is rumoured to
have been one of Kate and Allie, but no-one can
remember which. Or maybe nobody wants to
admit to watching it. The idea comes from an
old Saturday Night Live sketch, which is the
place that launched the short career of Mike
Myers, better known as Wayne. I say short
because his latest offering is bound to ensure he
never works again. It goes by the name of So I
Married an Axe Murderer and judging by its
box office takings I'll bet he wished he had done
just that.
There are some more sublime offerings in
store for those of you who are that way inclined,
though at a good science college like this you
should be ashamed of yourself, notably the long-
delayed Age of Innocence. Directed by Martin
Scorcese, this adaptation of the classic novel set
in the polite society of 1870s New York is being
tipped for Oscars even before its release. The
fact that the stars are easy on the eye can't hurt
the film either, with Michelle Pfieffer and Daniel
Day Lewis in the lead roles. We also have the
new Merchant-Ivory film Remains of the Day
on its way, starring the great luvvies of the
modern cinema Tony Hopkins and E m
Thompson. And apparently Superman is in it
too, but hopefully he will be dressed more
tastefully on this occasion.
The young and acclaimed director of the
1991 smash Boyz 'n' the Hood has seemingly
outdone himself with his second feature Poetic
Justice, which stars Janet Jackson as a
hairdresser-poet looking for love in the ghetto.
On a similar theme the Hughes brothers' debut
Menace II Society has also been praised, and
will appear as part of the London Film Festival,
running from 4th to 21st of November this year
and is well worth a look.
I was going to mention Kalifornia but I don't
approve of the spelling and anyway it's got the
professionally ugly Juliette Lewis in it and I
know how much she can upset some people's
stomachs. So instead I will warn you against the
imminent arrival of Look Who's Talking Now.
You are advised to take evasive action
immediately.
Music reviews can be found on pages 6 and 7

