16 Feature
The Haldane Collection: An A-Z
Need a good book, need another grant cheque, need a whole new you? As
ever, Felix has harkened to your prayers! Janet Smith, Haldane Librarian,
answers all your burning questions below. Well, she covers the subject of
books pretty thoroughly anyway...
The reading area inside the Haldane Library
Humanities and Recreation at Imperial
New students may not have realised that one of
the advantages of Imperial is its excellent range
of recreational and cultural activities, which are
backed up by corresponding library facilities.
The Haldane Collection, which is now part of
the Central Library, has a history dating to the
early part of this century, when H G Wells urged
students "to show that they were not barbarians".
A literary collection was set up by the
Student Union, and in the 1950s, its scope was
widened to provide for the courses taught in
what is now known as the Humanities
Programme. Consequently, Imperial College has
a wide ranging collection of humanities and
general reading material (about 35,000 books
with 70 newspaper and periodical subscriptions)
as well as a music collection including 10,000
sound recordings.
Imperial College's commitment to liberal
education is evident from the naming of the
collection in honour of R B Haldane, statesman,
philosopher and educationalist, who helped
bring about the merger of Imperial College's
constituent colleges. His is the rather dark
portrait that adds some historical atmosphere to
the otherwise modern and informal reading area.
The Contents
The Haldane aims to cater for all tastes - from
Aristotle to Amateur Photographer - and the best
way to discover its diversity is to come and see.
There are good collections on history, politics,
travel, biography, music, art, philosophy, and
literature, and well-used sections on consumer
matters, sport, genealogy, transport, religion, and
humour. Browsing will uncover specialities or
curiosities from giants to Egyptian grammar.
There is a wide range of fiction, popular authors
including Umberto Eco, Ruth Rendell, and Tom
Wolfe. The fiction collection is financed by the
Student Union and usually selected by a student
buyer.
Daily newspapers (The Times, Financial
Times, Guardian, Independent, Telegraph, Le
Monde, Frankfurter Allgemeine) are taken, as
well as a wide range of magazines and
periodicals (including Autocar and Motor,
Private Eye, Newsweek, Great Outdoors and
Which?), some of them subscribed to by the
Student Union. Some periodicals support taught
courses, notably history journals, Stern and
L'Express.
There are Ordnance Survey and other maps,
atlases and a good reference collection. The
library also receives a selection of publicity for
theatres, concert halls and other events in
London.
Music and Sound Recordings
The Student Union also finances and selects a
collection of jazz, folk, and pop recordings on
cassette and compact disc. The strength of the
classical music collection (which includes
printed music, especially chamber music parts,
vocal scores, and miniature scores) lies in the
recordings collection of CDs, cassettes and LPs.
This aims to satisfy the more experienced
listener, as well as to stimulate the new. Those
who imagine all classical composers to be dull
and proper should try our first CD to arrive with
a parental guidance sticker, The Art of Bawdy
Song (lots of Purcell)!
There is a good range of language courses on
cassette, as well as some spoken word
recordings, including Shakespeare.
Cultural Events
The Haldane has hosted poetry and novel
readings in the past, and a varied programme of
events is planned for this year. On 3rd
November at 5.30pm there will be an excellent
opportunity to get to know one of our closest
neighbours, the National Sound Archive, when
Timothy Day will introduce some of the
recorded treasures from the Archive's
collections. In addition, the 1890s Society will
be welcome. The first of these will be a talk by
Dr G Krishnamurti, 'Books Illustrators of the
1890s' on 27th October at 7pm, which will be
accompanied by an exhibition from 4th to 29th
October. On November 24th, Michael Holroyd
will speak on 'The Ethics of Biography' at 7pm
and we look forward to other 1890s Society
events in the spring and summer terms.
Whereabouts and Opening Hours
The Haldane Collection has recently been
relocated to Level 1 of the Central Library, and
is easy to spot from the Queen's Lawn. It has the
same opening hours as the Central Library (for
details see library entrance) including evenings
and Saturdays during term. It is open to all
members of Imperial College and most of its
contents can be borrowed using the Central
Library ticket.
And Finally...
We welcome new users, and encourage you to
make suggestions for purchase. We also hope
that you will bring your enquiries; library staff
like to be challenged, so please fire your
questions, whether you want a list of the last
decade's Oscar winners, you cannot remember
who said "Many people would sooner die than
think" or if you hope to find a publication
containing viola music by Monsieur de
Saint-Colombe. The Haldane staff are Janet
Smith, Jane Agnew, and David Lascelles. We
look forward to meeting you
Janet Smith
Haldane Librarian
The Young Americans is reviewed on page 8

