Imperial College Union 17
What's It All About?
Andy Wensley, Imperial College Union President, explains the ins and outs o
Union General Meetings and shows that motions aren't that tricky after all.
Motion to Imperial College Union on
Affiliation to the National Union of Students .
Imperial College Union notes:
1. Imperial College Union is not affiliated to the NUS.
2. Almost every student union in the country is affiliated to the NUS.
The notes contain thefacts relevant to the motion, background information really.
Imperial College Union believes:
1. Being affiliated to the NUS offers national representation.
2. Being affiliated offers students a wider variety of discount deals.
These are the reasons for raising the motion, in this case, the belief of better represe
better discounts.
Imperial College Union resolves:
1. That the Union should hold a campus wide referendum to decide whether to affiliate.
This will be the position that the Union will take ifthe motion is passed.
Imperial College Union Instructs:
l.The Union Executive to organise campus wide referendum and to publicise the advantages and
disadvantages of affiliation.
This is how the motion or policy is to be turned into action, in this case by the Executive
That's the first week out of the way, only about
30 more to go! I do hope that all of your
Freshers week's dreams were granted and you
aren't too tired to face what's left of the year.
Always keep an eye out for events advertised in
the Felix, Union fliers and posters everywhere.
Apart from the social side that we've seen
this week, there is so much more on the
representation and governing parts of Imperial
College Union than you would see in Freshers
Week.
Imperial College Union is governed by the
General Meeting of all it's members, that's you
as students. A t these meetings points are
debated, policy & aims are decided upon and
motions are passed. The policy passed at a
Union General Meeting is then acted upon by
the Executive who will report back on their
progress at later Meetings. Also sabbaticals and
other officers of the Union report on what
they've been up to, on the work in hand and
their successes (hopefully!). This meeting
comes together every month at a date advertised,
usually two weeks before, like the advert below.
Any member of the Union can raise motions
to be debated. But what's a motion, I hear you
cry. If you've picked up the most excellent
Union handbook when you registered, you'll
find that there's one on page 31. If not, do not
fret. For your delight and delectation, a sample
motion is shown in the box on the right. This
one is concerned with affiliation to the National
Union of Students (NUS). A 'running
commentary' explaining each bit is given in
italics underneath.
Hopefully this has made it understandable. If
you have any problems, just ask one of the
sabbaticals. Remember that you'll find them in
the Union Offices in the Union Building, Beit
Quad.
A l l motions have to be submitted to the
Union Office at least seven days before the
General Meeting is to be held.
See you then!
N.B. In the past, there have been motions on
every subject under the sun, serious, frivolous or
down right silly. Keep your eyes peeled for the
motions going into the next General Meeting.
Union General Meeting
Friday 22nd October,1pm
JCR, Sherfield Building
Deadlinefor motions: Friday 15 October.
Please hand all motions in at the Union office.
Elections Motions Debate
Take your Union ID card if you want to vote at the UGM

