18 Letters
Islam - how to understand it
To the Editor,
As students of one of the most respected
academic institutions in the world, one would
expect Imperial College to produce the 'cream
of the crop' when it comes to intellectuals.
Since intellect and logic both play a part in
the basic, mundane aspects of life and the most
complex, why is it that we settle for mere
speculation on man, life and the universe? The
Evolution Theory is still a theory, even some
recent scientists have evidence to refute it. Many
religions, ideologies, philosophies are believed
by people despite the numerous contradictions
present within them.
However, Islam is different. It has definite
proof that the Qur'an is the word of God, that
God exists and that the Prophet Muhammad was
the messenger of God. I welcome anyone to
discuss these issues and invite anyone to try and
disprove the truth of Islam.
Many people look at the media's portrayal of
Islam but one can only find out about Islam by
speaking to Muslims or by looking at the
sources of Islam. I'm sure you would find a big
Dear Beccy,
I was one of the unfortunate students who
had to take re-sits. I decided to stay in College
accommodation - not only would that be
convenient, but it would have been difficult to
stay with friends since most of them aren't
around, and if that was possible the conditions
would hardly have been ideal for revision.
As I had to find out, however, one night in
Southside Halls cost me £22.1 don't really mind
Imperial College ripping off students -
additional income will in the end profit the
Tai Chi
Thursday 6.30pm-7.30pm
Union Dining Hall
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
Kensington SW7
-Improve mental focus
-Relieve tension
-Increase energy
-Improve health
For further information call
071-589 5111 ext 5076
difference.
We always hear that Islam oppresses women.
Why don't people ask these so-called oppressed
women whether they feel oppressed?
Oppression against women is far greater in this
country where women are treated as sex objects
and are constantly bombarded by the media to
be pressured into worrying about their looks,
their weight and basically their physical
features. The statistics for rape, for anorexia,
bulimia how what this society views women
(sic).
When finding the truth, one should not let
their whims and desires dominate over one's
thought. At 8am in the morning, our emotional
whims would want us to go back to sleep yet our
thought would tell us to attend the 9am lecture.
If one looks at Islam intellectually rather than
emotionally one would understand it properly.
As human beings, we should know that life is
a serious thing and therefore just sitting back
and not trying to seek the truth would make us
less than animals.
Saleem Chagtai, Maths 3.
students (hopefully). But isn't the meaning of
College accommodation to provide a reasonably
cheap stay in London? I'm sure for this price I
could have found a reasonable hotel if I had had
the nerves and time to look around a bit, so why
aren't there more affordable charges for students
who are forced to take some re- sits? After all,
having to take re-sits is enough punishment for
not having worked during the year; is it really
necessary to have an additional financial burden
- maybe the word 'fine' is more appropriate!
Kristine J Waaler.
Dear Beccy,
I have just read a leaflet that was handed out
at Freshers' Fair by the Islamic Society called
'Christmas - an unholy experience' which says
that Christmas is commercialised - as a Christian
I agree. What I would like to point out is the
number of inaccuracies in it. I was never once at
church taught about the tooth fairy or Santa
Claus, neither is this in the Bible, surprise,
surprise. Christmas to me is an important time to
spend with family, who get together from all
over the country. I do go to church on December
25th, and spend lots of time thinking about its
significance, but a more important date in the
Christian calendar is Easter, remembering the
death and resurrection of Jesus. No one is saying
that these are the exact anniversaries, we don't
Offensive
Review
Dear Miss Land,
I think it is absolutely reprehensible that a
paper such as yours representing the students of
this college with its international community
should publish an offensive, racist remark in the
book review section of Felix (4.10.93). The
book I am referring to is the Little Country by
Charles De Lint, a Canadian shock horror! The
quotation by our astute book critic, Tony Grew,
which shows up his plain ignorance and
possible jealously, nay probably, of other
cultures in this excuse for a review are the
words 'pretentious' and 'shite' in reference to
the fact that he is a 'practising Celtic musician'.
There are many Celtic musicians in this city
and their music is anything but 'shite' they add
life and soul to a grey, sombre, impersonal city.
Also there must be plenty of other Celtic
students in this College who feel much
aggrieved and disgusted at this shallow and pig-
ignorant remark.
On the subject of the book he gives us
precious little about the content. He claims he
muddled through the 650-odd pages just for our
benefit, it looks like he could not muddle
through a Ladybird book let alone a smaller-
sized novel.
Yours sincerely,
James Lynch, PG Year 1.
Southside Shop will
be open on Sunday
from 10am to 2pm
for the convenience
of the hall residents
know, but it is helpful to have a focal time for
each event.
If I had handed out leaflets from the
Chaplaincy stall that had stated as blatantly that
all muslims were wrong about an aspect of their
faith I would have been in trouble. This was a
leaflet that was full of so-called facts and
insinuations to make itself look more credible,
which on further reading proves to be far from
the truth. I hope that the Islamic Society (I
assume it was them as the leaflet was unsigned)
will become more tolerant of other faiths, and
try and use positive methods to sway people
rather than negative.
Yours sincerely,
Laura Burgess, Geology 2.
College Summer
Accommodation Fiasco
Commercialised Christmas?
The deadline for letters is Monday, 6pm

