Letters 19
Editorial
The end of the first week of term and the end of
another edition of Felix. This issue is just a little
bit smaller than the last one (and isn't full of lots
of irritating leaflets that fall out all over the
floor!). I can guarantee that the next issue will
be bigger and hopefully better. If you want
anything to go into the next issue, the deadline
is the end of today. Any later and it won't go in.
In reply to the letter from James Lynch on
the opposite page referring to the book review in
Felix 973, can I point out that Tony Grew is
himself a Celt and is probably in a better
position to criticise Celtic music than a lot of
people. Everyone is entitled to their own
opinions. Bear in mind that they may not be the
same as your own.
I beg to differ with you on your comment
about London. Y o u describe it as a grey,
sombre, impersonal city. There must be plenty
of people in this College who disagree. They
may not feel much aggrieved and disgusted, but,
as I said before, everyone is entitled to their own
opinions. Bear in mind that they may not be the
same as your own.
A l l that's left to say is thank you to Park
Communications for printing the colour pages in
last week's issue.
How It Used To
Dear Ms Land,
I believe I am the oldest student at Imperial
College. Gasps of amazement. I was born in
1942, during what we Oldies call the Second
World War. I first attended IC in 1960, finishing
my degree in Chem Eng in 1963. I stayed on to
take a PhD which I completed in 1966. I then
moved to North Carolina State University for a
year to take some Industrial Engineering courses
to prepare me for the transition to a job in my
family's furniture manufacturing company.
Gasps of disbelief. After more than 25 years in
business I have returned to my alma mater for a
bit of peace and quiet...er, I mean intellectual
stimulation, in the form of an MSc in the History
of Science, most of which, incidentally, seems to
have been written since I left college for the first
time.
While I was at IC in the sixties, John F
Kennedy was assassinated, Winston Churchill
died, The Beatles and the Rolling Stones had
their first hits and the Labour Party won a
general election...but not necessarily in that
order. I queued all night for tickets to a Rolling
Stones concert in the Regent Ballroom in
Brighton. At about the same time, I saw a young
band called Status Quo who sounded promising
in a rowdy sort of way, playing as the warm-up
group to an outfit that never did make it...I can't
remember their name. I married in 1963 and I
Credits
Collators, stickers of H J B Cards and stuffers
of leaflets from last week:
Tim from Tizard, Mike Chamberlain, Penguin,
James Handley, Mellisa A l i , Greg lies, Jon
Jordan, Steve Newhouse.
For this issue:
Andy Thompson, Rose Atkins, Penguin, Steve
Newhouse, Simon Govier, Kamran Malik, Tony
Grew, Owain Bennallack, Jon Jordan, Patrick
Wood, Rachel Mountford, Bratt Anderson, John
Simpson, Janet Smith, John Westwater, Charlie
Leary, Andrew Tseng, Alex Tavener.
Thanks from the President:
Congratulations must go to Matt, Ents Chair, for
organising this week and to all the Ents Crew
for all the work they did. A big round of
applause to Dramsoc for their well smart
lighting. Thanks to the Stewards and College
Security for their work and for the cool heads in
the line of duty. Also thanks to the bar stewards
for the liquid refreshment all evening.
Congratulations to all the clubs for their work
before and during the Freshers' Fair. So to
everyone who has helped in some way to make
this week the best so far, thank you very much.
Be AtI.C.
have three children. M y elder daughter was at
school with the daughter of the keyboard player
with Led Zeppelin. Kiddies' birthday parties at
their house were very musical, as I recall. Your
readers may have heard stories to the effect that
the sexual revolution of the sixties gave rise to
wild excesses of promiscuity, debauchery and
extravagance. Suffice it to say that it is a long
time since I drove a Ferrari or flew to Le
Touquet for lunch.
My children have all grown up and left home.
Sadly, my wife died after a short illness early in
1990. Business had lost its appeal after the long
recession and I was looking for a complete
change of direction. I met a charming young
lady (sorry! a friendly woman with similar
interests) who just happens to have bought a flat
three tube stops from South Ken. Whilst I was
on a sales trip last summer, I picked up a New
Scientist"in which IC was advertising for
students (God, has it come to this?) and now
here I am. I must say that I am very much
looking forward to this academic year. I shall try
to keep you informed about student life as
experienced by the older person...and of course I
would be delighted to hear from any Felix
readers who can remember when beer went up
to 2 bob a pint.
Yours, etc,
Clive Cohen.
CAREERS INFORMATION
There are two Careers Talks this coming week
in the Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley LT213,
lpm - 1.50pm:
Tuesday 12th October: The Application Game
and How To Lose It by Mr Brian Hyde, former
Recruitment Manager of IB. Laughs are
guaranteed!
Thursday 14th October: Graduate Study In
The UK by Dr Andrzej Skapski, Chemistry
Department.
A l l undergraduates and postgraduates are
welcome to attend. No need to book - just turn
up.
The Job Market and other Options is a short
course run on Wednesday 13th October from
2pm to 4pm in Huxley Room 344. Sign up in
the Careers Office.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from
10.00am to 5.15pm Monday to Friday. A Duty
Careers adviser is available for quick queries
from 1.00pm - 2.00pm daily.
S M A L L A D S
Hang by a finger at Mile End Climbing Wall
with Scout and Guide. Meet ant Beit Archway,
Wednesday 13th Octber, lpm.
F O R S A L E
Electric Guitar (with tremolo), hard case, amp
and overdrive. £170 (yum, yum).
Contact Pawan Jaitly, Plasma Physics.
Postgraduate
Mathematical
Advice Centre
Helpline:
ext5752
Dr Geoff Stephenson
Mathematics Dept
The deadline for everything else is Friday, 6pm

