Feature
Dear Fresher...
John Simpson, Director of the Imperial College Careers Service, welcomes
you to Imperial College and gives you some ideas for your own self-
development.
Welcome to Imperial College. The next three or
four years should be among the most interesting
and enjoyable in your life, provided you make
the most of the opportunities available at
College.
You can probably
recall one of the
significant steps in your
life when you entered the
sixth form. Coming to
college is an even more
significant step. You have
more freedom, more
independence and more
opportunities to do your
own thing and to succeed
or fail. If you do not
make some mistakes you will not have learned
anything. Learning from one's own mistakes is
an important part of experience, but don't waste
time re-inventing everything. Instead build on
the experience of others, take advice (it's usually
free), ignore some of it, test it out, accept it or
reject it.
You have already demonstrated some
planning ability by passing ' A ' Levels (or their
equivalent) sufficiently well to be at College.
How are you going to plan the next three, four or
six years? And I'm not talking just about your
academic studies, I'm talking about the start of
the rest of your life.
What do you want to achieve this term?
Making friends is usually high on most people's
list. How? Join clubs and societies, attend
meetings, take up a new sport, develop your
interest. Any of these are likely to bring you into
contact with like-minded students. And there's
always the bar to prop up while seeking
inspiration.
By the end of the summer term in your first
year you will be feeling
the financial pressures of
college. In other words
you're broke! So how
about earning some good
money in the long
vacation. If you leave job
hunting until the vacation
starts you may be too
late. A l l the interesting
and lucrative jobs have
been filled already and
you will be lucky if the
local council wants some grass cutting or the
garden centre needs a dirty pair of hands.
It's well worthwhile doing some preliminary
job hunting between Christmas and Easter. Call
in at the IC Careers Service (Room 310
Sherfield Building) where
you will find information
about vacation training.
Alternatively write to
employers with your C V ,
call in to some local shops
and hotels or see who's
advertising in the local
press.
Vacation jobs can be
most informative. Ideally
they give you the chance to try out some type of
work or future employer that interests you. They
give you experience in job hunting, letter writing
and interviews, as well as a real insight into what
it's like to work for a particular type of
employer. Some even pay you quite well. Jobs
abroad are popular and early applications are
essential. Start by visiting the IC Careers Service
which has a good range of reference books and
addresses.
At the start of the second year you raise your
sights higher. Now is the time to test your skills
in organising something - a social evening for
your department, looking after the finances of a
society or become fixtures secretary of your
club. "That sounds too much like hard work," I
hear you say. Yes, it does take some effort on
your part but generally speaking the more effort
you put into something the more enjoyment you
will get out of it.
Committee work is excellent preparation for
life after college. You learn to set agendas, run
meetings, agree actions, persuade other students
to do things, work within budgets and end up
with a successful event - a party, a visit, a play
or a newspaper. (Think
how much effort went
into producing this
edition of Felix).
Y o u should start
thinking seriously about
your future career before
the end of the second
year. Even if you haven't
a clue what you want to
do, that's no excuse for
delaying finding out about the possibilities. You
are surrounded with sources of information:
friends, family, tutors, careers advisers, libraries.
Start looking. It may be a long process but so is
life. So it really is worth spending more time
thinking about your career than planning your
next weekend or holiday.
The IC Careers Service is a good starting
place. Pop in and speak to the information staff.
Find out about ' P R O S P E C T ' and all the
information booklets and reference files. Have a
look at some of the videos, attend some seminars
on careers, get yourself sorted out.
The Milkround visits by employers are in the
spring term of your final year.
Christmas vacation courses are a popular way
of finding out about careers such as marketing
but only a few major recruiters run them and
they are normally over-subscribed many times.
Stop! I'm only a fresher - why are you telling
me all this?
I'm telling you because you need to start
planning your life now, don't just drift through
College and emerge with a degree and nothing
else. Of course, a degree is important and must
be your first priority. In the meantime, enjoy
yourself.
Imperial College
Careers Service
Room 310
Sherfield Building
For information about vacation training, information booklets,
reference files and videos.
Our staff are always willing to help.
How are you going to
plan the next three,
four or six years . . .
the start of the rest of
your life?
You will he lucky if
the local council
wants some grass
cutting
The autumn season of films are previewed on page 15

