6 Reviews
mttkoam
Smashing Pumpkins
Siamese Dream
The Breeders
Last Splash
The Breeders - looking for a David Hockney
Many years ago an album came out
incorporating the best of the Throwing Muses
and the Pixies. Energy, drifting vocals,
thumping grungy guitars. That album was 'Pod'
by The Breeders. 1993 brings their latest
offering 'Last Splash', and I'm not impressed.
The whole album is lacklustre and plods along.
Altogether they sound bored with the whole
thing. They still sound like the Throwing Muses
more than they do the Pixies, and the basic
ingredients haven't changed. Something is
missing though, and it's that unidentifiable
something that makes the difference between a
mediocre album and a brilliant one. This is not
'Pod', it's not even much of a Splash. On the
other hand, maybe I'm just getting old. (7)
Rachel
Released on 4AD
Intastella
Drifter
What difference does a Happy Monday make?
W e l l , after the forgetfulness induced by
'Drifter', in the Shaun Ryder featured 'Can You
Fly Like You Mean It?' some welcome urban
brashness comes out to play. Are these two
related? Probably not as Shaun's involvement is
pretty minimal, being only some transparent
sounding background vocals. The man himself
may well be a drugged out old sad-o, let's just
thank Intastella for their charity and with N M E
hope that more bands get involved in the 'adopt-
a-destitute-singer' scheme.
Tintin
Released on Planet 3
Following their acclaimed debut 'Gish' and use
of producer Butch Vig, the Smashing Pumpkins
were always likely to be the square peg forced
into the round hole labelled 'Next Nirvana
Thing'. Yet 'Siamese Dream' is too peculiar for
easy M T V rotation and the Pumpkins
themselves are no corporate rock whores.
The feel of 'Siamese Dream' is of the
progressive rock concept album which is why
it's said you can't hum any of their songs. That
may be true for 'Gish' but the current single
success of 'Cherub Rock' and 'Today' would
suggest otherwise. Rather it's the quality of craft
Revolting
Cocks
Linger Fickin Good
Despite the recent popularity of 'industrial
music' and the subsequent deification of RevCo
headman A l Jourgensen (also Ministry), it
seems that the new album is a backlash against
that genre of music.
The opening track ' G i l a Copter' is a
samplethon over which acid-guru Timothy
Leary narrates. It is probably intended to
provoke extreme emotions or reactions, but on
repeated playing it is an incessant drove. Still,
occasionally they hit the targets as with the
outrageous Rod Stewart cover 'Do Y a Think
I'm Sexy'. RevCo aren't short of ideas, they
stretch them to the limit and it ends up an
indistinguishable mass. (7)
Bratt Anderson
Released on Devotion
Mother Earth
Grow Your Own
A slow jazzy twaggle lopes over the horizon
like the lazy summer afternoons we've left
behind. Electric guitars swing in through the
clouds and provide some extra wavey energy,
but really who cares? Down goes another half
mixed cocktail of laid back coolness.
Tintin
Released on Acid Jazz
which is evident. You could describe some of
these tracks as instrumentals without vocals, the
most noticeable trademarks being the long
haunting intros. They suggest early purpose and
confidence even before we hunker down to the
actual gutwork. For example, the swaggered
power of 'Hummer' is all the more startling
because of the opening fragility. 'Rocket' drops
a shoulder and swerves into a playsound of buzz
guitars; its deep wrenching theme "I shall be
free", in a rocking world at least. 'Soma' reveals
a pulsating song where time brings the
characteristic guitar explosion. We're taken to
the edge of screaming rawity and dragged back
still screaming into solitude. 'Spaceboy' is a
lament. But a lament to what? As with most of
'Siamese Dream' you don't really know. Billy
Corgan's not so much ramming down our
throats as letting us uncork our own bottles.
We end on 'Luna', which is psychedelia for
the 1990s. Our trip has landed safety. After the
emotional outcasting which has preceded, Billy
takes us to his recent marriage with a whisper of
"I'm in love with you". Superslut to Cherub -
it's enough to make a grown man dream. (9)
Tintin
Released on Hut Records
iin
Paul Weller
Wildwood
While it's not his fault, Paul Weller is generally
viewed with the dreary suspicion afforded to a
ex-political iconoclast. There was angry
credibility in The Jam but it got diluted by
association with The Style Council and
especially the ill-founded Red Wedge.
Still, on his second solo album there is the
rich feeling of a rebirth. The shiny territory of
the 1980s has been replaced in an organic
awakening, both in song theme and choice of
instruments. It's not really retro though, the use
of wurlitzer, melletron, moog and stylophone
are all built into a contemporary fabric of
reminiscence. This is a man asking questions of
himself as in the pointed 'Has M y Fire Really
Gone Out?' and complete with pumping strutful
boogie in 'Can Y o u Heal Us? (Holy Man)'.
Whilst other highlights of the rustic slice are the
more straightforward rock of "The Weaver' and
the open fields of 'Shadow Of The Sun' the
whole album is not fully focused. Still Paul
Weller is back with careless regard, but
continuing to plough his own furrow. (6)
Tintin
Released on Go! Discs
Read all about the Haldane Library on page 16

