8 Reviews
The Young
Americans
Starring: Harvey Keitel
Director:. Danny Cannon
Crap appears to be the new movement in British
film and at the start, The Young Americans
appears to more than belong to this new wave. It
adheres to every clich6 about gangsters and
American cops in the book and a few more
which are under consideration for the next issue.
So, for example, we have the clean-cut kid
who has to balance loyalty with the public good,
the honest gangsters versus the evil American
drug-dealers, the cop who uses unconventional
methods to get the undoubted bad-guys and has
marital problems related to his work.
Yet when you sit back and enjoy the
spectacle, you will realise that what you are
looking at is one of the most enterprising and
technically assured debuts of recent years.
The plot is complicated and confusing, but it
is worth the effort. A spate of gangland killings
appear to have left Scotland Yard puzzled. Then
DEA agent and all-round American hero John
Harris (Harvey Keitel) arrives from Los Angeles
as an adviser. He quickly becomes deeply
involved in the case and when the two cops
assigned to 'mind' him during his stay are
Short films may not immediately appeal to you,
unless you are under three feet tall of course.
Now that we have got the very poor joke out
of the way, we can get on to the serious business
of short features, with many of the best in the
genre on show at the Barbican over the next
week. There are over 300 to choose from, with
many intriguing titles to choose from, among
them Vibroboy, The Bruce Diet and The
Ketchupped Family.
The best offering is a 25 minute Scottish film
starring Richard E Grant and Phyllis Logan
(who used to play Lady Jane in 'Lovejoy' but
she doesn't like to talk about it). Franz Kafka's
It's A Wonderful Life is a witty and refreshingly
bizarre foray into the weird world of the famous
surrealist author. He is desperately trying to
finish the first sentence of his new novel
'Metamorphosis' but he can't seem to find the
inspiration he needs. Exacerbating the situation
are a range of hilariously strange characters.
Among them are a psychotic butcher who has
lost his pet cockroach and a flat full of dancing
maidens. This film can't be recommended
highly enough. It marks the directorial debut of
brutally murdered in front of him he vows to
solve the mystery.
Reluctantly helped by a young local boy,
Christian, who hates the drug violence all around
him, he discovers that a local hood and nightclub
owner is recruiting the young off the street to do
his dirty work. But all is not as it seems.
Meanwhile Christian is in love.
This all culminates in the inevitable
nail-biting conclusion, with Harris finding an
unexpected ally.
There is nothing suprising in the plot, but
then again there is no reason that there should
be. It is understandable that this film should
have received some criticism; after all, no-one
Peter Capaldi, who also wrote the piece. Soft
Top, Hard Shoulder, which he also wrote, won
the Audience Award at the London Film
Festival last year and was widely critically
acclaimed. Here he shows himself to be an
excellent director. The whole production is
infused with a professionalism and confidence
surprising when you learn it cost only £30,000
to make.
Other highlights of the festival include A
Sense Of History, a new short from 'Life Is
Sweet' director Mike Leigh, two from the
controversial French director Cyril Collard and
two films from this year's winner of the Camera
D'Or at Cannes, Tran Ahn Hung.
Prizes are being awarded in several
categories by Time Out, the B B C and CIC,
including a trip to L A to meet with producers for
the winner of the Best Production award.
The whole festival, which runs from 15th to
21st of October at the Barbican cinemas is £3
admission and the best night to go is the first
one. Several of the directors will be there and
you may even get to talk to some of them!
Tony
could claim it is perfect. Yet the sheer
confidence of the entire experience helped to
carry it off. Particular praise is due to the young
leads, Craig Kelly and Thandie Newton, as well
as the cinematographer Vernon Layton. His use
of widescreen is both stylish and functional and
London looks more real, up-front and beautiful
than I have ever seen it. The recreation of the
club scene is, admittedly haphazard, but then it
is notoriously difficult to try and authentically
replicate an 'atmosphere'.
So, even though it is not flawless, The Young
Americans is well worth a look.
Tony
Yarrow - An
Autumn Tale
Charles de Lint
This book is described as a fantasy tale set in the
modern world. Basically, the heroine, Cat, lives
in the modern world and dreams in a fantasy
world. Then someone comes along and steals
her dreams. No dreams, no fantasy world - oh
dear.
Sarcasm aside, this is not a particularly
gripping book. This is the second book by this
author reviewed by Felix (see Felix 973) and
two separate reviewers can't be wrong. May I
suggest you take up fishing, M r Lint?
In case I haven't made it clear yet, don't
bother buying this book!
Rachel
Published by: Pan
Price: £4.99 (paperback)
British Short Film Festival
Read about what Theatre West End have been up to on page 12

