Reviews 9
The Rape of
Lucretia
Britten's powerful and intimate opera, The Rape
of Lucretia, was not meant for theatres as large
as the Coliseum, where it's being revived by
ENO. Only the centre of the stage is used; the
set, a moveable gantry surmounting two pairs of
sliding screens, evokes Changi jail more than it
does ancient Rome. The minimalist production
focuses one's attention entirely on the
performers, and a few minor shortcomings are
enough to prevent the first act taking full flight:
Kim Begley, in the role of the Male Chorus,
has a fine and clear voice, but fails to illuminate
the text as Peter Pears does for the composer's
Decca recording. As Collatinus, Lucretia's
husband, Richard Van Allan is a dignified and
imposing presence, but his gravelly voice robs
'Those Who Love' of its magic. And the linen-
folding scene is just not relaxed and quiet
enough - here as elsewhere, Yvonne Barclay's
Lucia has the notes, but her vibrato is
indiscriminate and inappropriate.
But these are merely critic's carpings, and all
such pedantic objections weigh as nothing
against the magnificence of Jean Rigby's
Lucretia in A c t II; her rich, dark mezzo,
spontaneous colouring of words and dramatic
involvement make for a portrayal of almost
unbearable intensity. The final scene is
profoundly moving.
Earlier, Peter Coleman-Wright has given us
an unpleasant and fascinating Tarquinius, both
lyrical would-be seducer and spoiled, vengeful
• I
child (how he was wasted in 'Inquest of Love';
I await his Onegin with interest). Conductor
David Parry's account of the score is revealingly
detailed and, from the lush and pregnant 'sleep'
interlude to the tragic finale, wholly engrossing.
Patrick Wood
At the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, at 7.30 pm
on the 8th, 11th, 14th and 21st of October. Box
office (071) 836 3161; tickets from £6 on the
day.
Czech Festival
The South Bank Centre's Czech Festival, and
their International Orchestra Season, opened last
Saturday with Smetana's M a Vlast. This great
cycle of six interconnected tone-poems
celebrating the Czech nation was receiving its
first performance in the Royal Festival Hall. Not
surprising, given that on every previous occasion
within living memory that the Czech
Philharmonic Orchestra have visited London,
they've played Dvorak's 'New W o r l d '
Symphony. Well, I'm exaggerating (slightly),
but it's certainly true that since being pipped at
the post for the Hovis contract, Smetana has
remained in the shadow of his younger
compatriot. It was doubly refreshing therefore to
be able to experience this rich and colourful
work in its entirety, and to hear a visiting
orchestra venture from the beaten track. A
glance at the forthcoming programmes of other
touring bands shows how rare this is:
Symphonie Fantastique, Heldenleben,
Tchaikovsky 5, the list goes on, so many
standards, it begins to look like the Trooping of
the Colour. The reply to this is, I suppose, that
the best way to gain an idea of the differing
styles of various orchestras is to hear them in
familiar repertoire.
Prior encounters with M a Vlast would not
have been necessary in order to appreciate the
class of the Czech players, and of the strings in
particular. It was in the third piece, 'Sarka', that
the previously undemonstrative conductor Jiri
Belohlavek began to break sweat, urging his
violins to heights of incisive virtuosity. This
movement depicts the legend of the rebel queen
Sarka, who by her feminine wiles lures a band of
men into the clutches of her Amazon warriors,
by whom they are then horribly slaughtered. The
music is correspondingly vivid. Throughout the
whole work, Belohlavek's approach was
unselfconscious; climaxes were carefully
graded, with a Rolls-Royce brass section making
their mark without swamping the texture.
It's probably because of musical politics that
this Czech Festival does not, technically, include
the Czech PO's Barbican concerts (last week), or
the Chamber Orchestra of Europe's Dvorak
concerts at the same venue later this month.
Without these, the Festival's list of only four,
albeit eclectic, orchestral programmes begins to
look a bit stingy - just one symphony each from
Dvorak and Martinu. The two remaining
orchestral concerts feature the L P O under
Belohlavek in programmes including Martinu's
Sixth Symphony (19th October) and Janacek's
awesome Glagolitic Mass (26th October).
Chamber music is better served, with visits from
three Czech ensembles, and Dvorak and Janacek
(String Quartet No. 1) from the Alban Berg
Quartet (24th October).
Patrick Wood
The Czech Festival continues until 26th October
at the South Bank Centre. Box Office (071) 928
8800. At the Barbican, the COE under Libor
Pesek play Dvorak's 7th Symphony on 11th
October, and his 5th Symphony on 13th October.
Student discounts are available at both venues.
Fancy a bit of singing and acting - article on page 14

