simon baker
The first job this week is to congratulate the four
lucky blokes that won the Sabbatical elections.
Of course, since this is being written at 4:50am
on Tuesday morning (you don't think I sleep, do
you?), I have no idea who triumphed and dare
not predict the result. Mind you, you don't have
to be Mystic Meg to forecast the turnout being
much lower than last year, thanks to the crazy
rules on the new Union Card. I know that we
really ought to have one by now, but surely it
would be possible, by allowing voting only in
one's department, to permit the use of swipe
cards as well. Since voters are checked off against
the College lists anyway, the need to punch cards
seems superfluous. If die turnout was usually
spectacular it would be different, but as things
are, the votes may well be able to be counted on
the fingers of a pair of mittens.
Although clearly the most important,
Imperial is not the only place to have gone to the
polls recently. The Australians have just voted
out the Labour party after thirteen years - not an
event that would usually set my pulse racing. But
with the party goes Paul Keating, the only prod-
uct of Oz worse than The Flying Doctors. This
repulsive little man's sole preoccupation for the
last five years has been the advancement of his
disdain for the monarchy, an issue that is much
morefinelybalanced than Mr Keating would like
us to believe. The arguments that he has pre-
sented are weaker than a cup of tea from the
Glaxo common room (chemists' in-joke, I'm
afraid), with no attempt to define the structure
that he wishes to replace it with, such as the
power of a president and the means of election.
The net result is to raise more questions than he
seeks to answer. For this reason, and for the fact
that his attention to domestic matters has conse-
quently suffered, the Australian people have had
enough. With a new man in charge, I'm sure Her
Majesty can now visit without fear of some yob
putting his arm around her.
Last week, I saw in the Evening Standard
that the Government plans to cut Imperial's
budget by £2million. [It was reported on thefront
page of Felix on December 13th, Simon] This is
clearly not good news. It is unfortunate that the
well-intentioned policy of expanding higher edu-
cation has been a victim of its own success,
resulting in cuts in funding for well-established
centres of excellence such as this, at a time when
the new University of Uncolnshire is under con-
struction. As I have said before, the aim should
be to have equality of opportunity, irrespective of
background, not to allow anybody with virtually
no A levels to get a degree. Other forms of high-
er education need to be expanded to accommo-
date such cases, otherwise such funding cuts are
the inevitable consequence.
That said, on the day that I saw this news, I
also saw some signposts being attached to one of
the lamp posts by Queen's lawn, indicating
where the buildings are. I am truly grateful. No
more wandering around the icy wastelands of
SW7 searching in vain for my lectures. I saw
these signs and wondered how I ever managed
before. These are, of course, in addition to the
countless thousands elsewhere around the cam-
pus that tell us where Sherfield is (I wonder
when we'll get signs to Sheffield) and draw our
attention to days that don't exist, such as
Wednesday 1st March. The irony of such cuts
and expenditure is pamfully clear and makes you
feel a little less sympathetic in the face of such
profligate spending.
Finally, I expect that there are few of you
who haven't seen the new Pizza Hut advert, fea-
turing Murray Walker and Damon Hill. It is by
far the best thing on TTV at the moment, save for
Cracker, and is the funniest commercial for
years. One of me all time favourites of all time,
mate. Not 'arf.
RCS UNION ELECTIONS
V O T E !
(Even for the hell of it!)
Voting: Monday 11, Tuesday 12 RESULTS U G M in the bar
Lunchtimes in all Departments during the E L E C T I O N BARNLGHT
/CU Card required Tuesday 12 March at 7:30pm

