F o r g e t P r o z a c , W e ' r e ' T h e
G e n e r a t i o n ' !
In Britain we spend £3 billion a year on the single most
craved food - chocolate. Why? Research suggests it is
a mood enhancing drug and bingeing may be a
self-medication. Sharminee Kumaradevan reports.
I
n 1728 the famous Swedish I
Carolus Linnaeus christened the cocoa tree
Theobroma cacoa, meaning "food ol the
gods"; today chocolate is seen more as a
secret indulgence. Introduced to London in the
mid-17th century, chocolate was seen as the height
of decadence, costing the equivalent of £500 per lb.
So a cup ol chocolate could be enjoyed only by the
very rich.
Today, chocolate is seen as a near-universal treat
and according to recent research by Professor j
David Warbuton at Reading I Jniversity, chocolate is
a mood-enhancing drug that increases our ieelings . H ^ ''''
of well-being; indeed eating chocolate may be a
healthy response to stress and depression.
CilOCOJiltfc can be a thankless task. The melt-
ing point ol chocolate needs to be above room tem-
perature, but below the temperature inside the
mouth. The chocolate should form crystals hard
enough to hold it together but not so hard it's
impossible to take a bite. And the crystals should lie
small. Otherwise the chocolate tastes gritty and
looks bumpy instead of smooth and glossy.
fcm M o g © ©m dfo©©©tat!£
M M P K 1'tJiiaMl WffiH, says Warbuton. I le is a
member ol the Associates ol Research into the
Science ol Enjoyment (ARISE); an organisation
committed to studying the positive contribution ol
common everyday pleasures, like chocolate. ARISE
recently surveyed 529b people in 16 countries to
monitor people's chocolate eating habits in the
work place. Apparently not only do women eat 1
more chocolate than men (on average twice as
much) but they also find it more calming and relax-
ing. Many women report an increase in their crav-
ing lor chocolate just before a [leriod. Sweet says
this is because many women feel low in energy then
and need to boost their sugar levels.
Yma c i i u b f e c o i x j t u d d i e t f e d t o
! in the same way as nicotine in cig-
arettes according to Corine Sweet, a counsellor
with the Eating Disorders Association. "It is a
mood-altering substance. People get hooked on the
chemicals in chocolate and the trash energy, that
rush of blood sugar." But in so-called addicts the
pleasure is short-lived and is usually followed by
feelings of guilt. Warbuton argues the guilt may be
doing the most harm. "Guilt creates stress hor-
mones, which mobilise fatty acids such ^
as cholesterol which can clog the arter- w ^ - -m
ies and lead to a heart attack." ^m.JL
G3k®Qolliltt<e lies in its chemistry. It has over
300 different chemicals, which give chocolate its
distinctive flavour and texture. Some of these
chemicals are mood altering drugs. As Professor
Warbuton points out, "More than 50 per cent of
people who eat four squares of chocolate feel in
a better mood for it afterwards" This is thought
to be because chocolate contains:-
Galaxy
...a chemical closely related
to amphetamines, which
raise blood pressure and
blood glucose levels, making
us feel more alert and giving us a sense of well-
being. We produce it in our bodies naturally,
especially during times of stress and anxiety. It is
possible that bingeing on chocolate balances our
mood controlling chemicals after an emotionally
upsetting situation.
a n d t ^ " h
' < > ' « i , ^ . . .
...a chemical similar to
caffeine which is responsi-
ble for the stimulating
effects of chocolate.
Another quality that makes chocolate irresistible
is its "melt in the mouth" sensation. Cocoa but-
ter melts just below body
temperature. So when
chocolate melts it actually
cools down the mouth as it
absorbs energy in the form
of heat.
The particle size of chocolate is another reason
it feels so good when we eat it and is very impor-
tant in imparting that rich, creamy texture.
When chocolate is made, the liquid mixture is
crunched through heavy-duty rollers until the
sugar and carbohydrate particles are reduced to
microscopic size. On the
continent they are fussier
than in Britain about parti-
cle size: the smaller the bet-
ter. This is because the
smaEer the particles, the better the emulsion
(liquid with tiny solid parts suspended in it).
Smaller particles give a thicker emul-
sion, making the chocolate linger in
the mouth longer and providing a
stronger after-taste. British chocolate
flows more quickly round the mouth
so we taste it quicker - but unfortu-
nately the flavour goes sooner.

