DIARY
friday
8
Saturday
march march
Amateur Radio Society (HamSoc)
lpm. Meeting in the shack. Top floor of
union building. (R)
Rag Meeting
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball, union gym. Contact
Kashif, Aero II, k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk for
more information. (R)
Wing Chun Kung Fu
5-7pm. Union G y m , 2nd Floor I C U .
Beginners welcome. 1 st lesson free. (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics. Southside
Gym. (R)
IC Symphony Orchestra Concert
8pm. Great Hall. Copland's Fanfare for the
Common Man, Walton's Violin Concerto and
Tchaikovsky's 6th Symphony.
Richard Dickins conducts, David Juritz plays
the violin.
Tickets: £5 / £2.50 (concessions)
Ents
One final sufferance ol the dreaded midnight
licence! But what a night it's going to be... a
night of mad indie, pop and alternative
sounds as the C O M M O N PEOPLE get a bit
hard. And if it all gets a bit too much, then
relax with the T R A S H A E S T H E T I C - a
room stuffed full of 70's funk, some glam,
80's pop, electro type things, a truly eclectic
mix. And it's free before 9pm or with an
entscard, £1 otherwise.
Free minibus service
Bus service leaves from in front of the union,
taking lone female students home to any-
where in central London. First run midnight,
last run 2am. See Beit Security for times.
(R)
f r i d a y
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. For more infor-
mation contact gliding@ic.ac.uk. Come to
Thursday meeting first. (R)
S a t u r d a y
Spanish Society
Celebrate the coming of spring with the
Spanish Society. Food will be served from 8-
9.30pm: a selection of Hispanic wines and
beers including sangria. There will be a DJ
from Barcelona. It all happens from 9.30
until 2.00am in the JCR. Members £3 (£8
with food). Non members £5/£10.
We're currently enjoying a high profile, fol-
lowing guest appearances by Kiss FM DJs
Brenda Russell and Colin Faver on 'The
Electric Cafe' show. We are also the first
radio station in the U K to broadcast on the
Internet. We hope soon to reconnect the
speakers in the JCR and Beit Quad, so there'll
be no excuse for not listening!
I.C. Radio is a founder member of 'The
Network', the national sustaining service for
student radio. Every night between 1 l p m and
8am, broadcasts from our studios can be
relayed by satellite to over 50 other student
radio stations in the U K , who can rebroadcast
your show live to a potential audience in
excess of half a million students.
The production studios on the north side
of Princes Gardens were reopened recently,
and are to be used for recording news and
interviews. They will also be available to
bands for recording; we have a 16-channel
live mixer and a 4-track professional tape
recorder, so if you're interested in recording
your band then get in touch, as we're anxious
to test our new facilities. It will also be possi-
ble to broadcast live to College, or via ISDN
to the rest of the U K .
Southside Bar Discos will be reinstated
in March; the whole disco area has been
rebuilt and there's lots of brand new light and
sound equipment for your dancing pleasure.
Come down every Thursday and Friday night
between 8.30 - 11.15pm to have a few drinks
and get yourself in the mood before you hit
the Union.
Although we have 150 members at the
moment, we are still actively looking for new
talent and ideas in the following areas:
Presenters - We broadcast 24 hours a day, so
there is still plenty of free air time. If you
fancy yourself as the next Chris Evans or
Jacqui Brambles, then this could be for you.
News Team - W e broadcast the latest news
of interest to students on the Imperial
College News show on Thursday evenings. If
FELIX FRIDAY MARCH 8TH 1 9 9 6 . SEVENTEEN
Sunday
l O
m a r c h
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. For more infor-
mation contact gliding@ic.ac.uk. Come to
Thursday meeting first. (R)
Wa rgames
lpm. Table Tennis room. (R)
Fitness Club
2pm. Southside Gym. Intermediate aero-
bics. (R)
Ents
8pm. Davinci's. Live F A Cup 6th round
action on the BIG screen with S T A N D I N G
R O O M O N L Y . See posters for details.
s u n d a y
you want to interview celebrities or attend
gigs for free, then join the news team.
Technical - Keeping a radio station running
requires lots of dedicated technical staff. If
you enjoy fiddling with expensive equipment,
then come down to the studio and have a chat
to Jules, our Technical Manager.
Disco DJs - We run about three discos per
week throughout the year, and are constantly
looking for fresh talent. We're happy to train
to you if needed, and will even pay you for
working. Contrary to RCS Ball article in Felix
1051, we don't just drive minibuses!
Record Reviewers - We get sent over 30 new
recordings a week and need people to write
reports and opinions of them. You'll get to
hear all the new music before it's released,
and have a say in which records get released.
If any of these jobs sound interesting to
you, pop down to the Southside studios (next
to the Shop) and have a chat and a cup of cof-
fee with Rob or Paul. If you've enjoyed one
too many bar nights recently and would
rather not move so far, then you can phone us
on 48100 or e-mail us at i.cradio@ic.ac.uk.
For more details on our Internet
Broadcasting, or the current schedule, browse
our web site at: http://icradio.su.ic.ac.uk/
STolC Schedule
Every lunchtime:
Level 3: Our light entertainment show
The Report: News and events affecting IC
Production dates for the rest of this term:
13 March: The Report #9
20 March: Gastronomic Level 3
All will be filmed in the STolC studio on
the top floor of the union building.
IC Radio's Spring Term

