Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
If you have not registered to vote in the UK general election you will need
to register by Monday 22 May in order to vote on 8 June. Many students
can vote in the but have not yet registered. The result of this would be that
students cannot cast a vote, which will have a major impact on their lives,
including their experiences over the course of their degree.
Why should you leave it to other people to decide how your country is
run? You may be busy with exams, worried about jobs, but when you leave
university the world which you enter will be decided by the decisions made by
the population today. So register and read up. It’s time to start engaging with
politics!
Head to aboutmyvote.co.uk for more information and to register.
A message from our Officer Trustees:
Register to vote in the General Electionby 22 May
Friday 19 May
Imperial Plus needs YOU!
Could you be a student trainer? Deliver ILM endorsed skills workshops to
student volunteers at Imperial.
We are looking for enthusiastic students who are excellent communicators,
confident public speakers, are well organised, reliable and can think on their
feet.
Gain experience of delivering workshops and develop your skills as a trainer
by joining our team of Student Trainers for Imperial Plus. It’s also a great
opportunity to earn some extra cash!
We are committed to playing a key role in how students learn, develop and
grow during their time at College, especially through the skills they learn
through involvement in our activities. Imperial Plus gives our +2500 volunteers the opportunity to develop transferrable skills through workshops delivered by
Student Trainers. We ensure our Trainers benefit from the experience too by providing them with training and ongoing support
Applications close on Monday 5 June. Interviews will take place on Wednesday 21 June 2017.
To find out more and apply visit: imperialcollegeunion.org/student-trainer
Join our #helloicu crew for Welcome Week 2017
Starting out at a new university and moving to a new city can be a daunting
prospect. We are recruiting a team of volunteers to be the friendly face to
welcome all new students, being on hand to offer help and advice to relieve
any nerves and concerns, who better than those who have been through
the experience themselves?! Get involved in a whole host of activities taking
place throughout Welcome Week and make it a week to remember! Shifts
will be available between Saturday 30 September - Tuesday 10 October and
induction session for all #helloicu crew members will be held on Friday 29
September.
No skills, knowledge or experience is required to become a #helloicu crew
member, just an enthusiasm to meet new people! You will be able to choose
which activities you take part in and can select shifts based around your commitments. What’s more, all of your volunteering hours can be logged towards
Imperial Plus making sure you get the formal recognition you deserve!
To sign up go to imperialcollegeunion.org/helloicu

