F £ L I X
*«NmM«tt nan n««M«iwtt»«!«t*t W
M
M
«
Last Tuesday the whole of the first floor of the
new building was opened, and Hall Dinner took place
in the new dining hall (or should, have done). This
dining hall i s now open for lunch, daily, on the same
basis as the old "upper Dining Hall" i.e. with waitress
service and at a slightly higher cost than, downstairs.
Unfortunately the other rooms on this floor are
the comparatively useless Senior Conmcn Room (J),
Reading Room and I.C.W.A. lounge. Of necessity the
Reading Room will remain unfurnished for a few weeks
and will be used by the Fencing and Judo Clubs and by
other people for "circuit training". These activities
have suffered badly during the last two years: they
have been moved from place to place, sometimes to abodes
hopelessly cramped or at a considerable distance from
I.C. Only the hardest heart would begrudge them tem-
porary use of the Reading Room until the gymnasium i s
ready.
An excursion round the new building last Sunday
provided the most encouraging signs for weeks. Not
that electrifying progress i s being made; only electri-
fying when compared to the previous snail's pace. An
agonising shortage of labour i s s t i l l apparent. However,
at a recent top-level meeting (30 top-level that the
I.C. President was not even invited to attend it) i t
was agreed again that a l l the building except the
gymnasium and Upper Refectory should be completed by
the end of November. I am assured that this meeting
was so top-level that i t s decisions are pretty reliable.
It i s now possible to walk up and down the centre
staircase; the Upper Refeotory boasts a completed
ceiling; the stage floor i s appearing; the Concert
Hall walls are being painted a dreary grey and there
i s some activity in the Table Tennis and Billiards
rooms. Even the gymnasium is acquiring a ceiling.
However, he would be a great optimist who. could
imagine himself seated in the lounge before Christ-
mas, although (glad news) the crude outlines of the
Bar are beooaaing manifest and suggest that the new
building may yet resound to the joyful singing of
the Bagger club before the end of term. So get ready
for some fun.
A.K.
COMIINIG E V E N T S
THS DRAMATIC SGCIBTY
arid THS COMUS CLUB
PRSSBNT
THB LONDON PR3MI2RB 0?
L O F T U f ?
BY JOHANN SIGURJ0NSS0N
IN THS CONCERT HALL
8.30 p.m. 11th. December
7.30 p.m. 13th, 14th, 15th. Dec.
•/-, 2/6, 1/6.
B O O K N O W
IMPERIAL COLLBQB CHRISTIAN UNION:
There w i l l be Open Meetings on Monday,
HOT. 19th., and Monday, H6v. 26th., i n the
Metallurgy Lecture Theatre (REM) at 1.15 p.m.
At the f i r s t one the Rev. Ken P r i o r w i l l talk
on "A Faith that forks"; at the l a t t e r the
Rev. B r i a n Isaac's theme is:"Can we be Sure?"
Pri. Nov. 16th.
I.C.P.S* W.Harris Esq. "Judgement on Judges" 5.15p.m.
Botany Lect. Th.
Sri. Nov. 16th.
i.C.P.S. W.Harris Esq.-"Judgement on Judges" 5,15p.m.
Botany Leot. Th.
Rover Crew - "Revering to Success"- 1.10p.m. Small
Chem. Th.
Sat. Nov. 17th.
I.C.W.A.- Informal Dwnoe in Ayrton Hall 8-11p.m.
Bar; Band; Prizes;
Sun Nov. 18th.
I.C.C.U.- Overseas Students Trip to Cambridge. Leaving
9.45a.m. (see Notice Board for point of Departure)
Wed. Nov. 21 at.
Rover Crew- Evening Meeting- see Notioe Board for
further details.
Thurs. Nov. 22nd.
R.C.S. Natural History Soc.-"Natural History of Box
H i l l " with colour slides. By J.Sankey 3sq. 5.30p.m.
Botany Lect. Th. Tea 5.15p.m. in Botany library.
Pri. Nov. 23rd.
I.CPilm'Soc.-"Kingdom of the Waters "-Hungary 1951.
Made by Dr. Istvan Nagy.
I.C.P.S.- Portrait Group Meeting.
Rover Crew-"Organisation of Badge Courses? by J.Lewis
New C
o
m
m
. Room 1.10p.m. ' '
Sat. Nov. 24th.
I.C. International Relations Club.- Dance in aid of
Hungarian Red Cross Appeal. Ayrton Hall 7.30- 11p.m.
Tues. Nov. 27 th.
I.C. literary and Deb.
I.C. L i t . and Deb. Soc.-"This House deplores "... the
man that shaves and gets a train and then goes
back to 3have. again1
". 1.15p.m. Mining Survey Lect. Th.
Thurs. Nov. 29th.
R.CS. Natural History Soc. ^"Viruses" by Dr. Tinsley
5.30p.m. Botany Lect.. Th.
Pri. Nov. 30th.
I.C.P.S.- Print Criticism by D.J.P.Clarke A.R.P.S.
I.C International Relations Club. -»iiglish Evening
Snack Bar at 7.30p.m.
Sat. Dec, l s t .
FELIX DANCE
Ayrton Hall, 7.30p.m.
Tues. Deo. 4th.
Inaugural Lecture by Prof.B.G.Peters M.Sc. Ph.D.
"Parasitology at Imperial College". 5.3Cp.m. Main
Chem. Lect. Th.
Thurs. Dec. 6th.
I.CMusic Soc.-Christmas Concert. 6.00p.m. .uueen Alex-
andra's House. Tickets 3 / -
Weekend Dec. 8-9th.
TOUCHSTONE '
W
E
E
K
-
E
N
D
"Symbols, Romantic and Scientific". Speaker- Prof. E.H.J.
Gombrich, Professor of the History of Art at U.C.
I N 3 S T R 0 S P E C
In these days of international crisis i t might
appear strange that the Christian Uni^n should hold
a Mission. Surely, one asks, there are more important
and immediate things to consider?
In the belief and certainty that nothing i s more
immediate and urgent than that individuals should d
decide about their attitude t'-wards Christ, meetings
were arranged twice daily by I.C.CU., during the week
Nov. 5-9-th. to consider the claims and message of
Jesus Christ.
Mr. Michael Griffiths spoke at a l l the meetings.
His underlying message and theme was that God had
revealed Himself to men and women in Christ, whose
Death and Resurrection makes forgiveness posaible for
a l l who will receive. Christ is also able to make a
new beginning possible in l i f e , and He gives strength
to oontinue daily in that Way.
The Christian Union's regular programme now con-
tinues, open meetings being held every Monday. A l l
are welcome at these meetings.

