Imperial in space
Two academics Iron Imperial College are
to put experiments up in the highly
publicised 'Juno' mission. Professor
Blow, head of the Biophysics group, will
be putting up an experiment to in which
it is hoped to crystallise an enzyme
fundamental to the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (causing the
disease 'AIDS'). This should help the in-
depth study of the enzyme.
Dr Andrew Goldsworthy, of the Plant
Technology group of the Biology
department, is co-ordinating an
experiment studying the effects of weak
magnetic fields on wheat seeds in low
gravity. He explained that plants do not
grow properly in low gravity as the roots
cannot grow 'down'. 'It might be
important to grow plants in future life
support systems', he said. Dr Goldsworthy
said that it was hoped that magnetic fields
could substitute for gravitational fields. He
is being helped by a Biology
undergraduate, Mr Jason Hatton, who has
been running an earth- bound version of
the same experiment for some time.
The experiments are expected to be
launched in November in an unmanned
probe called 'Progress'. This will rendez-
vous with the 'Mir' space station in April
1991. Cosmonauts in the station will
initiate all the experiments, and will
photograph the results. The seed chamber
will be recovered later for electron
microscopy analysis.
ml/IP ••
Nalgo reaction
Paul Shanley, Murray Williamson and
Chris Stapleton were ratified as next year's
Union President, Honorary Secretary and
FELIX Editor at a U G M held on
Thursday.
Details of the schedule for new election
for Deputy President were also made
available. Papers will go up on Monday
12th March and come down on Friday
23rd March. Publicity can be put up from
16th April and voting will be in all
departments on Monday 30th April and
Tuesday 1st May. The dates of hustings
have not yet been decided, but will be
between Monday 23rd and Friday 26th
April.
Elections were also held for several
Union posts. Dylan James, proposed by
Ashley Unitt, was defeated by new
election for the post of External Affairs
Officer. Hal Calamvokis, this year's Rag
Chairman, spoke on behalf of new
election, explaining that he felt Mr James'
political views would make it difficult for
him to take appropriate decisions at short
notice when there was no official union
policy to guide him.
Other Union officers elected were
Stephen McCabe (aka BJ) as Ents
Chairman. Nicholas Marley as House
Committee Chairman, Suzanne Ahmet as
U G M Chairman, Caroline Cruttwell as
ICCAG Chairman and Steve Farrant as
Rag Chairman. No nominations were
received for the posts of Internal Services
Officer, Academic Affairs Officer or
Welfare Officer. Papers for these posts are
still up on the Union noticeboard.
Union President, Neil McCluskey
explained in his report that the trustees of
the Harlington Gravel Fund had met and
agreed that laying of the hockey astroturf
should begin as soon as possible to ensure
that the pitch would be ready for the next
season. Later he said that the trustees
wished to formulate a policy for the use
of the fund in conjunction with the sports
clubs. He said that if anyone had
suggestions for how they felt the money
could be spent, he would like to hear from
them as soon as possible.
During the meeting, the Union
Honorary Secretary, Fiona Nicholas, read
a statement issued by the Union Permanent
Staff who are members of the National
Association of Local Government
Officials (NALGO). A copy of the
statement, unsigned and on unheaded
notepaper, was sent to the Student
Television of Imperial College (STOIC)
studio.
The statement read by Ms Nicholas
said:
'I have been requested by the N A L G O
members of the Union staff, ie Pat Baker,
Michelle Began, Reggie Blennerhassett,
Jen Hardy-Smith, Yve Posner, Louise van
der Straeten to read this statement on their
behalf in reply to certain inferences
contained in the Felix Editor's editorial in
the sabbatical elections result flysheet
published on Wednesday.
'At no time whatsoever was an approach
made to Registry or even considered by
any of them, to enquire about M r
Shanley's record.
'They also consider unfounded
conjectures of this sort are offensive, ill-
conceived and not conducive to the
establishment of a good working
relationship between the Union Office staff
and future sabbaticals.'
After the statement was read, Mr
McCluskey pointed out that Imperial
College Union do not have a written 'staff
protocol', unlike the University of London
Union, where nobody is allowed to discuss
the conduct of permanent staff.
FELIX Editor, Mr Dave Smedley, later
said that he 'stood by everything that he
had said'.

