Richard Heap explains the world of paper recycling. Printed on 100% recycled paper.
Paper chasing
56% of all fibres used in the UK's paper production
are reclaimed, putting us fourth in the world. So
what's the fuss? Of the nine million tonnes of paper
we consume every year, less than half is made here,
the rest is imported. This makes our record somewhat
less impressive, putting us below the global average.
Everyone must become involved, at home and at
work, if Chris Patten's statement to recycle 50% of
domestic waste in the next decade is to become a
reality.
But why should we recycle? 'The benefits of
recycling are obvious; rarely do environmental and
economic factors so unambiguously support the same
goal.'-(Fourth Report, Trade & Industry Committee
1984 Wealth of Waste.) Economically it is essential.
Paper imports, at £3.2 billion per annum are the fourth
biggest contributors to the trade and deficit figures.
Added to this is the increasing cost of landfilling
waste. Each one of us will pay for this through Poll
Tax, interest rates and inflation.
'The government may say that recycling must be
economically viable, but it is questionable whether our
present way of living is viable in the long run without
very much more recycling. Perhaps the government
should extend its profit and loss accounting to cover
the loss to future generations as well as our own. It
is an ecological truth, as well as an economic one, that
there is no such thing as a free lunch.' [Sunday
Telegraph 9.3.86.)
Predictions for the next ten years, show a pulp
shortage in the West. This, combined with our need
to cut imports to the UK, has led to plans for new mills
and plantations. Afforestation plans include areas
such as the Flow Country in Caithness. The only Peat
Bog of its kind, it is home to many rare species, but
over 50% of it is under threat. Similar problems are
occuring in the tropical regions where tree species,
inappropriate to the area, are being planted, damaging
the soil.
Apart from providing a source of pulp, recycling also
saves energy and cuts pollution. Many people only
consider the energy required for processing materials
and do not acount for the collection of raw materials
and the safe disposal of the product after it has been
used. Recycling, generally, saves at all these stages.
Office collections, such as the scheme established
at Imperial, where the staff segregate their white
quality waste paper from the general refuse, are
essential for further paper recycling. Although some
sorting of the collected paper is inevitable, it is ideal
for making printing and writing papers. Despite this,
95% will go into non-recoverable tissues. High prices
of recycled printing papers, due to the small scale of
production has dampened demand. But demanding
recycled printing paper without increasing the supply
of high grade waste will only push up the price of
recycled pulp. At present, the tissue industry absorbs
any over-supply of white office waste. This will
remain so, until more incentive is given for mills to
produce high grade recycled paper.
'Barring legislation, extra recycling of high quality
waste is only likely to come about due to increase in
prices of virgin pulp, or significantly increased
collection of sorted paper from offices.' Tom
Mockridge-Maricef Barriers to Paper Recycling
Friends of the Earth 1990.
Caution should also be given here as several of the
new recycled papers coming out use preconsumer mill
waste and so technically may not be called recycled.
No standards exist, as yet, to define what exactly
constitutes recycled paper.
In 1981 the EEC passed a Council Recommendation
that member states should define and implement
policies to encourage paper recycling, and encourage
products which do not preclude subsequent recycling.
The response has been poor, although in 1984
Denmark passed a voluntary Act prohibiting materials
which prevent the recycling of paper and board.
So what can we do? Until office recycling schemes
become more widespread, the demand must be put
on papers (tissues, printing and packaging) made from
lower grade waste (newspaper etc). This means using
photocopier papers such as Recyconomic and
Fortuna, which perform well but are aesthetically
different, and brown toilet paper. Criticism of these
papers comes from experience of older lower quality
recycled papes. These woody papers are much
cheaper than virgin pulp papers, but are difficult to buy
in the UK, as virtually all the mills here use higher
wood-free waste grades. Many stationery suppliers
can offer these papers, but the two addresses below
specialise in them:
Traidcraft (recycled paper catalogue)
Kingsway, Gateshead NE11 ONE.
Tel (091) 487 3191.
Paperback
Bow Triangle, Business Centre,
Unit 2 Eleanor Street,
London E3 4NP.
Tel: 01-980 2233.
TREES
Six species of tree are commonly used in paper
making: pine, spruce, fir, birch, eucalyptus and poplar.
Conifers make up the largest proportion, coming from
North America and Scandinavia. The hardwoods
come from the tropics, Spain and South America.
Virtually all the trees are grown on sustainable
plantations where replanting often exceeds felling.
Good as it sounds new plantations are needed to meet
the increasing demand for pulp. Unfortunately, as
monocultures they are poor habitats for wildlife. Many
of the new plantations will cover rare habitats, or land
unsuitable for intensive forestry.
PROCESSING
Requires a large energy input, and is a major source
of pollution. There are three main pulping processes:
• Mechanical (woody)-produced by grinding, gives
a high percentage yeild, although it produces a low
grade paper as some fibres are still bound together by
the lignin.
• Chemical (wood free)-uses acid/alkaline solutions
to dissolve the lignin which holds the fibres together.
The yield is less than 50% but the paper produced is
of higher quality and does not yellow with age, as with
mechanical grades.
• Chemo-mechanical-uses more dilute chemical
solutions combined with grinding. The yield is higher
but not all the lignin is removed.
Methods are being developed to increase the yield by
using more of each tree.
Page 10
MILLS
In the mill, paper quality is determined by using fibres
from different trees. In general, the longer coniferous
wood fibres are used for strength, while deciduous
fibres add bulk. To increase binding, the pulp is put
through a beater, which frays the ends of the fibres.
This shortens them, which is why it is impossible to
recycle paper indefinitely.
China clay is then added to increase opacity. After
being laid out on a former the paper runs through up
to 50 drying rollers at a speed of 200m/min, leaving
it with a moisture content of 3%.
PRODUCTION FIGURES
Worldwide, 29% of paper and board is made from
waste material. In the UK the figure is slightly lower.
The packaging industry, the biggest consumer, uses
85% reclaimed fibres. Printing and writing papers
make up the biggest market, but use only 5% recycled
material. Recovery of this grade is much higher, but
the fibres are then used in producing lower grade
paper.
Not all paper is made from wood fibres. Plans are
being made to build a mill using straw as a fibre
source. Atlhough a more expensive process is needed,
the raw materials are cheap because of the ban on
stubble burning. If it goes ahead this will ease the
pressure of increased afforestation, but could make
the recycling process more complicated.

