COLLECTION
Not all types of paper are worth collecting-for
example, a recent 75% drop in the price of newspaper
has made it uneconomical for most merchants. At the
same time, increased demand for recycled paper has
raised the value of the higher grade waste. Waste
paper prices are also dependent on the amount of print
and coatings on it, as these have to be removed during
reprocessing.
Before being sold to the mills, primary processing
is done by paper merchants, who sort and bail the
paper. Most mills employ their own merchants, but
will also buy from independent merchants whose
biggest markets are Europe and India.
SORTING
The paper industry classifies waste paper into 66
different grades. Generally speaking, paper grades
affect the recycling process according to the rule
'what goes in, comes out'-ie high grade recycled
paper can only be obtained from high grade waste.
Sorting waste into the correct grades is very
important, contamination of the wrong grade or
plastics and glue will disfigure the final product and
can even break the paper web, stopping production
for several hours. Sorting of paper by mills or
merchants is uneconomical; correct segregation at
source is therefore essential. This relies on educating
people and raising their awareness of recycling.
THE RECYCLING MILL
A combination of steam and grinding are used to
repulp paper. Depending on the final product and the
quality of the paper put in, deinking processes may
be used, although worldwide this is done on only 16%
of the paper reclaimed. Chemicals are added to either
disperse contaminants or coagulate them, which then
settle out or are filtered off by a series of strainers.
Bleaches can be used, but their effluent is highly toxic,
so to give the product its desired degree of whiteness,
different grades of waste paper are used.
Unfortunately, until we change our attitude towards
brown recycled toilet paper, high grade paper will be
wasted simply to make white tissues.
WASTE & LANDFILL
Greater London alone produces 12 million tonnes of
commercial waste per year. Imperial itself produces
approximately 1,000 tonnes per annum. About 30%
is paper and board, of which 100 tonnes is high grade,
white paper. The total cost of disposal is nearly £40
per tonne. As landfill sites around London fill up
alternative disposal methods will become essential.
As much as 60% of this waste could be recycled!
Grapevine
'Real sherry comes only from Spain' and on Tuesday
we were treated to part of the £1 million campaign
to promote this fact. In an attempt to reach Imperial
College students, Brian and Jenny Buckingham, of the
Sherry Institute of Spain, tutored us though a range
of seven very different wines.
The word 'sherry' is the English misconception of
'Sherish', the moorish name of the Jerez region of
Spain. All real sherry is made from the Palomino grape
grown in this area. During fermentation, two distinct
wines evolve: fino and oloros. Flor, a natural yeast,
distinguishes the two; it grows naturally on fino and
is not present on oloros. While maturing in casks made
only of American white oak, the flor imparts a musty,
yeasty flavour to the fino and protects it from
oxidation, preserving and enhancing its fine, delicate
flavours. Meanwhile, the oloroso darkens and
develops into a deep and rich wine. These two form
the basis for all other sherries: creams, amontillados,
cortados, and manzanillas.
The sherries we tasted ranged in sweetness from
bone dry to syrupy sweet. We started with a light
golden-coloured wine from San Patricio which was the
essence of a fino: so dry and yeasty and yet with
remarkable honey and apple overtones. The second
wine was tasted was one of the evening's favourites.
It was an incredibly aromatic old amontillado from
Harvey's with rich, nutty, toffee-ish, leathery flavours
and a perfect salty-dry finish. The other favourite was
an amazing oloroso, the Royal Corregidor from
Sandeman. This wine had a coffee-brown-green
colour and burst with cough medicine, figs and clove
flavours.
We were told it was quite possible that the Romans
first brought sherry to England. Most certainly, it was
well engrained in our society by the time of Chaucer.
Despite this long and noble association with the
English palate, most of us dismiss sherry as part of
Granny's Christmas ritual. This is the image the Sherry
Institute is confronting in its re-education programme.
We were left with the impression of a thriving, multi-
million pound industry, firmly rooted in a region rich
with tradition and good living.
We hope to see you at our forthcoming events:
• Tuesday 13 March-White Bordeaux by Dave
Rowe, Hon Pres, Editor of 'Decanter'.
• Wednesday 14 March-Coffee Tasting by Mary
Banks, London Coffee Information Centre.
• Tuesday 20 March-Alsace Wines by Russell and
Mclver.
• Wednesday 21 March-Booze Cruise Shopping
Spree to Boulogne.
• Tuesday 1 May-Austrian Wines by the Austrian
Wine Information Centre.
Don't miss our special offer in the Bookshop: greatly
reduced wine guide which include a discount on
society events.
Salud!
P.S. All tastings held at 6pm in the Union Senior
Common Room. Contact Kevin McKoen on extension
6851 for further information.
Rag
There is one last big Rag event this term: the Around
the City Pub Crawl/Treasurehunt. This is a new event
and is being organised by MENCAP on Wednesday
March 14. The format will be that teams of 3-6,
preferably in fancy dress, register in the JCR between
12.30 and 1.30pm, are given a clue list of several
pubs in the City and a collecting can each. The aim
is to find all your designated pubs in the right order
and try and collect as much money along the way.
As with Monopoly extra points will be given for
interesting items brought back and MENCAP are
providing several prizes-it should be a fun day for all
so please turn up and drag a few friends along.
Other than that, there is a Rag Raid to Cambridge
on Saturday March 17 and to Guildford on Wednesday
March 21. For more information on these events
please turn up to the Rag meeting today in the Union
Lounge at 12.30. Finally just an advanced warning of
the only Rag event that happens next term: Rag Fete
on May 12, complete with chocolate mouse
wrestling, dwarf throwing and 'where will the animal
dump?'. If clubs or societies would like to do anything
for it, could they please see Fiona Nicholas in the
Union Office.
Bass Dance
Bass Dance, one of England's top reggae bands come
to the Union Lounge tonight. Fronted by Basil
Gabbidon, a former member of Steel Pulse, Brum's
favourite reggae stars are here for a night of sweet
rootsy rocking. More commercial than Steel Pulse,
they still keep an innovative streak, resisting the
tempting slide towards UB40-\sm, and the softening
of reggae's essential roughness.
Combining the classic hard edged beats with their
own more radical approach, using a selection of
synthed and sampled sounds, Bass Dance provide
music with raw energy. One minute playing dance pop
songs like Starlight and the next there is steaming rock
guitar solos and African rhythm.
So come and enjoy yourself tonight. Be lifted by the
music, put a smile on yor face and get skankin'.
Doors open at 8pm, with Red Ten as the fine
support act, on stage at 9.30-ish. The bar snd disco
run until late, with DJ Gwynmuffin kicking out his
usual freewheeling mix of the steamiest on vinyl.
Tickets are £2 in advance or £1 with Ents cards, from
the Union Office.
Rufus Isaacs, Ents Publicity.
Anti-Poll Tax
IC Autonomous Anti-Poll Tax Group will be holding its
first meeting above Southside Bar, 1pm, Tuesday
March 13, to discuss how to organise and fight this
unfair, extortionate and intrusive tax. Every day
opposition to it grows, even from the Tory ranks! All
welcome.
FilmSoc
This coming Thursday sees a highlight of the FilmSoc
calendar, with a showing of Sex, Lies & Videotape.
One of the surprise hits of last year, this contraversial,
award-winning film focuses on the sexual hang-ups
of four people living in steamy Baton-Rouge.
Page 11

