F e l i X
Staff Protocol
Neil McCluskey has implied that he may wish to
introduce a staff protocol into IC Union. His mind is
clearly at odds with the realities of Imperial College.
He says that other student unions have a staff
protocol. The University of London Union has such a
rule, which states that no discussion of permanent
staff may take place. There is a good reason for this;
the law. ULU is not the legal employer of its
permanent staff, the University is. This means that,
since the student union does not employee its staff
it cannot pass comment upon them. This is not the
case at Imperial College. The Union employs its own
permanent staff at IC. For Neil to be able to implement
a scheme like the one at ULU he would have to give
up his status in law as the employer of the permanent
staff.
The reason Mr McCluskey wishes to produce such
a staff protocol, is to prevent FELIX reporting on the
Union's permanent staff. If FELIX is prevented from
reporting on these staff, what right can we lay claim
to when reporting on College staff and their actions?
Neil's suggestion is just a vain attempt to gag FELIX.
Sometimes I wish that the people who wished they
were FELIX Editor would stand for the post in the first
place.
The NALGO members
The Union Office staff have now laid themselves open
to comment by sending a statement to the UGM. Fair
enough, they wanted somewhere to voice their
feelings. What was a little more interesting was the
dealings behind the scenes. Having placed a copy of
the statement in the Student Television Of Imperial
College (STOIC) pigeonhole, Jen Hardy-Smith saw fit
to ring them to make sure they got it. This is a clear
sign of Ms Hardy-Smith trying to get her oar in where
it is not needed. STOIC collected the message and
binned it. The unheaded paper contained an unsigned
statement made on several people's behalf-it was
an unstatement, it was no more. This comes in the
same week as Ms Hardy-Smith's equally childish
wingeing about the franking machine in the Union
Office. I will not comment upon this since there is a
letter in FELIX this week. What I will say is that I am
sick of hearing that FELIX staff have been intimidated
whenever they visit the union office. Ms Hardy-Smith
ought to know better.
Sorry
Sorry to the Chem Eng first years, who we implied
were the cause of the trouble at the Chem Eng Soc
dinner. The first year did not cause the trouble, they
were given a lecture asking them not to aspire to their
fourth year counterparts.
Next Issue
There will not be a FELIX next Friday. We will be a
bumper Easter FELIX on Wednesday 21 March.
Credits
Many thanks to Richard Eyers, Jeremy Burnell and Liz
Warren for helping on the results fly-sheet. Thanks to
last weeks collators, Jim Lucy, Tom Monk, USS
Fartnoise, Hippo Claybrain, Dr Coconut, Sunny Ghaie,
Jeremy Burnell, Matthew Shovelton, Mark Wilde and
Richard Eyers. Thanks this week to Rose Atkins and
Andy Thompson, Liz Warren, Simon Haslam, Toby
Jones, Adam Tinworth, Adrain Pagan, Ian Hodge, Liz
Rickwood, Del, Sarah, Sumit, Richard Eyers, Jeremy
Burnell, Chris Adams, Roland Flowerdew, Matthew
Johnson, Richard Heap, and all the clubs and societies
who contributed. Sorry to anybody who did not get
an article or box-ad in, space was tight.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01.589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Competition
STA have generously donated a £100 travel voucher for use on any travel costs booked through them. A
weekend away or travel abroad could be yours with this prize. The competition is in three parts, with each
section becoming progressively more difficult. This week's questions are:
What was Tanzania formerly known as?
What was Zimbabwe formerly known as?
What was Sri Lanka formerly known as?
KEEP YOUR ENTRIES. DO NOT HAND IN ANYTHING YET. THERE WILL BE ONE MORE SET OF QUESTIONS
IN THE LAST ISSUE OF TERM (WEDNESDAY 21 ST MARCH). ALL QUESTIONS WILL BE REPRINTED AT THE
END OF THE COMPETITION.
LEARN TO FLY!
with
IC Gliding Club
Arrange your first flight with
the Gliding Club:
Air Experience Weekend
17-18 March
Come to Aero 266, 1pm, Thursday
March 15, to book a place
Vacancy
WARDENSHIP
MONTPELIER HALL
The Wardenship of Montepelier Hall falls
vacant with effect from 1 May 1990. The post
is open to all members of the College.
Wardens receive rent free accommodation in
return for pastoral duties within their
residence.
For further information and an application
form contact Alan Mellor, ext 3307, room 507
Sherfield Building.
Closing date for applications is March 21.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Postgraduate women: Lunch 12.30pm Friday
March 16th. Green Committee Room, 3rd Floor
Union Building.
• Subwarden Weeks Hall: This position is shortly
to become vacant and applications are invited
from grant funded postgraduate students who
expect to be at College for a further two years.
The starting date is the end of term/Easter
vacation closing date 12/3/90. Please apply by
letter and CV to Dr S.P. Walker, Warden.
• Cycling Club training: Now also Saturdays.
• IC Autonomous Anti-Poll Tax Group meeting
on Tuesday 13 March, 1pm, above Southside Bar,
Prince's Gardens. All welcome: We can defeat it.
• Lost Theatre present: 'Lark Rise to Candleford'
Flora Thomson's trilogy brought to life in an
adaption by Keith Dewhurst. Fri and Sat 7.30pm.
Fulham Road, SW6 (381 6151).
• Cheap haircuts on Monday mornings only at
Nino's hairdressers next to Tui's (the Thai
Restaurant) at South Ken. £ 1 0 for students
(normally £15). Nino's 38 Thurloe Place, South
Ken 589 1054.
• Keep Fit AGM: 6.30pm. Voting for next year's
committee and free cheese, wine, etc for
members. Southside Lounge.
• Jewish Society will be showing a remarkable
film called 'The Wave' next Tuesday, March 13,
at 1.30pm in the UDH (1st floor Union Building).
Contact A Preston (Maths 1).
• Siemens Studentenkreis —Could everybody in
the Siemens Huderntenbrein please contact Anette
Oels through the Mech Eng 3 pigeonholes or ring
584 0841.
• High flyers required. Interested in
joining/forming IC Flying Club. Contact Aris DoC
2.
• Mech Eng Revue: Thursday 15 March, 7.30pm.
Drop in for a laugh. Price £1.00
FOR SALE
• Ladies size 14 Arctic pro semi-dry suit for
scuba diving. As new! Excellent value at only £ 7 0
ono. Contact Roz on 370 1417.
LOST
• Lost —A white plastic bag containing Malaysian
traditional clothes. Last seen Malaysian Soc
noticeboard. Any information on its whereabouts
contact M Reza Ibrahim on Aero 2 or phone 402
7460. There is a cash reward.
PERSONAL
• Carol says: If I lie underneath you, I can keep it
down flat.
• IT: Wednesday 21st March
• IT: Skip the Gold Blend foreplay and go straight
for the main course.
• IT: The IC Swimming & Water Polo Club Annual
Dinner—members and guests invited.
• To the Crunchie licking girl in the JCR! Who are
you? From your valentine.
• My warriors will turn your so-called 'fabulous'
freebirds ( + AE) to PASTA! Theodore T Long.
• Good looking fresher seeks plastic reflectors
from cornflake packets for bike wheels. Apply D
Bevan, Maths 1.
• Mega thanks to Andy, Sunny, Adrian, Jeanie,
Jeremy, Toby, Steve, Pippa, Sez, Lesley & Alan,
Parry, Richard, Jo, Kate, Andy & Rose, and
medical students everywhere. Cheers —Shan.
City & Guilds
INTERDEPARTMENTAL
COMPETITION
Darts & Pool
Tuesday 20 March
6pm in Elec Eng Common Room
Teams fo 4 per department
Come along and support your
department!

