Welfare reply
Dear Dave,
I am writing to you regarding Dylan James's letter
which appeared two weeks ago in FELIX (issue 860,
February 23) on the subject of the Poll Tax.
Whilst I am pleased that students are reading the
articles and handouts I produce, I am also concerned
that some, like Mr James, are still confused about
exactly what the Poll Tax will mean for them. I am
also concerned that Mr James has misused
information available in the Welfare Office to suit his
argument.
I therefore feel it is essential that the following
points are made:
1.1 have never stated 'that the typical student pays
£5.25 in rates on £50.00 rent per week'. The source
of this piece of misinformation I assume came from
my handout on Housing Benefits in which I used an
example to show how Housing Benefit is worked out.
In this example the rent was given as £50.00 of which
£5.25 per week is rates. The words 'typical student'
do not appear in this handout. In fact in my experience
many students at present pay more than £50.00 per
week inclusive rent.
2. Mr James has correctly calculated that £5.25 per
week paid during the academic year comes to
£199.50. This is clearly a lot more than the student
Poll Tax bill for L B . Westminster-£39.00 or R.B.
Kensington & Chelsea-£75.00. However he has
overlooked three very important factors:
Dear Dave,
After all the recent publicity concerning Harlington
and the Gravel Fund, I feel it is time to explain the
position of the Hockey Club-undoubtedly the most
affected by the works.
I was not at Imperial when the gravel extraction
started, but I am led to understand that the hockey
pitches were some of the best around at the time.
Indeed, when I arrived there were three very good
grass pitches. This was for three IC teams and three
CCU teams. The deal with Streeters, the gravel
contractors, was that a substantial area of the
Harlington grounds be relaid for the start of this
season. This was despite representation from the
ACC, and even the groundsmen saying to the
contrary. It was mid-August when, surprise, surprise,
the people in charge of the relaying cottoned on to
the fact that what they had produced, was not a
smooth surface suitable for student sport, but a
cabbage patch, and a very poor cabbage patch at that.
So, at this time, six weeks before the start of term,
the Hockey Club was told that we had only one pitch,
and that we would have to find alternative grounds.
For anyone that doesn't know, six weeks is not very
long to find pitches to play three or four matches on
every Wednesday and Saturday. Luckily we booked
some and so this season we have managed, however
for next season, we have made no bookings, foolishly
believing that finally we were going to receive our own
astroturf. Demand for artificial pitches is huge, and
at present, we have not been able to get bookings,
even on the pitches we are currently using.
• Many students are going to find it difficult to get
landlords to reduce rents from 1.4.90 (I shall expand
a little on this in point 3).
• The 1988 Housing Act has meant that the majority
of students now have Assured Shorthold Tenancies
for which the landlord can charge a 'market rent'. So
even if the landlord reduces the rent from April he will
be able to increase it again when the tenancy ends.
So for example, a student paying £50.00 per week
including rates could well be paying £50.00 and above
per week excluding rates in his next accommodation.
• I agree that L.B. Westminster's Poll Tax for students
is low but how many students can afford
Westminster's rents? A large number of students only
get one year in an IC hall of residence where the cost
is comparatively low compared with private sector
rents and allowing for possible travelling expenses.
During next term 1st and 2nd year students will be
hunting for the cheapest suitable accommodation
they can find because student loans are coming in and
Housing Benefit is going. This cheaper
accommodation is likely to be in higher Poll Tax areas.
Do I hear 'swings and roundabouts'?
3. Mr James also argues that ICU should be telling
students how to use the law in order to get landlords
to reduce their rents from 1.4.90. However there is
no provision in the Community Charge Regulations
that require landlords to reduce rents. In Scotland
landlords have taken advantage of this and many
So, the situation we have is this: there will be one
pitch at Harlington, little or no astroturf bookings, and
up to six teams to play at once. This will have far
reaching consequences for the Hockey Club. The
ladies have just been elected to a Saturday league,
after a long struggle for recognition, and without home
pitches they face the very real possibility of expulsion
without having played a match. During UAU fixtures
five teams play at home on the same day, and without
facilities the same fate may face us in this
competition, all this after such success at getting a
team to the semi-final.
The success and expansion of the Club in the last
three years seems set to be dramatically reversed if
the astroturf pitch is not laid this summer. We all feel
that College is right in saying that £475,000 is too
much to pay for one pitch, but if they had set about
specifying realistic requirements for this pitch (the two
pitches in Battersea Park, which are excellent cost
less than £14 million together), then this current delay
would not have occurred, and the Hockey Club would
be looking forward to further expansion and success
in the future. As it looks at the moment, many of the
members will have to play for other clubs, or simply
discontinue playing altogether. This would be a great
shame for hockey and athletics at Imperial, and I ask
the powers that be to consider this plight we are faced
with when they decide to, or not to proceed with, the
astroturf pitch.
Yours sincerely,
Colin Wright, Hockey Club Captain.
tenants have lost out as a resut. Other existing
legislation can help tenants to reduce rents but the
process has many pitfalls. Anyone who wants to
pursue this should seek advice. Also it is important
to remember that the reduction will only apply up to
the end of the current tenancy.
4. Finally Mr James along with all other students
should remember that they will not be students
forever. Final year students will become liable for the
full Poll Tax when they leave College at the end of
June.
So do students gain from the Poll Tax? I will leave that
question to individual students to answer for
themselves. If anyone would like any further
information and advice the Welfare Office is open for
'typical students' and others from 12.30-5.30pm
Monday to Friday.
Yours,
Yve Posner, ICU Welfare Adviser.
P.S. In case anyone is still wondering-yes, I am
anti-poll tax. However as a Welfare Adviser I do not
advise students to break the law. Anyone who wants
to resist the Poll Tax should join their local anti-Poll
Tax group.
P.P.S. The next time someone rips my posters off
a display board I won't be responsible for their
welfare!
Thanks Mrs T
Dear Dave,
From the man who brought you 'Jesus voted Tory'
we now have the assertion that students will actually
gain from the Poll Tax. Mr James has struck again.
I don't know how accurate the figure of £5.25 rates
a week for the average student, but I pay something
more like £1.25 a week in rates in a £45 bill. Now I
must admit that I do live in Westminster, so my £39
a year would seem at first sight a good deal. But it
must be remembered that Westminster is a seat the
Conservatives are in grave danger of losing at the next
election. So whoever wins the seat, I think we can
look forward to this £39 not staying so low.
'How can anyone complain that students are losing
out?' asks Mr James. This is how-as from April this
year there will be no Housing Benefit, so this means
at least £20 a week down the drain for a good number
of students. And does anybody seriously believe that
more than a handful of landlords will actually decrease
their rents because they do not have to pay rates? I
would suggest that with housing becoming even more
difficult to find, rents will actually rise.
Let's all thank Mrs T for...urn, er...yes.
John Mitchell, Maths 2.
Taking the Ritz
Dear Dave,
Thank you for expressing an interest in ordering
'several thousand' Vote Ritsperis stickers (FELIX
863). I am pleased to inform you that, since the costs
of pasting-up a master sheet was paid for by Mr
Ritsperis. I can now offer you stickers at a 17.5%
discount (i.e. £10.42 per 1000 that you order).
I look forward to hearing from you.
Andrew Lewis, Mech Eng 2.
Page 13
More Harlington

