More Asiansoc
Dear Dave,
I suppose the letter concerning Asian Soc in last
week's FELIX asks for a response. Just so that you
don't have to dig out the issue, this is what Anil
Loadwa wrote about Asian Society:
'(...(Firstly the only reason Bhartendu set up an
Asian Soc was because he knew no one would have
elected him as President for Indian Soc. It was an ego
trip. The setting up was helped by 'contacts' eg
former India Soc president Kob and his dear friend
Wouter (OSC Chairman] who pushed the motion
through the Union. (...)'
I would like to reply to Mr Loadwa's letter with
these comments:
If someone has the enthusiasm and ability to set up
a new society and manages to collect 135 signatures,
why should anyone object to the formation of this
new society?
Yours sincerely,
Wouter van Hulten, Overseas Students Officer.
Sorry
Dear Dave,
We were most concerned with the implication in
your article 'Chem Eng in disgrace' that the first year
were to blame for the disgraceful behaviour at the
formal departmental dinner.
Twenty-four out of seventy-five first years went to
the dinner, none of whom embarrassed the
department. (In fact, most of the trouble was confined
to fourth years, postgraduates and academic staff.)
Also the clean-up bill was not the sensational £5,000
but actually £100.
We would also like to take this opportunity to say
how disappointed we are that the lecturers felt that
it was necessary to admonish us for the behaviour of
others. Although they may have been trying to ensure
that these scenes are not repeated in future years, the
conduct of the first year at the dinner showed that
reprimand was unnecessary.
We do not condone what happened that evening
but were concerned about the reputation of the First
Year Chem Eng who will have to attend further formal
dinners.
Yours sincerely,
A J Marsh, S Brownina, G Marks, P Caldwell Dugald
Agble, 1 Alam.
'Toon tribute
Dear Dave,
I am writing to FELIX for the first time to express
my thanks to you and several members of the FELIX
team for the support that you have given me
throughout my campaign for the Deputy President's
post.
I am especially grateful to Jeremy Burnell and Andy
Thompson, for the efforts put into helping me produce
the poster, which my friends still reckon suffered from
the fact that I was in it, and to yourself for the long
hours and late nights.
Let it now be recorded in the annals of ICU History
that I am the first candidate ever to be defeated by
a 'toon. One astute member of the electorate asked
me who I most admired in the world. Well, put aside
the politicians, movie stars, businessmen and sex
kittens, I can only be in awe of Jessica R., and I wish
her all the best for the future.
Yours sincerely,
Benjamin Turner.
Page 14
Squashed!
Dear Dave,
A funny thing happened to me last week. I was told
that the Sports Centre was in dire financial straits and
therefore the Union Squash Club time would have to
be rather drastically reduced. These changes were
rushed through a meeting of the South Ken Sports
Committee and are being implemented this week.
Now the funny thing about this is that I'm captain
of the Squash Club, and I wasn't informed of these
changes until after the events had taken place. No
discussion, just a decree from the College authorities.
The changes are fairly extensive, probably won't work
and are going to cause one hell of a pain in the arse
to me as I try to explain to my members this lightning
decision. Sports Centre staff are as equally doubtful
as me on the mechanics of the scheme.
The decision is quite indicative of the College
authorities' poor relations and communications with
the student body. No careers service, earmarking of
Harlington Trust funds for a hall of residence,
whatever next, sale of the Union? or perhaps a
knighthood for the Rector.
Craig Robinson, Captain Squash Club.
Bigotry
Dear Dave,
It has come to my attention that there is a case of
discrimination in this College. This may not be a
surprise to the majority of the students in College but
the nature of it will shock many.
As a first year I am about to start on the futile search
for a room for next year that will not send me heavily
into the red and is less than fifty miles away, stupid
I know.
'Why don't you try for a re-app?', impossible as
unlike most of the people who do get rooms as re-apps
I spend some of my time working, not down the pub
plying the sub-wardens with drinks.
During my vain efforts to find somewhere that even
closely meets my needs I discovered an oasis in the
desert. Just as I feel that I have a small chance of
getting a place it is snatched away from me in a cruel
vindictive way.
The place in question is a basement flat in Fisher
Hall. These flats have room for five or six people but
they are NOT reserved for re-apps from Fisher Hall.
As far as I am aware, please correct me if I am wrong,
they should thus be made equally accessible to all
students without preference towards Fisher Hall
residents.
Upon inquiring further I find that all the students in
the flats, almost without exception are indeed ex-
Fisher Hall residents and that the only way of getting
a flat is to have 'friends' in the hall such as re-apps
and sub-wardens.
Without friends in the hall I would never have
discovered the existence of these flats and indeed
most students outside of the hall have no idea that
they exist. Even the method of applying for these flats
is a secret kept by a selected few. They may as well
not exist for at least 90% of the student population.
It is thus my opinion that these rooms are not being
made freely and impartially available to all residents
as they should be.
This is thus positive discrimination towards Fisher
Hall residents and as such it should be condemned.
I would appreciate it if the Evelyn Gardens
Superintendent would tell students if these details,
which were obtained from word of mouth, are true
and what he will do about it.
Yours,
Name withheld by request.
No bullshit!
Dear FELIX,
I am sure that I speak for all the candidates in the
recent sabbatical elections when I extend my thanks
to the FELIX staff for their help over the last few
weeks.
Rose, Andy and especially Dave have all worked
extremely hard to produce the elections publicity in
addition to their normal workload to produce FELIX.
Despite this they have remained friendly and helpful
even when we bothered them with irrelevancies at
awkward times. Certainly Dave has gone out of his
way to ensure that each candidate has had the best
publicity possible.
Thanks,
Dougie.
Hostile union
Dear Dave,
Events last Friday and Monday have made me
concerned about the way some of the Union
Permanent Staff present themselves to students.
On Friday I agreed to mail out the copies of FELIX
which are sent to members of College's Governing
Body, national newspapers and others. Because of a
backlog of three weeks, there were about 300
envelopes.
Having borrowed the Union franking machine and
with the help of several members of the FELIX staff,
I spent about two hours franking the envelopes; they
were then carried down to the post office on
Exhibition Road by two of the FELIX staff. The cost
of the mailing was about £60 and there was about
£15 credit left on the franking machine, which I
returned to the Union office at about 5pm.
Part of the job of the Union Assistant Administrator,
Miss Michelle Began, is, I believe, to frank outgoing
post on behalf of Union clubs, societies, etc. The
unpaid and freely given efforts of the FELIX staff thus
saved her several hours of tedious work. On entering
the Union Office on Monday morning, I received a
spate of abuse from both her and the Union
Administrator, Mrs Jen Hardy-Smith.
We were accused of using up all the credit on the
franking machine: is £15 not enough to do the
majority, if not all, of the Union's post for one day?
I know that a cheque had already been signed allowing
more credit to be put on the machine as soon as
necessary.
Miss Began then asserted that the FELIX Editor
should take the machine to be refilled: 'He should take
his turn with the other sabbaticals; he's not pulling,
his weight,' she said. This is outrageous given that
the FELIX Editor has worked through the night twice
in the past two weeks, has worked for the last three
weekends (and many previous ones) and frequently
works until midnight or later during the week. I am
sure the other sabbaticals work very hard, but do they
consistently have to work over 80 hours a week? I
am certain that Miss Began does not.
Recently one of the candidates for FELIX Editor
accused the Union Print Unit of being 'hostile'. I think
this is a term which is far more appropriate for the
Union Office. Is it just FELIX Staff, or does everyone
receive the same miserable grudging reception? I hope
not, but I suspect it goes a long way towards
explaining the reputation ICU has for being
'unfriendly'.
Liz Warren
FELIX Features Editor
Chem Eng 4

