A tale of two societies
Dear Dave,
In reply to Anil Loadwa's letter last week (FELIX
862), I feel that it is necessary to refute the allegations
that he has made against myself and Asian Society
and also to 'disclose a few points which I think
everyone has the right to know (especially the
members) about the lifestory of Asian Society'...
This brings me onto my first point. I think the reader
should be aware that Anil Loadwa, Mech Eng 3 does
not even exist! So, this causes even greater doubt
about the authenticity of his allegations and leads me
to believe that it was written by someone (or some
persons) who have some sort of personal vendetta
against Asian Soc. It seems both incredible and
pointless to me that there are people out there who
get kicks out of making accusations against Asian
Soc, especially when they are totally unsound and
untrue.
The 'only reason' why Asian Soc was set up was,
as was clearly stated by its constitution: to promote
and publicise the culture of Asia. It was not an 'ego
trip' and whoever believes such has been seriously
misled! The Union requires at least twenty signatures
for the formation of any College society. In the case
of Asian Soc, 135 signatures were presented. The
people who signed the petition were informed of the
reasons for setting up the society and signed because
they understood and approved of the idea-not
because they were forced to. The Union, on the basis
of the remarkable interest shown, passed the motion
for it to become a constituent society of the OSC and
not because of the help of 'contacts' or my 'dear
friend Wouter (OSC Chairman)' or indeed 'former India
Soc president Kob'.
I am pleased to observe that Anil is a 'member of
the Asian Soc' and that he joined it 'because it was
meant to represent a more cultured part of Asia'. Also,
he is correct in assuming that 'this is why Asian Soc
was not merged with the Indian Soc'. However, what
Anil incorrectly states is that 'the actual reason the
two societies did not merge was because they would
have had to have re-election for which Bhart was not
too keen on'. The facts explain why and are as
follows:
Following approval of the Society by the Union last
summer, it was decided that a 'caretaker' committee
be chosen to help in its running and welfare until such
a time that the society would have members who
would be allowed to elect in the existing or a new
committee democratically (after all, there is no sense
in having elections without an electorate). Following
Freshers' Fair in October, the Society attracted up to
100 members. Election papers for every post including
president for this year's committee (89/90) were put
up on November 27 and every member of the society
was informed of the exact time and place of the
elections about two weeks prior to this.
The whole fiasco of a 'merger' between Asian Soc
and Indian Soc was raised and discussed several times
soon after the Freshers' Reception. However, not only
was the 'caretaker' committee of Asian Soc against
the idea but many of its members when approached,
felt that it would be best to keep the two societies
separate judging on the nature of India Soc the year
before. To eliminate any animosity and friction, it was
mutually agreed by the Presidents of both societies
that they would keep out of each other's way and that
they would organise their own activities and inform
each other of their plans to avoid 'clashes' or conflict
of interests.
So, the decision for a non-merger was not a
personal one as suggested by Anil but one that was
agreed by many.
As far as re-elections are concerned, I am prepared,
even now, to call the members of both societies if
that's what they want and take a democratic vote for
a merger. Let me make it clear that I am not, and never
was, bothered about holding the title of Mr President.
I was only ever concerned at attempting to present
to Asians a 'different side' to the events and activities
that many of them are presently accustomed to. This
does not mean that I disagree with discos and the
like-only that I feel it is important to appreciate that
some of us still have a strong sense of culture and
tradition and enjoy the opportunity of attending
'cultural' events. It is a simple case of catering to the
tastes of a different audience.
I would also like to point out that the organisation
of a cultural event at College takes considerably more
time, thought and coordination that a normal 'disco-
type' event. Financially speaking, a cultural event is
sometimes not as 'safe' as a disco-type event since
it is difficult to predict a large, guaranteed student
attendance. This was reflected by the first event that
Asian Soc held on November 7 1989 which was
cultural. Despite extensive publicity throughout the
University of London, the event was not a financial
success although of those that attended, each went
away feeling that they had witnessed something quite
unique. Yes, 'there were at least 100 people there'
and yes, 'the tickets for the event were sold at an
average price of five pounds'. But unfortunately 'Anil',
since you weren't there, it probably didn't occur to
you what the expenses amounted to for the band,
sound, lighting and publicity costs. Had you such
insight, then you would have restrained yourself from
insinuating naive suggestions such as 'all this adds up
to a substantial income. So surely....we must search
for the money in Swiss bank accounts?' Also, though
it may disappoint you, the Union and the OSC have
'made a sufficient enquiry on this matter'. Every
penny that has ever been spent or earnt by Asian Soc
has been accunted for in black and white so I see no
reason for the Union or the OSC ever being 'afraid of
losing face'. As far as my 'ego writing cheques the
society couldn't cash' is concerned-well, I think,
Anil, it is always unwise to jump to rash and false
conclusions without some sort of corroborating
evidence to back them up!
As far as the allegations pertaining to the so-called
'running of the society' are concerned, I would like
to clear up a few misunderstandings. Although Anil
seems convinced that 'the treasurer resigned due to
quote 'dictatorship'...' perhaps, had he asked the
treasurer in question why he really resigned, then he
would have discovered that the real reason was due
to quote 'excessive workload'. I would like to
emphasise here that I believe that the success of any
society rests upon the strength of its committee. If
certain members of that committee are not prepared
to offer their sincere services and accept a 'fair share'
of the responsibilities, then the President has only two
real alternatives-either to sit back and watch that
society deteriorate or to have the courage to 'take-
on' those responsibilities in order to keep that society
'alive'. If the latter is construed as a 'dictatorship' then
it is surely a great sign of misapprehension.
If Anil, as a 'member of Asian Soc' feels that he can
contribute something constructive to the welfare of
the society, then I invite him to step forward and
participate in its running. Otherwise, please do not
mislead the readers of FELIX and especially the 'real'
members of Asian Soc by conjuring up stories under
some sort of pseudonym.
Yours,
Bartendu Gyas (DoC 2).
I am sick to death of jerk-offs like Anil Loadwa,
who feel they have the right to write letters to
FELIX under a pseudonym. Letters are accepted
in good faith. Frequently the content of our mail
bag disuades us from asking for a Union card
check. If you want the freedom to write to FELIX
you should have the honesty to put your real name
at the end of a letter. We can withhold names and
we do not reveal them in these cases-Ed.
Those callous Conservatives again
Dear Sir,
With reference to your article on the ConSoc poster
of 23.2.90 'Support the Ambulance Workers, let the
Patients Die' I thought you might be interested in the
following incident.
Whilst attending as medic in the College ambulance
on Saturday 3.3.90 we were called to deal with a
person who had collapsed and stopped breathing in
Kensington High Street. When we arrived artificial
resucitation had already been performed on the
casualty by a member of the London Ambulance
Service who was collecting money nearby. If he had
not done this the casualty would have certainly died.
Once all life systems were working again he called the
L.A.S. directly and incidently from the normal 999
channels to give us better information on the locality
and disposition of the casualty. He also was good
enough to give a statement to the local police.
It is therefore blatantly clear that it is not the
ambulance workers who gain support from people
dying in the street, but the callous attitude of certain
members of Her Majesty's Government and their
supporters.
If the statement on the poster was the Conservative
Society's idea of satire then it has surely backfired,
as a large proportion of the drivers and medics
operating the College ambulance are Trade Union
officials within the College (including myself) and one
of the rules of any Trade Union is to preserve life (there
is no such rule in the constitution of the Conservative
Party).
Since ConSoc is so concerned on this matter I am
sure they will make a donation to the Imperial College
Ambulance Fund to help pay for the replacement of
the vehicle paid for by students' efforts in 1979.
N. Royall, Dept of Geology.

