£4 million CCUs fiddle IRC
The Wellcome Trust has awarded £4 million to the
Lite Science division for research into the
epidemiology of parasitic worm infections like
bilherzia or gastro-intestinal worm diseases. This is
the biggest award the Trust have ever given.
Professor Roy Anderson. Head of the Biology
Department, said that such helminth (or 'worm')
infections afflict a third of the world's population,
and it is not understood how they manage to
circumvent the immunological system.
He added that the new research centre would be
situated in West and East Beit. ' We will use existing
space and modernize the labs. It will involve a lot
of re-organization'. He said that postgraduates would
be involved and that there will be a strong overseas
component.
Boring
The Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principals
(CVCP) have put forward their alternative to the
Government's students loans proposal. It is based on
a combination of grants and a graduate tax.
The scheme would include a non-means tested full
maintenance grant based on regional differences,
followed by an income-related tax through National
insurance contributions or the Inland Revenue.
The Vice Chancellors believe that this is a simpler
and fairer system, though Mr John McGregor, the
Secretary of State for Education and Science,
dismissed the idea, saying that the National Insurance
scheme could never become a debt collecting agency.
The government have released plans in which all
students applying for loans will have to give the names
of two referees who may be approached if the student
defaults on payments. Defaulters may be blacklisted
or have property reposessed.
ICSO
Imperial College Symphony Orchestra will be playing
Shostakovich's 10th Symphony and Tchaikovsky's
first piano concerto with Vanessa Latarche on the
piano today, Friday 9th March.
Tickets cost £2.00 on the door of the Great Hall
and the performance will start at 8.00 pm. Advance
tickets are available from the Haldane library.
Wanted
1990 Careers
Fair Manager
The Union needs someone with experience
of administration and business who can
motivate a team. The successful applicant
will be paid £ 1 2 0 pw plus a profit-related
bonus for 1 week's work over Easter and
12 weeks over Summer as well as work
over the time of the Fair itself. Anyone
wishing to apply for the post should contact
Fiona Nicholas in the Union Office by 1pm,
19th March 1990
Money from the career's fair will be used to buy
computing equipment for the three Constituent
College Unions (CCUs), despite objections from
Imperial College Union President, M r Neil
McCluskey. At a recent meeting of the Industrial
Relations Committee (IRC), the committee
responsible for overseeing the money from the
career's fair, decided to spend some of it on laser
printers for the CCUs at an estimated total cost of
£8000. The only people at the meeting apart from the
chairman, M r Nick Lay and the three union office
sabbaticals were the presidents of the CCUs.
The decision has led to a call from Mr McCluskey
for the committee to be made more representative.
with places guaranteed for representatives from the
major sub-committees (MSCs). At present the MSCs
have only an observer status. Mr Lay is currently
looking into trie scheme.
In addition, about £3000 of IRC money has been
earmarked for the college day nursery and a further
£3000 is being given by the union to support the
college careers service. Up to £1000 can be used for
subsidising student conferences. This leaves £5000
which has not been decided on as well as last year's
residue of £9000.
It is known that Imperial College Union would like
a new computer system, further reducing the money
left from the career's fair.
Important G o i n
§
Students are urged to complete their lecture evaluation
questionnaires which will be coming around soon.
Shaun West, RSMU Academic affairs officer, pointed
out that it is only if upwards of 70% of students
complete the forms that lecturers will take notice of
the results.
He added that lecturers who score badly are called
to see the head of department to discuss why they are
considered bad lecturers and it is well worth while
to spend the few minutes completing the form. You
don't have to be bored by your lecturers!
Iran pays
The Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea has
received payment of £500,000 from the Iranian
government for the borough's maintenance of the
Imperial Hotel in Queen's Gate.
The Shah's regime bought the building with the
intention of converting it into a cultural centre. After
the Islamic revolution, the building became a low
priority for the fledgling Iranian government and the
Borough had to encase it in scaffolding to ensure
public safety. The Iranian government has now
repayed the debts incurred.
A spokeswoman from the Borough Council said
they did not know what the Iranian government's
intention with the building was.
Telephone
shock
New telephone numbers have been brought in for
some college facilities. They can be used as direct
outside lines if prefixed by the code '225'. They are
as follows :
Royal College of Science Union; extension 8675.
Royal School of Mines Union; extension 8674.
City and Guilds Union; extension 8673.
Union bar; extension 8671.
Imperial College Union extension number 3506 is
now 8670.
down
Mr William Goodwin, the editor of last year's 'Felix',
finished his appeal to the House of Lords yesterday
(Thursday). He is appealing against the decision that
he was 'in contempt of court' in not handing over
information to the authorities which may reveal the
source of his stories.
Mr Goodwin is a trainee jounalist on 'The Engineer'
magazine. The editor of 'The Engineer'. Mr John
Pullen. said that the lawlords had retired to make a
decision, which would be returned within five weeks.
He said that Mr Goodwin had borne up 'remarkably
well - there is a huge amount of respect with how
he's coped with it all'. He added that 'We thought
wc were listened to with sympathy by the lawlords
.... it will be decided on points of law rather than
jounalistic ethics'.
Lecture
The director of the IC Humanities department, Mr
Eric Stables, will be giving a talk under the title 'Satire
on Campus: Universities and the Comic Novel'. It
will be held in the Read lecture theatre, level 5
Sherfield, at 1.15pm on Tuesday 6 March.
IC ENTS SPRING DIARY
Fri 9th BASS DANCE Reggae
Support: Red Ten
Fri 16th ROCK NIGHT Guitar band
Support: Stage Fright
Fri 23rd DEATH BANG Crazy funk
PARTY
In the Union Lounge
• LATE BARS!
• LATE DISCOS!
Tickets on sale in the Union Office

