Book
All the Wrong Places
by James Fenton
The nack of becoming a journalist; in particular a
foreign correspondent covering the most turbulent
countries in the world is to let events flow over you
and then pick out the choicest morsels to turn into
your stories.
James Fenton has been covering turbulent events
in the world for over twenty years, revolutions both
violent and political have all been revealed to the
world.
He is very much an individual, rather than going with
the crowd he is prepared to go it alone, find his own
stories, make his own stories come alive. This does
tend to lead him into what can only be described as
interesting situations. Things like hitching a lift on the
first tank to storm the palace in Saigon, or enter
Marcos' personal suit only minutes after the dictator
has fled, all these things add up to a slightly
dangerous, almost precarious life. One thing is for
certain, life is never dull.
Asia has always been a place of extremes, wealth
and poverty, dominance and subversion, they have
all played their part in changing the face of a
continent. Democracy is always portrayed as the
solution to all the evils of dictators but it is an
unnatural medicine for south east Asia. In this part of
the world they have known nothing but dictators,
monarchies or anarchy, and little if anything has
changed in the last few decades.
The book is a series of accounts portraying the
personal effects of revolt; from Vietnam to
Kampuchea, the Philippines to Korea, and how the
ideas of the few effect the masses that have very little
say in what happens.
Each story shows a different side of the coin, the
decadence that was overthrown in Korea, the brutality
and terrorism in Kampuchea and foreign empire
building that went wrong in Vietnam. They are well
written and interesting, producing a clearer picture of
the sequence of events than you could from the bits
and pieces that get churned up at every opportunity
in history programmes
The book is written in an informal and relaxed style,
but you do need to have a basic idea of the events
as he does not stop and explain the background to the
events that he chronicles, so brush up on your
twentieth century history become reading this book.
Perhaps the best reason to by the book, apart from
the obvious requirements of being enjoyable, is that
it is unbiased and truthful.
For this reason I can recommend this book as a good
factual read that is light and interesting and well worth
the effort.
Ian Hodge.
Film
Shadow
Makers
What does Fat Man and Little Boy mean to you? To
most of America apparently it was taken for the name
of a duo comedy film. They were probably rather
surprised to discover that it was all about the
construction of the first two atomic bombs. To
prevent the same thing happening here it has been
renamed Shadow Makers.
General Leslie R.Groves (Paul Newman) was
responsible for building the pentagon. He has now
been assigned to a different task—the construction
of an atomic bomb. He assembles a team of America's
greatest minds led by J.Robert Oppenheimer (Dwight
Schultz, best known as Mad Murdoch from the A-
Team, but unrecognisable), who set to work on the
device. The General convinces them that they are
working to beat Germany to the bomb. When he
eventually discovers that The Nazis are not working
on the bomb, he hides this from them. Victory in
Europe is declared, but still work progresses. Slowly,
though, discontent grows among the scientists.
This is not a purely factual retelling of the events
leading up to the nuclear attacks on Japan, as certain
sections have been fictionalised. Most noticeable of
these is the horrific death of one of the team when
he is subjected to a fatal dose of radiation. Still the
majority is based in fact, and it should make for a
gripping tale.
Most of the drama arises from conflict. Principally
this involves disagreements between the military
(Groves) and the scientists (Oppenheimer) as well as
the internal struggle between the scientists'
consciences and their desire to harness the basic
power of creation. A perfunctory love interest is
introduced for the scientist doomed to die of radiation
poisoning, but her sole purpose seems only to be
making his death seem more tragic. We also see
Oppenheimer forced into a dilemma over his
mistress-a rather crude symbol for the abandoning
of his humanity perhaps?
It has to be said that for most of the film one cares
little about what is going on. It is only in the last half
hour or so that the horror of the bomb is shown at
all. There are two eerie and frightening scenes at the
first testing of the bomb, as well as the oft mentioned
radiation death to convey the strongly anti-nuclear
stance of the film. This along with some moralising
about life and nature is all there is to commend a rather
boring film, which could have been a dark warning
against the terminal nuclear path humanity has taken.
Adam T.
Page 3
Plaff!
Film
Plaff! is a Cuban comedy about throwing eggs; plaff
being the Cuban word for 'Splat'. The story is a fairly
straightforward one about a rotund, middle-aged
housewife, Concha, who is the target for the
aforementioned eggs. This distresses her somewhat
because the eggs are a bad omen in Santeria, the
unofficial afro-based religion of Cuba. Whoever is
throwing the eggs obviously wants Concha out of her
house, the question is who is it? The suspects are
numerous, including a neighbour who had an affair
with Concha's late husband, Thomas, Concha's
surprisingly persistant admirer and Cartia, who is
married to Concha's son Jose Ramon and to whom
Concha has taken an avid dislike. Just as Concha
thinks she has worked out who it is and accuses them,
another egg is thrown and eventually it all becomes
too much for her.
Much of the humour in this film centres around
rather bad cinematic gags such as missed cues, sound
problems, atrocious editing and the film starts in the
second reel, going back to the first at the end. None
of this works very effectively especially since it is easy
to imagine a lot of Cuban cinema being genuinely like
that. There is also quite a bit of slapstick comedy such
as inappropriately placed filing cabinents which
everyone walks into and of course the eggs which is
either hilariously funny or embarrassingly juvenile
depending on your taste in comedy.
Perhaps the most effective aspect of the film is the
way in which it satirises everything: religion,
bureaucracy, family relationships and life in general.
One amusing episode involves Clarita who is a
chemical engineer. She has discovered how to make
a polymer out of pig excrement and eggwhite which
absorbs precious metals exclusively from sea water.
She is prevented from developing it by government
bureaucrats, that is, until an emotional outburst on
television by her husband, Jose, who is a baseball
star.
I would describe this film as light rather than funny
although if you happen to be Cuban it is probably a
lot more amusing. Unless you understand the ins and
outs of Cuban life much of the satire is likely to be
lost. Plaff! runs for three weeks at the ICA Cinema
as part of a season of films and talks celebrating the
work of black comics, comedy writers and film
makers.
Liz.

