The War of the Roses
Film
How often do you see a film that totally redefines a
term like swinging from the chandeliers? War Of The
Roses is that sort of film. A lawyer (Danny DeVito)
is talking to a client who is contemplating divorce. As
a warning he relates the tale of Oliver and Barbara
Rose, friends of his. They met at an auction, both
bidding for the same object. Soon they were married.
Oliver peruses a successful career in law while Barbara
bears the children and sets up a perfect home for her
husband. Unfortunately there is trouble in paradise.
When the children leave home Barbara decides to set
up a catering business of her own. Then when, by
chance, she gets a brief glimpse of life without Oliver,
she decides she likes it—and asks for a divorce. Then
when neither will give up the perfect house, it turns
into a battleground...
Director DeVito has gathered together the
Romancing the Stone team (himself, Michael Douglas,
Kathleen Turner) for this movie and without a doubt
it was a good move. There is a chemistry between
the three that survives the transition into a totally
different set of characters. Douglas and Turner
successfully and convincingly portray the change in
the couple's attitude to one another, from being madly
in love to madly in hate. The addition of the superb
Marianne Sagebrecht [Bagdad Cafe, Rosalie Goes
Shopping) as the housekeeper was also an inspired
choice, although she is sadly underused in the film.
The Mis- nm,re
understanding
I
m H i Pi
Plays where characters are employed to disseminate
philosophical and moral ideas can be profoundly
stimulating and challenging but are often devoid of
any 'conventional' form of entertainment. For those
of us who go to the theatre to be entertained, two
hours of Albert Camus' nihilist philosophy on stage,
is not a mug of Earl Grey, milk, two sugars.
It's an interesting story though: a wealthy
businessman returns to his mother's and sister's guest
house after twenty years absence. Temporarily unable
to reveal his identity he is murdered by them for his
money. But then they find out...The cast are
competent, if a little unimaginative and there are some
interesting lighting effects. So if you're fed up with
Aristotle and Descartes-try to understand this.
The Misunderstanding is currently playing at the
Gate Theatre, Notting Hill. Box office 229 7061.
Adrian Pagan.
Page 4
The plot starts off as a fairly normal love story
before making a leap into a bizarre battle between the
couple-a surrealistic comedic version of The Shining,
but with the pair of them crazy. This suits DeVito's
unusual and imaginative directional style down to the
ground, with camera angles and intercut scenes used
to grotesque comic effect. Somehow, though, he
manages to make the frankly unbelievable situations
Glory
Don't you hate film promoters? They're pushing this
film as a star vehicle for Matthew Broderick. All right
he plays an important role in the film but there is far
more to it than that. Set during the American Civil
War, it tells of the raising of the first black regiment
to fight for the north. They were led by Colonel Robert
Shaw, a white and a survivor of the battle of Antinam,
when 40,000 people were killed in five hours
(compared to 50,000 americans during the whole of
Vietnam). Eager to go into combat against the
southerners, they first have to combat prejudice
amongst the higher ranking members of the Northern
army.
With 1,000 men in the 54th the only way the
producers could portray their struggles was to use a
small group of slightly stereotyped men to represent
the whole. Most notable of these are Trip, a runaway
slave, and Rawlins, a grave digger turned sergeant-
major.' Trip, played by Denzel Washington [Cry
Freedom), has suffered so much from racism that he
himself has become racist, hating everyone with a
white skin. Rawlins, played by Morgan Freeman
(Driving Miss Daisy), is a voice of wisdom amongst
the hot-headed impetuosity of the rest of the men.
Under Rawlins guidance Trip learns to control and use
his aggression.
The part of Col. Shaw is an unusual one for
Broderick, but one he handles well, showing the
colonel's transition from an introverted and naive
young man to a battle hardened (but still idealistic)
leader of men. Occasionally he is called upon to deliver
lines which could easily sound corny, but which he
manages to deal with remarkably well. He is showing
signs of maturing into a fine actor.
The photography is often superb, many scenes
sticking vividly in one's mind long after the film has
finished. It is particularly effective during the battle
that occur credible.
A literal battle of the sexes that also looks at
marriage and divorce, while steering clear and
occasionally parodying cliches, this is an excellent
film. Very funny and very black it is well worth seeing,
just don't take your boyfriend/girlfriend.
Adam T.
Film
scenes, showing the true horror of war, with many
horrific, but brief, scenes of death and injury. The film
is less about war though, than about a group of
people's struggle to achieve the respect that they are
entitled to. Their final, almost pointless sacrifice and
the eventual good that comes of it is very moving.
Glory is a remarkably emotional film, and one that
involves the viewer totally. Its message is still relevant
as the battle against prejudice these men were fighting
has not yet been won.
Adam T.

