The Creatures
The Creatures, better known as Siouxsie and Budgie
of The Banshees, played the T&CC as the last date
of their first ever tour, attracting a wide melange of
listener, from the obligatory 'Sid's Not Dead' division
to the floppy-fringed Danceniks via the Hairy folk and
the odd ska nut.
The Creatures play a very odd kind of music; most
of it is written purely for vocal and percussion with
the odd bit of synthetic brass thrown in for good
measure. The percussion is based largely around
andalucian rhythms and tribal beats of the chest-
pounding variety (which action Siouxsie performed
with surprising aplomb) but the vocal owes little to
anybody and is delivered in classic Sioux style.
The crowd were appreciative from the beginning;
the gig had more of the atmosphere of a gathering of
friends than a concert, especially among the more
hard-core admirers at the front of the pack. It took
only a little verve on Budgie's part to get the audience
moving; after that the whole event gained a
momentum of its own through the war-dance
atmosphere of half the songs and the pop subtleties
of the rest. Siouxsie did her own special thing, dressed
-Town & Country Club 1.3.90
The Pale Saints
—Comforts of Madness LP
The Comforts of Madness is the debut LP from Leeds'
band, Pale Saints, following the widely acclaimed (and
mercifully hype-free) Barging into the Presence of God
EP.
First time through this LP sounded glossy, produced
to the point where the music was a mere rush of the
sound.
Second time the rush was full of detail; at times this
album sounded like a showcase in which the Saints
demonstrate their mastery of every style and sound
a guitar can make. Every element of every track differs
from any other, tracks melt into each other, via tiny
set pieces of bizarre rhythm or flamelicks of guitar.
They can be intense (the pounding drums of Way
the World is and the harrowing guitar of Sight of You)
delicate and precious [Life Hammer) and stripped
simplicity (the hook of Sea of Sound) and its
accompanying aural diversions). The album doses
with the steel-woven whimsy of Sight of You, re-
recorded from the Barging EP and the joyful sting of
Time Thief.
If you only enjoy LPs which come to the point, stick
grimly to it for two sides and stop, you won't enjoy
this album. Sharp, clear and, above all, multifaceted.
The Saints know exactly what they're doing.
Stone.
her own special way and left to captivated applause
from her legions of fans, only to return for two
encores.
The Creatures have a single Fury Eyes, and an
album Boomerang out on Wonderland Records.
Stone.
The Jazz Butcher, Blow
Up + Emerald Rain
-Dingwalls 26.2.90
Emerald Rain are another band who believe their deep
meaningful lyrics. Stay in Humberside please. Music
for Sundays. I'm sure IC Ents would like them.
Next came Blow Up, who call themselves the
'crossover' from indie to dance. They certainly got me
gyrating to the funky rhythm. With the fuzz guitarist
from U.N.C.L.E. and psychopathic drummer, their
music is quite unlike anything else currently on sale.
With songs like War Toad, I only hope that the singer
would cheer up a little, even if the crowd was 40%
Japanese tourists.
Jazz Butcher have a sense of humour. Not only does
the singer wear red shades, but they sing about
Burglar of Love and Hey Bacon Face. Gobble, gobble
you too! What a combination-saxophone and
feedback, or rap and distortion.
Unfortunately this frenzy didn't last. Most of the
time, they sounded more like a Butlin's lounge band.
Keep the mellow stuff to the hotels. We want Mr Odd)
SJH.
We are Going to
Eat You
Good opening sets from the Pleasure Thieves and Beef
were witnessed by an appreciative audience and the
club was packed and expectant when We Are Going
To Eat You IWAGTEY) came on to prove themselves.
Appearing in a cloud of mist with a deceptively slow
intro, the band then proceeded to charge their way
through an hour long set of virtually non-stop indie
rock. Songs were played at a frantic pace, and very
little gap between songs meant that there was no
stopping this party! The players themselves were
enthusiastic, whilst not obviously stretching
themselves musically, and performed together with
a combination of energy and skill. Paul Harding (guitar)
ftvi5?'¥ mmw O N O N s i s y
' t M l f I I 1 ilflfl
i
f
i
t
j
s
i
c 1
1 t8G a
m
T'HF, O N L Y " " O N ' G r A U N I O N
W i l l ! A BAR PAST' M I D N I G H T .
cBy uni«.'rsMy n'me-w • • fiDfihampiosi ; eel
tubus aii.Al. bari'-cwi buefrs 38,i/1a,a/a-U3,.'y;.i,nlC
THE COSMIC GLITTER PIXIE GUIDE
Friday 9th
House of Love Royal Albert Hall
Ride LSE Student Union
Meerkats + World Fulham Greyhound
The Chills + McCarthy + Katydids ULU
UB40 + And Why Not?....Brixton Academy
Chris Rea Wembley
Saturday 10th
Cut Cut Emma Heme Hill Half Moon
Boogie Down Productions
+ Queen Lafitah Brixton Academy
Cutting Crew Brixton Fridge
UB40 + And Why Not? Wembley Arena
Sunday 11th
Martin Stephenson & The Daintees
+ The Railway Children +
Five Guys Called Moe T&CC
UB40 + And Why Not? Wembley Arena
Monday 12th
Ned's Atomic Dustbin + UT Dingwalls
Death Bang Party Powerhaus
The Quireboys + Giant , T&CC
Tuesday 13th
Pixies of the Week:
Felo-de-se + The Refuseniks +
Suicide Club + Slings &
Arrows The Robey, Finsbury Park
Gun + Slide T&CC
Goodbye Mr MacKenzie Subterannia
Wednesday 14th
Lush Subterannia, Ladbroke Grove
Mary Coughlan Dominion
Thursday 15th
Mary Coughlan Dominion
Furniture Middlesex Poly, London
Friday 16th
Mary Coughlan Mean Fiddler
Guana Batz Powerhaus, Islington
—Marquee 21.2.90
and Chris Knowles on drums were both especially
impressive in their delivery.
Only a minor complaint to make, which was about
the lack of introduction on the band or the songs,
making it difficult to relate to them. However, neither
myself or the rest of the crowd found this a problem,
and WAGTEY deserved the two encores demanded
of them.
WAGTEY have recently released an album
Everywhen on an independent lable. One single, Ride
upon the tide has already been released, and a new
single should be released soon.
Phil
Page 5

