Coinciding with a series of ecological debates to be broadcast on the World
Service Tim Grant-Smith, of the BBC, describes Sweden's policies for nuclear
waste.
Criminal Waste
• Satellites may be examined remotely by firing a
low powered beam of neutral particles at them. This
is a proposal put forward by scientists at the American
Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. It
would enable the purpose of any satellite, even
military satellites, to be investigated, without
damaging on-board computers.
• The Malunya Caterpillar feeds only on leaves of
coca plant from which cocaine is produced. This
could provide a means of stiffling the drug plantations
which could be smothered by caterpillars dropped
from aircraft. The White House, however, has said
that neither troops nor caterpillars would be deployed
in the war against drug smuggling without the express
invitation of the host country.
• A long lasting marker dye for emergencies at sea
has been developed in Australia. Polythene
microballoons are bonded to conventional dye
particles with a water-soluble gum. The bubbles mean
that the dye floats on the surface remaining visible
for a couple of hours and is claimed to have no effect
on marine life.
• The enquiry into the explosion of an Ariane 4
rocket a couple of weeks ago has begun. Only 6.2
seconds after launch, a drop in pressure in one of the
four engines resulted in a large decrease in thrust. The
other engines compensated for another minute until
vibration shook it apart. The first stage exploded and
the other two were destroyed remotely along with its
payload, two Japanese communications satellites.
• Clusters of Krypton gas atoms have been made
by chemists at the University of Sussex. Although
Krypton is an inert gas, when cooled and forced
through a 200mm hole clusters of dp to 340 atoms
have been formed. The weak interatomic forces are
sufficient to hold the atoms together at low
temperature.
• ALIENS. Do they exist? A light-hearted BioSoc
lecture by Joanthon Cowie, Thursday 18th March,
5.30pm, West Beit Quad Rooms W2/W3.
THE NUCLEAR DEBATE
'Nuclear power is the safest
practical energy source for the
future'
Put by Dr John Gittus, Director
General of the British Nuclear Forum
and opposed by Andy Sterling of
Greenpeace
Lecture Theatre 220, Mech Eng,
Imperial College,
March 12th, 6.30pm
'Sweden has the world's only hard-rock nuclear
repository': after the initial image of Swedish heavy
metal bands being walled up for eternity, the scale of
the undertaking sank in. Of all the dozens of nations
running nuclear power plants, only Sweden has built
a proper waste disposal site fifty metres below the
sea-bed in granite caverns and silos. The waste is
encased in concrete or steel and packed in concrete-
lined vaults surrounded with bentonite clay to absorb
and deflect ground water flow. Huge carriers move
the waste from a special double-hulled ship down an
electrically heated ramp into a bright, clean automated
world beneath the sea, eerily quiet and smelling of
fresh paint. Around the main control block, where
consoles and computers monitor the silo and the four
storage tunnels, there are whimsical human touches:
1
a mock house front projects from a rock wall, and a
shop mannequin in black wig and decollete blouse
peers out of a false window. Further on, past hanging
trees of green cloth, there is an old wooden skiff
moored to a tiny jetty beside a wall painted as a sea
shore.
Back up system and remote cameras are much in
evidence-the mammoth transporter can be driven by
remote control over electric guide cables in the floor,
and radar in its bumpers stops it automatically before
any solid object-human or rock.
This impressive site at Forsmark on the Baltic coast
160 kilometres north of Stockholm is intended to keep
Sweden's low and medium level nuclear waste for five
hundred years, by which time its radioactivity will
have decayed to normal background radiation levels.
But after a thousand years, the present under-sea
repository will be on the surface of dry land, such is
the rate of Sweden's isostatic lift-the 'rebound' from
the burden of 2 kilometres depth of ice over
Scandinavia in the last Ice Age.
That's just one of the problems facing planners as
they consider what to do with the real problem-the
spent nuclear fuel that may need to be kept safe for
250,000 years, perhaps several ice ages. It's a
problem so enormous that even the resourceful
Swedish won't make a decision on a permanent
repository for another ten years.
Sweden is unique in another way too: of all the
Western nuclear-powered countries it alone has
decided by referendum to abandon nuclear power, and
to do it without increasing C 0 2 emissions or hydro-
electric capacity. This rigid policy strait-jacket even
has a timetable-one nuclear station to be phased out
in 1995, one in 1996 and the remaining ten by the
year 2010. The stricter timetable was adopted after
the Chernobyl accident-first detected in the West by
devices at Forsmark.
Half of Sweden's electricity generation is nuclear,
and the Swedes have a high rate of energy use per
capita-hardly surprising given their uncompromising
climate. Nevertheless energy experts like Professor
Thomas Johannson of Lund University believe that the
nuclear element can be replaced: increased efficiency,
he believes, could have the power demand, and
biomass and cogeneration schemes (using the heat
now wasted in the generating process) would fill the
remainder. Bioenergy plantations of willow and alder
would be needed and efficient gasification processes
used on the resultant feedstock, but on paper
Professor Johannson has shown that the strict
timetable is achievable.
It requires bold policy decisions, legislation and
incentives to shape that solution: pricing changes,
efficiency, rating of appliances, electricity service
companies to improve efficiency and cut costs, and
research and investments. In the ten years since the
1980 referendum, little of this has happened and a
top level ministerial team is now examining the
options, after hints that the timetable may be too tight
to be realistic. Sweden's industries have threatened
to move abroad if energy charges make them
uncompetitive on world markets: the Swedish trade
unions have also taken fright about possible job
losses.
Then earlier this year, the energy portfolio was
removed from the resolutely anti-nuclear Environment
Minister Brigitta Dahl and given to the new Industry
Minister, the former Deputy Chairman of the Lands-
organisationen trade union group Mr Rune Molin. Mrs
Dahl stressed to me that she was not disappointed
in the move, and said she knew government policy
had not changed: she is on the ministerial review and
the decision in no way reflected weakening of
government resolve. Professor Johannson even
suggested that the move might be a pragmatic way
of getting industry and the unions to accept the
nuclear phase-out, under a minister more sympathetic
to them.
But that is not how the public appears to see it:
opinon polls show that although a majority still want
the phase out completed on time, 70% now doubt it
will happen. If a prosperous inventive open society like
Sweden, with a government with a clear mandate and
an assured parliamentary majority, cannot tame the
nuclear industry, the outlook must be bleak for anyone
else seeking a non-nuclear future.

