Rugby Gutteridge Cup Final
On a wet, blustery Sunday IC defeated St Thomas's
Hospital in the final of the Gutteridge Cup. A knock-
out competition annually contested by all London
colleges and hospitals (bar one-St Mary's-of
course). IC last winners in 1986, already beating the
holders, Kings College on the way to the final.
Obviously Kings felt pretty displeased and regretfully
the Cup was not returned in time for presentation at
the final.
A strong IC team took to the field at Motspur Park
to boisterous support from over 100 IC supporters.
Immediately on the kick off IC scored a sensational
try. Left wing Dave Fleming going over in the corner
after speedy rucking from the pack and swift handling
in the backs creating the overlap. This was to set the
pace of the game. With everything at stake, both
teams playing hard, fast rugby this was going to form
a quiet clash.
IC needed as many points on the board as possible
with the strong wind advantage in the first half, and
didn't the boys do well?
Thomas's experienced backs were denied
possession as the IC forwards played sensationally.
Supporting one another all round the field, almost
certainly first to every breakdown and cleaning up at
the lineout. What is normally a straightforward ball
winning procedure, even the scrum became an IC
monopoly. All eight forwards were superb, playing like
men possessed. Of these Pete Drew and John Fowler
were outstanding.
Ball was provided so clinically and with such ease,
scrum-half Simon Bicknell could completely control
the game. Thomas's didn't do themselves any justice
even with their hooker being sent off for unlawful use
of his fist-what a silly billy.
Inevitably IC continued to put the points on. A
forward drive at a five yard scrum gave flanker Brian
Greensmith an easy try. Quick thinking from Simon
Bicknell gave Dave Fleming a second try, after running
a short penalty. Captain Rich Walters also putting over
a few kicks to give IC a lead of 18-0 at half time.
3
With the wind strength increasing in the second
half, Thomas's never looked liked scoring a try. Their
only scores coming from two short penalties. IC
continued their style of play, grand sweeping
movements up field, knocking back the opposition
players. Nearing the end, Thomas's heads began to
drop, with superior fitness and an insatiable hunger,
IC ran in two further tries. Dave Felming getting a third
and the last for Fullback J F Lucas. With these the
powerful chant of 'IC-IC booming from the
grandstand.
The IC players punching the air with delight on the
shrill of the final whistle, they ran out resounding
winners 26-6. All players performed superbly and
Football Rifle
individual performances would be hard to pick out.
However, the majority of observers agreed scrumhalf
Simon Bicknell was man of the match. Now we had
all afternoon and evening to get completely pissed.
Thanks to everyone for support on the day. A day to
remember!
CITY & GUILDS COLLEGE
M A Y B A L L 1990
Friday 11th May
7.30pm for 8.00pm
at the FORUM HOTEL,
Cromwell Road
Tickets: £47 per double, now available
from Guilds Office
includes:
+magician -kdisco -kcocktails tdinner
Sailing
St Georges-0 IC 1 sts — 3
African artistry, Brazilian brilliance and Canadian class
proved to be the ingredients that spiced up this dull
encounter as IC's international contingent provided
the goals that completed a comprehensive rout of
Georges.
Despite the blustery conditions IC were never going
to be blown off course, taking the lead as early as the
fifth minute through Femi Omotoyo's only useful
contribution to the game, a well-placed low shot. It
would have been two a few minutes later after Pip
Peel won and then missed a penalty.
Meanwhile back at the other end new boys Mike
Wilkes and Paul Nelson were confindently coping with
what little Georges attempted to throw at them, aided
of course by ever present Chris Burton and Tim Fisher.
Two superb goals at the end of the first half clinched
the game for IC, first Toni de Lyon rifled home a shot
that the keeper didn't even bother diving for and then
Pat Fancott (the biggest thing to come out of Canada
since John Candy) with his back to the goal and the
keeper clawing all over him produced a delightfully
cheeky overhead kick that sneaked in at the post. The
second half was so unbelievably dull that a certain
goalkeeper spent the whole time practising his Jane
Fonda workout. The only points of note were a Toni
de Lyon shot against the post and a Pip Peel effort
disallowed because Mr Omotoga had forgotten to get
back onside.
This week we would like to highlight one of the
greatest, most useful members of our rifle team. This
genius, showing skill rarely seen outside the Olympic
circuit, has managed to get the entire team
disqualified from the BUSF 'top twenty' team rifle
competition.
How, you may wonder, did he managed to perform
this feat? It was surprisingly simple, he shot for both
Imperial College and the University of London 'A' team
(without telling us), which could have caused
problems if both teams had made it to the final!
So, to overcome this difficulty, the organisers
decided, in a fit of rage, to disqualify us, but not UL
as 'university teams take precedence over college
teams'.
You may question yourself: Who is this superhero,
this Demi-God, this giant amongst marksmen, this tool
amongst adjustable spanners with special ratchet
attachments, this complete and utter dork?
His name is MR SIMON CANE (MRE 1). If you see
this fine gentleman please be sure to call him by his
new title: Mr Spoons.
Despite the efforts of the above mentioned genius
we are still able to compete in the BUSF individual
competition, in which we are currently faring quite
well although our final positions won't be known until
the end of the competition.
Having repaired boats damaged by last weekend's
high winds, thanks to the heroic efforts of Henry
Nebrensky the bosun, Imperial once again took to the
water.
The first two races were Imperial 1sts versus
Eyesores (an old boys team) and the superior
experience of the old boys soon showed. The first race
was won by the old boys by some sneaky tactics-
namely pinching the best boats. In the second race
certain members of the old boys decided to show
Imperial 1 sts how it was done, capsizing before the
start and failing to get a good start. This led to a
slightly better result for the first with a close win. The
old boys then really started showing off with the most
spectacular capsize of the day.
After lunch Imperial 2nds then took on the old boys,
losing both races.
To even things out the 1 sts, 2nds and old boys were
then mixed up and several races run with these mixed
teams.
All in all IC learnt a lot from the old boys, mainly
how to capsize.
Page 7

