Liz Warren interviews Angus Fraser, Managing Director of IC. As the man whose decisions affect us all,
he wants...
Value for money
The new College Managing Director, Angus Fraser,
dominates any company he is in. Well over six foot
tall, Cambridge educated and a graduate of the
European Institute of Business Administration
(INSEAD) at Fontainbleau, he has a distinguished
career in international business behind him. His work
has taken him to many exotic countries and he has
lived in East and West Africa, France and Malaysia.
Now, he has left the world of corporate boardrooms
to deal with the equally complex problems of
administering Imperial College. He studied History and
Modern Languages for his degree before taking the
course at INSEAD.
He sees his role at Imperial as 'very much as it was
under the College secretary. The issues haven't
changed simply by virtue of my appointment.' He feels
that 'what has changed or appears to have changed
is that, by virtue of coming out of a different kind of
environment to do the job, the way I go about tackling
fairly well identified issues is different'.
He says 'the administrative side of College, in crude
terms, is my main sphere of interest.' This includes
the self financing activities, such as residences and
refectories. The College now has a Business Manager,
Tom Stevens, to take charge of these areas and
develop them. Angus is looking forward to 'improving
amenities and improving services, both for external
and internal users.
He admits that the College is 'not in a strong
financial position as things stand today', and he sees
one of his main tasks as 'improving the underlying
financial position of the college. We balance our
books, but in balancing them we are usually obliged
Page 8
to make certain sacrifices from year to year and we
don't spend as much as we want or ought to spend
on things that matter: buildings or student
accommodation. You can't go on doing that
indefinitely.'
He added that 'while on the face of it we appear
to be balancing our books, we need to make it clear
to those who are in a position to fund universities that
it is at a cost,' He stressed that the College must
'ensure that where it is spending money it is getting
the best possible value for money.' 'That goes back
to how we control our expenditure,' he said.
He explained that there were several ways in which
he was hoping to improve the College finances: 'We
can generate income from the services and amenities
side and through the use of college facilities by
institutions and companies. We can realise the value
of a number of assets that we perhaps do not use as
effectively or efficiently as we might, by disposing of
them or letting them out. Then we can raise funds
externally from those people who have funds available
for endowment or sponsorship for individual projects
or indeed general endowment. Obviously the less
strings that are attached, the better from our point.'
He agreed that College had probably employed him
because his experience would help him to put the
College on a better footing. 'Closely allied to that is
that the environment in which we are increasingly
having to work is becoming more competitive. That
is both a function of government policy, where we are
being required in the future to bid for students in a
commercial way, and also because it is an increasingly
competitive environment anyway. We need to
compete in the way that we do our business as a
whole, the way we offer the service that we do. This
covers everything from the kind of accommodation
we offer the students to attract them, to every area
we are involved in. That's the kind of environment I
am well acquainted with; I think it's relevant and
becoming increasingly so.'
Describing what had attracted him to Imperial, he
explained that since January last year, he had 'had
some involvement with a company which was
originally sprung out of the Mech Eng department. So
I wasn't completely ignorant of the college by any
means. When the opportunity came up,and having
decided to change course and do something
completely new, this seemed to fit the bill in an
unexpectedly interesting and exciting way.'
He acknowledged that, although the job is, on the
surface, a change from his previous work, he 'hadn't
felt at all like a fish out of water: the issues are all so
familiar. The thing which is different is the way in
which the College runs itself. Talking about how the
move fitted in with his overall career pattern, he said,
'I've always felt one only gets very few opportunities
in a career and if you add up the opportunities to
change course and do something new and exciting its
a handful, if you're lucky. I can count the ones I've
had on one hand. When they come up, they come up
in a totally unexpected way and they hit you as
opportunities. This one hit me as a real opportunity
to change course and it was attractive on that
account.'
With a gap of almost eighteen months between his
previous job and his employment in College, he
explained that 'having been abroad so much I hadn't
got all that much exposure to opportunities in the UK,
I recognised that I needed some time to look at
opportunities and to meet a lot of people, so I spent
the initial period going round meeting a lot of people
and finding out what was going on. I also built up a
number of interests as a self-employed director and
consultant. Over half of that time I was 110 percent
overemployed working on various company accounts,
such as the company with connections with the Mech
Eng department. It was a very enjoyable and
interesting 18 months if a little uncertain.' He is still
involved with several of the companies but has 'given
up half of my outside involvements. There weren't
enough hours in the night to do the full job and do all
that one could expect to do on my other interests.'
He described one of his main areas of
preoccupation: 'getting value for money where we
spend it. Part of that is about control of systems so
that we don't make mistakes in the way we operate
and people don't have to do things three times: they
can do them once and get it right.' Another area which
he feels is important 'is that, having achieved
excellence and having as good a reputation as we
have in academic terms for teaching and research, the
maintenance and enhancement of that reputation will
become increasingly dependant upon every other
aspect of the institution working to the same kind of
high standards.'
He pointed out that, 'there are areas which work
well outside the academic area and there are areas
which do not work as well as they should or could.
That isn't on account of a lack of will or concern,
because I think there's a great deal of commitment,
but because the way we are currently split up in

