certain areas isn't facilitating the achievement of the
levels of service we need and which I think we could
offer.'
He also felt that 'there is a need on the
administrative side to create a good career structure
for people. Then we can maintain and retain talented
people, who are committed and well motivated to
support the administrative and auxiliary functions and
services of college. I attach a great deal of importance
to that.'
'In terms of issues,' he remarked, 'accommodation
is a major one. It isn't only in terms of the number of
beds, but the quality and standard of the
accommodation: that is a preoccupation of the first
order. Then there's the question of the improvement
of the infrastructure. I don't just mean in terms of
maintenance but also appearance. I think we need to
look at ways in which to create a more sparkling
image of the excellent work that goes on here. You
could be mistaken, as you walk past here, that it isn't
the kind of institution it is. Apart from making it a
better place to work as a student or academic or staff
member, it will also help us to promote the institution
to prospective fundgivers.'
During the interview, he frequently mentioned
'value for money'. Questioned on the impression the
students had been given that he had been heavily
involved in delaying the plans for an astroturf pitch
at Harlington, he said 'I would hate anyone to think
I'd blocked it for the sake of it. The concern which
I had, which was shared by others, was that it was
a substantial figure and probably more than people had
been given to expect. I was also aware of other
proposals for hockey astroturf through my
involvement as the governor of a school in Kent, and
it seemed quite a large figure. There wasn't any
evidence that I saw at that time of a full appraisal of
the tender in response to a clear specification. That
is now an aspect that is being looked into.'
He added that he 'entirely endorsed the idea of there
being a hockey pitch. I also recognise the fact that
time has been sliding away and there is a problem
about pitches for next season: we need to get on with
it. But we need to be sure in so doing that we are
getting the best possible value for the money we have
got.' Speaking of the Harlington Gravel Trust Fund,
which is funding the astroturf proposal, he said it was
'a wonderful source of funds, but simply because it's
coming out of the ground in the literal sense doesn't
mean one shouldn't go through the same forms of
appraisal that one would if one was putting up a
building in College with money obtained in a more
conventional way.'
Questioned about the difficult position that the
Harlington Trustees have been placed in since the
Rector, Sir Eric Ash, announced, above their heads,
that he would like to use some of the fund to finance
a new hall of residence, he commented, 'we are in
the process of clarifying their position. My
interpretation of earlier governing Body minutes was
there was an understanding that the fund would be
applied 'for the benefit of students'. What that means
is something which we need to have defined more
clearly for the benefit of all.'
He observed that 'we know we've got a crying need
for improved accommodation for the students. We've
also got a clear requirement for improved sporting
facilities. I don't think the two are mutually exclusive.
I hope that we will reflect the importance of the non-
sporting side as well as sports, because I think that
that is something which matters to a lot of students,
not only the sporting ones.'
He has also launched investigations into how every
part of the College functions. He said, 'a part of that
is to enable me to get an understanding into how
people in the departments believe they ought to be
run in the future, as well as to enable us all to see what
are the strengths and weaknesses of the way we run
currently. I don't think it should be seen as a
particularly targeted thing but as a general review
which is going on across the board.
Potential reorganisation of the College conjures up
the possibility that staffing levels may be changed.
Speaking on the current problems with the
Manufacturing, Science and Finance (MSF) Union, he
said, 'we are not in official dispute. The situation is
an unfortunate one, which wasn't triggered by any
action on our part: the company to whom these
people were seconded decided for its own reasons to
undergo retraction. We had to act accordingly and
hopefully will have done so in the best interests of all
concerned. I've always been reasonably optimistic
that, having put in a lot of effort, as we have ever
since we were first advised of the decision of the
company, we can sort it out.'
In a general context, he said, T don't envisage major
conflicts at every turn as a consequence of what we
might need to do to improve the way we operate.
There aren't any plans at this time to provoke great
problems all over the site.'
Angus Fraser is appointed directly by the College's
Governing Body, of which he is a member,but is
responsible to the Rector. He said that he didn't see
any conflict between the Rector's remit as 'managing
director of the academic side' and his own as
managing director of the administrative side. He
described the Rector as being the 'chief executive' of
the College. 'The lines between the academic and
administrative sides aren't always crystal clear. There
are people involved on both sides in many
committees. I'm not aware of any fundamental
reasons why the present structure shouldn't continue
to work perfectly as well as it has in the past.'
S t u d e n t s a n d G r a d u a t e s
WHATEVER YOUR SUBJECT
OPPORTUNITIES AWAIT YOU
a t
The UK's most comprehensive legal information
and recruitment event will cover vacation work,
permanent jobs and general guidance on all
aspects of the legal profession. Open to
students and graduates of all disciplines.
Business Design Centre
Islington, London Nl
15th March 1990,12.00 - 7.00
16th March 1990,10.00 - 4.00
F o r f u r t h e r d e t a i l s
c a l l 0 1 - 3 8 7 8 2 2 1
University of London Careers Advisory Service
TO A L L
CLUBS
Send an article and photos for
inclusion in next year's
Imperial College Union
Handbook.
The Handbook Editor's
pigeonhole is in the FELIX
Office in the Union Building
All contributions to be in
during the first week of next
term, or you won't be
included!

