12 COLUMNS & LETTERS FELIX FRIDAY 31ST JANUARY
Westminster Eye
Hamish Common
"Infotainment" is one of those vogue
words that, along with "information
superhighway" and "cyberspace"
have always made me cringe.
Whereas the latter are not within the
scope of this column, "infotainment"
is already hitting our television
screens and newspapers, with an
array of spin-doctors and PR men to
shore it up. In the last few days, our
newspapers were filled with stories
such as Branson's balloon trip and
'Superwoman' Nicola Horlick's
sacking from Morgan Grenfell.
Branson is the master of PR: we were
enthralled by pictures of balloons
and desert, fed with statistics about
the balloon's dimensions, and shown
maps of the intended route. The actu-
al voyage lasted a day or two, around
the same time as the other two con-
tenders, indeed Branson's team had
forgotten to bring any loo roll with
them. Nicola Horlick's sacking had
received little press coverage until
she hired the services of Anthony
Cardew, the City's top spin doctor.
She then stormed into her old office
where a group of hacks just hap-
pened to be waiting and jetted off to
the head office at Frankfurt. It cer-
tainly had the desired effect:
Weekend papers were delighted to
show a pretty woman being mistreat-
ed by a big nasty organisation, devot-
ing little time to discussing the rea-
sons why the million-pound-a-year
fund manager had been suspended.
So what has all this to do with pol-
itics? With increasing commerciali-
sation and competition within the
media industry, ratings are the ulti-
mate arbiter of success, and the truth
will rarely get in the way of a good
headline. By targeting the lowest
common denominator among its
audience, tabloid-style stations and
papers can reap rich financial
rewards, attracting the envy of those
with more substantial budgets for
legitimate news-gathering. News
departments have moved from loss-
makers to profit centres, with the
emphasis on images and audiences
over prestige, with television news in
particular never able to substitute for
a good newspaper: whilst it is
unbeaten in its ability to present the
people and places in the news, its
actual volume of news is minute. The
number of words spoken in a half
hour broadcast would barely fill two-
thirds of a broadsheet page. Facts are
compressed, arguments clipped to
size and explanation reduced, all to
fit within television's restrictive
time-frame. Sitting in the public
gallery during Prime Minister's
Question Time I would occasionally
hear Tony Blair suddenly rant away
on a completely different issue from
whatever was being discussed at the
time. This confused me at first, until
I saw him on the 6 o'clock news that
evening, with 5 seconds of him rant-
ing away. He was shown on every
channel and every news broadcast
that night, each with the identical 5
second clip. He had never really been
addressing the House that afternoon,
and the publicity his comments
received did him no harm at all.
Soundbite journalism is unable to
present the electorate with any realis-
tic view of events. The public
become used to flashy headlines and,
for the most part, have no wish to
look too far beyond them. When, last
Wednesday the Guardian correctly
reported that Labour intended to
change the BBC's constitution to
strip governors' powers, it was head-
lined as " B B C faces upheaval in
Labour plan". The spin masters
threw tantrums because they didn't
like the word "upheaval" in a head-
line (it would not give the appropri-
ate Labour image) and set about rub-
bishing the story. It is disturbing to
see such an palava over one word in
a broadsheet headline, but this is the
image-over-substance reality that is
unfortunately seeping across the
Atlantic.
I do hope that television networks
and newspaper magnates make their
big money from entertainment, keep-
ing the lure of simple profit away
from the newsroom, as any shallow-
ness here will tempt people to form
their opinions purely upon the head-
lines and front stories, upon the
politician's personalities or upon pol-
ished images. They will be fair game
for the spin doctors, with their opin-
ions on the significant issues of the
day decided for them behind closed
doors, in advance, with a handshake.
LETTERS TO FELIX
replied to by David Roberts
The many-splendoured
joys of College planning
To whom this may concern,
I am writing to complain about the
planned closure of the library in the
mornings in two weeks in February.
As this fortnight coincides directly
with the week of the second year
Biology and Biochemistry exams
and it also covers the week that the
final year Biologists have been grant-
ed a reading week, I am beginning to
feel that the reliance of the Biology
and Biochemistry students have
upon the library is not appreciated.
The students of the Life Sciences
are often required to spend long
hours in the library as lectures and
practicals frequently need to be sup-
ported by journal articles, not to
mention the background reading that
is required for essays, dissertations,
projects etc. I am sure that you will
understand that to photocopy all of
these articles is extremely expensive.
I feel that a closure of the library is
particularly unfair on the Life
Sciences students: we do not have a
departmental library and many of us
find that the current opening hours
are restrictive - it is a little ridiculous
that we are allowed to work within
our own department until 11 pm, but
we are only allowed to consult text-
books until 9pm.
We have been continually disrupt-
ed with closures of the library occur-
ring at short notice, plus the noise
and even the workmen themselves
can be an annoying distraction. I
doubt that my degree will be com-
pensated for by the lack of facilities
available. Perhaps the library could
compensate for the time lost during
the building work by either staying
open later during the next few weeks
or by transferring journals from the
library to a room within the Biology
department whereupon they would
be accessible to all students?
I understand that the library is
being run for all students and that the
building work will improve the situ-
ation for future students. However,
with less than two months to go
before the final exams, I doubt that
altruistic behaviour will be found
being exhibited freely amongst the
students. Many of us are working
extremely hard at least twelve hours
a day to try and ensure the results
that we need. It would be a shame is
some students were not allowed to
achieve their aims if they were
denied the facilities that have been
offered to students of previous years
and will be offered to students of
future years.
Yours Faithfully,
The letter is signed by 72 members
of the Biology Department, and a
copy has also been sent to the
library.
The wisdom of College's decision
to halve the library's opening
would certainly seem a little sus-
pect, though I imagine that almost
every week is important to at least
one department. Certainly it
would seem common sense to
move some of the more important
publications to a more readily
accessible site for the duration.
However, the shut-down will no
doubt be worth the sacrifice
(assuming that this time the build-
ing work doesn't result in falling
masonry, a leaky roof, power fail-
ures....)
A matter of faith
Dear Felix,
In response to Karen Yates' article
A Bunch Of Poofters that appeared
in Felix 1076, I'd like to make a few
points about her statement that "The
Bible condemns same sex relations"
is a common argument "against
gays, lesbians and bisexuals" that
"...can be easily countered".
Firstly, I do not think that this con-
stitutes an argument at all against
homo/bi-sexuality unless the person
in question is someone who would
call him/herself a Christian.
Otherwise why would someone who
does not believe that God has
revealed Himself to us through the
history recorded in the Bible care
what this book, believed by
Christians to be the "Word of God",
has to say?
As for the issue of whether the
Bible really does condemn same sex
relations, I believe that in the Bible,
GOD condemns same sex relations
in no uncertain terms from the open-
ing pages when He creates Adam
and Eve to the end when the body of
believers are referred to as the "Bride
of Christ". Moreover I believe that,
contrary to what Karen wrote, the
whole Bible, "original Hebrew
Scriptures" included, is self-consis-
tent with the view that all sexual rela-
tions (homosexual or heterosexual)
outside marriage are wrong in God's
eyes.
With regard to the New Testament
condemnation of homosexuality by
St Paul, Karen wrote that "the writ-
ings of St. Paul are believed to be
mainly personal opinion..." Even if a
Christian chose to believe this how

