FELIX FRIDAY 31ST IANUARY LETTERS & EDITORIAL 13
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
could they possibly have the divine
discretion to know whether in these
instances Paul was not actually
speaking the Word of God?
Christians who choose to ignore half
of the New Testament would have a
very difficult time convincing people
that they were actually Christians, no
matter what they called themselves!
I also disagree with her justification
for her statement about St Paul ("...
as he (St Paul) also condemned
women even speaking in church")
because this mentions an important
issue out of context. There is not
space for a full discussion now but I
believe that the whole Bible includ-
ing St Paul's writings when put in
their appropriate historical and
Christian context are consistent with
the self-evidence that men and
women are equal but different.
Finally, Karen says that "many
churches teach that people should
love the homosexual but hate homo-
sexuality..." Surely, the reason they
do this is because they have exam-
ined the Bible and come to the con-
clusion that God DOES condemn
same sex relations but that He also
urges Christians to love EVERY-
ONE as He loves them. As Karen
rightly pointed out, it is this latter
command that many Christians for-
get.
Vikrant Bansal
As an atheist, I whole-heartedly
agree that what the Bible might or
might not say has no relevance to
the right to choose your own sexu-
ality. Anyone of any religion has
the right to their own system of
values or beliefs - so why should a
non-Christian view the Bible with
any more or less reverence than
the Koran or Torah?
A time for change?
Dear Alex,
Much has been written about the
nature of the Union in the last few
weeks; understandably as the loss of
the ICU Bookstore has given us all
something to think about. However
with so many issues being discussed,
such as including 'Union' in the
name of all clubs, it appears to me
that something is missing.
Nobody seems to be thinking of
the Union as a representative body:
something to voice not only our aca-
demic worries but general concerns
about life at IC. I'm not so much say-
ing that there is nobody around to
speak up for us, more that the major-
ity of us can't see that there is.
Being excluded from the Fantasy
Sabbatical League I'm forced to fan-
tasise about what would make my
ideal Sabb . . . someone who know's
that ICU is not the representative
body it should be, someone who
cares enough to make this a priority,
and - most importantly - someone
who's determined to do something
about it.
ICU's biggest nightmare should-
n't be that it is unable to trade; it's
that it doesn't fulfil a true representa-
tive role, making it irrelevant to the
student population that it exists to
look after.
Yours etc
Oily Newman (Civil Eng 4)
Taken for granted?
Dear Felix,
It's good to see Imperial students
getting involved in the debate on
higher education funding (Simon
Wistow, Felix 1076).
I was interested to see that in the
'Options for Change' box there was
no mention of a funding scheme
which I believe to be the best option:
A return to a full grant at 1979 levels.
Obviously M r Wistow no longer
considers this to be an option. The
student population is getting too car-
ried away with 'new realism' that we
are beginning to question our own
rights. We should have the right to a
free education, no matter what.
Yours Sincerely,
G Constantinid.es
Apology
Dear Mr Feakes
I would like to express my con-
cern about the report in Felix today
[24th January] about Richard
Parker's death, especially inaccura-
cies in the article.
The specific inaccuracy that most
concerns me is that Richard is said to
have gone to "a business lunch in his
department on 20 December". There
was no business lunch in the
Biochemistry Department that day
and Richard was not drinking in the
Department, as implied.
I would also like to comment that
it is regrettable that the article
attempts to give such detail of the
events preceding Richard's death.
With best wishes,
David Chapman
The News Editor replies: We apol-
ogise for the minor factual inaccu-
racy - Mr Parker had in fact been
at a business lunch with his com-
pany. Details of Mr Parker's last
day were included to shed some
light on his motivations.
Letters may be edited for length.
The guest editor's opinions are not
necessarily those of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1078
is Tuesday 7th February.Letters
may be e-mailed to our address:
felix@ic.ac.uk
It is perhaps a little ironic that a
notice announcing the temporary
closure of the Library should sit so
close to a letter condemning it. The
timing of this stage of the Library's
development is also unfortunate
coming so soon after another closure
of half the Library due to an electri-
cal fault earlier this week. Together,
these closures put extra pressure on
Library users who may have exams
in the coming weeks.
Presumably the scheduling of
works in the Library is done in
advance, so why was such an inap-
propriate time chosen? It reminds
me of similar situation at the end of
last year when Weeks Hall residents
were treated to a cacophony of
building noise and disruption in the
week proceeding the summer
exams. The building work was not a
major concern; a path was being laid
to connect the north side of Prince's
Garden's to a newly purchased piece
of land behind Weeks. In order that
the path be ready for a garden party
to mark the opening of the new plot,
the path had to be completed during
the revision period of the residents.
They were not impressed and
made their feelings known to vari-
ous members of the College hierar-
chy. Their disquiet went so far as to
advertising the internal telephone
number of Ian Caldwell about the
Hall along with an encouragement
to use it.
Eventually, the College agreed to
a rebate on the residents' rent for the
disturbance, which accounts for dis-
ruption to the students as residents,
but not academically wise.
However, in the current situation I
think some form of compensation to
those put out by the Library's clo-
sure is unlikely. It would be difficult
in any case to identify who should
receive renumeration, but also how
can the effect of the missing
resource be quantified and the result
applied to exam scores?
The biologists who have signed
the letter have a valid point - the clo-
sure is going to affect them - but in
the absence of any suitable compen-
sation. I would recommend that you
take as many books out as possible.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consorl Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyrighl FelixI997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: M A R I A & JACKIE; FEATURES: A F U A ; ILLUSTRATIONS: STAVROS;
PUZZLES: D U N C A N ; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: DAVID; W E B EDITOR: LEON;
PHOTOGRAPHY: LILY, MATHEW & ROBIN; SPORT: SIMON AND Mo;
COLLATING LAST ISSUE: DAVID & D A V I D
Imperial College & Science
Museum Libraries building
As the next stage of the developments within the
Library, work has to start on the extension to the main
stairs and lifts, and on the removal of the screed on the
existing roof surface. We very much regret that this will
cause considerable noise and disruption, but it is impos-
sible to postpone the work. We therefore must shut the
library during the morning for two weeks:
From Monday 10th - Saturday 22nd
February, the library will be open:
14.00 - 21.00 Monday - Friday and 14.00
- 17.30 on Saturdays
The Department Libraries will be open as usual through
this period, and borrowing allowances are being
increased. Up to date information will be available from
the IC Library Homepage http://www.lib.ic.ac.uk/

