4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 31ST JANUARY
Danger! Excitement! The sabb elections are back!
The annual round of Imperial
College Union Sabbatical Elections
are nearly upon us once again with
papers for nominations going up on
Monday. Nominees for the four sab-
batical posts must sign up on the
papers with a proposer and twenty
seconders before they are taken
down on Friday 14th February.
Last year's Sabbatical Elections
developed into an exciting race
between the three candidates for both
the position of President, and that of
Deputy President (Clubs and
Societies). The other two sabbatical
positions, Deputy President (Finance
and Services) and Felix Editor, only
had a single nominee each.
Speculation as to who will put their
names forward for this year's
Elections has been rife, with a num-
ber of possiblities being flagged by
the chattering classes around cam-
pus. However, no one has firmly said
that they will stand for a post though
early nominations will no doubt
The usual suspects. Who will next year's sabbatical officers be? Up for grabs are Felix Editor, Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies), Deputy President (Finance & Services) and President
appear next week.
A nominee for a sabbatical post
must be a full member of Imperial
College Union and can be at any
stage of their studies. The position
entails taking a year off from study
and working as one of the Union's
•executives'. The sabbaticals (other
than the Felix Editor) oversee the
day-to-day running of the Union, ini-
tiate and implement policy and act as
the students' representatives on vari-
ous external bodies, including
College committees.
Any full member of the Union
may vote in the election. Ballot
boxes will located in the larger
departments, the Sherficld building
foyer and the Union building. An
option to reopen nominations for a
new election is also presented to vot-
ers on the ballot slips.
After the nomination papers come
down, campaigning begins. Cand-
idates are subjected to a hustings
both on the South Kensington site
and again at St Mary's Medical
School Union.
The Election takes place on
Monday 3rd and Tuesday 4th of
March in a campus-wide ballot and
the results are announced on
Tuesday evening.
As usual, Felix will be producing a
special election issue to announce
the result.
Student staff rally for campaign
ROBIN RILEY
Part-time student staff of Imperial
College Union met in dB's on
Wednesday, to hear Union execu-
tives outline their plans for the future
of the organisation in the light of the
loss of the bookstore.
Union Manager Mandy Hurford
and Events and Marketing Manager
Mark Home addressed a large audi-
ence consisting students employed
by Union trading outlets, including
the bookstore, newsagent, print unit,
bars and catering as well as Union
stewards and DJs.
Ms Hurford only briefly reiterated
the potential problems presented by
the loss of the tender, concentrating
instead upon the benefits of a posi-
tive approach. If the Union's remain-
ing trading outlets are to prosper, Ms
Hurford explained, the students that
they employ must maintain a high
level of service and customer care.
The Union Manager pointed to the
increasing success of the trading out-
lets, claiming that much of their effi-
ciency arose from their low staffing
costs as compared to other U K stu-
dents' unions. Ms Hurford left her
audience in no doubt as to the pur-
pose of trading outlets, asserting that
"We're out to make a profit. We're
not ashamed of that... but we're open
about those profits going to clubs,
societies and other Union services."
Student staff, Ms Hurford
believes, should be in the front line
in promoting the Union. The loss of
further trading outlets would almost
certainly result in the loss of part-
time jobs for Imperial College stu-
dents. Attempting to rally the troops,
the Union Manager stated: "One of
the things we don't do very well is
sell ourselves... We've got to say
loudly and extremely proudly; This is
what we are, this is what we do - The
IC Union."
Imperial College Union's usually
flamboyant Events and Marketing
Manager, Mark Home, began his
address a little more downbeat. "The
Union has been as guilty as the
College in retreating into its ivory
tower and not communicating." He
admitted, after a quick poll showed
that only a tiny fraction of those pre-
sent had known about the bookstore
tender before the decision was
announced. Mr Home continued:
"We let you down by not telling
you... We don't want to be telling lies
or spreading rumours, but from now
on we're going to keep everyone
informed."
When several student staff pro-
posed that Felix be exploited to pro-
mote the Union's cause, the execu-
tive were quick to point out that
although the Union funds the student
newspaper, it has no editorial control.
The Union can only campaign direct-
ly in Felix through the placing of
advertisements.
Mr Home went on to suggest that
other areas of Union activity may be
under threat, reporting that the Union
was currently in disagreement with
the College over issues such as the
use of space in Beit Quad, catering in
the JCR and the funding of the
Commemoration ball. "We've a few
more fights on our hands yet." Mr
Home warned, but remained opti-
mistic about the Union's continued
expansion and success; "There's
been a fantastic turnaround, especial-
ly in the last two or three years."
Regarding the Union's ongoing
awareness campaign, The Events and
Marketing Manager claimed to have
plans "...far beyond posters."
Mr Home explained "I'm not say-
ing we bum down the Rector's
offices" but briefly outlined some
audacious schemes to raise the pro-
file of the Union and its activities. Ms
Hurford, meanwhile, drew attention
to the success of more conservative
means of protest such as letters to
College governors. The Union
Manager conceded that "IC's student
population is hardly known for outra-
geous acts of militancy."
The meeting was attended by
around eighty students and staff,
although some sceptics later suggest-
ed that the high level of attendance
may have been because it counted
towards student workers' overtime.
Nevertheless, all those present
pledged to support to any campaign
adopted by the Union executive.

