ADVERTISMENT
iCU WELFARE WEEK
FEB 3RD - 7TH
PREJUDICE
NOT EVERYTHING IN BLACK
AND WHITE MAKES SENSE
•
•. : '
• •
i C U
O l f U U A L C U l i H i t U M l M
•
•. : '
• •
i C U
O l f U U A L C U l i H i t U M l M
YOUR UNION - WHOEVER YOU ARE
Next week is ICU Welfare Week. A common misconception of student welfare is a bizarre combination of
meetings of lily livered liberals trying to make the world a happier place and earnest professionals trying
to help individuals whose lives have gone into meltdown. However, welfare is not about rampant idealism
and the afflicted, it affects us all in some way or other. It covers many things, such as not having to suc-
cumb to peer pressure to have that extra beer; a ruined evening because of an obnoxious individual or
group; a regretted one night fumble with a persistent stranger; drugs; harassment; work; health; exercise
and education. It impacts, in one way or another, on us all.
This year's Welfare Week is based on the broad theme of prejudice and how it affects everyone.
The programme of events is intended to address those prejudices which predominate at a multicultural,
conservative, male-dominated institution such as Imperial.
The week starts off with a debate "Is Science more Homophobic than Art?' We have two guest
speakers Andrew Hodges and Matthew Parris. This will be taking place in dBs at 12:30 on Monday. On
Tuesday night the popular weekly quiz held in Da Vinci's will have a distinctly welfare theme.
At 12:30 in dBs on Thursday there will be a panel debate along the theme "When does Flirting
become Harassment?" The guest speaker will be Ms Collier, author of a book on sexual harassment and
now Head of Equal Opportunities at Croyden Council. All proceeds from the door on Friday night will be
given to Nightline, the ULU sponsored telephone advice service. There will also be a stall in the Union
foyer between 12:00 and 14:00 every day throughout the week offering, information on all sorts of wel-
fare issues.
So come along to the events, whatever side of the fence you are on, and express your views. Your
attendance and input is valuable in making these events worthwhile, rather than a stuffy fluffy pointless
exercise in idealism.
ICU Welfare Committee

