FANTASY SABBATICAL LEAGUE FELIX FRIDAY 31ST IANUARY
Felix brings you an unrivalled oppor-
tunity to share the success of
next year's sabbaticals with
Felixes Fantasy Sabbatical
League™.
Now you too can join in the cut and
thrust of the sabbatical race by playing
Felix's Fantasy Sabbatical
League™.
Read on, and you could be a winner!
No catch, no purchase necessary.
First Prize:
Two return tickets to Paris and a bottle of Champagne
Last chance to enter:
closing date 5.00pm
February 3rd
The aim of the game
The object of Felix Fantasy Sabbatical League is to predict the outcome of
the 1997 ICU Sabbatical Elections. Using your skill and judgement, you must
choose which four people you think will be elected to each of the four sabbat-
ical positions, and which four will be runners-up (ie lose and come second).
First and second place positions arc simply determined by who wins most
votes in the eventual elections. To win, you will have to guess not only who
will be elected, but also who is likely to stand for election.
Included opposite is a list of possible 'players.' These are people who cur-
rently hold positions on Council (the governing body of the Union) plus a few
wildcards. They are the people closely involved with the Union whom we feel
are most likely to stand for one of the four sabbatical positions. We have
placed them in divisions, according to the seniority of their position within the
Union, and assigned a points value to the players in each division. THE POSI-
TION OF INDIVIDUALS WITHIN THE LEAGUE REFLECTS ONLY
THEIR CURRENT STATUS WITHIN THE UNION: IT DOES NOT REP-
RESENT HIS/HER LIKELIHOOD OF STANDING OR BEING ELECTED.
There are two other 'players'; you should enter 'New Election' as asceond
choice for a position if you think that only one candidate will stand for that
post, or if you think people would rather vote for a new election than any of
the candidates. If you think someone other than those included on our list will
stand for a particular post, then include the 'None of the above' player in the
relevant place on your team. You do not have to state who you think 'None of
the above' will be. If 'New election' or 'None of the above' finishes in the
place you have guessed, you score the same points as if you had guessed an
actual individual's result.
Remember, you are strictly limited in the number of points you can spend
on players, and so may not be able to field your first choice team... This is
where the element of chance comes in. Good luck!
Sabbaticals? What SabbaticalsP
For those not in the know, each year Imperial College Union holds a cam-
pus-wide ballot to elect new sabbatical officers.
There are four sabbaticals elected by campus-wide ballot at ICU:
President, Deputy President (Finance & Services), Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) and Felix Editor. They hold their position for year
while taking a break (a sabbatical) from their studies. During this time, each
is ultimately responsible for running the services and performing the duties
under their remit. These people are your representatives in many different
areas, whether attending college committees on academic affairs or being
responsible for the finances of the Union and the many clubs and societies
which you may belong to.
For example, the Deputy President (Clubs and Societies) in charge of the
running of the many clubs and societies of the Union as well as health and
safety and representing the Union (and you) on college committees, among
other duties. Thus, even if you arc the Caving Club chairman implement-
ing H&S policy or just an ordinary member of the International Tamil
Society, the DP (C&S) looks after your interests.
This year's sabbatical elections will take place in early March. However,
the papers for nominations go up on February 3"' for two College weeks.
Any full member of Imperial College Union may stand for any of the posi-
tions listed above. To be able to run for election, however, each nominee
must have a proposer and twenty seconders, all of whom must also be full
members of the Union. After the papers come down on February 14'\ cam-
paigning proper can start, and the 1996-97 sabbatical race can begin.
If you have any queries about the elections or wish to find out more about
any of the posts, contact the President, Eric Allsop, via the Union Office,
or speak to the present encumbents.
The small print
For a full list of rules, contact the Felix Office extension 58072

