C A R E E R S 8 1
Some Do's and Dorits by Dr. Neil Harris,
College Careers Officer
During the coining months many gloomy forecasts will appear in
the press about graduate employment prospects this year. They
, will mostly be written in very general terms and you may find it
difficult to fathom just what the implications are for you as a
prospective graduate of Imperial College.
Employers, generally, have a very high regard for Imperial College
graduates. Some senior managers were graduates of this college themselves
and naturally look to the College when they wish to recruit staff. Others
have recruited graduates from here in the past and found these people to be
good employees. This means that you start from a position in which the
average employer, although he has fewer vacancies than last year, is keen
to consider your application. From there on it is up to you to compete well
in what is a more competitive situation than in previous years. Here are
some simple D O ' S and D O N ' T S to help you make a useful start. m
D O make a start i n seeking D O gain some idea of the kind of
employment or a further course of work you would enjoy and would find
study N O W , unless the demands of
your studies arc too acute to allow
you to divert some of you energies
intothisactivity. Unlessamajorchange
occurs in our national outlook there
will be few graduate job vacancies
unfilled by July. If the recession does
begin to lift, more job vacancies will
become available as the year pro-
gresses, but you cannot rely on this
happening. D O N ' T leave job seeking
until after finals.
D O remember that the employers
visiting College represent some, but
by no means all, areas of graduate
employment. These are the large
industrial firms, engineering con-
sultants and contractors, banks,
accountants and the scientific civil
service. You will need to apply direct
for work in other areas of the civil
service, hospitals, water-boards, local
authorities, schools and small firms,
merchant banks, stock brokers,
patent agents, etc. D O N ' T necessarily
rely on the Graduate Recruitment
Programmes in College.
satisfying before you apply. A chat
with a Careers adviser, tutor or
someone who already has a career in
. the area you are considering should
prove useful.
D O N ' T make nebulous applica-
tions without any idea of the work in
which you wish to start your career.
D O find out something about the
employer. If the employer produces
Graduate Recruitment Literature he
will expect you to have read it.
D O N ' T make applications before
you have found out all you can about
the employer, and his vacancy
situation.
D O take care in making your
application. Make sure that nothing
is omitted which could be of some
significance. Remember that you
must convince the employer that you
would have something to offer in the
job concerned and would adapt to
the life style within his organization.
D O N ' T assume that employers are
only interested in your academic
qualifications. Give some indication
of your interests and talents outside
your degree subject.
D O take the trouble to look at the
latest lists of employers' requirements.
Make sure that the job for which you
are applying is one which is on offer.
D O N ' T waste time applying for
non-existent jobs.
D O realise that the first interview
will probably not include technical
questions and the interviewer may
not be a scientist or engineer. His
brief is to assess whether or not you
c o u l d r o u g h l y meet his f i r m ' s
requirements and have the motiva-
tion and ability to eventually reach
more senior positions. D O N ' T fall
into the mistake of assuming that a
non-technical interviewer is necessar-
ily an unintelligent one. It has to be a
success if you are to proceed to the
final interview stage which could be
highly technical in its nature.
For many of you the whole process
of applying for a job will be a new
experience. It includes a variety of
skills and techniques which you will
learn as you progress. D O assess each
experience as it comes and try to
learn by your mistakes. There is a
useful information sheet 'Applications
and Interviews1
available from the
Careers Advisory Service.
Fortunately, demand for engineers
and scientists remains much greater
than for graduates in other dis-
ciplines. There continues to be a large
requirement for graduates in the
electronics industry and the oil
industry. Exploration lor minerals
and oil throughout the world is
particularly active this year. The civil
engineering industry in Britain is at a
low ebb, but the large concerns are
finding contracts elsewhere and the
new nuclear power programme will
eventually provide challenging
growth.
Vacancies in accounting, insur-
ance, banking and retailing show
little sign of reduction, but areas of
the manufacturing industry such as
the automobile manufacturers, the
chemical industry and much of the
heavy m e c h a n i c a l e n g i n e e r i n g
inudstry arc badly affected by the
recession.
There remains an acute shortage of
teachers in secondary schools to teach
sciences.
These ups and downs in demand
make it particularly important that
vour approach should be flexible. If
the work you most wished to be
involved in proves to be unattainable
it will be nccesary to consider other
options. For those who take care to
make well thought out approaches to
"mployers at the right time, 1981
need not be such a bad year as the
press would have us believe.
The facilities of the Careers
Advisory Service are available to
assist you with your career choice and
any difficulties you may encounter
d u r i n g the search for suitable
employment. We wish all final year
students both postgraduate and
undergraduate every success in these
endeavours.
For further careers advice, contact
the Careers Office (level 3 Sherfield)
or your departmental careers
advisor.
C I T Y a n d G U I L D S U N I O N
proudly presents
the 30th Annual Engineers'
DINNER AND DANCE
Royal Garden Hotel
£25 per D O U B L E ticket
Available NOW in Guilds Office.
DINNER SUITS
Price of ticket includes a bottle of
wine and unlimited corkage.
Half price cocktails beforehand in
Sloanes.
FELIX, January 16,1981 Page 5

