O F G R E A T N O T E to particle physics wallahs is
the current highly ionised state of atmosphere
prevalent in the upper storeys of the Union East
Staircase. For the general joie-de-vivre always
associated with that quarter has been amplified
into a veritable electrical fizz with the news that
the Dramatic Society (your own, your v own) is to
be host to the finals of the Home Counties
Amateur Dramatic Competition ( H A M D R A M
1981). The D r a m s o c S t o r e r o o m has been
impassable with agog stagehands and wide-eyed
wardrobe mistresses ever since the news broke
all over the place.
It is a pity that Dramsoc itself will not be
producing a contribution to the festival, but the
disappointment of not reaching these finals is
.more than outweighted by the eager anticipation
of a feast and variety of the very cream of the
country's amateur theatre. Some small insight of
the wide scope of this event might be gleamed
from a retrospective look at some of the past
winners.
1980 saw a t r i u m p h for the excellent if
controversial feminist theatre group, TITS
(Totally Intergrated Theatre of Socialism), with
their viciously satirical, though often warmly
charming, musical depiction of East End life, " A
Bun In The Oven, But Sod All Sausages For
Tea". Whereas, in stark contrast, 1979's winner
was "The Shakespeare Story", a dramatised
documentary of the life of the Swan of Avon, from
the humble beginnings in Stratford, through all
the tribulations of the middle years, to the
triumphs at the Globe Theatre with the great
tragedies.
The roll of honour has been filled with thrillers,
experimental minimalist mime, classics; in fact, all
branches of the art have been represented.
Dramsoc are fortunate to have secured a limited
allocation of tickets which will become available in
the next two weeks.
The festival will run over four nights on 11-14
March.
Gliding Club
O V E R T H E C H R I S T M A S vacation the Gliding
C l u b again m o u n t e d an e x p e d i t i o n to the
Northern wastes. The Club's Astir and Libelle,
both high performance sailplanes, were taken to
the Scottish Gliding Union's site at Portmoak,
about thirty miles north of Edinburgh. This site is
renowned for its 'waves' — huge stationary waves
of air caused by upwind mountains. By flying the
regions where the air is rising gliders can be
carried to great heights, often climbing at rates of
800 feet per minute.
The four pilots who ventured north over the
Christmas week were greeted with the sight of a
very wet airfield which looked like it had just been
bombed by the Luftwaffe. However, reasonable
weather prevailed — only two days were not
flyable and Club Captain Rob Green reached
8000 feet on one of the two wave days.
Over the New Year a new batch of pilots took
over and were joined by staff members M r Paul
Minton of Civ Eng and Club President M r Frank
Irving. Only two days were flyable but both
produced exceptional conditions. Two G o l d
Heights (height gains over 3000m) were obtained
by Martin Judkins and Alan Reeves, who reached
14000 feet and 13400 feet respectively. The
remaining time was spent in an alcoholic daze
watching the club house being demolished
around us by gales and trying to relieve the
boredom by abortive attempts at scaling the local
peaks and a daring excursion to the tenpin
bowling alley in Glenrothese, possibly the third
most exciting event on the whole expedition.
MJ
SF Sock
O N L Y T H R E E Y E A R S L E F T to 1984 and already
it's raining. The outlook is as black as Mark
Jeffcock's lapels, but are we down-hearted? Are
we depressed? Are we despondent? Are we
dismal, desolate, dismayed, dispairing or even
dandruff ridden? The answer is yes, and
desperate too. Next week on Sesame Street, the
letter E and how to evade it.
Well, what's new in the S F world? The answer
is — nothing. All the news I have is old news,
which you would have already if the last bulletin
had not had certain vital words edited out — all of
them in fact. Here is a newsflash (ah-ah saviour of
the universe). On Friday (i.e. today, or if this is
not printed, Tuesday) the 16th (i.e. today) of
January (i.e this month) we (i.e. us) are going to a
meeting of the BSFA, that is (i.e. i.e.) the British
Science Fiction Association (i.e nothing to do
with cassettes (i.e. little boxes))). The time —
7:30pm; the place — Hammersmith Tube Station.
Next piece of news — the regular meetings of
some of the keenest minds of our generation will
now start quarter of an hour earlier. By this I
mean 12:45pm on Fridays. So, if you want to read
our new (old) books (see the un-printed bulletin
for titles) come to Southside Upper Lounge and
be amazed at our good taste.
And now a personal message for Steve Higgins.
Steve — whatever it is that we've done, or not
done, which has offended you enough to stop you
talking to us, we apologise most abjectly and
sincerely. And if that's not good enough for you,
we'll take the print of "Santa Ciaus Conquers The
Martians", tie you to a chair with it, and forcefeed
you with copies of the 'Batchwork Girl' by Larry
Niven, which you can then review pretentiously
and be patted on the head by Brian Aldiss in an
attempt to get you to go away. However, we trust
our apology is sufficient. I trust you now have
enough information to survive the next crisis.
Belligerently yours.
Carlos Zibblie (no relation)
s e c
The following societies have failed to send a repre-
sentative to the last two full S C C meetings, on
October 16 and December 4, 1980: Amnesty,
Buddhist, French, Gay.
I am thus investigating whether these societies
are still active. Unless a representative from each of
the societies contacts me before the next S C C
Executive Meeting, I shall propose that these
societies be abolished, and the matter may then
be considered at the next full S C C Meeting.
The dates of the next S C C meetings are: S C C
Executive: Tuesday, January 20, 1981; S C C Full
Meeting: Thursday, January 22, 1981.
Bryan Steele
Hon Sec S C C
ICCAG
T H E S A M A R I T A N S are opening a new centre in
Kensington this month, and would like your help
with publicity. They are holding a concert at the
Commonwealth Institute to raise funds, and need
volunteers to go to some local record shops,
laundrettes, etc., and ask those in charge to:
a) Take leaflets advertising the concert and
place them where customers can see them;
b) Place a display c a r d about the new
Samaritan Centre in his window or on a
noticeboard;
c) Possibly offer some financial support.
If you can spare any time at all for this, they
would be extremely grateful. Please contact
either of the following as soon as possible for
more details and to arrange which establishments
you will visit, etc: Peter Assinder (Samaritans'
Appeal Director) on 223-1893 by day, or Fred
Bradley (Samaritan Task Force) on 352-4274
(evenings).
N E X T W E E K , on Saturday, January 24, there
will be an outing to Holly Street to have another
crack at the Adventure Playground. Please make
an effort to come along. More details next week.
Ski Club
T H E IC SKI C L U B is organising a weekend trip
to Scotland (Aviemore) from February 6 to 8.
Cost is about £55 (all inclusive). Deposits of £10
are needed immediately (payable to Weekend Ski
Club Ltd), first come, first served. Details from
Ski Club noticeboard or at a meeting on Monday,
January 19 in the Union Upper Lounge at 1:00pm
(also last chance for deposits).
Phillip Smith
Friday, January 16
Disco, JCR
Wed, Jan 28 to Wed, Mar 4
Year Rag Collections
Wednesday, March 4
Barnite, Union Bar
H E L L O A G A I N , just a few words to bring to your
notice the Disco in the J C R tonight, come along
and get drunk. There will be Rag collections for a
week at the above dates on a departmental basis.
The prize for the most collected will be a barrel,
the Social Reps should organise a stunt each and
then see me. Finally, there will be a Barnite on the
4th March — we haven't decided on a theme yet
— if you have any ideas please let us know.
That's all for now folks.
T T F N .
Crispin
Sunday, January 25
Soccer Sixes and Bar Games Night
Friday, January 30
Dinner and Dance
Teams for Soccer Sixes should be given to Ruth
in the G uilds Office or Phil Niccolls in Mech Eng 211.
Prizes for this event and Rugby Sevens will be
awarded at the Bar Games Night.
Tickets for Dinner & Dance are selling so buy
yours nou; to avoid disappointment.
Andy Dixon
Dinners in Hall
Dinners-in-Hall will be held on the following dates
during the Spring Term:
20 January 1981 (Inaugural)
17 February 1981 (Probably Inaugural)
17 March 1981
M e m b e r s of the Senior C o m m o n R o o m
wishing to attend any of the above dinners should
book places through Miss K Dailly, Room 354,
Sherfield Building (internal 2231) using a booking
form which can be obtained, from the beginning
of the spring term, either from Miss Dailly, or
from the box located in the Senior Common
Room in the Sherfield Building. Students should
book through the Student Union. The latest time
for booking as 12-noon on the Friday preceding
the Dinner.
Charges
£6.00 for staff and £4.50 for students.
Dress
Except for the final dinner of term (17 March
1981) when evening dress (black tie) should be
worn, the correct dress for men for Hall dinners is
a lounge suit.
General
Staff and students attending Hall Dinners should
forgather in the Senior Common Room or the
Ante-Room in the Sherfield Building — depending
on whether the dinner is being held in the Staff or
Main Dining Hall — at 7:00pm for dinner at
7:30pm. (The location of each dinner — which will
depend on the number of people attending — will
be displayed on noticeboards on the level 1 and
level 2 lift concourses of the Sherfield Building.)
Sherry or other drinks will be available for
purchase in the Senior Common Room or Ante-
Room before dinner. The wine and port served
during dinner will be included in the overall
charge.
Page 6 FEUX, January 16,1981

