SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
t’s the start of a cold winter’s day in
London. A young man gets into his
car to drive to work. Amongst the
bustle of traffic, a pedestrian runs
onto the road – the young man sees
this, but does not react fast enough. The car
swerves, bumps into the pavement, and he
wakes up dazed in hospital a few hours later.
At the back of the hospital, a rat scurries
across concrete, foraging for food. He senses
a smell that should raise alarm – a cat. But in-
stead of running away, the scent intrigues him.
Throwing caution to the wind, he scurries into
the open, only to be pounced on by a tabby.
Overlooking this scene from the window
of a nearby university, anthropology stu-
dents are discussing cultural differences
around the world, debating how these differ-
ences might have occurred.
Are these events completely unrelated?
They would appear to be – but may be linked
by one, rather unknown little creature; a par-
asite named Toxoplasma gondii.
In rats, the parasite is responsible for a
phenomenon known as ‘fatal feline attrac-
tion’. The rat becomes less cautious, more
active, and even seems attracted to feline
odour. In this way, T. gondii may have led to
our rat’s untimely demise.
As for our young man, he may have just
been tired and careless – or more shockingly,
his behaviour may have been influenced by
parasitic infection. T. gondii reduces reac-
tion times in humans, and can increase the
risk of road accidents. On a more global
level, it is possible that the prevalence of
T. gondii infection, through subtly affecting
individual personalities, may affect a coun-
try’s entire culture.
The situation reads as if it were a script
from science fiction. How can a parasite pro-
duce such dramatic effects? Until recently,
this question has been very difficult to an-
swer, but genome sequencing of T. gondii
has produced insightful results. Two genes
in the parasite produce an enzyme that in-
creases levels of the neurotransmitter dopa-
mine, which is known to affect mood, per-
sonality, and plays an important role in some
mental illness.
To understand why this parasite may pos-
sess these genes, we need to turn to our sec-
ond case – the tale of the rat and the cat. The
parasite relies on cats to spread, and an im-
portant part of its life-cycle occurs in a cat’s
gut. Altering the rat’s behaviour to increase
its chances of being eaten would allow the
parasite to complete its life-cycle, repro-
duce, and emerge in the cat’s faeces.
Given this life-cycle, why – and how –
does the parasite affect humans? It would
appear that we are accidental hosts; our
mammalian brains are similar to those of
rats, but we aren’t affected in quite the same
way. The main route of transmission to hu-
mans is through eating undercooked meat
(from infected cattle, for example). Humans
can also contract the parasite from the en-
vironment; soil or unwashed vegetables,
which may have been exposed to cat faeces.
The subtle parasite
Maya Kaushik explains the link between slow reactions and suicidal rats
Many people around the world are un-
knowingly infected. The parasite’s effects
are subtle, and in most healthy people it pro-
duces no illness beyond mild flu-like symp-
toms. The precise prevalence of infection is
not known – in the UK it may be around 7%;
in other countries it may be much higher,
reaching as high as 70% in some parts of
the world.
But the effects of T. gondii can range be-
yond just subtle changes in behaviour. Stud-
ies show that schizophrenia patients show a
higher prevalence of infection, and whilst
this correlation does not imply causation,
the link is under investigation. People with
AIDS often suffer from acute toxoplasmo-
sis, which can cause an inflammation of the
brain leading to severe symptoms, and even
death. Perhaps the best known symptom of
the parasite is its impact on foetuses, where
it can cause spontaneous abortions and se-
vere neural complications.
For a parasite that is so common, and has
such a wide range of effects, the mechanism
by which it works is surprisingly unknown.
Its lack of obvious symptoms in healthy
people has led to it being ignored. My re-
search will help understand how this para-
site works in the brain – is it the increase in
dopamine that causes the rat to change its
behaviour? What does this imply for infect-
ed humans? In regions of the world where
over half the population are infected, the ef-
fects of this parasite, subtle or not, can no
longer be ignored.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Parasites may be lurking on a cold winter’s day, better off staying in...
Graphene makes inkjet printer
electronics a possibilty
Graphene is a unique material consisting of single layer
of carbon atoms bonded in a hexagonal pattern. As the
thinnest and most conductive material ever discovered
it has countless possible applications in electronics.
Research into the material is progressing quickly, with
the government setting aside £50m for this purpose
earlier this year.
Now a group of engineers from Cambridge University
have announced that they have managed to produce
a graphene based transistor using an inkjet printer.
Writing in a paper published last month on arXiv.org, a
pre-print repository, the team describe how the perfor-
mance of their transistors is broadly comparable to that
of traditional semiconductor transistors.
The ink for this process was produced by using the
solvent N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) to strip off single
layers of graphene from a block of graphite in a process
known as liquid phase exfoliation. While other solvents
could have been used, NMP was chosen since it stops
flakes of graphene in an ink droplet becoming concen-
trated around its perimeter as it dries on a surface – a
phenomenon which is known as the ‘coffee ring effect’
and which is highly detrimental to the function of elec-
tronics produced in this fashion. A centrifuge was then
used to remove graphene flakes with a diameter of
more than one micrometer, which might have blocked
the printer nozzle, and the quality of the ink was as-
sessed using spectroscopy and transmission electron
microscopy. A modified desktop printer was used to
print a transistor onto a surface which was coated with
hexamethyldisilazane (HMDS) to further reduce the
“coffee ring effect”. The printer was first tested by pro-
ducing dot based patterns before moving on to attempt
a transistor.
While inkjet printers have already been used to pro-
duce conventional complementary metal-oxide-semi-
conductor transistors these have proved, unlike those
created by the Cambridge team, to operate far too slow-
ly to be of any practical use. Graphene based electron-
ics are still far more expensive than their conventional
counterparts, but the use of simple inkjet technology
promises massive reductions in price.
The wide range of surfaces on which transistors can
be printed and the fact that graphene ink is transpar-
ent also opens up a wide range of possibilities. The
team says that their work “paves the way to all-printed,
flexible and transparent graphene devices on arbitrary
substrate” and foresees it being used in the production
of “touch screens, electronic paper (e-paper), sensors,
radio frequency tags, photovoltaic cells, and electronic
textiles”.
Maciej Matuszewski
FELIX
10 Friday 09 december 2011
Like us on Facebook
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience

