SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 09 december 2011
Professor David Phillips, current pres-
ident of the Royal Society of Chemis-
try, took to the lectern on November 8
for the latest Friends of Imperial Col-
lege (FOIC) event.
In line with FOIC’s celebrations of
the UN Year of Chemistry, the Im-
perial professor emeritus guided the
audience with an authoritative yet
avuncular manner through a few of
his personal predictions for the future
of chemistry.
A great deal of the work done by the
RSC centres on highlighting the key
challenges faced by the world today
for which chemistry hopes to hold
solutions. Foremost amongst these is
the development of green chemistry,
especially ionic liquids as a substitute
for more harmful solvents. Solvents
are critical in most industrial chemi-
cal processes, as illustrated by the fact
that they represent 90% of the waste
products in the pharmaceuticals in-
dustry.
Regrettably however these same
solvents make up 35% of global emis-
sions of volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) that give rise to smog and
greenhouse gases.
There were a few bewildered faces
amongst the group of visiting second-
ary school students as Phillips cited
the case of Viagra production as an
example of the improved consump-
tion habits and efficient use of sol-
vents. Having required 1300 litres of
‘red’, harmful solvents to produce a
kilogram of Viagra in 1990, today we
need only 6.3 litres of less dangerous
‘amber’ solvents, with the hope being
that we might need an even smaller
amount of the ideal ‘green’ solvents in
the near future.
Will Prince
A brave new molecular world
Lasers may hold key to cryptography
“The generation of random numbers
is too important to be left to chance.”
This was the title of a 1970 article by
recognised expert in pseudo-random
number generation Robert R Cov-
eyou. There are many controversies
surrounding the various algorithms
used to generate numbers with the il-
lusion of randomness, but one Ottawa
physicist appears to have developed a
way to generate them truly randomly.
Ben Sussman, who works with
quantum technologies at the National
Research Council, used laser pulses
which last only a trillionth of a sec-
ond to demonstrate the generation of
random numbers. The laser pulse is
fired at a diamond and the emergent
photons are measured. Due to quan-
tum vacuum fluctuations, the quan-
tum state of the photons which were
fired are changed. This is due to the
microscopic flickering of the amount
of energy in a minute point in space.
If the method of transforming an
entity is known to an attacker, the
cryptographic system the technique
is applied to can be compromised.
Sussman commented on the photons’
changes of state, explaining “what
quantum mechanics tells us is that
it’s against the laws of physics to
know”.
Random numbers are used to seed
cryptographic systems worldwide.
They are used in the core security
algorithms which provide two way
protected communication, site certi-
fication and digital signatures. These
features can then be applied to secure
website browsing, credit card trans-
actions and other security-intensive
elements of the digital world.
In cryptography, Kerckhoffs’s prin-
ciple states that only the key of a
security system needs to remain se-
cret and not the algorithm. In many
cases, digital keys are formed from
outputs given by pseudo-random
number generators. If these genera-
tors contain flaws, the keys will con-
tain inherent vulnerabilities to attack.
Alexander Karapetian
The Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange system relies on random numbers
Phillips shared the case of azox-
ystrobin, a seemingly paradoxical
fungicidal fungus discovered through
blue-sky research by Czech and Ger-
man chemists. Having found that trees
with the fungus strobilurin (the active
agent in azoxystrobin) grew no other
fungi, research was undertaken that
led to a frantic patent battle between
Sygenta and BASF. The former won,
handing in their application 24 hours
before the latter, and Sygenta an-
nounced annual azoxystrobin sales of
over $1bn in 2008. Used as a fungi-
cide in wheat, vegetables and a wide
range of commonplace foodstuffs,
Phillips hypothesised that without the
chemical (and the grasp of chemistry
to harness its properties) we would see
food prices increase by half overnight.
Shifting from the kitchen table to
the operating table, Prof. Phillips’
most impressive examples of frontier
chemistry came in medical applica-
tions. Photodynamic therapy (PDT)
enables the treatment of malignant tu-
mours through photosensitive agents
that attach exclusively to the tumour
tissue and bombard it with singlet
oxygen. Talking through the case of
a patient with a tongue tumour, Prof.
Phillips pointed out that two decades
ago, treatment would have certainly
resulted in removal of the tongue, ren-
dering the patient speechless for life.
With PDT, a technique developed
from research in bio fluorescence, a
patient can expect to see the tumour
in remission within a week of treat-
ment and be fully healed in a matter
of months.
If things couldn’t get any better, the
procedure is minimally invasive and
tumours hold no possibility of devel-
oping a resistance.
Naturally accustomed to political
persuasion through his role at the
RSC, Phillips took every opportunity
to impress upon his audience the mer-
Sussman’s method of taking advan-
tage of quantum mechanical effects
to produce random numbers has the
potential to produce large quantities
of random numbers very efficiently,
with the added benefit that the meth-
od of generation, how the quantum
states were changed, is impossible to
deduce.
The one-time pad cipher, known to
be information-theoretically secure,
is a mathematically perfect means of
securing information. The drawbacks
are in the effort required for its suc-
cessful implementation. One require-
ment is the use of truly random num-
bers as keys. Sussman hinted at this
in his comments, noting “a truly ran-
dom number generator will provide
impenetrable encryption for commu-
nications”.
While some scientists continue to
understand more about the myster-
ies of quantum mechanics and probe
what we can and cannot know math-
ematically, others utilise the latter to
benefit those requiring secrecy.
its of blue-sky research – how whilst
today it may seem aimless, it will no
doubt form the springboard for the
great leaps of tomorrow. Given the
current economic climate, he pro-
posed that support for the sciences
in the UK would sow the seeds of fu-
ture prosperity, highlighting that even
today apparently trivial discoveries
made two decades ago are finding
life-enriching and economically ben-
eficial applications. Are you reading,
Mr. Cameron?
An explanation of Viagra’s applica-
tions and an anecdote involving Prince
Phillip later, the look of confusion on
the faces of school students quickly
changed to one of horror, probably as
a result of mental images that the wiz-
ened prince and a sex-drug together
might evoke.
Whilst some of the more virile
among us might question whether the
efficient production of Viagra rep-
resents a key global challenge, the
importance of securing a safe, envi-
ronmentally friendly food supply is
undoubtable.
“support for the
sciences in the UK
would sow the seeds
of future prosperity”
Professor David Phillips, president of the Royal Society of Chemistry

