TECHNOLOGY
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Chris “The Snowman” Bowers
Feroz Salam under the mistletoe
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Spotify launches app platform
Spotify launched an app platform last week that
will allow developers to add features to the stand-
alone Spotify application. The first applications an-
nounced include the Guardian app, which allows
users to read reviews and new music recommen-
dations, as well as similar apps from Rolling Stone
magazine and Pitchfork. London’s Music Hack Day
saw a few more interesting apps released: Chordify
allows you to select a song and automatically finds
you guitar tabs for it, and CTRL allows you take con-
trol of a virtual turntable, giving those Spotify party
mixes some extra effect.
While the app model will definitely see some in-
teresting software being released for the platform,
it is worth asking whether every piece of software
adapting the model adds much of value. Bloat is an
unavoidable feature of most commercially released
software, and an app system for what is essentially
a music player is perhaps a step too far.
Merry Christmas from the
Felix Technology team!
Enjoy this USB Christmas tree,
only £12.99 on Amazon
FELIX
12 Friday 09 december 2011
W
hen Nokia announced their
partnership with Windows
Phone 7 instead of Android
back in February I honestly
thought that they’d made
one of the biggest mistakes in the company’s
history. How wrong I was.
Windows Phone 7
As much as I’d like to talk about the physical
phone, the truth is, just like the iPhone, the great-
est feature of the Nokia Lumia 800 has got to be
the operating system. Having previously owned
an iPhone, iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS and a HTC
Desire I’m quite familiar with iOS and Android,
the two biggest mobile phone operating systems.
So I put my bias against Windows Phone 7 to
one side – just for a day – to try this OS out,
and I wasn’t disappointed. We were used to lis-
tening to Steve Jobs at every keynote speech,
consistently overusing the words “innovation”
and “revolutionary” until they almost had no
meaning. Yet what Microsoft have done is truly
innovative and, well, genius. Windows Phone 7
has struck a perfect middle ground between iOS
and Android: it looks slick, it’s incredibly fast
and most importantly, it’s unbelievably intuitive
to use.
Price
At £350-400, depending on what network you’re
on, it’s £100-150 cheaper than an iPhone 3G or
Samsung Galaxy S2. It’s even cheaper on con-
tract. For example, I pay £26 a month for 600
minutes, unlimited texts, unlimited data, 2GB
free BT Openzone a month and 4 months insur-
ance, and get the phone for free.
Integration
The integration of several separate applications
into one phone is one of the main successes. I’ll
quickly give you two of many examples. The
first is games: all games go through a very slick
Xbox Live interface which, if you have an Xbox,
is made even better. The other is social network-
ing integration: if you click on a group of con-
tacts, e.g. “Chemistry” on “what’s new” there
is a feed of all your friends’ updates, Facebook,
Twitter, Live Messenger, Google+ and even
LinkedIn.
Even with messaging it integrates social net-
working; imagine if text, MSN, Facebook Chat
were all in one thread – on this they are. You can
be messaging one of your friends using Face-
book and, when they go offline, you just tap a
button and you can send them the message as a
text, it’s all part of the same interface.
Productivity
This phone isn’t only great on a personal use lev-
el, it’s great for work. Microsoft Office has One-
Note, Excel, Powerpoint and Word so that you
can edit all your documents from your SkyDrive
offline or online, on the go – great for some last
minute edits to your lab reports.
Another awesome feature for productivity is,
because it’s Microsoft, Outlook and Calendar
are by a long way the best I’ve ever seen on any
phone (or even tablet). It doesn’t matter if it’s
Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail or, for best functionality,
Outlook Exchange, it’s quick, slick and intui-
tively designed for navigation and organisation.
For example, threads of e-mails are kept
grouped, much like in Gmail, and you swipe
from “all” to “unread” to “flagged” to “urgent”
and you can link as many inboxes together as
you like.With calendar, not only do you get your
“day” and “agenda” from your e-mail calendar
(that is how I organise my life) but you have the
option of including Facebook events and other
calendars (which are all kept colour coded). This
also links in with “tasks” of the “to-do” list as
it’s called on the phone, organised in level of pri-
ority, deadline and again, colour coded. If you
keep yourself organised online using Google or
Outlook it’s an absolute lifesaver and helps keep
you exceptionally well organised.
Criticism
No phone is perfect. The two biggest flaws with
this phone are, firstly, the battery life, and sec-
ondly, the limited amount of apps.
But I’m pretty sure Nokia and Windows Phone
7 know about these. Nokia has a “battery saver”
option you can turn on, or to automatically come
on at “xx%”. The “Marketplace” may be sparse
in its range of products, but at the moment it has
everything I can think of that I would want on a
phone, and it seeing as its relatively young for an
app market, it’ll definitely grow.
Conclusion
I can honestly say I never thought I’d be in fa-
vour of, let alone endorse any Windows attempt
at a mobile OS, but here I am, in ownership of
the best phone in the world.
There is so much more to this phone than I can
write, but I’m running out of space. I guess the
point I’m trying to get across is, forget your bias
against Microsoft, get that iPhone out of your
arse and just try this thing out. You will not re-
gret it.
Nokiasoft: a match made in heaven
Jason Parmar coos over his new Nokia Lumia 800
It’s love at first sight for Jason Parmar
deadmau5 helped to launch the Nokia Lumia 800 at Millbank Tower in late November

