POLITICS
FELIX 15
FRIDAY 09 december 2011
IRAQ Iraq’s leader Nouri al-Maliki is
too dangerous a threat for us to ignore.
A former rebel, this Shia leader has de-
veloped a strong relationship with the
regime in Iran and Syria’s Al-Assad
family. He is now taking full advan-
tage of his forces to crush dissent from
Sunni opposition and liberal media.
Not only would a full scale invasion
allow us to free the Iraqi people from
an oppressive regime, but would give
us a strategic position in the Persian
Gulf and increase oil security. Besides,
we’ll easily have the military capacity
when we finally withdraw troops from
Iraq at the end of the year.
IRAN Iran’s supposedly peaceful nu-
clear programme is the greatest threat
to the stability of the earth. Who the
hell do they think they are? The USA?
Russia? Britain? France? China? Israel?
India? Pakistan? Why on earth do they
think they should be allowed to develop
such dangerous weapons? The mental-
ists even blew 17 of their own Revolu-
tionary Guards up to show they’re not
messing around. This is not like Iraq in
2003 – not only do they have a lot more
oil, but the IAEA’s report has made it
clear that they are developing weapons
of mass destruction. They might even be
able to deploy them within 45 years.
GREECE Germany and France are
presently requesting Britain’s finan-
cial help in bailing out Greece. What
they really need is a bailiff, and that
is a role that I think this country is
well-qualified to assume, given its
tradition of colonialism for furthering
economic objectives. In addition, oc-
cupying Greece would also provide a
stepping stone from which to launch
an invasion to reclaim Cyprus, in or-
der to secure sandy beaches and gaudy
nightclubs regularly frequented by
British tourists.
W
ith a recent cut in
public sector wage
rises for the next
two years lead-
ing to a pay cut in
real terms, and a call to reduce pub-
lic sector pensions, civil servants and
other affected parties went on srike
last week. This forced approximately
58% of schools in England to close
today, along with affecting roughly
6,000 routine medical operations.
The strikes also had the effect of in-
creasing the number of middle aged,
middle class people handing out fly-
ers on the streets and standing around
with neatly printed posters. While this
has given printing companies a slight
boost in revenue, these events caused
annoyance for people on the street as
they had to put more effort into not
accepting flyers or making eye con-
tact on their way to pick up lunch.
The government gleefully reported
that less than a third of civil servants
were on strike, having been sneakily
chained to their desks the previous
evening after carefully scheduled of-
fice parties around the country. How-
ever, our sources tell us that these
parties were funded by budget cuts
in government departments forcing
the closure of toilets in all publicly
owned office spaces. Needless to say,
groggy and disgruntled civil servants
were heard to be muttering in rage on
Wednesday morning, angrily sending
emails to their line managers, saying
how ministers were “taking the piss”.
After a brief, sparsely attended
cabinet meeting last Thursday, PM
David Cameron is set to announce
the implementation of a Three Strikes
Policy in all public bodies, starting
next January. The idea being that any
public sector workers engaging in
3 or more strikes during their career
will be politely sent a disparaging let-
ter from the Prime Minister before
promptly being fired and replaced by
younger, more downtrodden workers.
Public sector unions such as NAPO
are already urging members to strike
for the right to strike. However, with
decreasing pay and increasing apathy
towards life, will civil servants roll
with the punches, or take a stand after
rushing home for the toilet?
S
ince Monday thousands
of Americans have been
heading to uptown Man-
hattan to take part in a
new movement, Occupy
Central Park. Today I’ve been talk-
ing to a few of the settled protestors
to understand their motives. So far it
seems that the people gathered here are
united with a single purpose, to show
their dissatisfaction with the current
democratic system of government. In
fact, these protestors are calling for an
end to democracy in the White House
and the introduction of open corrup-
tion and dictatorship to the head of the
country.
I had a conversation with the leader
of the movement, Dick Jersey, who
elaborated on the ethos of the group:
“Well Pete, it’s like this. America
is hurting, and we the people find the
Administration guilty of negligence.
However this negligence is not a
passing phase, we believe this insti-
tutionalised negligence is a result of
the poison of democracy. We believe,
that it is time for the Federal Govern-
ment to step aside and allow one man,
a politically powerful, well connected
and wealthy man, to take control of our
blessed country and steer it in the direc-
tion of it’s future glory!
“For too long we have suffered the
indignity of decency, having to always
do what’s right in the eyes of the world,
being champions of justice and fairness,
and now it is our time to prosper. Amer-
ica is a humble and poor nation, we
rule the world fairly, often at a cost to
ourselves, and we even sell our excess
food to inhabitants of less privileged
countries, giving them to chance to en-
joy American food. However, thinking
only of others and not for ourselves is
THE NEWS THAT’S NOT
“Bringing accurate, fictional news to readers around campus”
Who will we invade this Christmas?
By Rajat Jain and Veli Akiner
Americans Protest in Central Park
hurting our fair nation, and it’s time to
do something about it! We’re calling for
change, change to the power structure
of our beautiful land.
“We need to be lead by one man, a
man who has the voice of America, a
man who epitomises the pinnacle of tyr-
anny, a man who will put the needs of
our nation before his own, a man who
will make backroom deals in order to in-
crease our prosperity. Without a dictator
we are lost sheep, subject to the whims
of squabbling politicians, each trying to
shout louder than the other in order to
make their voices heard. It will be tough
and the change will encounter friction,
but if we want to be able to compete
with our peers in the Arab States and
Africa we will need to evolve and adapt
to face this ever-changing world!”
The protestors wish to broadcast their
message to the world in hope that they
will find comradeship amongst like-
minded groups with a passion for ac-
tivism. They have a well-established
groups and pages on prominent social
networking websites and the movement
so-far seems to appeal to three key de-
mographics in theAmerican population,
the unemployed youth, the contrary in-
tellectuals and the uneducated masses.
There have already been interviews
with self-professed experts in American
Law who claim that the right for dicta-
torship is clearly stated in the Constitu-
tion of the United States and that any
American worth their salt will back the
rising movement.
At the time of writing, the White
House has refused to comment on the
movement, however as the pressure
grows will the political establishment
start to feel the tension?
By Joseph Letts By Joseph Letts
Occupy Central Park – Credit: The Guardian
3 Strikes!
USA Watch
With Obama’s tumbling approval rat-
ing and Herman Cain dropping out of
the running for presidency, the pos-
sibility of the USA being led by mad-
man Mitt Romney looms ever closer. A
pre-emptive strike would prevent this
occurrence; despite the USA’s signifi-
cant advantages in technology and man-
power, Korea, Vietnam and Afghanistan
has shown that these do not ensure mili-
tary victory and as such should not deter
any action against the States. In fact, a
drawn-out war of attrition would reju-
venate their military-industrial complex
and kick-start the American economy,
which could help drag the rest of the
world out of recession.
By George Galloway

