BUSINESS
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 december 2011
16
The Paper days are over
The days of the printed newspaper are numbered, argues Marie-Laure Hicks, as the salad days of
social media see a decline in the printing of broadsheets and Berliners
T
ake the tube and read a
newspaper. Most people
there are doing the same,
but their number is in
rapid decline. Between
2007 and 2009, newspaper circulation
dropped by 25% in the UK. Only the
US saw a heavier decline. This $50bn
business, employing 400,000 people in
the US alone, is in trouble. In the space
of two years, eight major newspaper
chains have declared bankruptcy and
newsrooms have been cut by a quarter.
British newspapers have also needed to
lay off workers. The newspaper industry
is living its worst crisis since the Great
Depression.
Newspapers are not simply los-
ing readers, they are also losing huge
amounts of funding. Companies now
prefer online ads to printed publicity.
This is a major issue as, historically, ad-
vertisements represented up to 80% of
newspaper revenues. Online start-ups,
blogs and websites are proving ever
more popular. Moreover, even if news-
papers have their own website, it is no-
tably difficult to make money off them
– why would people pay for subscrip-
tions when they have access to almost
all information for free online? People’s
habits are changing. Why read an entire
newspaper if you only really care about
one or a couple sections?Awebsite will,
most likely, contain all the information,
if not more, about a reader’s specific in-
terests.
But the internet is young, and the
competition-bloggers and news start-
ups inexperienced. Some have even
argued that this lack of knowledge, con-
nections and analysis could pose a risk
to democracy. The right to Freedom
of Speech, however, keeps governing
bodies in check. Already the White
House and Congress are subject to re-
duced coverage due to cost cuts. Events
could happen unnoticed and uncovered.
Governments have discussed taking ac-
tion to help newspapers. In France, the
state will provide free subscriptions to
18-year-olds for a year, in the hope of
turning them into loyal readers and cus-
tomers. Then again, relying on Govern-
ments to save the paper industry could
go against the freedom of the press to
a certain extent. Newspapers would be
biting the hand feeding them.
Democracy, however, need not worry,
because the big boys are still out there.
The greater use of cameras and micro-
phones means that news coverage is
wider and faster, not missing the small-
est detail. Obama and Sarkozy’s little
gaffe (muttered complaints about the Is-
raeli PM while their microphones were
on for all the press to hear) earlier this
year is probably not going to be the last
of its kind. Newspapers still have the re-
sources, influence and power to hold an
important place in the world. Wikileaks
is the perfect example for this; Assange
leaked information for a few years and
was only noticed by the public eye
when the US diplomatic cables were
published in three, then five major
newspapers, namely The Guardian, The
New York Times, Der Spiegel, Le Monde
and El País. The impact would not have
been as strong without the unprecedent-
ed collaboration of news giants.
In fact, going online is a drive for
competition and higher quality and even
more free speech. Bloggers hold jour-
nalists accountable and open a platform
for discussion. News is becoming more
social and papers are beginning to un-
derstand this. The New York Times has
received accolades based on its use of
social networks. Its employees have ag-
gressively adopted Twitter and, on aver-
age, a Times story is tweeted every four
seconds. British papers have followed a
similar course by developing Facebook
apps. By the end of November 2011,
four million people had signed up for
The Guardian’s app. These produced
massive increases in readership, espe-
cially amongst young people. Social
networks are being used as a platform
for debating, commenting and sharing
news stories. Google is also participat-
ing in improving the quality of webpage
content with Google Panda. This algo-
rithm pushes “low quality” (containing
large amounts of advertising) websites
to the end of search results and “high
quality” (large amount of text, news and
social networking) websites at the top.
Furthermore, the web represents a new
market for papers as they reach more
people. The Guardian now counts half
as many American readers as British
ones.
The move from readers to the web is
forcing newspapers to find a new model
just to survive. For the moment, a hy-
brid between paper and webpage is still
needed. Not enough money is made on-
line for papers to survive. An example is
Politico which has three million online
readers but printed ads account for 50%
of its revenues. Internet returns are not
increasing as fast as hoped for, but this
is slowly changing.
The most effective model so far has
proven to be the limited free access –
pay walls set up by The Financial Times
and The New York Times, for example.
The New York Times experimented with
a first pay wall that resulted in a big drop
in readership and was therefore scraped.
This also happened to The Times in the
UK when it first launched its pay wall.
Currently The New York Times and Fi-
nancial Times allow free access to a
limited number of articles per month
and increasing levels of access for a
subscription charge, the lowest being
$15. This generates enough traffic for ad
revenue and encourages people to sub-
scribe. The results are very promising.
Traffic is up 2% on the New York Times
website and total digital earning reached
$210m – enough to operate a profitable
news room. Theoretically The New York
Times could stop printing tomorrow and
survive. Similarly, The Financial Times
has seen an increase in 30% for online
subscriptions and The Berliner Morgen-
post has doubled the traffic on its web-
site since its pay wall went up.
The other model for which a number
of groups have opted is the non-profit
organisation. An example is ProPublica,
founded by Paul Steiger, a former Wall
Street Journal managing editor. This
NGO specialises in investigative jour-
nalism – a rather costly business – and
relies entirely on donations. So far sup-
port has only increased, reaching more
than $10m in 2010, but this might not
last forever.
Other than bankruptcies, some great
failures have also occurred as news cor-
porations try to find their place in the
new technology age. Murdoch launched
an iPad exclusive newspaper, The
Daily, available for 99 cents a week.
The app needed 500,000 subscribers
to cover costs. It had 120,000 users in
October, eight months after being made
available. Knowledge of the “old” paper
industry is not enough.
Brand loyalty, perhaps also known
simply as trust is going to be a determin-
ing factor in the survival of newspapers.
Big and respected names that provide
good analysis will make it through this
crisis. Trust is also essential as shown
by the phone hacking saga. Commu-
nity papers, affecting smaller and well
defined groups of people will maintain
their place. Turning a failing newspa-
per into a free daily has had its success
stories too. Even if it leaves the paper
behind, the newspaper industry has sur-
vived the rise of the radio and the televi-
sion and is not likely to end now. This
new challenge will only make it come
out better and stronger. So enjoy your
newspaper while it lasts and get your
tablet ready.
Mobile technology and social media networks played a key role in the uprisings of the Arab Spring such as the
ones in Egypt pictured above. Twitter identifies streams of trending topics allowing users to follow and contrib-
ute to the breaking news. The most-used hashtag of 2011? #egypt
A printer laboriously works a 16th century screw press. These archaic
printing presses were developed by Gutenberg based on similar designs
used for the crushing of grapes to make wine
“Newspapers need a
new model to survive”

