BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 17
Are you a Gangster?
Serge Vasylechko
The Imperial Entrepeneurs tell us the story of a new kind
of ‘gang warfare’ within the Social Media, and how it is
bettering the work of young entrepreneurs
Walking up towards the exit from
the SAF lecture theatre I saw two
people approach me who asked that
exact question. “Are you a gangster?”
Unsurprisingly, it made a few other
people turn their heads around in
wonder, as they were also leaving the
lecture hall after a presentation on
social economy.
Little did they know about what made
these two strangers say this and how it
could be connected to one Christian
Vanizette. Despite what some friends
may say for the usual joke this had
nothing to do with my Russian/Ukrai-
nian background and the tales of Rus-
sian mafia wars...
As I smiled and replied “yes” the
eavesdroppers drew closer towards us
to try and understand what was going
on. In fact, what these two strangers
were referring to was a movement that
originated in France about a year ago
called MakeSense. It challenges people
from around the globe to help social en-
trepreneurs to solve some of the world’s
most stressing problems by organising
creative brainstorm sessions that are
called ‘hold-ups’ (yes, just like the
‘robbery at gunpoint’). When a hold-up
is organised, 6 to 15 gangsters (that is,
members of this movement) come to-
gether to meet one social entrepreneur
with a specific problem to solve.
The challenge could be anything
from the basic question of “How do I
build an online community for my fair
trade business?” to more complex ones
such as “How do I scale internationally
to support my microfinance charity in
India?” or “How do I introduce new
streams of revenue for my environmen-
tal initiative in Chile?” The case is then
brainstormed in a structured way so that
after two hours the gangsters are able to
come up with 100 ideas and five pos-
sible solutions to a given problem.
Of course, the answers are not always
right, and in fact, quite often they are
truly out-of-the-box, but what Make-
Sense-ers are able to do is to give to the
social entrepreneur an outsider’s per-
spective. By breaking down the busi-
ness concept into tiny pieces, thinking
creatively, and reconstructing it with a
different view, MakeSense gangsters
give the entrepreneur an opportunity
to see those crucial improvements and
flaws in their initiative – something that
is paramount to any business survival
and success.
One could compare it to a cool con-
sulting case study, or an engineering
problem. Whatever you may call it,
there are a few of things that make
hold-ups very special indeed. Firstly,
by working with real world businesses
that pursue an ethical mission to tackle
an environmental or a social problem
– the definition of social enterprise – it
offers a sense of real achievement. Sec-
ondly, it teaches participants to think in
real business terms – a skill which most
of us don’t get taught in the classroom.
Lastly it also provides a point of contact
with lots of ambitious people who are
passionate about making a difference.
As MakeSense is growing and new
members are adding up, more and more
hold-ups are being organized around
the world. In the past 6 months it grew
from a small community of around 100
gangsters based in Paris, to more than
500 across London, Vienna, Berlin,
San Francisco, Shanghai and even Mel-
bourne. The gang recently reached the
hallmark of 100 organized hold-ups,
and is growing exponentially as I write.
Indeed, right now, the Paris hub is lead-
ing six hold-ups simultaneously to help
improve six unique social businesses.
So, what kind of businesses do Make-
Sense gangsters get involved in any-
way? One of the new enterprises that
the London MakeSense gang is plan-
ning to work with is GiveMeTap, a so-
cial business that aims to create UK’s
first free water refilling network. The
idea is that anyone who has bought a
GiveMeTap refillable water bottle can
go to the nearest cafe or restaurant
which is signed up to the scheme and
get a refill of clean drinkable tap water.
Truly inspiring, this business hits on
multiple social problem areas at the
same time. Not only it is trying to tack-
le the stigma around drinking tap water
(despite it being safe due to Health &
Safety regulations for retail environ-
ments), and unthinkable masses of
landfill waste that get packed up with
plastic water bottles, it also challenges
our perception of water as a ‘paid for’
commodity. A lot of people today may
feel too shy about asking for tap water
in a restaurant as it is seen as an act of
‘cheapness’ rather than a basic right.
GiveMeTap is trying to challenge that
notion and save the environment at the
same time. Moreover, 70% of its profits
from the sale of refillable bottles go to-
wards building sustainable water proj-
ects in Africa.
However, despite all this, as the
founder describes it “the challenge for
GiveMeTap is to be able to scale signif-
icantly enough so that there is a refill-
able station every 500m around big UK
city hubs.” It will inarguably struggle
to gain a mass following unless one of
the bigger retailers, such as Starbucks,
will sign up to its scheme. Herein lies
the challenge to solve for gangsters of
MakeSense.
Another interesting business that
MakeSense had previously organized a
hold-up with is a microfinance startup
called Emaji. Currently in its early stag-
es of development, Emaji is building an
online marketplace which will allow
entrepreneurs in the developing and
third world countries to sell their prod-
ucts directly to consumers in the west.
The current issue with many market
makers, especially Emaji’s main target
market – craft-makers – is that they re-
ceive only a tiny profit from the prod-
ucts they sell in their localities, which
often is not enough for sustaining their
families. Drawing on their passion
in entrepreneurship, the founders of
Emaji plan to develop an easy-to-use e-
commerce platform which will connect
consumers with craft makers and their
stories. The challenge posed to Make-
Sense gangsters was to think bold and
to answer “How can Emaji become a
Facebook of Fairtrade?”.
Still, if you feel that your greatest
skill is not in strategy or marketing, but
rather, for example, your coding abili-
ties, there are gangsters who do just
that. Earlier last week, Mike Mompi
from MakeSense London gang helped
organize a two day ‘hack-a-thon’
with Random Hacks of Kindness and
MyBnk Social Enterprise, which chal-
lenged the problem of financial illiter-
acy and financial inclusion. The event
brought together developers, designers
and financial experts who attempted
to come up with new solutions on the
subject of matter and tested them right
away.
Quite a bunch, isn’t it? The current
status of social enterprise as a branch of
entrepreneurship, or indeed as the sole
way to do business, looks likely to grow
exponentially as more and more people
become empowered with technology,
especially that of social networking. In-
creasingly, corporate social responsibil-
ity is becoming essential for support of
large businesses and, logically, the next
level up would be to build businesses
which have a social aspect deeply inte-
grated into their business concepts.
Last but not least, given the recent
events of political and economic insta-
bility the politicians often agree that
the old systems need to be reformed to
become more socially responsible. In
fact, UK is already a leader in social in-
novation with 1.7m people working in
the social sector jobs and one in three
startups having a social aspect in their
business models.
So, if you still dream of changing
the world and want to hang out and
learn from social entrepreneurs feel
free to email us at entrepreneurs@
imperial.ac.uk. We’ll make sure to
let you know about the next hold-up,
and more importantly, hail you as a
gangster.
Wise guys (from left) Ray Liotta, Robert De Niro, Paul Sorvino and Joe
Pesci play old-school gangsters in Scorsese’s GoodFellas (1990)
Paul Newman (right) and Robert Redford as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid in the 1969 film of the same
name. Their real-life counterparts gained notoriety holding-up banks and trains, though never young entrepreneurs

