BUSINESS
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 december 2011
18
Why is the UK economy sinking, too?
If the Good Ship Eurozone goes down, we are going down with her, explains Albert Nickelby
T
he Eurozone crisis has all
the traits of a perfect sto-
ry: a choral drama with a
fuzzy and mistrusted anti-
hero, pompous and obscure
villains, few and powerless heroes, and
many victims; the plot is so twisted that
its outcome remains as mysterious as
exciting, and its consequences so open
to chance and mishaps that any guess in
this respect is but a fools errand. Hence,
it comes to no surprise that the UK press
devotes so much ink to the Eurozone
crisis: it is where the news seem to be.
This, of course, has the intriguing
consequence of neglecting domestic
affairs: “the European Union could be
doomed, so why would we care about
the UK economy at all?” Consider this
example: in 2009, as the Euro crisis
unfolded, Larry Elliott, professional
doomsayer and, sometimes, The Guard-
ian’s business editor too, adopted this
peculiar point of view and decided
– and he has been rather consistent in
this for the last two years – that the Eu-
rozone crisis arose due to the existence
of the euro alone – which the UK did
not adopt, and the lack of monetary sov-
ereignty amongst its members this im-
plied: they cannot devalue their curren-
cies, nor use their central banks to buy
their own debt. No matter that even a 1st
year economics undergrad would know
that devaluating currency, buying bonds
and printing money are but short-term
measures that do not generate wealth
(they only water it down and generate
inflation), Mr Elliott concluded that
it was that inflexibility that had made
make the euro fail and the Eurozone
break up; after all, “it is a newspaper’s
duty to print the news and raise hell”.
Thank goodness – Mr Elliott would say
– the UK, with its own central bank, is
so far away from the euro trap that none
of its limitations and their consequences
could affect it. Hence, it is most curi-
ous to realise that, despite all that, the
UK economy is sinking as badly or even
worse than that of the Euroclub. How is
this possible, being outside of the euro?
Two weeks ago, the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and De-
velopment made public its half-yearly
economic outlook report and, albeit
historically the credibility of its pre-
dictions has been similar to those of
a drunken fortune-teller, it still of-
fers a useful analysis of the economic
health of each country. The UK’s was
as bleak as Mr Elliott’s account on the
issue was lukewarm: unemployment
had increased, inflation was on the rise,
economic growth had been almost non-
existent, public indebtedness had not
been halted. As an outcome, it predicted
the UK economy would enter recession
in this last quarter and next year’s first
one. The economic growth forecast for
2012 was reduced to a mere 0.9% GDP
– as opposed to the previous prediction
of 2.5%. These gloomy forecasts were
followed by those of Mervin King, the
governor of the Bank of England (BoE),
who pointed in the same direction:
George Osborne, Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer was urged to stick to his auster-
ity measures, and the BoE to continue
its quantitative easing program. Finally,
last Wednesday, in his address to the
House of Commons, Osborne reluctant-
ly admitted defeat. He acknowledged
that, as the economic perspectives for
the UK were turning drearier than he
had expected, the austerity measures
would have to continue beyond this Par-
liament (2010-2015).
At the same time, Osborne pointed out
that even though the UK government
would be forced to borrow more, the
UK public debt was cheaper than ever,
so the borrowing costs would be lower
than expected. Indeed, for three days
during last week (Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday), UK public debt was
cheaper than German one; on Thursday,
the fickle debt markets broke the trend
Osborne was apparently hoping for the
next few years. Of course, the House of
Commons was not satisfied with faintly
optimism alone, so Osborne was force
to name a culprit, which he found in the
Eurozone crisis negatively affecting UK
exports.
It is most ironic that such a euroscep-
tic as George Osborne would implicitly
acknowledge that the UK economy is
so dependent on that of the Eurozone
that the latter can actually lead the for-
mer to recession. Indeed, the UK is the
Eurozone’s second commercial partner
(just behind China), and as for financial
transactions, it is also its second partner
(right after the USA). One wonders, this
being the case, how long it would take
for the UK to go bankrupt if it were to
abandon the European Union altogeth-
er... But, despite this easy pun, Labour
came up with a perfectly valid excuse to
attack the government: it could be, after
all, that the severe austerity measures
Osborne has taken so far were done too
soon; that Osborne’s inexperience had
lead him to lift too soon the economic
stimuli Gordon Brown had imple-
mented and dramatically decrease gov-
ernment expenditure, thus depressing
the economy. This is the stance some
renowned international commentators
such as Paul Krugman or Joseph Stiglitz
have taken: it is not the time for tackling
deficits, but for making the economy
grow; rather than budget cuts, govern-
ments should develop fully expansive
monetary and fiscal policies aiming at
economic recovery.
It might be that both Labour and Os-
borne are right in their analysis, and that
a combination of the austerity measures
penalising consumption, and the Euro-
zone crisis penalising exports, is most
likely a reason. But it might also be that
this is not all the truth at all, nor a true
cause. Chris Giles, from the Financial
Times, pointed out several weeks ago
that UK exports remain at the same lev-
el as they were in 2008 – before the Eu-
rocrisis – and that, whereas in countries
such as Spain exports had contributed
by 6.3% towards economic growth,
those of the UK had done so by only
2.5%. He concluded that the UK’s eco-
nomic health was weak; the cause of it
was, according to him, structural: over
the last decades, as the UK industry sec-
tor underwent several crises, it appears
that most of its activity did not recover.
Think, for instance, of the Manches-
ter industrial belt and how, in general,
northern UK economy, traditionally
reliant on industry, has not fared quite
as well as that of the more service-fo-
cused southern England. According to
Mr Giles, the UK economy has been
remarkably bad in creating substitutes
for foreign imports, even after the Brit-
ish pound depreciated by 20% during
the crisis.
Furthermore, the crisis seems sys-
temic. As it happened in so many other
countries, at some point during the
gilded 90s and 2000s, economic fig-
ures stopped reflecting reality. After a
trip to London during the early 2000s,
a Canadian analyst from the Toronto
Star pointed out he could not under-
stand how UK citizens could afford to
live in London: their salaries were, it is
true, higher than those of Canada, but
the cost of living was also in propor-
tion, extremely high. Indeed, at some
point after reaganomics kicked in, sala-
ries and pensions stopped reflecting re-
ality: they were just not enough to pay
An allegory of the current state of the UK’s economy: as Great Britain sinks under the burden of its debts and weaknesses, the Palace of Westminster
is flooded with problems

