BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 19
for basic goods, not to mention luxury
ones. Fortunately, credit was cheap, so
consumption was kept up with debt.
As Alan Greenspan and company low-
ered interest rates further, they fuelled
the late economic bubble, which finally
burst. After it burst, all that remain were
heaps of debt to be repaid.
In this sense, the UK is amongst the
highest debtors in the world, owing
about 450% of its GDP, and with a gov-
ernment debt of around 85% GDP. But,
despite having a deficit higher than that
of Portugal, Italy, Greece or Spain, and
being far more indebted, “the markets”
are not attacking the UK. Why so? Os-
borne claims this is due to the credibili-
ty his austerity measures have given the
UK. Most analysts, however, believe it
is due to a complicated combination of
facts. On one hand, most of the potential
attackers dwell in the City of London,
and some believe that “one does not
pooh where he eats”. Besides, the ma-
turity of British debt is of 13 years on
average, meaning smaller refinancing
needs, and the quantitative easing pro-
gram seems to be buying so much UK
debt anyway that markets are not seeing
much of it. Furthermore, the economic
growth being so low and the austerity
measures so tough, it is believed that the
Bank of England will not dare to raise
the interest rates in the years to come.
Hence, any eventual UK bankruptcy is
deemed unlikely.
However, these measures have flood-
ed the markets of the pound, and along
with the slim growth, explain the pound
sterling’s recent devaluation. They also
account for one of the most dramatic
consequences of this gambit: the UK’s
huge inflation. With figures of around
5% in the last two years, Mervin King
forlornly pointed out that inflation,
combined with the crisis, the budget
cuts and the loss of social benefits were
dramatically harming UK citizen’s stan-
dards of living. Recent projections ex-
pect them to be at the same level of 2001
by 2017. This is as bad as Greece, and
unprecedented in the UK; something
similar in the 1970s cost Callaghan his
premiership. But with the markets es-
pecially sensitive to high indebtedness,
and with a stagnant economy, Osborne
can only keep his cuts, and the BoE can
only keep his QE and low interest rates
– at least, in appearance.
Those being the structural problems
of the UK – a weak industry and high
indebtedness – the Tory agenda seems
to have miserably failed; none of its
promises have been delivered, nor it
seems they will; neither has the private
sector overtaken the public one as the
main driver of the economy (has Os-
borne done anything after all to enforce
that?), nor do the British people live any
better than they used to; the Cameron
government has actually made them
worse off. It could be seen as a mat-
ter of political inexperience – after all,
neither Cameron nor Osborne had any
before coming to power – combined
with too much ideology and too little
pragmatism.
For, if the reader wonders whether
anything better could have been done,
he can kindly turn his gaze towards
Sweden, where the conservatives rule
a non-Eurozone country, and by wisely
combining mild budget cuts, fiscal stim-
uli and political discretion rather than
confusingly mixing savage cuts, fiscal
austerity and neo-liberalist fanaticism,
they have been able to maintain their
people’s standards of living.
I
n last Wednesday’s Autumn State-
ment, George Osborne confirmed
that the UK economy’s health was
far worse than his office had ex-
pected. He blamed the ongoing
Eurozone crisis of negatively affecting
the UK’s economic growth, by pointing
out the negative impact the former had
had in our country’s exports.
The effect of the Eurocrisis in the UK
highlights that, despite having its own
central bank with all the freedom to buy
public bonds, to devalue the currency,
etc, the UK economy is so interlinked to
that of the Eurozone that all their troubles
are the UK’s too. Nowadays, the UK is
the eurozone’s second commercial part-
ner both in commodities and in financial
transactions; in 2009, the UK exported
£103bn worth goods to the Eurozone,
representing around 77% of the UK’s
exports.
That is, there is no doubt that the Eu-
rozone is the UK’s main commercial
partner. And right now, like it or not, it
is its position as a member of the Euro-
pean Union that sustains UK economy.
Analysts from Foreign Policy wondered
what would happen to the UK if it were
to abandon the European Union and get
the same commercial status as other non-
EU European countries such as Switzer-
land have. Their conclusions were not
very encouraging: the degree in which
UK economy depends on that of the EU
is far greater than that of Switzerland,
and the commercial treaties Switzerland
has are so stiff and strict that the Swiss
government usually thinks of Brussels as
the ‘house of pain.’ It was deemed that
with the same levels of custom duties
and financial transaction checks as those
of Switzerland, the UK economy would
not survive.
All in all, the recent eurozone events
have lead to the proposal of a new fi-
nancial transaction tax by some of its
members and the European Commission.
Aimed at “speculative transactions”,
according to the EC’s proposal the tax
would consist of a 0.1% tax on bond and
equity transactions, and 0.01% on deriva-
tive transactions between financial firms.
The money thus collected would be used
to support European countries in crisis.
This tax, proposed within the frame-
work of the Eurozone, could harm the
interests of the City firms, who mostly
trade in this kind of financial products.
They are, as a French commentator put it,
“experts in exporting financial rubbish”.
Despite the protests of the Prime Minis-
ter, it seems he can do little to prevent this
tax from becoming reality. After all, the
Eurozone has all the right to tax whatever
it wants in the same way the UK has, and
if its protests are not heard it is just be-
cause it deliberately chose not to be part
of the Eurozone.
However, if one considers the level of
dependency the UK has with the Euro-
zone, and on top of that, the obvious ben-
efits it gets out of being a EU member,
it could be argued that its position as a
eurozone outsider is harming the UK’s
national interests. The UK should join
the euro, and it should join it soon.
This might sound surprising; after all,
the euro has been considered doomed
many times by UK media; so was the EU
in the 1992 crisis. But, as the unfolding
events are showing, it was not the euro
that was flawed, but the lack of a unified
fiscal policy within the Eurozone. Now
that the latter is heading towards a fiscal
union, the euro is expected to stabilize.
What comes next is a highly unified
eurozone working on its own interest,
excluding non-eurozone countries from
decisions such as the financial tax that
might affect the UK.
It could be argued that by joining the
euro, the UK would lose a great deal of
monetary and fiscal sovereignty. But in
reality, the UK is not exerting it in es-
sentially a different way to the European
Central Bank. It is true that the Bank of
England is being noticeably more flex-
ible in buying public bonds than the
European Central Bank, but the latter’s
reluctance is explained by the lack of an
unified fiscal discipline within the euro-
zone; and as Merkozy already hinted,
that could change once the fiscal union is
implemented. Besides, even with its “in-
dependence”, the BoE and the govern-
ment have been utterly unable to prevent
the UK from reaching the sorry state the
UK economy is in right now: the UK is
not gaining anything from having its own
currency.
Hence, with such an interlinked
economy, and with a fiscal and mon-
etary policy akin to its own, not being
part of the Euroclub seems pointless. By
being a member, the UK’s voice would
be rightfully heard in Brussels, and the
economic benefits it is already extracting
from being part of the EU would only be
enhanced.
The UK should adopt
the Euro
Dimitri Raphaelovich argues that the UK should become part
of the Eurozone
After a good lunch, George Osborne was happy to show his confidence
in his plan
The euro sign, illuminated in the European Central Bank logo, outside the ECB HQ in Frankfurt, Germany

