COMMENT
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 21
”
I
’m too young to properly remem-
ber what the run-up to the invasion
of Iraq was like, but I imagine it
was rather similar to the situation
today with Iran. UN inspectors
find no conclusive evidence of weapons,
the media spreads irrational panic, dip-
lomatic ties are removed, and then the
carpet bombing begins. Fortunately Iran
is yet to experience that final step, but a
war is looking increasingly likely. Which
brings me to my main point: if Britain
goes to war in Iran and if even one civilian
is killed as a result, I will quit my degree
in protest, I’ll go to Iran, and I’ll see what
I can do to help. That is, if I can muster
enough confidence.
Here’s the thing: I’ve read the IAEA
(International Atomic Energy Agency) re-
port in full, and there’s no real evidence
of any nuclear weapons. What the inspec-
tors discovered was “equipment, materials
and services which, although having other
civilian applications, would be useful in
the development of a nuclear explosive
device.” In short, Iran has some objects
that might be part of a nuclear weapon,
but could also be part of something else.
This is rather like finding an alarm clock
and some wires in someone’s house and
suspecting them of making a bomb.
As a science student, I am aware that if
you make a claim the onus is on you to
prove it. Evidently, the members of the
UN Security Council could do with a few
more years of university: they introduced
a resolution in 2008 that ordered Iran to
perform the impossible task of proving it
had no nuclear weapons, or face “sanc-
tions”. Obviously Iran could not do this,
Stephen Smith
Who did that? – A letter to the Editor
If Britain attacks Iran I’ll quit my
degree in protest
so now Iran’s enemies can claim Iran has
broken international law and can thereby
legitimise invasion.
Another quote from the IAEA report
is a good example of this stupidity: “The
Agency is unable to provide credible as-
surance about the absence of undeclared
nuclear material and activities in Iran, and
therefore to conclude that all nuclear ma-
terial in Iran is in peaceful activities.” In
other words, they have no proof of nuclear
weapons, but they also have no proof of no
nuclear weapons, so they cannot conclude
that Iran’s nuclear program is peaceful.
All of this comes under the title “Pos-
sible Military Dimensions to Iran’s Nu-
clear Programme”. This would explain
the headline on Radio 4’s news bulletin
“A report released today talks of military
dimensions to Iran’s nuclear programme.”
Selective quotation from the report allows
newspapers to mention “serious concerns”
about “the development of a nuclear ex-
plosive device,” to back up an otherwise
nonsensical argument. For example, an ar-
ticle titled “UN Watchdog reveals ‘serious
concerns’ about Iranian nuclear weapons
research” was published in The Guardian
on the day of the report’s release.
Recent chaos in UK-Iranian relations,
including the cutting of financial ties and
the attack on the British Embassy in Teh-
ran, has led to the current situation where
the Iranian Embassy in Kensington (just
a few roads away from Imperial, as it
happens) has been closed and the British
ambassador to Iran is now back in Britain.
For lack of a better phrase, this is very,
very bad. Diplomacy prevents wars, and
when diplomacy is removed, war is often
Dear Sir,
Since the beginning of this term Mech
Eng students and staff, who are in ear-
ly enough have boarded the lifts in the
morning only to be assailed through
the nostril by what appears to be last
night’s curry chemically processed
through the duodenum to a noxious
mixture subsequently evacuated to at-
mosphere. Being gentile and reserved
most engineers hesitate to confront
their immediate colleague for want
of embarrassing them in public. The
simultaneous presence of fruit flies in
the lifts was something unusual but
was no more remarkable than a student
from CEP taking the lift up one floor.
However the recent colder weather
has led to the closing of windows in
the lift halls and the reserved gentle-
folk of the MED have noticed that the
smells are getting more distinct and
all pervasive, that there is a pattern to
these smells and it emanates only indi-
rectly from the inhabitants. For some
six weeks the College FM (Facilities
Management) team and concerned cit-
izens of the MED have been trying to
source the of the smells which arrive
with each lift carriage door opening to
together with relevant aphids. At this
point first year fluids will be useful
insofar as the mains sewers are above
Level 0 and all toilets empty into the
space below Level 0 where a large
tank is situated. The perspicacious
amongst you will notice that we will
need to pump the stewing sewage up
and out of the tank into the main sew-
ers using the famous sewage injector
pumps.
Self evidently the collection tank is a
prime source for these odours especial-
ly as it has been modified by the ongo-
ing project to refurbish the lower lev-
els of the Mech Eng Department. The
project and project management have
resourcefully denied all responsibility
for the smells for some six weeks but
using the College’s specially designed
imminent. The United States and its al-
lies are gearing up for war, which (if Iraq
and Afghanistan are anything to go by)
means hundreds of thousands of dead ci-
vilians, lucrative opportunities for western
oil companies, and very little else. Which
brings me back, again, to my main point:
if Britain goes to war in Iran and if even
one civilian is killed as a result, I will quit
my degree in protest, I’ll go to Iran, and
I’ll see what I can do to help.
Of course, I severely doubt I’ll have the
confidence to do this. If I do, nearly all fu-
ture career paths will close, and I’ll prob-
ably never be able to get into academia.
Quitting a degree definitely doesn’t show
sufficient dedication to one’s subject. But
faced with the huge numbers of people
who will die as a result of a war, my plight
is negligible. Who cares if I don’t get a
“proper job”? Does it matter at all, when
clothes peg Purple Team from FM
have found at least one source where
vapours from the tanks are escaping
and making their way into the lift shaft
to be pumped throughout the building.
The contractors and project manage-
ment in the form of ISg and Arup are
finally admitting that they may have
some culpability in the smells so don’t
think any less of the person next to
you in the lift – this is something you
or someone else may have done days
ago.
Regards,
A shit stirrer
Who cares if I don’t
get a “proper job”?
Does it matter at all,
when compared with
the future destruction
of Iranians’ lives?
“
Who ca
Who ca
get a “p
get a “p
compared with the future destruction of
Iranians’ lives? Or does it matter when
compared with the vast amounts of pre-
ventable suffering all over the world?
I know that as much as I want to help
in Iran, I’ll just keep working in science,
occasionally reminding myself (as a mo-
rale boost) that at least I didn’t go into fi-
nance. But when I’m old, I know I’ll look
back at this time and wish I’d been brave
enough to take that step into the unknown,
brave enough to challenge the ubiquitous
school-university-work-retirement life
that I am expected to lead. I’ll look back
at my life as comfortable but ultimately
highly selfish and I’ll wish that I could go
back to those university days and make
the right choices. When I can see all the
possible paths in front of me, it’s a terrible
feeling to know for certain that I’m going
to take the wrong one.
This letter has not
been edited in any way.
The views expressed
are of the author,
who wishes to remain
anonymous.
If you want to write a
letter, to be published
here, email:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Well, at least the military look is in nowadays...
“Bah Humbug!”, I hear you cry. “Why are the first two
pages of Comment devoid of Christmas cheer?” Never
fear child, all your festive desires will be fulfilled on
pages 24 and 25.

