COMMENT
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 23
”
D
id you know that vot-
ing for First Year Enter-
tainments Committee
Members opened last
week? Nope, me nei-
ther – until it was pointed out to me. In
fact, for that matter, I never knew that
you could stand for it!
Imperial’s Union is a very demo-
cratic affair, and this is a good thing
(though it is possible to have too much
democracy, I may return to this in the
future); it allows us, the students, to
decide how our Union is run. Which
is important, considering we are the
ones who will use the services that the
Union provides, and therefore it is in
their interest to tailor it to our interests
so that we actually give them money.
The thing is, if this election (which is
an excellent idea, in my opinion) is to
be of any worth, you actually need to
promote the damn thing.
Let’s take a look at the Union’s
website. There is no mention of the
election. Doing a search for the ‘ents
committee’ does bring up some ar-
ticles, but they only say that elections
for the first year will only occur in
the autumn. There is also the Union’s
elections page, which hasn’t been up-
dated since the year rep and council
elections earlier this year. It will be a
miracle if people actually knew that
voting was open.
Maybe I am being too harsh. Taking
a quick look at my emails does show
an email from the President dated No-
vember 23, which does say when nom-
David Bowe
Philip Kent
Stuff your job, mate
Ent committee elections? What a joke!
inations and voting can be performed,
but this isn’t really good enough.
Many people probably do not read
these emails (I certainly glanced over
this one, though that was because my
inbox was a mess at the time), there-
fore leaving them completely ignorant
and locked out of the democratic pro-
cess.
Now, let’s say you did know about
the election, and you logged on to
vote. You may not have seen any cam-
paigning (I gather this is because the
candidates were not told when they
were allowed to), so you have to turn
to the manifestos (something that you
really should be doing anyway). If you
did, you would’ve seen a complete
lack of photos and manifestos. I’m not
entirely sure whether this is the candi-
date’s or the Union’s fault, but either
way, it is not helpful – and does not
allow me to make an informed choice.
Luckily I spoke to a few of the can-
didates, and actually found one who
had good plans for entertainment at
ICU; therefore, I was able to cast my
vote. However, not everyone would
have had this opportunity, leading to
people making either uninformed de-
cisions, or just choosing not to vote (or
voting RON) because they were not
provided with the right information.
All this does is ruins the democratic
process that usually serves the Union
so well.
You may argue that this is just the
Entertainments Committee, and there-
fore it doesn’t matter. To a certain de-
I
think I’m like most students head-
ing into their last year of college.
I like my student life and the
thought of giving it up in place of
a serious job is enough to make
me want to repeat. Truth be told I’m a
little terrified of stepping out into this big,
bad world and experiencing life without a
midweek party. Unfortunately for me, it
seems the lunge is coming fast and I still
lack that elusive spot of maturity which
might actually make me in some way
employable.
However, all is not lost because my
plan is simple. I’m still young with little
concern and plenty of unquestioning, ill
directed enthusiasm. Even though I’ve
had the responsibility of my own passport
for several years now, the inner pages still
sit idly blank and the most action it’s seen
is during a lads holiday to Majorca two
years ago. So at this point, I think there is
only one reasonable conclusion.
Now I’m no master of languages and
if I’m honest English still presents a
problem, but even so, a trip to the far end
of the world sounds like a well thought
out plan to me. I’m dying to take a few
months in Africa’s deep jungle or Austra-
lia’s precarious outback, but when I delve
into the nitty-gritty most of what Google
comes back with informs me that I’ve
just become an unsuspecting millionaire.
Luckily there are some flowers in the
muck, and I did find an organisation that
could help me with my traveling troubles.
When I browsed what they have to offer,
things started to look a whole lot brighter
and ideas I would never have considered
began to play in my mind.
While I began with wild dreams of re-
mote locations unknown to man, I have
been charmed into a more civilized ap-
proach to travel; somewhere a little more
accommodating, namely Canada. I know
what you’re thinking. It’s a far cry from
my first speculative ambitions, but the
fact is there are not many places better,
at least not for someone like me. Crucial-
ly, I’ll still be able to knock back beers
with people who speak in a way that’s
conceivable to me, but they also have a
compliant visa policy, good standards of
living and probably best of all, some of
the best ski resorts in the world.
Yes, skiing may be somewhat of a mys-
tery to me but it’s not going to dampen
my spirits. I can still get a decent wage as
a barman, and live in a flat that won’t eat
into my student loan as much as a park-
ing permit here in London. Ski resorts
are full of young people looking to take
advantage of the seasonal work, and if
you’ve ever heard from anybody who’s
spent time in these places you’ll find their
banter isn’t bad either.
The organisation that I’m going with
(BUNAC, if your interested), seem really
helpful and look like they’re able to sort
out most of what I need. In all honesty, I
haven’t had to do much apart from send
an email or two so far and things already
gree, you may be right. As a person
who really doesn’t like clubbing (or
alcohol), the work of this committee
is going to make very little difference
to my life here at Imperial. However, I
remain a principled man, and I refuse
to believe that this disaster doesn’t
have any chance of being replicated
in a more important election in the fu-
ture, such as for faculty union repre-
sentatives – or God forbid, future sab-
baticals. ICU, please sort it out.
On a related note, if any of the peo-
ple standing had planned to campaign
against entry charges for the Union on
Fridays, they would have instantly got
my vote. As you may or may not know,
it’s Felix Drinks on a Friday evening,
seem to be well on their way to being
organised. Although I am probably a bit
ahead of myself, which is a nice new
change, it’s hard not to get a little excited.
All I that is left right now is to find some-
body else eager to try something similar
to ensure I’ll not spend my nights eating
dinner alone.
The trouble is that it’s easier said than
done as most people I know have been
swept up in the whirlwind frenzy for
grad jobs. Honestly, I think this kind of
thing should be made more apparent for
those of us clinging to our last days at
the student union. It’s all too easy to get
caught up in Imperial’s endless battle to
get ahead but employers recognise these
difficult times and showing some inde-
pendence like this will never be frowned
upon. Personally, I would advise anyone
in two minds, or struggling with assess-
ment centres, to just go out a do it before
work inevitably takes us over. You’ll
never have a better opportunity than now.
The thing is, if this
election... is to be
of any worth, you
actually need to
promote the damn
thing.
and if I am running late I don’t really
want to pay for the privilege of getting
into the place where I can have a drink
with my fellow Felixians. One of the
section editors also mentioned that he
had to pay to get in to the office on
Wednesday to put together his pages,
which is an even more serious problem
than my inability to get a drink.
It is a ridiculous charge. I can under-
stand charging for entry into Metric,
since you’re under no obligation to
buy anything when you go clubbing,
but if you are going to FiveSixEight,
you are pretty much guaranteed to buy
some food or drink!
Please get rid of it, and both Com-
mon Sense and I will be pleased.
A portrayal of how exciting being elected on the ents committee is
The thin
The thi
election
election
”
It’s all too easy to
get caught up in
Imperial’s endless
battle to get ahead...
“
It’s all to
It’s all to
get caug
get caug
One of my little helpers told me that the views ex-
pressed here are the opinions of the authors, not
Felix.

