ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal
Will Prince
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
t was with great surprise, even per-
haps shock, that I opened an email
from the Editor a couple of weeks
ago inviting me to review this play. It
was not only the fact that I was being
asked to write again for this paper (my pre-
vious comment articles were met by some
misguided opposition) but that the show
itself was so aptly named. Now to all you
doubters out there: no, there has not been a
typo in the subheading. The Seven Lessons
of George Howard was indeed a genuine
piece of fringe theatre. Unfortunately, this
was not a play in homage to my life thus far,
though it most certainly came close to being
equally thought provoking and stimulating.
Seven Lessons follows the relationship
between George, a once-famous theatre
director turned teacher, and a new student,
Agnieska, who has never acted before.
Agnieska brings with her a play she has
written and persuades George to use it as
the focus of their classes. Her motives are
unclear from the start, but as the play pro-
gresses the audience sees both teacher and
student adapt to their characters within the
play, and develop their own personal mo-
tivations.
I attended the world premiere of this show,
by the relatively unknown playwright Chris
Johnston, and was billed as still ‘a work in
progress’. Put on a with a small budget at a
cosy theatre in Islington, it would be easy
for your average theatre buff to turn their
nose up and resort to a more established lo-
cation and work. Yet it was these very char-
acteristics – the intimate, ‘in the round’ set
and the emphasis on dialogue and character
rather than on flashy technical gimmicks –
that worked in the show’s favor. Through
this unique setting, the audience was drawn
into the thoughts and motives of George and
Agnieska; how they evolved throughout the
play. As the story unfolded, questions as to
the motives behind making theatre itself
were highlighted and misunderstandings of
various viewpoints were explored.
the popularity it once had. The main prob-
lem is, I feel, not to do with the quality of
shows (although this is definitely important!).
In fact I believe that nowadays mainstream
Hollywood movies and the like (with scripts
that even the dullards of Made in Chelsea can
understand) have rendered the art of theatre
comparatively too inaccessible to the com-
mon person; the appeal of a night out at the
theatre is simply too intellectually strenuous
to be seriously contemplated. Why would
anybody delve into the complexities of Beck-
ett’s Waiting for Godot when they could so
easily have their desire for entertainment sa-
tiated by the latest installment of Desperate
Housewives.
The solution to this lies, in my opinion,
not with the dumbing down of theatre (how
would all those pretentious, alternative, artsy
people with their silly jeans and headwear get
their air of superiority otherwise) but instead
with the opening up of plays to more audience
interaction. For example, at the end of Seven
Lessons, the audience was invited to have
drinks with the cast to give instant feedback
on the show. How better to get enthused about
a play than by interacting with the company
afterwards? It’s like backstage passes for ev-
erybody!
Not only was Seven Lessons an entertain-
ing production, but also a perfect example of
how theatre is adapting to the modern enter-
tainment scene. Fringe theatre will always re-
tain that sense of alternativeness that appeals
to some, but is definitely adapting to a wider
audience. I would urge you to therefore, per-
haps once a month, abandon your widescreen
TV and M&S Dine in for Two deal and ex-
perience what London’s theatre scene has to
offer. Give it a chance; you might just learn
something!
The Seven Lessons of George Howard at
the Pleasance Theatre has since finished
FELIX
26 Friday 09 december 2011
The Poet’s Column
Christmas Time
by Pavitar Devgon
A single soft snowflake falling
On this cold December morning
Beckoning the ice and sleet
Envelops the land in a bright white sheet
Staring through the window pane
Wishing I were nine again
To feel the excited glee
Of Christmas time with family
Green tree lit with lights and tinsel
Mistletoe hung from every lintel
Warm mince pies and chestnuts’ scent
Laughing at our woollen sock present
Snowball fights, snow hill sleighing
Snowman building, snow time playing
Cold at the fingertips, buzzing warmth within
Spending time with friends and kin
Contented sighs and hearth fire dries
Stockings hung with bright red ties
Holiday time and no work to do
The voyage home and the warming stew
Heated rooms and songs asinging
Christmas crackers and bells aringing
Excited chatter and mindless natter
Growing ever so slightly fatter
Smiling because we love it so
The wonderful white winter snow
Dreaming of this, memories flow
And all because of the calling
Of a single soft snowflake falling.
We proudly present the first winner of
Doodle of the Week With a Prize!
Katie Harris is now the proud owner
of The Coffee Table Book of Doom
for her excellent rendition of the
state of our brains at this stage in
the term.
George Howard turns a critical eye towards himself as
he reviews The Seven Lessons of George Howard
Howard you do?
Doodle of the Week
“this was not a
play in homage to
my life thus far –
but it came close
to being equally
stimulating”
Whilst Seven Lessons was a very enjoyable
evening’s entertainment, it was a far cry from
the flawless shows you would expect to see
at more established venues such as the Na-
tional Theatre. Whilst I don’t feel this should
be held against it, it was clear that the script
was still early in its conception and certain
dialogues were in need of something of a lift.
On top of that, there were some interesting
scenes (including a rather surreal on-stage
sex scene) that could probably have done with
some polishing. Notwithstanding this though,
the final product was definitely captivating
and although not a comedy, had enough one-
liners and innuendo to keep the audience in
good spirits.
Seeing this show performed on such a small
budget and scale did indeed evoke certain
questions as to why theatre has lost a lot of
“the intimate, ‘in the
round’ set worked in the
show’s favour”
George Howard (left) reviews George Howard (right), but not George Howard, the late jazz saxophonist (centre). Confused yet?

