ARTS
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 27
The auditorium dims, the stage lights
go up, and I’m faced with a sixty-six-
year-old woman lying on a bed, mas-
turbating to phone sex.
It is safe to say I didn’t know what I
was getting myself into when I agreed
to review A Round-Heeled Woman and
I admit, I’m still a bit shell-shocked.
The play is based on the true story of
Jane, a woman so bored after her thirty
years of celibacy, that she publishes an
ad in the classified section of The New
York Review of Books: “Before I turn
67 – next March – I would like to have
a lot of sex with a man I like. If you
want to talk first, Trollope works for
me”. The show follows the antics that
develop from the sixty odd replies she
receives from men aged 32-82.
The first half is all about the sex;
I found myself watching most of it
through my fingers, cringing at every
line as a group of mature women chat
about blowjobs, sucking on clits and
the feeling of being filled by a penis.
Don’t get me wrong, I love Sex and
the City as much as the next girl but
my toes are still uncurling from the
memory of the onstage conversation
about the challenges that being sexu-
ally active aged over 60 presents (cue
erectile dysfunction and the need for a
lot of lube). It is, however, undeniably
laugh-out-loud funny; I suffered from
childish giggles or spurts of hysterical
surprise as line after line of explicit
dialogue is exchanged.
On the other hand, the second half
is a complete contrast as the story
digs deeper into the life that Jane has
lived up to the point of posting the ad.
It addresses the issues she’s struggled
with: her unplanned pregnancy, failed
marriage, disapproving mother and es-
tranged son whom she hasn’t seen for
eighteen years. It gets more emotional
as relationships founded through the
ad cause heartbreak and rejection, and
the audience start to sympathise with
Jane’s uncouth character.
Trauma GV Art’s new science-inspired
exhibition revolves around the different
manifestations of trauma. The exhibi-
tion explores physical and biological
trauma, revealing the effect they have
on those who suffer from them and in-
vestigating our own personal perception
of them.
Science-inspired art goes beyond
merely ripping off striking images of a
scientific nature. It takes the knowledge
beyond the lab and the blackboard, be-
yond the books, opening it up to be in-
terpreted, to be put to measure with the
human lives it affects.
Despite the diversity of materials and
styles, the inner story of Trauma subtly
weaves all the pieces together. Trauma
itself is apparent in the violence and ex-
pressivity of the pieces, such as Andrew
Krasnow’s Hollow Muscle that presents
a sculpture made out of thick leathery
strips contorted to form a heart out of
human skin. However, upon reading the
history behind the piece, the anguish ac-
quires a new dimension as it is lit by the
personal struggles of the artist.
In spite of the exhibition’s gloomy
title, it is unlikely the viewer will leave
with a bleeding heart, but rather with
an enchanting feeling of fascination
evoked by the hypnotising artwork, es-
pecially Luke Jerram’s glass sculptures
or Susane Aldworth’s lenticular prints.
Luke Jerram’s glass sculptures mag-
nify what is hidden to the human eye,
revealing the beauty encapsulated in the
perfect lethal geometry of a virus. The
choice of clear glass as a medium strips
his work of the distractions of colour
and creates a mesmerising eye-catching
gleam. Upon further reflection the view-
er is drawn to consider how viruses such
as HIV or malaria have scarred the lives
of thousands of individuals; viruses are
a constant menace on human life, with
new breeds presenting daunting chal-
lenges for health specialists.
Susan Aldworth uses lenticular print-
ing, a technique that allows images to
fortune and suddenly found herself
receiving an influx of marriage pro-
posals. Unfortunately I am completely
ignorant of Trollope’s 19th century
novels and therefore a lot of the ref-
erences made in the play were lost on
me. That being said, the constant ap-
pearance of Miss MacKenzie’s ghost
was an interesting addition to an al-
ready complex plot.
The storytelling is engaging through-
out, and the sexy Sharon Gless, who
Sexagenarian eager beavers
Rocío Molina Atienza
Laura Johnston
Throughout the play, parallels are
drawn between Jane’s relationship
faux pas and that of Trollope’s famous
character Miss MacKenzie, an unat-
tractive spinster who inherited a small
change when viewed from different
angles, to give an interpretation of the
electrical outburst in the brain that oc-
curs during an epileptic seizure, all
based on her own personal experiences.
This series of three prints presents fiery
lines, smoothed by a white cloud as the
viewer moves across them, invoking the
mental image of a bright explosion.
For anyone interested in the encounter
between the Arts and Sciences this is a
must-see exhibition. However, I would
definitely recommend it to anyone who,
as a scientist, is interested in a novel
take on his or her subject. With its un-
usual collection of pieces, it certainly
does provide food for thought. As a fi-
nal note, it is worthwhile to reflect on
whether, in our highly technified twen-
ty-first century society, science-inspired
art will become what pop-art was to the
consumerism-based sixties.
Trauma at GV Art, 49 Chiltern Street
London W1U 6LY – December 1
2011 to February 18 2012
plays Jane, is absolutely exceptional;
she’s witty and charming, and her
portrayal of a female orgasm was par-
ticularly convincing. She even strips
down to her underwear in one scene.
The onstage set is well thought out and
compliments every scene.
So would I recomend it? I person-
ally don’t know anyone who would
enjoy it, so I probably wouldn’t send
someone in my group of friends. Of
course, that’s not to say no one will
A Round-Heeled Woman: as cringeworthy as a Christmas dinner gone wrong
“‘Before I turn 67 I
would like to have
lots of sex with a
man I Iike’”
like it. It’s certainly not one to watch
with your mum... or worse, your dad.
It wouldn’t be great on a first date for
that matter and I felt like I brought the
average age of the audience down by
about 40 years. Nevertheless, it was
an oustandingly great escape from
College life, even for the wrong rea-
sons.
A Round Heeled Woman at the Al-
dwych Theatre – limited run only
Sexy at sixty-seven
Trauma on Chiltern Street
Luke Jerram, T4 Bascteriophage, Glass

