A new £8m Royal British Legion Cen-
tre for Blast Injury Studies at Imperial
College has officially opened this week.
The Centre aims to provide a better un-
derstanding of the injuries caused by
roadside bombs, or Improvised Explo-
sive Devices (IEDs). These are the lead-
ing cause of death and injury for Service
personnel on operations in Afghanistan
and Iraq.
At the research centre, based in the
Department of Bioengineering, civil-
ian engineers and scientists will work
together with military doctors in order
to improve both treatment and means of
protection against roadside bombs. One
potential benefit is the design of “intel-
ligent” combat boots that are better able
to deflect the impact of a roadside bomb
since foot and heel injuries account for
a large number of injuries. Another aim
of the research is to diagnose and under-
stand the damage caused more quickly
in order to reduce future medical prob-
lems.
Professor Anthony Bull, from the De-
partment of Bioengineering at Imperial
and Director of the new Centre said,
“Previously, servicemen and women
who were wounded from blasts would
have died from their injuries, and now
military protection, medical science and
3
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011
NEWS
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Blast Injury Centre set up at Imperial
practice has improved greatly so that
there is a greater prospect of survival.
We now need to assess the effects of
blasts on these survivors. We urgently
need to know more, so that we can pro-
tect and treat people more effectively.”
The Royal British Legion, the leading
Armed Forces charity, is providing £5m
to establish the Centre which will also
be partially funded by Imperial itself.
The research will build on the work al-
ready carried out by the Imperial Blast
research group at the College. The Min-
istry of Defence have been supporting
the work of the Imperial Blast group
since 2009 and will continue to contrib-
ute clinical experience and resources,
ensuring that the research focuses on ar-
eas of most value to military personnel.
However, it is hoped that knowledge
acquired could also be of benefit to in-
jured civilians, for example, following
terrorist attacks.
Roadside blasts not only cause dam-
Royal British Legion provides £5m towards understanding roadside bomb injuries
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sophia David age to extremities, but also affect the
body internally, damaging whole organs
such as the lung, symptoms of which
may not show for days. Therefore, it
is crucial to understand system-wide
internal trauma, information which
could lead to new therapies and better
outcomes for patients. Researchers at
the Centre are aiming to develop a test
to diagnose Blast Lung, the most com-
mon cause of death among people who
initially survive an explosion. An early
diagnosis could help prevent complica-
tions such as fluid build-up in the lung,
improving the chances of survival for
patients.
One model that Imperial Blast is al-
ready using for its research is an Anti-
vehicle, Underbelly, Blast-Injury Simu-
lator (AnUBIS), the only device of its
kind in the world, which can simulate a
roadside bomb blast in laboratory con-
ditions. This device is able to reproduce
the velocities seen in the floor of vehi-
cles targeted by bombs by accelerating
a 42kg plate. This enables scientists to
assess the effect of leg orientation and
positioning on injury severity and thus
develop preventative strategies to mini-
mise damage.
The research centre should have a
significant impact on those serving in
current and future conflicts, thereby lim-
iting the long-term effects of blast inju-
ries on individuals and their families.
“We urgently need to
know more, so that
we can... treat peo-
ple more effectively”
Dinner in the House of Lords, anyone?
This Wednesday the Royal College of
Science Union (RCSU) announced via
email to the Faculty of Natural Sciences
that it will be holding the Science Chal-
lenge 2012 Final in the House of Lords.
The Science Challenge is the RCSU’s
annual essay competition and this year,
entrants will be given four questions to
choose from, all set by distinguished
judges. A good essay will then land you
at a Dinner Reception in the House of
Lords, and in with a chance of winning
the ‘top prize’. The details of this prize,
however, will remain secret until the
Launch event.
This year the guest judges – who will
all be speaking at the Launch event –
include names from all aspects of the
media. Professor Lord Robert Winston,
Imperial Professor and TV personal-
ity will head up the judging panel,
complimented by the BBC’s Science
Editor and Imperial Alumnus Pallab
Ghosh. Mark Henderson – Science Edi-
tor of The Times and newly appointed
Director of Communications for the
Wellcome Trust – and Peter Lacy, the
Managing Director of Sustainability at
Accenture complete the judges.
The official ‘description’ of the Sci-
ence Challenge is: “An essay competi-
tion that aims to encourage scientific de-
bate, reasoning and the communication
of science in a public-friendly context.”
In practice, this requires entrants to
write a compelling scientific argument
that any member of the public, with
only a basic grounding in science could
read, understand and be swayed by.
Previous winners have branded the
RCSU Science Challenge ‘life-chang-
ing’. Isha Puri, who won the school’s
version of the Challenge (the compe-
tition is run in one-thousand schools
nationwide concurrently) was awarded
– as part of her prize – a financial bur-
sary to study at Imperial. Now in her
third year of Imperial, Isha is “preparing
herself” to enter the Imperial Students’
competition.
Last year’s competition – reported on
by Felix last week – was won byAndrew
Purcell for his response to the question
“Why should the average person care
whether we discover the Higgs Boson?”
The essay was a mix of well-researched
yet amusing tales of physics banter with
his Father and his “thick Lancashire ac-
cent”. It is available – along with all the
other winning articles – on the Science
Challenge website.
At the Launch event, the only two cur-
rently unallocated tickets to the House
of Lords will be given away for free.
The Launch will be held in SAF on
Tuesday 17 January 2012 at 6pm. Un-
like previous competitions, tickets for
the Final won’t be on sale: the only way
to get to the House of Lords is by enter-
ing or via these two free tickets.
Registration for the Launch is re-
quired, free, and now open for students
of all Faculties at the Science Challenge
website, rcsu.org.uk/sciencechallenge.
For more information, contact science.
challenge@imperial.ac.uk.
Paul Beaumont
Alex Nowbar
Imperial College London
Professor Anthony Bull, Director of the newly opened Centre

