MUSIC
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Vondelpark
NYC Stuff and NYC
Bags EP
R&S Records
2011
And so this is Christmas. The season of merri-
ment, mulled wine, and all-too-predictable disap-
pointment. You were probably expecting the al-
bum of the week, given that it is the season of
cheer, to be Michael Bublé’s Christmas; if so, I’m
sorry to disappoint. You may have expected it to
be The Black Keys’ latest release El Camino; if
so not only am I sorry to disappoint, but I’m also
extremely disappointed myself – the album is a
bit of a dud. Given the overwhelming ubiquity of
disappointment, I thought it better to simply em-
brace it. To welcome the ennui, loneliness, and
introspection that accompanies the monotonous
sounds of Christmas – Jesus Christ, Leona Lewis,
you’ve been bleeding for almost four years now,
die already!
Hence, Vondelpark. This Surrey/London trio
have crafted a solemn and secretive sound that
gives little away. I’m pretty sure they’re feeling low
and nostalgic, but I’ve no idea what about – al-
though I’d guess from their sublime opener ‘TV’
they’re sad that Community has left our screens.
If you’re going through a breakup, or agonizing
over an un-requited love, I advise you to steer well
clear; their cracked, sensitive beats are ripe for
recording and amplifying your emotions.
I’d file them next to Baths, or Balam Acab. I’d
probably also file them in the BBC’s Sound of
2012, but obviously the BBC disagree. December
is the time for putting albums in lists and ‘predict-
ing’ next year’s trends. None is more controversial
than the BBC’s Sound of Whatever-Year-Is-Next.
This time around, alongside the brilliant Azealia
Banks, the violent-but-talented A$AP Rocky, and
Frank Ocean, they’ve chosen destroyer-of-all-that-
is-good Skrillex: a man who looks and sounds like
he’s from a dystopian future where Putin and Lady
Gaga terrorise the Earth in a brutal transvestite,
brostep tyranny.
But I shouldn’t complain. It’s Christmas after all.
It’s not a time to hate… it’s a time to feel bitter
and depressed. Enjoy Vondelpark.
Don’t forget to write to Santa by going to emailsan-
ta.com. If he doesn’t reply and you’re feeling down
on Christmas Day, tweet me @kadhimshubber with
the hashtag #SantaDoesntExist.
Douglas Heaven ends his trip around a Punk Planet
Funk’s not dead
M
ost people probably
wouldn’t point to San Pedro,
California, as a birthplace
of punk, but they might as
well. Punk isn’t Green Day
and Blink-182, punk isn’t green hair and safety
pins. Punk is an attitude and it can take any
form you like. For Minutemen, that form was
2-minute bursts of jazzy, bombastic R&B, but
in their attitude to playing – to recording, to
touring, to what it meant to be in a band – Min-
utemen were the epitome of punk.
Minutemen (1980-1985) was a three-piece
in which bass player Mike Watt’s sound – his
“low flow” – was as prominent as the bright
guitar playing of his childhood friend D Boon.
Their early output eschewed choruses and gui-
tar solos – what they deemed commercialisms
of rock music – and stuck to the short, sharp
shocks typical of hardcore punk. Armed with
such material, they played their first show
opening for Black Flag. However, though the
song-writing changed, embracing not only
choruses and guitar solos but jazz licks and a
little of Captain Beefheart’s avant-blues, the
commitment to anti-commercialism would de-
fine the band.
For Minutemen, a band wasn’t a get-rich
scheme or a path to glory, it was a way of life.
They kept their day jobs and they jammed “eco-
no”: they rented studio time during off-peak
hours, they used second-hand tape, rehearsing
1994). With Crawford on guitar, fIREHOSE
flew the DIY flag for almost another decade,
but Watt also contributed to the Sonic Youth
albums EVOL (1986) and Daydream Nation
(1988) and played with The Stooges. These
days Watt is a punk statesman, driving himself
around in a van, playing his “boom-stick” in a
grab-bag of side projects, telling everyone he
meets to start a band. And you should.
This is the final instalment of Punk Plan-
et, Douglas Heaven’s globetrotting quest
for punk, passing through Italy, Sweden,
France, China, New Zealand, Argentina
and finally California. Remember the trip
online at felixonline.co.uk
the songs and recording them in as few takes as
possible, playing them in the order they want-
ed them to appear on the record to avoid the
costs of editing. They drove themselves around
to shows they’d set up themselves and they
preached what they practised. There’s a book
about the 80s US punk scene called Our Band
Could Be Your Life and the title’s taken from
the first line of a Minutemen song. It’s a state-
ment that simply and inclusively says, ‘you can
do this too’. That’s the punk ethos.
Minutemen ended when Boon was killed in a
road accident. It took Sonic Youth to pull Watt
out of his depression and Minutemen fan Ed
Crawford to pester Watt and Minutemen drum-
mer George Hurley to form fIREHOSE (1986-
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Be sure not to miss...
Drop in (and out) for surrealist throat contortions
soundtracking the silent 1922 witchcaft film,
Häxan. Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ghédalia Tazartès: Häxan
Cafe Oto
Sunday 11 December
The band thought it was time to take an indefinitely extended nap
FELIX
30 Friday 09 December 2011
Formed in 2003, Pure Reason Revolution have
since released three albums, supported bands
such as Mew, Placebo, and Porcupine Tree and
have received critical acclaim. However they
have only ever attracted a small cult following,
so this gig marks the end of 8 years of what gui-
tarist, Jamie Willcox, described after as “a labour
of love”. Maybe the mix of new progressive rock
and electro is too much for the general public.
As this was their final gig, they decided to
leave us with a two hour concert consisting of
their first, and arguably their best, album The
Dark Third, played back to back in its original
form. This suffered from a lack of a fifth mem-
ber who left the band whilst touring in 2006: as
a quartet they unfortunately had no choice but to
use extensive backing tracks for this final ren-
dition. But it is more than made up for by the
three-part vocal harmonies which are what set
this band apart from most other bands trying to
resurrect prog rock.
The second half was a meant to evoke a party
mood with a focus on their more upbeat electro
songs from their latter two albums ending on a
crowd favourite ‘AVO’, a stripped down song
which captures the essence of the band. Usually
a cheery group, they were understandably in a
sombre mood and found it hard to break a smile
throughout the show. They were close to tears
after the last song.
Support was provided by Losers, fronted by
Tom Bellamy of The Temple Cooper Clause,
who also co-produced PRR’s latest album. Los-
ers’most recent single, ‘Summertime Rolls,’fea-
tures vocals from Brian Molko from Placebo and
incorporates both rock and electronica.
I first saw Pure Reason Revolution in early
2007 and they have progressed a lot both in their
recorded and live work. I have since seen them
five times and every time they are more than hap-
py to have a conversation with me afterwards, so
I am sad to see them split. I have however been
told to keep an eye out for their individual proj-
ects in the future.
A tearful Obituary
Minute as in small, not as in time
Gareth Campbell

