TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 33
This is an official announcement
I
am a great admirer of Charlie Brooker.
He is a master of satire and biting so-
cial commentary and so I had very high
expectations of his latest work – the
three part anthology miniseries Black
Mirror, the first episode of which was broad-
cast this Sunday. I am happy to say that these
expectations were more than fulfilled.
The title Black Mirror is a reference to mon-
itor screens and each of the episodes focuses
on the darker side of technology, especially
social networking and new media. Brooker
says that the inaugural episode, entitled The
National Anthem, was inspired by “the kerfuf-
fle over superinjunctions” and how “Gordon
Brown was virtually commanded to apologise
to Gillian Duffy”. The episode opens with
Prime Minister Michael Callow being woken
up to be told that the popular Princess Susan-
nah has been kidnapped and will be killed
unless he performs... well, let us say ‘certain
acts’, with a pig on live television. The pub-
lic are initially sympathetic to his plight but
several incidents involving social media cause
the situation to deteriorate before he almost
literally has no choice but to acquiesce to the
demands.
The program is certainly very funny, the
best part coming near the end when we see a
crowd in pub watching a message broadcast
by the government on all television channels
proclaim: “this is an official announcement –
in a few minutes the prime minister will per-
form an indecent act on your screen”. This is
of course followed by the entire group, in-
cluding old ladies, laughing uproariously. The
scene becomes far more amusing, or, if you
prefer, far more disturbing, if you are aware
of Brooker’s well publicised dislike of David
Cameron.
The main focus of the episode, however, is
how new technology means that the govern-
ment has lost even a semblance of control over
the media and how much it is now under the
sway of the fast changing whims of the masses.
This is helped by there actually being a strong
sense of realism in how the situation escalates.
As with all good satire there is a feeling that,
if the all the superficial, more ridiculous ele-
ments were removed, this would be a situation
that could happen in the real world.
The National Anthem deserved its 1.86 mil-
lion viewers – the biggest audience for any
first episode of a Channel 4 drama series this
year. Brooker has created something truly spe-
cial – a show that is both relevant and funny.
I am also pleased that he has decided to use
the now rarely seen anthology format – which
can offer a very different experience than a se-
rial or one off feature length presentation. In
Brooker’s own words, it provides a great av-
enue “for exploring ideas”. I’m certainly look-
ing forward to the remaining two episodes and
I advise you to tune in too.
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Christmas Choice
Have your highlighter and
copy of Radio Times at the
ready
Maciej Matuszewski likes the latest from Charlie Brooker
Fancy winning a copy of Michael Portillo’s Great British Railway Journeys (Series 2)?
Heard of Wikipedia? In which year did the famous “Portillo Moment” occur? Just email
us at tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk with your answer and you could be in for a steamy ride with
Michael...
December 21 | 2100 | BBC1
Great Expectations
We’ve got great expectations for the BBC’s
flagship period drama of the year.
Christmas Day | 1900 | BBC1
Doctor Who
Everyone’s favourite thing to ruin the conver-
sation with on Christmas Day. Oh well. Some
people like it.
Christmas Day | 2100 | ITV1
Downton Abbey Christmas Special
There’s a party at Downton this Christmas.
Will Matthew and Mary get it on?
Boxing Day | 1930 | BBC1
The Borrowers
Victoria Wood, Stephen Fry and Christopher
Eccleston star in the BBC’s version of this
classic novel.
Boxing Day | 2130 | ITV1
Agatha Christie’s Poirot
Everyone’s favourite sycophantic Belgian
sleuth.
December 30 | 2230 | BBC4
Charlie Brooker’s 2011 Wipe
Why not see out the year with Mr Brooker’s
unique take on the events that made up
2011? The London Riots, scripted reality
shows, the demise of the News of the World
and Pippa Middleton’s bum will all be topics
for discussion.
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
Look at the massive bogie I just mined from my nose!
Derision from Charlie Brooker? Whatever next?
BBC Four
Channel 4

