FILM
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
iCU Cinema All-Nighter
Tuesday 13 December
It’s that time of year again, when it is so brutally
cold outside that finding a good night out where it’s
socially acceptable to stay wrapped up in blankets
is the stuff of dreams. Fortunately, it is also the
time when iCU Cinema brings us the Winter All-
Nighter – the first all-nighter of the academic year,
and a fantastic opportunity to catch all the films you
might have missed over the last few months for only
a tenner.
iCU Cinema will be featuring the following six films,
back-to-back, from 6pm on Tuesday 13 December,
to 7:30am the next day – the ultimate test for the
true cinema fan:
Johnny English Reborn (6pm)
The sequel heralds the return of Rowan Atkinson –
possibly one of the most popular comic actors – in
the titular role. Parodying the ever-ridiculous British
spy genre, this is a welcome reminder of Atkinson’s
irreplaceable talent for slapstick in this reprisal.
Drive (8:15pm)
In this crime drama, Ryan Gosling stars as a stunt
driver who moonlights as a getaway driver in the dark
LA underworld. The film, also starring Golsing’s im-
pressive costars Carey Mulligan, Albert Brooks and
Christina Hendricks, received rave reviews and the
Best Director award at Cannes 2011. A must-see.
Real Steel (10:30pm)
Hugh Jackman leads in this sci-fi story of robot-box-
ing, playing a former boxer who, along with his young
son, builds up a junkyard robot to battle the slick
cyborgs that dominate the world of robot boxing. A
classic underdog story, this film is a straight-up ac-
tion film for the purpose of pure entertainment.
Paul (1:15am)
The latest from the unshakable duo of Simon Pegg
and Nick Frost, Paul is the story of two comic book
nerd friends who encounter Paul – an off-beat alien
(voiced by Seth Rogen) on their roadtrip. What fol-
lows combines the best parts of today’s British and
American comedy genres, with Rogen being the per-
fect addition to Pegg and Frost’s team. Expect per-
fect comedy, together with endless sci-fi references.
Contagion (3:30am)
The serious feature of the evening, Contagion boasts
an impressive cast includig Matt Damon, Kate Win-
slet and Gwyneth Paltrow. Capably directed by Ste-
ven Soderbergh, this modern-day thriller follows the
progression of a deadly virus as it sweeps the world.
An tense, impeccably-acted and fast-paced thriller.
Troll Hunter (5:45am)
And now, what better film to end the All-Nighter and
send you off to lectures than this Norwegian mocku-
mentary that follows a group of students who find
themselves tracking a giant, violent troll through the
woods. Critically acclaimed for its originality and flair,
this film is fantastic example of how low-budget films
can produce some remarkable results.
There is really is no good reason to miss this line-
up. Tickets can be bought in advance for £10 from
www.icucinema.co.uk or for £12 on the door. For
those who cannot handle the full night of films, indi-
vidual tickets can be bought for £3 each. Food and
drinks are available all night, and full details can be
found online.
FELIX
34 Friday 09 DECember 2011
Felix Film Awards – celebr
Actor of the Year:
Michael Shannon
Take Shelter
What makes Take Shelter such a har-
rowing experience is not down to its
marvellously restrained special ef-
fects. Instead, Shannon’s intense
performance as the unstable, para-
noid family man is what grips us from
start to finish. These alarming apoca-
lyptic visions that haunt his everyday
life; is he a prophet? Or is he show-
ing signs of schizophrenia? Known
for reliably playing loony characters,
the consistently superb Shannon is
just as good, if not better, in a lead
role of his own, as he creates one
memorable American hero.
Actress of the Year:
Michelle Williams
My Week with Marilyn
Williams absolutely nails Marilyn
Monroe’s looks, voice, and speech.
But her performance stands out as
one of the best this year because of
her more silent, behind-the-scenes
portrayal of the tragic, insecure mov-
ie star. The pain and suffering she
constantly endures from both her
personal and professional lives are
well shown in the actress’ masterful
transformation, and for anyone who
intends to play Marilyn Monroe in
future productions that are bound to
materialise at some point, Williams
just set the bar a whole lot higher.
Supporting Actor
of the Year:
Nick Nolte
Warrior
I’m a sucker for emotional dramas
involving dysfunctional families with
a hint of redemption involved, so
Warrior was right up my alley, and
the insanely kinetic, inventive mixed
martial arts fight scenes were an ex-
tra bonus. But the family dynamic,
involving two wronged sons (Joel
Edgerton, Tom Hardy) and an ex-al-
coholic, apologetic wreck of a father
(Nolte), is the solid base this sports
drama builds itself on, with Nolte giv-
ing one heart-wrenching, vulnerable
performance as the born-again, sorry
father who seeks forgiveness.
Supporting Actress
of the Year:
Octavia Spencer
The Help
“Eat ma shit,” will be the three
words most people take away from
The Help, uttered so hilariously by
the irreplaceable Spencer. That’s
not all; her character Minny loves
her chickens too (bear with me
here). When her kind-hearted white
boss suggests burning some of her
fried chicken to give to her husband,
Spencer pauses in absolute shock
and disgust as she says, “Minny
don’t burn chicken.” Spencer is an
absolute class act, and is every
bit deserving of all the supporting
awards there are.
Director of the Year:
Lars von Trier
Melancholia
End of the world can be beautiful
in von Trier’s eyes, and he creates
something truly illuminating and
captivating as he focuses on sis-
ters having to face difficult issues
of their own, whilst a large planet
seems to be heading to Earth on a
collision course. Von Trier is hardly
known for his socially acceptable
behaviour, but when it comes to
directing something that carries a
dramatic punch, he’s the master of
utilising his talented cast, steady
camera-work, restrained script, and
in this case, some beautiful effects.
Ensemble of the
Year:
Bridesmaids
There isn’t a single character or co-
medic performance to fault here;
whether it’s the horny mum of three
semen-covered teenage boys Rita
(Wendi McLendon-Covey), the sweet,
“I’ve only slept with one man” Becca
(Ellie Kemper), the plus-sized, strong
and confident Megan (Melissa Mc-
Carthy), the rich, bitchy Helen (Rose
Byrne), the fun bride (Maya Rudolph),
and ultimately the insecure, rambly
maid of honour (Kristen Wiig). The
girls of Sex and the City should eat
their hearts out, because female-
driven wedding comedies should be
exactly like this; with humour, rich
characters, and a hint of vomit and
lava-like diarrhoea (you know what
scene I’m talking about).

