GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 december 2011 FELIX
36 FELIX
The Top Picks from 2011
2012 is almost upon us, and one must ask themselves:
what were the best games of 2011?
(Even more) Web Games
So I guess I was lying when I said there’d only be one
week’s worth of web games. For the final Games sec-
tion of ‘11 we’re going to offer you up two awesome
games that you can play right now in your web brows-
er. In order to enjoy these you’re going to need the
Adobe Flash Player plug-in, which can be installed
from http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/
My First Quantum Translocator
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/548371
There are a lot of teleporting/portalling games
about, but My First Quantum Translocator puts an-
other spin on this sub-genre.
You play as a little astronaut-like guy stuck in a
lab. This chap has the ability to ‘quantum trans-
locate’ – he can create a black ‘shadow’ that he
can teleport to at will, conserving all his current
momentum. Using this ability you can jump up high
ledges, avoid death traps and generally mess with
your head.
The game requires a mixture of timing, logical
thinking and quick reflexes, and is certainly a great
game to flex a little bit of your grey matter.
K.O.L.M.
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/556643
K.O.L.M. is another game that’s more of an artpiece
than a game. You play as a little broken robot who’s
been tasked with rebuilding himself for Mother,
starting off slow, dim-sighted and defenceless.
As you explore the labyrinth you’re stuck in, you
find your eyes, legs, and weapons, along with other
parts that allow you to reach previously inaccessi-
ble areas. Closed areas open up, allowing you to
discover more of the small world you play in.
If you’re into action, this isn’t the game for you.
If you enjoy calming music, mild puzzle solving and
something generally quite relaxing, K.O.L.M. is the
game for you.
PopCap Goodie Bag Competition!
Holy moly, a competition? It sure is! PopCap have sent
us a whole pile of goodies, and we have four gift packs
to give away, including games, writing pads and collect-
ible models. If you want a chance to win, simply answer
this fiendishly difficult question:
Which of these games was NOT designed by PopCap?
a) Ski Region Simulator
b) Plants vs. Zombies
c) Peggle Nights
d) Bejewelled Twist
To win, email games.felix@imperial.ac.uk with your an-
swer. Entries close at 14:00 on Dec 12. All winners will
be selected at random.
Team Fortress 2 is not a new release for
2011. But the renaissance it underwent over
the last 12 months means it might as well be
treated as such. A huge number of new ideas
have been ploughed into this game, and it re-
mains as fresh, vibrant and playful as it ever
has been. The humour, the experimental na-
ture and the inventiveness of Valve has been
evident in every update, every store release
and special event, and it continues to shine.
It's lost a lot of followers over the years,
and those it gained back through free-to-play
mechanics may have found themselves be-
wildered by the ever-shifting nature of its UI,
class system, and bugs. But the servers are
still flourishing, the unusual and rare items
still enticing. Having given rise to the Steam
Workshop, Trading and Cloud, I'm excited to
see what the next twelve months herald for
this game. No doubt I'll still be playing.
Dead Space 2 is a game I maybe slagged off
a little bit in the past, but let’s be honest here
– I foul-mouth most games. Dead Space 2, at
the end of the day, is a solid game with solid
(and fairly original) gameplay mechanics; I
have yet to play another game where dismem-
bering your enemies plays such a crucial role
in surviving. You can shoot the necromorphs
in the chest all you want, but it’ll leave you as
so many bloody pieces on the floor.
There’s been a fair amount of DLC offered
for the game, all of it free, which keeps every-
thing interesting (if not somewhat imbalanced
in single player). Hardcore mode still presents
a deadly challenge, and to this day I’ve still yet
to get through the game on the three saves
the mode allows you. The multiplayer aspect
of the game has died down a little bit since re-
lease, but on the basis of single player mode
alone it gets my vote.
Michael Cook goes for Team Fortress 2
T
2
t
t
h
m
h
t
e
a
M
Laurence Pope picks Dead Space 2
Why am I getting two bites of the apple? Why
am I selecting a game that technically came
out in 2010 on the XBLA? Because I’m the
Games editor that’s why, and if I can’t exert my
influence in real life I’ll darn well exert it here to
boost my meagre sense of self-esteem.
Limbo is dark, depressing and an absolute
gem. You play as a young boy, stuck in a world
filled with devices and creatures that just want
to kill you.
You face buzzsaws, rolling stones and giant
creepy insects, all black and featureless, only
adding to the sense of foreboding the game
seeks (and manages) to create.
Unlike Dead Space 2, Limbo is not for those
looking for a high-energy, high action thrill ride.
Ultimately, it boils down to a side-scrolling hor-
ror experience that aims to creep you out, and
does so masterfully. Give it a shot.
Oh, and it came out on Steam in ‘11, so hah!
Laurence Pope (also) suggests Limbo

