You could say he’s DEAD classy (I’m here all
night folks)
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 37
GAMES
Dancing the Grim Fandango
I
have come to realise that there is one
thing that gamers crave above all else in
their video games: uniqueness. It's some-
thing that we only seem to see fleeting
glances of in the modern day. Where did
all the innovation and inspiration go? Well, a lot
of it was spent in 1998 with the conception of
Grim Fandango.
This is a game that manages to combine many
apparently unrelated elements seamlessly, so
that they all come together in a way that makes
perfect sense. Specifically, the game creates a
melting pot of Aztec beliefs in the afterlife and a
Film Noir style, with heavy influence from films
like Casablanca. The characters take the intrigu-
ing form of skeletons in the mould of “Calacas,”
ideas of which originate from Aztec times.
You play as Manny Calavera, a travel agent in
the “Land of the Dead” who is working to pay
off a debt owed to the powers that be. His job is
to escort lost souls after they die, with the most
desirable outcome being a ticket on the Number
9 Express, taking said souls to their final resting
place, “The Ninth Underworld”. Unfortunately,
not all are deserving of this reward, and so they
come to Manny to see how he can help them.
Frustrated at always being given the worst cli-
ents, Manny ends up stealing a client from an-
other travel agent. His quest to get this appar-
ently deserving customer, “Meche,” a ticket on
the Number 9 Express turns out to be far bigger
than he can imagine as the player unravels a tale
of friendship, corruption and betrayal.
Now, what I've told you about the story may
make this game seem just a bit too wacky for
anyone over the age of eight. However, once you
are experiencing it first hand you realise that it is
genuinely superb. You want to know what hap-
pens next, you want to tie off all the loose ends,
and you really want Manny to succeed in his
quest. The characters drive the story along bril-
liantly, and the voice acting in this game is some
of the best I have heard in any video game, with
the standouts being Manny and his oversized
friend, Glottis.
The dialogue is very amusing and charming,
and every single character has a unique person-
ality with completely different voices, which
means you care about their fate. Even the mi-
nor characters are brilliantly voiced and manage
to be unforgettable, something many modern
games fail to achieve (I’m looking at you Fallout
3). Manny himself is one of my favourite video
game characters of all times. He is unassuming
and socially awkward, but he has many hilarious
anecdotes to relate to the player in the form of
soliloquies. He is simply brilliant.
So what do you actually do in this game? Well,
I would define Grim Fandango as a puzzle game,
although simply labelling this game as just an-
other puzzler would be very wrong. You normal-
ly arrive at a location with a set of tasks you are
supposed to complete to help Manny advance on
his epic adventure. As you explore an area, you
discover different items, characters, and loca-
tions that fill in the gaps in your knowledge, and
give you clues as to how you can progress. The
game play normally consists of finding different
items strewn across the fantastic environments
and working out how they can be used to achieve
to goal in hand. This normally involves combin-
ing different items at certain locations.
This process requires thought, patience, and
trial and error in equal portions. There may be
times where you have 10 items in your inventory
and not a clue about how any of them can help
you do what you want. There is no hint system,
so you may feel a little lost at some points. But
as you persevere, the answer will normally re-
veal itself. The puzzles in one area all link to-
gether, so solving one will lead onto another,
and eventually onto the advancement of the sto-
ryline (marked by a cut scene). The puzzles, in
tune with the rest of the game, can be very weird
and wonderful and require some imagination to
solve, with only one or two that seem counter-
intuitive, which is impressive for a puzzle game
of this size. In general they feel both clever and
natural, and are difficult enough for you to get a
sense of achievement when you solve one.
The game was designed by Tim Schaffer (of
Psychonauts and the Monkey Island series),
which means you expect something a bit special,
and you are not disappointed. Grim Fandango
deserves the numerous awards it has for its ar-
tistic design. The game plays out with charac-
ters moving around static backgrounds, which
change as you move Manny to the edge of the
scene. The levels are very detailed and highly
varied, and although you will return to some of
the locations that you visit early in the game, you
are never bored of the environment you are in.
The visuals are mind blowing for the time, not
necessarily in terms of graphical performance,
but in terms of the boldness of everything on
screen. It holds up even to this day, with the
character models being the real highlight. You
would think that the skeletal figures you meet
may appear recycled, repetitive figures, but they
all have an individual styling and you can tell
that great care was put into each and every one
of them. Remember, this is from 1998, so don’t
expect full HD graphics. However, when I tried
a patched version recently it ran like a charm and
there were no frame rate issues to speak of.
Sam Horti takes a look back at one of gaming’s unique classics, Grim Fandango
“Every single character
has a unique personality
with completely different
voices, which means you
care about their fates”
“The puzzles, in tune with
the rest of the game,
can be very weird and
wonderful and require
some imagination to solve”
The controls may appear puzzling themselves
at first, but you very quickly get used to them.
Manny is moved around his 3D environment
with the 4 directional keys, with different buttons
assigned to different actions, such as picking up
items, examining your inventory or attempting
to use items. At its core, the game play is very
simple. If you’re looking for action packed thrills
and spills you won’t find them here. The action is
reserved exclusively for the cut scenes, and the
gameplay is decidedly slow paced. However, the
story that drives the gameplay is the real point of
interest, and as you always have a goal to accom-
plish you will never feel uninterested.
I absolutely love this game. I can’t recommend
it highly enough if you like a game with a superb
story and terrific characters. Even if you don’t
like puzzle games, I feel you should try this
game for an experience that few other games can
deliver. Manny Calavera and his great adventure
will stick with you for a long time. The interest-
ing, challenging puzzles will keep you hooked,
and the fact that you cannot fail to care about the
characters mean you will definitely want to see
this stunning adventure through to its satisfying
climax.

