GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 december 2011 FELIX
A right royal roundup
Hacks, cracks and website
attacks
Without a doubt, the biggest thing to hit the
gaming world this year would have to be April’s
takedown of the PSN. Gamers were originally
left in the dark about the whole sit-
uation, with Sony initially only
offering the explanation that
there was an ‘external intru-
sion’. It took Sony days to
even admit that addressed
and payment details may
have been stolen – with
some reporting malicious
use of debit cards.
Subscribers did get a sub-
stantial apology from Sony – as
well as identity theft protection for
their US users, customers got two
free games as well as their memberships ex-
tended for free. However, the damage was done;
Sony estimated the costs from the break-in to
amount to $171m for the 23 days the PSN was
down for.
Valve had some bad news too. The Steam fo-
rums suffered from an attack last month, with
Valve also deciding to go silent and pretend that
the site was down just for some maintenance.
When they did admit the extent of the damage,
we learnt that a Steam database had been broken
into, with passwords and credit card details po-
tentially in the hands of criminals.
Luckily for Steam users, the forums returned
in just a few weeks, and it didn’t affect the entire
service, though, it is a stark reminder of the risks
involved with “cloud” gaming services such as
Steam and the PSN.
Releases Galore
There has been plenty of good news this year
though, with lots of major releases to keep your
fingers occupied with. The first was back in
March when the much-anticipated Crysis 2 was
released, which reached over three million sales
by June, and was generally decided to be an ex-
cellent title by the critics. Crytek’s rhetoric ma-
chine was in full force for this release, with ex-
ecutives saying that Crysis 2’s graphics, AI and
gameplay are the best in video gaming history.
Valve also put out a new title: the equally an-
ticipated Portal 2. Even if you got tired of Cave
Johnson’s voice, Portal 2 has much to offer,
with hilarious dialog, challenging puzzles and
cooperative multiplayer. This also saw the start
of Valve’s obsession with hats, which developed
further in June when Valve rereleased Team
Fortress 2 as free to play, with added benefits
available to those who pay. You can also
spend some of your hard-earned cash
on hats, with a Proof of Purchase
hat available for those who shell
out for the premium version of
TF2.
Fans of war games were
also not disappointed in
2011, thanks to the release
of both Modern Warfare 3 in
November and, surprisingly,
Duke Nukem Forever. MW3
was well received, and also saw
the launch of the Call of Duty Elite
web service, allowing die-hard fans to
keep up to date on every single statistic, im-
prove their game with “deep strategies” and
much more.
Duke Nukem, on the other hand, was a bit
of a disaster. It may have taken 14 years to be
released (an event which many may still find
shocking), though this didn’t lead to quality
– Metacritic scores gave it a verdict of being
merely average. And the bad news didn’t end
there – reviews slammed the game for its im-
maturity; the Official Xbox Magazine UK even
said "isn't so much offensive or misogynistic as
just suffering from an adolescent fixation with
boobs and crowbarred-in innuendo."
For those who preferred something a little bit
lighter, the third Humble Indie Bundle was re-
leased in the summer, with many excellent titles
such as VVVVVV, Clash of the Titans and And
Yet It Moves. The ‘pay what you want’ model
raised over $2m, of which part went to charity.
This was followed by additional Frozen Synapse
and Introversion bundles.
And, of course, no wrap up of the year’s big
releases is complete without Skyrim, one of a
few games to receive universal acclaim. Steam
showed 230,000 concurrent players on the day
of release, and approximately $450m in sales
over just five days, making it the second best
selling game this year, beaten only by Modern
Warfare 3.
As 2011 draws to a close Philip Kent summarises the big events of the year –
gaming related, of course
“The Humble Indie Bundle
‘pay what you want’ model
raised over $2m”
Consoles on the way
Bar the Xbox 360 dashboard being revamped a
couple of times, Microsoft and Sony have been
mute regarding new consoles. Nintendo, on the
other hand, kicked off the year with the 3DS, an
improved version of Nintendo’s
handheld games console, but
with the unusual ability of sup-
porting 3D gaming without the
need for bulky glasses. It is,
however, not perfect. The 3DS
comes in at £120, with games
ranging from £30 to a hefty
£40, and suffers from a poor,
5-hour battery life.
What may be more successful
for them is 2012’s Wii U, the successor to their last
console in 2006. This was unveiled at June’s E3,
and features a touchscreen on the controller, in ad-
dition to the high definition playback on the televi-
sion. This would be in addition to using the older
Wiimotes, and backwards compatibility (at least
from an optical media angle) would be restricted
to Wii games, owners of large GameCube libraries
may have to repurchase their titles from whatever
(if anything) succeeds the Virtual Console.
Some of the big games from 2011 (From top left, clockwise: Crysis 2, CoD: Modern Warfare 3,
Portal 2, and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim)
The one time betting on Duke is a less than
stellar idea
“Steam showed 230,000
concurrent players on the
day of Skyrim’s release”
What can we expect in ‘12?
It’s hard to tell what will happen next year. One
of the arguments against the high price of the 3DS
games is the high cost, especially when you con-
sider the increasing number of people gaming on
their mobile phones, thanks to app store
mania. This definitely seems to be the
way things are going – Atari released
100 of their classic games onto iOS, and
there have been calls by Nintendo’s in-
vestors to do the same.
PC gaming has had a bit of a re-
naissance year, and hopefully this is
a trend that will continue. Services
like Steam are continuously becoming
more popular, though with EA pulling
all their games off of Steam to sell solely on their
own Origin service, it may be that fragmentation
will lead to harming the use of the PC as a gaming
machine.
As ever, time will tell.
Valve’s revolutionary gaming platform Steam
38

