4 FELIX
NEWS
Friday 09 december 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In Brief
Movember Mayhem
Over 80 male members of Imperial College took part
in Movember 2011, raising a total of £5,595 for the
cause. Movember, an annual event in November,
is a campaign that seeks to raise awareness and
funding for men’s health – specifically, prostate and
other common male cancers. Originating from Mel-
bourne in 2003, Movember has since grown into
a worldwide movement involving more than 1.1m
participants.
Movember participants receive sponsorship for
their efforts in growing and maintaining moustach-
es for the full 30 days. Participants and companies
alike have come up with various incentives and nov-
el ideas to raise as much as they can for the cause
– such as restaurant chain Byron’s offer of a free
burger a day for registered Movember participants.
In 2010, a total of £11.7m was raised by Movem-
ber participants across the UK – money that has
since been used to fund significant research pro-
grammes on prostate and testicular cancer, with
one such programme being carried out by Honorary
Research Fellow Dmitry Pshezhetskiy here at Impe-
rial College London’s Hammersmith campus.
Carol Ann Cheah
Niki Kesharaju
that this was an attempt to entice more ten-
ants in to fill up the empty studios, which
are still not at 100% occupancy.
Imperial and Berkeley sold the prop-
erty to Legal and General Property (LGP)
for £116m in September, contributing to
Berkeley’s 64% increase on profits from
the same period last year. LGP will lease
the property to Imperial for a 45 year pe-
riod, thereafter returning the property.
An Imperial College spokesperson com-
mented, “As is often the case with new
developments, there have been occasional
issues during initial occupancy… the Resi-
dence Team and the developer have been
working closely with the residents to re-
solve any problems.”
Griffon Studios is still in its infancy, at
just one term into occupancy. The Resi-
dence Director and team welcome feedback
openly, addressing issues raised through
email. Some residents have expressed hope
for their future tenancy. 2012 is almost
upon us and perhaps with it comes a new
term and new improvements. Indeed, it has
been noted by some residents that the situ-
ation has improved.
Does this excuse the failings observed so
far? As a student the mind always returns
to the issue of money. With prices of up
to £300 per week, students at Griffon Stu-
dios will likely have little time for excuses,
especially over the coming holiday period.
Avoid student scammers
Since the start of term Imperial students have
lost thousands of pounds to practised conmen
and women. ‘How could they be so stupid?’
you might wonder… it’s not as straightforward
as that. These people employ all sorts of tactics
– and they’re doing their Christmas shopping.
Below are examples of the three most common
scams, all of which have happened to IC stu-
dents since the beginning of term:
1. Help me, I’m in a pinch! In this scam, a fe-
male (though it could just as easily be a male)
approaches a student claiming that she lives in
Enismore Gardens, she has been locked out of
her house, her children have been in a car ac-
cident and she has no husband. She then asks
for money to pay for a taxi to the hospital. She
has stolen significant sums this way.
2. Help me I’m having a hard time – I used to
be rich. Here, students meet a model who has
fallen on hard times but has suitcases full of
(fake) designer gear. They are leftover from his
catwalk days; he is willing to part with them
cheap cheap cheap. ‘Come in the car – we’ll
just go to my flat.’ At this point most students
say ‘no Thank you.’ Usually this is fine. Some-
times the ‘model’ and his ‘friend’ get aggres-
sive. When students get into the car, which
they have in the past, the real trouble starts.
Don’t let it happen to you.
3. You sir – yes, you sir, STOP, I’m the police!
Man A: “Excuse me, do you have the way to
the Royal Albert Hall? I think it’s here on this
map.” Imperial Student: “But of course, I’m
kind and helpful, it’s just this way.” Men B and
C pretending to be police: “Oi, we suspect you
of a drug deal. We need to search you.” Impe-
rial student, in good faith: “Oh, ok, of course.”
Police impersonators then empty the student’s
wallet and run. Not good. Many students do not
know how to distinguish a police impersonator
from the real deal, or what a proper Stop and
Search looks like. Whether you agree with the
principle or not, the police do stop and search
and it’s worth knowing what a warrant card
looks like (see photo). To watch or take part in
a Stop and Search, to find out more about these
scams and others, and to learn how to protect
yourself, come to the Safety Session in Pippard
Lecture Theatre in Sherfield at 12:30pm on
Tuesday 13 December. Good personal safety
freebies will be available! Feel free to email
dpwelfare@ic.ac.uk with any questions.
Nicolas Massie
Issues with
Battersea
‘GradPad’
...Continued from Front Page
Academics criticise White Paper
In a letter to The Daily Telegraph this week, aca-
demics, including professors from Imperial College
London, Oxford and Cambridge, criticised govern-
ment White Paper proposals for higher education
reform, specifically the idea of universities being
run by private companies, i.e. for profit. They warn
it will be to the detriment of students, graduates
and taxpayers. They believe the proposed system
will emulate private universities in the US, claiming
that in the US higher education system, “for-profit
companies offer derisory graduation rates, crush-
ing levels of debt and degrees of dubious value.”
The letter demonstrates fears that universities
run by profit-driven firms will provide a poor service
to students whilst maximising short-term gain for
shareholders, all at the expense of the taxpayer.
This is shown by a claimed statistic mentioned in
the letter, which states: “According to the US Edu-
cation Trust, only 20 per cent of students at for-
profit colleges complete a four-year course and the
same proportion of those who do finish default on
their loans within three years.”
The government plans would, according to the
signatories, facilitate universities becoming pri-
vate sector bodies by enabling private providers
to gain degree-awarding powers, which are likely
to seen by private providers as a desirable intel-
lectual property right. Potential advantages of
private investment might be increased funding to
provide a better service to students particularly in
‘struggling’ universities without dependence on
the taxpayer. Nevertheless academics are urging
the government to reassess its plans in order to
prevent “students and taxpayers suffering the con-
sequences”.
Alex Nowbar
A genuine police warrant card

