FOOD
FELIX Friday 09 december 2011 43
Mario Hayashi
Coming to a Wonderland near you: Münchener Currywurst!
Winter is coming.
And so, as autumn draws to a close,
we must all brace ourselves for the sea-
son to come.
But not all is lost amid chilly tempera-
tures and shorter days: after all, it’s the
time of year when penguins suit up for
their annual winter ball. With the holi-
day season just started, there’s plenty to
be celebrated and feasted on. Food, once
again, has taken centre stage.
Enter Winter Wonderland. For those
of you who’ve not yet been: situated
in London’s historic Hyde Park, it’s
an amusement park within convenient
walking distance from our college. Ever
notice the Ferris Wheel at Hyde Park
Corner? That’s the place I’m talking of.
As if modelled after a traditional Ger-
man (or allow me to interject, Austrian!)
Christkindlmarkt, food and souvenir
stands exhibit an uncanny similarity to
those found on the Continent. What’s
more, the rides and attractions are all
sourced from (presumably) Germany
and Bavarian flags dominate the won-
derland scene. Welcome to Europe!
Back to our foods menu: Winter Won-
derland offers nothing short of roasted
chestnuts (nut-lovers you’ll love this),
mulled wine, Hungarian Langos and
goulash. But the real highlight of the
winter night? Hot dogs. They’re literally
everywhere, and for good reason: the
authentic German Weisswurst, grilled
to perfection, tastes heavenly and can’t
be missed out on. By far the greatest
German invention, the Münchener Cur-
rywurst is a one-of-a-kind sausage that
experts unanimously agree to be the
long reigning king of the Wurst arena.
A range of beers are served too and are
best enjoyed at the Bavarian beer hut,
where dance beats of the 80s and 90s
liven up the atmosphere.
While the foods are delicious, the pric-
es are a shocker. All foods are expen-
sive and I’ve come to discover that hot
dog prices vary from stand to stand. So
watch out folks. Also, there are no free
cash machines (there’s no such thing as
a free lunch, after all), so make sure you
have cash at hand when you visit.
Finally, Winter Wonderland offers an
ice skating rink too, for those who want
to work off the delicious drinks and food
with some exercise.
Enjoy!
Frosty the Cupcake
Warm up the kitchen with some classic Christmas baking
Follow these guidelines on how to make
yourself the perfect base and frosting in
time for Christmas!
Base
Ingredients
1 1/2 cups cake flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
Pinch of nutmeg
85 grams unsalted butter at room tem-
perature
1/2 cup granulated white sugar
1/4 cup light brown sugar — packed
1 egg lightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cups full-fat yoghurt
3 large nectarines, peeled, cored and
chopped into 1-inch cubes
Method
Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda,
salt and nutmeg. Mix dry mixtures thor-
oughly to ensure that everything is well
mixed. Set mixture aside.
Place butter in a large bowl and beat
with an electric mixer (or with a wood-
en spoon and sufficient arm grease) un-
til mixture is soft, about 3 minutes.
Tip in the white and brown sugar and
mix with the mixer until mixture is pale
brown, creamy, and velvety, about 8
minutes. Remember to scrape down the
sides of the mixing bowl every once in
a while to ensure that all sugar is well
mixed. Whisk marks left by the beater
should be visible in the luxuriously
fluffy mixture. This step incorporates air
into the batter to ensure that the result-
ing cupcake is light and the crumbs are
soft. Do take time to beat well.
Add the egg and beat it into the mix-
ture well, scrape the sides of the bowl
before beating for another 30 seconds.
Mix in the vanilla extract and the full-
fat yoghurt, and mix well.
Add the prepared dry ingredients and
the cubed fruits. Mix by hand using a
whisk or large spoon until everything
is mixed. Try and resist the urge to be
overzealous when stirring. Mix only
until everything is just combined. Over-
mixing would result in tough cupcakes.
Divide batter into muffin trays that
are either lined with muffin paper cases
or greased with baking spray. Fill each
muffin wells to about 3/4 full, any more
and the mixture would overflow in the
oven. Bake for 18 to 22 minutes at 150C
or until a toothpick inserted into the
middle of the cake comes out without
wet batter. Do not open the oven door
for the first 10 minutes.
When cupcakes are done, remove
from the oven and cool cupcakes for
five minutes in the tin. After five min-
utes, turn out the cupcakes and cool
completely on a wire rack.
At this point, the cupcakes can either
be frosted with cream cheese frosting,
or eaten just as they are.
Frosting
Ingredients
45 grams of unsalted butter — room
temperature
2.5 cups icing sugar
125 grams cream cheese – fridge cold.
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Method
Ensure that butter is at room tempera-
ture and that cream cheese is fridge
cold. Cut cream cheese into cubes be-
fore placing back into the fridge for at
least 30 minutes.
Beat the butter with all the icing sugar
until sandy. Start mixing really slowly
to prevent inhaling icing sugar.
The mixture will look like yellow
sand.
Add the cream cheese, vanilla and
lemon juice; beat with an electric mixer
(or with a wooden spoon) until mixture
forms stiff frosting. The mixture may
seem like it is never going to come
together as it may look very dry. Give
it time and don’t add any more liquid.
Don’t beat for more than two minutes or
the frosting will be too runny.
Top the cooled cupcake with about
one tablespoon of frosting. Ensure that
the cupcakes are completely cooled to
prevent the frosting from melting.
Yap Chin Hua
You might not find a free lunch within Hyde Park this winter, but headaches are a real possibility

