FELIX
44
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 DECEMBER 2011
A
s a kid, Usain Bolt probably
dreamt of the Olympics while he
was outstripping all his mates on
the running track. Neil Armstrong
probably gazed at the Moon and
wondered “what if?” Charlie, Mandy and Bobby
Brown almost certainly sat monged in the wee
hours of the morning and all agreed they really
fucking wanted to go to the Cannabis Cup.
I doubt many stoners have bucket lists. They’re
kind of reserved for unfulfilled old men and the ter-
minally ill, and arguably require a degree of focus
and ambition that tends to evade the habitual recre-
ational smoker. Nevertheless, if they did the High
Times Cannabis Cup would definitely feature. In
truth, it might be the only thing to feature. It’s the
Valhalla of ganja, marijuana’s answer to Davos, the
meeting place for all that is great and good in the
world of green – it’s the Cannabis Cup.
In spite of everyone’s best efforts to get out of
bed and check in at Gatwick for stupid o’clock, the
trusty pilot at RyanJet decided to fuck up our day
and show up late. I wish I could recollect a riot
scene à la August in Croydon, but that’s far from a
stoner’s nature. Instead there were a few apathetic
sniffs and whimpers, as most would-be Cup-goers
sat with lips pursed, longing for the sweet scent of
THC and greasy fried chicken chaser.
The delayed flight gave plentiful time and an
adequate sample size to give us a good idea as to
the demographic of Cup-goers. An entire spectrum
of people was present: everything from investment
wankers right up to hoodie-sporting CoD aficio-
nados. Men and women, of all ages, shapes and
classes – it seems there is some truth in Everyone-
DoesIt.com’s beloved domain name. After a few
rounds of Angry Birds EasyAir finally got their shit
together and we were off on our merry way.
We decamped at the hostel, breakfasted like
champions on some chicken strips and, buoyed
by a sense of adventure, hit the atmospheric Hill
Street Blues coffee shop to warm up. As the saying
goes, when in Amsterdam, do as the tourists do.
HSB is your classic coffeeshop, dark, hazy and
frequented by people who look like they popped in
for a doob in 1992 and just never really got around
to leaving. For someone who ordinarily finds
dreadlocks repulsive, to say I was impressed by
some of the examples on show so says a lot. Any-
one who can grow it out and backcomb enough to
look like Star Wars’ Bib Fortuna deserves credit.
A couple of drinks and a zoot of Hill Street’s fin-
est later and we were probably about as outwardly
lethargic as we were at the start, but inside we were
pumped. We shot each other the kind of look that
gladiators give one another in the tunnel waiting to
face the lions. We knew why we were here, so we
trundled out to the bus stop.
Thankfully the good folks at High Times pro-
vided us with the perfect means of transport to get
to and from the event. A far cry from the bog stan-
dard buses of London town, the ‘cannabus’ was
kitted out with comfy chairs, strobe lights and –
of course – ashtrays. We rumbled through to the
misty outskirts of town as the reggae blared and
conversations flowed, as the residents of Amster-
dam gawked at the big metal box of lunatics that
Cannabis Cup Highlights
zoomed by.
To be blunt (pun intended), the journey was
tip-top-terrific. We aggressively worked our way
through the rest of our spliff and spoke endless
codshite to our fellow Cup-goers, at least until the
fumes got the better of us and we were forced into
a silent submission. Before the haze and glaze, we
did manage to muster up some top quality investi-
gative journalism.
important in life until you almost don’t have it, and
I’m glad I’ve found it”. With a puff on his pipe and
a tip of the hat, he wishes us a good Cup and enters
the madness.
It was now that shit got real. As if a converted,
graffitied bus with strobe lights and ashtrays hadn’t
hit it home enough, the arrival at the Borchland
provided the finish. None of us had any idea of
what lay in wait for us through the double doors
of this unassuming out-of-town conference centre.
Naturally our minds had run wild over the past
weeks, but we knew nothing, the whole affair was
shrouded in myth and mystery.
Picture a careers fair, except instead of rows
of banks lining up to hand out boiled sweets and
pens, you have stall after stall offering everything a
stoner could desire. Oh, and also the 30ft high con-
ference hall is dense with the fruitiest smoke that
ever washed over your olfactory receptors. The
High Times employees made us feel immediately
welcome with their Southern Californian warmth
and candour, as they handed out our judges passes
and a bunch of free stuff. I couldn’t help but pinch
myself when, confused by who wanted what t-
shirt, the assistant serving us let slip, “man, I’m too
high for this shit.” You certainly wouldn’t get it in
Starbucks (or at least they wouldn’t admit to it).
Without many other similar events anywhere else
in the world, the Cannabis Cup commands global
“it was Willy Wonka’s weed
wet dream”
Felix Travel competition winners Charlie, Mandy and Bobby B
Friends in high places
Pot smoke and phallic objects: two favourite things
Knocking shoulders with self-proclaimed LSD experts The Brotherhood of Eternal Love
Cannabis Cup winners
As you’d expect, competition at this year’s Cannabis Cup was fiercer
than ever, as companies far and wide competed for that most
coveted of trophies. This year’s lucky winners are:
The Cannabis Cup
Barney’s Coffeeshop: Liberty Haze
Indica Cup
Reserva Privada: Kosher Kush
Sativa Cup
Rare Darkness Seed Co: Moonshine Haze
Imported Hash
The Green House: Exodus Green Cheese
Dutch Hash
Barney’s Coffeeshop: Liberty Hash
Want free press tickets to awesome events like the Cannabis Cup?
Well why not drop us a hearty email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk?
Warning: may contain THC?
Among the humble critters we encountered was
Dale, a sixty-something PhD (Doctor of Philoso-
phy? Pretty huge dick? You decide.) hailing from
– where else – Southern California. Dale has lived
a pretty interesting life, setting up growers “for pri-
vate use and on a commercial scale”. His clients
include doctors and lawyers, and despite run-ins
with the law and the burden of repeated heart at-
tacks, Dale insists that he loves his work and loves
his pot.
As the bus pulls in to the foggy car park Dale
tells us “everybody is programmed to be on a
leash, our entire society. You don’t realise what’s

