FELIX Friday 09 DECEMBER 2011 45
TRAVEL
Brown re-live whatever they can remember of this year’s High Times Cannabis Cup
s: a Cannabis Cup special
attention. Whilst exhibitors tend to come from the
small clutch of countries in which cannabis cultiva-
tion is legal (the homespun Dutch growers dominate
the line-up), the attendees predominantly come from
the States. Naturally there are stereotypes of those
who smoke cannabis and each was ably represented
at the Borchland. From the Lil Jon lookalike West
Coast gangsters to the hippies still committed to the
cause, from the nerdy hobbyists who do the science on
their laptops to the well-to-do liberal thinkers who’ve
retained their taste for green. However, common to
them all is an easy-going outlook, perhaps unlocked
by the safe environment that Amsterdam offers.
Having sampled the strains and products on of-
fer, we eventually plucked up the courage to venture
backstage and put the press passes to good use. It was
at this point that we had a meet and greet with The
Brotherhood of Eternal Love, the infamous group of
psychedelic drug enthusiasts and dealers that formed
in sunny California in the late 60’s, under a mutual
love for LSD and (amongst other things) vegetarian-
ism. After witnessing their outstanding musical per-
formance and poetry recital we were eager to find out
more about this curious bunch.
One Brotherhood veteran, who wished to remain
anonymous, gave us an insight into his early life: at-
tentive Imperialites could learn a thing or two. “We
used to surf all day, then spend our weekends crashing
other schools’parties and stealing their girls.And then
we discovered psychadelics and, it was like, uh-oh!”
Uh-oh indeed: the group rose to notoriety and unfor-
tunately attracted the attention of the authorities, and
as such many members were arrested while the rest
scattered around the globe.
When questioned about the use of drugs by younger
people, the Brotherhood spokesperson went on to de-
scribe an alternative solution based on personal an-
ecdote: “the best time to get them [children] started
is very young. If you catch them doing them alone,
simply take them by the hand and show them the path.
My daughter and I are now closer than ever: after tak-
ing LSD and gazing into each other’s eyes for hours,
she took me to new levels that I didn’t think were pos-
sible.” Rather than turning a blind eye to drug con-
sumption, perhaps UK authorities could instead see
the obvious benefits to the Brotherhood’s approach.
I would liken us to children in a sweetshop, except
I imagine in the sweetshop they weren’t handing free
samples of everything. Seeds here, bong-hits there,
buds the size of your fist – it was Willy Wonka’s weed
wet dream. Who knew there was so much pioneering
research in the field of vaporizers, so much innovative
engineering applied to grinders? Sadly, rather than be
conscientious Charlie Buckets and resist the tempta-
tion before our slightly pink eyes, we dived lungs first
into the occasion.
Two hours later, we were flat on our backs in a
quiet corner of the convention centre, each us having
retreated, stupefied, to some dark recess at the back
of our minds. Either watching the passersby with va-
cant eyes or locked into the mellowest game of Angry
Birds we’ve ever played. After the umpteenth, we re-
solved to scrape ourselves off the floor and embark on
the journey back.
Having lost all inhibitions, it took a little while to
rationalise the difficult concepts of roads and traf-
fic. After what felt like an eternity we hobbled from
the bus into Amsterdam traffic, crossed the road un-
scathed and clambered into chilly hostel beds, where
we remained unconscious for several hours.
We awoke on day two refreshed and ready to face a
solid day of investigative journalism. Instead of reiter-
ating the wake and bake of the first day, we focused our
attention on attending the countless sessions on offer
at the expo. From a presentation on how to properly
utilise fertiliser, to a hash making class, to jolly sing-
alongs – High Times’expo managed to encompass the
sublime, the ridiculous and everything in between.
After attending a presentation on the endless benefits
of hemp, followed up by checking out the cracking
rack on Miss High Times 2011, we proceeded to track
down some of the big names in the industry.
We took our seats at the front of a hash making class
led by the legendary hash professor Mila Jansen, who
spent 14 years living in India learning the ways of the
locals. In 1995, she came to fame for developing the
Pollinator, a device described as “a personal solution
for hand turning leaf material to separate the resin
from the plant material”, that is effectively only use-
ful in hash-making. Resembling a washing machine
on it back, you place dry ice and your ‘leaf material’
into the drum and allow to spin before removing the
mixture and shaking out the powdery precipitate. Cue
wide-eyed gasps of awe as Mila’s assistant sprinkled
light green snow over a glass-top coffee table and
biblical scenes as the crowd swarmed to the front to
collect a free sample. Speaking to Mila after the class,
she shared with us a few croaky anecdotes of her time
travelling Asia, perfecting the art of hashish. “I love
Afghani hash! I love Afghanis!”
With the Dutch government’s recent aborted at-
tempt to tighten cannabis laws, the future of legisla-
tion was a hot topic on the convention floor. Dale was
convinced that our generation would see the wide-
spread decriminalization of cannabis, Dan Skye, High
Times editor, was hopeful but tempered his optimism.
Casually dressed and well spoken, Skye, who initially
donated the press prizes to the Felix Travel competi-
tion, had a good chat with us about his views. Un-
surprisingly, these mostly echoed Imperial’s very own
Council Chairman Baroness Manningham-Buller and
Professor David Nutt.
“Current drugs policy needs some serious re-think-
ing, and as long as people aren’t harming anyone they
should be allowed to use any substance they like,”
said Dan. “We have to overcome this illogical drug
war and put aside the rhetoric and propaganda.” Cut-
ting through the hysteria – the proposed restrictions
on cannabis tourism were dropped a few weeks before
our visit – Dan was confident that the Cannabis Cup
would go on for years to come in the Netherlands, re-
gardless of what happens in his less liberal home in
the States.
Danny Danko, senior cultivation editor approaching
his tenth year at High Times, painted a less rosy pic-
ture, telling us of his torment growing cannabis in the
face of draconian US laws. “I found it very stressful,
very hard on the psyche. All the secrecy and being in
fear all the time, its not always a very natural way to
live.” With unnerving undertones of a man oppressed,
he explained how every time he leaves Amsterdam,
he feels he is making a mistake but is too rooted to his
life in his homeland. In the case of Danko, who grows
reasonably large quantities at his home in New York,
proposed that much of the paranoia they say comes
from marijuana actually comes from marijuana pro-
hibition. Resigned, he concluded, “after all, it’s just
nutrients and fertilizer.”
Even though we were strictly in Amsterdam on
business, no trip would be complete without the man-
datory victory lap through the red light district. Stoned
as a rock and floppy as a 3 ½ inch floppy disk, Char-
lie, Mandy and Meow-Meow parted ways and rendez-
voused at Central Station a good 20 minutes later.
The flight home was somewhat less problematic
as the outward journey, and we sat in silence, strug-
gling to compile our thoughts under the comfort of
blankets. We staggered to our lectures feeling brighter
and warmer than ever. To say that we are now richer
for the experience would be an understatement. The
combination of enlightened minds and magical herbs
has made us all better people, and the wise words of
the Brotherhood will stay with us for many reincarna-
tions yet to come.
In spite of it being switched off, the visuals were still incredible... GREEN powder? That I CAN’T snort? Well, that makes a change...

