FELIX
46
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 09 DECEMBER 2011
Christmas in the capital
W
ith just over two
weeks left to go,
the capital has been
transformed into a
beautifully illumi-
nated, life-sized snow globe (minus the
snow) in the countdown to Christmas
day. So here’s your guide to enjoying
the best of London’s Christmas high-
lights this year.
As far as traditional Christmas fairs
go, Hyde Park’s Winter Wonderland
may seem an obvious first choice, and
yes, there’s nothing to get you in the
mood quite like mulled wine, German
bratwurst and knitted woollies. How-
ever, for those of you who’d prefer to
feast on your Bavarian bangers without
feeling as though you’ve been packed
into a tin of sardines, the Southbank
Centre’s Winter Festival presents a
good alternative to Hyde Park. Over
sixty market chalets spaced out along
the south bank of the Thames offer
festive fare, both edible and otherwise,
more or less identical to that of Winter
Wonderland, but with the advantage
of fewer tourists, toddlers and Evel
Knievel wannabes armed with peram-
bulators waiting to knock it all out of
your hands.
Naturally no festival would be com-
plete without its own carousel, and
while Winter Wonderland’s may be
set against a background of the beau-
tifully lit-up Observation Wheel, the
Southbank’s slightly smaller merry-
go-round is dwarfed by the London
Eye, no less. Admittedly there are no
other rides, let alone an ice rink, avail-
able at Southbank, but who needs that
artificial rush when you’ve got the
entirety of London’s skyline from the
vantage point of Embankment pier in-
stead? The view is better, the sausages
Dushi Arumuganesan’s guide to London’s most festive frolics this winter
“you cannot go wrong
with a Christmas
spent in London”
Generic Imperial student: “RUUUUUN! It’s Godzillaaaaa!”
are juicier and there’s even a book
market to boot – the Southbank Cen-
tre’s Winter Festival is a must-do this
year.
If however you feel that Christmas
wouldn’t be the same without a ses-
sion on ice, then why not skate against
some of London’s most striking back-
drops on the temporary ice rinks be-
ing constructed all over the city? The
open-air rink at Westfield Stratford
City provides views of the new Olym-
pic park, and Canary Wharf’s rink
offers an equally imposing setting of
the city’s most dizzying towers. Those
after more picturesque landscapes
should head to the Tower of London,
Somerset House, the National History
Museum or Hyde Park where the rinks
are all set in the midst of London’s fa-
mous landmarks.
Road market (open late every Wednes-
day until Christmas day) in the East
End and the twice weekly Camden
Passage market in Islington.
Finally, if you just want to spend
time walking around London, soaking
in the city’s Yuletide spirit, there is no
shortage of places to go. Covent Gar-
den has been revamped on all sides: in
addition to the bewitching Christmas
lights, there has been a visual display
installed on the North East piazza in
the form of a digital painting that shifts
between nativity scenes throughout the
day. On Saturdays reindeer-petting is
an activity on offer alongside all the
market stalls. Meanwhile, a 32 foot
tall topiary reindeer watches over the
East piazza: an oddly frightening sight
from afar after dusk, but impressive
nonetheless.
And of course, because it’s that time
of year again, minor celebrities have
been resurfacing all over the country,
with D-list stars and reality show rem-
nants everywhere being recruited for
the action. London’s Christmas lights
have been switched on, and there are
few surprises in the best of this year’s
bunch. If you begin your evening at
Trafalgar Square’s giant Norwegian
Christmas tree, making your way
down the very festive Regent Street
and under the dazzling snowflakes of
Oxford Street before ending your night
at St. Christopher’s Place surrounded
by floating baubles you would have
covered those of the capital’s lights
most worth seeing.
However, there are some equally
exceptional lighting displays off the
beaten path such as in the Angel, Is-
lington and on South Molton Street,
where you can walk through incan-
descent arches as you shop. Carnaby
Street is an especially good spot for a
romantic walk for two, beneath lit up
sprigs of mistletoe and holly garlands
of gargantuan proportions.
Whichever of the above you choose
to indulge in, you cannot go wrong
with a Christmas spent in London
– this is one time when quantity and
quality both compete with each other
to provide one of the best cities in the
world in which to live come winter-
time.
Tourists stop and gawk at Covent Garden’s big, red, throbbing balls. Aw, yeah...
For best results, drop a couple of tabs of acid before hitting the rink: you’ll skate like a pro. Or perhaps not
More and more of us are resorting
to online shopping each year in a bid
to avoid the frenzied crowds of shop-
pers at Oxford Street. For those of you
who haven’t given in yet, your best bet
when hunting for those quirky one-
of-a-kind Christmas gifts is to avoid
more commercial shopping centres
and districts, and instead trek it around
some of London’s markets. Of course,
there’s Portobello Road and Spital-
fields markets on either side of Lon-
don, each overflowing with vintage
clothes, books and ornaments. But
there’s more of the same at Columbia

