5
FELIX Friday 09 DECEMBER 2011
NEWS
UK extradition laws to be reformed
A parliamentary debate on extradi-
tion took place on Monday 5 Decem-
ber where it was concluded that there
should be further calls for a public in-
quiry into the Crown Prosecution Ser-
vice (CPS). The debate came as a result
of an e-petition to put Babar Ahmad on
trial in the UK securing over 141,000
signatures within three months.
The CPS has already admitted that it
had never reviewed the evidence against
Babar Ahmad (who was an employee
of Imperial College’s IT department at
the time of his arrest in 2004) before
it was sent to the US. The CPS claims
that it was not aware of all the evidence
possessed by the US authorities even
though the British police had seized all
the evidence in the UK. The CPS has
nevertheless repeatedly refused to pros-
ecute Babar Ahmad in the UK claiming
that there is “insufficient evidence”.
Consequently, Caroline Lucas MP
called for a full public inquiry into the
CPS and their handling of the evidence
of Babar Ahmad’s case.
Stephen Phillips MP said he was “hor-
rified” by what Caroline Lucas revealed,
adding that it was a “stain on justice in
the UK” for Babar to have been impris-
oned for over seven years without trial.
Father of Babar Ahmad, Ashfaq Ah-
mad said: “The government continues
MPs call for applied changes to Babar Ahmad case following evidence admissions
Aemun Reza to dodge the serious questions raised by
Dr Caroline Lucas in relation to the CPS
behaviour. The CPS has allowed Babar
to languish in prison without trial for
over seven years claiming there is “in-
sufficient evidence” to prosecute him,
evidence which they now admit they
never even saw.”
“We fully support Dr Lucas’s call
for a full public inquiry into the CPS
actions in this case and call on the At-
torney General to direct the Director of
Public Prosecutions to review all the
evidence against Babar with a view to
prosecuting him in the UK.”
A motion was passed for the UK’s ex-
tradition laws to be urgently reformed
in order to strengthen the protection
of British citizens. Many MPs called
for any potential changes in the law to
apply to cases such as those of Babar
Ahmad, Talha Ahsan, and Gary McKin-
non.
“Caroline Lucas MP
has called for a pub-
lic inquiry into the
handling of evidence”
UK Parliament
MPs called for a public inquiry as a result of the parliamentary debate

