DPhil in Theoretical Chemistry. De-
spite the tragic death of his supervisor
part way through, he persevered and
completed his DPhil, whilst in fact
discovering that he was a much better
practical Chemist than a theoretical
one. As a result, he moved to Cam-
bridge University where he did a Post
Doc in practical chemistry that lead
onto a Research Fellowship there.
“Most of my career I’ve been an
academic Chemist working at research
facilities. After 25 years in Cambridge,
things were going very well, but I really
feared getting into a rut.
One of the things you’ll find as you
grow older is that the opportunities for
change will get less and different, and if
you simply want a change for the sake
of a change, that’s actually not so easy.”
For Professor Rayment, however,
change did come several times. After
holding the position as Chair at Bir-
mingham University for three years,
the position as Science Director came
up at Diamond in 2008, for which he
was asked to apply, and he has held the
position ever since.
When he arrived at Diamond, Phase
1 of its construction had already been
completed with 7 beamlines already
under full operation, and Phase 2, for
the further construction of 15 beam-
lines, was underway.
“My job was to bring the new beam-
lines from construction to operation,
and then in operation, to make them
into mature beamlines with a strong
competitive international science pro-
gramme carried out on them.
“I am here to share the leadership of
D
iamond Light Source,
the UK’s national syn-
chrotron facility, sits
in the form of a gigan-
tic steel ring amongst
stretches of the green countryside sur-
rounding the Harwell Science and In-
novation Campus in Oxfordshire. Less
than a decade old, this facility is at the
cutting edge of research and luckily
for me, having interned here for eight
weeks, Professor Trevor Rayment, Di-
rector of Physical Sciences at Diamond,
has managed to find a few minutes in
his busy schedule for this interview.
Diamond Light Source is the UK’s
largest science experiment, and is a
third generation synchrotron that ac-
celerates electrons to almost the speed
of light in order to produce synchrotron
light. This light, ranging from IR to X-
Ray in wavelength, is then split off to
beamlines, of which there are currently
32 under operation around the 561m
ring – all to help deepen our knowledge
of science, from chemistry and materi-
als, to engineering and earth sciences.
After a brief introduction, I sheep-
ishly admit to Professor Rayment that
I don’t know much about his past other
than a brief summary of his education
history. “Good, that sounds about right”
he replies, “in these days of the internet,
I prefer people to ask me in person.”
In a place of such responsibility,
overlooking the entire operation of the
physical sciences sector of the UK’s
biggest research facility, Professor
Rayment admits that it wasn’t a path he
just fell in to.
“From the age of 12, I’ve dreamt of
being a scientist; it’s what I wanted to
do. One of my earliest memories is go-
ing into a public library and picking out
a book on nature of some sort.”
Having completed his degree in
Chemistry at Durham University, Pro-
fessor Rayment decided to move south
to Oxford University to study for a
the science division at Diamond and
to make it into a world-class research
institute. A research institute that is
focussed on delivering science to the
communities of academia and industry.
“Day by day, it’s full of all different
sorts of meetings, mostly management.
I spend around a day a week doing my
own science – well that’s the dream
anyway, but the rest of the time I do
what managers do, which is to listen to
and talk to people. I need to understand
the organisation well enough to be able
to make the short-term decisions in
such a way as to maximise the long-
term benefits.”
Picking up on the dream of spending
time working on his own experiments,
I ask whether the practical chemist in
him misses the hands-on science.
“I would like to do more of my own
science of course, but that’s the same
with every academic you ever see.
“However, one of the privileges of
synchrotron science is that experiments
come around on a periodic basis that
you really can get involved with. When
we’re doing experiments on the beam-
line, I help on a practical basis.”
Professor Rayment admits that his
knowledge and experience has come
with “an unimaginable number of mis-
takes”, and it is the lessons he has learnt
from these that allow him to recognise
the mistakes of others and solve them,
saving crucial time on experiments that
on average last only 48 hours.
Despite its undeniable presence, both
on the physical landscape and on the
horizons of ground-breaking science
research, Diamond Light Source is not
a name that many are familiar with.
Professor Rayment feels that this may
partly be due to many journalists avoid-
ing scientific writing as a result of their
lack of scientific background, as well as
scientists themselves not being able to
explain their own experiments.
He goes on to explain that with only
400 members of staff and a compara-
tively modest budget, Diamond be-
lieves that is, in fact, “punching above
its own weight” in terms of getting the
word out and engaging with the scien-
tific and non-scientific communities.
“There is a great deal of science car-
ried out in the UK and we underpin a
fair proportion of it. In many cases,
the work done at Diamond was abso-
lutely vital, but it’s underpinning and so
doesn’t make headlines.”
I question Professor Rayment further
on the topic of Diamond’s funding, and
if the government’s recent budget cuts
have affected the facility.
“Diamond is 86% funded by the UK
Research Council and 14% by the Well-
come trust. When there have been cuts
in funding, Diamond has felt it, but we
do the best we can to make sure the
users don’t feel it. This is a user syn-
chrotron, and the users are kept first by
making sure the people who work here
are scientifically great. All of our prin-
ciple scientists are researchers in their
own right.”
Moving on, I question further into
Diamond’s employment schemes and
how current science graduates can get
involved.
“For people wanting a career here, if
you are one of the principle or beamline
scientists, we want people to have an
independent academic research profile.
“In the science division, there are also
positions for Postdocs. We support re-
search students, offer internships and
every beamline has two students that
we co-fund with a university. We also
have an engineering division.”
Curious as to what the Professor
would look for in terms of skills when
employing, I ask more about his opin-
ions on science careers.
“My personal experience of recruit-
ing Postdocs and students is that you
look for ability in their grades; you
look for their vision, passion and en-
thusiasm.
“To be a successful academic you
need a whole variety of skills. I think to
be a good researcher; you actually need
to have a passion for the subject, and
you have to learn to fail, and learn from
those failures.
“One of the things I’ve learnt is that
you always keep on learning. Over
time, I’ve also learnt that sharing what
you learn and what you know with oth-
ers is exceptionally valuable. One of
the characteristics of an academic life
is that it can be quite solitary; it’s a
feature of academics to want personal
recognition. That can be positive, but it
can also be destructive.
“Doing research is hard work, and
part of your responsibility is to commu-
nicate it to other people. If you’re not
excited about your research, then you’ll
never excite anyone else about it.”
“To be a successful
academic you need a
whole variety of skills”
Interview: Trevor Rayment
Alice Yang talks to the Director of Physical Sciences at Diamond Light Source
FEATURE
6 FELIX
Friday 09 december 2011
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
Director of Physical Sciences at Diamond Light Source, Professor Trevor Rayment
Harwell Science and Innovation Campus, home of the synchrotron facility
Alice Yang

