SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Scientists at Imperial College have devised an
evolutionary model based on climate change
and a study of grey wolves.
It has long been known that environmental
factors play an important role in the evolu-
tionary development of species. This is best
exemplified by the fact that the same species
may have a different phenotype when living
in different environments. For example, grey
wolves’ coat colour is dependent on their loca-
tion. Recent changes in the climate have also
led to drastic changes in certain species, such
as the rapid physical shrinkage of the polar
bear.
Predicting the influence of these environ-
mental changes on species’ development is
important, especially for species at the top of
the food chain, as their development influences
changes lower down the chain.
Professor Tim Coulson of the Life Sciences
Department of Imperial College and his col-
leagues observed a group of 150 grey wolves
(Canis lupus) in Yellowstone National Park for
the duration of 15 years. The scientists tracked
the wolves’ reproductive success, genotype
and body weight and mapped these against the
environmental changes in the park. With this
data they created a mathematical model that
can predict future evolutionary changes in the
observed factors in the grey wolf species.
The wolves were exceptionally good sub-
jects for the study as they had only been in-
troduced to the Yellowstone Park in 1995,
after humans populating the area had driven
them out of their original habitat. The wolves
in Yellowstone National Park are therefore all
descended from the original pack that moved
into the park. The Yellowstone Park is a close-
ly monitored nature reserve, and so a lot of
data is available on the changes that occurred
within the park over the decades.
The results showed that overall changes in
the environment had a greater impact on wolf
populations than year-to-year fluctuations. An-
Wolves help predict climate effects
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
A pack of wolves bed down in Yellowstone National Park
Pandas arrive in Edinburgh
Two giant pandas arrived in Edinburgh, Scotland,
last weekend after a nine hour non-stop flight
from China. The pandas, Tian Tian and Yang
Guang, are the first to live in the UK for 17 years.
The eight-year-old pair will live at Edinburgh Zoo
for the next ten years, and the Zoo hope that
they will eventually have cubs.
Kelly Oakes
other important result was that changes in the
wolves’ characteristics depend on which part
of the wolf’s life cycle is most impacted.
The model will now be applied to a wide va-
riety of species to see if it is globally applica-
ble. Unfortunately, such extensive data as for
the Yellowstone National Park wolves is not
available for many other species.
If the model works more globally, it can be
used in helping to set conservation policy.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1209441
FELIX
8 Friday 09 December 2011
Scientists have discovered how sharks are able
to swim faster than most other fish. Making
use of an advanced imaging technique, they
were able to examine how sharks swing and
stiffen their tails to swim more efficiently.
Sharks, like all fish, wag their tails to propel
forward. However, sharks, unlike most fish,
have tails that are not horizontally symmetri-
cal. Instead, the top of a shark’s tail protrudes
further back than the bottom, giving the shark
a lift while swimming. Sharks do not have nat-
ural buoyancy and sink when they stop mov-
ing, so the lift generated by their tails’ shape is
indispensable in helping them stay at constant
depth. In 2005, Harvard biomechanist Brooke
Flammang discovered a muscle in sharks’ tails
that activated at various times during the tail’s
stroke cycle. A new study, published recently
in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B, ob-
served the tail’s movement in close detail to
examine the muscle function.
To detect the finer details of tail movement,
researchers scatter small particles in the water.
Lasers are shone on the particles, which can
then be detected by high-speed cameras that
capture the reflected light. The tail pulls the
particles along as it swings, and so the tail’s
motion can be reconstructed by tracking the
particles. This technique had, up until now,
been two-dimensional. The particles’ move-
ment was tracked in the horizontal and the ver-
tical directions only, and movement perpen-
dicular to those was only estimated. However,
Flammang wanted to directly detect move-
ment along depth as well, and so added a third
camera. This method, known as volumetric
imaging, had been used only by engineers to
study water flow. Biomechanist Frank Fish of
West Chester University notes that its use con-
stitutes an entirely novel approach in biology.
Flammang and her team put two spiny dog-
fish and two chain dogfish in a water tank with
a constant water flow so that the sharks could
swim in place, along with a robotic shark tail.
The current understanding is that, as fishes’
tails swing, they send the water to one side,
and then push it away, abruptly changing its
direction and thus causing vortices. Most fish
cause a single water ‘ring’to propel backwards
at the end of their tail’s stroke, and sharks were
thought to produce two rings because of their
asymmetric tail. As expected, the robotic tail
created two rings of different size.
However, the group reported that real sharks’
tails produce the larger, second ring as they
reach the shark’s midline, contradicting the
currently accepted model. A set of dual-linked
vortex rings are produced each half-stroke,
which, as Flammang states, is greatly advanta-
geous since the shark “has added thrust mid-
swing”. She believes that the muscle she had
previously discovered is used to stiffen the tail
mid-swing, changing its shape and even pos-
sibly its texture, to facilitate the creation of the
second ring.
MIT ocean engineer Michael Triantafyllou
observes that the discovery has the potential
to be applied to the better design of underwa-
ter vehicles. While he warns that it might be
cumbersome to design shape-shifting compo-
nents, Flammang expresses her desire to build
“a fully functioning shark tail model” that can
change its stiffness.
DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2011.0489
How sharks swim faster than you
Sotirios Karamitsos
Habitable planet found
Scientists have discovered a new planet outside
of our solar system that might be capable of sup-
porting life. The planet, known as Kepler 22-b,
lies within the habitable zone around its star,
which means that if water exists on the planet it
should be in liquid form. Kepler 22-b has a rela-
tively comfortable surface temperature of 22˚C.
But those harbouring hope that we may be able to
move there one day will be disappointed to hear
that it lies 600 light years away – even if we were
able to travel at the speed of light, it would take
us at least 600 years to get there. The planet was
discovered by NASA’s Kepler mission that has so
far discovered 28 confirmed planets outside our
solar system and a further 1,235 planet candi-
dates.
Kelly Oakes
Sophie Buijsen
Sharks, unlike most
fish, have tails that
are not horizontally
symmetric.
”
y
“
Shar
Shar
fi h
h
DOI stands for digitial object identifier. A DOI will
help you find the journal article a science news
story is based on.
Just type http://dx.doi.org/ into the URL bar
and add the DOI to the end. For example:cyberduck
http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1038/nature10550
will take you straight to the Nature letter about
the dwarf planet Eris. Alternatively go to http://
dx.doi.org/ and put the DOI into the search box
on that site.
Or, if you’re feeling lazy, Googling the DOI usu-
ally works too...
Confused by DOIs?
I hope that the panda wasn’t too jet lagged...

