SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 09 december 2011
Science Editors Alexander Karapetian and Kelly Oakes bring you an inside look into snowflakes
A magnified snow crystal and three iterations of the Koch Snowflake fractal curve
Let it snow, let it snow...
S
nowflakes start out life as
small particles of dust in a
high up cloud. Water freezes
around the dust particles,
forming tiny ice crystals. At
first, the ice crystals grow slowly, devel-
oping flat sides known as facets. At this
stage they are hexagonal prisms, with
eight sides or facets – two shaped like
hexagons and six that join the two hexa-
gons together to make the prism. All fac-
ets grow at equal rates and, for a while,
the ice crystals slowly get bigger. Once
they reach a certain size, branches sprout
from the six corners of the crystals. The
branches grow at the same rate to begin
with, because the atmospheric conditions
are the same all around the crystals.
But once the weather starts to get better
and a crystal is blown around in its cloud,
the surrounding temperature changes
randomly. Crystal growth rate is linked
to temperature so the branches start to
grow more erratically. All sides of the
crystal experience the same conditions at
the same time, so they grow at the same
rate - but that rate changes with the con-
stantly changing temperature, resulting
in the beautifully complex structure we
call a snowflake. Each snowflake looks
slightly different thanks to its unique
growing conditions, but has six-fold
symmetry because of its early life as a
hexagonal prism.
At least, that’s what a snowflake looks
like in theory. In practice, two branches
do not always grow at exactly the same
rate even if they both exist in exactly the
same conditions. So not all snowflakes
have perfect six-fold symmetry – but
they come pretty close.
Technically, an ice crystal in the shape
of a hexagonal prism is a snowflake. It
would not be difficult to find two of these
small snowflakes that looks essentially
identical. Once they get larger and more
complex, however, you would be look-
ing for an increasingly long time – pos-
sibly forever – to find two the same.
What an individual snowflake looks
like depends on a fine balance between
two processes: faceting and branching.
Faceting is the formation of flat sides
and branching is the formation of, you
guessed it, branches. These processes
are both affected by temperature and
other atmospheric conditions. Once a
snowflake leaves the hexagonal prism
phase of its growth and starts branching,
especially under changing atmospheric
conditions, it diverges from the simple
hexagonal shape and becomes complex
rather quickly.
An individual snowflake is the re-
sult of so many ‘choices’ – which way
to branch, how fast to grow – that the
chances that two of these complex snow-
flakes will be the same is very small. If
only a hundred choices were made in the
formation of a snowflake, there would be
10158
possible different resulting snow-
flakes. That’s seventy orders of magni-
tude more than the number of atoms in
the universe. In reality, there are many
more choices made, and many more
paths the snowflake could have gone
down in its formation – resulting in an
almost unimaginable number of possible
snowflakes.
Putting aside the complex branching
that goes on, the stuff that snowflakes are
made of can also be the source of much
variation. Snowflakes are typically made
up of around 1018
water molecules. All
water molecules are not created equal:
most will be exactly the same, but in one
in five thousand a deuterium atom will
have replaced one of the hydrogen at-
oms, and in one in five hundred, a slight-
ly heavier isotope of oxygen will replace
the usual oxygen atom. The probability
that two snowflakes have these mole-
cules laid out in the same way is very,
very small.
The shape of snowflakes has been fa-
miliar to many of us from a young age,
instilled in our minds by media rang-
ing from cartoon depictions to weather
reports. Their symmetry has been a re-
search topic for some time; Olaus Mag-
nus, a Swedish writer, published one of
the earliest snowflake diagrams in 1555.
Researchers, philosophers and the curi-
ous eventually began to know more, with
René Descartes publishing a study for
the crystallization process in 1637. Just
under thirty years later snow crystals
were observed under magnification, in
what was to become the first major publi-
cation of the Royal Society of London by
Robert Hooke. His book, Micrographia,
inspired a wave of interest in bringing the
world of the small to our eyes by way of
microscopes, and further research cata-
logued the various types of crystals in-
volved in forming snowflakes.
By the 1900s, we had 97 types of snow-
flakes, and had studied the relationship
between temperature and water vapour
saturation. Japanese physicist Ukichiro
Nakaya, who famously said that “snow-
flakes are letters sent from heaven”,
looked into how snow crystals naturally
form various patterns, with his Nayaka
Diagram outlining relationships among
vapour, temperature, supersaturation and
excess vapour density in clouds. Nayaka
created over 3000 photographic plates
of the various shapes and was driven to
create artificial snow from ice crystals
grown in his laboratory. His technique
of using a cooled dual-layer hollow glass
tube failed to create snowflakes. He did,
however, manage to produce a snow
crystal on the tip of a single hair of rab-
bit fur – three years after his first attempt.
In 1983, snow crystals were made in
orbit on the Challenger Space Shuttle
while testing biological materials in
electrical fields under microgravity. The
Nakaya diagram was confirmed shortly
after, with artificial snow crystals made
in an updraft. Now, scientists can cre-
ate artificial snow at will, with a deep
understanding of the environmental and
chemical processes involved.
The shape of snow crystals has also
been intriguing to mathematicians. The
Koch snowflake, named after Swedish
mathematician Helge von Koch, was one
of the earliest fractals to be described. It
consists of equilateral triangles drawn
on to segments of an existing triangle
repetitively. Adding triangles to every
side of the previous state is one iteration.
The Koch snowflake is what you end up
with as the number of iterations tends to
infinity.
Considering the fractal as a mathemati-
cal curve, it would be continuous across
the real numbers but differentiable no-
where, similar to the curious Weierstrass
function that holds the same properties.
These functions challenged the once-
believed idea that every continuous
function was differentiable except on a
set of isolated points. They, like fractals,
exhibit self-similarity; a zoom anywhere
on the curve would look exactly the same
as the bigger picture.
Fractals such as the Koch snowflake tend
to have simple rules for generation but
often result in complex plots after few
iterations. A mathematician called Felix
Hausdorff introduced a means of better
understanding how fractals fill space in
1918, called the Hausdorff dimension. It
was used in cases where the space was
better described with non-integer values,
as opposed to those in classical topologi-
cal dimensions. The Sierpinski triangle,
a famous fractal, consists of three copies
of itself after each iteration, with each
copy shrunk by a factor of a half. The
Hausdorff dimension provides a more
intuitive means of describing the space
taken up by each iteration by taking into
account a ratio of the natural logarithms
of the amount of copies created and their
respective scale factors.
A Sierpinski hexagon, or Hexaflake, is
built with the presence of a Koch snow-
flake at all zoom levels, and is a gener-
alisation of the traditional shape used,
allowing snowflake-like fractals to be
generated from arbitrary polygons tes-
sellated recursively. The Hexaflake has
a larger Hausdorff dimension than the
Koch snowflake, with features including
the replacement of each flake with small-
er polygons on each iteration. Several
fractals have been classified successfully
according to this method of calculating
the space they use, but some have no
analytical solution as yet.
Snowflakes have always been a sym-
bol representative of the festive season,
and Felix Science is keeping its fingers
crossed for a white Christmas.

