CND
A W O R D of thanks to those who supported the
Appeal. The original target has been well and
truly exceeded to such an extent that we can now
look at a more sophisticated system to allow Phil
to produce engineering design drawings. Phil,
being totally paralysed from the neck down, can
only use a mouth stick.
At the present moment we are looking into the
possibility of purchasing a terminal graphics V D U
and a DMP-7 Intelligent plotter to interface with
his mini-computer (on extended loan from Prof
Baker's unit at Cranfield Institute of Technology).
The total set-up could cost in the order of £2,000.
The final outcome of the evaluation by Cranfield,
the manufacturers and Phil will be publicised
later.
How you all supported the Appeal:
Sponsors Donations Total
£ £ £
M e c h Eng 488 250 738
Past P G students 170 20 190
H E Nuclear Physics 100 — 100
Computer Centre 59 11 70
Elec E n g 34 32 66
C & G Motor C l u b — 77 —
Lloyds Bank 209 — 209
F & S K Evening Instit 120 — 120
Others 66 — 66
T O T A L 1636
Dedicated, but not yet received 73
The following ran in the London Marathon
and were sponsored for the Phil Lloyd Appeal: Ed
Clayton (High Engergy Nuclear Physics); Bob
Collinson (Lloyds Bank and Fulham and S
Kensington Evening Institute); Peter Saunders
(Mech Eng). Also running from Imperial College:
Neil Wilkinson and Brian Clark, both from
Geology.
I should like to give my personal thanks to the
various collectors and all those who gave me
encouragement in organising the Appeal
Pete Saunders
PG Tips
W E L L , another year seems to have gone by and
its time to think about elections again. Papers are
up in the Union for nominations for the President,
Treasurer and Secretary of the Post Graduate
Group. These are responsible positions since the
P G Group is a subtle but effective voice for PGs
and after all it channels a certain amount of
money from 1CU to you. If you think that you
might be interested in standing for any of these
posts then feel free to contact any of us for a chat.
The papers will be taken down on Friday, June
12 and there will be an A G M open to all PGs on
Wednesday, June 17 at 1:15pm to hear the results
for the first three posts and to elect the social
secretary and welfare officer.
Enough of this official stuff. There will be a
Ploughman's Lunch preceding the A G M . Tickets
at £1.00 will be available from the Union Office.
This promises to be a well attended event. So we
h o p e that y o u will c o m e and enjoy the
penultimate (sob) P G Group event of this year.
David Wood
N A T I O N A L C N D are organising a train to
Glasgow for the demonstration on Saturday,
June 6, so if you're bored with exams, come and
have a look round the submarine bases on the
Clyde. The train costs £15 and leaves on Friday
evening, returning on Sunday afternoon; tickets
from Ian Heavens, Atmospheric Physics Group,
Huxley Building. Despite a three month ban on
marches, Strathclyde police are allowing the
demonstration to go ahead, which is jolly kind of
them as we were going to march anyway.
Nearer to home, this Sunday sees the arrival of
the Liverpool and Bradford marches against
unemployment, with a rally at midday at Hyde
Park Corner followed by a march to Trafalgar
Square and speeches. C N D supports increased
employment in socially responsible ways as an
alternative to labour-intensive arms industries, so
join us and welcome the Liverpool unemployed
on Sunday (meet 11:45am outside the Huxley
Building, Queensgate).
m i , : * '
m
Bookshop News
Engraved Pewter Tankards
We now stock a selection of these tankards, all
bearing the College Crest. If by chance one is
required with special lettering, this can be
ordered at a cost of 15p per letter. In choosing the
six designs, I have tried to cater for all tastes, the
prices are competitive and ail tankards bear the
symbol of the Association of British Pewter
Craftsmen..
New Penguin Titles
The Yawning Heights-Alexander Zinoviev, King
Penguin, £4.95
A Confederacy of Dunces-John Kennedy Toole,
King Penguin, £2.50
The Orchid Tri/ogy-Jocelyn Brooks, King Pen-
guin, £2.95
Lamb-Bernard Maclaverty, King Penguin, £1.95
Labyrinths-Jorge Luis Borges, King Penquin,
£2.50
Virgin in the Garden-A S Byatt, King Penguin,
£2.95
English History 1914-1945-A J P Taylor, Pelican,
£3.50
Weather Forecasting the Country Way-Robin
Page, Penguin, £1.00
Wheels Within Whee/s-Dervla Murphy, Penguin,
;£1.50
Letters From America 1946-1951-Alistair Cooke,
Penguin, £1.50
Buying a House or Flat-L E Vickers, Penguin,
£1.75
Carnival in Romans-Emmanuel le Roy Ladurie,
Penguin, £3.25
iSeven Steps to the Sun-Fred & Geoffrey Hoyel,
Penguin SF, £1.25
Year of the Disabled-Just a sick joke?
1981 has been designated the International Year
of the Disabled. But unless action is taken now it
will also see the most vicious attack on the rights
of the disabled in Britain for generations.
The attack comes from a committee chaired by
influenctial Labour M P , Ms Renee Short. The
Short Report (the second report of the House of
C o m m o n s Social Services Committee on
Perinatal and Neonatal Mortality) challenges the
basic human rights of the handicapped.
Guinea Pigs
Firstly the report wants research to be carried out
on unwanted handicapped infants "of no
particular benefit to them and which may carry
some risk of harm". This change in the law would
make these babies as expendable as laboratory
animals.
Price of Life
The report goes on to describe the savings that
can be made from avoiding the care of the
handicapped altogether. The Short Report puts
pressure on Area Health Authorities to screen all
pregnant women to detect handicapped babies in
time to abort them. The report states: "In a high
risk area such as South Wales the annual savings
from avoiding the care of severely handicapped
survivors exceeds the annual cost (of screening)
in the second year and every year thereafter".
The Short Report shares the view of the Office
of Health Economics whose booklet "Mental
Handicap — ways f o r w a r d " recommended
screening as the cheapest way of dealing with the
problem of disablement. By disposing of a
handicapped person's life in this way it is
estimated a saving of over £225,000 can be made.
Dangers
The Report has glossed over the dangers of mass
screening. The Royal College of Obstetricians
and Gynaecologists remains opposed to mass
screening because of the high risks of mother and
baby. The procedure used, amniocentesis,
involves inserting a needle into the pregnant
woman's womb and withdrawing some of the
amniotic fluid. In one study one in twenty-five
women who had undergone amniocentesis
suffered serious complications. A letter in the
Lancet told of a thirty-five year-old woman who_
underwent the procedure in the sixteenth week of
pregnancy. Twelve weeks later, the mother
delivered a premature baby. The baby was so
malformed that he died four minutes later.
Amniocentesis had revealed a perfectly normal
child but it had caused amputation of his limbs
and severe injuries to his head and pelvis. Imagine
how the mother must have felt.
Error
Another problem is that the test is not very
accurate. Twins can be mistaken for spina bifida
and aborted in error. Similarly, it is not possible to
assess the degree of handicap. An article in the
New Scientist reported that "the human cost of
preventing some 555 spina bifida births per year
(by prenatal diagnosis and abortion) in England
and Wales would be 120 dead or damaged normal
infants."
Liquidation
What the Short Report's recommendation will do
if implemented will be to divide people in to two
groups, one with the right to live and the other
expendable. If that seems familiar, remember
under Nazi Germany the handicapped "useless
bread eaters", were the first to be 'liquidated'.
Alternative
There is an alternative. It is well established that
the incidence of mentally handicapped births is
linked to socio-economic and environmental
factors. Currently no research is being done to
establish why this is so. We want to make people
at IC aware of Short's recommendations so that
they can make a positive contribution to the Year
of the D i s a b l e d by s t a n d i n g up for the
fundamental rights shared by us all, handicapped
or fit, rich or poor, loved or unloved.
Frank Rouseel and J P Stanley.
Page 4 FELIX, May 29, 1981

