f e a t u r e
H E N U M B E R O F C A R S O W N E D I N T H I S
country is increasing every year. The Department of
Transport forecasts that in 30 years' time, there will
be another 13 million cars on Britain's road; This
massive increase will create more problems than youi
mighi ihink The first pictures that spring to mind
are smog, fumes and bumper-to-bumper traffic jams.
Bui the problems will go much deeper than that, For
a start, where are we going to park all these cars?
Considering that the average car spends only 5% of
its time being driven, parking spaces quickly become
rather important. If you were to park all 13 million of
these cars end to end, they would form a queue
49,000 miles long. This is the equivalent of a new
London to Edinburgh motorway 130 lanes wide. Just
to park them. When you start driving them, things
become really problematic.
traffic, the Government has frozen all spending on
road building. This was partly due to the attitudes of
the general public i n the form of protests and
• f r a r o n m e n t a l concerns. So we can't have more
• p i s to drive our 13 million cars on for the time
being.
"JT\ u t
what if that policy is reversed? More of the
I r C country will be paved for roads and parking,
J L # and more of the countryside will be quarried
for the necessary building materials. A n d the more
roads there are, the more people will use them, so the
problem of congestion won't be reduced, it will
simply occur elsewhere.
Currently, about 36 in every 100 people own a
car. In the US, it's about 70 cars for every 100 people.
Over here, that figure is considered to be saturation
13 MillionReasons
Not toBuy aCar
by Lisa Raj an
Currently, about
36 in every 100
people own a car.
In the US, it's
roughly 70 cars
for every 100
people. Over
here, that figure
is cons? i to
be saturation
point.
Since these 13 million people have bought a
car, one can assume that they are going to drive
them-and drive $
M
W
*
S
S - - -
money's w ; r • . -
is huge: tl s ;<»,;-. • : '•• • - -he tax on
the cost, t'
These lt\cd costs are very high. They comprise
three-quarters of the total expense of owning a car,
the rest being the petrol cost. The Royal Commission
notes tha the high ratio of fi\ed l 'inning costs
may be- p.. _ - v •
of the car'
any 01 ::c -, made are not those that
would originally have been made on public
transport either. The extra journeys are ones
that would not have been made at all, e.g. late at
night or nations.
• - ne',v car: ave not being used at the expense
ol public, transport Many environmentalists think
that the solution is 1
0 get people out ol then cars and
back unto public transport. But the reality is thev
were never on it in the first place. Owning .
1 car
makes possible all sorts of new journeys.
With more cars, we will-need more roads.
Following the admission by the Department oi
Transport that building more roads' creates more
point: when everyone who can drive a car, owns a
car. This is fine i f you are fit enough and old enough
to drive, and can afford one. This leaves 20 million
people without i ars, who l u \ e to rely on the goodwill
oi those who have one, or what's left of public
transport. In an increasingly car-dominated society,
the amount ol money invested into improving public
transport is minimal, allowing its demise into a
third-rate service.
nthony Crosland, the Secretary ol State lor the
Environment in 1976, said, 'Car ownership
i should increase, for personal mobility is what
people want, and those who already have it should
not try to pull the ladder up behind them'. In 1990,
the Government says that it 'welcomes the
continuing w i d e n i n g of car ownership as an
important aspect of personal freedom and choice'.
People without a car have no freedom and no choice.
In the future, as more and more people own cars, the
land use patterns will respond to their needs. For
instance, shops and businesses often relocate to out-
ol town sites which can be reached by car and have
space for parking. As the number of cars grows, so
does the incentive to own one
When buying a house, car owners put a high
priority tm the importance of p a r k i n g space.
F e a t u r e
Suburban housing estates are built with this in mind.
Older inner-city buildings cannot accommodate
mass car ownership, and so the more wealthy, who
can afford cars, live out of town, i
the suburbs. This leaves those who are;}
inner cities. T h e resulting
pollution, urban decay and c r i |
no incentive to live in the
downward spiral.
V m
o
v
e
s to
well-off in
, such as
c wealthy
g another
T
he Government's statement about increased
personal choice and freedom is based cm the
theory that increased mobility allows people to
meet others with similar interests that don't live in
their locality. Neighbourhoods used to consist of a
disparate group of people who had nothing i n
common other than the fact that they shared the
same street. The car allowed then to meet up with
people from different areas with similar interests.
With car ownership the way it is today, this has led
to many people not even knowing their neighbours,
let alone taking part in their local community. Street
life retreats and communities are weakened. Society
at a local level becomes more anonymous.
Before the situation got this bad, people knew
everyone in their town, however dissimilar their
lives. If a crime as committed, the local bobby knew
where to start looking, as it had to be someone local.
Now that anyone can drive anywhere in the country,
many crimes don't have a hope of being solved, and
so the problem escalates. As our world become more
anonymous, the productivity of criminals increases.
he car growth rate m the U K is astounding
enough. But in developing countries, the rate is
four times higher. At present, they hive a lot
fewer cars - the whole of China has 1.4 million,
which is half as many as there are in London alone.
China currently has one car for every 1000 people.
The total number of cars in China, India, Pakistan
and Bangladesh is still less than a qua'tor oi the
number in Britain. But the car population 01 China is
doubling every four years. C h i n a and otl -
developing countries use us as an example, and aspire
to what we now have. They see the productivity of
their motor industries as a measure of economic
strength.
The US now widely admits that the staggering
levels of car ownership and use are causing huge
environmental damage. The city of Los Angeles
acknowledges that the transport system was a
contributing factor in the recent riots.
The price paid by the environment is
escalating. Western governments are relying on
• ••• produce cleaner, more
efficient engines and catalytic converters. They are
looking to pie-in-the-sky technologies of the future
to cope wuh the environmental consequences ol
growing car dependence.
With the Western World unable to slow the
out-ol'-control demand for more cars; and the
aspirations of the Third World to compete
economic..:'- : - .u'actii sn
catastrophic.
o what can be done to reverse the trend? How
an we stop the potential damage? The obvious
u solution would be to slow down production,
atul stop Third World countries from taking the
same path we did. But that's neither fair nor realistic.
We can't suddenly stop using our cars and go back to
public transport, because 11 wold compromise our
standard of living and freedom. Clearly, things
cannot go on as they are; but, at the same tune, any
change mush be economically and socially viable.
John Adams of University College, London,
has suggested a scheme for cities .such as London. It's
called the 'Street Fleet', and would meet most of the
transport needs ol people with access to public
transport and little parking. It's ideal for people who
buy cars mainly for shopping or the odd spontaneous
trip to .
-
> n -,uo • v. > h c --e.n- >\u,
tTTi he plan is as follows. A residential sireet or area
I would collectively use a fleet of cars hired to
X them by a car hire firm. The fleet would
contain many different kinds of vehicle, with
reserved on-sireet parking. Residents can use any of
t he vehicles 1 remember, most ears are parked for 95%
of their time' and have a ' i n i a r ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ »
then mileage. The fleet is maintained by some of the
residents, creams local job opportunities SiQtSftlMH
fleet is communal, ride-sharing opportunities cduldf
be co-ordinated by managers.
People pa-ueipaling in the scheme would
benefit from special rate transport and
local taxi forms, encouraging their use on journeys
where it is not necessary to-go by car. The scheme
could also involve co-ordinated home and doorstep
deliveries r-f • •;»•: re--usa3||lt
containers (as milk bottles are already), helping the
environment in a different way.
.. there was .
• • ct cars, and mc
pedestrians and v.y,l;-:s. more people would he
- • • ged to panic_ : _ : .heme. :
It's a beautiful idea in theory, but would it
work in practice? It doesn't address the strong
psychological i U i c a i e , ' : - " • . - - -
towards their cars. Owning a car represents personal
freedom. 'This representation is not very ,ICLU:
however, as in reality the roads are congested and
there is nowhere to park.
~w n a town in Germany, a new subui
1 estate has been built. In order to bu\ property on.
JL this estate you must sign a contract promising
that you will not own a ^ar. 'The estate has its own
fleet of cars and the residents qualify for reductions
on public transport. A scheme exactly like the one
outlined above is in place ami appears to be working.
Perhaps we should be pressurising our
governments to follow the German example. This
scheme seems like the only realistic option at present
if we are to successfully cut down the number of cars
on our loads.
It would also set an inspiring example to
developing countries, who wouldn't have to back-
track in order to implement a scheme like this. B
Owning a car
represents
personal
freedom. This
representation is
not very accurate,
however, as in
reality the roads
are congested
and there is
nowhere to park.
I1FCB95 FELIX H

