Xtra Curricular Feature
Chaos: Is this the mind-mess that could end your happy days?
What is stress?
It is practically impossible to live a life with-
out any stress in a world where stress thrives.
A certain amount is good for us, since with-
out it we would not have any motivation to
do anything. We would just want to lie down
and enjoy being alive. Stress consists of the
various pressures in our everyday existence.
In our pursuit of needs, such as food,
security, comfort, love, friendship and suc-
cess we encounter various stresses.
Frustration of our basic needs gives us stress.
The death of people close to us, moving to a
new place to live, relationship difficulties,
exam pressure and unemployment are high
risk factors. The times when we are most in
danger of stress is when we have several dif-
ferent stressful aspects in our life at one time.
It will be a struggle to cope with everything at
once, e.g. exam pressures and relationship
problems at the same time.
The trouble is that often we do not
realise that we are under stress and just try to
carry on surviving as usual. We might find
that we are doing more of the things which
we feel help us to relax, such as eating choco-
late, smoking, drinking alcohol or coffee. We
might even find that we worry a lot and do
not feel able to cope with the littlest of things.
The pressures of being a student?
There are many stresses which students face.
Student life, for most people, involves being
away from home for the first time which can
be traumatic, especially if it involves adjust-
ing to a new culture and system. Managing
everyday responsibilities, such as living on a
f F E L I X I1FEB95
low income, dealing with the landlord or
landlady, boring lectures, know-it-all col-
leagues, travel, bad weather and making deci-
sions can be stressful. Student life offers
many opportunities for experimentation
which can create anxieties. Additionally, stu-
dents are expected to do a lot of work and
may leave it to the last minute which can
result in the crisis of having to stay up all
night working to meet deadlines. A l l in all, it
is likely that if you are a student you are
under stress.
The effects of stress
Health experts have identified the effect of
stress in illnesses such as cancer, heart trou-
ble and blood pressure problems. Stress can
lead to physical symptoms such as headaches
and stomach pains. In many cases, it leads to
feelings of sadness, fatigue and insomnia
which in the extreme can amount to depres-
sion.
Stress can cause people to make mistakes
and to develop addictions in the search for
comfort and relaxation. Smoking, taking
drugs and alcohol abuse are often related to
stress.
What can you do?
Before you rush for a cigarette or drink, try
the following:
1 Recognise stress symptoms e.g. feelings of
not being able to cope. Acceptance of stress is
important. If you admit to yourself that you
are stressed, it will help as you can then look
at ways of dealing with it. Remember, if you
Could you be under stress?
Keys: Pillow, Aromatherapy, Exams
get stuck or don't know what to do, speak to
someone ('a problem shared...').
2 Relaxation may help. There are a number
of ways of relaxing. Techniques, include cre-
ative visualisation, The Alexander
Technique, meditation and aromatherapy.
There are also herbal medicines which can
help you to relax, although it is worth trying
to find out about any possible side-effects
first.
3 Talking to friends can help but sometimes
professional counselling is required. See the
list of useful organisations. There is nothing
to be ashamed about having counselling.
4 If you get stressed because there are too
many demands on you, learn to prioritise. If
you are taking exams you may need to plan
your time so that you can get all the impor-
tant things done first (and this does not mean
that you cannot have any time for enjoy-
ment). Consider what needs to be done first,
organise your work to meet deadlines. Speak
to your department if you need help with
your work.
5 Laugh at things, as laughter produces a
good biochemical reaction and so does smil-
ing. Crying is also a good way of releasing
tension and stress.
6 Shout (but not in a crowded lecture room).
7 Hit your pillow.
8 Sport is good as it releases frustration and
in addition is good for general well being.
9 Listen to music. Certain types of music is
relaxing. Dancing can also release tensions
that have built up.
10 Be assertive, tell people what you think
(but be careful!). Don't let things build up. If
someone or something is making you unhap-
py, challenge it head on.
11 A healthy diet can help.
12 Write down how you feel. Emphasise
your good points and recognise your weak
points. Once you have acknowledged the fac-
tor^) which cause you stress, look at different
ways of dealing with it. Different things work
for different people.
J. Cummins, Assistant Adviser with the help of
Minever Kavlak, Union Adviser.
Health Centre x49375
Don Adlington (Student Counsellor)..x49430
Union Adviser x48067
Nightline 0171 436 5561
The Samaritans 0171 734 2800
Gamblers Anonymous 0181 741 4181
Overeaters Anonymous 0171 498 5505
Smokers Quitline 0171 487 3000
Narcotics Anonymous 0171 498 9005
Alcohol Abuse 0171 352 3001

