Xtra Curricular
Sag
Other Events This Term
Keys: Elections, Sense, Rag Tour
Firstly, well done to all those who collected
for the Dirty Dozen event. Overall you raised
about £450, the top team being from Beit Hall
and the top collector, Chae Martyn. Scope
have apologised for any confusion concerning
the party and prizes. Unfortunately our Rag
did not win the free beer, but the top collec-
tors will get prizes and all those that took part
will get a T-shirt from Scope.
The City collection for today has been
postponed until March so the competition for
the Inter-rail tickets won't be held until then.
However, we have decided to run the compe-
tition as a raffle, rather than give the prize to
the person who collects the most. Each par-
ticipant will be given a ticket for collecting
plus one extra for each £5-£10 they collect.
We have now booked the minibuses for
Rag Tour so it is most definitely going ahead.
The details of when we are leaving, the exact
route and the time we are coming back will
be given out at our meeting so i f you have
signed up then you should come to today's
meeting at 1.10pm in the Union Lounge. If
this is impossible then please see one of the
committee in the Rag Office as soon as possi-
ble.
Other events going on include a collec-
tion at Q P R vs. Blackburn for the Save the
Children fund tomorrow so sign up at our
meeting if you want to watch some live foot-
ball for free. Also on Wednesday we have
some station collections for SENSE. These
are always good events for increasing your
Rag total, maybe gaining your mug or T -
Shirt and are an alternative to sport on a
Wednesday afternoon.
Have you taken part in Rag events this
year? Would you like to have a say in how a
society is run? If so then maybe a post on the
Rag Committee is for you. We will be electing
next year's executive committee (Chair,
Treasurer and Secretary) before the end of
term so if you would like to stand come along
to our meetings and talk to this years com-
mittee to find out what is involved.
Otherwise just come along to vote.
Finally, watch this space for any revela-
tions about goings on on Rag Tour, and also
details of the many events coming up i n
^G33Q9lTD
Achieving an Appetite?
Keys: Fast, Ramadhan, Taqwa
By the time you read this, over a thousand
million Muslims world-wide will have com-
pleted eighteen days of fasting, from dawn to
dusk each day. Every year, the lunar month
of Ramadhan is observed by the M u s l i m
communities in every corner of the globe and
although others may know of it, few have any
real ideas as to what it involves. T h e
Muslims' fast entails complete abstention
from food and drink. Some ideas are circulat-
ed along the lines of fasting being a yearly
bout of self-denial. In fact, fasting as ordained
in the Qur'an, has more outcomes than mere
hunger and thirst.
"O you who believe! fasting is prescribed
for you, as it was prescribed for those before
you, so that you may attain Taqwa."
[Translation of the Meaning of the Qur'an,
2:183]
Ramadhan is a month of training - both
individual and collective. So what does it
train the Muslims for? As described in the
Qur'an, the first aim is to attain "Taqwa",
and "Taqwa" translates as "God-conscious-
ness." In practice, God-consciousness is
responsibility and accountability in actions.
Thus attaining Taqwa is vital for individual
and collective development.
More precisely, an individual reaps a
number of benefits of which discipline and
self-control is top of the list. Being able to
resist the tempting aromas of food and drink
throughout the day is no mean feat! T o
observe the fast till sunset requires patience
and perseverance. So: we get a little hungry
and thirsty; our tummies rumble. Where's
the gain in that? In fact, rumbling tummies
serve as an excellent reminder to the fasting
persons of the Ever-Present God, i.e. God-
consciousness is attained. Such are the spiri-
tual proceeds of fasting.
What of the physical proceeds? Recent
research has confirmed that fasting promotes
active cleansing of the body. Many potential-
ly toxic substances that accumulate within
the various organs of the body are degraded
and removed from the system. As with any
system, thorough cleaning of the working
parts is essential for good maintenance.
Ramadhan also sees a persistent increase
in the community spirit among Muslims.
The bonds of Brotherhood are further
strengthened and will, hopefully, last for the
rest of the year. As a result of acquiring
Taqwa, Muslims adopt a more caring attitude
towards those around them; consideration for
other members of society grows in the hearts
and minds of the fasting Muslims.
The real meaning of Ramadhan does not
lie i n it being a "season of good w i l l " as
Christmas has come to be, but the resulting
manifestations of Taqwa in daily actions are
intended to last throughout the year too.
Those who are not trained to do so this year,
those who forget the lessons of fasting (and
my, don't we all forget so easily!) and those
who need to reinforce it all again, will have a
chance to fulfil these requirements through
fasting during Ramadhan next year.
So, Ramadhan is a month in which daily
achievable goals are set and met while, i n
essence, the aims i n life of global Muslims
remain the same. What better way to direct
the energies of the people to become law-
abiding, disciplined and compassionate citi-
zens than through God-consciousness and its
rigorous practice!
Iftar (meal for breaking the fast) is pro-
vided in the Islamic Society prayer room (9
Princes Gardens, Basement) free of charge
during Ramadhan; Ramadhan timetables are
also available. The Islamic Society welcomes
anyone who wishes to discuss Islam.
Summer Courses
Keys: Ski, Exchanges, Europe
How did you hear about this? Is the
most typically asked question when students
discover the benefits of participating i n
B E S T activities. These are mostly entirely
free of charge for all students.
A list of the summer courses for which
we have information so far is available from
Bernat Albinyana B r i l on ba01@ic.ac.uk.
These courses are open to everybody. T o
apply you should get in contact with our soci-
ety either by email on eybest@ic.ac.ik or by
attending one of our presentations. The later
is in any case compulsory if you wish to par-
ticipate. A d d i t i o n a l l y you may want to
browse through the B E S T W W W pages on
http://www.nada.kth.se/~ovidiu/best.
There will be presentations on the BEST
summer programme and other events on
Mondays, February 20th and 27th, at 1pm in
Chem. Eng. L T 1 , and Monday 6th March at
5pm in Chem. Eng. L T 1 .
The Board of European Students of
Technology was founded i n 1989 as an
answer to the rising demand for undergradu-
ate student mobility. Its main goals are to
promote Europe and provide a solid informa-
tion network among its students. Today there
are 30 local groups in 20 countries, however
the association is growing at a rate of 15%+ a
year.
Other activities include ski weeks (ca.
£100) in Les Arcs and Slovakia, European
Weeks in Eindhoven, Paris and Trondheim
among others, cultural exchanges with any of
the other member universities and basically
anything you care to organise. This is an
opportunity more than anything else.
I1FEB9S F E L I X MM

