BgaQs
Love and Little White Lies
Keys: Cupid, Regurgitate, Love
So, that's the soul-destroying week
(Valentines Week) over and done with, well
almost... I won't bore you with all the reasons
that I didn't get any cards, I'll just swallow
my pride, wipe the tears from my eyes and get
on with telling you what's going on...
Friday - Bust-a-Gut Comedy
The culmination of all things lovey and
dovey. A night of two halves, as it were, start-
ing at 8pm with 'Bust-a-Gut Comedy'. This
week featuring the Anarchic combination of
quick witted banter and blazing silliness' that
are Chris and George, who are more than ably
supported by Julian Barrett and Phil Davey.
Tickets are just £2.50, and for the first 50
through the door there's a free bottle of
Newcastle Brown. Kick off is 8pm.
Then loose yourself in a dream of pas-
sion and romance with "Love" - including a
special 'Love Lounge' room, and giveaways
on the door. 9-2am, £1.
Monday - Live Football
Live Premiership Football. Da Vinci's, 7pm.
Tuesday - Pub Quiz
Dan the man with more questions than
answers, and a £50 cash prize for the winning
team. 50p per person to enter and miles better
odds than the lottery! Da Vinci's, 8pm.
Wednesday - Club Spanque
Dancing and debauchery at Club Spanque.
Celebrate the middle of the week, for want of
a better excuse. 9-lam, free.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
Sophistication, glamour and plastic umbrellas
- get together for drinkies in Da Vinci's with
our very special Cocktail Night. Da Vinci's,
6-1 lpm.
Friday - Regurgitator
Back to the Future... A night of extreme
tastelessness and tacky behaviour.
To open the night, and your eyes - you
will believe a man can swallow live goldfish!
The triumphant return of the top act on the
student cabaret circuit - Stevie Starr, The
Regurgitator. Tickets are £2.50 for the show
and disco, but are strictly limited. Doors
open 8pm.
Then it's time to hit the boogie wonder-
land and dance yourself dizzy with top disco
tracks of the 70's and pop classics of the 80's.
So dress up in the spirit of things, raid those
Oxfam shops and get funky! There'll be give-
aways on the door and prizes for the funkiest
threads, so leave your pretensions and hang
ups at home and get ready to party. 9-2am, £1.
PjQrjii 3.0(3
Forthcoming Attractions
Keys: Nightmare, Sleep, Nancy
With Valentines day slipping past once more,
here's a chance to see another side of
romance, in Sid and Nancy. The story of Sid
Vicious (Gary Oldman) and his American
groupie girlfriend Nancy Spungen. Oldman
is excellent in this cult film directed by Alex
Cox (the guy who annoys everybody by delay-
ing the start of Moviedrome). Black comedy
and compassion mix beautifully with the
well-loved soundtrack by The Pogues. 8pm
this Saturday.
Following the Valentines theme we bring
you 'Sleep With M e ' on Sunday at 8pm, with
a title that says it all. Besides the starring
roles of Eric Stoltz and Meg Tilley, Quentin
Tarantino appears with a legendary yet con-
troversial spiel about Top Gun. Turning our
attention away from Comedy we enter the
ICU Cinema Nightmare phase. Wes Craven
offers up his New Nightmare on Wednesday
at 8pm. The series returns to the top form of
the first Freddy film, the only other E l m
Street that Craven directed.
The final film of the week, on Sunday
26th February, is one of the highlights of the
term, T i m Burton's ' N i g h t m a r e Before
Christmas'. H i s black, fantastic world is
introduced with his very first short film,
'Vincent'. Dazzling animation and alterna-
tive plot lead to most enjoyable romp.
Trips This Term
Keys: Chimney, Flood, Ice, Mud
While "Mountaineering" clubs hide indoors
during the winter, S + G the Outdoor Club
has been visiting Wales and the L a k e
District; areas famed for their low rainfall fig-
ures.
A minibus-ful (including a few renegades
from the M o u n t a i n e e r i n g Club) visited
Tremadoc in South Snowdonia at the begin-
ning of term. Some headed into the hills in
search of ice climbing while others went
walking. The most sensible stayed at the hut
and tried to unblock the chimney.
Unfortunately, chimneys do not seem to be
made for people to hang on. A thud on the
roof and muffled cursing told those inside the
hut that a piece of chimney had fallen off
(along with the Mountaineer hanging onto
it). We tied it back together with string and
hoped no-one would notice.
The fire, however, worked perfectly after
that and helped to dry off those who had gone
in search of ice. The following day gave
everyone a chance to go rock climbing on the
crags behind the hut. It didn't even rain
much.
The Lake District weekend saw plenty of
hillwalking and dramatic views across the
hills and lakes. A few determined nutters
tried climbing but gave up when their fingers
went numb. As if in revenge for breaking the
last hut, we found that this one had been
recently flooded. The living room had 1/2
inch of mud on the floor but a bit of shovel-
ling meant the place was soon habitable.
Fortunately the bedroom was upstairs and
the river low enough for us to be able to cross
to the pub.
Coming up is another trip to the Lake
District and one to Yorkshire. The Annual
Dinner in Derbyshire starts off the summer
term and the end of exams (for most) is cele-
brated by the C o r n w a l l trip i n June.
(Thoughts of surfing, climbing, canoeing,
cream teas and barbecues on the beach are
distinctly unhelpful on a January weekend in
Wales). The year culminates in the 3-week
f FELIX HFEB9B

