Xtra Curricular
alpine trip to Gran Paradiso in Italy.
If you enjoy walking, climbing, moun-
taineering or mountain biking, or want to
learn, then you're welcome on these trips.
The aim is for everyone on a trip to be able to
do what they want whether it be easy and
straightforward or utterly nutty (if you like
that sort of thing).
You can find out more at our meetings in
Southside upper lounge (l-2p.m. Tuesdays)
or see the noticeboard on the stairs in the
Union.
Your Starter for Ten!
Keys: Paxman, Baldrick, lago
Fancy p i t t i n g your wits against Jeremy
Paxman? Well, then the good news is that
Imperial College is to field at least one team
in this year's series of University Challenge.
The bad news is that we are working to a
tight deadline as our application(s) have to be
in by 24th February. The team(s) will consist
of four members plus a reserve. A l l members
of the team must be full-time students.
Because the series will not be transmitted
until autumn/winter 1995, contestants should
expect to remain full-time students in the
next academic year (1995-6). We are looking
for a balanced of team members in terms of
male and female members and would prefer
at least half of team members to be under-
graduates. We are looking for individuals
with good general knowledge, particularly of
the Arts and Humanities. If you interested in
taking part please come to the Link Lecture
Theatre on the F o u r t h Floor of the
Biochenistry Department at 6.00pm on
Tuesday 21st February. (Please check
whether you are up to it first by trying the
quiz below!). If you cannot attend this meet-
ing, but would still like to take part, please
contact Mark Pallen, Room 502, Department
of Biochemistry (email: m.pallen@ic.ac.uk)
before the 21st February.
Is it worth your while? See if you are up
to it by trying to answer the following ques-
tions:
O In what language did the novelist Isaac
Bashevis Singer write?
© What style of painting is associated with
the artist Georges Seurat?
© Where is Tuva?
© Who played Baldrick in Black Adder?
© What do the following people have in
common: Shelley, Brian Jones, Mary Jo
Kopechne?
0 Where did the dodo live?
© In which Shakespeare play does lago
appear?
0 Which British monarch wrote an anti-
smoking tract?
© What is Nasi Goreng?
© Who was the original cynic?
iSSSSSSZS'S-k ' ' Y YO:'"''' - ' ''-.,7/
• %v*i'SiSiSSSS"Si'Mr'SSSSJ. .:SsW'SS:S• ?<>,:f;
v- •
:
ssSkS'^-m
•:
M£SS:,>S ... ' . ' • ~r
-r^S'S •<•
SS':SSm§ms0^ • v-v:' f,.
'S^S[:
':
''[
l •!•:::•:•.} (•••:•
: :
0 : " - . :
Your score: 7-10 Come to the meeting -
we need you! 5-6 Still worth a go! 4-5 With a
lot of swotting you may be suitable. <4 Don't
waste your time!
Events For This Term
Keys: Hellenic, Umbrella, BEST
Hello to all of you pro- or anti-Europeans out
there! EuroYouth/BEST is more active than
ever this spring term, and here's a bit of
information on what has been going on so far
and what will follow.
First of all the organisation of a BEST
Summer Course in Distributed Computing is
going well and we need more people who
would like to get involved in the process and
give a hand to the responsible subcommittee.
Please contact Emil Lupu (Computing P G ,
ecll@doc) for more information.
The series of group discussions on
European issues, "Speaker's Corner" started
off this term two weeks ago, the first two
themes being "the European Parliament" and
the "European Commission". This coming
Thursday we'll be discussing "the Economics
of the Union". The "Speaker's Corner" is
scheduled for every Thursday at 1pm,
C h e m E n g R m 252 (Seminar R m 1) and
everyone is welcome to attend and contribute
to the discussion.
In March we will be holding two meet-
ings to present the BEST Summer Program
1995 to the student body. One of the main
projects of the Board of European Students of
Technology each year. Technical summer
courses are held under the BEST umbrella in
almost all of the leading Universities across
Europe.
On Thursday, March the 9th we are
organising a mini-conference with the
Hellenic Society. The theme is "Can there be
a common European foreign policy in view of
the Yugoslav conflict?". Dr S Economides of
the International Affairs Dept of the L S E will
give a lecture on the subject, followed by
question and open debate time. We also plan
to have a lecture on "Work Prospects within
the E U Institutions" and show a film in coop-
eration with the Italian Society. In the pre-
last week of term we will have our elections
and a dinner out, and afterwards the IC dele-
gation to the Oxford University Seminar
"Europe in 2020" will merrily hop to Oxford!
So watch this space for further information
on our activities nearer the time.
E u r o Y o u t h can be contacted at
eybest@ic.ac.uk, and if you wish to be on our
mailing list mail our General Secretary,
L o i z o s Pallaris fCompScie/Maths U G 2 ,
lpl@doc).
J ^ i J d . i l j J
It's Time to Reminisce
Keys: Party, Jungle, Mobile
Now that everyone has recovered from the
weekend trip to Amsterdam, the Indian
Society has been busy organising the party of
the year "Reminisce". Details for this major
event have now been finalised and doors open
at the Gass Club (Whitcomb Street, just off
Leicester Square) on Monday 27th February
at 10pm, with the festivities not ending
before 3am.
Everyone is welcome to a night of soul,
swing and hiphop as well as jungle and
bhangra for those who are feeling more ener-
getic. Tickets are currently selling fast at over
twenty different colleges and intercollegiate
halls across London, so an electric atmos-
phere is guaranteed. There is also a special
offer r u n n i n g from Trans Globe
C o m m u n i c a t i o n who are offering free
Motorola mobile phones to the first 25 people
through the doors after 11pm.
Tickets are still only £3 and are available
from any of the Indian Society Committee
(generally to be found i n the J C R at
lunchtimes!) or by ringing either of the hot-
lines; 0956 837548 or 0956 558120. Don't you
dare miss it!
LKgQP
2001: A Space Odyssey
Keys: Apes, Humans, HAL
Yes, that favourite old perennial again!
Apes evolve, humans find something on the
Moon, a computer kills some astronauts and
one human evolves into something else.
Confusing? It helps to have read the book,
which you could do if you bothered to use
our great library - but very few of you do.
Shame.
One question. Would an IC DoC student
have made a better job of programming
H A L ? Who knows? Who cares! See you all
there!
For more information please see
http://wouw.ph.ic.ac.uk/moonlg/ or mail
icsf@ic.ac.uk.
I1FEB9S F E L I X HE

