Standby
^ worthy
For all the gaping faults of the
Hollywood system there's one thing
it tends to do well - feelgood by ]
number films. It's a category that
fits the shawshank redemption
like a granny knitted mitten.
The cliques are present right
from the start onwards. Andy
Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is wrongly
convicted of killing his wife and her
lover and sent to Shawshank prison
to serve two life terms. Inside he
meets Red (Morgan Freeman) and
there the plot remains for ninety
minutes of the film's two hours. We
get to learn (once again) about the
quirks of prison life - how fixers can
get whatever you want, how screws
are sadists who beat people up,
how the warden is a power crazed
maniac who says "there'll be no
blasphemy in my prison", whilst
taking oily back-handers ... It's
nothing new and if the plot was the
only focus of our gaze, most of
Shawshank would be boring.
However it's only supposed to
be a backdrop to the "unlikely
friendship" that strikes up between
the two inmates. It certainly is
unlikely. Red is one of the few
coloured men inside (surely a
statistical mistake even in the
1950s) whilst Andy is a banker who
likes collecting rocks. In fact the
only reason the film works is
because both Robbins and Freeman
are good enough to carry the
concept. The audience can just
believe in them and let pass all the
homilies about prison being some
sort of benign holiday camp,
despite its percentage of
murderers.
The director's uncertainty in
trying to depict a realistic prison
environment is perhaps best seen
with its depiction of the inmate's
sexual activity. Under the cosh of
political correctness these lines
grace the screen: "I guess it
wouldn't do any good to tell them
I'm not homosexual" says Andy.
"They're not homosexual" says Red,
"you have to be human for that" -
pass the sick bag or was that an
Oscar?
As his sentence slowly passes,
you can tell by the nominal flecks
of grey in Andy's hair, the
underlying thrust of the film
becomes clear. Red is the
pragmatist who lives day to day,
whilst slowly becoming
institutionalised whilst Andy, the
educated and innocent liberal
always retains his hope in
humanity, his innocence and the
the shawshank redemption
amencan way.
As should be clear, the
Shawshank Redemption is a worthy
film, which perhaps for that reason
sits rather uncomfortably within the
modern cynical world of cinema.
It's not a bad film and I suppose
that many will enjoy its slow grace
but to paraphrase a modern
philosopher, 'it's like a milky way -
light and you can eat it between
meals without ruining your
appetite".
In f a r f r o m h o m e : the
adventures of yellow d o g , we
see a world that only exists in the
minds of Twentieth Century Fox
executives. It is a dreamy, Wonder
Years place, where fourteen year
old boys aren't interested in
Nintendos, drugs and oral sex, but
rather get kicks out of owning a
dog and going off for slightly
dangerous boat rides with their
dads. Our dad, incidentally, is that
guy who plays the father in the TV
show Harry and the Hendersons,
and mom is Mimi Rogers, first wife
of Tom Cruise and twice winner of
most wooden actress in a sub-
Meryl Streep role.
Set in Canada, presumably in
the present (though if it wasn't for a
couple of helicopters it could have
been anytime after about 1950)
our hero, Angus McCormick is a
happy and healthy 14 year old boy,
who loves his family very much.
Unlike 57% of 14 year olds, he has
never indulged in oral sex, though
he does get to kiss a girl towards
the final half of the film, but that is
after his dog is missing, presumed
dead. For the dog, a stray labrador
he creatively names Yellow, is the
love of young Angus' life.
At its heart, this is a survival
story, and there are some
acceptably engaging moments,
though one can't get over the
feeling that was enthusiastically
pitched to the studio as 'Alive
meets Lassie'. The kid is just as cute
and American and vomitous as one
would expect, but at least we are
ready for that. What one cannot
prepare oneself for is how long
they manage to make an eighty
minute film seem ... I felt like I had
been stuck in the wilderness for 18
days by the end of it all. Only when
he had to start eating insects and
cute little bunny rabbits was my
interest engaged, but alas even
that became tedious. What more is
there to say except that the movie
was spoiled by the number of
screaming incontinent kids in the
audience. Q
^ aces in holes
So did you find your true love on Tuesday? If you did
and want to celebrate, or if you failed miserably and
are still looking, the local style and beauty will be in
Fulham on Saturday for a l o v e l i c k . Another
production from the capable minds of IQ,
expectations of excellence are rife. Having sampled
their quality before, this is one of those evenings you
can turn up at secure in the fact that the dressed up
crowd will be relaxed, the door policy friendly and
the music among the best. Picking an unusual spot,
in my opinion they've scored highly ... from the
general decor to the aquarium under the bar,
Bon/our Vietnam simply oozes style. The Venus room
will be Swinging with HipHop, funk and ragga licks,
while the Cupid room drops passionate garage and
soulful house. This is a one-off special you'd be mad
to miss.
A new night has come to bring relief to funk-
lovers around the capital. If, like me, you're fed up
of the flyers saying 'Funk' that when you get there
translates into 'Swingandhiphop' get yourself to
Brown Sugar as fast as possible and rejoice in the
smoothest groove to move you into Mondays that
has ever been. This is set to become my local, and
the hours in between will seem hard. The jazzy notes
are amplified and added to by the resident
saxophonist, while the talent on the bongos sets the
tempo for the dancing. Food is available 'til 10pm
(£5 for a main) and shortly afterwards the vibe
moves up and the party begins. The first night
attracted some of the cream of the area's stylish
crowd - and you can be certain that they'll all be
going back. On the whole it looks like the quality is
moving West
alovelick @ Bon/our Vietnam, 593-595 Fulham
Road, will be doing it from 10 until 6 for £7.
brown sugar is at the Canal Brasserie, 222
Kensal Road, W10. For just £ 2 , buy unrefined
enjoyment from 7 'til 12. Q
rags F E L I X H H

