BackChat
Life on the Rocks
A Londoner born and bred, Mike Price has twice graduated from
MSc in Th a! Physics in 1 /ith
bloke", he has a
talks to
David Cohen
i c e
Imperial College is - or should be - known for
its collection of odd-ball, obsessive alumni. So
I was not entirely surprised when I drew the
lot to interview M i k e Price, an "ordinary
bloke" who wants to live forever.
Although Mike left Imperial eight years
ago, after receiving his M S c in Theoretical
Physics, he has frequently returned to visit.
This occasion conveniently coincided with
one of the I E E E society's lectures, entitled
Neural Starships. We met after the lecture
(which turned out to be a disappointingly
technical story) and headed for the SCR's
comforts, away from the hubbub of College
life - he prefers somewhere unobtrusive and
quiet. Mike tells me he is very interested in
things to do with modern technology and the
future. Neural networks especially excite him
as they are directly relevant to his rather
irregular hobby: cryonics.
Cryonics is the science of freezing the
body (or parts of it) after death, so that it can
be revived in the future and regenerated into
its former glorious self. Mike believes that
technology will eventually be available to
revive and reconstruct humans from their
frozen matter and, although he hadn't heard
of the eminent A I believers such as Marvin
Minsky, is a firm believer in the philosophy of
strong artificial intelligence. This theory says
that humans are machines r u n n i n g very
complex programs, which, theoretically
speaking, could be switched on and off at will
- if only we knew how...
In 1981 Mike got his BSc in Physics
from Imperial and, not being able to think of
anything better to do, found a job i n the
computing industry. H e started off as a
systems programmer for a French multi-
national, and later became a freelance software
engineer, returning to Imperial in the late
eighties as an M S c student to study
Theoretical Physics.
His intense fascination with cryonics
and immortality, however, began way before
Imperial, as a result of his c h i l d h o o d
obsession with science fiction. The fantasy
gained in momentum and took shape when he
came to College in 1978 to start his degree.
Here he met a number of like-minded souls
through a small ad in F E L I X . Later students
and other professionals joined the group from
around the country. They were to become the
core founders of Alcor (UK), a subsidiary of
the American organisation, established in
1986, whose sole purpose is to arrange and
provide its members with cryonic
preservation services.
As one of the organisation's
directors, Mike is eager to explain
what is offered to its members.
For a one-off payment of
£80,000 you are entitled to a
full-body preservation;
once you are certified
clinically dead Alcor will
take charge of the
proceedings. The process
is as follows: first
anticoagulants are
injected into the blood,
while the heart beat and
respiration are kept
going. Next the body is
packed i n ice and the
blood is replaced by
cryoprotectants to decrease
the damage from freezing.
The body's temperature is
reduced to -77°C - dry ice
temperature (by which time it is
solid) and sent to the US i n an
orange freezer box, to be stored in
Arizona at -179°C in liquid nitrogen.
M i k e himself is signed up for neuro-
preservation (where only the brain is
preserved). This option is not only half the
price but, according to him, is also safer, since
the box is smaller and thus easier to evacuate
from the stores in case of an emergency.
Being a scientist by training I wondered
if research was progressing i n the field?
Apparently, although some Japanese research
in the 1980s detected signs of life in mice
which had been frozen for seven years,
cryonics is currently not an active research
area. However, Mike is not disheartened. He
is confident that its development is inevitable.
His obsession with the future seems to
be his motivation in life. He sees a Utopia
where people won't have to work and social
structures will be entirely changed. He isn't
concerned about the difficulties of adaptation,
and sees them as part of the decision to sign. I
ask whether he would miss his family and
friends, if and when he is revived, should they
choose not to be frozen. He frowns, "sure I'll
miss them, yes. But ultimately my life is of
greater concern." Price is not married, nor
does he have any plans to be.
When I suggest that ethical or moral
issues are involved he chuckles and dismisses
the
question.
"There are no
such issues once you have chosen". Mike may
not be religious (in case you hadn't already
guessed) but he is a firm believer i n an
emerging faith: technology.
M y final question must have been run
past him a thousand times. "Why have you
signed up?" I ask. He laughs. "When people
come to me with inquiries I can tell that those
who ask 'why are you doing it?' will not sign
up."
"For me," he says, "it's axiomatic." Q
For the cold-hearted the contact address is:
Mike Price
Alcor UK
18 Potts Marsh Industrial Estate,
Eastbome Road
Westham
East Sussex
BN24 SNH
Tel: (0181) 845 0203
IIFEBSS F E L I X B M

