Hockey
IC 1st XI —9 QMC 1st X I - 0
After much confusion about the 3rd's UAU match
with Sheffield, the men's 1st team finally set about
their task of defeating QMC, normally one of our
closest rivals in the league. The game was very even
in the first half until Hari Vamadevan broke through
in the last minute to set up Mark Landon for his first
of the game. Literally seconds later IC scored again
to make it 2-0 at half time.
In the second half IC started to play the kind of
hockey it has only shown in bursts, completely
dominating a lacklustre QMC side.
Mark Landon added 3 more to his first half tally and
Colin Wright blasted in 2 from the left wing. The
midfield supremo Phil Studds scored his first goal for
the club after good work from Mike Marshall.
Rounding off IC's best performance to date was our
final goal of the 9 from Gary Knaresborough, who was
very pleased with an excellent team performance.
Football
IC 6ths-2 St Thomas' 2nds-1
After striding onto the pitch twice and finding no valid
opposition (rain and wind permitting), the gallant IC
6ths emerged from the dressing room to dispatch the
opposition in style.
The first half saw some amazing skills, but the
forwards managed to continue their glorious run of
squandered chances. The defence was rarely
troubled, and starting the second half, IC's left back
Robbie Rocket powered a shot just wide to shock us
all. Keeping cool, the 6ths continuously attacked
down the left, and with ten minutes to go, Lilo Lally
latched on to a great pass to slide the ball home for
the deserved lead.
With the opposition still recouping, Phil superbly
rounded their goalie, and surprisingly decided not to
miss the open goal, putting IC in a commanding
position. Gigolo Jon, dreaming of pacific beauties,
gave away a corner from which they scored a
worthless goal as the final whistle blew not a minute
later. We then snuffed out our Davey lamps and
danced the merry dance of merrymen victorious.
IC ll-IO) 0
New II won 4-2 on penalties
New ll-IO) 0
The victory champagne turned sour for IC on
Wednesday after an unexpected defeat in the semi-
final of the cup. Having beaten New College three
times already this season, including a 3-2 win with
nine men and a 6-1 win the previous Saturday, IC
were perhaps a bit over-confident.
On a cold and wet day, and small and heavy pitch
the teams set to their task. For a moment IC thought
they were in the wrong game with many of the New
players looking very unfamiliar! (Could there be
ringers; I'll let you decide.)
The game itself was hard fought. IC had more of
the game and the better chances, with clear efforts
falling to G Phiri and A Jalan. But it was not IC's day
and we were rather unkindly sent out of the
competition on two penalties after half an hour of
gruelling extra time.
Page 12
UAU quarter final
IC 3rds-5 Sheffield 3rds
At the second attempt amidst the howling gales and
falling masonry, IC 3rds came face to face with
Sheffield University 3rds in the UAU quarter final. The
first ever IC team to progress this far started the
match with skill and flair which belied their 3rd team
status.
A dream start saw captain, Kevin Hill, calmly slot
the ball past the stranded Sheffield keeper to the
obvious delight of the large crowd. With the home
supporters cheering there was no looking back and
the second and third goals shortly followed courtesy
Support
Rugby
In last Sunday's semi final of the Gutteridge Cup, IC's
1 st XV rugby side won easily against a KCH team that
failed to make use of a gale blowing in their favour
in the first half. At half-time with the score level at
6-6, it was obvious that IC would take control, which
they did and scored a further five tries. They will now
meet St Thomas Hospital in the final on Sunday Feb
25 at Motspur Park. The Gutteridge Cup is the
knockout competition between all London College and
Hospital sides. To win this would confirm IC as one
of the top college teams in London, and -would be a
fair reflection of the standard of the game played here.
Like many other sports, at IC, however, the
commitment from players is seldom reflected in the
support from other members of College, with the
notable exception of the RSM bottle match. This is
not surprising since going to watch one of the teams,
involves a five hour round trip to Harlington and a lot
of wasted time.
We hope the Gutteridge Cup final will be an
opportunity to change this and for any interested
parties to come along and support the team, and join
the (victory) celebrations afterwards. Support is
always appreciated but never more so than for an
important match like this. It may also be a chance to
discover that the players are not the stereotypical
drunken louts that are sometimes seen around College
bars. Alternatively it may well confirm it, but come
anyway. Lists will be put up on the sports noticeboard
in the Union so that you can sign up and we can
arrange transport.
We look forward to seeing you.
of Jon Briggs and then the well drilled short corner
routine of Justin Holdsworth pushing, iain McGovern
stopping and Kevin striking. At this point IC relaxed
into their normal style of good clean astro hockey with
Scott Hipkins reeking havoc on the left wing and Matt
Wong, Chris Maury and Jason Curry stifling any
Sheffield attacks.
Two further goals by Scott Hipkins sealed
Sheffield's fate and a place in the semi-finals for the
3rds next Wednesday. All supporters are welcomed
for the match against Bristol University on February
14, at Paddington astroturf at 3.30pm.
Squash
The Ladies Squash Team played their last sixteen
match in the UAU Championships this Wednesday
against Essex who had come through the challenge
rounds. After a slight hic-up in locating the
whereabouts of the visiting team and then in locating
the squash courts, due to some stair repairs going on
in the Sports Centre, the match started with the fourth
and fifth ranked matches. Both Han-Bing Choong and
Jenny Jolliffe won very easily as they have done
throughout the championships. The second and third
players, Alison Smith and Toni Perrot followed up with
another two convincing victories to secure a piace for
IC in the quarter finals. This left just Liz Parkin's match
to go and she went on court already knowing the team
had won. She had perhaps the hardest match of the
day but still won overwhelmingly. The Imperial girls,
rather unfortunately, now play.Loughborough in the
last eight.
Result
Imperial-5 Essex-0
Rifle
On Wednesday January 31, six members of Imperial's
rifle squad shot against a team of six from Reading
University at IC's range in the Sports Centre. After
a tense match lasting two hours, IC emerged
victorious with a score of 570 against Reading's 538.
J Primrose, IC's team captain didn't help much by
shooting a spectacularly bad score of 92. Hopefully
there will be a rematch in the not so distant future.

