Amnesty letters Phoenix
In 1961 the British lawyer Peter Benenson published
an article denouncing the imprisonment of thousands
of men and women everywhere for expressing their
opinions, and urged people to react. The cold war was
at its height, and the gloom of nuclear war hung in
the skies. The barely disguised conflicts btween the
superpowers provoked and inflamed regional conflicts
world-wide. Reports of human rights violations in
countries of all political colours were heard
everywhere, and in the circumstances it is not
surprising that Peter Benenson's article set off a
powerful reaction. Amnesty International was
founded, and people were presented with
constructive action they could follow to relieve the
human rights situation.
The organisation has grown and now encompasses
700,000 members in 150 countries, represented by
an elected governing body, the International Council.
Amnesty International's original statute sets out its
objectives which are 'to secure throughout the world
the observance of the provisions for prompt and just
trials, for the release of prisoners of conscience, and
for an end to the death sentence and the practice of
torture world-wide'. 'Prisoners of conscience' are
defined as those imprisoned solely for their beliefs.
When Amnesty is told of an arrest, the first step
is to investigate the case to make sure there are no
reasonable grounds for detention, as in the case of
a detainee who advocates violence. The staff of 240
in the London-based research department sift through
information relevant to the case such as press reports,
trial transcripts and statements from witnesses.
Missions are occassional^ sent to find facts directly.
If no case for detention can be made, the prisoner is
'adopted' as a prisoner of conscience, and put on
Amnesty's campaign list. The last and greatest
obstacle to getting someone released is persuading
the gaolers that they were wrong to lock up the
prisoner in the first place, or to make them so
uncomfortable as to force them to open the prison
gates.
Several methods have proved their worth over the
years. The most famous involves the letter writing
campaigns which submerge government ministries
and embassies with floods of letters from individuals
giving reasoned demands for the release of a particular
prisoner. All other actions publicising cases, such as
vigils at embassies, are used.
An example is the campaign launched last week by
Imperial College's own Amnesty group. It is one of
only two student groups in the UK to be allocated its
own prisoner of conscience, and has been
campaigning on his behalf for a year now. The prisoner
is Alaattin Sahin, a Turkish chemical engineer
incarcerated for journalistic activities in various small
publications. Shortly after the September 1980
military coup, he was sentenced to life imprisonment
(reduced to 38 years on appeal) for distributing
communist propaganda and inciting crime. Amnesty's
subsequent enquiry found no evidence to justify the
arrest and the Imperial College Amnesty group will be
holding a letter writing stall every Thursday lunchtime
in the JCR. Written letters are provided, and passers-
by can read and sign them. The group then sends the
signed letters to the relevant authorities, ministers or
presidents. The Turkish government is particularly
sensitive to criticism since it would like to join the EEC,
but has been rejected, partly because of its dubious
human rights record.
The Imperial group is a good example of how the
3,800 local groups world-wide operate. It meets every
Tuesday to inform members on details of any urgent
action the central British Section may have sent
information about, and which may need immediate
attention. Letters are written, coffee drunk and
strategies thought up.
The group has just brought a death penalty
campaign to a close. This concentrated on the seven
countries who carry out the greatest number of
executions every year, and again involved a lot of
postage. The end of January saw a debate between
the Amnesty chairwoman and the Tory MP Tim
Janman, with a motion in support of the death
penalty. This was defeated by an overwhelming
majorirty of the order of ninety per cent, after an
animated discussion.
The coming months will see a 'sponsored
concentration camp' for which sponsored individuals
will stay confined in a small corner of the JCR
surrounded by barbed wire for a day, with sponsors'
money going mainly to the Post Office via Amnesty
International. On a lighter note, there will be an
entertainments evening with an African band and a
speaker. Anyone interested should go to the top floor
of the Union Building on Tuesday at 5.30pm
Phoenix is the literary magazine of Imperial College.
Founded in 1886 by H G Wells under the title The
Normal Schools Science Journal it is now in its 103rd
year after numerous changes to style and format. This
year, as last year, it will be published in a slim glossy
book format. As regards the contents, those will be
entirely up to you.
I will be grateful for anything vaguely artistic or
literary in nature, particularly short stories, poetry,
photographs and artwork, preferably as soon as
possible.
Anyone wishing to contribute, help in the
production of Phoenix or discuss anything with me
can do so via the Phoenix pigeonhole in the FELIX
Office or the Physics pigeonholes. If you want to see
what Phoenix is about pop into the FELIX Office where
you can get some back copies.
Chris T, Phoenix Editor 1990.
Wellsoc
The H.G. Wells Society (or WellSoc) is one of the
largest societies in College. As you probably know,
H.G. Wells was himself at, what was to become,
Imperial College in the 1880s. Through failing his final
year he went into writing.
The Time Machine, The Invisible Man and War of
the Worlds are among the many books he wrote.
Because of his interest in both science and literature,
our society is very general and we organise talks by
guest speakers on almost any subject that interests
them. They are not all of a scientific nature. This year
for example, out of our nine talks so far, we have had
a talk by the author Terry Pratchett, talks on flying
saucers, the history of alchemy, parascience, science
journalism and on the relationship between religion
and science.
We are currently showing the TV series The Prisoner
and will be organising our annual Skirmish trip later
this term.
If any member would like to become more involved,
come along to our AGM which will be held on Monday
February 12, at 7.30pm in Physics LT1.
Page 13
THE IC ARTS MAGAZINE
PHOENIX
1990
NEEDS CONTRIBUTIONS!
All forms of poetry, prose, artwork, photographs,
drawings and any other bits and pieces welcome.
All contributions to the Phoenix Editor, FELIX Office.

