Burnt offering
Dear Mr Smedley,
As my name was, without provocation, mentioned
twice in last week's FELIX, I feel compelled to answer.
First, the religious bit: we are in a scientific College,
a fortress of rationalism. That is why (whatever you
might think) we are more aware than others of our
need for religion, since other 'substitutes' (mere
Utopias) have no appeal on us (or is the answer to life,
the Universe and everything still 42?).
The Scorceses (illegible—TS), the Godless
(illegible—TS), the National Abortion Campaign, these
representatives of a new obscurantism, have spoken
loudly, unashamedly, they have swamped Europe.
They worship anarchy, greed, lust, they destroy
peoples' vision to proclaim themselves sole guide.
You took their side! Our Lord Jesus Christ will plead
for you, though: you've got plenty of time to change
your mind and save your soul. Who, in the meantime
will let us speak loudly? If you, an elected student
paper editor, refuse to convey the views of the
majority of students in here, how can anyone accuse
people who have interests in promoting ignorance and
greed, for the sinking of our Western European
society?
Now for the 'Praise' but: I would like to thank Chris
Browne for promoting me thus.
I wish to answer that, first of all I have given
Speakers' Corner a thought; but then I said: having
the privilege to speak to an enlightened audience like
IC students is surely more worthwhile: was I wrong?
I don't plan to stand as a sabbatical since, being a
foreigner, I cannot afford it. There exists another
reason though: on some issues I do not have the same
opinions as the majority and my opinions are not 'for
sale'.
Yours most faithfully,
Emmanuel Saradakis, Physics 2.
Dear Mr Two slices short of a sandwich,
I have burnt your letter, as a sacrifice to
Beelzebub. Its amusing content is printed for the
adoration of the masses.
Ed.
Why oh why? Nasty cult
in Evelyn
Dear Editor,
RE: 'No more please' 2.2.90
I was saddened to read your comment on 'God
Squad propoganda' as yoirunderstandably see it, and
I would agree with you that the pages of FELIX are
not the place for 'spreading the word'. Surprised?
However, the many Christians in College feel
strongly about 'normal' College issues and obviously
God comes into their point of view. Perhaps it would
be beneficial to allow a Christian viewpoint on certain
issues. 'This is a newspaper for everyone after all'.
Maybe the 'cloud of despair' which hangs over
College and '...nobody can ever identify what the
problem is. But it will not go away.' (See 'Imperial is
a con' 2.2.90) and the rejection of anything remotely
Christian are not entirely unconnected?
Well, I don't know if this letter constitutes stuffing
religion down peoples' throats. If it does, I'll await my
invitation to the sacrificial burning. I prefer to see it
as the concerned opinion of a fellow student.
Yours sincerely,
Dave Kirk, Aero 3 (President Christian Union).
Why oh why
oh why?
Dear FELIX,
We are very worried about the presence of CLCC
in Imperial College. The Central London Church of
Christ are a cult formed in Boston USA and are
distinguished by having had their leaders thrown off
the University campus there. They came to London
six years ago and now have over 5,000 members,
many of whom are students.
They attract individuals to their bible studies, often
not mentioning who they represent, at which there
are generally two members to each non-member.
They are determined in keeping non-members going
to the bible studies or church and have no qualms
about using high pressure tactics, such as persistently
phoning.
Each new members is tutored by two members of
the cult. They are persuaded to devote themselves
and their money to 'church' work to the detriment of
College work and any outside interests or friends. If
a member tries to leave the cult then they are
threatened by several means. One is to tell family and
friends the very personal details that the member was
persuaded to reveal to their tutor. Another being to
drain their band account using blank cheques.
Needless to say the leaders of the cult are very rich.
Like the Moonies they have twisted the Bible to suit
their own means. We would strongly recommend that
all and sundry avoid their bible studies in Evelyn
Gardens.
Claire Millar, Aero Eng 2,
Steve King, Civ Eng 3.
Dear Dave,
I am writing to complain about the letters page of
last week's FELIX. In the past, you have printed letters
from many viewpoints, explaining why people should
think in a certain way. Last week, however, you
effectively refused to print any more letters from
Christians.
There are Christians at IC, and FELIX should
represent us as well as any other group in College. For
you to decide that the Christian viewpoint is not a
valid one is blatantly usurping your position as editor.
I appreciate that you may be unable to print all the
letters you receive, but you cannot just exclude a point
of view because you yourself disagree with it.
I find your attitude towards Christianity in general
offensive. You have stated in the past that you
appreciate all viewpoints on an issue except for the
Christian one; you have continually made fun of any
Christian content in FELIX; and finally last week you
openly insulted all Christians and threatened to ban
them from your paper entirely. Surely you can see that
this bigotry is out of place.
Tom Di Giovanni, a Christian in Maths 1.
I have not banned Christians from writing to
FELIX. This week, I have printed your letter and
others. What I have bemoaned is the evangelical
spreading of the word which has littered the
letters pages of late
Ed.
Ashtray
Office
Dear Dave,
I can't let Roy Adam's letter of last week go by
unchecked. I dispute the inference made by Mr Adams
that his opinion is widely shared.
Ever since HUB started, it has been the source of
much mystery to staff and students alike. Perhaps Mr
Adams could list the 'many and diverse roles the HUB
Office plays in College life'. I can think of very few.
The fact that any spring to mind is only because I
spent eighteen months working a few offices down
from Clare Ash.
Clearly, the point of my original letter has been
missed. Whatever one's perspective of HUB, good or
bad, it must be considered as a luxury. Our careers
service is not a luxury it is a basic necessity.
As Mr Adams states, 'The College....benefits by the
activities of the HUB Office'. The College may well
do, but students do not. I have long held the belief
that Imperial exists to provide for its student body.
Perhaps that's just a juvenile attitude.
Cheers,
Paul Shanley.
Page 15

