Abridged letter
Dear Dave,
I felt I had to write, after reading Mr Shanley's
Delator Column in last week's FELIX (what a load of
self-opinionated rubbish!). Some may remember Mr
Shanley's Blackmail column of two years ago, which
recklessly placed FELIX under the threat of legal
action. This same Mr Shanley is now writing a series
of idealistic, ill-informed articles in an offensively
arrogant style.
Last term we were given Shan's answer to all of
London Regional Transport's problems. Under his new
efficient system, Mr Shanley would close all the
stations with faulty lifts. This would save 80 year-olds
being forced to use the stairs. (Stairs which, in the
event of a fire, they would be forced to use anyway!),
The stations would not be reponened until 100%
reliable lifts had been installed!
Last week we were treated to Shan's answer to
Britain's football problems. In this article Mr Shanley
came up with such ridiculous proposals as
reintroducing plastic pitches. If Mr Shanley knew
anything about football or plastic pitches, he would
know that all the Clubs that have experimented with
synthetic pitches have now reverted to using grass!
His next outrageous suggestion was to change the
rules on a National level to make football more
exciting. (Quite how he would solve the problems that
this would cause British teams competing in
International competitions he did not deign to inform
us!) The present rules have worked well for many
years, and continue to do so practically everywhere
in the world that football is played. Violence therefore
would appear to be Britain's problem, not football's.
It would also interest me to know quite what rule
changes Mr Shanley would suggest. How would we
make football so much more interesting? Perhaps the
shape of the ball should be changed, the players might
pick it up and run with it or would even shrink it and
hit it with a stick...after all, synthetic pitches are
perfect for hockey!
Mr Shanley may be sure that he has the answer to
all the world's problems, but I am not. Furthermore
I am tired of reading his opinions in FELIX.
Election rules prevent me from concluding as I
would have liked. Suffice it to say, that Mr Shanley's
ill-informed and ill-thought out Delator column, is
merely an attempt to gain himself College-wide
publicity, to satiate his outsized ego, and to present
himself as a well-balanced individual. He has certainly
failed with me, and probably with a large proportion
of your readership as well.
Yours sincerely,
J M Scott, ICU Welfare Officer 1989/90.
Brothel Not really a
revisited prick
Dear Dave,
Although I'm not a regular customer of the
'metaphorical brothel around the corner', highlighted
in last week's letters, I would like to give an alternate
view to the bleak description presented.
Most of us are in the same boat-behind with
problem sheets and finding the workload high: but
Imperial is well known for working its students hard.
Imperial degrees also carry an enviable reputation. Are
people naive enough to believe that these two facts
are unrelated?
As for College life, I think last week's writer needs
to get out more. I too have friends in universities
around the country-not one had a Rag Week which
was a patch on ours. If some students don't
appreciate what goes on here, at least other people
do: functions at IC seem to have an increasing, and
welcome, proportion of outsiders-going down to
Southside for a whiskey and American has taken on
a whole new meaning!
Certainly there are problems with the courses as
they stand, and student criticism should be wielded
to correct them-but the sort of sweeping
generalisations being made are, to say the least,
unproductive.
It's far easier to criticise College life than it is to get
out and get involved. If the alleged hoardes of
disillusioned undergraduates put more effort into the
latter, they might find this place isn't so terrible after
all.
Yours,
J Tennant-Smith, EE1.
Page 16
Dear Mr Smedleyt
I am writing to register my protest about your
treatment of the Imperial College Science Fiction
Society in the last issue of FELIX (No 857).
In recent issues you have repeatedly asked clubs
and societies to advertise events in FELIX. Then,
when ICSF Society provide you with a half page piece
advertising their annual one day convention you retitle
it 'Prickocon' and label Simon Bradshaw as Train
Spotting Club Hon Sec'.
Both of these statements are in fact untrue. If this
was an attempt at humour I feel it was sadly
misplaced as it could cause a loss of membership at
a normally well attended event.
If it was not an attempt at humour it is very bad
journalism. To edit an article due to lack of space or
to stop offense being caused is one thing. To add a
title which could offend and represents the views of
the editor and a number of his friends is quite another.
FELIX is the Magazine of Imperial College Union.
The editor's opinions should be confined to the
editorial. Other pieces should be accepted or rejected
on their merits and not altered by these opinions.
Yours,
David Bate.
Oops! I nearly rejected your letter on its merits.
Ho, hum, as a budding journalist, I'm sure you
know what's best. I enclose your NUJ application
form forthwith.
Ed.
Train of
thought
Dear FELIX,
RE P*ic*ocon 8
What manner of shite is this. That was totally
uncalled for. I can understand the orange cover edition
created a lot of debate but this does nothing but
offend a lot of people in one of IC's largest societies
(if not the largest). Whoever is responsible (Dave?)
please resign.
Alex McLintock, DoC 1,
Assistant Publicity Officer ICSF
PS. I don't like trains.
Does it on his
own
Dear Dave,
As a regular reader of your magazine I would like
to register my delight at the superb standard of news
reporting you display.
Such a handsome cover, such comprehensive,
hard-hitting and detailed stories relevant to all
students at IC. Your News Editor and his happy band
of reporters must live contentedly in the knowledge
that they once again have done their best as foot
soldiers of democracy.
What's this I hear? Your News Editor does it on his
ownl Oh, the poor lamb-where's his degree going?
Is he being paid?
I'm sure that there are other enquiring individuals
in the College who would be able to corner rampant
bureaucracy cringing in dark corners of the College.
I'm sure that there would be people who'd love to
cover such stories as naked schizophrenic women
lurking about in the Sports Centre, ceilings collapsing
on unsuspecting students, thefts in the Union
Building, malaria outbreaks in Southside Halls,
bureaucracy gone mad in Sherfield, Westminster and
the room halls, more thefts in the Union Building, giant
mutant amoebae from the Biology Department eating
old cars in Prince's Gardens, thefts in the Union
Building, chair crashing fights in the College bars,
administration casually stamping on students, flying
televisions, thefts in the Union Building, and, of
course, the continuing Student Loan saga.
Such reporters speak directly to the six thousand
inmates of Imperial informing them and resulting in
decisions.
I must immediately go to the FELIX Office and find
out more.
Yours,
Adam Harrington, FELIX News Editor.

