No news blues
Dear Dave,
'The respective news pages are accurate but
unexciting, the features well written but
uncompromisingly uncontroversial and the columnists
far too well informed to say anything remotely silly.'
This quote last week in FELIX was attributed to the
Independent on Sunday. However, it equally well
describes last week's edition of FELIX.
News coverage in FELIX now accounts for less than
10% of the paper's content. (Last week 2 pages of
news out of a total of 22 pages.) Even my local free
advertising sheet manages to report more news, when
this is not its main objective. This begs the question
of what is FELIX's main objective? Do you wish to be
a remote feature and artistic review magazine, or do
you wish to address issues that are relevant to
students at IC? I can appreciate the need for some
advertising to generate revenue, but is all this other
waffle that bears no relationship to the student
readership really necessary?
I look forward to this year's sabbatical elections,
and the prospects for an improved FELIX next year.
Yours
Rachel Stone, Min Res Eng 2.
If there is one regret I have this year it is our
reduced news coverage. The problem is a
shortage of staff on the news section of FELIX.
Since you seem so concerned, I suggest you do
something more constructive than wait for the
sabbatical elections and come in to FELIX to help
on the news team. A new editor will almost
certainly change the direction of FELIX but the
shortage of news staff is not something that can
be solved just by putting a piece of paper in a
ballot box.
For your information, I was news editor last
year. I do have a keen interest in news and would
welcome any help in this area. Our current news
editor, Adam, is working as hard as he can. I am
sure he will join me in looking forward to your
assistance on the news pages of FELIX.
Ed.
African beat
Dear Dave,
I'm writing to protest about the 'Chase the Base'
event on February 2 1990 in the Sherfield JCR. During
this event people were admitted without verification
of Imperial College Students' Union membership. The
result was that a friend of mine was accosted by four
'gentlemen' who demanded the sum of five pounds,
on pain of death. These so-called gentlemen
threatened to get their colleagues to stab him if he
didn't pay up. Following this, another friend of mine
stood in to help his friend as they attempted to remove
his watch; he got a bloody nose for his efforts. Prior
to this a friend of theirs had handed over a sum of
money in response to a similar threat.
As we are all aware, Union cards must be presented
at every social event on College grounds. This rule
was certainly not inforced on the evening in question.
I can find no explanation for this and would also like
to know the reason for the lack of security at this
event. A repetition of this is bound to happen at future
events unless security arrangements are improved.
To my knowledge no one has been 'stabbed' at a
Union event before, and I would like to keep it that
way.
AH Mobasheri (Life Sci Dep Rep),
(Writing on behalf of two students who would
prefer to remain anonymous).
Motion on
motion
Dear Dave,
The motion on increased travel subsidy for students
representing the College in competition is not an ACC
motion although it has been discussed at an ACC
meeting. The word 'discussed' should be emphasised
as this is the second stage in the decision making
process, the first stage is to establish the facts
pertaining to the subject under discussion (simple so
far, and not at all patronising). The facts are, as a
College we are very poor in sports and recreational
facilities, embarrassingly poor, in fact, although you'd
never know it from the prospecti and brochures. What
is not an established fact, but we wish to demonstrate
it as such, is that the cost of competing in our chosen
sport is becoming prohibitive. This is due to increases
in travel costs (as of 3.2.90), a decrease in students'
disposable income etc, we won't go on since we feel
others, notably Mr Wyatt, do it so much better than
us.
Returning to the informative angle of our letter
where are our facilities. The field sports were based
at Harlington until College dug a very large hole.
Where we used to have 'one of the finest areas of
grass in central London' (quote SHB 1989), we now
have a pleasant cabbage patch. Those who pursue
indoor sports at IC are an essentially nomadic breed
who travel where and when they have to to find an
area large enough to use. A fact is that the largest
indoor facility in the College is an old gym in the Old
Chemistry Building which has been due for demolition
for a very long time. Two final facts; the students of
this College receive no money from the South
Kensington Sports Centre, since like Southside, it is
owned and run by College, although not at a profit,
unlike Southside. Secondly, nearly one in four
members of. this College has joined an ACC Club,
which makes them members of a minority, about the
same proportion as those who voted for the present
Government at the last general election. So here's to
democracy in action, if we manage to harness our
collective apathy, at least if we get to a debate, we
may be better informed-a whole new experience for
most Union meetings.
Yours,
M Rayfield,
J F Lucas.
To all students and staff in
City & Guilds College. Have
you signed the petition
protecting the ACGI yet?
There are copies in your
department or the C&G Office
Sign today...!
C&G Dinner & Dance
Ticketholders—Please
retain ticket or bring
Union card for disco.
Thanks, Rachel.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Cycling Club: Road racing, time trials,
cyclocross, ATB or touring. New members
welcome. Contact Cycling Club Secretary via
Union pigeonholes.
• Imperial College Operatic Society presents
Utopia Limited by Gilbert and Sullivan, 20-24 Feb.
Tickets available at lunchtimes from the Sherfield
Building (outside SCR, first floor) and from
Haldane Library.
• Jewish Society will be meeting on Tuesday 13
Feb from 1.30pm in the UDH (1st floor Union
Building). The speaker will be from UJS London.
Everyone welcome, contact Andrew Preston,
Chairperson (Maths 1) for further details.
• Tuesday 13th February-City and Guilds Union
Field Cup 1990. Marshals and teams please meet
at 5.30pm in the Union Snack Bar.
• The Annual General meeting of the newly
formed Trainspotting society will be heid on
February 15th. Anyone interested in becoming
Chairman of the society should talk to the current
holder of the post, Michelle Bigun, as soon as
possible. Michelle is 63 and can be contacted on
X3500.
FOR SALE
• Gents bike, 23" frame. Nice condition £ 6 0 ono.
See Nick F, Mech Eng UG.
• Quick sale Vauxhall Cavalier L, S reg, MOT 'till
Sept 1990. Good condition. £200. Hamid ext
6290.
• Complete Mobile disco, includes Citionic twin
mixing desk (containing Garrard SP25 Mark IV
decks) H + H 100 slave amp, 2,100 watt
speakers, 4 light boxes each containing 20 bulbs
in a pattern, 3 spot banks containing 3,100 watt
coloured bulbs Pulsar SL Supper MK II sound to
light each light unit, Sequencer light unit, 2 Pluto
oil wheel projectors and more. £600 ono, ring
John on 01-735 4060 after 6pm or int 4622.
Consider splitting.
• Beautiful cheese plant, 6 foot high, £ 2 5 . ring
John 01-735 4060, after 6pm or int 4622,
• Learn, improve or perfect your French with a
recently graduated French University Student.
Phone 01-589 8433. Sylvie Dupont, 53 Cromwell
Road. £6/hour.
• English-German dictionary, secondhand wanted
ring John 01-735 4060 after 6pm or int 4622.
LOST & FOUND
• Lost set of hall keys on Wednesday 31 Jan in
Union Snack Bar. Please return via FELIX Office.
ACCOMMODATION
• Large single—£51 pw excl. Normal double £ 3 5
per person excl. Good roomy flat in Willesden-
Jubilee line/52 bus or about 30 mins by bike.
Contact PG x6882 or 451 7268. Rent will come
down with start of Poll Tax.
PERSONAL
• Did anyone record the Eric Clapton concert on
Radio 1 FM last Saturday night? If so, can I
borrow the tape for a night please. Ralph
Greenwell EE4.
• The Asian Society disco is going to be really
groovy. Please go along and support this
worthwhile event. From the people who Asian
Society still owe money to, including FELIX.
Page 17

