FeliX
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515)
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Afro-Carribean Society Disco
I was disgusted to hear of what had happened at this
event. In honesty, the drugs problem is not one which
I see as crucial. A lot of people at IC smoke a little
cannabis from time to time. It is a petty offence
compared to the robberies and hold-ups which took
place at last Friday's disco. This is the first time that
IC has experienced this sort of behaviour and I hope
it will be the last. Afro-carribean Society are
responsible for the event and have proven themselves
sadly lacking. They have been banned from using
Union rooms and they ought to have their income from
the Union reduced to zero for next year. IC Union
should not condone this sort of affair by helping in its
funding.
On a similar note, I was sorry to hear of an attack
on Union Manager Dave Peacock at the weekend. It
seems London is full of thugs who take pleasure in
violence. This is the second time he has been mugged.
This time his attackers wanted his Vodaphone which
he surrendered, only to be beaten up for his assailants'
sick pleasure. Maybe this has clouded my feelings on
last Friday's incidents. My only printable feelings on
the entire matter are, get well soon Dave.
On the question of violence at Imperial College, I
have to query the judgement of last week's
disciplinary hearing. To hand out paultry sentences of
bans from Union and College facilities is shear folly.
The offenders fought in the Union Bar with bar stools.
In the real world, they would have received a fine and
a suspended sentence for such behaviour. To let
people off so lightly is to encourage such immature
loutishness.
I have heard that the College's disciplinary board
does not hand out fines since students cannot afford
to pay them. They feel that the police should not be
called since students are only growing up. It is about
time some people learnt how to grow up the hard way;
the way similar aged people learn in the outside world.
Security Officer, Terry Briley, has told me that policy
is now to call the police in connection with violent
offences. It is sad that this farce.has had to occur to
highlight the problem of discipline at IC in this way.
Elections
Those hacky racers will soon be pestering everybody
for their vote. If you are not standing for a sabbatical
post, please skip this bit.
Because of the large number of candidates for ICU
President, which has started to emerge I shall have
to restrict the amount of time each candidate will have
to prepare publicity. The FELIX office will be available
for candidates to prepare the artwork for their
publicity on Saturday 17th and Sunday 18th February.
Anybody wishing to use the print unit facilities for
publicity should contact me by Wednesday 14th to
book a slot over this period. I estimate that each
candidate will be given a 4 hour period. Anybody
asking for publicity after this weekend will not be
guaranteed my help or any privacy in the office.
Publicity will be available on Friday 23rd February
at 5.30pm. Material will not be released without prior
payment in full, so bring your cheque book.
If anyone will require coloured paper or ink for
printing they should see me by Tuesday 13th. After
this date, I cannot guarantee a supply of materials.
Paper and ink have to be ordered in advance. We
currently have a stock of intensively coloured
photocopy paper (yellow, orange, green and blue),
which I am reserving for sabbatical election publicity.
A price list will be available from 5.30pm today.
Credits
Many thanks to last week's collators from Christian
Union and Overseas Students: Athos Ritsperis, Alistair
Webber, Dylan James, Kath Goy, Ben Irons, Carrie
Miller, Mark Godfrey, Si Bichara, Claire, Nomtha,
Wouter, Rumit Shah, Anjali Saini, Shamil Uwais, Jim
Lucy, Sydney Harbour-Bridge, Jackie Scott, Chris
Stapleton and Ian Hodge.
Thanks this week to Andy Thompson who battled
bravely with the litho and Phil Clapp for providing the
repair kit; Toby Jones for a lot of help pasting; Jeremy
Burnell for pics and the Golden Oldies; Derek
Chapman, Sarah, Graham L, and Dermot for Music;
Charles Tomkins, Adam Tinworth and Toby Jones for
reviews; Adrian Pagan for his piece on TWE; Anke
Briining and Theatre West End for the rear cover
photo; Roland Flowerdew for the cover photo; Adam
Harrington and Liz Warren for news; Chris Stapleton,
Richard Eyers, Jeremy Burnell and Roland for
photopgraphs; Rose for typesetting and coffee; all the
clubs and societies who wrote articles and Janus,
who has just reached his fifth level.
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES . . . .
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
N E W YORK
LOS A N G E L E S
T E L AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - O N E W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D B R E A K S from £65
Don't MISS O U T THIS SUMMER -
Seats T O ASIA A N D AUSTRALASIA SELLING PAST
Book NOW T O S E C U R E YOUR SEAT
ULU T R A V E L
SHERFIELD BUILDING
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
ABTA ULU TRAVEL
^QiciS 8 I C S 8 i c i S 8 i c i S 3 I C
^ M ^ & ?
<b YSlClSInvite You To
CO
O
# / x ^ S i v f % Mr
T h e V a l e n t i n e A f f a i r
WM, ^
February 13th | v 3^M^:^i j 9.00pm till late
CO
CO
LE PALAIS
(Bo* Office)
Shepherds-Bush Road
Hammersmith
01 748 2612
MAIN B
O
X OFFICE
3 i c i S s Tel 01 243 0995

