Naughty Mushrooms Help!
Confusion and mutual mud slinging reigned at a recent
Kingston Polytechnic Union General Meeting. Ms
Ceri Hill, president of Kingston Polytechnic Student
Union (KPSU), was the subject of a motion of no-
confidence over allegations of misdirection of union
funds.
The four sabbaticals of KPSU have access to a
hospitality fund of around £1200 between them. The
fund was abolished at the beginning of this academic
year in favour of a pay increase which students of
the polytechnic believe to be £1500 each. This
decision was taken during a meeting of the sabbaticals
and the Honorary Treasurer, who is appointed jointly
by the union president and Dr Robert Smith, Director
of the polytechnic.
Though Dr Smith was unavailable for comment,
his deputy said that he believed that 'the Senior
treasurer was satisfied with the situation and that the
matter was closed.'
As the vote of no-confidence took place at the union
general meeting a fire alarm was activated and both
sides of the argument blamed the other for its
occurence, claiming that the vote would have been
more on their side if it had not happened. The motion
was defeated by a small majority of three during a
vote of nearly 500 people.
Unlike those at IC, the KPSU sabbaticals do not
get any funding to cover accommodation or expenses
encountered during working for the union. Adding
to the confusion at the meeting, Mr Jonathan Smith,
Vice President (Communications and Sites), claimed
that the financial decisions made by the Honorary
Treasurer were confidential and that the sabbaticals
were bound by an agreement not to discuss them.
Exhibition
An exhibition of art produced by the students and staff
of Imperial College and St. Mary's will be held for
a month from the 19th February. The works of art
will be displayed in the anteroom to the college
refectory on the ground floor of the Sherfield building.
All work must be given in to Ms Sarah Greenwood
or Ms Caroline Brice by the first day of the exhibition.
Application forms are available from the above
(extensions 6801 and 5251 respectively). Works are
on display to be sold, and the exhibition will levy a
commission of 20%.
Ms Greenwood added that the exhibition was to
show 'as much work from as many people as
possible'.
Careers cost
Imperial College Union President, Mr Neil
McCluskey, has sent a personal letter to the Rector,
Sir Eric Ash, following the proposed Careers service
cutbacks. The Rector believes that professional people
are being used to perform mundane tasks in the
careers library. Mr McCluskey has compromised by
saying that, in his view, a maximum of half of the
job could be given to students, whilst retaining the
part of the role that requires a professional.
Mr McCluskey stated that the union was willing
to fund this part of the post from the profits generated
from the careers fair. It is estimated that it would cost
the Union £5000 per annum.
The British Pugwash Group—an international group
of politically minded scientists—are to screen the new
Roland Joffe film 'Shadow Makers' concerning the
development of the atom bomb, starring Paul
Newman. The film will be shown on February 24th
and will be followed by a discussion chaired by
Michael Ignatieff and including other luminaries.
Free tickets are available from: Shadow Makers,
Pugwash, Flat A, 63A Great Russel st, London
WC1B 3BG or telephone 405 6661.
Inter-rail
British Rail has announced that Inter-Rail plus boat
tickets for 1990 will cost £180 and will allow one
months unlimited travel in 22 countries. As from this
year Czechoslovakia and asiatic Turkey, are included
in the price.
A rail ticket alone will cost £155 and an Tnter-rail
Flexicard' which allows 10 days unlimited travel
within one month will cost £145. Roll up and see a
crumbling bit of the Soviet empire of your choice
Universities in Czechoslovakia are appealing to
western Universities for help in rebuilding their
education system. They particularly ask for
information on the structures of student unions and
lists of teachers who would be willing to lecture in
English, German or Russian. They are also asking
for textbooks, especially in mathematics, physics,
electrical engineering and languages. The country has
a deficit of photocopiers, and requests these too.
Anybody willing to help in these or in financial
ways should contact Dr A . D . Caplin of Electrical
Engineering (extension 6904).
Humanities
A lecture entitled 'How we French produce our
engineers' will be given by M. Jean Chinal, the
Counsellor for Science and Technology at the French
Embassy on Tuesday 13 February.
The talk will take place in the Read Theatre at 1:15
pm.
Damned lies0 h d e a r !
Mr John McGregor, Secretary of State for Education,
has justified the use of an 'enabling act' allowing the
Government to implement Student Loans by saying
that changes can be made to the scheme more quickly.
He said that minor alterations to the scheme, for
instance the deferral of repayments, may be brought
in after a few years.
An enabling act, in this case, allows a government
minister to implement Student Loans. The act does
not contain any details so it cannot be amended to
any extent in the House of Commons, relying entirely
on Conservative Party decisions.
A critical article on the University of London has cited
a study into the relationship between Senate House,
headquarters of the University of London, and its
constituent colleges written by last year's Imperial
College Secretary, Mr John Smith. The feature
appeared in last week's issue of the Times Higher
Education Supplement
The Smith report claims that there are gross
bureaucratic inefficiencies in the cumbersome and
elaborate system and that the constituent colleges are
not consulted in most proposals.
The feature claims that the senate and its financial
wing, the University Court, interfere in college
matters and are unduly secret in their affairs.
Corridors of power
A motion to unseat University of London Union
(ULU) President, Chris Massey, may be defeated by
procedural wranglings at the next meeting of its
Council.
The motion of no-confidence, which was passed
at a U L U Executive meeting on January 25th, has
been amended in the papers for the General Union
Council (GUC) by chairman Jim Coyle. Mr Coyle
has ruled accusations concerning permanent staff out
of order. He now intends to rule the entire motion
out of order at the meeting next Tuesday.
The motion, proposed by U L U Vice President
(Finance and Administration), Paul Kilvington and
seconded by Imperial's Hal Calamvokis, makes a
number of accusations which Mr Massey denies. Mr
Massey has been accused of abusing Union funds
during a trip to last year's National Union of Students
Winter Conference and of having little regard for
ULU meetings.
A large part of the argument against Mr Massey
has settled around his alleged attempts to discredit
members of ULU's permanent staff As U L U
President, Mr Massey is not the employer of U L U
employees, who are payed by the University of
London. He is not allowed to pass official comment
on Union staff
Mr Massey is concerned for ULU's autonomy from
the University and stood on a platform of attempting
to free the Union. He told FELIX that he denied the
allegations of discrediting staff and added that the
'evidence' for the matter was subject to a libel action.
He added that he was not in a position to hold an
opinion on staff since he is not the employer. 'Even
if I'm sacked, this will one be bubbling for a long
time,' he said.
With dissent amongst the U L U executive Mr
Massey has complained of papers disappearing from
his office and being shown to permanent staff. He
told FELIX that a major breach of ULU's constitution
had been made when a permanent member of staff
blocked the mailing of the papers for Tuesday's
meeting under the instructions of a 'member of GUC.'
'The Union is in crisis,' since its autonomy has been
infringed in this way according to Mr Massey.
Talking about his hopes to move U L U away from
a commercial arrangement to one with a main aim
of serving students, Mr Massey said, T often feel the
student takes a back place in U L U . '

