Strike!?
The Manufacturing, Science and Finance Trade Union
(MSF) are contemplating strike action at Imperial
College. The dispute is over seven members of
College staff who may be made redundant following
the abolition of their current jobs.
The staff were working for Imperial Biotechnology
Limited (IBT) which is a company set up by Imperial
College. IBT was sold to the Australian firm Burns
Philp last year. The staff had worked for IBT for about
eight years, providing technical support in the pilot
plant. IBT informed the staff and the College on
Wednesday 31st January that they no longer required
their services.
Dr Trevor Langley, Managing Director of IBT,
explained that revenue from the pilot plant in the form
of outside contracts had fallen and that the plant was
making a loss. He said IBT had seen no way to
increase revenue and had therefore felt it necessary
to cut both staff and costs. The staff now revert to
being direct employees of I.C. and the college must
find alternative employment for them within College
or make them redundant.
Dr Langley denied that the staff had been treated
brusquely. He said that IBT had employed the staff
since August 1982 and had 'kept them on when things
have been difficult before'. He claimed IBT had
complied with the terms of their agreement with the
College over the staff.
Mr Dollard, ex-chairman of Imperial's MSF said
'all the MSF wants is guarantees that our members
will not be made redundant'. He said that if the
College did not agree to this they would 'take the
College and IBT all the way'. Plans include
withdrawing all technical support to IBT, which is
sited on the South Kensington campus, including
power, steam, oxygen and mechanical services. Mr
Langley said he had received no notice of this action,
but that the College had told him that 'agreements'
and services would still stand'. He said that if the MSF
did take action it would 'hurt some of the College
services we maintain as well'.
If the situation is not resolved members may take
secondary action with a strike in the spring with
possible national MSF support and strike pay. Mr
Dollard said that he 'hoped it came to that' because
he believed that College was 'trying to establish a
precedent for making people redundant'. The
decisions on the action were taken at a meeting of
the MSF on Monday.
Mr Rob Letham, IC's Senior Personnel Officer,
said that College was 'trying to make alternative jobs
available, but couldn't guarantee that this would be
possible'. He said that the staff were 'being given first
shot at the most suitable jobs' and that they had
approached the head of the Biochemistry Department,
Professor Barber, as this was the department most
relevant to their skills. He said that in the letter sent
to the staff it was made clear that if they had not been
found other jobs by the end of April, the College
'would have no alternative than to think about what
we do next, which could include a severance
arrangement'. Mr Dollard said this amounted to a
redundancy notice, although Mr Letham denied this.
Mr Angus Fraser, Managing Director of Imperial
College, said that he was 'obviously concerned' about
the threatened action 'particularly in the light of the
efforts we've been making since the outset'. He said
that he could give no guarantee that the staff would
not be made redundant but that he felt the College
had 'made considerable progress to avoid that'. He
was 'optimistic that the worst fears of the MSF will
not be realised'.
Mr Letham said he had received a letter from the
MSF describing in general terms the action they were
Party muggings
Violence and 'professional' drug pushing was
witnessed at the Afro-Caribbean Society function last
Friday. Students were assaulted and robbed inside and
around the Junior Common room (JCR) late in the
evening of the function. There was one reported
mugging in the public conveniences of the JCR.
Mr Terry Briley, security officer at I.C., said that
a private function held on the 20th January resulted
in the police being called as drug peddling was
obviously taking place. He claimed that possibly the
same group who were responsible for this were
involved in last weeks offences.
Robbers intimidated students, and the muggers were
described as two large black men who probably
weren't students. They did not use weapons and
managed to steal only a small amount of money from
the student concerned.
Mr Briley said that the 'police will be paying
particular attention to future functions and college
licences must be considered at risk'.
He added that it was the prompt action of the Bar
Manager, Mr Mike Smith, in calling the security
guards to close down the event that prevented anything
more serious occurring. Mr Briley said he was
planning to take and that the MSF had warned that
they would be 'in dispute with College if College
could not guarantee staff not being made redundant'.
He claimed College was actively trying to avoid a
dispute and had asked the MSF to co-operate with
attempts to employ the staff elsewhere.
Mr Dollard said that the MSF were 'not interfering
with anything which the College was doing which was
to the benefit of their members' but added that 'Mr
Letham might have good intentions but the road to
Hell is paved with good intentions'. He added that
"'not one member of the MSF or the Association of
Scientific,.Technical and Managerial Staffs (ASTMS)
has ever been made redundant. Aston University tried
and the MSF binned them'. He said that the M S F
would 'band together nationally' to support IC MSF.
Mr Dollard also accused IC of 'ripping off the
University Funding Council (UFC) by claiming
money to pay the staff from UFC whilst accepting
money from IBT for the staff s services. He said that
the MSF would be writing to the UFC and to the
Auditor General. Mr Letham said that the College
did not get money for particular members of staff from
the UFC. A spokesman for the UFC confirmed that
the grant was awarded on student numbers and
research based criteria and that once the claim had
been granted the UFC culd not dictate the College's
spending policy. He said that if the College wished
to contract out staff they were entirely free to spend
any money they might save elsewhere.
Mr Dollard said the MSF were also planning to
write to the University Technicians National Advisory
Committee, the International Congress of Trade
Unions and technicians at other colllges. He said they
were planning to organise a mass rally at Imperial
in support of their action.
Mr Letham said he hoped to avoid a confrontation
and pointed out that 'people have to make their own
choices about whether to accept alternative
employment or not'. Mr Fraser agreed that 'at the
end of the day they have a choice about whether they
consider those jobs suitable or not'. Mr Dollard said,
'It's scandalous. IC has one of the biggest groups in
the MSF. If they thought we'd stand back and take
it, they must be the most incompetent managers out.
They should be sacked.'
'gravely concerned' about both functions.
Ms Fiona Nicholas, Honorary Secretary of I.C.
Union, said that the union was not accepting any
further bookings from the Afro- Caribbean Society,
though the event they had already arranged for next
week would still go ahead, as it had been booked
before the present troubles arose.
Mr Briley said that students have written to the
police expressing concern at the lack of supervision
which the functions exhibited.
Page 3

