Yaaba
In a village in Burkino Faso lives Bila, a young boy. He
befriends an old lady, derided as a witch by the rest
of the village, calling her 'Yaaba'-meaning
grandmother.
Through his child's eyes we see a slightly
stereotypical view of the adult world; with affairs,
marriage break-ups and petty rivalries all going on
around him. Then when his cousin catches tetanus
from a dirty knife, in a fight, he has to appeal to Yaaba
for help, yet only the village drunk believes in here,
the rest maintaining their prejudices.
Idrissa Ouedraogo has directed a beautifully simple
tale of life in an African village, which, although based
on a culture very different to our own, still relates to
the problems of our society in a very relevant way.
As the story gently unfolds, we are presented with
myriad examples of the stupidity of adult society,
which it takes the eyes of a child, or a drunk, to see.
Superstition, prejudice and love are all observed by
Bila, initially with little comprehension, but as his
relationship with Yaaba develops, so does his
understanding of the world.
The action is played against a backdrop of the
African landscape; dry, empty plains dotted with the
occasional tree or bush. In this background the human
seems to be just about the only animal, living life close
to nature, which we are all part of.
Beautifully shot, acted and simple but enthralling,
it is little wonder that this film won the International
Critics prize at Cannes. See it now!
Reviews Department handy tip of the week-
Yaaba is only showing at the Renoir, Brunswick
Square (nearest tube Russell Square). The cheapest
way to see it is to go to the earliest showing (2.35pm
daily) and wave your ULU or ICU card about. That way
you'll get in for a mere £ 1.70 instead of the usual £4.
Adam T.
Rooftops
'Good view, low rent, plenty of light: just what
everybody in this city wants.' Where is this ideal
property? It's a rooftop, high above the streets of
Manhattan's Lower East Side.
In this area live several kids who have no family to
depend on, and make the best they can of life. For
entertainment they go to an empty lot called the
'Garden of Eden', where they dance, laugh and
generally have a good time. Here they also 'combat
dance', trying to force each other off a raised
platform, through acrobatic movement, without
touching each other.
Foremost among the dances, is a chap improbably
named T , who falls in love with Elana, when she
visits a freind in the Garden of Eden. Unfortunately
she turns out to be the look-out for a drugs dealer—
who, coincidental^ turns out to be the same drugs
dealer who is trying to drive T from his home, so he
can use it to peddle his evil merchandise.
So we have a 'heart warming' tale of kids with
problems; one kid's mother is a prostitute, another has
a father brain-damaged through boxing and even T
is an orphan. Unfortunately the whole thing is terribly
predictable. Love triumphs through adversity (yawn),
revenge for a murdered friend (snooze), baddie gets
his come-uppance (snore).
Of course all this is interspersed with dance scenes
and played against a background of music, mostly by
David A Stewart of the Eurythmics and Pink Floyd
producer Michael Kamen.
To give the film its due, the dance sequences are
beautifully choreographed, and the music is good. The
acting and photography are competent and the
atmosphere of the Alphabet City nicely caught. But
the plot and script are so chiche ridden that the film
must remain one for devotees of this sort of film only.
The film is showing at Canon Haymarket, Oxford
Street and Chelsea from today.
Adam T.
Blaze—Opens 23rd February
Set in the state of Louisiana, Blaze recounts the
scandalous romance of Governor Earl K Long and
stripper Blaze Starr. This unlikely combination of a 65
year old married politician and a 28 year old
flamboyant girl, along with Earl's progressive ideas,
rocked the Southern political machine.
Fannie Belle Fleming (Lolita Davidovich) was born
during the depression and was raised in the hills of
West Virgina. It was her encounter with the Quonset
Hut club in Washington DC that first introduced her
to a life of stripping and gave her her stage name-
'Blaze Starr'. By the time she met Earl Long in 1959,
she had a reputation for her flashy and daring stunts
on stage.
Governor Earl K Long is played by Paul Newman.
At the beginning of the film, I didn't think that he was
a good choice as it's difficult to see 'the Earl', as Long
was known, rather than the actor. His grating voice
didn't help either. I never really forgot that it was
Newman on the screen, but as the story unfolded, it
didn't matter.
Lolita Davidovich has a hard time holding her own
with Newman, but is undoubtedly the star of the film.
She is helped by Blaze's innocence and honesty which
make her shine next to Earl Long.
Blaze is based on a few chapters from the
autobiography Blaze Starr: My Life As Told To Huey
Perry. It's not a strict historical documentary-the
circumstances surrounding Long's short stay in
Mandeveille State Hospital have been simplified for
the film, and the romance has been polished. Even so,
the research into the era has paid off, with a film that
is as enjoyable to watch for the colourful background
as it is for the machinations of the statesmen of the
time.
Before television, politicians didn't have to worry
about their personal lives being scrutinised. Besides
the dark dealings and the vote generating walkabouts,
it was considered natural for them to visit strip joints,
and Earl does. One night he meets Blaze and tries to
bed her like all the other girls. When she stubbornly
refuses, he sees her as a lady worth pursuing, and
slowly they fall in love.
If the political times are one fascination, another
must be the costumes. Blaze Starr herself, who
appears in the film as Lilly, still has a lot of her original
dresses. These formed the basis for some, er,
interesting costumes which liven up the film.
Blaze is an enjoyable film which isn't too taxing on
the brain. If your're undecided on what to see, you
won't go far wrong with this.
Toby Jones.
Page 4

