Family Business
The publicity photos suggest this is a hiliarious
gangster movie. It isn't. Family Business is a
sympathetic exploration of the father-son relationship.
Taken as such it will not disappoint. However it is
unforunate that this publicity was needed to draw the
crowds as it will lead to disenchantment with the film.
Three big names star; Matthew Broderick, Dustin
Hoffman and Sean Connery. They play three
generations of the McMullen Family in this low key
comedy drama.
What happens? Connery is a small time crook, who
has brought up his son Hoffman to be a criminal.
Hoffman, however, wanted a middle-class upbringing
for his own son, Broderick. Thus Hoffman left the
Family Business to become a meat wholesaler.
Unfortunately at the age of 23, Broderick decides to
rebel -he rejects the values of his father and assumes
the criminal standards of his grandfather. It is apparent
that Hoffman's middle-class morals are merely a
pretence, at heart he is a thief. Hoffman is then
emotionally blackmailed into a robbery with Broderick
and Connery. Surprise, surprise, Broderick gets
caught. Up to this point the film has been plausible ~
but Broderick's capture is utterly unconvincing. When
he hears the sirens in the distance he freezes-unlikely
for an MIT undergrad.
The rest of the film concerns itself with the
dilemmas facing Hoffman, the trial and Connery's
demise in gaol. These scenes were touching and
helped enormously by the acting, The film relies
heavily on the stars to bring the very two-dimensional
script alive.
Connery and Hoffman are both experienced screen
players, but Broderick never seems out of his depth.
He has great presence and certainly holds his own.
Broderick is being nursed to stardom by Tri-Star
Pictures, the makers of Family Business. This is the
first of three movies that will broaden his appeal.
Soon, in The Freshman, he will co-star with Marlon
Brando-quite a casting achievement.
Despite the film being a vehicle for Broderick and
having a preoccupation with Hoffman's height and
nose size, the film deserves consideration. It is also
good to see Connery playing a Scotsman and for once
not having to draw on his wide range of accents.
Somehow, although enjoyable, the film misses the
boat. It doesn't know if it is a comdy, drama or tear-
jerker...I am sure the big names will ensure box office
success, but I feel this may turn out to be another
Ishtar for Hoffman.
Family Business opens at the Odeon Leicester
Square and other selected theatres today.
Charles Tomkins.
Honey, I Shrunk the Kids/TUmmy Trouble
Wayne Szalinski (Rick Moranis) has been beavering
away in his attic building a size reduction device, to
the detriment of his marriage. Unfortunately, the
machine doesn't work. Then one day, while Wayne
is away being ridiculed by the scientific establishment,
one of the kids from next door hits his baseball into
the attic, jolting the machine. When the kids go to
retrieve the ball, they get that horrible shrinking
feeling...Life isn't easy when you're a quarter of an
inch tall, as the most common-place objects become
threats.
All the ingredients for a kids' movie are here. The
prolific Rick Moranis, recently seen in Ghostbusters
II and Parenthood, does a great job of portraying the
splendidly dotty scientist, and Matt Freuer, best
known as Max Headroom, is equally good as his
sports mad neighbour Big Russ Thompson, who is
incapable of understanding his kids. There is the
teenage couple, whom everyone knows are going to
end the film in love, the punk kid who becomes nice
by the end, and the couple of 'cute' animals (namely
a dog and an ant (?)).
The real scene stealer though, is Robert Oliveri as
Nick Szalinski. A beautiful bit of casting-he actually
looks like Moranis, his film father and he gets all the
best lines: 'I don't think we're in Kansas anymore,
Toto', 'I don't think we're in the food chain anymore,
Dorothy'.
The whole thing comes together as a very amusing
whole. The adults make total fools of themselves as
they search for the missing kids and the children
themselves provide the drama as they ride bees and
ants, fight off scorpions and camp out in a lego brick.
The special effects, as one would expect from
Industrial Light and Magic, are superb, which is just
as well, as without them the film would be laughable.
A good, if undemanding film, which is worth
considering if the coursework is getting you down.
Mind you, it's worth paying the admission just to see
W ». ~ h
the Roger Rabbit short Tummy Trouble. A hillarious
romp, with Baby Herman swallowing a rattle and
being rushed to hospital ('St Nowhere'). Of course,
we have the usual chaos of any cartoon. Mind you,
I'm probably biased as it features a cameo by my all
time favourite cartoon character, Droopy.
Adam T.
Page 5

