Miracle Legion/The Breeders/
The Candyskins
To say that the Candyskins lack a certain enthusiasm
for their art is an understatement. They look like they
would have more fun clocking into the factory on a
Monday morning. This is quite surprising. Where the
attitude is all sneer, the music is sweet and pure
jangle-pop. The Candyskins have toned it down to a
fine art. 'Here we come, walking down the street.'
The Candyskins sound like the Monkees.
Speaking of such similarities, the first thing you'll
notice about the Breeders is that they sound a lot like
the Pixies. The second thing is that the singer looks
a bit like, could almost be...actually is Kim Deal, bass
player with the aforementioned combo, doing her own
thang 'as it were, and unavoidably flexing her
monumental Pixie muscles in the process. Oh, and the
blonde lassie on the left is Tanya from Throwing
Muses.
A good recipe for adulation, you may think. And
that's half the problem. It's a tribute to the Pixies that
the Breeders went down so well. It's also a tribute to
Ms Deal herself; she may be the star pupil of the Black
Francis School of Songwriting but the Breeders are
a damn fine band. The forthcoming Allini (who else?)
produced album should be a corker. A rare and
unexpected treat.
However impromptu the Breeders' appearance
should have been, news like that has a leaky
tendancy. Miracle Legion, once crowned the new
Rickenbacker messiahs in the wake of REM's uneasy
and unaccessible Fables and their own near-perfect
Surprise Surprise Surprise, take the stage with a
couple of sizeable mountains to climb. Trimmed down
to an acoustic two-piece, they're not making life easy
for themselves.
The opening lines of The Heart is Attacked seemed
shaky and nervous. Miracle Legion don't even look
Islington Powerhaus
capable of a decent assault on the foothills. Soon
though, they were in full flow, Mark Mulcahey
prancing around the stage like a demented pansy, that
beautifully fragile voice positively soaring. He may
look like a lumbering village idiot but close your eyes
and he's an angel. Mulcahey's voice provides all the
excuses you want for placing Miracle Legion head and
shoulders above other state-of-the-art REM
substitutes.
Much of the back catalogue was given the acoustic
dusting down that night. This really suits some songs
(like the gorgeous Little Man), though many more ache
for a real band. Miracle Legion were playing to the
converted, and we loved it, but they're not winning
many new friends. Please, please come back guys,
but please, please don't forget to bring a band next
time.
Graham L.
Birdland
Never could they get their live sound, where they are
so successful, down onto vinyl. They even sound
different, Robert actually tries to sing and loses his
sincere Cov accent and the guitar, bass and drums
sound like a relic from The Ramones. Sleep with Me
is nice enough and definitely has commercial appeal
as proved by its entry at 39 in the Network
(Mainstream) charts. But for anyone familiar with the
earlier sounds of Paradise or Hollow Heart this just
doesn't compare.
Wanted is better-but not good enough.
All Over Me is very heavy but lacks everything.
Finally Stay, previously available only on 1000
copies of a mispress of Paradise (if anyone's got one,.
I'll buy it!), is a much mellower, a redeemer if even
there was.
On the limited 7" EP the extra tracks are Hollow
Heart and Sleep with Me (acoustic versions). Both are
totally different to their normal style and seem to suit
both tracks excellently.
Robert's voice begins as unsure and seems to
waver as if frustrated, but by Sleep with Me he is
totally convincing and the track is a zillion times better
than the electric version.
Sod the 7" and 12" unless you're a devotee, just
go straight for the limited 7", but be quick. For 'real'
Birdland a copy of the Birdland Live, or see them live,
none of this vinyl is a substitute.
7" and 12"
The Trudy
Camden Palace
6/02/90
They have to be seen to be believed. Even the limited
stage at Camden Palace was, well, psychedelic with
swirling lights and two 3 foot ballons. Was that a
drummer or a multicoloured alien from the planet
Moron?
The zany music got even the Camden crowd
dancing dangerously from the first note. Then
suddenly, Melissa (vocals) was miraculously
teleported to the mike, and what wasn't she wearing?
She is renowned for her taste in underwear. The new
backing vocalist/dancer, in body-hugging chain mail,
lived up to Melissa's crazy reputation. How can two
people act like that on stage and still keep a straight
face? We couldn't and it was brilliant.
The set included the favourites Teenage Firebomb,
Living on a Moon and Kiss, Kiss, Kiss (set to be the
new single). Melissa confided; 'I like this one because
I get to snog lots of boys in the video'. Melissa, we
love you.
SJH.
Bob Dylan
Bob Dylan, protest singer, rock poet and iconoclastic
hobo, played Hammersmith Odeon on Tuesday as part
of a week-long string of sold-out gigs. Along with a
motley mass of young punks, reformed old hippies and
respectable middle-aged ladies and gentlemen, I took
my stance right at the back of the Odeon and awaited
the show. I had the cheapest of tickets, a £2 can of
Grolsch and the greatest of expectations. These were
not let down.
Although, at 48, Dylan the enigma is fading, his
Page 6.
magic certainly lives on. There is nothing else quite
like him on offer. Rapturous shrieking and applause
greeted his entrance on stage, and continued at full
intensity throughout the evening. He played a sharp,
simple and well performed set, including such classics
as Memphis Blues and a remarkable version of All
Along the Watchtower. Perhaps the highlight of the
gig was during his acoustic intermission when we
were treated to a brilliant show of technical ability on
the guitar; and of course Mr Tamborine Man, that
Hammersmith Odeon
5/02/90
whining harmonica, and that gratingly familiar drawl.
After an hour and a half of steady blues and rock
'n' roll, the audience demanded an encore with howls
of ecstasy. This was received in due course, with
stamping, singing and general jumping up and down.
(Unusual, due to the age and demeanour of some of
the participants!) I left with my head spinning.
Wonderful, a good time was had by all.
Dermot McKee.

