A student who studied Physics in the early 1980's tells a tale still true in the departments today.
Crapping on the
I remember arriving with my parents on a warm rose-
coloured afternoon. It was late September and it
seemed to me that the autumnal trees in the garden
were singing Mozart. This was my most glorious
moment, short-lived though it was.
As I saw my parents' car pull away, I was gripped
by a terrible sense of loss. 'There goes my childhood,'
I thought in a moment of high melodrama as the car
turned the corner. Now. that I was no longer a child
I reined back my tears, swallowed the lump in my
throat and went downstairs to the bar to try and pick
up some women.
Those of you who know Imperial College, or for that
matter any predominantly male institution, will know
what my first great disappointment at University was.
My second disappointment? It was not so much a
disappointment but more of a shock. Well, to tell you
the truth, it was a trauma from which I don't think
I'll ever recover. In my first term at College I witnessed
a mass murder.
It was truly horrible. Without exception the
murderers, for there were more than one, were all
gnarled old men. I can't remember exactly when or
where it happened but I saw them murder at least a
hundred young men and women. Their destruction
was slow and deliberate. They extracted as much pain
from these poor wretches as they could without
actually taking their lives. You see, these men did not
take their victims' lives, they did something much
worse. They took their reason for living.
The gnarled old men hated the sight of these young
people with Mozart in their ears. To them they were
just so much meat whose rotten odour they would
tolerate to justify their fat research cheques.
To be fair, there were some who tried to convey
their passion for Physics. But even those who were
not on some 'leading the lost tribes into the promised
land' trip were of little more help than the friendly cop
in the American TV shows who comforts and builds
up the suspect before his partner comes along and
punches them in the kidneys.
I came with high expectations to learn of a Universe
of intricate symmetry and beauty, and instead tenth-
rate physicists sold me their cynical 'Truths'. Tears
ran down my cheeks as I watched them tear the heart
out of the subject I loved. One of the greatest
masterpieces of Science (or Art for that matter) is the
encapsulation of the unity of electric and magnetic
phenomena in the equations of James Maxwell. I had
two courses on the development of this wonderful
and crucial period in the foundation of a new Physics
that would show Newton as the parochial little despot
that he was.
The courses should have been symphonies, yet we
were subjected to confused derivations,
incomprehenisble diagrams, a minutia of meaningless
and unimportant detail, and all in an incomprehensible
Glaswegian accent.
Being a thickie, I was warned off the advanced
quantum mechanics and relativity courses. I should
feel angry now that I realise what they did, but my
more clever friends tell me that both courses were as
enlightening as a mouthful of dust.
I could go on taking individual examples but really
it was a case of some of Britain's best researchers
turning beauty, elegance and simplicity into something
as confused and ugly as themselves. How dare those
shitheads crap on the face of God?
FELIX BUSINESS MANAGER
This year's FELIX Business Manager has been forced to
resign due to illness. We need somebody to manage the
accounts of FELIX and the Imperial College Union Print
Unit. The job is not an easy one but can be very rewarding.
No prior qualification in book keeping is required, although
this would be useful. If you are interested, please contact
Dave in the FELIX Office as soon as possible.
Page 7

