Imperial College Union's Dramatic Society host a plethora of talent at the Edinburgh Fringe each summer.
Now is the time for you to become a part of it. Adrian Pagan reports....
Fringe benefit
The Edinburgh Fringe Festival is the biggest festival
of its kind in Europe. Actors are supposedly 'spotted',
the dedicated rustle up theatres from church halls in
a matter of days and the nearest guesthouse vacancy
is in Glasgow...
The Theatre West End (TWE) introductory buffet
last March was about as successful as Pamella
Bordes' chastity belt; the posters were put up the day
before, someone accidentally wiped half the
introductury video and a mere four new adherents
turned up, one of whom was looking for Wargaming
Society. Two months later, the auditions for Theatre
West End Productions (TWEP-the acting side of the
Edinburgh Tour) things weren't much better: we
needed eight actors, and there were eight auditionees,
one of whom was Spanish and must have had a
working English vocabulary of less than 100 words.
All was not yet lost, however. By May our
administrator Zoe' had managed to sell all but two of
the twenty-one show slots in the theatre we were
going to build, to other unsuspecting drama groups.
TWE's credentials are, in fact, fairly impressive:
central location on the main throbbing thoroughfare,
excellent technical facilities, the largest student run
venue on the Fringe, etc...etc...So we had no real
problems with finances (unlike so many other
companies), we just needed people to come and build
the theatre that we'd already part sold to all those
theatre groups.
In the last week of June our skeleton crew of actors
started rehearsals for the two plays we were taking
up. Huis Clos, or No Way Out, by Jean-Paul Sartre,
about three dead people stuck in a psychological hell
of their own making, was purportedly our 'Arty-Farty'
play and Funeral Games by the infamous Joe Orton
(sexual innuendo, adultery and religious humbug) was
to be our 'bums-on-seats' play. For three evenings a
week over five weeks our thespians rehearsed shows
that Joe Public would be paying 'real money' to
watch. Props had to be gathered, costumes found,
publicity prepared, sets built and double gins bought
for the directors on more than one occasion; but once
we'd thrown everything into the seven tonne Ryder
Truck we'd hired, there was little more we could do
than pray or blackmail the critics in advance.
Everyone arrived exactly a week before the festival
began. Miraculously everything went according to
plan, and better. The scaffolding, extra lights and
emergency lights all arrived in time and with the actors
helping build the venue as well we turned a grotty
church hall into a sparkling professional theatre in
under three days. Meanwhile a merry band of
publicists raided Edinburgh sticking wodges of leaflets
and posters in every hole and orifice they could find.
The day before our first show, we were paid a visit
by Mid-Lothian fire and safety inspectorate who
granted us a Theatre Licence, so now we could
officially open our doors to the public and our
subletters.
The three weeks of the Festival saw an interesting
variety of actors passing through our venue ranging
from the business-like 'professionals' who voice
telephone weather messages for 'Weathercall' to a
group of bankrupt students from Exeter whose
appalling modern day version of McB (the Scottish
play) won the dubious 'best of the worst' award in
one newspaper. When you're in Edinburgh during the
festival, variety's the name of the game. In total,
1008 different shows were on offer over the three
weeks not to mention the Festival proper, the Book
Festival and the Jazz Festival.
Thirty years ago the Fringe saw the likes of Alan
Bennett and Dudley Moore in their celebrated revue
Beyond the Fringe and even Rowan Atkinson made
his name there. Now you can go and see people like
Julian Clary, The Doug Anthony All-Stars, Alan Bates
and Jeremy Hardy for less than half the price you'd
expect to pay if you were in London. Edinburgh is very
compact so you can fit an astronomic amount into one
day.
Edinburgh nightlife makes that centred around
Imperial look like a Monday night in Vladivostok. Pubs
in Scotland close no earlier than midnight and the very
popular Fringe Club closes at 3am. Last year our flat
was a fifteen minute stagger away from the Fringe
Club and it was almost impossible to get lost.
Edinburgh University Students' Unionis the ideal spot
as well: it's got two cheap restaurants, a cabaret bar
(where you can see a goodly sample of the latest
cabaret on offer for free), several other bars, games
rooms and a thronging disco that plays Tainted Love
at midnight. Newspaper vendors set up shop in the
foyer flogging countless copies of The Scotsman to
young thespians hoping to see their names in lights.
This gives rise to either whoops of joy or sour faces
when their acting is called 'wooden' or 'dead meat'.
Surprisingly, our shows seemed to fare rather well
both in 'bums-on-seats' and arty-fartyness. Funeral
Games was two people short of a full house (120) one
night and Huis Clos got two smashing reviews: the
first in The Scotsman commented that 'Students from
Imperial College London admirably succeeded' and the
second in Review '89 used the words 'outstanding',
'powerful' and 'enjoyable' which were then plastered
all around the outside of the venue to lure extra public
in. Overall TWE made a considerable profit, whereas
most groups expect to make a loss.
Darlings, MARVELLOUS just wasn't the word!
If you're at all interested in coming up to the 1990
Fringe with our jolly crew, either as a dedicated
technician, an actor or just a pair of willing hands
contact Zoe Hellinger or Helen Roberts c/o Dramsoc
Storeroom (4th Floor, right hand staircase, Union
Building) or on internal 3533.
Page 9

