12
October
1998
1 ; issue
1121
K E E P T H E C A T F R E E EST. 1949
The S t u d e n t s ' N e w s p a p e r at Imperial C o l l e g e
Farewell Freshers' Week
With Freshers' Week now over, we look back and examine how it started
A week before term started there was
some doubt as to whether the new dB's
extension would be ready on time. In
the end it was finished barely hours
before the official handover ceremony
but, on Friday 2 October, those involved
In the project assembled in the new
lounge, and 'there was no sign of wet
paint. The evening started badly, how-
ever, as a college Finance Leaving Party
hijacked the bar, apparently mistaking it
for their venue. They even drank the free
wine on offer for those involved with the
project. Once they were removed, and
a few minor technical problems sorted
out, proceedings could begin, lan Cald-
well, Director of Estates, thanked the
builders, designers and constructors
involved with the.project, before talking
more generally about Union-College col-
laboration on building projects: "We are
trying to get the best for students" he
commented. Going on to discuss other
building projects around college Mr Cald-
well said that "hopefully the BMS will be
finished... soon". Exactly how soon he
hoped it would be finished was not spec-
ified.
Dave Hellard, ICU President, also
praised those involved with the project,
commenting "we couldn't have done
this project without the [college] design
office", but emphasised the work put in
by Union staff to get the new venue up
and running for Freshers' Week. In a
show of confidence he declared "we
are the best university in the country...
Dazed on Monday night at the Freshers' Ball
Saying it with Flowers
by Tony Ofori
The introduction of shrubbery outside
the BMS building and adjacent to the
bookshop is likely to cost in excess of
£110,000. According to lan Caldwell,
Director of Estates, the intention is that
this will enhance the aesthetic attraction
of the College.
Three trees will be put up in front of
BMS and a flower bed (approx. 3 m by
60m) is to be planted next to the Water-
stone's bookshop. This alone will cost an
estimated £60,000 (this figure covers the
total cost of the planting, from paving to
flowers): The flowerbed will mean that
approximately 10 parking spaces will be
lost. Potentially, this could cost the Col-
lege an estimated £50,000 per year
through lost revenue. This comes in the
wake of the discovery that an extra £5m
for unexpected costs has been pumped
into the £60m BMS building. All of this
The sort of quality plant
Estates must be paying for
money is taken from central College
funds, meaning that less is available for
other activities.
Imperial College is not exactly alive
with exotic flowers and flamboyant trees.
In fact there is a distinct greyness about
the place. However, it is debatable
whether incorporating flowers and trees
over such a small localised area will
enhance the appearance of the College.
Mr. Caldwell claims that the increased
greenery will "attract more investors and
students to the College". I le also adds
that they are in line with stringent land-
scape regulations.
It is rumoured that one reason for
the setup is the arrival of the Queen to
officially open the BMS building in two
weeks time, but it is doubtful whether
the new trees and shrubs will be planted
in time.
The more cynical economists will
insist that there is no point in such a hor-
ticultural venture that costs so much but
covers so little; however many claim that
this floral addition is a necessary step
towards improving the campus' envi-
ronment.
socially, as well".
Tickets for Freshers' Events were sold
in record times. Over 450 Ents Cards
were bought, compared to around 200
in previous years, which could have led
to licencing problems on the Comedy
Night if every Ents card holder had turned
up. Fortunately many of them didn't
make it as far as the Union that night.
The carnival sold out a full day and a half
earlier than usual. Meanwhile there
were problems with medics' ents cards,
apparently caused by a lack of organisa-
tion on the part of their Union. On the
application form sent out to all new med-
ical freshers there was no return address,
nor was a pick up point for the ents card
specified. The result was that many of
the forms were returned to ICU's office
instead Of the medics' Union, and many
freshers did not have the cards by the Ball
came on Monday night. The Ball itself
seemed to pass off smoothly, if some-
what uneventfully.
continued page 2
Inside..
m
Letters 6
Editorial 7
FOCUS - 1 laldane Library 8
Columns 11
FiCtiOn - by Tom Stevens 14
Arts Feature 16
Music 18
Film 20
Computer Games 22
Sport / Diversions 23
Crossword 24

