12 October 1998 Columns 11
R i g h t A n g l e s t o R e a l i t y
Matt Salter
Eskimos have over 200 different words
for snow. Or at least that is what I was
told by a good friend of mine who was
trying to learn Eskimo (according to him,
although it appears at first glance to be
a fearsomely difficult language to learn,
it is really quite straightforward once you
get inuit). I suppose this makes sense.
Being surrounded by the stuff for 12
months of the year, it's only reasonable
to expect that they'd be the world lead-
ers in classifying the stuff into different
sub-groups - to break up the monotony
of the frozen north if nothing else. It
must fill in those idle moments between
running away from polar bears and clean-
ing up huskie shit.
My friend's titbit of "this-might-just-
get-me-the-Science-and-Nature-cheese-
when-l-next-play-Trivial-Pursuit" malarkey
set me thinking - which is in Itself a per-
ilous venture. The Eskimos go to nit-pick-
ing, almost trainspotteresque lengths in
their attempts to establish minute dif-
ferences between to what you and I
simply regard as just another way of get-
ting cold and wet, precisely because
snow is at the very centre of their lives,
It being quite literally everywhere (and
lets face it, there are only so many times
you can write your own name before the
novelty wears off, or in some cases, falls
off). Taken to a logical conclusion, one
might expect a similar plethora of adjec-
tival nouns wherever there exists a large
range of similar but very slightly different
variations on a theme. And indeed, this
is the case.
Those of you who have lived in Lon-
don as long as I have, and who have paid
annually a sum far in excess of the
Nicaraguan defence budget to London
Regional Transport (motto: "Solving Yes-
terday's Problems Tomorrow"), will have
no doubt noticed the "Eskimo Snow Phe-
nomenon" insofar as it relates to the
"service" that they provide (LRT not the
Eskimos). In order to see what I mean, try
keeping a record for, oh let's say a
month, of all the different ways that the
lads at LRT have of telling you, the pay-
ing customer, that you ain't getting home
in time for tastenders tonight. Go on, I
challenge you. All your favourites are
here: from the classic "due to earlier sig-
nalling problems (c. 1952) at Edgware
Road/Earl's Court/Ravenscourt Park/King's
Cross/Mars*,- delays are occurring to all
destinations on the Circle/District/Pic-
cadilly/Northern Line" ("delete as applic-
able); through "due to a train being taken
out of service (and being humanely put
down ?) the next train along will be so full
that when the doors open crushed bod-
ies will spew out onto the platform caus-
ing even worse delays"; right up to the
truly desperate "because of earlier (insert
implausible excuse here) at (name of
just about any LRT station on the map),
you may find that your journey takes a lit-
tle <wince> longer than usual" Whilst
you're compiling you list, bear in mind
that these are the jokers who brought
you "you might find that you need to
allow extra time for your journey" (it's a
bit f*!%@$g late for that now y'bastard);
"mind the gap" (once misheard by a
Japanese friend of mine, to his great
consternation) and my own personal
favourite: "use all available doors".
But no matter how hard they try, LRT
will always be playing second fiddle to
that cherished band of heroes who have
done more to advance the cause of the
"same but different" lobby since Status
Quo learned to play the 12-bar blues. I
speak of course of none other than toi-
ilet paper manufacturers - or more specif-
ically of the product which they supply.
From the humblest to the highest, from
the 1st year mechanical engineer up to
Mrs Windsor herself, the prodigeny of
Messers Andrex and Dixell touches us all
(or at least a certain part of us all). But for
a commodity which must surely repre-
sent the ultimate in "use once then throw
away", it comes in a simply staggering
range of prices, hues and textures. You
may have stood, as did I on a recent
shopping trip; pulse racing, senses
inflamed, gazing enraptured in wide-
eyed disbelief at the kaleidoscopic Pavil-
ion of Paper, the Temple of Tissue, the
Cathedral of Consumerism that is the
bog roll aisle. Why it is always adjacent
to the frozen vegetable cabinets is
beyond me when sureiy it would make
more sense to put it next to the ready-
to-eat curries. Inappropriate locations
notwithstanding, this does not distract
from sheer number of d ifferent varieties
available, all promising us a bum-cleans-
ing experience of unparalled comfort
and convenience, everyone an intergral
part of a meticulously planned Image. We
all knew and feared the Andrex puppy (as
a child I lived in such fear of a Labrador
dancing under the toilet door that I could
barely unclench my buttocks long
enough to get the job done) but like it
or not we remember what he came to
sell to us. It's daft, it's incredible, it's the
visible tip of a multi-million pound ice-
berg.
The names of the products are
undoubtedly the bastard brainchildren of
young, overpaid, ad-execs. Go and look
if you don't believe me. "Revive" may
sound like a brand of patent smelling
salts and Quilted Velvet like a film starring
the young Elizabeth Taylor, but the prize
for "Mindlessly Stupid Name For A Per-
sonal I lygiene Product in 1998" goes to
Dixell's "Kittensoft". I mean, what's that all
about? My first reaction was that this
had to be a ghastly misreading of the
public mood, the product of a diseased
imagination. If it were merely an accident
of the most humourless kind, it would be
almost understandable, but in an age
where everything is researched, dis-
sected and rudely probed for hints of hid-
den meaning it is inconceivable that this
name was merely chosen at random.
Oh no. Quite obviously we are being
invited to believe that using this toilet
paper faithfully recreates the sensation of
wiping one's arse on a baby cat. As I have
never even contemplated performing
this most basic of hygiene activities using
a member of the feline genus, juvenile
or otherwise, I cannot vouch for the
accuracy of this claim. All I know is that
I have not yet reached the "Kittensoft"
stage in life.
I have long maintained that one can
chart one's progress up the ladder of life
by the toilet roll that one uses. I have
passed through the school issue "grease-
proof" stage where one was forced to
make use of stuff that was little more
than tracing paper. Then I left home and
progressed onto the "made from 100%
recycled" loo paper, only to switch alle-
giances yet again when my priorities
changed from saving the planet to sav-
ing my ringpiece. For ages I bought toi-
let paper, but in recent years I find that
I've graduated to toilet tissue - a trivial
distinction to some, but one to be held
onto when it is the only tangible mani-
festation of personal advancement. I kid
myself that I'm on the way to wealth and
success by buying big fat rose-coloured
rolls of Supersoft 3-ply and wiping my
way into a better lifestyle. As yet, how-
ever, I have not quite made it into the
"Kittensoft" club, where people glide
through life effortlessly and securely,
making daring and witty conversation,
spending their summers in the Maldives
and their winters in Gstaad. I'm yet to join
the select few who have almost impos-
sibly tanned and taut bodies and but-
tocks which they caress clean with
squares of raw silk.
Anyway, I'd better be off. It's just
started snowing and I'm dying for a crap.

