14
Fiction 12 October 1998
byTo yens
Once upon a time there was a nice boy
called Jimmy who lived in a place called
Chipping-causes. Even though he was
very nice, he only had one friend, who
was a small lump of cheese called Jimmy
as well. Jimmy and Jimmy had lots of
adventures together. Jimmy's Mummy,
who was called Mummy, was worried
about Jimmy and often sent him to the
doctor. Jimmy didn't mind because he
knew he was all right. Even though peo-
ple sometimes looked at him oddly when
he and Jimmy would rush around and
Jimmy (not the cheese) would yell:
/ am the boy with the piece of cheese,
My friend is as yellow as you please,
If I wear black,
we look like a bumble beez.
He would shout this until his
Mummy would say she thought it would
be better if he was quiet. And belt him
with her broomstick. This made Jimmy
sad but his friend, the cheese, would
soon cheer him up by being so bright
and yellow.
One day Jimmy had a good chance to
show his Mummy and the doctor that it
wasn't silly to be best friends with a lump
of Cheddar. In fact, he could probably
have shown that being friends with a
dairy product was more useful than hav-
ing more conventional human friends.
On this day, Jimmy was walking along
with his pal humming a little tune:
Toasted truffles and strawberry Jam,
Are nice.
Nicer than spam
And nicer than rice.
I would eat all I can
But I have to give them to the mice.
Who otherwise would eat my cheese.
His Mummy didn't like him hum-
ming this much either but she wasn't
around. Jimmy was walking to the zoo.
He was pretending that this was a big
adventure, but he had been before. So
it wasn't really. He thought the zoo was
like a big hotel for all the animals who
could come and stay to look at the peo-
ple and see what they got up to. Most of
all he liked the Hippos and the Stick
insects. He liked the Hippos because
they didn't have any sharp corners, so
you couldn't cut yourself on them. He
liked the stick insects because they
looked like sticks.
Even though he liked the Hippos so
much, first of all he went to see the
lions. To save the best till last. Some
other children were looking at the Hons
too. The lions all lived in a big pit. Jimmy
though that maybe lions weren't as rich
as the other animals as their place was-
n't as good as the others. Only by look-
ing up could they see all the people thay
were meant to be looking at. And Hons
don't seem to like looking up very much.
Then Jimmy thought that perhaps lions
were as rich as all the other animals, it
was just that they were a bit mean. For
some reason, (Jimmy knew there was
always a reason for things. But his cheese
probably didn't), there was only one lion
in the lion pit. It was very big and yellow.
It didn't look very big as it was such a
long way down below our hero, it looked
about the size of a bar of soap. I lowever
it did look very angry. It kept going 'growl'
and swishing its tail.
There was a zookeeper standing
near Jimmy, looking at the Hon. He was
wearing a blue hat, (the zookeeper that
is, not the lion or Jimmy). Jimmy thought
that zookeepers were like policemen.
Jimmy asked him what was wrong with
the lion. The man said that the Hon was
in a bad mood and it wasn't helping
that the children were dropping peanuts
on it. Jimmy asked the zookeeper if he
could sing a song to the Hon to cheer it
up. The zookeeper said he thought that
was a good idea and went off to tell the
children not to throw peanuts. Jimmy
sang to the lion:
Lions live in Africa,
Except for you
You live in Chipping-causes.
So do I
But my house is nicer than yours is.
The lion didn't seem to hear this. He
didn't look any happier either. Jimmy
saw that the lion didn't listen much to
what went on above his house. SoJimmy
devised a brilliant pian to talk to the Hon
a bit better. He climbed over the railing
and jumped down into the lion's pit.
This was a very big drop and Jimmy could
have been hurt very badly. Luckily he
landed on the lion. The zookeeper
started shouting and the Hon didn't look
pleased either. In fact the lion jumped up
and took a huge bite out of Jimmy. He
rolled him around on the floor and then
ate him all up.
Jimmy was surprised. He didn't know
lions liked cheese. The zookeeper rushed
into the pit. I le looked very white and
was holding a long stick. He grabbed
Jimmy by the shoulder and told him he
was lucky to still be in one piece. He said
lions were quite vicious and didn't like
been landed on. The zookeeper started
to drag Jimmy through the door, out of
the pit. But Jimmy wasn't very happy, he
said he didn't much like his best friends
been eaten.
He struggled free from the
zookeeper. I le took a big run up and
summoning up surprising speed and
strength, booted the Hon on the nose.

