16 Arts Feature 12 October 1998
T h e a t r e o n t h e c h e a p
Cheap theatre?
You must
Remember the days when you could leave
home with a tenner, go to the theatre, buy
a slap up meal and still have change for
the bus fare home? As far as Matt Williams
is concerned, they still exist
S
o, Freshers week has finished, you've spent
your food money for the term, put serious
dents in your grant cheque, can't wait for
your student loan to get approved and you're try-
ing to find something interesting to do in London
that won't mean you've got to be at the bankthe
following morning filling In the free overdraft
application form. Or am I being a bit optimistic?
Well, if you've spent the last week or so being
seriously abused by loud music, sampling copi-
ous amounts of ale and living on a diet of pro-
plus and coffee, and now fancy something a bit
different; something artistically (and dare I say
intellectually) challenging, then maybe it's about
time you discovered what the vast number of
theatres and venues in London has to offer.
Despite what you might think going out to the
theatre in London does not have to be expensive
provided you are willing to do a bit of preparation
or to just take your chances. Neither does it have
to be solely for middle class 'luwies' who did so
"revel in Berkoff's second act which marvelled
amidst..." etc. Many of the top theatres in London
do student standbys (don't be afraid to flog those
Union cards for all the money they're worth) or
smaller fringe venues might do mid-week offers.
Whatever your tastes, I'm sure it is possible to find
something out there to suit everyone whatever
your budget or occasion so .... read on.
T
he first things to consider are the big West
End shows. If you haven't yet been to see
one then I'm sure that sometime in your
few years here you'll at least be tempted to go
and sit amidst the throng of gathered tourists in
the heart of the West-End. As far as getting rela-
tively cheap tickets goes, you've got a number of
options available depending on the time you've
got spare and finances. One of the best places to
get tickets is the 'Half Price Ticket' booth at the
bottom of Leicester Square In the little clock
tower type-of-thing. Here they sell tickets at half
their marked price (who'd have guessed that?)
for performances that day. There Is nothing
dodgy or fake about the tickets on sale here - it
is all perfectly legal and above board. They take
cash only and are open from 12pm to 6.30pm
(3pm on Sundays) and tickets are limited to 2
pairs per person. The problem is that they can't
guarantee what tickets will be available and
don't get tickets for all of the shows running in
the West End (Phantom and Les Mis are two who
don't currently subscribe). It can also be prone
to large queues during the summer months
when it's prime tourist time. However, if you're
flexible about what you want, have some spare
time in the afternoon and want to see some of
the bigger shows In London, then this could be
ideal.
Another possibility is to try going to the the-
atres themselves. It is quite usual for a number of
return tickets to be available for each perfor-
mance at lower prices provided your willing to take
your chances queuing to get them. Each theatre
will have its own policy on how they run this so
it's best to check with them about prices, best
times to start queuing, and usual numbers of
tickets available. If there's a show that you really
want to go and see and is near the end of it's run
then this is certainly a possibility, but is probably
for the more 'hardcore' amongst you. Instead you
could try getting balcony tickets which, although
sometimes a long way from the stage, still provide
adequate sight and sound if you've still got all your
faculties about you. Some of the seats might not
be the most comfortable or suitable for those suf-
fering from vertigo but in my opinion these pro-
vide a better alternative to restricted view tickets
where vou walk out with a bent neck and sore
back having missed all the visual gags on one half
of the stage due to the large pillar in front of you.
Tickets range from about the £7 mark for both bal-
cony and restricted view seats but this can vary
greatly between shows.
Flashing lots of student ID can also work in
places like this, but it tends to depend on theatres,
days of the week, and times of the day. One place
that I highly recommend is the National Theatre.
This often has great shows with big name actors
and they offer Student Standbys at £7.50 45 min-
utes before the start of each performance. There's
12 October 1998 Arts Feature 17
T h e a t r e o n t h e c h e a p
In the West End?
be joking.
no guarantee of availability of tickets, but you can
end up with the best seats in the house at a bar-
gain price. They normally have a number of shows
on in a variety of theatres at one time, so if you
make the trip over there you're fairly safe in find-
ing something left - unless you choose a week-
end or the start/end of a run.
N
ext in line you've got the 'Off-West End'
theatres, in my experience this classifica-
tion has got a lot less to do with location
than the title might suggest (they might be in the
heart of town or out by the river), but more to do
with programming, prices and size. These the-
atres are usually smaller, and can often be very
interesting, sometimes giving the first showings
to plays that then go on to be hugely successful.
It can be a great place to sample new writing,
witness adventurous directing or just see some-
thing that sounds amazing. Boundaries for the-
atres that fall into this category are often blurred,
but places such as the Donmar Warehouse, Royal
Court, and Riverside Studios are probably some of
the better-known venues amongst them. Shows
here can be really good - the Donmar Warehouse
currently has Nicole Kidman there (don't bother
trying to get tickets - I read one article saying
they were worth £1000 a pair and returns are
extremely rare) and the Royal Court had the first
showing of Mark Ravenhill's Shopping and
Fucking (With optional asterisks for the more con-
servative).
Offers for students here are plentiful and
good, with concession prices rarely going above
£6 and sometimes as low as 10p. The Royal Court
does a limited number of 'Standing' tickets at 10p
each night, which go on offer 1 hour before each
performance, and in my experience they'll only
force you to stand if there are absolutely no seats
left (sometimes there's a bench available). Certainly
worth considering if you're out at the theatre fre-
quently. They also do special offers on Mondays
and matinees.
Also watch out for venues that run 'Pay-what-
you-can' nights. Battersea Arts Centre, just across
the river, operates this policy on Tuesday nights for
some shows (check the listings) and although
they're perfectly happy to take 20p off you for the
ticket, a few quid might ease your conscience a lit-
tle, as well as helping them to sustain such a great
opportunity to let people experience the theatre.
Keeping an eye open, reading 'Time Out' and
being impulsive is probably the best way to get
around this market place, but the rewards can be
rich.
F
inally there's the Fringe. If the West End is
the heart of theatre in London then the
Fringe is certainly the soul. The word 'Fringe'
is used to categorise so many different types of
events and theatres that it is impossible to go
through all of them here. Venues live on the top
of pubs, in warehouses, or under churches - and
the levels of performances vary almost as much.
I've seen here probably the best and most inspir-
ing productions that I've ever seen, and at the
same time some of the weakest and worst. That's
what the Fringe is, and that's what it lives on..
There is no hard guide as to what you must see,
where you must go, and there is no guarantee at
all to what you'll get - but by taking a degree of
advice and a bit of trial and error you'll soon work
out what it is you like.
Certainly one of the best places to get infor-
mation is 'Time Out'. Every week it is packed with
listings of what is going on at the fringe venues,
as well as prices, time, and a fairly good guide to
what is (or isn't) worth seeing. Prices tend to exist
around the £5 mark for concessions and some-
times there might be offers available on certain
nights of the week. There are venues within walk-
ing distance from College and halls (Kings Road,
Chelsea, and Notting Hill) so if you see some-
thing you might like, or fancy something different
then it could be worth a go. Fringe theatre does-
n't appeal to everyone, but that doesn't mean
you won't like it, and neither does it mean that it's
only meant for theatre going types. Normally it's
the unusual, challenging and different stuff that
finds it way onto the fringe and this can mean it
not only achieves a lot more, but can also attract
many more different types.
So I guess that's about all I can suggest off
hand. This is by no way a definitive guide to what
is available, but it really is only meant to show you
what is possible - the rest is up to you. There is
such a wide variety on offer in so many different
areas that it is impossible to tell you everything ...
I haven't even touched on the fact that the Eng-
lish National Opera do tickets for £2.50, and then
there's dance and music and .... etc etc. Ifyou want
to just try it once or maybe be a frequent visitor to
the theatres, then London certainly has it all to
offer. There is, of course, one way of going to see
shows regularly for absolutely no money at all, and
that's to join the arts section of Felix. In return for
a short review, preview or press tickets that we can
manage to get could be yours. Plus you get to see
your name in print - what more could you possi-
bly want? Just drop into the office anytime. Good
luck, and happy hunting.

