ASH
Nu-Clear Sounds
Music 12 October 1998
Congratulations. It's a girl!
S
ummer's over, the reality of having to actually
start doing stuff with your life again is kicking in
and you're getting fed up with your album
acquisitions from the vacation. It's time for something
fresh and new; a different perspective, perhaps. Well,
Nu-Clear Sounds might not be the perfect prescription
but it should tie you over before your next fix.
As you may or may not know the new blood in Ash's
veins comes from one Charlotte I latherly, recruited as
an extra guitarist and vocalist. Most of the songwritng
is still handled by the capable Tim Wheeler although
I latherly is credited on the opening track. Projects,
which is a guitar layered slog with a slightly pessimistic
feel that is a far cry from some of their earlier pop
rushes: 'It's dark in heaven baby, that's for sure.' isn't
quite in the same category as 'I still love you, the girl
from Mars,' galactic references aside.
It's not that they've lost their ability to churn out decent
pop singles that keep the punters happy. Current sin-
gle, Jesus Says, proves that they can still rock out with
the best of them and provides the music marketplace
with another injection of pre-millenium tension. All
this musical anxiety can only be a good thing.
Death Trip 21 is the standout track. A sample that
sounds similar to the screeching noise at the opening
of Firestarter, general guitar thrashing and a midway
funky bassline to provide the calm before the storm all
come together with Wheeler's frenetic vocal delivery to
provide a satisfyingly climactic ending. Overall, it's an
album of ebb and flow. There are nice quiet numbers
wedged in between some more dark and introspective
numbers while there are still remains of what people
see as classic Ash. It's a good result. Well done boys!
Oh, and Charlotte, d
Dennis
Superior - Faster Than You
Excellent single from this female fronted group. Relax,
turn up the volume and enjoy this breathlessly sexy, dark
number which rises and increases to a satisfying end.
Ultrasound - /'// Show You Mine
The usual stuff: dreamy, majestic, ethereal, soaring
and beautiful. There's an interesting sleeve note from
a clearly obsessed fan, "Our love will strike at night drag-
ging you naked and terrified to a romantic and glori-
ous death." There used to be a time when fans were
ecstatic to get spat on but now they're not content until
they've slaughtered and humiliated you!
U2 - Sweetest Thing
I Imm, how to advertise the Best of U2? Well, we could
leak a report about a multi-gazillion dollar deal or we
could dredge up some rubbish from the archives. This
was originally intended for Joshua Tree but was prob-
ably incorrectly dismissed as shite. Optimistic and vul-
nerable, it's a step up from the more recent singles.
Rialto - Summers Over
'Kamikaze seagull planes fighting over chip shop take-
away remains.' Summer's Over deals with small sea-
side towns during said period of time. Would fit quite
nicely on second half of Parklife. That's a good thing,
by the way.
Fun Lovln' Criminals - Big Night Out
Any band that can handle the chorus line, T got super-
models on my D,' without combusting with hilarity is
freezer cocktail cool. It's the usual 'Criminals style with
a mock 'hands together and singalong' ending.
Lodger - Small Change
The actual single here sucks like a White House
employee on speed. Track 2, Drunk, is fantastic and Eric
is quirkily brilliant. Looks like the bloke in charge of track
order decided he'd piss off for a pint instead.
Mansun - Negative
Who actually buys this stuff? Answers on a postcard to
Felix.
Natalie Imbruglla - Smoke
Cutie Beauty Nat releases another one from Left of the
Middle. It's very good. Much more intense than previ-
ous singles and consequently more appealing. Not
bad going for a bird off some Australian soap.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Placebo-You Don't Care About Us
Well scrape me off the stick, cover me in chilli sauce and
salad and wrap me up in pitta bread because I'm ready
to go! Sometimes a record is in your face and it's all
about right here ana right now. Frighteningly exhila-
rating. Pass me that black eyeliner! El
Dennis
Idlewlld -I Am a Message
Idlewild have been much touted as the best thing to
come out of Glasgow since Teenage Fanclub. I'm afraid
they don't live up to this reputation with / am a Mes-
sage which features trademark distorted guitars (sound-
ing pretty weak it has to be said) and fairly weak lyrics
alongside.
Audioweb - Gef Out of Here
Carrying on with the cop theme, started first with
'Policeman Skank', Audioweb use sampled sirens on this
brilliant new track with lead singer Martin doing his usual
mix of ragga and his smooth, less than deep vocals.
Monkey Mafia - Work Ml Body
This was originally released a few years back but does-
n't sound at all dated. Tracks like this need to be re-
released to remind us that 'Big Beat' still sounds pretty
fresh, even though many people are in a hurry to dis-
own it.
Snowpony- John Brown
It contains a sample from the 'I lustier' and its funked
out groove is forced along by a marching drumbeat.
The singer's voice is an acquired taste and her vocal
melody tends to ruin the tune.
Swervedrlver - Wrong Treats
This track was recorded a longtime ago, back in Decem-
ber '96 but it's only seeing the light of day nearly two
years later. It's pretty typical of Swervedriver with their
usual use of distorted guitars but doesn't live up to their
previous release 99th Dream.
The Dub Pistols - Cyclone
This is a tune to get you jumping up to, and probably
could be classed in the same league as Lionrock but
laden with more energy, the verse souds reminiscent
of De La Soul but the chorus dispels any lack of origi-
nality.
BJork- Hunter
This is the opening track from Bjork's third album
/ lomogenic. It sounds a little too similar to one of Por-
tishead's songs from Dummy and is a pretty clear pic-
ture of / lomogenic as a whole: dark and oppressive.
Gel - Catching Ants
This is pop and at the same time thrashed out indie,
played by a four piece from reading with an age range
similar to Ash when they first started off. The title is
pretty lame and the same can be said about the song
too. E3
Jason

