12 October 1998 Music 19
ilia Bomb!
WHATS UPll Ya regular dose of hip hop and R&B is back
with the news and reviews!
What's Up! After a wicked summer (way too short) col-
lege is back and The Bomb has returned to bring you
the low down on the R&B and hip-hop world.
The biggest news of the summer was the
announcement that Whitney Houston and Mariah Carey
are going to hook up to record a gospel flavoured duet
When You Believe as the theme for the animated film
'The Prince Of Egypt'. The song will be produced by
Babyface and if I was him my major concern would be
finding a studio big enough for these two massive egos.
Just before the end of term last year Brandy and
Monica collaborated to produce the stunning The Boy
is Mine, and most people thought this meant they had
got over their problems; no way, the young divas still
hate each other. Everyone knows about the problems
at the MTV Music Awards - bitch fight. When Brandy
came over to publicise her new album Never Say
Never, she was quoted as saying there wasn't any
problem -
1 was told her mouth was saying no problem,
but her body language was screaming bitch. In terms
of sales Brandy is ahead, her album is better; except for
the cover of Bryan Adam's Everything I Do - why the hell
is that there. Monica's album is good, her vocals are
tight, but she just doesn't have the cross over poten-
tial of Brandy - the only way to settle it is to get Don King
in and fight it out, you know you want to see that.
Another load of girl bands appeared from the dark-
ness over the summer and the pick of the bunch is I lon-
eyz. I say this based on their debut single Finally Found,
but I haven't heard anything else so if they go shit don't
blame me. The three young ladies in the group come
from all over Europe, Celenafrom London, Naimafrom
France and I leavenlii from Germany - may do well in
the Eurovision Song Contest then.
The summer also saw the release of Snoop's new
album Da Came Is To Be Sold, Not To Be Told, it shifted
fast and went straight to number one in the States,
becoming the second biggest debut of the year after
the Beastie Boys' recent album Hello Nasty. I'm still wait-
ing to see what happens to Snoop when Suge Knight
(CEO of Death Row Records) gets out jail, remember
Suge got Dr Dre out of his contract using a baseball bat,
and you now Snoop's head is around.
Talking about albums, the final album ever from A
Tribe Called Quest was released in the summer, titled
The Love Moment. It ain't the greatest stuff they've
done, but its not bad, it's packed with chilled out
grooves. The first single to be lifted from it is Find A Way.
The members of the Tribe say they're all going to start
out on solo projects with Q-tlp already getting into the
studio.
Single of the week is the dope / low Deep Is Your
Love from Dru I lill, these talented boys have come up
with an absolute killer, this is a must. Dru I lill will be
droppin' their second set Enter Fhe Dru by the end of
October. After a whole summer of hearing it. Top oFThe
World by Brandy & featuring Mase, is at last getting a
British release. This is the best piece of street soul out
there at the minute (watch out for the remix with Big
Pun on rap). R. Kelly has returned with, guess what? a
love song, but nevertheless Half On A Babuls very classy
and definitely worth checking out. The latest single from
Queen Pen is out, but stay well away from it. It's Frue
is a cover of the Spandau Ballet hit True, and quite sim-
ply it's a disaster. Remember Ashley from the Fresh
Prince of Bel-Air (real name Tatyana Ali), well she's
turned her hand to singing now and brings us Day-
dreaming it's solid enough, nothing spectacular, but
somehow I always find myself singing along. J.D.'s
new single is Sweetheart with Mariah Carey on vocals
as guest, fortunately it's mostly Mariah already causing
huge damage on the dance floors.
See ya round. E]
Milen
Phat Selection
Horse & Carriage - Cam'ron & Mase
This tune is getting heavy rotation on radio, head nodding delight.
The Mlseducatlon OfLauryn Hill (LP) - Lauryn Hill
The front-woman for the fugees has stormed the world with her first solo
effort - written, produced and arranged by her!
How Deep Is Your Love - Dru Hill feat. Redman
Taken from the Rush Hour soundtrack this is a must have.
They Don't Know' - Jon B
Simply stunning, faultless vocals.
Two Way Street'- Miss Jones feat Big Pun
HOT, out on promo only, this is burning up.
Top Of The World- Brandy feat. Mase
Fine street soul with Mase on rap
Prodigal Slsta (LP) - Beverly Knight
Bev really is kickin' it, includes Made it Back and Rewind, this really does live
up to the hype.

