20 Film 12 October 1998
Reviews
The Truman Show * * * • •
Starring : Jim Carrey, Ed Harris, Laura Linney
Director: Peter Weir
M
any reviewers have focused on
The Truman Show as a dramat-
ic turn around in Jim Carrey's
career - proof that he really can cut It as
a serious actor. This creates the impres-
sion that this is a masterpiece of mod-
ern film-making, a serious moral drama
investigating the power of TV. Yet this
simply isn't true - The Truman Show is a
brilliant example of near perfect film
making, but for different reasons.
First of all, forget any film made in
the last twenty years. Truman has far
more In common with the Hollywood of
the thirties and forties than the mega-
bucks methods of today. Think back to
the days of Cary Grant and James Stew-
art and classic feelgood movies like It's
A Wonderful Life, and you're in the right
kind of territory. Truman's model home,
the idyllic town of Seahaven, his perfect
life and perfect wife combine to pro-
duce a stunning technicolour rendition
of a fifties dreamworld. There's no crime,
no swearing, no violence - it's the
Utopian world of public information
broadcasts.
Of course, it's all too good to be true.
Since the sixties, The Truman Show has
been the highest rated show on US tele-
vision. It's a twenty-four hour, non stop
soap opera, that's run for over thirty
years without a single break. In that time,
the world has seen Its eponymous star
take his first step, say his first word, jour-
ney through school and college and
eventually marry. The catch? The pro-
gramme exists unbeknownst to Truman.
The entire town in which he lives is a set.
Every person he knows, everyone he
has ever met is an actor.
To stop Truman from escaping, a
series of obstacles have been contrived
- his fear of crossing water, leaks at the
nuclear power plant, forest fires and so
forth - which constrain him to his fictional
home. To all intents and purposes he is
a prisoner in paradise. But he's happy -
in director Weir's own words, "We all
accept the reality with which we're pre-
sented" - until a series of bizarre inci-
dents, coupled with the strange loss of
a lost love catalyses a rebellion within our
hero....
A nice enough Idea in principle, the
beauty is in its execution. Although in
hindsight it's probably a very cheesy,
ultimately predictable movie, Peter Weir
creates a character who you can't help
but route for. Like Carrey, the Australian
director has also undergone a dramatic
career reversal thanks to The Truman
Show. Although no stranger to star vehi-
cles, his previous work has generally cov-
ered far more "adult" themes - Witness,
Oallipolli, Dead Poets Society and The
Mosquito Coast stand as cases in point.
Above all, it's Carrey's showcase per-
formance that drives the film towards
classic status. Amidst his utterly unreal
surroundings, he manages to remain
totally believable, an average, everyday
guy, struggling to discover the truth of
what's going on around him, never dar-
ing to believe the full nature of the cor-
porate universe that surrounds him. Not
only every scene he appears in, but the
entire movie revolves around his per-
formance and ultimately relies on him for
its success.
The key point, however, is that it
isn't a deliberately startling performance.
It isn't in Carrey's nature to exude the
presence of de Niro or Pacino, so instead
his past roles have seen him resort to big-
laugh physical comedy (The Mask, Liar,
Liar, Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, and th-
e like). However, as Truman, Carrey man-
ages to own every scene he appears in,
without any of the usual tricks. Whilst the
comedy remains - don't let any of the
publicity fool you into thinking this a
laugh-free zone - Carrey executes it with
much lighter strokes, letting the writer
and director do the work for him. As a
result, he never seems to be forcing the
laughs, never struggles to find the
humour in an obviously mundane situa-
tion. Sure he has his cliches and catch-
phrases, but then don't we all. The
important point is that he never drives
them into your head like a game-show
host. It's the massive fictional audience,
not Truman, who raise his favourite say-
ings to cult status. At the end of the day,
Truman isn't a star. He doesn't know -
and Carrey must make us believe he
doesn't know - that anyone is watching
him, or even taking an interest in him.
Put together, The Truman Show is a
timeless piece of cinema. Whilst Ed Har-
ris (Apollo 13, The Rock) - cast perfectly
against type as the camp, beret-wearing
creator of the show - explains the Cap-
tain Scarlett style technology used to
keep Truman under constant surveil-
lance, in an attempt to give the film
some nineties feel, the story itself could
sit happily at any point in the last half-cen-
tury. Although on the surface there arc
some moral questions raised over the
growing power of the mass media to
control our lives, that is by no means the
true thrust of the film. It's simply a clas-
sic tale of the strength of human will
when faced with a seemingly insur-
mountable obstacle.
The relative successes of The Truman
Show and some of this Summer's all-
action outings should finally send the
message to Hollywood that well thought
out, well written movies can be suc-
cessful. OK, so this time next year we'll
probably have to put up with an endless
stream of Truman rip-offs, but maybe -
just maybe - the unlikely combination of
Weir and Carrey could herald the return
of old-style values to movie-making.
Quite simply, that's how good this movie
is. Cllched as it may be, I feel compelled
to say it: If you only see one movie this
year, then make sure it's The Truman
Show. D
Dave

