12 October 1998 Film 21
Round-up
Lethal
Weapon 4
Call me pathetic or laddish if you like, but as far as I'm concerned, LW4 was simply
the most enjoyable film of the summer. All the old cast - Gibson, Glover, Pesci and
Russo - return, plus new boy Chris Rock (think eighties Eddie Murphy) and an esti-
mated $140 million budget. With twelve years and three movies already under their
belt, producer-director partnership Joel Silver and Richard Donncr recognise the
importance of the right mix between action, comedy and those classic cliches. How-
ever, this time around there Is a far stronger sense of irony thrown into the mix,
with the script happily sending itself up, and at the same time pushing the action
to ever greater extremes. Hardly a classic, but perfect cinema nonetheless.
There's Something About Mary is drop dead funny. No'more need be said. Think
what you may of their sense of humour, but the farrelly brothers arc the finest pur-
veyors of all out comedy currently in Hollywood. Whilst Dumb and Dumber and King-
pin were filled with toilet gags, Mary is far more reliant on visual jokes, which had
the entire audience in hysterics from start to finish when I saw the film. Whilst you
may well have already seen some of the more infamous scenes in trailers, many
of the funniest moments come from the (comparatively) subtle gags - witness Matt
Dillon's dire attempts at lying about his experience with retarded children, and fee
Evan's appaling American accent. Very American, but very funny.
There's
Something
About Mary
Saving
Private Ryan
Saving Private Ryan has received massive Critical acclaim for its painfully vivid por-
trayal of the realities of life in World War Two, and its hard lo fault as an amazing
piece of film-making, for which Steven Spielberg could deservedly pick-up another
Oscar. However, so perfectly does it portray the troops as a group of ordinary guys,
that It becomes hard to connect with any of them. This has little to do with the per-
formances - which are first rate - and more to do with a script which steadfastly
refuses to focus on the Gl's own stories. Instead, every inch of celluloid is devoted
to persuading you of the horrors of war, and as a result you are left feeling unsat-
isfied, hardly caring whether the principal characters live or die.
The big British hit of the Summer, Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels has gained
notoriety largely for its eclectic casting, which includes footballer Vinnie Jones, Sting,
and former Press-Gang star Dexter Fletcher. However, it's the intricate plotting and
timing that are the real stars of the film, and despite sub-Neighbours acting, with
Vinnie Jones looking like a fully fledged character actor by comparison, the script
is genuine edge-of-your-the material, tying both audience and characters up in knots.
Although so far removed from reality it's borders on fantasy - Fast End gangsters
only behaved like this in forties movies, - it remains fresh and original enough to
remind you of everything thats good about the British Film industry.
Lock, Stock &
Two Smoking
Barrels
X-Files :
Fight the
Future
Think double-episode of a recent series, add slightly more will-they, won't-they ten-
sion and a $60 million price tag and you've got this one sorted. With over a hun-
dred episodes already under their belts, it's a formula that can't really fail. The only
problem the makers seemed to face was how to keep everyone happy - give the
character introduction new viewers require without boring the hard-core fans. What
results is a convoluted opening, in which Mulder and Scully give a crash course in
five series worth of back story in the space of five minutes. After that, however,
things start to settle down, and all the standard elements drop into place. It simply
comes down to this : if you like the series, you'll like the film. End of story.
Film making for the Beavis & Butthead generation has never before come in such
a perfectly condensed form. Stuff blows up....really corny dialogue....idiotic chases
around....cheesy one-liners....And so it continues, with very little plot to speak of and
dialogue with absolutely no pretensions of literary merit. Instead, producer Jerry Bruck-
heimer - Hollywood's king of the big budget blockbuster - mixes up stereotyped
characters, huge effects, a touch of romance (Llv Tyler and Ben Affleck) and a big
star name (Bruce Willis). Whilst it's hardly Casablanca, or even Die Hard, it's a case
study of the modern Hollywood studio system. Corny, idiotic and implausible as it
may be, but it's entertaining enough to brighten-up any rainy afternoon.
Armageddon
Godzilla
Shite. Really. The worst film I've seen in quite a while (and I saw Cannibal Amazon
Women in theAvacado Jungle of Death last week). Do not, under any circumstances
or by any provocation - even offers of sex from the man/woman of your dreams -
see this film. Bad effects (grey skies and continual rain attempt to hide the obvi-
ous edges to the CGI), damn poor acting, scenes clearly hijacked from Aliens and
Jurrassic Park, and some hilarious product placements combine to produce what
can only be described as a shockingly awful waste of celluloid. With every penny
of the $70 million plus budget wasted, this is by far this Summer's worst offering.
Let me make this clear - DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM.

