Ever felt something
It " - i.jP^"**
could be done better?
^Ste ' ' .
.
n
r
f
f
f
t
f
t
f
y
f
f
f
-
*fr|oil!!'*
What did you do about it?
Nothing? Or did you do something to get it done better? If you
actually did something, and you're graduating in 1999, you could be
exactly what we're looking for. We need students to apply for our
Christmas courses this year. The kind of students who don't just
study, but also get involved in things and really make a difference.
We're Procter & Gamble. We make, market and sell over 300 world-
famous brands including Hugo Boss, Pringles, Pantene, Pampers,
Ariel and Oil of Ulay. Making things better is vital to our business.
With Pampers, we introduced the world to the disposable nappy,
leading to drier, happier babies everywhere. (And fewer faces like
the one above.) More recently, we have tremendous success with the
launch of Sunny Delight. We have been one of the world's most
successful businesses for overa hundred years. But the continuation
of that success depends on one thing: the quality of our people.
Which brings us back to you. To succeed at P&G you'll need to have
certain characteristics. Thinking skills. Creativity. The ability to
work with others. And, most importantly, you'll be the kind of
person who recognises ways to improve things, then has the drive
and leadership to make those improvements real.
We don't expect you to know all about business - we offer some of
the best training in the world - but you need to have done things that
prove your potential. That's because we'll give you immediate
responsibility. You won't be making coffee or just churning charts.
You'll get real, live projects, and the chance to influence things - even
revolutionise them, if your plans are convincing enough.
If you are looking for a challenging career which really allows you to break
the boundaries then pick up an application form now. We inform all our
Christmas course students within a few days if they have a full-time job
offer. You could start 1999 in the knowledge that you've secured a place
with a company that's one of the most admired in the world.
We only recruit at graduate level and run courses across Brand
Management, Customer Business Development, Product Supply
Management, Financial Management, Management Systems, and
Research and Development. The Christmas Course programme is an
ideal way for you to find out more about the company and it's people.
Your first step?
Our deadline for applications is 30th October 1998. If you think you
fit the bill, we need to hear from you now. Call our recruitment
hotline on 0800 0565258 or come along to the P&G corporate
presentation at the Waldorf Hotel on 13th October 1998 at 7pm.
Procter&Gamble
Christmas Courses 1998

