it
L e t t e r s 12 October 1998
Letters to Felix
Missing Clubs
Dear Felix Editor
I wish to extend my warmest and most
sincere congratulations to you and your
predecessor for producing a superb ICU
Handbook for this year. Good work fel-
las!
After close examination of this
esteemed publication I noticed that
some of the Union's Clubs & Societies
had not submitted articles, but had still
managed to gain a mention in the Hand-
book under a section named "Missing
Clubs" on page 70 of section 3. I wish
to draw the Handbook editors' attention
to the remaining Union Clubs & Soci-
eties that have been omitted - this list
includes all of Medical School Students'
Union Clubs, the Departmental Societies,
the Motor Clubs and other Societies run
by the Union such as the Astronomical
Society.
If I were a naive random I would be
none the wiser - as far as I would be con-
cerned, these Clubs & Societies were
non-existent. I lowever, I am not. They
do exist and any member of Imperial Col-
lege Union can join them. So why did
they not have their written articles pub-
lished in the ICU I landbook? Why don't
they even have their names printed in
the section concerned? I know that
many of these Clubs & Societies did sub-
mit articles to the Felix Office well in
advance of the copy deadline.
As far as I am aware, 'Editorial Free-
dom' only applies to newsletters and
papers and not to handbooks and the
like -
1 would never have second thoughts
about barring any articles from a hand-
book, even if I did have reservations
about the person who ran the Club or the
Club itself ICU likes to pride itself over
the number of Clubs that it runs, but yet
when it comes to the crunch obviously
cannot be bothered to publicise some of
them - considering how much time and
effort that these people put into their
Clubs & Societies, I thinkthat future hand-
book editors should rethink this unfair
policy.
On a lighter note, I wish every suc-
cess to all parts of the Union for the
coming year.
Yours faithfully,
Rob Park
Immediate Past ICU RAG Chair
I've had a few letters like this (and posters
in the case of TC Ultimate Frisbee Club'),
so...
As far as I am concerned, there Is no
'policy regarding barring clubs' articles
from the handbook. I cannot speak for
my predecessor and he can't comment,
as he's currently up a mountain in Nepal.
I am quite happy to have all clubs In next
year's handbook, although such a com-
prehensive section will reduce the space
available for each club.
As for the 'missing clubs' section, all
I can say Is that the list of ICU clubs Is vast
and constantly changing, and it Is possi-
ble that the one Jeremy was working
from was not up to date.
Finally, AstroSoc have contacted me
and are being mentioned now, as has
the C&GU Motor Club. I have yet to
here a complaint from the ICSM Presi-
dent Wade Gayed... - Ed
Attention all BIDS Users!
BIDS to ATHENS Username change
Your BIDS username and password expired on the 31st of August.
I lowever, you should have received your ATHENS username and password by
email, with the following subject heading:
ATHENS Personal Account created
I his may be used to access all BIDS and NISS services
Your ATI IENS username will normally be a variant of your Imperial College
email login name.
Eg: icljbloggs
However, your password will NOT automatically be your email password.
For security reasons you are advised to change your ATI IENS password as soon
as possible after receiving it by email.
We recommend that you do not change it to your College email password.
To change your password, go to http://admln.athens.ac.uk/personal.athtml
Please contact your Department/Campus Librarian if you need further assistance
Andy, We Love You!
Dear Editor
Having read your first edition, and Simon
Baker's column in the last issue of Felix,
I felt I had to write in about our dearly
departed President Andy Heeps.
When Andy was elected in Novem-
ber last year (on the fourth occasion,
remember), I was one of the first people
to groan "oh my god, a medic". As far as
I was concerned (and your predecessor)
the medics had finally called our bluff,
and placed a yes-man in to do their evil
ways.
I lowever, the truth panned out very
differently. Mr I leeps proved himself to
be an able, sincere President (the first for
a long time), one who looked out for his
members above himself and fought our
battles brilliantly.
In his eight short months at the
helm, I found the Union to be suddenly
gripped by a realisation that it was our
representatives who ran the place, not
just the permanent staff. I observed four
sessions of Council during Andy's term,
and saw a strong leader who believed
above all in accountability back to us; the
people who paid his wage.
Last week, you revealed how Andy
secured a Welfare sabbatical for ICU.
That particular battle has been fought by
every President since 1990, with even the
mighty Eric Allsop failing to achieve suc-
cess. Yet our man the medic took it in his
stride, winning people over, doing what-
ever negotiation was necessary to
achieve his goal. For those of you who
enjoy the new dB's, give a thought to
Andy who had to jump through hoops at
the College's highest committees to get
Deadline for letters is
12noon Wednesday.
Letters may be edited
for length, but will not
be altered in any other
way. Letters need not
be signed, but a swipe
card must be shown
when submitting
anonymous letters.
the go-ahead from the Rector. The foot-
ball team also showed gratitude, and I
know that if it weren't for Andy's persis-
tence, the fantastic IC Summer Ball would
never have come about.
Members of staff have told me that
the Rector and other denizens of suite 5
disliked Heeps, and I can see why. It is
easy to ignore a student who whines and
moans about conditions in College, it is
less easy to ignore valid argument and
debate.
Andy had his bad points; the BUSA
dual entry debate showed his weak-
nesses, but to his credit he acknowl-
edged the will of ICU Council, and
worked to compromise with them. The
result is the best possible for Imperial Col-
lege and the rest of the country.
I think we all owe to Andy to say
"sorry for doubting you, thank you for all
you have done". I le is in the unenviable
position of being an undergraduate for
another 3 years,- he has to see others
doing his job.
Good luck Andy; Dave Hellard has an
impossible act to follow.
Yours faithfully
D Robinson
Physics PostGrad
KttP THE CAT IRQ MR LST. 1949
The Week Ahead
Monday
Film Meeting 1.30 pm
For all film reviewers wanting preview
tickets...
Deadline for advertising for Issue 1172
Tuesday
News Meeting 1.30 pm
For all news writers and researchers
Wednesday
Deadline for letters for Issue 112212pm
Layout and Finishing 6pm to ???am
Not recommended for the uninitiated.
Thursday
News Meeting 1.30 pm
Foi all news writers, researchers and
photographers

