12 October 1998 7
Let us forget!
Do you remember where you were
when Diana died? Do you remember
where you were on the anniversary, just
over a month ago? No? The complete
lack of enthusiasm for the anniversary,
not least here in fondon, suggests that
Diana fatigue has set in. It comes not a
moment too soon - in the last year poker
games across the country have been
ruined by every pack missing a card,
while vast stretches of Holland are now
bare, harvested to replenish Britain's
florists.
So why mention the 'D' word?
Because, my friends, we work and in
many cases live next door to Kensington
Gardens. In these gardens, near the
palace, certain powers that be want to
build a Diana Memorial Garden. It will
have fountains. It will have statues. It will
have huge blocks of public conve-
niences, children's' areas, cafes, sou-
venir shops... you see where I'm going.
It has been hoped (or feared) that the
proposed gardens will attract thousands,
even millions, of tourists (sorry, respect-
ful mourners) every year. Almost all
Kensington residents are opposed to it.
All of the traders on Kensington High
Street are opposed to it. It will increase
congestion (and thus pollution), push
up prices in an already expensive area,
and generally lead to SW7 becoming
more of a tourist trap than it already is.
You know the Sandwich Shop on
Gloucester Road? Do you really think
they'll still do those half-price sandwiches
when there's fifty tourists on the street
thinking a hot dog for £3 is pretty good
value?
Okay, so I don't like the entire 'Diana
Queen of Hearts' thing. As far as I'm
concerned, most of the media-fuelled
hype has been tasteless and insulting to
her memory, family, and most impor-
tantly, her sons. That's just my opinion.
The proposed Memorial Garden, how-
ever, will affect all of us at IC. Maybe it's
time we joined Kensington residents to
fight a common cause? fetters, please,
and no flowers.
Adding Flora to IC
While we are on the subject of flowers
(watch this link...), I want to get the col-
lege gardening plans out in the open.
Now I like flowers and, quite frankly, we
could do with more colour around the
South Ken campus. Putting a flowerbed
in the place of lucrative (as in £60,000 per
annum) car parking spaces seems less
than shrewd, but it appears to be hap-
pening outside the library. I've heard of
Professors who can no longer park their
cars on campus. Surely re-developing the
flowerbeds around the Queen's fawn,
and maybe extending them down more
than two sides, would be a less costly
alternative?
Which brings me to the BMS Build-
ing. The plants (flowers, trees, golden
boughs - I'm not sure) that are going in
front of the main entrance are (appar-
ently) going to cost over £25,000. That's
25 students' tuition fees. On plants.
Finally, the reason for all those qual-
ifying adverbs is that no-one seems to
want to confirm the details. Felix will find
out, if we get any news staff. Still, give
me a call and I'll put daffodils in for you
- I'll do it for a mere £10,000.
Will you stand?
I am referring, of course, to the various
nomination papers that went up today.
Several council positions are available
(not least RAG chair), and it would be
nice if they could all be filled this time
round. It seems to me that quite a few
students are initially interested in stand-
ing for these positions, but mysteriously
never seem to make it to the Union
armed with a pen.
Of course, the major position is
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies). I
barely set foot in the Union Office dur-
ing Freshers' Week, preferring the quiet
surrounds of the Felix Office, but I can
guarantee Messrs I lellard and Ince, along
with the permanent Union staff, have
had a pretty tough time without a
DP(C&S). But if altruism isn't going to be
a good enough motive for you, think of
all those CV points, the experience you'll
gain and the contacts you'll make. Oh,
and if you do forget that pen on your way
to the Union, drop by the Felix Office and
I'll lend you one.
Hello, Freshers?
Once again it is 6am on a cold and damp
morning, I'm tired and I smell. The rea-
son this time is that I took a couple of
hours off last night (Wednesday) to have
a few pints in the Union. A very quiet
few pints, as it turned out. Where are
you all? I went around on Monday
evening looking for people passed out
on the stairs and sexual exploits in pub-
lic places (both reasonably common in
my Freshers' Week, though not involving
me), and found none. Are you working?
That in itself doesn't bother me.
What does, however, is the tendency
for University to be seen as 'another
rung in the ladder' (insert your favourite
cliche as appropriate). It isn't just another
qualification, it isn't a passport with which
to start your life. It is life. Live it.
Yours patronisingly,
Ed
T H E S U I C I D E
H A N D B O O K .
S u i c i d e N ° . 62:
T h e C a m b r i d g e M e t h o d
Invented at Cambridge University in 1498 by Professor
Isaac Walton, this unique method is still the firm favourite
amongst depressed Cambridge students for popping
themselves off Since its invention 500 years ago, a
staggering 350,362 students have disposed of themselves
this way, making Cambridge University the world record
holder for student suicides. The death toll continues to rise.
Each week Led Studios will select a page from the "Suicide HandbaolC for you to add
to your growing collection Should the need to kill yourself ever arise, you will have a
collection of the most well proven suicide methods to chose from, all free of charge!
The Suicide Handbook is available from Led Books at £9.99 RRP ISBN-4927-3859
Study at Cambridge University and get Now that you have finished failing your
Insert T W O S H A R P P E N C I L S up your
nose until intense pain is felt.
4
With great force proceed to smash your
head onto the table, thus forcing the
pencils Into your brain.
N O T E : T H I S W I L L H U R T !
CONGRATULATIONS! YOU ARE NOW DEAD.
WELL DONEI With no mote worries you c a n
now join the party at the graveyard Hopefully
your death was highly enjoyable using:
"THE CAMBRIDGE METHOD".Coovrioht ms Ldsiudioj.

