s FOCUS
12 October 1998
An Introduction to the Haldane Collection
from Janet Smith, Haldane Librarian
New members of College will be pleas-
antly surprised to find that Imperial offers
a Humanities and recreational library.
This brief introduction - which I hope will
serve as a reminder to existing students
too - is to encourage you to make the
most of the opportunities it offers you.
The Haldane is easy to locate - its com-
fortable reading area is visible from the
Queen's Lawn - and admission and
opening hours are the same as for the
Central Library as a whole. Its extensive
stock of 40,000 books and 7,000 sound
recordings provides for leisure and extra-
curricular reading, as well as supporting
the teaching and cultural activities of the
Humanities Programme. Almost every-
thing other than reference works may be
borrowed. There is a charge of 50p per
CD issue, which compares very
favourably with most public libraries!
What do you want?
In a survey of library users conducted last
year, the majority who commented on
the I laldane said that they would like to
see more fiction and more popular CDs.
Well, the good news is that you can have
them! These areas are the responsibil-
ity of ICU, which provides the budgets for
them. Student buyers are usually elected
at the beginning of the academic year,
but your suggestions for purchases are
very welcome. The best way to make
them known is to complete a recom-
mendation form, which can either be
picked up in paper format in the library
or which you can send electronically via
the library homepage
(http://www.lib.ic.ac.uk). The I laldane
staff will then forward them to the stu-
dent buyer. The quality of these collec-
tions depends on you!
What can the Haldane offer?
Besides the extensive collection of clas-
sic and current fiction, the I laldane book
stock offers a wide choice of recreational
and cultural reading. I here is other Eng-
lish and foreign literature, history, politics,
philosophy, art, biography, cookery,
humour, popular medicine, music books,
sport and a good travel section. There
is much more that cannot be so easily
categorised. The reference section
includes encyclopedias on individual
Humanities subjects, quotation collec-
tions and English usage guides, for exam-
ple. Your suggestions for additions to the
library are welcome.
Newspapers and periodicals
The I laldane subscribes to approximately
60 periodicals of general interest. These
include such titles as Amateur Photog-
rapher, Autocar, Country Life, Film
Review, Great Outdoors, London Review
of Books, Private Eye, Radio Fimes, Time
and Time Out. Some are taken in the
interest of students on language courses
- L'Express, IIMondo and Sfemfor exam-
ple. Others are taken in support of other
Humanities Programme courses - Con-
temporary British Flistory and Written
Communication, to name just two. Daily
newspapers [Daily Telegraph, Financial
Times, Guardian, Independent, Times)
are kept for one week. Library staff will
be glad to advise on other means of
consulting issues not held in paper form
- through the internet or on CD-ROM.
This of course goes for many newspapers
(including overseas papers) and period-
icals not held by the library, which may
be consulted electronically from IC or in
hard copy in other libraries.
Classical music for listeners
A very wide range of "classical" music is
held on CD and to a lesser extent on cas-
sette. There is a broad spectrum of com-
posers (Binchois, Biber, Bach, Beethoven,
Brahms, Berg, Boulez ...) as well as
recitals, including the Three Tenors.
For those who read music and like to
follow the score, a good selection of
miniature scores of instrumental music
and vocal scores of opera and choral
works is also held.
Classical music for instrumen-
talists and singers
In addition to the scores mentioned
above, singers will find a selection of solo
vocal music For instrumentalists there is
a good selection of solo music and
chamber music parts.
Maps
The Ordnance Survey 1:50 000 series and
a selection of British and overseas city
maps may be borrowed. Aliases are for
reference in the library.
Language courses
"there is a good selection of language
books and courses on cassette.
Humanities Programme
course material
Most books for I lumanities Programme
undergraduate courses are to be found
in the I laldane. Courses for 1997/98
include Art and Nature, Modern Litera-
ture and Drama, Music and Ideas in the
19th Century, Philosophy, Politics, and
European History 1870-1989 - in the last
case besides books there are related
videos and CD-ROMs. In the case of
courses in history, philosophy and pub-
lic understanding of science, including
MSc courses, the I laldane provides gen-
eral materials relating to the courses,
while specialised scientific and socio-
logical material is held in the Science and
Technology Studies and Management
Collections respectively.
Audiovisual collection
The Audiovisual collection is not a recre-
ational collection but consists predomi-
nantly of videos on curricular subjects,
which you may find usefully supplement
some of your courses. Subjects covered
in this small but growing collection
include Computing, Engineering, Envi-
ronmental and Life Sciences, History
(20th century), and Physics. Some videos
may be borrowed on restricted loan;
others may be viewed in the Audiovisual
room in the I laldane Collection. Also
available in the Audiovisual room is the
Patent Office Training Package, an inter-
active video laser disc, on the purpose of
patents and how to apply for them.
Events
The I laldane not only provides the mate-
rials, but gives you the chance to hear and
meet the authors and other speakers on
topical matters. Past talks or readings
have been given by Alan Sillitoe, Roder-
ick Swanston and Michael Foot, among
many others. Watch for announcements
in Felix and on posters along the walkway.
Undergraduate
Research
Opportunities
Vrogramme
Undergraduates assist academic staff with their
researches
Directory of 1998-99 opportunities available from
Room 313C Mechanical Engineering
Information meeting (including Delaware, U S A ,
exchange scheme) Wednesday, 21 October 13.15 - 14.00
Room 342 Mechanical Engineering Building
Discover more on http://www.hu.ic.ac.uk/urop/
Help academic staff and help your career:
Join U R O P now

