Scents of Adventure 1 1
(Aftershaves on test)
Equipped with piles ofpungent adjectives, the search beganfor the elusive
which couldtransform even asad Felix hackinto an object offeminine desire
Until a few months ago, the prevalent atmosphere in the Felix Office
suggested nothing short of a solvent abuser's paradise. Indeed it was not
uncommon, when the darkroom door was opened, for an intoxicated journo
to topple out with a glue-brush stuffed up each nostril (don't try that one at
home, boys and girls).
But times change and you can't stop the march of progress: the
background count of ozone-threatening chemicals has fallen and Whiskas,
the Felix mouse, has gone into withdrawal. So, with Carmina Burana
thundering from the stereo, three discriminating young ladies were able
selflessly to subject their olfactory senses to a barrage of designer
fragrances so that you, the discerning punter, would know what to slosh on
your chops after the morning scrape with that three Week-old Bic. Here are
the results in that time honoured tradition of reverse order:
Scanning the Horizon for the man on a surfboard!
Least popular among the eight samples were two offerings from Givenchy: Gentleman
drew forth comments such as "urrrggghhh", "smells like betel nuts" and, from one panellist
apparently determined to go above and beyond the call of duty, "it tastes bad!". Insense
fared little better, being described as "too ripe" and "too sweet".
Next, Minotaure, a new concoction from Paloma Picasso, had a "soapy flowery reek",
and was likened to "a room deodorant" and "cheap aftershave".
Things began to improve with Horizon: smelling "like the skin of a watermelon" (if
that's any help), it was found to be "pleasant, though not very manly".
Third place was shared by two scents from Davidoff: Cool Water had "a clean smell",
and was "quite pleasant, though it would be better for a bath soap". The other, Zino
Davidoff, received some lyrical descriptions "a very heavy, Arabian smell—I like this one",
"an old, spicy pot-pourri smell", and "a very wooded, muted smell, not overpowering".
Second place went to Aramis ("citrus notes", "the more I smell it the more I like it")
which came just behind Relax, the preferred choice for its "sweet honey/liquorice allsorts
smell". But be warned, in contrast to its steamy ad campaign, it was described as having an
"asexual smell, nothing if you want to impress a potential partner"
NB: Impartiality was maintained at all times, but attempts at true scientific objectivity
through the use of a control experiment were spiked by the mysterious disappearance of the
WD40.
. the skin of a watermelon
3D Christmas Crossword ~ D a y 9 ~
SCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PADSCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PAD SCRIBBLE PAD
Across
1. C and G in despair about action at a
disco (7)
6. Women and a young man that is
second (6)
7. Aggregates to go before first two
fatalities lost (10)
9. Curiously, Al's cat quit despite
exonerations (10)
10. Scottish girl gets a dog (6)
11. Siren's noses! (7)
Down
2. Fly and navigate without two
characters (6)
3. Give team R&R to adjust to
geophysicist's instrument (10)
4. Properties in eastern America (7)
5. Enjoy about half of inquiry, then give
up (10)
7. We bloat terribly but can still be
moved (7)
8. Work for the party (6)
Through
There are no through words that start
on this level.

