Reviews 17
The Free Radicals of Europe Bang Their Drums
Camille catches a blast with Europe's techno, Nazi-smashing heroes, ATR.
About six months ago, ATR (Atari Teenage Riot)
slipped onto the scene with modest exposure as
Angry Young People, intent on stamping out the
current resurgence in fascism. Hailing from
Berlin, this sexy bunch are multicultural,
multitalented, and have welded together an
incredibly energetic form dubbed as techno-
punk by taking the essentially escapist techno,
fusing punk ideals to it, and ending up with a
confrontational genre that just oozes.
Having just given them a hype-up in the
usual media whore vein, I will come clean: I am
slightly cynical of their attitudes. Don't get me
wrong, I do support anti-fascism, but isn't it
reactionary for groups to just jump on to
ideological bandwagons? Sure, the whole notion
of youth culture rests on the creation of identity
and the feeling that you can actually do
something - from nobody to somebody, via me
to we and ultimately Us and Them. But surely
this kind of approximation of polar opposites is
detrimental to directionless youth, as it has a
dehumanising effect and becomes a convenient
tag akin to bad stereotyping. Are all these neo-
nazis skinhead bovver boys with swastikas
tattooed on their foreheads?
Enough of the babble. ATR consist of one girl
and two boys: Hanin Elias , Carl Crack and Alec
Empire, who does the talking with the odd
cackle from Hanin. Read on.
How did you get the name Atari Teenage Riot?
In the beginning, the name was invented to
describe what was going on, in that everyone
can produce records at home and it is much
easier with technology to change things.
Why particularly Atari?
For me, Atari isn't just computers, it's also
manga (comics) and everything. And it's a turn
on for us.
(Atari Corporation have asked them not to
use the name, so the band have officially
shortened it to ATR.)
You've been hailed as the 'new-punk', what do
you think ofthat?
They compare us to punk because of the kind
of energy that comes across, but it's not like new
wave. We were actually too young when punk
came out, but I've always liked the attitude.
Don't you think it's ironic that the neo-nazis use
techno as a cohesive force as well?
That was actually our main reason: people
were shouting 'Sieg Heil' to records and this
hooligan scene had developed. When it started, I
knew that it could be very dangerous if you put
the wrong message onto music capable of such
energy so I thought there must be another side.
Therefore it's not the music that's guilty, it's the
people who are using it.
You cite violence, do you really mean it? Or is it
just confrontation-as-a-metaphor-for-violence
as often used in music (eg Sid Vicious' violence
was often theatrical, even though he was really
angry, in reality he "couldn 't punch himself out
of a paper bag " - Johnny Lydon).
Well, if there are skinheads in the audience
causing trouble, they'll get something, and I
don't care.
So, it is literal?
Yes, in a way. I'm not against violence. I
know this is going to sound bad, but in
Germany, where the Police support the whole
Government and the asylum laws have been
changed, what else can you do? The younger
nazis just don't understand, and you can't fight
them normally because you never meet them.
What can you say to people without a cause?
They've got to realise that they are important.
And that one person can change a lot.
What words can you leavefor the future?
ATARI T E E N A G E RIOT!!!
Such were Alec's words just before ATR went
on stage at the Astoria 2. Their set was actually
quite stunning, but the throng were generally
unmoved. Why, why, why? Carl, who'd been
respectfully silent through the whole interview,
metamorphosed into an aggressive M C , Hanin
into a very sassy mediator and Alec as one angry
mutha****er. However some of their anger did
spill into the crowd: when confronted with
Alec's story about his Grandfather being killed
in a concentration camp, one punter shouted
something to the extent of 'Speak to me in
English, or I ' l l have you', to which another
replied 'Listen to what he's trying to say, you
C**t'.
Their last single, a cover of Sham 69's 'If
The Kid's Are United' is awesome and sublime.
Almost like a glamourisation of riot, it was
perhaps a facet of the view that "violence is
essentially gratifying" - Stephen Berkoff. My
initial cynicism to their ideological purity and
irony in their means were soon anaesthetised,
though not completely quashed. But heck, who
cares about pedantic hacks anyway?
3D Christmas Crossword ~ Dcfty €
> ~
Across
2. A bounder and an egghead return
objective of learning (8)
5. Make the mistake of drinking too
much! (6)
7. Say "Wow!" and point to some birds
(5)
8. Rudolph is being inquisitive (5)
11. The making of eggs (6)
12. Breaks terms! (8)
Down
1. Guy entered in colour appears brutal
(8)
3. He makes love with a quiver (5)
4. Test I have to take for a reason (6)
6. Net age Ed reached after twelve! (8)
9. Novel sounding crop (6)
10. Bush left inside holy surroundings
(5)
S C R I B B L E P A D

