20 Reviews
' • :
| j i fm
jjjj
y § y y j B@©k
Ruth Rendell
Omnibus
There are some crime writers who can tell you
who the murderer is at the beginning of a book
and carry the story through to the end and there
are those who can't. Ruth Rendell, unfortu-
nately, can't.
Add in the fact that the three books in this
Omnibus (The Face of Trespass, A Judgement
in Stone and A Demon in my View) were written
in the early to mid-seventies and you can then
sadly reflect the fact that you have a rather
disappointing and expensive door stop.
I don't like books that are billed as
psychological thrillers, so this may taint my
judgement, but these stories tend to just narrate
the rather dull lives of the main characters and it
comes as rather a relief when the victims are
finally bumped off and the perpetrator(s) are
caught (usually within ten pages).
It's always a bit tricky to give an idea of the
plot of crime stories without giving too much
away, but these three can be summed up as:
i. Jilted lover extracts revenge,
ii. Murderous misogynist, and
iii. Psychopath does what comes naturally.
If you have a long train journey or if you are
an insomniac, you could try it, but I wouldn't
bother.
M J & R N
Published by:Arrow
Price: £8.99
Thomas
by Sarah Shears
With the prospect of an operation and at least a
week's convalescence confined to bed, I
grabbed gratefully at this book. Being an avid
reader, I was hoping for more than just
something to take up a little time.
Thomas is set in the late 19th century, at a
rough guess, and follows the fortunes of
privileged and spoilt Thomas Cartwright, as he
makes his rather predictable way through public
school, Sandhurst and finally his marriage to the
'adorable' daughter of his commanding officer.
Following in the mysterious footsteps of his
long dead father, Thomas takes his young wife
to India. References to a dark secret surrounding
his father's death in India are supposed to hint at
the tragic ending to the story.
But unfortunately I found myself as lacking
in curiosity as Thomas himself. When the
mystery is finally revealed, in the last few
pages, the reader has neither been involved
enough nor sufficiently entertained to feel any
real emotion at the outcome.
A tedious read, it is one of those breed of
books that you find yourself hoping against all
the evidence, is going to improve. Spare
yourself and don't bother with this one.
Beachball
Published by: Bantam
Price: £4.99
Virtual Light
by William Gibson
Cyberpunk (a genre embracing current and
imagined future computer technology, com-
bined with prophesied urban decay) can lead to
award-winning books or those that exist only in
second hand bookshops.
The reasons stem from originality and
invention. Virtual Light has both, from a
sprawling shanty town covering the entirety of
the Golden Gate Bridge that would keep
Rentokil busy for weeks, to new designs for
bikes for messengers cycling around San
Francisco.
Written in a style that is hard to put down,
the story races after an ex-cop, Berry Rydell,
from Los Angeles who just wants to make a
living and an ace bicycle messenger, Chevette,
who lives in the afore mentioned shanty-town in
'NoCal's premier city'. It combines all of the
elements that a story needs—big guns, fast cars,
the rich with their impenetrable 'stealth houses'
full of drugs, virtual reality sunglasses and
desperation and it even has the an element of a
desperate, Terminator-style romance.
This book is a good introduction to
Cyberpunk and even Sci-fi for those not yet
acquainted with the writing styles, but for those
who are familiar with them and the author,
Virtual Light is another example of the genius
and originality of William Gibson.
Ginster
Published by: Viking
Price: £14.99
f
Mouse And Mole Have A Party
by Joyce Dunbar with illustrations by James Mayhew
If you have a young brother or sister, son or
daughter and are looking for a good Christmas
present, you should look at this book. If you are
a self satisfied smug bastard who thinks
everyone at college is like himself (M@rc#s...) I
suggest you skip this article.
In this sumptuously illustrated book consist-
ing of three endearing tales we dip into Mouse
and Mole's idyllic life where Mole is getting
into constant scrapes and being helped out by
his friend Mouse. Certainly the loyalty of their
friendship is enviable and we could learn a thing
or two from them.
Mole is worries about his lopsided reflection
in the mirror and, while attempting a dash of
DIY, he snips a little too much of one side of his
whiskers. Oh dear! With a little help from Mole,
Rabbit and Rat, Mole's world is soon happily
reconstructed.
A pleasure for children and adult storytellers
alike, if a little over priced at £8.99.
Rekha Nayak & M J
Published by: Doubleday
Price: £8.99
• ' l i
Merry Christmas!

