2 News
^f/fff The summer was a time of sadness at
Imperial College. The sorrow for the loss
ofa department head to another institution was made worse
by the suicide of a MSc student. Fortunately, that was the
only tragic death, though Imperial's Youth Hostel Association
did write offan ICU minibus. Ron Oxburgh joined thefamily
ofImperial as Rector.
f\pfr%l\pY ^emont
h ofOctober was governed by fish,
freshers and falls, yet the bubbly flowed
freely. Free was also what Austen Donnellan of King's
College could be described as, though in the first week a
fresher almost was not afterfailing to knock out 17 members
ofCollege. The smell offailure was the item least on the mind
ofJohn Patten, however, as he pressed ahead with the reform
ofstudent unions.
m
Felix 973 William Waldegrave announces the winners of his
competition to describe the Higgs Boson. Professor Kibble,
who discovered it, wins one of five bottles of champagne.
Fish odour syndrome is found by researchers at St Mary's to
be inherited.
Felix 974 Imperial College Radio (part of the Imperial
College News Network), is shortlisted for two categories in
the Guardian / NUS Student Media Awards. John Patten,
Secretary of State for Education, reaffirms his commitment to
student union reform. His department takes a look at a super-
A grade for A-Levels.
Felix 975 Adetola Oshinaike attempts to take the record for
the shortest academic career. After assaulting several people
and threatening staff and students he is suspended for a year.
Imperial College mourns another death, I- Cheung Lee, a
second year mathematics student, dies from a severe,
spontaneous brain haemorrhage.
Felix 976 Austen Donnellan, of King's College, is acquitted
of rape. King's disciplinary procedures come under intense
criticism causing other institutions to examine their own
procedures. Averil Mansfield is appointed Professor of
Vascular Surgery at St Mary's. She becomes the first female
surgical professor to head an academic department in the UK.
Felix 977 A fresher falls out of a third floor window in
Southwell. Excessive alcohol consumption is blamed,
causing the unions to examine institutionalised drinking.
Imperial College Union finally gets its new constitution
passed. The Constituent College Unions show their strength
by block voting their Presidents back onto the Executive
Committee.
Dirty Tricks
BY ANDREW TSENG
AND MARK SIMMONS
Allegations of deception and
restricted information have surfaced
amid concern over M r Wensley's
handling of Imperial College
Union's ( I C U ) constitutional
process.
Difficulties within I C U are
alleged to stem mainly from the
actions of Mr Wensley, in particular
over the his introduction of the new
ICU constitution. The new const-
itution was first passed in the final
Union General Meeting (UGM) of
the 1992-93 academic year. Under
the previous constitution it had to
pass through a second, confir-
matory U G M . A motion to act as if
the new constitution was in force
over the summer vacation was also
passed.
Following the second U G M , the
first of the current College year, the
new constitution was passed. Still
under the old constitution, the new
document should have been
presented to the Governing Body of
Imperial College at their next
meeting where, if passed, it would
gain 'force of law'.
What actually occurred is
currently unclear. It is thought, by
some, that M r Wensley gave the
document to Peter Mee, Senior
College Registrar, to present on M r
Wensley's behalf, at the Governing
Body's next meeting. However,
Felix has found that M r Mee replied
to him explaining in a detailed
manner that he would not present
the new constitution. His reasons
ran from simple typographical
errors to major flaws in the
document. It is known that the
constitution has not yet been
presented to the Governing Body.
Mr Wensley has not reported such
an exchange, as he would be
required to do under the new
constitution.
Presently, M r Wensley has not
announced whether the new
constitution has been granted 'force
of law' by the Governing Body
which itself suggests the new
constitution has not been passed.
When asked to explain to Felix his
actions thus far, he prevaricated.
In the event that the old
constitution is still in force, the
President should have called two
Council meetings this term (ICU
By-Laws 6a) with published
agendas. Also, the third U G M this
term was not publicised for long
enough and was not cancelled by
the President as unconstitutional
(By-Laws 14).
Even under the new constitution
the third U G M would be deemed
unconstitutional (clause 5.8).
However, M r Wensley allowed it
to take place.
In an interview prior to the
UGM, Mr Wensley admitted it was
unconstitutional but said: 'Since
only reports are on the agenda
there's nothing to worry about. I
agree there have been problems
this term.' The President, however,
failed to mention a tabled motion.
The new constitution document
also places the onus on Executive
members to make their activities
known to both the Executive and
the UGMs. This would make the
first job of the President an
announcement that the new
constitution had been granted
authority by the Governing Body
of Imperial College. It would also
mean that any discussion about the
constitutional process would be
brought up at an Executive
meeting.
Whether or not the new
constitution had been affirmed by
the Governing Body, one would
expect M r Wensley to discuss any
progress with the Executive.
Sources close to the President
suggest that even his fellow
sabbaticals are not being kept up to
date. It is becoming increasingly
evident that the President has not
acted in accordance with either
constitution.
Talking to Felix after discussion
with other C C U Presidents, Ms
Picton, President of the Royal
College of Science Union, said, "I
believe we are in error in not
reporting the constitutional
problems we have detected". On
Mr Wensley's elision of the events
surrounding the new constitution in
the U G M and Executive meetings,
she continued: "As the CCUs are
part of ICU, we attempted to find a
reason for this deception, before
making it public."
She concluded: "This can bring
into question the I C U Executive.
That there is no communication is
evident. The position of Communi-
cations Officer is vital and must be
filled by a competent person. If
you care about anything you do in
College then you should support
I C U by attending its meetings,
because currently it is the students'
voice which commands ICU - the
Government might change this

