Reviews 21
Die
Fledermaus
Vivian Tierney as Rosalinda in Johann Strauss' Die Fledermaus
An operetta in three acts by Johann Strauss, Die
Fledermaus ('the flying mouse') was first
performed in Vienna in 1874 and came to
London two years later. The libretto was written
for Strauss by Richard Genee and it is based on
Le Revellion, a farcical comedy by the
successful librettists Henre Meilhac and
Ludovic Halevy, who also wrote Carmen.
The story is that of the elaborate and
ingenious revenge of Doctor Falke on his best
friend Gabriel von Eisenstein who, after a
particularly drunken ball, had left him to spend
the night in a public square still attired in full
fancy dress—as a bat! Doctor Falke, lately
known as Doctor 'Fledermaus', visits Eisenstein
on the eve of his arrest for a minor offense and
persuades him to attend a party instead given by
the rich Prince Orlofsky.
It is written of Die Fledermaus: "It is not in
the least sentimental and should not be
approached in that manner. It must be danced.
The conductor himself must have these dance
rhythms in his blood." Jerzy Maksymiuk
certainly realised this objective on the first night
of English National Opera's revival of Die
Fledermaus and the music, with its many
beautiful waltzes, is superb.
Although there is no sentimentality about the
'haves' and the 'have-nots', this operetta, which
is about the Viennese aristocracy in 1874, views
the latter darkly, emphasising its peculiarities in
contrast to the rosy picture usually delineated.
Etiquette, masks and masquerades were the key
to enjoying life! Honour was everything and
men were supposed to submit willingly to
misunderstanding and even, as happens here,
incarceration, rather than compromise the lady
when caught inflagrante delicto\
A merry time is had by all at Prince
Orlofsky's party and Doctor Falke's humiliation
of Eisenstein is superbly engineered. The
fabulous dance and show climax of 'das
Traumbild' (dream vision) is dazzling.
Supported by a strong cast, this is a sparkling
production certainly worth seeing and is
particularly suitable for any first-timers.
Jorg Steinbach and Rekha Nayak
The Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, WC2N. 071
836 3161. Tube: Leicester Square. Until 10th
February. Tickets from £8.
3D Christmas Crossword ~ Day 4 ~
Across
1. Talks incessantly about the characters
in Watership Down (7)
6. Sarah's mistake is to torment (6)
9. A cargo ship moves stone coffins (10)
12. I'd cry "Balls!" disturbing these
flyers (5, 5)
14. A single monarch will be one to
marry (6)
16. Get the gist of the aroma? (7)
Down
1. He was sure every 50 bewildered
times, he'd have to look at it again
(10)
3. Metro janitor hides an old soldier (6)
5. Resin made by oil company
accountant (7)
7. A turn-up! (10)
10. Where locks are found sheltered (7)
11. Belonging to he who runs along the
shore (6)
Through
2. Metal press (4)
4. Expresses weariness, you hear, about
dimensional attribute (4)
5. Sounds like discouraging footwear
(4)
8. First lady faces resistance as usual (4)
13. Leave out making love with German
(4)
15. Sounds like they're having an auction
for the power of dhow (4)
16. The country I was in before it
happened (4)
17. Sounds like 15 all over again by
February (4)
SCRIBBLE PAD

