24
V *« * Stars In Your Eyes
...and you haven't even started on the mulled wine yet! Lynn Bravey
consulted a certain Madame Xelfi, who predicted she'd charge a tenner.
Capricorn Dec 21 - Jan 19
The Christmas spirit will really be flowing through your veins this week
(along with the wine and fine ales). Beware of anyone dressed as a
Christmas tree and shaking a rag tin (especially if they're wearing an IC
scarf). Under no circumstances be cruel to big, fat men with white beards,
especially if wearing red - this could lead to a severe lack of stocking fillers
on Christmas Day.
Lucky Colour Cerise Lucky Day Friday*
Aquarius Jan 20 - Feb 18
Work worries slip into oblivion as you sip a cocktail in Da Vinci's but a
strange creature's red nose may provide a guiding light. Cupid's arrow may
strike but will probably leave an embarrassing hole in the new shirt you
were wearing. This term you've been making real efforts to become
independent but now's the time to look at that umpteenth plate of baked
beans on toast and run home to many plates of turkey and cranberry sauce.
Lucky Colour Turquoise Lucky Day Friday*
Pisces Feb 19 - Mar 20
Mystery is in the air but a message in a Christmas pudding may hold the
answer. You will shortly be going on a journey and receiving gifts from
afar - yes, a set of hideously smelling decorative soaps from Auntie Flo. If
you receive no Christmas cards this week, admit that you are a sad bastard
from Guilds. Refrain from saying 'wibble' at all over the Christmas period.
Lucky colour Purple with pink polka dots Lucky Day Friday*
Aries Mar 21 - Apr 20
Financial matters are looming high at the moment but since when has that
stopped you from having a good time? Beware of a wise man with myrrh,
as it's been rumoured that myrrhs have large horns and can give you a
nasty nip. You may not have known what you were doing recently but a
bright star could point you in the right direction. Try not to buy any fairies
a drink in the Union bar, he might get the wrong idea.
Lucky Colour Blancmange Lucky Day Friday*
Taurus Apr 21 - May 20
It's time to take decisive action regarding a romantic matter, but then again
it might not be. The season of good will may be an ideal time to complete
the project that you've been planning e.g. using the null hypothesis: ' A
Christmas turkey has an infinite existence and can form x n
meals, where
both x and n are very big numbers indeedy.' Packages that tick may not be
meant for you unless your initials are J.M. If that is the case expect a
fruitful Christmas including a large box from a certain K. Clarke.
Lucky Colour Tangerine Lucky Day Friday*
i i Gemini May 21 - June 21
Your ego may feel a little deflated at the moment, but don't worry, things
can only get better. Mary says her (stable) door's always open so you can
pop in for a chat and a cuppa anytime - steer clear from her on the 25th,
though, she'll be busy and have loads of visitors in. A great deal of money
could pass your way soon, though beware, it may have a chocolate middle.
Lucky Colour A favourite secondary quality of a form (cf Aristotle)
Lucky Day Friday*
Cancer Jun 22 - Jul 22
With the end of the beginning of a new era in your life you will no doubt
have your happy go lucky Cancerian crab face on in this season of
goodwill, mince pies and carol singers. Christmas day will be your second
best day of the year so far (see below). Boxing day, however, finds Pluto
up Uranus and you'll be in for a real downer. A l l your presents will break
and they'll be nothing on your new solar powered portable TV except
Lassie Go Home and The Sound of Music. Don't worry for too long
though as, if you survive the day, the New Year brings parties to die for.
Lucky Colour Rubine Lucky Day Friday*
Leo Jul 23 - Aug22
You're the Lion and don't forget this Christmas to eat lots of sheep and
dump on the carpet. During the festive season, beware of strange men with
crooks and teatowels on their heads, especially the ones with mobile
phones! It may be hard to express your true intentions to a loved one this
Christmas, but this may be because they don't give a toss about the
quantum mechanics that you're crooning about.
Lucky Colour Beige Lucky Day Friday*
Virgo Aug 23 - Sep 22
Your recent drive for complete honesty in your love life pays dividends
this week when your boyfriend reveals he's been shagging your sister
before he drives off to Clacton-on-Sea. Things seem to improve later in the
week when you wake up and everyone's giving you presents! Your sister's
present, however, is your ex-boyfriend, who you keep for at least a day
until you can read your next horoscope.
Lucky Colour Subjective reaction to the wavelength of light
Lucky Day Friday*
Libra Sep 23 - Oct 22
Refinements to your personal habits have begun to pay off, e.g. people no
longer pass out when you raise your arm to ask a question. You may
choose to commiserate with a strange character dressed as a mince-pie, but
I wouldn't take all what he says seriously 'cos he'll probably be creamed!
Lucky Colour Rose Lucky Day Friday*
Scorpio Oct 23 - Nov 21
You may not be looking forward to a boring three weeks at home, but a
mystery man saying "Ho Ho Ho," may make it all seem worthwhile.
Passion is in the air for you. But remember to take precautions, although if
you're a rugby player of course you needn't bother, your personality
should be enough. Remember to smile supportively when carol singers
come to the door before you slam it in their faces.
Lucky Colour Octarine Lucky Day Friday
Saggitarius Nov 22 - Dec 20
Towards the end of this week you will have a strange urge. Although
slightly unfocussed, it may result in a strong gravitional pull towards a tall,
dark Rutger Hauer like figure. Ignore this and plump for mulled wine
instead. Don't eat turkey for the next week.
Lucky Colour Puce Lucky Day Friday*
* 'cos it's the end of term and the day that Felix comes out.

