Opinion 25
Secure Parking
Dear Beccy,
I'm long overdue for a rant, and seeing that
they're starting to become popular again I
thought I'd join the fray.
As a member of the Operatic Society and
therefore involved in the production of
'Chicago' early next term, rehearsals now
happen three times a week. For reasons that are
too lengthy for this letter, but which I assure you
are worthy, I drive into College for these
evening rehearsals.
This Tuesday, with the sell-out whatever-it-
was at the Royal Albert Hall, the traffic was bad
and parking worse. I was late so I knew I
needn't bother trying to park in front of
Southside, because as soon as the main roads get
full, punters drive down the nearest side street in
order to park—believe it or not a small, unlit
'Authorised Access Only' sign thirty feet up in
the air does not deter them from parking in
Princes Gardens. So I tried to find a parking slot
around Queensgate—seeing as I was heading for
the Huxley Building anyway. This proved to be
quite tricky, but ten minutes later I found a
parking slot. Off Emperor's Gate.
What really gets my goat is that there's a
colossal and half-empty car park just off
Exhibition Road. Do you know it? It's Imperial
College (and yes, it is half- empty even though
hoards of R A H punters are parking in it).
However, despite being a student at this centre
of commerce, I'm not allowed to park after
hours in my own college's car park unless I pay
through the nose for the privilege.
Are you bored yet? I'm not finished. M y next
obstacle that evening was to get into the
building. Now this is a real test. I'm in Mech
Eng which means that my swipe card is actually
redundant, because the front doors are never
mag-locked. It also means that I don't have
access into Huxley. I have permission to play all
grand pianos in college and there is one such
piano in Huxley. So here I am, I've got my
Pianos
swipe card in one hand, my piano pass in the
other, I go to the security desk in Sherfield and
ask to be given access to buildings with the
pianos in. Can I get clearance? 'Oh no, I
couldn't possibly give you access to these
departments. It's more than my job's worth.'
Basically, I'm allowed to play the pianos, but
I'm not allowed inside the buildings to play
them. Hmmm.
So holding my security clearance tightly in
my right fist, I went to the front door of Maths
and used it to knock on the front door (they
thoughtfully have not installed a bell). However,
the ever vigilant security staff were not in their
little house—so no surprises there—so I stood in
the cold and gnashed my teeth for a while. Two
inmates of Maths saw me outside the door trying
to get their attention. I was overwhelmed by the
generous way they rushed to the door to let me
in—not. Thanks guys. I went round to the front
door of Physics, knocked on the door and rang
the bell. However, the ever vigilant security staff
were not in their little house—so no surprises
there—so I stood outside in the cold and more
gnashing of teeth took place.
The day was saved (hurray!) by someone
coming out of Physics who is about the only
person I've every met who understands the way
Didn't They Do
Dear Beccy
The ArtSoc committee would like to wish our
members a Happy Christmas. We thank them for
allowing us to organise a wonderful series of
events.
This term, ArtSoc has seen Les Miserables,
An Inspector Calls, Blood Brothers, Five Guys
Named Moe, The Magic Flute, Arcadia and
Aladdin. Planned visits for next term include
security should work. He opened the door, but
before allowing me in he checked that I was a
member of College and had ID of some sort.
(Have 10 house points and go to the top of the
class).
Okay, so after the rant, what am I saying?
I'm saying three things.
1. College is geared totally and utterly to
making money without giving a thought for the
students: it wouldn't hurt to let students park
after hours for free. However, they don't. Why
not? There can't be many who would do it, so
there'd still be plenty of spaces for public
parking.
2. The security system is not up to scratch, as
borne out by this episode. People that do need to
get into other departments cannot because the
security staff are never there and students that
eventually let you in almost never check your ID
3. Chicago is a fantastic show and will be
happening in the Great Hall at the end of
January. It will be like nothing else seen before,
so see it.
Yours exceedingly pissed off, but good for a
quick promo.
Derek Hirst, Mech Eng PG.
Well?
Phantom of the Opera, Miss Saigon, Carousel
and The Woman In Black.
Don't forget that we will be meeting in the
U D H on the first Monday of term, 12.30pm to
1.30pm. Until then, have a fun holiday (but
don't do anything that we would not do!)
Craig Brierly, Eleanor Corran, Dan Slattery,
Becky Cotton, Harsh Pershad, Helen Roberts,
Andrew Walker, Joanna O 'Keefe and Tim.
3D Christmas Crossword ~ Day % ~
Across
2. Peaceful birds? (5)
4. Some bores ultimately end it all (6)
7. Let rut confuse the reptile (6)
8. Turns and cuts back (5)
Down
1. Start awkwardly to make flans (5)
3. Learner loses head to get a paid job
(6)
5. Maintenance of a high tower (6)
6. Absolute talk (5)
Through
There are no through words starting
on this level.

