Opinion 27
Students Face £8,000 Debt By Year 2000
An opinion article by James Connolly and
Michael Wright:
The 10% cut in student grants announced in
the recent budget has called the principle of free
access to education into question. A similar 10%
reduction will take effect each year until 1996
when projections for London indicate a grant of
£2074 and a loan of £2182 per year. A survey by
Barclays Bank anticipates an average overdraft
of £1045 per student at the end of their course. It
is likely that graduates will face an average
£8000 debt. Increasing student poverty is in-
evitable. A recent survey by Stirling University
showed that 15% of students have been forced to
go without food at some time. Malcolm
Thornton, Conservative M P for Crosby has said:
"I have heard enough to suggest there is some
substance to the claims of hardship. It is now a
question of trying to quantify it."
Further, graduates will face pressures to start
repayments rather than seek posgraduate quali-
fications. Undergraduates face similar pressures.
Dropout rates increased 155% the year student
loans were introduced. This debt is compounded
by an additional £75 to £150 per year from
student union reforms and cuts in club or society
funding being debated in the House of Lords.
I C U has taken action by lobbying the
university chancellors and vice chancellors and
by writing to MPs. A petition protesting the
proposed reforms has been launched by Andrew
Wensley and has collected 1200 signatures. A
show of hands at the U G M on 10th December
indicated unanimous support of union policy and
the funding of union lobbying campaigns from
union funds. The union is currently circulating
draft letters of complaint to union clubs. The
success of this initiative will depend upon the
response and enthusiasm of student members.
Whinge, Whinge, Whinge
Dear Felix,
Imagine my surprise when, having read the
justifyably disgruntled Marcus Alexander's
revelations, open-mindedly entitled 'Grumble,
Grumble, Grumble', I noticed that Owain
Bennallack's spellbinding rhetoric was not appro-
priately entitled 'Squirm, Squirm, Squirm'. I can
only presume that lack of space prevented it.
Personally, I thoroughly enjoyed M . A . ' s
article about London's galleries; far from being
lofty or patronising it was a welcome reminder
that not everyone at this college suffers from the
apathy we hear so much about, "...isolated...in
your ivory garret..."—what a wonderful meta-
phor. It's odd, but that image you so beautifully
conjured up fits more with many people's per-
ception of that last bastion of journalistic vision,
Felix. I can understand that Marcus' informative
prose had to be shelved in favour of more tales
of the no-holds-barred, action packed, roller-
coaster ride that was the weekend in Cambridge
with the well-known Juliana Hatfield and our
own dear Owain. When it comes to serving up
"slices of life" he certainly gives the thrill-
hungry IC students the lion's share every Friday.
Enough thinly-veiled contempt, though,
because essentially all of the above is just my
opinion and I certainly don't expect the editor
and luminaries to agree. But I do expect the
Rapunzels of Beit Quad to listen. It's good to see
exchange of views, however vitriolic, especially
if some sort of change results. We know that it is
impossible to please all the readers but merely
stating those words then proceeding to print an
exhaustive review of eminently missable records
and a delightful account of how those zany
Raggies while away their weekends, is not good
enough. The issue of not printing good material
is serious, though: the clamouring for new
writers could soon sound hollow if Marcus' case
is not the only one of its kind. A bit like the
potential effect of the King's College rape case
(before Kristine Vaaler replies indignantly, I do
appreciate the seriousness of the latter).
Picking up on one last point, as it happens I
write the boat club articles and it amused me to
see that we were singled out as ungrateful free-
loaders, taking all the credit but not prepared to
put everything back in. The reason for us publi-
cising ourselves is because we can, and we feel
proud of our achievements. We're very grateful
to Felix for being there for us to do so, as I ex-
pressed to Felix staff at the time, although after
this I doubt our coverage will be so extensive
even in the 1994 editions, echoing with space for
contributions. If you don't think we're a good
advert for the college or that we should be given
the chance to show those who have donated time
or money to us, what they've been part of, just
ring up the Rector and ask him. Perhaps you'd
rather we followed the cryptic 10-line match
report favoured by the rugby/football/hockey
clubs that keeps us abreast of their nicknames
and drinking antics but not a lot else.
As for your selfless hours of toil for the good
of the masses, perhaps when you've finished
your arduous collating stint at "6am in the
morning" you could get down to Putney as
you'd be just in time to go for that spin down the
Thames. With the ICBC Girls crew.
Merry Christmas
Jim Bichard, Bio III
3D Christmas Crossword ~ Day X ~
Across
3. Enigmatic ones set in stone! (8)
5. Friends returning to strike (4)
6. Delightful noise when I crash pod,
for a change (9)
9. Popular team is not at home, and so
might be reversed (6,3)
11. Fish coming from the first of the
really ultra-deep divers (4)
12. Goes back about poems (8)
Down
1. A sound couple in the middle of the
street bearing fruit (4,4)
2. A fool is seen returning to a fish (4)
4. Ignorant of literature (9)
7. Bird on a section of raised land (9)
8. Entitle to smash tile unit (8)
10. Related to the listener (4)
Through
There are no through words starting
on this level.
B E C ' S B I R D P A L

