News 3
Bart's Backlash
BY SHAUN JOYNSON
AND MARK SIMMONS
Health Secretary Virginia
Bottomley has secured the future of
University College Hospital
(UCH), by granting the teaching
hospital special funding following
its loss of more than £20m worth of
contracts.
The special cash award to UCH
was made at the expense of the
historic St Bartholomew's Hospital
(Bart's) in the City. Bart's is to lose
its accident and emergency
department in October next year,
reinforcing fears that the historic
hospital could close permanently.
Mrs Bottomley made it clear
that Bart's cancer, day surgery and
AIDS work would continue for the
forseeable future. It has been
widely reported that a group of City
companies have approached the
Corporation of London with an
offer of money to keep Bart's
casualty department open.
The current proposals could
reduce Bart's to a 'minor injuries
clinic' open only during the day.
The private funding would aim to
maintain Bart's capacity to handle
serious injuries. This possibility
shows the depth of concern workers
in the City feel over losing the
hospital, which provided valuable
aid in two recent terrorist
bombings. The Government is
seriously considering the offer of
private subsidy but has not yet
made any announcement.
The changes announced are the
Government's first concrete
reaction to the proposals for the
future of London's healthcare as
outlined in the Tomlinson Report.
Mrs Bottomley said the special
award to UCH would safeguard the
hospital as a 'centre of world
renown and excellence'. She has
not made public the full amount of
the award, but hinted that the
Government would rescue the
hospital again in the future i f
required, saying: "I am ruling out
the long-term closure of the
hospital."
The funds will be given to the
Islington and Camden Local Health
Authority who will spend it on the
hospital once the Government has
approved it's expenditure plans.
Granting U C H extra funds is seen
by many health experts as an
admission of failure by Govern-
ment, and a reversal of the policy
of encouraging the NHS internal
market.
In the same document Mrs
Bottomley announced nearly £15m
for London's Ambulance Service
and £25m for capital development
at Homerton Hospital.
David Blunkett M P , Shadow
Health Secretary, responded: "Mrs
Bottomley's announcement on
U C H , while welcome, is an
admission that Government
changes to the N H S have failed.
She should suspend the operation
of the internal market system which
originally threatened U C H , which
even Sir Bernard Tomlinson
recognised had a vital role in
London's future health provision."
Further condemnation of the
Health Secretary came from health-
workers union, Unison, who said
that the announcement represented
the beginning of a gradual
dismantling of London's hospitals.
Decisions regarding Charing
Cross and Westminster, Hammer-
smith and St Mary's Hospitals are
expected in the New Year and may
potentially have repercussions on
the status of Imperial College as
reported in Felix, Issue 982.
Appointing Advisers
BY LYNN BRAVEY
The Rector of Imperial College has
gone green. Sir Ronald Oxburgh,
formerly the Chief Scientific
Adviser to the Ministry of Defense,
who became Rector in September,
is the new chairman of the Inter
Agency Committee on Global
Environmental Change (IACGEC).
The Committee supervises all
U K scientific research on changes
in the global environment. It
decides the national research
programme for this vital field and
ensures that public sector money is
used effectively.
Sir Ronald's main responsibility
as chairman will be overseeing the
IACGEC's annual policy update,
while also providing a liaison
between the various Research
Councils and Whitehall on issues
of global environmental change.
Announcing the appointment
Professor William Stewart, the
Government's Chief Scientific
Adviser, said: "I am delighted that
Sir Ronald has agreed to chair the
Committee."
November
The words unions, unity and university
stole the limelight during November.
Following the end of the student union reform consultation
period, the NUS pre-empted the Government by announcing
that it was to split. Separation was also the topic of
conversation for the University of London. Unity became the
focus when the University of London Senate voted not to
separate but come to compromise. John Smith joined the fray
by stressing unity in science. He also spoke of the equal
importance of pure and applied science.
I I
fIIIV;
W7
3
Felix 978 NUS announces that it is to become a charity.
Student affairs would be handled hy the charity, whilst
campaigning would be in a separate arm of the N U S .
Imperial College becomes the first academic institution in the
United Kingdom to have a student branch of the IEEE.
Security thwart an attempt at smash and grab theft.
Felix 979 Fears grow over the future of the University of
London. Queen Mary and Westfield College announces that it
will seek permission to award its own degrees. A Royal
Society report, headed by ex-Rector, Sir Eric Ash, calls for a
review of student funding. Development plans for the
walkway are finalised. ICU President, Andrew Wensley,
reveals estimates of costs. The new shops will cost ICU
£25,000 in the first year.
Felix 980 John Smith, Leader of the Labour Party, speaks at
Imperial at the invitation of Save British Science. In a speech
high in criticism and low on facts, many of the audience go
away unconvinced. The Queen's speech paves the way
towards the reform of student unions. Estimates of impact to
ICU run to £200,000. Long sought powers from the
University of London are finally obtained. After much
discussion, the University of London Senate delegates the
ability to award degrees and appoint senior staff. James
Wilson, a second year Chemist, is thrown out of his hall of
residence after being found with drugs.
Felix 981 John Patten publishes the long-feared Education
Bill. It introduces a 'core' and 'non-core' student funding
mechanism. Many criticise the lack of detail in the bill. Sir
Frank Cooper, Chairman of the Governing Body, celebrates
his 71st birthday. The CCUs sort out their executive
problems. Steve Hoborough is elected C & G C U Vice-
President whilst Steve Dorman becomes the RCSU Honorary
Secretary.

