" C
O
N
F
I
D
E
N
T
I
A
L APPLICATION F
O
R
M
PPP Travel Plan ™
I I Yes! Please send me details of PPP Travel Insurance
Yes, I want to ensure that I will receive prompt treatment if I should ever
need it. Please enrol those listed below inthe Student Healthcare Plan.
Subscriber's details
Subscriber's Surname (Mr/Mrs/Miss)
Forenames
Address
Postcode
Home Tel No.(inc.STD code)
Work Tel No.(inc.STD
Age in years Date of Birth
Names ol dependants to he
included in plan (eldest first)
Relationship
to subscriber
Dependants'
date ol birth
1. Adult
2. Children
3.
4.
5.
Payment method
Why PPP recommend payment by Direct Debit
Direct Debit is easy for you - it ensures that your regular premiums are met. so
your membership cannot lapse by mistake. It is also the most cost efficient way for
PPP to collect subscriptions and any savings we make, help us to control
subscription rates.
Please choose your payment frequency:
Monthly _ Quarterly C Annually •
If you are NOT paying by Direct Debit please tick payment method and frequency required.
Access/Visa Quarterly • Annually •
Cheque:(to be returned with this form) Quarterly • Annually •
Declaration
I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the statements on this
form are full, true and correct. I acknowledge that the acceptance of my
application shall be on the basis of these statements and that I and any
dependants included in my enrolment shall be bound by the rules and other
terms of the enrolment which I shall read when I receive my enrolment
documents.
Signature ) (
Date ) (
Please remember: If there are changes in the information you have given before
we have told you that your enrolment has begun you must tell us in writing
immediately.
Please note: You will not be able to claim Benefits for any Medical Condition
which was already existing or foreseeable at the the date of joining.
Please note: You are advised to keep a record of all information supplied in
connection with this application, including any letters you send to us in
connection with it. If you would like a copy of this application please let us know
within three months.
Data Protection Act:
The information you give will be held and used by PPP, and any intermediary
involved, to set up and provide private medical insurance and to send you
details of other products and services. Other carefully selected providers may
also be allowed access to sufficient of the information to enable them to send
you details of the services they offer. Full details are given in the Data Protection
Register. If you prefer not to receive further offers, please tick the box Q.
Private Patients Plan Limited. PPP House. Upperton Road. Eastbourne, East Sussex. FJI\I21 1LH.
Private Patients Plan Limited, Regd. & Head Office: PPP House. Tunbridge Wells, Kent TN1 1BJ. Regd. No. 363254 England. Telex: 95525 PPP UK G.
Please complete parts 1 to 4 to instruct your bank/building society to make
payments directly from your account. Then return this direct debit form to
Private Patients Plan Limited, PPP House, Upperton Road, Eastbourne,
East Sussex BM21 1LH.
Membership number
(to be completed by PPP)
Please write the full postal address of your bank/building society in the box below
To: The Manager
Originator's Identification Number
Name ol account holder
9 9 1 3 3 3
2
O Sort code
D I R E C T
D e b i t
Account
4
Banks/building societies may refuse to accept instructions to pay direct debits from
some types of account.
Your Instructions to the bank building society, and signature
I I instruct you to pay Direct Debits from my account at the request of Private Patients Plan Limited.
I The amounts are variable and are debited on various dates.
I I understand that PPP may change the amounts and dates only after giving me prior notice.
I Please cancel all previous standing orders/ direct debiting mandates in favour of Private Patients
Plan and The Provident Association for Medical Care Limited under this membership number.
I I will inform the bank/building society in writing if I wish to cancel this information.
I I understand that if any direct debit is paid which breaks the terms of this instruction, the
bank/building society will make a refund.
Signature ) (
Date
P9703a/9.93

