4 News
December
Nightline, nightmares and neglect
marked December. The continued
success of the students' crisis line was given high praise.
However, in reality it was parents who needed a crisis line.
Parents sending children to the College's Day Nursery were
sent into turmoil after a surprise closure. Communication
problems were given as an excuse rather than neglect.
Virginia Bottomley might have wanted to use that word—
Bart's lost its A&E department.
Felix 982 ULU's Nightline, originally set up at Imperial
College, becomes the first student body ever to receive a
grant from the Prince's Trust. The budget rocks students as
the basic student maintenance grant is cut by ten per cent.
The NUS give an anti-Government statement. The Rector's
office releases a paper giving implementation details of a
merger with Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School.
Felix 983 Following a 'breakdown in communication' the
nursery closes for almost a week. Less than one working
day's notice is given. Parents are in uproar. It is announced
that Bill Raines one of the College's chaplains is to leave for
a new post in Manchester.
Felix 984 Virginia Bottomley announces a cash injection for
University College Hospital. St Bartholemew's loses its
Accident and Emergency department. Experts predict the
imminent death of Bart's as a general hospital. Felix
. investigates the possibly unconstitutional behaviour of ICU
President, Andrew Wensley.
The News Editor would especially like to thank the
following people for their contributions over the past term.
Have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!...
David Atkins, Rose Atkins, Owain Bennallack, Lynn Bravey,
Terry Briley, Ian Caldwell, L i z Carr, Ivan Chan, Louise
Clarke, Linda Davies, Declan Curry, Paul Dias, Patrick
Dowling, Sue Eden, Michelle Duffy, Caroline Fox, Nicky
Fox, Dave Goddard, James Gray, Paul Griffith, Ken Hiccs,
Mandy Hurford, Michael Ingram, Robert Jackson, Greg
Jones, Jon Jordan, Shaun Joynson, Tim Keevan, Tom Kibble,
Beccy Land, Charlie Leary, Pat MacCarthy, Gordon
Marshall, John McCall, Joe McFadden, Peter Mee, Jo
Merrett, Steve Newhouse, John Monhemius, Rhian Picton,
Lisa Pritchard, Carolyne Osner, Delia Ray, Ron Oxburgh,
Mark Simmons, Kerry Woods, Eric Ash.
Gifted Engineering
BY U CARR
Toy trains and flashy cars for boys?
Cuddly dolls and knitting patterns
for girls? Have another think before
buying presents for your small
relatives.
This was the message given to
parents and others by the
Engineering Council (EC) last
week.
'Girls should be offered more
than just soft materials, but also
hard materials such as construction
sets', says the Council. Parents
should also involve their daughters
in maintenance and simple
construction in the home.
Belonging to an engineering club
and visiting science museums
would also greatly stimulate girls'
interest in engineering.
In a foreword to the booklet
'Engineering Equals For Parents',
Sir John Fairclough FEng,
Chairman of the EC, and Margaret
Morissey, former chairman of the
National Federation of Parent
Teacher Associations say:
"Technology is part of everyday
life whether it is using a microwave
oven, a video tape recorder, a bank
cash dispenser or a computer. Girls
with confidence in science and
technology will enjoy a better life
because they will make full use of
the technology at home, at work or
in their leisure."
'Engineering Equals For
Parents', with an introduction by
John Patten, Secretary of State for
Education, includes examples of
good practice, places to visit, useful
publications and sources of
information. It is being sent to all
primary and secondary schools,
careers services and main libraries
in the United Kingdom.
The booklet is the fourth in a
series of 'Engineering Equals'
booklets targeted at parents and
staff in schools and higher edu-
cation. It forms part of the Women
Into Science and Engineering
(WISE) campaign started in 1984
by the E C and the Equal Oppor-
tunities Commission to encourage
girls and young women to consider
careers in engineering.
Since the launch of WISE the
number of young women studying
engineering in higher education has
risen from seven per cent to more
than fifteen percent. The E C has
also produced posters and
pamphlets to promote the
campaign, backed up by events in
schools and local communities.
Five W I S E vehicles have been
equipped with technological
devices to tour schools giving girls
practical experience of technology.
Albertropolis
BY LYNN BRAVEY
Imperial College could be
assuming a whole new look in the
future. A £100 million bid to the
Millennium Fund has been made to
take the whole area from the Albert
Hall to the Natural History
Museum into the 21st century with
style.
The plans, proposed for
completion by the year 2001 could
change the whole of Imperial
College with raised lawns and
gardens above car-parking areas.
Ian Caldwell, Director of Estates
for Imperial College, said there
would be "improved facilities for
students" and the whole scheme's
aim was to "improve the environ-
ment of the area". If the plans were
to go ahead, the completion date
would coincide with the 150th
anniversary of the prominent
buildings on the site. The buildings,
built for the 1851 Exhibition, were
part of an idea by Prince Albert to
bring together an area of science
and the arts.
According to an article in The
Times, Imperial College would
become a campus, with Prince
Consort Road being pedestrianised.
Mr Caldwell, however, dismissed
these claims as: "largely inaccurate,
they are only artists impressions of
proposed ideas. It is unlikely that
any of the roads in the surrounding
areas will be closed as this will
receive high opposition from
residents."
It is still not certain whether
anything will come of the
proposals, the 'Albertropolis'
scheme is still competing with the
Royal Opera House, the South
Bank and the Tate Gallery for the
'Millennium funds'.

