The Student Survival Guide
Part 1: Surviving Christmas at Home.
Joe McFadden provides crash-course in buying presents, avoiding parents
and enduring otherfestive pursuits
Most students look forward to Christmas as
some much-needed R & R after a stress-filled
term. This is particularly true for first-years,
who've had to rise—or more likely sink—to the
special challenges of
university life. Home is not just an
These inevitably include 7 .
making friends you'll keep aWOy-leg On the
for life (or 'til the end of T 7 r
Freshers' Week, whichever three~year pUO CrOWl
comes sooner); acquiring . .
unusual hobbies for your O/ degreedOM
CV ("A third in Elec. Eng.,
but you speak Inner Mongolian and ride a
unicycle? The job's yours!") and, oh yes, getting
a degree.
Christmas is for recovering from multiple
end-of-term hangovers or, in extreme cases, the
hangover you've had continuously since term
began. Take a complete break from wild parties
and your new-found friends. Instead, go to wild
parties with all your old friends...
But home is not just an away-leg on the
three-year pub crawl of degreedom; it's a happy
hunting ground where the thermometers don't
work on the Kelvin scale, and the fridges
overflow with milk and honey (as well as
turkeys and mince pies and Christmas pud...well,
you get the idea).
So why delay? Book your flight today for
an orgy of Bennallackian excess: a three-week
bender of such pagan proportions, it'll take all
next term just to recover.
Before you start packing though, remember
that every silver lining has a cloud. Going home
also means three weeks with your parents (the
nice people who lend you money and provide
lifts, remember?). How do you cope?
The ideal solution is having the house to
yourself. Leave subtle clues to your parents—
winter holiday brochures for instance—and
hopefully they'll get the
hint. Of course, if they do
decide to go skiing in
Colorado, it's probably
worth enduring their
company! But usually,
you'll be stuck with them
at home; i f you're not
careful, your Christmas
will turn into a remake of The Shining. So here
are some ways of keeping sane:
Stay out as much as possible. You'll get to
see your friends and also avoid arguing with
parents. This strategy can cause problems
though, especially when you return home after a
night of drunken revelry with a sudden urge to
watch late-night television and have a fry-up.
Fine in a student house,
but parents often take a
dim view of such
activities.
Sometimes, your pres-
ence is unavoidable—such
as Christmas dinner or
when relatives visit. These
often dull occasions can be
much enlivened by training the dog to maul any
particularly obnoxious aunts, uncles, cousins...
Parents may want to "know how you're
doing", Luckily, most parents only need vague
reassurances that you're not turning into a drug-
addict, sex fiend, or Young Conservative; just
say you're enjoying the course so much you're
thinking of doing an extra year (thus preparing
them for when you resit the year) and they'll be
happy. This won't work with parents who are
university lecturers though.
Another common problem during the season
of mince pies and merrymaking is the giving of
Christmas presents. This year, you're doing your
Xmas shopping early, right? Right. Christmas
Eve, 5pm, you'll be frantically trying to recall
your girl/boyfriend's size while engaged in a
tug-of-war with a shopping-crazed grannie over
a woolly jumper. Why not save some money and
make the presents instead? A l l you need is some
sticky tape, copious amounts of bog-roll and an
old Blue Peter video. The look on their faces as
they unwrap your masterpiece will be something
to behold.
Then there's receiving Christmas presents.
Difficult this. Disappointments are inevitable
and every year it's a little harder to grit your
teeth and thank Auntie Beryl for yet another
hand-knitted corduroy
If you'renot careful, c a t s u i t W o r s e
ye t
>
J
younger siblings always
yourChristmaswill s e e m t o
g e t a b e t t e r d e a l
than you. To even the
turn into a remake of o d d s
- contract 8 mystery
terminal illness, then lie
back and wait for the
inevitable torrent of gifts.
Christmas being a time of miracles, you will of
course have recovered in time for New Year. A
relapse may be useful during exam season.
Follow the advice in this guide, and you
should make it safely back to Imperial for next
term. Because let's face it, home is a nice place
to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there.
'The Shining'
3D Christinas Crossword ~ D a y XX ~
S C R I B B L E P A D
Across
3. Ruin small potato (5)
5. Playing an instrument this hot? (6)
13. Queen gets into Philip's players (6)
15. Princess gets poem to rectify (5)
Down
11
Inhales gas at the first piping show(5)
For example the wise men (on Day 3)
will hopefully organise this lady! (6)
Dupe, perhaps, and take in a
politician who was pushed (6)
Employing union voice (5)
Through
2. Man hangs about this place (4)
7. Mother in Roman legend of familiar
substance (4)
8. What they do in 3-d on Day 12!! (4)
9. Precious stones found as smeg
surfaces (4)
10. Small motorway North of Iceland's
capital (4)
12. A harbour that sounds crucial (4)
14. French bread feeling (4)
16. Race organised over an area of land
(4)

