8 Feature
A Multi-lingual Celebration from
Imperial College Choir
Rare Honegger is triumphantly revived, hut Haydn proves elusive.
Listening to Haydn instead of Mozart has always
seemed to me to be the musical equivalent of
visiting the National Gallery and spending the
whole time in the shop, browsing through the
postcards. It's a controversial view, and a Haydn
enthusiast may well have found more to admire
than I did in Eric Brown's reading of the
Harmoniemesse in last Friday's IC Choir
concert. But, despite a characterful contribution
from soprano Benedicta Moes, I was not drawn
in to the performance: in the ' G l o r i a ' , for
instance, the climactic 'Qui tollis' seemed to
arrive and depart almost by accident.
The second half of the concert began with
Vivaldi's Magnificat: all the familiar ingredients
were there—the scrubbing violins, the solemn
tread of the bass line and the velvety buzz of the
harpsichord. Nothing deep here, but the whole is
greater than the sum of the parts and it works
beautifully. A much less well-known figure is
Arthur Honegger, whose Cantate de Noel
completed the programme. Like several of his
symphonies, it's not as widely performed as it
should be, perhaps because it's far from being
the trite carol compilation one might expect. The
work begins with a despairing 'De Profundis',
dramatically led by the basses and the final
polyglottal peroration is hard-won. Here the
choir came into their own, cleanly projecting
each strand of the contrapuntal web, with only a
hint of roughness in one or two of the sopranos'
more stratospheric passages.
p||||l|S|i'
Professor Brown moulds a phrase
Next term, IC Choir will be performing Verdi's awesome Requiem.
With Shining Brass and
Soaring Voices
The players in this term's IC Performers'
lunchtime concert had to contend once again
with the coffin-like acoustics of the Read
Lecture Theatre, as well as the attendant
distractions of buzzing, flickering striplights and
the thwack of the ticking clock. The close, dry
sound is not kind to solo strings and Rebecca
Mileham's crisp and incisive piano-playing was
the highlight of the Allegro con brio from
Shostakovich's E minor piano trio. (Actually I
was hoping she'd play Scriabin again, so I could
describe him as the Ozzy Osborne of concert
pianists on account of works such as Black Mass
and Satanic Sabbatical.)
After a welcome rarity from James Marchese
in the form of the first movement of
Hindemith's Clarinet Sonata, the final group of
musicians made light of the venue's problems. A
brass quintet, they called themselves / Tune:
appropriately enough, since they did and also
because the trombone and tuba players are
called Sharp and Key, respectively. They dis-
played uninhibited enjoyment in a four-number
set which ranged from Dvorak to Jelly Roll
Morton.
In marked contrast to the Read Lecture
Theatre was the resonant interior of Holy Trinity
Church on Prince Consort Road, the setting for a
lunchtime concert given last week by the IC-
based madrigal group Elysian Voyces. The five
singers brought a feather-light touch and,
particularly from soprano Sarah White, a soaring
purity of tone to their programme of Renais-
sance polyphony. Tenor Frank Taylor directed
with assurance, although he occasionally looked
like he was churning an invisible barrel organ in
a heavy sea.
Patrick Wood
Erratum: for 'Sabbatical', read 'Sabbath'.
IC Student in
Podium Debut
Every classical music lover has imagined con-
ducting an orchestra, although most get no
further than flailing the air in front of their hi-fi
with a makeshift baton. But third-year mathe-
matician, Sarah Too, having surmounted all the
difficulties of forming and rehearsing her own
orchestra, took the podium last month for the
debut concert of the Imperial College Sinfonia.
Despite the unyielding acoustics of the
Union Dining Hall and a muffled percussive
accompaniment from the Wing Chun enthusi-
asts practising overhead, the rhythmically alert
and disciplined orchestra provided over an hour
of enjoyable music-making. Particularly engaging
were the infectious bounce of the last of
Bartok's Rumanian Dances and the rocketing
violins in the foot-tapping finale of Mozart's
Symphony no. 29.
Patrick Wood

