Feature 9
Ironic Curtain: the Veiled Despair
of the Shostakovich Five
The Imperial College Symphony Orchestra
(ICSO) has consistently pleased packed houses
and this term's concert was no exception. The
orchestra, over 100 players strong and conducted
by the irrepressible Richard Dickins, played to
an audience not only occupying every available
seat in the Great Hall, but overflowing onto the
steps and filling the seating behind the orchestra.
In the first half, the choice of Bernstein's
Candide overture was a happy one. This was an
ideal curtain-raiser, relished by audience and
orchestra alike. Rachmaninov's Third Piano
Concerto is not as well known as his Second,
and undeservedly so, for it has quite as much to
offer the listener. ICSO gave a good account of
it, as did soloist Geoffrey Saba, although
occasional slips were noticeable in the latter's
performance. The audience was carried along on
the wave of decadent emotion that Rachmaninov
invariably inspires and I for one found it most
enjoyable. It was the second half of the concert,
however, which confirmed that this, although
perfectly competent, was not the best ICSO
could offer.
From the arresting opening bars of
Shostakovich's Fifth Symphony, it was clear
that before the interval we had been hearing only
what was written. This was where the orches-
tra's hearts lay and they were now playing what
was felt. The story of the composer's difficult
life under the Stalinist regime is well known and
ICSO's rendering of his Fifth Symphony, with
which his troubles are perhaps most often
identified, was highly evocative of the feelings
invested in the work. We can only imagine the
Imperial College Symphony Orchestra rehearse Rachmaninov
despair the composer must have experienced in
the Russia of the early part of this century, but
ICSO all but transported us there. The sublime
Largo was particularly moving and the more
boisterous passages of the symphony were
admirably played, yet never losing their touch of
irony. The impressively tight [Shurely shome
mishtake?—Ed\ and highly professional percus-
sion section made an especially effective
contribution.
Rosemary Pearce
Next term, ICSO tackle another pinnacle: Mahler's Fifth Symphony
3D Christmas Crossword ~ Day XO ~
Across
4. Capital is so backward, it is left with
nothing (4)
5. Thought that the cartridge-filler
might have come first (6)
7. Medic that is right for dealing with
wet things (5)
8. Vote for, or return with a conductor
(7)
11. Field violation by one not on the
team? (7)
13. Dawn rising (5)
15. Pole's reason for getting a head cold!
(6)
16. The reason why there are only 25
letters in the alphabet at Christmas!
(4)
Down
1. Relative to the French book (4)
2. Sold on a bicycle (7)
3. Telepathy slows down wit (6)
6. Where noblemen play cricket? (5)
9. The French imitating jumping (7)
10. "Fire!" you hear, in a duct (5)
12. Could be bothered to havejoined
around the school head (6)
14. Tense, but sounds successful (4)
Through
There are no through words starting
from this level.

