felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
The first weekend in December saw
the fencing team heading up to Not-
tingham for the annual BUCS indi-
vidual competitions. With six compe-
titions spread across three days this is a
big event in the club calendar and this
year was no exception with our biggest
entry to date.
The first events of the day (Friday)
were the women’s sabre and the men’s
epee, in which we had eight fencers
competing: Joan Chang, Clare Harding
and Beth Jelfs, Marcello Colombino,
Alessandro Costamagna, Ed Collier,
Ed Gilhead and Chris Namih.
The women’s sabre went smooth
with all three girls making the last 16
before being knocked out by the even-
tual gold, silver and bronze medallists.
Marcello made it to the final in the
men’s epee, where he lost, to gain the
silver medal. He faced the same oppo-
nent who also knocked out last year’s
bronze medallist Alessandro, who
finished 20th. Not that Marcello’s run
was without complications, early on he
knocked out his own team captain, an
unwell Ed G. and confusion at the end
of one round left Marcello convinced
that he had lost a bout on the final
hit. It took some time for Marcello to
be convinced that he had in fact won
and could go back to stocking up on
bananas before the next round (most
people thought 12 in one competition
was a little excessive, but maybe that’s
the key to his success). Ed C. and Chris
both put in good performances with
Ed making the last 32 and Chris get-
ting knocked out in the last 64.
Saturday saw the women’s epee with
the men’s foil taking place. Joan and
Beth were joined by the women’s team
captain Emily Bottle and fresher Helen
Pennington. Joan made it to the last 32,
finishing 29th whilst everyone else got
knocked out in the last 64.
For the men Ed C. and Chris N. were
both fencing again, along with Indy
Leclercq, Chris Gilliam, Alex Bishop
and Nathan Harmston. With the large
amount of competitors, everyone was
ranked lower than hoped for, with Indy
ranked 5th despite having won all of
his bouts. This left Chris N. and Nath-
an playing off to reach the 128, luckily
both won their bouts easily to make it
through where they finished the day,
along with Alex. Chris G. and Ed made
it through to the last 64 and Indy nar-
rowly missed out on a place in the last
16, finishing 17th overall.
Nottingham university organised a
social event in the evening, although
those who had to fence the next day
decided to leave the rest to it. As ever it
was a good night and a great chance to
socialise with the rest of the fencers,
Heathrow expansion
plans affect IC sports
New plans were approved by the gov-
ernment and unveiled to MPs last
Thursday (15th January) to expand
Heathrow airport by the construc-
tion of a third runway complex. Their
venture is strongly opposed by some
members of the cabinet, over 50 MPs
with the Mayor of London, Boris John-
son considering supporting a legal
challenge.
Construction is due to start in 2015
and be completed within 5 years; once
completed the operating capacity is
set to increase from present levels of
480,000 passengers a year to 702,000
by 2030. It is feared that when Great
Britain emerges out of the current eco-
nomic crisis, Heathrow as it currently
stands will not be able to fill the needs
of business traffic and potential foreign
investors, who will consequently take
their business to Great Britain’s main
European competitors.
Due to Heathrow constantly oper-
ating at almost 100% capacity, minor
problems stack up throughout the day,
causing significant delays. Reducing
the level of working capacity by build-
ing a third runway will not only solve
this issue, but create hundreds jobs
which will help contribute to the esti-
mated £7bn to the economy each year.
To make way for the new runway, an
area spanning about 700 homes and
businesses will have to be demolished
which includes Heathrow Primary
School. Perhaps more importantly
for Imperial’s sporting body, Harling-
ton Sports Ground will also suffer the
wrecking ball.
Although Harlington is on the very
edge of the area proposed for devel-
opment, only the artificial pitches lie
outside. Sport Imperial state that they
have known about this eventuality
for some years and have already pur-
chased land in Norwood Green, which
is ready for the full development of a
new sports complex. As a result Sport
Imperial can assure students that they
will not be affected and there will be
facilities for sportsmen and women to
play matches and train on.
Neil Mosley, head of Sport Imperial
told felix that “sport at Imperial will
not suffer as a result of the Heathrow
expansion and we are in talks with the
London Borough of Ealing to develop a
new sports facility.” An added bonus is
that the new grounds are situated clos-
er to the campus than the current ones
available at Harlington, allowing sports
teams to train with increased regular-
ity on real pitches. The pitches used by
the Medical School teams at Tedding-
ton will remain unaffected and still be
retained by college for the Medicals.
Many environmental groups strongly
oppose the idea citing that both noise
and air pollution will be dramatically
increased as a result of the expansion,
which they say will ruin the lives of
residents who live under the new flight
path which will run almost directly
Continued on page 26
Beth Jelfs
Charles Murdoch
Continued on page 27
Imperial fencers strike
gold in Nottingham

