4 felix Friday 16 January 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Imperial stands to lose cash
Afonso Campos
News Correspondent
The world beyond
college walls
The number of deaths caused by the current conflict between Israel and
Hamas in the Gaza Strip has reached the milestone figure of 1,000.
13 Israelis, 3 civilians and 10 soldiers have been killed since Israel launched
its military campaign about three weeks ago on 27 December 2008. However
the majority of the 1,000 dead have been Palestinians, with nearly a third of
deaths being children according to medical sources in Gaza, who also re-
ported that hospitals have received 4,500 injured Palestinians.
The conflict has gained a further international dimension with a public
statement by Osama Bin Laden urging Muslims to wage “jihad in the path
of God” against Israel. The 22-minute audiotape containing his message also
criticised Arab states for not doing enough to support the Palestinians.
Palestine
Edited by Hassan Joudi
Despite the most recent Research As-
sessment Exercise placing Imperial
number one in the country for world-
leading and internationally excellent
research, the College still stands to
suffer a significant cut in the allocated
research funding, which is to be an-
nounced later this academic year.
The 2008 RAE found that 150 out
of 159 surveyed universities have pro-
duced 4* and 3* level research, with
17%ofallworkproducedbeingdeemed
‘world leading’. This result is not only
positively surprising, but also higher
than ever. This may however, have a
large impact in how research funding
is distributed to English universities.
Currently, the bulk (over 80%) of
funding is allocated to just under 20%
of all universities, most of which are
the mammoths of the Russell Group,
comprised by 20 research intensive
institutions such as University Col-
lege London, Cambridge and Imperial.
The funding which is awarded by the
Higher Education Funding Council
for England (Hefce) is distributed ac-
cording to a formula based on the RAE
results. As it stands, it is speculated
that the Russell Group could lose circa
10% of its yearly funding – or in gross
terms, up to £140m. Assuming this cut
is not weighted in any fashion, Imperi-
al could stand to around £7m; a rather
significant amount in research funding
terms.
The Director General of the Rus-
sell Group, Dr Wendy Piatt is worried
about a possible “haemorrhaging” of
money received by the constituent
universities. It is her view that while
quality deserves recognition in its own
right, it is “mass” that is paramount –
a mixture of quality and quantity. She
reiterates the World Bank view that
each country must, in order to re-
main academically competitive, have
a “proportion of world-class universi-
ties”, saying it fuels “economic growth
and furthers the knowledge economy”.
Hannah Theodorou, the Deputy Presi-
dent of Education and Welfare of Im-
perial College Union has commented
that this possible cut is “disappointing”
and may make “recruiting efforts much
harder”.
It is important to note that Hefce has
not yet commented on how it will al-
locate the money or if the formula pre-
viously used will be changed to soothe
the fears of Vice-Chancellors through-
out the country.
China overtook Germany to become the world’s third largest economy
in 2007 after the Chinese government revised its estimates of how much
its economy grew that year.
With an estimated annual growth of 13.0% instead of 11.9%, the Chi-
nese economy’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product) in 2007 was approximately
$3.382bn, which was slightly greater than Germany’s GDP in 2007. Germany
has always traditionally been third with USA in first place and Japan in sec-
ond. That being said, China’s GDP per capita is many times smaller than that
of Germany. This news emphasises the strides China has made since it began
reforming its Mao-era economy exactly 30 years ago in 1979.
China
The Maoist-led government of Nepal has begun a six-moth National Lit-
eracy Campaign (NLC) as part of a programme to achieve 100% literacy
within two years.
According to the official census some eight million adults, out of a national
population of 26 million, cannot read or write because they have not had
the chance to go to school. Under the slogan “Know Alphabets, Be Literate”
the government hopes 2.6 million people will be made literate by mid-April.
They will be taught by about 90,000
young volunteers who are mainly
students with a School Leaving Cer-
tificate. Eliminating illiteracy was a
key election pledge of the Nepalese
Communist (Maoist) Party, which
joined an interim government after
a civil war between 1996 and 2006,
and are now the largest party in the
parliament.
Nepal
Polish construction workers have unearthed a World War II-era mass
grave containing the remains of 1,800 bodies.
The town of Malbork in northern Poland was part of Germany before 1945
and construction of a luxury hotel there was halted in October 2008 after
several bodies were found. Now it is clear that the site is a mass grave con-
taining civilians of German origin and archaeologists say that many more
may yet be found. In the last
weeks of the war in 1945,
Marlbork was the scene of
heavy fighting between re-
treating German forces and
the advancing Soviet Red
Army.
Some of the bodies con-
tained gunshot wounds
indicating they were prob-
ably killed by advancing So-
viet forces but the cause of
death for others was hunger
and cold.
Poland
What? All this cash going to Bath Spa and Thames Valley? Damn...
RCSU Science Challenge
bigger than ever
Alice Rowlands
News Correspondent
The annual RCSU science challenge
will be launched on the 22nd January
for Imperial students and participating
schools. With over twenty thousand
pounds worth of prizes available, it’s
likely that the students of Imperial will
be spending the next few days trying to
remember how to write in prose rather
than C++.
The competition, which was first run
in 2005, will follow a similar format to
previous years, where a panel of judges
each set a question related to a scien-
tific topic and the effect it may have on
the wider world. Applicants respond,
to the questions posed, in the form of
an 800 word essay. Previous questions
have included topics such as how we
could go about colonising Mars and
the effect knowing your genetic make-
up could have on your lifestyle
The competition is run by students
from the Royal College of Science Un-
ion with the aim of promoting scientific
communication and creative thinking
amongst young people. The assump-
tion is that the same individuals that
will eventually shape the future of our
planet over the years to come, hence
inspiring scientific debate amongst
them will have a positive effect on fu-
ture generations.
As well as inspiring debate and en-
couraging scientific communication,
the challenge is an excellent excuse for
a party, last years prize-giving party
was a very swanky affair, held at the
Ritz, which should be enough to get
anyone’s creative juices flowing!
The felix editor is a little concerned
that with a top prize of £5000 for an
800 word essay equating to £6.25 per
The R.C,S. crest so you can cut-out-and-keep to enjoy at your leisure
word, his staff may soon be demanding
payment for their work.
If you’re interested in entering, the
launch party is on Thursday 22nd Jan-
uary, 6pm in the Sir Alexander Fleming
Building. Prof Sir Robert Winston will
be a guest speaker and this years ques-
tions will be announced. Or you can
watch the whole thing online at:
http://sciencechallenge.org

