6 felix Friday 16 January 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
D
o you remember when
‘failing’ meant getting B
in school? I miss those
times sincerely. But
whining about the past
isn’t going to get me, you, or anyone
anywhere. In education, the past al-
ways seems easier than anything you’re
doing currently. Every further rung on
this well-trodden educational ladder
has always been a larger leap up from
the last.
The transition between school and
University was the biggest in my life,
made larger and harder as I foolishly
thrust myself into the self-inflicted
academic rape that is Imperial College.
But, after a three week stint of twelve
deadlines, three hours of sleep a night,
early morning and late night library
visits, I can truly say I’ve finally settled
into the ethic of this university. Last
year, if I was thrown into the same po-
sition, I would have broken down with
stress, and cried pitifully down the
phone to my parents that Imperial was
“all too hard, I’m too thick, everybody’s
unbelievably keen and clever,” and
called quits on my time here at Keeno
City. And I very nearly did.
Come the Easter holidays of Fresh-
ers’ Year, I was a phone call away from
calling Registry and asking them to
start the procedure of removing my
name from the registers. I had Student
Loans and University-transfer logistics
prepared. I was feeling utterly disil-
lusioned with Imperial College and
ready to turn my academically-lashed
back on it. I never actually wanted to
do Biology. Coming to think of it, I
never actually wanted to do a science.
I was just good at it at school. The pre-
tence of enjoyment due to ease was
quickly washed away at Imperial when
I realised I wasn’t actually that good at
Just like the rest
of us
Dan Wan offers a note for
those who are about to fail
F
or a while, I was struggling
to find something to write
about this week, and it was
only after dinner at a friend’s
house that the inspiration
came. Was it the Thai Chicken Green
Curry that he had made for us? No, but
that’s not saying that it wasn’t tasty, he
had clearly spent a lot of time on it and
it was time well spent. No, it wasn’t the
food that inspired me, it was the text
message that he received at the end of
dinner telling us that a certain royal
was in the local pub.
Not wanting to miss out on an op-
portunity to see the royal, or just have
a laugh at the girl who told us when we
realised that she was wrong, we quickly
got our coats and left. Once in the pub
we found our friends and asked them
where the royal was, only to have him
walk right by us as we were asking.
Having acknowledged that the royal
was indeed in the pub, it seemed right
to actually get a drink otherwise we
would had just looked a bit odd stand-
ing there.
The first thing I noticed was how
everyone else in the pub was just so
relaxed and quiet, as if he wasn’t there.
Looking around though everyone was
older and clearly polite because think-
ing about it, I’d be pretty annoyed if
people kept coming up to me if I was
trying to have a pint. And that was ex-
actly what was happening, he was just
another person in a pub, trying to have
a quiet pint with some friends.
It was refreshing to see that all that
wealth and privilege hadn’t got to his
head, and what was even more refresh-
ing was to see that he was like others his
age, he, my friends, was a lad! Not only
was he joining in with the boisterous
singing and drinking pints whilst oth-
ers in his party were drinking wine, he
was also introducing drinking games
to the rest of the table. To all the foot-
ballers out there, this one is for you,
this royal family member was teaching
everyone else on his table how to play
matchbox! We couldn’t believe it and
to make things even better he failed to
get the box over the pint and had to ef-
fectively down a pint.
The one person that we hadn’t really
noticed up to that point was the mind-
er, who was just sitting there silently
watching everything that was going on.
It was only when the royal had to down
a pint that the minder, who could have
been his father looking at the fiery col-
our of his hair, took the pint away from
him. As one of the people with me
said, it is like being at The Union and
the stewards ruining your fun. And
then we thought for a second how pro-
tected his life is, to permanently have
a minder watching you and making
sure you don’t do something stupid. So
despite that on paper he seemed to be
just like the rest of us, there were two
big differences. Although wealthy, his
life was a little bit sheltered, almost as
if the minder was stopping him doing
stupid things that we would normally
do when drunk.
So the next time you’re complaining
about how the stewards at The Union
keep ruining your fun, spare a thought
for this royal who, it seems, wants to
be like the rest of us but can’t. Then
again you could be his minder who has
to watch you get drunk and look after
you. I’m not sure what would be worse
really!
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
CASH ONLY
‘Still the best student
offer in South
Kensington!’
ONLY BY EXPERIENCED STYLISTS
£26* ..... LADIES
£20 ..... MEN
*£36 with Blowdry
Telephone 0 2 0 7 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
w w w. f r e s h h a i r d r e s s e r s . c o . u k
NOW 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL
COLOURING SERVICES
science; not compared to everyone else
around me. I found everything ultra-
competitive, both work-wise and so-
cially. There was something I couldn’t
quite put my finger on, but I just wasn’t
fitting in comfortably.
There were plenty more reasons why
I thought Imperial was simply not the
place I wanted to spend a further two
and a half years at. As I said, I was
ready to withdraw from College. I’d
told my family and had started telling
my friends.
However, after several hours of a
frustratingly slow understanding be-
tween my parents and I, it was agreed
that I should finish off my first year at
Imperial and ‘assess the situation after
that.’ At the time, there was only ever
going to be one thing I’d do come the
end of that first year. No matter how
well I did in the end of year exams, I
would withdraw and hopefully take up
a place to read English Literature at
Manchester University.
However, here I still am; not battling
the member-losing temperatures of
the North, but the questionably tamer,
if not still bloody cold, ones of London.
So what exactly happened?
Things came together. I started to
enjoy my course; and anyone that ever
spoke to me in my first year knew how
much of a hatred I had/have for my
subject. Intense revision for summer
exams batted away a lot of the confu-
sion that fuelled the hatred I had for
the course. I realised there was a lot
more going for me. Imperial exam
pressure brought out different sides
to people. Bravados I’d loathed before
were replaced by a whimpering fear
of impending failure. People became
more open and honest about their situ-
ation, which their bravado had simply
not allowed them to be. Then you real-
ised the people who you thought were
clever enough to pull through the exam
period unscathed actually couldn’t.
They were in the same mess you were
in: notes out of order, the inability to fit
every necessary bit of the revision into
their head, and the general and guilt of
apathy that surrounds exams.
If you’re finding yourself in the same
or similar situation that I did last year,
I’m not arrogant enough to think I can
solve everything that’s wrong with
your situation by some definitive piece
of advice in a felix article.
If you’re in your first year, still not
entirely sure what is expected of you
at this College and generally finding
times hard to roll with, rather than
bailing out like I nearly did, stick it out.
But don’t stick it out because you have
to. Grab the opportunity you’ve been
given now. You’re at one of the world’s
top universities (as you’ve been told a
million times, but you really are), and
even if Imperial isn’t for you (because
it certainly isn’t for me), there’s nothing
out of your grasp that you can’t make
Imperial suit you that little bit better.
Join some clubs and societies and get
to meet new people, or actually speak
to your next lab partner rather than re-
gard him as ‘that annoyingly clever shit
you’ve been paired with’. Get your head
down and blitz out some real work; you
might start enjoying it. I’m not exactly
thriving on my course currently; far
from it. In truth, I’m averaging pretty
poorly and the forecast is distinctively
cloudy. But the important fact is that
I’m doing much better than I expected,
and at Imperial, you learn to ‘up’ your
game when you need to. Imperial will
teach you a lot without your even realis-
ing it. Skills such as time management,
self motivation and hard graft will hold
you in good stead for anything you do
beyond the walls of South Kensington.
If, in the end, you still feel you need
to withdraw from Imperial, at least
you won’t have left with a pathetic
‘what could have been’ angst-filled fist
shake; the one you give as you glance
at the semi-delight that is the Sherfield
Building for the last time. Make your
decision before this year’s UCAS dead-
line. It made the prospect of leaving
that much more unattainable for me.
As stuffy a reputation as Imperial may
have, and as stuffy as Imperial actually
is, it is there for your taking. So, perk
up and take it, before you regret miss-
ing out on this open opportunity of a
whole new experience you never even
realised was there.
“I was ready
to drop out. I’d
told my family
and had started
telling my
friends. I just
wasn’t fitting in
comfortably.”
The computer mocks you. You’ve come to print out coursework, but it knows that Facebook is irresistible
£1.70
a pint
FIRST AID
AT THE REYNOLDS
Every Thursday in
the Reynolds Bar

