8 felix Friday 16 January 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 16 January 2009 felix
Comment
A
s the New Year greeted
Londoners with a chill-
ing breeze and the reso-
nating sound of the bell
of Big Ben the people of
Gaza ushered in 2009 with a 6th day of
air strikes from Israel’s finest aviators.
Israel’s foreign minister Tzipi Livni
has been taking the same stance as an-
other politician from across the pond
that is just stepping down from White
House with statements like:
“We are all part of the same coalition
against terror”
“We are here to stop terror and
violence”
“This is a war on terror”
George Bush’s opinion on the matter
when asked earlier this week was a pre-
dictably pro-Israeli response: “Instead
of caring about the people of Gaza, Ha-
mas has decided to use Gaza to launch
rockets against innocent Israelis”
You’d be forgiven for thinking that
maybe a new president would bring in
a new view on the matter but Obama
during his campaign had a few things
to say regarding Hamas, in that they
will not be regarded as a political entity
of worth unless they: Renounce terror-
ism, recognise Israel’s right to exist and
abide by past agreements”
So what is the direct cause of this
atrocity? It’s easy to think that it is
classic Israeli heavy-handedness but it
seems that the initial aggression seems
to have come from Hamas.
Most Palestinians are striving and
hoping for the kind of settlement that
was offered in 1965: Where the land
that is now Israel, the Gaza strip and
the west bank were divided in half. One
for Palestinians and one for Israelis and
Jerusalem was included in the Palestin-
ian territory. Sounds good right? But
the leaders of the neighbouring Arab
worlds such as Egypt’s Jamal Abdul-
Nasser decided to retort with such
rhetoric as:
“We shall not enter Palestine with its
soil covered in sand. We shall enter it
with its soil saturated in blood.”
And “... the full restoration of the
rights of the Palestinian people. In oth-
Amin Elmubarak’s analysis of Gaza and Israel
er words, we aim at the destruction of
the State of Israel. The immediate aim:
perfection of Arab military might. The
national aim: the eradication of Israel.”
The 6-day war that ensued saw the
cementation and expansion of the Is-
raeli State to an area even greater than
the one we see today as some land was
returned due to peace treaties struck
up at later dates with countries such as
Egypt and Lebanon. Another result of
this History defining war is that it has
created an Israel that feels justifiably
paranoid and fearful of its neighbors
and a Palestinian people that feel that
they are now the victims of an Arab
holocaust, where they have no inter-
nationally recognized state; can be and
N
ow we see everything
that’s going wrong with
the world and those who
lead it. We just feel like
we don’t have the means
to rise above and beat it…so we keep
on waiting, waiting on the world to
change
I think the most repulsive story of
this Christmas holiday period, one that
brought in the New Year for the unfor-
tunate people affected, demonstrates
these lyrics very clearly (John Mayer
always hits the nail on the head!). I am
of course referring to the ongoing vi-
cious Israeli bombardment of the Gaza
strip – a most heinous crime unfolding
daily in front of our eyes that for lead-
ers of the ‘free’ world is mere entertain-
ment and a chance to look the part and
talk the talk, while for those suffering
the onslaught is injustice beyond what
words can describe.
The poor people of Gaza have for
years been evicted from their right-
ful homes, forced out as refugees and
beggars, before being squeezed into
the Gaza strip – a patch of land 360
square km in size but home to about
1.5 million, making it the world’s most
densely populated area. To this setup
was added a surrounding wall that
trapped the population inside, essen-
tially making it the world’s largest open
air prison, and finally to really make
the people of Gaza suffer, a blockade
was imposed by Israel 18 months ago
which prevented the basics of life from
entering into Gaza such as food, medi-
cine and energy.
And now we have a military cam-
paign of aerial and naval bombard-
ment, shelling and ground assaults
against the starved, deprived and
wronged residents of this misery, who
have nothing but sticks and stones to
defend themselves and nowhere to
run. Not even the media is being al-
lowed to come to their rescue.
The Israelis and the USA would have
us blame Hamas for the murder their
own weapons are wreaking. This is
certainly the one response every Israeli
politician, spokesman or supporter
spouts to pathetically try and clamber
for the higher moral ground but I am
sorry, that is just wretched.
No doubt the indiscriminate rocket
attacksfromHamas’militarywing,that
mostly hit non-military targets when
seldom they are successful, are evil and
it is true that perhaps their original
premise for setting up the organisa-
tion was to oppose the state of Israel,
which was created at the expense of
the homeland of the Palestinians, but
if we were to ignore the propaganda
and view this situation from a neutral
point of view then the blame definitely
lies on the shoulders of Israel. Let me
explain.
Firstly, Hamas has said clearly that it
is willing to come to a compromise if
Israel ceases all aggression, withdraws
to 1967 borders, allows the Palestin-
ian refugees a right to return, ends the
blockade and releases the thousands of
prisoners it holds without charge. It is
Israel though that refused to deal with
Hamas and chooses to ignore these
reasonable demands, all the while con-
tinuing its illegal settlement building
and illegal occupation. Moreover, Ha-
maswasdemocraticallyelectedinGaza
and despite gloating about democracy
and the like, the US and Israel choose
to leave Hamas out of ‘peace talks’ that
they have amongst themselves while
the EU stopped all aid to the desperate
Palestinian refugees – all because the
Palestinians used their vote.
Secondly, Zionist propaganda has
made it popular in the media that Ha-
mas broke the recent six month cease-
fire to which Israel responded, when
in fact it was Israel that broke it when
they bombed and killed 6 Palestinians
on the 4th of November as the world
was busy with the American elections.
Furthermore, Israel had never even
fulfilled the conditions of the cease-
fire in the first place which required it
to lift its blockade into Gaza of food,
medicine, water, energy and aid – the
very basics of life.
So after wronging the Palestinians by
caging them into the Gaza strip, starv-
ing them, reducing them to abject pov-
erty and isolating them from the world,
Israel then provoked them by breaking
the ceasefire. So, can we really blame
Hamas for responding then with indis-
criminate rocket fire?
Thirdly, if the rockets are such a
threat and living under their constant
danger such a terror, why then does
Israel not simply withdraw from the
illegally occupied Palestinian territory
where these rocket attacks land? Sure-
ly that would be a more just and sensi-
ble option to try in the first instance,
before collectively punishing the poor
populace of Gaza.
Given the above, and that the mas-
sacre has been going on for nearly a
month, one would think that this would
be injustice enough to punish the refu-
gees trapped in Gaza, but sadly it isn’t.
The attacks on the population of Gaza
are being executed using the most in-
discriminate of weapons despite Israeli
half-truths claiming surgical precision,
and even police, paramedics, doctors
and journalists have been specifically
targeted, including during the daily
3 hour complete cessation of fighting
promised by the Israeli government.
The UN Security Council resolution
calling for a ceasefire is being ignored,
while Israel continues bolstered by un-
wavering US support.
Hospitals, universities, schools and
all manner of infrastructure have been
destroyed under the false pretext of
blaming Hamas for everything, while
the blockade of the basics of life and
much aid continues. Also, no interna-
tional press is allowed in despite their
vocal protests, and the information is
controlled through propaganda and
trained media responses from various
spokesmen that continue to not accept
any responsibility on Israel’s part.
So now as we all sit at home, go to
university and jobs; and as another day
goes by, and hundreds more die or are
orphaned, maimed and widowed in
Gaza; how can the world ever come to
terms with this? How can it ever wash
the blood off its hands? In my opinion,
this period in history shows the values
we in the ‘civilised and liberal’ world so
vigorously espouse and pride ourselves
on so much to be nothing more than
hollow words.
Freedom? What freedom!? The
freedom to carry out crimes against
humanity, a genocide, and not be held
accountable? The freedom to control
information and restrict access? The
freedom to ignore the UN yet hold
other countries accountable to it when
expedient?
Human Rights? What Human
Waiting on the world to change
F
or the past twenty days the
population of Gaza has had
to face severe aerial bom-
bardment and a deadly
ground offensive from the
Israeli military. For the past eight years
the inhabitants of Southern Israel have
had to endure a constant stream of
rockets fired indiscriminately at civil-
ian targets. For the past sixty years the
Palestinians have been mourning what
they consider the greatest catastrophe
in their recent history, the displace-
ment of thousands following the Israeli
declaration of independence, and for
almost a century Jews around the world
have accepted the declared intent of
the great powers to create a homeland
for them in historic Palestine.
Under the suffocating weight of all
this historical baggage, with a never-
ending stream of wars, acts of terror-
ism, deaths and UN resolutions thrown
in for good measure, it is very tempting
to draw a line under the past and insist
we focus on the present. ‘Who cares
about history? People are dying as we
speak and the death toll is growing
daily. Let’s deal with that, rather than
rehash old issues!’
If only life were that simple. There
are no ‘old’ issues and the uncomfort-
able truth is that moral decisions can-
not be made in a vacuum. A legitimate
analysis of any event must, above all
else, be based on context. People are
suffering in Gaza – there is no ques-
tion of that. The Palestinians living
in that ‘densest strip of land on Earth’
have endured appalling conditions for
decades, and their situation has dete-
riorated beyond measure since Opera-
tion Cast Lead began. It is impossible
to look at the pictures of death and
destruction and not be moved to tears,
but if our arguments are to be taken se-
riously we cannot let our judgements
be clouded by our emotions. The tragic
state of affairs in Gaza should automat-
ically and unconditionally inspire in all
of us a profound sorrow and a desire
to alleviate the misery. We should not,
however, let ourselves feel misguided,
knee-jerk fury at Israel and unthink-
ingly whitewash the actions of Hamas.
When a child is dead it is only natural to
curse the hand that dropped the bomb,
but the guilt often lies elsewhere. And
while no Hamas operatives were flying
bombers over Gaza, indirect culpabil-
ity is no less damning. It takes time and
effort to establish context, but any con-
clusion reached before having done so
is, to speak frankly, entirely worthless.
‘All right, but even when considering
the context, how can one possibly put
the blame for the Gaza operation on
anyone other than Israel? Almost 1,000
Palestinians have been killed by the
IDF whereas only 8 Israelis have died
as a result of Qassam rockets in the
past year.’ When phrased in this man-
ner the conclusion seems inevitable,
but there are three important points to
bear in mind.
Firstly, we cannot let ourselves be
goaded into playing the numbers game.
Not only because numbers are in and
of themselves irrelevant (in the Second
World War, the casualties suffered by
the United Kingdom amounted to less
than 8% of the total number of German
dead – greater loss should not be taken
as an indication of the greater right),
but also because the rules of this game
are horrendously skewed.
How many Israelis would have been
killed if every one of the almost 9,000
rockets fired into Israeli civilian centres
over the past eight years had hit their
targets? If the intelligence services had
not been competent enough to pre-
empt large numbers of attacks, if the
early warning systems had not been as
efficient and if the medical response
teams available were not among the
best in the world? Any number of peo-
ple killed by either side is a tragedy, but
death tolls are less important than the
goals both parties aimed to achieve.
The tens of Qassam rockets being
fired into Israel almost daily have one
purpose and one purpose only: to de-
stroy, disrupt and disfigure Israeli so-
ciety to the greatest extent possible.
If any of the randomly fired rockets
should happen to hit an Israeli – no
matter what their age, profession or
even religion, then that is considered
a victory for the Hamas militants. By
contrast, the IDF approach is one of
careful, surgical targeting of those ar-
eas or buildings out of which rockets
have been fired. Yes, mistakes have
been made (tragic mistakes are always
made in times of conflict: even when
Hamas and Fatah members attempt
to wipe each other out, the screams of
Palestinian children are occasionally
heard to ring through the streets of
Gaza, though their sound echoes less
forcibly in the living rooms of Western
Europe), but the strategies employed by
Israel have always attempted to mini-
mize the civilian casualties incurred:
such as when leaflets are dropped on
areas targeted for destruction, urging
all those inside (often including grate-
ful Hamas militants) to flee.
The most incredible thing about the
way Hamas fights is its Machiavellian
willingness to increase Palestinian cas-
ualties. Rather than spending the mon-
ey they have had responsibility for over
the past three years on schools, hospi-
tals and shelters for their own people,
they have invested in weapons and mil-
itary training in an attempt to destroy
the Jewish state. Rather than attempt-
ing to save their own people from the
inevitable Israeli counter-strike, mili-
tants fire rockets from inside schools,
plant bombs inside ambulances, stock-
pile ammunition in mosques and use
their families as human shields. Hamas
have been taking their own people
hostage – hiding among civilians to
protect themselves and blaming Israel
for any deaths that ensue.
The constant, heart-wrenching
stream of images that comes out of
Gaza is an indication of the extent to
which Hamas have mastered what Alan
Dershowitz calls the ‘CNN strategy’. A
calculating and exploitative use of the
suffering of their own people, Hamas
uses deaths it has direct responsibility
for to paint an image of Israeli barba-
rism in blood. When playing such a
brutal, cynical and manipulative op-
ponent, there is no way the numbers
game can yield a fair result.
Secondly, the response from Israel is
not in proportion or in response to any
isolated event or events. The response
is to a threat posed by a dangerous and
extremist terror organization whose
stated aim and key political message
is the destruction of Israel. There is a
widespread belief that the fact that Ha-
mas was democratically elected means
that any criticism of their motives
amounts to a hypocritical attack on
democracy. Nothing could be farther
from the truth. Mussolini was elected
democratically and Hitler came to
power in a Germany that still used a
system of proportional representation.
ThedemocraticvictoryHamasenjoyed
is an indication solely of the popularity
of their message – not its legitimacy.
Thirdly, there is no need to embark
on grisly rhetoric to reiterate that war
is a ghastly, brutal, ugly thing. People
die. Among them civilians. But that’s
what war is like – NATO’s actions
regrettably killed civilians during the
conflicts in the Balkans and Afghani-
stan, civilians have again and again
proved the victims of the Sri Lankans’
campaigns against the Tamil Tigers,
and the bombing of Dresden and Co-
logne by the Allies during WWII re-
sulted in severe non-combatant casu-
alties. And while it would be absurd
to claim that ‘because other countries
can kill civilians, Israel is entitled to’, it
is equally preposterous to hold Israel
up to a standard that no other coun-
try in any other conflict has ever had
or even been expected to reach. Israel
should be held up to a high standard
(and indeed the democratic, liberal so-
ciety that exists in Israel ensures that
the country holds itself up to a higher
standard), but that does not equate to
exposing it to grotesquely unfair criti-
cism. The IDF have gone to greater
lengths and suffered greater losses
in their attempts to minimise civilian
casualties on both sides than virtually
any other military force, as the Israeli
Supreme Court’s jurisdiction over the
military has enforced higher levels of
accountability.
Over the past three weeks, much has
been said of the obligations of ‘Israel
and Hamas’, or calls on ‘both sides’ to
put an end to the violence. And while
attacks in both directions need to stop
for progress to be achieved, it is mor-
ally absurd to claim any sort of equiva-
lence between the actions or inten-
tions of the IDF and Hamas. Hamas
is a terrorist organization that leads
its own people to believe that waging
war against Israel is the best way to
secure a future. Not only is this logic
hopelessly misguided, it implies a stag-
gering blindness to political realities.
Israel’s existence is no longer under
question, and the presence of a strong
Jewish state in the region needs to be
accepted, not fought at the expense of
the Palestinian people.
What we are seeing in Gaza are the
tragic consequences of a democratic
state exercising its inalienable right to
self-defence against a fundamentalist,
violent entity more concerned with
eliminating its enemy than preserving
its own people. The moment Hamas
starts to treat the lives of Palestinians
as more valuable than the deaths of
Israelis, lasting peace will be a stone’s
throw away.
have been forbidden entry to places of
worship by soldiers; need ID cards in
order to travel to and from work; and
generally helpless in controlling the
educational future of their children
and the global future of their people.
It is naïve to think that Israeli military
dominance will eradicate Hamas. Let
us not forget that Hamas are the ruling
party as a result of an election that has
been observed by foreign moderators.
This in itself is a barometer of how des-
perate the Palestinian people perceive
their situation to be. These are a peo-
ple who have seen the Israeli military
blatantly and without regard to inter-
national law bulldoze their homes and
olive groves and erect new settlements.
The displaced migrate northwards into
Gaza (making it, in effect, a large refu-
gee camp of a million and a half with
a government) without so much as a
mention in the media or wince from
the international community.
Likewise, it is ludicrous to say that
Hamas have no hand in this dire state
of affairs, willing to operate within and
amongst their own population, mak-
ing them in affect targets to military
retaliation. Their relentless rocket-
firing campaign from the Gaza strip
on to Israeli civilians in settlements
on the border not only kills, terrorises
and maims innocent civilians, it’s an
act as irresponsible as pelting a cou-
ple of hungry tigers that are sleeping
feet away from your children. They are
certainly not a way forward for peace
and prosperity in the Middle East for
they share the same extreme views of
Nasser, refusing even to acknowledge
Israel’s right to exist.
However, military action does noth-
ing but justify Hamas’ presence and its
extreme violent agenda. As a spokes-
man for Hamas said: “Israel has justi-
fied the killing of its women and its
children when they killed our women
and our children… it has justified the
bombing of their schools and their
kid from across the street and hiding
in your mate’s house. The punched kid
happens to be part of a rather exten-
sive and aggressive family that does not
observe the law that then proceed to
fire-bomb your mate’s house with no
regard to whom or what they injure…
as long as they get you in the end. Both
parties are in the wrong for different
reasons but those that suffer the most
have no hand in the violent disregard
for human life.
Israel will achieve a lot more for now
and future generations if they try to
make Hamas obsolete by not making
the Palestinian’s situation so dire. May-
be by aiding them to form their own
state and set up secular institutions for
education to improve understanding,
job prospects, and public services.
And, if Israel insists on eliminating
those that “Threaten the freedom of
the State and the People of Israel” then
maybe adopt a more clandestine ap-
proach to erasing those that displease
them. Although the CIA get accused
and criticised for such actions, at least
they do not obliterate UN run schools,
Hospitals, women, children or three
whole generations of the same family
and call it collateral damage.
The saddest thing in all this is that
the majority of the civilian population
in Israel and the Palestinian territories
by and large do not care about who
is Jewish, Muslim or Christian, who
is Arab and who is Jewish; yet these
are the people who get murdered and
maimed due to the draconian and un-
compromising views of extremist rul-
ers on both sides.
To borrow the words of Mahmoud
Mohammed Taha who was integral in
the struggle for Sudanese independ-
ence: “these are nations of giants, ruled
by dwarves”
“It is much more easy to have sympathy with
suffering than sympathy with thought”
Ammar
Waraich
Rights!? The people of Gaza don’t
even have the rights that animals en-
joy. While children die in their par-
ents’ arms and a population is trapped
and under siege, so-called leaders hold
days of talks in fancy hotels.
Democracy? What democracy!? So
that when someone we disagree with is
elected, we can use that as an excuse to
collectively punish a people? So that
when we elect leaders, they become
slaves of powerful lobbies alone re-
gardless of what is right and wrong?
I don’t understand how we can ever
recover from this grave act of hypoc-
risy. I don’t understand how Bush and
Rice can sleep at night. And I don’t
understand how the Israeli decision-
makers can go home and look their
families in the eye.
The recent events have really made
me think about all of these things and
how the upsetting double standards of
the situation show the ugly truth vivid-
ly. Current estimates say that 4300 are
injured and the death toll is at 975, out
of which 300 are children. No justifi-
cation can be made for such slaughter
as this is state terrorism.
Therefore to me, Hamas is no longer
the terrorist – Israel has now made
Hamas the freedom fighter. And Israel
does not appear to me to be a sanctu-
ary for the persecuted, but instead the
executor of a new holocaust. There is
no way we can blame Hamas for this
situation above Israel and I think that
if we truly want to see an end to ter-
rorism, we have to stop supporting it
ourselves first.
Furthermore, I do not now see how
following this barbarity, peace in the
region can now be worked towards,
which will require from the Israelis at
least a withdrawal to UN sanctioned
borders and a complete right of return
for the evicted refugees as citizens
with full rights, and from the Palestin-
ians an end to their useless infighting
and the adoption of a non violent ap-
proach. However, how can this ever be
achieved when the world ignores the
discrimination dealt to the Palestinians
and supports the devastation meted
out by Israel with impunity?
I urge us to stop waiting on the world
to change but rather continue strug-
gling to ultimately be the change we
want to see. And a big change it must
be, otherwise as well as this obvious
loss of life, livelihoods, infrastructure,
family and peace, there will be an in-
sidious but ultimate loss of humanity,
civilisation, justice and morality that
may be impossible to salvage.
Gilead
Amit
“military action
does nothing but
justify Hamas’
presence and its
extreme violent
agenda.”
Hospitals when they bombed our
schools and our hospitals”
In conclusion, it’s like punching a
“Hamas have
been taking their
own people
hostage – hiding
among civilians
to protect
themselves and
blaming Israel
for any deaths
that ensue”
“The Israelis and
the USA would
have us blame
Hamas for the
murder their
own weapons
are wreaking”
“I do not now
see how,
following this
barbarity, peace
in the region
can be worked
towards”
- Oscar Wilde

