Discovery of now
controversial (at
least in the media)
stem cells goes
back to 1800s. The
vast amount of
current research
on stem cells aims
to develop poten-
tial treatments for
various diseases.
One of the potential applications is to
develop an alternative to organ trans-
plantations. Recent discoveries at the
University of Edinburgh allowed the
production of liver cells-hepatocytes
from undifferentiated stem cells. Fur-
ther research might help develop re-
generation treatments for damaged liv-
ers and other organs. Recent advances
and the need for new policies on the
use of stem cells in research have creat-
ed an overload of contradicting reports
in the media. This raises the need for
direct communication between the
public and stem cell researchers.
Source: ΣuSci, Issue 1, University of
Edinburgh www.eusci.org
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 16 January 2009
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
11
Friday 16 January 2009 felix
This holiday season, shoppers in Ja-
pan had an added dimension tempting
them to spend money: the world’s first
digital scent advertising. Internet pro-
tocol company NTT Communications
(NTT Com) made their “aroma-emit-
ting digital signage” service available
to businesses around Japan from last
September. The service provides busi-
nesses with the possibility of enhanc-
ing their adverts with custom-made
scents relevant to the advertised prod-
ucts. NTT Com’s tests show that con-
sumers were more likely to visit a shop
when scent adverts were in use. Yasuko
Oka from NTT Com says the scent-en-
hanced advertising was “more effective
compared [to non-scent advertising]:
people noticed the ad more and were
more interested in the products in the
ads. In addition, aroma emitting digital
signage makes audiences remember
the products more strongly than ads
without aroma.”
Examples of companies using this
service include Shiseido testing a rose
smell for use in ads for rose perfume,
a spa using a vanilla smell to sell ice
cream, and even parking lots using
aromatic ads to wake drivers up.
Ads are used “in company lobbies,
at supermarkets to attract customers
to buy food, in public places to get at-
tention and in hotels to make the place
richer and improve the atmosphere”
says Oka. Scents cover an area of up to
500 cubic metres. When asked wheth-
er there are any plans for providing the
service to companies outside Japan,
Oka says “We have many requests but
now we are trying to do business in Ja-
pan only. We are thinking of providing
scented ads in other countries in the
future.”
Would such a service ever take off
A ship loaded with iron set sail last
week to test the viability of ocean fer-
tilisation as a measure against climate
change. Heading for the Scotia Sea
close to Antarctica, the iron will be
dumped over an area of 300 sq km to
create a bloom of plankton, in turn
absorbing carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere.
Phyto-plankton, or algae, are given
a growth spurt when fertilised with
iron. The intended algae bloom would
be big enough to see from space, and
would photosynthesise carbon dioxide
from the surrounding air. The bloom
should then sink, permanently locking
the greenhouse gas on the ocean floor.
Scientists hope this technique will be
useful in the fight to reduce green-
house gases.
The mission, led by a team of Ger-
man scientists from the Alfred We-
gener Institute, has come under fire
from campaign groups including the
ETC. They argue a convention laid
down in 2008 by the UN and the In-
ternational Maritime Organisation has
been breached and worry that effects
on surrounding marine life and ecosys-
tems are unknown.
The convention was written after a
commercial enterprise named Plank-
tos threatened to dump iron filings off
the coast of the Galapagos Islands. The
company intended to sell carbon cred-
its to companies who would pay them
to reduce their carbon footprint. How-
ever the consequences were unknown
and the amount of carbon dioxide di-
rectly removed from the atmosphere
would be hard to estimate.
The current mission insists it has
scientific backing from UK, German
and Indian governments, who all sup-
ported the UN convention. They argue
the experiment is too small to greatly
affect biodiversity in the ocean and
is not for commercial gain. They also
hope to boost the population of krill,
which feed on plankton. In turn, this
would provide nourishment for dwin-
dling fish populations.
This ocean fertilisation experiment
in the US and Europe? Joseph Kaye,
a researcher from Cornell whose
work includes applications of digital
scents, says there is hope for this in-
teresting technology closer to home as
well. “I think people are often scepti-
cal of such approaches, and Japan is
definitely more open to perhaps more
explicit uses of computerised scent
output than either the US or the UK
– but in both those markets there is an
enormous use of fragrances in other
consumer products... every time you
use soap, shampoo, washing powder,
eat nearly all processed foods, smoke
a cigarette or drink flavoured coffees,
someone has thought about the way
that object should smell and designed
it to smell in a particular way.
Clearly many people think that hav-
ing things smell a certain way is impor-
tant and so it seems likely that we will
move towards interactive scents. “
Kidney
Research
UK re-
ports a
5% yearly
increase
in chronic
kidney
disease
whilst the
number
of Ameri-
cans being
treated
for kidney failure more than doubled
over the last two decades. Demand for
kidneys is growing faster than supply
and this creates waiting lists of several
years for kidney transplants, even in
the most developed countries. Perhaps
the best way to solve the problem is to
accept organ donations as usual and
not unusual events and to set up an
opt-out system of organ donations.
Source: BlueSci, Issue 13, University
of Cambridge
www.bluesci.org
Iron dumped in ocean to cool Earth?
Mico Tatalović
Science Editor
The plankton bloom will cover an area of 300 square km.
is one of a growing number of geo-en-
gineering solutions to climate change.
A spokesperson from environmental
group Friends of the Earth agreed sci-
ence and technology can help in tack-
ling climate change but the priority
should be reducing emissions. They
urge that ‘tech-fixes’ should be care-
fully investigated to assess their impact
on the environment before becoming
widespread.
Something to smile about...
This orange-sized piglet squid was caught by the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium from a depth of over 100m.
The squid is completely clear apart from some pigment which gives it distinctive markings and so always
appears to smile.
The piglet squid, or Helicocranchia pfefferi, produces light
behind each large eye
Olivia Sharp
Science Reporter
The eco-science column
Odoriferous ads
Student science
media digest
A vanilla scent is released from a
device below the LCD advert to
promote ice-cream consumption
in a mall in Japan.
Kidneys wanted Focus on stem cells
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
W
elcome to 2009.
Happy New Year. I
hope you had a bet-
ter holiday than the
Israelis and Pales-
tinians. Good luck to all who have ex-
ams and for God’s sake do better than
me. So, Gaza. What a pickle. When
will this stop? How many people have
to die before both sides put down their
weapons and stop hating each other?
During all this there has been very
little support for our big-nosed friends.
There are many, many idiotic jerks
who are claiming support for Palestine
because it is “subversive”, “cool” or “re-
bellious”. Go to hell.
If I were to parade in the streets
holding my own 24-hour vigil in sup-
port of Israel defending itself from a
country intent on indiscriminate death
and destruction I would probably have
rather a lot of obscenities yelled at me.
All these people who support the Pal-
estinians obviously do not understand
the situation.
Hamas were elected as representa-
tives of the people of the Palestin-
ian National Authority. Despite doing
great things for the people in some
areas – building schools, hospitals etc
– they have been firing rockets into
Israel, killing civilians and disrupt-
ing ordinary people’s lives. When the
Palestinian people voted for Hamas, a
paramilitary organisation, they knew
that attacks on Israel were possible if
not likely. Hamas’ rockets were sanc-
tioned by the people.
However, Israel have been targeting
military compounds and strongholds.
They must be able to defend them-
“42 killed after Israeli shell hits UN
school in Gaza”. “12 members of fam-
ily killed in Gaza City air strike”. “Death
toll passed 535”. These are just a few of
the headlines I read on the 6th of Janu-
ary 2009, 17.24 GMT.
Living on this earth seems to be
getting more difficult by the day. Dis-
regarding worldwide poverty, cata-
strophic diseases, or even the slow en-
vironmental meltdown, more topical
than anything else today is the scene
of violence and terror. From the lands
of Rwanda to those of Palestine, wher-
ever we look, blood seems to be on the
horizon.
In this article, I want to ask you one
simple question: since when have we
been able to justify the indiscriminate
use of violence in order to neutralise
our heartfelt grievances? The answer
to that, in theory, is simple: never.
When the attacks of 7/7 happened in
Britain, I remember feeling confused.
Apart from the sheer number of people
involved, and the timing of the attacks
(during the Gleneagles G8 summit), I
found it difficult to rationalise the use
of violence against innocent people
who had nothing to do with the stated
problems. Disregarding the bombers’
goals, I found it hard to see how peo-
ple could accept the killing of innocent
people. Innocent people had nothing
to do with it. Their role in whatever
it was these people had in mind, was
nonexistent! It was reassuring to see
that the majority of the Muslim com-
munity felt the same way, being vocal
in their outright condemnation.
Almost four years later however, I
ask the same questions – why are so
many people dying needlessly; people
caught up in Gaza, who have no influ-
ence on Hamas and can neither direct
it, nor leave it?
I asked my friend not too long ago
about the most difficult feeling he
would have to face in his life. Just as
I thought he would, he said it was the
moment he would have to face the
loss of his mother: the one person he
could always rely on, no matter what;
the person who brought him up, cared
for him, loved him. In Gaza, this is a
reality people are having to face every
day. And in some cases it is worse. One
man had lost all his family: his wife and
3 children. He was shown in a news re-
port to be giving his youngest child the
last kiss he would ever give him. Imag-
ine that was you; losing your brothers,
sisters, parents and children. Words
could not describe your feelings.
Unfortunately, this is what is hap-
pening in Gaza now.
I ask: how can the world accept a
justification for the killing of innocent
people by Israel? Killing any innocent
person is wrong, no matter who does it
and who is killed. The perpetrator must
be condemned. Why condemned? Be-
cause they need to be told that they are
wrong. When George Bush stands up
and mentions no faults in Israel in this
conflict, it makes me think what this
world has got to. The most powerful
leader on Earth is failing to criticize the
killing of innocent people.
So what about the future? What mes-
sages does this send out to the world
and its youth?
Quite simply, it is this: because Israel
is allowed to get away with the killing
of innocent people, the general prin-
ciple of killing innocent people can be
accepted so long as the right grievanc-
es are cited. So long as you can justify
yourself, be that the protection of your
family or the protection of your peo-
ple, you can kill innocent people.
The Muslim community has seen
Israeli tanks preparing for an increase in hostilities with Palestine
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
selves, especially given their fragile
position; the other neighbouring coun-
tries have hardly been best friends with
Israel through the years.
I am not a blood-thirsty, war-mon-
gering twat, though many of you will
probably now believe that I am. In
my defense, I believe that neither side
should be fighting and that a ceasefire
must be established to stop the deaths
of Israeli and Palestinian civilians and
soldiers.
The fighting has gone on long
enough and the Palestinians and their
supporters must accept blame in this
conflict, put their hands up and admit
wrong-doing. And so must Israel and
any member of the international com-
munity who has had a hand in the con-
tinuation of the conflict in the area.
Diplomatic efforts must be resumed
to ensure there is peace and everyone
can live together without the fear of
death hanging over every day of their
lives. This applies to both sides.
It was encouraging to read that David
Milliband has declared that the “war on
terror” was a “mistake” and that it has
just made our position worse by unify-
ing the terrorists against the west. One
has to wonder whether it was President
Bush’s plan so that the military busi-
ness in the USA could continue to be
strong or whether it was his stupidity
and lack of foresight. With his poodle
Tony Blair trotting by his side, he man-
aged to worse a situation to the point
of our own human rights being taken
away from us both here and especially
in the US. I cannot wait for Obama to
be sworn in so we can rid ourselves
once and for all of the Bush years.
Why so much
conflict?
many acts of indiscriminate violence
committed in its name, and every time,
it has been straight in its condemnation
of such acts: ‘Indian Muslims condemn
terrorism’; ‘Islam expressly condemns
the use of violence against civilians
and innocents’. There are many more
examples of these.
With the developments going on in
Israel, the only statement we hear on
a daily basis is that of the world con-
demning the killing of innocent Israelis
by Hamas, and its firing of its rockets.
I want to know why aren’t the Jews
condemning the killing of innocent
Palestinians by the Israelis? It is be-
ing done in their name. Muslims have
condemned the killing of innocent ci-
vilians, the world over. With the same
breath, the Jews should be doing the
same – not because the Muslims are
doing it, but because it’s wrong to kill
innocent people.
I leave you with one final thought.
The people of the world are speaking
out. It is taking a long time, but it is
coming. More and more pressure has
to be put up against the idea of killing
innocent people. It is wrong, regard-
less of who does it, why it is done, and
who it is done against.
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
A scene in Palestine portraying the destruction caused by Israel’s retaliatory bombings,
Obadah Ghannam
Amidst the myriad of news stories this
week, the great majority of them have
been dedicated to the ongoing conflict
in Gaza. It would be unfair, I feel, to
force-feed you yet another one, per-
haps a small break is needed from the
controversy and debate that the situa-
tion is steeped in.
However we shall stay on the theme
of controversy, and turn our atten-
tions to Brussels and the recent hoax
artwork put on display in the Council
Building.
The Czech government has been
forced to apologise to some members
of the EU having commissioned some
artwork that humorously lampoons
some, occasionally rather sensitive, na-
tional stereotypes. The whole debacle
stemmed from the tradition that the
EU presidency offers artwork for dis-
play in Brussels.
The current presidency invited
an artist from each member state to
render something they thought was an
archetypal quality of their nation, with
the notion of breaking down prejudi-
cial barriers.
The Czech Republic was under the
impression that it had commissioned
work from 27 European artists for the
Entropa display, which was installed
at the weekend to mark the start of its
six-month presidency.
In reality the mosaic was designed
and put together by David Cerny, a
Czech artist, and two associates. Cerny
admits that he misled officials over
the project and has commented that
he simply wanted to observe the reac-
tion of Europe to the piece, to discover
whether Europe is able to laugh at it-
self. He pointed out that the display
was carried out under the assumption
that Europe’s supposed ability to em-
brace satire was prevalent.
Apparently this is not the case in
some countries. The Czech presidency
has apologised to Bulgaria over the
‘highly offensive’ portrayal of the coun-
try as a toilet.
Amongst the plethora of depictions,
Italy is a giant football pitch, France is
suspended in a perpetual strike, Ger-
many manifests itself as a number of
autobahns, the Polish are portrayed
as a group of priests heaving at a gay
pride flag. The UK is absent from the
display, no doubt a swipe at our euro-
sceptic nature. Will Europe be able to
embrace the humour? I do hope so.
The art of controversy...
Violence cannot be justified

