12 felix Friday 16 January 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 16 January 2009 felix
Arts
The Art of the Poster
Emily Wilson is left underwhelmed by The Art of the Poster at
the British Transport Museum
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
Welcome to the Wonderland
There’s far more to Russia than oligarchs and oil. Caz Knight drowns in a sea of opulence at the V&A
T
he Magnificence of the
Tsars presents a small but
exquisite exhibition of the
regal ceremonial men's
dress of the Russian Impe-
rial Court, 1721-1917. These clothes
would have been especially fitting for
display of the royals to their doting
and awed subjects, for ‘magnificence’
and ‘splendour’ are certainly words to
describe the ornament and impact of
these special garments. From ermine
and glittering silver brocade to delicate
silks, linens and wools, ‘Magnificence
of the Tsars’ provides you with a rich
taster of the royal feast that was the
wardrobe of the Russian rulers.
On the day of the opening of the
exhibition, we were introduced to the
royal garb by Svetlana Amelekhina of
the Moscow Kremlin Museums, who
spoke elegantly and proudly about this
exclusive regal display from her home
country. Judging by Amelekhina’s con-
tributions to literature on the subject
of Russian costume and her having co-
curated numerous other displays, this
exhibition represents a chance for her
to share with us the treasures of Rus-
sia that she has brought back to life
through their display at the V&A.
The initial point, pressed upon us
was the “rarity” of such an exhibition.
Amelekhina explained to us that some
of these garments, such as a mourning
robe of Peter II, had not yet been dis-
played publicly in Russia and that put
us in a privileged position as viewers.
Russia had no great connections
with the rest of Europe until Peter I
(‘the Great’) explored it, with a 250-
strong entourage. Inspired by the el-
egant costumes of the courts he had
visited, he decided to throw out all the
traditional Russian dress and assume
the courtly fashion of western Europe.
The tailors and textile-makers had not
yet learnt the expertise necessary to
provide their Emperor with his ‘new
clothes’ and so much of the royal ward-
robe was made in France.
One or two romantic stories tran-
spired from the exhibition, as objects
steeped in history frequently offer.
“Exposed for the first time” is a set of
coachmen’s coats, rescued from the
siege of the Winter palace and stored
away until now. The final costume on
display was that of Nicholas II from
the Russian Ball at the Winter Palace
in 1903, to celebrate the reign of Alexei
I. The Tsaritsa Alexandra wanted to
organise an old-fashioned ball, with
guests donning 17th-century attire.
For this, the last grand ball of impe-
rial Russia she had all the family jewels
sewn onto the costumes, which must
have provided a breath-taking display
T
estament to the power
of posters on the Under-
gound is the fact that I
went to this exhibition
of posters on the Under-
ground having seen a poster about
it on the Underground. As Imperial
students, living in London, many of us
see the posters featured in the exhibi-
tion every day, most likely without ever
thinking about who designed them,
how they were designed and what mes-
sages they're trying to put across.
"The Art of the Poster" is on at the
London Transport Museum, which
is handily located at Covent Garden.
Getting into the museum costs £5 if
you're a student and you decline to
participate in all that Gift Aid non-
sense, and then the exhibition itself is
free. It's disappointing that the London
Transport Museum still charges for
entry. For that reason, I think I will be
one of very few people who will visit
just for this small exhibition.
I hadn't been to the museum since I
was very young, back before its big re-
vamp. It's an eye-paining adventure in
touch screens and Mayor of London
propaganda, but still accompanied by
old buses being ridden by 70s style
plastic dummies and loud small chil-
dren. The museum's visitors are almost
entirely families with children and eld-
erly trainspotting types. I don't think I
would ever recommend it to us trendy
students as a fun day out. The muse-
um doesn't strike me as very popular
at the moment – I went on a Sunday
afternoon, when the Science Museum
would be heaving, and it was worry-
ingly empty.
The exhibition is a chronological
display of art commissioned to appear
on London transport posters. It ranges
from a traditionally advertisement "No
need to ask a p'liceman! Undergound
to anywhere. Quickest way, cheapest
fare", 1908, to a more conceptual "Visit
Leytonstonia" of 2008. Anybody inter-
ested in design will find this exhibition
worthwhile. It's fascinating to see how
artists are commissioned, how their
sketches develop and how the rough
and ready originals are turned in to
crisp, glossy posters. There's enough
on printing techniques to entertain
the art buffs, but still a few interactive
touchscreens to keep young visitors
quiet.
A highlight is the chance to see the
posters that didn't make it on to the
train platforms. Well-known artist
John Nash was commissioned in 1950,
but produced a dreary brown scene of
the Chilterns that I would readily have
ditched too. Also lost were posters that
clashed with the two World Wars, and
a bewildering image of some guns in-
tended for the Lord Mayor's Show that
was deemed unsuitable.
What strikes me the most is the
lack of change across 100 years of
posters. Sure, you can pick out key
artistic trends as you wander along
the chronology. But so much of the
modern stuff emulates older styles to
the point where you can't place them
in time. Compare "Primrose Hill" by
Paul Catherall (2007) and "Pinner" by
Nancy Smith (1916) – they are almost
identical. The same trends are present
throughout the exhibit: bold, gar-
ish colours, crisp lines and that clas-
sic London Undergound typography.
Some of the paintings are beautiful and
deserve to be in an art gallery in their
own right. However, I get the feeling
there are some classics missing.
There was nothing here I recog-
nised from art galleries or the walls of
my nearest tube station. When I walk
round the gift shop they have dozens of
postcards of Art on the Undeground,
none of which was in the exhibition.
Where is it all?
My overall point about the exhibi-
tion is that it's very pleasant but you
probably shouldn't fork out a fiver just
to come and see it. It's a single room
tacked on at the end of the long muse-
um route, and unless you're visiting the
main museum as well there's not much
point in making the journey.
The subject of posters on the under-
gound, something that could have been
amazing, could have been extended
into something bigger and better. I felt
a little let down. To add insult to injury,
a leaflet in the exhibition informed me
"our world-famous poster collection is
now online.
I suggest you save the money and
visit www.ltmuseum.co.uk
W
elcome to 2009’s
first issue of felix
and felix arts. I am
hoping the ma-
jority had time to
relax and leave studying a far distant
memory of the term before. I certainly
fell into this category and resolved to
do absolutely nothing, not even write
– one of my favourite things.
Instead, my cultural experience over
the holidays took a lazy approach, one
experienced mainly from the comfort
of a chair. I received several beautiful,
heavy books on H.R.Giger’s art and
the autobiography of illustrator Alan
Aldridge (an exhibition of his is cur-
rently in its last weeks at the Design
Museum) ‘The Man with the Kaleide-
scope Eyes’. It is easy to label both men
with the title ‘genius’. I dipped into
Aldridge’s book when I needed a trip
through twisted, multicoloured lands
that belong in your childhood dreams
and into Giger’s when I felt like a twist-
ed, dark preview of what the future
might look like. Out there is something
for every day, every mood and every
whim, why I love art so much and revel
in exploring it.
Rewind 600 years to Renaissance
portraiture and I find myself off the
couch and in the National Gallery be-
ing educated by my lovely friend and
felix contributor Rosie Milton about
the differences between the Italian and
Dutch portraits. Also soon to end, the
exhibition is nothing short of fulfilling
and just about the right size.
Not strictly covered in this section,
but ‘Waltz with Bashir’ deserves a
mention just for its graphics and some
of its brilliantly choreographed se-
quences which would definitely put it
into the category of art despite being a
documentary.
I can be sure that a good number of
you will have attended some form of
event during the holidays and we are
dying to hear about it, get it written
now before the work piles up!
Last term the arts editors were all de-
lighted as the articles kept on coming
thick and strong throughout the whole
term from a large range of writers,
many new to Imperial which gave the
section a fresh new perspective.
The opportunity to review exhibi-
tions, galleries, theatre, opera, con-
certs and more (free of charge, of
course, just enquire within) will still be
available and we will be overjoyed and
very impressed if you manage to take
some time off throughout this hectic
term. We arts editors are but months
away from our finals and for this rea-
son there may be a drop in the weekly
number of pages and occasionally this
section may only appear fortnightly.
Help us keep arts felix alive, email us
with your glorious words!
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
for guests.
The unrest of the citizens of Russia
who could no longer see why the impe-
rial family should remain living in such
wealth soon initiated the end of the
golden age of the Tsars. From this ex-
hibition we can see that the wealth of
the imperial Russian rulers will never
again reach such levels of pomp and
splendour – where a huge ermine man-
tle that hangs across to the floor over
7 metres would have only been worn
once for the coronation and mere snuff
boxes were encrusted with jewels.
Walking around the exhibition
makes me wonder at the halls of the
Russian palaces now and how memory
of such times as the reign of the tsars
exists now only in what is left of the
costume of these elegant people –
worn now only by ghosts of names of
the past. Such a wealth of goods and
costume seems very remote once I’m
outside the exhibition. But still, as I
pass the gift shop I buy myself a Fab-
ergé egg Christmas bauble, content in
the knowledge that I can be a part of
the magical Russian imperial kingdom,
if only in my imagination.
Open until March 29
www.vam.ac.uk
Top: The Winter Palace in St. Petersburg. Bottom: Coronation mantle of Empress Maria Fedorovna
Coronation herald’s tabard
Here’s to
another great
year for the arts
One of the many posters that left Emily Wilson underwhelmed
You can find us selling tickets in
the SAF or the JCR TODAY!!!!

