Small Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• STOIC needs actors/actresses
for production which will
commence asap. 3 male parts, 3
female. Contact STOIC on 3518
or through Pub Board or
pigeonholes or Charles Robin
(Biochem 2).
Audio Soc—Cambridge Audio
Demo, Feb 10, 7.30, see posters
for details.
• Publicity Officers—remember
STOIC can advertise your
society and its events. Please
keep us informed.
• Anyone wanting Silwood Ball
tickets, the price is £50 from
Steph Snell (RCS Office).
• Silwood Park St Valentine's
Day Massacre Party. £2, late
bar. Starts 8pm at Silwood Park,
everyone welcome. Tickets from
Union Office.
• Coming Soon to a concert
hall near you—OpSoc's 'The
Gondoliers'!
• Word Processing available.
Type reports, documents, letters.
Cheap rates for students. Tel:
01-221 6619 anytima
• The Mini Miglia is a treasure
hunt in the square mile of the
City of London on Saturday
night, Feb 13th. Entry list is
now up on Motor Club
noticeboard, Mech Eng, Level 3.
• Available free - 30 (5 litre)
plastic containers. Contact FELIX
(box 01).
• Struth Ruth! This grog sure
beats the pants off Castlemaine
XXXX. For a drop of the golden
(or red) nectar drop into the
SCR at 6pm on Tuesday.
• Rugby 7-a-side competition
by C&G RFC and Fullers Beers
at Harlington, Sunday March 6.
All people wishing to take part
should sign up their team in the
C&G Union Office asap.
ACCOMMODATION
• Single room in Wimbledon,
£36 p/w (£12 rebate). Phone
947 5207.
• Wanted urgently—A female to
share a double room in a flat in
Lexham Gardens. Contact
Josephine Olok (Computing 2).
• Visit the new C&G Office on
Mech Eng 7.
The Chairman really
does know his job!
Dear Judith,
With reference to your editorial last week (FELIX 791),
I would like to reply to your criticisms about my alleged
'bad handling' of the Council meeting on Monday 25th
January.
First of all, I would like to stress that I did my best to
stick to the standing orders by which Council is supposed
to operate. I know its been said before, and no doubt it
will be said again, but one of the disadvantages of running
a democracy is that you have to try and let everyone have
a fair say. However unpalatable this idea may appear to
you, it does from time to time tend to cause what you
describe as 'petty squabbling'. This, however, was not
the case at the last Council: anybody who was following
the debate with any interest would have told you that, in
the proposed job descriptions, all Union officers would
have been 'responsible to the President and the UGM'.
This would have put the President of the Union on a level
equal to that of the UGM, with the consequent powers
to dismiss any officer at any time, etc. It was this that
many members of Council were opposed to. The debate
that ensued, far from being 'petty squabbling', was an
effort to remove this ridiculous clause from the job
descriptions. This debate would not have been required
if the President had accepted straightaway the changes that
in the end he had to accept. I might as well just remind
you here and now that, having temporarily handed over
the Chair to the Honorary Secretary, it was I who proposed
the working which was finally agreed upon (unanimously,
if I remember'correctly) and which allowed the meeting
to proceed to the next item of business—thus putting an
end to the 'petty squabbling' which you found so
distasteful.
While on the subject of debate, you say I 'should have
first allowed debate on whether we needed such a drastic
reorganisation of the Union'. I should like to point out
two things:
1. Nobody proposed a procedural motion to debate
whether the proposed changes were needed or not. The
necessity or otherwise of the changes was not even
mentioned, not even by the permanent observer at Council.
Given this, I cannot force debate on the subject! As
Chairman, I have no influence on what subjects get
debated. I am only there to run the meeting and to try
to ensure that everyone gets a fair chance to make their
voice heard.
2. As it was, the meeting lasted over three and a half
hours, and regrettably there is a limit to the amount of
time that Council members are prepared to sit and debate.
Fortunately for all concerned, the new job descriptions
do not become effective until next year. Wonder of
wonders, there are still not one, nor two, but three whole
Councils left this year in which the job descriptions can
be amended and re-amended until everyone is happy with
them. Who knows, we might even want to re-adopt the
old ones.
On a different note altogether, we have not created a
sabbatical to run entertainments. Anyone who reads the
new job description carefully will realise that the Honorary
Secretary (Events) brief requires him/her to 'assist in the
coordintion of Entertainments for the Union in cooperation
with the Entertainments Officer and the Entertainments
Committee', and to 'assist in the coordination of Rag in
cooperation with the Rag Chairman and the Rag
Committee'. This does not mean that we are going to
abolish the post of Ents Officer, who will still be
responsible for Ents; nor does it mean that we have created
a sabbatical to run Entertainments.
Yours very sincerely
Alastair J Seymour, UGM Chairman.
Sycophantic drivel
Dear Judith,
I'd like to write to show my appreciation of the Imperial
College Radio service whose broadcasts I listen to
regularly. The information of student life provided is only
second to the excellent choice of music one hears, despite
the limited resources and funds, I hear, they have. I'd
particular like to show my appreciation of one discjockey,
Spenser Lane, who provides an amusing Monday morning
breakfast show. Keep it up!
However, not to be seen to be too much of a flatterer,
two disc jockeys do shows which show a don't-care-about-
the-audience policy. This whiny famale and all too jovial
sounding Welshman should think more about the populace,
for their sakes.
I can see IC Radio going from strength to strength in
the following years from this staid start.
Yours faithfully,
David Leigh (Physics 1).
That's what it meant
Dear Judith,
I think somebody should shed some light on the
completely incomprehensible letter at the end of last
week's FELIX. The letter, written by an anonymous
Tizard resident is concerned with a section of UVR &
DDL in the last issue of Broadsheet. The extract is as
follows:
'Tizard Hall have started up their own radio station-
Radio Bonk. This basically boils down to some pervert
placing a microphone and transmitter in someone's room,
while that someone is enjoying someone else! There are
plans to extend the radio coverage to away matches in
Linstead Hall. This station is rumoured to be found on
about 100m M W on Southside only.'
The person in charge of operating this obscene radio
station is said to be Neil Humphreys (Physics 1) or grumph
to his aquaintances. It is rumoured that he and the illiterate
letter writer are one and the same person. All I can find
out about Grumph is that he was involved in a three-in-
bed orgy with his teddy bear and his pillow, and that his
hairstyle rivals that of Gordan Brignal. Well I would like
to apologise to Grumph the pervert for my minor misprint
on the matter of radio frequency, and I can only hope that
his frequency of washing increases by a couple of
mega-hertz.
Love,
Count J Dracula.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.
FELIX Friday February 5th 1988 16

