• THE UNION has been hit with a
new scandal this week. Or, perhaps,
that should read old scandal but new
news. Ian Howgate, who even
manages to out-ego his Deputy Alan
Rose, has declared that he has already
chosen his successor and is busy
settling him into the Presidential seat.
Maybe Ian hasn't heard of
democracy? Maybe we ought to point
out to him that his successor will be
elected by all the members of the
Union in a College-wide ballot. And
just who is Ian's blue-eyed boy? I can
reveal exclusively that Nigel Baker,
this year's Rag Chairman, and Ian had
dinner together with College
Secretary John Smith on Monday
night. Now what could such a College
supremo want to talk about that has
anything to do with Rag?
• I T SEEMS THAT Mr Howgate is
not content with just selecting his
successor. Many Union Officers have
noticed that Mr Howgate has created
a new Union post for himself next
year. I hereby announce that Mr
Howgate will stand for Constitution
and Policy Officer 1988-89. How can
I be so certain? Why else would he
have included in the job description:
chairing UGM and Council meetings;
ensuring that Officers follow his
understanding of Union Constitution
and Policy; bringing to the attention
of the executive any matters that may
require policy to be initiated; and,
more importantly, representing the
Union on the Governing Body and
Finance & Executive committees as
an observer. Could this be why Ian's
been so pally with College recently?
Surely no observers are allowed on
Governing Body or F&E? Surely no
full-time students can afford to miss
lectures in order to attend such
committees?
Does Ian really think we're all that
stupid?
• W H O HAS the biggest feet in
College? IndSoc Chairman Gary
Monaghan must be a leading
contender with his size 13s.
Said gentle green giant Gary in his
lilting Irish accent: 'Size isn't
important and I haven't had any
complaints so far.'
'I'm not wearing one of those' said Derek
'I don't want to look silly for my meeting
with all the important people at
Cheapskate'.
'Oh yes you are' said Mad Dash
'everyone else will be wearing one'.
'Oh no they won't' said Derek.
'Oh yes they will' said Mad.
'Won't.'
'Will.'
'Won't.'
'Will...'
Meanwhile, in the Surefield Fortress, John Secretary, Arthur Michael,
lain Bore and some other notables were waiting for Derek to arrive at the
meeting.
'Right' said John Secretary, 'does everybody know the words?'.
'Yes John' they all replied.
'What if he isn't wearing one?' whispered Arthur Michael, the good but
good-for-nothing fairy.
'I've spoken to Mad Dash and she assures me that he'll be wearing one.
We start singing as soon as he comes in.'
Just then the door handle moved and Derek entered the room. Before
he could say as much as 'hello' the assembled rabble broke into song:
'Derek the Red-Nose Baron
Had a very shiny nose, , „ —
And if you ever saw it
You would even say it glowed.
All of the Cheapskate citizens
Used to laugh and call him names.
They never let poor Derek
Join in all their citizens games.
Then one snowy white night
Maggie came to say,
'Derek with your nose so bright
You look like a Kinnockite'.
'Cheapskate will get no money
Because you're not true blue,
I don't like troublemakers,
And that irtcludes you!'
Then how the Citizens loved him,
They danced and jumped around with glee
This was the end of Cheapskate
All because of Comic Relief!"
John Secretary, Arthur Michael, lain Bore et al rolled about on the floor
after this performance and Derek went bright red. He didn't need his red
nose now!
Meanwhile, in the Lumpsofmetalworshippers temple Dave Braincell was
much more enthusiastic. 'Great, with one of these red noses on I'll look
like a real clown!'
Braincell needed to improve his clown image. In a recent opinion poll
in Lumpsofmetalsheet lots of citizens had said that Braincell wasn't a very
good clown and this made Braincell very unhappy. At first he thought about
stopping being a clown for good, then just for a week, but then he decided
that he was a born clown so he should stay. (That's why he was chosen
to be a part-time Action Man and to take part in the odd game of shooty
shooty bang bangs.)
Tonight was to be the highlight of the Lumpsofmetalworshippers social
calendar, Dungeons and Dragons. Braincell was going to wear his red nose
for the whole evening to remind everyone that he was a clown, and a
very good clown at that. (If he wore only a red nose then he'd certainly
get a lot of laughs!)
Will Dave Braincell get a lot of laughs?
What are Maggie's plans for Cheapskate?
How many election candidates does it take to change a light bulb?
Why hasn't anyone sent me any money yet?
Why did Largeamounts get three red noses?
Why so many questions?
Find out in the next episode of the Baron of Cheapskate.
• I SPEND MOST of my column
inches each week on IC Radio and it's
various characters. Latest news to
reach my ears is that of long-time
hack and PG Prospectus Editor Alan
Barnett who shares a flat with ICR
Primadonna Nige 'sweetie' Whitfield
and Simon 'Nancy-boy' Bradshaw.
Poor Alan, having been targeted as
my ICR mole, has had his own dirt
dug up. It seems that all they could
come up with was that A l seems to
be conducting a long and passionate
love affair with his trusty coat. Nige
and Si inform me that he even wears
his parka in bed. We at FELIX have
clubbed together to pay for it to be
dry-cleaned at least once in its poor,
pathetic lifetime!
• EDITOR JUDITH gets my
sympathetic vote this week. Her
boyfriend took her bunch of keys
home with him to Surrey by mistake
on Tuesday night. Judith couldn't
leave the FELIX office, couldn't get
to the phone, couldn't get into her
room. Somehow, though she was
guarded about exactly how, she
managed to inform her boyfriend that
he had the keys and he valiently
caught a series of night buses back to
save the day—or should that be night?
The doctor says that he should be
able to walk again in two weeks time.
• W H Y DID Ian Howgate want to
No Confidence U G M Chairman
Alastair Seymour? And why did he
offer the job to Holbein trouble-maker
Chris Stapleton? My reliable source
tells me that Ian hatched a plan to oust
Mr Seymour at 1.30am one morning
by persuading ring-leaders of the
infamous Holbein social club, Beans,
to challenge the Chairman's ruling at
last month's Union General
Meeeting. If the challenge was
successful, Mr Seymour would have
had to pass the Chair on to Mr
Howgate, who would in turn have his
ruling challenged. Mr Howgate
would then pass the Chair onto Mr
Stapleton and propose a motion of No
Confidence in M r Seymour.
Confused yet? If the motion was
passed then Mr Howgate was to
propose that Mr Stapleton be made
the new U G M Chairman. The plan
fell through when Mr Seymour got a
tip off from a friend and confronted
Mr Howgate with the fact that he
could quite as easily No Confidence
Ian on stronger grounds than Ian's No
Confidence of him. Naturally Mr
Howgate let sleeping dogs lie.
FELIX Friday February 5th 1988 6

