WAYS TO CHEAT ON T H E TUBE
No. 1: "The Streak'
Take all your clothes off and run through
Each sabbatical candidate
needs two researchers -
one to dig up the facts and
the other to bury them.
• C A R I N G , T R A I N - S P O T T I N G
M A L E seeks warm and compassionate
lady for long walks, wining and dining,
and bondage. Reply Box 5628. No
cranks please.
'The tall building on the left is the Sherfield Building,' said the guide to a coach load of
tourists. 'How many people work there?' asked a woman tourist. 'Oh about one in fifty,'
replied the guide.
What's a creche?
A Kensington car crash
Professor: T believe you missed our
tutorial this morning Jones?'
Jones: No. Not really.
Guilds Hack: 'I fell down a flight of stairs
with ten pints of beer and I didn't spill
a single drop.'
RCS Hack & R S M Hack in unison:
'How did you manage that?'
Guilds Hack: T kept my mouth shut.' I PoKiHe; M Y TCW^M* oil*
the barrier screaming. The guard will be
so shocked that he will forget to ask you
for your ticket.
No. 2: "The Optician'
Disguise yourself as an optician. When
you approach the barrier you notice that
the guard is myopic and produce a free
pair of spectacles from your brief case.
The lenses in the spectacles are such that
the guard will not be able to see anything
further than six inches away. You hold
up a piece of paper and walk through,
No. 2b: 'The Blindman'
Disguise yourself as a blind person with
dark glasses and a white stick. Hold up
a cigarette and walk through. The guard
will be too polite to challenge.
More devious ways to follow next
week. Please send any contributions to the
FELIX News Editor
Late News
The Union President has just finished his
third book it was revealed today. He will
be starting Janet and John 4 tomorrow.
^06
IAN HOWGATE
Qu: What do you
give the man who
has everything?
Ans: Peneciliin
" 5£^5> -THfc tAe^f , M
' .
-Thi5 exit's et&*1 •
A man arrived home from the pub early
and found his wife in bed with another
man. 'What the hell are you doing?' he
cried. His wife turned to her lover and
said, 'Didn't I tell you he was stupid?'
STOP
Mouth Breathing
and Snoring
The Perfect Breather overcomes dis-
Hgieeabte mouth breathing and snor-
ing, and heals inflamed nasal tissues—
while yuu sleep. It also prevents
flabby facial muscles, double chin, un-
shapely lips, etc. (Women pleate
ante.) Has helped thousands all over
the world. Set includes Perfect Breather,
inhaler, inhaling balm, and valuable
exercises. Men's, women's sizes, J3.0 0;
. J2.00. Cash, check, money order, or C. 0. D.
Satisfaction or refund. Literature free.
Perfect Breather Co., P. 0. Box 4721, Philadelphia, Pa
From thefilesof Richard Spanner ARCS
It was a December morning towards the end
of July, from my window I saw people
rushing back and forth like people who didn't
want to be written into a tacky story; I wasn't
going to give them the satisfaction. I walked
over to my radio alarm, 9.26; damn! I was
gonna be late! I turned it over in my mind,
no good it still read 9.26. I walked into the
department; the lecturer was senile, he didn't
know one end of a piece of chalk from the
other, instead I decided to check out my
pigeonhole. The birds were still there; so
were a couple of notes both A sharp, I
thought, but then decided they seemed to be
flat. 'Spade, we gotta job for you—
thermometer theft' read the note (it was
talented even for a B flat). I was on a case,
I headed straight for the RCSU.
There was the usual crowd of boring hacks
(if you'll pardon the tautology) 'OK who was
the last one to see the themometer?' I asked.
It turned out to be this Williams guy who was
using it as a model for a cartoon strip in
Broadsheet (the guy needed a model to draw
a thermometer.. .clearly he was as talented at
drawing as he was at handling finances). Wait
a moment, this William's guy was a candidate
for RCSU VP, if he showed he could handle
mascotry, there'd be no competition (not that
there was much now), I smelled a rat. My
mistake, it turned out to be a dog turd. 'What
do you make of this McErlan?' I turned on
the President, T take it as a sign of the last
time this office was cleaned' she squealed—
maybe I shouldn't have worn spiked shoes
when I turned on her. I looked down at the
dog turd in my hand, this was no way to be
handling the job.
. The way I saw it, there were four main
.groups of suspects, but then I always saw
things with a combination of tunnel and
double vision, so that narrowed it down to
two. The first group was a bunch of hardened
criminals—Guilds, previous crimes included
indescent exposure, driving without due care
and attention and catnapping. The three main
ex-cons had shared a cell in the pen—their
leader Dave Tyler was the brains of that cell
(at least I think that's what they said).
Somehow though this lacked the military
subtlety of Tyler's other attempts on the the
thermometer, employing tactics such as
knocking on the door and asking for it or
claiming overwhelming numbers when he
himself can't count to four. The other group
was a club full of has-beens led by a small
time drunk and horse fixer. Their recent
exploits included a raid on Guild's Office of
such intelligence that it rivalled Dave Tyler's.
Recently the syndicate had tried to swap the
thermometer for a hippo, a move which was
snubbed by the recently signed mascot
embargo agreement.
As I headed back to the office I was
confused. I walked in, my boss Hackney was
pasting-up that Friday's paper, I cast my eyes
over page .... this upset the boss because it
got my optical jelly and retina over it, but now
I'd cracked the case.
'The Felix Office stole the thermometer
I said.
"That's astounding' said the boss 'can I ask
a question?'
'Sure, what is it?'
'An interogative statement used to gain or
test knowledge, but that's not important. How
did you know?'
'Simple I read the end of this article, thus
finding out you set the whole thing up as a
spoof article for your Comic Relief issue.'
'That's a bit of a thin ending for the story'
said the ex-welfare officer.
I couldn't believe my ears!
'Say that again Salmon' I said.
Apologies to Gerry Anderson and Tenants
Pilsner.
Now you've got your red nose (you have, haven't you?), FELIX has .some suggestions where you can put it.
1. For the fashion conscious
2. Who needs condoms?
3. Embarassed by your red nose? The discreet place to wear it
4. Standard position
5. One for the ladies.
6. Stops you picking your nose.
February Anniversaries
1. Squadron-Leader 'Squiffy' Rollerton
began crossing Atlantic by balloon, 1938.
2. Start of Round the World Eating Race, Sir
John 'Fatso' Tomkins favourite 15-1, 1930.
3. Moulin Rouge sued Le Petomane,
theatrical farter, for performing offstage,
1894.
4. Concise published his first Oxford English
Dictionary, 1938
5. 'Squiffy' Rollerton blown off course,
landed in Edinburgh, 1938
6. Custer maimed, 1836. Had his last stand
12 years later.
7. Garibaldi invented the now famous biscuit
(which was to make him famous), 1866.
8. Lady Hamilton's advice sought
concerning erection of Nelson's Column,
1807.
9. 'Squiffy' Rollerton announced 2nd attempt
at Atlantic Balloon crossing, 1938.
10. Sir John 'Fatso' Tomkins collapsed
outside Maxim's, Paris. Foul play suspected,
1930.
11. First hippopotamus launched into space,
China, 1958.
12. Ian Smith claimed, 'There are going to
be drastic changes in Rhodesia', 1975.
13. All-American Virgin Competition
cancelled due to lack of entrants, 1976.
14. 'Squiffy' Rollerton drowned in Lake
Windermere after falling out of balloon,
1938.
15. Roger Crab, 'his mind not improved by
skull-clearing operation', d.1680.
16. Nostradamus was born on the day he'd
predicted, 1503.
17. St Humero joked with onlookers as he
was being disembowlled, 108.
18. 'Squiffy' Rollerton buried. Epitaph by
Dylan Thomas 'careless bugger', 1938.
Friday February 5th 1988 FELIX FELIX Friday February 5th 1988

