H I G H S C H O O L H I G H
Naked Gun and Airplane! creator
David Zucker takes on Dangerous
Minds in his latest spoof, High
School High. It tells the unlikely tale
of idealistic Richard Clark (Jon Lovitz)
who leaves an exclusive private
academy to join the front line at a
delapidated inner-city high school.
He is convinced that these kids
should be allowed to have the same
experiences that his private-school
pupils did - dating, going to proms
and begging for sex.
In most David Zucker spoofs the
story would be immaterial, merely a
means of filling the foreground
whilst the majority of jokes take
place in the background. However,
High School High is a far cry from his other films, both in
terms of style and quality. For a start, there's no Leslie
Nielsen. Many would no doubt be more than slightly
relieved at this. Unfortunately, though, the replacement is
the relatively unknown Jon Lovitz and his quips and facial
expressions just don't compare with those of the
Donahue-lookalike. Ifs not that he's unfunny, as years of
appearing on Saturday Night Live testify, ifs just that only
Nielsen could bring off some of the immensely daft one-
liners in the script.
The fact that this film has anything resembling a plot
gives away High School High's main weakness. Whereas
Naked Gun et al were parodies of a whole genre, and
therefore had plenty of material to work with, Zucker's lat-
est focuses entirely on just one not-particularly good film,
Dangerous Minds. This means its unavoidably a one-gag
film, which it uses up in the first few minutes. To avoid
making the repetition obvious, a storyline is introduced to
pad out the joke. Even then the plot is an exact replica of
Michelle Pfeifer's film, with the disillusioned youngsters
finally coming around to Lovitz and deciding "they wanna
learn". In fact, the teenagers are the best actors in the
film, especially Mekhi Phifer. (This is apparently her real
name, and not yet another hilarious comic moment
based on Michelle Pfeifer). The film is short at one and a
half hours, hinting that even the director knew there
wasn't much funny material.
Chris
Another opportunity to see the latest film for absolutely
nothing this week. We have yet more free tickets to give
away courtesy of the Odeon Kensington. The latest
release is The Relic, a good old-fashioned horror movie
about a less-than-mythical creature living in the basement
of New York's Natutal History Museum. Once again the
indescribably nice guys at our local cinema are donating
FIVE pairs of tickets to those who know the answer to the
following question:
'The monster in The Relic comes from the same
coffee-making South American country as the snake
in Anaconda. Which country is this?"
| Anaconda's Jennifer topez. Surely too pretty for snake fodder? |
Last week we asked for the name of the star of Mission
Impossible. This ridiculously easy question meant there
were hat-fulls of entries with the correct answer, Tom
Cruise. The winners receiving a pair of tickets for
Anaconda are:
The Birdcage
Competition
This page is rapidly becom-
ing the competition page it
seems! As from next week,
there are no more film
reviews, just countless
chances to win freebies.
Anyway, a couple of weeks
ago we gave you the
opportunity to win The
Birdcage on video, courtesy
of those kind folk at
MGM/UA. The question
was "Which secret agent
featured in Mrs Doubtfire
with Robin Williams?". The
answer was, of course,
Pierce Brosnan.
The lucky winners are
David Roberts of Physics
and Ralph Stear of
Mechanical Engineering.
5
16058?
C I N E M A S
T
H
E
Mark Rossiter
Yee Kien Ling
Martin Jones
Jason Ramanathan
P. Ratcliffe •
Computing
Chem Eng
Maths
Chem Eng
Physics
•HI
±4
fe±7l
Penelope Anne Miller and Tom Sizemore "star" in The Relic.
Come to the office on Monday to collect your tickets or
e-mail us if you want them posted in the internal mail.
film

