16 SPORT F E L I X FRIDAY 1 7TH M A Y
FELIX SPORT
Mountain climbers sunbathe and do brave stuff
It all started one afternoon above a
betting shop on Fulham Road. A col-
lection of sad alcoholics watching an
evening of classic British cinema
including 'The Italian Job' and
Monty Python's '...and now for
something completely different' .
This unbounded festival of stupidity
was to set the atmosphere for the
entire holiday.
A Taxi ride at breakneck speed in
the wee small hours took us to
Gatwick airport, where the more
enthusiastic of us raced in luggage
trolleys across the deserted terminal.
A plane and a train later we found
ourselves in 'El Chorro' (the centre
of nowhere) only to find an automo-
bile driven by our gracious host, and
rally driver-wannabie, Jean, ready to
take us further away from anywhere .
The climbing started immediately
(although some more relaxed mem-
bers of the club decided that they
wanted to 'acclimatise' to the nice
weather before doing anything too
strenuous, ie sunbathing).
El Chorro is a small town on the
train line between Malaga and
Seville and is a popular venue for
climbers from all around Europe.
The gorge (through which the train
line winds its way) provides varied
routes of all grades for beginners and
hard-core climbers alike, with routes
HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS
HAIR CUT
£8.00
UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX
I N C L U D E S :
• V C O N S U L T A T I O N with stylist to d i s c u s s your style, try
a new look and learn how to m a n a g e a n d control your hair.
V S H A M P O O followed by Herbal Conditioner and scalp
m a s s a g e .
V P R E C I S I O N H A I R C U T by fully qualified hair stylist.
e x p e r i e n c e d in modern hairdressing.
V U S E O F H A I R D R I E R with complementary gel or
m o u s s e to finish your style.
O P E N 9.00AM - 6.00PM
Last Appointment for Hair Cut 6.00pm
Phone for information on other .special offers, e.g. Perms. Highlights, Tints.
TREVOR ROY SALON
52 K e n s i n g t o n C h u r c h Street, W 8
T E L : 0 1 7 1 9 3 7 6 4 1 3
3 minutes from H i g h St. K e n s i n g t o n & Notting H i l l Gate
anywhere from 20ft to 400ft in
length. In addition to climbing, the
surrounding hills are excellent for
mountain biking. A 70 year old steel
cable, stretching diagonally across
the gorge provided entertainment and
photo opportunities as three mem-
bers of the club travelled across (at
this point please bear in mind that the
cable is over 100m above a white-
water river and is 150m long).
Surprisingly enough there were no
serious casualties during the trip,
(and all of the minor injuries seemed
to be focused on James 'a rock fell on
me' Philips). Our honoured treasurer
did some rather impressive shit, and
we all cheered. He also fell off, and
we cheered again and threw beans at
him. Arguably the most epic climb of
the trip was a route named ' E l
Amptrax', graded French 6a (where
8c is about the hardest climbable).
Amptrax was a route that went up the
highest part of the rock and took the
entire day for two pairs of climbers to
complete, and included a dramatic
overhang on the final pitch.
Not all of our time was spent being
macho, tanned, hard-body types; we
also spent some time walking in the
hills absorbing the beautiful scenery
(yeah right), as well as swimming
naked in the reservoir just north of
the upper gorge (no seriously we did,
apart form the naked bit, I lied about
that). At this point I would like to say
that Belay Bunny only had chips
(sorry, personal joke, it's very funny,
trust me).
At the end of the week we were
loath to leave, but with shortening
funds and looming exams we
returned home, with improved per-
sonal bests and some nice tans.
Wayward bowling costs IC
cricket first match of season
TUFFERS
When King's College Hospital final-
ly turned up, three-quarters of an
hour late, the first miracle this sum-
mer occurred when our captain won
the toss (a career first), and chose to
bat.
Things looked good as our opener
Graham classically stroked the ball
around the park, with a borrowed
bat, showing Mandar (two) that it
can be used to score runs. Things
went on quietly but steadily, with
Nigel Terry scoring a well-earned
fifty-three not out, anchoring our
innings, and securing Man-of-the-
Match. Nigel was joined at the crease
by several rapid innings, keeping the
runs flowing, from Mikal (fifteen)
Bobby (eight) and Dave (sixteen).
Unfortunately, we made the cardi-
nal sin of failing to see out our overs,
but still put together a creditable one-
hundred-and-sixty-one. Then we
went to tea - not too bad for
Harlington, but Bobby we do only
get allotted one cake each, not three.
K C H then went out to bat, and we
tried our best to defend this reason-
able target. This would have been a
simple task were it not for something
called extras. Come on lads, forty-
eight is a little too generous.
Anything on line was hardly ever hit
for runs - but we only took three of
their wickets. The first was bowled
by Nigel, and caught with lightening
reactions by Mandar at slip. The next
two went to Dave who finished with
very creditable figures of two for
thirty-five, and rued the dropping of
two catches in his final over. This
was the turning point in the match, as
the batsman in question went on to
make an unbeaten sixty-one.
Pete was unlucky with figures of
eight overs for thirty, which should
have included a couple in the wickets
column. Bobby was also unlucky not
to pick up a wicket - unfortunately
the umpire didn't know the meaning
of LBW.
Remove the extras from our bowl-
ing and we were tremendous.

