you are here
Exhibition
Today is the last
chance to view
you are here at
the Royal College
ofArt, next to the
Royal Albert Hall,
from 11pm until
6pm, so nip up
there in your
lunch-break!
S F I W
1081/1!
you are here is an exhibition of re-sited installations by
contemporary artists from Europe, the USA and Brazil.
"What is installation art?" you may ask. Well, its concept
is that of art as an experience of situation rather than of
object. Installation art places the viewer inside the cre-
ation, enwraps him and makes him physically experience
the work through a combination of elements of sight,
sound, scent and touch. It seeks to awaken the senses.
The viewer is not an external part of the work anymore
and participation is rendered unavoidable. In some cases
even, the viewer becomes an indispensable element of
the it; as soon as he penetrates it, he becomes part of it
and sort of makes it come to life. The work immediately
assigns a role to him.
One enters the Royal College of Art to the sound of the
Niagara Falls. One is then led throughout the gallery by
the yarn of 1380 unwound bobbins.
Some installations are disconcerting. One of them, I
must confess, Ceal Floyer's Working Title, has led to the
growth of a lawn of question marks in my head: I was
drawn to the centre of an empty space, empty but for a
CD-player and two loudspeakers laid on the floor, from
which was emanating the repetitive sound of the digging
of sand.
I left the room very perplexed, but my attention was
immediately captured by the following exhibit. This one
was going to require my complete participation. I was
facing a corridor. The parquet had been taken away, the
floor dug a little and filled with water. The parquet had
then been a bit reduced in size and put back again, so
that the floor became a 'floating floor', unstable and wet.
The notice under the title read: "Please take care when
viewing this work". So I cautiously apprehended fhe cross-
ing with my high heels, surprised and amused.
The introduction of an element of physical risk renders
the work exciting in a way we are not used to when view-
ing art. It also leaves a place, more than ever, to the
option of physical escape from the work for who refuses
to animate it.
Soon after this unexpected change of environment, I
was led into another one, though in a different way.
Suddenly, upon pushing the doors of Mike Bode's
Corridor, in the middle of the gallery, I was transported,
relocated, in a hospital setting. As naturally as I had
entered, I came out of it to find myself again in the familiar
environment of the gallery.
I was then drawn to long, thick, heavy, blue velvet cur-
tains which were obviously hiding something. They were
an irresistible invitation to curiosity. As if I was going to
flout the rules, I discreetly peaked in to discover a large
dark room, with a single spotlight - an offer for the viewer
to enter the scene and participate in some way, support-
ed by a gentle feminine voice, suggesting Tap your
shoes"...
Take a break from revision and visit this exhibition full of
novelties and other surprises and do not miss the excel-
lent slide show on the object of this event - just be careful
on which chair you sit...!
Danuta
The Stones of Kolin
y p u f [ n i l T h p i i f I P
fcllU I I I V l l t l W T h e stones of ATo//h (pronounced Colleen
The New End
Theatre's next pro-
duction, The
Cracked Comic by
Stewart Permutt,
runs until June 1st.
Tickets £5 - £12,
phone 0171 794
0022 for details.
and Colin as we had originally assumed) is introduced as
a Bohemian Jewish Rhapsody. It tells us the tale of the
Jews of Kolin, a small Czech town 60km east of Prague,
from the late 14th Century to the present day. The title
refers to the physical and spiritual building blocks of the
town and the headstones in the old Jewish cemetery
where the story starts.
A young Jewish tourist visiting, the deserted cemetery,
encounters an old peddlar who tells her the story of its
inhabitants. As the story unfolds, the characters come to
life. The girl is initially complacent about her heritage but
soon becomes engrossed in the peddlar's talk. She soon
discovers she has her own role to play in Jewish history.
The music varies wildly but successfully in style from
Dvorak to modern music written specifically for the play
the story is in parts tragic and in parts comic but thor-
oughly captivating throughout. Roger Parrott, playing the
part of Eli, the peddlar, held the attention of the audience
through a complicated plot. Ann Marcusson was engag-
ing as the young tourist. Overall a very entertaining pro-
duction with a pub conveniently located next door.
Giles and Hobbes
Why I think I am not a Scientist
Paul GoodfellowOn Thursday 8th May Paul Goodfellow,
the College's first Visiting Artist, spoke in
the central library to a packed audience of staff and stu-
dents on 'Why I think I am not a Scientisf. Paul discussed
his transition from Scientist to Artist in the context of his
work with Geographical Information Systems and Remote
Sensing. He emphasised the neglect of aesthetics in the
practice of scientific methods and his dissatisfaction with
an approach that did not acknowledge intuitive and artis-
tic representation.
As a result, Paul made the decision to end his research
and become a full-time Artist. His current role as Visiting
Artist at Imperial College will be important in developing a
greater understanding of the synergy between Art and
Science and the implications for a digital era.
Anna Bozic
art and theatre

