This is not your run-of-the-mill exhibition. Any visitor
expecting to see rows of pretty (or not so pretty) paintings
will be deeply disappointed. However, if you wan to study
the role an artist can play in society, then it is well worth
taking a look at the drawings, watercolours and prints of
the cartoonist and political satirist George Grosz.
Grosz, born in Berlin, grew up in a small town
Pomerania, now in Poland. Fascinated by luridly illustrat-
ed pulp-fiction, Westerns and adventure stories, he decid-
ed to become an illustrator. After a spell at the Art
Academy in Dresden, he returned to the Berlin School of
Arts and Crafts in 1912. He was to remain here until the
advent of Hitler as German Chancellor, charting the seedi-
ness and political corruption in the Berlin of the Weimar
Republic and its descent into the grips of the Nazis.
Grosz early work is that of a non-conformist, a rebel
against the narrow-mindedness of the German Burger.
His drawings such as The Lost Happiness Cafe depict the
decadent violent side of Berlin, notorious in particular for
The Berlin of George Grosz
Exhibition
its cabarets. The people that stare out of this sketches
have a vacant forlorn look in their eyes. There is no hope
left in the Berlin that Grosz draws.
Grosz' political activism developed with his conscription
into the army during the first World War. He resented
authoritarianism of the officers and their attitude towards
the soldiers as cannon-fodder. He returned to Berlin with
a bitter hatred of authority and mankind in general. His
sense of the macabre futility of war comes to the fore in
The Faith Healers which shows an army doctor declaring
a cadaver fit for active service.
After the war, he became a committed member of the
German Communist Party and agitated against the gov-
ernment of the Weimar Republic which to him was just a
continuation, under a different name, of the old autocratic
Prussian system. His political cartoons were published in
radical journals along with the work of Brecht, Weill and
Tucholsky. Looking at these drawings, you can see why
the tradition of political cartoonist still flourishes: Grosz'
message comes across loud
and clear. I am tempted to say
that his work has a further
reaching effect than that of his
more literary fellow communists.
In Memory of Rosa Luxembourg
and Karl Liebknecht for example
exposes the brutal murder of
these revolutionaries by the
authorities.
However, Grosz became
more and more disillusioned
with communism. During a visit
to the newly created Soviet
Union, he saw at first hand the
effects of communism. Instead
of an egalitarian society, he
found brutal repression, need-
less violence and censorship
which confirmed his bitter opin-
ion of mankind. His work slowly
veers away from propaganda
towards satirical observation.
He records without judgement
people going about their lives.
With the inexorable rise of Hitler,
Grosz decided to leave
Germany for his childhood
•jrf", ( dream, America.
This exhibition charts
Germany's catastrophic slide
towards the Second World War.
It also made me realise though
what an immense power the
media has to influence people.
It is in a way frightening to think
that the work of just one political
artist can explain and to some
extent influence the mood of an
entire nation. Emma
The Berlin of
George Grosz is
being exhibited at
the RoyalAcademy
ofArts, Burlington
House, Piccadilly,
until the 8th June.
art and theatre

