A I
SALAD
Ice Cream
Hang on a minute. The opening chords of the
first song, UV, sound like Blur. No, maybe
Sleeper? Relax, it isn't THAT bad (whilst compar-
isons with Blur are definitely complimentary, to
be compared to Sleeper is nasty I know, sorry).
This is Salad returning with their follow-up to
their debut album of a few years back, Drink
Me.
Formed in 1992, they have yet to really 'break'
the industry. Their fan base remains small yet
sure and there is always that hope that they will
become the next big thing. However, they are
also always keen to stress that, although
becoming big would be welcome, they would
never pander to any commercial stereotypes in
order to get there. Noble comments indeed. So
what explains the blatant pop ditty that is their
latest single, Cardboy King? Did someone sug-
gest that sometimes you just have to give in
and get a decent hit to please record company
management? I don't know, but at least they
haven't carried this on throughout the whole
album. Although sometimes it sounds like it
would have been an idea to do so.
Most of the other songs remain staunchly
Salad-y. On these, Marijne's voice lilts from
the sweet and gentle [Broken Bira) to shrill
and angry [Namedrops). The problem is
that there's nothing particularly outstanding
here. On their last album, there was Drink
the Elixir, Man with a Box and Motorbike To
U M S
Heaven which nestled among many other bril-
liant songs. That was a good album. On Ice
Cream, there's nothing to
compare even for a A
second. Most of it
moves along with an
almost lethargic tone,
in the musical sense,
and the whole album
sounds like songs that f l
were rejected from
their debut. Don't get me1
wrong, I do like Salad. It's
just that this is very disap-
pointing, thafs all - con-
sidering how long ifs
taken to come
out. (4)
Alok
GUTTER EROTICA
Penthouse
If you're going to name your band after a soft-
porn mag, you're not likely to be purveyors of
candy sweet teeny-bop guitar pop. This is the
blues, but a modem, grunge tinged blues
with attitude. As a reviewer in a national
music paper said. This could rip the arse off
you."
Listening to the album you get the impres-
sion that the band are |ust having a laugh.
Jamming away and drinking with intent.
They're just having fun! The music doesn't
make much sense until you're rat-arsed. Only
then can you appreciate and relate to the
swaggering, drunken boisterousness of the
lead guitar, the biuesy harmonica and
Hammond, the incoherent yells of the singer,
the baseness of the drums and the sheer filth-
iness of the gut turning base line.
Comparisons could be made with the John
Spencer blues explosion and Gallon!???)
drunk with a pinch of Offspring thrown in for
good measure. The Beauty in the Beast is a
complete piss-take with some "dodgy" lyrics
and groaning PI) sounds. The singer whining
"She gives me the horn."
Not everyone will like Penthouse B - f T i V
as it can sound little more than
chaotic noise. The problem is that
this type of blues isn't anywhere near
as good when you are sober. I
However, this band certainly won't go by
unnoticed and at the very least provide a
refreshing change. The verdict: 6 if sober, 8 if
drunk, giving an average of (7) ' Martin
Alabama 3 - Woke Up This Morning
Who knows why this has the title it does, but
Alabama 3's new single is night music to get
you dancing and keep you dancing.
Babyfoird - Comershop
Nevermind Cornershop, you get the original
1991 demo version of You're Gorgeous on the
B-side,
Carrie - The Birds
Playltsted on Radjp One, but Carrie will have to
try much harder to win playtime on my stereo.
Fundamental - Ja She Taan
Great expectations lead to grave disappoint-
ments, Fundamental's new ethnic style contin-
ues to alienate even the most dedicated fans.
The Nicotines - Planet X
As its a few years since Smash and These
Animal Men hit the charts, I suppose The
Nicotines must be the new wave of new wave
of new wave.
Monaco - Sweet Lips
The same bassline sound prevails, but Peter
Hook's new band are poppy enough to top the
charts.
E s s e n t i a l C h o o n
Cola - Shush
The: next big thing? Most certainly. The
unsigned Cola will soon be up there with the
Chemicals and the Prodigy vying for elbow
room in the music that is shaping Ihe nineties
The Blunted Boy Wonder - Crossroads
Replete with funk guitar loops, this excellent
techno tune grooves along in a Daft Punk
disco style.
Faith No More - Ashes To Ashes
Faith No More return with a slow-building
melody which hides a top notch rock sore,
One of the few old metal groups that stiff deliv-
Silver Jet - Piasliqua
Stop start harmonies and guitars, typical col-
JamM lege rock, yawn; perpetual undewhievement.
A - Bad Idea
Goofball Amerio
around at breaknS
ing in particular
nk pop which races
d but is about noth-
Big Buddha - Be Here Now
A rather dated dance-rock fusion, something
like the all new U2 but without the high cost
production.
Velvet Jones - Worrying About Your Life
Derivative fifth generation Britpop, three years
' out of data. They're trying hard but it never
really sets the universe in motion.
White Town - Undressed
The triumphant follow up to Your Woman finds
Jyoti Mishra in typically maudlin mood sup-
ported by those idiosyncratic retro-electro
arrangements. Michael
music

