Careers service axed?
The Careers Advisory Service (CAS) at
Imperial College is under attack from
spending cuts. The college is expected to
remove the Information Officer, also
known as the careers librarian, as of the
end of this term after the post was
abolished last Thursday.
Russ Clark, Head of the college careers
service claimed that this would mean that
'We would seriously consider closing the
service - we can't consider running with
one person'. The Rector, Sir Eric Ash
justified the decision by saying that 'The
university system has gone through a
financial squeeze - Imperial College has
had it's spending dramatically squeezed
because it was seen as overfunded and
over-resourced'.
understand, and that the job was not a
purely administrative one. 'Most students
are not as confident as they would appear
to be', she added. 'They need somebody
who's credible'.
IC's Management Planning Group
(MPG) on which the Rector, Pro-Rector,
Managing Director and the four Deans of
the constituent college unions sit, hopes
to staff the careers office with postgraduate
students, as they do in the USA. 'The
American system hasn't a patch on ours'
claimed the staff. T think that the idea of
a moveable group of students running the
office would be hopeless - they could stack
shelves only and need constant
supervision', said Shiona Llewellyn,
'much time is spent in showing students
for Technical Experience (IAESTE) which
gives students the opportunity to go abroad
and do technical work. They claimed that
this would be particularly important in
1992 when the European Community
becomes closer. With the post frozen,
appointments must remain part-time with
a possible review.
The CAS added that in both jobs,
complex judgements had to be made. If
there was no such service, the nearest
available one would be the Gordon square
library, serving the University of London.
They claimed that this was too far away
to be of immediate practical use to IC
students.
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, answered on
the question of confidentiality saying that
The college careers service has
undergone a series of cuts in recent years;
it had it's budget cut by £10,000 two years
ago and has already lost its assistant
information officer. Shiona Llewellyn, the
careers advisor and Mr Clark do not spend
all the working week at IC CAS, and there
are two other members of staff who are
paid for by private companies. Frances
McEwen, the present Information Officer
is working on a temporary basis. She said
that 'If you remove the post it reduces the
ability of the service to provide the range
and depth of information that both
undergraduates and postgraduates
require—it wil reduce our ability to cope
with individual enquiries.' No other
University in the country lacks an
Information Officer for its CAS, only the
smaller Institutes of Higher Education can
do without.
Shiona Llewellyn claimed that the
Information officer dealt with 'literally
tons of literature' including regularly
updated videos, brochures and company
newsletters. She said that the decision to
lose the librarian was taken by an
administrator about job he didn't
how to use information - it is a job
requiring motivation and experience ...the
Rector is convinced that all students are
sought after by all employers, that we
almost don't need the careers service. The
problem is that they (the students) don't
always know what they want'.
Russ Clark said that they had an ethical
obligation to keep the office open both for
students and the private companies who
pay IC for the facility. IC makes a nett
profit of £13,000 from these companies
each year. It was claimed that on busy
days anywhere between 100 and 200
students would use the library and other
facilities in the careers office. With the
possible closure of the Careers Library the
College may be forced to break these
contracts with employers. Mr Clark now
fears for the confidentiality of students
application forms. With PG students
taking the place of the Information Officer
he feels the position of trust the CAS holds
may be lost.
The College has now frozen the post of
the Vacation Training Co-ordinator, who
is responsible for the International
Association for the Exchange of Students
T have no reason to distrust students'. He
said that IC has lost about 2-3 % of its
funding per year, and that cuts must occur
in all places. 'These cuts are never
comfortable - cuts imposed on the CAS
are not painless. We are not cutting out
fat, but substance,' he added.
He said that there was no problem with
job finding at IC, 'We don't have a
desperate need to find jobs for obscure
departments'. He added that it was not as
if the CAS was 'the only port of call - there
are the departmental advisory services.'
When challenged that the CAS may have
to close at times he said students must 'just
come when it is open - like a doctor's
surgery'.
He asked the staff in the CAS to
'approach this in an open minded way',
'It's terribly easy to find all sorts of
reasons why it can't possibly be done
when it hasn't been tried before.' He
criticised the CAS claim that the MPG cut
the job because 'it was just an
administrative job' as 'a caricature'.
Sir Ash admitted that the service would
become slightly worse. 'All academic staff
continued on back page

