The Delator Column
Telephone exchange
I won't comment at length on the ambulance dispute
until a settlement has been reached. There is,
however, one recent incident which is worthy of note.
Ambulance controllers took a decision to stop the
public calling depots themselves by dialling the
number of their unlisted direct line (as appeared in last
weeks Felix). The ambulance chiefs asked British
Telecom to change the numbers of these lines to stop
the public calling in. The decision to do this is appalling
and morally indefensible. If deaths arise due to this
action, the blame will lay squarely on the shoulders
of the controllers, and ultimately the Secretary of
Moonlighting
By Paul Shanley
State.
NB The Phone number given in last weeks Felix for
Battersea Ambulance Station was stated as 01-223
9918. This should have read 01-223 9198.
Last Monday's 'World in Action' detailed conflicts of
interest that arise when an MP takes on a secondary
job outside the House of Commons.
The problem is an old one. Many members are
relunctant to sever business contacts on election to
Parliament. Others, particularly opposition MPs, take
on extra work to avoid the tedium of the house.
Currently, members must not involve themselves
in activities that would enable them to benefit unfairly
from. This is obviously the case with regard to share
portfolios that a member may possess.
The ITV programme listed many examples of MPs
using their parliamentary privilege to make money in
the outside world. It also documented instances
where members did not declare an interest before
speaking in a debate or putting their name to a motion.
The present guidelines governing members' private
activities are laid down in Erskine May, the
Parliamentary rule book, and in confidential
memoranda issued by the Prime Minister's office. A
select committee-the committee of member's
interests-requires all MPs to list 'any payments or
advantages' that may have a bearing on their political
conduct in The Register of Member's Interests. They
must also record in the register any instances of being
entertained by a foreign government.
This rule is frequently flaunted. Of the 650
members, 385 have commercial interests despite
being paid as full-time MPs. A further 37 run
consultancy businesses which frequently clash with
their duties as representatives of the public.
In the recent tendering of cleaning and catering
contracts in hospitals, twenty MPs spoke on the
debate without declaring an interest. All are either
directors or on the board of firms who applied for
these contracts.
The rules are often broken by Commons staff. The
member for Kensington and Chelsea, Peter Brooke,
employs a secretary who has, in the past, arranged
contacts with various MPs in return for sums of cash.
It is arguable whether such an 'introduction fee' is an
acceptable situation or whether it should be regarded
as mickey-money.
At local government level, councillors are barred
from voting.or taking part in a debate in which they
have a vested interest. Why can't the same be true
at national level?
There are two options open if government is to
perform without bias. Both require that members face
disciplinary action if found guilty of not declaring a
business interest.
The first solution is to disqualify members from
voting when the item of debate is listed in the Register
of Members Interests. This is something that the
Speaker would have to administer.
The second scheme is to treat all MPs as employed
in a full-time job. They would be disbarred from taking
on any outside work. At a current rate for the job of
£26,000 per year plus the same again in working
expenses, this may stop many candidates from
standing for election. They would probably earn more
outside the House.
The purpose of electing representatives is to ensure
that they discuss and vote on policy at its face value.
If their judgement is impaired by their own
investments or business interests, then they should
not be part of the decision-making process.
10 Page

