FELIX photographer, Roland Flowerdew, investigates the displays at the Eurotunnel project andfindsout 'How you
will use the tunnel. '
Eurotunnel exhibition
As the official brochure states, the purpose of the
Eurotunnel Exhibition Centre is to allow the general
public to follow 'the progress of this exciting
engineering project'.
The Centre entrance is constructed to look like a
simplified cross-section of the tunnel itself, complete
with train emerging. The way in is through a door in
the side of the train. Once inside, you can go straight
into the exhibition or up the observation tower. The
latter is well worth doing: although it is not particularly
high it overlooks the IV120 and the entire Cheriton
terminal site. In the distance can be seen the mouth
of the tunnels.
The exhibition itself starts with a section entitled
'How you will use the tunnel', and explains the
advantages of a fixed Channel link: how much time
it will save, and how convenient it will be. However,
it does provide solid information rather than a sales
waffle of vague promises. There are several detailed
models of cars and trucks being loaded into the shuttle
train wagons.
This leads on into a section about the tunnel itself,
and is dominated by an 'interactive map of Europe'.
This is an electronic 'guess the time between UK and
european cities via Eurotunnel' game, and is
completely monopolised by small children pressing the
buttons. It also emits loud electronic music which is
rather annoying when heard for the nth time, it can
be heard from most of the rest of the exhibition. The
history of the tunnel is catered for by a section,
complete with mining trolleys and wooden beams, on
previous attempts at constructing a fixed link, of
which there were quite a number.
You then walk through a full size model of the
cutting face of a Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) to find
out how the tunnels are being bored and constructed.
There is a model of a large TBM, and this
demonstrates the continuous process going on. The
spoil is brought back from the cutting face on
conveyor belts and loaded onto a train, this same train
has brought up the pre-cast concrete lining, which is
fitted in, then rails are extended and the TBM moves
on. The TBM is held in place by giant pressure pads
that squeeze against the walls of the tunnel, similar
to the way a worm moves through the ground.
Video systems are abundant, many with selectable
programmes to allow choice of aspects about the
tunnel that interest you. The main audio-visual
presentation is given in a spearate theatre (with very
comfortable seats). This again is informative rather
than a sales spiel, but it is rather in need of an update
on the latest progress.
The big attraction for members of the IC train
spotting club will be the large N-gauge layout
modelling the two termini, although their eyes for
detail will immediately notice that all non-essential
pointwork is merely rails butted against each other.
This, and the fact that the Channel is represented by
a gold fish tank, rather spoil what is otherwise an
impressive model. While I was watching it I witnessed
a near collision; two trains were converging onto a
single piece of track and catastrophe was only averted
by an operator bodily lifting one of the trains off the
track. So much for the computer control system!
The exhibition concludes with a large souvenir shop
(buy a mug made with Eurotunnel clay), and a cafe.
If you can afford to, sample some of the wares of the
latter, it is considerably better than British Rail's
standard.
Conclusion: this exhibition is well-presented and
worth seeing if you are in the area. If travelling straight
from London it wold be best to combine a visit to this
with something else as it takes less than two hours
to see in entirety. The Eurotunnel Exhibition Centre
is reached by taking junction 12 off the M20 and
following the signs, or by train from Charing Cross to
Folkstone. It is open Tuesdays to Sundays inclusive
between 10am and 5pm. Adult admission is currently
£2.50, U16's £1.50.
Page 11

