Bar birthday
Dramsoc is pleased to announce that we have finally
got our act together as concerns Workshops etc this
term. We must apologise to all our members for not
having done this sooner, however due to
circumstances beyond our control this was not
possible. We have lined up a series of workshops for
this term for members as well as anyone else
interested.
The first is on Wednesday January 24. This will be
a directing workshop run by the National Theatre. The
format will be to direct a play in any style, as
suggested by those present. It is not only aimed at
those interested in directing. It is good experience for
people interested in acting as well.
This will be followed on January 31 by a Voice
workshop. Again, not only directed at actors, but for
anyone who wishes to project more clearly, including
some advice on presentations and public speaking,
and some breathing techniques for singers and
performers in general.
The final programme has yet to be finalised, but
there will be other workshops on the technical aspects
of the stage, such as lighting and sound, on Theatre
management, acting and directing, and if we can
organise it, something on theatrical make-up and
costume design.
More information is available from the Dramsoc
Storeroom at lunchtimes-either pop up and see us
(three floors above the Union Office) or telephone on
ext 3531.
Wednesday 24 Jan
Wednesday 31 Jan
Directing Workshop
Voice Workshop
Dramsoc
Southside was officially opened in October 1963 and
the bar was opened around this time. As the date has
been forgotten (if anyone knows please tell us) the
official bar birthday will be Saturday January 27, the
date of the 1981 refurbishment.
There will be a fancy dress party and free disco with
prizes such as a Sony Walkman for most original
dress, and many other prizes for silly things
throughout the evening. There will be cheap beer
available all night and of course the IC Radio disco to
dance to your favourite songs and the latest chart hits,
so make this Saturday your night on the twon at the
best value and most fun venue around.
Filmsoc
This coming Thursday IC Filmsoc is showing Die Hard,
arguably the best action movie of the last decade.
Bruce Willis stars, giving his one decent
performance to date, as the tough, but only too
human cop, who single-handedly takes on a gang of
terrorists who have stormed a Los Angeles skyscraper
and taken its occupants hostage. Alan Rickman is
brilliant as the terrorist's suave and sophisticated
leader, portraying one of the most chilling and ruthless
screen villains of recent years.
Whilst the ending is never in doubt the intelligent
script is full of twists and turns so that things are never
as clear cut as they first appear. Add to this plenty
of witty dialogue and superb direction from John
Predator McTiernan, which puts the audience right in
the middle of the action, and you have a film that is
simply pure escapist entertainment at its best. See
What's On for details.
Carnival
Tonight, as you may know, is the New Years Carnival
in the Union Building-. It is along the same lines as one
of the big carnivals in Freshers' Week, but better. Wot
a stormer we have in store for you lucky lucky people!
We have The Men They Couldn't Hang, a well
known folky/rocky outfit, renowned for an excellent
set, well appreciated, despite the pouring rain, at this
year's Reading Festival. You'd be mad to miss this as
it's their only London date for ages.
Also on the bill is That Swing Thang, back by
popular demand after an excellent performance last
year. An excellent dance band from Scotland-so
bring your dancing strides. The last band, but first on,
are a band you will not have heard of. Black Tulips.
Formed by ex-members of Thrashing Doves they are
an unmarked commodity-see what you think for
yourself.
As is customary on these occasions, Rugby will be
providing cheap cocktails so that you can leave your
inhibitions indoors, washing their hair while you enjoy
the casino, the videos and, of course, Groovy 'Don't
call me groovy' Gwyn's Disco featuring all different
styles of music, from Soul II Soul to Throbbing Gristle.
Burgers will be available from the quad and you can
leave your cloak in the cloakroom. All this for just
£3.50 advance or £4.00 on the door, but if you hold
an Ents card just £2 will give you admittance.
Please make sure you bring your Union cards as only
students will be admitted, along with two signed
guests per student. Tickets are going fast so if you
haven't got one-there is a great edition of Steam
Engines I Have Loved on BBC2'at 9.30pm. Much more
fun than a Carnival??
BJ, Ents Officer.
..8pm ..9pm ..10pm ..11pm ..12pm ..1am ..2am ..3am
Concert Hall
Black Men They
Tulips Couldn't Hang
L
o
u
n
g
e
DISCO That Swing D | S C Q
Thang
S
C
R VIDEOS
UDH CASINO
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Saxophonists/Bassoonist Interested in playing
in a concert band for a night of 40's music, 16th
Feb at St Marys. Bassoonist also required for a
chamber concert 26th Feb at St Mary's. Contact
A Stewart 723 1252 ext 5196 (ansaphone).
• Imperial College Operatic Society-Due to
pressures of work we have a few vacancies in our
forthcoming production of Utopia Ltd by Gilbert
and Sullivan. If you are bored with problem sheets
and have any desire to sing, dance or perform on
stage with a plastic lobster then come along and
meet one of College's friendliest societies,
rehearsals in the Union Concert Hall from
7.30-1 Opm Tuesdays and 4-7pm Sundays.
• IC OpSoc needs person interested in set
construction, lighting and all aspects of staging,
experience is not necessary, meet us in the Union
Concert Hall any weekend from 11am to 6pm or
phone Sue on Ext 7406 for further details.
• Anyone interested in taking part in Ten Tors
this year please contact Bryn Evans, Physics 3.
Ten Tors is a two day 55 mile hike across
Dartmore and is on the weekend of 18th-20th
May.
• Wing Chun Kung Fu: After an excellent first
term in which 80% of those who enrolled in the
class passed their frist grading, we are holding a
demonstrating in the Union Gym, on Wed 24 Jan.
Everyone welcome. A new beginners class starts
Wed 31 Jan.
• A Natural High: The Funky Watergate in
brotherhood with Afroc mix EEZY GLOBAL BEATS
with raw dancefloor tracks. Packed & Wild,
Visuals & Banners. Dress to sweat. £3 on the
door in the Union Lounge 9pm-2am, Saturday 20
Jan.
ACCOMMODATION
• Person to share flat. £49 per week (ex bills)
and good rebate. Single room, 25 mins walk from
College. Nearest tubes West Ken, Barons Court.
Phone 01-371 2213.
• Hamlet Gardens-Double rooms to let in
singles or two's. £42.80 per week, per person.
Apply Matthew Bridgewater, Flat 28 Hamlet Gdns,
01-746 3205.
• Non-Smoker needed to share a three bedroom
flat near Fulham Broadway as from 27th Jan.
Single room, £43 pw plus bills. Phone 01-381
1904.
FOR SALE
• Camera and accessories, excellent condition,
professional quality, good value for money. See
the noticeboard in Sherfield Building for details.
PERSONAL
• Mightier than the sword, the pen as it's leisure
Has slandered poor Carol beyond any measure;
But for her birthday the truth comes out with
pleasure-
We wish warmth, love and joy to our little
treasure.
• Picocon 8-coming soon to a College near you.
• Can you wait for Picocon 8.
• March 3rd-make a date with Picocon 8.
Page 12

