F e l i X
The Careers Centre
I first visited the careers centre a year ago. At the time
I was disappointed. A lot of the information I wanted
did not seem to be there and the place seemed to be
a mess.
The centre has changed a lot since then. After a
£ 15 000 refit and a lot of work on the part of the staff,
the careers library is now a useful resource. It may,
however, be forced to close because of a 2-3% cut
across the board within the college. This seems
strange, since the removal of the Information Officer
represents just about all the centre has left to lose.
Suddenly a 2% cut becomes a 100% cut.
The whole idea of removing the post of Information
Officer is to save money. Why is it, then, that the loss
of this post will almost certainly mean the loss of
£13,000 worth of p'ofit from contracts with outside
companies? Why does the college want to remove a
post which indirectly and directly generates so much
money when the salary involved is only £10,000 per
annum at present? I had hoped that the Rector would
be able to answer these questions. Instead he made
some vague mumblings about being able to trust
Postgraduate students to do the work. I spent 2 hours
in the Careers centre on Tuesday and I realised then
that the job cannot be filled in this way. The Rector
should do likewise and realise his folly.
What worried me most about the attitude of the
Rector was his belief that departmental careers
services could fulfil the part of the main college
careers advisory service. Anyone who has been at IC
long enough will know that there is a great deal of
pressure within departments for graduates to continue
into a degree related career. To remove a service
which provides an independent outlook from this is
to remove freedom of choice.
If Sir Ash wishes to send more IC graduates into
degree related areas he should examine the cause and
not the effect. People at IC leave their subject because
of a disenchantment which seems to pervade every
course in this college along with a stifling of
independent, creative thought. If Sir Ash wishes to
smother this major failing by forcing people into
careers they are not finally suited to he is doing the
right thing. The most successful of IC's present
researchers are not graduates from IC but graduates
who have come here from more free thinking
establishments.
I believe that the cuts on the Careers Advisory
Service are not only wasteful but ill thought-out and
seriously damaging to IC's future as an establishment
with a good deal of scope for improvement. If you use
or have used the service and agree with me, I would
urge you to write to the Rector and complain. I don't
like the idea of an independent service being stamped
on in this manner. Who will be next?
Peter Hallworth
We have an interesting story to investigate at present.
It concerns Montpelier Hall, a lot of water and some
work performed by contractors, which has proved to
be unsatisfactory. By that, I mean that it has left parts
of the hall looking like disaster areas.
We rang Peter Hallworth, who is responsible for this
area, for a comment. Mr Hallworth's secretary stalled
us and then came up with the standard 'He's in a
meeting.' Mr Hallworth must have more meetings
than I smoke cigarettes in a day. He has finally agreed
to meet us on January 30th. I am not sure of the year
yet, but I guess that will depend on a meeting to
discuss when we should have a meeting. The question
now is, who is the buck going to be passed to? Amidst
much shouting of the name 'Jo Dynes' (the standard
scapegoat) Mr Hallworth will probably tell us that the
matter is really not that serious.
Maybe he will be forced to wait until a ceiling
collapses before he decides to take action, as he did
in a previous incident in Montpelier. Until we speak
to him, I suggest that everybody in Montpelier
puchases a hard hat and an umbrella. Look on the
bright side: if you wait long enough you may all have
a shower in your room. Until then I shall be searching
for a copy of a nursery rhyme book for Mr Hallworth.
'There was a crooked man, who had a crooked
house...'
Credits
Thanks very much to: Steve Meyfroidt for giving me
and Andy a nightmare; Simon Haslam for the science
page; DEL, Justine and Chris Leahy for music; Paul
Shanley for delator; Adam Harrington for news; Liz
Warren for Paris feature; Chris Stapleton, Jeremy
Burnell and Roland Flowerdew for photgraphy; Toby
Jones, Ian Hodge, Adam Tinworth and Jo Wright for
reviews; Ents, Jackie Scott, Sydney Harbour-Bridge,
Roy Francis, Ian Hodge, Jim Lucy and Adam
Harrington for collating; Andy Bannister and Pippa
Salmon for help and advice; Rose and Andy for making
the tea; Jelly for laughs.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising i\
Ramm Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES . . . .
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
NEW YORK
LOS ANGELES
TEL AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - ONE WEEK from only £79
WEEKEND BREAKS from £65
Don't MISS OUT THIS SUMMER -
SeatsTOASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
Book NOW TO SECURE YOUR SEAT
ULU TRAVEL
SHERFIELD BUILDING
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
•71
A BTAl ULU TRAVEL
S c h l u m C o m p a n i e s
h a v e it . . . .
O t h e r s d o n ' t
Schlumberger Industries and Technologies is
a group of companies representing approxi-
mately half of Schiumberger Ltd, an interna-
tional company of 50,000 employees with
operations worldwide. In the UK we are about
2500-strong working in a dozen highly-au-
tonomous business units. We design,
develop, manufacture and sell a range of
products including test and measurement in-
strumentation, energy management systems,
sensors and transducers, automatic board-
test equipment, CAD-CAM systems and me-
tering equipment of all sorts. The company is
looking for high calibre engineering graduates
for R&D (Electronic Hardware, Software,
Mechanical), Manufacturing (Systems, Pro-
duction, Industrial, Purchasing, Quality), and
Applications (Sales/field support)
Appropriate degree subjects include electri-
cal/electronic, mechanical, production engi-
neering, information technology, computer
science, physics. Training is mainly on the job,
supplemented by training courses tailored to
the individual's requirements. Promotion is
from within, meaning a great number of pos-
sible career paths to suit the needs and
strengths of each graduate. Overseas contact
and postings are quite normal since for
Schlumberger 1992 was a long time ago!
We will be holding interviews at Imperial
College on the 26th January, and will be giving
a presentation the evening before to explain
the company and the jobs we are offering in
more detail.
IfyoufeelacareerwithSchlumbergercouldbe
of interest, but haven't yet made an applica-
tion, we will be accepting late applications up
to a couple of days before the visit. These
should be sent to:
Wendy Bailey, Schlumberger Technologies,
Cobham Road, Ferndown Industrial Estate,
Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 7PP.
Applications should preferably be made on the
Schlumberger Application forms available
from the Careers Service, but Standard Appli-
cation forms are acceptable.
We look forward to meeting you.
ISchlumberger

