More hamper fun
A
n
t
i
-
N
U
S
Dear Dave,
I must admit that I feel very torn in my loyalties. On
the one side you are a personal friend and someone
whom I have admired, supported and gained support
from for many years. Conversely you are a heartless
unfeeling and thoughtless bastard. The kind of person
who would let someone believe for almost a week that
they have won a Christmas hamper allowing them to
find out the truth on a Friday morning when they see
their embarrassment printed on the pages of FELIX.
I wish I could have advised you not to have performed
this hurtful prank let alone print it, but unfortunately
I was too late. Sometimes we are misguided by our
peers and group social pressure. For this reason I let
sleeping dogs lie rather than make life more difficult
for you and those already hurt. Nevertheless last
week's FELIX shows you to be a heartless, unfeeling,
thoughtless and vindictive bastard. For last week you
turned your embarrassed agression upon a hard
working, generous and sensitive individual, who may
for once have been overcome by group social
pressure, when after buying presents for those hurt
individuals, joined with a group in saying 'Up Yours'
to you.
I believe that your token gesture was inadequate
and that Jen Hardy-Smith did you a fine service by
improving on it. A big man knows when he has made
a mistake and does his utmost to set things right. You
have done anything but apologise in fact you have
taken the offensive. You are responsible for FELIX and
in my opinion you should organise payment for these
extra gifts.
As a result I enclose £5 as my contribution to the
new 'FELIX hamper fund' for my hand in FELIX of late,
whilst joining many others in saying UP YOURS Dave.
See you for collation on Thursday.
Yours,
Sydney Harbour-Bridge, ICU President 1987-88.
PS. Before you even think of it don't become a
stupid bastard next week. Nobody put me up to this,
there are no ulterior motives, I just felt I had to write.
Dear Dave,
Overstepping the mark is a phrase some journalists
pay too little attention to. You have done so in regard
to the 'Christmas Hamper Scandal'. There is an ethical
limit to which a newspaper can sink in order to make
a story.
FELIX, on the whole has the reputation of being an
inherently factual and well reported student
newspaper admittedly with a healthy anti-Union bias.
Conning prominent College people by pretending they
have won a Christmas hamper and reporting their
reaction is however in particularly bad taste. If this
can be classed as a practical joke then surely it has
backfired. In such circumstances moderate
understanding people would apologise.
Jen Hardy-Smith has helped to hold the Union
together for fifteen years and is universally respected
by all those who have worked with her. Her action
in making some attempt to compensate those people
who were deceived by members of FELIX, shows her
political awareness and respect for the reputation of
our student union. Evidently something which you
have ignored in this case!
I believe you have done a good job in your year as
Editor and hope you will take the appropriate action
in this incident.
Yours,
Paul Skipworth, ACC Vice-Chairman 1988/89
and Hockey Club Captain.
After the Union Finance Committee meeting on
Tuesday evening, it appears that the FELIX staff
fund will not be called upon for the cost of the
hamper and other gifts. I should therefore like to
apologise to Jen Hardy-Smith for suggesting that
she had hatched a plot against FELIX. As a
gesture of my regret, I have now sent her a £35
'fizzy' hamper. May I suggest we attempt to gain
a bulk discount next time?
I am returning your five pound note forthwith-
an anonymous benefactor has paid for the gift.
Dear Dave,
Yet again we may have found further proof that
imperial is the capital of Apathy. Are the students at
Imperial so rich that they can afford to give away
£25,000 without bothering to find out whose pockets
it will be lining?
Last Thursday saw the first of the Anti-NUS Society
meetings, meetings which are not just open to
students who have shown an initial interest in this
new society, but are also open for discussion on how
the NUS operates, and on how we believe student life
will be affected by reaffiliation to this august body.
The only 'services or benefits' that the NUS offer
Imperial's students over and above what our own
efficient and democratic Union do, are the NUS's own
moral and political judgements on issues which have
very little relevance to student life-i.e. they play God
to a gaoled congregation. For instance do you believe
that abortion should be allowed right up until the
moment of birth, such that this termination of life may
be carried out by anyboyd medically or non-medically
qualified, including the mother herself-as a member
of the NUS you would officially believe this.
Do you realise that £25,000 of your money which
is presently spent on YOUR societies will be lost, and
spent on the furthering of similar moral and political
issues which have very little relevance to student life.
Surely throwing £25,000 away and not bothering to
find out where it has been thrown makes Imperial
Capital of Apathy.
Jonath D Griffiths,
Chairman Anti-National Union of Students.
J
u
d
o w
h
a
t
?
Dear Sir,
In today's edition of FELIX (12th Jan) you printed
an article under the heading 'Judo black belts' relating
to the recent successes of the IC Judo Club, which
was accompanied by a photo of the IC Karate Club
demonstration at the Freshers' Fair. Can you explain
why?
Yours faithfully,
K Taylor, Chem Eng.
UNION
G E N E R A L
EETING
Thursday 25th Jan, 6.00pm
Union Concert Hall
C o m e a n d see p r o s p e c t i v e s a b b a t i c a l
c a n d i d a t e s t r y i n g t o c a s h i n o n p r e -
e l e c t i o n p u b l i c i t y .
M o t i o n s on:
* A c c o u n t a b i l i t y of the NUS
it Date of NUS re-affiliation ballot
if Free travel for all sports teams
. . . P L U S A S U P P O R T I N G CAST
RUGBY
Internationals
Saturday 20th January
UNION BAR OPEN
12 noon until 11pm
ENGLAND vs IRELAND
WALES vs FRANCE
shown on 50" screen
BEER PROMOTION
Page 14

