continued from front page
are working harder. There is some reduction in
tutorial care'. He cited the student-staff ratio of 6.8
some years ago to the present ratio of 10.8, and said
this was all due to the decrease in funding of
educational establishments.
After a £15.000 refurbishment over the summer the
careers service may be forced to close at any time
if Information Officer, Frances McEwen, leaves.
Without her, says Mr Clark, the Library cannot
operate.
Mr Clark now hopes to persuade the College's
MPG to reconsider their decision to the post by
inviting members of the Group to the centre and
describing the job more fully. The present description
is limited by the College's system and takes no
account of what he describes as a 'very stressful and
undervalued' position.
Hacking debate
A well attended debate on the vexed question of
'Computer hacking', the unauthorised entry of
individuals into computer systems, was held on
Wednesday.
The debate was arranged by the Department of
Computing Society (DoCsoc). The speakers who were
invited included Ms Emma Nicholson M.P., who
advocated tighter legislation, particularly in the area
of personal information.
Mr Guy Kewney from the magazine 'Personal
Computer Weekly' said 'I think that there is a definate
shortage of legislation of what information iss who
is entitled to hide it, and who is entitled to see it'.
The debate concluded on a vote in which all were
in favour of making unauthorised modifications to
computer material illegal, but most were either
against, or didn't understand, legislation on
unauthorised entry to computers or entry with
malicious intent.
Osteopathy
The Health service of Imperial College have acquired
a new osteopath. Mr Colin Henshaw has succeded
Ms Sally Johnston, and he will be available on
Thursdays at the Health Centre, 14 Princes Gardens.
Competition
The winner of last term's 'Berlin wall' wordsearch
was Mr Hetal Doshi of Mech. Eng. I. He can collect
his chunk of the Berlin Wall from the Felix office.
Travel awards
The Fulbright Commission has released information
apertaining to travel awards for students wishing to
do their postgraduate studies in the United States for
the next academic year.
The deadline is 18 May this year. Further
information can be obtained from 6 Porter St, London,
W1M 2HR (Tel: 486 7697)
A total of 30.000 people massed on Trafalgar Square
last Saturday to support Ambulance drivers.
Personalities who spoke included Neil Kinnock,
Norman Willis, Ben Elton, stars from 'London's
Burning', 'Bread' and 'The Bill', Helen Lederer and
Free travel
Imperial College Union (ICU) may be challenged to
pay for students' travel in the Union General Meeting
(UGM) next Thursday.
The executive of the Athletic Clubs Committee are
to forward a motion in which ICU are to pay the
travelling expenses of students representing IC if
travelling within London, and to heavily subsidise
such travel outside the city. They feel that students
are paying too much to represent the college.
The motion is being rushed into a U G M because
the Union's Finance Committee is trying to force
UGMs not to discuss such financial matters.
Speaking on the motion, A C C Chairman, Ben
Turner, told FELIX that the expenses would be
payable to all clubs representing IC, including those
outside A C C , such as Dance Club.
maniac
A television and a Sainsbury's shopping trolley were
thrown off the roof of Beit hall over the winter. The
television, which is of unknown ownership, was
dispatched on the last Friday of last term and the
trolley was deposited at the beginning of this term.
Dr P. J. Finley , Warden of Beit hall said that this
was 'an absolutely bloody stupid thing to do.'
Humanities
lecture
The Humanities department will be holding a lecture
on 'Scientific Instruments in the Elizabethan Age' on
Tuesday 23 January at 1:15pm in the Read Lecture
Theatre, on Level 5 of the Sherfield Building. The
talk will be given by Professor G.L.E. Turner, the
visiting professor of the History of Science, Medicine
and Technology Group at Imperial College.
the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Robert Runcie.
A culmination of the Ambulance workers' march
from Westminster, the demonstration was peaceful
with no arrests, though the police had to clear the
entrance outside the National Gallery.
Poll tax poll
Dont be taken in.
Your rent should go down in April when rates are
abolished. No landlord we know of is going to do this.
Felix intends to make a survey of landlords of IC
students to find their intentions.
To help us in this important work, please send us
the name of your landlord, his telephone number, the
borough in which you live and if you pay rent
inclusive of rates or not.
All information is totally confidential and should
be given anonymously.
Please send your information to the News Editor
in the Felix Office, or to pigeonhole ' H ' in the Life
Science Division.
And finally..
The sports centre in Princes gardens was broken into
in the early hours of Wednesday 17th. The intruder
pulled open the front doors, splintering the bolts inside
the doors and rifled the cash till between 4:00am and
7:00am.
Security Officer Terry Briley said that the thief
made off with about £ 1. He added that the doors were
being strengthened, and the sports centre would be
running as normal.
LADIES 5-A-SIDE
INDOOR FOOTBALL
TOURNAMENT
Wednesday 24th Jan
Meet 12.30pm Beit Quad
All abilities welcome
Bring your trainers and a life
support machine!
Teams to be organised on the
day or bring your own!
Page 16

