Demon Lord of Karandal Gland Motel
The people reading this review can be split very neatly
into two groups. Firstly there are those that know the
authour and his writings, and secondly there are those
that have strayed onto this page and are looking for
something to read.
To the first group, you can skip the next paragraph,
while the second should read it with care.
This is the third book, of the second series by David
Eddings, the first of which, The Belgariad, has
received much critical acclaim and perhaps more
importantly, has made the authour very popular. The
style of the books is fantasy adventure, set in an alien
land far removed from normal life. Unlike many books
of this type they do not depend on the weird and
fanatical creatures and places for interest as they are
all very good stories in their own right. The story line
is fairly simple, the evil powers in the world have
kidnapped Garion's baby, and he being a normal loving
father is a bit put out by this. So setting out, sword
in hand, with an amazing assortment of friends and
family his only aim in life is to recover his young son.
The book is fairly well written, as all the others have
been, and the four hundred pages drift by quite
painlessly with very little appearing to happen yet still
managing to keep your interest throughout. As this
is in the third book of the second series there is little,
if any character development as it is assumed that you
know the various characters by this stage quite well.
It is possible to ascertain a reasonable idea of their
characters from their actions which allowed me to
enjoy the book despite the fact that the last one I read
from the series was perhaps six months ago.
One small word of warning for those thinking of
starting on the series, the names used are sometimes
weird, many seem like a random selection of letters
that are only just pronounceable. Such names as
'Kakath' and 'Urvon' are not the kind of names you
will find in your local 'phone book.
Overall I can very strongly recommend this, and all
the other seven books in the two series as books that
are well worth the time to read.
Ian Hodge.
When the leader of the Bloolips, Betty Bourne is
apparently killed, vanishing in a cloud of chiffon, not
long after they were kicked out of a New York
boarding house, they don't take it lying down. The
four remaining drag artists, with the help of the
alcoholic Madame Blavutski (who bears an uncanny
resemblance to Betty) follow her to the astral plane,
and the Murphers Motel. There, strange things are
going on.
This little affair is in no way your run of the mill
London theatre. Along with, by their own admission,
'ludicrously thin storyline' is a strange mix of dance
routines, social satire and more conventional comedy.
The targets range from Broadway musicals to Section
28—appropriately enough.
The whole production obstinately refuses to take
itself seriously. Comments about their own acting, the
laughable stage effects (a small puff of dry ice) and
the curious familiarity of the piano that is always
where they are.
The sets themselves are minimal-apart from the
piano, and a black projection to indicate when they
are in the motel, all the props are carried on and off
the set by the cast. At the slightest provocation they
will rush off stage and change into one of the vast
array of outrageous frocks that they wear during the
play.
Quite where to place this is a puzzle. It has elements
of theatre, cabaret and musicals. What it also has is
an incredibly infectious sense of humour that makes
it one of the funniest things I have seen in a long time.
Anything which can turn the ironing into a great
dramatic moment must be worth a visit.
Gland Motel is at the Drill Hall Arts Centre, 16
Chenies Street, WC1 until February 3. Concessionary
tickets will leave your pocket £4 lighter. Nearest tube
is Goodge Street.
Adam T.
Black Rain
'Hi, what was the film like?'...'Great! Two hours of
mindless violence!'
Yes, but we expected that. After all, it's got Michael
Douglas as tough New York City cop Nick Conklin
with sidekick Charlie Vincent (Andy Garcia).
In a quiet Manhattan restaurant they witness a
brutal murder during a meeting of the Mafia and the
Yakuza. They act. Now they must transport Sato
(Yusaku Matsuda), the captured killer, back to Osaka,
Japan.
All goes well until Nick signs Sato over to his own
men at the airport! The authorities aren't too pleased,
so Nick and Charlie are teamed up with Japanese
detective Masahiro Matsumoto (Ken Takakura) to
recapture him.
The trail leads the trio into the city's underworld,
where rival Yakuza crime factions battle for
supremacy. As Nick and Charlie try to orientate
themselves to this new and dangerous world, they
find themselves being sucked into the gang warfare
on the street. When Charlie is murdered in front of
him, Nick goes after the big guns.
The Japanese policeforce is portrayed as an
integrated whole, where the system is all. It doesn't
work well with Nick however, as he plays by his own
rules. So in true American style, it's the lone
gunfighter, with the aid of the sacked Masahiro, who
finally brings Sato to justice.
Underworld Osaka has a distinct feel of Blade
Runner about it, even though Black Rain is set in
modern times. It's not surprising as Black Rain was
directed by Ridley Scott [Blade Runner, Alien). Outside
the city, however, it's the Japanese landscape that
domintes.
Black Rain combines American and Japanese
talents to good effect. Ken Takakura (or 'Ken-san' as
he is known to his fans) is Japan's leading motion
picture star, appearing in nearly two hundred films,
many with international acting awards. As Masahiro,
he gives us an insight into the Japanese view of
Americans that is fascinating. Other leading Japanese
actors in the film include Tomisaburo Wakayama and
Miyuki Ono.
Michael Douglas plays a strong character who
encounters an alien culture and survives. His
exploration of the disregard for Japanese culture make
compulsive viewing.
Oh, by the way, it's not a gory film but there are
some violent scenes. This is definitely a mainstream
thriller not to be missed.
Toby Jones.

