Boots for the Footless
Following in the tradition of his literary brothers
Brendan and Dominic, Brian Behan has turned his hand
to playwriting. This, his debut stage play, was
specially commissioned by the Tricycle Theatre in
1986.
Padser Sosage sits happily in Dublin with his £5000
and breakfast in bed. His sister-in-law, Maura, waits
on him in the hope that she will be rewarded by some
of his inheritance from his mother. This idyllic way of
life is interrupted when he flirts with a girl Maura has
taken in, who does the cleaning. She threatens to kill
them both if he does not marry her so he flees the
country.
Lar and Martin, Maura and Declan's sons are both
revolutionaries but in different ways. Lar advocates
peaceful solidarity while Martin supports the militant
nationalism of the IRA which eventually gets him into
trouble. The play is actually set in 1950-51 but it could
be at any time in recent Irish history.
The plot may not be the best but in a play like this
the plot is merely a device in order that Behan can
express his views through the characters. Behan is
very sure of what he is against-militant nationalism,
the hypocritical attitude of many Irish people to their
religion, etc-but not so sure of what he is actually
for. The only clue we get to this is Padser's comment
that all he wants is enough to eat and drink and for
everybody to live in harmony with each other; he
cannot understand Lar and Martin's high ideals.
The language of the Irish characters is after Synges
tradition of hiberno-English but liberally sprinkled with
vulgar expletives. The humour mainly consists of one
liners, although threre is a little situation comedy and
many of the songs are funny. This is not a play you
The Pelican
A daughter returns from her honeymoon early. Her
father has recently died, without apparently leaving
a will. The recriminations that ensue force all members
of the family to reassess their relationships, especially
with the mother, and to gradually awaken from the
sleep in which we all live.
So, standard fare for this play by August Strindberg,
translated from the Swedish by Gregory Motton. Mr
Motton has tried 'to preserve the rhythm, style and
peculiarities'. Not being fluent in Swedish, I can't
vouch for this, but the play's dialogue does have a
distinct feel to it.
The words themselves are strongly delivered by a
good cast. Emma Hewitt, as Gerda, does a particularly
fine job of portraying a girl who has remained in an
almost child-like state, to avoid having to
acknowledge what is going on around her. The scene
where she and Fredrik (Ian Jeffs) finally awake, with
the help of a letter from their father is extremely
harrowing.
In fact, the whole play is very harrowing. Set in one
room of a house, the smallness of the theatre suits
the claustraphobic nature of the play beautifully. The
detail on the set itself is good, right down to an
unfaded patch of wallpaper left, when a painting is
removed.
There are one or two nice little 'special effects' too,
such as a rocking chair in 'the wind'.
On the negative side though, despite some genuine
ironic humour, there is a fair amount of moments
which are unintentionally funny-including a death!
Page 4
would take the children to, mainly because of the
language but the humour is a little crude at times as
well.
Behan uses the play to comment on some of the
paradoxes of Irish life. For instance Martin is very
enthusiastic about his religion and yet he condones
violence to achieve his ideas. Declan sums up the
Roman Catholic Church's attitude to marriage when
he remarks 'All religion ever gave me was all kids and
no sex when all I wanted was all sex and no kids!'.
Billy Boyle gives a marvellous performance as
Padser, a lovable layabout who never does any work
unless he absolutely has to. Walter McMonagle also
gives a good performance as Declan although he does
not have much scope. He shows his versatility when
by a change of posture and of accent he is
transformed from a working-class Dublin man to an
upper-class Englishman, the King.
The play is marred by a rather weak ending, only
saved from totally spoiling the play by the
performance of Billy Boyle. Behan never fails to bring
the humour out of a situation but he still manages to
treat some aspects with compassion and good insight
into human life.
Boots for the Footless never pretends to be totally
real life but nevertheless manages to be convincing.
It may not be a great literary masterpiece but it is a
fine representation of the Irish way of life and is
definitely worth a visit.
Boots for the Footless is on at the Tricycle Theatre,
269 Kilburn High Road, NW6. It runs from Mondays
to Saturdays, tickets cost from £4.50. Box office
01-328 1000 for information on concessions.
Jay.
Also, it tends to degenerate into shouting and
screaming towards the end of some of the longer and
heavier scenes.
If emotional drama is up your street, don't miss it-
otherwise think twice.
The Pelican is playing at the Gate Theatre Club until
February 17. The theatre can be found above the
Prince Albert Pub, 11 Pembridge Road, Notting Hill.
The nearest tube is Notting Hill Gate and a student
ticket will cost £3, membership cost £1 quarterly or
£2.50 annually.
Adam T.
A Dry White
Season
Racism and justice are irreconcilable; but when a
society declines into overt bigotry how does it
continue its claim to moral righteousness? A Dry
White Season studies this problem through the
relationship between a white family and a black one.
Ben du Toit (Donald Sutherland) is a white school
teacher who lives a comfortable life in the suburbs of
Johannesburg. He believes in the principles of justice,
but having been insulated from reality, he has never
had to choose between these and the continuance of
his serene existence. In this respect, he differs very
little from his modern European counterpart. Gordon
Ngubene (Winston Ntshona) is Ben's gardener. He is
also honest and law-abiding, and has no greater
ambition than to continue his life as before. But
through the beating of his son by the police, and his
eventual murder in detention, he is dragged into the
conflict which is South Africa. Ben is at first sceptical
of his claims, but through his respect for Gorden he
endeavours to discover more.
There are two features which make this film special
for me. The first is the stunning realism with which
it shows strength of the black people against terrible
adversity. In the filming of the demonstration scenes
in Zimbabwe, two thousand students, many exiles of
South Africa were given three days leave to
participate. The second is its study of the break down
of the du Toit family under the realisation of the lie
on which they have been living. On one side the
triumph of justice and equality, and on the other the
bearing of naked racism and greed.
The acting is of a high standard, but several
performances are particularly noteworthy. Janet
Suzman's role as Ben's wife is beautifully
underplayed, and it is this plainness which makes her
part so believable. Her South African background has
surely helped her in this domain, Zakes Mokae, also
from South Africa, gives an excellent performance as
Ben's guide. His character is both enigmatic and
powerful, and adds an interesting note to the
emotional chord. But the most potent role is clearly
that of voices in harmony. The music of Hugh
Masekela and Ladysmith Black Mambazo is an
inspiration.
You cannot help but be moved by this film, for its
emotion is real. It is to be valued for its refusal to
sugar-coat reality, and although the ending is far from
cheerful, it nonetheless leaves us with hope in the
inextinguishable fire of human spirit.
Matthew G Johnson.

