Felo-de-se
Lady Owen Arms 10/1/90
'Felo-de-se were fucking excellent'-J.
That truly says it all, but to incite you all (except
physicists) to their next gig on February 6 at the Lady
Owen's Arms at 235 Goswell Road near the Angel
tube, more needs to be said.
A truly intimate and excellent gig at a venue similar
to the average living room. Felo-de-se risked life and
limb to get five people onto a structually unsound and
carpeted stage; but Nicky (lead singer) still managed
to dance in his own special way between Stuart
(guitarist) and Simon (bassist), when one unexpected
twist from either would have resulted in GBH. The
forty five minute set of ten songs concluded with a
brilliant cover of Foxy Lady; a slight attitude of cynical
sarcasm ran throughout which made the band less
removed from the crowd than an ordinary gig, though
at this venue it would be hard to get less less removed.
If you don't get lucky in the Psychedelic Furs
competition then go to their next gig on Feb 6, this
is no Briggin' hype.
DEL and thanks to J.
12" Tad
Wood Goblins
Tad is big, 'Godzilla in a lumberjack shirt', and his
sound is massive, but still his material remains elusive
and Taddettes countrywide remain closetted. He
crossed the Atlantic to crash the British hardcore
scene last year and toured with sub-pop stablemate
Nirvana.
This record will keep all hardcore fans and Tadettes
satisfied until the release of the Salt-Lick mini-LP to
be released in Feb '90, from which Wood Goblins is
extracted.
Feedbacking and guitar noise fronted by a gnarling
voice, impress the image of evil creatures into you and
then carve their tale into a mountain of sound.
The flip-side tracks Cooking with Gas and Daisy
'grunge' and clamber further up the sound mountain
and complete an extremely good well mixed and Albini
produced 12".
Definitely a must for mountain climbers
everywhere.
DEL.
LP Boss Hog
Drinkin', Lechin' & Lyin'
This record is the love child of Christina and
Jonathan's [Pussy Galore) frustrations. Beaten up
with the help of Kurt Wolf [Pussy Galore), Jerry Teel
[Honeymoon Killers) and Charlie Onoras.
Before even getting the vinyl to the turntable first
one must extract it (slowly for best effect) from the
cover. Yes, the cover cannot pass without mention
but, you can squint below to make your own opinions.
When finally arriving at the record one finds it
matches the cover better than any other could. In its
entirety the only fair description would be to call it
horny, thrash rock, which leaves the final opinion to
fall onto your interpretation of horny!
Undeniably good but limited in its outlook.
DEL.
12" Sinead
O'Connor
Nothing Compares to You
Composed by Prince, music by Soul II Soul, and vocals
by the unbelievably talented Sinead O'Connor, a
weird, yet wonderful, combination. This latest release
by Sinead is in complete contrast to the catchy tune
for her most successful single Mandinka, yet still does
not fail to exhibit her own individual style.
She manages to maintain her characteristically
attacking vocals without losing or detracting from the
overall gentle mood. It is a very sad and meaningful
song and Sinead's forever changing soft and harsh
tones describe it both beautifully and accurately. It is
definitely one of her finest pieces yet, showing her
incredible and greatly accessible talent. Hopefully this
will finally earn her the praise she so rightly deserves.
Justine.
Page 5

