P
s
y
c
h
e
d
e
l
i
c F
u
r
s C
o
m
p
e
t
i
t
i
o
n
Two free tickets to be won...
After the release of the Book of Days album and a secret gig in
November last year under the pseudonym 'Book of Days', the
Psychedelic Furs are playing a full tour of Britain and we have two
tickets to be won for the last night of the tour at Brixton Academy
on February 6.
All frustrated Furs fans need to do is attempt the two simple
questions and the tie-break below and get the answers into the FELIX
Office before Tuesday January 30.
1. Which two members of the band are brothers and what do
they play?
2. Who designed the cover of the band's first album?
Tie-break:- How many singles have the Psychedlic Furs released
since they formed?
The winner will be drawn from the correct or closest entries on
Tuesday 30 and printed in FELIX on Friday 2 February.
Hot hits at winter time
Ho, Ho, Ho, and a bottle of rum and a sackful of CDs.
Yup, despite retailers protests about a slack year,
profits being down (or not as 'up' as normal) they're
still profits, money in the hand and return on
investments with gold knobs on.
One area not complaining were the record
companies 'cos us consumers like to give each other
nice pressies and what could be nicer than that old
guitar hero Mr Eric (I'm not God really but so far I've
survived drink, drugs, Italian actresses and singing
with Tina Turner so I'm probably immortal) Clapton.
He's come a long way since the Yardbirds but despite
his multiplatinum status still feels the urge to totter
into the studio to spank the plank for our benefit, and
that of his bank balance. Journeyman is a medium rare
cookin' of the blues aided by the talents of Bad Bob
Cray and supplemented with sufficient MOR fodder
to satisfy Michelle and Dave who only really like the
singles but will go to one of his eighteen nights at the
R.A.H. 'cos its trendy and he's bound to play Layla
. There is little on this except perhaps Old Love and
No Alibis to elevate it to classic status but it is all
pleasant enough if you like that sort of thing and gives
him a basis for some spine-tingling guitar
improvisation when he plays it all live.
One strange marketing ploy was to put out Hue and
Cry's live Bitter Suite with Remote thrown in for
nothing, especially just before Xmas when no one
gives anything away. Surely only diehards will be keen
to hear the Kane bros acoustic versions and they'd
all have Remote anyway? Dunno about all that but it's
quite good. Reminding themselves of 'exactly what
H&C are about' they ham it up on Looking for Linda
and Round Midnight, murder Kate Bush's Man with
Child in his Eyes and emerge with overall credit from
Truth, Remote and Costello's Shipbuilding. Patrick's
voice lacks a certain piquancy (warmth, depth and
range) and so fails to make it as a torch chanteur and
Greg is too hamfisted ever to tinkle the ivories at the
Page 6
Ritz but the whole caboodle is okay fun if you like that
sort of thing.
Moving on into really intelligent music,
Whitesnake's subtely titled Slip of the Tongue beats
around the bush (as it were) with Kitten's Got Claws
and Cheap An' Nasty, flirts with Aramgedon on
Judgement Day and really drives the point home (so
to speak) on Slow Poke Music. Not for the prudish or
those with delicate hearing. David Coverdale's howls
and Steve Vai, Riff-fynder general squeels over
thunderous and at times monotonous backing to put
any metal freaks (who like this sort of thing) onto
cloud ten.
But he who releases latest laughs at no 1 longest
and good old chirpy cockney boy next door, Phil
Collins has done just that. Two weeks since Xmas and
people are still buying it-how come? Well, you
remake the first three albums almost to the note right
down to the melancholy woodblock on That's Just
the Way It Is. This time it is suitably serious,
addressing the issues that really matter: Starvation
[Colours), Vagrancy {Another Day in Paradise) and the
weather (/ Wish It Would Rain Down). It is all lovely
stuff for us but about as fresh as the turkey would
be if we ate it four times in eight years and at least
we wouldn't find bits in our teeth for months after to
remind us of it like we will the seven singles that will
be released as the PC machine chugs its way round
the universe on tour. Still we all like this sort of thing
don't we and it is no 1 unlike NOW 16 which is a great
collection this time round. Enya and Kate Bush rub
shoulders with Bobby Brown and Technotronic as well
as the usual crop of 'previously unreleased and its
obvious why' makeweights to pad the thing out.
Finally a short word about the Jive Bunny album
including all the singles (well two out of three) and
some exciting new mixes....CRAP!! Does anybody like
this sort of thing?
CDL.
• Research into Muscular Dystrophy made a
significant discovery when a man was found whose
DNA was lacking half a particular gene.
This gene, for dystrophin, is vital for muscle
function and yet the 61 year old man was leading a
normal life. It is hoped that this half gene may, in the
future, provide a means of treating severe cases. Gene
therapy would be used where it has been suggested
that the half gene may be small enough to be inserted
into a virus. This could then enter the patient's cells
taking the healthy genes into their chromosomes
replacing the defective genes which cause this
paralysing disease.
• A neutrino detector to be built in Canada will be
the largest and most sensitive of its kind in the world.
The project, costing $61 million, will be funded mainly
by the Canadian Government ($35 million) with the
remainder from federal agencies in Canada, US
Department of Energy and, subject to approval, the
Science and Engineering Research Council in Britain.
The detector which is claimed to be more than 50
times more sensitive than its contempories, is based
on an acrylic cylinder containing 1000 tonnes of
heavy water. This is surrounded by an array of 2000
photomultipliers. One type of neutrino may react with
the deuterium molecules with such an event
producing a pulse of Cerenkov radiation. The detector
is encased by very pure water and is situated 2 km
underground in order to reduce interference from
background radiation.
• The Japanese Government has given the go
ahead for the development of a superconducting
magnetically levitated train. A budget of £32 million
has been approved for the construction of a 43 km
test track due to be commissioned in 1994. If
successful it could become part of a railway network,
with trains running at speeds of up to 500 km/h.
This type of train would be in competition with the
current, conventional French TGV (train a grande
vitesse). This recently achieved a speed of 482.4
km/h and is hoped to exceed 500 km/h eventually.
• The infrared spectrum of an excited molecule
of a metal compound has been recorded. Conventional
techniques require a stable molecule to produce the
spectrum. The new method uses a pulsed laser to
excite the molecules then measures the absorption of
infra-red light of a particular frequency. The process
is repeated stepping up the infra-red frequency so that
a spectrum can be built up. Excited molecules, such
as chlorophyll, already exist in nature.
• A claimed mass discrepency for a spinning
gryoscope has recently been published. Two
Japanese scientists postulate that a gyroscope
spinning anti-clockwise as viewed from above has a
lower mass than the same one with opposite or zero
spin.
The phenomenon was still said to have occured
after steps were taken to cross reference the results.
According to classical theory there is no mass change
between gyroscopes that are stationary or spinning
in either direction. If such a mass reduction exists a
major rethink of present theory would be required.
• A Biochemical Society lecture entitled 'T-cells and
their products in allergy and asthma' will take place
on Tuesday 23 January. The speaker will be Dr Brian
Champion from Glaxo Research and the lecture will
be held in Pippard Lecture Theatre, Level 5 Sherfield
at 5.15pm.

