Potato moon
When communication with the Soviet Phobos 2
spacecraft was lost 200km from its scheduled close
encounter with its namesake, the Martian moon,
Phobos, many assumed the mission had been a total
failure. In reality, this is very far from the truth.
Between its launch in July 1988, and its untimely
demise,just short of the tiny Martian moon, in the
following January, the spacecraft managed to
complete a substantial fraction of its intended studies.
In fact, much can be learnt about Phobos from the
large number of pictures taken by the spacecraft as
it manoeuvred towards this moon.
British scientists became involved in the Phobos
mission as a result of an agreement drawn up between
the British National Space Centre and the Space
Research Institute of the Soviet Academy of Sciences
and signed by the Prime Minister during her Moscow
visit in 1987. Three scientists were appointed to the
project science team with interests in solar-planetary
relations (Professor David Southwood at IC), planetary
surface imaging (Dr John Guest of UCL) and active
probing of the Phobos surface (Professor Grenville
Turner at Manchester). Of the three, only Professor
Turner has been completely disappointed.
The Imperial College interest is centred on the outer
ionized atmosphere of Mars; the Space and
Atmospheric Physics group is involved in a variety of
past and upcoming planetary space missions and the
Soviet invitation to join in their Martian exploration
fitted well with the group's overall programme of work
in space plasma physics.
Before January 1989 more was known about the
upper atmosphere of the distant planet Uranus than
was known about that of our neighbouring planet
Mars. The Phobos spacecraft has radically changed
this by providing the first properly instrumented orbital
surveys, and very curious it turns out to be. Not a
great deal was known about the ionized atmosphere
of Mars because of a series of mishaps with both
Soviet and US missions in the early seventies. The
successful US Viking orbiter and lander mission in
1976 carried only very crude instrumentation on the
entry vehicle and could determine little.
It left unanswered such critical questions as
whether or not the planet has an internal magnetic
field. The Earth's field creates a cavity within the solar
w i n d - a stream of charged particles which
continuously flows from the Sun. This results in direct
access for solar particles to the atmosphere for a
limited range of latitudes near the poles. On Earth this
entry displays itself as the Aurora Borealis 'The
Northern Lights'.
No magnetometer was carried in orbit or taken to
the planet surface by Viking. The presence of an
internally generated magnetic field is, of course, a
question of fundamental interest to all pi letary
scientists, not just the space plasma physicists.
Controversies over the presence or absence of an
intrinsic planetary magnetic field have raged
unchecked by the sobering presence of actual data
for two decades.
The first three Martian orbits by Phobos were highly
elliptical, with a closest approach of 850km. It was
hoped that such a close approach would be sufficient
to detect the presence of any planetary internal dipole
field. Subsequent analysis of gathered data indicated
that Mars is unlikely to have such a magnetic field.
The most dramatic results from the mission are
probably the analyses of outflowing ions on the
Image of the Martian moon, Phobos, obtained by the Soviet PHOBOS
spacecraft. The object, which is likely to be originally from the asteroid
belt, is irregularly shaped (technically known as potato-like) and cratered.
Picture courtesy of Space Research Institute of Academy of Sciences of
USSR.
nightside of the planet. During the 26 circular (Phobos
rendezvous) orbits at an altitude of about 6000km
beams of ions which appear to be 0 +
were detected
flowing away from the planet. Similar flow rates are
infact found leaving the earth above the auroral zones
but what is remarkable in their discovery at Mars is
the potential effect on the much more tenuous
Martian atmosphere. Over the planet's surface a loss
rate from the planet of the order of 2kg per second
has been estimated, This is sufficient to remove the
atmosphere in 100 million years, a long time, maybe,
but short compared to the life of the solar system of
4.5 billion years.
The results have created great interest at Imperial
where, with a substantial amount of luck, work was
already well in hand in setting up a computer model
that looks capable of explaining the distributions of
material observed moving away from the planet. The
model had been set up to model the extended
cometary plasma environment encountered at Comet
Halley by the Giotto probe and at Giacobini-Zinner by
the NASA-ESA International Cometary Explorer
spacecraft. Ironically, because of the extended nature
of the environment, turbulence appears far more
important in the comet environment than it is at Mars
where scattering by turbulence does not seem to
disrupt the underlying process.
Orbit calculations and simple kinematic calculations
show that the heavier planetary ionized material ends
up behind the planet (on the nightside) moving out
away from the Sun and the planet just as the Phobos
instruments detected. At the time of writing it is still
early days; rather complex detailed signatures are
seen in the data and much comparison of data and
theory is needed to see if the system is understood
but the preliminary betting at Imperial is that the planet
is indeed unmagnetised.
If our first ideas are borne out, no other planet has
an interaction quite like the Mars solar interaction.
However, as we conclude that Mars, like Venus, has
no internal magnetic field, it means that of the three
terrestrial planets, Earth, Mars and Venus, in respect
of internal magnetism, it is Earth that is the odd one
out.
Mars and its moons remain the highest priority for
the Soviet space programme. An orbiting survey
mission, Mars 94, will be launched in 1994. The moon
Phobos remains a scientific target of immense
interest; it seems to be a captured asteroid and likely
to be made of pristine primitive material processed
little since the formation of the solar system. In 1996,
the latest plan schedules a probe to be launched to
rendezvous with Phobos to return samples of Phobos
soil to Earth orbit as a prelude to the eventual return
of Martian material to Earth, early in the next century.
The involvement with the Soviet space programme
has come at a very exciting time in Soviet history; it
has been possible on each trip to Moscow to see the
changes resulting from Glasnost. The public
discussion of the inadequacies and management
failures that allowed the failure of the Phobos
spacecraft are part of the relentless questioning of the
system that has been opened up by the new spirit.
, In fact, Space Science has led the way in opening up
access and collaboration with foreign scientists; the
Phobos mission involves scientists from more than a
dozen countries. The Soviet planetary programme is
to continue with a large foreign involvement and the
British are very welcome to become more deeply
involved in what is very much an international
endeavour,albeit Soviet-led.
Professor David Southwood, Imperial College.
Page 7

