Visit Paris in the Autumn and you risk being trampled by the hoardes ofbeautiful people whofrequent thefash
shows. In summer, prices rocket and tourists abound. Spring offers the best balance of cost and reasonable
weather and, of course, the most romantic atmosphere! Liz Warren reports.
Paris in the
We flew from Gatwick to Paris on Friday by Air
Europe. The flight is so short that no sooner had we
gained height than we were being brought down
again: a thoroughly painful process for the ears. The
stewardesses rushed to serve breakfast (although it
could be lunch or dinner, it's hard to tell from the food)
and we tucked in as the English coastline dropped
away beneath us.
Once landed and through customs-we wisely took
only hand luggage and avoided waiting for baggage
to be unloaded-we took the RER to the centre of
Paris. The RER is a little like Network South East in
London, while the Metro is more like the Underground.
We emerged blinking into Les Halles, a huge shopping
centre, on four floors, in the middle of Paris, and
decided that if this was what we'd wanted we could
have saved the fare and gone to Oxford Street. We
dodged the furious shoppers and walked down to the
Seine and over the He de la Cite, getting our first sight
of the magnificent facade of Notre Dame. Tired by the
journey, we flopped into chairs in a cafe on the South
Bank and drank the first of many cafes-au-lait and
chocolats.
Refreshed, we went back to the He de la Cite and
looked around the cathedral. The square in front of
it is always inhabited by small packs of children
begging for money, proving that Paris, however
beautiful, is like any other big city, with poverty
existing in the shadow of its finest monuments. Inside
Notre Dame the sunlight flooded through the
magnificent rose window and the air was thick and
shadowy, permeated with the smell of the hundreds
of little candles (2F, 5F and 10F according to your
degree of devotion) burning at all the side altars.
We had booked no accommodation and, realising
that it was three o'clock, we decided to find
somewhere. Aided by 'The Rough Guide to Paris', an
invaluable guide to anyone trying to exist on a limited
budget, we wandered through the left bank.
Unfortunately the hotels were either full or more
expensive than we had bargained for. Realising that
we could spend all day wandering in vain, we plucked
up courage, bought a phone card and were delighted
(not to say amazed) when my rusty ' 0 ' level French
secured us a double room in a hotel in Montmartre for
100F (about £10) a night.
The hotel proved to be one of the best things about
our stay in Paris. Although we were on the sixth floor
and the bed seemed to have recently played host to
a couple of elephants, it was scrupulously clean and,
stepping out onto our private tiny balcony perched
between the slates we had a perfect view of the
surreal white domes of Sacre Coeur floating in the blue
sky above us.
Refreshed, we set off for Beauborg or, as it is more
commonly known in Britain, the Georges Pompidou
centre. Housing the national collection of modern art,
this is one of the most controversial buildings in Paris,
with its 'inside out' architecture and external glass
tube escalator. One of the architects responsible for
this is Richard Rogers, who designed the equally
controversial Lloyds building in London. Inside there
are excellent occasional exhibitions as well as the
permanent collections and the postcard and art
bookshop, which are as good as anything else in Paris.
After dinner, we went up the hill from our hotel to
the steps in front of Sacre Coeur. This is torn between
being painfully vulgar by day and startlingly unearthly
Page 8
at night. Paris was spread below our feet, its lights
glowing in a peculiar velvety blackness.
On Saturday morning we visited Sacre Coeur again.
On the steps outside, exclusively black traders spread
out their traditional arrays of bangles, beads and
handbags. Haggling is the essence of the game and
an amusing half hour can be had arguing over the price
of something which you do not really want. Inside the
basilica, the incense and smell of candles is even more
overpowering than in Notre Dame and the
comparative blackness after the sun outside makes
it difficult to make out much beyond the glow of the
candles.
Behind Sacre Coeur lies the Place du Tertre, the
centre of Montmartre's tourist industry. Completely
fake, street artists will sketch your profile, while
overpriced cafes tout for the custom of fatigued
American matrons. Between these two extremes of
vulgarity lies the Church of St Pierre, the elegant
remains of a Benedictine monastery which
incorporates four columns from a Roman shrine to
Mercury that once stood on the hill.
After lunch we went down to the Left Bank, trying
to avoid the overpriced cafes and souvenir shops.
Traditionally the haunt of the radicals and the artists,
it is known as the Quartier Latin, from the language
spoken by the University students and teachers right
up until the Revolution. Rue de la Huchette has
descended to rows of indifferent Greek restaurants,
but still boasts the theatre showing lonesco's l a
Cantatrice Chauve', twenty-five years after it
opened and created the Theatre of the Absurd. Round
here is also the narrowest street in Paris, the Rue du
Chat qui Peche: about two feet wide, this is
vertiginously evocative of what Mediaeval Paris must
have been like.
Wandering down the main street, the Boulevard St
Michel, we passed the charming Hotel de Cluny, a
sixteenth century mansion resembling an Oxford
College, built as a Paris base for the rich abbots of
Cluny. Its gardens house the remains of the Roman
wall to the city and are a shady retreat from the hustle
of the road in which it incongruously sits. Just behind
the main road lie the imposing portals of the Sorbonne
University which helped create some of the reputation
of this turbulent and infamous area.
The whole of the Quartier Latin is filled with cafes
and bars which trade on their associations with the
writers and artists who used to drink and eat there,
although many of them are now expensive rip-offs for
tourists seeking the 'authentic' atmosphere. A little
further south are the Luxembourg Gardens which
prove that the French have little flair for landscape
gardening. Sorry grass lies between endless gravel
paths and even the fountains seem to sparkle
unenthusiastically.
On Sunday morning we took breakfast on the
terrace of a cafe on the Place des Abbesses near our
hotel. Even on Sunday the streets are busy with
people returning from the bakers with their fresh
baguettes and croissants. The Metro station at
Abbesses still has one of the original complete
Guimard entrances: green paint, a glass porch and the
bizarre orange glass lamps. The Place is also still
cobbled and has a relaxed and timeless feel.
Later we walked down the Champs Elysees to the
Arc de Triomphe, where the eternal flame burns and
France has its tomb to the Unknown Soldier. Crossing
the roundabout to the centre is a death defying
experience even on a Sunday as the cars swing in and
out of the twelve roads that meet at this huge
roundabout. From there we walked through the smart
bourgeois suburbs to the west, to the Bois de
Boulogne. The Bois is supposedly modelled on Hyde
Park, but seems a lot wilder and quieter.
After this we tried to visit the Louvre, but it was
closed while the controversial glass pyramid covering
the new underground entrance was being
constructed. Unfortunately we were going to miss the
opening by one day. The pyramid itself is very
beautiful, but not, I felt, when set in the middle of the
sweeping lines of the Louvre palace.

