On Monday we wandered through the Passages on
the Right Bank. This is the commercial area of Paris
and consists of small shops in covered alleyways.
These sell everything from textiles to shop
mannequins and are both wholesale and retail. The
effect is rather like walking through the fashion areas
of Soho. The atmosphere is of money being scraped
together in seedy little backrooms and large wads of
francs changing hands to avoid the taxman.
After one more chocolat, we stocked up on cheap
wine and headed back to the airport, exhausted but
fascinated by the magic of Paris.
Culinary Delights
Paris is not only a cultural but a culinary experience.
Even on a limited budget it is possible to eat well—if
you know the right places. One of the most amazing,
and the cheapest is Casa Miguel on the rue St
Georges, where you can have a three course meal
with wine for 5F (about 50p)l This 'restaurant' is run
by an eccentric old French lady and whilst the wine
is watered and the food is simple, it is well-cooked
and quite filling.
Paris is also full of other surprises. Rue Etex boasts
the Port de Pidjiguiti, a restaurant owned by a Village
in Guinea-Bissau. The villagers take turns in coming
to Paris to run the restaurant and all profits go back
to the village. The place is spartan and inelegant, but
the food is superb-traditional French African cooking,
mostly delicately spiced meat stews with rice. It's
certainly an unusual place and a great talking point
when you get home.
For more traditional French restaurant fare, there are
many small restaurants serving fixed price menus,
with a choice of starter, main course, dessert and a
quarter litre of wine for 40-50F (about 4-5). We tried
the Restaurant des Beaux-Arts on Rue Bonaparte,
where the portions are generous, the food pleasant
and the staff cheerful and friendly as well as used to
tourists. The restaurant is named after the Ecole des
Beaux Arts, the School of Fine Art, on the same road.
For lunch we bought food from the supermarkets,
which pride themselves in excellent bread
everywhere, or ate ham baguettes that are sold from
WSSm-
stalls on almost all the main streets. For relaxing after
a long walk across the city or for starting the morning
in a leisurely fashion, nothing could beat sitting
outside a cafe with a steaming chocolat and a hot
buttered baguette or croissant. We were also often
tempted by the bottles of wine at 7F (70p) a litre
which proved to be passably drinkable if you don't
mind your wine a little rough.
On Sunday night, as we had gone to Paris for a
celebration, we splashed out on our one expensive
meal of the stay. This was at the Cafe de la Jatte,
on the He de la Jatte to the northwest of Paris where
the Seine curves and flows north. Reached by a
psychedelically decorated passage, the restaurant is
in a converted artist's studio overlooking a leafy
courtyard. The decor is as odd as the entrance: a full
scale brontosaurus replica hangs from the ceiling. The
walls are hung with contemporary paintings which are
for sale; while we were there these were large,
H H H
colourful, primitive paintings of underwater scenes.
The waiting staff are definitely of the resting actor
school, young, chic and with an air of being above the
bourgeois customers, whilst providing excellent
service. The food is superb. In large green salads at
70F (£7), crisp lettuce conceals half avocados
sculpted like shells and filled with crab meat. The main
dishes include fish specialities, although the steaks are
also good and they serve the excellent, rich ice creams
and sorbets one finds so often on the continent. The
meal was not cheap, about 450F (£45) for two with
wine, and the usual class of clientele can be judged
from the man at the next table who leant over, asked
to see the wine we had ordered and told us it was
from his friend's vineyard. But the meal was well
worth it and it was very pleasant to wander along the
edge of the river on our way home savouring the
delights of our Parisian weekend.
How to get there and what it costs
We flew Air Europe, the cheapest 'normal' flight at
about £60 return, booked through Nouvelles Frontiers,
1 -2 Hanover Street, W1 (01-629 7772). The cheapest
flights are the student charters to Beauvais, which
include an hour and a quarter coach ride to the centre
of Paris and which arrive late at night*. This can be
booked through USIT, 52 Grosvenor Gardens, London
SW1 (01-7308111) + . It is also possible to travel by
coach/train and hovercraft/ferry. STA Travel at
Imperial on the walkway should be able to help you
with this and the above flights.
Travel around Paris is best done by buying a Carte
Hebdominaire (a weekly Metro/RER pass), or for a
short trip, carnets (books) of ten single tickets are
cheaper than buying single tickets. The same tickets
can be used on buses.
Expect to pay £10-£20 for a double room, but don't
expect any frills. It is possible to survive on £20 a day
per person, but you have to be strong willed about
diving into cafes and bars and paying for museums.
£30 per person should be comfortable.
Finally, the best book around is 'The Rough Guide
to Paris' by Kate Baillie and Tim Salmon, published by
Harrap Columbus at about £5. Updated every couple
of years, this not only tells you where to stay and eat,
but gives you insight into the museums, culture and
history of the Paris streets and is well recommended.
"About £30 each way-it depends on exactly when
you fly.
+ Dan Air run a student charter which costs £68.
Page 9

