(4)
Items to be insured against 'All Risks'; continue on separate paper if necessary.
N.B. - Max. under this Section is £2,000; max. one item £500
- Describe jewellery etc, clearly. Give maker's name of HI-FI, CAMERAS etc.
- Main exclusions: theftfrom vehicles; damage to sports equipment whilst in use; contact lenses;
- spectacles; records & tapes; the first £20 or £30 of any claim as detailed in (a) on page 2.
ITEM SUM TO BE INSURED
(Based on replacement value)
T O T A L *
N.B.
1. This proposal outlines the cover available and some of the exclusions. The policy itself is a legal document and as
such defines the insurance in precise terms. A specimen of the policy document is available on request.
2. Y o u are requested to keep a record (including copy letters) of all information supplied to the Insurer for the
purpose of entering into this contract.
3. We confirm that a copy of this proposal form will be supplied to you, on request, within 3 months of its completion.
DECLARATION - (to be signed by every applicant for this insurance)
I declare that the statements made in my application are to the best of my knowledge and belief correct and complete,
and I agree that this proposal shall form the basis of the contract between me and the insurer and I will accept and
abide by the terms of the policy to be issued. For a major part of the 12 months to be covered by this insurance I
expect to be a student.
in the year of a year course at college/university
Date: Signed: bj
IMPORTANT NOTE: Material Facts - State any other material facts here including details of all previous claims. Failure
to do so could invalidate the policy. A material fact is one likely to influence an insurer in the assessment and acceptance >-
of the proposal form. If you are in any doubt as to whether a fact is material, it should be disclosed to the insurer. c
Please send me further copies of this leaflet, to give to m y friends.
and for useful free information, choose from these boxes:
A. Travel Insurance (Medical Expenses etc.) for weeks starting in
(month) in (countries): ( .
B. Motor Insurance (vehicle) value as from
(renewal date) Present no-claims bonus %
-6
•
• c
3.

