Standby
The entrance to the Royal
Academy's summer exhibition is
dominated by the model of Sir
Eduardo Paolozzi's sculpture,
newfon after blake for the british
library. The enormous white figure
bends down to measure out and
reduce creation with a pair of
dividers. As an opening object it's
impressive although not particularly
representative of the art within.
The strength and weakness of
the Summer Exhibition rests in the
diversity and amateurism of its
exhibits. Few of the works dominate
or even stand out but that's because
few of them are by Artists - as
opposed to artists. To that degree
it's a large show made up of small,
if enthusiastic, endeavours.
There are some notable
exceptions amongst the 1,168
works. Peter Blake, pop - album
cover - artist, has a characteristic
mixed media, h.o.m.a.g.e. /'./'. in
memory of roger de grey. Carel
Weight has a series of five oils, and
pop art godfather, Roy Lichtenstein,
dominates the large gallery VII with
his nude with beach ball. These are
the exceptions however.
This being the case, heavy duty
art critics will, and do, complain
about the exhibition but such an
attitude seems to defeat its whole
underlying ethos. The Summer
Exhibition is more an opportunity for
the artists of the home counties to
display their still lives and
landscapes and perhaps even sell
some of them. This year 1,383
pieces (including multiple prints)
had been sold prior to the public
days and over eleven thousand
articles were submitted to the
Academy for the show. In this sense
at least, the Summer Exhibition does
seem to have a part to play within
the public arena of art.
sandro chia: sacre cuore
brush and strokes of the home counties
The exhibition is organised
throughout the thirteen galleries of
the Royal Academy; each room
being loosely ordered by the media
type displayed within. Perhaps one
of the most interesting galleries is
that which displays the architectural
drawings and models. Some of
these are particularly stunning,
although whether they are art is
another question. Whilst not
actually in that room, the Future
Systems model of their proposed
Tate Gallery Extension, gallery for
the 21st century, is perhaps the best
example of a striking building
design and the incredible attention
to detail of the actual model itself.
Another favourite gallery is the
small south room, which as in
previous years, is packed from floor
to ceiling with small oil paintings,
and people. The latter is of the
other, more practical, problems
associated with the Summer
Exhibition. It can get extremely
crowded, a fact which could be seen
as suggesting some measure of
popularity, and even success.©
Wctor posmore; beyond the eye, i
literary reconstruction
Umberto Eco's reflections on the name of the rose, true to its
genre, is not a book but a symbol for a book.
'Reflections' is a slim A5 lit. crit. exercise. No chapter is more
than 5 pages but the shortness deceives the reader concerning its
cleverness. The title might imply that the book is about Eco's
reflections on his novel, 'the name of the rose.. But naming a book is
unavoidable. Even calling a book 'unfinished' or 'untitled', as in
Martin Amis' 'the information', tells us something. The title is
inescapable, but that doesn't mean that it should be faithful. Eco
never interprets 'the name of the rose', but invites us into an eclectic
universe of issues surrounding a - The, even - novel.
Indeed, Eco's 'reflections' is a dialogue on the intertextuality of
literature. He tells us how books are always about other books. And
about how constructing a novel is a cosmological event. 'Reflections'
tells us of the technicalities of writing a novel; of all the card files and
notes; and of how even writing a simple conversation between two
men is cause for concern.
Topically (but isn't it always?) Eco discusses whether a high-
brow, intellectual event, such as a novel, can ever be popular. This
whole situation reeks of irony, of course, as Toby Young's the
Modern Review used to sell itself with the "low culture for high-
brows" slogan. Ah, post-modernism, how can we ever escape it?
Eco is its symbol and for those in the dark, gives his own definition in
one of the last chapters.
'Reflections' takes less than half an hour to read, yet contains
enough material for the reader to spend half his life on. Eco the
semiotician has not written a real book. But, as the song goes, "it's
the real thing, it's even better than the real thing". Q
MM F E L I X 00JU095

