K l Boys Against Girls
Why women are so
loathsome: an
evolutionary
approach
by Glyph
PWhy; , apart
from the
sheer physical
differences
between men
and women is
the male power
structure so .
stable? CT
I am reliably informed that we fear what we fail
to understand. However, some things just
demand disliking, regardless of the individual's
knowledge of the subject. Cabbage is one
example: it tastes and smells bad, it looks bad,
it is so crammed with glucosinilates that, were it
a synthetic food, the health inspectorate would
laugh it off the shelves. Nevertheless, every day
people are seen eating, cooking and force-
feeding small children cabbage. Women are
somewhat analogous to this. Men are - from an
evolutionary perspective - irrelevant. One man
has sufficient sperm to inseminate entire
nations of women. But, due to the obvious
benefit of being male in such a situation, or
female in the opposite situation, the sex ratio is
maintained at 50:50. So women - whom, due
to the production of single eggs every now and
then, tend to be monogamous - are left to pick
the prime males - whom due to their mass
production of relatively energy cheap sperm are
naturally less choosy and have a preference for
blanket coverage of the females rather than
monogamy with the fittest one on view. Thus
social convention in humans - marriage and
babies - is dictated by the females.
The important factor in the survival of
humanity is thus under the control of women. It
is a stable system, and thus proliferative, but at
the same time it hardly allies itself with the self-
publicised image of the 'discriminated against,
abused and dehumanised' women of the
nineties. I was concerned that my role as a
male, ignorant totally of women (having not
clapped eyes on a non-relative female until the
age of 1 9) was oppressive and degenerative to
them. I talked it out. Oh! winge winge bitch
MM F E L I X
bitch moan moan not taken seriously used as
object to popularise masculine products blab
blah sex crimes harassment no time off for
babies blah blah eating disorders 40 times
more likely to occur in females than males as a
result of the male-induced pressure to conform
to the popularised ideal female form which
happens to be only maintainable in 20% of
women without serious health risks.
The last point seemed relevant. I read a
book - The Beauty Myth by Naomi Wolf. She
starts with the suggestion that women
should be happy with their appearance,
because popular culture is essentially
asinine in nature, and all statements
therein are geared 99% to marketing and 1% to
enlightenment. At this point she gets paranoid.
She starts to imply that men have concocted a
plot to suppress women by making them
conform to impossible goals of personal
presentation, and that all advertising agencies
are heinous dens of male fascism taken up with
preserving male dominance in society like a
large golf club. She did not go on to say that ad
men were actually aliens from the planet
Debauchery who have taken on humanoid form
with the intention of transforming female
humans into creatures sexually compatible with
their own species, although there is a sequel
out now, so your guess is as good as mine.
Men are also victims of the same forms of
advertising. Look at the Calvin Klein underpants
adverts, or pick up any copy of Smash Hits or
the like. Women speak and write about the role
of titillating imagery of
young women in objec-
tifying them. Porno-
graphy has very loose
definitions, but surely
Take That displaying
their back-sides, and
most other pop groups,
who have a marked
tendency to get their
'pecks' and 'six-packs'
out in magazines, ostensibly marketed at easily
influenced pre-pubescent girls can only be bad
for the male image. They can only produce
anxiety in boys that do not possess bodies of
equally unnatural conformations.
I started to read a bit more about
feminism. The Female Eunuch by Germain
Greer was the first real blockbuster of feminism
in the sixties. Even today, she appears obsessed
with some sort of male plot to silence women,
and worse yet she appears to hold onto some
idea of the moral superiority of women to men.
I recall an interview wherein she started harping
on about if women ran the world, government
could be abolished because hierarchies in
society are fundamentally patriarchal. Combine
this with all those 'women against the bomb'
protests, and Greenham Common women, and
we are looking into the face of a gross
hypocrisy. In what sense are women morally
superior to men? The most common answer I
hear is something to do with the fact that men
do not have children, they do not create life.
In terms of a biological phenomenon
called sexual selection, human relationships
need to be geared around finding the fittest
possible mating partner so that offspring will
benefit from the good qualities of the sexually
selected individual (as alluded to previously).
This fitness is not necessarily displayed
physically - say with a 'six-pack' - it's also
behavioural. The likelihood that children will
grow up healthily and reproduce (the biological
aims of parenthood) is a different quantity in
the slums of Calcutta and provincial Ealing.
Thus social status as well as physical fitness is a
sexually selective factor. I am talking about
money, but more specifically power. Men will
have noticed at the recent Maxwell 'millions'
trial the photos of Maxwell jr's American wife.
He is an ugly little shit; she is definitely not. But
he is (was ha ha) a powerful rich man, so his
selection over far more attractive men, me for
example, is hardly surprising. This tendency for
women to go for rich powerful men warps
society, because, as anyone who has read
Freud for Beginners will gladly tell you,
basically, men just want a damn good shag.
Indeed, Germaine Greer is correct in her
assumption that social hierarchies are
patriarchal. But, if the roles were reversed,
Denis Thatcher would look like Johnny Depp or
the Wundpitt.
Why then, apart from the physical
differences between
men and women, is the
male power structure so
stable? Surely a
construct so easily
based on a BMW and a
nice arse cannot be so
sexually specific.
E m p o w e r m e n t
may only take
education and
money, so why are men eight times more likely
to study science and technology than women?
Answer: because it is shit boring. It is well
documented that people would rather work with
other people than with numbers or machines.
Women are twice as likely to do languages as
men (IBID p6 fab3.3). Languages are perceived
as social and fun (give me a pine weevil to gas
Q It is men who
* are oppressed
and damaged by
the gender roles
and not women. QT

