Girls And Boys
What Does Islam Say?
O For a change,
* you are now
hearing it from
Muslim women.
According to
Islam, men and
women are
independent
entities and thus
fully responsible^
human beings. W
by Someera Butt & Farida Begum
The men-women issue as presented by Felix
is the obvious conflict between principle and
practice. On the one hand we have a society
unequivocally purporting universal equality
of men and women, on the other hand one
continually practising double standards
between them. The double standards that
occur are most often not questioned. We live
with them. But in our position as Muslims,
offering an alternative way of life and world
view, those hypocrisies glare out at us.
We would like to pose the question:
what is the basis of your understanding of the
issue of equality? If it is based on a personal
interpretation of what Y O U perceive to be
right and wrong (by its very nature highly
susceptible to external pressure) then the
validity of such rights and wrongs are very
much at risk. Also, the word equality itself is
repeatedly used today without qualification.
Yet men and women are not absolutely equal:
they differ in many matters e.g. biologically
and in psychological characteristics. What
sort of equality are we talking about?
Consider the case of Islam: based on the
absolute truth (the Qur'an) and the Prophet
Muhammad's (peace be upon him) example
(the Sunnah). The guidance for all judgments
passed on every issue of what is right and
what is wrong has been ordained by the
Creator, Allah. Once a person accepts Islam -
through conviction that there is no deity
worthy of worship but A l l a h and that
M u h a m m a d (peace be upon him) is H i s
messenger and servant - he/she has submitted
to the will of none but Allah. This is the
literal meaning of the word ' M u s l i m ' .
Through application of the unequivocal
principles, teachings and rules of the divine
texts of the Holy Qur'an and the Sunnah, we
have an infallible criteria for all matters.
Islam has been much slandered and
accused of oppressing women and granting
men more rights than women. Through the
media, the principles laid down seem to
contradict the practices of Muslims world
wide. The people who slander Islam do so out
of sheer ignorance and malice but they are not
always guilty of fabricating the images of
Islam as they see it practiced. This is the fault
of the Muslim who has failed to practice the
way of life Islam has prescribed for us. The
media is prone to use the word Islamic for
what Muslims do. This is incorrect, the word
is rightly used for Muslims emulating the
divine sources of Islam.
So, about this men-women
business. What does Islam really say?
For a change, you are now hearing it
from M u s l i m women. According to
Islam, men and women are independent
entities and thus fully responsible human
beings. Islam addresses each of them directly.
Women are counterparts of men - contrary to
the world-wide status quo of having to live in
a man's world. They have the same status and
role in life, the same heaven and hell, reward
and punishment. Just like men, women have
to observe the general religious services,
personal conduct, social dealings and moral
behaviour e.g. being truthful, fair, beneficent,
righteous and well-mannered. Islam does not
provide different moral orders for men and
women.
Public life is no stage where men alone
can play. There is no segregation of sexes in
public domains which call for joint efforts.
Thus both men and women are expected to
contribute equally to decisions which affect
the society they live in. In sharp contrast, take
a look at all the exclusively male establish-
ments of various political leanings which are
prevalent in a culture which fights for equal
rights for women to take off their clothes in
public but does not allow them nor encourage
them to partake in affairs of public concern.
There is no separate order of
regulations between men and women except
for a few secondary regulations where a
distinction is drawn between the sexes. These
are intended to enable them to give a genuine
expression of their faith with consistent with
their respective human nature, human life
and Society. The preservation of the family
unit and the welfare of children are of
paramount importance i n Islamic social
setup. The ultimate responsibility on familial
matters (particularly financial support) lies
with the husband in consultation and co-
operation of the wife. Do not interpret this to
read that whatever he says goes. This is an
infringement of the wife's role and rights.
Men are also obliged to attend group
prayers and conscription for war. Women,
though not obliged to undertake these
responsibilities, are free to contribute as
much or as little as they wish to these affairs.
In fact, if men are not fulfiling their due
obligations in this regard, it becomes the duty
of women to compensate or complement their
effort. Forget Florence Nightingale, Muslim
women were engaging in active warfare on the
battlefield at the time of the Prophet (peace be
upon him). They were not only bringing
water to thirsty combatants, treating the
wounded and carrying them to safety but also
physically defending their fellow Muslims on
the battlefield by confronting the enemy. A
far cry from the generally expected and
accepted role of women in Muslim and non-
Muslim societies today!
Today, in the name of liberation of
women, a modern woman feels that provided
she looks like a model, works twice as
competently as a man, earns half the wages for
their labour, carries and brings up the
children, cooks a banquet every night and still
has the energy and mental capacity to lead a
fulfiling sex-life, she is on an equal footing
the man. How naive, blind and brainwashed
that is. It would appear that intellectual
liberation of women has not yet taken place
and judging from the direction that societies
all around are heading for, it will be a very
long time coming.
Blatant fallacies have been propagated
by Hollywood. These images are nothing but
false and distorted images of Islam's attitude
towards women. Modesty i n dress and
attitudes, applies to both men and women.
Both must refrain from dressing to impress
and seduce. T h i s is not a form of sexual
repression. Islam does not impinge repression
of the sexual instinct but regulates it in a
manner which allows a healthy attitude
towards it in the defined context of a res-
ponsible and accountable sexual relationship
i.e. marriage.
Contrary to what is currently perceived
as sexual liberation, the practice and excessive
encouragement of unlimited and wide spread
promiscuity and sexual deviations from the
norm (homo and bisexual inclinations) are all
manifestations of misuse of the sexual instinct
in a society obsessed with the physical
pleasures of a conjugal relationship without
the commitment which should accompany it.
The men-women thing is not an issue.
It is a by-product of a confused and aimless
society which needs an answer to its iWs.This
is the issue. H
E H F E L I X ogjunas

