Girls and Boys
UNPROTECTED
Sexual Exploration in the Aids Era
by Manor Askenazi
Have you ever had 'unprotected' sex? Have you
ever wondered about the sexual history ofyour
partners? Have you ever questioned the lack of a
public campaignfor voluntary testing?
A growing number of us encounter Aids
before encountering sex - our first sexual
escapades plagued by the fears and doubts
surrounding this disease. Perhaps it is time
our generation considered the untold
consequences of the epidemic: for Aids does
not exact its toll in lives alone, it also claims a
heavy socio-cultural price.
STDs have always influenced society's
attitude to non-reproductive sex. In the past,
this has translated into an oversimplified
dialectic of Good (healthy) vs. E v i l
(syphilitic). Fortunately, the discovery of
Penicillin brought an end to this point of
view. In just a few short decades a far wider
range of practices were legitimised: the world
ceased to be divided into Hedonists and
<
^
5
^ ^
^
^
^
^ €8^^" ^
N o O n e C a n B e T r u s t e d
Though we do not yet have the technology
with which to beat Aids, we do have the
technology with which to detect it. Why then,
are we not hearing any calls for voluntary
screening? Why is it common practice to stop
by for a casual mammography but not to do
the equivalent in the case of Aids? The
answer to this question is twofold:
1. The health authorities fear the con-
sequences of people finding out, en masse,
that they have the disease, without
appropriate counselling being given at the
same time. Some of the specific concerns are:
fear of an increase in suicide cases, and fear
of irresponsible 'I won't go down alone'
reactions.
2. More importantly, the health authorities
are afraid that people will get tested once,
and then operate under the assumption that
they don't have Aids, and won't ever get it.
This is particularly important in the case of
prostitutes which used to display 'certificates
of HIV-negativeness'. Genito-Urinary clinics
no longer notify patients of Aids test results in
writing: results are always given verbally.
The safe sex campaign is a based
entirely on the irresponsibility of the individual.
It asks us, in the name of public health, to
have sex in a climate of suspicion. By planting
mistrust at t h e heart of every sexual
interaction, aren't we re-defining the very
meaning of sex? Is safe sex really sex?
Moralists. The increase i n sexual freedom
brought with it a diversification of attitudes
to sex and sexuality.
Does the appearance of a new and deadly
STD (such as Aids) threaten the legacy of this era?
In other words, are we seeing the return of a
polarised approach to sexuality?
On the face of it, the answer seems to be
a resounding no. Society is dealing with Aids
in a radically different manner to its approach
to Syphilis (you won't find many government
sponsored posters which preach 'clean living'
or the avoidance of 'fornication' as a means of
protection against Aids). Yet it could be that
the current 'safe-sex' campaign reveals a more
sinister undercurrent.
Consider the underlying assumptions
behind the 'safe-sex' campaign:
• No one can be trusted.
• Sex is essentially a 'plug & socket' affair.
Clearly, under these conditions sex in
the Aids era is 'hobbled' in comparison with
pre-Aids-post-Syphilis times. There are two
exceptions however.
Neo-Moralists: those who will only ever have
one partner (for instance those of a religious
persuasion). Clearly they are not affected by
the current sexual climate.
Neo-Hedonists: those who approach sex
without much regard for its human
perspective. Whilst the physical constraints
may slightly annoy them, they are not really
affected by the current sexual climate either
(e.g. the loss of trust is not an issue for them).
In other words, I believe that we are
living in an era which may very well see the
return of a two-sided, simplistic approach to
sex. Those who regard it as a sacred/religious
activity can continue to flourish alongside
those who approach it as purely physical.
However, for those who live in the fragile
middle-ground, Aids represents a serious
setback: if you find the current sexual climate
of mistrust profoundly disturbing, and if you
feel constrained by the rules of safe sex, then
you are a member of this middle-ground.
As such, you must ask yourself whether
there is an alternative answer to Aids, other
than the tyranny of safe sex. Could we not
replace fear and suspicion with a more
positive approach based on mutual trust?
Should we not place more emphasis on
voluntary self-testing as a means to minimise
the need for safe sex, even in the absence of a
long-term relationship?
No one is forcing us to treat our
partners as potential killers. We can break the
circle of suspicion.
We can get tested. U
Se
S e x is a ' P l u g & S o c k e t ' A f f a i r
Condoms are a perfectly adequate means of
protection against infection from penetrative
sex. However, most people are not likely to
be satisfied by a single form of sexual activity
and virtually everyone experiments at the
boundaries of what is considered 'safe'
according to the scientific community, e.g.
many people regularly have oral sex under
the assumption that this is a low-risk activity.
Unfortunately, it is only as Aids affects
behaviour patterns that data becomes
available focussing on specific forms of sexual
activity. In the case of oral sex, it was initially
very difficult to find cases where the physician
knew for certain that no other high-risk
activity was being practiced. Today, such data
is becoming available, and the results are not
pleasant: oral sex has recently been pro-
moted to a moderate-risk activity by the
Centre for Disease Control.
As long as safe-sex means 'use a
condom and everything will be all right' most
people live with it, but how many people do
you know, who would even consider using
such a thing as a dental dam? Would you?
Then how safe are you after all? Is safe sex
really safe?
ogjungs F E L I X MM

