FELIX 16 October 1968
WHO FOR R.C.S.U.?
P e t e D o l w i n o r G w y n H u g h e s
Pete Dolwin is a third year Physics undergraduate who
has been extremely active around the college in his two
years here, some of the more responsible posts that he has
held being Union Projectionist, Physics department rep to
RCSU, assistant librarian at the Haldane and secretary of
the external affairs committee of ICU.
Recently he has been negotiating as ICU representa-
tive to Maria Assumpta over the affiliation of some of the
IC clubs with those at M.A.
As Physics department rep. last year he threw him-
self enthusiastically into Union affairs, and got to know
exactly what the task of being President means. He has
seen many faults arise in RCSU during that time—the split
that emerged between the president and vice-president, the
breakdown of communications between the union and its
members and the rise in presidential power. He intends to
rectify all these faults.
(i) Adolf, RCS vice-president, is proposing him—
symbolic erf his feelings about team co-operation.
(ii) He advocates the formation of an RCS broad-
sheet published alternately with FELLX, coupled with the
continuation of the informal meetings with year reps and
" at home " evenings when the officers will hold an informal
session with coffee when any member can easily make
direct suggestions for discussion.
(iii) Pete believes team spirit to be the basis of RCS
and is against personality cults. The attitude of the Presi-
dent should be to appreciate the trust placed in him by
the union not " I am the President." Also any president at
the end of his office should stand trial as to how well he had
carried out his electoral promises.
Pete says that his other policies are : —
(1) Continued concentration on academic affairs and
staff-student relations, where IC Is probably the most
advanced college in the country.
(2) Meet-the-Committee parties to be held this year
for the first time similar to that held in maths last year.
(3) To visit each department regularly to get grass-
roofs opinions for policies and comment. Also to hold
regular hours in the President's room where the president
can definitely be found willing to meet any member of
RCSU.
(4) To improve communications between the various
committees of RCSU, particularly to attend Ents meetings
and assure a wider distribution of minutes.
(5) To streamline the union meetings and to have
more interesting debates.
(6) To run elections for next years officers in March
to escape the " exam twilight."
His main interest is in staff-student relations, and here
le feels very qualified for he is on a first, and is sure that
aecause of this the academic staff talk to him and listen
to what he has to say. He appreciates that much work
has been done in this direction, but thinks that there is
still much room for improvement in certain depts.
In other fields Gwyn has many ideas. He wants to
streamline the year rep system by having more personal
contact between year reps and union officers. Carnival too
should be better organised by having greater co-ordination
between Department reps so that, for instance, when out
collecting, one department does not depend on an area
only to find that another department has been there two
minutes previously. Another of his ideas is that RXT.S.
should not concentrate so many of their actirvitics in the
summer term as at present.
Gwyn is ordinary
When the nominations for R.C.S.U. President were
first put up there was great consternation among the estab-
lishment that there was no willing and obvious candidate.
Then in the Maths Department appeared Gwyn Hughes
on the nomination sheets, and people began.to ask " Who's
Hughes ?"
Well Gwyn is an ordinary member of the union. For
the past two years he has been a member of several I.C.
Clubs and has helped when asked by Dept Reps. . . .
This is not a very great claim to fame, but it is neces-
sary for a good President to have been active in union
politics ? " No," says Gwyn, " Because the majority of
union members are not up with union politics, which are
all to often rather involved with procedure and get a little
dull. A President who has not been too involved with
union politics would be more representative of R.C.S.
opinion." Obviously a so-called " grass roots" candi-
date is going to produce fresher ideas than someone who
has been submerged in union politics all his college life.
Duplication between \C and RCS
One of the problems in such a large college as I.C.
is that there is duplication of effort between I.C. and the
constituent colleges. Gwyn would like to see much
Sharper distinctions drawn between these organisations.
Gwyn Hughes is a friendly person and promises that
if elected he will not forget that he used to be an average
union member and that they have just as much to say, and
are just as important as anyone else.
FLOOR REPS FOR SALE
Communication between
the college and "Them,"
the Union council, failed
last year. This year's floor
reps are determined to
change this—they are elec-
ted to change this—they
are elected specifically to
hear your complaints, cries
for help and questions on
all matters and to pass
them on to Council.
Surgeries
flopped
Last year "Surgeries"
were held which flopped ut-
terly for two reasons :
(1) They were not publi-
cised.
(2) They were " surgeries "
rather than discussions.
The floor reps want to
listen to you and will be
available twice weekly for
communication with any
union member. They will
be waiting to meet you or
listen to you :—•
Every Friday lunchtime:
2 Floor reps in Upper
Lounge, Southside—just
above the T V .
Every Monday lunchtime:
2 Floor reps in Lower
Lounge Union —• beside
ICWA bar.
Your Floor Reps
The floor reps at present
are:—
George Assimakis, Phy-
sics 3, Selkirk 666.
Lilas Campion, Mines 3,
Beit 103.
Piers COrbyn, Physics
PG, Tizard 621.
Dave Foster, Civil 3, Lin-
stead 622.
Vinod Garga, Civil P G ,
Linstead 526.
And one other to be elected
at the Union meeting on
Thursday.
Piers (Crowface) Corbyn
says he is ready to do any-
thing (!!??) on your behalf.
Why not take him up on
it?
A Swinging Coffee Bar?
The Coffee Bar has been
operating since the begin-
ning of this term during
the week from 7.30 p.m. to
10.30 p.m. and will con-
tinue until the end of Octo-
ber. This was the trial
period set to estimate the
need for such a place. To
continue Mr. Mooney re-
quires a daily income of
£10, so far the income has
only averaged about £8-£10
per day.
The possibilities of open-
ing a Coffee Bar in a more
Suitable location with an
appropriate atmosphere,
background music and
subtle lighting are very real
if the need for such a place
can be proved. The cellars
beneath Garden Hall were
put forward as the ideal
location but have been dis-
allowed by the authorities.
The present Coffee Bar is
unattractive, too brightly
lit, and conversation is
drowned by noise from the
bar. In spite- of these de-
tractions it is up to you to
frequent it for the next two
week so Mr. Mooney can
be persuaded, against has
apparent prejudices, to
open a swinging Coffee Bar
more in keeping with stu-
dent traditions. The chance
to add to IC an alternative
meeting place from the
usual bars filled with rowdy
beer swilling peasants must
not be lost.
Engagement
The Soc Soc and Comm
Soc are jointly bringing out
a monthly bulletin: Im-
perial College Socialist.
Contributors (articles about
1000 words) and sellers are
urgently needed. Price is 2d.
or 6d. for the first three
issues post free. Contact
the Editors: Pete Breeze,
Maths II Soc Soc; Frank
Okoh, Mines III Comm Soc.
UD
The Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost are, as all
church-going people will tell you, God. If I understand
this doctrine properly all three are God, each in his own
right, none more powerful than the other, each separate
and distinct and yet together they form a God who is
more powerful than the others.
LC.U-. as we all know, consists of three constituent
colleges. AH these have a union, each in their own right,
rjone really more powerful than the other, each separate
and distinct and yet together they form I.C.U. Here lies
the difference, I.C.U. is not as powerful as each of them.
This is not God we are talking about and I.C.U. is no
spiritual power. In fact I.C.U. has little power of any
kind. No matter what the constituent college pundits say
the strength that could be I.GU.'s suffers badly due to the
existence erf these three bodies.
What are the arguments put forward for their reten-
tion? In the past they have been emotional andfiercebut
basically they are weak and unconvincing when viewed
impartially. The problems of the scientist, miner and
engineer are different we are told. What a lot of crap that
is! Intercollegiate rivalry promotes a feeling of belonging
in the fresher we are told, why not rivalry between I.C.
and the other London colleges to replace that? There are
many colleges and universities larger than I.C. which
n- mage to survive and give the students a sense of be-
longing without thisridiculoussystem.
The fresher is brainwashed into the constituent college
System right from the first day but for many that is the
rst time they have heard of the constituent colleges. They
came to Imperial College not the Royal College of Science
or whatever and it is time that people realised that when
they have left all that will matter is that they have been
to I.C.. and not that they have been to C. & G.
In short the constituent colleges exist to provide any
opportunity for those amongst us that have not grown up
to demonstrate their immaturity under the guise of orga-.
nised " sport."
They provide opportunities for irresponsible drunken-
ness, nudism and hooliganism, and it is time ti was
stopped! It is time that the strangle-hold they have on
£C.U. was broken. Perhaps the arrival of the Architec-
tural Association and the influx of a crowd who have not
been imbued into the system and the basic rethinking in
union structure that will be required will provide the im-
petus for the removal of these millstones round I.C.U.
A few closing remarks. Would the President of
C.& G. stop going round muttering a nasty five-letter
word that rhymes with Steer (he really isn't), or someone
might go round muttering a nasty five-letter word that
rhymes with Corr,
Colcutt wishes Pam "Horrors" Horrocks a slightly
belated happy birthday, though from what I saw staggering
from thebar it wasn't.
And by the way, why was the President ot
Mines seen entering the clinic for Unmarried
Mothers accompanied by two female members
of the executive. I suppose it is better than
bigamy anyway
Cartoonists
The Observer is running a
cartoon contest for students.
Three cartoons, one each on
home affairs and a public
figure with the third a free
choice, and entries to be iri
by 25th November. Details
from The Observer, 160
Queen Victoria St., E.C.4.
Globe-trotting?.
Did you go to South
America this summer? Or
India, or anywhere far
away? If so, F E L I X would
like to hear from you, for a
feature we're preparing.
Contact us through the
Union letter rack, please,
especially if you made South
America.
The Bookshop stocks
everything (well nearly)
you may need

