FELIX 16 October 1968 9
THE WW tor
B A R R O W POETS
The incredible Bass Cato-fiddle
In recent years the Barrow Poets have made a large
contribution to the changed image of poetry. The name
Barrow Poets was first used by a group of London Uni-
versity students who having been refused a licence to sell
poems from a barrow (hence the name), decided instead
to recite the same poems in London pubs. This was back
in 1951, and for the next nine years the group continued
as a loose association of people, no attempt being made
to organise a professional grouping. In 1960 Susan
Baker was elected chairman of the Barrow Poets of that
time, and it was from this point that things began to
move.
Throughout the years from 1960 to the present, the
group has been increasingly in demand at Festivals, in
colleges and schools, and has also made appearances on
television. The present group of six (Gerard Benson did
not appear at I.C.) have been together for five years,
reciting having become a full-time occupation for all but
Gerard Benson, who retains a teaching post at the Central
School of Speech and Drama. 4
Despite their increasing demand in more cultured
places, the Barrow Poets still like to continue their per-
formances in pubs, and are at present doing a season of
Thursday night recitals at the "Sir Christopher Wren."
which finishes just prior to their December tour of
America. Since they have been resident at this one pub,
they have detected a change in the audience, which has
changed from being predominantly student and aesthetic,
to one containing in the words of Susan Baker, " people with
money to spend."
The group get a grant from the Arts Council to allow
them to commission poems from such well known writers
as Robert Graves, A . P. Herbert, George MacBeth-and
Roger McGough. They are also supported by Guinness,
who .are at present running the Barrow Poets advertise-
ment in the" Piccadilly Circus newsreej.
What then is the secret of their success ? How have-
they been able to create a completely new atmosphere in
which poetry can be enjoyed as another form of enter-
tainment, rather than being left for centuries to gather
dust on shelves. Part of the answer is their choice of
material; their poems tend to be predominantly contem-
porary, and the current trend is one of poems on personal
relationships and problems, their recitals have something
Of relevance to the everyday likes of their audiences.
There is also something in the way that they arrange their
programmes, intermingling short groups of poems with
pieces of music (after played on such weird sounding
instruments as the muscle-in or the bass catofiddle). The
complete answer is not found however until one includes
t the actual recitation of the poems. It is the intensity
with which they speak each line, the real meaning they
give each word which finally makes poetry come alive,
RECENT
FILM
REVIEW
This is the first of what is to become a regular series
Of film reviews by JOHN SPENCE. Our aim in these
articles is to bring your to attention films that are com-
paratively little publicised, or those of particular interest
to us as ttudents or as scientists. We are not setting up
as rivals to the daily press! John Speoce is President
of the H. G, Wells Society.
It looks like it's going to be a great season for films !
New ones are being premiered weekly and there's a lot
Of interesting stuff on the way. Before work started in
earnest (and before my bank account turns red) I took
the opportunity to see some films which I thought some
Felix readers might be considering, so, if you haven't been
looking too closely at the critics' columns, recently, or if
you have but possess a short memory—this is for you !
The best of the three films I saw was "Rachel.
Rachel" (Curzon, Z). In the celluloid jungle which is
the film industry it can be of no comfort to those less
successful to see a big name make it twice over. But
Paul Newman—director and producer of the film—makes
no- apologies for doing just that. We all know about
Newman's screen image of late—laconic, almost reticent,
in action and work but displaying an eloquence of facial
expression and nuance without which " H o m b r e " and
" Luke " would't have come off, either as characters or
films. To those who have seen his directing hand, how-
ever, it is apparent that these are features of the man
himself, not just the image. Without restrained direction
and many concessions to visual Tffect as the substitute
for dialogue, " Rachel, Rachel" would have flopped. It
doesn't and Mr. Newman can thank his wife's, Joanne
Woodward, beautifully sensitive acting as much as he can
congratulate himself,
Rachel is a school-teacher, a spinster—and a virgin.
She's all these and 35 years besides and, having reached
the zenith of her intellectual and sexual powers with no
stimulation for the former or dissipation for the latter,
she Sees her descent to the nadir as frighteningly close.
Her situation is made more desperate by her environment
—a stupid and pious old mother and lesbian (great per-
formance from Estelle Parsons—the hysterical Mrs.
Barrow from " Bonnie and Clyde") for a best friend
combine in the sultry smalltown where she lives to make
life a misery and a breakthrough inevitable.
It happens when Nick, an old schoolmate, who is
basically a lecherous farmer masquerading as a high-
School teacher (which impresses Rachel )arrives on the
scene showing something more than nostalgia in his atti-
tude. Undaunted by Rachel's apparent uninterest in
him—Nick persists and the seduction occurs in a field,
he crude and she clumsy. The affair continues. For Rachel
it's paradise—she spends whole nights, even a week, away
from mother and, with an affection born from desire, falls
madly in love with her man. To him, it's rather amusing
until he realises what Rachel's need is leading to and lets
himself out by way of a subterfuge.
In the last, and most moving part of the film, Rachel
is sustained only by the thought, the hope, the prayer
.that she is pregnant. The woman's maternal instinct in
her has always been as painful as the sexual one—an
important fact conveyed in the film by her occasional
flights of fancy where what she wants to do and what she
ultimately does are in "tragic contrast. A n examination
reveals her " baby " to be but a harmless cyst and for the
firsjt and only time in the film she cannot quell the tears.
She has to go away and at the end of the film there is
nothing to say—just a wondering if anything will improve.
A film which only perceptive and sensitive men could
make, and in cameraman Gayne Rescher and screen play-
wright Stewert Stern Newman found two more to com-
plete the trio. I'll never know why he picked Margaret
Laurence's obscure little story but, having done so, it's
to his credit and our benefit that he made of it a very
significant film.
In somewhat lighter vein is Dudley Moore's new film :
" 30 is a dangerous age, Cynthia." Rupert Street (Dud.)
1- a night club pianist who is quite distraught at the fact
that, approaching 30, he is neither married nor in any
position to call his career a success. He resolves to make
amends on both scores in the space of six weeks so sets
out to write a musical and get off with the girl in the next
flat (Suzy Kendall).
Dud himself scripted, though, and, with the able help
of director Joe McGrath, the film is at times very funny.
Indeed Dudley Moore as a funny little man with some
funny voices is not a completely hopeless quest because
that is prpecisely what Dudley Moore is—with a lot of
musical talent thrown in of course. But in the straight
scenes its no go and, sad to say, Suzy Kendall doesn't
quite make it either—a disappointing fact when you recall
what .she rose tp in " Penthouse " and " Up the Junction."
It's a Chance to see Dudley Moore in colour, though,
so if you can't wait for it to reach the suburbs go along
to the Prince Charles cinema and have a giggle!
J O H N SPENCE.
i.e.
FOLK CLUB
MEETING
The I.C. Folk Club held
its first meeting of the year
last Wednesday night, in the
Union Upper Refectory.
The club meets every fort-
night and guests for the
term will include Johnny
Silvo, Louis Killen and Diz
Disley. They also hope to
get John Renbourne early in
the Spring Term.
The club has flourished in
recent years because of the
high quality of both guest
and resident artists. The
first meeting suggests that
this high level should be
maintained this year. The
" old residents," with some
promising newcomers, pro-
vided ample support for the
guests, Martin Carthy and
Dave Swarbrick, whose re-
pertoire includes both in
strumentals and traditional
songs.
During their first set they
played a variety of dances,
jigs, reels, hornpipes, etc. In
these Swarbrick took the
lead, and his skill and con-
trol with both violin and
mandolin were very impres-
sive. Of the songs sung by
Carthy " John Barleycorn "
and " Jack Orion " were
twell received. Here the ac-
companiment of Swarbrick
supplemented the singing of
Carthy to good effect.
The second set was less
impressive, too many of the
songs tended to be of the
" ethnic gargle" variety.
Towards the end, however,
things improved and after a
solo version of " Davey
Louston " from Carthy, the
duet finished the evening
with a rousing round of
reels.
V O L V O D A G B L A T
concert
Fans will knOw, and
everyone should know, that
Cream's farewell concert is
on November 26. Tickets,
which will disappear rapidly,
go on sale at the Albert
Hall on October 31.

