4 FELIX 2 October 1968
H E A T H E N
T H O U G H T S
— editorial
Listening to John Peel with the incessant chatter of
typewriters in the background is perhaps not the best en-
vironment to write an editorial in, but it's better than wrack-
ing one's brain in the solitude of a bare Hall room. Getting
back into the routine of writing F E L I X is hard, but not as
hard as the jobs several people in the Union have to do this
year. The Union Executive and Union Council, those sup-
posedly ubiquitous bodies with their fingers, one hopes,
firmly on a £20,000 purse and their thoughts at one with
the rest of us plebs, have a great burden of responsibility
to bear. One hopes Council will not be rent by the internal
dissension which raged in it last year. This year we have
two experienced people as President and Secretary and, at
first sight, what seems to be, for the most part, an efficient
body of council members who should work well together. But
—the proof of the pudding is in the eating and Council will
be judged on what it does and not what F E L I X says about
it beforehand.
It helps, of course, if the hierarchy of the Union is
friendly and approachable which brings us to what could
again turn out to be the magic word of the year—COM-
MUNICATIONS. Communications, as F E L I X defines it,
is the art of letting everyone know exactly what's going on.
In previous years, very few people outside the inner circle
have known what the inner circle is doing or thinking about
and this is bad because people become disillusioned and
lost interest in the Union. This year Rex Lowin and Jane
Pearson seem to be tackling the problem with determination
(read their profiles elsewhere in F E L I X for a few details)
but they cannot succeed unless we try to take an active
interest in the affairs of ICU. Reading your F E L I X will
help to keep you informed but to get your views across really
means going up to Union officers and talking to them. £4
a year is paid to the Union on your behalf. Would you
invest £4 on the Derby without having some say which horse
it went on ?
To turn from taking an active interest in student affairs
to taking an active interest in some of the affairs of the com-
munity as a whole, let us look at the work done by the Or-
ganisation for Social Service. In this issue Dave Chant
describes some of the activities of this College society in
helping the aged and infirm in districts around the College.
Dave Penfold gives a wider description in the Union hand-
book. I can't help thinking that the social service OSS
undertakes does more immediate good than a score of
marches and demonstrations on Vietnam. This is not to
say that peace demonstrations are not a valuable way of
expressing our opinions on the suffering caused by war the
world over, but a student fight on poverty in this country
might help the populace to think our hearts are in the right
place and to listen more readily to our views on other
matters.
Having got all that off my chest, let me fit in a quick
plug for F E L I X . F E L I X needs people with ideas, people
who can write or take photographs and people who are just
keen to help. Just come along and see us if you think you
qualify.
X
Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
EDITOR: PAUL HEATH
Asst Fditor: Mary Ford
News Editor : John Sommer
Features Editor :
Pet Rotheram
Sports Editor: Bob Pine
Business Manager:
Chris Slee
Late News Editor :
John Probst
Advertising Manager :
Pete Chapman
Circulation Manager :
Dave Chant
Secretaries : Vacancies
Production Manager:
Vacancy
Photographic Editors : John
Lansjley and John Rogers
What's On Editor: Vacancy
Art Editor : Keith Rowan
Duplicating Service :
Vacancy
With : Colcutt. Dave Cooper,
Dermott Corr. Ken Simp-
son, Malcolm Williams.
Caroline. Patsy. Sally, N .
Lobachevski
JOHN BETJEMAN,on the
Imperial Institute
In this article, John Betjeman, poet and expert on
architecture, talks about the old Imperial Institute which
was planned as an integral part of the South Kensington
architectural scene. John Betjeman played a prominent
part in the fight against the demolition of the Institute.
The Imperial Institute in South Kensington was built
between 1888 and 1891. It was subscribed for from all over
the British Empire, and private soldiers in India paid for
the bricks. For this reason bands ot bricks were given great
prominence and used in the Portland stone exterior as
though they were of rare marble. The architect of this fine
uninhibited building was Thomas Edward Collcutt, 1840-
1924. Collcutt had been a draughtsman in the office of
G. E . Street, the famous Gothic revival architect, who
designed the Law Courts in the Strand, and inspired his
pupils, William Morris, Philip Webb and Norman Shaw,
who were much concerned with the arts and crafts move-
ment of late Victorian times.
Collcutt himself in reaction
from the Gothic which was
fashionable when he was a
young man, designed one of
his first big public buildings,
the Town Hall at Wakefield,
in a renaissance style of his
own. This was further de-
veloped in the Imperial Insti-
tute, which owes something
to Spanish renaissance, but is
really what might be called,
the Collcutt style. Inside, it
had suggestions of English
Jacobean. Collcutt resembled
the Gothic followers of Street
in designing all the fittings for
his buildings, as well as the
building itself. He designed
furniture, stained glass smd
light fittings. The most splen-
did example of his interior
style, still surviving in Lon-
don, is the interior of Lloyd's
Registry of Shipping in Fen-
church Street (1900) with its
stair, library and boardroom,
and Brangwyn and'Frampton
paintings and carvings. He
also designed the Palace
Theatre and the Midland
Bank on Ludgate Hill.
MUSEUM
COMPLEX
The Imperial Institute is
the heart and centre of the
great complex of buildings in
the Museum district of South
Kensington. It was thought
of as a permanent record in
lasting material of the British
section of the Great Exhibi-
tion of 1851.
Its tower is in line with
the Albert Memorial, the
centre of the Albert Hall, and
was to be seen between the
two main towers of the Na-
tural History Museum. This
museum district was the most
complete example of planned
public architecture, in the
most confident and prosperous
time of our country that we
possessed. The Institute had
a grand entrance hall and
staircase, aptly described by
H . S. Goodhart-Rendel as
" Happy and Glorious." To
the right and left of the cen-
tral tower were offices and
lecture halls, sumptuously
decorated. Behind the cen-
tral tower was to be a great
hall for exhibiting the pro-
ducts of Empire, but this was
never completed. The central
tower was, as it were, buttres-
sed by the entrance hall, side
buildings and rear exhibition.
It was never designed to be
seen standing on its own.
Smaller towers, over the
wings, led the eye up. to the
great central feature.
Collcutt, like Wren and all
good English architects, rea-
lised the importance of sky-
line in our generally grey
climate. The Imperial In-
stitute had a most carefully
considered skyline.
DEMOLITION
When the University au-
thorities decided to enlarge
Imperial College on the site
of the Institutue. many public
bodies and private people
urged the University to in-
corporate the Institute and its
towers in their plan, if a new
building on this site was re-
garded as really essential. The
University and the architects
had neither the imagination,
willingness or ability to do
this. There was still a spirit
of old world withitry linger-
ing from the 1930's and the
Imperial Institute was
thought fussy, dust-collecting
and old fashioned. So care-
fully detailed, grandly scaled
and joyful a building would
probably have survived, if its
demolition had been pro-
posed today. As it is, we
have at least been left the
outline of Callcutt's tower,
as seen from Hyde Park. And
Londoners can be grateful for
this small mercy.
JOHN B E T J E M A N
The Imperial Institute, an original sketch
Courtesy of the R.I.B.A.
Advertising Agency:
J.E.P. and Associates. T e l : 01-353 3712
T H E S W A N N
R E P O R T
Drastic changes in postgraduate courses in science and
technology are called for in a Government White Paper
published on September 25th.
The report has been produced by the working group on
manpower for scientific growth, whose chairman is Professor
Michael Swann, Principal and Vice-Chancellor of Edinburgh
University and it examines the relation between the demands
of industry and University education. It finds that too many
graduate scientists and technologists are staying in Univer-
sities and going abroad, with too few into industry and
teaching. One of the effects of this is that the age balance
of science teachers in schools is disproportionately old, this
is also true of teachers in colleges of education and further
education whilst in universities, the bias is strongly towards
younger age groups. More than 70 per cent of first class
honours graduates go on to higher degrees and less than
JO per cent go into industry and schools.
To combat this situation
the report makes a number of
recommendations. Teachers
of science and mathematics
should be more highly paid
than those in other subjects to
try to attract graduates into
this branch, there should be
merit additions for people
who have taken approved
higher degrees or had indus-
trial experience and more
graduates should have teach-
ing experience during their
universities careers, prepara-
tion for teaching could be-
come part of a first degree
course without lengthening
the time spent at university.
As far as industry is con-
cerned the committee says
that industrialists must see
that graduates are offered "at-
tractive and challenging ca-
reers " and also make theii
needs clearly known to uni-
versities and become inti-
mately involved with all as-
pects of postgraduate courses,
including their support.
Clearly the financial incen-
tives must be there to attract
people into industry.
In the University sphere,
drastic changes in postgrad-
uate courses are called for. If
the report's recommendations
are implemented, the already
Tapidly shrinking number of
PhD students would be even
less and the PhD courses
will become " more closely
orientated to the needs of
industry." The emphasis in
postgraduate courses would
shift to industry-orientated
and shorter courses and the
proportion of students taking
postgraduate courses after
spending some time in indus-
try would increase.
D A V I D COOPER.

