2 October 1968 FELIX 5
of a
P R E S I D E N T and a S E C R E T A R Y
F E L I X crept along to the Union office some time last
week and talked to Rex Lowin, our new president, as he
munched his way through a cheese sandwich lunch. At last,
munched his way through a cheese sandwich lunch. A t least.
F E L I X didn't say much, just listened to most of what he
said.
Rex has already spent two years in I.C. Union council,
the first as Halls Rep. when he helped with the original
Student House report. He was heard to say at some time
"Only a mug could ever be Welfare Officer" but, never-
theless, last year he took on this exacting job, set up a com-
mittee to give some weight to the office and dealt with such
things as Rents, the Southside Coffee Bar and the creche
for students with children.
He regards the Union generally to have two main
reasons d'etre. The first in the club system which accounts
for a large proportion of Union finance. The second in
the field of student welfare which covers things like academic
affairs, external affairs and refectories. The second aspect
is, Rex thinks, the most logical way for the Union too
expand its activities and there are the kind of services a
Uninon should offer, although, having been tied up with this
sort of thing for the past 18 months, he says he may be a
little biased.
A thing he wants improved is communication between the
upper reaches of the Union and the general student body.
To further this he will be writing a regular column in F E L I X
and wants people to feel free to come intoo the Union office
and talk to people there. Another idea is to have a pending
tray in the Union office so that people can come in and
flip through it to find out what matters are under considera-
tionn at the time instead of waiting until a Union meeting
and finding out about things when a decision has been made
and it is too late for discussion. This will a go towards
" encouraging an attitude where peope know ideas in their
formative stage when they can be discussed " instead of
being presented with a fait accompli.
W E L C O M E
The I.C. BOOKSHOP is pleased to
see you now but we hope to give
you a better welcome in the new
Bookshop in 1969.
When Jane Pearson arrived at IC several years ago,
little did the average male Union member dream that she
would strike a blow for emancipation by becoming the first
ever female Secretary of Imperial College Union. Never
before has a woman risen so high in the Union hierarchy.
Well qualified for the position, she has in the past been
Chairman of the Conservative Society and last year was
President of ICWA. At the end of last year she topped the
poll in the election of floor reps to ICU Council and was also
elected vice-chairman of the London University Conservative
Association. These two posts she resigned on being made
Secretary, the latter " not for political reasons " but because
of the amount of work her present post entails.
The function of the Secretary is to deal with correspon-
dence, putting up minutes or, as Jane puts it, " making sure
everything gets churned out." Most of all she stresses that
one of the things ICU needs is improved communications.
More people should be able to find out what the executive
and top members of the Union are doing and the pending
tray idea should help. Personal contact is a valuable way
of keeping in touch with the main body of the Union and,
to quote Jane again, " We want the Union office to be a
place where people can come in and chat."
PARKING
SPACE
Students who wish to apply
for a College parking space
must get their application
forms back to the Union
Office by tomorrow (3 rd
October). 50 per cent of the
residents' spaces along with
75 per cent of the commuters'
spaces have still to be allo-
cated and forms for the pur-
pose may be obtained from
the Union Office under the
arch in Beit Quad.
Those people who failed to
gain spaces in the first allo-
cation in September can rest
assured that they will be con-
sidered for the second and last
allocation. They need not
submit another form unless
they have new reasons to sup-
port their case. People living
in student houses can apply
for commuter spaces but
F E L I X doesn't think they'll
have much chance unless they
bring in a truckload of people
every day. However, as
consolation for these, parking
meters won't invade the stu-
dent houses area in Evelyn
Gardens until the end of
1969, whereas they start op-
erating in Queensgate and
the upper part of Gloucester
Road on December 2nd.
Here, for yet another year, is our anonymous correspondent.
Colcutt. From his tower in Imperial Institute Road which has
withstood ravages of time, the pigeons and the demolition gang,
ge gives his bird's eye view of the Union
ra
lb
n n
Welcome once again to I.C. and a special welcome to all
those who are reading Colcutt for the first time. At a quick
count that's your ninety-ninth welcome in three days. Here
we are at I.C. for another happy, hilarious, hard-working
year with all its petty arguments and political bickering at
L'nion and Council meetings. No doubt by now you have
heard of that mysterious, all-powerful body we fondly know
as Council and that it exists to safeguard your interest and
to solve your problems. What do they achieve? NOTHING!
At least very little that is of interest or affects you.
They usually manage to find a convenient explanation
of this. Two years ago it was apathy. The general student
body was, they all agreed, apathetic. You weren't in-
terested. You couldn't be bothered to come to Union
meetings and tell them what you wanted. So, naturally, the
meetings were inquorate and there was nothing much they
could do about it.
Last year they saw the folly of their ways. It wasn't
you; it was them! They couldn't believe that you weren't
avidly interested in what they were doing. Communica-
tions. That was the answer. You didn't know what was
going on so how could you be expected to be interested.
They moved from the disease to the cause. After all, if no-
one knows there is a Union meeting you can't expect them
to turn up.
Perhaps a conversation overheard in the bar one night
will explain it.
Typical Student : " Boop-boop-a-doop. Boop-boop-adoop."
Council Member : " How can you be so narrow? Aren't
vou interested in broadening yourself?"
T.S. : " N o ! "
C M . : " I don't suppose you know who the present Secre-
tary of the Union is?"
T.S. : "Harris?"
C.S. : " It's Jane Pearson. Harris is dead! "
T.S.: " I'm sorry to hear that. We can't afford to lose one
conservative. Who's President now?"
C M . : " Lowin, you dolt. Mr. Rex Lowin, formerly Wel-
fare Officer."
T.S. : " Oh dear! I could never remember all that."
No, seriously folks, I'm sure this year is going to sec the
break-through. Everything is safely in the hands of Sexy
Rexy and Plain Jane. So don't forget. Come along to the
first Union meeting and see for yourself. Thursday October
17th at 1.15 p.m. in the Union Concert Hall.
/wish i'd boight the right
drawing instruments...at the
I.C. B O O K S H O P

