2 October 1968 FELIX
PRESIDENT'S
C O L U M N
This article is to be the first of a regular series, and I
would like to explain why I am writing them. The idea is
not to set up as a rival to Colcutt, but as a supplement to
him. The Union has two main facets; the club structure,
already very well developed, and the other services to stu-
dents which can be described under the very general heading
of student welfare. The latter structure has really begun to
grow over the last two years, and covers such things as
student housing, sports facilities, and refectory facilities.
Since these projects are large and often costly, they involve
co-operation between the Students Union and the College
Administration. This usually means that any advanced
information comes through the President and perhaps four
or five other students. In the past any such information has
often filtered down only slowly to the majority of students.
I hope to use this column to throw such topics open to the
Union at as early a stage as possible so that everybody has
access to previously inside information.
S P O R T S C E N T R E
The first topic that I would like to deal with is the
new Sports Centre in Princes Gardens. This will provide
a swimming pool (82ft. x 40ft.), four squash courts and a rifle
range. The contractors have just moved out and if the
heating system is willing, the swimming pool and rifle range
should open on Monday. The squash courts suffered in the
recent rain and it may be several weeks before they are
ready.
The initial planning of the Sports Centre goes back
many years, and about three years ago a steering committee
with two student reps was set up to help in its development.
The final cost has been just over a quarter of a million
pounds, about half coming from the College and the rest
coming from grants to the College. The committee decided
that the Centre should be a general College facility, open to
both students and College employees unlike the Gym which
is college owned and run.
B O B - A - D I P
It was also agreed that some payment would be required
towards offsetting the heavy running costs, estimated at
£19,000. The entrance charge of a shilling covers admission
to the pool and squash courts during open sessions. In
addition, some sessions will be reserved for Union clubs, and
the rifle club will have sole use of the firing range. These
sessions will be free and for club members only, the costs
being met by a Union block grant to the Centre, in line with
the normal club subsidies.
The Sports Centre will be open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
on weekdays, and 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays. There is to
be no Sunday opening at the moment since this would add
considerably to the running costs, but the situation is to be
reviewed during the year. If enough people want to use the
pool on Sundays, then I hope we shall be able to manage
Sunday opening.
Do you write:
Short stories ? Poems ?
Articles of depth and
vision, compulsive,
serious, witty ?
Or do you draw, scribe,
or create drawings,
scribings or creations
of amazing style and
beauty ?
Or do you just wake up
nights with incredible
ideas ?
Send the fruits of your
talent to John Mullaly,
Aero 3 or Union rack.
Like men, we need it.
P H O E N I X
JANET IS HERE
With the departure of Mrs. Robinson to Educational
publicity, F E L I X ' s old advertising agents, Janet Hughes has
taken over the post of Union Clerk. F E L I X said ," Can we
print a photo of you in a bikini ?" Janet said " Like Hell! "
ROLL UP ROLLUP
The management of the
Royal Albert Hall, little
known national monument to
the north of I.C.. has been
holding " hns'i-hush " nego-
tiations with Bil';' Smart on
the subject of a grand Christ-
mas circus. Because oi
accommodation difficulties,
large animals such as lions
and elephants are out, but
smaller ones, such as sea-lions
and fleas will be allowed.
it has been reliably re-
ported that Lady Herbert,
widow of a High Sheriff of
Nottingham and a near neigh-
bour of the Albert Hall, said
she doubted whether the
circus would disturb her more
than " the people from the
Imperial College nearby " ! ! !
S M A L L
A D
Do you want an interesting
and exhausting hobby, with
an opportunity to meet a
great variety of people ?
Then contact Frank Morris
by the Union Rack.
M A R T I N P L A N N I N G
makes your moneygo further
When the problem that you're faced with is the longness of
the time compared with the shortness of the money, likely
as not the answer could be a bit of Martin planning.
What's Martinplanning? It's the way we have at Martins of
applying all our experience of managing money to help you
make the most of yours. Call in and have a word with the
local Martins manager — guaranteed unstuffy. We don't
promise he'll make money for you, but we're absolutely
positive he'll see you getthe best possible value out of
whatever you've got. Ask him for the leaflet we've
prepared specially for students.
Martins have a branch at
35 Gloucester Road, London S.W.7
Telephone: Knightsbridge3343
Askto see Mr. Bradley
Martins go to extremes to be helpful
M A R T I N S
B A N K

