Music Felix • 2 May 2000
f r e q u e n c y > A
...And I begin as I should have
left off by saying sorry for being a
bit rubbish at times last term. For
various reasons, I wasn't able to
put much time into these pages
last term and although music
never missed an issue, we sure
were a lot less organised than we
should have been. So sorry. I also
thought about apologising for the
drivel that often appears in this
column. Then, all of sudden, I
changed my mind. I decided that
these were worthy of the space
that we give them, and although
it's not always about music, it's
not as totally irrelevant as I once
thought.
... frequency...
here comes the sun
So now I feel I must say a few
words about music. The summer
is usually an excellent time for the
release of new music. Indeed it is
often music that defines the sum-
mer of a given year. We all
remember Whigfied's awful Sat-
urday Night and the dance moves
that went along with it. Jason
Nevin's mix of Run D M C ' s It's
Like That was also a summer
song that seemed to play wherev-
er I went. This leads me to think:
Who will be producing the song
of this summer? I suppose it's
going to have to be a garage
tune with the way music has been
going recently, which brings me
to the new M J Cole album.
Reviewed in Felix this week, his
new single is a cracker and if this
is anything to go by expect a few
more super tracks from him over
the summer. My advice to you is
to keep listening hard.
Methods of Mayhem
Methods of Mayhem
(MCA)
You know, I'm sure Tommy Lee's everyone's hero. O r he
would be if he weren't a wife-beating dick. I'm afraid that his
attitude and mentality has transferred straight to C D .
"Jumping on the bandwagon" is the phrase that pays for
Methods O f Mayhem. Following the recent slew of hiphop
metal fusion bands like Korn, Deftones, Slipknot et al, it was
only a matter of time before a member of a flagging band
from the cock-rock era decided his bank balance needed a
boost. It's all loud guitars, pounding beats and a little too
much swearing. Hey, swearing's cool, we all know that, but
too much makes it seem Tommy Lee and crew (note the cor-
rect spelling, Mr. Lee) have only just learned how to. It does-
n't make you hard, it makes you puerile.
The subject matter is a bit dodgy too: sex and violence - those
staples of rock and hiphop - get too much attention. "But
surely Tommy Lee's a red-blooded male and all he thinks
about are sex and violence" you may shout. Then he should
stick to releasing singles, few and infrequent. It gets boring
after a few minutes.
And what's with all these collaborations? Lee and TiLo make
the backbone of M O M but they don't seem to have the stam-
ina for a whole album. They've had to get their mates in to
shore them up, from Kid Rock to Snoop Dogg. Some make a
worthwhile contribution while others muddy up an already
less than crystal clear mix.
I guess if you're a regular reader of Metal Hammer then you'd
be pretty pleased with Methods O f Mayhem, its chugging riffs
and relentless thumping drums would be right up your street.
But most of us like a little variation within our music and
there's only a couple of tracks here that even hint at a light at
the end of that particular tunnel. New Skin has a White Zom-
bie / Zombie feel to it with a fairly mellow, tuneful chorus and
Crash is decent industrial metal in the Fear Factory mould. It's
not enough though. Methods O f Mayhem is a thoroughly
crap album. It's offensive, childish, embarrassing and an
exercise in how not to be taken seriously.
Les Rhythmes Digitales
Live In Belgium
(Wall of Sound)
Like Ronseal's quick-drying woodstain,
this does exactly what it says on the tin. A
Les Rythmes Digitales gig. In Belgium.
Basically.
So you get eight songs, which are all (as
far as I know) from the recent 'Dark-
dancer' album, interspersed with some
Walloon-y whooping. Whether you like it
all depends on whether you dig songwriter
Jacques Lu Cont's singular vision of what
music should resemble right now.
O n paper, LRD seem to be the shittest
band in the world. This lot are obsessed
with the Eighties at a time when most
bands are either looking to the Sixties or
the future. The influence of that most
unfashionable of decades means that the
unashamedly manufactured sounding
songs are built out of tinny drum-
machines, synthesizers, robotic vocals and
(if you've ever seen a picture of them) an
atrocious dress sense.
In reality though, it's all rather good.
Sometimes even ace. Which is surprising,
because it veers close to being unbeliev-
ably cheesy almost all the time, yet still
retains its credibility. The squealing synth
riff in 'Jacques Your Body' is worth the
asking price alone, and the brilliant boun-
cy basslines, provided by Jacques himself,
provide a good solid base. But if you've
got the album already, why would you
want to purchase this? Apart from the
sound of the enthusiastic crowd and some
cheekily thrown in riffs from hits from the
Eighties, there's nothing much new. O n e
for the completist only.
Christian Kunal

