2 May 2000 • Felix Music
f r e q u e n c y N / \
Keith Caputo
Died Laughing
(Roadrunner)
Roadrunner Records, home to scary metal acts such as Slipknot, Coal
Chamber and Keith Caputo. Except Keith Caputo is neither scary, nor
metal and seems a bit out of place on Roadrunner's artists list. For those
of you who do not know, he was the front man for popular metal act Life
of Agony for ten years. Died Laughing, however, is somewhat different
and may disappoint LOA fans. This album is more laid back. The anger
has gone and been replaced with gentler, more reflective songs.
The opening track, Honeycomb wouldn't seem out of place on a Feed-
er album, being a distorted-guitar pop-rock song with a chorus that you
can sing along to. The next few tracks are somewhat more relaxed, using
the traditional combination of clean guitars and strings to create typical
soft rock melodies. Although these songs are well written, they don't
stand out and could quite easily serve the purpose of background music.
Just about anyone can guess whom the song Cobain (Rainbow Dead-
head) is about. O n e of the more notable songs on the album, it com-
bines jazzy verses with louder, heavier choruses based around the refrain
'Cobain was murdered by you'.
Just Be is another catchy number which could quite easily be the theme
tune to a children's television show. A spiky but friendly piano and
descending bass-line are accompanied by melodic vocals, but lyrics like
"numbskull, you are haemorrhaging" clearly separate the anguish of a
tortured rock star from The Raggy Dolls. The album ends on the ballad
Brandy Duval, about his mother who died of a heroin overdose when
Keith was only one year old. Again, orchestral instruments are used here
to build the song into a fitting tribute.
One thing that I have always noticed about Keith Caputo is that he's got
a good voice. It worked well in Life of Agony, and it works just as well
on his solo work. This album contains songs that you'd probably expect
to hear from someone like Paul Young (don't let that put you off), rather
than somebody who once fronted a heavy metal band. It's good for
chilling out to after an energetic night out, although there are better
albums for this purpose. Sadly, although Died Laughing is suited for a
wide audience, most people who might like it will probably never get a
chance to hear it.
Death In Vegas
@ The Forum, Kentish Town
After bringing the house down and earning rave reviews (inducing on
these pages) after their autumn gig at the Shepherd's Bush Empire,
Death in Vegas' visit to the Forum was hugely anticipated. In the inter-
im, their latest album, The Contino Sessions, has enjoyed considerable
success. Testament to their acceptance into the mainstream is the fact
that a single - Aisfia - has been used in that bastion of the middle-of-
the-road, the background music for a TV advert. Yet the music hasn't in
any way become more ordinary: in fact, very little has changed.
General exposure to the music meant that the crowd was more familiar
with the band's material, which noticeably improved the atmosphere at
the Forum. However, there were few other improvements since that gig
a few months ago. The deep reggae DJ's were the same; the crazy film
projections were the same; in fact, DiV played basically the same set.
The order was perhaps varied, but the tunes all came from the last
album. O f course, this pleased the crowd just as much second time
around.
But for those of us who saw the first performance, this latest one was
ultimately disappointing, since none of the guest vocalists from the
album joined the band on stage. Deprived of the distraction of a singer,
the audience often was left wondering exactly what the blokes hidden
behind big boxes of electronics were actually doing. The confusion was
exacerbated during the vocal tracks when we could hear singing,
despite the fact that there was plainly no vocalist anywhere near a
microphone. It generated a strange distortion of our concept of reality,
and left us asking ourselves what was really being performed and what
was coming off DAT.
No Bobbie Gillespe this time, not even Dot Allison and definitely no
Iggy Pop. In November, I counted 17 people on stage at one point:
DiV's stage presence was certainly diminished (and not just numerical-
ly) by this, although the enthusiasm of the crowd reinstated some ener-
gy to the proceedings. To be fair, the band did still manage to rock the
joint. The music was as twisty as ever, with their trippy jams working the
crowd into a frenzy on several occasions. They command your attention
like any top act, and the question about what constitutes 'live' electronic
music could be asked of many bands. Still, the gig left Felix with spec-
ulating as to what could have been....
Minder Valmik
The Felix Music Team is ALWAYS looking for more writers, so if you're interested in contributing, we interested in having you. Just come into the
office on Tuesday or Friday lunchtimes and ask for Thom or James. Failing that drop us an email at music.felix@ic.ac.uk. See you soon!

