2 May 2000 • Felix Music
Bedrock Bedrock
Bedrock
@ Heaven
Well, well, well. It's all over: lectures, the
project, the term, everything. I suppose
that there's a few exams, but we can deal
with that. So we've a five week Easter hol-
iday - time for some fun methinks. And, as
if G o d has heard my calls, there are two
Bedrock nights at heaven over Easter.
Wicked and Wild!
Night one is a birthday special, with
Danny Tenaglia and Deep Dish joining the
residents to provide the kind of music
clubs were built for. The night kicks off
well with the other rooms in the venue
providing a nice warm up to the wonder in
the main room. Then we move to the main
room to finish off with the above men-
tioned DJs. The night is good enough, but
the evening ends suddenly and we feel as
if we've missed something.
Two weeks later and we're back again.
Only this time we know we're not going to
leave disappointed. This time it's Maundy
Thursday, so the next day is a bank holi-
day and the crowd will be up for a big
one. What's more Sasha is appearing as
a guest (for the unitiated or those that
ignore the club scene, clubbers feel the
same way about Sasha as fanatical foot-
ball fans feel about their team). As a
result, the queue is round the corner when
we arrive and it looks like it's going to
take well over an hour to negotiate it. So
we do what all. good student journalists
do: we blag our way in at the front and
are on the dancefloor in ten minutes flat.
The music was better than we could hope
and the crowd moves like only a Heaven
crowd can. Three o'clock comes and we
swear we'll be back for the next one. See
you there?
Dan
f r e q u e n c y * / \
Fridays
@ Netting Hill Arts Club
As the house prices show, South Kensington is a highly
desirable place to live. However, although the architec-
ture is nice enough, it's not really what I'd call the perfect
place for students to call home. From Prince's Gardens
it's quite a long walk to the nearest twenty-four hour
shop, and who knows how far to the nearest late night
drinking and dancing dens. It was for this reason that I
couldn't wait to move away from the embassies and the
museums and toward a place with a little more spice. My
flat for the last three years now has been located in
amongst the kebab shops and tourist shops of
Queensway, and although it's not exactly in club central
Farringdon or the West-End, it is located within just a
couple of minutes of quite a few funky night-spots. Per-
haps the most notable of these is the Notting Hill Arts
Club, and Felix managed to spend a few hours there
during the holidays to find out what's what.
First things first, you don't get student discount on entry
on a Friday, so it's six of your finest pounds to gain
admission. The drinks inside aren't particularly cheap
(three pounds a bottle), but there is quite a good selec-
tion if your wallet's up for a pounding. There's even
Absinthe on the menu for those who are tempted by
these things, and this can seem like an excellent idea
after a few beers. For those of drug orientated nature,
note that this is probably not the place for madness,
rather one for those looking for a quieter night out or try-
ing to be a bit too cool. Which brings me to my main
gripe about this place. A lot of the people at the venue
don't seem to be having a good time and are just at this
venue trying to be out with the in crowd. However, all this
can be happily ignored as the music gets you going. Fur-
thermore, you can also have a great time observing
those trying to be cool and seeing the fashion victims
boogie on the dance floor.
So I suppose what I'm saying is that this is not your aver-
age dance club. It is, however, an excellent place to hear
some brilliant music a n d , although there is probably
more than your average sprinkling of weirdoes inside,
this should definitely not put you off.
John
Recommended
Clubbing
This clubbing column has been missing
for too long. Now it's back, I suggest
you take your pick and a break from
revision. After all, dancing is an excel-
lent remedy to many problems.
Tuesday 2rd May
Stoned Asia @ Dogstar; FREE!
The Dogstar is an excellent venue for
some midweek boogie-ing and as this
night is free, you could a lot worse
than this if you have a night off.
Thursday 4th May
Bedrock @ Heaven; £ 8
Pete Tong joins M r Digweed and M r
Howells for Felix's favourite clubnight
this month. Bedrock comes with the
highest recommendation possible and
I don't think that there's a better club
night in the country. It's just a shame
Sasha can't play every week.
Friday 5th May
Gallery @ Turnmills; £ 8
Last week was the fifth birthday party of
this excellent clubnight. I can imagine
this still going strong after another five.
Move @ Ministry; £ 8
The Ministry has had a lot to put up
with this year with the emergence of
clubs such as home and Fabric. How-
ever, it still has much to offer and
should definitely not be avoided
Sunday 7th May
Metalheadz @ Dingwalls; £ 6
Still going strong, this is probably still
the best drum'n'bass club in the coun-
try. Make sure you try this at least once.
To have your club added to this list just
invite us along, we'll check it out and if
we like it we'll put it down
e-mail: music.felix@ic.ac.uk
phone: 020 7594 8072 ask for Thorn

