18 Films Felix • 2 May 2000
I I s c r e e n
Sunshine
Any film with Ralph Fiennes can be guaranteed not to be full of belly-
laughing humour or infantile silliness. In fact, even a film with the title Sun-
shine, of course, because it stars Ralph Fiennes, will have nothing to do
with happiness or nice things but will be about doom, gloom and despair.
This film is an epic in terms of both length (three hours) and content, which
without doubt is firmly on the serious side of serious.
However, this does not mean it is a bad film and it is not by any stretch of
the imagination. It follows the trials and tribulations of the Sonnenschein
family over one hundred and fifty years up to the present day. Set in direc-
tor Istvan Szabo's native Hungary, we follow three generations of a Jewish
family, as they struggle to keep themselves as one against a backdrop of
political turmoil and two World Wars. The story begins with Emmanuel,
who using his inheritance of a recipe book for a liquor called 'Sunshine'
transforms his family from local peasant to wealthy businessman. His son,
Ignatz builds on his father's respectability by becoming a high court judge.
However, much to his families' horror, he is having a secret affair with his
'sister', Valerie. However, she is actually his first cousin, but treated as his
sibling after her father, Emmanuel's brother died. They have two sons, one
of whom, Adam, becomes an Olympic fencer. He, himself has two chil-
dren, cheats on his wife, before like most of them, succumbing to the hor-
rors of the Holocaust. His only son to survive, Ivan scared by seeing his
father executed, seeks revenge by political motives in the Communist
movement. Before long the hypocrisy of the Communists dawns on him
and so he campaigns for democracy, a realisation that after years of
struggle, finally happens.
The greatest twist in the film is not the intricacy of the plot, but the fact that
Ralph Fiennes plays Ignatz, Adam and Ivan during the film, reincarnating
himself as the son when his father dies. Each time he also sports a differ-
ent kind of facial hair, a poor disguise I think you'll agree, that fails to mas-
querade the fact that it actually still is Ralph Fiennes. Apart from this stunt,
however, the film is excellent in most respects. Fiennes is supported by a
superb cast, especially Jennifer Ehle and Rosemary Harris as the young
and old Valerie. William Hurt makes an appearance, as does Rachel
Weisz (last seen screaming incessantly at a computer generated mummy).
Tackling a difficult subject, this film depicts very well how, over one hun-
dred and fifty years, Hungarians have been screwed (for want of a better
word) by years of unsuccessful political naivety and experimentation. Will
this film attract the avid Imperial student, whose idea of a good time is
alone in a dark room with a box of Kleenex and a DVD of The Matrix'? No,
of course not. This film is extremely heavy going, which people will find
rewarding only if they put in the effort to make it rewarding.
Erin Brockovich
Based on a true story, Erin Brockovich is the latest film to star Julia Roberts
of Notting Hill fame. Do not make the mistake of dismissing this as anoth-
er movie where she plays a doey eyed female who eventually falls in love
with the first attractive bloke she stumbles across. This is not that type of
film.
Instead, Julia Roberts plays Erin Brockovich, a single mother of three who
has led a hard life, knows it herself and doesn't mind letting other people
know it. One day, she is involved in a car accident in which she is badly
injured. Unfortunately, Ed Masry, the lawyer hired to present her case in
court does not succeed and she is left in debt due to all the medical
expenses she incurred because of the accident. Determined to work, Erin
hassles Ed Masry (Albert Finney) who failed her in court, to give her a job.
He does his best not to give in but eventually has no choice, as Erin is one
determined bitch. Whilst in his employment she stumbles across some files
that don't make sense to her and convinces Ed into letting her investigate
them. This she does extremely well and unearths a conspiracy. The rest of
the story is about how Erin and Ed deal with the conspiracy .
Although not a romantic comedy, this film could be classed as one. It has
all the makings of a romance but without all that slushy stuff that makes
guys go 'urghl' and it is also extremely amusing at times. The funniest bits
are the references by Erin to her breasts, especially when she is trying to
get herself heard by people who wouldn't normally listen to some-one like
her. This she does quite a lot and has the desired effect. Apparently the
enhanced cleavage is all down to a special gel padded bra not a boob
job, but I'm not convinced.
The director, Steven Soderbergh, allows his classic trademarks to shine
through in this work. Soderbergh casts an excellent leading pair in Julia
Roberts and Ed Finney just as he did with Jennifer Lopez and George
Clooney in Out of Sight. Admittedly, there is no sexual chemistry between
the pair as Finney's character is old enough to easily be Roberts father, but
they do share a screen chemistry that works like a dream. Making a
cameo is the real Erin Brockovich as a waitress in a restaurant that the
character Erin takes her children to for a treat. Try not to blink at that point
or you will miss her. Soderbergh's cinematography is similar to that of his
previous movies and that too works well without distracting from the sto-
ryline.
If you are a fan of Julia Roberts (or just interested in her new blossoming
cleavage) this film is a must see. It has so much feel good factor and just
goes to show that you can do absolutely anything you want if you want it
enough.
Drew Helen

