2 May 2000 » Felix Films 19
Scream 3
Scream 3 is the third and final part in the
Scream trilogy and in my opinion it is better
than the second and just as good as the first.
The characters who managed to make it to the
end of the last one have been re-united for the
very last time.
The story takes place on the set of 'Stab 3' in
Hollywood - a film about Scream 2. Everyone
is now a little older but not wiser, as people are
still dropping like flies. When there are deaths
on the set, Sydney Prescott (Neve Campbell)
joins up with the others including Gale Weath-
ers (Courteney Cox) and Dewey Riley (David
Arquette). Eventually, after lots of suspense
and thrills, the killer and the motives are
revealed. It's not a predictable ending. Instead
it's quite sad and one classic of the director,
Wes Craven.
There was a lot of secrecy on the set of Scream
3 and not even the cast knew who the killer
would be. This wasn't just Wes Craven being
his normal self but to stop a repeat perform-
ance of when some of the script from Scream
2 appeared on the internet before the scene
was even shot. This movie provides a satisfac-
tory end to the trilogy and it's a good thing
that Wes Craven has decided to stop making
Scream films before it got like Nightmare On
Elm Street.
You don't need to have seen any of the previ-
ous Scream's to enjoy this movie. It does help
you to follow the story, but is not essential.
There is plenty to laugh and jump at in this
movie. If you are a squeamish type, remember
to take, someone with you to hold your hand
and fill you in on the bits of story you will miss
due to hiding behind your hand.
Watch this space next week for an interview
with director, Wes Craven and leading lady,
Neve Campbell.
Out On Video
I D Hele
The X-Files: Closure
Closure is a previously unseen (on both Sky
and BBC), feature length episode of the X-Files
which marks the end of the mythology sur-
rounding Mulder's sister Samantha. For those
of you who are regular followers of the X-Files,
you will know all about the hype surrounding
Samantha's disappearance. This episode
apparently solves this issue but not to a very
satisfactory conclusion. At least not one suited
to a college full of scientists.
Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) and Dana Scul-
ly (Gillian Anderson) join forces with a police
psychic to help solve the mysterious disap-
pearance of a young girl. This brings back
strong emotions in Mulder which are connect-
ed to his sister. As the story goes on, more
information is found out about Mulder's sister.
As would be expected, all the usual characters
are involved including Cancer Man and Assis-
tant Director Skinner.
Closure has the same formula as any regular
episode of The X-files. It's nothing special but
if you are a huge fan, this episode will intrigue
you and answer some of those long standing
questions. 3 / 5
X-Files Competition
Thanks to Twentieth Century Fox, Screen has
three X-Files: Closure videos. It has been out to
buy since 24 April but if you've put off buying it
due to lack of funds, answer the following ques-
tion and you could get your hands on a copy
free of charge.
What is the number of Agent Fox Mulder's
apartment?
E-mail the answer to film.felix@ic.ac.uk before
1 2pm on Friday and it could be you who owns
an exclusive copy of X-Files : Closure.
s c r e e n \Z3
/ C U
C I N E M A
What's On At ICU Cinema
Toy Story 2
This is the sequel to the amazing Toy Story. All the
old characters are back, and the same actors as
in the original Toy Story do all their voices. The
new characters are from "Woody's Roundup", a
TV show in which Woody (the cowboy) starred
during the 1 950s. In it, his sidekick was the cow-
girl Jessie (voiced by Joan Cusack), while his
horse was called Bullseye. Kelsey Grammar voic-
es the final character, The Prospector, a kindly
old fellow who is not all that he seems. The story
revolves around a malevolent toy collector, who
kidnaps Woody so that he can make his collec-
tion of toys from "Woody's Roundup" complete,
in order to sell them to a museum for lots of
money. O f course, this leaves Buzz Lightyear and
co to go and rescue Woody, while fighting a new
enemy, Zurg. This film is definitely worth watch-
ing so get down to the cinema.
The Green Mile
This film is made by the same people that did
The Shawshank Redemption, and also it is based
on a Stephen King short story. The story is very
different in nature and, as only Stephen King is
able to do, he conjures something incredibly
intricate up out of the blue, and you have no
idea how, when and where it is going to finish.
The story is set around a prison death row in
1 930's Louisiana. Tom Hanks plays Paul Edge-
comb, the head guard who oversees and ulti-
mately leads the prisoners to their punishment -
which is death by the electric chair. Everything
seems pretty normal, until a black prisoner
named John Coffey, convicted of the gruesome
murder of a pair of young girls, arrives. Then, all
of a sudden, you are whisked from normality,
when the prisoner holds Edgecomb's meat and
two veg and performs a small miracle. A strange
plot twist, I think you'll agree, and one that leaves
him understandably shocked. What ensues,
however, is a captivating tale that combines stark
reality with fantasy, surrounding a simple giant
whose special ability makes him frightened of the
world around him. Be warned though, this film is
three hours long!

