20 Films Felix « 2 May 2000
I I s c r e e n
Odeon Kensington Competition
Scream 3 has now opened nationwide and is definitely going to be a
massive blockbuster. To celebrate its opening Screen have five pairs of
tickets courtesy of the kind people at the O d e o n Kensington to give
away. Tired of studying for all those exams? Get your brain in gear to
answer the following question and you might earn yourself a night away
from the books. This week's question is simple so you have no excuse
for not entering.
Who connects Scream 3 to / Know What You Did Last Summer?
E-mail the the correct answer to film.felix@ic.ac.uk before 12pm on Fri-
day and keep your fingers crossed.
All winners of previous competitions have been e-mailed so go and
check yours to see if you've won.
10th Kingdom Competition
Wth Kingdom is the a new drama being shown on Sky as we speak and
Screen has been lucky enough to get our hands on some competition
copies of 10th Kingdom courtesy of Warner Vision. All you have to do to
get your hands on a box set of 10th Kingdom, just e-mail the correct
answer of the following question to film.felix@ic.ac.uk before 12pm on
Friday.
Who connects 10th Kingdom to Tales of the Unexpected?
Warner Vision have released the whole series of the J 0th Kingdom on
May 1st as a box set-and it costs just £39.99 for the set. If you don't
want to buy it but really, really want to own a set, just enter the com-
petition.
Odeon Kensington Student Offers
Still finding cinemas expensive in London? Fear no more! The O d e o n
Kensington will let you see films Monday to Friday for only £4.50 a
showing at their cinema. You can also go to the Saturday late shows for
only £4.50. You won't find a better bargain in this part of London so
go on get out there and see some of the fantastic new films that are
out. The O d e o n Kensington is situated at the far end of Kensington
High Street, and to get there all you need to do is get on number 9 or
1 0 bus or take a twenty minute walk due west. Make sure you take stu-
dent ID (Union, ULU or ISIC card) with you to take advantage of this
great offer.
Any Given Sunday
Set in the world of American football, Any Given Sunday is the work of the
masterful Oliver Stone. He takes a look at the professional sports world from
a completely different perspective. It is the first time that Oliver Stone and Al
Pacino have actually worked together on the big screen.
Tony D'Amato (Al Pacino) is the coach of Miami Sharks, a once glorious and
magnificent team. Now they are battling for survival after three consecutive
losses, sliding attendance and aging heroes. One such aging hero is the 39-
year-old quarterback, Jack 'Cap' Rooney (Dennis Quaid) who clings to his
team as if he is trying to cling to his youth. He is replaced by the young, inven-
tive quarterback Willie Beamen (Jamie Foxx) when C a p is benched due to
injury. From there on there is a wrangle between coach and the new young
star. The coach struggles to update his methods and the star refuses to con-
form. Eventually, it all works out but there is much macho-ness first.
Stone is not one to be shy of tackling tricky subjects. He has produced mas-
terpieces such as Platoon and JFK, both of which take a look at difficult sub-
jects and then presents them in a thought provoking way. Any Given Sunday
doesn't do this. The story is predictable and is a tale about nothing less than
what I would expect from a sport run by wealth. Admittedly, I don't know a lot
about American football, being more of a rugby fan myself, but this film did-
n't shed any new or exciting light on a topic of which I am almost completely
ignorant. It does show how aging players cope with up and coming stars and
how sportsmen deal with finance over health.
There are some excellent performances from all the cast. The most notable is
the fine piece of acting delivered by Cameron Diaz. She plays Christina Pag-
niacci who has inherited the Miami Sharks organisation from her late father.
This character is a corporate bitch and a complete control freak. It is one role
that Diaz seems to fit very easily. After roles such as the pet-loving wife in Being
John Malkovich or nice girl in Something About Mary, it's good to see she can
still carry this off. There isn't a point in the film that she opens her mouth with-
out shouting or being aggressive at some-one. There is also a cameo from
Charlton Heston as the Commissioner of the Associated Football Franchises
of America' whose job it is to look after the interests of all the owners of the
football teams.
For those of you who are huge fans of American football and understand the
rules, Any Given Sunday might be of some interest to you. It will give you an
insight to how the whole football industry is run as well as the emotions
involved in being an excellent sportsman. If you are not a fan then this film is
about relationships on and off the sports field and how they are tackled. Just
one word of warning when you watch this film: don't leave until the credits are
over as the best twist in the story-line comes at the end.
• Helen

