2 May 2000 » Felix Films 21
s c r e e n \~1
Helen Clark interviews Al Pacino, star of Oliver Stone's Any Given Sunday
Oscar winner Al Pacino was born on 25 April 1 940
in New York city and is probably most famously
known for his part as Michael Corleone in the
Godfather movies. Recently he starred in the grip-
ping cigarette conspiracy drama, The Insider and
his latest work is Any Given Sunday. Screen was
lucky enough to have an opportunity to talk to the
man himself and what follows is what we found out.
Are you a big fan of American football?
I don't know it as well as I know baseball but I have
played as a youngster. The game has changed
now. I don't know the inner workings of it but I
enjoy watching it.
There are about a hundred speaking parts in Any
Given Sunday. You're the lead so is that anything
like being the quarterback on a successful team.
A football player told me once in my research that
playing quarterback is like going in the opposite
direction on the freeway in LA with the traffic com-
ing at you and reading Hamlet at the same time.
Do you think American football players deserve the
huge salaries they get?
When one looks into the life span of an athlete and
takes into account the kind of money generated by
playing the game, you have to step back and deter-
mine what you think. I do believe athletes are paid
what they generate. It's a dangerous game. I never
thought much about the price they receive. I'm sure
it's relative to how much they bring in so I imagine
it's fair.
Tony D'Amato's perfect night in would appear to
be jambalaya, Billie Holiday on the stereo and
Ben-Hur on TV. What would be your perfect night
in?
That is a creative question. It seems like I'm always
fantasising on certain foods but it's not practical for
me to eat them. There's a movie I like to see that
plays a lot on the telly. McCabe and Mrs Miller is
always playing on the satellite TV I have. I'm a big
Julie Christie fan and I always have been. As for
music, it would be Frank Sinatra but I also like to
listen to arias.
Do you feel that other adors are intimidated by
you?
I don't feel that when I'm working with them. I just
do my work the same way I have always done. I
couldn't possibly act if I felt that they had this feel-
ing towards me because we all get in there and do
it together. When I come to do a movie I feel I come
with thirty years of past and movies that I've made
so people have a tendency to respond to where
they know you. There's an image instilled in people
of you. I have it when I meet someone that I know
just through movies. Through the years, I've learnt
to let that go because they are never what you think
they are. In answer to the question, it's built in any-
way and they soon get over it. We are like different
instruments in an orchestra and all the actors play
together.
Was Oliver Stone the director you have always
wanted to work with?
Oliver directs as if he is in a state of chaos. He was
directing four different scenes in the movie at the
same time. I was jaw dropped by that. He knows
what he's doing and you feel that. You have confi-
dence in some one who has a definitive vision of
what they want.
Your character Tony D'Amato is afraid of the
changes as he gets older. Do you relate to that as
you approach sixty?
Maybe I've been spared as to me the whole idea of
age is relative to the business you are in. I don't give
it much thought, as it's all relative. Chronological
age doesn't interest me.
Maybe I'm kidding myself. There are certain
acting parts that come up that you don't feel you
want to do as you've done them before. I'm not that
interested in playing roles I might have been inter-
ested in twenty years ago.
How have you and Oliver Stone changed over the
twenty years you've known each other?
I don't think Oliver has changed at all. He's still as
wild as ever and that's wonderful. He's the same
guy I knew back then. Only he can tell you if I've
changed. I hope I did a little. I don't feel as
laboured about things any more. I believe in a
healthy preparation for things.
Do you think this film will appeal to people who
don't know anything about American football?
I don't know. That's going to be interesting to see.
I think they will get into the philosophy of it and the
impact it has on people's lives. So maybe that is
relatable.
Every few years actors come and go but you've
stayed; is there a formula to being an actor that
lasts?
Most actors go with the first role that anyone will
have you in. There's a point in a career where if you
do make it people want to use you just because
you've made it. You have to be careful when you
chose a part, not to do it just because people want
you. If you weren't famous, they probably wouldn't
take you for the part. Along the way, my choices for
things have changed. I made a little picture called
Chinese Coffee myself. I've just finished putting it
together. It only took four years. It's a small movie.
I haven't acted in a year. I'm trying to find some-
thing I can connect to now.
What has going behind the camera taught you
about acting?
There's a distinction between wanting to make a
film and being a director. I flinch when I say direc-
tor because I know what directors are and what
they do and I'm not one of them. I'm not in that
league. It's another talent. I look at things as an
actor. I look at life and what I choose to do from an
actor's point of view. For instance, this picture Chi-
nese Coffee, I was acting in it and the director that
I wanted wasn't there so I did it. It's almost impos-
sible to direct yourself and act well in a movie you
direct. I can see the flaws in the film I made. If I was-
n't in it, I think I could have done it better. The poor
other actors in it I didn't direct them at all. After
each take thirty people rush to this little monitor to
see the take and I just sit there and wait for their ver-
dict. They come back and say do it again. The film
isn't bad. I'm a little embarrassed about directing as
to me it's a different language.

