22 Games Felix > 2 May 2000
© g a m e s
••——»« m^^m i mi m\ m • \^^^^m^m ......... 1iiimmninnnr
Hydro Thunder (DC)
Well, it's called Hydro Thunder: guess what it's about. Yep, racing...on
water. A concept. But a good concept? For those of you who played and
enjoyed the Wipeouf series, then this is not going to disappoint. Very simi-
lar in many ways (except with no weapons, although strangely you don't
miss them).
The concept: You own a boat. You are good at racing your boat. You get
invited to a bunch of races organised by other people who like racing their
boats (usually in illegal places) at very high speed. If you are good enough
to finish the first (easiest) three courses, using the three beginner boats, then
you can do the medium ones, and then the hard ones, and then the bonus
ones (getting new boats at each level). So there's almost a plot. But no,
nothing clever or new. O n the other hand the boats do go very fast - so fast
that you can make them fly (which is quite surreal) for limited amounts of
time. You can also bash other boats out of the water when you have
engaged your turbo (explained later), including police boats which are try-
ing to stop you from having your fun, just because you pushed over a
kayaker in an American lake. Which is nice.
The graphics are very nice indeed. A fast refresh rate and good sounds
really make you feel there. You remember the kayakers? Well they squawk
as you run them down. Very satisfactory. And when you engage your turbo
(explained later), the engines transform. And what's better is that each boat
has a different transformation. Now, I'm not a big fan of Star Trek, but I do
remember the first time I saw the credits for Voyager, and the engines did
that moving thing just before warping, I thought "cool". And this is much
better. And there are thirteen boats. So at least thirteen times cooler.
The levels are fun too. Each one has different obstacles in the middle of the
water, depending on the setting: in the Arctic you have to avoid icebergs,
and in the Far East you have to avoid big junks. Similarly you have differ-
ent spectators - penguins and polar bears in one (oh dear, someone didn't
do their homework), and paddy field workers in the other. And then there's
the turbo... You go pretty fast anyway, but you can pick up these turbo
things which will increase your speed to about double, and will also make
you invincible to other boats. The only way to complete the levels is to know
where these are, and to pick up at least all of them, and then use them all
up in exactly the right places, so that you can beat the other boats by about
half a second, if you're lucky. This game is quite tough. There are also
secret passages that can be found, and although they shorten the route,
there might not be as many boosts along the way. This is not good.
So play this game if you like burning water. The learning curve is challeng-
ing (but fair) and all in all this is good clean family fun.
In association with
gameswire.com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
Tokyo Highway Challenge (DC)
I know that you all lie in bed, dreaming of being subversive. You know
what I mean. You want to get out of your bed, go outside, and steal a
car. Then you want to joy ride it. Well now - if you want - you can.
Brumm. This is fun.
Actually, to be honest, you don't really steal the cars - but you do drive
around the Tokyo equivalent of the M 2 5 abusing nice, normal, law-abid-
ing citizens. And it's all at night, so I felt like I was joy riding. The concept
of this game is unusual for the genre: you go round and round in circles,
and if you see someone who is considered a rival (ie another racer as
opposed to a normal commuter), you challenge them by flashing your
headlights at them. Then you race them while avoiding all the other peo-
ple, in an attempt to win and get money. This game rapidly becomes
quite difficult. Then, when you've got enough cash for your next upgrade,
or you've beaten everyone on the road that night, you exit on a slip road.
It's a nicely satisfying way to end your day (although you can quit from a
menu).
There are many different cars you can buy, but I really don't know how
you're meant to get enough cash to even buy one in addition to your
starting car. You receive money by beating other people in a race, and
the more difficult they are considered to be, the more money you get.
However, you can also spend your cash on upgrading your vehicle, but
this can be more expensive than buying a new car, so it all seems to dis-
appear if you want to have any chance of beating people.
But it's still good fun. The method of racing is more like a beat 'em up:
the further ahead of them you are, the faster they lose (for lack of a bet-
ter description) 'energy', and when it gets to zero, they lose (and you
cheer like crazy).
The control mechanism is easy to learn, but the idea is that you can mod-
ify your car to get more control over things like drift, suspension height,
gear ratio, etc. So, if you upgrade your suspension, you are then given
the option to change how high you want it, whenever you want (except
while driving), which definitely adds to the realism of the game. The
graphics are amazing as well (somewhat unsurprisingly - after all, surely
that's why you brought a Dreamcast), which is great when you're sitting
inside the cockpit of the car, and there are several different soundtracks
included on the disc, which seem to relate to the rival you're racing.
All in all a good game, and if you like the idea of being an urban war-
rior, fighting it out on the highways of Tokyo and generally causing wide-
spread mayhem, then this is for you.
Will Will

