24 Books Felix * 2 May 2000
b o o k s
j o l n n p x * e s * t o n
W H I L E I ' J V t D E A D . .
F E E D T H E
Ink
John Preston
1989. Fleet Street is being abandoned by the last
of the papers still based there. Hugh Byrne, a
reporter at one, is on the verge of cracking up,
seeming to have lost the ability to write. A throw-
away story about a man found dead in the
Thames offers him his last chance before his
impatient News Editor makes him bring the
Queen Mother's obituary up to date. Ink follows
Hugh's investigations into the drowned man as
the paper winds up its offices and prepares to
move to Canary Wharf, weaving a shadowy tale
of secrets, lies and newsprint.
Preston paints a dark picture of a traditional news-
paper operation, from the rows of hacks at type-
writers in the offices, to the nightmarish depths of
the printing presses and Byzantine politics of the
building. It seems a world away from the modern
world of desktop publishing, and it's hard to fath-
om how much has changed in ten years.
The novel itself works well. Blackly comedic, yet
absorbing and intricate, it's stylishly written and
thought provoking. There's a strong sense of iso-
lation and dejection in Hugh's thoughts and
lifestyle, which adds depth and intensity to the
characterisation. The other characters tend to be
a little vague, although most are complex and
realistic. Hugh's development and awakening is
well portrayed, contrasting with the simultaneous
decline of the paper. The plot is slick, and the
twists are only partly revealed in the conclusion,
which is itself a little ambiguous. The emphasis is
not so much on finishing the story as on the cul-
mination of Hugh's escape from the problems that
haunt him throughout. .It's not perfect - it doesn't
quite hang together, and there's a suspicion that
some elements are there for the sake of a joke, or
to sneer at some journalistic stereotypes (Preston
is the Daily Telegraph's Arts Editor). Overall,
though, this is well worth a read; unusual, accom-
plished and grimly fascinating.
While I'm Dead Feed the Dog
Ric Browde
Ric Brodie spent most of his childhood travelling
around Europe and America, before settling
down to an unsuccessful rock career. To make
ends meet he managed brothels, directed porn
films, produced records and teaching English to
foreigners (the latter not being as wholesome as
it perhaps sounds). So what does the singer/gui-
tarist of The Amateur Gynaecologists have to
write about?
While I'm Dead Feed The Dog is set in a sleepy
suburb of St Louis, Missouri, where nothing ever
happens. This is until the sixteen year old Ric
Thibault is corrupted by a leopard-skin bikini
clad David Bowie promoter and his mother's
best friend (who also happens to be his best
friend's mother). From here Ric starts on his con-
quest to seduce the most beautiful girl in the
world, Nina Pennington.
Of course, there are a few obstacles in the way;
a couple of dead Latin teachers, a father in the
Mafia, being forced to tour with David Bowie
and his mother leaving him a goodbye note
reading "While I'm dead: Feed The Dog" after
her first suicide attempt. Ric is caught in a whirl-
wind of hype which takes him to near stardom
during the seventies by simply loosing his virgini-
ty (albeit in impressive style).
Brodie describes the book as "totally autobio-
graphical except for all the bits where I lied" and
I hope he lies a lot! With seven deaths and too
many sexual encounters to count, this book
moves along quickly and is an incredibly easy
read. This novel would definitely appeal to some
one with a slightly darker sense of humour; in
fact if you are of a more sensitive nature I would
advise you to avoid it altogether. All in all, While
I'm Dead Feed Tthe Dog is a light, shallow and
raunchy novel with a story line which gradually
progresses further and further from this world.
C r e a t i n g a'
W e b P a g e
F o u r t h E d i t i o n
The Complete Idiot's Guide to
Creating a Web Page
You've got to admit that this is not really going
to appeal to any of us, I am afraid to say. Most
of us who do care probably already know quite
a bit of HTML, and don't want to be (what we
see as) patronised by an 'idiot's' guide. And
those of us who don't care, don't care.
A h ' , I hear you say. 'What happened to jour-
nalistic impartiality?' Well, okay. For the person
who is an idiot, and does want to write a web
page (let's say an Oxford 'computing' student),
this book would be very handy. It is a continu-
ation of the famous Idiot's Guide series, and as
such, it is extremely simple to read, taking you
through the steps in a relatively rational fash-
ion. But is this really sufficiently simple for
idiots? Take, for example, my mother. She's a
lovely woman, but no idea about computers. If
I were to show her this book she would proba-
bly cry - but I have to say that I think even she
would be able to cotton onto this (once she
summoned up the courage to open the cover).
The style is informal, which is clearly very
important in this kind of book, and everything
is explained in detail which, although some-
times excruciating for someone with computer
know-how, truly is idiot-proof. However, this is
not a short book, and there is certainly a learn-
ing curve: later chapters in the book deal with
Java-script and image mapping. Nonetheless,
if you already know a bit of HTML, and aren't
scared of it, you would probably benefit from
buying a more advanced book.
So, all in all, if you're not too techie parents/
friends/you are thinking of going into the web-
business, then this is definitely a good book to
buy. For someone less scared of computers,
however, one could spend money on a book
equally as big, but with much more informa-
tion.
I D Gareth ID Guy I D D Will

