GLA Elections Felix « 2 May 2000
l i p It's m a k e y o u r m i n d u p t i m e . . .
Ken Livingstone
- Independent -
Transport: Will oppose tube privatisation and demand
increased government grants to subsidise modernising
programmes. Also promises to freeze fares in real terms
for four years, push for two new tube lines and intro-
duce congestion charging.
Crime: Promises to dramatically increase staffing, with
2000 new officers as an initial target, and invest heav-
ily in drugs awareness and rehabilitation schemes.
Jobs: Will lobby the Government to increase London
weighting for all public sector employees.
Homes: Says he will pressurise the Government to pro-
vide funding for 15 000 new, affordable homes, whilst
working to reclaim London's 100 000 empty homes.
Money: Will oppose the Government's proposed cut-
back in regeneration funding and battle against high
interest rates and the strong pound, which "creates
uncertainty and concern" in manufacturing industries.
Silly thing: "As Mayor, I will back the case for London
student maintenance arrangements which fully meet
the extra costs of studying in the capital."
Website: www.livingstoneforiondon.org.uk/
Frank Dobson
- Labour -
Susan Kramer
Liberal Democrat
Steven Norris
- Conservative
Darren Johnson
- Green -
Transport: Promises to oppose tube privatisation and
congestion charges, renew the tube system by 2010,
give a free bus passes to every under-eighteen in the
capital, and ensure that there are "no increased taxes,
fares or charges during my first four years".
Crime: Says he will reverse the rise in street crime with-
in two years, "sweep drugs off our streets" and put
more police on the streets.
Jobs: Will work in partnership with business to create
an extra 100 000 jobs, and set up a new task force to
tackle black and Asian unemployment.
Homes: Offers 10 000 cheap new homes for nurses,
teachers and police officers. Promises to "work flat out"
to combat homelessness.
Money: Will freeze Council Tax in real terms and intro-
duce a "London Lottery" to raise £50 million for good
causes chosen by Londoners.
Silly thing: "I will celebrate the capital with an annual
Sunday Out for Londoners, with traffic banned from the
centre and free museum entry."
Website: www.frank-dobson.org.uk/
Transport: "Rescuing public transport is my first priority."
Promises to avoid tube privatisation via good manage-
ment and proper investment, with revenue bonds pro-
viding billions for rebuilding.
Crime: Says she will fight Jack Straw to give the Metro-
politan Police the resources it needs, reversing recent
cuts in police numbers. Will back up Met officers with
1000 "Community Safety Constables".
Jobs: Will focus training on the jobs that are available
and promote e-commerce businesses.
Homes: Promises to "revitalise communities and combat
social exclusion" by improving housing and increasing
the availability of training and health centres.
Money: Will set-up a network of new "Community
Banks" to revive High Street shopping and help new
businesses.
Silly thing: "I will take the local government workers -
traffic wardens, street inspectors, park rangers - and
give them training and responsibility to watch out for the
safety of the community."
Website: www.susankramer.org/
Transport: Promises to deliver 24-hour tube and bus
services, a massive rail and tube expansion pro-
gramme, no congestion charges, fewer bus lanes, and
2000 miles of dedicated cycle paths.
Crime: Insists he will reverse recent cuts in police num-
bers, increase the number of officers drawn from
minority groups, publish daily crime figures and estab-
lish a new independent complaints commission.
Jobs: Will work with the new Learning & Skills Councils
to ensure training opportunities for the unemployed.
Will lobby the Government to increase London weight-
ing for all public sector employees.
Homes: Says he will promote right-to-buy schemes and
move the homeless off London's streets.
Money: Promises to promote inward investment and
cut-down on red-tape that gets in the way of efficiency
Silly thing: "I will license buskers who pass proper
organised auditions by Tube travellers. In the process,
they will become part of the eyes and ears of manage-
ment."
Website: www.norrisforlondon.com/
Transport: Will reduce road traffic in Central London by
40% by 2008 via congestion charges on private car
use, a new tax on company car-parking spaces, rolling
out "car free" zones, strict enforcement of bus lanes
and a five year fares freeze for all public transport.
Crime: Promises to prioritise racial issues and commu-
nity policing, with increased recruitment from the ethnic
minorities.
Jobs: Says he will create an additional 80 000 jobs in
the environmental and public transport sectors, whilst
revitalising the poorest communities via credit unions
and cooperative schemes.
Homes: Will introduce a "Warm Homes Strategy" to
insulate housing, reduce fuel bills and improve health.
Money: Promises to oppose all schemes which are
"environmentally destructive" (eg Heathrow Terminal
Five) and end low pay and discrimination at work.
Silly thing: "We will press for a reduction in the amount
of violence and advertising on television, especially in
programmes watched by children."
Website: www.greenparty.org.uk/gla2000/

