Travel Felix » 2 May 2000
OH
Having succeeded in blagging some grants and
found someone who was willing to put up with us
for a month and act as our chauffeur for the trip,
a group from IC's Caving Club set of for Moroc-
co last September, equipped with the bare essen-
tials: our ex-RAF four-by-four, a minimal amount
of caving equipment, and even less clothing. And
with that, we set off on our 2000 mile journey...
Arriving in Santander early the next morning,
we immediately started the two day slog across
Spain, heading for the windsurfing mecca of Tari-
fa, where we took advantage of the cheap fuel
and stocked-up on food and spirits. When I say
we, I mean Shed, Goaty, Clewin, Jan and Colm
(all members of IC Caving) and Pete the driver (a
50 year-old man whose ability to drive vast dis-
tances with little rest and only the occasional dram
of whisky was unbelievable). The third and final
leg of our journey started at 4am, driving to Alge-
ceiras to catch the ferry to Tangier. The customs at
Tangier were extremely suspicious of the obvious-
ly military vehicle and started a thorough search,
eventually letting us go when they found some
French literature on caves (and Pete slipped them
some fags).
Arriving in Marrakech late that night, our first
mission was to locate some large scale maps of
the Atlas Mountains. Unfortunately they are very
hard to get and we weren't lucky. Opting to go
looking for food instead, we headed for the
Djeema Efina, a large square at the heart of Mar-
rakech which is packed in the evenings with food-
stalls selling soup, salads, meat, doughnuts and
fruit - all you see whilst approaching arc crowds
of people, and the smell and the smoke are the
only evidence of food. The stallholders shout at
passers-by and each other, competing for custom,
and all you have to sit on are rickety benches
around the edges, squashed in with other people.
That night we headed out of Marrakech and
camped by the road - after all, we were here to
get into the mountains and start exploring for
caves.
Though a large amount of the Atlas are lime-
stone (and therefore contain extensive cave net-
work), we had three main target areas: Jbe
Azourki, Plateau Des Lacs and the Dades and
Todra gorges. We acquired some maps and
background info whilst Goaty (our expedition
geologist) acquired some more info. Goaty was
also our expedition linguist (having been learning
Arabic for the past few months), but sadly his
expertise only stretched as far as useful phrases
such as 'I don't know much Arabic', 'were are the
caves?' and 'how much for the little girl?'. How-
ever, by the end of the trip we had all mastered a
little Arabic and the response we got from the
locals was always completely different as a result.
There are only two roads crossing the Atlas,
so getting into the mountains was done on 'pistes'
(the rough tracks used by the Berbers) on donkeys
and trucks which acted as a bus service for the
locals transporting produce to and from Souks.
Our first camp was on a fairly busy route, with two
or three trucks passing each day. Frequently, how-
ever, the pistes were washed away, and the only
route was to follow the river beds - on one occa-
sion it took an entire day's driving to cover just
40km, because the piste followed a river bed
strewn with large boulders. Having spent the
entire journey walking in front of our four-by-four,
moving rocks out of the way to avoid writing off
our Landrover (or so we thought), we couldn't
believe it when were passed by two Bedford trucks
full of people and piled with produce.
The large village we had arrived at was just
finishing its market day, which gave us a chance
to stock up on vegetables. The enclosed market
was lined with hundreds of tiny shacks, selling
absolutely everything, including several butchers
who generally had various parts of goats and
sheep hanging in the sun and engulfed by flies,
with the odd severed goats head lying on the
ground. We decided to stick to the fruit and veg.
Making enquiries over a Fanta at the local
cafe, we were informed of a cave in the nearby
hills. So, following brief directions given in French
we drove out the town in search of it. Not only did
we find the cave, but the camp spot was idyllic - a
stream which came out of the nearby cliffs flowed
past our site, and the valley bottom was a lawn of
grass dotted with trees. We made ourselves com-
fortable and spent the next few days exploring the
cave and surrounding area, helped enormously
by a couple of locals, who had been exploring the
cave with torches and lamps. One of them told us
of a passage that he had followed for ages with-
out finding the end, which obviously intrigued us.
We exchanged addresses and promised to return
to carry out a proper exploration of the cave.
Our diet of tomato and pasta stew became a
bit tedious after the second or third week, so we
decided to stop for a slap-up meal in next big
town we came to. This led to an unfortunate
event, as it soon became apparent that one of
our group had food-poisoning, and he spent the
whole night throwing up anything he tried to swal-
low. However, we soon forgot about it as there
were more important matters in hand - mainly
beer, as we were approaching a town where Pete
assured us he could locate a hotel that sold real
beer. We strolled in very casually and took our
place on the veranda. Unbeknown to us, howev-
er, there was trouble ahead, as one of our party
was having a relapse... While we waited to be
served he was leaning over the veranda, and with
almost comic timing he projectile vomited over
the waiter. Fortunately he missed the stonework,
but when we asked for our drinks we were told
politely but firmly that they did not sell beer. We
made our excuses and left.
Our time in Morocco was running out, and
with the last couple of days we headed south to
the Sahara Desert. Pete was in his element, as he
had many friends and contacts in these parts. The
next few days were comparative luxury: we slept in
Berber tents and were given guided tours of local
kasbhahs, we took a camel ride to the edge of the
dunes, and we spent one night camped under a
completely full moon playing cards and drinking
mint tea with local guides. The next day, our last
full day in Morocco, we watched the sunrise from
the top of an enormous sand dune. That evening
we were back in Marrakech, the next night Tarifa
and finally, after seven days of travel, we arrived
back in Plymouth.

