2 May 2000 • Felix Union 9
T h e S t a t e o f t h e U n i o n
Welcome back. I hear rumours that
the front page is set to rock the
Sherfield boat. Surely nothing can
be wrong with the mother ship..?
D i s c o u n t s
Can I make a big plea to every-
one to come and get their Warner
Brothers discount cards? You may
remember that I spent six months
organising the deal, but unfortu-
nately there has been very little take
up, and we will never be able to
convince them to go to the hassle
of producing cards in future if we
don't shift them this year. So please,
even if you never intend going to
their cinemas, come get a card.
Remember, all that you need to
bring with you is a photo and your
ICU card. Thanks.
H o l i d a y F u n
Easter has been long for us
sabbs (and for the postgrads and
B y T a s h a N e w t o n , I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e U n i o n P r e s i d e n t
clinical medics) - there have been
lots of meetings, most of which
have been of limited interest.
Meanwhile, the engineers and PR
agents from Erricson have been
gently driving me mad, but hope-
fully they will have successfully
installed data and phone lines to all
the rooms in Linstead by the time
you read this.
B l a t a n t P l u g s
Believe it or not, planning has
already started for the 2001 Sum-
mer Ball. Hopefully in this issue of
Felix you will be able to read about
the very exciting Summer Ball
2000.
Set in the surroundings of the
newly refurbished Paragon Hotel,
this year's Ball will take place on
the 23rd of June, a week before the
end of term. Tickets will be quite a
lot cheaper than last year because
there are none of those stuffy
coaches to look forward to. Watch
out for more details of when, where
and how to buy your tickets coming
very soon.
U n i o n M e e t i n g s
Finally, the first ICU Council
meeting of the term takes place at
6pm tonight (Tuesday 2nd May) in
the Union Dining Hall. See you
there.
MASONIC MEDICS?
The question of whether or not the Medical
School Union is to have a sabbatical president
next year, has not, at the time of writing been
finalised. Kevin suspects tonight's ICU Council
may shed some light on the matter. The schedul-
ing of the meeting on the first day of term when
people will not be properly prepared or even
aware of it strikes Kevin as highly suspicious.
One of the possibilities for funding of the sab-
batical has been sponsorship from the Freema-
sons. Members of the Med School Union leaving
closed meetings discussing the options have vig-
orously denied that this source of funding is
being pursued.
CHANGING TIMES?
Many students would like the central library to
adopt opening hours which are more in line with
the way that they work. Last year Dave Hellard
managed to get the library to agree to experi-
ment with Sunday opening. By using the library
on Sundays students demonstrated that there
was a demand for the extended hours and they
have now become permanent. N o attempt to
instigate further improvements in the opening
hours was made by ICU until the end of last
term, when discussions on extending opening
hours were started. The library's response was to
request proof, in the form of a petition, that
extended hours were required. Furthermore,
Kevin has been told that the library has stated
that scope for improvement is limited due to the
library not being able to employ any more staff.
Any extension of opening hours will have to be
achieved by re-organising shift patterns and
overtime. The options are also limited as the
library is refusing to open without the issue desk,
despite the fact that this service is not essential
out of normal hours.
Kevin wonders if the inability of the Union to
negotiate successfully in this situation, and hav-
ing to resort to petitioning students, is a direct
M i s h
M a s h
A Mostly Harmless Column by
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
result of the tiny proportion of students support-
ing the Union. If this is the case then it will
become worse next year as the Union tries to
operate with an even more pitiful mandate than
it has had this year.
HELLO HELLO HELLARRRRGH...
The Royal Parks Police are responsible for the
safety and security of Hyde Park as well as many
of London's other parks. Kevin has rarely seen
them active, except for an excessive response
mounted following a minor shunt between two
cars on a park road and while vigorously enforc-
ing their no-sparklers bylaws on bonfire night.
The Parks Police appear to be changing their
image. In an effort to become trendier, this sum-
mer rollerblading police will be patrolling the
parks. This move comes in addition to dropping
the 'Royal' from their name when it is displayed
on their new four wheel drive vehicles. Kevin
wonders how this will turn them into an effective
police force.
ANDROIDS WANTED
The company responsible for almost every link in
the chain of failures and bad decisions which
lead to the computer problems in the city on the
last day of the tax year are still desperately trying
to recruit Imperial graduates.
Kevin knows he is not the only student to
continually get harangued by the company,
which is apparently about four hundred people
per year below its graduate recruitment targets
for the College. Thankfully, he is not alone in
ignoring their requests to come in and attempt to
brainwash groups of students either. One recent
ill-judged scam in their attempt to lure brilliant
scientists and engineers into their inimitable
brand of jumped up accountancy was an offer of
'summer jobs' starting next week. Who do they
think we are with a summer holiday starting in
the first week of May - UCL?
To comment or contribute
http://come.to/mishmash
or email kevin@ic.ac.uk

