10 FRIDAY 18 OCT
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nintendo’s Ethical Legacy
C
omputing power is
evolving at a relentless
pace. The gaming industry
moves in tandem with
this tempo. Unfortunately
(and for some, regrettably) its viability
has waned in recent years having come
under pressure from a burgeoning
smartphone market and a reversion
to the PC as the preferred platform of
choice. Playstation serves as a suitable
allegory, experiencing a 15% like-for-
like drop in revenue of US $1.19 bn
for the April-June quarter. Likewise
Nintendo, despite a market valuation
of US $85 bn, faces ﬂagrant criticism
for failing to suﬃciently ‘move with
the times’. Avid enthusiasts can expect
a turbulent future. I ﬁnd it all slightly
depressing.
In spite of this all hope is far from
lost for Nintendo as a perennial
Japanese multinational. The recent
release of Pókemon X & Y has served
to brighten the horizon. A notable
1.26 million units were pre-ordered in
Japan, with a similar reception to the
franchise emulated around the globe.
The event served to spark memories
of my childhood. I recall inﬁnitely
many afternoons spent in euphoric
bliss levelling up my Pikachu, seeking
counsel with The Great Deku Tree in
The Legend of Zelda or tripping out
on Rainbow Road in Mario Kart 64.
I ﬁnd that the modern games
console is recurrently misconstrued as
an instrument of detriment. National
surveys in England estimate that
three in ten two-to-15-year-olds are
overweight . It has been suggested that
the reversion of children to sedentary
pastimes (including television and
games) is the core reason for the
phenomenon. I categorically believe
that the blame lies elsewhere.
In an attempt to vindicate the games
console I want to analyse Nintendo
products. For decades they have
invigorated innumerable dynamic
and lofty thoughts in children,
promoted logic and injected moral
allegories into the plots of their
games. One might even stretch to say
that Nintendo introduced children
to the philosophical concept of self-
determination and utopian aspiration.
To begin with, let us consider
the Mario video game franchise.
Elements of its world and adventures
are simultaneously dynamic and yet
ﬁxed. Children are introduced to
the conﬁnes of Euclidean geometry
through the recurrent appearance
of recognisable shapes (mushrooms,
man-eating ﬂowers and gold coins to
name but a few). A child familiarises
themselves with this concept with
relative ease. Upon achieving this,
the child is now free to explore the
opportunities presented by the
ﬁctional ‘world’ with its given set of
parameters. A reader might be able
to relate to the awe instilled in the
catacombs of the mind when playing
Super Mario 64, Paper Mario or Super
Mario Galaxy. The crux of Nintendo’s
franchise is its predictability. Despite
this, by interchanging the parameters
to 2D graphics or by giving Mario the
ability to ﬂy, a child is introduced to
Eoghan J. Totten
@eoghantotten
Comment Editor
the concept of innovation and rebirth
within a rational and predictable
world. It might be argued that this
can encourage resolve, enthusiasm
and optimism in a child. It may even
evolve to become a transferable and
indispensable skill in later life.
The Legend of Zelda saga is
saturated with material from which
one can draw inference. Taking
inspiration from a blend of (to my
mind) Celtic, Scandinavian and
Oriental lore, children are introduced
to the fundamental challenges and
questions relentlessly pondered by
civilisation for millennia. Enclosed
within the framework of quests
and interspersed with ‘temples’ and
‘bosses’ to thwart, children can ﬁnd
themselves engulfed in mimesis.
Their eagerness and anticipation to
discover further twists to the plot
morph with the unfolding tragedy
recounted by the game. It might be
debated that children are introduced
to the concept of catharsis, a form of
cleansing or emotional renewal. The
wider relevance of this is to stimulate a
child’s awareness of the essential place
of culture, art and identity in society,
unveiling a new dimension to human
existence. While the world may be
full of physical wonder there is also,
however, a world buried deep within
the catacombs of our minds. In this
realm reasons for our identity and our
actions, that universally preoccupy
each and every one of us, dominate
the everyday machinations of the
world.
From this we can identify the
presence of ethics within the thread of
games produced by Nintendo. Bearing
this in mind we might choose to
address Pókemon. It is a world where
society is centred on pre-meditated
parochialism. Walking is the preferred
mode of transport. Vehicles are only
used when necessary. The economies
appear to be planned and seem to
beneﬁt all citizens. With a mart and
health centre as the principal business
establishments, consumerism has no
place in the towns. The larger cities
are sparsely populated and exhibit
luminous, clandestine walkways.
Characters encountered during the
course of the plot all exude a sense
of well-being; the man in the street
expresses analogous content to that of
the most successful Pókemon masters.
Man’s relationship with nature
(Pókemon) is inherent, and rooted as
a central tenet of society. Academic
research appears to wholly revolve
around Pókemon. One could list many
more desirable facets however reality
tells us that such a utopian existence
is unattainable. The restlessness of the
human id fails to surface.
The trainers don’t get mugged in
the dark. The Pókemon battle on a
regular basis and yet blood is never
drawn. Emotions of anger, lust and
jealousy are rarely, if ever, presented
in the plot. For me this is of signiﬁcant
importance; children may notice that
the incongruities of the real world
are excluded from the adventure.
They may well extend this inference
to a collection of other Nintendo
games. They are presented with the
opportunity to compare and contrast
and ultimately, build an informed
opinion.
Despite the mediation of the
Pókemon world, each successive
generationhasreﬂectedcontemporary
technology. Professor Oak’s chunky
computer has gradually been replaced
with a sleek model over time (and
yet teleportation has always been
possible). One might draw from this
that the game, despite its enclosed
ambiance of insulation, further
encourages a player to compare and
contrast. Pókemon is more relevant
than ever. In our world of vigorous
expansionism, the game brings
attention to a need to live within
our means. Sustainable trimming,
rather than development, may
indeed be the way forward. Man’s
enmeshed relationship with animals,
as illustrated in Pókemon, promotes
connotations of the current
European policy of ‘Rewilding’.
To close, Nintendo provides
more than a desirable legacy but a
fully-ﬂedged set of blueprints for
a beneﬁcial gaming industry. In a
world where many fail to raise their
eyes from their phone or tablet to
look at the stars in the night sky, a
revitalised approach to technology
would be desirable. In the past it has
taught children to look treat their
technology as a mere catalyst for the
awnings of the mind. I simply hope
that it has a place in future markets
to do the same in the future.
otten
NINTENDO NINTENDO

