12 FRIDAY 18 OCT
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kensington Palace ﬁnally revealed last week that the
mysterious VVIP guest who’s attending the grand
opening of the “new” Centre for Blast Injury Studies
is none other than my favourite eligible bachelor,
Prince Harry. As part of the opening, they’re holding
a Network Event, a day full of talks from scientists
and soldiers alike. And the best part is, anyone can go.
Anyone that is, except for me.
I spent six months this year (ab)using the CBIS
equipment, and as a favour to one of the postdocs
ﬁelding our red headed royal’s visit, I spent the ﬁrst few
days of my PhD avoiding any relevant work, and making
a poster of my old project, to be handily displayed in
the lab throughout the visit. I even resisted the urge to
put my phone number on it (just in case, you know, he
has any questions). Hours of my time in the lab were
disrupted by hordes of people in suits coming and
going, being briefed on the itinerary, and scribbling
in their notebooks, without so much as an apologetic
glance in my direction. Certainly an inconvenience, but
anything for Harry!
Despite my begging, I’d been told ﬁrmly that I
wouldn’t be able to cadge a spot in the lab during the
demonstrations, but I was very much looking forward
to ﬁnding any and every excuse to walk the halls of RSM
and Bessemer while he just so happened to be around.
I’ve always had this ﬁrmly held belief that if we were to
ever meet, he would fall immediately in love with me,
and that would be that: my happy ever after. I know that
I’m in South Ken. every day, and I could just frequent
Boujis if I really wanted to meet him, but as far as I
was concerned, this was it. I was ﬁnally (and literally)
going to meet my prince. This Cressida wouldn’t be a
problem. After all, who’s he going to prefer: a socialite,
or a scientist? And her last boyfriend was also called
Harry - who does that?
But then I got an email. Suddenly I had to attend an
all day meeting on the 17th! And as if they knew
that I would try to sneak out, just for a little bit, I
was scheduled to present at exactly the same time as
my beloved HRH’s address. Despite all my eﬀorts, it
became completely impossible for me to be on campus
at all during the delightful Captain Wales’s visit. A bit
too convenient, I think.
And this is why I think it’s a conspiracy. See, I might
have mentioned my plan to someone who might have
been a little bit in charge, and I may have inadvertently
come across as a bit “fanatic” or “obsessive”. That seems
like a subjective observation to me, and I certainly
wasn’t “sinister”, but there we have it. Out of the blue,
my plans were scuppered, and I lost out on the chance
to brush shoulders with His Highness.
Doesn’t that seem like a bit of a coincidence to you?
My Royal Conspiracy
Tessa Davey
Comment Editor
y
You know you want it.
You’re a good girl.
T
hese are lines taken from
Project Unbreakable, where
survivors of sexual assault
are photographed holding
a poster with a quote from
their attacker. These two lines come
up again and again. They are also oft-
repeated lyrics in Robin Thicke’s song,
Blurred Lines.
I could tell you about the seven
student unions across the country
(from Edinburgh to Kingston), who
have decided that listening to the
“language of rapists” is not appropriate
for their student unions. I could say
that we should do the same. I won’t
because there’s little merit in banning
one song, when commercial music is
full of highly objectionable lyrics –
violence against women, homophobia,
racism.
Banning one song (however bad) is
not the solution if those who want to
play it do not understand why others
do not want to hear it.
We need to ask our union bars, and
those using the Union to think about
what they are playing. Do you want to
be the person responsible for playing a
song that makes a number of people in
your bar uncomfortable? Do you want
to play a song with lyrics veering into
sexual assault or homophobia?
You could argue that listening to
songswithoﬀensivelyricsormeanings
is not a problem in our student union
since we are all adults and can think
for ourselves and not be inﬂuenced
by it, which for most of us, I am sure
is the case. On the other hand, is that
really the point? If someone were to
use that kind of language to me in
person, I would justiﬁably complain.
Is it then okay for that same language
to be playing for everyone to hear?
You could say that if I don’t want to
hear these songs, then I should just
stay at home with a cup of tea. I do love
a good cup of tea, so this is tempting,
but the Union is not a central London
bar running for proﬁt. The Union is the
hub of student activity at Imperial and
has to be a welcoming environment
for all students.
You could highlight that the in-
tended meaning of songs like Blurred
Lines is more complex than just being
a bit “rapey”. Robin Thicke has said
that his song is designed to challenge
the negative treatment of women by
making fun of it. He has also said that
it was a pleasure to degrade women in
the video, so you can believe which-
ever version you choose.
Whatever the meaning of the song
(intended or not), the language is
still problematic, and makes a large
number of people uncomfortable. I
do not want to sit and listen to a song
telling me that when I say no, I might
mean yes, while having a quiet drink
in our student union.
I don’t want to listen to the language
of rapists.
I am not calling for a ban of the song
in the Union, but I am asking you to
think about what you are listening
to, and if you do like the song but not
the lyrics, perhaps you could always
play one of the parody versions, or
an instrumental version instead. The
problem is much wider than Blurred
Lines. Be aware of what you are
listening to, particularly in a public
place.
Robin Thicke: Trivialising Rape?
Kirstin Hay
Writer
TELEGRAPH
“Break a motherfucker’s
table over the back of a
couple faggots and crack
it in half.” – Eminem,
Rap God, 2013
“banning
one song...
is not the
solution”
LETTERS
Dear Felix Editor,
I am writing to you, to inform of
you of a tremendous crime against
humanity. Just last week I was in
the Union and asked if they had ice
cream so I could have an Ice Cream
ﬂoat, the greatest of all beverages. I
was then informed that they had in
fact no ice cream. How can this be?
How can the union spend so much
money on various poisons to add to
coke but not Ice Cream? Sort this
out please.
The Druid
P.S. And it better not be any of that
frozen yoghurt shit.
P.P.S. Or Sorbet.
STAR TRAK, LLC
ay
“Disagree with any of
this week’s articles, or
just want to be as cool
as The Druid?
Write in!
felix@imperial.ac.uk”

