14 FRIDAY 18 OCT
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Undercover at an auction
Jiaqi Shi investigates Christieʼs
An algebraic love affair at the Science Museum
Edward Leggett
Writer
M
arcus du Sautoy and
Victoria Gould recently
starred in a short run
production of “X&Y”
at the science museum,
a story of two algebraic variables
apparently falling in love. Together
they explore and tackle some of the
biggest questions out there. What
is inﬁnity? Is there an edge to the
universe? Are mathematics and
theatre the same? All played out on a
small, sparse stage somewhere in the
back room at the Science Museum.
Sounds interesting right?
The ‘play’ takes place pretty much
entirely within a cube outlined with
neon lights - this is X’s home and
whole world, and he is content with it.
ARTS RECOMMENDS
Musical Theatre Society’s Time & Again @ Union Concert Hall, Beit Quad
The first completely original musical performed by MTSoc, ‘Time & Again’ is an
intimate story about second chances and what might have been, written and
directed by Imperial alumnus Shamini Bundell.
16th and 19th Oct at 7.30pm, 20th Oct at 2.30pm, £6 non students, £3 students
Drama Society’s Gasping @ Union Concert Hall, Beit Quad
Ben Elton’s ‘Gasping’ explores a world in which air becomes a commodity, as
greed forces the price up until the oxygen industry is privatised. And if you
can’t afford to pay, you have no right to live…
18th and 20th Oct at 7.30pm, 19th Oct at 2.30pm, £6 non students, £3 students
The Inside Out Festival 2013 @ venues across London
A smorgasbord of performances, debates, workshops, lectures and exhibitions
for those excited by knowledge in all its guises. Includes a mini Festival of
Failure, a crime-writing workshop and The Maths and Computing Magic Show.
See insideoutfestival.org.uk/2013 for more details.
21st- 27th October, many events FREE
Y then enters and shatters this
illusion, setting the premise for a
discussion about the possibility of an
inﬁnite amount of cubes, life after
death and the meaning of nothing.
The play picked up multiple themes
and ideas only to immediately drop
them that lead to a very disjointed and
often confusing piece of work. It felt
more like a series of lectures rather
than a cohesive piece of storytelling.
The scatterings of humour throughout
however did have the audience
laughing and kept it light-hearted and
fun.
Marcus du Sautoy’s acting
nevertheless was powerful and very
convincing, troubled and confused
by the sudden realization that all he
knows may not be true. It truly was a
great performance from him. Victoria
Gould showed some opening night
nerves, occasionally forgetting her
lines, but also did well. The problem
here was not the acting but rather the
construction of the dialogue.
If your maths knowledge is limited
then perhaps this could serve as an
stimulating night out to test your mind
– but it came across a bit patronising
to an audience of mostly adults. The
concepts were interesting but they
needed to be woven together better,
and overall it was disappointing.
It would work perfectly for a teacher
to take their class to on school trip and
have their minds blown by some cool
maths tricks, getting them interested
and talking about maths and science
in the process. Unfortunately however
it fell ﬂat as a work of art trying to
combine theatre and mathematics.
Maybe too much was expected from
this small production.
X&Y will be performed at the
Manchester Science Festival 30th
October - 3rd November.
BENJAMIN EALOVEGA
Marcus Du Sautoy and Victoria Gould as X and Y, puzzling themselves
and the audience with a very long piece of string
I
’ve always been intrigued by
the mystery which surrounds
the highly opulent-looking
establishment that is Christie’s in
South Kensington, never more so
than when I traversed past it in my
ﬁrst year as a fresher on the route to
campus from Evelyn Gardens. When
one of its most recent sales came
up on “Travel, Science and Natural
History”, it seemed to be too good an
opportunity to miss.
Christie’s was founded by James
Christie in the late 18th century, and
has grown into a household name
across the world. However, they are
not what you would expect from
many hours of watching daytime
TV such as Treasure Hunt (yes, I
know, but I couldn’t be bothered to
change the channel). Everything is
conducted with precision and a hint
of ruthlessness.
I simply love their catalogue, which
is beautifully printed in a glossy
magazine which can be picked up by
the counter in the foyer, continuous
with the main auction area. On one
side it is lined by high tables where
Christie’s trained telephone staﬀ
sit, whilst the other side had framed
paintings hung at eye level for you
to peruse at leisure, of which many
would be sold during the day.
I was tempted to register for a
paddle (the numbered plate you make
a bid with), but seeing a 28cm wide
meteorite go for an astounding £3500,
I decided window-shopping is not
such a bad idea!
Five minutes into the bidding, I
was already baﬄed. The auctioneer
frequently addressed the online
bidders, somehow knowing exactly
where they were from (“£3000 from
online bid in Japan”) whilst taking their
bid to the telephone bidders and those
in the room. He spoke at lightening
pace and ﬁred questions at those in
the room as well as the staﬀ who were
on with bidders over the phone, whilst
simultaneously acknowledging the
presence of these online bidders. I
was perplexed. Where was he getting
the information from? Unless they
were speaking in tongues, I hadn’t the
foggiest idea.
The staﬀ at Christie’s kindly pointed
it out to me: there is a small screen
facing the auctioneer with online bids
from buyers across the globe who has
registered prior to the auction online,
displaying their country of origin and
bidding amount as the auction was
being streamed live on their website.
If you happen to have saved money
since the start of term, you might have
been interested in a 1719 early Italian
binocular telescope, a bohemian
tellurian, or even an early English
terrestrial globe. The problem is in
order to see the actual collections, you
have to come before the auction day
to the galleries at the back of the oﬃce
where they are displayed. I happened
to see the Japan-themed collection
and they have some amazing stuﬀ!
To the scientists amongst you (yes,
you), the name Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
will not be unfamiliar to you. I was
mesmerised, with bated breath, as the
bidding started for the ﬁrst edition
manuscript of Pavlov’s celebrated
lectures on physiology of digestion,
for which he won the Nobel Prize
in 1904. With just a ﬂick of a wrist,
a click of a mouse, the buyers faced
stiﬀ competition from all sides as they
clamoured to obtain ownership of this
rare collection. With each exchange,
the price increased: £2500, £3000,
£3500.... And with a ﬁnal shake of
the head in the room, the manuscript
went for a whopping £7000, more than
triple the estimate!
You could feel the tension in the
air when bidding started, and watch
open-mouthed as people battled to
get what they wanted. The added
bonus of seeing the collections before
they are sold oﬀ to private collectors
was worth the time, and if you happen
to be around the area, go to Christie’s
and step into another world. You
never know what you will ﬁnd in the
treasure trove.
Christie’s South Kensington is located
on 85 Old Brompton Rd, SW7 3LD.
Auctions are free to attend, with no
need to register.
GETTY IMAGES
“£3000 from Japan! £4000 from Moscow! £5000 from the little old
man in the front!”

