16 FRIDAY 18 OCT
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Simon Singh has returned with a lovely new
book all about the role that mathematics has
to played in the longest running and arguably
most successful animated television show
ever. What that means exactly is far from ob-
vious, but in reading the book it appears as
though the whole show may have actually
been ﬁller whilst high level mathematics has
been subtlety broadcast for years with few
people noticing.
Indeed,whenlookingattheacademicback-
grounds of the people who came together
make The Simpsons the credentials read more
like those on the roster of some start up tech
company: maths majors, computer science
Masters, PhDs in applied mathematics and
research scientists. All these brains walked
away from their dreams careers in cutting
edge research and instead took the cowards
way, out opting for an easy life writing for a
cultural phenomenon. But the appreciation
and itch to continue playing with their intel-
lectual roots lead to the whole Simpsons back
catalogue being littered with some advanced
equations and numeric concepts.
After chronicling how all these geeks found
themselves in The Simpsons writing team Sin-
gh goes on to explore some of the interesting
and out-there topics that found their way in
to episode and passed the non-maths-mind-
ed by. A great many of the maths motives de-
mand a much greater explanation, and Singh
is all too willing to provide it in insightful and
often humorous ways.
One splendid example is the episode ‘Wiz-
ard of Evergreen Terrace’
, in which Homer be-
comes partly obsessed by Thomas Edison and
decides to take up invention. Between work-
ing on the electric hammer and the make-up
application device (which is essentially a shot-
gun loaded with make-up) we see his black-
board littered with equations. One predicts a
mass for the Higgs Boson, another the cur-
vature of the universe and a third scrawling
is a solution to Fermat’s last theorem. This is
the same theorem that plagued mathematics
for hundreds of years and was only demon-
strated to be unsolvable as recently as 1995.
However, this episode was broadcast in 1998
and seems to contradict Andrew Wiles proof.
Testing Homer’s solution on a pocket calcula-
tor reveals it to work, which is very troubling.
It turns out that David S. Cohen wrote a pro-
gram to sweep for solutions to Fermat’s last
theorem to within 0.000000002% accuracy,
just enough not to show up on the ten digit
readout of most calculators. Sneaky, and fun-
ny on a entirely diﬀerent level
Together with a raft of mathematical jokes
requiring varying levels of maths ability, the
book was a real pleasure to read from start to
ﬁnish. Sometimes informative, sometimes hi-
larious and often startling to learn what con-
cept and ideas made it into the show.
Having read Singh’s previous publication
Trick or Treatment: Alternative Medicine
Student Picks
on Trial I honestly can’t say I was expecting
anything like this. With the knowledge Singh
must have racked up campaigning for libel
law reform and appealing his libel case I was
rather hoping he’d present us with a whim-
sical history of just that, packed with hilari-
ous anecdotes, which would both inform and
entertain. One can empathize with his not
doing so however, as it clearly wasn’t a bat-
tle he sought, but rather was dragged into
for doing little more than calling a spade a
spade. Though in his case it was actually call-
ing chiropractor’s treatments bogus. Despite
having all the scientiﬁc evidence on his side
British law came down on the side of business
interests rather than empirical demonstrabil-
ity. Going back to his own roots of popular
mathematical writing, using The Simpsons as
a jumping oﬀ point to talk about things like
narcissistic numbers, the use of statistics in
baseball and topology would seem like a far
more appealing thing to be getting on with.
He wastes little time in reasserting his new-
ly found rights that he was instrumental in
bringing about though. The Defamation Act
became law in April of this year, though only
time will tell the extent to which its powers
will be asserted in the courts. Nevertheless,
Singh references one episode in which Hom-
er is forced to abandon a spinal manipula-
tion device he invents by the chiropractors of
Springﬂield so they can, in Singh’s words, get
back to ‘happily promoting their own bogus
treatments’
. The particular reference doesn’t
actually serve as a set-up to any larger math-
ematical point, but is something that Singh
must be happy seeing hitting the shelves up
and down the country right now.
Bram Stoker’s Dracula is one of the most famous works
in the English literary canon and it has served as inspi-
ration for countless other works, yet surprisingly few
people that I’ve met have the book itself. This is a great
shame since this is a truly fantastic novel.
Given how deeply the story has penetrated into the
public consciousness I think there is no need to give
an outline of the plot. Dracula, however, is a far deeper
and more profound novel than most of its adaptations
convey. The ﬁgure of the Count himself is a constant
shadow over the proceedings of the novel, appearing
both suave and charming but also appealing to our
deepest, primal fears. It is no secret that it is this char-
acter – a complex creation who has generated countless
analyses from the literary establishment – is the main
reason for the lasting appeal of the novel.
The book is also helped by its style – which, even
today, many would consider at least somewhat avant-
garde. The story is told entirely in the form of diary en-
tries, newspaper clippings, letters and even transcripts
of phonograph recordings. This presents the goings on
from many diﬀerent viewpoints – not only maintain-
ing the reader’s interest but adding to the depth of the
characters and setting – allowing Stoker to build up a
very dense mythology and backstory for his tale in a
way which seems very natural.
This is a rare treat – a book combining tension and
intrigue with genuine literary merit. In recent years
vampire ﬁction has become, for many, a laughing stock
but the original, and best, story remains untarnished.
Send your submissions
for our newest regular
features!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dracula by Bram Stoker
Maciej Matuszewski picks:
Flash Fiction
Unrequited by Evelyn Craven
I had spent months obsessing over you – but I
didn’t feel able to tell you. When I saw you last
night holding hands with another, all I felt was
joy. Finally, it was over.
Calum Grant explores a nefarious plot to
educate cartoon viewers
Smart and Funny

