19
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
MUSIC
Chillin’ in fanboy heaven
Stuart Masson reviews Mountain Goats at the Union Chapel
he Mountain Goats are
probably my favourite
musical artist. From the
early years of just John
Darnielle with a guitar and
a tape recorder right through to the
current three piece iteration I am an
embarrassingly large fanboy. So, a few
months back, when they announced
they were playing at the Union Chapel,
one of my favourite venues, I snapped
up tickets the moment they came
on sale. So last Tuesday I descended
upon Islington with a heavy sense
of excitement. After an excellent
opening set by singer-songwriter
Alessi’s Ark, I was expecting the show
to end all shows.
For this show they had been
reduced to just John Darnielle and
bassist Peter Hughes. This limited
the set somewhat, since several
tracks (including most of the choice
cuts from the new album) don’t
really work without drums, as John
himself admitted to one particularly
adamant heckler. It did mean we were
treated to a few more old numbers
though, which is always a good thing.
Considering the total repertoire
numbers around 600 songs, I was
overjoyed when I realised that an intro
describing at length the role of the
running back in an American football
T
AMS album of the week
Whilst we were all fussing
over the hottest and driest
summer since 2006, something
radiant happened on the infi-
nitely more weather-blessed
West Coast of the US. I’m not
talking about the small yet pro-
gressive steps our darling cous-
ins are taking for gay rights,
but I am in fact referring to the
release of Capital Cities’ true
gem of a debut album, Iwn a
Tidal Wave of Mystery.
The lyrical duo of Capital Cities, Ryan Merchant and Sebu Simo-
nian (a fabulous name only rivalled by his cracking beard), have pro-
duced an album in which you will be taken on a veritable journey of
upbeat and feel-good electro inspired creations paired with languid
and well-written indie tunes. Their success in producing a diverse al-
bum makes for an interesting and refreshing listen with great prom-
ise for their future. [Inb4 jack of all trades]
Our opinion of music is often affected by the everyday, non-sonic
stimuli. For example, if we are experiencing the joys of love there
are certain songs that appeal to us and if the artist has fallen on
hard times then that can very much be apparent in the music. In this
case, I believe my opinion of the vocals is buoyed somewhat by the
palpable bond between Ryan and Sebu. In fact, this album is chock
full of jaunty, get up and go tunes which make you just want to grab
your bff (Safe and Sound, Origami). If you end up liking this album’s
vibe, check out their really funky covers of the classics Stayin’ Alive,
Holiday and Nothing Compares 2 U.
For those interested in music videos, Safe and Sound is certainly
worth its weight in gold. [On a charming aside, if anyone is a fan
of vsauce you will be familiar with how one might weigh a music
video] Ok I digress. Anyway, at first you think, “Ah! Dance styles
from throughout the ages and two chaps dancing ecstatically cel-
ebrating their successful foray into the music scene; that’s cool.” But
upon further investigation (and I owe this insight to a particularly
observant and savvy West Coast gal) you realise that there was real
talent behind the elegant and seamless combination of the footage
for the music video which produces a simply incredible visual feast.
I will bring this review to a close with a tip of my top hat to the
promising Ryan and Sebu for this joy, thank you.
Capital Cities – In a Tidal Wave of Mystery
George Spence-Jones
game meant that they were about to
play my favourite Mountain Goats
track: Fall of the Star High School
Running Back. An incredibly rare
performance of early cassette-only
EP track Going to Monaco (I did say
I was a huge fanboy…) was also pretty
spectacular. There were also stunning
performances of Up the Wolves, Woke
Up New and See America Right. I was
also blown away by some tracks I’m
not obsessed with. Both Maybe Sprout
Wings and Wild Sage were far more
beautiful in the live setting whilst
new album track The Diaz Brothers
ﬁnally clicked for me. There was also
a ﬁrm reminder that John is yet to
put out the best song he’s written in a
few years in his ode to a bullied kid at
school, You Were Cool.
Sadly, this wasn’t the show to end
all shows. Peter Hughes’ bass guitar
refused to make sound during the
ﬁrst track, which proved distracting
to John as well as the audience. It did
lead to an impromptu solo perfor-
mance of Jenny though, so I suppose
I can’t be too annoyed about it. What
I maintain my right to be annoyed
about is the piano portion of the show.
I don’t know whether it’s because John
isn’t as good at writing for piano, or as
good at playing piano, or if I just don’t
like the three songs he played on pi-
ano (it’s deﬁnitely the last one) but the
complete lack of energy during these
songs really killed oﬀ the momentum
for me. The fact that I felt bored at
any point of a Mountain Goats show
would be a shock to most of my clos-
est friends, but that’s how it was. I left
the show feeling a bit disappointed,
but looking back on the setlist, I real-
Music Newsround
ise that I absolutely loved every single
second that John was holding a guitar.
It was just this tepid rendition of a few
songs oﬀ the extremely boring The
Life of the World to Come that didn’t
hit the spot with me.
All in all, it’s obvious that I’m nev-
er going to enjoy the perfect Moun-
tain Goats gig unless they let me pick
the setlist. In terms of “big hits” we
got Dance Music but there was no
This Year or No Children, which was a
bit of a shame. Of course, once you’ve
written 600 songs, you’re always go-
ing to have to cut some of them, so it’s
a bit stupid of me to complain about
tracks that weren’t played. The setlist
that was played was great, and the
performance was top of the range. I
suppose when you love something
this much, it’s hard not to be upset
with the smallest ﬂaw.
Snoop Dogg/Lion has re-branded himself as Snoopzilla for a funk project with Stones Throw maestro, Dam
Funk. The duo are calling themselves 7 Days of Funk and will
release a self-titled album on 10th December.
Coolio dropped in on a student ﬂat in Preston to cook a three-
course meal and perform an extra special rendition of “Gangster’s
Paradise”, accompanied by some bloke on a guitar.
The ﬁrst band performing at Glastonbury 2014 has been an-
nounced. Stanton Warriors, the Bristol-based DJ duo will be
playing their 10th Glastonbury festival.
Death Grips cancelled a tour and festival appearance this Au-
tumn. No reason was given.
Death-Row aﬃliated rapper and producer Daz Dillinger has is-
sued Rockstar Games with a cease and desist order over alleged
copyright theft on the sound track to the new GTA game.
Metalcore titans Trivium and Killswitch Engage have announced
a double-headline tour in February next year.

