FRIDAY 18 OCT
2
EDITOR’S PICKS
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Erratum
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
This week
COMMENT
So you think you could be a
better GTA? Think again! Like
riding a bicycle it’s not as easy
as it looks!
Teach First!
Do you want to change live
and make society better?
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors MAYBE YOU? Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana
Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi,
Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Sam
Arawa Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editors Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copy Chiefs Annina Sartor, Stephen
Ball Copy Editors Stephen Ball, Thomas Heaven, Iulia Gherman
A
nother week gone,
another issue produced!
I think we’re starting
to get the hang of this
newspaper thing!
The big story this week of course
was Prince Harry’s visit to the South
Kensington Campus (see page 1).
Of course while HRH Prince Harry
was visiting the Centre for Blast
Injuries studies our very own Tessa
Davey (Comment) was sent away by
her department so she couldn’e even
see her work being presented to the
Prince, how unfortunate is that (page
12).
Aside from visiting royals and lots
of rain the other big thing in the Felix
oﬃce this week was our preparation
for next week’s Commemoration day
ceremonies. Inside this week’s issue
you’ll ﬁnd a Graduation pullout,
something you should give a read
even if you’re not graduating this year,
it contains many pearls of wisdom.
Of course if you’re not interested you
could always pass it on...
In addition to all of this excitement
the Union has had some activity of
their own, as well as getting ready
for their careers fair and hosting
“The Great Soc Oﬀ” on Thursday
(yesterday) night the Union are
preparing for the commencement
of this terms elections. The elections
begin tonight (for more information
go to imperialcollegeunion.org/
elections.
The elections (see page 3) are to
elect a variety of part-time oﬃcer roles
at the Union including the Ordinary
Members of the Union Council (giving
the winner a say on the formation of
Union policies; more important than
you might think), Liberation Oﬃcers,
Course Reps and Year Reps. You
should vote, not because people (like
me) tell you to, and not because of the
gentle prods you receive by email, but
because you truly do have a chance to
make a diﬀerence with your vote.
As indicated by our previous NSS
performance many students with
grievences against the system keep
to themselves over the course of thir
degree and then complain bitterly at
the end. However if you would prefer
to highlight problems you are having
and trigger changes that will happen
during your time at Imperial, this can
only be achieved if you vote the best
candidate into oﬃce, so give it a shot!
Prince Harry!
We had a few errors in last week’s paper.
Do you want to help catch the errors before they’re printed?
Join the copy editing team :)
email felix@imperial.ac.uk
Our “undercover” reporter
goes to an auction at Christie’s!
Christie’s
ARTS
Delving into the developments
in neurological research, is a
possible cure for Alzheimers
on the horizon?
Alzheimers
SCIENCE
Confessions of a GTA Part II:
GTA means Graduate Teaching
Assistant. Our columnist is back
with more tales from the land of
tutorials...
COMMENT
SUB STREAM
This Friday enjoy a live DJ set from Tom Fitzgerald and Jordan Ford,
available to stream on STOICTV.com and ICRadio.com from 21:00.
Looking at house music from its disco roots through to modern UK
bass.
IC Radio and STOIC members can join us live in the studio for the set in our
studios in the Union’s West Basement.
Live music is becoming a big part of your student radio station at Imperial. If
you want to get involved as a performer, web developer, sound engineer or
hardware engineer contact icradio@imperial.ac.uk or stoic@icradio.com.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON

