FRIDAY 18 OCT 25
THE GRADUATE
mperial College
Queen’s Tower
The Library
Your Department
If you haven’t been up the Queen’s Tower at least once so far then you’ve certainly been missing
out. With amazing views of London and huge bragging rights if there’s a chance to climb it
during Commemoration day and you’re too busy showing your parents the Dyson hand dryers
in your department, you’ve deﬁnitely missed out!
Did you Know: The Queen’s Tower used to be the central tower of the Imperial Institute and
has a total of 325 stairs?
It’s hard not to remember the Library whenever you think back to your undergraduate days.
Either as a place to run away from, or a second home during tough coursework and exam
seasons, the Library will always be recalled, especially the orange pods facing the windows.
If you’re ever lucky enough to live in the South Kensington area again you can always join the
library as a local resident, especially useful for those who like textbooks!
Last but not least, your department. You’ve spent many a year between these four wall, learning
lots of things you might forget later on. However, over the last few years you’ve also developed
as a person and a student, improvements that can last for a very long time. Try to avoid the
awkward introductions between your parents and your lecturers, this isn’t school after all.
Visit again in 10 or twenty years you might be in for a treat, or at least a lovely champagne
reception as a part of a reunion.
Up until this week you might have only visited Princes’ Gardens while on they way to Ethos or
the Eastside bar but this time why don’t you visit the area with family? It’s surprisingly beautiful
and green, no?
The Union Bar (and the artfully named FiveSixEight) is also another top location you’re likely
to remember as your memories of lectures fade with time. If you’re lucky enough to have your
name engraved on a tankard or two (or three) you’ll probably be back sometime soon to drink
from them.
Princes’ Gardens
Union Bar

