FRIDAY 18 OCT
26
THE GRADUATE
The Careers Service: Supporting
you beyond graduation
Careers Service
Imperial College
G
raduation is a time for
celebration. To reﬂect
on the years you have
spent working hard
to achieve your goals
both academically, personally and
ultimately to move onto the next
stage of your life. Your time with us
at Imperial will have equipped you
with a world class education and also
exposed you to lots of opportunities
to develop your key skills that will
make you employable in the future.
Your ﬁnal year will have been a
time of consolidation of all the hard
work you have put in, and will also
be time to look forward. Forward to
the opportunity that now presents
itself in terms of your future career,
whether that is in the workplace or
remaining in academia.
Of course, not all of you will be ﬁxed
upyet.Thiscouldbeduetoyouwishing
to travel and explore the world a little
more before you settle down. You
may want to gain further experience
by volunteering or getting involved
in your local area to enhance your
transferable skills further while you
take a bit more time to decide on your
career path. Whatever your reasons
The Careers Service does not stop
supporting you after you graduate.
Imperial alumni can make use of The
Careers Service for up to 3 years after
you graduate. This will enable you to
continue to access Jobslive and the
thousands of opportunities that are on
there. You can also continue to use the
range of on-line resources available on
the Careers Service webpages. If you
need to speak to a Careers Consultant
this can be arranged, either in person
or by making a Skype appointment. To
continue to beneﬁt from the support
that the Careers Service can oﬀer you
simply need to register as an alumnus
via the Careers Homepage (www3.
imperial.ac.uk/careers).
Imperial has an excellent record in
graduate employment and the annual
Destination of Leavers from Higher
Education that the Careers Service
manages consistently shows Imperial
Graduates outperforming the rest
of the UK both in terms of graduate
employment statistics and graduate
starting salary.
We know many of you will have
secured yourself graduate level
employment and are excitedly waiting
to take up your new roles wherever
that may be. Congratulations on
navigating the process and succeeding
in what can be a stressful process in
your ﬁnal year of study. Moving into
the unknown can be daunting but you
should look ahead positively. To help
you prepare for your new challenge if
you are going into the workplace The
Careers Service has produced a few
tips for you to consider:
1/ The basics. Reread your joining
instructions from your employer.
Make sure you know your starting
time, work location and any special
instructions they have given. Often
on your ﬁrst day you will need to
bring in various forms and documents
to enable to you become a formal
member of staﬀ. Usually this will
involve a trip to the Human Resource
Department to drop of forms and
collect your identity card (and you
thought you had left that all behind
you when you took your College card
oﬀ for the last time!)
2/ Be yourself, but be your positive
self. Your ﬁrst few days in your new
workplace will involve meeting people.
Lots of people. Be friendly and polite.
It will be tiring but the impression you
give to your new colleagues during
your ﬁrst few days will last.
3/ Show a positive attitude toward
the tasks that you are given. It is likely
that your ﬁrst few weeks will involve an
induction and this will vary according
to the size of the organisation you have
joined. It could be a full programme
lasting weeks where you will undergo
speciﬁc training on the systems in use
and the various diﬀerent procedures
that you will have to become familiar
with. Some of it may involve days, half
days or a few hours out of your normal
place of work. Smaller organisations
may not have such a formal structure
but you should expect an introduction
to colleagues, systems and all the
relevant health and safety information
that are required to keep you safe in
the workplace.
4/ Be realistic. You will have only
just started and you cannot expect
to know it all. Show a willingness to
undertake tasks but don’t be afraid to
ask for help and clariﬁcation if you are
unsure. Your new colleagues will be
willing to explain more and help you
gain conﬁdence in your new role.
5/ Enjoy. You will be exposed to a
lot of new experiences, people and
systems. Take some time to reﬂect
on your ﬁrst few months in your new
role and look forward to building
a successful and rewarding career.
Before long you will be meeting up
with your fellow alumni for a 1 year get
together! It really will go that quickly.
Congratulations to Imperial College London class of 2013! We wish you the best of luck and prospertity for the years ahead.

