FRIDAY 18 OCT 27
THE GRADUATE
Tessa’s Top Ten Tips for Graduation
C
ommemoration Day at
Imperial is pretty well
labelled, signposted and
explained, and it’s pretty
diﬃcult to fail to do any
of the essential parts. But as with
anything else, it’s good to be aware of
any potential stumbling blocks so that
you can streamline your day. And so
as a voice of potentially embarrassing
experience, here are some tips that I
wish someone had given me.
1. Get your gown as early as you
can. It might seem like overkill to
get there the full three hours before
the start of your ceremony, but with
your parents and younger sibling in
tow, all good intentions can go out
the window, and you’ll end up leaving
late. They’re grown adults, and can
(probably) make their way to Imperial
by themselves, so why not run ahead
and pick up the gown by yourself? It
gives you more time to run around
pretending to be a bat/wizard before
their judgemental eyes arrive, and
you can make them super proud by
meeting them at the tube in your full
regalia. The key thing that you want to
avoid is going the cross-London sprint
in your graduation clothes. I had to
make this run in heels, and the race
induced sweating made my hair go
frizzy. Your proud parents are going
to whip out the photos from your
graduation for the rest of your life, so
it’s important to make sure that you
look your best.
2. If you do manage to wrangle your
whole family to College nice and early,
leave the ‘rents outside the Great
Hall while you pick up your gown.
Ede and Ravenscroft dress you in it,
so you don’t need your parents to do
anything, and they’ll really just clog
up the system. While Mother Hen
might still love to help, the faster
everyone can get through the Great
Hall, the more time you have to take
jumping pictures in front of the Albert
Memorial.
3. It can’t be emphasised too much
that girls need to bring safety pins to
secure their gowns. Bring lots, bring
spares for your friends! Unless you
can pin your gown, it’s going to be a
pain in the arse all day. The staﬀ giving
you the gown can’t pin them for you,
so get a friend to help you (unless
you’re exceptionally skilled and can
do it yourself, of course), or head out
of the hall to get your parents to do
it. It gets pretty frantic in the Great
Hall, so the last thing you want to do
is add to anyone’s stress by getting in
the way. You should also remember
that you’re going to be wearing an
extra layer of heavy material all day, so
ditching your jacket with your parents
is a good option. It gets pretty warm
in those gowns, so don’t forget to put
on deodorant!
4. In the Royal Albert Hall, you’ll be
seated alphabetically by degree type.
As you’ve been studying with these
people for years, you’ll probably know
the people you’re sitting on either side
of you, who you can nudge and giggle
with throughout the ceremony. But if
you don’t, it’s never too late to meet
new people. If the person you’re sitting
next to looks a bit sad and lonely, or if
you need to talk to someone new out
of necessity, you can still have a great
time. Can’t think of anything that
would necessitate overcoming your
social awkwardness to talk to someone
new at this point? I happened to be
sat next to my recent ex-boyfriend,
who didn’t seem to be overly keen
on chatting with me. (If you’re not
graduating yet, I recommend avoiding
this at all costs. If you must date
someone in your class, try and stay
away from your end of the alphabet)
I’ve never been more grateful for the
sort-of-acquaintance on my other
side, who kept me entertained the
whole way through. Just because you’ll
never speak to them again, it doesn’t
mean that you can’t be graduation
BFFs.
5. You might be worried about falling
over on stage. You’ll be trying to juggle
a lot of things: keeping your gown
straight, the handshake-walk (at all
costs, do not pause!), and possibly
inconvenient clothing like heels, or a
sari. It’s a big ceremony, and a lot of
pressure. But what I ﬁnd reassuring, is
that if you trip, it will be with all eyes
on you, in the Royal Albert Hall, one of
the most well known buildings in the
world. That doesn’t sound like a good
thing, and while most Imperialites will
ﬁnd that kind of attention terrifying,
after a few years (or a few pints) it
will be a fantastic anecdote. If you do
stumble, and someone will, remember
to style it out. A full-on fall requires
a bow, and if you pull it oﬀ, you’ll
be a hero. Almost worth doing it on
purpose, isn’t it?
6. After the ceremony, there is the
highlight of the day: the champagne
and canapé reception. I can’t
remember the canapés, but I can
remember the champagne. My key
advice here is to remember that while
it is free alcohol (woo) and you’re with
all your friends who you might not
have seen since exams ﬁnished (double
woo), your parents are also there,
and it is not appropriate to attack
the champagne with your usual zeal.
You will be very overexcited, and may
not have managed to ﬁt in breakfast,
so it will go to your head. A bit of
good spirited tipsiness is perfectly
acceptable, but getting full on wasted
is not. I managed to drink enough to
do my usual 2 or 3am drunk texting…
at around midday. Classy.
7. There are photographers in Beit
Quad all day, but as anyone who’s ever
braved the Union on Commemoration
Day will know, the queues for
graduation photos are insane. There is
plenty of time to get one taken either
before or after your ceremony, but if
you’d rather not stand around for ages,
regressing to a sulky child who wants
to go oﬀ and play with their friends,
there are also photographers in the
Queen’s Tower Rooms the day before,
where they lend you a gown for the
photo. For less traditional photos by
camera wielding parents, classic spots
are the steps in front of the Albert
Hall, the lions by Queen’s Tower, and
in front of RSM.
8. It’s tempting to keep wearing the
gown as long as you possibly can, just
to make the most of it. As long as you
return it by 8.30pm, there don’t seem
to be any restrictions with running
oﬀ with it. Whether you want to take
a whistlestop tour of London in your
bat-cape, or just go out for dinner with
your parents, you have to make the all-
important decision of whether or not
to return it before you leave. Especially
if you’re coming back in the evening, it
might be tempting to keep it on, just
to let your parents eke out the pride
a bit longer. Remember that you will
attract a lot of attention outside of
South Kensington, and you might get
a bit fed up of it after a while.
9.Alotofpeoplewillgooutwithameal
with their family on Commemoration
Day, which is a mineﬁeld of things
to watch out for. As there are several
ceremonies, this could be lunch or
dinner, and either before or after the
champagne reception. Although you
might just want to go and hang out
with your friends, your graduation is
also for your parents, and so you’re
fairly honour-bound to spend a bit
of time with them. After all, they’ve
probably paid for the tickets, right?
Deciding not to brave the Eastside
“celebratory menu”, I had to ﬁnd
somewhere to eat that wouldn’t cause
my father to grumpily mutter, “it’s all
the same anyway, foreign food, isn’t
it?”, which is surprisingly challenging
in London. With that decided in
advance, I just had to navigate the
non-perpendicular streets of Covent
Garden to the restaurant in Covent
Garden while suﬀering the aftereﬀects
of the vast quantities of champagne,
which was enough of an achievement
for the day.
10. Going to the Union in the evening
can be a fun way to get all your friends
together when you might not have
seen them in a while. Most people
will still be in fancy clothes from
graduation, and anyone who can drink
from a tankard will be drinking from a
tankard. It’s really nice to see everyone,
but expect the Union to be like a
sports night, but worse. The queues
at the bar will be horrendous, and as
well as the recent graduates, there will
be a lot of too drunk athletic types in
ties. I wouldn’t recommend the Union
if you just want to chill out with your
close friends, but if you want to bump
into every acquaintance you’ve made
during your time at Imperial, and
make vehement promises (that you
won’t keep) to add them on Facebook
and stay in touch, then it’s the best
place to be.
Commemoration Day marks the end
of your stint as an Imperial student (or
at least an undergraduate one) and you
should absolutely make the most of it.
It’s a diﬃcult combination of friends
and family, but with a bit of care
you can easily appease your parental
responsibilities and catch up with all
your friends. Massive congratulations
to everyone who’s graduating this
year, and good luck in whatever you’re
doing with yourself next!
Tessa Davey
Comment Editor
avey
Editor
IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON

