FRIDAY 18 OCT
28
THE GRADUATE
Farewell Class of 2013
Goodbye from FELIX
Felix
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief 2013-14
C
ongratulations graduates! You’ve made it! Over the
last 3/4/6 years you’ve struggled and stressed over
coursework, problem sheet, labs, and exams and look at
what you’ve achieved! And while you’ve spent your time
studying here you;ve also taken part in non-academic
acivities and joined clubs and societies, which hopefully
helped to enrich your university experience.
Now you’re through the University gauntlet it’s time to look ahead to
the future and look forward to what the future will bring. Some of you
will stay in your ﬁeld of study, while others will take the skills they’ve
developed and apply them to a new area of study or commerce, one of the
great beneﬁts an Imperial College London degree provides.
As you all spread out into the world, I for one hope that you can look back
on your years at Imperial with some warmth, I’m sure it’s much easier to
be happy about it if you earn a generous salary! Even so, Imperial leaves
it’s mark on every graduate, akin to a blacksmith creating a new blade.
And thus you become ambassadors of the Imperial brand as you progress
throughout your career.
We at Felix hope that you’ve enjoyed reading the paper during the years
you’ve studied here, and don’t forget even though you’ve graduated you
can still read Felix online, so if you ever have a burning itch to see the
Rector being pied, or want to see how Imperial has progressed since your
departure I openly invite you to read each issue online.
We hope that we’ve enriched your student experience while you’ve been
studying at Imperial, from last year’s coverage of #AgainstActon and
the potential closure of Garden Hall to the protest against Life Sciences
cuts several years ago, as well as weekly content (including the ever so
gentle Hangman and the facinating debates in the Comment section each
week). I think the centrefold might deserve a separate mention, a unique
section that brings greater exposure to diﬀerent student groups. If you
ever get around to looking at this week’s centrefold you’ll be treated to
the rather unique sight of the longest surviving incarnation of the RCSU
mascot (Theta the thermometer) being joyfully displayed by members of
the CGCU Executive committee.
Looking around you on Commemoration day you’ll see so many happy
faces of friends and stragers alike sharing excitment (and free drinks) with
their families and course mates. Graduation is an exciting time and it’s
irreversible, after you’ve graduated you can never go back, so make the
most of it while you can!
The Felix team and I would like to extend our congratulations to you one
last time and wish you all the best for the future. We’re sure you’ll have
some great triumphs in the years ahead, even if you might have to hand
your gown back after at the end of Commemoration day.
Best of luck for the years ahead!
Felix

