FRIDAY 18 OCT 3
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FreshHairdressers
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
All over clipper cuts from £10
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
Highlights from only £40
Sorry CASH only!
FRESH hairdressers are offering
the best haircuts, prices and
service in South Kensington.
Please call 0207 823 8968 to
book an appointment and ask for
a student discount. Please bring
your student ID we look forward to
seeing you.
We use the best styling products
from Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal.
Sponsored Editorial
Student Discounts At
Appointments available Tuesday to
Saturdays 9.30 to 6.30
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington station at 15a
Harrington road,South Kensington,
SW7 3ES 0207 823 8968.
Check out our website:
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
70m from South Kensington tube
Higher Education
News
Degrees from top institutions
Labour
Warwick
First Union
Council
Session of
the Year
Maciej Matuszewski
Reporter
You’ve graduated; the future’s looking good, the world is your
oyster. Or is it? Political commentator, Anna Claeys says a degree
from a top university doesn’t open more doors…. anymore. Being
an intern has become a possible rite of passage to the job you want.
But be warned! You may land your perfect intern position with a
leading law ﬁrm only to discover that they have forgotten all about
you and no one knows what to do with you. Excellent CV material!
300 applications later, you ﬁnally get an interview and they ask you
to engage in a dance-oﬀ for the position. Or another interviewer
tells you that you don’t look right for the job. Still, it could be worse,
you could be asked to compete in a Boris Bike Race to win a job.
Yesterday, Labours new spokesperson for women discovered that a
nationalnewspaperwasoﬀeringahandsomecashsumforpicturesofher
from a previous life! It appears that Gloria de Piero has also indulged in a
spot of artistic clothes shedding. She raises the concern that something
she did when she was a young student may stand in the way of her
serving her community and becoming successful in politics. Or will it?
Last year, feminist students at Warwick University over exaggerated
their uproar in response to a semi-naked calendar produced by
female student rowers to raise money for the Macmillan Cancer
Charity. This year, they shed the remaining garments in deﬁance!
The ﬁrst meeting of the Union Council
was held in the Union Dining Hall last
Monday. The Council, consisting of
overtwodozenstudentrepresentatives
– including the Management Group
chairs and Constituent Union
presidents, is the main policy making
body of the Union and is subordinate
to only the Trustee Board.
While most of the meeting consisted
of start of year reports from senior
Union oﬃcers there was also a
discussion on the Union’s policy
towards under 18s. Campaigns Oﬃcer
Christopher Kaye raised the point that
current Union policy of barring under
18s from the Union for ticketed events
such as the Freshers’ Mingle might
leave them feeling left out. A number
of Council members who started their
courses at 17 conﬁrmed that they had
often felt isolated and secluded from
the wider student community in their
ﬁrst year.
Union President Paul Beaumont,
however, said that the policy was
in place as a safeguard against any
incident with underage drinkers.
He reminded the Council of the
strict government alcohol licensing
regulations, saying that “if there was an
incident with a 17 year old the Union’s
license would be taken away”. Marissa
Lewis, Deputy President (Welfare),
said that every eﬀort was being made
to make younger freshers feel included
– pointing in particular to the success
of this year’s Alternative Mingle –
“a free event with ... non-alcoholic
refreshments”. Beaumont also added
that the Union is keen to have events
which appeal to both drinkers and
non-drinkers – conﬁrming that he
does not want to see a divide form
between the two groups.
The next meeting of the Union
Council will be held at 18:30 on
Tuesday, October 29 in the Union
Dining Hall. All member of the Union
are welcome to attend and contribute
to the discussions, though only
members of the Council have votes.
Nominations are open until Sunday,
October 13 way for the 16 Council
Ordinary members, the directly
elected student representatives on the
Council. Voting itself opens Friday,
October 18 and closes on Tuesday,
October 22.
Union Elections
now open
U
nion elections are kicking
oﬀ again on Friday 17 at
12pm, they will be open
till Tuesday 22 at 12pm.
These elections are for Reps and
Union Council. This year 464 students
in total have stood for elections for
115 positions. This shows an increase
to the number of total candidates that
ran last year, which was 390, even
though last year there were more
positions available at a total of 139.
Rebecca Coxhead the returning
oﬃcer stated “This is a brilliant way to
get involved and be part of ensuring
student views are expressed to the
right bodies to make changes for the
beneﬁt of students. Whether you want
to be involved with representing your
Year Group or Master’s cohort to your.
Department, or be one of the ‘voice of
the students’ in Union Council, we
hope this guide will help you.”
So make sure you vote if you want
your voice heard.
Nida Mahmud
News Editor

