30 FRIDAY 18 OCT
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Old Men and the Sea
John Park
Film Editor
Captain Phillips
Director: Paul Greengrass
Writers: Billy Ray, Richard Phillips
(novel), Stephan Talty (novel)
Starring: Tom Hanks, Barkhad Abdi,
Catherine Keener
Runtime: 134 minutes
Certification: 12A
Leave it to Paul Greengrass, the man
behind United 93, to direct another
taut, claustrophobic thriller, but this
time set on the choppy sea waters
instead of inside a plane. Based on
the real-life Captain Richard Phillips
(Tom Hanks) whose cargo ship was
boarded by Somali pirates wielding
machine guns, Captain Phillips, is a
survival drama in which Phillips needs
to muster up the courage, strength
and intelligence required to make it
through this tough ordeal. Suddenly
thrust into the role of having to pro-
tect his crew as well as look out for
his own life, this ordinary family man
with no particular skills when it comes
to dealing with terrorists faces the
most challenging task of his life.
Shot in authentic locations (the
ships, the ocean, the whole lot), the
film’s heightened realism is what gives
this the extra kick, as once the pirates
start chasing their target with no sign
of slowing down despite the unkind
waves, it certainly marks one of the
best things Greengrass has done in
his already admirable directorial ca-
reer. The shoddily defended cargo
ship does what it can to protect itself
and repel outside invaders, under the
calm, level-headed command of the
Captain (he even proves to be an ex-
cellent shot, attempting to derail their
plan by firing flare-guns), but after an
extended scene of unbearable tension
that sees the pirates play around with
their access ladder, they eventually
board, which is where the stand-off
begins.
Keeping his cool and trying to come
up with a plan is Captain Phillips, us-
ing his ship knowledge to cleverly nav-
igate his way around the pirates with
his words. None of the crew on board
are trained in fighting, most certainly
not against heavily armed Somalis
who will stop at nothing to grab as
much as they can. The strategy for the
crew is to remain hidden at all cost, as
Phillips doesn’t want a hostage situa-
tion. There are many tense moments
where the cast plays the most deadly
version of hide-and-seek, one that
escalates to something of a far higher
stake that won’t be spoiled here.
What’s intelligent about Greengrass’
approach to what may have been a
simple, straightforward idea is that his
“villains” are never as black and white
as you would initially have expected
them to be. The pirates live in a village
where residents are constantly pushed
and harassed to hijack profitable ships
to pass on to their elders and leaders.
It’s evident that this is the only kind of
life they have ever known, and it’s re-
freshing to see a portrayal of the non-
American antagonist in a blockbuster
production to be given much more
depth and screen-time than what is
typically shown.
The cast of the Somali pirates, all of
them non-professional actors in their
motion picture debuts, are simply
stunning. Muse (Barkhad Abdi), the
one spear-heading the operation is in
particular excellent – he is as menac-
ing as he comes across in the trailers
(“look at me…look at me…I’m the
captain now” he says. And we’re all
inclined to believe him), and his hos-
tile one-on-one face-off with Hanks
works exceptionally in the film’s fa-
vour. There is a certain level of hu-
manity each pirate shows throughout
the film, and it’s in these character
interactions the film becomes unique
in showing us a balanced look at both
sides of the story.
Hanks is of course as effortlessly
convincing as ever from the begin-
ning, but his performance hits a real
high point in the film’s final moments,
as everything crescendos in scale and
intensity along with his portrayal of
the real-life character on screen.
There is an issue with pacing to-
wards the end as the film tries to sus-
tain its tension for as long as it pos-
sibly can, for around two hours. The
United States government takes ab-
solutely forever to get a plan in place,
which is both worrying (good) and
frustrating (bad) for the audience, the
latter feeling taking over as the res-
cue mission starts rolling out a touch
too slowly. The sun rises and falls at
warped speed, making the timeline
difficult to fully get your head around,
but given the note-perfect ways in
which the film opens and closes, this
shows you can count on anything Paul
Greengrass and Tom Hanks get their
hands on.
All is Lost
Director: J. C. Chandor
Writer: J. C. Chandor
Starring: Robert Redford
Runtime: 106 minutes
Certification: 12A
That Robert Redford is 75+ and ac-
tually walked away from this film set
alive is unbelievable in itself. The or-
deal he’s put through for J. C. Chan-
dor’s survival thriller looks positively
insane, and although the credit men-
tions the use of a stunt double, there is
no doubt this must have been a daring,
physical shoot for the veteran actor.
A couple of things to be aware of
before going to see the film: there is
only one person in the cast. Only Red-
ford stars in the film and really, that’s
more than enough. He has plenty of
that old-man star power and charisma
to power through the film. Something
else to bear in mind: there is virtu-
ally no dialogue. Aside from the open-
ing narration and a couple of scenes
where Redford quite understandably
uses curse words, Our Man (that’s
the credited character name) says not
much else. And yet All Is Lost is one
compelling thriller of man vs. nature
where it’s the man’s resourceful resil-
ience that shines through.
Slight damage to the side of his ship
turns out to be the least of Our Man’s
problems. Yes, there’s a hole through
which sea water is entering, but after
some precise, methodical repair work,
he’s back on track out in the open sea.
This is of course until a massive storm
decides to strike. With sinister sound
of the wind and heavy rain, things get
worse and worse for Our Man as he’s
hit with one back luck after the other.
The poor old man is tossed and
turned around time after time as
mother nature proves to be a force too
powerful for any skilled man at the sea
can realistically handle. The alarming-
ly high waves and hail-like rain is a ter-
rifying sight to behold, and the scale
of every disaster is simply astonishing,
which makes it easy for the audience
to be genuinely concerned and fright-
ened for Our Man’s safety. The camera
follows him around in whatever situa-
tion and this strangely documentary-
like style is a compelling one, closely
observing each and every step of his
fight.
It’s an uplifting, triumphant tale of
the human survival spirit, overcom-
ing whatever seemingly impossible
obstacle that comes your way, with a
muted yet powerhouse performance
from Redford. Essentially this can be
summed up as 2012’s Life of Pi except
without the animals, and with more
disaster ship-wreck scenarios.
The scope may be a narrow one for
sure, but you won’t find yourself wish-
ing for more faces to make up the
cast - because Redford on his own can
more than hold his own, in this thrill-
ing new adventure from a very young
and promising director.

