31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
FILM
Your hair looks sexy pushed back? You drink your milkshake? You drink it up? Are you not entertained?
You shall not pass? Fish are friends, not food? You have unfinished business? With great power comes
great responsibility? You want to play a game? Tell us all about it: film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
No one can hear you scream
Gravity
Director: Alfonso Cuarón
Writers: Alfonso Cuarón, Jonás
Cuarón
Starring: Sandra Bullock, George
Clooney
Runtime: 91 minutes
Certification: 12A
John Park
Film Editor
Get ready for the cinematic experi-
ence of the year. Hopefully you’ll be
seated in the biggest 3D screen you
can find with the best speakers sur-
rounding you (hint, hint: go to the BFI
IMAX). There is loud music, with cap-
tions reading “life in space is impos-
sible”. The music grows louder...and
louder...then suddenly, nothing. And
with a beautiful yet equally terrifying
shot of the Earth from outer space,
begins Alfonso Cuaron’s much-hyped,
box-office-record-breaking sci-fi
thriller, Gravity, easily one of the best
films of this year.
Dr Ryan Stone (Sandra Bullock) and
Matt Kowalski (George Clooney) are
on a mission in space. The details sur-
rounding this aren’t so important, as
soon they are bombarded with debris
from a Russian satellite that jeopard-
ises not only their mission (screw that)
but also their lives. With zero gravity
Dr Stone finds herself spiralling wildly
out of control, and with her oxygen
levels falling drastically with every
panicked breath she takes, she and the
more experienced astronaut Kowalski
need to work together to even dream
of landing back down on Earth.
From the get-go Cuaron’s film is an
adrenaline machine that churns out
scene after scene of nail-biting ten-
sion. Even when very little is happen-
ing, the extremely tight atmosphere
in which the characters communicate
via message transmissions, this alone,
combined with that view of Earth
is enough to send shivers down the
spine.
With every crash and bang the sus-
pense builds to epic proportions, and
when the helpless humans are flung
about, the desperation for survival is
felt through the two effective perfor-
mances; particularly that of Bullock’s -
and hers is one the film’s finale hinges
on to make a real emotional impact,
which it most definitely does.
Cuaron always finds the perfect van-
tage point for the audience to witness
the events unfold, going so far as to
take the camera inside Bullock’s astro-
naut helmet, seeing the narrow view
of everything she sees, truly adding on
the fear factor. The flawless special ef-
fects, the fantastic music notched up
to maximum volume are all technical
accomplishments worth mentioning,
and it’s no wonder James Cameron
was floored by this film.
Yes there may be scientific inac-
curacies. And yes, the rousing finale
backed by a loud vocal chorus is with-
out doubt corny and 100% what Holly-
wood is all about. But so what? All that
is completely overshadowed by the
impeccable filmmaking at work here.
The Fifth Estate
Director: Bill Condon
Writers: Daniel Domscheit-Berg
(novel), David Leigh (novel),
Luke Harding (novel), Josh Singer
(adaptation)
Starring: Benedict Cumberbatch,
Daniel Brühl, Laura Linney, Stanely
Tucci
Runtime: 128 minutes
Certification: 12A
John Park
Film Editor
Who knew a fictional retelling of the
biggest leak of classified information
in history could be this boring and
tedious? According to Bill Condon’s
new WikiLeaks movie, Julian Assange
(England’s favourite new bachelor, the
rising Sherlock star Benedict Cum-
berbatch) and his partner Daniel Berg
(Daniel Brühl) make their website an
international sensation by standing
around and arguing with ego trou-
bles sometimes getting in the way of
things.
Despite the incredibly sensitive na-
ture of the information the protago-
nists are dealing with, there is no real
sense of tension, not even when the
United States government (comprised
of Laura Linney and Stanley Tucci in
what must be the most thankless roles
of their careers) gets involved; the
only highlight that comes out of this is
when all the embarrassing transcripts
from within The White House are
released.
It’s a light, but a surprisingly long
recap of what sort of happened: and
Assange’s image remains relatively
intact, thanks to Cumberbatch who
rocks the bleach blonde hair and a
competent Aussie accent.

