32 FRIDAY 18 OCT
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BFI London Film Festival
In the opening scenes of Borgman,
the latest film by Dutch director Alex
van Warmerdam, a priest and his two
accomplices hunt down a mysterious
bearded man living in a subterrane-
an hideaway; after they crash down
through his ceiling, the forest-dweller
only just escapes, throwing gas canis-
ters behind him, emerging through a
trapdoor, and running away through
the trees clutching a briefcase. The
film just gets stranger from hereon in.
Borgman is a surreal, darkly hu-
morous home-invasion style film, in
which the titular character, after es-
Fred Fyles
Writer
Borgman
Director: Alex van Warmerdam
Writer: Alex van Warmerdam
Starring: Jan Bijvoet, Hadewych
Minis, Jeroen Perceval
Runtime: 113 minutes
caping the priest, insidiously inserts
himself into an upper-middle class
household. Playing with themes of
power and powerlessness, Borgman
manages to be both the victim and
the controller, being savagely beaten
by the householder in one scene, and
having dinner served to him whilst
in a bathtub in the next. Cutting a
Charles Manson-esque figure, Borg-
man, played by Jan Bijvoet, manages
to gain the sympathies of Marina, the
artist wife of a TV executive, who lives
in a luxurious modernist villa with her
three children and their nanny; seem-
ingly imbued with shamanistic pow-
ers he - along with a gang of equally
odd accomplices - manages to turn the
household against each other, creating
an atmosphere of tension and fear.
Of course, when talking about home
invasion it is near impossible not to
think of Michael Haneke’s 1997 work
Funny Games, and Borgman shares
this film’s lashings of black humour;
however, van Warmerdam also seems
indebted to Haneke’s 2005 film Ca-
ché, and both films explore how the
security of the middle-classes can be
undermined by a single outsider. Un-
fortunately Borgman, despite much
promise at the beginning of the film,
doesn’t manage to reach the dizzy-
ing heights of Haneke’s work. The
tension never quite reaches breaking
point; the humours elements of the
film, while amusing, don’t quite feel
bleak or sardonic enough to count as
gallows humour; and while the ma-
lignant, underlying darkness that lies
at the centre of many seemingly-cosy
families is an interesting theme to ex-
plore, van Warmerdam showcases this
idea with very little subtlety or nuance
- in one scene the husband tells his
children ‘we shouldn’t have to apolo-
gise for being better off than others’.
These shortcomings make the film
ultimately disappointing, and mean
that the sense of menace that per-
vades the film throughout the first
half doesn’t continue into the finale,
making it seem bloated and dragging.
Borgman is visually brilliant, and ap-
pears to be utterly realistic in captur-
ing the trappings of the bourgeoisie,
but a failure to maintain pacing means
that it feels a bit like an amuse-bouche
stretched out into a full three-course
meal.
Computer Chess
Director: Andrew Bujalski
Writer: Andrew Bujalski
Starring: Patrick Riester, Wiley
Wiggins, Myles Paige, Robin
Schwartz
Runtime: 92 minutes
AndrewBujalski’sfilmComputerChess
is a humorous, experimental look at
the early days of chess programming.
First screened at Sundance, where it
won an acclaim and accolades, it then
bounced around festivals, and finally
it has touched down on these shores
with a reputation that precedes it. It
is therefore perhaps no surprise that I
find myself, despite the fact that it is a
gloomy Friday afternoon, in a sold out
auditorium, filled with people excited
to see this strange little film.
While the concept of the plot - pro-
grammers in the early 80s coming
together in a hotel to pit computers
against each other in games of chess
- may not sound like the most en-
thralling of films, Bujalski’s frequent
tangents give this film an incredibly
experimental edge. The most striking
thing about the film is how authentic
it is; Bujalski filmed the entire thing
on video recorders made in the 1970’s,
and the majority of the computers used
in the film are authentic artifacts from
the time period. Non-professional ac-
tors, who make up around 90% of the
cast, remain uncompromisingly awk-
ward on film; every ‘umm’ and ‘ahh’ is
accentuated, creating an atmosphere
of nerdish anxiety. In fact, the realism
is so convincing that producer Alex
Lipschultz has stated that most peo-
ple believe it to be a documentary for
the first 15 minutes - something I can
completely understand.
It would be easy to describe the
film as a mockumentary, but that
description would be too simplistic,
as it doesn’t take long for the film to
explore bizarre tangents, essentially
making Computer Chess seem like a
series of miniature shorts, strung to-
gether by circumstance. We have Mi-
chael Papageorge, a surly, confronta-
tional programmer whose hotel room
has been booked out to someone else;
we follow his surreal nocturnal wan-
derings trying to find a room, roaming
the corridors and knocking on every-
one’s doors; when he finally does get
a room he finds that it is inhabited by
cats. And then we have the coming-of-
age tale of Patrick Reister, a cripplingly
awkward young programmer for the
Cal-Tech team, whose failure to com-
prehend social interactions is tested
when he runs into a couple who are at
the hotel for a ‘self-help’ retreat, and
is invited into a menage-a-trois with
them. It is stories like these that mark
Computer Chess apart from other
films; while Bujalski could have easily
used the ready-made narrative of the
chess tournament to drive the film, he
seems to have resist this temptation,
instead creating a winding, non-linear
film that delights and astounds.
A film that consists of a mainly non-
professional cast, that was mainly
improvised (Bujalski only wrote 8
pages of script), and spans such a wide
range of genres - from documentary
to comedy, arthouse to sci-fi - could
easily descend into a complete mess,
crushed under the weight of its own
ambition, but Computer Chess doesn’t
have this problem. The multitude of
plotlines have been edited down into
a streamlined 90 minutes, creating
a product that is well-paced, snappy,
and incredibly amusing.
It is fascinating, in a world that
seems in thrall to the fetishisation of
analogue technology, to have a film
that explores a world that has been
forever lost. Bujalski has called the
programmers who inspired the work
‘a different breed...who saw this moun-
tain and insisted on climbing it’; while
today the world of technology re-
volves around Apple and Silicon Val-
ley, the origins of computer program-
ming could not be further removed
from this idea of ‘geek-chic’. Bujalski
reminds us that the vanguards of the
programming movement were - much
like this film - odd, awkward, endear-
ing, and utterly brilliant.
In some ways, film festivals like the one
currently being held in London, are a
godsend to films like Miele; where
else, other than the festival circuit, will
we be able to watch a French-Italian
film, made on a miniature budget, that
tells the story of a young woman who
assists in the suicide of terminally ill
patients? And yet, despite a descrip-
tion that makes it sound like any num-
ber of European arthouse films, Miele
manages to retain a sense of warmth
and pathos, thanks to confident per-
formances on and off the screen.
The first directorial effort from vet-
eran Italian actress Valeria Golino,
Miele revolves around the double life
of 20-something year old Irene (Jas-
mine Trinca), a young woman with
an active social life, who swims every
morning and has athletic sex with
her lover. But every week she takes a
plane into LA, where she then trav-
els to Mexico in order to buy banned
barbiturates; after taking them back
to Italy, she becomes ‘Miele’, and uses
them to help terminally ill people end
their lives. An angel of death, dressed
in skinny jeans and with a multitude
of piercings, Irene/Miele resembles a
sort of Italian Lisbeth Salander. Slight-
ly distant to those around her, and
harbouring dark secrets, Irene car-
ries on living this double life, until she
meets Carlo Grimaldi (Carlo Cecchi),
an aging engineer who asks for help
in ending his life. When she finds out
he is not terminally ill, her carefully
ordered world comes crashing down
around her.
Miele
Director: Valeria Golino
Writers: Valeria Golino, Francesca
Marciano, Valia Santella
Starring: Jasmine Trinca, Carlo
Cecchi, Libero de Rienzo, Vinicio
Marchioni, Iaia Forte
Runtime: 100 minutes
Miele exists in the grey areas of mo-
rality, and makes a show of breaking
down the walls of absolute morality;
Irene is upset that Carlo is not ill, be-
cause that means she has broken one
of the multitude of ‘rules’ she must
follow when doing her job: she must
not use the word ‘wish’, she must stay
until the end, she cannot use any fu-
ture tense verbs. Irene’s views on the
topic of euthanasia are clear cut, but
as she gets to know Carlo, she begins
to question what she is doing.
While such a topic is controversial,
not least of all in Italy, the film man-
ages to avoid becoming a polemic,
subtly navigating the issues surround-
ing euthanasia. However, in doing so
they rob the film of some of its energy,
meaning that - after a promising start
- the plot stagnates in the middle. Fur-
thermore, Golino has a habit of avoid-
ing the heart of the action; whenever
Irene ‘helps’ a patient, we never actu-
ally see the patient dying. We never
see the aftermath. Instead, the cam-
era, almost without exception, will fol-
low Irene, and music will fade in over
the sound of crying. While such ac-
tion may seem logical, if we compare
it to Haneke’s Amour, another film
that revolves around assisted suicide
(and does so in a much more visceral
and horrifying manner), Miele seems
quite laconic, almost trite. This is a
difficult topic we are dealing with, and
by directing it in such a way Golino
does not show us the full picture.
That being said, the film does pick
up again towards the end, and is driv-
en along by Trinca’s stunning turn in
the role of Irene/Miele. Beginning as
cold and aloof, the character slowly
opens up to the viewer. We discover
why she chose the career she did, and
how - despite her tough, tomboyish
exterior - inside she is just as scared
and alone as those she helps kill. This
skill in front of the camera, combined
with Golino’s developing skill behind
it, make Miele a film to see - if it ever
breaks out of the festival circuit.

