33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
FILM
Sunshine on Leith
Director: Dexter Fletcher
Writers: Stephen Greenhorn
Starring: George MacKay, Jason
Flemyng, Antonia Thomas, Peter
Mullan, Freya Mavor, Jane Horrocks,
Kevin Guthrie, Paul Brannigan
Runtime: 100 minutes
Certification: PG
Musicals based on a band’s songs
-’Jukebox Musicals’ as they are known-
have become a staple of the musical
scene since ABBA-based Mamma
Mia! debuted at the West End in 1999,
having since grossed $2 billion world-
wide and $610 million with its 2008
film adaptation. We Will Rock You
(based on the songs of ‘Queen’ and
written by Ben Elton) and Jersey Boys
(based on the songs of ‘The Four Sea-
sons’) have since followed to enduring
success. Sunshine on Leith, originally
a 2007 Dundee Repertory Theatre
production, takes on the more mod-
est body of work of 80s Scottish band
‘The Proclaimers’.
The film starts in a grim land torn
apart by religious sectarianism. No,
not Scotland; Afghanistan. David
(MacKay) and Ally (Guthrie) are sol-
diers sitting inside an armoured ve-
hicle that takes a hit from a roadside
bomb. It then cuts to David and Ally
returning to families and friends in
their hometown of Leith in north Ed-
inburgh. The film focuses on the trib-
ulations of Ally’s resumed relationship
with David’s sister Liz (Mavor), Da-
vid’s new one with Yvonne (Thomas),
and David’s parents Rab (Mullen) and
Jean (Horrocks) 25 year old one.
It’s an interesting second effort from
north London actor-turned-director
Dexter Fletcher; a Scottish musi-
cal isn’t a natural stepping stone for
someone best known for his role in
cockney crime film Lock, Stock and
Two Smoking Barrels. As far as mu-
sicals go, it’s a competent attempt.
He gets the characters broadly right,
though the only one who stands out
-Art museum manager Harry (Lock,
Stock co-star Jason Flemyng)- gets
far too little screen time. On the other
hand, a friend of David and Ally’s who
lost both legs in the roadside bomb
(Brannigan) is a misguided attempt at
hamfisting an extra dose of drama into
the film.
The film does succeed where far too
many jukebox musicals fail: the tran-
sition into song feels natural, as op-
posed to going to ridiculous lengths to
fit in as many of the band’s songs (We
Will Rock You has characters named
Galileo Figaro and Scaramouche).
It presents itself as a tongue-in-
cheek take on Scottish culture; with
jokes on Scottish nationalism, Leith-
based football club Hibernian, Anglo-
Scottish relations and a liberal use of
“Aye”. But beneath this charismatic
Caledonian veneer; at the film core’s
is a standard musical with all of its
quirks, tropes and style, a bombastic
Broadway style that The Proclaimers’
folksy songs do not lend themselves
well to.
If you dislike musicals you might
take solace in the snappy dialogue and
chemistry between the characters, but
ultimately it’s an fulfilling outing. For
musical fans it’s an enjoyable, albeit
forgettable musical. Unfortunately for
me, I am in the former.
We’ve got a busy week planned for
you! First up as a special postgrad
screening night-including a free
bag of popcorn/ice cream may I just
add-we’ll be showing the newest ad-
aptation of The Great Gatsby with
an all-star cast featuring Leonardo
DiCaprio as Jay Gatsby and Carey
Mulligan as Daisy Buchanan. Baz
Luhrmann brings plenty of glitz and
glam to this classic tale about the
dark trappings of a life of luxury.
Next up is the visually awe-in-
spiring Pacific Rim for your view-
ing pleasure. Guillermo Del Toro
(creator of the extraordinary gothic
fairytale Pan’s Labyrinth) brings his
unique blend of visceral imagery
and technical brilliance to life in a
huge blockbuster with spectacular
results. And as for the plot, in brief:
cities across the globe are coming
under attack by mythical beasts so
mankind creates colossal robots
to fight back. If this all seems a lit-
tle similar to a certain Michael Bay
franchise, think again; Pacific Rim
is devoid of the cynicism of recent
blockbusters: it’s irresistibly fun as
an overt ode to Del Toro’s love of
anime as well as having a heart of
gold.
And now for something a bit
different: we’ll be screening a
documentary of the documentary
Project Wild Thing by local
filmmaker David Bond. We follow
Bond as he explores the growing
disconnection of British Children
from nature. As he witnesses the
detrimental impact that marketing
and endless hours of TV have on
his own children he decides to
take action with simultaneously
humorous and shocking results.
We’re showing a free screening
of The Gamers: Hands of Fate,
for anyone not familiar with The
Gamers series, they’re a series of
comedies set in the role-playing
gaming universe with plenty of in
jokes about the gaming world. If
you’re a gamer or this has interested
you come along, remember it’s free!
The Great Gatsby (Free Ice
Cream/Bag of popcorn): Monday
21st October 19:00pm Tickets £5
online/£6 on the door
Pacific Rim: Tuesday 22nd /
Thursday 24 th October 19:00pm
£3 for members and £4 for non-
members, buy on the door.
Project Wild Thing: Friday 25th
October 17:00pm Tickets £5 stu-
dents/£7 others
The Gamers: Hands of Fate:
Friday 25th October 19:00pm Free
screening
£5 Membership includes one free
film and cheaper ticket prices all
year! Buy it here: tickets.imperial-
cinema.co.uk
Next Week: The World’s End/
Thrillseekers Adventure Film
Festival
Michael S. Martin
Writer
The Congress is a film about Holly-
wood. It is about the effect new tech-
nologies will have on the centuries-old
movie industry; it is about the nature
of copyright, and the ownership of an
actor’s image; but most of all it is about
how older actresses are treated in a
world where youth is king, and you’re
only as good as your last facelift. ‘How
old are you now? 45? 48?’, asks Jeff, a
slightly sleazy executive at ‘Miramax’
Studios, played beautifully by Danny
Huston. ‘44.’, replies a defensive Rob-
in Wright, who plays an alternative
version of herself. In this film, Robin
Wright, rather than continuing her
ascent to stardom following her por-
trayal of Jenny in the 1994 film Forrest
Gump, has stagnated; let down by her
quick temper and neurosis, she has
made a series of poor decisions and
even poorer films, that eventually lead
her to the door of Miramax Studios.
It is here that she is offered a deal
she cannot refuse: the studio will scan
every part of her, completely own-
ing her image, and freezing her at the
golden age of 34, but in return she will
be banned from acting for the next
20 years. Fearing for the financial se-
curity of her children, one of whom
is going slowly blind and deaf, Robin
agrees, allowing her essence to be con-
densed into a computer chip. For the
next 20 years the studio make films us-
ing this ‘virtual Robin’, catapulting her
into the ‘highest-earning computer
star’ in the world, until she is invited
back to the studios for the ‘Futurologi-
cal Congress’ alluded to in the film’s
title. This congress is a chance for Mi-
ramax (who have since made a move
into pharmaceuticals and changed
their name to MIramax-Nagasaki) to
show off their latest creation - a hal-
lucinogenic drug that sends users into
the ‘animated zone’, where everyone is
free to live out their wildest desires.
It is at this point, around the halfway
mark, that the film takes a sudden left
turn, plunging us into an animated
world of rainbow seas, robot butlers,
and famous personalities; as Robin
enters her hotel, she sees Frida Kahlo
taking a bite of Magritte’s apple, while
Ziggy Stardust chats to John Wayne,
and the receptionist informs her that
she is the sixth Robin Wright today.
Such mediations on who owns a per-
son’s image may seem abstract, but
raises important issues about whether
the actor is a person or a brand. This
idea is taken further when the head
of Miramax - who I suspect is some-
what based upon Steve Jobs - reveals
that the next step in their develop-
ment is to distill ‘Robin Wright’ down
into a single molecule, which can then
be ingested, allowing the consumer
to place the character in any situa-
tion they can think of. Although this
is clearly extreme, it draws a parallel
with how much free choice the actors
actually have, and how much is dic-
tated by the studio.
When all these philosophical quan-
daries have been stripped away, what
we have left is a breathtakingly gor-
geous film; the animation style is
somewhere between 1930 Disney,
George Dunning’s Yellow Submarine,
and Satoshi Kon’s Paprika - a beguil-
ing mixture of whimsy, humour, and
riotous colour, that stands as a marked
contrast to director Ari Folman previ-
ous film Waltz With Bashir, a gritty,
stark feature about the Lebanon War.
The Congress is a feast for the senses,
with an incredible attention to detail
that merits it a second viewing.
However, in making a film with
such a complex and meta plot Folman
seems to have stretched himself a lit-
tle thin; towards the end of the film
things are left unexplained, and ma-
jor plot points seem to pass us by too
quickly. Despite being over two hours
long, The Congress leaves us with
more questions than answers, but per-
haps this is to be expected in a work
so wide in scope. It still remains that
The Congress is a film that isn’t afraid
to bite the hand that feeds, working as
a vicious satire of the movie industry,
while boasting some of the most trip-
py visual feats this side of the 80s, and
a powerhouse performance by Robin
Wright - A definite must-see.
Fred Fyles
Writer
The Congress
Director: Ari Folman
Writer: Ari Folman
Starring: Robin Wright, Harvey
Keitel, Jon Hamm, Paul Giamatti,
Danny Huston
Runtime: 120 minutes
Imperial Cinema

