35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
TELEVISION
Person of Interest:
Season 2
Sophomore Spikes
John Park Television Editor
Whilst most procedural crime dra-
masstartwithabody/bodies,Harold
Finch (Michael Emerson) devised a
clever anti-terrorism machine that
sees all acts of potential violence that
kicked things off in season 1. What
Harold and his ex-CIA buddy John
Reese (Jim “Jesus Christ” Caviezel)
receive every week is a social secu-
rity number...and when the writers
are feeling extra bold and ambitious,
more than one...and with no idea
whether this “person of interest” is
the victim or perpetrator, it’s up to
Finch and Reese to track the person
down and solve the mystery. The
machine is never wrong, and not
every case turns out to be as simple
as it seems in the beginning, which is
why each stand-alone episode takes
up 40+ minutes to come to a close.
Putting a nice, original twist to the
well-worn genre, Person of Interest
was off to a flying start on the CBS
network up against the long-running
ABC’s sappy medical drama Grey’s
Anatomy. Throughout season 1
there were plenty of hints and teas-
ing alluding to the characters’ origins
story: both Finch and Reese had fas-
cinating stories to tell, and season 2
gave the writers a chance to expand
on this more.
With Finch, his relationship with
an equally brilliant colleague of his,
Nathan Ingram (Brett Cullen), who
is now dead, and the many unan-
swered questions regarding the
creation of the machine are fully ad-
dressed, with intermittent flashback
sequences embedded within appro-
priate episodes to shine some light
on the complicated past. Govern-
ment secrecy and conspiracy, as well
as the powerful people who fear for
the legality issues that arise with this
all-knowing machine all contribute
to create a fascinating season-long
story arc that puts both Finch and
Reese in danger. Carrie Preston,
an underused and under-awarded
actress who constantly features in
small supporting guest roles, who
also happens to be Emerson’s real-
life wife, features as Finch’s rather
sweet love-interest, the development
of which serves as a nice distraction
from the otherwise more serious
crime drama.
Reese and his darker, morally am-
biguous days are further explored
here, more specifically relating to the
two ladies who had quite the impact
on his life; Agent Kara Stanton (An-
nie Parisse) and Jessica Arndt (Susan
Misner). Softly-spoken yet intense in
all the right moments with dry, sar-
castic humour thrown into the mix,
Caviezel is perfectly suited for the
role of a skilled agent back in action.
More help is available to them
within the NYPD who now know a
thing or two about how these two
men go about their crime-solving
business. Detectives Joss Carter
(Taraji P. Henson) and Lionel Fusco
(Kevin Chapman) are both valuable
additions to the cast providing solid
support in terms of back-up during
action sequences as well as when
it comes to information-gathering.
There is playful banter between all
four in the group, although it’s the
growing bromance between the lead
pair that is the most entertaining.
The initially mismatched duo of a
socially awkward billionaire comput-
er-nerd with an ex-military, ex-CIA
agent is a pairing that gets off to an
entertainingly rocky start in season 1
butnowtheyoperatelikeawell-oiled
machine, having excellent dynamic
and chemistry that evolve as each
season moves forward.
Recurring guest stars make wel-
come returns: starting from Zoe
Morgan (the excellent Paige Turco -
it’s always a pleasure to see her back),
a helpful, resourceful ally who has
many rich and famous friends, Carl
Elias (Enrico Colantoni) a crime boss
with useful knowledge on many of
New York’s underground operations
who is currently in jail, amongst
others.
The complexity and intriguing
premise related to every weekly case
is variable with some hitting the
spot, whilst a couple seem a little too
rushed and serve as merely filling in
another weekly slot in their 22-epi-
sode season. But with its second se-
ries Person of Interest has certainly
gained confidence in its footing
and with a helpful introduction of a
snarky, psychotic villainess (the won-
derful Amy Acker), the climax does
start building until a satisfying finale
that sets things up nicely for season 3
which is well underway in the States.

