38 FRIDAY 18 OCT
TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
NSA: Peeling the skin off TOR
Osama Awara
Technology Editor
The NSA known for its privacy
breaching of internet users across
the globe has been found ‘peeling’
the encryption that Tor provides
for its users’ information sent
online, in order to gain access to
sensitive information. Tor is a piece
of software, ironically funded by the
US government, which enables the
anonymity of its users surﬁng the
web, posting on forums and general
internet communication; a great way
to aid journalists or even the average
person in countries that prohibit
certain sites and topics of discussion.
The methods the NSA has indulged
itself in, in order to circumvent a
variety of NET encryptions, are
arguably controversial. Hacking
into private companies in order
to steal their server’s encryptions
is one example. Another as stated
by the New York Times involves
collaborating with tech companies
to build in backdoors in computing
systems and covertly introducing
weaknesses in encryption standards.
Get rich quick, Youtube style!
Layer by layer, the controversy surrounding the NSA increases!
All of you spend a signiﬁcant amount
of your life on YouTube, be it watching
handy tutorial videos, lets-plays,
music videos and/or videos of cute-
ass kittens (the last being the most
time intensive). However have you
ever wondered why some of these
Youtubers, more often than not just
average Joe’s, actually do it? Yes of
course they are all kind, considerate
people who really just want to
entertain you, but apart from that
have you ever thought, what’s in it for
them? Cash. Cold, hard cash. YouTube
makes money from ads, and so that
they encourage more clicks/views,
they need to share some of the loot.
Now I know exactly what you are
thinking. You are sitting there reading
this, munching on your sandwhich/
homemade pasta, wanting some of
that glorious dough. Well in fact that
is not hard as long as you follow this
absolutely patented fail safe acme
cashtube plan!
Firstly, make yourself an account.
Without an account you will not be
able to upload any videos, get on to
that. Now think of a creative name
that will stick in peoples minds as
well as perhaps describing what
you do. Therefore don’t call yourself
Ramalama-dingdong unless you plan
to talk about bells or report on the
Dalai Lama.
Next you will need to come up with
original content. Trust me the people
who repost other peoples content
will never get to the upper echelons
of youtube aristocracy. Think of
something that no one has done
before. It can be funny (usually the
best), serious or something
totally weird. It doesn’t really matter,
as long as its new and you are good
at it! However if you do not have any
ideas, usually putting up videos of
your kittens or puppies doing cute
stuﬀ is a good start. If you do not own
any pet, you can always try remixing
nyan cat!
Once you have a certain amount of
subscribers (500) is a good number,
and are churning out good content
on a weekly basis, you should start
thinking about becoming a youtube
partner. With this program the money
can start rolling in. Depending on your
popularity and/or viewing numbers
(which are usually very closely related)
it. The NSA justiﬁed its actions by
claiming that it only targets criminals
such as terrorists and human
traﬃckers. It is without a doubt that
certain shady individuals may use
Tor or other such online utilities, but
claiming that the NSA ‘….collects
only those communications that it
is authorized by law to collect for
valid foreign intelligence,’ as they
said in a statement to the Guardian,
has been proven to be untrue.
It’s common knowledge now that
the NSA spies on individuals and
organizations that have nothing to do
with crime. Take Brazilian Oil Giant
Petrobras as an example; they’ve
you can get anywhere between $2.5 to
$7 per 1,000 views. While this does
not sound like much, it can certainly
add up.
So wow, now you are a up and
coming youtube celebrity. The cash
ain’t the only beneﬁt that will come
your way. If you are a gamer, you may
get free games etc., if you do comedy,
you may get oﬀered a movie role (niga
higa) or if you sing....oh wait, thats
Justin Bieber. Actually please don’t
sing.
However on a serious note, more
than being interested in making
This all may seem like a far-fetched
conspiracy theory but as more and
more revelations on the NSA’s privacy
breaching activities comes to surface,
it seems they would do anything to
get their hands on sensitive material.
Tor, formally known as ‘The Onion
Router’, works by layering signals
sent online with encryption, these
‘coated’ signals are then sent through
a random path through a network
of routers which in turn, each peel
oﬀ a layer of encryption until the
signal has reached its destination.
This method prevents any one of the
routers from having access to all the
encryptions at once hence the signal
can’t be tracked back to its original
sender. Unfortunately for the NSA
this method of ‘anonymisation’ has
foxed their hackers as they stated
themselves through documents
leaked by Edward Snowden, ‘…de-
anonymize a very small fraction of
users.’ In a way this is great for a Tor
developer, personally if I was one of
them I’d have a big grin on my face.
When it comes to tackling Tor, the
NSA has no reservations, from
utilizing ﬂaws in one of the Mozilla
Firefox versions to directing user
traﬃc to their NSA operated servers
in order to degrade the service to
reduce the number of people using
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
datewith thenewest,wierdestandmostfuturisticthingsaround
Maybe color ainʼt so good after all
Snaphack, saving one pic at a time
If you are a fan of the photo messaging app you should be slightly
concerned. The advantage of using snapchat is that your innocent photos
and videos (or maybe not so innocent ;-)) are deleted within a set time
after being viewed. However with the release of Snaphack this deletion
process can be stopped without the knowledge of the sender. This app,
currently available in the apple App store. Should worry all those of you
who are sending pictures that they actually want deleted!
Apple’s iPhone 5C, the colourful variant of their new generation has not
sold as well as their more expensive featured ﬁlled brother the 5S. In fact
some statistics suggest that the plastic phone is being outsold almost 2 to
1. This has lead Apple to cut orders of their slightly cheaper model. The
fact that the 5C does not really oﬀer any diﬀerence apart from the exterior
to the 5, may explain this disappointing trend in sales.
Maximilian Eggl
Technology Editor
recently invested in $9.5 Billion for
security alone after their experience
with NSA’s cyber-espionage.
In a statement by a representative
of the EFF (Electronic Frontier
Foundation) and previously a funder
of the Tor product, Cindy John says,
‘Of course the government should
get to go after bad guys, but they
shouldn’t be able to break the security
and trust promises of the internet
to do that.’ Indeed the US and any
other country for that matter should
have the right to defend itself from
cyber-attacks or malicious users of
the web, however the methods used
should at the very least be regulated.
money (where you could just go into
banking like most imperialites do),
youtube is a platform to put yourself
out there and give you the chance to
earn a living with what you really love
to do. While this may be a very hard
thing to do for us socially impaired
students, once you have gotten over
the trolls and jerks that the internet
seems to spawn en masse, it can be an
extremely positive experience.
Now I am oﬀ to repost that totally
hilarious college humour video on my
totally successful youtube channel,
Peace out!

