4 FRIDAY 18 OCT
FEATURES Editors: VACANT
felix@imperial.ac.uk
D
avid Bond is a worried
man. When he was a
child, he spent his time
outdoors in the natural
world, but now all his
children do is stare at screens and
obsess with big brands. He sets out
to change things, appointing himself
Marketing Director for Nature. This
witty and irreverent documentary
follows his antics as he attempts to
launch a national marketing campaign
to get children back enjoying the
great outdoors. Described as “Like
David Attenborough and Morgan
Spurlock got drunk and had a baby”
by one watcher at the Sheﬃeld Doc
Fest where the ﬁlm premiered this
summer, it’s sure to be an interesting
watch.
Felix caught up with the man himself,
fresh out of the BBC newsroom where
he’d been preparing an edit of the ﬁlm
for Newsnight.
The ﬁlm release is quite soon now,
so how are the preparations going?
It’s going really well. We’ve got over
50 cinema screenings, which for a
documentary is really an amazing
release, and we’re going out all over
the country, which is really amazing.
We’re really pleased to be playing
at Imperial. We’ve had a couple of
interns working on the ﬁlm who
were at Imperial, so we feel quite
connected. Noah Baker and Andrew
Mehigan were both interns with us.
So that’s one of the reasons we rang
Imperial Cinema – “you should screen
it as your guys have been working on
it”.
The preparations are good, we’ve
got loads of events going on at the
diﬀerent screenings. It’s been a hell of
a ride. It’s been 3 years in the making,
so it’s been pretty terriﬁc.
I love the style of the trailer, the idea
of socking it to the big brands in a
language they understand. Since
you are setting yourself up as the
Marketing Director for Nature,
what’s your elevator pitch?
It’s the ultimate product. It’s fun, it’s
free and it’s good for you. And there’s
almost nothing in the world you can
say that about... except maybe sex,
although that’s not always true for sex
even.
Why did you take the approach of a
big brand to the idea?
actually not true, in fact it’s slightly the
other way round according to a study
published on Wednesday by the RSPB.
Also, the discovery how universally
loved it is as a product, how weirdly
we don’t choose it as it has been
displaced by these other better
marketed products.
Those were the two big things that
struck me – that nature is a product,
a thing to go and consume, (there’s
something weird about describing it
as a product because it’s free and we’re
part of it in a sense), but at the same
time, being able to set it up and talk
about it as an option for enjoyment.
A kid would have a pie chart for what
they do, and nature, the outdoors,
would be one chunk of that. And I
guess what I saw my job as doing was
to try and grow that segment of the pie
chart. And I just loved discovering just
how much children love it, and adults
of course. Everybody loves being
outdoors, but people don’t choose
it, and I’m convinced that’s a kind of
marketing and branding problem.
This ﬁlm has got quite a wide release
for a documentary? How did you
manage it?
We came up with the idea, and
raised money from various sources,
including BritDoc and Channel 4,
and some private places, including
the National Trust, the RSPB. We
were tremendously lucky in raising
the money to release it. In terms of
getting the release, it’s just got to go
down well. We played it at the big
I’ve got two young kids, so I noticed
that they are much more into the
telly and computer games and toys
than going outdoors. When I get
them outdoors, they really love it.
As a product, they love consuming
it and they really enjoy it, but they
don’t choose it, and that struck me
as probably a branding problem. I
wanted to compete with the brands
that they do choose, even though they
don’t enjoy them as much as going
outdoors. They do choose Disney and
Nintendo and Apple and CBeebies.
Partly that’s because the stuﬀ that
those guys have got to oﬀer is not
necessarily good for them but quite
addictive, but its partly because there’s
a lot of advertising and branding that
goes on, around, well in the case of
Disney they own Marvel now, so
everything my son’s got is Spider Man
now – he’s kind of saturated with the
Marvel Brand, so I guess I wanted to
see what it would look like if I tried to
saturate his life with the nature brand,
whether it would have an eﬀect.
When you were doing all this, did
you ﬁnd anything very surprising
with your experience?
There’s some things that people think
about nature that really aren’t true.
People think that it’s the preserve of
the wealthy, the middle classes, to
go frolicking in nature. Actually we
discovered that the disconnection of
children from nature cuts across class,
wealth and geography. You’d like to
think that people in rural places are
really well connected with nature and
that people in cities aren’t, but that’s
European documentary ﬁlm festival
in Sheﬃeld (Sheﬃeld Doc Fest). Lots
of buyers came and saw it there,
it was a packed house, and people
reacted really well. It’s funny because
people laugh when they watch it. I
don’t think people were expecting
it to be funny. I think we were quite
lucky that we managed to pull that
oﬀ, because it’s a really serious issue
about how we are going to connect
with the environment in the future,
and whether our kids are going to give
a toss whether species die out or not.
So it’s a heavy subject and it’s also got
an element of heaviness in it because
it’s about what we ought to do, it’s got
a bit of a government information feel
to it – that you ought to eat 5 a day,
you ought not to smoke, you ought to
go outdoors, but I think we managed
to avoid it feeling like a ﬁlm that does
either of those two things, either that
is really heavy about the issue, or feels
really preachy, by just having a lot of
fun making it. And also cooking up
this slightly crazy caper where I tried
with no money and not very much
time, to do a nationwide marketing
campaign for a nonexistent product
which we cooked up. Well, it’s out
there, but we employed ourselves as
it’s marketing directors.
Apart from you, who’s the team
behind it?
It’s me and my longtime producer who
I worked with on a number of ﬁlms,
Ashley Jones. Then the core team is
LorraineO’Donovanandsomecamera
people and editors who come and go,
but really the core team is just three of
us. We have some researchers, which
is why we worked with people from
Imperial, although Andrew was also
assistant producing. And then now,
obviously, we’ve got publicists. So it’s
a really long and diﬃcult process, but
the core team is really quite small.
What would you say inspired your
documentary style?
I really love documentaries that are
irreverent, and fell like an adventure.
I really like what Morgan Spurlock
and Michael Moore do, and I’m
really inﬂuenced by that kind of
campaigning, active ﬁlm making. I’m a
big fan of the Yes Men. On TV I really
love Louis Theroux. In terms of the
look, we’re just so lucky with cameras.
We shot it all on a C300 camera, which
is around £10,000. Ten years ago it
would have been a £200,000 camera.
And then of course we chose the visual
style of the animations – there are
animated sequences which are very
lively and quite humorous and light,
so rather than going through a series
of documentary scenes to explain the
scientiﬁc beneﬁts of nature, we just go
into a 90 second animation about it.
What is the big goal of what you
want this to achieve with this ﬁlm?
The creation of this ﬁlm has brought
into existence this outﬁt called the
Wild Network. It’s a network of
organisations and individuals who
all want to campaign to get children
more connected with the outdoors. It
includes the National Trust, the RSPB,
the NHS some big brands like Arla
George Goldberg
Reporter
Project Wild Thing - Coming to a
GREEN LIONS

