40 FRIDAY 18 OCT
TRAVEL
Editor: Chris
Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The land where the sun forgets to set
Epic countryside and Reykjavikʼs charms: a different sort of summer in Iceland
Natalia Petrou
W
ell, from reading
the heading, you
might assume
that I visited a
swanky summer
resort somewhere glamorous and
warm. But you would be grossly
mistaken. This summer, despite my
initial reservations (an admission
to appease my persuaders, just in
case they’re reading), we travelled to
Iceland.
I initially complained about the lack of
sun, summer, and activities on oﬀer,
but from the moment I stepped foot
on Icelandic soil, I fell completely in
love. Contrary to my complaints, the
sun stays up in Iceland for around
twenty hours per day, and in the
summer it never really gets dark at all.
The people played a massive part in
changing my attitude. Everyone I met
was helpful, calm and easy-
going. One Icelandic attribute I came
to admire is patience, something
that is severely lacking in our hectic
London lifestyle.
To say that the scenery left
me speechless would be an
understatement. It’s surprising how
much green a country called ICE-
land can have, and the variety seen
across the country is astounding.
One can admire the magnitude of the
icebergs, which change formations
everyday due to extreme weather
conditions and global warming. There
are also many mountain formations
where waterfalls suddenly make their
appearance. Iceland is a country
susceptible to volcanic eruptions,
and volcanoes have contributed to
the formation of the ground: rather
than sand or rocks, the coastline is a
plethora of rich, volcanic ash.
Aside from the beautiful countryside I
truly adored the capital city, Reykjavik.
It’s a fairly small city with around
120,000 residents, and everything is
within walking distance. The city is
comprised of a well-presented centre
with many shops and restaurants.
There are also two huge shopping
malls just outside of the city, ideal
for the colder and wetter days and
easily reached by public transport or
free minibus. The National Museum
one of the most organised and well-
presented museums I have visited to
date, and it is well worth a visit.
Of course, it would be impossible to
talk about Reykjavik and not mention
its countless swimming pools. I’m not
entirely sure what crazy, adventurous
spirit possessed me, but I decided to
visit two of them. The water itself is
lovely and warm, but it’s the transition
in and out that really makes you shiver.
Still, it’s an unforgettable experience,
and one you ought to try at least once.
The element of the city that made
me fall in love the most with was
the seaside. One can walk by the sea
for endless hours and admire the
mountains that surround the area.
There are also boat tours that take you
from the city into the more remote
areas of the ocean, to encounter
whales and Iceland’s answer to the
penguin: the puﬃn.
Overall, it’s an experience that will
stay with me for the years to come.
Iceland is a truly breath-taking
destination, and so diﬀerent to many
other places you might encounter. I
suggest planning a visit during the
summer season, as the cold is more
manageable, and the chances of sun
are much higher. It might not be your
stereotypical summer, but the endless
adventure is not to be missed.
“Yo listen up hereʼs a story about a little guy that lives in a blue world. And all day and all night and everything he sees is just blue” - Björk, 1999
LOUKAS PETROU
Rumour has it that Björk runs naked across these rooftops, but only when youʼre not looking And this waterfall: beautiful, right? Think again. Itʼs actually connected to Björkʼs toilet
LOUKAS PETROU LOUKAS PETROU

