42 FRIDAY 18 OCT
CLUBS & SOCS
Project Nepal
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
I
t seems that most Imperial students have
some sort of pipe dream about being able to
travel the world and help people. The huge
costs and overheads in fundraising, as well as
the need to give up an entire summer are oﬀ-
putting factors, and it seems to have taken a while
for charities to get their heads around this.
Project Nepal was set up in 2011 with the aim
of oﬀering an alternative –exciting, low-cost
volunteering opportunities to help out with
school building in Nepal. Situated in the Tanahun
district of Nepal, their chosen school, the Maya
Universe, oﬀers education for children up to age
of 12 from local villages.
The Maya Universe group of schools operate in
rural areas where access to education is limited
and the incidence of poverty is highest. Their
philosophy is that parents should not have to
pay for their children’s’ education, but rather
can contribute to the cost of running the school
by doing maintenance, cooking, gardening and
cleaning. Whilst this maximises educational
opportunity, it does mean that there is very little
money available for expansion.
This is where Imperial’s volunteers come in.
Throughout the year, they fundraised through a
number of events, from Mulled Wine evenings
to charity collections and Krispy Kreme sales.
The £8,000 that they raised went toward the cost
of construction materials and supplies for the
three classrooms that they built over the summer
whilst in Nepal. Project Nepal is diﬀerent from
most overseas projects in that the volunteers pay
for their own ﬂights, and all the money raised
goes straight to the people who need it. This
transparency and eﬃciency is sadly lacking in
other, similar trips.
Over the course of three weeks, the volunteers
stayed with local families, who they say were
incredibly friendly. During the day they worked
on the classroom building, and the evenings were
left for socialising. Paul Zhu mentions that one
of the highlights of the trip was playing a sort of
version of ‘capture the ﬂag’ on the mountainside,
in the middle of the jungle covered Himalayan
foothills. Weekends were left free for travelling,
including a trip to the amazing town of Pokhara
in the Annapurna Range.
This year 17 volunteers went out with Project
Nepal and the team hope that even more will be
able to go out next year. Flights were around £600,
so the cost to each person was minimal compared
to similar trips that Imperial students go on. If
you are interested in going, or just looking for a
small and friendly group to volunteer with, why
not contact them?
pnepal@imperial.ac.uk
RAG Treasurer
p
p
I
n April 2013, a study trip was
organized jointly by the Imperial
College Entrepreneurs Society
and the Kings College Business
Club to allow a delegation of
students of which the author was
part of to visit startup companies
and educational institutions based
in Silicon Valley in California, the
world’s foremost IT cluster. The
purpose was to allow the students
to educate themselves about the way
innovation is managed in large and
small technology based companies
as well as in the design of university
curricula in the hope of bringing
back the knowledge to enhance our
remaining time at university as well
as to explore potential future career
paths.
After descending upon San
Francisco after a long ﬂight from
London during a weekend, many were
keen to visit the Haight-Ashbury area
of downtown San Francisco, famed
for the summer of love in 1967 as
described in the song “when you
are going to San Francisco, be sure
to wear some ﬂowers in your head”
by Scott McKenzie in the hope of
immersing ourselves in the pioneering
spirit and get in the right mood before
the long week of activities began.
It was disappointing to see that the
famed hippie district of decades past
was only a reminiscent of its former
self, with tourist shops dominating
the street front. If the city still had its
pioneering and liberal spirit intact, it
was not to be found here.
The week started with a visit to
Microsoft in Silicon Valley. Retaining
the spirit of innovation as a small
company expands into a big one is a
challenge facing many fast growing
startups and corporate divisions.
Microsoft has attempted to solve
this problem by keeping product
divisions separate from each other
and housed in small and open oﬃce
buildings around its campus as Barry
Castle; the product manager for Skype
explained on our tour of their Silicon
Valley facilities where Skype and Xbox
technologies are developed.
This technique is also used by other
companies we visited such as Google
and Facebook, housed on large
corporate campuses in Mountain
View. As these two companies are
barely older than a decade, great
eﬀorts have been invested to retain
the feel of a small company. Both
companies oﬀer a great wealth of
employee beneﬁts including vehicular
maintenance, free food and computer
gadgets as well as laundry services
in order to incentivize and motivate
employees to stay late and to work
hard, just like back in university.
Google have their unique oﬃce
design with colorful plastic slides
replacing stairs between building
ﬂoors and colourful bikes used as
campus transportation in Googleplex;
and tFacebook have their fortnightly
hackatons for sparking new ideas and
to keep the creativity ﬂowing.
We also had the opportunity
to visit some small but up and
coming companies to witness the
inner workings of a company in the
transition stages between being a
venture capital funded small ﬁrm
that is just taking oﬀ and a proﬁtable
large corporation. Dropbox Inc. that
is based in the downtown harbour
area of San Francisco is the typical
example where the interiors are
full of gadgets, game consoles and
musical instruments lifted straight
out of your average boys childhood
room. The company has expanded
so fast after its recent breakthrough
that the helium balloons hovering
over a new employee’s desk, which
were the majority of desks; were still
ﬂoating in the air during our visit. It
was also especially inspiring to visit
the oﬃces of Inkling, a producer of
digital interactive science textbooks
for university students; of which the
founder is a recent Imperial College
graduate that moved west to the valley
where VC funding and IT expertise
were more plentiful than in the UK.
The backbone of Silicon Valley are
the people working in the various
companies, and the valley would
not be the IT supercluster it is today
without the educational institutions
present in the local area such as
Stanford University and the University
of California Berkeley that produces a
signiﬁcant part of the human talent
and spinoﬀ companies present in the
valley today. We had the opportunity
to participate in a joint discussion
session with the Business Association
of Stanford Entrepreneurial Students
and were impressed by the way
the university has managed to
integrate entrepreneurial skills
training and projects into its core
engineering curriculum in a close-
knit collaboration between students,
faculty and local companies;
something that British universities
have a lot to learn from.
The ﬂow of people into and out of
universities and between companies
also helps to foster a relatively stable
working environment by American
standards, as well as ensuring that
skills, ideas and know-how are
channelled to the right location in the
technological ecosystem where it has
the most potential to succeed.
The great journey west to Silicon
Valley has been very inspiring and
taught me to dream big and to think
and approach general problem solving
in a hands-on and entrepreneurial
minded way. It will greatly enhance the
way I do things in my future student
and engineering career. As I return
back to Imperial College to ﬁnish
my education, the experiences and
lessons I bring back will have a real
impact in aiding me to think and work
in a more innovative and free minded
way in my involvement with projects
in the Mechanical Engineering
Department. As I write these lines
and reﬂect upon the trip in a corner of
the Vesuvio Café where Jack Kerouac
and the beat generation movement
met and on my last day in the city, it
seems after all that the revolutionary
and pioneering spirit that could not
be found in Haight-Ashbury has
moved across town to SOMA (South
of Market Street) and Mountain View,
living on alive and well in the many
innovative startup companies and
educational institutions based there
that are driven by the desire to make
a proﬁt and the aspiration to have an
impact on the world.
*The author would like to extend
his gratitude to the sponsors of the
Imperial College Entrepreneurship
Society and Kings College Business
Club, as well as the International
Oﬃce at Imperial College London for
providing ﬁnancial support to realize
the study trip.
Go west, young student
Patrik Lei
Writer
IC ENTREPRENEURS

