47
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
SPORT
Imperial trounce UCL in friendly
Jack Robinson reports as Imperialʼs 1st XI football team put UCL to the sword.
The Imperial 1st XI arrived at
Harlington for their ﬁnal pre-season
friendly with one objective: annihilate
the opposition. The opponent in
question was UCL’s 2nd XI. Extra
emphasis was placed on this ﬁxture,
as the 1st XI would be playing UCL at
least 3 times this season. A message
needed to be sent out, loud and clear.
However, not even Mystic Meg could
predict what happened next.
The pitch was in good condition,
despite being as damp as Omar
Amjad’s back after a brisk walk, due to
heavy rain the night before. Imperial
kicked oﬀ, and initially UCL were
strong, battled well, and held their
ground admirably. However their
resistance was ended as early as three
minutes into the game. Good work
from Pete ‘iNuge’ Nugent released
winger James Murphy down the left
wing, who ate his opposition right
back for breakfast, before putting in
a delightful left-footed cross to an
unmarked Dale at the back post, who
calmly nodded it in without even
nodding. The pace had been set.
The ﬂoodgates immediately opened,
and before the UCL keeper could
even wipe the sweat oﬀ his brow,
Murphy had put 4 past him. One
in particular was an exquisite ﬁrst
time curler into the bottom right-
hand corner, reminding spectators of
Southampton forward Ricky Lambert.
Fresher Alexis Bellot switched up
from his handy hold-up play up front
to latch on to a through ball, reaching
it just before the chasing keeper and
dinking it through his legs and into
the net. The game had been set up as
three 30 minute thirds, and when the
whistle blew to signal the end of the
ﬁrst period, the score stood at 6-0.
Talk could be heard amongst the UCL
players – they may as well have been
debating whether or not to abandon
the usual 11-man set up so that one of
them could be situated in their goal as
a dedicated ball boy to fetch it out of
the net.
The next third wasn’t quite as
riveting, as Captain Robinson took
the opportunity to try out an un-
tested 3-5-2 formation. Only two
goals were plundered. The ﬁrst came
from Murphy once again skinning the
right back alive, before going down
in the box in a way that would bring
a solitary tear to Gareth Bale’s eye.
Some say Mick the grounds man had
picked him out with a riﬂe all the
way from the Pavilion, others say he
had a sudden ridiculous urge to take
a closer look at the diverse range of
wildlife in the grass, which he had
so informatively told us about many
a time last season. Will Wilson was
handed the ball and stepped up to do
the job. After checking his hair was in
order,hecalmlyslotteditinthebottom
left hand corner to ﬁnally open his
account for ICUAFC. Unfortunately
he immediately closed said account,
stating on the form that he couldn’t
accept the goal due to the fact that
it was a friendly. Whether he will
regret his decision later in the season
remains to be seen. Later in the third,
midﬁelder Ahmed Cherif received a
swift but brutal knee to the buttocks
from an understandably aggravated
UCL player, ending his afternoon, and
forcing two squads of players to watch
him hobble oﬀ the pitch, whilst trying
to hide his identity. Another goal soon
came as a result of an absolute blunder
from their keeper, spilling a simple
pick up, allowing Bellot to pounce and
send him back into his net to pick the
ball up for an eighth time.
Due to the fact that only two goals
had been put past them in the second
third, UCL went into the break
reasonably happy, with something
approaching a smile appearing on
some of their faces. Captain Robinson
noted this and told his team that
he wasn’t having any of it, before
subbing himself on to score four goals
in the last thirty minutes. Amongst
Robinson’s run of goal-scoring form,
fresher Maximilian Vieweg scored
a lovely goal on the turn, beginning
with his back to goal, swiftly pivoting
180 degrees before burying it in the
bottom corner.
The match ended 13-0, with UCL
sent packing with their tails ﬁrmly
between their legs. Some say it was
comparable to the mating of ducks.
There may have even been a few
retirements from association football
that day.
As for Imperial, it was job done, and
they head into their ﬁrst competitive
match of the season in the best form
possible.
ICUAFC

