5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
FEATURES
©
2013
Accenture.
All
rights
reserved.
Date: 28th November 2013 Time: 6:30pm Location: The Gore Hotel
Come to an evening with high performers at
The Gore Hotel to discover how you can evolve
yourself with a career in consulting. Accenture
excels at helping its clients achieve higher
performance. It’s why we’re recognised as one of the
leading management consulting, technology services
and outsourcing companies in the world today.
Of course, you can learn a lot about Accenture on
our website, in our graduate brochure and from your
careers advisor. But we think nothing beats a first-
hand introduction from someone who already works
here. That’s why we’d like to invite you to join some
of our people for dinner. It is a chance to meet
potential colleagues and mentors, ask questions and
discover more about life at Accenture.
It could be an introduction that evolves your career.
Be the first to know the latest news:
‘Like’ Accenture Careers UK
Follow accentureukjobs on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube AccentureUKcareers
Visit accenture.com/graduateevents
Bring your talent and passion to a global
organisation at the forefront of business,
technology and innovation. Collaborate
with diverse, talented colleagues and
leaders who support your success. Help
transform organisations and communities
around the world. Sharpen your skills
through industry-leading training and
development, as you build an extraordinary
career. Discover how great you can be.
Visit accenture.com/graduateevents
and Lurpak, and advertising agencies,
and 300 other organisations. They
are going to campaign to reconnect
children with nature, and they are
using the ﬁlm as an awareness-raiser.
So what I hope to achieve is that
lots of people see the ﬁlm, and start
thinking about how little time British
children spend outdoors. And just by
thinking about that and being aware
of it, I’m pretty hopeful it will help it
to change it. And especially with the
Wild Network following that up with
recommended things, so they are
going to announce to ask every British
child to try and swap half an our of
screen time for outdoor time every
day. It’s basically the Wild Network
saying “Go Watch the ﬁlm, but then
try and swap a bit of the time we all
spend staring at screens”. We support
that, but the ﬁlm doesn’t ask anything
of you other than to enjoy it and watch
it.
Imperial is a Science and
Technology University, so we love
our screens. What would you say to
Imperial students?
I think all the Imperial students I’ve
met are very well balanced. They
interact with technology at their
work and their study because it’s a
fundamental part of what they do. But
maybe the ones we’ve spent time with
are the ones who are interested in the
issue and therefore more connected
with the outdoors? I’d say, just
watch the ﬁlm. If you come and see
it – obviously it’s playing at Imperial
– what we’ve found is that people
don’t necessarily make some massive
change, but it’s just the awareness of
the overwhelming scientiﬁc evidence
that’s out there now to say how good
it is for you to spend some time
connected to the outdoors. I mean,
the science is really compelling, it’s
good for your blood pressure, your
stress hormones, patients with a view
of nature recover faster than patients
with an urban view, exam students
who study with a view of nature
perform better in exams than those
who study without. There’s a huge
and growing body of peer-reviewed
scientiﬁc evidence that you should
get yourself a dose of nature, so I’d
say to Imperial students, if you life
has become balanced away from that
and into a very serene heavy existence,
don’t stress about it, but at least ﬁnd
out about it, ﬁnd out what you are
missing out on.
I don’t think screens are bad for you,
but they displace something that’s
really, really good for you.
You are a film maker, so I can’t resist
asking, 35mm or digital?
We shot this on the C300, which is
digital. But I’ve shot on ﬁlm before
and I love it. The trouble with ﬁlm is
that when you press the record button
on the camera you can just hear the
money burning. It’s so expensive
shooting on ﬁlm, and the joy of digital
is that you can do lots of takes. We
shot 180 hours to make this 90 minute
documentary. If you did that on ﬁlm,
you’d have to have a very, very, very big
budget. So I think, as a documentary
maker, my answer is digital.
Finally, how did the frog taste?
It actually tastes pretty good. Once
you get over the texture it has quite a
nice earthy, maybe even mushroomy
kind of ﬂavour. It wasn’t bad... it was a
little bit wet and cold, which is always
a bit of downer when you are licking
something , but it was pretty good.
We hired it from an outﬁt called
Celebrity Amphibians, and that frog
had been on Casualty.
an Imperial Cinema near you...
Project Wild Thing opens
in Cinemas nationwide
on Friday 25th October.
It will be screening at
Imperial Cinema on
Friday 25th October at
5pm. Tickets £5 students
/ £7 others available
online at
bit.ly/wildthingimperial

