6 FRIDAY 18 OCT
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Philippa Skett gives us an exciting history lesson about the Hig
Higg’s-tory through the ages:
CERN
L
ast week saw the Nobel Prize
in Physics go to Peter Higgs
and Francois Englert for their
theorisation of the Higg’s
Boson, only months after its
conﬁrmed detection at CERN. The
controversially named “God Particle”
has delivered excitement (and mass)
to both the scientiﬁc community
and the general public, with the
tale behind this unassuming boson
featuring the twists and turns of a race
in science never seen before. It is also
a story with many leading roles, but
who deserved the prize at the end is
still a matter of debate.
It all began in 1964 when Peter
Higgs, a physicist from the University
of Edinburgh, suggested particles take
mass from an invisible energy ﬁeld,
and, as this ﬁeld needed an associated
particle, he suggested that a boson
must also exist. Detection of the boson
would in turn provide aﬃrmation of
the Standard Model, a theory of the
fundamental interactions between
subatomic particles. The boson was
essentially a missing piece of a large
particle puzzle, that without it could
not conﬁrm some of the key ideas that
underlie theoretical physics.
Peter Higgs was the ﬁrst of several
researchers to publish a paper
theorising the boson’s existence,
including our very own Professor Tom
Kibble from the Blackett laboratory.
Unfortunately, the paper Tom Kibble
wrote, alongside other researchers
Gerald Guralnik and Carl Richard
Hagen, was the last to be published
in the Physics journal Physical Review
Letters about the topic, costing him
the Nobel Prize. Although he stated
that he regards “[his] treatment as
the most thorough and complete,” he
sadly was a few months too late.
After the theorisation of the boson,
more scientists stepped forward to
contribute to the function of this
mysterious particle. Steven Weinberg,
an American professor of physics
at Harvard University, suggested
the idea that the boson will provide
the uniﬁcation of electromagnetic
and weak forces, two of the four
fundamental interactions within
nature. Not only that, but Gerard ‘t
Hooft, a Dutch physicist and professor
at Utrecht University, based in the
Netherlands, built on this by proving
it mathematically.
Hooft went on to win the Nobel
Prize for this in 1999; the boson, even
though still theoretical at this point,
was already demanding international
interest and delivering awards unlike
any other.
It was in this time that the term
“God Particle” was coined by Leon
Lederman, an American experimental
physicist. He coined the term “God
Particle” in the title of a popular
science book he wrote because that,
“One, the publisher wouldn’t let us
call it the Goddamn Particle, though
that might be a more appropriate title,
given its villainous nature and the
expense it is causing. And two, there
is a connection, of sorts, to another
book, a much older one...”
The media loved it, much to
the dismay of Higgs himself; not
because his name itself became
somewhat neglected, but because
of the sensationalist connotations
this presented. Humbly, he himself
would rarely refer to the particle in
question as either the God Particle
or the Higg’s Boson – displaying
more than a modicum of modesty
often undetected in today’s scientiﬁc
researchers.
As speculation and controversy
surrounding the so-called “God
Particle” ebbed and ﬂowed through
the media, scientists were now
burrowed away from prying eyes
and had began to design and build
the Large Hadron Collider (LHC).
This was to become the largest, most
powerful particle collider, and, with
a price tag of $8 billion, was the most
expensive too. Its overall function was
to test and predict various theories
within particle physics, but excitement
around the LHC was centred on the
idea that one day it could allow for the
creation of a Higgs Boson.
The LHC was constructed between
1983 and 1988, and crossed between
Switzerland and France at four
points throughout its 27km long
circumference. It oﬃcially went
live on the 19th of September 2008,
sending protons whizzing through the
tunnels at speeds of only 3 metres per
second slower than the speed of light
and them making 11,000 complete
revolutions of the main ring per
second.
It seemed that the ﬁnal hurdle to
overcome in this theoretical physics
race was to actually detect the boson,
although this was categorically easier
said than done. To do this, two
separate, opposing teams of scientists
huddled away at CERN in Geneva,
Switzerland, to independently
discover this elusive particle. The two
teams, Atlas and CMS, were named
after the two gigantic detectors built
into the Large Hadron Collider that
could measure the outputs of proton
particles being smashed together at
high speeds.
The collisions were predicted to
produce the boson that would then
immediately decay into a multitude
of diﬀerent subatomic particle
combinations, including lots of excess
energy in the form of gamma rays. A
boson is an elementary particle that
can mediate forces between other
bodies, such as the electromagnetic
ﬁeld, or the strong force that binds
François Englert and Peter W. Higgs at Cern before a conference about the search for the Higgʼs boson

