7
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
SCIENCE
gs boson and how its existence was ﬁnally conﬁrmed last year
CERN
The Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS), one of two detectors at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) used in the search for the Higgʼs boson
fifty years yields Nobel prize
atoms together from nucleons and
protons. They often break down into
lighter particles in an attempt to
attain stability; the Higg’s Boson was
predicted to break down into a W
boson, which could then break down
further into a lepton, among other
combinations.
These breakdown products were
what the LHC was trying to detect,
and would be measured by Atlas or
CMS- they manifested as anomalies in
data output, represented as “bumps”
on an otherwise consistent line on
a graph. These bumps represented
an unexpected excess of gamma rays
or other decay residuals; possibly
from the aftermath of a Higg’s Boson
disintegration.
Bumps in the data were common,
but through repeated collisions were
smoothed out as they disappeared
through the realms of statistical
averaging. It was only when the bumps
remained, and became less anomalous
and more predictable, that the two
teams started to sweat.
Truthinscienceisallaboutstatistical
signiﬁcance. If the odds of something
occurring are above a certain
quantitative threshold, it is considered
to be a truth, and the highest threshold
for this determination is considered to
be a “5-sigma level.” This means that if
the odds of something taking place by
chance are less than 1 in 3.5 million,
then you can conﬁdently state that
what is occurring the other 3,499,999
times is the norm, and can be heralded
as the truth.
A persisting bump on the graphs of
one team corresponded to a gamma
ray of mass of around 128 billion
electron volts. The gamma rays
produced by the Higg’s Boson decay
were theorised to lie between 115
billion to 200 billion electron volts
of energy, so as the bump persisted
in the datasets produced by particle
collisions, excitement, coupled with
the characteristic skeptism all good
researchers harbour, started to grow.
It was team Atlas that was fortunate
to nurture this bump throughout
repeated tests until its occurrence had
reached a 3-sigma level: the chances of
it being a systematic ﬂuke were only 1
in 740.
CMS were also seeing important
ﬂuctuations of energy, this time in
the form of a “four-lepton” signal. The
results were almost at a 3-sigma level,
and it seemed that both Atlas and CMS
had simultaneously and independently
cracked the code. Neither could boast
a 5-sigma signiﬁcance however, so the
race was still on.
Dr Heuer, the Director General
of CERN, revelled in these ﬁrst
hints of particle discovery, so set up
a symposium in CERN. Dr Heuer
reasoned that a sigma signiﬁcance
of 4.9 would not be enough to call
something a discovery, but two
experiments boasting such a value
would combine to make a sigma value
that would be enough to tilt the scale
in favour of statistical signiﬁcance.
It was now a matter of combining
data in the right way to produce that
statistically sound support for the
boson’s existence.
Itwasasolitarygraduatestudentthat
ﬁnally produced results that breached
the 5-sigma level, but the discovery
was not ultimately conﬁrmed until
another pair of graduate students had
brought all the datasets together and
combined them to produce a result
of a signiﬁcance level of 5.08-sigma.
They had ﬁnally found the boson.
This result was the combination
of datasets spanning 1,000 trillion
proton-proton collisions, resulting
in the formation of 240,000 possible
Higg’s Bosons, 350 pairs of gamma
rays and 8 sets of lightweight
particles from the lepton channels.
The two teams presented their
work simultaneously at the CERN
symposium on July the 4th , 2012, with
the whole world watching. CMS went
ﬁrst, followed by Atlas, and then Dr
Heuer declared that they had indeed
found a previously unknown particle.
DrHiggswaspresentintheaudience,
was seen to be crying as the ripples of
the news began to spread from the
CERN epicentre to right around the
world. Follow up data analysis was
done, and on the 14th of March, 2013,
it was tentatively conﬁrmed to be the
Higg’s Boson.
So who really did deserve the Nobel
Prize? Some people suggest that in
reality, those at CERN who made the
discovery should be heralded with the
greatest accolade that mankind has to
oﬀer, whilst others are still squabbling
about the theoretical history of the
particle and who exactly should be
recognised for theorising the boson in
the ﬁrst place.
The Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences announced last week that
Peter Higgs and Francois Englert had
won the prize “for the theoretical
discovery of a mechanism that
contributes to our understanding
of the origin of mass of subatomic
particles, and which recently was
conﬁrmed through the discovery of
the predicted fundamental particle, by
the ATLAS and CMS experiments at
CERN’s Large Hadron Collider.”
CERN was not attributed with
the Nobel Prize for its role in this
marathon, and it could be humoured
whether or not Higgs would have even
got the prize if the particle’s existence
had not been proven. Needless to say,
the unfolding of the discovery of the
boson is a great story to tell, and no
doubt will become one of scientiﬁc
legend as the years pass.

