8 FRIDAY 18 OCT
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Utsav Radia on a new step to neurodegenerative disease treatment
The MRC Toxicology Unit research
team, led by Professor Giovanna
Mallucci at the University of Leicester,
has managed to successfully control
the progression of Prion disease, a
neurodegenerative disorder, in mice.
The study, published in Science
Translational Medicine, shows great
promise for human neurodegenerative
disorders such as Alzheimer’s, which
aﬀects around half a million people in
the UK.
In Prion disease, the build up
of abnormally folded proteins
over-stimulates cellular control
mechanisms within the brain that
switch oﬀ the production of all
new proteins. Without certain vital
proteins, the nerve cells within the
brain struggle to send and receive
messages and eventually become
starved.
This control mechanism is supposed
to be self-regulated, so that protein
production ‘turns on’ again when
the misfolded proteins have been
removed. However, in mice with
Prion disease, the abnormal protein
levels continually increased, resulting
in protein production being kept
‘switched oﬀ’. This would eventually
trigger the death of the brain nerve
cells.
The team had previously trialled a
method using proteins that blocked
the pathway for the ‘oﬀ switch’
so that new protein production
could continue in presence of other
abnormal proteins. This time, the team
was able to use an orally administered
drug-like compound which, once in
the bloodstream, was able to cross
the blood-brain barrier and block
the same pathway that switched oﬀ
all new protein production within
the brain. The compound worked by
inhibiting an enzyme, PERK, which
in the presence of high levels of
misfolded protein, would trigger cell
apoptosis (controlled cellular death).
This enabled the nerve cells within
the brain to survive in the presence of
abnormal proteins, thereby restoring
some brain function and preventing
further memory loss.
In Alzheimer’s disease, parts of the
brain start to atrophy causing the
formation of beta amyloid protein
plaques and neuroﬁbrillary tangles,
known as tau tangles. Amyloid
proteins are abnormally folded and
hence the build up of these can
disrupt and damage the cholinergic
neuronal cells within the brain that
carry messages to and from the CNS,
gradually destroying them. Slowly,
this disease can spread to other areas
within the brain, further damaging
our ability to process thought, speech
and memory.
Professor Mallucci conﬁrms that
the “compound has completely
prevented neurodegeneration” in the
mice studied. However, there were
certain prominent side eﬀects on
the mice, including damaging eﬀects
on the pancreas which caused mild
diabetes and weight loss. The next big
challenge is to transform this method
of treatment into human patients with
minimal side eﬀects.
Professor Morris, of King’s College
London,saysthat,“Thisﬁnding[...]will
be judged by history as a turning point
in the search for medicines to control
and prevent Alzheimer’s disease.” So
far, we have only been able to control
the symptoms of Alzheimer’s through
AChE inhibitors such as donepezil
and NMDA receptor antagonists like
memantin.
Whether this new research will
enable us to revolutionise the way
Alzheimer’s can be treated, only the
coming years will tell.
Breakthrough towards curing Alzheimer’s...
ALZHEIMERʼS DISEASE EDUCATION AND REFERRAL
allows vesicles to merge with target bodies to transfer their
contents, Randy Schekman discovered a set of genes that are
instrumental in directing vesicle traﬃc, and Thomas Südhof
unearthed how electrochemical signals are processed by
vesicles to release their contents accurately and precisely.
The signiﬁcance of their work, though apparently simple
and fundamental in nature, is crucial in understanding this
delicate system within the human body. Any disturbances or
inconsistencies in the vesicle traﬃc system can lead to long-
term adverse eﬀects upon general health, and are known
to contribute to many major medical conditions such as
diabetes, immunological problems and neurological disorders.
Peace
The Organisation for the Prohibition and Control of
Chemical Weapons (OPCW) received this prize not for one
particular campaign but a cumulative eﬀort over decades in
trying to eliminate and outlaw the use of chemical weapons
internationally. Such weapons were infamously deployed in
both World Wars, and have also been more recently used
by terrorist organisations, with current media focus on the
alleged use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people.
Since their formation, the OPCW has led eﬀorts to prevent
manufacture, ensure destruction and eradication of chemical
weaponry, receiving the support of over 180 countries to
date. Although heavyweights such as the USA and Russia
have not acceded to the OPCW’s strong recommendations,
there is growing international pressure for this to change, all
thanks to their eﬀorts for a peaceful and more secure world.
Physics
Researchers and experimenters of CERN, working at the
LHC in Geneva, Switzerland, capped nearly 40 years of
theoretical study and experimentation to ﬁnd certain physical
evidence for the existence of the Higgs boson, a particle
included in the Standard Model. It was hypothesised by
modern particle physics to be crucial in giving all elementary
particles the property of mass. Its discovery proved the
existence of the Higgs ﬁeld, which bestows this property,
achieved by attempting to produce the boson by accelerating
two streams of particles to extremely high energies (in the
region of Teravolts) and causing them to collide head-on.
Theawardingoftheprizehasbeencontroversialasamultitude
of people had been involved in establishing the Higgs boson in
theoretical physics, and more involved in the experimentation
to obtain physical evidence. The Nobel Prize’s policy is to
only allow up to three people to share an award, which this
year went to Peter Higgs and Francois Englert. Besides
them another colleague, Robert Brout, was also considered
to be a frontrunner to share it, but he passed away in 2011.
Medicine
Vesicle traﬃc is the transportation system of molecules
within our bodies at the cellular level, in packages called
vesicles. Three researchers shared this prize, although
they did not directly collaborate on a speciﬁc study: James
Rothman unscrambled the protein machinery which
Nobel prizes announced
Chemistry
The Nobel Prize for Chemistry this year was awarded to three
scientists for their work in multiscale modelling of complex
chemical systems. Martin Karplus of the University of
Strasbourg and Harvard University, Michael Levitt of Stanford
University and Arieh Warshel of the University of Southern
California, began their work in the 1970s, using computational
models to simulate and study chemical reactions. Over the
years, the methods became more sophisticated, and their
applications expanded to include well-known biomedical
problems such as protein folding and drug design.
When applied to large biological systems such as
proteins, however, most computational methods encounter
a problem of scale: the diﬃculty in simultaneously
modelling both the atom-level chemical properties and
the large-scale behaviour of the overall system. The work
of the Nobel winners provided a way to bridge this gap,
combining quantum mechanics with classical physics.
Computational methods and their advocates, unfortunately,
often meet with scepticism from experimental scientists.
In Imperial’s own Life Sciences department, there are
reports of early-career academics having had to play
down their interest in theoretical research when applying
for jobs, with one senior lecturer dismissing the entire
ﬁeld as ‘nonsense’. This historic award should ﬁrmly
establish the importance of theory in modern science.

