9
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 18 OCT
SCIENCE
...and releasing a vaccination for malaria
Results released on the 8th of Octo-
ber revealed that scientists are making
promising progress in the develop-
ment of an eﬀective malaria vaccine
called RTS,S. The vaccine could po-
tentially save millions of lives as it
aims to combat one of the world’s
deadliest diseases.
This mosquito-borne disease kills ap-
proximately 660,000 people a year,
mostly children, and almost all in Af-
rica. The nature of malaria makes it
extremely hard to vaccinate against
since it is caused by protozoal para-
sites, which are considerably larger
and more complex than bacteria and
viruses.
These unwieldy organisms are capable
of wearing a number of diﬀerent pro-
tein coats to disguise themselves from
the immune system, making them ex-
ceptionally diﬃcult to detect. It is thus
essential for the vaccine to protect
against something permanent on the
surface of the parasite.
The imminent vaccine aims to defend
against Plasmodium falciparum, cur-
rently the deadliest strain of malarial
parasite. P. falciparum, like many oth-
er protozoal parasites, follows a spe-
ciﬁc lifestyle once inside the body.
Injected through the bite of a female
anopheles mosquito, the parasite en-
ters the bloodstream and is carried
straight to the liver to infect liver cells.
At this stage of its lifecycle it is called
a sporozoite and expresses a surface
protein called a circumsporozoite.
Researchers are using this circum-
sporozoite molecule to act as part of
the immunization. It will be this mol-
ecule that the immune cells become
sensitive to and seek to destroy when
next detected within the body.
Unfortunately for researchers, cir-
cumsporozoites alone are not enough
to provoke a suﬃcient immune re-
sponse. They must be combined with
another antigen to do so.
The vaccine in question creates a hy-
brid of circumsporozoite antigens
with Hepatitis B surface antigens and
an additional immune booster. It is
this combination that prompts the
necessary immune reaction.
Trials so far have been promising. The
recently released results indicated that
young children (aged 5-17 months at
the beginning of the trial) experienced
46% fewer cases of malaria than those
immunized with a control vaccine.
Infants (aged 6-12 weeks at the begin-
ning of the trial) were reported to ex-
perience 27% fewer cases of malaria.
Initially designed in 1987, it has been
a long time in the making. It is hoped
that it will be available for use by
2016. Whilst not providing complete
protection, the sheer number of peo-
ple suﬀering and dying from malaria
worldwide, estimated at over 300 mil-
lion cases, means this is a huge step
forward.
Lauren Hoskin
sciencesays.co.uk
They donʼt suffer like you after a long ﬂight, Fiona Hartley explains
Jet lag resistance in mice
light-dark cycle at least twice as
quickly. When the V1a and V1b
receptors in wild-type mice were
temporarily blocked with chemicals
they too recovered from their induced
jet lag quickly (though not quite
as quickly), confvwirming that the
missing receptors are responsible for
the accelerated rate of recovery.
In addition, the mutant mice did
not suﬀer any obvious ill-eﬀects to
CaptiveBredReptileForums
Jet lag is one of those annoyances
that stems from living in the modern
era. Anyone who has ﬂown to Asia
or come home to the UK after an
American holiday recognises its
unpleasantness. You just have to wait
for your body to adjust to the new time
zone. When evolution was working on
humans, it had no foresight regarding
the development of the aeroplane, or
that it would play havoc with our body
clock by enabling us to travel across
the planet in one or two journeys.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN)
acts as the ‘master clock’ of the human
body. In the SCN there are thousands
of neurons that regulate the numerous
bodily functions that run in a 24-
hour cycle, which are called circadian
rhythms. These include your core
body temperature, urine output, and
expression of genes that aﬀect the
circadian clock (unsurprisingly called
clock genes).
The SCN also synchronises these
rhythms with the outside world. When
we pass through several time zones on
a jet plane, our internal clocks become
misaligned with external time. Shift-
workers have a similar problem.
Since some studies suggest that
shift work increases the risk of heart
disease and certain cancers, a way to
combat the physiological eﬀects of
misaligned circadian rhythms would
be signiﬁcant to many.
Jet lag was ﬁrst studied in 1965,
over a decade after the advent of
passenger jet services. Since then
the condition has eluded a cure. But
Hitoshi Okamura and his colleagues
at Kyoto University have made a
breakthrough in understanding how
the neurons in the SCN communicate.
This gives scientists greater hope that
there could one day be a treatment for
the symptoms of jet lag. The group
published their study in Science last
week.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is a
hormone released by around half of
the neurons in the mouse SCN and
detected by several receptor proteins.
There are also AVP receptors in the
human SCN. In a population of mice,
the researchers deleted two AVP
receptor genes: V1a and V1b. This
made the mice unable to respond
to AVP. The group then placed this
genetically-modiﬁed population and a
wild-type population of mice on a 12-
hour day, 12-hour night light cycle for
two weeks.
When the light cycle was changed to
mimic an eight hour time diﬀerence,
as occurs when humans suﬀer from
jet lag, the ‘normal’ mice took many
days to readjust to the new rhythm.
However, the mice lacking in AVP
receptors re-entrained to the new
their internal clocks. Their circadian
rhythms maintained a normal 24-hour
cycle. As with a mechanical clock, the
SCN was able to uphold good time-
keeping internally whilst being easily
resettable in response to external solar
time.
It will still be very diﬃcult to create
a magic pill capable of treating jet
lag thanks to the presence of AVP
receptors throughout the body. Any
drug disrupting the receptors in the
SCN would also disrupt receptors
that control blood pressure and water
retention, the better-known functions
of AVP. But the hope is there, and the
knowledge should help scientists to
further investigate the intricacies of
the SCN.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1238599
Sheʼs obviously taken a red-eye ﬂight recently
PATH MALARIA VACCINE INITIATIVE

