Page 2 FELIX 6th November, 1969
How to bore 2,000 people without
really trying—^Commemoration Day Report
With no minutes to go some six hundred
imitation Batmen sat stolidly in the pit of our
Albert, surrounded by expectant and perhaps
overawed parents, all awaiting our annual display
of pomp and ceremony. The band struck up, the
choir too, and the procession started. Parents' eyes
gazed approvingly on the entering student proces-
sion, well maybe they looked a trifle perplexed at
Piers' and Butty's garb — their usual plus robes
for the occasion! Stupefied awe immediately re-
placed perplexity as the academic section slowly
proceeded to the stage — two by two — in scarlet
cape and squashed hat or mortar board. Such
colour jarred for an instant against the sobriety
of the student body but soon all were happily
seated and the fun commenced.
Keith Guy performed well as student orator, one can't
complain about his Latin pronounciation, maybe he never
learnt Latin.
Lord Penney then gave his address. He talked of changes
in structure, changes in relationships and changes specific
to Imperial College, of growth in numbers, in buildings
and facilities and growth points in academic and technical
endeavour. Each group in I.C.'s community had, he said,
been flexing its muscles and trying it on the rector. This last
remark raising the first smile of the afternoon. Lord Penney
still didn't know how many students there are at I.C. 3,950
he thinks, of whom 300 are women, he seemed sure of the
number of women. We were treated to various facts and
figures. 40% of all our students are postgraduates, 22% of
all students are from overseas. The academic staff number
688. Lord Penney then talked of new chairs (not the seating
kind) and of visiting Professors. Finishing this interesting
list he went back to making an address. With a deft but
friendly sentence he glossed over the student union mention-
ing, and only mentioning, the words 'discipline' and 'appeals
machinery'. He did add however that by the end of this
term the last nine of the student houses would be ready for
occupation; so that 1,100 student places would be available.
A long and eloquent waxing followed on the Architectural
Association, collaboration with the Royal Postgraduate
Medical School at Hammersmith and of work shared with
Rothampstead Experimental Station. Bringing matters
nearer home Lord Penney mentioned the recommendations
of the National Libraries Committee affecting the Science
Museum Library (newly moved to College Block) and
Imperial College's Lyon Playfair Library. The principle
being that they should be integrated and administered as a
major central library by Imperial College. The matter is
being considered ! The Rector closed with a few remarks
on the college's future as he envisaged it and a final passing
remark for the poor unfortunates in the pit. The age group,
he said, of the young people who are today receiving their
diplomas 'will have an important voice in deciding nation-
ally what we (i.e. the nation) are to do in the future'. Seeing
that these same students will by then be paying for the
education of their successors, Lord Penney said that T await
the day with the greatest possible interest'.
His interesting and sympathetic address over, the real
raison-d'etre of Commemoration Day started. With aplomb
and discreet bowing the Deans of the various colleges
announced their respective numbers of associates. Groans
were quietly suppressed as it was gratefully realised that
these numbers far exceeded the number of students present.
Still the whole rigmarole of walking across the platform,
bowing (or curtseying if in I.C.'s main minority group) took
quite long enough. The only relief for your intrepid corres-
pondent was the sight of Piers Corbyn quietly contemplating
his Worker's Press during the whole process. The Associates
over with, the choir relieved the gloom with a thoughtful
rendition of Haydn's 'The Heavens are Telling'. Thoughtful
in that it was well sung and not too long ! The choir actually
was one of the bright spots of the afternoon. After all the
sight of so many mini-skirted singers certainly quelled the
desire to sleep for many in the pit.
Now came the Diplomates. Six hundred and something
of them, someone said. An audible groan this time. But the
Gods were with us. Only about one hundred were there to
be presented.
Professor Francis, the Staff Orator, then introduced and
gave short and remarkably humorous accounts of the lives
of the five new Fellows of the Imperial College. More
memorable of his remarks were those applied to His Excel-
lency Andre J. Clasen — Ambassador of Luxembourg, who
Professor Francis described as 'Mines' best ever student'
(pause for silence of disbelief) 'from Luxembourg'; and to the
activities of Mr. A. R. O. Williams whilst a member of the
Rowing Club back in 1926 — coaling locomotive tenders
at Kings Cross during the General Strike. No comment.
Lord Nelson rose to address the throng. Expectation beat
within most breasts for the pearls of wisdom about to fall
from one of our leading industrialists — Fellow of Imperial
College, Chairman of General Electric and English Electric
Companies Ltd. Perhaps we had been spoilt by Lord
Penney's speech and the brilliant wit of Professor Francis.
College Block Settles Down
A special report by
our CoUege Block
correspondent
As I was walking
around the college block
a few days ago I realised
that perhaps I was a
little too harsh in my
criticism of the building
in an earlier article. As
a result the place seems
to have lost all interest
in life and is already
starting to fall to pieces.
Those locked doors I have
found are locked because
their hinges have broken and
the chairs in the buttery
which were already scarce
now seem to be disappearing
and a pile of 'rubble' seems
to be growing all the time.
It is a great pity that there
were no camera crews around
the buttery during the first
few weeks of term as they
would have obtained the per-
fect schools demonstration
film of the formation of fold
mountains in the floor (just
by the till).
Is Mooney planning to
grow his own spaghetti in the
junior common room or is it
the heat for the benefit of the
botany department to study
tropical plants ?
These, however, are minor
faults; as a whole the major
problems of the college block
were caused by opening it
before it was really ready.
After nearly a month the
various major amenities in
central site have settled down
and ironed out their initial
difficulties.
L o w e r R e f e c t o r y
A publicity campaign has
it seems educated most people
in the use of the 'self-clear-
ing' trays. The standard of
the food is, in general, good
compared with Southside,
about the same as the Union.
The queues are, except at the
really busy times just after
the end of lectures, reason-
ably short, and, there being
two service areas, they are
fast moving.
in college but the variety of
sandwiches is extremely
limited. The hours open have
become rather more conveni-
ent (10.15 — 11.15 a.m. es-
pecially) but late in the after-
noon (about 4.15 onwards)
the place is nearly deserted
(which might cause a short-
ening of hours !).
L i b r a r i e s
The Lyon-Playfair library
now covers three floors and
has a large number of tables
available for working until
9.30 in the evening. The
Haldane library now looks
huge compared to the old
one.
More about libraries in the
next issue.
B u t t e r y
(or Chippie) —- Still the
queues are gigantic at lunch
time. The chips are the best
M u s i c L i b r a r y
Compared to the old cub-
by-hole' the new music lib- B o o k s h o p
rary is nothing short of lux-
urious. Apart from the lar-
ger space available for the
display of record sleeves the
library now boasts two hi-fi
stereo units. For those who
recognize terms there are two
Garrard 401 decks with SME
arms and Shure magnetic
cartridges. There are two
Leak-70 amplifiers, two list-
ening booths each equipped
with two Maxim speakers
and a pair of stereo head-
phones. Also in the record
library (as opposed to the
booths) there is a pair of
Tannoy Lancaster speakers.
In short a really superb set-
up. This is primarily for the
use of those who haven't got
a quality record player them-
selves. There is just one
puzzling feature : with an
outlay of about £500 (based
on current prices for all the
pieces bought separately) it
would be reasonable to see
a 'dust-bug' on each deck
(total cost £2.4.6) to ensure
that the records are com-
pletely cleaned.
The service is much
quicker now, as the staff
don't have to spend quite so
much time searching for
books. Also a larger range
of stationery is now avail-
able.
The content of the speech was mildly absorbing (I make this
remark after re-reading it afterwards, only with difficulty
could I keep awake during its rendition). However we can
only presume that His Lordship's boardroom delivery far
excels his public oratory. He spoke of the ever expanding
technological knowledge in the world, of the need for
technology of markets for firms. In fact a standard com-
memoration day dry technology orientated talk. Enough
said.
The choir led, indeed, sung alone, the National Anthem,
and we all filed out to the waiting cameras of proud mums
and dads. For the supremely uninformed, Commemoration
Day exists according to the student orator's proclamation to
commemorate the visit of King George VI in 1945. Maybe
we'll have two a year after the Queen's visit to open College
block in November. Ah well it was only a thought!
Conkers Hit by Rain
Rain hit R.C.S.'s first
attempt to collect
money for carnival
Saturday last, cutting
down an expected turn
out of about 40 to 12. It
was raining so hard that
at one time the whole
procession was almost
abandoned, till Motor
Club and Jez arrived
and were talked into
going for a ride, taking
a few conkers and tins,
to see what happened.
A wet ride followed, and
several soggy, conker wield-
ing students dismounted in
Kensington High Street to
confront the local public.
The original idea was to
sell conkers to the public.
As a parting thought on
the college block, why is it
that an I.C. student stands
more chance of seeing the
state opening of Parliament
than the state opening of the
college block ?
and have a fight with them,
but it was supposed to be
on the more leisurely Kings
Road, which, of course,
would have been deserted in
the wet. Unfortunately the
people on High Street were
shopping, intent on getting
to wherever they were rush-
ing, and only the occasional
one stopped for a fight. Even
so, we often got 2 or 3 bob
for a conker and Jez, sur-
rounded by several conker
playing students is quite an
attraction. At one time a
policeman, after looking on
interestedly for a few minu-
tes, was almost talked into
buying a conker.
So, what appeared to be a
drastic failure early on be-
came a reasonable after-
noon's collection, realising
£30.3.5, three halfpennies and
one U.S. cent out of ten tins,
with two tins yet to be found.

