Page 4 FELIX 6th November 1969
The reaction of those professorial members who spoke at
the Board of Studies is indicative of the large rift which
exists between the student body and certain authorities on
the question of representation. Perhaps it is as well to know
from the outset just what the position of the authorities is,
and to build our case up from an understanding of this
position.
It is important to remember that those professors who
spoke all have the same reactionary opinion on representa-
tion; an opinion which is not necessarily held by the Board
as a whole. In fact following the meeting with the student
representatives, the professors who spoke were castigated by
other members of the Board for their ill-mannered and un-
founded attack on diversification. It would seem that this
attack was planned by the few members who did speak, and
another valid point is that many of the more progressive
elements of the Board were not in attendance at the meeting.
The tone of this meeting shoud not, therefore, demoralise
those who feel that adequate representation is ultimately
attainable. Instead, they should remember that the reaction-
aries have done nothing but harm their case by their ill-
manner reception of the students at the Board of Studies.
President's
Piece
Letter:
Dear Sir, Imperial College Union,
At today's inquorate Union Meeting the President, Mr.
Corbyn in his capacity ex officio as Vice-president of all
I.C. clubs called the assembly a meeting of I.C. Debating
Society and continued to discuss motions which he intends
recommending to Council in Debating Society's name. I
maintain that this is both unethical and unconstitutional.
A meeting of the Debating Society was called without the
knowledge of either the President of Debates or of any one of
the nine committee members and also at a time when a com-
mittee meeting was in full session one floor above the Con-
cert Hall. I quote from the Debating Society's Constitution:
a) An E.G.M. of the society shall be convened upon the
receipt of the secretary of a petition signed by at least
15 members or by a majority vote of the committee.
b) Motions to be considered must be handed in to the
secretary three clear college days before such a meet-
ing.
The motions discussed are unimportant to this letter. It
is not my object to either agree or disagree with them. I
fully sympathise with Mr. Corbyn in the difficulties of
quorary in dealing with a largely uninterested Union. But
this is not to vindicate his actions. It is clearly unethical to
usurp the idea of quorum and to by-pass the Union mem-
bers in this way.
Taken to its extreme it is clearly undesirable for a com-
mittee member to hold a spontaneous meeting, decide on a
motion and then in the name of his society recommend it to
Council. In the event of this happening the motion holds as
much weight as the degree of authenticity in which it was
achieved.
Today's events are alien to the aims of the Debating
Society. It is a misuse of a society whose objectives are
solely to propagate the art of debate, I quote from the Con-
stitution.
" To provide facilities for public speaking and the holding
of debates for the interchange of ideas."
and not for Union policy making.
The Debating Society dissociates itself from all motions
emerging from today's gathering of some members of the
Society, It also calls upon Council to censure this violation
of constitution and reject any motion that they should be
presented with in this way.
John R. Reynolds. President.
Corbyn Replies
Dear Editor,
Having seen the letter from the President of Debates, I
have a few points to make.
1. I did not at any stage call an EGM a meeting of the
debating society. This was done by Keith Guy, Secretary of
the Union.
2. As far as I am concerned, the meeting was a meeting of
260 IC students, as was suggested by me at the time, and
which I stated at the outset, when asked to chair it. I will
refer its two decision to Council in this form. I think that
this is the best, if not the only way, to deal with the problem
of 40 missing students, who were not there because of the
unfortunately short time to publicise the meeting.
3,1 think it would be stupid and undemocratic of Council
to disregard a meeting of IC students of this size,
Piers Corbyn,
(Vice President of Debates ex-officio).
UL—Senate House
You all heard about the
beating on Tuesday 21st at
Senate House, of a UC stu-
dent involved in a demon-
stration about the links be-
tween U L and Rhodesia.
Following UC's E G M on
Thursday 23rd, a meeting of
13 Presidents of Colleges was
called on Sunday 26th, eye
witnesses present at the meet-
ing felt that UL was attempt-
ing to whitewash the whole
affair in sending numerous
statements to Rectors and
Presidents — they are still
sending them! The demo on
Monday 27th led to a call by
SOAS (Scnool ot Oriental
and African Studies) for
more EGM's. Our E G M on
the 30tn was held at rather
short notice, but, despite the
mquoracy later in the meet-
ing, Council will probably
send £5 to each of SOAS and
UC, and the U L will still
take notice of our support
for the ULU Students' Rep-
resentative Council motion.
The motions about links be-
tween IC and Southern
Africa and LEA's hall fees
increase will be referred to
next Thursday's UGM.
Diversification—
What Next
The E G M on the 30th en-
abled a very useful and im-
portant discussion, follow-
ing the BoSt meeting on
Wednesday 29th, to take
place (see elsewhere in
FELIX) the results being
conveyed to the Pro-Rector
the next day. If the student
body is to get what it wants
in diversification, we will
have to clearly and forcibly
state our case on each de-
velopment of it, and we must
ensure all the time that your
representatives have your
support and you know what
they are doing—which means
convey your ideas and com-
ments to your Academic
Officers, Dept, Reps., and me
etc! A strong Union means
negotiating strength!
Our statement on the
A r c h itectural Association
(where we said that we want
our say in all the merger
negotiations and that their
level of participation should
not be dropped merely to
match ours) and our unani-
mous motion for representa-
tion of 5 on the BoSt. and
better representation on the
GOB and F and E will be
considered by a special meet-
ing of the BoSt. on Novem-
ber 12th. Their decisions can
be discussed at the U G M
on November 13th.
Strong Union
If, as some people sug-
gested at the E G M , the
Union decides to make when
the Queen comes some pub-
lic statement or action about
our policies and how well
they have been met, it would
be useless unless it had wide
support, which means —
make sure you know about
and agree (I hope!) with
Union policy. Your Dept.
reps, have just been elected
—make sure that they do
their jobs! If you have any
criticisms of the Union or
anybody in it make them to
the Union (letters to Council
or Union or tell any official
etc.) only then can they be
put right. Talking to your-
self about anything that is
wrong won't help!
There is a large and very
comfortable working space
in the new Lyon Playfair
library; is is open till late,
9.30, every weekday and till
5.30 on Saturday. Foreign
universities seem to work all
night — why doesn't IC?
Use the new library space!
Present correspondence/
phone calls indicate we'll
probably have to wait some
time for a zebra crossing to
be put in the wrong place,
and even longer for it to be
put in the right place!
THE NEWSPAPER OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Phone 01-589-2963 (Int phone 2881)
Editor: Malcolm Williamson
Assistant Editors:
Production:
Tony Kirkham
Features: Ian Can-
News Editor:
Dave Chant
Photographies
Simon Hoyle and
Andrew Thomas
Business Manager:
Ian Quarrinton
Circulation:
Felix and Sennett—•
Roger Lindsay
Features Assistants:
Steve Giles,
Frances Campbell
News and production
Assistants:
Ian Williams, John
B o w m a n , Tony
S i m m s, M . G.
Lambert, Malcolm
Bailey, Mike Yates,
Piers Corbyn, John
Rogers and Ross
Maxwell.
Typist: Susan
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Glos.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111
Fleet Street, E.C.4, 01-353-3712.
Published by the Editor on behalf of I.C.U.
Publications Board, Imperial College, London, S.W.7
COLCUTT
This last week has seen the Union Office overloaded with
work. Piers Corbyn is blamed for not doing all the mundane
work despite the fact that he works twice as hard as anyone
else. This is unjust because surely it is not the President's job
to handle the day to day matters anyway.
Recently the Union got lumbered with the job of trying to
get 100 students to have tea with the Queen when she visits
the College, and a further 120 to act as Stewards. The
amount of organisation for this is quite considerable especi-
ally considering that the majority of students would prefer
the afternoon off anyway.
Surely then, if the Rector needs to have students to decor-
ate the visit, he could get his own paid clerical staff to
organise this. In general the Admin has far better lines of
communication with the majority of students than has
the Union.
As a note on this we should be wary that students partici-
pation should be participation in decisions and not participa-
tion in the mundane work of the Admin. Several Union reps
on College committees are asked to do minor publicity and
other jobs, despite the fact that they have their own academic
work, and usually a fair amount of Union work as well. The
Union is there to look after the welfare of students, it is not
a branch of the College Administration.
I notice the Union Bar clique have returned to their habit
of challenging the quorum at Union meetings to prevent
popular motions being passed. This time, John Darley
succeeded in stopping a motion supporting the RCA students
who wish to use our Swimming Pool without paying an ex-
tortionate charge of £1 per term. Obviously the Rugby Club
would rather see the pool nearly empty (as it often is) than
put to good use by USK. How long will it be before RCA
stops the many IC people Who use "their refectory as a wel-
come escape from the torture of a Mooney meatball? Even
the Rugby Club must eat somewhere.
Although the Mooney empire has increased with the open-
ing of College Block the efficiency and standard have hardly
improved. If R C A can provide reasonable food at reason-
able, prices why can't Mooney? The impotent Refectories
Committee cannot do anything worthwhile, so what about a
boycott of Mooney Southside? Perhaps that would encour-
age him to provide a better service.
UNIVERSITIES
FOR THE 1970's
This important weekly series of feature
articles discusses the vital issues:
Education for What ? How Many Students ? How
do Universities Differ? Learning and Teaching
Methods. Student Participation. Authority and
Discipline in the Campus. The Open University.
Levelling Up or Levelling Down in Higher
Education ?
C u r r e n t l y A p p e a r i n g i n T h e
NEW STATESMAN
From all good newsagents every Friday, is 6d,
or by subscription at 78s a year (39s for 6 months)
STUDENT CONCESSION Students can get the
NEW STATESMAN for only 52s a year (26s for 6 months)
— one third below full rate. Use the coupon below.
To NEW STATESMAN, Great Turnstile, London WCi
(Delete as applicable and use block letters please)
P
l
e
a
s
e enter my subscription to the NEW STATESMAN
for 52/26 weeks at full/student rate. I enclose 78S/39S
(students 52S/26S)
N A M E
ADDRESS
STUDENTS please complete: COLLEGE
COURSE FINAL YEAR

