Letters FELIX, Friday September 5th 1986 2
Handbook:
Barclays
Controversy
Flares Up
Dear FELIX,
I feel that I must make some comment concerning
this year's Handbook. Although it is undoubtedly an
extremely informative, well balanced and clearly laid
out piece of literature, the whole effect does tend to be
somewhat spoilt when on opening the front cover the
first thing one sees is an advert for Barclays Bank.
Barclays' position as the major banker of apartheid
has been widely reported and discusssd recently, so in
the light of this controversy would it not have been
sensible to find some other advertising to fill what
amounts to only £500 worth of space? Although it is
true that IC Union has no policy on Barclays (the Anti-
Apartheid motion not having obtained a hearing so
far), all the same a great deal of anger and upset could
have been avoided by sidestepping an advert with such
emotive overtones.
Finally, Judith Hackney must be congratulated for
producing what must be the best Handbook for some
years—it is a shame that this achievement should be
marred in this way. How long will it be before IC
Union does have some policy on Barclays so that
situations such as this can be avoided in he future?
Yours sincerely,
Charles Troup
Decision
Defended
Dear David,
The ICU Handbook has just returned from the
printers and already there has been criticism of my
decision to include a Barclays Bank advertisement.
This decision was not lightly made; the overriding
consideration was afinancialone since several other
regular advertisers had pulled out and the Handbook
was set to show a deficit of several hundreds. When, at
the eleventh hour, the ICU Exec, made known their
wish that the advert should be removed, I agreed that
the Handbook should carry a loose insert giving
reasons why the University of London Union does not
accept Barclays cheques.
Everybody coming to IC is intelligent and has a right
to open an account with the so-called 'dirty' banks. (It
should be noted that all the four major banks have
interests in South Africa). I also have to point out that
every Handbook up to now has carried a Barclays
advert and that we still have no policy on Barclays.
I stand by my decision.
Yours,
Judith Hackney
ICU Handbook Editor
1986/87
An Appeal
Dear Sir/Madam,
I am writing to you as I believe that in your
capacity as President of the Students' Union you
may well be able to be of assistance to me and my
family.
To put you in the picture, my daughter has been
in hospital for several months and is to return home
shortly to recouperate. Her illness is in no way
infectious but the doctors believe that she will need
about a year to recover, before she can return to
work. Initially, I shall be able to stay with her but
after that I wish to make arrangements for
someone to come to our home every day so that she
is not left entirely alone every day. I therefore
thought it might be possible that a student would
be willing to come in for a few hours once or twice a
week during the afternoon. I would point out that
my daughter does not need a nurse but merely
wishes to have somebody else present in the flat.
The student would not be expected to keep her
company and would be free to read or pursue their
studies as they wish.
If you think it would be at all possible that you
could put us in touch with a student who could help
us out in the way described above I should be most
grateful. I should add that we live in South
Kensington, near the Gloucester Road tube and
that, if required, we would be happy to provide you
with references. I can be reached during the day at
the address and telephone number given above.
With kind regards,
Yoursfaithfully,
Maria Gani-Senger.
(Editor's note:
Anyone interested should contact Christine Taig in
the Union Office).
Desperation
David Jones John Noakes
Sir,
Have you by chance noticed the remarkable
simlarity between ex-Blue Peter presenter John 'get
down Shep' Noakes and FELIX Editor David 'man
about town' Jones. I wonder if they are by any chance
related?
Yoursfaithfully
S Kirk
FELIX NOTICE: Owing to the impending move of the
Felix Office, and to other severe technical difficulties we will
not be taking on printing work until after the beginning of
term. This includes publicity for Freshers fair.
Annual Report
A significant amount of time and
effort is currently being spent on
promoting the image of Imperial
College, both to prospective
students and parents, and to people
in industry. Since the beginning of
the summer vacation, the restyled
annual report has been in
preparation and is due to be
published in early October. Unlike
previous reports, which have been
chiefly a weighty collection of facts
and figures, this year's production
is a glossy brochure aimed at
selling the College to the reader.
Next month IC will host the
University of London Science for
Industry Exhibition. This is
another excellent opportunity for
the College to stress to prospective
students its reputation as a leading
science college. Whilst this
approach is logical enough, it is
disappointing that the College
should always take pains to
emphasize IC's well established
reputation as a science institute
rather than examine critically
whether that reputation is matched
by the quality of the courses it
provides.
Handbook
The Barclays Bank motion has my
full support and, like Mr Troup, I
hope IC Union will shortly adopt it
as policy. As Editor of FELIX I am
in the fortunate position of being
able to choose for myself whether
or not to comply with any
recommendation for no Barclays'
advertising. This is not the case for
the Handbook Editor and I would
ask the Exec, to remember that
none of their immediate
predecessors would have turned a
hair over the inclusion of a
Barclays' advert. In Judith's
position I would have felt entirely
justified in refusing to agree to the
inclusion of a disclaimer.
Credits
Unbelievable thanks to Judith
Hackney, Sunny Bains, Chris
Edwards, Simon Lewis, Hugh
Southey, Mark Cottle, Sarah
Kirk, Chris Hall, Lisa Edinger,
Jane Spiegel, Christine Taig,
Jackie Peirce and Dave Colley.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on
behalf of Imperial College Union Publications
Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road.
London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01 569 5111 ext 3515).
Editor, David Jones. Business Manager, Jane
Spiegel. Copyright FELIX 1986 ISSN 1040-
0711.

