ftKCOftMS
J a c k L l e w e l l y n
Hues Corporation: Rockin' Soul (RCA)
WORDS SEEM almost . inappropriate
when trying to describe the latest album
from the Incredible Hues Corporation,
featuring two of the biggest soul hits of
the year - the title track 'Rockin' Soul'
and the unforgettable 'Rock the Boat'.
The kind of soul that this trio produce
just bursts with an increasingly insistent
optimism which cannot be ignored. Track
after track just pours out, each sporting
the stamp of quality, but it just does
seem after a while that the formula used
to create these arrangements is perhaps
falling into the trap of becoming a little
inflexible. A driving beat, a strong
melody and a catchy rhythm are OK, but
not all the time. Definitely worth buying
though.
Jefferson Starship: Dragon Fly (Grunt)
ALTHOUGH THIS is the fourth album
produced by the various musicians who.
in one way or another, have evolved from
the original Jefferson Airplane, it is,
nevertheless, their first as a self con-
tained unit featuring all seven members.
I never really went in for the Airplane's
lyrics very much — melodies always
seemed to be their strong point, but there
are two tracks 'Be Young You' and 'All
Fly Away' which have instantly shattered
those illusions. The former is essentially
a medium pace ballad for piano, electric
violin and the voice of Grace Slick. The
lyrics take a lot of beating. The latter,
however, does just that: from a slow,
moody, almost metaphysical beginning,
the song grows in lyrical strength and for
me is the highlight of the album. Although
the 'Starship' was originally the brain-
child of Paul Kantner as a means of
expressing his musical ideas outside the
band, it has now materialised as some-
thing as high-powered as the 'Airplane'
used tc be.
Definitely an album not to be missed.
Lindisfarne: Happy Daze (Warner Bros)
THIS ALBUM shows exactly what
Lindisfarne are capable of when they
really get down to it. All their lyrical and
melodic strength is here, tightly strung
against a background of crisp acoustic
guitars all of which adds up to superb
music.
Undoubtedly the best track for me is
'River', a ballad of lyrical beauty'which
is very introspective in nature. It shows a
maturity in composition which is so often
lacking in many of the current 'pop'
groups of today.
Another one surely destined for
recognition as a Lindisfarne classic is
the final track of the album: 'Tomorrow'.
It's a melancholy number where the
singer pictures himself as a loser, a
drop-out who is oppressed by society and
is condemned to 'wake and carry on
tomorrow'.
Sad really. Get it.
R i c h a r d W a r m
Jo Jo Gunne: So Where's The Show
(Asylum SYL 9019)
Jo Jo Gunne were formed in '71 and
had a hit soon after entitled 'Run, Run,
Run'. Since then they have changed their
line up a couple of times before coming
out with this album. According to the
bumpf sheet: " 'Show where's the show'
again focuses on Jo Jo's tight, direct
rock 'n' roll attack. But studio exper-
imentation has been minimised and the
band feel that the record's great strength
is its economy". Well that seems a pretty
fair summary.
The album is competent rock 'n' roll
on the heavy side 'Jo Jo Gunne are the
show — bonce'breakers supreme!'. So if
you like heavy rock maybe this album's
for you. Personally I filed it away to the
back of the drawer labled boredom (but I
file Led Zepplin and Black Sabbath there
as well).
'Where is the Show?' the first track
has been released as a single and might
stand a chance, there's a continuous beat
and some good guitar work not to mention
not to much repetition of the lyrics. The
rest of the tracks are OK but contain
nothing to even slightly jar a rock
ignorer like me out of a lethargic dwarm.
For me, not a significant album.
Jackson Browne: Late for the Sky
(Asylum SYL 9018)
JACKSON BROWNE puts most of the
emphasis on his voice with his piano
playing often lost in the pleasant but
unobtrusive background. The easy ballad
style is maintained consistently in all
but one. track on the album.
The'album kicks off pleasantly but in
low gear with 'Lafe for the Sky'. This
title is the first sign of what seems to be
some sort of obsession on Jackson's part
with the sky, though was kept in suspense
as to what the title had to do with the
song until the last tune. Next a very nice
track entitled 'Fountain of Sorrow',
'Farther On' and 'The Late Show' com-
plete the first side of the album.
'The Road and the Sky' (see what I
mean) opens up the second side_ of the
album. This is the outstanding track on
the album not only by its quality but its
change in pace. 'For a Dancer' is the
second track which (you guessed it) also
contains several references to the sky.
I didn't like the next track 'Walking Slow',
I found the lyrics silly in places, witness:
'I'm putting down my left foot....I'm
putting down my right foot'. The album is
closed by 'Before the Deluge' which has
again pleasant thought, in this case, more
meaningful lyrics.
Quite a pleasant album — a good buy
if you like easy ballads.
T o n y P r e s t o n
Bachman Turner Overdrive: Not
Fragile (Mercury 9100007)
Bachman Turner Overdrive are big
name in America but as yet have failed
to create the same impression here. This
their third album opens with real
machine gun playing from Randy Bachman
and Blair Thornton on the title track.
The song breaks in the middle to allow
the drums' and bass to set the rhythm
whilst the lead guitars gradually come
in weaving their wayround the beat
before the punishing finale. The high-
spot of the set is the fourth track,
'You ain't seen nothing yet', which
comes as light relief from the earlier
heavy guitar work. The three guitarists
play in close harmony giving a smooth,
gentle, perfect sound with lines like,
"she looked at me with her big brown
eyes and said 'You ain't seen nothing
yet'".
BTO are a very polished group with
years of experience showing through
their play. If you are driving somewhere
fast, this is the album for you. I predict'
that BTO will be a big name next year,
and I was right about 'Bowie' and 'Mott'.
One might describe them best as a cross
between 'Deep Purple' and 'Wishbone
Ash' if that is possible.
Cont. on page 5

