mix s
J e f f L e w i s
Michael Austin: Organ Music of Karg-
Elert (Polydor).
SIEGFRIED KARG-ELERT (1879-
1933), although a German by birth, was a
composer of extreme popularity in England
and the United States during the early
part of this century. After his death his
music appears to have been deserted by
its erstwhile advocates and it conseq-
uently became submerged into the almost
unplumbable depths of musical oblivion:
a far cry indeed from the Karg-Elert
Festival held in London at the church of
St. Lawrence Jewry in May, 1930, which
led to the foundation of the Organ Music
Society in February, 1931.
The most interesting piece, Kaleido-
scope (Opus 144), starts off an amazing
mixture of rhythmical quirks and nuances
which establish the work as one of
continually changing mood.
Undoubtedly Karg-Elett was an as-
siduous experimenter as regards the
versatility of an organ and this record is
a fair representation of his highly
impressionistic results.
Anthony Rolfe Johnson: Vaughn
William's settings of 'The House of
Life' and 'Songs of Travel'. (Select)
I HAVE never gone a bundle on music
written for tenor and piano, but for
Vaughn Williams, I'm prepared to make an
exception — and a well-deserved exception
it is too.
Both these song-cycles were written
in 1904 at a time when VW was busy
lecturing, teaching, collecting folk songs
and contributing to Grove's Dictionary of
Music and Musicians.
There is a sensuous imagery about
The House of Life which overflows with
heartfelt beauty. The songs tell of loves
lost and found plus other associated
romantic ideas. Perhaps 'Silent Noon' is
an exception, however, for the people in
it are portrayed not as tapestry figures
but as real people.
Songs of Travel, in contrast, are
highly impressionistic pieces which
clearly remind one that Vaughn Williams
once studied under Ravel in Paris. 'The
Infinite Shining Heavens' is a perfect
example with major sixth and seventh
spread chords abounding.
To all VW fans, (especially since
this is the world premier recording of
The House of Life), I thoroughly
recommend this record.
John Purcell & the Cathedral Strings:
The World's Most Beautiful Music
(Super)
A RECORD definitely aimed at the
mass market: those who enjoy superficial,
'easy listening' music. Now by no means
is the music itself on this record super-
ficial; it is just that it is scarcely
recognisable under the sugar-coating of
messy re-orchestrations indulging in the
sickly smalUof overripe strings.
The worst atrocity is inflicted on
Bach's Sheep May Safely Graze, The
opening Recitativo is sacrilegiously
omitted and Bach's intimate thirds which
would normally dance so crisply over the
sublime middle texture are blandly
J a m e s W i l k i n s o n
smarmed into something coming from
Mantovani on one of his off days. Give it
to your auntie for Christmas
TONTO: It's About Time (Polydor).
IT HAS been three years since the
first TONTO ('The Original New Timbral
Orchestra') album Zero Time, exceeded
all expectations by selling 20,000 copies.
But now the much improved computer-
synthesiser Ms back with lbs best
synthesised music around at the moment.
Having added a digital memory and
control unit to the basic aggregate of
MOOG and ARP synthesiser components,
the twomen behind ital I, Robert Margouleff
(a singer with the Boston Symphony
Orchestra) and Malcolm Cecil (a bassist
from the BBC Orchestra) have improved
the stability of the voltage-controlled
oscillators (used to generate pitch), and
are now able to operate several syn-
thesisers at the same time. Also by pre-
programming the digital memory and
control unit, the number of voltage
functions that can be controlled sim-
ultaneously is increased so that attention
can be devoted to other controls.
The music itself is by no stretch of
the imagination a dull vehicle by which
the versatility of the electronics can be
explored. 'Beautiful You' stands out as a
classic in the style of a steel band and
'The Pyramid Suite '— The Pharoah's
Journey from Death to Life' evokes an
intense feeling of mysticism and dark
disguiet.
Buy this record and you certainly
won't regret it.
BOOKS
Paul Kocher: Master of Middle Earth
SUBTITLED 'The Achievement of
JRR Tolkien', this book sets out to
enlighten its readers on possible ideas,
the thoughts, and the philosophy of the
celebrated author of the 'Lord of the
Rings'. Not surprisingly an in depth
survey of the ring trilogy takes up most of
the book. As I enjoyed the 'Lord of the
Rings' I found this book opened up fresh
ideas and insights into its themes.
Paul Kocher sets out to dispel the
suggestion that the ring trilogy is directly
allegorical while maintaining there is
relevance to be found in it. Part of this
is his demonstration of Tolkien's hate
of our mechanistic society and feeling of
our alienation from nature. Individual
sections contain discussions on 'The
Hobbit'. Sauron and the Nature of Evil,
Elves, Dwarves, Hobbits, Ents and Men.
Aragorn also receives a full chapter's
discussion on his character and role in
'The Lord of the Rings'.
Tolkien's other main works are also
examined: stories and poems. Again
highlighted is Tolkien's concern for our
alienation with the 'realm of faery', and
whether a writer can contribute in any
real manner to reverse this trend.
All in all, a book that I found enter-
taining and would recommend to any
Tolkien admirer. It would certainly
inspire re-reading of 'Lord of the Rings'
with fresh insight. It also interested me
in his other works. To those who have
not read Tolkien I have one word:—
'Do!' - then buy this book.
Pakistan Society Imperial College
presents
A Musical Variety Programme
Featuring: Mohammed Kassim & Party
and several other weilknown
BBC Radio and TV Asian artists
on Saturday 4th January, 1975 at 8.00p.m. (sharp) in the
Great Hall, College Block, Exhibition Road SW7
Admission: 50p Tickets From: Ram (Internal 2707)
I.C.P.G.G.
Christmas Buffet, Thursday 19th December
Union SCR at 12.30p.m.
Tickets: 20P From T. Abraham (Elec Eng 707)
(Int. 3103)
The Royal College of Science Union
sends Season's Greetings
to all readers of F E L I X
(even guilds & mines).

