R E A D T H E O T H E R SIDE FIRST
Do I qualify for a Grant? Only students following a full-time Higher Education course at a
University or College within the U.K. Foreign nationals included subject to evidence that
they can remit premiums.
Where does the money come from?It is the major part of the commission intrinsic in all assurance
premiums. Normally this pays salesmen, advertising, etc.; in S.L.A.S. (which now has a
large Graduate clientele coming back for further insurances) these costs are minimised,
and the resultant surplus passed back to the individual student. Thus S.L.A.S. helps you
to create a proper financial security as early as your non-student contemporary who can
afford to pay premiums out of income.
How much will my Grant be? This depends on the policy you take: the presentfigure*is £15
for every "thousand pound policy", minimum two thousand (so, min. Grant £30).
The maximum is £150, on ten thousand or over. An average student takes a £4000 whole-
life convertible policy where the outlay is about £32 p.a. and the Grant £60.
(*the rate may vary in future with circumstances: with our Full Details comes a letter quoting the current rate
and guaranteeing it for proposals completed within 3 months)
How is the money paid? We can hand over the money as we receive it, but not in advance:
nor if you cancel your premiums meanwhile! So the Grant is paid in two/three annual
instalments, starting when the policy has been in force 12 months. As soon as the policy
starts, we send you a Voucher guaranteeing these repayments.
What Policies qualify for the Grant? Any whole-life or endowment policy with most of the
leading Companies: and policies preparing for House-Purchase; or to assist Doctors/
Vets/Dentists to purchase their practices; or on the life of your wife or parent; if in doubt,
ask in the space below. But NOT policies of "term insurance" because there is no surplus;
nor policies you have already signed up elsewhere, because the commission has already
been allotted; nor policies commenced after your Final student Term, so if you are in your
last year, write at once. (Exception: if you already have a S.L.A.S. policy on the old basis,
keep thisform and when you want to increase your cover, we will allow the Grant at whatever
rate is then current).
What is my actual net outlay going to be? This is up to you. You have the wholefieldof Life
Assurance, including Unit-linked policies, to choose from; and our Full Details give some
recommendations. The popular "whole-life convertible" scheme asks, for a £2,000policy,
only about £17-18 a year . . . And with a £30 Grant, as you can see, nearly all your early
outlay is refunded by S.L.A.S. Do please note: the Grant has no strings at all: there are
no "extras" to pay for: the S.L.A.S. service and advice both now and later are entirely
free.
The S.L.A.S. Grant is a natural outcome of 24 years student concessions by Harrisons of
Cambridge.
(.the following questions occur to me:
Piggott Ltd., CwnbridE<r

