10 Clubs and Societies
So Far, So Good The Rag Match
Now that the first seven weeks of term have
been and gone, where were you, what did you
do and was as good as what we did? Rag started
the year with a bang and now that things have
quietened down a wee bit, take a little breather
and look back.
Seven weeks, seven weekends and more Rag
events than I can count (and I'm the Rag
Chair!). We started off the year with
Tiddlywinks followed by the excellent Drink-a-
pub-dry. The next weekend saw live Monopoly
where you had the opportunity to meet people
from different Rags from all over the country.
Then we went off down to Poole for the day
causing havoc in a Little Chef on our way back.
For the Rocky Horror disco, we all dressed
dodgily and then came Rag Week!
Rag Week has gone really well this year (see
pages 14 and 15 for more details) with all sorts
of events raising lots of money for charity. In
fact, this term we have raised approximately
£8,000 for various charities including Action
A i d , Mencap, Bliss (Baby Life Support
Systems), BIBIC (British Institute for Brain
Injured Children), WWF, Turning Point (Drug
and Alcohol abuse charity), Leukaemia
Research and various local charities. This is all
due to over 300 people who have got involved.
What did you get out of it? We've given
away some super prizes, including our
incentives which are mugs and T-shirts, and
there have been opportunities to meet people
and have loadsa fun!
You needn't think that just because Rag
Week is over that you've seen the last of RAG.
We haven't run out of ideas yet and have lots
more things planned for this term and next
including collections at concerts and football
matches, Rag Raids of to various parts of the
country, discos and also in the summer term we
are planning to hold our Rag Fete which last
year was a storming success last year. It is
traditionally followed by the Rag Dinner which
has to be attended to be believed.
Having said all that, we are always open to
any suggestions you may have for events or
collections, so come and see us. We are in the
Rag Office most lunchtimes (2nd floor, east
staircase, Union building) and always welcome
anyone. We also have Rag meetings in the
Union Lounge every Friday at 1.10pm (except
when there is a U G M when we have it after
that).
It doesn't cost anything to join Rag, just a
little bit of your time and we can guarantee you
a good time as a result.
All that's left to say is turn up, get involved
and I hope to see you soon. We're here for you
all year!
IC 'Virgins' 24 - 24 R S M 1st
A windswept Osterley rugby ground was the
scene for last Sunday's Rag match between the
Virgins and the Miners. Andy Wensley agreed
to make a guest appearance for the ladies but he
showed what a big girl's blouse he really was by
standing them up. Chris Davidson, last year's
ICU President, agreed to take his place, despite
knowing he'd take a beating for his trouble.
After the Miners' version of the 'haka' the
game kicked off. The Virgins took an early lead
with a penalty in front of the posts. The Miners
responded with a period of intense pressure and,
despite being penalised for running too fast,
managed to score a try. They converted it and
led at half-time.
The second half saw three tries at either end.
With seconds left on the clock, the Miners tied
the scores up and their captain could have sealed
the game with his conversion but the pressure
finally got to him and he fluffed the kick.
The Miners left the field to find their trousers
stolen, but thrashed the Virgins in a 12-man
boat race.
The IC Virgins need more players if they are
to build on this result. If you'd like to try ladies
rugby, check the noticeboard next to the
Traditional Bar in the Union. No-one will be
turned away and experienced players would be
especially welcome.
Can You Play? 2001: A Space Odyssey
The Jazz & Rock Club exists to promote
non-classical music at Imperial College. Usually
this means holding gigs in the Union Lounge
where bands can play without having to search
for pubs/venues around town that will let them
play. These gigs happen on alternate Thursdays
(unless there's a Rag bash, like tonight).
This year, as well as gigs, something
different is happening. The chairman, in his
ignorance of technical matters, such as mixing
desks and P A systems, and of the general
modern music scene, is trying to put together an
ensemble to play non-classical music that he has
written. It occurs to him that of 6,000 students
there must be 20-odd who can play guitar or
some other hand-held instrument and read a bit
of music.
If there are actually such people who not
only can do all these things but who also are
free for an hour or so on Monday evenings and
who don't have to sit in their rooms doing
nothing the whole time, they would be most
welcome in the U D H (opposite the Union
Office) at 7.30pm this Monday (22nd
November). Otherwise people will resign
themselves to the impression that this is actually
the boring and antisocial college it does not
have to be.
Many thanks to the few for their loyal
support so far.
Stanley Kubrick's hypnotic epic is a true
cinematic landmark. The story is that of
humankind itself, beginning at the Dawn of Man
where some alien intervention (in the form of
that black monolith) provides the catalyst for
human evolution: the knowledge of weapons.
This culminates in the discovery of a strange
object on the moon which transmits a signal out
into space towards Jupiter, again sparking
humankind off on an evolutionary odyssey.
To define the film too much is a mistake as it
is largely visual and left open ended in its
After a most successful week of Jurassic Park
which boosted FilmSoc's membership to 1000+,
we are pleased to present Jurassic Park. Again,
due to popular demand this film has been held
over to Sunday 21st at 8pm.
Tomorrow night's late show is a film with
actors who have silly names. Who would
christen their offspring Ice T or Ice Cube? The
film is very violent (quite like a Stallone/
Schwarzenegger film), entitled Trespass (18)
and begins at 1 lpm.
The other film this week is Indecent Proposal
(15). Robert Redford stars as a millionaire
playboy who wants Demi Moore to get 'em out
for a million dollars. (Hint for the lads:
interpretation. However, the majestic visuals and
their interplay with the film's score must
literally be seen to be believed, especially since
ICSF will be presenting the film in cinemascope.
2001 is an experience not to be missed on the
big screen. It starts at 7pm on Tuesday 23rd
November in the Concert Hall in the Union
Building. Admission is £1.20 to ICSF and
Japanese Soc members and £1.80 to non-
members. I C S F membership costs £3.00
including your first film plus access to 3,000
books and videos and guest speakers.
Numerous establishments exist in deepest Soho
where it is possible to obtain such services for a
much lesser sum). The show starts at 7pm.
Since DramSoc have booked the Concert
Hall for the first two weeks in December, there
will be no films during this period. However,
look out for the following during the last week
of term: The Fugitive, Dirty Weekend, Sliver,
True Romance and the classic Christmas tale -
Monty Python's Life of Brian.
January will contain such films as Sleepless
in Seattle, In the Line of Fire, Aladdin, Dave and
Addams Family Values.
Happy viewing.
Indecent Trespasses?
10,000 Maniacs' latest album is reviewed on page 7

