Clubs and Societies 11
The London 6-Pack
The weekend of the 6th and 7th November saw
the first large inter-University team racing event
of the season. The 'London 6-pack' event was
held at the Welsh Harp Reservoir, North London
and hosted by the University of London Sailing
Club. The event this year was smaller than usual
with just 13 teams entering. Nevertheless,
Cambridge, Bristol, Brunei, Newcastle, Oxford
and Southampton were among the Universities
represented.
Saturday morning dawned miserable and
grey but with a promising fresh breeze. IC found
itself in a tough league which included Soton,
the University team racing champions and, as
this event was the first at which an Imperial
College team had sailed together competitively,
we were unsure of our standard.
Our first race against Oxford was pretty
promising. We expected to be slaughtered but
sailing aggressively and confidently we found
ourselves after just one lap in a winning
combination (pending two protests exchange at a
messy leeward mark rounding).
However, disaster was to strike when our
boat, in first place, missed a mark and quickly
sailed backwards to sixth place! Unfortunately,
we could not recover and lost the race.
The next two races were against Soton and
Castaways and, as expected, experience and
superior training and tactics counted for more
Hello all you happy people. The West London
Chaplaincy is a very much student based
society, with a few weirdos who call themselves
chaplains trying to keep order. The Chaplains
are the official voice in IC on religious matters,
but don't let this put you off. They are quite
normal really and there are a number of people
who join in various meetings throughout the
week that deal with topics that are very relevant
to students. The Chaplaincy welcomes people
from all backgrounds and would like to hear
from anyone interested in all matters spiritual,
whether that person be Christian or not.
Come along to one of our lunchtime groups,
like 'Believe it? Or Not?' - a lively debate on
issues of faith and whether we should or do
believe them...or not. It is held on Wednesday
lunchtimes from 12.30pm to 1.30pm in the
Chaplaincy Office in the basement of 10 Princes
Last Wednesday the annual simultaneous
demonstration of chess prowess by the Maths
department's resident Grandmaster, Dr
Johnathan Mestel, took place in the UDH. The
event attracted college wide interest from
players of all abilities, ranging from novices to
those seeking glory, honour and a good game.
Up to 30 games were in progress at any one
time as Dr Mestel tirelessly made his way from
board to board over the course of four hours,
wreaking havoc amongst the college rank and
than cheerful optimism and determination!
The fourth race of the day was against Brunei
who are of a similar standard to ourselves. In
previous years they were the team to beat. After
a good start by the Imperial College boats we
were second, third and fourth by the first mark
which was shortly converted, by some natty
team racing and tactics, to first, second and
sixth. While Imperial College's first two boats
'yotted' off into the distance the third boat was
left to battle along alone. After a tense second
lap we crossed the finish line in first, second and
fifth places to record our first win of the season!
After a fairly typical Sailing Club party in the
evening consisting of XS beer and chilli, Sunday
morning found an anxious Imperial College
Captain pacing the boat park awaiting the arrival
of all the team.
The first race of the day was against London
Ladies and another win was sailed with a ringer
borrowed from another team as our third helm
arrived one and a half hours late and then
without any sailing kit! The remaining three
races were lost, but the team learnt lots which
should stand us in good stead for the rest of the
season which will include both league and
friendly matches, as well as more all-weekend
events.
All in all a good start to the sailing season.
Gardens and is held vaguely together by Alastair
McCollum, the Chaplaincy assistant.
If you're not sure about coming along but
would like to hear a bit more about us, why not
get Chi Rho, the weekly magazine sponsored by
the Chaplaincy. It will inform you about what is
happening and contains articles on just about
any issue you may be interested in. Articles in
the past year range from the ordination of
puppets (a highly irreverent furtherance of the
debate on the ordination of women) to our
regular 'Issues in Science and Religion' which
merges the two until the boundaries become
unclear. To be placed on the mailing list (it's
free and you're under no obligation of any kind),
then contact Laura Burgess (Geo II) or Gareth
Evans, (Physics III) or phone 081-994 5328.
The Chaplaincy extension is 8633. Pop in for
a coffee and a chat, you'll be most welcome.
file. Of the 40 games played, Dr Mestel won 35,
drew three, and lost only two.
The wins were achieved by Ian Moody
(Materials PG3) and Daniel Sheppard (Physics
2). Prakesh (Mech Eng UG1) secured a draw, as
did two others who were so overcome by their
achievement that they immediately rushed
towards the bar without identifying themselves.
The Chess Club would like to thank Dr
Mestel and all those who participated in making
event a success.
No Half-Time
Oranges
IC 1 - 4 Goldsmiths
It was cold and bloody windy - even the referee
put off going out as long as possible by having
the coin toss inside. Luck was with us in the
first half, as was the wind. We played really
well showing a lot of improvement since our
last match against Goldsmiths. The change from
the usual line up, which put Karen as striker
instead of midfield, proved to be a good move
when she picked up a loose ball in the box and
curled it around the keeper to put us up 1- 0.
Goldsmiths pulled the same trick which they
used last year to beat us in the cup - the tactical
ploy of not providing oranges at half-time took
its toll on our team. The lack of vitamin C
needed to face the cold wind meant that we soon
found ourselves down by a goal.
Despite some good runs, a great tackle by
Dalya (sorry ref, honestly, I did mean to kick
the ball!) and Linda's amazing save of a
breakaway (perhaps not graceful, but definitely
one to remember) we finished the match 1-4.
As for the boatrace, Goldsmiths all dis-
appeared before we even got the chance to
challenge them, probably due to our easy
victory over them a few weeks ago.
Long-Awaited
Hockey Victory
Men's Hockey 2nd 2 - 0 Brunei Men's 2nd
Four years! A t last! Having been on the
receiving end of some appaling umpiring and
some appaling bad luck, we finally got a long-
awaited result against Brunei.
Brunei started strongly, the boys taking time
to settle into their stride. Lee Maartensze kept
the side from going down with some Shilton-
esque diving saves.
Our determination shone through, scoring a
goal against the run of play, a goal which was to
turn the game. James Cooper, getting the stick
to a long corner strike, left their keeper stranded.
In the second half we were reduced to ten
men as Steve Owen was dismissed from the
field of play for some strong armed tactics.
Composure held out and Ben Maxwell sealed
Brunei's fate, roofing the ball from a well-
worked manoeuvre.
The win ensures our passage to the second
round of the U A U competition next term, with
still one match to play against Reading.
P.S. Sincere apologies to anybody who
happened to cross our path in Da Vinci's later
on that day.
Sports Result
U A U Squash Match Away to Reading
Mens 1st 3 - 2 Reading
Believe It? Or Not?
The Mestel Challenge
The deadline for sports results is 8pm on Wednesday

