14 Feature
The 12 Days
Where's The Drummer? Tenner For The Socks
Guilds Carnival. This party kicked off the first weekend of Rag Week. The Blues
Bunch, supported by Emperor Sly, provided us with good quality musical
entertainment, as did the disco afterwards. Other amusements could be found with
the inflatable Sumo Wrestling and duelling.
Stretch!
Guilds Slave Auction. Thursday lunchtime saw many students
sold for charity. If you missed this, you missed your chance to get
the ICU President (complete with posing pouch) to do whatever
you wanted him to (within reason of course)! Rachel 'Hobbit'
Stacey got her kit off (see pic) and Becky Clark, Rag IAO went for
£30 which beat the ICU President!
Spoilt For Choice
I
Rag Bash. This was the last party of Rag Week and it certainly went with a bang.
The Union building was packed with students all having a good time. Some people
had a laugh by having a go at the bungee running which looked like a lot of fun.
Music was provided by the bands Humble Slug, Silverscreen and Slithey Tove.
Beer Festival. This event gave Rag Week an excellent start,
raising approximately £2,000. It also saw the launch of this years
Rag Mag. Glasses were engraved and the Hammersmith Morris
Dancers entertained us while the remaining beer was consumed.
Feature 15
Of Rag Week
/ StUl Say Newton Was Wrong
Bungee Jumping - On Sunday, 27 crazy students, supposedly being of sound mind, piled into a bus to
Cambridge and jumped off a 160 foot crane. All the participants returned in one piece having experienced
what is claimed to be the greatest thrill of their lives. For anyone who took part the photos are now
available (contacted the Rag Office). The day raised over £1,000 for the World Wide Fund For Nature.
More Balls Than Most
Rag Rugby. The IC Virgins and R S M Rugby Team got together and rolled about in the mud for a
Sunday afternoon playing rugby, supposedly! The match was an 'honourable' draw.
Rag Barnight
Various drinking games went on in the Union
Bar and lots of people had rather too much to
drink.
Mines Dirty Disco
The Royal School Of Mines Union held a Dirty
Disco which went exceptionally well. Lots of
people turned up wearing not very much with
strategically placed items including pictures!
Halls Dirty Dozen
A few teams turned out on Saturday to collect
for Amnesty International and raised £700. The
winners were Linstead Hall, so congratulations
and a barrel of beer for being so wonderful.
Film Show
FilmSoc organised the showing of the highly
acclaimed Much Ado About Nothing. So many
people turned up to watch that they had to do
two showings of the film on the same night.
Hypnosis
Despite a couple of technical hitches this was a
good show from Geno Washington. One person
was convinced that he was Elvis Presley and
others horseriding and watching blue movies.
The SNKPJ
Midday on Saturday saw the infamous
Sponsored Nude Kamikaze Parachute Jump
outside Harrods. This year, seven insane people
ran back to Southside with no clothes on.

