16 Clubs and Societies
How To Break The Speed Limit, Legally!
On Monday 29th November, City & Guilds
College Motor Club are running a trip to
Cadwell Park Motor Racing Circuit to enable
you to drive your car (or your mother's, or a
friend's - in fact anyone's you can get hold of)
around a proper racing circuit as fast as you can.
We are hiring the circuit for the day including
the cafd and the marshals. This lets you drive flat
out without endangering your license.
Cadwell Park is a beautiful racing circuit in
the depths of Lincolnshire (i.e. the middle of
nowhere). The circuit itself is technically fairly
'slow', meaning that the straights are not so long
that you'd sit with your foot flat on the accel-
erator most of the time in a standard road car.
Instead, there's lots of interesting comers to
keep you amused!
Don't worry i f you've never driven on a
circuit before, as experienced club members
show everyone the ropes. As in previous years,
all types of cars, from standard road cars to fully
prepared racing cars, can be used. The cars will
be split into two groups, 'fast' and 'slow', which
will have use of the circuit separately. This is so
that those of us in standard road cars needn't
worry about being constantly harassed by
Formula Fords screaming past as we lap the
circuit at slightly slower velocities.
On a more technical note, this allows you to
set up your car's handling and performance and
teaches you correct lines through corners; don't
worry, there are plenty of run off areas onto the
grass should you make a slight misjudgment,
\ >•••••
although I must confess the grass is somewhat
bumpy. Basically it's a bloody good day not to
be missed!
Full marshal and medical cover is provided
by the circuit. Racing overalls are not required,
but helmets must be worn. Anyone without a
helmet may borrow one free of charge from the
circuit, subject to a £10 returnable deposit. The
cost of the day will be £20 to Imperial College
students and you will get approximately three
and a half hours of track time.
To sign up for the Circuit Trip, or to find out
more about Motor Club events, come into the
City & Guilds Union Office (level 3, Mech Eng)
any lunchtime and ask to speak to a member of
the Motor Club, or look on our noticeboard
(level 3, Mech Eng).
T U E S D A Y 23rd
N O V E M B E R
Greek Menu
M A I N D I N I N G
H A L L
11.45 - 2.00
S H E R F I E L D

