Clubs and Societies 17
Anime, Baseball And Raw Fish
After some unsuccessful years, the Japan
Society has risen from its ashes and is more
active than ever. We have a brilliant record so
far this year and we are probably the most active
society this year. The society has organised more
than one event a week and distributed weekly
newsletters.
Events include ice-skating, which all the
participants enjoyed, apart from our President
who got left behind! A trip to Quasar uncovered
the hidden talents of our G.I.s (no wonder the
Japanese lost the war). A gastronomic trip to a
Japanese restaurant, which introduced the most
traditional cuisine of the country, challenged
those who had never had raw fish before. (They
all loved it!) Bowling once again proved that last
year's President is actually good at something.
Last year, in his first ever bowling game, he
scored a modest 120 points and has never looked
back. We organise fortnightly Anime showings
which have been appreciated enormously.
For those who don't know what Anime is,
you don't know what you have missed. Simply
put, Anim6s are a very sophisticated form of
Japanese cartoons. They are one of the most
popular entertainments in Japan and other
Oriental countries. They involve the use of the
most sophisticated animation techniques, such as
computer graphics, to produce realistic pictures.
Some have excellent story lines and have
become classics in Japan, from 'Nausicaa of the
Valley of Winds' to 'Fist of the NorthStar'.
Some view it as childish entertainment, but in
the land of the rising sun, small kids to
grandmothers are known to enjoy them. This is
because in Japan there are a wide variety of
Anime, targeting all ages. Some are very cute
and comic whilst others are famous for their sex
and violence.
At our weekly meetings, Manga are shared
out for the entertainment of our members.
Manga is the Japanese word for comics. Animes
are usually based upon these Manga. In Japan,
more paper is used for comic books than toilet
paper! It is one of the most successful sectors of
entertainment and culture which has been
unaffected by any kind of economic crisis. The
variety of Manga includes sports, romance,
martial arts, comedy, adult, fantasy and hi-
tech/science fiction. Any Japanese kid who
hasn't read a Manga is not Japanese.
The Japan Society have the honour of
presenting, probably for the first time in the
history of this College, a baseball team. This is
not the official baseball team of the College but
of the Japan Society. We intend to challenge
other Japanese societies or baseball clubs in
London. Our first goal is to beat U C L and
contacts have already been made so that a match
can be played between the two Colleges. We
have also tried to play against other societies in
this College, such as the Tamil Society, but they
chickened out. They promise to play us soon.
You might be thinking: Why it is that we
have taken this initiative? Well firstly, it is
because baseball is one of the few non-Japanese
sports (together with golf, soccer, tennis, female
wrestling...) that is popular in Japan and hence
we wanted to present it to our members as a
modern Japanese entertainment. Secondly, it
was because our Society had quite a few people
who were experienced and eager to play baseball
and provided us with the minimum number to
make up a team. Finally, we wanted to have
friendly games to improve relations between
societies and to increase interest in this game
which unfortunately lacks popularity in this
country.
The game is easy to play, has simple rules
and is great fun. We are still looking for other
motivated players, whether they have played
before or not. It's all for fun and you never
know, you might have a hidden talent for
baseball. A team has been established, each
member with their preferred position. Most
important of all, we have a very good pitcher
with past experience(who loves to hit the
batsman!). We hope he will be able to lead our
team to success (not hospital!).
Some people might think that this game is
based mainly upon the pitcher and the batsman
and no team work. This would be the case if the
pitcher were perfect, eliminating his opponents
strike after strike. Unluckily, our pitcher, like all
other human beings, is not perfect and therefore
he must rely on the defence of his team mates (if
they are still unharmed), as much as they rely on
his throws. Naturally, the best part of playing
baseball is hitting a home run, equivalent to a six
in cricket.
The team does not consist only of Japanese,
so there is quite a friendly and international
atmosphere which suits the spirit of Imperial
College. We do play against each other, as there
are normally enough people to have two teams,
and everybody seems to enjoy themselves.
If you would like to find out more about
baseball or would like to play, you can come to
our practice sessions on Wednesdays from 2pm
and Saturdays from lpm in Hyde Park near the
tennis courts or contact K . 'baseball freak'
Sasaki, our Sports Officer (Materials UG2).
If you would like more information about this
our or any other events (such as Anime) come
along to the society's weekly meetings on
Wednesdays from 12pm to 2pm in the Sherfield
Anteroom or see our notice board number 56 on
the Sherfield Walkway, opposite the Bookstore.
Japan Society Meeting: Wednesday, 12-2pm, Sherfield Anteroom

