Imperial College Union 19
Union General Meeting Reports . . .
... By The Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), Charles Leary
I outlined the basic day to day duties of this job
in my last U G M report. The only thing to add to
this is that, for a large part of my day, club and
society chairs w i l l drop in to discuss any
problems that have come up. They are very
variable and I have done my best to sort them
out. I will therefore use this U G M to report how
the new post of Deputy President (Clubs &
Societies) is developing.
As the post is a new one, the response in the
first few weeks has clearly shown that it was
badly needed. It is much more effective to do the
job when club captains or chairmen regularly let
me know what is happening. Some clubs seem
to have no problems, but it is still important to
keep in touch with recent developments. I
suspect that many people do not know what my
role is within the Union. I must stress that the
job of Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) is
controlled by the societies themselves and how
much input or help they want from the Union.
Problems can only be solved once it is stated
that the problem exists. The sabbatical team is
extremely multi-talented, but we are not mind
readers or magicians. The first point of contact
for any club queries is the Deputy President, but
Major Sub-Committee executives must be kept
informed of what is happening. When a new job
is created, communications will always be the
first casualty. We are experiencing a few
problems in this department, so it is important
that you inform the people concerned as to what
is happening, otherwise mistakes happen and
things tend to not get done.
One recent development worth mentioning is
that the College Athletics Committee is setting
down a strategy to guide sport for the future.
This will start by a student survey in Felix to
assess what the student body wants from the
College sports facilities. Everyone should be
filling this out as it will be the basis of a long
term strategy plan. If you use any of the sports
facilities then please fill this out and take a part
in the shaping of sports in the future.
... By The Deputy President (Finance & Services), David Goddard
Finance Committee (UFC). U F C recently
approved a consolidation of the reserves held by
the various sub-committees of the Union. It also
approved from these reserves a budget for
Events and Marketing, to allow our new Events
and Marketing Manager to do his job. £5,000
was also earmarked to restore the transport
budget which is used to maintain and update the
Union's minibus fleet. This budget had been
(rather shortsightedly) cut a few years ago,
leaving problems keeping the vans up to scratch.
A 'working-party-select-committee-sub-group-
on-transport' (we've yet to decide on the name)
is being set up to look at the whole business of
Union minibuses and establish a long term
policy for them.
Accommodation Bureau. This is still in
progress. Nicky Fox (acting Housing Officer)
and I have had discussions with College
management about this and it seems to be rolling
along quite nicely. We hope to have something
up and running by the time most students will
start looking for flats next year.
Trading. There is little change on the trading
front since last time. The Bar Manager, Andrew
Flanagan, unfortunately has had to leave us due
to ill health and a successor shall be appointed
later this term. We have had 250 replies during
the first two days of advertising the position. I
would like to congratulate Andrew on the
sterling service he has given us during his time
here and wish him the best for the future. I
would also like to congratulate all the other staff
of our trading outlets (both part-time and full-
time) for their work.
... By The President, Andrew Wensley
The last month has been one recovering from the
hangover (and I don't mean booze) of October. I
can speak for all the officers when I say that the
first month is the most demanding that anyone
can expect to see as an officer of Imperial
College Union. Anyway, enough of the whinge,
onto the report
Student Union Reform. This issue has been
quite quiet in the last week. However, this week
should be the one that shows whether or not the
Government wishes to alter how Unions, such as
our own, are funded. The Queen's Speech at the
Opening of Parliament w i l l tell us the
Government's intention for the coming year.
The petition is just about ready to go off with
over 1,000 signatures on it. Thanks to everyone
who has contributed. You have all worked hard
to convince Government otherwise and by today
we should know what to expect.
Walkway Retail Development. I am happy
to report that my work has been successful and
we can expect an improved service as of next
term. The question is: What sort of outlet do we,
the students of Imperial College, want? If you
have any views on this subject, contact me on
extension 3501 or come to the U G M with your
suggestions.
Student Representative Council. I am
looking into this option for our Union further.
This is a system that could replace UGMs as our
top decision making body. It would put the
decisions into the hands of an elected body of
representatives rather than submitting it to the
whims of extreme elements that can exist in
general meetings as one sees in other Unions.
Currently I am gathering information in order to
see if this would be viable option for us. When
that is done and if it seems applicable, a group
will be formed to work on this topic. A l l
suggestions for names gratefully received.
Employment Bureau. Throughout the
summer it was made aware to me the demand
for employment that existed amongst students in
order to supplement their income. The Union
should be trying to help students find
employment. Although this is not the ideal
solution to the problem of very low grants, it
seems to be the most viable and realistic
solution. I am working on such a project.
Representation. Last and by no means least,
the greatest and the least publicised part of a
sabbatical's job is the representation of student
interests and rights. This takes up such a large
part of our time on all issues from admissions
for undergraduates to the Careers Service and
from the Rector to the Safety Committee.
Following on from input from various student
groups I realise that the Union could publicise
this element of its activities more whilst
ensuring better feedback to and from its
members. In the coming weeks, I shall be
working to rectify this and shall be gathering
together an effective working group to tackle the
issue. I invite any suggestions as to who should
sit on this body.
If you have any questions on this report, grab
Andy Wensley, I C U President either in the
Union Office, on extension 3501 or at the U G M
today in the JCR at lpm.
I
p
m
J
C
R
r
W
D
A
Y 19th NOV

