Letters 23
Thank You And You And You...
Dear Beccy,
Now Rag Week is over it is time for us to say
a few thanks to everyone involved.
Paul Thomas and Steff for an excellent Beer
Festival and all the servers and tidy-uppers, Paul
G, Mazza and Sham and the rest of the Guilds
crew for the Slave Auction and the Carnival,
Mike for organising a brilliant day out in
Cambridge Bungee Jumping, Omar and Charlie
for the Dirty Disco, Steve D, Andy N , BJ, and
Andy Kerr for help at Hypnosis, Filmsoc, Andy
B from Jazz and Rock Soc for all his help at the
Rag Bash, Matt Park for his very generous
assistance with the Stewards passes, Charlie and
Boris for organizing the Rag Rugby. Rachel
(Hobbit) for all the RCS Services, and Guilds for
the Hitsquad. Michelle & Ali behind the Union
desk for selling tickets and being excellent in
times of need, Dave (F&S), Charlie (C&S) and
Andy (S&M) for being Supersabbs, Sam, Louise
and Mandy for helping us when we didn't have
a clue what we were doing and for giving
Dear Beccy and/or Music Editor,
I don't agree with your reviewer Dave T on
the new Kate Bush album. I approached 'The
Red Shoes' expected to be disappointed - what I
had heard hadn't overly impressed me.
'Rubberband Girl' was offbeat but not great;
'And So Is Love' had Clapton on it; and
'Moments of Pleasure' was so personal that the
rest of us had little chance of relating to it
directly. To complete the first four sings, 'Eat
the Music' sounded like Holiday Island and
wittered on about tropical fruits.
But the remaining tracks provide all you
could want from a Kate Bush album - the
advice, all the Union Stewards who worked
during the week, Ian and Yvonne and the Bar
Staff for getting into the swing of things, all the
C C U Presidents for being helpful, I.C. Radio
and Ents for help and discos, and Martin from
W W F for being dynamic and taking lots of
photos, Sally, Kevin and Steve (sort of). Thanks
to all the Raggies who helped in moments of
crisis ie on stalls, doors and in cloakroom: Jon
(Fake Sex), Penguin and Rachel, Chris Lewis,
Gavin Chow, Matt Szyndel, Mark (seal
slaughterer) Bunyan, Helen Randall, Becky
Clark, Nicola and Lynne for the Rag Mag, Dr.
Hardwick and Anna, Emma (RNIB), Emma
Russel, Chris Bragg, Ian Robertson, Sam
Scotcher, Ben van Lierop, James Allderidge,
Tim Atkinson and anyone else we may have
forgotten.
Many thanks,
Jane and Helen
Rag Exec 93-94.
fantasy of 'Lily' and 'The Red Shoes', the pain
of 'The Song of Solomon', the weirdness of
'Big Stripey Lie'. The Prince collaboration, if
insubstantial, still works - it's a rollicking good
shout. It even survives vocals by Lenny Henry.
Kate's voice is as good as ever, though I missed
Eberhard Weber's bass and the Irish contingent.
Perhaps Kate has been listening to too many
influences, and 'The Red Shoes' is certainly not
up to the sheer brilliance of 'The Hounds of
Love', but 'a uniform stream of banal mush'?
Shurely Shome Mishtake?
Mike Castles
Even More
Thank Yous
Dear Beccy,
I am writing to say personally what I believe
many other people in IC should be saying,
namely a huge thank you to Jane and Helen of
Rag who have put in countless hours of work
over the last few months to organise Rag Week
and a whole host of events and stunts that help
make life in this place seem a bit more bearable.
They have been working under very difficult
circumstances (not least putting up with me) and
have brought it off with style and still retained a
certain degree of their sanity.
May the rest of the year be as successful.
Thank you (and sorry),
Jon Bradshaw
EE3.
Worried
Dear Beccy,
Thank you for your comments in last week's
editorial, I will be more than happy to ensure
that you are provided with any further achieve-
ments that the Boat Club finds meaningful.
However I am a bit worried about somethig
that you wrote - 'we cannot...report on news that
we know nothing about.' Does this herald the
death of investigative journalism at Felix! (Was
there a birth?) Does the news item have to be
carried through the doors of the Felix Office
before it becomes news-worthy? (Answers on a
postcard to the Felix Office...)
Yours sincerely,
Ben Poulton
Mech Eng 4
Beating About The Bush
5
AlfcHou&S Irt STRAIGHT AVN/^M [
IC£ HOCLKEV H o L X - V U i o o b T E ¥ \ M
f

