Reviews
Apres le Sphinx...the boxed set
While Stravinsky's early ballets are a gold mine
for record companies, few conductors venture
far beyond his three most popular scores.
However, Neeme Jarvi's series of Stravinsky
recordings for Chandos is proving typically
comprehensive. The five discs out this month,
available singly or as a boxed set, contain only
one pop item, Petrushka, and mainly feature
choral and symphonic works from Stravinsky's
middle period.
The Orchestre de la Suisse Romande play
beautifully throughout, with great refinement
from the brass in particular. Tone is helped by
the slightly resonant acoustic, which also blurs
the bass somewhat. The engineers favour a
recessed, homogeneous sound and rival
versions, such as the superbly remastered
Stravinsky Edition from Sony Classical, can
seem more detailed. But returning to the natural,
concert hall balance of the Chandos recordings,
there's plenty there if you listen for it.
The first disc is taken up by the marmoreal
opera-oratorio, Oedipus Rex. (I vividly
remember a production at the Coliseum a
couple of years ago in which the Sphinx was
represented by a set of giant flying dentures.)
The excellent cast and involved narrator earn
Jarvi's version a strong recommendation.
Among other recordings, Esa-Pekka Salonen's
Sony Classical disc is well spoken of, and has
the advantage of a clearer choir and more
spacious sound with a firmer bass. But
Salonen's starry soloists are placed too far back
and, with the exception of Anne Sofie von
Otter's Jocasta, cannot match Jarvi's quality.
The second disc is pure delight. Lydia
Mordkovitch is ravishing in the violin concerto
and the early, uncomplicated E flat Symphony
makes an unexpectedly rewarding coupling.
The warm acoustic which serves the rich Swiss
sound so well in this work is less appropriate for
the later Symphony in Three Movements. The
composer's own crisper, more coherent account,
which comes as part of a Sony Classical two C D
set of the symphonies, is preferable to Jarvi's,
which is coupled with Le Chant du Rossignol
and the Capriccio for piano and orchestra.
The situation is less clear cut regarding the
Symphony in C and the great Symphony of
Psalms. Jarvi chooses the more heavily
orchestrated 1930 version of the Psalms, rather
than the 1948 revision which the composeer uses
for his own much leaner, more plangent account.
Jarvi's sumptuous approach is a valid alternative
and he is, at times, more fluent than Stravinsky.
The two conductors differ much less over the
Symphony in C where, once again, Stravinsky
has the advantage of a clearer bass. The balance
is tipped in Jarvi's favour by the infectious
rhythmic spring of Boris Berman's account of
the Concerto for Piano and Wind Instruments,
which takes the Chandos disc up to a generous
70 minutes.
That leaves Petrushka, in which Jarvi cannot
match the remarkable clarity achieved by Pierre
Boulez and the Cleveland Orchestra in their
recent D G release (coupled with the Rite),
although his orchestra is at least as fine and he
has the edge for spontaneity. There is some
lovely string playing in Apollo, Jarvi's coupling
and occasionally a slightly high thrum factor in
the bass. Something which, I suspect, might be
ameliorated by an unfeasibly expensive pair of
speakers.
Patrick Wood
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N
the b e s t s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 ..... M E N
Normal price: £28!
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Sta
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3 ES

