Reviews <
5
L.A. Plays
Now showing at the Almeida, The LA Plays is
one of those productions which inspires strong
feeling in everyone who sees it.
I have to be honest and admit that I was
expecting a real load of pretentious twaddle.
Judging by the material we received from the
theatre, this would be the sort of play that 35
year-old social workers with severe sexual
problems would regard as a hot date.
The plot revolves around the experiences of
an Asian-American turned male prostitute;
several strange and inconclusive encounters
punctuate the achingly languid action. Yet there
is strangely something ultimately attractive
about the shamelessly voyeuristic elements of
Ong's work.
Recommended.
Tony
Almeida Theatre, Almeida St, NL 071 359 4404.
Tube: Angel. Tickets £6.50 - £15.50
OneMan
At the Garrick, for the princely sum of twenty
pence, you can invest in a pair of opera-glasses.
We poo-pooed the idea, but within seconds of
Berkoff taking the stage, coins clunked all
around the auditorium. Berkoff was clearly out
to give his facial muscles a thorough work-out.
He was going to act and we were going to
appreciate. Berkoff s thespy pedigree guarantees
such unearnt receptions, but tonight's three
playlets were worthy.
First was his adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe's
Tell Tale Heart, a story of insanity and murder.
Berkoff, as murderer, narrates his tale with such
precise control of voice and movement, that the
result is mesmerising. He argues that his
Something of an oddity for those not familiar
with John Waters' work, this homage to the
enigmatic Beetle, one of pop's most creative
wordsmiths is a rivetting tour de force. In two
hours of monologue, seamlessly interspersed
with music and effects, Waters assumes the
persona of Lennon and reflects on his own life
from childhood memories through global pop
adulation to his last soul-searching and reflective
years in New York.
We are given an insight into the thoughts that
"madness is just an acuteness of the senses" and
whilst that may be intellectually provocative, it
can't hide the fact that he's truly round the bend.
His insanity is expressed in his every sound and
action, but Berkoff manages to avoid caricature.
The Actor is an amusing, satirical piece about
the day-to-day existence of a struggling thesp,
set to a mellow double-bass beat. Throughout,
Berkoff moves as if on a tread-mill, symbolising
hum-drum drudgery. His characterisations of
friends, family and budding R A D A candidates
are accurate, amusing and can be identified with.
The warm after-glow of mirth from The
Actor is soon cut short by the Sex Pistol's
'Anarchy In The UK' at 150dB. Enter Berkoff in
grey trousers and grimy Union Jack T-shirt and
enter Dog, the third and final part of the
evening's entertainment. Berkoff plays the
concerned him as he viewed the world. The
Merseyside accent is sometimes ropey but the
picture painted is richly detailed. Further
information is provided by the excellent band
who succeed in recapturing an authentic sound
to balance the static and intense nature of the
frontman, whilst bringing a dash of originality.
Far from being a Beetles 'best of, the musical
focus, as with the spoken words, is on the later
solo period, working superbly as a parallel to
Lennon's deadpan musings. The tone is always
archetypal lager-swilling racist Millwall thug.
From how to kick a rival football fan's head
in, to how a vicious canine laps up 35 pints of
regurgitated lager, this is a crude and funny skit
on the English gentleman. There wasn't a point
in it where the audience were not in stitches
(except the Yanks, who maintained an
expression of "Where the hell is M i l l w a l l
anyway?").
So there you have it; three diverse and
entertaining playlets. If you ever thought that
one person, with no props, could not hold your
attention for two hours, go and see this show and
be proved wrong.
Rahul and Jamie.
The Garrick Theatre, Charing Cross Road,
WC2. 071 494 5085. Tube: Leicester Square.
Cones £8.50 (30 mins before performance)
reverent but whenever matters are getting too
serious we are saved by a memorable wisecrack
or a departure into song. As the strains of
'Imagine' fade away, a thoroughly enjoyable
and stimulating evening in the company of a
legend closes - my thanks to the beautiful girl
who made it all the more memorable.
Jim B.
Criterion Theatre, Piccadilly Circus, WC2. 071
839 4488. Tube: Piccadilly Circus. Standby:
£7.50 (1 hr before performance).
Looking Through A Glass Onion
- The Life and Words of John Lennon
See page 8 for an article on Nelson George, director of CB4

