Reviews 7
• n i l J; towns
10,000
Maniacs
mtv unplugged
So this is commerciality taken to its limits; can
you unplug an acoustic band? The rationale
becomes even more muddied as the rich polish
which characterised their last album, 'Our Time
In Eden', is removed in the grinning mtv studio.
Still, Natalie's voice remains as clear as her
ideals, the band manage to rub up some of the
older numbers to effect, but why the exercise is
attempted, except for shining lucre? Yes I know
that 10,000 Maniacs have created some of the
purest moments on the grown-up musical
canvas, maybe 'Verdi Cries' will never be
equalled, but this album adds nothing but tarnish
to their reputation. If this is how it ends up, the
whole unplugged™ (and that's music being
trade marked please note) concept strikes me as
being slightly gangrenous. Let me buy the world
and fold it into my wallet. (5)
Tintin
Released on Elektra
Uncle Ttipelo
Anodyne
As much as the bands concerned deny it, the
more it rises in my mind. Gram Parson's
Burritos are finally roosting eastwards. Brothers
and Sisters, we have been hit by a tidal wave of
country-folk-rock, and Uncle Tupelo show
they've paid their dues on this their fourth
album.
'Anodyne' is a seamless work which hangs
together being more than the sum of its parts.
Viewed as tissue and bone the flaws are evident,
like a vocal style surfacing on the rough side of
drowned whiskey. Stumping the whole though
as a slice of life this would be a concept album,
if the genre allowed such. Each track has a
concentric familiarity 'cos Uncle Tupelo know
what they're doing and without brash flair
display that knowledge for 11 of the album's 12
tracks. The only clumsy retrospection being the
title track; painless and bleached white as the
desert's skull.
Despite this, there's an awful lot of real time
sounds to be enjoyed. The breeze blows 'We've
Been Had' down the steel strung highway.
'Acuff-Rose' gets by on the screechie twinning
of mandolin with fiddle and further authenticity
comes with the banjo man on 'New Madrid.' So
get out and go to hug that o f swamp tree. (7)
Tintin
Released on Sire/Reprise
Natalie Merchant - looking back on the 999 she
leaves behind, as they fly over the cuckoo's nest.
Insides
Euphoria
Come step on the merry-go-round. Playground
psychosis again. Here's a hook to hear to. A
scarf of sound to wrap around your head -
comforting, soothing, cyclic. Fall back into
yourself, the womb beat of Seefeel
disembowelled to flit lightly through the air.
You are calm.
And then, like a baby born, she comes out
screaming. Screeching in soft tones - oh
dictionary definition be damned - this soft voice
only slightly out of kilter is clinically anguished.
Like mental butter your mind receives her like a
knife. "And how long before I'm dead below
the waist? And I can finally come clean, lie back
and not feel?" Panic. Your brain is now frantic,
pinned down like a dying half-crushed
cockroach. Where's the ambient opium, the
'everyone live love life' nursery rhyme sung by
a Brixton backing singer? They've killed her. "I
hate lovers, I hate the way they go to the
bathroom in shifts after they have ****ed." Sex,
violence and suburban madness made into a
stuttered mantra. Each song whirrs away in a
post vocal comedown and the two second
silence deafens. Then we begin again.
'Euphoria.' A n album to lose your mind to. (8)
Owain
Released on Guernica.
Molly Half
Head
Sulk
The Mollies have released their debut album
straight from the gut. No creative anxiety about
consistency here, just a mixbag of varying styles
within the guitar genre. Songs like 'Ginger Pat's
Avenue' are reminiscent of John Lennon's bad
trip psychedelia and others like Talking Heads
or Bryan Ferry. M y fave, the ephemeral 'Arty
Breakfast' is sparse, full of unrest and positively
insane. The notion of it was probably taken
from Pink Floyd's 'Alan's Psychedelic
Breakfast', but the actual content is rather
different. Whether these comparisons are
relevant as influence or blatant plagiarism is
open to debate, but I for one couldn't care less.
The tension throughout never quite seems to
be resolved and this is why, for me, it's such a
complete corker. The bottling up of emotion, is
only partially released through the music. But
this isn't just a case of drowning in other
people's misery, it's perfect for those quiet
introspective moments in life, such as sulking.
Anyway, this Mancunian band are here to
stay and if you have a problem with that then
you are worth shooting. I will curtsy to them
any day of the week. Lovely boys. (9)
Camille
Released on Playtime Records
Elastica
Stutter
It is likely that early 80's English culture is
becoming the equivalent of 50's American
kitsch. Oliver's Army and Paul Weller haircuts,
hand in glove with long oldsmobile roadsters
and Nu-Nile hair wax.
Elastica's debut single is more than anything
else very short. The saccharine free vocals and
'cor blimey feel to the whole record lends itself
more than a little to a certain member of the
singer's previous band, Suede. (Oh yes folks,
the only reason anyone used to go and see
Suede before Morrissey stamped the divine seal
on them was this bird. Only a cynic would
presume that that is the only reason anyone has
paid a passing glance to Elastica.)
Elastica are definitely one to watch, but if
you want to buy 'Stutter', you'll have to wait for
the re-release, the 1500 copies sold out in two
hours.
Glyph
Released on Deceptive
A report on the success of Rag Week is on pages 14 and 15

