Feature
Hangin' With The Not At Home Boy
Famous director Nelson George all alone inLondon? As ever, TonyGrew bend
his benevolent ear backwards to hear views on rap, rage and Californian Girls.
111m HBP*
Nelson George flashes his 'come to daddy' eyes
I want to start with an admission. Talented
people make me nervous. So when I went to
interview the author, journalist and filmmaker
Nelson George, I was not calm. He's one of
those people. You know, the ones who seem to
be good at everything. As I sat in the reception
of his comfortable expensive hotel waiting to be
ushered into the presence of the great one, I tried
to combat my nerves. If he's so talented, I told
myself, he's bound to be difficult, awkward and
contentious.
My fears had been compounded five minutes
earlier by the realisation that I would be going in
alone, not with five or six others as I had hoped.
If he turns out to be another Spike Lee then this
could be one of the most embarrassing moments
of my short life. George's track record is enough
to make any interviewer uneasy.
A journalist by trade (even worse, that means
he will know exactly what I am doing wrong) he
started writing for the Village Voice and was
black music editor of Billboard, the American
music bible, for seven years. His eight books
have all been critically acclaimed; the one on
Michael Jackson told sold over a million copies.
In 1986 he invested money in a first film by a
fresh new talent called Spike Lee. George has
co-written and produced several feature films
since She's Gotta Have It and the project he is in
London promoting, CB4, has been a success in
America, with box office takings of around
$20m.
Once in his presence, he put me at ease. The
atmosphere is informal and we start to talk about
Chris Rock, who stars in CB4 and came up with
the original idea. "We knew each other from
hangin' out. He pitched the idea to me and we
came up with a story after he did New Jack City
[in which he played a crack addict]".
The whole idea is a refreshingly satirical one.
Rock plays Albert, a normal middle class kid
with two friends, Euripedes and Otis T. Otis, is
obsessed with rapping. They are good, very
good in fact, but lack any credible image. A
close encounter with a local drug baron, Gusto,
leads Albert to re-model himself in the hardcore
gang mould. The imprisonment of Gusto means
that they can use his name. The boys become a
huge success, naming themselves after the
notorious Cell Block 4. Everything seems to be
going well for them; a documentary is even
being made about them. But then the real Gusto
breaks out of CB4, determined to wreak his
revenge.
One of the most appealing things about CB4
is its ability to satirise nearly every aspect of
modern black culture while still appreciating it.
So, for example, Euripides becomes overly
conscious of his American roots while Otis takes
the dubious title of Stab Master Arson,
completely obsessed with groupies.
Cameo appearances from rap and hip-hop
legends such as Ice T, Dr Dre, Ice Cube and
Flavour Flav lend credibility to the proceedings.
Yet through all of this hilarity it is obvious that
there is an important point to be made. The
antics of the documentary maker come in for
particular ridicule, and the false realism of his
camera makes the whole exercise a little surreal.
I was intrigued by the appearance of so many
established 'names' - rappers are not renowned
for self-mockery, but George asserted that they
were more than helpful, pointing out that it is
their own images they satirise. Indeed the hit
which launches CB4 on the road to stardom
'Straight Outta Locash' is a very obvious
reference and homage to the N W A rap classic
'Straight Outta Compton'.
The machismo and extreme bad language so
common amongst rappers is also lampooned,
with song titles such as 'Sweat Of My Balls' and
much posturing from M C Gusto. Yet George
feels that the roots and resonances of this form
of music are much deeper: "Rap articulates
adolescent rage, in much the same way heavy
metal does". He also notes the correlation
between rap music and black cinema of recent
years. "Boyz ['N' The Hood] is just like a rap
record; for a lot of the younger brothers it is
another exploration of their culture". And CB4
certainly marks another important step in a trend
towards investing more heavily in what used to
be glibly referred to as the 'Black Pack'.
A few years ago, a film which effectively
mocks such fundamentals of contemporary black
culture such as Afrocentricity and sexual
attitudes would have been inconceivable. Yet
this film has made good profit, even by the
bizarre standards of Hollywood. Another thing
to note is that Universal completely funded the
film, a tangible indication of the box office
appeal and studio confidence in what is fast
becoming one of the most lucrative movie
makers. This summer in the U S , 'Menace II
Society' entered the charts at number one. The
power of the message has been retained though,
as George himself can testify. "Menace, as well
as doing very good box office, is still intensely
violent, but in the way a Scorcese movie is
violent. That's what Menace is...a black
Scorcese movie". In a lot of ways, black film is
becoming film which happens to be made by
black people and that is encouraging. So the
failure of Posse does not necessarily mean that
there will never be another film about black
cowboys.
One of the most endearing things about
Nelson George is his intense and lively interest
in music and its influences. He feels heartened
that the growing audience for rap hasn't diluted
the message or the power of its delivery. "Ice-T
is still as forthright as ever. What these artists do
is artistic." And yet the full meaning of this
artistry at times seems to be almost secondary to
the truly mass appeal it has built up since 1987.
At the end, George declares himself to be
"frankly puzzled by the appeal of people like Dr
Dre. His album was the biggest selling one in the
States this year, and it's serious stuff, all about
drivebys, hos, you know. And then you go to the
beach and there's all these fourteen year old
little California girls listening to it, thinking it's
really great to dance to. Something is really
fucked up there."
Next Week: A review of Nelson George's latest film, CB4

