Reviews 9
Hard Target
Starring: Jean Claude Van Damme, Yancy Butler
Director: John Woo
Hard Target is the result of the partnership
between the acclaimed Hong Kong based
director John Woo and the popular action star
Jean Claude Van Damme
Woo has won a fervent critical following in
the U.S. for his violent and soulful gangster
dramas. The intensity of his action scenes are
reflected in this American directing debut. His
secret lies in the exploiting of strong dramatic
situations and the conflicts of rich and strongly
motivated characters.
Van Damme plays the part of Chance
Boudreaux, a down-on-his-luck New Orleans
merchant sailor. His quest begins when he
comes to the rescue of a young woman (Yancy
Butler) who then recruits him to find her
homeless father who recently disappeared. The
chaos following a city-wide police strike makes
New Orleans an excellent site for former
mercenaries Emil Fouchon (Henricksen) and Pik
Van Cleaf (Vosloo). They devise a murderous
game, purely as a business venture, whereby
unknown homeless Vietnam veterans are forced
to act as human prey in exchange for a large sum
of money.
wmmm
Chance discovers the evil plot following the
death of two war veterans and exacts vengeance
on the killers. This sets off a deadly contest
between him and Fouchon, which shifts from the
mean streets to Chance's home terrain in the
treacherous Louisiana bayous. He leads his
hunters on a wild chase and proves, to their cost,
to be the ultimate hard target.
The plot is at all times very predictable and,
for this reason, Woo relied heavily on the
i l l
authenticity of his action scenes. Each twist in
the story serves primarily as an excuse for Van
Damme to show off his muscles and martial arts
techniques and this film is a glorifications of
violence and strength.
John Woo's masterly direction of all the
action scenes is for all to see, but be expected to
be let down by the frustratingly apparent lack of
believable plot.
Hans Christian
Snake Eyes
The idea of a film being made within a film isn't
particularly new. However, Snake Eyes is a very
different due to the sensibilities of director Abel
Ferrara, of Bad Lieutenant fame.
Keitel is superb as the director shooting a
film about the degeneration of an open
marriage, gradually finding himself identifying
more and more with the violent husband.
Madonna excels as the manipulative starlet
getting abused both on-screen and off by an
actor in the midst of an Apocalypse Now-type
experience.
This film's essence is in the initially clear
distinctions between 'real' lives and scripted
events which eventually get blurred when the
violence, alcohol and drug-abuse quotients start
to rise.
Despite some ponderously slow pacing, the
emotional and physical violence are consistently
both gripping and harrowing, with neither the
extremes which led to the audience-alienation
that marred Bad Lieutenant, nor the bland
excess that permeated King Of New York.
Snake Eyes doesn't share the cheap look of
those two films though, even if it does share
their attitude. A thoroughly recommended film,
then, if you can stand the lack of speed.
jk
ill III
Libera
Libera comprises three Neapolitan vignettes
(Aurora, Carmela and Libera) which are firmly
embedded in the European scheme of cinematic
social comment. Like films from Spain's
Almodovar, Libera chronicles the experience of
urban women. They get neglected, dumped,
ripped off and all that kind of stuff although, as
the film progresses, we see a kind of triumph
through adversity.
The first film, Aurora, is the bleakest as the
title figure ends up walking the streets without
money, husband, friends or possessions. The
finale, Libera, flirts with the realm of comic
surrealism as a hard pressed working woman
overcomes her lazy husband in a typically
continental way. Oh yes, recourse to sex as a
philosophical metaphor. Sparky turns of humour
seem to sweeten the load but some of it is so
black as to be around midnight. It's equally part
of the film as the more obvious grime. And
while these are not realistic dramas in a strict
sense, the viewer is always pointed towards
realism. Yet this approach seldom fulfils its
aims. The feel of forced conclusions is too
strong where tailored observation would
perhaps accomplish more.
Tintin
Little Dreams
Khaled E l Hagar's film provides a dramatic
insight into the personal and political conflicts
besetting Egyptians in the 1960s.
The film charts the effects of war on
civilians as seen through the eyes of a thirteen
year old boy, Ghareeb, whose father died in the
1956 Suez war. Ghareeb lives with his lonely
widowed mother during the period before the
outbreak of the 1967 war with Israel. He
becomes involved with political activists partly
because he is looking for a substitute father
figure.
A close look at human relationships is a
strong feature of this film - particularly the
relationship between the boy and his widowed
mother. The characters are impressive and the
scene is well drawn.
The film has an award from the Birmingham
Film Festival to boast of and to say that it's
refreshingly un-exploitative and extremely
emotive would be little praise for such an
excellent film that surely deserves a very wide
audience. I was very fortunate to be able to
discuss the work with its writer/director after the
show.
Amir Rehman Khan
A review of Looking Through A Glass Onion is on pag

