SCIENCE
FELIX
10
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
O
n the 14th of September of
this year, at the British Sci-
ence Festival in the University
of Bradford, was presented
the seemingly awkward proj-
ect called SPICE (Stratospheric Particle In-
jection for Climate Engineering) led by UK
scientists. The basic idea is to suspend a huge
balloon one kilometre up in the stratosphere
which would then pump out tap water out to
produce artificial rain. This would lead to
an abatement of CO2 concentration in the
atmosphere and reduce the effects of global
warming.
The project is an example of research by
the developing discipline called ‘geo-engi-
neering’ or ‘climate engineering’, in which
technologies, such as ‘cloud seeding’ or solar
radiation management (SRM) would be used
to counteract the effect of global warming on
the planet.
Dr Matt Watson from the University of
Bristol, leading the SPICE project said: “This
is a controversial and potentially alarming
subject”. The word “alarming” implicitly
refers to public perception, but this time it
seems that not all of the scientists’ usual as-
sumptions are ‘elementary, my dear Watson’.
An international survey conducted in No-
vember and December 2010 by the Univer-
sity of Calgary, Simon Fraser University
(Canada) and Harvard University (US) found
that the public’s understanding of the field of
climate engineering is unexpectedly high and
that there is significant support from the pub-
lic to explore the potential of SRM technolo-
gies in grappling with global warming. The
internet-based survey involved about 3,000
people from different cultural and economi-
cal background in Canada, US and UK. The
results were published in the journal Envi-
ronmental Research Letters.
People answered 18 questions grouped into
five sections which, respectively, aimed to
assess their knowledge of: “geo-engineering”
or “climate engineering” terms, the indices
of global warming belief and technological
optimism, the technical information about
SRM, the perception about its potential use
to reduce global warming and to understand
the geographical provenience and cultural
background of the participants. The question-
naire was first performed without allowing
the public to obtain any information about
geo-engineering, and was repeated a second
time after providing as neutral as possible
technical information about the subject.
Interestingly, the survey revealed that
while there is general confusion about the
term ‘geo-engineering’ (only 8% of partici-
pants could correctly defined it, the others
often mistakenly associating it to geotechni-
cal and environmental engineering) the pub-
lic understanding of ‘climate engineering’ is
generally much higher (45%).
Regarding the controversy about the poten-
tial use of SRM technologies in combating
global warming, two distinct groups, sup-
porters (about 29%) and detractors (20%),
appeared together with a considerable num-
ber of the uncertain participants (25%).
The supporters strongly believed that
global warming is an ongoing serious issue
and trust the scientists studying and applying
Do the public trust scientists?
Antonio Torrisi reports on a study of attitudes towards geoengineering
Identification of the genetic control mechanism
by which plants detect low oxygen levels could
lead to the production of flood tolerant crops.
A team at Nottingham University have discov-
ered the genetic pathway governing how plants
respond to waterlogging. This pathway controls
key proteins which become more stable as oxy-
gen levels drop. Michael Holdsworth, Professor
of Crop Science explains: “their stability results
in changes in gene expression and metabolism
that enhance survival in low oxygen conditions”.
It is hoped that genetic engineering can be used
to manipulate this pathway, improving plants abil-
ity to cope with waterlogging.
With climate change predicting an increase in
the frequency of flooding, genetic engineering is
likely to become a key player in ensuring global
food security.
Lucy van Dorp
SRM techniques to tackle the problem. After
a more detailed explanation of the potential
risks of SRM techniques, such as slow recov-
ery of ozone layer, the number of supporters
in favor of its immediate use decreased, but
they still supported the study of the technol-
ogy for future applications. On the contrary,
detractors were much more skeptical that
global warming was an issue and believed
that humans should not manipulate nature in
this way.
While the percentage of supporters were
equally distributed among the three coun-
tries, detractors appear to be more present in
US. Ideological and political views do not
seem to determine into which group a par-
ticipant falls. Environmentalists and politi-
cal conservatives were equally distributed in
two groups.
It is noteworthy that all participants said
we should rely more on future information
about benefits and risks coming from sci-
entists at research centers and academics,
rather than from federal governments.
“I think this is the first in line of many
studies that will show that SRM intersects
with people’s political and environmental at-
titudes in surprising ways” says Ashley Mer-
cer, lead author of the study.
The perception of risk will likely play a
central role in the debate about the use of
SRM to reduce global warming, but this sur-
vey shows that the public are aware of what
scientists are doing and support them more
than the scientists might expect.
DOI:10.1088/1748-9326/6/4/044006
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Cloudy skies could become an even more common sight if geoengineering technique cloud seeding becomes widespread
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience
Like us on Facebook
Confused by DOIs?
DOI stands for digitial object identifier. A DOI will
help you find the journal article a science news sto-
ry is based on.
Just type http://dx.doi.org/ into the URL bar
and add the DOI to the end. For example: http://
dx.doi.org/doi:10.1038/nature10550 will take you
straight to the Nature letter about the dwarf planet
Eris. Alternatively go to http://dx.doi.org/ and put
the DOI into the search box on that site.
Or, if you’re feeling lazy, Googling the DOI usually
works too...
Flood tolerant crops may be
closer than we think
Flooding is bad news for crops

