SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
A clinical trial involving an incurable
type of blindness has been carried out
by a collaboration of researchers from
Imperial College London and Oxford
University. At the John Radcliffe Hos-
pital in Oxford, Jonathan Wyatt, 63,
from Bristol became the first person to
receive gene therapy for blindness.
He and the other 11 patients who were
involved in the clinical trial, were all
sufferers of Choroideremia, a type of
disease, which causes progressive loss
of vision and eventually blindness. It
is a rare inherited disease caused by a
deficiency of the REP-1 gene on the X
chromosome, making it more common
in men than women. Estimates suggest
100,000 people worldwide are affected
with this disease.
People who are diagnosed with Cho-
roideremia usually suffer from loss of
vision, acuity, colour and depth percep-
tion, as well as severe night blindness as
the disease progresses throughout their
life. The first symptom is usually night
blindness noticed during childhood. As
time goes by, the sufferer’s retina falls
apart and eventually blindness takes
over. The clinical trial could restore
hope in all Choroideremia sufferers.
The gene therapy was designed to re-
store the missing gene on the X chromo-
some to stop the retina from deteriorat-
ing. The treatment comes in the form
of a virus that carries the DNA with
the missing gene. It is injected into the
eye of the patient and is engineered to
target the photoreceptor in the retina.
At this site, the gene will be delivered,
switched on and activated. It is thought
that the gene can reside in the retinal
Farhan Abdullah
Gene therapy could be cure for blindness
Malaria vaccine enters phase III trials
A malaria vaccine candidate called
RTS,S has been raising a stir within the
health industry since the pharmaceutical
giant, Glaxo-Smith Kline, announced
highly promising results in its on-going
phase III trials in Africa. Whilst it is un-
wise to declare success too soon, it is
hoped that these early results may mark
the beginning of the greatest break-
through in malarial control yet.
Malaria represents one of the world’s
most pressing public health problems,
killing nearly 800,000 people every
year, mostly children in Africa, and
development of a vaccine is an urgent
need. After decades of failed vaccine at-
tempts, it is seeming increasingly likely
that RTS,S will become our first ap-
proved vaccine against this debilitating,
parasitic disease.
The first results from the on-going tri-
al, in which over 15,000 children are en-
rolled, show that RTS,S reduces the risk
of malaria by half in children aged five
to seventeen months. Crucially, the vac-
cine showed no significant side-effects
and can be administered safely along
with other childhood vaccines. How-
ever, information regarding the longer-
term protective effects of the vaccine
will not be available until the end of
2014, 30 months after the children have
received their third dose of the vaccine.
A vaccine is an essential tool in re-
ducing the burden of malaria since the
causative agent, a protozoan parasite
called Falciparum, regularly develops
resistance to drugs, making some cases
untreatable. Antimalarial drugs are also
very expensive and often unavailable
in many developing African countries.
Mosquitoes similarly develop resistance
to insecticides, decreasing the efficacy of
bednets and indoor spraying. Throughout
history, vaccines have also proven to be
highly cost-effective and powerful ways
of preventing morbidity and mortality
from disease, allowing for the eradication
of smallpox and very near-eradication of
poliomyelitis. It is likely that even a mod-
estly efficacious malaria vaccine would
prevent hundreds of thousands of cases of
the disease every year.
Contrary to many vaccines such as
those for the polio and influenza virus-
es, which were relatively simple to de-
velop and available many decades ago,
the development of a malaria vaccine
has been a long and tortuous process.
The most significant challenge that
scientists face is a lack of understand-
ing of the immune responses associ-
ated with protection against the disease.
Since the function of a vaccine is to
elicit a long-lasting, protective immune
response against a specific pathogen, it
does not help in this case that scientists
do not know what type of response they
should be aiming for.
RTS,S is designed to trigger the im-
mune system to defend against Plasmo-
dium, the parasite that causes malaria,
when it first enters the human host’s
bloodstream (after a mosquito bite) and
when the parasite infects liver cells. It
aims to prevent the parasite from infect-
ing, maturing and multiplying in the liv-
er, as well as from re-entering the blood-
stream and infecting red blood cells, at
which point the affected person, nor-
mally, would begin to show symptoms.
For now, the scientific community
is waiting on edge for these late-stage
safety and efficacy trials to be complet-
ed, but the World Health Organisation
has indicated that a policy recommenda-
tion for the RTS,S vaccine is possible as
early as 2015. However, there are con-
cerns about the affordability of the vac-
cine and some health experts point out
that RTS,S is not as effective as other
common vaccines. Nevertheless, there
are many reasons to be optimistic about
the advent of such an important weapon
to fight malaria and hopeful that this
disease may be eradicated in the not so
distant future.
Sophia David
I’m afraid there were no cute pictures of mosquitoes...
cells indefinitely once it has been deliv-
ered, hopefully making it permanent.
Professor Miguel Seabra of the Na-
tional Heart and Lung Institute at Impe-
rial College, who was involved in the
trial, expressed his gratitude towards the
individuals that have had a big influence
on the development of the treatment. He
said that this trial only became possible
when some of the affected families and
private charities raised funds for the
research.
Professor Seabra and Dr Tanya Tol-
machova of Imperial lead much of the
preclinical work. They identified the
gene that caused Choroideraemia and
built a mouse model to gain preclinical
data necessary for the trial to be car-
ried out.
The 12 patients involved will under-
go surgery in order for the gene to be
delivered through the virus. Only one
eye will be involved in the gene thera-
py, as the other eye will be used as the
control to evaluate the effectiveness of
the treatments.
However, the researchers said that
they would repeat the treatment with
the second eye if it is shown to be ef-
fective. It is estimated that it will take
up to 2 years to assess the effectiveness
of the treatment.
If it is proven to be successful, then
this will be the first-ever treatment for
the disease.
A virus carrying modified DNA is injected into the patient’s eye – luckily for you, we don’t have a picture of that

