TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
12
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
Booming sound in your pocket
What does the future hold?
I want to see the digital home. Let me paint
you a picture: you get to your front door, grab
the handle and it unlocks. Forget keys, forget
swipe cards, forget even retina scanners; your
door unlocks based on instant DNA analysis.
Just inside, a notification on a touchscreen
lets you know you got post today. Individu-
ally, you can read each item of post, delete it,
or even send it off to the computer in some
other room. Then you can deal with that item
of post when and where you’re ready.
That sort of interconnectivity should be
present in everybody’s homes. Say you’re
sitting at your desk and you suddenly remem-
ber you need milk. You’d simply access the
fridge from your computer and tell it you
need milk – then the fridge will automatically
add it to your next food shop. Even more than
that, let’s say while you’ve been out you’ve
worked on some files on your phone or lap-
top. As your device enters your personal Wi-
Fi network, those files will automatically be
distributed to all your home devices. The
whole house should be connected so you can
work on anything, anywhere.
Perhaps we can even go a step further than
that, and remove the need for multiple de-
vices altogether. If we can really harness the
potential of graphene, I’d love to see a true
all-in-one device. Somewhat akin to a recent
Sky advert, imagine an edge-to-edge touch-
screen phone. But when you sit down on the
train, you literally unfold your device into a
tablet with twice or even four times the screen
space. At its most unfolded it could be used
with a wireless keyboard and mouse to create
a desktop, or even just attached to the wall to
act as a television. That would be truly mobile
computing.
Moving slightly away from the world of de-
vices, I would like to see augmented reality a
part of everyday life in fifty years. The tech-
nology will hopefully have moved out of ugly
goggles and outstretched smartphones and
into contact lenses or our everyday glasses.
With that accessibility issue sorted, and the
inevitable processing power increases that
will enable all these gadgets, augmented real-
ity can really prosper.
More than just overlaying buildings with
their names, we should be looking at personal
and contextual information. Our augmented
reality gear should interact with our calendars,
our smartphones, and even have a degree of
intelligence. Consider my earlier example of
the digital home – if you marked your milk as
an urgent purchase, your gear will be alerted
of this. When you leave the house, a computer
in your house will have found out which local
shop has your preferred milk for the cheapest
price, and you’ll have the option of being led
to it, overlaid on your vision.
Perhaps though, you left home to attend an
important meeting, and are following the vi-
sual guides to get you there instead. On the
way back your route could be altered slightly
to get your milk, and perhaps your eyepiece
will even recommend a new restaurant for
dinner based on where you’ve previously eat-
en. As long as all of this is helpful and done
unobtrusively, there are so many possibilities
for augmented reality, especially given fifty
years of development.
In fact, helpful and unobtrusive need to
apply to all our future technologies. As tech-
nology inevitably becomes more and more
ingrained in our everyday lives, the last thing
we want is for it to get in the way. Technol-
ogy should be and needs to be a convenience.
With that in mind, we will hopefully be see-
ing huge advances in the next fifty years in
new technologies that make our everyday
lives that much easier, and hopefully more
enjoyable.
This does beg the question, though, of
whether or not everything I’ve described in
this article can happen in the timespan of half
a century. Based on the history of technology,
and how quickly the field has burst through
innovation after innovation – I don’t see why
not. Of course, only time will tell. But as we
are being speculative, one person’s thoughts
and predictions aren’t enough. So, take a look
across the page, where some other people
look at what they think we might be seeing in
Issue 3000 of Felix...
Scosche’s boomCAN is a small, portable speaker
that promises big sound at a low price. It cer-
tainly does deliver booming sound – this thing
gets loud. Even with your music on a quiet volume
the boomCAN packs quite a punch. The price tag
meets requirements too, as it costs only £20.
It’s a well-built little thing too – the build quality
seems good – and you get a travel pouch to pro-
tect the aluminium body. The internal battery is
meant to last up to seven hours of playback, so
it should last for a trip out – which is where I see
this speaker being used. The only problem is with
the quality at higher volumes – at the end of the
day this is a cheap speaker, and you can tell when
you turn it up. You can buy a second boomCAN
to get proper stereo sound, but at £40 you can
probably get something of slightly higher quality.
However, for a budget speaker that turns it up to
11, the boomCAN is recommended.
Disagree with our hastily
written articles and
poorly worded opinions?
Show us better:
technology.felix@ic.ac.uk
Hail to our future overlords... maybe
Chris Bowers tells of his predictions for fifty years’ time
A
h, Issue 1500 is here. While
some of my fellow editors may
be getting nostalgic, technol-
ogy and history don’t seem to
get along. Technology and the
future, on the other hand? Well, everyone sees
them as going hand-in-hand. So we’ve decided
to jump 1500 issues into the future – approxi-
mately fifty years – and look at what the world
of computers, gadgets and electronics might
look like in Issue 3000 of Felix.
Of course, when we think of technology
in the future, some questions immediately
spring to mind – will robots rule the world?
Will we be able to teleport instantly from one
place to another? Probably not. While that’s
quite a shame for the latter, a lot can hap-
pen in technology in fifty years. If we went
back in time just a decade and told them what
technology was like today, they probably
wouldn’t believe us. That’s the sort of growth
we’re looking at. So what do I think we might
be talking about in these very pages half a
century from now?
“Some questions spring
to mind - will robots rule
the world?”
Check the results of the Vizz
Africa SIM card competition at
www.vizzafrica.co.uk/result

