FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 13
TECHNOLOGY
Douglas Heaven sees programmable cells, not silicon chips
cessors. But perhaps strangest of all
is the future envisioned by the fledg-
ling field of computational biology,
which aims to make computational
devices out of living cells.
Studying how cells process infor-
mation could help with understand-
ing life itself. Last year, the genome
entrepreneur, Craig Venter, famously
made the first synthetic cell by copy-
ing the genetic code of one species
of bacteria and inserting it into an-
other – prompting many questions,
quite literally, about the meaning of
life. However, swapping around an
existing DNA sequence – or biological
program – only goes so far. What if we
were to specify arbitrary functionality
for cells – or, in other words, write our
own biological programs?
That’s just what ex-Imperial stu-
dent Andrew Phillips is working on.
Phillips, who now heads the Biologi-
cal Computation group at Microsoft
Research Cambridge, was recently
named one of the world’s top inno-
vators under the age of 35 by Tech-
nology Review for his research into
programming biology. Typically, syn-
thetic biology involves low-level tin-
kering and the manipulation of DNA
strands directly. By developing a pro-
gramming language that compiles to
DNA sequences instead of machine
code, Phillips allows cell behav-
iour to be specified at a high level
of abstraction, making it easier to
design biological programs from
scratch.
According to Phillips, through
collaboration with experts in pro-
gramming languages, biologists,
neuroscientists, and even ecolo-
gists, his group at Microsoft Re-
search has “the scope to research
and develop what might become
the key technologies of the next
decade or the decade after that.
It’s possible that programming
biology may one day surpass the
world of programming silicon”.
There’s a lot of speculation about
where the future of computing lies.
Quantum computers and qubits
promise to open up computational
problems that are unfeasable us-
ing bits alone; nanotech materials
such as graphene look set to change
the fundamentals of computer hard-
ware, replacing silicon as the basis for
chip design; and electrons might give
way to photons as we strive for higher
speeds and bandwidth via optical pro-
Smartphones must improve, says Abhimanyu Chugh
Is this what we’ll be coding for in the future?
Have you ever had your phone
die when you least expected it?
Have you ever forgotten to charge
your phone the night before only
to find out later you forgot to take
your charger with you? Or re-
alised you can’t use your phone
for its primary purpose after too
much Angry Birds or surfing on
the tube? I know I have. This is
one thing that I really hope smart-
phones overcome in the future.
Personally, I am tired of having
to charge my phone every night,
sometimes even multiple times
in a day. It’s about time we saw
some innovation in the battery
department.
Another feature I would love to see
in future smartphones is seamless
integration with other technology.
The devices should follow same
international standards across all
platforms, not their own proprietary
rubbish. This has the benefit of mul-
tiple devices cooperating effortless-
ly with the touch of a few buttons,
without worrying about compatibility.
Additionally, smartphones could
improve on their form factor. It’s dif-
ficult to find a phone that truly suits
you, or one that adapts to user’s
needs. Wouldn’t it be cool to have
a foldable smartphone, which can
be expanded for a perfect brows-
ing experience or compacted to fa-
cilitate calling, a smartphone/tablet
hybrid? Perhaps even a hidden key-
board to make typing even easier,
without having to use the on-screen
keyboard and having your messages
autocorrected to the point where
they make no sense?
Finally, the possibility of water-
proof smartphones is something
I’m sure we could all appreciate.
Having experienced the porosity of
smartphones first hand, I know the
anguish that follows the constant
failed attempts at reviving your pre-
cious phone.
One technology that always
seems so tantalisingly close and
yet simultaneously so far is virtu-
al reality – where a computer-gen-
erated environment can be walked
around in and interacted with as if it
were real. I’m waiting for one better
than that; namely, total immersion.
Think ‘The Matrix’ – people don’t
just stand in a booth with some
funny goggles on, rather the signals
to their brain are controlled directly
by the computer to simulate sight,
sound and the other senses to boot.
Although this may sound like
some eyebrow-raising science fic-
tion, medical scientists are in fact
already getting stuck into to mess-
ing with the brain’s electronic sig-
nals, in the form of devices known
as “brain-computer interfaces”. As
recently as last year doctors at Tue-
bingen University in Germany were
able to restore the sight of a blind
man by implanting a vision chip (like
almost fully in the virtual one
(imagine a virtual reality that lets
you do what you want whenever
you want – would there be any
point living in the real world when
a place like that exists), and what
the implications are for privacy
and mind-control all need to be
answered before humanity is
ready for life in a virtual world.
But before that happens, total
immersion virtual reality should
be frickin’ sweet, with video
games and computer interfaces
taken to their ultimate goal. Call
of Duty 10: Virtual Warfare, any-
one?
in a digital camera) into his eye and
feeding the electric signals directly
into his brain. The lucky guy went
from no vision to be able to tell
apart objects at the flick of a switch.
It won’t be long before this sort of
(hopefully less Frankenstein-esque)
technology might be able to provide
simulated senses, instead of restor-
ing them.
But when it does happen, virtual
reality raises ethical problems on
a grand scale. Questions about
whether it’s wrong to allow comput-
ers to simulate pain through these
methods, whether it’s okay to give
up your life in the real world to live
Simon Worthington thinks virtual reality is the next game-changer
Folding might be the way forward. Design by Christian Ulrich Larsen
Virtual reality? Looks pretty grim to me

