TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
14
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
IBM simulates cat cortex
Be.ez LE Reporter
Engineering tomorrow’s humanity
E
very week in here at Technology,
we try and peek a few weeks into
the future, to tell you what might
be the best new technology of the
coming season or the device that
you’re going to be saving up for. The far fu-
ture is often best left to science fiction; tech-
nological predictions about the future have a
hairy way of coming back to bite you.
Despite this, looking into the future offers
a tantalising glimpse into the world that we
would like to see. More than ever, science is
pushing the boundaries of what we thought
was achievable – our relationship with the
devices we have built grows ever more sym-
biotic, and rudimentary though the technol-
ogy may be, electronics and biology can now
communicate with each other. It’s this combi-
nation of factors that’s leading to a growing
discussion of the concept of an ‘augmented
humanity’, a Deus Ex-eqsue combination of
the benefits of human creative thought and
raw mechanical power. Exciting and scary,
definitely. Yet how real is this vision, and
where are we on the road towards it? More
importantly, what sort of implications does it
have for us as a species? Finally, will Felix
3000 be written by cyborgs?
Engineering our bodies
A cornerstone of this symbiosis will lie in bio-
engineering: getting computers to work seam-
lessly with our intelligence. This would mean
that the distinction between man growing ever
more blurry, our dependence on them and their
dependence on us making any differentiation
pointless. Considering how much electronics
drive our everyday lives even today, it’s hard
not to see this happening.
Despite this, we still see computers around
us as disparate objects, subordinates regard-
less of our keen dependence on them to main-
tain our living standards. Bioengineering
might change that dynamic, should its current
breakneck rate of progress continue (bioengi-
neering research is currently one of the fastest
growing scientific fields, with CNN ranking it
the number one field for job growth in the next
ten years). One key focus of bioengineering
research revolves around human biological
enhancement and brain-computer interfacing,
two topics that were until recently the pre-
serve of science fiction.
Brain-computer interfacing is defined as a
direct pathway between the brain and an ex-
ternal device (using invasive surgery, MRI
or EEG). Given the complexity of the work
they carry out, the progress made by bioengi-
neering labs over the last twenty years is truly
amazing. Cochlear implants (a surgically im-
planted device that can give a sense of sound
to the profoundly deaf) have a history almost
as old as the field, and have shrunk from being
bulky, painful and risky to being ‘totally im-
plantable’ devices that interact with the brain
without the help of any external interface.
In addition, work being done on replace-
ment prostheses for those who have lost limbs
has garnered a lot of attention in the media
due to the remarkable dexterity that they of-
fer wearers; those who have lost entire hands
are suddenly able to manipulate individual bi-
onic fingers simply by the power of thought.
Making this work is a complicated dance of
the sciences – materials that have to be light-
weight and durable, electronics that have to
be miniaturised without losing reliability and
complex machine learning algorithms that
have to work on a processor that’s probably
your mobile phone’s poorer cousin.
From the lab to our hands
Moving from the current state of affairs to the
imagined state of singularity of man and ma-
chine, however, means taking these devices to
an entirely new level of functionality. Most of
today’s implants are rough around the edges
and largely dependent on bulky external pow-
er sources. A truly augmented humanity is a
long way away – where will we be in 50 years
time? If current research is any indication, not
too far away from the vision. Recently, a study
by Berkeley researchers showed that patterns
generated by monitoring brain activity of peo-
ple watching videos could be used to create
a fairly accurate reconstruction of what they
were watching (think dream-recording). The
potential for this technology, when improved,
is massive. Storing your thoughts right from
source could prove the best dictaphone imag-
inable, and could allow us to tap into and
transfer images from the most realistic cam-
eras we have: our eyes.
From the intangible back to the firmly phys-
ical, further research in materials and optimi-
zations to existing prosthetics is slowly bring-
ing us commercial ‘exoskeletons’, mechanical
frameworks that can be worn over the body
and provide incredible amounts of extra pow-
er, essentially an Iron Man suit for the real
world. First practical trials of these skeletons
in the American military are expected in 5-10
years. 50 years will probably see these de-
vices coming out for the mass-market, helping
us with everyday lifting, moving and general
endurance.
Looking towards the past is always a fairly
good indicator of what we can expect from the
future. 50 years ago saw the first prototype
of what we would come to call the internet
and the first demonstration of the computer
mouse. This decade has seen the first practical
demonstrations of brain-computer interfaces
and mightily powerful prosthetics that can ex-
tend the reach and power of both the human
mind and the body. Most predictions expect
singularity in the 21st century, and this doesn’t
seem too idealistic. If you are still in doubt,
take a look at the world around you. In a world
where we have to debate whether a disabled
runner with a prosthetic leg has too much of
an advantage over able-bodied sprinters, the
boundaries between man and machine are far
smaller than you would imagine. Felix 3000
won’t see the rise of the machines, but it will
probably see us forgetting that we feared them
in the first place.
Researchers at IBM’s Amalden Research Center
in California have managed to simulate elements
of biological cognition on a scale that exceeds a
cat cortex, a step which they claim will mark ‘the
dawn of a new era in the scale of cortical sim-
ulations’. The work, which was carried out on a
state-of-the-art Blue Gene supercomputer sport-
ing 147,456 processors and 144TB of memory,
only a few orders of magnitude away from the
scope of a human cortex. This doesn’t mean that
IBM is only a few years away from simulating a
human brain, however – while the simulation will
provide an excellent insight into the dependence
between various elements of the brain, it is still
nowhere close to simulating the interactions be-
tween them. That is not to take anything away
from the efforts of the scientists, however, as the
research should provide a novel way for neurosci-
entists to study the brain from its building blocks.
The Be.ez LE Reporter is a sturdy little waterproof
bag, with a robust feel to it. The bag contains a de-
cent assortment of pockets in both the main com-
partment and the front section to hold your peripher-
als and papers, and is padded well to shield them
from any knocks. Despite the waterproofing, the bag
doesn’t zip shut, so you might want to be careful in
heavy rain - it’s not exactly designed for the rainfor-
est holiday you may have had in mind. Coming in two
colours (the black/orange combo pictured above or
grWey/blue) the bag isn’t exactly a great looker but
not too much of a slouch either. Priced at circa £57
on Amazon, it’s a bit more expensive than your aver-
age laptop carrier case.
Feroz Salam on the interdependence of man and machine
Only slightly colder than the average cat

