FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 15
TECHNOLOGY
The next iteration of Android’s future
With new, improving Android phones
hitting the market all the time alongside
fierce competition from Apple, this left
us wondering what new features Google
and Samsung had up their sleeves. Un-
like Apple, they’ve opted for a slight re-
design for their new device. Also, keep-
ing in line with the trends in Android
phones, they have increased the screen
size to a whopping 4.65”. Unfortunate-
ly, the display is only a SuperAMOLED
screen, instead of Super AMOLED
plus. This essentially means that – de-
spite what Samsung say – its colour ren-
dition and effective pixel density are not
as good as other phones on the market.
For example, Samsung’s very own Gal-
axy S II and Apple’s iPhone both have
better displays.
Whilst this may disappoint some,
the colour distortion is only minor, and
since it occurs across the whole screen
it isn’t particularly noticeable. Further-
more, as it has long been a known prob-
lem for screens of this type, it is often
corrected to a certain degree on the soft-
ware end. Another issue however, is that
some people may think the screen size
will make the phone too big. To side-
step this, Samsung have decreased the
bezel surrounding the screen such that
the increase in dimensions is not major
when compared to its predecessor. An-
other plus is the decrease in thickness,
and overall the phone is still quite light
at 135 grams (only 5 grams heavier than
the Nexus S).
Among the most impressive features
of the Galaxy Nexus is the increase in
performance. Featuring a 1.2GHz dual-
core processor alongside 1GB of RAM,
this super-phone is more than capable of
handling anything Google have thrown
at it with ICS. Another improvement is
a larger battery, although this may not
lead to longer battery life due to the
increased power consumption of the
larger screen and new processor. Whilst
the camera may be criticised by many
for lacking megapixels compared to the
current market, Samsung have promised
a better sensor enabling 1080p video
recording, ensuring that every one of
those five million pixels counts.
smartphones and tablets. Right at the
core of the update is a UI overhaul. Cit-
ing the all too familiar words that user
friendliness is key in any phone OS,
Google went on to explain their motiva-
tions behind some of the changes.
Essentially, they’ve gone for a futuris-
tic style theme, rather than making parts
of the UI resemble real materials, like
wood. At the heart of this is ‘Roboto’, a
new font that has been designed to make
reading much easier on a screen. Inter-
estingly, the inspiration for this change
comes from the way that text appears
in magazines. Indeed, this style is also
apparent in the layout of content, with
more emphasis on widgets, that are not
only easier to find but can now also be
re-sized.
After Apple borrowed a feature or two
from Android when it comes to notifi-
cations, it seems Google are returning
the favour, as the whole notifications
bar can also be accessed from the lock
screen. This means users can unlock
straight to their app and dismiss noti-
fications individually using an intui-
tive swipe gesture. This gesture is also
used in the new multi-tasking interface
that allows users to review and dismiss
currently running apps they don’t need
anymore. Further to additional control
over applications, Google also seem to
be pushing for transparency with users
now able to view rich graphs detailing
data usage for each application in set-
tings. This will be a welcome feature
for many, especially those who have a
usage cap on their data allowance and
are concerned about how much of their
precious data apps are using.
Keeping in line with the changes
brought in for Honeycomb (the previ-
ous version of Android exclusively for
tablets), Ice Cream Sandwich provides
support software buttons for home,
back, etc. that rotate with the phone’s
orientation. This is well suited to many
of the latest Android phones given their
larger screens, however it may be a
drawback on the cheaper devices with
much smaller screens.
been a feature in Android. Whether it
be to protect personal data or prevent a
sneaky friend from messing around on
your phone, it’s a useful feature. How-
ever there has always been a concern
that someone looking over your shoul-
der could see you type your passcode
or draw your pattern, not to mention the
additional hassle it adds. Google have
identified a way to side-step these is-
sues by using the front facing camera
and facial recognition software to iden-
tify who you are. Appropriately called
Face Unlock, this new feature is, so
far, exclusive to Android and certainly
a USP. Critics may question both how
effective it is in recognising your face
and how secure it is (i.e. whether or not
it will unlock the phone to anyone who
looks similar). However, these will not
be concerns for any users who just want
a light level of security that allows them
quick and easy access to their phone.
Adam Forsyth looks in-depth at Ice Cream Sandwich and its new flagship device
A
fortnight ago saw Google
team up with Samsung
for the much anticipated
launch of the latest it-
eration of Android, its
popular smartphone OS, alongside the
Galaxy Nexus, the latest and greatest
Google branded hardware to run it on.
Held in Hong Kong, the keynote swiftly
began with Samsung taking to the stage
to discuss the Galaxy Nexus. It’s not the
first time the two companies have part-
nered together to release a smartphone,
as last year they unveiled the Nexus S.
The hardware
The software
In the true style of any good meal, af-
ter Samsung had finished discussing
the hardware that was the main course,
Google took to the stage for the sweet
dessert. This was exciting stuff, as Ice
Cream Sandwich has been hotly antici-
pated as the release that will integrate
the two separate streams of the OS for
Brand new features
Anyone who uses their phone to take a
lot of pictures will be impressed with
the improvements to the camera app in
ICS. Like in iOS 5, it can be accessed
directly from the lock screen and is ca-
pable of taking photos instantaneously.
A drawback of this is that photos can be
unfocussed. However, that should be a
worthy trade-off if it means capturing
those unmissable moments. Also new is
the new panorama feature, enabling rich
widescreen shots that will be enormous-
ly useful when on holiday, sightseeing
those gorgeous landscapes.
A hardware feature that the Galaxy
Nexus shares with its predecessor is
a Near Field Communications (NFC)
chip. However, when the Nexus S was
released, there wasn’t much to use it
with, and we haven’t even got Google
Wallet – their contactless payment sys-
tem – over here yet. In ICS though, is
Android Beam, a feature that enables
content sharing phone-to-phone using
NFC. Whilst sharing items has long
been available to phones, via Bluetooth
or other means, Android Beam does
make it a lot easier, with users simply
needing to touch their phones. They
will then be offered the opportunity to
‘Beam’ their item across, be it a URL or
a map location, to name just two.
Requiring a passcode or a drawable
pattern to unlock your phone has long
Wrap-up
All in all, the changes ICS brings to
Android are welcome and do offer a
competitive alternative to consumers
from other platforms in the smartphone
industry. Whilst the Galaxy Nexus may
not be the best Android phone on the
hardware front, one distinct advantage
is that it runs an unaltered version of
ICS. Essentially this means that it will
always be easier to update the phone
with the latest software, soon after it
is released by Google. No more de-
pendence on the whim of the phone’s
manufacturer, whenever they are able to
integrate the update with their skinned
version of Android. Together, the mar-
riage of hardware and software makes
the phone one mean machine.
Android Beam allows you to quickly and easily share stuff between two phones

