POLITICS
FELIX 17
FRIDAY 04 november 2011
Even though neither of the two parties
in power mentioned drastic transfor-
mation of our higher education system
in their manifestos the white paper
published this summer, ‘Higher Edu-
cation: Putting students at the Heart of
the System’, proposes this. The raising
of tuition fees, which also held no vot-
er mandate, and the 80% cut in central
education funding has given the gov-
ernment an opportunity to cause dras-
tic changes to the ethic at the heart of
our education system. As the funding
for higher education will now mainly
be coming from student debt, not the
debt of the government (a simple trea-
sury trick to reduce the deficit), the
white paper uses this to turn students
into consumers and privatise our edu-
cation.
The white paper mentions the fees
increase as being an opportunity
to introduce competition into the
higher education. This competition
is treated as a necessity as the white
paper implies that universities are
inefficient and therefore they need to
be whipped into shape by cutting their
“dependency on the government”.
Due to the cuts to the central funding
only fees above £7,500-£8,000 will
hope to re-coup the current funding
per student, which is why nearly every
university started requesting to charge
the full £9,000 cap; a parliamentary
committee found this would have
significantly increased the cost of
higher education. As the whole idea
was to save money the white paper
proposes an incentive to keep fees low
for some universities, which is done by
student place allocation.
The government wants to set up
a core of student places, which are
guaranteed, and then marginal places
which universities compete over. As
the overall amount of places will stay
the same this opens the potential for
universities to not only have different
numbers of students each year,
causing difficulties in the finance of
institutions, but also to go bankrupt;
a consequence the white paper is
particularly relaxed about but could
have devastating effects on students.
Over half the marginal places will be
given to AAB students, this means
the elite universities will have no
issue maintaining, or expanding, their
numbers to the detriment of other top
universities. The rest of the marginal
places are for universities charging
less than £7,500. Now universities
will be even more intent on getting
more students, with less resources
per student, just to stay open,
reducing the quality of the education.
Currently each student, at whatever
university, has the same block grant.
However, with these changes, there
will be disparity between what can
be afforded at each institution. As the
participation of young disadvantaged
people is concentrated in middle
and lower tariff universities we will
further socially segregate our society
as the poorer are given lower quality
university education. The National
Student Survey showed that at the
moment the difference in ranking
between universities is small and not
statistically significant; this is because
grants per student are the same. With
these changes we will rapidly increase
the difference in the higher education
you are entitled to due to your social
background.
This reform also places the student
in a consumer role. Universities will
need to attract us, otherwise they will
not receive enough in fees to stay
solvent. The white paper places a lot
of emphasis on the salary and job that
the degree can provide the student
with, although this financial service
a degree provides should surely only
be secondary. The role of a university
is to carry out research and then
exchange and debate this knowledge
with students, not to prepare students
for the work place. Stefan Collini
highlights how this is worrying as
a degree should enable a student to
learn independently and critically
through hard work and graft, but as
a consumer the student will purely
want to be provided with a service that
achieves a high salary afterwards. He
summarises that the student should not
be a consumer, as we do not always
know what is best for us.
Finally, the white paper does not
only force competition into higher
education which will not only open
How the coalition plans to change higher education
Rajat Jain
social divides and devalue our
education but opens the way for rapid
privatisation of the whole sector. It
aims to reduce the regulation on the
status of a “university” to allow private
providers to come in and undercut
universities to obtain places from the
under £7500 marginal allocation. They
will provide low cost education, but
will do this through distance learning
and larger class sizes to maintain
profits to pay boards and executive
pay (though obviously current vice-
chancellors are not particularly cheap).
Furthermore they want to allow current
public universities to become private
(as Oxford are currently considering),
which enables the huge wealth accrued
through public money to quickly fall
into private hands; as we have seen
in countless privatisations of public
bodies the benefit is never to the
public but to the owners who strip the
considerable assets. These reforms
do not put the student at the heart of
the system as the white paper says,
but instead places corporate profit
at the heart. This is why thousands
of students and lecturers will march
next Wednesday (9/11) to the city of
London and walk out of lectures on
November 30.
Last week was a particularly brutal
one for David Cameron and his policy
on Europe. First the French president
Nicholas Sarkozy told him to “shut
up” over unhelpful criticisms over the
Euro. To make matters worse, on his
return, Mr Cameron faced an 81 mem-
ber backbench rebellion over a pro-
posed referendum on whether Britain
should remain in the EU, withdraw, or
take certain powers back from Brus-
sels. This rebellion came despite a
three line whip.
Britain and France have rarely seen
eye to eye when it comes to long term
EU strategies, and it has historically
been a divisive issue within the
Conservative Party. This, however,
places Dave in a far worse position
than he could’ve imagined.
Telling another world leader
to shut up is a diplomatic rarity,
particularly between two centre-
right European leaders who have
collaborated closely on defence deals
to cut spending, and the invasion of
another country (Libya). Tensions
are clearly rising over the Euro crisis
and with their hopes pinned on the
laughable Berlusconi and dismal
election prospects for Sarkozy next
year, Cameron’s ‘told you so’ attitude
over the Euro is not winning him any
friends.
Unfortunately for the Prime
Minister, he is also losing the support
of Eurosceptics at home. He hardly
had a cosy relationship with the
backbenchers since he took power.
Many blame him for failing to win the
election outright. His first move was
a power sharing deal with the liberal-
left; anathema to many grassroots
Conservatives. His second, a deal to
increase frontbench influence in the
backbenchers’ 1922 Committee, lost
him most of their trust.
This, however, goes beyond
fractured political relationships-
it reflects the Prime Minister’s
failure to take any decisive policy
in Europe. While New Labour’s
policy largely involved taking a
greater role in leading Europe, the
Conservative’s manifesto was about
bringing powers back to Britain and
reducing involvement in Europe. The
manifesto stated “In future, the British
people must have their say on any
transfer of powers to the European
Union ... any proposed future treaty
that transferred areas of power, or
competences, would be subject to a
referendum.” Mr Cameron, before
being elected, had stated that it is
not right to use the whip against non-
manifesto issues; MPs stood for the
party with the understanding that they
support the manifesto, but otherwise
are independent representatives for
their constituents. Not only has Mr
Cameron broken this rule, but he
has instructed MPs to vote against
something which, in spirit, was
supported by the manifesto.
He gives two main reasons for
this- the situation has changed
because they are now in coalition
with the Liberal Democrats and the
referendum would be a distraction at
a time when they should be dealing
with the Euro Crisis. Neither of
these is particularly convincing.
The coalition agreement would not
prevent MPs voting independently.
After all, they are in service to their
constituency not the party. If their
constituents voted for them due to
their Euro-sceptic platform, they owe
it to them to support the referendum.
The Prime Minister may oppose the
motion, but using a three line whip
(which could have them removed
from the party), puts them in a very
unfair position. The fact that they
did not have a majority meant it was
unlikely to pass anyway, making the
whip a stupid political move, as it
would never be able to become a
‘distraction’. In any case, Cameron’s
policy over the Euro Crisis- pointing
fingers without making any helpful
suggestions- means Britain is fast
becoming irrelevant to the Euro Crisis
in the eyes of many European leaders.
Thanks to the Prime Minister’s
policy (or lack thereof), Britain is
now in a position where it is losing
greater power to Brussels while
becoming an increasingly peripheral
and unimportant member of the union.
The Conservatives in Europe
The Privatisation of Universities
Luke Sheldon
David Cameron is still feeling blue about events on the continent
“Britain and
France have rarely
seen eye to eye...”
“Now universities will
be even more in-
tent on getting more
students, with less
resources per stu-
dent...”

