POLITICS
FELIX
18 FRIDAY 04 november 2011
France and Germany have expressed concerns about Greek
Prime Minister, Geroge Papandreou’s decision to hold a refer-
endum over a 130bn euro rescue deal. The deal, which would
require pension cuts and tax rises, is predicted to produce a
no vote, sending the markets crashing. Germany has made it
clear that the deal cannot be re-negotiated, as the current one
took months of wrangling. Both Angela Merkel and Nicholas
Sarkozy have made it clear to Greece that they must decide by
mid-December, when the referendum takes place, if they are
going to leave the Eurozone.
On Wednesday, the headquarters of
French satirical magazine Charlie Heb-
do were destroyed in a petrol bomb at-
tack by Islamic extremists. The attack
was in retaliation for the magazine us-
ing a cartoon of the prophet Muham-
mad as its cover, and listing him as the
editor-in-chief. The actual editor, Ste-
phane Charbonnier, has been deeply
critical of the inability to question Islam
in the press. The Prime Minister, Fran-
cois Fillon, described the bombing as
an attack on the freedom of press.
Israel’s Prime Minister has said he will in-
crease the building of illegal settlements
and withhold tax revenue from the Pales-
tinian Authority, after they successfully ap-
plied for recognition at UNESCO, the UN’s
Paris-based cultural arm. The Palestinian
application followed their unsuccessful
bid for full membership at the UN- which
was vetoed by the United States. They will
now be able to apply to have sites such
as the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem
classified as UNESCO world heritage sites.
The United States has cut its funding to
UNESCO following the move. The EU, on
the other hand, condemned Israel’s move.
Most European countries voted in favour of
Palestinian membership at UNESCO.
Troops from Kenya have entered So-
malia and engaged in bloody battles
with Islamic group Harakat al-Shabaab
al-Mujahideen, who control large parts
of the south of the country where they
have imposed a strict interpretation of
Shariah law. Kenya has now warned So-
malis to avoid militants and expect air
strikes across the south and centre of
the country.
Written by Rajat Jain
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

