POLITICS
FELIX 19
FRIDAY 04 november 2011
Pakistan has reciprocated India’s move
from 1996 and granted its arch-rival Most
Favoured Nation status. This allows for
more free trade between the two nuclear-
armed neighbours, who have fought four
wars against each other since their inde-
pendence in 1947. Pakistan had hesitated
in making the move due to pressure from
its powerful military which has controlled
the country for most of its history. However,
with the military failing to control terror in
Pakistan while the Indian economy booms,
pressure grew to introduce the deal. Po-
litical commentators have had mixed reac-
tions as to whether it will actually help the
long term peace process.
A Guide To the American
2012 Presidential Election
Campaign
On the 17th December 2012, the next President of
the United States of America will be formally elected.
While the incumbent President, Barack Obama is the
main candiate for the Democratic party, the Reuplican
Party candiates are still battling for selection as their
party’s nominee.
So, the question is – who’s who?
President Barack Obama
President Barack Obama is the main
Democratic candiate for the Presi-
dential Elections. As the incumbent
President, Mr. Obama has experi-
ence on his side, however failure to
make promised changes due to resistance in Con-
gress from the Republican Party, high unemplyment
and an insistance on bipartisan politics might be
stumbling blocks as he campaigns for a second term
in office.
Herman Cain
As a former CEO of restaurant chain
Godfather’s Pizza and a former Chair-
man of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City, although he has little
political experience Herman Cain is current seen
as the most popular Repulican candidate. His 9-9-9
federal tax plan to aims to simplify tax collection to
9% taxes on business, personal income and sales.
However recent allegations of illegal campaign fund-
ing and past sexual harrassment may leave Mr. Cain’s
dreams in tatters.
Mitt Romney
Second in the Republican nomination
race according to recent nationwide
polls, Mitt Romney, a former candi-
date for the 2008 Presidential Cam-
paign, is keen to convince voters that he is their cham-
pion. As a former governor as Massachusetts he has
some experience in politics, however his Mormon faith
may deter some convervative Christian voters from
supporting his cause. He also faces some confusion
regarding his opposition to the President’s healthcare
bill, despite implementing a similar scheme while in
Massachusetts.
Michele Bachmann
As a Republican member of the
House of Representatives and the
founder of the House’s Tea Party
Caucus, Congresswoman Michele
Bachmann is no stranger to the political arena. Keen
to remove federal minimum wage and firmly against
President Obama’s healthcare bill she paints a pic-
ture of a fierce political warrior. However, mistakes
in several speeches and her husband’s homophobic
public comments haven’t helped Mrs. Bachmann to
rise in popularity.
Joseph Letts

