Jakobs Café (20 Gloucester Road) are still looking
for enthusiastic students with good English and
presentation skills to serve their customers on a
part time basis. Shifts: 12pm to 3pm or 6pm to
9pm (Monday to Sunday) Salary: £7/hour + food.
To apply, send your CV to vidhulvinodh@gmail.
com, or phone 07466632915
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 04 november 2011
Lolcat of teh 1500
I don’t think words can quite do justice
to how I feel, but I’ll give it a go. Having
the privilege of editing Issue 1500 of this
publication is something that I hugely
appreciate and can’t quite comprehend.
Taking a look through the Felix Issue
Archive (do go and have a look at it via
the Felix website – it’s well worth it) it hit
me how, in its own inimitable way, the
newspaper hasn’t really changed over the
past 62 years. We still aim to entertain at
the same time as providing you with the
latest news from around college and the
world.
I feel that the most appropriate way of
celebrating such a milestone is to go flat
out with what makes Felix so special,
and provide an extended issue – a real
demonstration of the dedication of the
students who work so, so hard every week
to bring this to you. Here’s to them.
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Alexander Karapetian Indy Leclercq Maciej Matuszewski Navid Nabijou Features Editors
Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph
Letts Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music
Editors Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence
Pope Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Home & Garden Editors Timothy Arbabzadah Charles Betts Navid Nabijou Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors
Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Aemun Reza Annina Sartor
CLASSIFIEDS
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
Competition
WKD Purple is here to stay! Yep,
apparently you loved WKD’s Limited
Edition ‘purple one’ so much it’s go-
ing to stick around – who knew?
By Purpler demand (geez, we’re
meant to be edging away from puns
that bad – Ed) WKD Purple will be
joining Iron Brew, Blue and Red as
a permanent member of the WKD
squad.
WKD are offering you the op-
portunity to win a case of WKD
Purple to enjoy with your mates
and this competition question
will put your brains to the ulti-
mate test.
What colour is WKD Purple?
And what better way to cel-
ebrate our 1500th issue than
by massively insulting your intel-
ligence?
Email the answer to felix@
imperial.ac.uk by Wednesday
9 November at 23:59 to be in
with a chance of winning. The
winner will be randomly selected
from all valid entries after the competition closes
and will be announced in next week’s issue.
Get cracking guys!
www.facebook.com/WKD
Last week’s Bad Teacher DVD winners:
Hannah Huang
Vijitra Luang-In
Congratulations – I’ll be in touch!
Front Cover by Hamish Muir
FELIX
1500
What’s on
Friends of Imperial College
Lecture
Lecture Theatre G16, Sir
Alexander Fleming Building
November 8 19:00
Professor David Phillips OBE, President of the Royal
Society of Chemistry and once Head of the Depart-
ment of Chemistry at Imperial discusses the role of
chemistry in tackling global problems.

