of these same people living off benefits have
the latest phones, the biggest televisions,
and go on numerous holidays a year – they
can afford to because they know even if they
spend all their money, next week or month,
the next payment of benefits will come in.
“There was a time when
... your job depended
on who your father
was – what a wonderful
system!”
All we need to do is look to the past to see
where we are going wrong. This country was
at its greatest at the end of the 19th Century
under good old Queen Victoria. During the
industrial revolution the economy grew by
leaps and bounds, and the Empire was at full
strength. This was a time when you had what
you could afford, when what you could af-
ford depended on your job, and your job de-
pended on who your father was – what a won-
derful system! Those of us who could afford
the luxuries in life would be guaranteed a
standard of life for generations to come, and
those who couldn’t, worked in factories or as
servants. There would have been no riots this
summer if such an employment system still
existed, where you had to toil to reap the re-
wards of life...
Just imagine the possibilities if we could
scrap the welfare state. Think what we could
do with that £111bn. We could offer tax
breaks to the rich, the people who so val-
iantly shoulder such a large chunk of the tax
burden; we could reduce inheritance tax, so
those of us who have family estates do not
have to bare such excessive financial costs
when passing our fortunes from one genera-
tion to the next.
So why should everyone deserve the same
standards of life, and why should everyone
be able to afford the same things? Surely the
fairest economy and society is one where you
are rewarded for working hard, having rich
parents, and punished for not pulling your
weight? We shouldn’t become a nation where
we depend on hand-outs from the state; we
should be encouraging people to work hard
to strengthen the economy! And if they do
not want to, they should lose their “human
rights” to televisions, and be forced to work
in a Victorian-esque manner like this woman
on the left. In these times of austerity and ris-
ing taxes, welfare is an unfair and unneces-
sary financial burden, and should be scrapped
ASAP if we are to put the Great back into
Great Britain.
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
The welfare state: we are told it exists to cre-
ate equality in the country, to make it a fairer
country. This is a lie! The welfare state is so
profoundly unfair it is ridiculous! Those who
work hard to earn a living have to sacrifice a
large proportion of their pay to tax to “ben-
efit society”. However there are some people
who do not want to work, cannot be both-
ered to work, some even who can’t work(!),
and still get some free money every week off
the state – how on God’s green earth is that
fair?!
People in this country have become far
too dependent on the state. Forecasted gov-
ernment spending in 2012 is £703bn, with
£111bn on welfare and £124bn on healthcare.
That works out at about £3,500 per person,
and that’s what each of us should receive in a
fair and equal system. Unbelievably, not ev-
eryone gets access to that though. The man
who works hard every day to pay his way in
life won’t see a penny, but the man who sits
on his sofa all day long watching daytime
TV will get some few pennies more than his
fair share.
Have we become a society of entitlement?
It seems we have begun to believe we should
all have access to the same things, the same
quality of life, no matter what we do to ben-
efit society and our country. In the past, the
reward for working hard was being able to
have the luxuries in life – owning your own
house, your own car, going on holiday and
buying the latest technologies. But now it
seems it has almost become a human right
to have these things. In the past, any spare
money that didn’t need spending on the bare
necessities would be saved, so when some-
thing out of the ordinary was required or
when times were tough, you would be able
to make ends meet. Those who sit around
on benefits don’t have to save, don’t have to
think about the future; benefits become pure
disposable income. It’s no wonder that some
Mr Poppadom
A land of opportunity, “where people can think and act
and worship any way they want”
Fight for Freedom!
20
There is no fair in Welfare
Indeed, the world would be a happier place with no welfare whatsoever: a jungle in
which those who deserve it would rule. Punk-rockers against the Welfare State
Letter from an Editor
In a brilliant piece of journalism, this summer, BBC
economics editor and Newsnight correspondent
Paul Mason traveled from Oklahoma to California,
retracing the footsteps of the fictional Joad family
in Steinbeck’s epic The Grapes of Wrath. The state
of the US economy may not have hit the lows of
the Great Depression, but in this modern-day jour-
ney there were enough parallels to Steinbeck’s
story of the plight of migrant workers to prompt
serious concerns over where the country’s econ-
omy is heading.
As well as being a cornerstone of American Lit-
erature Steinbeck’s novel is a go-to text during
times of economic recession. After the economic
boom of the 1980s came ‘Black Monday’, October
1987. The Dow Jones Industreal Average plum-
meted by 22.6% and, while the stock market re-
covered quickly, the crash triggered a savings and
loans crisis in the US that was to last in to the next
decade. Commentators turned to Grapes, and in
an astonishing piece of comedy and social narra-
tion, Fox broadcast a Simpsons episode titled The
Crepes of Wrath.
The story follows Bart, who, after a pulling a
prank in school, is signed on to a cultural exchange
program as a punishment. He is sent to France, to
the dilapidated “Château Maison”, where under
the watchful eyes of two crooks he is forced to
take over the back-breaking duties of Maurice the
donkey. At the same time an exchange student
from Albania arrives in the Simpsons household.
Adil is the perfect houseguest, engaging in conver-
sation with Lisa over politics, praising Homer, and
offering Marge help with the dishes – “Mrs. Simp-
son, you have been oppressed enough today”.
In drawing current parallels with Grapes and the
Great Depression Paul Mason framed the serious-
ness of the problems faced by western economies.
The Occupy movement that has been sweeping
through the financial centres of the western world
presents itself as a yet another symptom of ail-
ments in our culture. Following the suggestion of
Matt Groening et al. we may now look for a cultural
exchange.
The question over the state of capitalism is being
visited with increasing frequency in op-eds. Now,
in this 1500th issue of Felix, and in the mischie-
vous, propagandist, spirit of the 5th of November,
we don our Anonymous masks, and present you
the largest dichotomy of opinions on capitalism
we could think of. Drawing on quotations lifted di-
rectly from Crepes we present discussions on both
Occupy, and a subject that never fails to inspire
heated debate – that of the welfare state. Enjoy.
– A Business Editor
BUSINE$$

