FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 21
Give me Liberty, or give
me Death!
When the US democracy was in its teens, a french-
man, Alexis de Tocqueville (1805-1859) visited
the country. He had been commissioned by the
July Monarchy to examine the prisons in the USA,
but his real intentions were to study american so-
ciety as an example of freedom, equality and de-
mocracy. He published his conclusions in one of
the most brilliant essays ever written: “Democracy
in America”.
Coming from an aristocratic and conservative
background, Tocqueville’s family had suffered dur-
ing the French Revolution, but rather than persist
in his feudal attitudes as many of his fellow noble-
men had done, Alexis had acknowledged the fad-
ing luck of aristocracy. In his magnum opus, Toc-
queville argues that the democratisation of society
was an inevitable process that had been going on
for the last 700 years. However melancholic, he
embraced the consequences of such a process,
and took the USA as a case study of how democ-
racy can work.
One of the features that struck him most was
that of freedom and equality in America. Indeed,
he devotes most of his book to explain and anal-
yse the balance that exists between liberty and
equality; between individuality and community.
Isaiah Berlin (1909-1997) quite clearly explained
this fact: equality and liberty are opposed ideals.
The utopia in which both come true at the same
time is an intellectual fallacy. For liberty is the un-
impeded fulfilment of our true nature, and each of
us being different in our abilities and aptitudes, it
follows that upon letting us free some will prevail
over others: the strong will overcome the weak;
the cunning over idiots. But if equality is to be en-
forced, then our liberty will be constrained to en-
sure no one prevails.
Tocqueville acknowledged this conflict. He saw
that equality “impels the weak to want to bring
the strong down to their level, and reduces men to
preferring equality in servitude to inequality in free-
dom.” These weaklings would lack of any incentive
to progress, though. Tocqueville quite clearly saw
that inequality was the incentive for the poor to
become rich, and that full equality would lead to a
Roman decadence and stagnation.
Indeed, the so-called equality that was practiced
in the socialist countries during the 20th Century
shows that individuals with no freedom to follow
their whims, will simply become more and more re-
liant on what the state can provide, and less so on
their own abilities. In no time, a dormant society
will appear, one in which “it becomes difficult for
citizens to defend their independence against the
aggressions of power.” Equality leads to tyranny.
Bernhardt Kreuzweg-Burgheim
Alexis de Tocqueville (1805-1859). What a lad!
DISCLAIMER: All opinions appearing in this
issue are ficticious. Any resemblance to real
opinions, living or dead, is purely coinciden-
tal.
terest of the media in its coverage has led the
sector towards criticism of the movement. Un-
able to report progress against a litany of such
abstract demands as “Not to be shoehorned into
a convinient narrative by defining ourselves”
and “[To gain] a cultural foothold and evolve
into something much bigger”, they disparage
the Occupy movement’s lack of definition, in-
quiring as to the seeming lack of direction or
agenda, and questioning the future of the 99 per
cent if they refuse to define themselves more
traditionally. Similarly to Baez, they call for a
figurehead and for concrete demands.
Such sentiments are echoed in Wall St. and the
City where this lack of direction is understood
as representative of an ill-informed community.
“Financial services are one of the last things we
do in this country and [we] do it well. Let’s em-
brace it,” says one Wall St. money-manager to
the NYTimes. This money-man complains too
of a lack of comprehension among congress. Of
Senator Charles E. Schumer he states, “They
need to understand who their constituency is,”
referring to the power of funding in influencing
political campaigns.
Though these protests are directed at bankers,
they represent a wider discontent and a grow-
ing distrust in politicians and the economy. The
links between money and policy, as Schumer
was reminded, may be one of the reasons the
Occupiers are unwilling to push paper through
the houses of parliament and congress. Whether
or not this movement can survice without fol-
lowing a more classical, more well-defined path
remains to be seen. First, it will have to survive
the cold. Seizing the bout of bad weather as an
opportunity to prove his dedication to the cause,
Eric, an unemployed carpenter, offers a hand:
“I’ve been going around tents today trying to
weatherise them,” he says, abstractly.
This weekend Manhattan saw the earliest snow-
fall since the American Civil War. It fell on the
Jack-o’-lanterns left outside for Halloween,
over the tents in Zuccotti Park, and, too, on the
falling faces of the Occupy Wall Street protes-
tors. But the snow in New York, and falling tem-
peratures elsewhere, are not the only threats the
movement faces.
Footage taken with thermal imaging cam-
eras of the camp outside St. Paul’s has shown
a number of unoccupied tents, and there are
stories, not least from the protesters themselves,
of abandonment. Robin Smith, a one-time
Conservative counsillor, now part-time Occu-
pier, explained to the Mail “There are lots of
middle-class people turning up and helping but
they have to go back home ... they’ve got jobs
and a family to keep. I go home every two or
three nights to get cleaned up and then return
to my tent.” Over the pond Chris Goldsten, Oc-
cipier of Wall St., told Time Magazine how bad
weather sends him back to his New Jersey home
at nights. “I occupied a puddle,” he said.
While protestors have refuted claims that only
one in 10 tents are in use, calling on reports from
external experts that question the accuracy of
the technology, such stories, regardless of their
accuracy, only enhance the widespread percep-
tion of a lack of seriousness among Occupiers.
Behind closed doors bankers dismiss the
protesters. “It’s not a middle-class uprising,”
the NYTimes quotes one banker, “It’s fringe
groups. It’s people who have the time to do
this”. It is the nature of popular movements to
begin at the fringes before taking hold of popu-
lar support, but even vocal supporters of past so-
cial movements are on the fence with this one.
In an interview with The Republican’s Kevin
O’Hare, Joan Baez, folk singer and participant
in the civil and human rights movements, as
well as the anti-Vietnam war protests, states
“I’ll be convinced when it develops a real direc-
tion ... So far it’s hard to tell”.
As Occupy stretches on the increasing disin-
Ninochka Vodanoj
Temperatures plummet in Zuccotti park, and a full-time Occupier warms his hands
while pondering which of the empty tents to inhabit for the night
“Quand je sens que ma foi dans les forces suprêmes faib-
lit, je pense toujours au miracle de l’anti-freeze”
You there, make way for
liberty!
BUSINE$$

