FELIX
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
When German foreign minister Guido Wester-
welle accused recipients of welfare of living in
‘late roman decadence’ and expecting to gain
‘effortless prosperity’ in February, it caused
quite a stir in the German media.
Westerwelle, then head of the German Free
Democrat Party (FDP), faced criticism from
politicians all across the political spectrum. The
popularity of the man who had won his party
a record breaking 15% of votes in the previ-
ous general election went into a rapid decline.
Ultimately, Westerwelle’s attack on the Ger-
man welfare state cost him the leadership of his
party when he was replaced by Philipp Roesler
in May.
Traditionally, the FDP has always been the
strongest proponent of the free market in the
German political spectrum and Westerwelle,
an experienced opposition leader of his party,
has always enjoyed provoking his political op-
ponents with controversial statements. With the
popularity of his party constantly falling ever
since it formed a coalition government with
Angela Merkel’s CDU, Westerwelle’s com-
ments could just be dismissed as a desperate
attempt to regain popularity with his (mainly
upper-class) voters.
However, while Westerwelle is one of the
few politicians in Europe to express his opin-
ions on state-sponsored welfare programs in
such a radical manner, he is not alone with his
ideas. Hidden behind his statements is the be-
lief, shared by many radical free market pro-
ponents, that ultimately, poor people deserve to
be poor.
The intellectual foundation of the free mar-
ket ideology can be derived from an economic
principle called the ‘efficient-market hypoth-
esis’. Named the ‘Chicago school of thought’
after the University of its origin in the 1960’s it
asserts that stocks are always priced right and
that markets behave fundamentally rational.
Traditionally, the efficient-market hypothesis
exists in a number of different strengths, with
proponents of the strongest formulation believ-
ing that any government intervention is funda-
mentally harmful to the economy and that the
free, unregulated market is perfect in creating
wealth.
In this strong formulation, everything from
stock prizes to the worth of labor is priced
perfectly and neither recessions nor unemploy-
ment exist. If you are unemployed, then, ac-
cording to radical free market proponents, it is
because you choose to be unemployed. Since
the economy is a perfect interplay between
Dimitri Raphaelovich
supply and demand, you being poor means that
you are less willing and less able than someone
earning more money than you. Therefore, you
deserve to earn less.
From this ideological point of view, Wester-
welle’s attack on the German welfare state only
seems rational. Why should the majority of the
country provide for a minority that is seemingly
less willing to work than the majority? In a free
market society, where everyone has the same
opportunities of becoming rich, why should
those who made use of their opportunities pay
for those who did not?
To see the flaws in this line of thought, one
has to look at a few statistics. In general, income
is correlated to the level of education a person
has. In the UK, 20% of people from the poorest
backgrounds go to university, compared to 57%
from the richest. However, at Oxford, 89% of
students are from an upper or middle class
background. For people like David Cameron,
an Oxbridge education is a birthright.
In Germany in 2009, the chances of you go-
ing to university were 73% if your parents had
a university degree themselves and 23% if they
were from the working class. Furthermore,
only 0.5% of leading positions in major Ger-
man companies are held by people coming
from a working class background. Even work-
ing class children beating the odds stacked
against them to be awarded a PhD earn signifi-
cantly less on average than equally qualified
people from richer backgrounds.
The evidence suggests then, that in a modern
capitalist society, the class system is still very
much in existence. It also suggests that the no-
tion that the amount of money people earn is
correlated to their abilities and their willingness
to work hard is fundamentally flawed. On aver-
age, a person in Germany with earnings in the
highest income tax class is rich because he or
she was born into the right social class. In this
light, the self-righteousness with which some
free market proponents promote their ideology
of a perfect market seems somewhat ill-placed.
It seems to be the case that, contrary to the
premise of proponents of the free market, hard
work and determination are not likely to be re-
warded in a capitalist system if you come from
a poor background. Thus, government inter-
vention is needed to reduce social injustice and
change the odds of succeeding in life for chil-
dren from poorer backgrounds.
Admittedly, the welfare state brings its own
number of problems into the equation. There
is a legitimate debate about how much benefits
can be given to the unemployed without tak-
ing away the incentive to work. However, the
next time people like Westerwelle launch an at-
tack on the welfare state, one can but hope they
pause for a second and ask themselves how
much of their current social standing is due to
their own achievements and how much is due
to them being lucky enough to be born into the
right family.
Letter from an Editor
Dear Comrades,
Since none of you are going to read this letter, I
have taken the liberty of writing the following list,
that enshrines those words that, for some reason
or another, I find especially amusing or interesting
and therefore call, with your permission, my favou-
rite English words:
Preposterous, absurd, ridiculous – that’s a nice
lexical loop; antediluvian, rethoric, hoary and im-
memorial; behemoth, apocalypsis, leviathan; irrev-
erent, acatalectic, discourse; perfidious, villain,
pussillanimity; dialectic, peripatetic, obnoxious;
ghastly, gargantuan; lethargy, sardonic, libertari-
an; spectre, abyss, culpability; lugubrious, doleful,
funereal – that’s another lexical loop, and I shall
write something more here as I have just realised
I may have problems to fill the whole column with
words without repeating one or two or leaving a
blank space at the bottom; for my good taste can
be eclipsed by my bad memory.
Galore, abundance, fellowship, girdle; abate-
ment, abbe, cessation; impede, thwart, delve,
dwell; forestall, oblivion, obviate, abet, specula-
tive; flee, forestay, mainmast, yawl, abaft; nauti-
cal, shaft, aft, astern; bashful, disinclined, timid;
tranquility, intricate, labyrinth; dominion, suprema-
cy, sway; utter, distinct, vacuum; hearken, herald,
nemesis; requital, papism, romance; amendment,
charter, odd; extravagant, eccentric, heliocen-
tric, anthropocentric, lattice; gathering, reactor,
substance; ingrain, yeoman, seafare; landlubber,
timorous, whim, herein, hereafter, wherein, where-
upon; rustling, rust, rotten; hearsay, clamor, tu-
mult, mob.
And that completes the list! But alas, I still have
some space to fill – something, I must say, I al-
ready predicted above: that my list is short and
the column long. Hence, I will conclude with what
Dr Johnson once said:
“As it is necessary not to invite robbery by supine-
ness, so it is our duty not to suppress tenderness
by suspicion; it is better to suffer wrong than to
do it, and happier to be sometimes cheated than
not to trust.”
– A Business Editor
“The machinery of capitalism is oiled with the blood of
the workers”
Comrades, unite!
22
Dependence is not decadence
M&M’s Red is actually a soviet double agent, who intends to destroy capitalism from
within
BUSINESS
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey

