FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 23
BUSINESS
Dear middle class voter, my words
are addressed to you, dear friends:
Two hundred and thirty-five years
ago, when our fellow Englishman
Adam Smith published his book titled
“The Wealth of Nations”, he prom-
ised that we would be far better off
living in a capitalist economy than
any of the alternatives.
Capitalism promised that every
family would be able to afford the
home they lived in, that every fam-
ily would have a car, that every fam-
ily would be able to enjoy eating out
when they wanted to, that every fam-
ily would be able to send their chil-
dren to daycare and to early education
centres, to school and to the univer-
sity. In short, everyone who worked
hard, who made enough sacrifices
would be enjoying a better and happy
life!
But look around! What is our current
state now? Few of us can afford to
buy a house, the City Council asks us
to travel on Barclays bicycles instead
of cars, what we will cook tonight de-
pends on what item got discounted at
Sainsbury’s or Tesco today, while the
government is scrapping the child-
care tax credit accusing we are too
rich, while they allow universities to
charge “as much as they need” for our
children’s higher education!
So, what went wrong? Aren’t we still
taxed for the National Health Service
as before, if not more? Aren’t we still
paying tax for the justice and police
corps as before? Aren’t we paying
the council tax? Aren’t we continu-
ously told that our society is richer
and more prosperous than it was in
the 1960s? Then, how come all of the
welfare system, all we have fought so
hard for, be questioned today? How
can the healthcare system not be
sustainable anymore, when it was in
the 1950s? Why is Higher Education
more expensive than ever?
Comrades, we have been cheated!
Still nowadays, every worker in this
country pays 40-50% of his income
to the government. And if that is not
enough, it must be because someone
else has managed to avoid paying
what he should. Indeed, ever since
the reaganomics kicked in during the
early 1980s, banks, companies and
the rich have seen how their tax bills
decreased as their incomes skyrock-
eted. They told us that by doing that,
everyone would profit. But where is
that profit, if we live no better than
our parents, if we see all they fought
for be destroyed or menaced?
Thus, why shouldn’t the bankers in
London, who are but leeches that
build their wealth simply by moving
money around, be taxed more? Why
shouldn’t the bankers, who caused the
global financial meltdown in 2008,
rescued by taxpayer money, and pay-
ing out huge bonus, be taxed more?
Furthermore, when health care indus-
tries make a mistake, they apologise!
When engineering industry causes
trouble, they apologise! When con-
struction industry causes an accident,
they apologize! Then, how come the
financial industry, which caused the
global financial meltdown and, thus,
many of our sufferings, do not even
apologise for their reckless behav-
iour?
And instead, they ask for help from
the central bank, for the government
to bail them out, for the taxpayers
who they despise to pay for their
own stupidity. They claimed that if
we didn’t help them, the Great De-
pression would happen again; those
words came from the same ones not
so long ago claimed economic cycles
had disappeared! And us, poor idiots,
just agreed to help them. And so we
have to face huge inflation as a con-
sequence of our help, and while our
money becomes less worthy as time
passed by, they still maintain their
bonuses and outrageous earnings as if
nothing had happened!
Why, my middle class friends, do we
have to stand for such arrogance, such
villainy, such depravation? How can
we defend any longer a country where
1% of the population controls 99% of
the wealth? Why do our own lead-
ers kneel down in front of the City?
Something is rotten! Something is
wrong! That is why, my dear friends,
I urge you to stand up, say no, and
go and occupy Wall Street, go and oc-
cupy St Paul’s Cathedral, go and oc-
cupy the Washington monument! Go
and occupy and protest, before each
and every one of us disappears one
by one.
Every man a king!
“How can you defend a country where 5% of the people control 95% of the wealth?”
Comrade Juggernutx
A random comrade with a Guy Fawkes mask (ironically, Guy Fawkes was
a Catholic reactionary), occupying a City Hall somewhere
This guy has obviously been silenced by a 1 dollar bill. Quite a bit cheap, really. The author of these lines
wouldn’t have sold himself for less than $1 million or, on second thoughts, for less than $1 mole
Timeline
Occupy Wall Street
• 15 December 2010 - present. The Arab Spring. A series
of revolutions, demonstrations and protests in the arab
world motivated by the corruption and economic decline
of their countries.
• 15 May, 2011. The 15-M Spanish Movement. Motivated
by the devastating economic crisis and the indiference of
its politicians, the spanish people celebrate massive and
peaceful demonstrations, occupying Puerta del Sol square
in central Madrid for weeks.
• 17 September, 2011. Occupy Wall Street begins. Social in-
equality, corporate greed, politic collusion, and corruption
trigger this ongoing movement, occupying the Zuccoti park
near the seat of the New York Stock Exchange –Wall Street.
• 15 October, 2011. Occupy London. The Occupy Wall
Street movement spreads worldwide. In London, protesters
camp in St Paul’s Square, next to the seat of the London
Stock Exchange.
• 26 October, 2011. The Bishop of London and the City of
London Corporation collude to expell the protesters. How-
ever, members of the Church of England, including the
Dean of St Paul, resign in protest against such a move,
and the Bishop steps back.

