FELIX
24
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMber 2011
I
had a health scare the other day.
In an otherwise innocuous tu-
torial about job applications, a
renowned doctor casually joked
that we shouldn’t spend too long
on the toilet for fear of haemorrhoids.
Everyone laughed. I froze.
Woah woah woah, hang on a sec (I
said in my head) – has this been veri-
fied? As in, by scientists and stuff?
Why had no one warned me?
Why had no one seen the huge pile
of reading material tucked away next
to the bath and thought: ‘Egad! This is
surely a man whose overly dedicated
toilet efforts put him at risk of bum-
based discomfort’? And now I’m wor-
rying: Is it too late?
I’ve always read on the toilet and,
as articles aren’t always short, I don’t
always make it out quickly. But to me,
going to the loo without reading mate-
rial is like brushing my teeth without
paste. Whilst staying in Dundee’s Uni-
versity halls for a stint, I would sneak-
ily stuff The Times down the leg of my
baggy joggers when strolling down
the corridor to the W.C. I doubt people
would have minded all that much, but
actually getting seen taking the offend-
ing (and soon to be offensive) item
is like that dreaded silence when two
people are in adjacent lavatories and
try to quietly attend to nature whilst
willing their splashes to sound casual
and un-awkward. You both know that
you know, but don’t want to actually
publicly acknowledge it.
But in the comfort of my flat I can
pile away, stacking magazines and
newspapers in my lavatorial library.
And you’d be surprised at how many
houses I’ve been to that do the same.
I’ve read all sorts, from Cosmopolitan
to Muscle and Fitness. I once read Of
Mice and Men whilst on the porcelain
throne. It was good.
But more than any other type of
publication, I have re-read, pored over
and often skimmed through my tow-
ering collection of magazines about
video games. Now, before you drop
the newspaper in disgust - suddenly
feeling that you can’t possibly relate
to someone so cool he erects pillars
of gaming literature in his room – first
look at my picture up there and let it
dawn upon you: it’s difficult to relate
to someone as attractive as me anyway.
The point is that I’ve almost certainly
read more about gaming than I’ve actu-
ally played. It’s partly because I have
no choice now: I have to keep up to
speed on my specialist topic in case I
ever get on to Mastermind.
But more than that, reading games
magazines is a personal pleasure.
Like a monthly concert of great bands
playing new renditions of songs you
love. Or for me, a 12-times-a-year fix
of great writers finding new ways to
pin-down with words the adventures
played through my fingers.
It’s why I used to eagerly anticipate
every new issue of N64 magazine, and
was part-raised on its diet of oddball
humour and passionate writing. Now I
play much less but still look forward
to the new issue of Edge magazine (for
the discerning gamer), and throughout
last week I excitedly told several unin-
terested people why it was so amazing
that the new Zelda game got given a
fabled Edge [10].
They didn’t understand, really. And
probably wouldn’t understand why I
supplemented my childhood explora-
tions around Birmingham with adven-
tures in Hyrule to save a pixelated prin-
cess. They wouldn’t really understand
why every time a new Zelda game
came out I’d fish out old issues of N64,
NGC and Edge magazine to re-read
their pieces on old Zelda games, to re-
member through print what I’d forgot-
ten in memory.
And now? My mental bank bursting
at the seams with magazine-sentences,
tethered to my experience as much as
any game characters or stories. Like
when Edge gave the stunning Half-Life
2 [10], saying that its developer Valve
had ‘hit the high note no other devel-
oper could reach’.
I’ve read that sentence many times
in the loo, because magazines aren’t
like web-pages. They don’t disap-
pear with a click or float pristine on a
screen. They lose their crispness, and
become well-thumbed. They crinkle,
crease and crumple. But importantly
they remain, piled up with pride at be-
ing complete and self-contained. They
aren’t tied to the infinity of clickable
choices on the internet, but lay out their
choice wares on their pages for you to
peruse and dip into; tempting you with
articles you’d never bother clicking
on whilst browsing the internet. But
unlike newspapers (bar the illustrious
Felix of course) they are not one-day-
Avoid haemorrhoids... and
make magazines
Omar Hafeez-Bore
One of the many rejected proposals
for Imperial College’s new motto
Five months on from the Summer Ball, the
wounds of such a financial loss are still
fresh to see. Despite an official ‘debrief’
from Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Michael Foster taking place at Monday’s
Union Council meeting, areas of ambiguity
still remain as to the exact loss that the Ball
made, and how such a loss may be avoided
in the future. It is for these reasons that
Felix supports an independent inquiry into
the Summer Ball, as passed by Council on
Monday.
The passed proposal to launch such an
inquiry made mention of the belief that
‘Felix should always strive to provide ac-
curate information’, alongside the claim
that Felix reported incorrect information.
Felix would like to clarify that, throughout
its reporting of the Summer Ball over the
summer months, we did indeed strive to
provide students with the correct informa-
tion, and used information entirely provided
by the Union which has since transpired to
be incorrect. It has also recently come to
light that the full financial report detailing
the losses has still not been presented to
either the Union President or the Union’s
Trustee Board.
If the Union itself has not made available
the full figures to its own Trustee Board (the
governing body and most powerful commit-
tee of Imperial College Union) even after a
‘debrief’, then an independent inquiry must
indeed be welcomed despite any protesta-
tions that Union officers may have. In the
five months since the event itself, surely
there must have been official figures pro-
duced, especially in the face of such a loss?
It is not enough to simply state that an
attendance of three times as many people
was ‘expected’, nor that a resulting over
exaggerated budget was the reason behind
a (as yet undetermined) loss. Opinions are
valuable, but when it comes to a situation
dealing in financial viability, facts and fig-
ures are just as, if not more, important.
It must be in the best interest of everybody
concerned to see more concrete figures in
order to determine what went wrong, from
those in charge of organising next year’s
Summer Ball (if it is indeed to be continued
in its current form) to the students them-
selves. The Union must be open to full and
frank criticism from the student body when
it makes mistakes, especially mistakes in
the region of £100,000. If an independent
inquiry is what it takes to achieve this, then
Felix fully reiterates its support for such a
course of action.
stands of news and jokes, but a spine-
bound, page-wrapped gift of writing to
be opened again and again.
And opened again is exactly what I
did a few weeks ago to Imperial Col-
lege’s late games magazine Another
Castle, after excavating it at random
from a paper pile in my bathroom.
And thanks to that random inspi-
rational blast from the past I’m now
working with Felix Games to make
a new games magazine this year, one
beautifully designed and packed with
interesting, funny contributions by
Imperial College’s game-playing com-
munity, whether you’re a casual fan
of Snake or a hardcore CoD veteran. I
want it to be a magazine that hits the
high notes no commercial publication
could reach.
But most of all, I want to make a
magazine worth getting haemorrhoids
for.
Get in touch to find out more!
This is a public service announcement to all
gamers/writers/people at Imperial.
We are looking for budding writers!
Your idea can be one-sentence or a whole feature.
Wait, that’s not all, we’re also looking for artists
and designers. If you’re willing to help us direct,
produce, research (play games), collate and design
the magazine then we want you.
Email: omar.hafeez-bore08@imperial.ac.uk
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Got
something
to say, but
shouting your
opinions at
strangers in
the library is
getting you
weird looks?
Then go to:
felixonline.
co.uk
FELIX
Do we need an
independent enquiry?

