FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 25
COMMENT
I know you heard it on the grapevine, but we should tell you here.
The views expressed are the opinions of the authors, not Felix.
”
I
’ve started eating porridge. I
waited and waited for the weath-
er to get colder, but at some point
it becomes obvious that I’m go-
ing to lose the staring contest
with BBC Weather and I just break
out the oats and jam. All year, I’m just
waiting for winter to come around. So
now I’m eating porridge every morning,
I’ve committed to that for the next few
months.
Now, I want you to feel at ease with
your choice of breakfast treat. Despite
the fact that I’m fairly certain there is
no finer way to kick off a miserable day
of trudging through South Kensington
than a warm bowl of gloopy oats, I don’t
want to preach about it. You want to
continue eating Shreddies? That is ab-
solutely fine with me. Similarly, I don’t
feel like I’m missing out. Yes, there are
other cereals available. More pressing-
ly, there are those that opt not to have
cereals at all. But that’s alright, because
I’ve made a choice for personal reasons,
and it’s the right one for me. I’m Angry
Geek, and I start my November morn-
ings with porridge.
If we were to, say, replace porridge
with ‘atheism’ (bear with me here) and
cereals with religion (I have no idea
what muffins/crumpets represent here,
you can continue the analogy as you
Rhys Davies
Angry Geek
The Portrait of the Cook as a Young Man
Religious tolerance is oatso simple
wish) we have an entirely different dis-
cussion. I have decided not to believe in
any god or gods, and I’m comfortable
with that decision. Admittedly, there are
some mornings when my spiritual por-
ridge has too little milk in and it goes
all stodgy, but I manage to push on and
stay true to my decision without trying
to justify it to every motherfucker who
braves the cereal aisle in Sainsbury’s.
Others seem less capable of doing this.
I found myself last week in an extraor-
dinarily overlong conversation with
several staunch atheists about whether
or not it made sense to choose one re-
ligion over any other. They delighted
in laughing at Christians in general for
this reason (“Why not Judaism? Why
not Islam?”), and when I suggested that
perhaps many people felt modern-day
religions all expressed the same basic
truths, this was entirely unacceptable.
Why? Fuck knows. Everyone involved
in the conversation had porridge for
breakfast... I mean, was an atheist.
Whatever. Maybe both – I never en-
quired as to their morning preferences.
We were all atheists, yet for some
reason we had to debate this meaning-
less detail of an alternative lifestyle,
as if the mere existence of Christians
in our immediate vicinity represented
some kind of flaw in our own reasoning.
L
ooking back with the aged
eyes of a fourth year, I can
reflect on my experiences
here and divise a pattern,
common to all who pass
through these halls. As a child, food
was just food. Food was also delicious.
In university, food is still delicious but
it is suddenly so much more compli-
cated. For the first time in my life, I
am responsible for my own sustenance.
With a few mistakes made along the
way, I am somehow still alive. There
seem to be several distinct stages that
a student will pass through during their
time here.
The first stage involves a strong af-
finity with tin cans. The fresher student,
unlearned in the ways of the kitchen,
subsists on a diet of things that he or
she can liberate from their tinned pris-
ons. It has its analogies with the dawn
of civilisation, when early man made
proficient tools. Such tools obviously
included the can-opener. This proto-
stage of culinary evolution lasts gener-
ally for a term, maybe less, and ends
violently with the realisation that the
bargain curry in a can was not actually
fit for human consumption.
This is followed by the second stage,
where outrage at chowing down on
Shergar drives the student to learn to
cook. Nothing too complicated at first
but with experience comes imagina-
tion. The tenets of this stage are that the
food is simple, filling, and definitely
came from an identifiable animal. Pas-
tas and curries prevail in this phase.
The third stage is a natural progres-
sion of the second. It will start with the
cheeky addition of herbs and spices to
an otherwise-pedestrian Bolognese,
and will grow into three-course meals
cooked from scratch. Cookery pro-
grammes and cookbooks, presents from
well-meaning and concerned relatives
which, untouched until now, are de-
voured with enthusiasm. This stage is
a culinary renaissance for the student,
as ancient wisdom is rediscovered and
adapted for the modern table.
This comes to an abrupt, explosive
end. The palate may cry for Waitrose’s
finest virgin olive oil and saffron, but
the wallet and the body cry for rest. Ex-
haustive in time and money, this stage
collapses under the strain of its own
excess. Replaced by a stage epitomised
by food requiring a minimal amount of
effort, time and money. This is age of
the take-away and vegging out in front
of season box-sets of Grey’s Anatomy
and The Wire. This stage teaches the
student valuable lessons about making
food last longer (often several days)
and the sagacity of vouchers and cou-
pons, and gives them greater apprecia-
tion for distant cultures. Mainly Italy
and China.
The death knell of this stage is sound-
ed when the student spends a little too
long looking in the mirror, and does
not like what they find there. A reju-
venation occurs, passion rekindles,
interest in the kitchen blossoms again.
Wise from the lessons of the previous
stages, the student is enlightened. Ev-
erything in moderation. There is a time
for beans on toast and a time for Mo-
roccan lamb tagine followed by rasp-
berry compote. There is a time for a
hearty bowl of spaghetti and time for a
Dominos thick crust special. Usually on
Tuesdays. Now, the student has become
the master of the kitchen, Lord over his
domain. Finally prepared, perhaps, for
Why is Crunchy Nut still on the shelves
if porridge is so obviously right? What
is the purpose of marmite in this period
of rolled oats and preserved fruit? For
some reason these weren’t just idle top-
ics of discussion, but fierce points of
contention.
It was a couple of weeks ago in Felix
that Sam Horti mulled over the question
of an afterlife. Surely in hell we would
feel no pain, he mused. How would we
experience pleasure in heaven without
nerve endings and a hypothalmus? Ho
ho ho.
The only answer I can offer is that I
don’t know. I don’t know how much
milk you should put on your Weetabix to
avoid complete loss of structural integ-
rity. Maybe hell is, as I’m often told by
religious friends, an expression of being
absent from God. An infinite stretch of
the eventual life beyond college walls.
Like a fine wine: mature.
This history is by no means com-
plete. I have neglected the lunchtime
experiments with various college cafes,
the 3am craving for Mars bars and the
hypnotic attraction of the fridge light,
or the expansion of the role of cereal
to all three meals of the day, with or
without milk. Though you will find it in
no prospectus, this culinary education,
a gastronomical evolution, the portrait
of a cook as a young man, is one of the
finest lessons you will ever learn at uni-
versity.
If people start
trying to pour
cornflakes into my
bowl, I might be
urged into action.
“
If peop
If peop
trying t
trying t
”
There is a time for
beans on toast
and a time for
Moroccan lamb
tagine followed by
raspberry compote.
“
There is
There is
beans o
beans o
time where you are devoid of the hope
of a saviour. Maybe you just put the
milk on in little bursts and wait for it to
be soaked up before adding more.
I don’t know. But it means nothing to
me anyway, because I am having por-
ridge for breakfast tomorrow, and will
continue to do so. If people start try-
ing to pour cornflakes into my bowl, I
might be urged into action. But in the
meantime I think, as porridge eaters, we
promote our preference for warm, tasty
breakfasts in a far more responsible and
reasonable way by allowing other cereal
choices to coexist alongside our own.
Next week - why same-sex marriages
are a human right, explained through
comparison with chocolate bars. Feel-
ing hungry? Email me with your culi-
nary preferences: anangrygeek@gmail.
com.
Tastes just like salvation. Well, that, and sugar
Want to tell us about your own
culinary adventures? No? Well,
send us something anyway. Go
on, it can be anything you like.
You know you want to.
Email us at:
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

