COMMENT
FELIX Friday 04 NOVEMber 2011 27
I
n 2006, with the publication of
Richard Dawkins’ “The God De-
lusion”, modern atheism found
a new vigour. The book has sold
over 2 million copies worldwide
and is highly regarded by many as being a
powerful rational argument against belief
in God. Dawkins, described by many as
being “evangelistic” or even “militant”,
has come to be seen as one of the leaders
of “New Atheism” and regards himself as
being a patron of intelligent thought, one
who follows the evidence to the conclu-
sion that God does not exist.
Interestingly, for someone who argues
so passionately for the position of ratio-
nality and evidence in belief, “The God
Delusion” only contains one chapter on
the evidence opposing Dawkins’ athe-
istic belief. He quickly dismisses any
rationality behind belief in God with his
“Ultimate Boeing 747” argument (which
curiously only claims to refute one of the
arguments for the existence of God listed
in his previous chapters). Dawkins titled
this chapter: “Why there almost certainly
isn’t a God”, a very assertive title and one
that he has defended before in public de-
bate with academics such as John Lennox
and Alistair McGrath.
So why does Dawkins constantly refuse
to debate American philosopher William
Lane Craig? William Lane Craig has writ-
ten over 30 books and hundreds of aca-
demic articles, he is widely viewed as one
of the most competent defenders of belief
in God and has debated many reputable
Eoghan J. Totten
Joshua Fountain
Should climate change be labelled?
There’s probably no Dawkins...
atheists including Peter Atkins, Christo-
pher Hitchens and Daniel Dennett.Yet de-
spite several invitations to debate from the
British Humanist Association as well as
Oxford and Cambridge Christian unions,
Dawkins has flatly refused, prompting the
question of why someone so dedicated to
reason and evidence would refuse an op-
portunity for debate on this important is-
sue.
In the past, Dawkins has said that he
would only debate with “at least a Bish-
op”, though interestingly he has previ-
ously debated academics, and has even
sat on a panel with Craig before. Another
excuse for turning down the chance to de-
bate Craig is that Dawkins doesn’t debate
Creationists, except that Professor Craig
is not a Creationist and has never advocat-
ed Creationism. More recently, Dawkins
has suggested that his refusal to debate is
due to Craig’s defence of the Old Testa-
ment (which begs the question of whether
Dawkins will only debate those he agrees
with).
All this has lead Dr. Daniel Came, an
atheist philosopher at Oxford University,
to write a letter to Professor Dawkins say-
ing: “The absence of a debate with the
foremost apologist for Christian theism is
a glaring omission on your CV and is of
course apt to be interpreted as cowardice
on your part.” Craig is one of the many
philosophers to have written critiques of
“The God Delusion” and an especially
powerful rebuttal to the “Ultimate boeing
747” argument (one which Dawkins has
I
read over my last article and it
seemed a bit too esoteric… and
we’re all scientists after all, so I’ll
try and keep to the facts this time.
There is a multitude of stigma
attached to climate change. Some say
we’re still on a positive temperature
trend in the wake of an Ice Age ten mil-
lennia ago, others say it would prove
fruitless to tackle a problem of such a
large order and others, moreover, be-
lieve the human race is the sole source
of the problem and that a time will come
when the Pennines are swept away by a
massive tsunami…
I, for one, believe it to be derived
from a plethora of factors, including
many listed above. This is the cusp of
the matter: by recognising it as an all-
consuming phenomenon we negate the
fact that the only way to tackle climate
change is through meeting the plural-
ity of minutiae that make up the bigger
picture. The sceptics are right: it is too
big to solve alone. Our only viable op-
tion is to delve deeper into our vocations
and focus on our own chosen aspects of
the crisis. This way, we waste less time
on conversation and negotiation about
what should be done and instead invest
our thought in righteous and thorough
action.
It would thus seem from the above
that we should rid climate change of its
label. It should be integrated into every-
thing we do, where it no longer becomes
a question of a rat-race to save the planet
but an ethical task to ensure righteous
action, sustainability and the expansion
of scientific boundaries. This dawned
on me after conversing with a German
friend in the kitchen, who succinctly
stated, “Look around you. The central
heating’s on, yet the windows are open.
People will not consider these things
until they are gone and, in some cases,
irreplaceable.”
Face facts. If the West cuts its emis-
sions of carbon dioxide and vastly re-
duces consumption of finite resources,
it will be cancelled by the growth of
Brazil, India, and China, who hold astro-
nomical potential for growth. They have
a right to do so. After all, many parts of
the West have had 150 years of industrial
boom. We are in no position to criticise.
Looking closer, these developing coun-
tries are doing what they must to serve
their population. We have exhausted in-
dustrialisation. We have exhausted our
instantaneous, risk-taking economic sys-
tem. Both follow future paths that lead
to a fiery end. If we integrate the two,
we might just miss the flames. Maybe a
‘Green Market’is just what the West and
especially the United Kingdom needs
(and of course Ireland ;]).
I look out my window from Evelyn
Gardens and watch the traffic… Ferrari,
Lamborghini, Mercedes AMG, Bentley.
There’s some wealth about South Kens-
ington. Contrast that with the phenom-
enal statistic that one of the sole employ-
ers in the UK (500,000) is Tesco. Quite
a lot of those 500,000 roles involve me-
yet to address).
Dawkins has been criticised by the aca-
demic community for his refusal to debate
with Dr. Craig, with many believing that
his turning down the debate is a sign that
Dawkins does not feel that he can engage
in such a debate successfully. The Oxford
CU has set up an open debate between
Craig and Dawkins in the Sheldonian
Theatre on the 25th of October, where
the opportunity was left open to Dawkins
to show up at the last minute, and when
he didn’t Craig debated an empty chair.
A parody bus campaign was set up to
advertise the ‘debate’ using the slogan:
“There’s probably no Dawkins, Now stop
worrying and enjoy October 25th at the
Sheldonian.”
As part of Craig’s UK tour he also de-
livered a lecture on Tuesday the 18th of
October. The lecture was attended by
over 250 people who listened to Craig ex-
pand on some of the arguments Dawkins
presents in “The God Delusion”, as well
as presenting more that Dawkins does
not seem to address. For anyone wish-
ing to examine the evidence (as Dawkins
presumably would encourage us all to
do) the video of Craig’s lecture is not to
be missed. It has already had over 4000
views on YouTube in the last few days;
suggesting that the question of God’s ex-
istence is still a hot topic and one that is
still very much open for debate.
nial administration for the sake of creat-
ing jobs. I find it debasing and frankly
horrific. Bring back the glory days of the
industrial towns.
Believe it or not, the foundations may
have been unintentionally laid already:
Carbon fibre Airbus wings to be made
in Flintshire, wind turbines at Harland
& Wolff, Belfast. Imagine it on a grand
scale: a biofuel plant in Plymouth, a Hy-
drogen Synthesis centre in Salford, fruit
and vegetables grown on every roof in
London, Nodding Duck tidal generators
on multiple sites on the North Sea coast.
There would be work for all, economic
growth, national pride, strong Govern-
ment, all that people look for…
Why aren’t we there yet? Two
words… stigma and indifference. In
conclusion, it’s time for change. Let’s
push towards the future, Imperial Col-
lege. In the meantime, the monotony of
routine, the parties, go on. Some of us
even wake up in Shepherd’s Bush the
following morning.
A picture paints a thousand (or 699) words...
”
Despite several
invitations to
debate ... Dawkins
has flatly refused
“
Despite
Despite
invitatio
invitatio
We should rid
climate change of
its label. It should
be integrated into
everything we do
“
We shou
We shou
climate
climate

