FELIX
28
ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
Despite evidence pointing to the contrary, the
name Ralph Fiennes is not synonymous with that
of Lord Voldemort. Fiennes, who made his name
at the Royal Shakespeare Company, is in fact a
seasoned Shakespeare actor and proves his worth
playing Prospero in Trevor Nunn’s production of
The Tempest.
In an earlier time the Duke of Milan, Prospero
is now confined to an island with his daughter Mi-
randa.Bringingtotheislandhisenemiesbymeans
of a tempest, Prospero schemes, with the help of
sprites and spirits, to give his daughter in marriage
to the King of Naples’son, whilst plotting revenge
on his usurping brother. In the end, everything is
forgiven, although perhaps not forgotten
The Tempest, comical though it may be, is also
light and ethereal and melancholic. The magical
creatures populating the play are beings whose
presence should lull the audience into a state of
wonder. Prospero’s final monologues articulate
the mind of a man whose life is perhaps not over,
but is certainly close to the beginning of its end.
With this, as well as the beauty of the text in mind,
one would think The Tempest sturdy enough to
survive almost any production. And yet, it can
barely lift its head under the drudgery and vulgar-
ity of Nunn’s production.
Music is vital to any staging of The Tempest,
driving much of the action and present in many
of the scenes. Of no recognisable style, Nunn’s
choice of music can only be described as kitsch
in the worst sense of the word. Costumes belong-
ing to human characters were simply boring; any-
one expecting any magic from the sprites was to
be sorely disappointed by their garish garments.
Even the slave-sprite Ariel, played with passion,
albeit rather squeakily, by Tom Byam Shaw, was
grounded, metaphorically speaking of course –
there was copious flying involved – by his shiny
turquoise outfit.
There was plenty of magic, swordfights and
love affairs taking place on stage, but somehow
the actors struggled to find, and maintain a pace,
crucial to the successful outcome of any play. Fi-
ennes in particular, was disappointing in the first
act; he was rarely able to relate to his co-actors
and appeared somewhat lost, for want of a better
word. His second act thus came as a pleasant sur-
prise. Perhaps borrowing from Prospero’s powers,
Fiennes delivered his monologues with a sombre
aplomb and tragic nuances, his powerful voice
rising and falling smoothly. The rest of the cast
were as good as the directing permitted. Nicholas
Lyndhurst as a very lanky Trinculo was particu-
larly hilarious in his drunken scenes with Clive
Wood, who played an equally drunk Stephano.
They provided comic relief from a boredom that
was felt too often.
The Tempest has now reached the end of a suc-
cessful run at the Theatre Royale – and one must
thank Fiennes for the lift, both on stage and off,
that he gives to this production. Although this
leaves us without the chance to watch yet another
famous actor on the West End stage, it will hope-
fully make way for something better.
The Tempest has since finished
Nothing stormy about Trevor
Nunn’s Tempest
Eva Rosenthal
Four days in and Ralph was already sick of people asking for Movember donations
“One must thank Fiennes
for the lift... that he
gives to this production”
The Poet’s Column
Time
by Pavitar Devgon
The clock sits ticking on the wall
I turn away and forget the fall
I drum a rhythm to stay the beat
But nearing soon comes the meet
I move away and light the night
And never look down from the height
For when I see, it beckons me
And leads to the land of three
Here I make a spade to dig
A key to lock, a knife well hid.
For time will come and rest a while
No longer will the tick resound
Time will stop and stay its style
Its journey never homeward
It never works; it never stops
It runs on far ahead
It sees my plight but laughs and sighs
And counts in rhymes then jumps and flies
I’m lead on further and fear grows deeper
Umasked by pain and loss
And when the light is iridescent, I know the time
has won.
I gladly concede the long race is over
And that I’m not the only one.
A warm welcome back from ARTSOC! We have the
pleasure to present you all with very special offers
of discounted musical tickets!
21st Nov Wicked £30.00
24th Nov Blood Brothers £15.00
Tickets of the shows above will be sold in the first
ARTSOC meeting.
Date: 9 November 2011 (Wednesday)
Time: 12:30pm – 1:30pm
Venue: G65 SAF Building
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new
poets. If you want to see your work ap-
pearing here, do get in touch. Addition-
ally, those interested in joining Poetry
Society, contact Osas, at osamudien.
omoigiade@imperial.ac.uk.
Any production of Cool Hand Luke is going
to be compared with the 1967 Paul Newman
film. It perhaps shouldn’t be this way but it
can’t be helped. I would love to treat it as just
another play but it is truly in the shadow of
an icon. So when casting the leading man,
you’re in for a tough job from the start. A
quiet but confident leader of men with a hint
of cheekiness and swagger coming out of his
arse. Enter Marc Warren.
This guy rose to fame as the suave but cocky
Danny Blue in Hustle and he’s a large reason
why the show was such a success. He is a bril-
liant actor and since then has even managed to
convince Virgin TV to adopt his bravado. But
I’ve never seen him on stage before and was a
bit apprehensive as he’s known for his incred-
ibly expressive eyes, something that will only
come across on film. I was disappointed to
Ranulf Kinloch-Jones find out that my initial fears were somewhat
correct. On paper he should be great. He does
‘play it cool’ all the time, but somehow it’s
just a bit flat. He lacks a certain cheekiness
or twinkle that makes the audience invest in
the character. This mixed with surprisingly
poor stage fighting and general effects (for
instance no sign of blood when someone gets
shot) makes the eventual climax kind of a bit
empty.
Having said this there are redeeming features
that make it watchable. Lee Boardman’s per-
formance as Dragline (Luke’s best friend) is
awesome. He paces a mixture of comedy and
sincerity perfectly throughout the play and to
be honest steals the show because of it. The
set design was also fantastic with slick changes
adding to the atmosphere.
In summary, it’s not the best thing you’ll ever
see but is definitely watchable. It holds your
attention for its short running time of about 1
hour 40 minutes but won’t stay with you for
any longer than that. It was an impossible act
to follow the film, and it was a valiant effort.
Cool Hand Luke runs at Aldwych Theater
until November 19
From Hustler then to Hustler now
Suave? Swagger? It’s the guy off Hustle

