FELIX Friday 04 November 2011 29
ARTS
Greek mythology is normally pretty
messed up, but the tale of the Minotaur
takes it to a new level. Born after King
Minos’wife got knocked up by a Bull sent
from the Gods, the half human half beast
was locked in a labyrinth and fed on hu-
man sacrifice. This reign of terror ended
when Theseus killed the beast with the
help ofAriane, who he then left marooned
on an island whilst buggering off with her
sister, and consequently caused his father
to accidentally commit suicide.
This tale of woe has provided the ideal
cornerstone to a new, experimental, ex-
hibition for the Lazarides art group in
combination with Pret A Diner. Set in
the vaults of the Old Vic Tunnels beneath
Waterloo station, the idea is to merge the
world of art with that of fine dining to
create a unique all encompassing expe-
rience under the theme of the Minotaur
myth. However, if you’re a student and
your budget doesn’t really stretch to Mi-
chelin Star food, the exhibition is fully
accessible minus the meal.
Even before entering the, the mood
was already well set. Upon approach, the
only clue to its whereabouts is a solitary
sign pointing towards a non-descript door
covered in graffit, hidden in a back alley.
Inside, you are given a map, and proceed
through a black curtain to enter the first
room. The atmosphere within the tunnels
is incredible – it feels damp, disused and
eerie, with smoke hanging thick in the air,
and lighting obscured by rusting metal
objects. This is accentuated on the first
piece that you arrive at: a mess of hang-
ing metal and whirring fans hanging from
the ceiling. It’s uncomfortable viewing
for reasons you cannot quite fathom.
This theme of unease is carried out
through the whole exhibit, where the
setting itself acts like a maze of art. It is
such an unusual feeling to walk through
a darkened doorway to be physically
surprised at what you encounter. The
In the absence of any culinary skills, I’ve
found that eating one’s dinner whilst
watching MasterChef, can often make
the experience a little more palatable.
Through years of pretending that my
toast was a main of spider crab thermi-
dor accompanied with mussels, foraged
sea vegetables and a side of chips, Gregg
Wallace has hammered into me an appre-
ciation of the infamous notion of ‘flavour
combinations.’
This month, Riverside Studios serve
up two plays that on paper might seem
to perfectly compliment each other, but
in truth, would probably raise even Mi-
chel Roux’s eyebrows. America’s Deep
South forms the backdrop to both Blind
Date and 27 Wagons Full of Cotton, the
former being a tongue-in-cheek vignette
that looks at a teenager’s resistance to her
prissy aunt’s efforts to find her a date and
the latter a somewhat brutal tale of two
rivals in the cotton industry.
Horton Foote’s Blind Date lampoons
the traditionally strained teenager/par-
ent dynamic with a cast of staple char-
acters that are immediately familiar
even through a Tennessee drawl. Cen-
tred around a farcical date between the
surly Sarah Nancy and her aunt’s pro-
posed suitor, Felix, we see the tensions
that arise when family members’ aspira-
tions for each other don’t wed together.
Despite a mundane text, the cast breath
real comedy into the piece: Sebastian
Knapp’s delivery of the gawky and
obtuse Felix opposite the unimpressed
Sarah Nancy sticks in the mind as a
highlight. The performances of Franc-
esca Fenech and Louise Templeton, as
Sarah Nancy and aunt Dolores respec-
tively, strike a tender balance between
both being victim and aggressor.
As the evening outside grows darker,
the second half inside follows suit. Ten-
nessee Williams’ 27 Wagons Full of
Cotton shares the more sombre story of
cotton mill owner Jake’s sabotage of a
competitor’s mill and the subsequent re-
venge exacted upon him after his wife
spills the beans. The emotional tussles
between man, wife and rival form the
fabric of the piece, typical of Williams’
better-known works, and despite using
the same cast in an identical setting, the
performance doesn’t suffer from over-
similarity. Ross Ericson portrays Jake
with a gruff machismo, all the while
striking a uncanny resemblance to Andy
Parry (to those who that means anything
to), and Sebastian Knapp impressively
metamorphoses from his pre-interval
Felix to give a slick performance as the
slimy Viccaro.
It’s clear to see the why at first sight
these two plays would make suitable
bedfellows. Both analyse the damage
that springs from a lack of compassion,
ranging from the niggling frictions of
daily life seen in Blind Date to the earth-
shattering single events that change life
irreversibly in 27. But the two go about it
in very different ways. The first has a lev-
ity that seems at odds with the grave tone
of the second, to the degree that you feel a
noticeable shift in atmosphere right from
tion is Stanley Donwood’s corrugated
iron labyrinth, nestled at the centre of
the tunnels. Radiohead’s official artist,
Donwood is the perfect embodiment of
art at its most uncomfortable, and this
piece is no different. A twisting and
turbulent structure that you are forced
to enter, it embodies claustrophobia,
driving you forward through its tightly
turning tunnels. Combined with blood
red paint daubed over the posters
plastered on the walls, and splashes
of fluids only seen in occasional UV
lighting, this creates a truly haunting
experience, hinting at an unseen terror.
Minotaur is one of the few times that
I’ve found the location has proven as
interesting as the art itself, in some
cases possibly overshadowing the
more contemporary pieces, such as
the work on the perfect form and ge-
netics. It also could be said that whilst
the idea of combining the experience
with a restaurant was novel, it could
also prove to be distracting: drunk and
laughing guests remove some of the
intended oppressive atmosphere. How-
ever, these are small detractions from
an exhibit that truly sets itself in an en-
tirely different league to most galleries.
The Minotaur has since finished at
the Old Vic Tunnels
Minotaur de force
Will Prince
Christopher Dean
Riverside Studios serve up a slice of the Deep South
Tennessee Williams (and Horton Foote) come to Hammersmith
“It’s the perfect
embodiment of
art at its most
uncomfortable”
most shocking examples of this come
in the form of David Falconer’s incred-
ible sculptures formed from hundreds
of bodies of rats, or the mournful cru-
cified Minotaur by Atma, covered in
nails and surrounded by candles.
However, the real heart of the exhibi-
Few people know he was actually half-man-half-bull-half-butcher
Creepy bird thing
the start of the second half. Individually
the two halves are well-formed entities
and, whilst I admit they would be too in-
substantial to stand alone, together they
seem somewhat incongruous. Cocoa and
partridge ravioli served with demi-glace
and beurre noisette may not go down too
well with pan-fried fillet of gurnard and
octopus pease pudding but it sure beats a
Milkybar yoghurt in front of BBC Two.
Blind Date/27 Wagons Full of Cotton
runs at the Riverside Studios until
November 13
Old Vic Tunnels makes for a modern day take of
the mythical labyrinth – complete with bistro
The Chaps soon regretted getting the stripper in on the cheap

