MUSIC
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Balam Acab
Wander/Wonder
Tri Angle
2011
You know those music writers who twist meaning-
less metaphor around meaningless metaphor in
a futile attempt to recreate the music on paper?
Wander/Wonder is basically that kind of reviewer’s
wet dream. But it also a bear-trap for anyone who
thinks they’re going to slide along without using
the word “arrangements” – dammit Pitchfork, wtf
does that even mean?!? So I’m going to try my
best not to fall into douchebaggery and be com-
pletely straightforward about this intensely beauti-
ful album.
Balam Acab (Harry Potter spell? Really nasty
skin problem? Name of a Somali Pirate King?) is
a 20-year-old producer who’s managed to express
himself emotionally in more ways than I’ll be able
to when I have grandchildren. Alec Koone’s (lol)
music is 100% abstract electronica; he floats
somewhere between instrumental hip-hop pro-
ducers like Clams Casino and the R&B-infused
rhythms of How to Dress Well. (As you might ex-
pect from most ‘intelligent’ electronic music, his
songs are awash with stretched out, ethereal vo-
cals.)
All right, I can’t hold it any longer; I’m bringing
in the over-extended metaphors. If Bon Iver’s For
Emma, Forever Ago brought with it the sounds of a
lonely log-cabin, Balam Acab takes you to a dark
secluded cave and tells you not to come back until
you’ve gazed at the stars, stubbornly resisted the
morning sunlight, and thoroughly indulged every
nostalgic fibre in your body.
If you know what Pitchfork writers are talking about
when they say “arrangements”, tweet me @kad-
himshubber. If you’re similarly dumbfounded, tweet
something irritating and boorish @pitchforkmedia.
Better still, tweet @thebalamacab and say “thanks
for the sweet album, bro!”
To celebrate our 1500th issue Stephen Smith names the 15 be
Top fifteen: the best a
L
ists such as this are always contra-
versial. Why no Beatles or Radio-
head albums? Why no Jazz, Clas-
sical or Electronic music? This is
simply a list of the fifteen albums
which I have found to be the most rewarding
after repeated listens. It is not a list of the most
influential, original or well-executed groups of
songs.
Whether or not you agree with my choices,
why not share your favourite 15 albums by
emailing us at music.felix@gmail.com?
Often criticised for being extremely twee, the
only Scottish entry here is an album of acoustic
pop songs: gentle and understated, and drip-
ping with irony.
Belle & Sebastian’s excellent debut - heav-
ily influenced by Nick Drake and The Smiths
- is a tour of the imagination of a sexually con-
fused, introverted, bookish schoolgirl.
Opening with the impossibly soothing and
surreal ‘The State I Am In,’and ending with the
beautifully melancholy chamber pop of ‘Mary
Jo,’ Tigermilk is a call out to shy and eccentric
teenagers the world over: ignore normal people
and follow your dreams when you’re young, or
you’ll end up a lonely, gin-drinking, cigarette-
smoking failure.
Best tracks: ‘The State I Am In’
‘Expectations’
If I said this album was a mixture of Pop and
Rock n’ Roll with a hint of Country, you would
be justified in questioning how it made it onto
this list. But Truelove’s Gutter really is the pin-
nacle of what Elvis-style Rock can achieve.
Extremely moving, at times tear-inducingly so,
this is an album of pain and despair.
But don’t let that put you off! Hawley, invok-
ing the vocal style of Scott Walker, channels
his depression into an artwork of immense
beauty.
But it would probably be best to skip track 3:
it is the definition of an anomalous point.
Best Tracks: ‘Open Up Your Door’
‘Soldier On’
Dark, bleak, grim dance-rock is what awaits
the first-time listener to Unknown Pleasures, a
slow trudge through the troubled mind of soon-
to-die Ian Curtis.
From the upbeat opener ‘Disorder’ to the le-
thargic and challenging ‘I Remember Nothing,’
this album puts listeners into a trance of beauti-
ful musical depression.
Best Tracks: ‘Disorder’
‘Shadowplay’
Bryter Layter is deceptively upbeat. Sunny,
smile-inducing folk-pop tunes accompany
Nick Drake’s lovely, gentle voice; yet the truth
is in the lyrics: “Nobody knows/ How cold it
grows/ Nobody sees/ How shaky my knees,”
sings Drake on ‘Poor Boy’.
Like Ian Curtis (above), Drake was a couple
of years away from suicide when this was re-
corded. But even without the “troubled genius”
tag which accompanies such artists, he stands
out as a writer of great folk songs and a remark-
able guitarist.
Listen out for the future sound of Belle & Se-
bastian in ‘Hazey Jane II’.
Best tracks: ‘Hazey Jane II’
‘Northern Sky’
The first and only rock opera to feature here,
and one almost universally hated by critics,
The Hazards of Love follows the rather pecu-
liar story of a woman who falls in love with a
forest boy.
But the album excels in spite of the ridicu-
lous and unlikely story line. With its sea of epic
(in the Homeric sense) songs, the album brings
a whole new meaning to folk-rock.
With heavily amplified guitars replacing the
gentle acoustics of their previous albums, the
only recognisable Decemberists feature here is
singer Colin Meloy’s distinctive voice.
It is, nonetheless, essential listening for folk
and rock fans alike, a great example of what
rock anthems should be.
Best tracks: ‘The Hazards of Love 2’
‘Isn’t it a Lovely Night’
Sandwiched as it is between her two most suc-
cessful albums, Blue and Court and Spark,
many people approach Joni Mitchell’s For
The Roses wondering why it is so lacking in
popularity. After listening, the answer is abun-
dantly clear: the album is extremely complex
lyrically and musically.
Tackling issues like the dichotomy between
rural isolation and freedom, and the subtleties
of romantic competition, this album takes at
least 20 listens to “get”. But the experience is a
rewarding one.
Mitchell writes songs like poems, paying no
attention to accessibility or radio-friendliness.
In fact, track 9, ‘You Turn Me On, I’m a Ra-
dio,’ is her ironic attempt to get airplay.
Best tracks: ‘Lesson in Suvival’
‘Let the Wind Carry Me’
Who would’ve guessed that the Mystery Jets,
famous for incredibly dull pop songs like
‘Young Love’ and ‘Two Doors Down,’ actually
made some very good music before falling for
the evil mistress that is commercial success?
Their remarkable debut, Making Dens, is
perhaps best described as an extremely worth-
while musical experience. Clearly influenced
by Kate Bush and early Pink Floyd, the album
is certainly psychedelic, or maybe it’s prog-
rock. Or maybe space-rock.
Who knows? The point is, this is a weird
and wonderful collection of great songs. It’s a
shame about their later albums though...
Best tracks: ‘Zoo Time’
‘Making Dens’
‘Love Will Tear Us Apart’ is not all there is to
Joy Division. In fact, the rest of their songs are
rather different, and, I think, rather better.
Richard Hawley
Truelove’s Gutter
Mute
2009
Joy Division
Unknown Pleasures
Factory
1979
Belle & Sebastian
Tigermilk
Electric Honey
1996
Joni Mitchell
For The Roses
Asylum
1972
Mystery Jets
Making Dens
679 Recordings
2006
Nick Drake
Bryter Layter
Island
1970
The Decemberists
The Hazards of Love
Rough Trade
2009
FELIX
36 Friday 04 november 2011
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Be sure not to miss...
San Francisco cut/paste sound collage pioneers
NegativLand team up with fellow Fog City resident
Wobbly for an evening of home made electronics.
The collaboration is centred around the exploitation
of The Booper, a fully analogue device put together
from salvaged radio and amplifier parts, creating an
unpredictable beast whose temperament is as mys-
terious as the racket it generates.
Support comes from prolific Argentinian noiser Alan
Courtis and Evol’s “computer music for hooligans.”
Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
NegativWobblyLand
Cafe Oto, Dalston Kingsland
Wednesday 9, November

