MUSIC
est pop and rock albums since Felix’s beginning
albums since 1949
With the Eurozone gone to the dogs and its lead-
ers making gold-digger eyes at China, it’s prob-
ably a good time to check out the best of Shang-
hai’s eclectic punk scene. Sure, there’s a whole
Beijing vs Shanghai thing, but what Beijing has in
the way of a distinct and cohesive sound, Shang-
hai more than makes up for in its DIY ethic.
Andy Best – one-time Scouser turned champi-
on of the Shanghai scene and founder of the lo-
cal Qu record label – says “It’s only since I came
to Shanghai in 2001 that I found a music scene
I liked again, one based around DIY culture and
not sending tapes to A&R men”. But then, as he
also points out, “people are in it for the love and
not the money (there’s no choice)”.
Also holding the scene together is Shanghai’s
mainstay venue, Yuyintang, and a lo-fi, stripped
down aesthetic, to which western ears are most
partial. It’s this that probably first got Pairs no-
ticed by the likes of MTV and BBC Radio’s Tom
Ravenscroft.
Taking the common line-up of just guitar and
drums – this generation’s power-trio – drum-
mer Rhys squawk-shouts along to F’s raucous
and hurried guitar-chord melodies – fuzzy, happy
melodies that bring on a smile like a Sonic Youth
pop song.
Interviewed by We Live In Beijing, Rhys ex-
plained: “Our music just comes from our lack of
talent, our inability to play up strokes on the gui-
tar and from our personalities. We tried to write
some slower songs, but I think we just got too
excited and they sped up overtime. Maybe if we
had a metronome we would be a totally different
band.”
But in spite of this they still won Best New
Band at the 2010 Shanghai Grammys, with one
of the judges sensibly observing “[Pairs] are a
lot of noise, but I like their noise, and they make
sense ... They kind of invaded us during summer,
and I’m happy they are there”. Andy Best hopes
they “kickstart a bunch of similar bands who just
go for it and don’t try to be polished genre acts”.
Pairs put out their first, self-titled album with the
Qu label in 2010 and released their second Sum-
mer Sweat (2011) themselves. Pairs want you to
stream both of them from pairs.bandcamp.com.
Live albums don’t usually make lists like this,
but Live at the Cow Palace really deserves a
special mention. Certainly the most musically
accomplished band on this list, and probably
the best rock band ever, The Grateful Dead
spend around four fifths of this 3-hour-long live
album jamming on stage, and it’s just brilliant.
Best tracks: ‘Eyes of the World’
‘Wharf Rat’
I feel a bit guilty choosing this of all of Bjork’s
albums, especially given that Homogenic and
Vespertine are clearly better musically, but
for some reason it is nearly always Post that I
choose to listen to when I can.
Everyone knows ‘It’s Oh So Quiet’, and
while that song has (a few) good qualities, it
is really everything else that makes this album.
Split into two conceptual halves, Post starts off
fast and angry but ends up in a calm meditative
state with the remarkably good trip-hop experi-
ment ‘Headphones’.
Best tracks: ‘Possibly Maybe’
‘Headphones’
Beth Gibbons of trip-hop royalty Portishead
has a voice more suited to creepy folk music
than any other singer I’ve come across, which
is partly why this strange folk-jazz creation
sounds so great.
Very autumnal and rural in style, Out Of
Season would not be out of place as backing
music to The Wicker Man (the 1973 version,
obviously).
Not for fans of the accessible, this is an al-
bum of subtlety and terrifying quietness.
Best tracks: ‘Mysteries’
‘Sand River’
Completely stripped down to the bare bones
of guitar and voice, Drake’s music has lost both
the extravagant accompaniment and veneer of
normality which accompanied his previous al-
bum.
His voice weak and ghostly, his guitar play-
ing pained and purposeful, Pink Moon sounds
exactly like the musical equivalent of a life
nearing its end.
Best tracks: ‘Harvest Breed’
‘From the Morning’
Unlike For The Roses, Joni Mitchell’s Blue is
musically simple and lyrically clear. Its great-
ness lies in its openness and authenticity. Effec-
tively an exploration of sadness in all its forms
(predominantly love and loss) Mitchell sings
completely from her own experience of pain.
This album is surprisingly accessible for one
dealing with such difficult themes. Indeed,
songs like ‘Carey’ and ‘In California’ have the
illusion of joy, but, as in Bryter Layter, the mu-
sic disguises the grim reality of the lyrics.
Blue frequently tops ‘Greatest Albums Ever’
polls and for good reason, it is the best musical
expression of depression out there.
Best tracks: ‘Blue’
‘A Case of You’
No album has ever held my attention for as
many repeated listens as this one. In true New-
som style, the five-song album has an average
song length of over 11 minutes, with the lon-
gest track coming to nearly 17.
But enough statistics. Ys features Newsom on
harp, accompanied by full orchestra. Her im-
possibly high-pitched voice jumps octaves at
a time to accommodate the complexity of the
lyrics, while the orchestra swells and sinks to
follow her.
Even after about 100 listens, I still have no
idea what any of the songs are really about, so
cryptic are the lyrics. This one album could
give a lifetime of listening.
Best tracks: ‘Emily’
‘Only Skin’
All criticism of Have One On Me focusses on
one thing: this album is long. Very long. It is
a triple album of over 2 hours of completely
uncategorisable music. It’s easy to understand
why some people are put off.
But if you put in the effort and listen to the
whole thing, it’s more than rewarding. The first
third of the album is the “accessible” bit (but it
is highly inaccessible by most standards).
After that, Have One On Me is a dense thick-
et of difficult ambient folk music and verbose
and obscure lyrics. It took me about 20 listens
before I actually enjoyed the whole album, but
it really does just get better and better. I strong-
ly recommend you do the same.
Best tracks: ‘In California’
‘Go Long’
If Hazards of Love was a rock opera, then Ha-
destown is a folk opera. Unlike the December-
sits’ album, the story here is brilliant. It is a
reworking of the Greek myth of Orpheus and
Eurydice, except here Hades, no longer the
God of the Underworld, owns a mine in gold-
rush era America.
Few things can sound more pretentious than
a folk opera about a Greek myth, but, surpris-
ingly, Hadestown utterly succeeds without a
hint of arrogance.
Accompanied by Justin Vernon (of Bon Iver)
and a whole host of musicians famous in the
American folk world, Mitchell’s Hadestown
really is essential listening.
Best tracks: ‘Wedding Song’
‘Flowers’
Bryter Layter was recorded a few years before
Drake’s suicide, but Pink Moon was created
even closer to his death, and you can tell.
Joanna Newsom
Have One on Me
Drag City
2010
Anaïs Mitchell
Hadestown
Righteous Babe
2010
Nick Drake
Pink Moon
Island
1972
Joni Mitchell
Blue
Reprise
1971
Grateful Dead
Live at the Cow Palace
Rhino
1976
Beth Gibbons &
Rustin Man
Out of Season
Sanctuary
2002
Joanna Newsom
Ys
Drag City
2006
FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 37
Björk
Post
One Little Indian
1995
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Pairs

