Never hide. Don’t need to. Don’t exist
Kadhim Shubber interrogates KABLAAM headliner on physics, metaphysics and physicality
Mikill Pane does not exist...
survived by hate of hip-hop
Kadhim Shubber: Your website says
you’re “non-existent”; what happened,
can we help?
Mikill Pane: I’m just a figment of Jus-
tin Smith Uzomba’s vivid imagination
and nope, you can’t help. I’ve got all
the assistance I need, thanks. Unless
you know anyone who’s letting go of a
better body than the one I’m currently
housed in. I’d quite like to be a sex
symbol and Justin’s physique doesn’t
quite cut it.
KS: What’s your story? How did you
come to be (or not to be)?
MP: Justin unwittingly created me as
a nemesis for a former alter ego that
we won’t speak about for legal rea-
sons.
KS: Why is pronouncing your name
“Mickill” so horrendously wrong?
MP: Paedophilia is horrendously
wrong. Pronouncing my name in such
a manner is simply wrong. Just don’t
do it and we won’t have any problems.
KS: What’s wrong with modern hip-
hop, and what can Imperial students do
to fix it?
MP: I don’t like most modern hip-hop
because I’m rarely interested by any of
the subject matter of the tracks I hear.
Imperial students can’t do much unless
they’re willing to give up their studies
and start a mass rap career.
KS: You seem to shun the whole rap-
ping about “guns and bitches” area of
hip-hop; what’s wrong with “guns and
bitches”?
MP: I’ll pretend you didn’t ask that...
KS: What’s worth and not worth rap-
ping about?
MP: Rap about anything you like as
long as you’re interested in it.
KS: You wrote some dark and depress-
ing rhymes on the track you did with Ed
Sheeran, ‘Little Lady’. What recess of
your mind did the 13-year-old prostitute
idea come from?
MP: ‘Little Lady’ was written by Jus-
tin’s old alter ego. He’s gone now and
he won’t need lyrics wherever he is, so I
stole the song. Sue me.
KS: You’re pretty inked up, tell us a bit
about your tattoos.
MP: There’re way too many. I can tell
you that they are, in essence, pigmenta-
tion beneath my skin... I hope that info
suffices.
KS: Imperial is a science-only univer-
sity, so we’re going to end with a short
quiz:
E equals?
MP: MC2
, but what does Mariah Car-
ey’s eleventh album have to do with sci-
ence?
KS: People who believe in creationism
are?
MP: Let’s not make sweeping generali-
sations.
MUSIC
FELIX
38 Friday 04 november 2011
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Mikill Pane manifests for an eve-
ning of lyrical swerves and pelvic
gyrations, next Saturday evening
in Metric for this term’s biggest
party, Felix Music Night the third,
KABLAAM.
Catch him after the bands, be-
fore the after-party rips in.
“A non-existent, modern hip-hop
hating MC with a penchant for
buying sneakers and mentioning
U.F.O. town. Some of you might be
able to relate.” - The Internet
When I first encountered Music Tech,
I thought I had seen the light. Finally
some people were playing (and mak-
ing) good music to go out to. No longer
had I excuses to swallow inane “party
party” muzak, when such an alternative
was close at hand. My first evening with
the lot was driven by a hazy concoction
of deep bass music and liberal liquefac-
tion of my mind and body, to the extent
of internal heamorraghing. I hope next
Saturday’s apperance at KABLAAM will
prove equally enthralling and ear open-
ing for some as it did for me.
The usual glorification of the vibe se-
lector, aka, the DJs, will run throughout,
setting up an ad hoc sauna operated by
the sweaty vibes of the finest cuts of
Imperial’s sweetest jockeys. First up,
Imperial graduate and PhD candidate
in the Dept. of EEE, SMB will light up
the floor with a luscious fusion of deep
house and nouveau disco, throwing low-
swung beats into old school grooves to
get your body moving and put your mind
in the right place. Beyond caressing the
turntables, he also serves up a regular
podcast titled In At The Deep End which
can be enjoyed at blog.djsmb.co.uk.
Taking inspiration from his academic
pursuits, he seeks to incorporate ele-
ments of AI into his deep house grooves.
A bipolar performance from the au-
thor’s double alias, lo. batt. / Algo Rit-
mico will open the minds in your ears
with an unorthodox approach to the elec-
tric guitar, melted into a transmission of
live electronic improvisation. The former
was the result of a 4-pack of blank cas-
settes left in my sock by Santa one fate-
ful Christmas Day, from which all man-
ner of musical experimentation emerged.
The latter responds to the urge to explore
the outer limits of music, lying some-
where between psychoacoustic stimulus
and sensual disembodiement.
Following the skandalous explosions
of Operation Midnight Climax, the in-
die swells and scatters of Black Sands
and the literary loopholes of Mikill
Pane, the evening’s panaroma takes a
turn from the stage back to the dance
floor, as the heat and headiness of the live
performances gives way to a scorching
exploitation of Metric’s concrete founda-
tions and ridiculous sound system.
Inagurating the after party’s excesses,
enter Monsk, host of IC Radio’s elec-
tronic dance music broadcasts Peer Pres-
sure and The Wave Asylum (co-hosted
with ex-Felix Editor Kadhim Shubber).
Monsk’s fluid stylings feature dubs from
the front of new bass music, served with
a sweet slop of honey and milk, as you
perspire through your best shirt and hor-
monal scents flag across the room.
Niceberg concludes the double dessert
with frantic bass wallops cracking up a
brainstorm fuelled by chipstep, dark d&b
and obscene low end.
Metastatic vibrations will sweep from
your ears, through your skeletal and ner-
vous systems to automate your kicks on
the concrete, as the beats pound into the
night after an evening through Imperial’s
deepest underground.
Music Tech warm up KABLAAM & boil after-party
Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto on the glorification of the vibe selector and Imperial’s musical exploits
“...between
psychoacoustic
stimulus and
sensual
disembodiement.”

