and therefore below the legal drinking age
threshold) onto the union premises during
events but to refuse them service at the bar. ID
cards are not currently a valid form of identifi-
cation due to not being capable of proving age.
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) Monya
Zard explained the matter to Felix, noting that
they “have discussed the issue with police,
who were happy to use IDs if the date of birth
were displayed, unfortunately registry was not
willing to do that for data protection reasons,
therefore college IDs could not be accepted as
valid proof of age despite the red box on the
card”.
At present, students with a red box are typi-
cally allowed onto premises but refused ser-
vice as expected, but for some events they can
be refused entry. This proposed amendment
was rejected by council, following controver-
sy with those who believed that passing this
would result in a breach of the law.
Maciej Matuszewski
NEWS
4 FELIX
Friday 04 november 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In Brief
Council talk Balls and bars
Imperial College Union held its second Coun-
cil meeting of the term on Monday 31 Octo-
ber, with all full members of Council attending
for the first time. A variety of papers revolving
around ongoing issues were brought forward
with resolution reached for some.
Alexander Karapetian
Independent Summer Ball investigation to be launched
ecutive Committee there was not enough time
to significantly alter it even if the Committee
had wanted to.
A separate paper was also put forward by
Chris Darby, asking the Council “to petition
the [Union] Court to carry out an independent
inquiry in to exactly how much has been lost ...
and how this compares to previous years”. The
paper cited incomplete information regarding
the loss and the need for an “independent opin-
ion”. Despite objections from Union President
Scott Heath, who said that a further investiga-
tion by himself and the Trustee Board would
suffice, the motion was carried by the Council.
Friday 28 October saw Women in Science, Engineer-
ing and Technology (WSET) take part in a flashmob
to raise awareness for the charity Breast Cancer
Care. Held in the Queen’s Tower Rooms at lunch-
time, WSET received assistance from Funkology, a
society that studies and specialises in streetdance
and hiphop forms. WSET aims to promote SET ca-
reers amongst women at Imperial, while enhancing
the flow of women amongst SET departments.
You can donate to WSET’s campaign for Breast
Cancer Care at www.justgiving.com/wset1
Matthew Colvin
Flashmob for charity in the
Queen’s Tower Rooms
Right To Play for RAG
Every year, over one hundred charities apply to be
a nominated charity for Imperial College Union Rais-
ing and Giving (RAG). Each have their own goals and
methodology and each, in their own right, are fully
worthy and deserving of RAG’s support. This year
Right to Play was chosen as the main nominated
charity following an intense deliberation period from
the RAG committee. Several other supporting chari-
ties were chosen, including Barnardo’s, the Royal
British Legion and the Mines Advisory Group.
Right to Play operates in the developing world, us-
ing sport and play to help and teach children impor-
tant life lessons, such as using a stuck-in-the-mud
style game to educate about Malaria prevention.
Their approach is as much about having fun as
getting a serious message across. It has been
supported by a number of major corporations and
movements, such as BUCS (British University and
College Sport, the league in which we cream UCL
on a weekly basis) and the College itself, with Sport
Imperial working in a partnership with them over the
last few years.
The first event to be run this year was the bike
auction on Monday lunchtime (with a repair expert
in attendance so any niggling problems could be
fixed).
It’s both an excellent and worthy cause that we at
Imperial and RAG can only hope to do our best for,
and here’s to a great year full of fun events, incred-
ible amounts raised and us all doing the best we
can for them.
Jack Hewitt – RAG Chair
Navid Nabijou
Summer Ball Debrief
Jonathan Peek
Alcohol Policy passed
Honorary Life Membership
Serious issues about the planning of last year’s
Summer Ball, which made a loss of over £100
000, were raised at this Monday’s meeting of
the Union Council. In his Summer Ball 2011
Debrief, requested by last year’s council, cur-
rent Deputy President (Finance and Services)
(DPFS) Michael Foster outlined how he believes
that the “main reason for the large loss incurred
... was a wholly unrealistic prediction of atten-
dance.”
Despite a steady drop in turnout over previ-
ous years “the budget predicted an attendance
of almost 4000 students ... more than double
[what was achieved] in any of the previous
three years”. In Foster’s mind, such an over-
estimate was “irresponsible”. The main reason
for this inflated estimate were the changes to
the Ball, in particular inviting students from
Goldsmiths’ and King’s to attend, adding the
Prince’s Gardens Stage and starting the acts
earlier. It was hoped that the last of these
changes would attract more Life Sciences
students, who might otherwise not have been
able to attend as a result of having exams in
the same period.
It was pointed out from the Council floor,
however, that advertising at the other institu-
tions was not as good as it could have been.
Foster’s report also admitted that, according
to the post-Ball survey, “many people weren’t
happy with the change in format to what was
seen as a festival”. The report did, however,
explain that that the formal dinner was axed
because attendance “had fallen from 650 in
2007 to 150 in 2010” and that “the black tie
dress code was removed, as it was thought to
be unreasonable to expect students to stay in
formal dress from noon to midnight”.
Foster rejected “the claim from last year’s
Council saying there was not enough transpar-
ency and consultation” on these changes. He
reminded those present that all format changes
were approved by “the Summer Ball working
group” formed of the elected Ents Commit-
tee; that the Council was kept up to date with
the progress in the Ball’s preparations; and
that the budget was approved by the Execu-
tive Committee. Issues were raised from the
floor, however, over how much influence the
Council had on the Ball, given that it was only
dealt with in last year’s DPFS’ regular reports
rather than a separate paper. Heather Jones, last
year’s Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
and current CAG Chair, also pointed out that
by the time the budget was presented to the Ex-
Deputy President (Finance & Services) Michael
Foster presented a paper regarding the much de-
bated responsible retailing of alcohol.
The paper outlined a procedural policy to
be used in the bars as guidelines for retailing
alcohol. It includes the banning of initiation
ceremonies and “dirty pints” as reported on
previously by Felix. Amendments were pro-
posed by Henry Abbot, ACC Chair, to change
a variety of points including one regarding the
mobile bar, frequently used on the second floor
of the union for clubs, limiting it to diluting
spirits containing an alcohol content above
38% which were sold. The council members
voted on the proposed amendments one by one
and the paper was eventually passed.
The original policy outlined a limit of free
drinks available as part of ticket costs to be six
to eight. An amendment was to define it as the
upper limit of eight specifically. Although this
passed, it was noted that the change had al-
ready been made and that the policy for which
it was proposed was an outdated document.
Council imposed a fifteen minute guillotine for
the discussions regarding this paper, and minor
issues arose when a discrepancy in the law was
brought up regarding the downing limit and
the yard glass, a traditional piece of English
heritage. Much of the discussion, however,
was focused around the use of Imperial ID
cards to identify those under 18 who shouldn’t
be sold drinks.
The members conferred on a point which
sought to allow students with a red box on
their ID card (indicating they were seventeen
One of the most hotly debate issues was that
of Honorary Life Memberships (HLMs).
These lifetime memberships of the Union are
traditionally awarded to Sabbatical Officers
at the end of their terms in office. Last sum-
mer, however, Union Council narrowly voted
against awarding HLM to the then Deputy
President (Finance & Services), Ravi Pall.
This decision was later quashed, on the
grounds that the Sabbatical Officers had been
– unconstitutionally – barred from taking part
in the vote (although this is a longstanding
convention).
This Monday the vote was taken again;
none of the now former Sabbatical Officers
were present during the discussion. The vote
itself was carried out by secret ballot, mean-
ing that a two-thirds majority was required in
each case.
The decision was the same as that of last
year, with Council deciding against awarding
HLM to the former DPFS (with 12 votes for
versus 14 against). Much of the debate cen-
tred on the handling of the Summer Ball, as
well as more general issues concerning Pall’s
handling of his role. All other Sabbatical Of-
ficers from last year received HLM.
Alexander Karapetian
Council – not only three hours of serious debate, but three hours of arm exercise too

