FELIX
40
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 November 2011
After three different Waterstones (ironically,
nobody could find the single copy supposedly
in stock) and two failed Amazon deliveries, I
finally got my hands on the book: “The Thick
of It: The Missing DoSAC Files”. Bringing to
the paper Armando Iannucci’s BAFTA-winning
comedy, this brilliant set of documents has pro-
vided me with enough entertainment for another
decade (or at least until the next series).
The Thick of It is the BBC’s modern day Yes,
Prime Minister. Taking place in the fictional
Department of Social Affairs and Citizenship
(DoSAC), the show is a dark humoured, satirical
portrayal of the machinations and workings of
Blair and Brown’s Labour government. During
the first two series, Hugh Abbot (Chris Lang-
ham) is the depressed and sarcastic minister,
trying his best to make himself into someone of
importance but plagued by the press about his
second flat in central London. Sadly enough for
his brilliant character, Langham was then ar-
rested on charges related to child pornography.
The rest of the cast remained for the third series
with a new addition and replacement minister:
the slightly insane and incapable Nicola Murray
(Rebecca Front). Other cast members include
James Smith, Joanna Scanlan, Roger Allam and
Chris Addison, who is thankfully a better actor
than comedian.
The characters are built on every cliché you
can think of, then even more and better ones.
The civil service is incompetent, smug and lazy
but often called to save the minister from his/her
blunders. The political advisers are either com-
pletely powerless or overly arrogant and useless.
The ministers themselves are gaffe-prone, in-
competent and press targets. The country is quite
simply being ruled by a bunch of lunatics, a
fairly good reflection of the reality to be honest.
The pure genius of the series and the script
writers however resides in Malcolm Tucker.
Pick of the week
Watch ‘em, yo
Friday | 2100 - 2130 | BBC3
Him & Her
Series two of BBC3’s most popular sitcom ever
continues.
Saturday | 2000 - 2030 | BBC2
Dad’s Army
Pike tempts fate by taking his girlfriend Sylvia
out to the cinema in Mainwaring’s new staff car –
which promptly breaks down, leaving them strand-
ed miles from anywhere. Classic comedy.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC2
Will it Snow?
Kate Humble, Adam Rutherford and Alys Fowler
assess what Britain’s weather will be like this win-
ter, following the high levels of snow that caused
chaos across the nation in 2010.
Monday | 2100 - 2200 | ITV1
The Jury
The lives of 12 people are turned upside down
when they are summoned for jury duty in a con-
troversial murder retrial. New series starring Julie
Walters.
Tuesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Death in Paradise
A voodoo priestess who predicted her own murder
is found dead in the local school - and while the
team thinks her prophecy has come true, Richard
is more inclined to believe it is simply a good old-
fashioned killing
Wednesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC2
Peter Jones: How We Made Our Millions
The entrepreneur explores the world of high-end
business, interviewing the Innocent smoothie
company co-founder Richard Reed, and Michelle
Mone, the woman behind the multi-million pound
Ultimo lingerie brand.
Thursday | 2100 - 2130 | BBC2
Rev
Adam is acclaimed as a hero for thwarting a mug-
ging, but when he begins to revel in the recogni-
tion he receives an unexpected visit from the high
levels of the clergy. Comedy, guest starring Ralph
Fiennes.
A hapless ex-lawyer (Elijah Wood) wakes up
after trying to commit suicide the night before.
Clearly a fruitless attempt – damn you sugar
pills! Ryan is confronted by his neighbour, Jen-
na, asking him to look after her dog, the epony-
mous Wilfred (played superbly by Jason Gann,
and no, I hadn’t heard of him either). Ryan’s
opinion of Jenna is fairly self evident – she’s
pretty hot – so he obliges.
Enter Wilfred – a dirty grey mongrel – but to
Ryan, Wilfred is not a dog, but a bearded Aus-
sie in a dog costume. An audacious dog at that,
one who drinks beer, smokes pot and attempts
to nuzzle in the breasts of any reasonably look-
ing girl. Understandable, I suppose.
The writers manage to create a quirky but
strangely realistic synergy between Wilfred
and Ryan (who ends up looking after him in-
definitely). Ryan’s feelings for Jenna are appar-
ent to Wilfred – and as the saying goes ‘a dog is
a man’s best friend’– ergo Ryan is a target. This
is actually the very concept which gave rise to
the original Australian version of the show. The
main difference to reality is obviously we are
treated to Wilfred’s outlook on things. As the
series progresses we learn Jenna has a boy-
friend (bet you didn’t see that one coming),
he’s also one of those typically American sport-
ing stereotypes (read: dick). Did somebody say
cliché?
Whilst making you laugh Wilfred also man-
ages to make you think. The whole show is
based around perception; Ryan and the viewer
get to understand, amongst other things, what
life as a dog is like. The first time you truly
get an idea of this arises when Ryan takes
Wilfred to the beach – a “No Dogs Allowed”
sort of beach. Of course Wilfred has his way
by guilt tripping Ryan and get’s to go in the
ocean. There’s something quite heartwarming
and charming when Wilfred is excitedly shout-
ing “Ryan! I’m in the ocean! Oh Ryan watch
this! Ryan! It’s a Pelican! It’s a Pelican!” in his
magnanimous Australian accent.
Each episode centres around the theme of an
opening quotation; Ryan is thrown by Wilfred
(usually by means of trickery or guilt) into a
chaotic situation involving that theme. We see
him, amongst other things, defecating into his
neighbour’s boot, as you do. Something posi-
tive arises and a lesson is learnt about afore-
mentioned theme, be it trust, happiness, fear,
acceptance or something else. From this Ryan
slowly begins to live a fulfilled life. Thankfully
this is pulled off in such a way that for once you
aren’t left feeling that little bit sick about all the
‘this is how to live your life’ advocacy. Wilfred
is clever, amusing and above all unique.
Malcolm Tucker, the director of communica-
tions for the government, the Labour party spin
doctor, the man who effectively runs the place
is, in my opinion, one of the greatest creations
of British comedy. Played by Peter Capaldi, the
swearing Scotsman always gets what he wants,
and by any means, morally acceptable or not.
He has some of the best swearing abilities in the
country and quite simply walks around White-
hall ready to shout at and bully anybody into
submission. He is the guy who gets a cake from
the Prime Minister saying “happy birthday c*nt”
(a clear sign of love), is nicknamed Hamish
MacDeath and who will compare you to being
“as much use as a marzipan dildo” or “a sweaty
octopus trying to unhook a bra”. In the Christ-
mas specials, Tucker has to deal with the change
in leadership and as the power sways from one
candidate to another, he succeeds in getting into
a food fight, destroying the hopes and dreams of
a young MP and making himself indispensable
to all potential prime ministers. The third series
see the swearing genius slowly loosing grip, but
no worries, he is The Man and somehow always
ends up pulling the strings to his advantage. If
you haven’t had enough of him, Jamie MacDon-
ald, No.10’s press officer, is equally qualified in
abusive language, bullying and manipulation.
The fast pace of the show, wittiness of the
dialogue and hand-held camera work give The
Thick of It a realistic documentary style. The
plot is also often based on actual events, as are
the characters with Campbell and Mandelson
being the main sources of inspiration for Tucker.
The Christmas special is focused on the power
struggle following the resignation and appoint-
ment of a new prime minister, as took place in
2007. Opposition characters were introduced in
the specials and the third series, leading to its
culmination at the pending election in May 2010.
When the results came out, Iannucci went on to
thank Nick Clegg “for completely destroying
our plans for the next series”. And effectively,
they are a couple years late, with filming start-
ing in March 2012. The new series will picture
the coalition government in power with its inner
tensions and Malcolm Tucker in the opposition.
The series have also led to a couple of spin-
offs: the film In the Loop received an Oscar
nomination for best adapted screenplay. In addi-
tion, Veep, HBO’s Americanisation of the show
is soon to be aired. Unique in its style, the show
even has a swearing consultant. This brilliantly
funny, smart and well written comedy picturing
the dysfunctional government with a cast of ex-
cellent actors comes highly recommended.
Well, they’re in The Thick of It now...
Thought the Government were in trouble?
Wilfred - bizarre humour has a new leash of life
TELEVISION
Marie-Laure Hicks
Constipation has become a serious issue in 2012’s government
George Barnett

