TELEVISION
show ever, but it’s definitely not as fa-
mous and popular as it should be. It’s
from the creator of Seinfeld, Larry Da-
vid. The shows centres around a fiction-
alised version of Larry David and his
general trials and tribulations; for Larry,
they are a lot, as he can’t help but stick
his foot in his mouth.
Curb Your Enthusiasm is typified by
featuring one big arc per season that is
beautifully woven into the individual
stand-alone episode. These episodes
feature several plots that all somehow
intertwine and join up in a way that will
make you howl with laughter.
There are also plenty of seasons to
catch up on, so it’s perfect procrasti-
nation material. If you want a starting
point, episode 8 of season 3, ‘Krazy-
Eyez Killah’, where Larry befriends a
rap artist, is my personal favourite epi-
sode.
FELIX Friday 04 November 2011 41
Brilliant shows you’ve never heard of
Channel 4’s latest culinary offering is
a scientific blend of classics such as
don’t-watch-it-with-your-parents Em-
barrassing Bodies and Supersize vs
Superskinny. All three programmes
feature C4’s basic ingredients of Grand
Design-esque houses and arty long
shots, grisly bodily close ups when you
least expect them and celebrity doctors
who seem to spend far too much time
on TV and no time on the skiing holi-
days my GP frequently enjoys.
Where The Food Hospital differs
is that its scientific content is (on the
whole) well researched, rational and
unsensational. While the makers of the
Last week, I wrote a column about how
much I love Arrested Development.
It was in this obscure student publica-
tion called Felix, you probably haven’t
heard of it. Inspired by this, I decided
to write about other, slightly obscure,
TV shows that I love. Mainly, because I
want more people to talk to (read: quote
incessantly at) about them. So, put your
eyes roughly 5mm below, and you can
see some hidden TV gems. Okay, you
can’t see them, but you can see my writ-
ing about them…
Archer
I put this first as it’s by the same people
who made Arrested Development. This
is evident in some of the humour in-
volved and a few of the voices.
The show centres around Stirling Ar-
cher, a super-spy at ISIS, and the rest of
programme did use the phrase ‘food
as medicine’ perhaps a few too many
times for my liking – you wonder how
many viewers with the not uncommon
diseases featured will now recklessly,
if optimistically, throw out their medi-
cation and start stuffing their faces
with vegetables and food replacement
shakes, there were a lot of good mes-
sages and sensible science put across.
Most pertinent was the scene in
which a breast cancer sufferer was of-
fered advice on the recent changes she
had made to her diet in the hope of pre-
venting her cancer recurring. Perhaps
Channel 4 have been rebuked over the
advice given in the past by ‘Dr’ Gil-
lian McKeith, but they managed to
the office. The first thing you’ll notice
is that it’s a cartoon. But wait, don’t
turn your head and snort in disgust at
me – I’ll admit there is some stigma at-
tached to cartoons, people almost seem
to think that they cannot possibly match
a live action show. To those I say, that’s
your opinion and you’re entitled to it.
I then point them to Futurama, a show
that makes you cry like a man who’s
just been dumped by a girl, while she
is simultaneously squeezing lemons and
onions in his eye.
The show is just so cleverly done, and
the way Archer basically has a conver-
sation while he is on a mission always
gets me. Then there are the one-liners
that you can quote to your hearts con-
tent (yeah, weird, I also thought that ex-
pression was ‘till your heart’s content’
but apparently it’s not). My favourite
being: “I don’t know if the grade sand,
but, course”, said by Archer to his long-
suffering servant Woodhouse when or-
Tim Arbabdazah dering him to buy sand, that will later
be used to punish him (not in that way).
All of the characters are voiced well
and developed. The plots are all bril-
liantly done, with the humour dropped
in and not feeling forced; by that I
mean, the irritating way that suggests
they came up with a joke then worked
a plot around it.
It’s currently in its 3rd season, all be-
ing worth a look. Once you start, you’ll
end up in the danger zone, trust me.
You’ll also get that reference!
The Life and Times of Tim
Another cartoon for you, don’t worry,
the next will be live-action I swear.
This really is a great hidden gem of a
show. I’m not just saying that because
the main protagonist shares my name
(and maybe looks a bit like a cartoon
version of me?).
Tim, from the show, is a mild-man-
nered Imperial student. No, wait, sorry,
that’s me. The other Tim, is a mild-
mannered worker with a desk job at
Omnicorp. He always seems to manage
to get himself into horrible situations,
which usually end up badly for him.
People in the show are always misinter-
preting what he says, or just misquoting
him, making you want to shout at the
screen in anger at his mistreatment.
The other characters are all inter-
esting. The Boss (not Rick Ross) is
definitely my favourite character. He
just always comes out with something
funny. Such as the time he called Tim
into his office to test him by seeing how
he copes under pressure. Rather than a
public speaking challenge, he decided
to proposition Tim. Rivalling The Boss
for favourite character is Tim’s friend
Stu. His highlights include convincing
Tim that fighting an old man counts
as charity as “rather than building a
bridge, you’ll be breaking the bridge of
an old man’s nose”.
The episodes are split into two dif-
ferent segments. You’ll also notice that
the graphics are much cruder than Ar-
cher, or other cartoons for that matter.
I think that’s what makes it so appeal-
ing, in a way. It’s got a sense of home-
made fun. It looks and feels like it’s
being made by a bunch of people who
are doing it because they love making
funny sketches, not because they want
to make money. With only two seasons
to catch up on, before the third comes
along, and no exams in sight, you have
zero excuses to not watch this show.
Curb Your Enthusiasm
Okay, I know, it’s not the most obscure
sensitively handle the emotive issue of
breast cancer and also firmly remind
viewers that ‘We can’t cure cancer with
food. We can’t.’ A number of subtly-
inserted phrases such as ‘best evidence
suggests’ were not used as caveats but
instead as reasoning behind the opin-
ions the panel of experts suggested,
while a series-long randomized trial
involving viewers gives the promise of
an insight into a ‘real’ scientific study.
Following the public response to the
programme via the ever-ubiquitous
Twitter hashtag revealed a mainly
positive viewer response, with many
Tweeters were praising the considered
opinions and calm tone of the hour-
long programme, while others seemed
disappointed that food wasn’t actually
a replacement for conventional medi-
cine.
Apart from the visual impact of dia-
betic phimosis in high defenition (I
wouldn’t Google it), my only griev-
ance with The Food Hospital was the
clunkily engineered happy ending, in-
volving a doctor using a small child’s
drawings as a rudimentary pain scale.
While ‘more research is needed’ is
a forbidden phrase in the publishing
world, I would definitely like to see the
results of these nutritional remedies
over a longer time period. I’d also like
to see if The Food Hospital keeps up
the good work in terms of sensible non-
senationalist science broadcasting.
The Food Hospital is better than hospital food
The name’s Archer, Stirling Archer
Larry David is deep inside you
Helen Wilkes
Yeah, that’ll make you better love

