Do you brandish your sword at me old
chap?
FELIX
42
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 November 2011
What can I say FLCL (pronounced fooly cooly
or furi kuri)? Produced by anime powerhouses
Gainax and I.G. Production, it’s certainly one the
craziest pieces of fiction that I’ve ever seen.
The show opens the young Naota being run
over by the Vespa riding Haruko Haruhara, a tall
pink haired woman claiming to be a member of
the Galactic Space Police Brotherhood. She then
proceeds to hit him with her guitar, which opens
up a portal in his head which allows various alien
robots to pass through. As the series progresses
this is revealed to be part of an extraterrestrial
plan to destroy the Earth, with only the Japanese
Immigration Department standing in the alien’s
way. Like I said this is a strange show: a show set
in a universe in which people don’t find it strange
that a ‘company’ called Medical Mechanical has
built a giant steam iron shaped ‘factory’ in the
middle of their town; where scooters can be used
as spaceships and where guitars are the most pow-
erful weapons in existence.
This week on Twitter
Some top tweets from Felix TV’s
followers and followees
@FelixTelevision
@TheNatFantastic I do consid-
er other people, and, as some-
one who maintains a Twitter
account for their own vagina, I
consider you eccentric.
There are shows you watch for mindless enter-
tainment. There are shows you get hooked to,
ones you simply need to watch every week.
And then there are shows that come to define
so many aspects of your life. For me, Buffy the
Vampire Slayer is just that show.
In 1992, a man called Joss Whedon had a
unique idea: what if, instead of the silly little
blonde girl who walks into an alley and gets
killed in every horror movie, that same girl turns
around and beats the crap out of her attacker? It
was an idea that would result in a cultural phe-
nomenon.
Starring Sarah Michelle Gellar as Buffy Sum-
mers, the first episode introduces audiences not
only to the main characters of the show, but also
to the mythology of vampires and magic - “In
every generation there is a chosen one. She alone
will stand against the vampires, the demons and
the forces of darkness. She is the Slayer.” Every
Slayer has a Watcher, whose purpose is to guide
and train the Slayer. In Buffy, this job falls to
Rupert Giles, played by Anthony Stewart Head,
the stuffy librarian at Sunnydale High School.
Very early on, Buffy is joined in her mission by
Willow (Alyson Hannigan) and Xander (Nicho-
las Brendon), together forming ‘the Scooby
Gang.’ Season One of BTVS is told in a ‘mon-
ster/mystery-of-the-week’format which worked
well in the initial stages, but it quickly became
apparent that audiences were more interested in
the relationships between the characters and not
so much the scary demons.
Long before Edward and Bella there was
Buffy and Angel. Stephanie Meyer can eat her
heart out, the love between Buffy and Angel is
the ultimate human/vampire romance and one
that all future relationships will be compared
to and, inevitably, fall short of. This is passion
and heartbreak the way it’s meant to be and the
evolution of their relationship is the real driving
force behind Season Two. Seth Green joins the
cast as Oz, while vampires Spike and Drusilla
become the Big Bad of the season.
Amongst other things, BTVS is a prime ex-
ample of a show with consistently improved
writing. After a very rocky start in Season One,
by the time high school is over and Season
Four comes around, there is really very little to
criticize. This is also the point where Whedon’s
creative genius becomes even more apparent
and garners him his first Emmy nomination
for “Hush,” the truly creepy episode with no
dialogue. The following seasons feature more
complex storylines and the writers continue to
show us that life doesn’t stop being painful after
high school, it just develops into a different kind
of pain. The Season Five episode “The Body”
offers viewers an hour of television unlike any
I have seen before or since (incidentally, it re-
cently won an Emmy in the Drama Category
for Television’s Most Memorable Moment),
whereas “Once More, With Feeling” allowed
Joss Whedon to realise his dream of producing
a musical. Full of engaging characters, amaz-
ing acting and witty dialogue, Buffy is one
of the few shows that is unafraid to take risks
with character development and by the end, the
Scoobies barely resemble the insecure teenagers
we met in Season One. Everyone has shades of
grey, but do bear in mind that nobody is safe in
Whedon’s world…
In its seven year run Buffy the Vampire Slayer
cleverly used its supernatural elements as meta-
phors for real-life issues – high school resting on
the mouth of hell, anyone? It was never a show
that shied away from tackling controversial top-
ics ranging from addiction, grief, sexual orienta-
tion, attempted rape and murder to feelings of
alienation, teenage rebellion, atonement, death,
love and all the things in between that define us.
At times comedy, at times horror, but mostly a
dramatic portrayal of life, the show gathered a
cult following that lives on today. Not only that,
Buffy is also notable for attracting attention
from academics and is often studied in Popular
Culture Studies, as well as being the first show
in U.S. television history to feature a long-term
lesbian relationship among the core characters.
Most importantly though, it managed to do what
it originally set out to do – empower women. It
showed the industry that it is possible to have
strong female leads without objectifying them,
as was the case with for example Xena – War-
rior Princess.
If you’re a fan of vampires, magic and all
things mystical then I do recommend you watch
this. Buffy is the show that brought vampires
back from the dead (pun completely intended,
sorry) and made them cool. If you do watch it
and find yourself enjoying it, then never fear,
Buffy lives on. There was a spin-off series ‘An-
gel’, which ran for five seasons, and both shows
are being continued in comic book form. Linked
to REM’s ‘Everybody Hurts’, Buffy came into
my life over a decade ago and has become a
permanent fixture. As clichéd as it may sound,
it helped me through some tough times and for
that, I will be forever grateful.
The plot isn’t actually that difficult to under-
stand, at least if you watch the show a couple of
times. It’s certainly infinitely more comprehensi-
ble than another of Gainax and I.G. Production’s
collaborations: End of Evangelion. At its core the
story is mix of standard coming of age and space
opera elements, albeit with a very touching end-
ing.
The real draw here is the humour. The surreal
nature of the show is perfectly complemented by
Haruko’s general insanity. There’s also the inten-
tional comically inconsistent art style, with a short
but hilarious South Park parody in episode 5. This
is one example of numerous references to, and
jokes about, other anime, rock music and popular
culture in general. Gainax clearly wasn’t afraid
of a bit self parody: in the second episode when
Naoto’s otaku father begins spouting pretentious
nonsense about philosophy Naota explains to Ha-
ruko that he “once wrote a book about the deep
mysteries of Eva”.
I would also be remiss not mention the music,
performed by Japanese band ‘The Pillows’ con-
sidered by many to be the best part of the show.
I usually have no interest at all in music and so
for me to notice it must truly be exceptional. The
songs used are fast paced, fun and really fit the
show, with the closing theme being particularly
good.
This is the very good series. While it might take
one or two episodes to get accustomed to the its
surreal and silly nature if you stick with it you’re
sure to be rewarded. At six episodes it’s also very
short, so there’s really no excuse for not seeing it.
An extraterrestial plan to destroy Earth
Buffy – a cultural phenomenon
TELEVISION
@LuciaPodhorska
reviewing my absolute favour-
ite TV show of all time for the
1500th issue of the Felix =
PRESSURE!!
@rimmer152
‘prostitutes are rough in Am-
sterdam, one of ‘em got me to
wash my old man in the sink’
‘you took your dad?’
@FelixTelevision
@TheNatFantastic I think
you are posher than a Posh
Cheddar Cheese and Pickle
Baguette, but are in denial,
because you don’t like sand-
wiches
@TheNatFantastic
Can’t help but think that posh
boys are having a go because
I’ve committed the cardinal sin
of Being In Possession Of An
Opinion & A Vagina.
“A vampire in love with a Slayer! It’s
rather poetic...in a maudlin way”
Lucia Podhorska
Maciej Matuszewski
(I don’t suppose you’ll have a couple more TV-re-
lated tweets in the future? – Ed)

