Like Crazy
Pros: This year’s Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival, this re-
freshingly honest modern Romeo and Juliet adaptation (this time the couple
is separated by immigration laws, as an English student is not allowed into
the States) is touching and mature, much like the impressive performances
its leads give.
Cons: It’s a teen love story, and there is nothing so dramatic and impactful
that would quality this for serious consideration. Sure it’s sweet, often heart-
breaking and an accurate depiction of long-term, long-distance relationships,
but it’s too low-key to be a massive hit.
FILM
FELIX
44
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
The Ides of March
Pros: Who doesn’t love a solid, controversial political thriller full of schemes
and duplicitous characters? Backed by an all-round ensemble cast, George
Clooney’s latest directorial effort is a gripping one, despite familiar themes.
Cons: It’s not ground-breaking or distinctive enough, which will be trouble if
stronger candidates appear later in the year.
The Help
Pros: A film that took America by surprise (the box-office receipts stand at
$170 million, against its modest $25 million budget), the well-acted, stirring
and surprisingly hilarious portrayal of African-American maids in 1960s Mis-
sissippi was an instant hit with the audience, turning into the most feel-good,
crowd-pleaser of year.
Cons: The general public embraced it, but several critics remain sceptical.
Too much detail is glossed over, and for the serious subject matter that still
stands to be a controversial issue even to this day, the light-hearted approach
and several clichéd characterisations weren’t so well received.
Hugo
Pros: Directed by Martin Scorsese – enough said.
Cons: It would appear Scorsese has sold out to the 3D craze. Now we need
someone like Woody Allen to convert his films into 3D to know for sure that
this extra dimension is here to stay. But seriously, Hugo is a major departure
of genre from the man who gave us some classics such as Goodfellas, Raging
Bull, and Taxi Driver. Instead, Hugo is a kid’s adventure film full of visual
effects. It’s a tough genre to compete with in the Oscars, and Scorsese really
needs to break some new ground to be even considered.
We Bought a Zoo
Pros: Despite its odd title, there is a reason why Cameron Crowe’s latest is
in the running. Matt Damon lands a strong role as a single father trying to
raise his two distant children whilst keeping up with his household work that
includes looking after a zoo. And the theme of an inexperienced father recon-
necting with his children whilst finding new love (Scarlett Johansson, that
lucky bastard) is a formula that has gone down well in the past.
Cons: It looks like a good Christmas film for the whole family, which means
the Oscars may not quite warm to it come decision time. After all, family
friendly films hardly ever manage to win.
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
Pros: How we deal with grief is a popular theme during the Oscar season.
A young boy (Thomas Horn) loses his father (Tom Hanks) on 9/11 and he
must rebuild his life with his mother (Sandra Bullock). It’s an uplifting story,
backed by a range of fantastic supporting actors, with Bullock already gener-
ating awards buzz for her performance.
Cons: Is the world ready to be reminded of the 9/11 tragedy? Watching the
terrorist act recreated on screen is quite another experience to go through
altogether. And a lot hangs in the balance of newcomer Horn. If he screws up,
the rest of the film can forget about winning any awards.
Moneyball
Pros: Uplifting sports dramas are always popular with the Academy and
Moneyball is no different from many of its genre greats. A lone baseball
coach (Brad Pitt) tries to achieve the impossible with his sinking team, whilst
those around him think he’s crazy. Heard this somewhere before? Yes, this is
how every single sports coach-related sports film’s plotline reads.
Cons: Shown all across America in late September, Moneyball was given
its wide release a little too early to be considered seriously as a front-runner.
Most strong pictures are kept in the dark until late November to December.
Will the voters remember the film in January 2012? Only time will tell.
Young Adult
Pros: Jason Reitman is reunited with screenwriter Diablo Cody, and the duo
who made the excellent, charming Juno have produced Young Adult. Charlize
Theron is surprisingly good at pulling off a funny bitch, although an emo-
tional punch towards the end is more than guaranteed with a group as good
as this.
Cons: Is this too light-hearted for the Academy? Also, comparisons between
Juno will be the film’s biggest downfall.
Academy
Award
Anticipation
The Film Editors look ahead
to potential 2012 Oscar Best
Film nominations...
Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy
Pros: Already being hailed as the best British film of the year, Tomas Alfred-
son’s smart spy thriller is truly one of a kind, with an award-worthy turn from
the usually highly underrated Gary Oldman.
Cons: It’s not your usual, explosive spy thriller, but a more slow-burning
one that requires concentration and patience. However, this must be a small
drawback for sure.
Carnage
Pros: All four leads are incredible in their portrayals of such fascinating char-
acters. Based on an award-winning play, Roman Polanski recreates this inti-
mate and explosive dramatic feature with confidence and a cracking script.
Cons: Relying on its actors who stay in one apartment throughout the entire
film, there is no denying that this doesn’t quite have the grandeur most Best
Picture winners have.
50/50
Pros: An uplifting tale of friendship, love and survival, this tale of a young
man diagnosed with a rare form of spinal cancer was a hysterical surprise.
Written by a first-time screenwriter, Will Reisner’s screenplay has that clever
balance of humour and genuinely heart-wrenching moments.
Cons: It’s pleasant enough viewing, but is it too sugary sweet for the Acad-
emy’s tastes?

