FILM
FELIX Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011 45
The Descendants
Pros: George Clooney is on his career-best form as a clueless father try-
ing to connect with his daughters after an unfortunate accident leaves
his wife in a coma. As a family drama, The Descendants adds much wit
as well as genuinely heart-warming scenes. Director Alexander Payne’s
previous works About Schmidt and Sideways were both heavily praised.
Cons: If you love Payne, then it’s easy to keep loving him. But if his
low-key, subtle humour isn’t to your liking, Payne isn’t someone who
will change. He is unique, but that means he has his share of critics who
aren’t fans of his work.
J.Edgar
Pros: Directed by Clint Eastwood, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, this film
has Oscars written all over it. Based on the compelling true story of the
controversial man who ran the FBI utilising several questionable methods
in the name of justice, the plot itself couldn’t be more exciting. Plus, Di-
Caprio has been tapped for months to be the front-runner for Best Actor.
Cons: When there is this much hype resting on one film, if there is even
one single misstep, there will be cries of disappointment from audience
members who were expecting great things.
Midnight in Paris
Pros: Critics hailed the return to form of Woody Allen, with his newest
romantic comedy set in the French capital. The nostalgic, easy-going,
pleasantly-paced journey was one of this year’s most romantic, embrac-
ing films, and Allen (acting as both director and writer) certainly deserves
a lot of credit for that.
Cons: Allen’s films haven’t made the Best Picture list in decades. It
would take an all-out masterpiece to break this curse, but is Midnight in
Paris that film? Probably not.
The Iron Lady
Pros: Starring Meryl Streep playing a strong, determined, independent,
much celebrated real-life woman (Margaret Thatcher), you would have to
seriously screw it up to not get any awards buzz around this. This could
well turn into this year’s The Queen, given how it’s expected that Streep
scores her ridiculously overdue third Oscar with this one.
Cons: The Iron Lady has been absent from all the major festival circuits
this year (Venice, Toronto, London, New York), making us slightly wor-
ried about the studio’s faith in the film.
My Week with Marilyn
Pros: Michelle Williams’ uncanny resemblance and remarkably close
portrayal of Marilyn Monroe is already generating strong buzz. With a
supporting cast including some of Britain’s finest (the legendary Kenneth
Branagh, national treasure Judi Dench, Derek Jacobi, Dominic Cooper,
Emma Watson and UK’s rapid rising star Eddie Redmayne), My Week
with Marilyn certainly shows promise as a fun autobiographical romp.
Cons: Initial reviews have been mixed, with several reviewers accusing
the film of being nothing more than a shameless Oscar vehicle for Wil-
liams. Aside from Williams’ masterful performance, the rest of the film
has been described as “flimsy” and only “sporadically entertaining.”
Take Shelter
Pros: A haunting disaster film showing, more often than not, that great
performances can terrify you more than tons of computer graphics. Take
Shelter is certainly one of the more deserving candidates in the race. Fea-
turing Michael Shannon on his most magnetic form as a family man who
is plagued with visions of the apocalypse, this carefully nuanced, themati-
cally brilliant film is an unforgettably intense ride.
Cons: Being a disaster film it is no doubt a massive downer, which will
heavily affect its box-office intake. Very few people might end up seeing
this, and will struggle to build momentum all the way towards February.
War Horse
Pros: Based on a Tony Award winning play, directed by Steven Spielberg
– no film comes with a bigger package than this. Even without starring
any internationally acclaimed actors, this has enough going for it to gen-
erate sufficient buzz.
Cons: A lot is riding (no pun intended) on the newcomer Jeremy Irvine,
who nabbed the leading role after beating many more well-known British
talents. He has the heavy task of single-handedly selling the film, which
is tough, especially for a Spielberg film that is bound to be a grand spec-
tacle.
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
Pros: Based on the massively successful trilogy of books that spawned
three huge films, this has the advantage of having a rock-solid material to
work from. David Fincher (Se7en, Fight Club) is certainly someone who
can turn this into the thriller of the decade.
Cons: The pressure is on, and the audience won’t be so kind when com-
paring every single aspect of the book, and the original film, to this one.
Remakes are never popular to begin with, and this could work as a major
disadvantage.
The Artist
Pros: Ever since its debut at Cannes, reviews have been staggering, prais-
ing Jean Dujardin’s performance, as well as its magical technical accom-
plishments. ‘Utterly delightful’ and ‘wonderfully inventive’ are some of
the terms that have been used to describe the artistic mastery.
Cons: It’s been a while since a foreign language film landed a Best Pic-
ture nomination. To make matters worse, this is a black-and-white silent
film. Will the Academy go for something so old-fashioned?
Shame
Pros: Michael Fassbender gives a compelling performance as he bares
all (both physically and mentally) to play a successful single male strug-
gling with sex addiction. It’s a tricky subject matter, but paired again with
Hunger director Steve McQueen, Shame is one of this year’s most pro-
vocative pictures, one that commands your attention.
Cons: Slapped on with an NC-17 rating, the highest age restriction that
can be placed, this will prevent a whole lot of people from watching. The
subject matter of sex addiction, as well as its numerous explicit scenes, is
not a great selling point, which will make it hard for the studio to generate
an effective campaign.
Drive
Pros: This was the surprise critical hit of this year – making a nice mix of
arty cinema and brutal action. Sure, for that idiot who was expecting Fast
& Furious and eventually sued, Drive was not the film for her, but that
shouldn’t stop the rest of us from enjoying its powerful visual style, Ryan
Gosling’s remarkable performance and some kick-ass action.
Cons: Too mainstream for the Oscars? But not mainstream enough to
count on its popularity to score a Best Picture nomination. The box-office
returns have been relatively disappointing, without lasting effect.
Albert Nobbs
Pros: Playing a woman who dresses up as a man to work as a butler
in 19th Century Ireland, the five-time Oscar nominated Glenn Close is
simply incredible and is definitely one of the front-runners for the Best
Actress award. There is also plenty of warmth and touching scenes gener-
ated as Close begins to fall for a young woman.
Cons: Critics are pointing out how this period piece is nothing more than
a ploy to get Close that Oscar. It has also been mentioned that Close
doesn’t look enough like a man to have hidden her secret for so long.

