Melancholia
Pros: Kirsten Dunst was awarded the Best Actress Award at Cannes
this year, and Lars von Trier’s stylish look at the end of the world is
a sensational, thrilling ride, even with its long running time. Dunst
and Charlotte Gainsbourg are both outstanding in their roles, and
von Trier’s usual invasive, perceptive direction is, as always, breath-
taking.
Cons: von Trier is famous for attracting controversy and this cannot
work as a positive factor. And like most von Trier films, critics were
polarised in their opinions, which will do the same to the voters.
It’s a demanding picture, and therefore will create problems to make
some real enthusiasts.
The Tree of Life
Pros: Already awarded the top gong at the Cannes Film Festival,
Terrence Malick’s carefully directed, visually impressive film was
one of the most critically praised films of the year. It also managed to
secure more than adequate business for an art-house film, even over
the summer when it faced stiff competition from popular superhero
films.
Cons: Malick isn’t everyone’s cup of tea, as evidence by his 1999
defeat with The Thin Red Line to a much inferior Saving Private
Ryan. Being a press-shy director, any promotional work will have to
come from its cast and producers which might not be enough.
A Dangerous Method
Pros: A fascinating account of how two of the greatest minds in
the 20th Century gave birth to psychoanalysis, David Cronenberg’s
highly sensual biopic drama is as intense as it is entertaining, with
three leads giving it all in their challenging roles. Michael Fassbend-
er gives yet another fantastic performance as Sigmund Freud, and
Viggo Mortensen, in his third collaboration with Cronenberg, may
score a second Oscar nomination under the same director, with his
strong, balanced supporting turn as Carl Jung.
Cons: Psychosexual dramas are hard to advertise for, despite the im-
pressive, loud, dramatic trailer that has already been released, the
subject matter in itself, will be immediately repulsive to many.
We Need to Talk About Kevin
Pros: With critics worldwide praising its lead actress Tilda Swin-
ton, this dark and twisted family drama is one to watch. Already a
Best Picture winner at the BFI London Film Festival, if this positive
momentum keeps going, it could well end up in the final few films
running for this year’s top prize.
Cons: Oddly, many of Swinton’s films are brushed off during awards
seasons, no matter what kind of a brave performance she wonder-
fully tackles. Most notable was last year’s I Am Love, that was com-
pletely ignored. Her choice in films is unusual for sure, and perhaps
the boundless unique twists her films present are too much to handle.
Warrior
Pros: Triumphant boxing dramas are always an Academy favourite.
Throw in some sibling rivalry and a monstrous parent then you’ve
got last year’s The Fighter, that made the top ten. What you also get
with that same formula (except without boxing, this time it’s mixed
martial arts) is Warrior, a powerful, stirring sports drama. Sure it had
its share of clichés, but word is, everyone loved the final showdown
between the two brothers.
Cons: It’s too obvious as a choice, which may act against the film.
Tom Hardy and Joel Edgerton are no Christian Bale and Mark Wahl-
berg. Whereas Nick Nolte may not be as hot a favourite as Melissa
Leo was. It looks like a watered down version of The Fighter in
terms of quality, which is why this may not make the cut.
Coriolanus
Pros: Ever since it premiered at the Berlin Film Festival in February,
Ralph Fiennes’ directorial debut was met with praise, particularly for
adapting one of the Shakespeare’s less well-known plays and making it
accessible to the audience with guns, no less. The critics are also loving
Vanessa Redgrave’s role as Volumnia, the ambitious, ruthless mother of
Coriolanus.
Cons: The film has been around for a while, and now the only substan-
tial buzz that still exists is around Redgrave, with no mention of how the
film itself will play out in bigger awards. So will the studio invest time
and money in backing the film? Probably not, and instead will focus on
Redgrave.
The Deep Blue Sea
Pros: Terrence Davis returns to direct once more and the British veteran
director adapts Terrence Rattigan’s play about love, its complications
and the concept of life and death. It’s a small, yet highly dense film
with emotions flying high as the love triangle between a woman (Rachel
Weisz), her older husband (Simon Russell Beale), and her young lover
(Tom Hiddleston) starts to reach its climax. Weisz gives a finely tuned
performance, whilst the two males she acts against provide firm support.
Cons: It’s slow, highly depressing and despite the phenomenal cast’s
sturdy effort, the film doesn’t quite have the emotional pay-off we were
all anticipating during its lengthy set-up. It may be too subtle to abso-
lutely grasp everyone’s attention, with the gloomy atmosphere not help-
ing with its advertising.
The Adventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn
Pros: Another highly-anticipated Steven Spielberg film out this year,
this time a fun, family adventure aimed for a large Christmas audience.
Spielberg gave birth to Indiana Jones and Peter Jackson acting as the
film’s producer is a great sign. It features some state of the art computer
graphics as well as exhilarating action scenes that serve perfectly as
end-of-year treat for families worldwide.
Cons: Faces the same problem Martin Scorsese’s “Hugo” does. Films
like this don’t usually get acknowledged in the Best Picture category,
and will probably stand a better chance in Best Animated Film.
Contagion
Pros: With a promising director, an array of stars, and a tightly plotted
script, Steven Soderbergh presents one heck of a realistic, get-under-
your-skin disaster film that clings on to you with plenty to feel afraid
about. It’s a chilling, effective disaster film, with a remarkably consis-
tent director who knows how to keep the tension running.
Cons: It’s just hard to imagine a semi-blockbuster such as this one being
considered. Well respected for its many surprises given its often strug-
gling and predictable sub-genre, but was it loved enough to go far in this
race? Very unlikely.
Rampart
Pros: It was recently announced that Woody Harrelson’s latest corrupt
cop drama would get a limited late November release in North America,
presumably leading up to the awards season. This is great news, since
this unique, daring tale of a policeman struggling to find peace at his
job and home, as well as Harrelson’s powerhouse performance need to
be seen.
Cons: Virtually unknown until quite literally a few days ago, the film
needs to make one heck of an impact to break in. There is hardly any
hype surrounding this as of now, no matter how much of a diverse, ver-
satile career Harrelson has had over the years.
Honourable mentions: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2,
Beginners, The Lady, Margin Call, Anonymous, Super 8, Jane Eyre
FILM
FELIX
46
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011

