FASHION
FELIX
48
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
Fashion through the decades, t
Saskia Verhagen and Alice Yang take a look back through fashion history as they reca
“In 1947, my first collection was successful beyond
my wildest dreams,” remarked Christian Dior after
he showcased a catwalk so revolutionary that it not
only defined the 40s by majorly changing the way
women dressed, but is still constantly referred to
on catwalks today. In just one show Dior had sin-
glehandedly created a ‘New Look’, with sweeping
skirts filled with netting that hovered at mid calf
topped with moulded bodices that accentuated the
bust, all pulled together with a tiny wasp waist and
elegant satin gloves. It was a completely new shape
that was all at once voluptuous and feminine, mark-
ing the start of a new war free life and giving hope
to luxury and the return to traditional values. -AY
Iconic: Dior’s ‘New Look’
Flawlessly polished and effortlessly elegant, To
Catch A Thief was the epitome of 50s glamour and
sophistication. Cary Grant plays an ex-notorious
jewel thief in immaculately fitted suits; dapper
sports jackets and sleek tuxedos, whilst Grace Kel-
ly’s wardrobe is beyond perfection, having been de-
signed by the acclaimed stylist Edith Head. Kelly’s
flowing white floor-length dress has now become
a timeless wardrobe staple for the affluently styl-
ish around the globe, and her ice blue chiffon gown
with a transparent scarf flung oh-so-casually around
her shoulders had rich American heiress nailed in a
single shot. If you’re ever lacking style inspiration,
To Catch A Thief is your go-to film. -AY
Iconic: To Catch A Thief
It’s not as much the shape or length of the poodle
skirt which emerged in the 50s as the ‘casual skirt’
that makes it so appalling, more so it is how literal the
poodle skirt was. The fashion world is one that appre-
ciates the art of subtlety, yet the poodle skirt is quite
literally a skirt, with a poodle on it. Worn as everyday
casual wear, starting in America, the poodle skirt took
a new generation of young girls and plumped them
into large swinging bold coloured felt skirts and ankle
length white socks, slowly pushing out the elegance
and sophistication of the decade. Admittedly, the
skirts gave the impression of a tiny waist, but they
were often worn with shirts and matching neckties,
something few others bar Olivia Newton John and Co
could pull off, and even then, the ‘Grease’ cast at
least had the sense to their poodle-free. -AY
Horrific: Poodle Skirts
A bad fashion statement from America? How unsur-
prising. The Jazz Age, undeniably produced some
legendary music, but unfortunately this came with
the popularisation of the Zoot Suit. The name in
itself already says a lot, but for a more visual de-
scription, imagine Simon Cowell with his trousers
belted at the waist, combined with those old school
scallys that wore socks over their trackies, and you
just about have the picture. The Zoot Suit: High-
waisted trousers with buffering wide legs pegged at
the ankles – male harem pants gone terribly wrong,
matched with long shapeless coats with wide pad-
ded shoulders. A truly ghastly look, how did anyone
ever think they could pull it off? -AY
Horrific: Zoot Suits
1
9
4
0
s
1
9
5
0
s
1
9
6
0
s
If ever there was a cinematic fashion moment in
history that made it into the record books, it would
be a certain Miss Holly Golightly in her little black
Givenchy dress, pearls and opera gloves, sipping
a coffee and munching a croissant outside the Tif-
fany’s flagship in New York in the opening credits of
Breakfast At Tiffany’s. The black dress (whose iconic
status is secured in place by its very own Wikipedia
entry) sold for £467,200 at Christie’s auctioneers
in London in 2006, to an anonymous phone bidder
who, no doubt, was intent on recreating the moment
herself. -SV
Iconic: Breakfast at
Tiffany’s
Maybe it was that potent cocktail of home-brewed
beer, pot, LSD and unwashed hair that set into
place a movement that popularised such an ob-
scenity as the tie-dye t-shirt. Emerging in the
1960s along with some of the all-time greatest mu-
sic ever composed, somehow the level of creativity
didn’t quite translate to those who listened to it.
Those who considered themselves hippies thought
themselves better than basic hygiene, good taste,
shoes and bras. And so came the tie-dye t-shirt:
a psychedelic concoction of every colour in the
rainbow on what once was a perfectly good white
t-shirt. -SV
Horrific: Tie-dye

