FASHION
FELIX Friday 04 november 2011 49
the good and the bad
ap the looks and icons of the past 62 years
,
1
9
7
0
s
A moment that continues to inspire the likes of
Kate Moss, Rachel Zoe and Carine Roitfeld was
the rock’n’roll glamour of the 1970s. Mick and Bi-
anca Jagger (pictured), one power-couples of the
era (along with Jane Birkin and Serge Gainsbourg,
and Andy Warhol and his wig) advocated the look
du jour, at once both nonchalant and immaculately
put together. Such textures as denim, leather, fur,
silk and lace were combined with perfect élan. The
look was characterised by a heavy dose of acces-
sories – bug-eyed sunglasses, piles of jewellery –
sound familiar? -SV
ABBA. The word alone is enough to conjure a night-
mare of horrible euro-disco-pop music and primary-
coloured, sparkling all-in-ones - the likes of which
have now been relegated to the confines of the
Strictly Come Dancing wardrobe department. Too
many rhinestones, too many metallic touches, and
way too much hair. Add to that nauseating picture
a pair of knee-high matching platform boots and
you’ve just about got everything that was horri-
ble about the number one Swedish export of the
1970s. Though the flared trouser silhouette has
made it into Autumn/Winter 2011, thankfully those
men’s all-in-ones have remained staunchly in the
1970s. -SV
Horrific: ABBA
Iconic: Glamorous
Rock’n’Roll
1
9
8
0
s
As much the King of Pop as a genius of style, Mi-
chael Jackson re-invented his look in the 80s re-
sulting in a slimmer silhouette with a daring dash
of added colour. The release of ‘Thriller’ in his fa-
miliar red jacket with sharply sculpted shoulders
followed by the crystal-encrusted orange leather
jacket embellished with zippers that appeared in
‘Beat It’, brought to the fashion world a theatrical
look that is still envied today. Dazzling sequins,
single white gloves and tipped trilbies, along with
cropped pants worn over bright white socks and
black loafers were so highly integrated by MJ
that they have become as iconic as his legendary
moonwalk. -AY
There’s no denying that Madonna has had some
defining fashion moments throughout her never-
ending career, however, the 80s were definitely not
her peak. Over gelled, unnaturally orange, and with
probably a few too many cans of hairspray, Madon-
na’s 80s hair do was, in all honesty, horrendous.
In her youth, she experimented with the punk rock
look, but unfortunately, it just wasn’t meant to be.
Wrists overloaded with spikes, oversized hideous
crosses pulling down her ears, a black stud pierc-
ing over her lip, and a braided dreadlocks matching
fishnet tops and far too much flesh on show, Ma-
donna’s 80s look was anything but her lucky star.
-AY
Horrific: Madonna
Iconic: Michael Jackson
1
9
9
0
s
Long before the days of Arizona Muse, Abbey Lee
Kershaw and Freja Beha Erichsen, even before the
days of Kate Moss, there once lived the original su-
permodels, the ones that took the phenomenon of
the model off the catwalk, and into the household.
Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista, Christy Turl-
ington, Tatjana Patitz, Cindy Crawford – bright-eyed
and beautiful in the iconic Peter Lindbergh pho-
tograph taken for British Vogue in January 1990.
These women, along with Helena Christensen,
Claudia Schiffer, Gisele Bündchen, Heidi Klum et al
became the iconic faces that launched a thousand
brands. -SV
Let’s just make one thing clear: Clueless is one
of the all-time greatest movies made, ever. Ever.
And even though the fashion moments exhibited
through the movie are truthful, that does not make
them any less heinous. First we have Cher and Di-
onne, in their head-to-toe matching mini-sweater
mini-skirt ensembles. Then we have Dionne’s boy-
friend Murray in classic 90s grunge, a full view of
plaid boxers on show under low-slung denim cargo
jeans. And lastly, a very youthful Paul Rudd as Josh
(the love interest – um, DUH) as the slogan tee’d,
politically righteous hipster of the 90s. Cliques,
fashion, whatever. -SV
Horrific: Clueless
Iconic: The Original
Supermodels

