GAMES
‘When this baby reaches 88
miles per hour...’
With Felix celebrating its 1500th issue it’s time to pull out all the stops. With a com-
bination of persuasive power, begging and bribery we’ve managed to get together
threeofGamingsection’sbiggestwriterstotalkaboutvideogamingthroughtheages,
as well as what they think the future holds in store when Felix 2000 rolls around...
FELIX
50 Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s June 1978, and Felix is celebrating its 500th
issue being printed. Meanwhile, on the other side
of the world, Japanese arcades are playing host to
a videogame that will become a monument in the
genealogy of the medium – Space Invaders has just
been released by Taito. Itself an evolution of the
popular Breakout arcade machines, Space Invad-
ers used popular sci-fi themes (the first Star Wars
film had been released only a year earlier) and the
combination proved a hit with players, to the point
where there was a temporary shortage of 100 Yen
coins in Japan shortly after its release.
In a far more muted debut, Nakamura Manufac-
turing Ltd. rename themselves to Namco and re-
lease their first game under the new name – Gee
Bee. It receives a mixed response compared to
Space Invaders, but in less than two years Namco
will release Pac-Man, ensuring their place in the
next three decades of the games industry.
In the US, a small group of MIT students are
hard at work on one of the first interactive fiction
titles ever. The first version of their game, Zork,
had been finished in 1977 a year earlier, but it will
take the four-man team another year to finish the
game off completely. It would go on to found a
huge genre (now sadly relegated to niche commu-
nities by and large) that would lead into adventure
games, point-and-click puzzlers and a half-dozen
more sub-genres, as well as inspiring a generation
of writers and designers to work with videogames.
In terms of hardware, the revolution brought by
the Atari 2600 the previous year is still the big talk-
ing point. The machine was one of the first home
consoles to use microprocessors in a big way, as
well as popularising the cartridge as a means to
contain and sell game data. In 1978, the machine
was still known as the ‘Video Computer System’
and came bundled with Atari’s Combat. It wasn’t
much, but the console would become so wide-
spread and popular that Atari would become a
word describing a games console in some parts of
the world for most of the next decade.
The 2600 cost $199 on release – expensive, but
cheap in comparison to similar machines released be-
fore it. This was a time when 8 kilobytes of external
memory was considered so extravagant thatAtari lim-
ited their hardware to just half that. RAM for the entire
system was just 128 bytes, mostly because of a fierce
push towards small system sizes and limited resource
use. But the results paid off – the console was acces-
sible, and once Atari had established themselves with
hits like Pac-Man the 2600’s position was secured.
The industry is a strange place in the late sev-
enties. Home consoles are beginning to take cen-
tre stage from the arcade cabinets, and hardware
is slowly beginning to climb the slope of afford-
ability versus power that would lead to explosions
in popularity around the time of the NES and,
later, the PlayStation. In the same length of time
between the launch of World of Warcraft and the
present day, gaming went from consoles like the
2600 (whose hardware duplicated the left and right
sides of the screen to enable simple arcade games
like Pong) to the release of Super Mario Bros. in
1985. While we’ve certainly seen similar leaps in
gaming since World of Warcraft (OnLive being of
particular note, perhaps) the technological leaps
and bounds being made in the late seventies are
unimaginable to the gamers of today.
This is the most exciting annual review we’ve
ever written at Felix Games! Not only are we be-
ginning the brand-spanking-new year of 1995, but
we seem to be entering into nothing short of a new
era of videogame history. Both Sega and Sony
have now unleashed unto Japan their state of the
art CD-based consoles, whilst Nintendo is still
keeping its cards close to its chest. Whether or
not the Ultra 64’s software cartridges prove stur-
dy enough to withstand the laser-read edge of the
new console CD-format is unimportant; the battle
for console supremacy is going to be a spectacular
show whatever the result. We wouldn’t normally
bet on the newcomer Sony and its PlayStation,
but the reports from Japan of Tekken’s smooth
3D graphics sound almost too good to be true. We
only wish there was a way for us to see it in mo-
tion sooner.
Felix Issue 500: 1978
Michael Cook
This stuff’s so retro even hipsters don’t know what that console is
Felix Issue 1000: 1994
Omar Hafeez-Bore
But all this talk of the future has distracted us
from the past highlights of the gaming year. Our fa-
vourite speed running blue hedgehog (as opposed
to the tyre-flattened brown variety we get over
here) got his second sequel and proved once again
that other platform heroes are still choking on the
dust of Sonic’s breakneck blockbuster gameplay.
Nintendo’s star effort this year was the more sedate
but no less engrossing Super Metroid, which blew
us away with its atmosphere and masterful world
design.
But the two Japanese giants had stiff competition
from the west, with even the Macintosh computer
getting a look in with an impressive debut title
from Bungie called Marathon, a FPS with some
interesting innovations that made Bungie one to
watch. Over in Texas, id Games released the ter-
rifying Doom II, once again turning PC screens
everywhere into portals into Hell.
But Hell is a far cry from the lush green fields of
England, which has proven itself a fertile ground
for home-grown game developers. Chelsmford’s
Sensible Software graced the Amiga with the fan-
tastic Sensible World of Soccer, whilst over in
Twycross Rare gave arcade gamers everywhere
the brutal Killer Instinct, before proving itself a
worthy risk for Nintendo by taking its Donkey
Kong licence and producing one of the best look-
ing games we’ve ever seen; Donkey Kong Coun-
try.
Alongside these advances there was also some
loss, as Tennis for Two creator William Higinbo-
tham passed away. His little beams of bouncing
light were the first glimmers of the giant video-
game industry that exists today. He couldn’t pre-
dict how important a part of entertainment history
his oscilloscope experiment would prove to be,
any more than we can predict the future of this new
gaming era. But we’d like to think that he may look
with as much wonder as we do, at how diverse and
exciting gaming has become today.
Here’s to 1995 folks, and the future of our won-
derful hobby.
Ahh, back when gaming was good and I
wasn’t a cynical husk of a human being
You wouldn’t have thought it possible to
suffer from a nostalgia-induced hernia

