GAMES
Felix Issue 1500: 2011
Simon Worthington
The landscape of gaming has changed a lot since
the good old days of the Nintendo 64 and the origi-
nal PlayStation. Gaming is more popular now than
its ever been, with the concept of someone defining
themself as a “gamer” becoming as superfluous as
people who likes books calling themselves “read-
ers”. Through the numerous inventions and inno-
vations to gaming technology that pervade the cur-
rent generation of consoles and games, the medium
of video games has been opened up to more people
than ever thought possible.
One movement that the 2000’s will probably be
remembered for is the rise of the casual gamer.
The start of the decade saw web games become
the procrastination activity of choice for many,
and the world was shocked and awed by quite how
addictive virtual cricket with stickmen could be.
By the end of the Noughties, with every man and
his dog having a Facebook profile, it was only a
matter of time before Facebook games got your
mum ploughing virtual fields on her virtual farm
and your gran serving virtual food in her virtual
restaurant. But, like cannabis eventually leads to
cocaine, casual games eventually get less and less
casual until suddenly your mum is screaming down
the microphone whilst playing Call of Duty. Casual
games, as well as providing genuine merriment for
gamers and non-gamers alike, also serve to intro-
duce people to the medium of gaming.
Game developers are always in search of new
ways of providing a fresh gaming experience, and
at the bleeding edge of gaming technology lies 3D.
Cinemas have been pushing 3D as the next big thing
for many years, but with the advent of 3D televisions,
the prospect of the technology being shoehorned into
games is finally something being considered. Some
games like Killzone 3 have been the first to feature
3D graphics support, and the recently released Nin-
tendo 3DS is famously the first handheld console to
support glasses-free 3D. If the new technology can
really improve anything is a dubious issue, but as
corporations seem insistent on persuading us to hand
over more money to upgrade our kit, it looks like for
the immediate future 3D is here to stay.
Another innovation that is very much in its in-
fancy is the “gaming-as-a-service” model, which
you might more readily recognise as “OnLive”.
This service, which is the first of its kind to experi-
ence a mainstream release, takes the game out of
your computer and onto the Internet. It’s the gam-
ing equivalent of robotic surgery – all the keyboard
buttons you press or mouse movements you make
(or even analogue sticks you rotate – OnLive is
available as a stand-alone console) are sent to On-
In the far future the feature I'm looking forward
to the most is virtual reality, but there are still lots
of improvements I can't wait to see in the next 15
years or so.
Firstly, as computers get more like mobiles and
mobiles get more like computers, we’ll start to see
the blurring of the boundary between the mobile
and PC gaming as well. Soon, we’ll be able to
pause our PC game, pick up our mobile tablet and
continue playing the same game on the move. With
services like OnLive pioneering in this area it won't
be too long before this idea becomes a reality.
Speaking of reality, improvements in 3D detec-
tion algorithms and hardware will bring about
the latest generation of augmented reality games.
They’ll do much more than just fill a space with a
box, they'll be able to understand the 3D environ-
ment they are in and interact with it in novel ways.
There is actually research being carried out at Im-
perial that is investigating this very area, and hope-
fully it will lead to games that use the environment
around the player much more. Imagine Counter-
Strike played throughout your house!
More Imperial research is also helping to push
forward what is possible for character interaction in
games.As computers better understand our meaning
and emotions so too will the way we interact with
stories and people in video games. Soon, we won’t
be pushing buttons to choose pre-scripted conver-
sation options but we’ll instead be conversing with
characters naturally through speech and facial ex-
pression, as if we were having a real conversation.
All this helps to make games more immersive,
and while we are a long way off from virtual real-
ity and total immersion, it looks like the boundaries
of realism will slowly edge towards it over years
to come!
Felix Games has changed a lot since its inception.
We know this because for our round-up of the year
2027 we took a look at old issues of the Felix to
play a bit of spot the difference.
But we soon lost count. The first thing we no-
ticed is how deep into the paper (we know! quaint,
right?) we had to dig before getting to the games
section itself. The second is the talk of using differ-
ent ‘consoles’ for different games, akin it seems to
having a different television for different channels.
But the most notable difference is that Felix
Games is pretty much limited to, well, games. As
in playthings, toys, virtual escapes, button-pow-
ered stories or – in a word – entertainment.
How far we’ve come: nowadays gaming devices
are an integral part of our modern life, acting as the
foundation for learning of every kind. The primary-
coloured make-believe of the Guitar Heroes and
Rockbands of old are unthinkable in a world in which
nearly every child learns to play using digital instru-
ments and its associated training programme (not to
mention the most inexplicably popular and insuffer-
ably annoying mascot of all the government’s Skill-
set Schemes: Harmony the Hamster). Similarly the
tongue-in-cheek appraisal of an early Cooking Mama
game looks a little naïve now that the Japanese mega-
brand is now the international standard for cooking
training, and whose all-speaking-measuring-and-ad-
vising digital utensils can now teach everything from
Indian Curry to Jamaican Chilli Sauce. And we’d
rather chat to Cooking Mama over Harmony the un-
road-killable hamster any day.
In a world where jobs are given based on skill-
set points from completed Skillset Schemes, where
even dating matches are made using a comparison
of compatibility of Personal Interest points, where
any car can be turned to Sim-mode and replicate
the bucking and judders of real racing from the
comfort of one’s garage, it is hard to imagine a
time when scores and levels, friend-challenges and
international Cooking Mama tournaments were not
part of the background hum of life.
In fact, it was reading through the old issues that
first made us realise that a little something may
have been lost along the way. We are not saying
that we here at Felix don’t like the ability to go
outside with our iVisors and learn about the differ-
ence between nimbus and cumulus clouds before
competing with our friends at differentiating them,
or wear the visors in select National Parks where
we can experience our own Nintendo-designed
Zelda adventures to find hulking beasts born from
apple’s magnificent glasses. Nor are we even argu-
ing against the more left-field devices such as the
DelayGasm digital condom which trains unfortu-
nate men to, well, you know (see our anonymously
written import review last week).
But reading the old accounts, of curling up with
a pad and playing through games using only our
suspension of disbelief, it is hard not to feel some
nostalgia for this old time of simple escapism. Of us-
ing rudimentary graphics and gameplay as a prompt
for unlimited, indescribable mental adventures.
And of sometimes not wanting to have our points
tallied up and our friend’s Skillset Rank compared.
Just playing for the sake of play, to share stories and
not leader boards. Like toys, virtual escapes, button-
powered stories or – in a word – entertainment.
Here’s to 2028 folks, and everything games have
been and can be.
It’s hard to look at where we came from and try
to assess where we might be in even a few years
time. How impossible something like OnLive
might have seemed before the Internet was even a
possibility makes it hard to guess at what technolo-
gies might pop out of nowhere in the next decade.
Despite this, there seem to be a few things going on
in the industry that we’ll look back on in years to
come as a sign of impending change.
When Felix 2000 comes around, console manu-
facturers will probably either have finally opened
up their platforms, or died a death to the likes of
OnLive. We’re already seeing waves of this – the
PlanetSide remake simply isn’t feasible on Xbox
LIVE thanks to hardware and infrastructure restric-
tions, and even things like Portal 2’s free updates
or CCP’s forthcoming DUST are only just about
possible on the PlayStation 3 – and that’s after
some pretty major concessions from Sony.
Platforms will open up because they have to –
with the possible exception of Facebook, the games
industry of 2027 will hopefully look a lot more like
the PC industry today. Full of vibrant indie devel-
Sleek and sexy – an apt description for both
the Wii and my body
Live’s servers and all you get is the video to display
on screen YouTube-style. A few years ago such a
concept would have been ludicrous, but with more
and more homes switching to ultra-fast broadband
gamers can finally experience the highest quality
of graphics without needing to shell out the GDP
of a small country on a water-cooled gaming levia-
than. OnLive, although still to prove that it can be a
success, has begun to bring big-budget titles to the
impoverished masses.
The final revolution of the era has come in the form
of motion control. The Wii arrived first and brought
the movement-capturing WiiMote to the floor, spark-
ing a revolution that tapped into a previously unmined
seam of new gamers in the form of family gaming.
The Wii was the first to really be successful in appeal-
ing to kids, young adults and parents simultaneously,
and so it’s no surprise that every other games con-
sole wanted a slice of the action. Now, the market is
littered with motion capture devices of questionable
quality and use, but their effect of providing a much
more intuitive way for gamers to control their games,
hence making them much more “pick-uppable” for
the casual gamer, is clear.
In moving into the current generation, games
have stopped being just the domain of spotty nerds
in the basement and have moved into the living
room with all the cool and fashionable people.
The whole concept of the casual gamer is some-
thing new with this generation, and there have been
plenty of innovations that have fuelled their rise as
a viable market. Now that they finally have a main-
stream audience, games have been accepted as big
budget entertainment – gaming is becoming, albeit
slowly, as common as visiting the cinema or going
to the football.
Felix Issue 2000: 2027
Michael Cook
opment, flexible pricing models and better connec-
tions between developers and players. It’ll give
rise to things like the first indie MMO, open APIs
for systems like Steam and Origin, and bigger and
brighter mod communities as programming skills
become basic knowledge for schoolchildren.
We’ll still see echoes of what’s going on today
– single player games will be alive and well, and
micro-transactions are such a psychologically ef-
fective model as to never disappear – but most
aspects of gaming will be unrecognisable thanks
to a shift towards openness and customisation. If
console manufacturers refuse to make the shift to-
wards these areas, they’ll risk becoming fragment-
ed from the gaming mainstream, or die altogether.
Technologies like OnLive will offer the same high
quality of videogame experience without the need-
less external faffing of XBox LIVE or PlayStation
Home, and as broadband speeds increase the tech-
nology will easily take over from these manufac-
turers unless they push to offer something better.
Felix Issue 2000: 2027
Omar Hafeez-Bore
Fuel up on plutonium, ‘cos we’re heading
into the future!
Felix Issue 2000: 2027
Simon Worthington
It was this picture or one relating to the
DelayGasm condom. You’re welcome
51
FELIX Friday 04 november 2011

