FOOD
FELIX
52
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
Celebrating Issue 1500
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
1500 Calorie Food Rockets
Breakfast
People say that you must always have a full break-
fast to boost you with energy for the day, though
I’d wager that nobody would approve of the fol-
lowing:
2 fried eggs / 2 scrambled eggs = 180/200 cal
4 slices of bacon = 140 cal
portion of bubble and squeek = 300 cal
3 sausages = 390 calories
250g baked beans = 240 cal
2 tbsp jam = 110 cal
2-3 slices of toasted bread = 150 cal
Lunch
You’ve just had a pretty busy day so far and want
to have a quick and healthy snack before your
boss calls you back to work. What better than...
140g Roast Duck = 470 cal
100g Egg fried Rice = 170 cal
2 Spring Rolls = 120 cal
5 fried King Prawns = 170 cal
1 pint of Coke = 240 cal
Hot Fudge Sundae = 330 cal
Dinner
Your day was very hectic. Reward yourself!
Calamari Fritti = 450 cal
250g Rib Eye Steak = 680 cal
Portion of Potatoes au Gratin = 240 cal
Bernaise Sauce = 130 cal
Vegetarians, vegans and Gurl with Opinions, ex-
cuse me but I have not included any meals for you
here, due to the fact that everything I found was
so damn healthy and hence had no place here!
H
e has hosted the longest run-
ning cookery series in the
world and has worked as a chef
in hotels and restaurants across
London after training at West-
minster Catering College.
He has worked in the kitchens of Ver-
reys, The Strand Palace, The Dorchester and
Browns amongst others, and set up his own
catering company.
He is also a No.1 best selling author, he
has sold more than two million books world-
wide and he is the patron of the independent
British-registered charity the Kasiisi Porridge
Project, which gives rural schoolchildren liv-
ing near the Kibale National Park in western
Uganda a meal every day. He is Ainsley Har-
riot.
What has been more exciting and fulfilling
for you, being a TV star, an author, or a
chef?
I love the idea of diversifying – it’s lovely
to be able to do other things if opportunities
arise along the way. I’ve been very lucky and
have to say I love all three. We do get influ-
enced by our parents whether we like it or not
and my dad was an international entertainer
and my mum was a great cook, so the two ca-
reers walk hand in hand to me.
You have written an enormous amount of
unique and delicious recipes. From where
do you usually get the inspiration?
Inspiration comes from my late mum, Gra-
ham Kerr (The Galloping Gourmet) and the
relationships I have built up with people
along the way. Hearing other people’s ideas
and experiences is really stimulating and can
only influence my cooking further.
Ainsley Harriott products are famous for
their taste and quality. What is your per-
sonal involvement in their production?
I work with the development team at Sym-
ington’s. We take inspiration from all over
the world and then test and retest until we’re
happy with the result. It’s a long process but
we’d rather take our time and get it right.
Every product is tested by me, often several
times, but I also hand them out to a couple of
close friends to see what they think of them
before I finally sign them off.
If you had to choose one of your products
as being your favourite, which one would
it be?
I love the cous cous – and I’m really excited
about the new sauce mixes that you’ll see
next year. It’s a tough question though. I tend
to like whatever I’m working on at the time.
What do you think is the most common pit-
fall in cooking?
People not being prepared before they start.
Imperial College students have a very tight
schedule, so many sometimes choose fast
food. Do you have any suggestions to en-
For more details about Ainsley, recipes,
new products and videos, visit his official
website:
www.ainsley-harriott.com
courage them to lead a healthier life?
Well obviously my products are pretty fast
and they aren’t high in fat – so go and buy
a risotto! There are loads of speedy recipes
out there. There really isn’t an excuse to be
unhealthy just because you don’t have much
time.
What should we expect from Ainsley Har-
riott in 2012?
A new chicken recipe book early in the new
year, loads of new product launches and a
little investigation into the wonders of the
British pea.
Ready, steady, chat
Ainsley Harriot discusses his life, work and recipes in
conversation with Anastasia Eleftheriou
Ainsley Harriot remains involved in the production of a variety of recipes
Presenting Ready Steady Cook
by Michael Krestas

