FELIX
54
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
L
et’s be honest about it, the existing
beach scene has very much gone
to the dogs: Ibiza is past its expiry
date, Koh Phangan is being sucked
into that same black hole (thanks,
The Hangover Part II), and Malia-napa-luf is
far too saturated with sleaze for me to waste my
time with a rant. My point is that things are in-
deed looking bleak, which has forced sun wor-
shippers and classier party-goers to be a little
more creative. Perhaps India’s western coast is
the answer we’ve all been searching for.
Goa is hardly a new global hotspot – it’s been
a safe haven for holidaymakers and hippies for
decades – but I can’t help but think that we’re
not exploiting it to its full potential. Having
spent two months getting myself covered in
dust on the temple trail, I decided it would be
the ideal ultimate spot before returning for a an-
other dreaded term in the smog. So if it’s a mix-
ture of vibrant culture, culinary delights and
sleepless nights you’re after, look no further.
An inviting Goan home
As the saying goes, there’s nothing like being
invited into a Goan home. But of course, sifting
through the endless locations can be tiring, so
I’ve done the trial and error for you. The LaLiT
Golf & Spa Resort in South Goa is nothing less
than perfection, and my stay there was what re-
ally made this leg of my trip so enjoyable and
memorable. The rooms are immaculate, the
staff provides outstanding hospitality (hence
their slogan ‘limitless hospitality’), and the fa-
cilities on offer will keep you entertained for
eons.
An added bonus is that the resort also caters
for groups: for rates in the range of a dingy Lon-
don hotel it’s possible to book out swanky, self-
sufficient villas, complete with kitchens, swim-
ming pools, hot tubs, and your own personal
Goan master chef. To me the villas just scream
‘perfect post-exam getaway’ – what better way
to celebrate than with endless cocktails with
friends under a scorching eastern sun?
As with any holiday, the food served is para-
mount. The LaLiT chefs will not disappoint,
and they served up some of the best Indian food
I’ve had the pleasure of eating. Over the course
of my stay the chefs got to know my palette,
and consistently managed to craft dishes that
kept my taste buds craving more. Appalled by
my culinary ignorance, one of the master chefs
even gave me some private tuition in Indian
fare – the cooking class was fantastic, though
I’m yet to replicate the results.
So for all of the reasons above and below,
The LaLiT Golf & Spa Resort should be your
Goan home of choice. But it’s not just the hotel
and staff that make the stay an awesome expe-
rience: the other guests were lovely and great
to interact with. One group invited me to their
wedding reception, where I enjoyed poolside
shisha and drinks while listening to some ambi-
ent tunes.
Wishing You Were Here
Vibrant culture, endless activities and unrivalled coastline: Ch
Gallivanting the golde
‘Machu Picchu’ by George Roberts
Get out and see the state
When it comes to fine golden beaches, you could
really be anywhere in the world. Goa is a lot
more appetising when you look at it as a state
rather than a coastline: there’s nothing quite like
Indian culture, and the activities on offer in Goa
cater to everyone’s tastes.
The south, where The LaLiT Golf & Spa Re-
sort is located, is a lot less developed than the
north: staying down south is much more sooth-
ing, and the most bustling north is easily acces-
sible by car or bike within an hour. Unfortunate-
ly my tight schedule only allowed for a day of
whizzing through the northern sites, but there’s
plenty to keep you entertained.
Instantly noticeable is the Portuguese influ-
ence on the state, particularly obvious in cities
like Margao with the abundance of charming ar-
chitecture. There’s plenty of churches, like the
Basílica do Bom Jesus, countless brilliant muse-
ums, wildlife sanctuaries, and, of course, golden
beaches. Every Wednesday in Anjuna is a vi-
brant flea market, where you can pick up any-
thing from handmade jewellery to hammocks!
And when all is seen and done, you’ll always
find good food on standby. The Portuguese-
influenced fare isn’t an offensive assault on the
senses, more addictive coastal delights with a
hint of the east, unlike some of the more bru-
tal curries you’re sure to encounter. Of course
if you’re feeling brave, go all out and order a
Vindaloo (a Goan classic), but know that you’ve
been warned.
#1. Revel in the eastern sun as you zip up the be
#3. Relax and unwind with a feni at Corta’s beac
Get there: Boris Bike (‘cause it’s faster)
See: Endless cocktail and blues bars
Eat: Mezze to share at Yalla Yalla
Cost: £5 – £15 for nibbles for 2
Hop away from Piccadilly’s tourist-filled pavements
and delve into the side streets of Soho. You’ll be
pleasantly surprised by the swanky bars offer-
ing free music all nights of the week (see: Ain’t
Nothin’ But), cheap and delicious eateries, and a
resident B@1 (formerly the Red Lion pub, Marx’s
old hangout) that trumps its lousy Hammersmith
counterpart.
Travel on your doorstep

