Located along the western coast of India, The
LaLiT Golf & Spa Resort is a luxurious five
star resort built on 85 acres of land. It offers a
breathtaking view lapped by the Arabian Sea,
with a unique confluence of the Talpone River
to its left, it’s tributary to the right, cradled by
the majestic Sahyadari range and a kilometre
long exclusive beachfront. Located at Rajbaga,
Canacona, The LaLiT Goa is one of the most
exquisite, beautiful and secluded Goa beach
resorts. It is also the largest property in Goa in
terms of area, as well as number of suites of-
fered.
The Portuguese style architecture with an el-
egant blend of Goan culture is the base of the
resort’s twin storey sprawling structure - all
nestled amidst formally landscaped gardens, a
golf course and a multitude of hotel facilities
ranging from modern meeting rooms to trendy
bar and dining avenues, from beach activities
to a holistic spa; and from water activities to
sports facilities. The resort also has its own
luxury Yacht & a Helipad to facilitate the expe-
rience of life on all – air, water and earth.
Visit www.thelalit.com for more details.
TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011 55
“...vibrant culture, culi-
nary delights and sleep-
less nights”
hris Richardson provides a breakdown on this perfect post-exam getaway
en sands of gorgeous Goa
About The LaLiT Resort
Doze away your days
Because after all, you’re on holiday to relax,
right? Having dabbled with the sights on of-
fer I spent too-many-a-day relaxing on Patnem
beach. While Indian law dictates that no beach
can be private, the beach just in front of the The
LaLiT Golf & Spa Resort certainly feels like
one: it’s snugly nestled between geographi-
cal barriers on both sides, separating it from
the more busy strips of sand. And being west-
facing, the location offers unrivalled sparkling
sunsets over the sea.
Of course, for the more enthusiastic sun wor-
shipper the LaLiT offers all kinds of invigorat-
ing activities to keep you entertained, from jet
skis, to fishing boats, to beach polo! Renting
a bicycle is highly recommended: I had a re-
ally great ride through some villages, checking
out the awesome contrast of the inland moun-
tains with the turquoise Arabian Sea. They’re
even geared up to beach riding, if you feel like
tearing up the sand and picking up some new
friends (well, stray dogs who seem to take a lik-
ing to moving objects).
For ultimate lethargy, relax in a lounger by
the pool at The LaLiT: the swanky poolside
sitting area is a great place to read a book and
catch some rays. And if that gets too tiring, you
can always swim over to the sunken bar for an
ice cold feni (a surprisingly delicious local li-
quor that comes in coconut and cashew variet-
ies) before heading into the spa for a massage
and a hot tub.
Venturing further afield
I mean sure, Goa is great and everything, but
it’s not the end of the line. It’s perfectly located
to allow you to zip up the coast to dusty Ra-
jasthan through Bombay, or down the coast
to tropical Kerala. If you’re not too bound by
time and funds I’d really recommend it: having
delved both north and south I’d say that each
has their charms and shouldn’t be missed. The
mighty subcontinent has so much to offer, and
Goa is just the tip of one of the most fascinating
and diverse countries in the world.
eautiful coastline #2. Join in the party by the pool and laugh the day away
ch shack #4. Be enterained as musicians serepnade you into the early hours
Planning a trip to India? This article is one
in a series of Felix Travel articles dedicated
to the mighty subcontinent. If you’re looking
for inspiration, log on to www.felixonline.
co.uk and scan the archives for great holi-
day tips.
Been travelling? Got a tale you
want to share with the world?
Email:travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet us using: #FelixTravel

