FELIX
56
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 november 2011
HANGMAN
SEX
For further Unexpurgated
Details come to
the Queens Tower at
12.45 tomorrow
(clothes optional)
Bet you never though the womans rugby team
would ever make a porno did ya? Well you were
wrong, thanks to our freind Bruce Chan in the dark-
est recesses of china we bring you a review of “Rug
Me. All scrum, all the time”. This incrdible movie
was shot in 1080P (the capital P is for Penis), and
will have you standing at the touchline for a solid 80
minutes. Hangman has become the sole distrubtor
in a multi billion penny deal, and will be offering
you a DVD free of charge. All readers need to do is
collect the smut tokens found in this issue and the
next 5. Then after £6.99 for p&p this superb video
could be yours. On the right you can see a photo-
graphical review that an erudite, honourable young
man has sent in after we sent him a preview copy
to gain consumer reaction. Our thoughts exactly.
BAM!
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Union drinks
contaminated
with mysterious
substance
S
ome 90% of all the beverages con-
sumed on Union premises have been
found to contain various quantities of a
substance that is strictly controlled by
the Government and outright illegal in
certain premises and communities. The chemi-
cal, a by-product of the metabolism of microbes
spoiling liquids with a high sugar content, is
highly flammable and a precursor to acetic acid,
which in its concentrated form is corrosive and
has a foul odour. When consumed, symptoms
of mild poisoning include impairment of judge-
ment and inhibitions (including a tendency to
get naked), increased reaction time and de-
creased general motor functions (such as the
unbuttoning of shirts). At higher doses, slurred
speech, blurred vision, short-term memory loss
and vomiting may result, often culminating in
a total loss of consciousness, virginity and/or
dignity.
The anti-inhibitory effect serves to facili-
tate the further consumption of this dangerous
chemical, as the victims tend to drink whatever
is immediately in front of them with disregard
to the distinctive taste, which would otherwise
alert one to the drink’s contents. As a diuretic,
it not only acts to dehydrate but it also causes
annoyance to those nearby due to the necessity
of regular toilet breaks. Often, when the victim
is away, their drink is either spiked or topped
up, followed by various jibes such as “down
it, fresher!” or a penny in the cup upon their
return, worsening their situation. The extent
of this contamination is severe: a survey con-
cluded that some three-quarters of all students
at Imperial have reported to have had some or
all of the symptoms mentioned above, rising to
almost 100% among those studying Medicine.
Students are advised to be vigilant against
this insidious threat by making sure of the
contents of their drink before consumption,
because it is reported that Union staff have
been willingly poisoning their customers,
and preventing them from leaving the prem-
ises with their drink in a possible attempt to
avoid arousing the suspicion of the law. It is
thought that no other establishments are selling
this particular poison, meaning students could
not obtain it anywhere else, if need be. In a
statement to Hangman, a student who cannot
be named as their name is a symbol, said: “It
would be downright silly of them to want peo-
ple to be enticed to go to the Union. It would
be stupid for them to then be able to monitor
the drinking. I mean, the bar staff could not
possibly then just do what they already do so
well and not serve those that they deem to be
too drunk.” In a reply to this the Union said:
“We cannot comment on such matter, as we are
no longer trying to get elected and therefore
have no reason to care”. They then returned to
typing up their CVs and pretending people care
what they do and say.
Step 1: Grab arse Step 2: Orgasm Step 3: Apologise
Inebriated acquaintance of the week

