order to commend the gospel to thinking
men and women today. In an increasingly
secular culture, people have questions
about the truth of the Christian world-
view, and to ignore or turn aside questions
of that nature would be irresponsible. It
seemed to me that it was a natural thing
to do: to explore the philosophical foun-
dations of and justification for my own
Christian faith.
Moving on to your current UK tour,
let me ask you: why did you decide to
come to UK and deliver talks such as
this one (at the Bethinking National
Apologetics day conference)?
Well you have to understand that for a
long time, I’ve been an Anglophile. I love
this country; when my wife and I married,
we honeymooned in London, and we al-
ways come back whenever we can. When
I did my doctoral work in Philosophy I
came to the university of Birmingham,
so we lived and I studied here. Since then
we’ve come back on sabbatical to do re-
search, so when we got an invitation to do
a university speaking tour in the UK we
jumped at the chance.
With the UK being a more secular soci-
ety than the US, do you notice a differ-
ence in the way that you’re taken in by
the public here, and do you get a differ-
ent reaction in the UK than you would
F
irstly, Dr Craig, thanks
very much for coming
along to speak to us, we
appreciate you taking the
time to enrich the Impe-
rial College students.
Dr Craig: My pleasure.
I just want to get a little of your person-
al background and ask: when did you
first become interested in Philosophy?
I think my interest in Philosophy devel-
oped during my University years, I took
some courses in Christian Theology and
then Philosophy, and courses in literature
as well. That really sparked my interest in
questions that were philosophical in na-
ture: What is truth? How do we discover
truth? What is the truth in the Christian
world-view? It was during those upper
years of university study.
Was religion always the focus of your
philosophy?
Of my philosophy, yes, but it wasn’t al-
ways the focus of my life; I wasn’t raised
in a Christian home or even in a church
going family, but my interest in religious
affairs preceded my interest in Philoso-
phy. I’m a philosopher because I’m a
Christian, my philosophy flows out of my
Christian faith.
When did you decide that you wanted
to make your philosophy, and your reli-
gion, the focus of your career?
Well, I think this emerged gradually in the
course of my university and postgraduate
studies. I saw that these deep philosophi-
cal questions needed to be addressed in
in the US?
I don’t think that I see a difference per-
sonally, because the people that come to
our meetings are very interested. We’ve
been speaking to packed houses, and
so I don’t see the indifferent, apathetic
person who doesn’t care about these
things. By the very nature of the case,
the people that come to see my speak
are interested even if they’re sceptical
or agnostic or atheistic. There’s a kind
of self selection that goes on and so I
recognise, in that sense that we’re not
seeing the broader British public, but
those who do care about these issues.
In a recent lecture at Imperial Col-
lege London you cited 7 pieces of ra-
tional evidence that would lead us to
the conclusion that the Christian God
exists. Why do you think that some
people who are learned in the sub-
ject, including people you’ve debated
such as Sam Harris and Christopher
Hitchens, don’t accept these pieces of
evidence as sound and correct?
With reference to the two examples
you’ve named, with all due respect, I
don’t think they do know a lot about
the subject. I have debated both of these
gentleman in public forums and at uni-
versities, and Christopher Hitchens’
lack of familiarity with the issues was
astonishing. Similarly with Sam Harris,
he was just impotent even to defend his
view against criticism.
I think that so often, these folks are
so deeply embedded in a secular world
view, and interact so rarely with people
with a different perspective, that they’re
utterly unaware of the literature. They
don’t read people like me, they don’t
participate in conferences with people
like me, they don’t invite people like
me to share a platform with them as I
do when I invite them. There really
is a tremendous ignorance; many of
these folk rejected the Christian faith
as young people (11 or 12 years of age)
and they’ve never studied it since.
Having said that, there certainly are
many who are philosophically informed
and have a different take on the issue,
and I would say a difference of opinion
is possible on these deep questions. I
have no desire to insult the rationality of
atheists or others who disagree with me.
I respectfully disagree with them and I
present my arguments and evidence and
it’s up to people, with an open mind, to
accept or reject them.
Your view that it is a rational conclu-
sion to accept that God exists would
lead me to the conclusion that there
is no room for faith in the Christian
belief system. Do you think that there
is a need for faith?
I think it absolutely does leave room for
faith. In the new testament the concept
of faith is not a way of knowing some-
thing, it is a way of trusting in some-
thing, of committing to something. For
example, several years ago I had cor-
neal surgery on my eyes.
As you can imagine, before I let my-
self go under the knife, we carefully
investigated who was the finest corneal
surgeon in the US, and then based on
that evidence, I trusted him to make the
cut on my eyes. Similarly, when some-
one comes to the conclusion that God
exists, then the decision of faith arises.
Am I going to commit my life to this
person and trust him? The evidence
can actually bring you to the decision
of faith.
In a hypothetical situation in which
your rational pieces of evidence could
be refuted to a level with which you
were satisfied, and were able to recog-
nise that they were refuted, would you
still have your beliefs or would it be the
case that it would become irrational for
you to believe in God?
I would still have my belief, because my
belief in God is not based on these argu-
ments. These arguments are confirmatory
of my belief in God. I think my faith in
God is based on the inner witness of God’s
spirit to my own heart. I have a personal
relationship with him, his spirit lives with-
in me, and while there are good arguments
and evidence to confirm that, my faith is
not based upon them.
I think this is a wonderful thing be-
cause most people in the history of the
human race have had neither the time,
nor the education, nor the library re-
sources to investigate the philosophi-
cal arguments for God’s existence or
the historical evidence for the resur-
rection of Jesus, and so they would be
condemned to unbelief if this were the
only way of knowing God. But God, in
his mercy, has provided an interior way
of knowing that he exists which is open
to all persons everywhere regardless of
their education, their time or their re-
sources. For those of us who have the
luxury of leisure time, university educa-
tion, and fantastic library resources, we
have a double advocate.
In addition to this interior way we
have these exterior arguments which
support it. What’s also good about this is
that I can hold these arguments lightly.
If a refutation comes along, I don’t have
to go to the wall to the defend these ar-
guments, I can give them up easily. This
helps me to be more, rather than less,
objective about the validity and sound-
ness of these arguments.
If you were faced with an atheist, and
you were trying to convince him that
God exists, do you think it would be
more effective to address it from the ra-
tional standpoint, or do you think try-
ing to convince him from this internal
standpoint that you mentioned would
be more effective?
I don’t think it has to be either/or. I think
it can be both/and. I would share with my
atheist friend these arguments and pieces
of evidence that I find compelling but
I would also remind him that the search
for God is not some sort of disinterested
academic discussion like adding another
piece of furniture to your view of the
universe. This is a deeply existential and
personal quest that needs to be pursued in
humility and with openness of heart and
“Hitchens’ lack of
familiarity with the is-
sues was astonishing.”
Interview: William Lane Craig
Sam Horti talks to the renowned Christian philosopher about his work
William Lane Craig lectured at Imperial College earlier in October
Christopher Hitchens “doesn’t know a lot about the subject” says Dr. Craig
Joseph Letts
FEATURE
6 FELIX
Friday 04 november 2011
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
Vanity Fair

