openness to god. I would encourage the
atheist to pray, for example, that if God is
there, he would reveal himself. I see it as
a both/and.
You’ve debated some of the most well
known atheists in the world, the likes of
Dan Dennet, A.C. Grayling, as well as
Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens
as I’ve mentioned before. When you
take part in these debates, what do you
intend to get out of them? Is it your aim
to convert atheists that are watching,
or is your aim to simply get your views
across?
The purpose of these events is to illustrate
to the university communities, in which
these debates are typically held, that
the Christian faith is a viable option for
thinking men and women today. So often
university students have been told that it
is irrational to be a Christian, that Chris-
tianity is for old ladies and little children
but no thinking adult can be an intelligent
believer.That is so patently false and these
debates help to illustrate that.
I could come on to a campus, as I did
at Imperial, and give a lecture myself,
unchallenged, but I think it’s far more
effective and credible when an atheist
shares the platform with me, is given
equal time and even the last word; and
yet students still see that the Christian
worldview comes out intellectually
head and shoulders above its competi-
tors. I welcome the open dialogue with
atheists about this.
In contrast to a university event, if you
are speaking at a predominantly Chris-
tian event, is your aim to affirm the
faith of those present or do you have
another motive?
It isn’t just to affirm the faith of those
persons, although it certainly is in part.
Contrary to what atheists say, Christians
are actually pretty open minded and many
struggle with real doubts. They hear the
objections from the new atheists for ex-
ample, and they trouble them and think
about them. Christians are not the brain
dead people that atheists sometimes por-
tray. Hearing that there are good reasons
to believe as well as good answers to these
objections can affirm their faith.
But there is a further reasons why I
will sometimes speak to Christian au-
diences, and this is to equip them. If
Christians can be trained to give good
reasons for what we believe and good
answers to unbelievers questions, they
will be more effective in sharing with
their friends and family members the
good news of the gospel. And so I’m
interested in equipping Christians to be
good witnesses to the truth of the Chris-
tian faith
As well as doing debates you do a lot
of writing. Firstly, what do you enjoy
more?And secondly, what do you think
is a more convincing form of argu-
ment?
This is a really good question; I enjoy
them both so much. When I’m at home
in my study writing I often think: “Gosh,
I wish I could be out on the road speak-
ing or debating.” When I’m travelling and
debating I often think: “I wish I could be
in my study, writing in peace and quiet.”
They’re both really wonderful opportuni-
ties and I enjoy both and do both equally.
In terms of which is more effective,
I once would’ve said, and I’m still in-
clined to think, that the writing and
research is more effective at reaching
people because my circumference of
personal contacts is so limited com-
pared to the written work; my books get
into university libraries, where they will
be for generations. My goal as a writer
is to leave a legacy that outlives myself.
However, since the development of
the internet and YouTube, it turns out
that those who see me live, such as at
Imperial College, turns out to be a tiny
minority. There will be tens of thou-
sands of people who will watch that
YouTube video. I have never put a vid-
eo on YouTube, but other people pirate
them and put them up, and I recently
saw a Google statistic that these Dr
Craig video sites have had over 4 mil-
lion views.
That is far more than I’ve sold in
terms of books; so it may well be that
the public speaking will actually reach
more people because it too is archived
in this way, and reaches far more people
than I do in the actual live audience.
Just two more questions before we fin-
ish; the first is about Richard Dawkins.
There’s been a lot of back and forth be-
tween yourself and Professor Dawkins,
and I was just wondering if you’ve read
his recent article in the Guardian?
I have read it but I just want to say that
there hasn’t been a back and forth be-
tween me and Richard Dawkins; I have
not responded to any of this. All of this is
generated by other people who invite him
and me to be in these debates, who have
started this bus campaign in Oxford, who
have made these YouTube videos. I don’t
have anything to do with that. I have pre-
ferred to stay out of this and watch as an
amused bystander. So yes I have read the
article, but I’m not going to respond.
Lastly, I just want to get your thoughts
on the future of the atheist-theist de-
bate. What do you think the questions
we’ll be asking in, say, 100 years time
will be? Do you think we will be asking
the same questions that we’re asking
now?
I do, these are perennial questions; I think
the problem of suffering and evil, and the
hidden nature of God will always be the
primary reason for doubt about God’s ex-
istence. I think modern science will con-
tinue to discover facts about nature and
the world we live in that point beyond it-
self to a transcendent creator and designer
of the universe.
The moral argument will always be
with us because we will always be ask-
ing: what is the foundation for moral
values and duties? Do they even exist ob-
jectively or is everything relative? These
I think are perennial questions which will
be with us in a hundred years time.
Once again, thank you very much for
agreeing to speak to us, we appreciate
you taking the time, and good luck on
the rest of your UK tour.
Certainly, thank you.
“The Christian world-
view comes out intel-
lectually head and
shoulders above its
competitors.”
Dr Craig will not respond to Richard Dawkins
Joseph Letts
7
FELIX Friday 04 november 2011
FEATURE
D
r Craig, as I expected,
was an extremely char-
ismatic man, and it is
easy to see why so many
are taken with his ideas.
This charisma, along with his general
intelligence, makes him an extremely
skilled debater. As with many skilled
debaters, however, he often (in my opin-
ion) seems to rely on style rather than
substance to win debates. His capacity
as an orator introduces extraneous in-
formation which seems to hide some of
the frailties of his arguments. There are
countless responses to Dr Craig’s main
arguments to be found on the internet
(Google is your friend), so, for now,
I am only going to critique the main
points that Dr Craig presents during this
particular interview.
I can’t resist a comment on Dr Craig’s
views on both Christopher Hitchens
and Sam Harris. All I can say is that if
these two men haven’t studied religious
philosophy since the age of 11 or 12,
then, judging by the countless books
they have written on the subject, they
must have been the two smartest chil-
dren that have ever lived. I’m sure Dr
Craig knows that these two men have
taken part in countless debates and dis-
cussion with religious apologists, and
have spent a great deal of their life dedi-
cated to the study of the subject, and so
I find his comments at best, curious, and
at worst, facetious and unnecessarily
spiteful.
I would now like to look at Dr Craig’s
views on the distinction between faith
and evidence. “Religious faith” always
causes huge problems in debates such as
the ones in which Dr Craig participates,
because it is such an ill-defined term. Dr
Craig, in this interview, clearly advo-
cates a system by which faith is gained
only when belief is achieved. Although
not all religious people will agree with
this, as “faith” is seen by some as the
only justification needed for belief, it
does seem to make sense to me. I think
if every religious person adopted this
same system, then it would make ra-
tional debate and argument much more
fruitful.
Dr Craig’s view that only evidence
should light the path to belief means
that, presumably, if his evidence were to
be refuted, then his belief in God would
be lost. But it’s not quite that simple.
He has, as he says a “double advocate”.
He has the external evidence, which
he concentrates on in debates, and “in-
ternal” evidence which is, in his own
words, the “inner witness of God’s spirit
to my own heart”. Lets see if we can’t
examine both these sets of evidence in
turn and find out if they are sound.
As I said in my introduction, I’m not
here to offer refutations to Dr Craig’s
pieces of “external” evidence, both be-
cause it would need a lot more words
than I have at my disposal, and because
there are countless refutations avail-
able on the internet if you are interest-
ed. However, it seems to me that these
pieces of evidence are made completely
redundant by the fact that they are sim-
ply afterthoughts. It is the “internal” ev-
idence that has led Dr Craig to believe,
not the arguments that he so often pro-
fesses (as he admits in this interview),
and so he therefore can hold these ar-
guments “lightly”. They therefore seem
rather pointless, as they didn’t even
convince him in the first place; he has
essentially started from a base of belief
and then gone searching for evidence
that may back his viewpoint up, which
is undoubtedly going to cloud his judge-
ment. It is like someone travelling up to
Scotland already believing in the Loch
Ness monster, and then getting excited
after days of searching when they fi-
nally see the tip of a rock poking out of
the water.
Although the internal advocate that Dr
Craig bases his beliefs upon is beyond
examination, it does certainly bring up
what I think is a major problem with
religious belief, in that it is only made
possible by the unfaltering solipsism of
man. What I mean by this is that we er-
roneously tend to rely on our own feel-
ings while negating the feelings of oth-
ers without any real justification other
than that these feelings belong to us. If
you asked a hundred different religious
people about what they feel about God,
you would get one hundred different an-
swers. And yet every single one of them
will value their own “internal” evidence
above that of the other 99.
What will Dr Craig say, for example,
about a Muslim who knows, through
his own internal advocate, that Allah is
the one true God? Why is this person’s
internal evidence not equally as com-
pelling to Dr Craig as his own? Further-
more, what would Dr Craig say about
the “internal evidence” of someone who
strongly felt that they had been abduct-
ed by aliens? Or had psychic powers? I
have no doubt that Dr Craig would cast
these aside as ridiculous cases, and yet
he has complete confidence in his in-
ternal feelings. This is, in my opinion,
one of the great failings with religious
belief. Too much emphasis is placed on
what we “feel” rather than what the evi-
dence points to.
I could speak at a lot greater length
about Dr Craig, but unfortunately I have
to stop, a little abruptly, here. I would
encourage those of you who are inter-
ested to watch one of the many youtube
videos that Dr Craig mentions in the
interview to see him in action and hear
some rebuttals to his main arguments.
Let me thank the organisers of the inter-
view too for giving me the opportunity
to conduct this interview, and, of course,
Dr Craig for giving up his time.
Commentary

