SCIENCE
FELIX
8
Women in science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
E
ven Albert Einstein was versed
in the difficulties facing those
who want a career in academic
research. Those brave fools that,
even in the face of riches prof-
fered by industry, love research so much they
are willing to attempt to climb the precipitous
and slippery ladder that is UK academic sci-
ence career progression.
A recent campaign by ‘Science is Vital’, a
national gro up of concerned academics from
professors to PhD students, last month created
a consultation report that was presented to the
Rt Hon David Willets, Minister for Universi-
ties and Science, highlighting their concerns
about the UK science career system, that many
fear is near breaking point. They recognised
that obstacles are many, sacrifices plentiful and
morale low, in a system that rewards the lucky
few and stifles creativity and initiative, yet sur-
vives almost exclusively on the back-breaking
work of early career scientists.
The bleak reality is, in a time of austerity,
research councils and funding bodies are ob-
sessed with short term, low risk projects with
fast turnovers, meaning post-doctoral posi-
tions are brief, and poorly paid relative to
other sectors, with extreme competition for
the very few positions available. Some early
career scientists may consequently seek inter-
national positions, resulting in a loss of intel-
lect and skills in the UK. This forced mobility,
combined with the quick turnover of contracts,
means the chance of a normal life outside of
work is slim, and those who want families and
stability in their lives, especially women, face
a very difficult time. Take a break from your
career, and suffer the consequences – worst of
all, those unable to gain a position within a few
years of graduating from their PhD will find
their experience useless and investment point-
less, and pity the poor soul whose first post-
doctoral project doesn’t produce any results.
‘Publications, publications, publications!’ is a
mantra we are all very familiar with, and is a
result of a system that rewards those who are
lucky enough to find a PhD or post-doctoral
project guaranteed with lots of high profile
papers. Early career scientists are left bereft
by a system that prevents them from pursuing
their own research ideas, with research coun-
cils responding to current fiscal pressure from
government by redirecting money away from
early career scientist grants.
There are an ever increasing number of PhD
students and post-docs who want to become re-
search group leaders and laboratory managers,
but never will do so due to static number of se-
nior positions available in research institutions.
Whilst this means cheap labour for current PIs,
huge amounts of money and effort is wasted on
training, and there is currently very little provi-
sion of positions suitable for those who do not
want to write their own grants, but want to stay
in research nonetheless. Shockingly, there is an
80% loss of all trained, skilled and enthusiastic
people at each step of the career ladder, a level
of attrition that is far from sustainable. There
is additionally little provision of professional
training for preparedness and skills relevant to
alternative career paths in science but outside of
the academic realm, due to the short-term na-
ture of most contracts. Of course, there is little
impetus to change a system that for senior sci-
entists has worked and produces cheap labour,
and the UK system, despite its foibles, is one of
the most productive in the world.
Early career scientists are not idiots, and are,
for the most part, aware of the risks associated
with pursuing a career path fraught with this
many obstacles. However, as recognised by
‘Science is Vital’, and indeed many academics,
changes are required to restructure the system
constructively. One solution could be the im-
plementation of teaching fellowships at post-
doctoral level with one or two years of teach-
ing and outreach on top of research time, with
external funding subsidised by university de-
partments. This would increase contract length
and stability, develop skills that would prepare
individuals for other options in science related
positions, and make them more employable in
lectureship posts. A similar program for PhD
students could result in longer programs over
4 or 5 years, with less PhD student numbers
“Science is a wonderful thing...
...if one does not have to earn one’s living at it”. Carys Cook discusses
some of the difficulties facing early career scientists
In his Commemoration Day address this
year, the Rector, Sir Keith O’Nions, recalled
a conversation he had with an alumnus of Im-
perial. The alumnus, who graduated in 1966,
told him that in her time here only 180 of
the 3500 students were women. Sir Keith
told those of us gathered at the Royal Albert
Hall that he had looked up the statistics and
this had been, in fact, a slight overestimate.
He used this as an example of the “massive
changes” that have taken place at the col-
lege over recent years.
A jump in the number of female students of
the college from around 5% in the 1960s to
nearly 35% today is a substantial one, and is
indicative of a general change in the number
of women pursuing degrees and careers in
the sciences. However, there is still a long
way left to go before we achieve an equal
number of women and men in science.
A study published in the journal Psychologi-
cal Science recently found that the sexism
of individuals in a society leads to gender in-
equality in the society as a whole. This is not
a surprising result, but the study is notewor-
thy because of its size: it covered 57 coun-
tries. The conclusion is clear — if increased
equality is the goal, then individual attitudes
must change.
In 1966, only 22 college accommodation
rooms were available to women. Women
were not allowed into the Union bar until
1972. Today, this same discrimination does
not exist, but there still exist gender stereo-
types could damage women’s chances of a
career in science.
When a stereotype — for example, “girls
can’t do maths” — is reiterated, it can do
more damage than you might expect. One
study showed that when telling a group of
students that an exam was designed to test
what makes some students better at maths
than others, girls did worse than when they
were told that both genders generally per-
form equally on the test. This is because
of an effect known as “stereotype threat”.
Stereotype threat has also been seen when
women simply had to record their gender at
the start of an exam, or were in the minority
during the exam.
A report published by the UKRC in 2010
found that, of the 5.5 million people working
in science, engineering and technology occu-
pations in the UK, only 12.3% were women.
The gender pay gap for science and technol-
ogy professionals was 11%. The loss to the
UK economy by qualified women scientists,
technologists and engineers working below
their level of qualification or being unem-
ployed was estimated to be £2 billion.
Sexism does not need to be overt to be
damaging. Small things — an offhand com-
ment, a stupid joke — can add up over time
to make a big difference. The sooner we be-
come aware of this, the sooner we will see
equal numbers of men and women doing sci-
ence. And that will benefit all of us.
overall. The lack of international experience
would be seen as detrimental if more post-docs
stayed in the UK, but this could be countered
by the development of more active mentoring
and short-term career development opportu-
nities with international institutions and col-
laborators. For example, the Worldwide Uni-
versity Trust serves as one such platform, but
pro-active membership nationally is currently
lacking. Other organisations such as the Na-
tional Research Staff Association are taking
active roles in reassessing the current research
council funding system, with the recognition
that more long term funded projects and more
funding for early career scientists are required.
Ultimately, grants should be based on a pro-
posal’s scientific merit and not just the em-
ployment status or publication record of the
early career scientist who wrote it.
Take home message time: for all you early
career scientists, it’s a beautiful thing you do
and wonderfully rewarding personally, but
you have the power to help change the system
that does not adequately recognise your hard
work! Get involved in organisations such as
‘Science is Vital’, write to your local MP to
express your concerns, and make active deci-
sions to prepare yourself just in case it all goes
wrong…
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Albert Einstein reminds us to take him into account in neutrino measurements
Kelly Oakes
Science Editor

