SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 04 NOVEMBER 2011
One of the most important roles of sci-
entists is to communicate with the pub-
lic and explain the results of their re-
search. However, not many people have
exceptional talent in science together
with excellent transferable skills. An ex-
ample of a person who does is Professor
Richard Dawkins, who recently gave a
lecture at the Royal Albert Hall.
The main discussion topic of the lecture
was his new book, “The Magic of Real-
ity”. One book was offered to each ticket-
holder of the event, though it is aimed pri-
marily at children and young adults.
Fortheunenlightened,RichardDawkins,
is a British ethologist, evolutionary biolo-
gist, author of The Selfish Gene and The
God Delusion and the University of Ox-
ford’s Professor for Public Understanding
of Science from 1995 until 2008.
Professor Dawkins started his lecture
by explaining what kind of magic he is
talking about in his book. It is not the
magic of fairytales or Harry Potter. It is
the magic of the scientific results that
explain the world.
He said that we should be sceptical
when “supernatural miracles” happen
and he was sarcastic with the mythical
answers that people have used to explain
them during the centuries; “Although
science is not able to explain everything
yet, the supernatural can’t explain any-
thing. Everything we can’t explain is
just a new science challenge. We can’t
understand it yet, but we are working
on it”. Each chapter of the book starts
with one or two mythical answers about
a philosophical and scientific topic and
then the scientific proof is presented,
which according to Dawkins is much
more stunning.
The highlight of the lecture was the
answer he gave to the question “Who
was the very first person?”. The audi-
ence was surprised when he showed a
picture of a fish, saying that this was
what the first “man” looked like. But
then he explained that humans came
about by a process called natural selec-
tion, without the need for a designer.
Although each generation of the human
beings looks like the previous genera-
tion, if you take two pictures that rep-
resent humans with a chronological dif-
ference of thousands of millions years,
then you will clearly see the difference
between them.
And that happened to all organisms
that have ever lived on earth. A minor
step from one generation to the follow-
ing one may not be noticeable, but it
contributes to a great change after mil-
lions of years.
By the end of the event, Dawkins was
inspiring, saying: “Science is hard, but
sometimes you need to work hard to
learn the truth. We need people to ap-
preciate science; you don’t have to play
an instrument to appreciate music”.
Personally, I believe that the “Magic of
Reality” can indeed help you appreciate
science and learn something more.
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Ever since Pluto’s demotion from plan-
etary status, astronomers have been on
the lookout for other similarly-sized
and located dwarf planets. The region
beginning from the orbit of Neptune
and extending away from us is known
as the Kuiper belt, inhabited by rocks,
dust, debris and large numbers of small
planetesimals and dwarf planets. Since
its discovery in 1992, the known popu-
lation of the Kuiper belt has increased
to over 1000 objects, one of these being
the small dwarf planet Eris.
Discovered in 2005, it is thought to
have similar characteristics to Pluto and
played a role in its re-classification as
a smaller ‘dwarf planet’. Astronomers
have been keen to observe Eris and
its small satellite Dysnomia in greater
detail, but have thus far struggled due
to its great distance from us — at 95.7
AU, it is approximately 3 times further
from the Sun than Pluto (1 AU being the
Earth-Sun distance).
New research performed by scientists
at Pierre et Marie Curie University and
Observatory of Paris made use of a rare
astronomical event – a stellar occulta-
tion – to gather detailed data about the
size, atmospheric composition and orbit
of Eris. A stellar occultation is when a
planetary body passes in front of a back-
ground star, observable due to the re-
sulting dip in stellar intensity. For Eris,
this happened on 6 November 2010, and
analysis of the gathered observations
has led to unexpected results.
Previous methods making use of
surface reflectivity and attempted di-
rect imaging had provided conflicting
results about Eris’s size. Dysnomia’s
movements revealed Eris’s mass to be
around 27% greater than that of Pluto
while their radii are approximately the
same, making the two planetary twins –
at least in size.
Considering its great distance, scien-
tists had expected Eris to be much larger
than Pluto as the two are approximately
as bright in the sky. As this was shown
not to be the case, the value for Eris’s al-
bedo became more important in consoli-
dating the results. Albedo, a measure of
the reflectivity of the planetary surface,
can range from 0 to 1, where 1 repre-
sents a white surface that reflects all
the light that falls upon it and 0 a black,
non-reflective body. The observable
brightness of Eris led scientists to expect
a high visible albedo, confirmed through
this study to be approximately 0.96.
“This unusually bright surface is dif-
ficult to reconcile with the idea that ob-
jects in the outer Solar System become
darkened by cosmic rays and microme-
teorite impacts over time,” says Aman-
da Gulbis, a visiting scientist in Earth,
Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technolo-
gy (MIT). “The new observations could
thus support a long-standing theory that,
as a large, icy, Kuiper-belt object ap-
proaches the Sun during its orbit, a pu-
tative atmosphere could sublimate and
then condense out as the object moves
farther away.”
This supposed atmosphere was a main
target of the study; stellar occultations
provide ideal conditions under which to
measure planetary atmospheres, as the
stellar light travels through the cloud of
gases surrounding the transiting body.
The atmosphere of Eris was shown to
be barely-there – it is thought that Eris’s
“bright surface [is] possibly caused by a
collapsed atmosphere, owing to its cold
environment”, as barely-there amounts
of nitrogen, argon and methane and
a low surface pressure suggest an ex-
tremely tenuous Pluto-like atmosphere.
Planetary exploration studies such as
this one are essential to discover more
about the most unreachable areas of our
solar system, and to learn more about
planetary formation, evolution and
composition. The full research is pub-
lished in Nature.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10550
Nicola Guttridge
The Magic of Reality
Dwarf planet Eris is Pluto’s twin
Why we allow fear to take control
It was a dark, misty, eerie night this Hal-
loween. I was walking alone through a
deserted, narrow street in London. The
sound of footsteps behind me made me
start. I stopped and listened. The noise
stopped. I carried on walking. The foot-
steps started again. All my senses were
heightened. I began to wonder if some-
one was in the dark behind me. The
footsteps got nearer. My heart started
racing, palms started sweating. The
footsteps got louder. Fear took over and
I started looking for somewhere to run,
to hide, to get away.
What I was experiencing at this mo-
ment is fear related to an unusual exter-
nal event. This is also known as ‘phobic
anxiety’. Phobic anxiety developed in
us as prey animals, as a means to re-
spond to predators in the vicinity that
may be threatening our lives.
The neurobiology behind phobic
anxiety is complex. Studies in rats have
shown that exposure to the odour of a
cat, which generates a phobic anxiety
response, causes various changes in the
rat’s physiology. Corticosterone (analo-
gous to human cortisol) levels increase
and turnover rates of dopamine, sero-
tonin, noradrenaline and GABA in vari-
ous brain regions are altered. The anxi-
ety created by exposure to cat odour (for
a rat), or exposure to the eerie stranger
that may have been following me above,
comes in the form of a sudden fear and
sudden arousal of the nervous system.
This phobic anxiety developed in us to
allow us to respond to a sudden change
in our environment.
Now most people can understand
feeling anxious when walking down a
dark alley alone and hearing footsteps
behind you. On the other hand, some
people are constant worriers. I have
friends who constantly stress and wor-
ry about everything: whether they of-
fended their neighbour in halls, whether
they have enough money on their oys-
ter card, whether they’ve done enough
reading for tomorrow’s lecture. This
form of anxiety can be termed ‘gener-
alised anxiety’. Again neurotransmitters
and hormones such as corticosteroids,
dopamine, serotonin, noradrenaline
and GABA are involved; however with
this form of anxiety their patterns of
release and uptake are different. Gen-
eralised anxiety has a slightly different
evolutionary purpose. In prey animals,
it stops them from entering unfamiliar,
open spaces, where they might be likely
to encounter a predator. It stops them
from feeding on foods that may be toxic.
Generalised anxiety is often something
which doesn’t change too much within
the individual over time – you’re either
generally a worrier or you’re generally
pretty chilled out.
So next time you’re worrying about
life, or clutching your pillow watching
‘Scream’, just remember that there are
some pretty interesting evolutionary
reasons behind what you’re feeling.
Maya Kaushik
xxx
An artist’s impression of Eris and its moon, Dysnomia. Credit: Thierry Lombry

