Union Page
New Year, New Menu
Time’s running out - stand for a position
Choose your Summer Ball 2020 theme
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Take a break at our weekly events
There’s just a few more days left to stand for a position in the Autumn
Elections. Nominations close at noon, Monday 14 October. Lead
the change at Imperial by nominating yourself for one of the several
positions available.
Want to make a difference within you faculty? Run for Wellbeing or
Academic Departmental Representative. Could you be the voice
for underrepresented students? Stand for one of the Liberation &
Community Officer positions - International, Disabilities or Gender
Equality Officer. Or perhaps your part of a club or society? You can
stand to take on one of the committee positions. You could also lead
your Constituent Union and stand for a committee leader position.
Nominate yourself at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
27 May -2 June | Beit Quad | 12:00-14:30 and 17:00-20:00
27 May -2 June | Beit Quad | 12:00-14:30 and 17:00-20:00
Welcome Week may be over, but we’ve still got you covered with our
regular bar events! At Beit bars, you can head to:
Super Quiz - every Tuesday, test your knowledge and get quizzical.
CSP Wednesday - join our 370+ Clubs, Societies & Projects for a dose
of all things sport, music and dance.
Thank Goodness It’s Friday - celebrate the end of the week with
some food, drink and some feel good tunes.
Our Postgraduate and staff exclusive venue, h-bar is host to a weekly
Games Night each Tuesday and a Pub Quiz every Thursday. Keep
up to date by following our Facebook page and all our events are listed.
Kicking off the new year with a bang, we want to know what theme you
want for the Summer Ball 2020!
To choose your Ball theme, we will have two rounds of selection. In the
first round, you can suggest any theme you want, whilst in round two,
the top 5 themes mentioned will then be voted on.
Be as creative as you wish! If you’re looking for inspiration, our previous
Ball themes have included Red Carpet, Masquerade, 007
, Roaring
Twenties and the like. Potential themes have also included space and
superheros!
Submit your theme ideas at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball2020-themeidea
FiveSixEight is pleased to announce their new and exciting food menu
will be launching week commencing, Monday 14 October! You may
have already sampled some of the changes made to the menu over
Welcome Week, but our favourtite food spot on campus is back with
much more.
They’ve increased both vegan and vegetarian options, featuring dishes
like the Moroccan inspired ‘Spiced Vegetable Tagine’ and ‘Cheesy
Fun-Guy,’ a new marinated mushroom burger that is prepared with
a glorious hunk of melted goat cheese! They’ve also got some new
Mac n’ Cheese Dippers - mozzarella meets pasta meets deep fried
goodness - our personal favourite!
Come on down to FiveSixEight on the South Kensington Campus and
treat yourself to some of the new features on the menu.

