T H E N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
Monday, October 1,1979 Issue no. 527
What a rush .... A Freshers' FELIX produced in
six days! The photo is of Colin Palmer.
We apologise to readers that because Of a
subjudlce rule; the Freihers' FELTX has had to
be censored and rewritten. In the rush some
articles have had to be left out.
INJUNCTION
ATTEMPT
FAILS IN
FELIX HIGH COURT DRAMA
EXEC APPOINT COLIN PALMER ACTING FELIX EDITOR
Following the failure of his second year
M a t h e m a t i c s e x a m i n a t i o n s , J o h n
Shuttleworth, who was elected FELIX Editor
last March, was deemed by College not to be
of 'good academic standing'. This means that
he cannot be registered as a student for the
session 1979/80. He is barred from taking up
the Sabbatical by a College Governing Body
regulation, which has been accepted by a
Union General Meeting but had not been
incorporated into the Union Blue Book.
After taking all things into consideration,
including the fact that the Sabbatical is tied to
the FELIX Editorship, Imperial College Union
Executive issued a statement deeming John
Shuttleworth to be ineligible to take up the
post of FELIX Editor, and appointed Colin
Palmer Acting Editor, as he was the runner-
up in the original election.
IC Union Executive
8th August, 1979
Solicitors Anscomb Hollingworth wrote the
following letter to Chris Fox, President of
Imperial College Union, on August 15th 1979.
Malcolm Brain, Deputy President, also
received a copy of the letter.
"We act for Mr Shuttleworth who has referred
a copy of the Union Bluebook to us together
with copies of correspondence relevant to his
improper removal as Editor of the Union
newspaper.
Paragraph 19 of the Rule Book states quite
clearly that any amendments to the rules can
only be incorporated into the Book in
accordance with rule Wand the Editor of the
newspaper can only be removed from office
in accordance with rule 4b.
Mr Shuttleworth has therefore been
properly appointed Editor and cannot be
dismissed in the way in which you have
purported to do.
We are therefore writing to you to require
you by next Monday 20th August to confirm
to us in writing that Mr Shuttleworth will be
allowed to continue as Editor and that his
grant be reinstated.
If you are unable to accede to our request
then our client will have no alternative but to
institute proceedings against you and the
Deputy President as officers of the Union for
the appropriate couM order."
O n the 7th September a writ was issued
against Chris Fox and Malcolm Brain, (sued
on their o w n behalf and o n behalf of all other
members of the Executive Committee of
Imperial College Union), accompanied by a
summons to attend the High Court of Justice
on the 25th September to defend an
application for an injunction to reinstate John
Shuttleworth as Editor of FELIX pending the
full hearing of the case. These were served on
the I9th September and affidavits from John
Shuttleworth, Sheyne Lucock and Mary
Attenborough were collected by the Union
Solicitors on Friday, 21st September.
The case was due to be heard by a High
Court Judge in Chambers (Q.B.11). At 12:30
all those concerned trooped in and the
application by College to become joined as a
party to the action was heard. The barrister
for John Shuttleworth opposed this but
eventually Imperial College was given leave
to be joined as Second Defendants to the
'on commenced by John Shuttleworth.
e hearing adjourned at'1:00 p.m. and Mr.
King embarked on the plaintiff's case. This
lasted some forty-five minutes during which
the J u d g e a s k e d m a n y q u e s t i o n s .
At this point the Union Barrister, (Colin
Manning), rose to replybut the Judge bade
him sit, having already decided on his
judgement.
In his Judgement, Mr. Justice McNeill
dealt at some length with the various issues
raised by the case. The basic view taken by
the Judge, however, was that the Union's
Bye-laws could not be read in isolation and
must be taken in context with the Union's
relationship with the College. Moreover,
membership of the Union was restricted to
members of the College and as John
Shuttleworth was no longer the latter then he
was not entitled to the rights and benefits of
Union membership.
A l l o w i n g also for the b a l a n c e of
convenience between the parties, it was
inappropriate for the Injunction to be
granted.
T h e h e a r i n g e n d e d at 4:30 p . m .

