By now you will have read the national
press criticisms and compliments of the
film 'The Bitch'. Having seen the. film
twice, I feel that it has never lived up to
the expectations that I had when I
realised from the publicity that it was the
follow-up to 'The Stud'.
The plot is very weak and the film is
reaily a list of events vaguely linked
together by the stars. Joan Collins
symbolises everything about the movie,
and as can be seen in the photograph of
the Rialto, Leicester Square, her name is
almost as big as the Bitch logo itself.
Joan doesn't spend a large ammount of
time on the screen but of course she is
the Bitch and the film details her
s e d u c t i o n of everyone from her
chauffeur to the rich and famous.
After our first review a month ago
many people went to see the film and
they were disappointed with it. The
FELIX team went to the World Gala
Premiere and noticed that even there
some seats were empty; word travels
fast.
It was not a good film but it was a great
experience to be able to photograph the
stars.
Joan Collins
Our business manager, Austin Reeve, with
Ian Morse (the printer of FELIX).
Joan Collins at the Gala
World Premiere.
London Student
Travelput you
inthe picture
about halfprice
rail travel
: S t u d e n t R a i l c a r d
A Student Railcard costs £8,00 and gives you freedom to
travel between 15 September 1979 and 30 September 1980.
To qualify you must be a student aged 14 years or over in
full time education attending an educational establishment in
the United Kingdom for over 15 hours weekly and for at least
20 weeks of the full academic year.
The card entitles you to 50% off the following 2nd class rail
fares:
• Ordinary Single (minimum student fare £2.00)
• Ordinary Return (minimum student fare £4.00)
• Awayday (Day/Day Off Peak) Return Fares (minimum
student fare £2,00)
You can use Vi price Student tickets for travel by Inter-
City sleepers (subject to payment of the full second class
sleeper supplement), and the card also gives you 50%
discount on Sealink services to and from the Channel Islands
and Ireland.
To get your Railcard, come to LST's main office at 117
Euston Road, London NW1 2SX (telephone 01-388 7051),
their campus offices at Goldsmiths College (Union
Block, Lewisham Way. London SE14), Imperial College
(Union Lounge, Prince Consort Road, London SW7) and
Kingston Polytechnic (Students' Union, Penrhyhn Road,
Kingston), or to London Student Travel stalls at your
freSherS reception. Also available H B
R hiUM n.tv.-l Cmnt,«.
London Student Travel Centre
117 Euston Road, London NW1 2 S X . Tel: 01-388 7051
The student travel centre controlled by London students

