EDITORIAL
A big T H A N K - Y O U M o the
hundreds of students who helped
produce this FELIX. Time and
space are short (It's 7:20 pm on
Sunday night!). Tonight (Monday
1st October) at 8.00 pm IC Folk
Club Presents 'Gladstones Bag'
(Comedy Act) in the Union Lower
Refectory. It is a BIG event that
deserves larger publicity.
IC "Slopshirts are on sale in the
Lower Lounge at Freshers' Fair -
P r i c e s as in the h a n d b o o k
(proceeds to rag). Don't bother
washing your dirty underwear ....
buy some rag knickers when you
purchase your slopshirts!
Some ex-tenants of London
Property Services feel that their
d e p o s i t s have b e e n u n f a i r l y
witheld. If this has happened to you.
Perhaps you would like to come to
the Welfare Centre at 12:45 this
Wednesday and we can discuss
further action.
A very late news story is the
Lexham Gardens Queue. The
QUEUE:
accomodation crisis is so serious
that many students are camping out
to be able to get a place in Lexham
Gardens (only the first 50 are likely
to get a place on Monday morning).
Please come into the FELIX office
during Freshers' Fair. I hope we've
recovered by then!.
Colin Palmer
Acting FELIX Editor
R.S.M.
Welcome to the smallest, friendliest and BEST
college in IC - the Royal School of Mines. For your
first week we have arranged a veritable cornucopia
of events for your delectation and delight, not to
mention your enjoyment.
Freshers' Week
Monday: 2.30pm. room G20 - Freshers' Union
General Meeting.-*
Tuesday: Freshers' Fair - 2.30pm. Queens Lawn and
in the Union Building. Evening: Ice Skating, meet in
the Union Bar at ^,30pm.
Wednesday: Sports Trials: meet in the Union Bar at
12.30pm.
Thursday: rest.
Friday: Freshers' Pub Crawl: A leisurely tour of the
local hostelries.
Saturday: Tiddle your wink down Oxford Street:
meet in the RSM Union Office at 10.00am. Evening:
back in the JCR: MINES DISCO - BOOZE - FUN ! -
starts at 8.30pm.
T h e P h o e n i x
Are Y O U talented in the extreme, can you draw, write sentences using words like
monoprionidian, make good colTee?
W i l l Y O U fulfil every desire that the Editor may sling at you according to his little whims?
Do Y O U want to excrete your literary talents onto a piece of 70 gsm R A 4 paper?
Do Y O U want to learn the technique of paste-up and artistic layout properly?
The Phoenix, Magazine of Imperial College Union, offers you the opportunity of attempting
difficult and challenging layout/paste-up jobs. We also need people capable of writing and
producing drawings and designs. In both of these two main areas, the Phoenix demands the almost
of your abilities. Y E S . , . . Y o u C A N become a superstar.
Interested? Then come and see the Editor, in the F E L I X Office at Freshers' Fair.
O . K ?
Steve Marshall
Editor, The Phoenix 79/80
ENTS
DEF L E P P A R D
will be at the U N I O N C O N C E R T H A L L
8:00 pm T U E S D A Y 2nd O C T O B E R
£1.50 on door
£1.25 advance c
£1.00 Freshers with card
A section of a letter to the President concerning the subjudice rule
for that matter, report the arguments of either
side in FELIX. Written and verbal reports
should be confined solely to a record of what
has happened so far. The subjudice rule, of
course, applies equally to other members of
the Union and, in your capacity as President,
you must rule out of order any attempt to
Ents apologises for no Great Hall Gigs due
to Gordon. Giltrap pulling out. There is a
possibility of legal •etlon.
P.S. Ents desperately need people.
Perks: Free Concerts, films, etc.
See us at Freshers' Fair in the Ents Room.
(Stalers also welcome)
In the meantime it is important for the
Officers and Executive Committee of the
Union to appreciate that, theoretically at
least, the case is still not closed. John
Shuttleworth is quite entitled to pursue his
claim for damages for so long as the Law
Society will extend his Legal Aid Certificate.
If he does so then, in due course, a Statement
of Claim will have to be filed with Defences
served by yourselves and the College and the
matter eventually set down for Trial. This
process will take many months and the
hearing would almost certainly nottake place
until well after the end of the current
academic year. In the meantime the issues
remain subjucice. This means, I'm afraid,
that the rights and wrongs relating to John
Shuttleworth's "dismissal" should not be
debated intheUnion. Youarequite entitled to
present a report to the Union stating what has
happened both in relation to his dismissal
and the subsequent Court Proceedings but
you are N O T entitled to discuss in open
debate the rights and wrongs of the case or,
debate the merits of the case and the present
Editor of FELIX should carefully vet any
articles or letters which appear in its columns.
As I see it, however, there is no reason why
elections should not be held for the new
Editor of FELIX unless Notice of Appeal is
l o d g e d w i t h i n the next few d a y s .
It is quite possible, however, that John
Shuttleworth will formally file a Notice of
Discontinuance of the present action. If he
decides that further Court action is a waste of
time then he will probably do so as the
subjudice rule would no longer apply and all
parties are quite able to then indulge in a free
for all debate.

