The Rules
BRIEF IDEA OF THE GAME
The idea of the game is to buy and rent
properties so inefficiently and unprofitably that
players lose any wealth they may start the
game with. The first player to lose all his money
becomes The Biggest Tit In College. When a
player's token lands on some exorbitantly over-
priced and badly situated property, he must
purchase it from the College Loan Account,
hereafter referred to as 'The Bank'. The object
of purchasing property is to collect rents and
lose money. Under no circumstances should
any player attempt to reduce the rents on
their properties to a reasonable level; this
is cheating. Players are advised that
inefficiency wins in this game.
Rentals are greatly increased by building
houses and hotels on the sites. This is an
obligatory requirement.
Players may note that 'Fisher Hall' is not
present on the board. Fisher Hall is the only site
on which a player may theoretically purchase
the site and then not build a house, or charge
rent, for several game turns.
Players may not mortgage their sites unless
they have less than £100. At this point they
may take a ridiculously high loan from The Bank
when mortgaging their sites.
College Cock-ups and Union Upsets give
instructions that must be followed.
Sometimes players land in a tutorial.
The game is one of shrewd and amusing
titration suitable for those of an unstable
disposition.
EQUIPMENT
Players may have noticed a surprising,
similarity between the game of 'Monopoly' by
John Waddington Ltd and the infinitely superior
game of 'Mammopoly'. This mere coincidence
allows players to utilise the money, houses,
hotels, dice and tokens available in the
aforementioned 'Monopoly' game. Players may
like to steal the communal Hall copy of
'Monopoly', ransacking it for the relevant
pieces. It has been calculated that the ensuing
drop in weight of the 'Monopoly' box should
correspond to the contents of approximately
two Southside Bar ashtrays. Using this
ingenious decoy device, players should be able
to return the vandalised 'Monopoly' game to
their Hall Porter without fear of reprisal*.
Players are provided with a game board
which bears a cunning similarity to the College
Halls of Residence system. Again this is a mere
coincidence and is completely unintentional.
Players are also provided with two sheets of
Title Deeds which should be cut out with
parental assistance.
FELIX accepts no 'esponsitHltv 'of efv action taken with tegard to
the Mammopoiy game, ot the rules contained therein
PREPARATION
Place the board on a good-sized table, as are
found in the Union Bar or Southside Bar. Each
player is provided with one token to represent
him on his travels around the board. Each player
is also given the amazing sum of £1,500. All
other equipment goes on 'The Bank'. One of
the players (the least trustworthy) is elected
Banker, while another is elected 'Dork'. The
purpose of the 'Dork' is to provide adequate
alcoholic beverages to make the game
enjoyable.
MONEY
Each player is given £1,500 divided as
follows: two £500-four £100-one £50-one
£20-two £10-one £5—five £1's.
All remaining Monopoly money goes to 'The
Bank'.
The 'Dork' may require some real money in
order to perform his task. As the game
progresses, and the beverages flow, the 'Dork'
is more likely to accept Monopoly money as
payment. This will cause much hilarity when
he is told by the bar staff exactly where he
should go. {This will not be to 'Tutorial' and in
any case he should not pass 'New Term' and
will not collect £200 Top-up Loan.)
TO START THE GAME
Starting with the Banker, each player in turn
throws the dice. The player with the lowest
total starts play. He/she/Jason Lander places
his/her/its token on the corner marked 'New
Term', throws two dice land probably his
stomach later on in the gamel and moves his
token clockwise around the board by the
number of spaces indicated by the dice. After
he has completed his play, the turn of play
passes to the left. Note that one or more tokens
may rest on the same space at the same time,
although the last player to land on the space
may be required to take a suitable penalty, such
as being the 'Dork'.
According to the space upon which his token
reaches, a player may have to buy Building
Sites or properties (obligatory if the player has
the money available)—or be obliged to pay rent
lif another owns the propertyl, pay Poll Tax,
play 8 College Cock-up or Union Upset, 'Go to
Tutorial', etc.
If a player throws a double he earns himself
another turn. This may be thought of as dealing
behind the back of certain College officials
while they are out at lunch, on holiday, etc.
However, if three such doubles are thrown in
a row, the player has been discovered and must
pay for his heinous crinie by attending a tutorial.
Every time that a player's token either lands
on or passes over 'New Term', while going
clockwise around the board, the Banker, acting
on behalf on our old mate Ken Baker, hands him
the generous sum of £200 as a 'Top-up Loan'.
LANDING ON UNOWNED
PROPERTY
When a player lands on an unowned property
(i.e., on a Building Site for which no other player
holds the Title Deed), whether by a throw of
the dice or by a move forced by the instruction
of a College Cock-up or Union Upset, and he
holds enough money to buy the site, that player
must purchase it. For this he recieves a
handsome Title Deed card showing ownership
which he places face-up in front of him. Note
that all sites bought must be declared in this
way, however dodgy or embarrasing the
transaction was.
LANDING ON OWNED PROPERTY
When a player lands on owned property,
either by a throw of dice, or by a move forced
by a College Cock-up or Union Upset, the
owner collects rent from him in accordance
with the list printed on the Title Deed card
applying to it. A/ofe.lf the site contains a House
or Houses, the rent is exorbitantly higher than
it would be for an unimproved Site, if the Site
is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. Double
rent cannot be collected from a Pattern-Group
if one site is mortgaged. Mortgaged property
is designated by turning the Title Deed
representing that property upside down.
/Vofe.lf the player fails to give his rent before
the next throw of the dice, he becomes the new
'Dork'.
ADVANTAGES FOR OWNERS
It is an advantage to hold Title Deeds for all
Sites of a complete Pattern-Group (for example
Olave House and 170 Queensgate) because the
owner may then charge double rent for
unimproved Sites of that property. This is yet
another ingenious device for screwing rent out
of unwilling residents.
Houses can only be built on Sites of a
complete Pattern-Group owned (see
HOUSES)
LANDING ON COLLEGE COCK UP
OR UNION UPSET'
A player thiows the two dice twice and sums
the total of the four throws. The result is then
applied to the table of College Cock-ups or
Union Upsets given on the Mammopoly board.
The instructions given are then followed. The
'Get out of Tutorial Free' instruction must be
remembered until used After being used it
must be promptly forgotten. This memorized
instruction may be sold to another player at a
price agreeable to both. In this case the memory
of the 'Get out of Tutorial Free' instruction must
be transferred between players. In light o
f the
above complications, it may be deeemed wise
to record 'Get Out of Tutorial Free' instructions
using a pencil and paper.
LANDING ON FREE PARKING
When a player lands on this Space, one of the
Other players must pretend to be Nigel, our
beloved Union President. The lucky player then
has to grovel to 'Nigel' in the most appropriate
m
a
n
n
e
r until he is given the Free Parking Permit
he so desperatfy requires. If he fails in this task,
h
e will h
a
v
e to p
a
r
k his car round the back of
the Old Chemistry Building.
BANKER
Select as Banker a player who is the most
untrustworthy, low down piece of cow dung
around the table.
THE BANK
The Banker preferably u
s
e
s f
o
r t
h
e B
a
n
k a
pint glass placed at his elbow, but in practice
it will be found that the banker becomes q
u
i
t
e
adept at using his pockets. In this case, he
should become the 'Dork'.
If the Bank (College Loan Account) runs out
o
f money, a very sorry state of affairs, the
Banker must issue I.O.U.'s for whatever
amounts are required.
TUTORIAL
A player lands in Tutorial if his token lands
on the space marked 'Go to Tutorial', or if he
throws doubles three times in succession.
Note: A player will not recieve £200 Top-up
Loan on his way to a Tutorial for being a Girly
Swot.
A player gets out of a Tutorial—{1) B
y
throwing a double on his next turn. If he
succeeds, he can throw again and move
forward the appropriate (or inappropriate)
number o
f spaces. (2) Using his memory of a
previous 'Get Out of Tutorial Free' instruction.
(3) By completing Quantum Mechanics Problem
Sheet 3 before his next turn.
Skiving a Tutorial: If a player is not 'sent
to Tutorial', but in the ordinary course of play
reaches that space, he is 'Just Skiving' and has
managed to avoid yet another boring,
incomprehensible tutorial. Well done.
HOUSES
Houses can be bought only from the Bank
and can only be built on Sites of a complete
Pattern-Group which the player owns. If he
buys one House, he may place it on any Site
within the Pattern-Group. The next house he
buys must then be built on a different site:
properties must be developed evenly
throughout the game. The price paid for houses
is given on the Title Deed cards for each Site.
A player must, if his financial standing allows,
build at least one house every turn.
HOTELS
A player must have four Houses on each Site
of a complete Pattern-Group before building a
Hotel. The Hotel is bought from the Bank for
the sum shown on the Title Deed plus the four
houses already on the Site. Only one hotel may
be built on any one site.
SELLING PROPERTY
Undeveloped sites and Refectones/Bars may
be sold to any player as a private transaction
only when the seller has less than £100. No
Site, however, may be sold to another player
if buildings are standing on any Sites in that
Pattern-Group. Any buildings so situated must
be sold back to the Bank before the owner can
sell any Site of that Pattern-Group. Mortgaged
property cannot be sold to the Bank -only to
other players.
Houses and Hotels may be resold to the Bank
at anytime that the owner has less than £100.
I
n this case the Bank will pay one half of the
price paid for them. In the case of Hotels, the
Bank will pay half the cash price of the Hotel
plus half the price of the four Houses which
were given in purchase of the Hotel.
MORTGAGES
Mortgaging properties can be done through
the Bank only when the owner has less than
£ 100 ready cash. The mortgage value is printed
on each Title Deed. The rate of interest is 10%,
payable when the mortgage is lifted. If any
property is transferred which is mortgaged, the
new owner may lift the mortgage at once if he
wishes, but he must pay the 10% interest.
Houses or Hotels cannot be mortgaged. All
buildings on a Site must be sold to the Bank
bejore that Site can be mortgaged.
Building cannot proceed on mortgaged
property.
BANKRUPTCY
When a player is bankrupt, he must sell any
property he owns in an attempt to raise money.
If even this attempt (jails, he is deemed the
winner, and must buy a round of drinks, even
if he is not the current 'Dork'.
RULES FOR PLAYING THE SHORT
GAME
If time is short and optimum fun is required,
the following rule may be applied... Every time
a player pays rent, he must down a pint of a
suitable beverage.
of Mammopoly

