t
Letters
Loans Demo
Bad Publicity
Dear Editor,
I feel 1 must write in response to a letter which
appeared in issue 820 on December 2. It is the
one concerned with the perception of the
apparent apathy of IC students in general
towards Student Loans.
I, for one, am certainly not in favour of them. •
Neither do I feel total indifference towards the
subject. I believe that going on a demonstration.
is everyone's right as we are living in a
democracy. I grant you that the demonstration
received widespread publicity, but so too did the
negative aspects of its latter stages. This will only
serve to fuel criticism and unsubstantiated beliefs
that university students are hotheads and only
looking for trouble. I am sure that all those who
signed the letter wholeheartedly disapproved of
the events with the Police at the time of the
march. I would be much happier, however, if I
saw their signatures at the bottom of letters to
their local MP, voicing their objections about
Student Loans, rather than seeing them in a letter
to FELIX, which labels all IC students as'
apathetic. Such a letter might not seem a very
strong action or appear to have much impact, but
if the 'thousands' who took part in the march
'from as far afield as Dundee' did so then perhaps1
Kenneth Baker and his Parliamentarian
colleagues would pay more attention to the
students' plight.
After all, we live in a system where the MPs[
are meant to act as our representatives when1
decisions concerning policies and laws are made..
It may not be 100% efficient but let us make the;
most of it and carry out some positive and
decisive action.
Yours,
L Abati, Life Sci 2.
An Open Mind?
Dear Editor,
Some of the issues facing us today are
important for us to consider, however, I must say
that the 'Questions 88' discussion missed the
mark by a mile. 'Questions 88' was an event
organised by the IC Islamic Society two weeks
ago, in which they said they sought to compare
the three ideologies, Islam, Democracy and
Socialism. The Muslim speaker, understandably
heavily biased towards Islam, started his
comparison by equating socialism with
communism and democracy with capitalism. If
this were really tbe case, then why have two
distinctly different words in the English language'
to describe them? As most informed historians-
would agree, the first signs of socialism are seen
in early Jewish history, long before either Islam-
or communism were thought up. So it was put-
to the speaker that perhaps a comparison of Islam-
and Judaism would be more appropriate here?
The speaker replied that Judaism was not 'a way1
of life' and wasn't worth talking about, he
wanted to talk about communism. So let us resign
and allow him to have his way.
From this position he proceeded to expound,
how, in its origins (ie not taking contemporary
extensions into account) communism beleived in
the non-existence of God, and capitalism didn't
care about God. However, as any visitor to
America would be able to verify, passed down
from the American Constitutions (or 'creed' as
the speaker put it) all of the US money has
printed on it 'in God we trust'. It seems so
pointless to have a debate of this nature at
Imperial just so that a speaker can share his
ignorance with us.
A 'Questions 88' leaflet asked 'Do You Have1
An Open Mind?'. Perhaps it would have been
better phrased, do you have an open mouth? As
the speaker treated the debate in the way a
mother would, force feeding her baby, waving
off the pesky flies of communism and capitalism.
But then again can a Muslim have an open mind,
as like the speaker said, their freedom lies in that
if they disagree with something in Islam, they get
three days to argue about it, before they are put
to death. In future, however, the Imperial College
Islamic Society could perhaps invite a more
informed speaker, if they intend to compare Islam
with other ideologies.
Yours sincerely,
Keith T Adeney, Elec Eng 3.
Wendy's Letter
Dear Bill,
It seems that I can no longer appear to be sitting
smugly in my Ivory Union Tower doing
absolutely nothing about students loans.
I must confess that when first approached
about the mass lobby on Thursday 24 it was by
individuals associated with IC Socialist Worker
Society who in my view merely act as a front for
the SWP in a not always amenable manner. For
that reason, I was hesitant to attend the march.
Since then I have spent a considerable amount
of time digesting the White Paper, not just
reading it, but making notes and considering the
implications of the finer details.
There are two stages of opposition to the
scheme which can be taken; that of opposing the •
.principle or opposing the practicalities of the
system.
I do not suggest for one moment that the
principle be accepted but that if all our eggs are
in one basket, then a loans system may be
implemented which apart from anything else,
takes very little account of the cost of living in
London.
It is therefore my intention to produce a paper
for submission to the Governing Bodies of both
Imperial and other London colleges highlighting
the effect the system will have on the quality of
student life and ultimately the intake levels upon
which they so heavily rely.
The main problem with London is that the
'extra' loan facility on top of the 'full' value of
the grant will barely cover the loss of housing
benefit and that consequently students will still
be graduating with heavy bank overdrafts over
and above their student loan. The Government's
proposals for repayment of the loan will become
somewhat irrelevant when a student has a bank
breathing down his n^ck, for quick repayment1
of an overdraft, perhaps in"excess of the loan.
If London colleges and their students are not
.o be discriminated against, an index-linked 'free'
loan must be provided as well as the top-up loan
to take account of inflated rents, travel, food,
costs, etc, otherwise the only students who will
be able to study in London will be those
undertaking course that are guaranteed to
provide healthy salaries and give a high chance
of obtaining sponsorships; the Royal College of
Science will be worse hit by this.
So, perhaps in the future, those who think I
couldn't be bothered to attend the march should
perhaps come and speak to me so that our
ignorance of each other's activities and aims can
be remedied.
Yowrs,
Ian Morris, ICU Hon Sec.
On your bike
Harry
Dear Bill,
Thank you for the feature about me in FELIX
recently. As a 'Character' at IC I believe I have
widened the concept of what is a Professional
Mathematician!!
FELIX readers may be interested to know thai
I used my techniques to obtain all the numbers
up to 200 digits asked for by Keith Devlin in the
Guardian Micro-Maths (17th Nov). His problem
was stated as: 527 degreesF is such that it
becomes 275 degreesC: so what is the next
number with this property that the 5 moves from
the front to the back when you change from F
to C.
The next number with this property is 5294,
111764,70588 F = 2941,17647,05882,35275 C.
To determine all such numbers up to 200 digits
took .081 sec execution time and I'll send you the
program (all 21 lines of it) and output.
However the reason for this letter is that I have
been approached to take part in a Project that
might interest some IC students.
Bill Morgan is a stuntman who has featured in
James Bond films as well as others. He wants to
make the longest motorcycle jump and land in
water in London Docks and so get into the
Guinness Book of Records. (His target is around
,225 feet.) He has sponsorship from a French
Circus which puts on dare-devil feats and
Channel 4 TV is interested. He is not worried
about landing in the water at around 60 mph... T
can have speed boats churning up the water so
that I land in foam...' What he wants to know
about is the dynamics involved.
Treating the bike and Bill as a 'particle' (typical
mathematical approximation!) he should lift off
at 45 degrees (it will be from a ramp on a
dockside), travelling at about 60 mph. The particle
will then rise to around 110 feet and plunge into
lovely Thames Water. This is of course,
neglecting..., neglecting...and what about...?
An accurate careful analysis of the whole event,
including entry into the water, will not be easy
and the 'show' is scheduled for later summer
1989. What is being initially aimed for, if we can
formulate the equations correctly, is a realistic
graphic visual computer simulation so that we
can see how Bill and his bike will fare as they fly
through the air and enter the water.
Page 2 FELIX December 14 1988

