I
I
f T H E D A I L Y T E L E G R A P H A W A R D S F O R E X C E L L E N C E / ;
I , 1
BRITISH ASSOCIATION
Promoting Science and Technology
Young Science Writer Awards 1989
WIN A WEEK IN THE USA
-re you aged between 16 and 28? Does the
world of scientific discovery fascinate you?
Yes? Then how would you like to spend a
week in the U S A - at the 1990 American
Association for the Advancement o f Science
Annual Meeting in New Orleans.
TOUR WRITING TALENT
CAN GET YOU THERE.
We are looking for articles o f about 700
words on a scientific discovery or research topic
of your choice. It could be anything from
astrophysics to animal behaviour or A l to HIV.
You select the field - and then write an article
that both informs and entertains specialist and
general newspaper readers alike.
THE PRIZES
The competition is divided into two age
groups: 16-21 and 22-28, with a total o f 12
prizes in each age group:
• The best article will earn its author a trip to the
DR. ROGER HIGHEIELD'S
COMPETITION GUIDE
General points:
1. Your article should be about 700 words in length, and
not more than 800 words.
2. Your article should be clear and informative and
understood by the non-specialist newspaper reader.
Scientific jargon should either be explained or avoided.
3. If vou feel diagrams or illustrations would be helpful,
include them in vour entrv. It doesn't matter how
sketchv thev are.
4. 16-21 age group entrants and 22-28 age group
entrants not engaged in original research: Write about
anv scientific discover;-, for example, a project being
putsued locally or perhaps topics discussed recentlv in
scientific- publications. Whatever vou choose, vou must
identify vour sources.
5. 22-28 age group entrants engaged in original
research: Ir doesn't matter whether vour research is
complete or not; citing othet work is perfectly
acceptable if vour own has not vet borne fruit.
For a more detailed guide and copies of last
year's winning entries, please write to the
competition address.
U S A in 1990, as well as the satisfaction of seeing
the winning piece published in The Dailv
Telegraph's Mondav Science and Tefhnologv
page. The winners will also receive a vear's
subscription to New Scientist and Narure, plus
an invitation to attend Science 89, the British
Association's Annual Meeting in Sheffield.
• Second prize is a vear's subscription to New
Scientist and Nature, plus an invitation to Science
89. All runners-up have a chance of seeing their
entries published in The Daily Telegraph.
• There are 10 runner-up prizes o f a year's
subscription to New Scientist and Narure.
• A further 25 entrants whose articles are
of particular note, will be awarded The
Dailv Telegraph-British Association Certificate
of Merit.
• In addition - for everv school pupil reaching
the final round o f judging, a prize will be
awarded to their school.
THE JUDGES
Sir Sam Edwards; President, British Association for the Advancement of Science. Sir Walter Bodmer: Director of Research, Imperial Cancer Research. Mr. Richard Fifield: Executive Editor, New Scientist
Magazine. Dr. Peter Newmark: Nature Magazine. Professor Sir David Phillips: Laboratory of Molecular Biophvs.es, Oxford University. Professor Heinz Wolff: Institute of Bio Engineering, Brunei
University'. Dr. Roger Highfield: Technology Editor, The Daily Telegraph. The judges will assess your articles on content, quality' of writing, your age, and anv graphic illustrations vou mav propose.
1
Sendyour entry to: Ms. Julie Dallison, British Association, Fortress House, 23 Savile Row, London W1X 1AB, to arrive not later than 25 February 1989. Make sure
that your entry clearly shows the category you are entering, your full name, date of birth, school/university/place of work, contact address and telephone number.
COMPETITION RULES
t be aged between 16 and 28 (inclusive) at 25.2.89. 2. Entries must be rvped or legiblv written in ink or ballpoint. 3. Entries over 800 words in length (not
ption of anv graphic illustration | will be disqualified. 4. The judges decision is final and no correspondence on the nature of assessment or the results will
5. Competition is open to U K residents only. Employees (and their families) of'The Daily Telegraph pk. subsidiary or associated companies, advertising
agencies are not eligible 6. The Daily Telegraph Standard Competition Rules applv. Thev can be obtained bv sending a stamped addressed envelope to
Ms. Julie Datlison at the address shown above.
.ft D /
©
®he Qailji Airgraph
D A I L Y T E L E G R A P H A W A R D S F O R E X C E L L E N C E vv

