I feel that such a real and human project might
attract sufficient interest from some IC students
that they might like to participate. (In the design
of experiment aspect!! Incidentally Bill Morgan's
father was at IC as a student i n the Aero
Department..so he tells me.) If so then a line to
me, via FELIX or M S F Office, Sherfield Building,
would be warmly welcomed.
Harry Fairbrother.
Suntan Health
Shock
Dear Editor,
I was rather surprised to read of the proposal
to include a solarium in the new College 'Health'
Club (FELIX 819). I had hoped that the desire of
the young and fair-skinned to burn their bodies
to a frazzle was on the wane; but it would seem
that no 'Health' Club is complete without the sun
lamp, which imparts neither health nor vigour,
except when used to treat a few medical
conditions under qualified supervision. For some
unfortunate individuals the consequences of an
artificially maintained year-round tan are
premature ageing of the skin and/or skin cancer.
I think you would be hard-pushed to find a
dermatologist who would approve of even the
newer so-called safer sun lamps for purely
cosmetic purposes.
Sun worshippers may argue that tanning is
harmless if practiced in moderation, and indeed
not everyone with a fair skin who spends a
lifetime in a sunny climate develops skin cancer,
just as many people at our chillier latitude do,
and sometimes on parts of their bodies usually
protected by clothing. There is no way I know
of determining a 'safe' level of exposure to natural
or artificial sunlight for any individual, but some
generalisations may be made.
1. The fairer your skin, the greater the risk.
2. Skin cancers are extremely common forms
of cancer in Caucasians in sunny countries such
as Australia, N e w Zealand and South Africa.
3. The most common site affected is the face,
as this is usually constantly exposed to sunlight,
and the people affected are often those who work
pr spend their leisure time out of doors.
I would like to stress that I am not suggesting that
.we should hide from the sun which is necessary
to both our physical and emotional well-being.
iBut I do feel we should avoid additional 'out of
iseason' tanning, by natural or artificial means.
T also feel we should not seek to perpetuate the
myth that unlimited tanning is healthy, as distinct
from an exercise in vanity, by filling our Health
Gyms with solaria.
Yours faithfully,
Alison Davies, Library Assistant, Geology Library,
formerly staff nurse at the Department ofRadiotherapy,
North Middlesex Hospital.
PS. I like your alcohol special, but I believe that
% a pint of beer contains 1 unit of alcohol, not
Vi pint as stated i n fig. 1.
(Edited viciously due to space
Industrial
Dispute
, Dear Bill,
As a member of the Indsoc Committee, I am
writing to set the record straight over the 'Careers
Fair scandal' reported in last week's issue of
' FELIX.
The Industrial Society has run the Careers Fair
for a number of years. Companies and students
' always comment on how well it is run and a large
profit is made.
In past years this has gone to pay for events,
'but this year the Union is taking £8,000 of the
' profit while Indsoc receives £2000.
The Union has not organised the Careers Fair
•and Indsoc has provided all the manpower.
• In your article you stated that £2000 was to be
• spent on a dinner. This is incorrect, in fact, £400
• was spent on a dinner for 15 people at £25 per
head. This expenditure was specifically approved
. by Nigel Baker prior to the fair although he now
.seems to have changed his mind.
As a Committee we felt that it would be wrong
to pay ourselves so w e decided instead o n a
dinner. This was open to anybody who came and
{put in forty hours works over four days consisting
of Monday afternoon and evening as well as
twelve hours each day on Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday. Only one non-committee member
did so, although it wasn't Chas Brereton, who
'tried to invite himself along.
To conclude, our dinner was in payment for
a minimum of forty hours work, and that doesn't
iinclude the previous nine months organisational
'effort put in by Indsoc and I deeply resent the
insinuation that we had a piss-up at ICU's
'expense.
If we were to be paid properly then we would
• each receive over £80, but we didn't request this
.as the whole aim is to raise money for Indsoc
members' benefit.
Please get your facts straight before you start
making allegations.
Yours,
S ] McCali, Elec Eng 2
Milk
Dear Bill,
30/11/88
The R C S U Office is the one place I know,
where anomalies appear regularly in the
everyday running of life. It is also a place where
istounding feats of creativity are instituted,
iveryday one or the other of these things is
;uaranteed to occur.
Today, it is the appearance of around four
hundred pints of milk. The milk is stored i n 40
jpint containers. But, how the milk is contained,
•and in what manner it arrived, are of little
(consequence. That is, these questions take no
precedence in the minds of the people of the RCS,
who now have to figure out what to do with this
quantity of milk. It didn't take them long to figure
out that they can't drink it all. Not even if they
Letters
iave no other form of nourishment for the next
ive days. (Five days is the limit that I put on the
milk staying fresh!)
One hack I spoke to had written his name o n
one of the containers. 'That's mine!' he said. He
•claimed that he was going to drink it all. I pointed
-out that he had three days to the sell-by date, and
.that the container was larger than his torso. 'Well,
I'm going to buy lots of breakfast cereal.' Was
.the convincing reply.
A n attempt has been made to sell over the
phone a large quantity of milk to the various
refectories and food outlets around College, with
•some success it seems! Although, some form of
[explanation was found to be necessary before the
potential buyers would take the offer seriously.
| Does anyone fancy a m i l k - d r i n k i n g
competition? N o one around here seems to like
]the idea. They've already got it coming out of
'there ears!
1 I just hope that there isn't another delivery
error tomorrow.
I Yours in disbelief,
- P Hopkins.
Debate
'Dear Bill,
Your correspondent, Alistair Goodall, is very
disturbed at the prospect of open debate on South
Africa. If he would be so good as to attend one
•of our meetings he would find that debates are
•an opportunity to question someone who holds
•views that are not necessarily the same as one's
• own: it is by this intelligent, thought-provoking
process that other people have the freedom to
arrive at opinions entirely as rational as his.
Yours,
Lynda Matthews, Debsoc Chair.
Denial
• Dear Bill,
I've got this terrible problem. I was the one who
-had to set out the letter page and I happily
chopped and pasted & horribly mutilated a long
after so it would all fit.
, But.
But I made a H E I N O U S miscalculation, because
I soon found out that there was an E N O R M O U S
G A P at the end of the page.
I'm sorry Alison Davies\ I'm so sorry, I didn't
need to do that to your letter. O H ! G H A S T L Y
mistake! What to do? I ran around the FELIX
office tearing m y hair out in a P A R O X Y S M of
terror. What will the EDITOR do when he
discovers?
I repent, I repent, I can't stand the tension. I
grovel at your feet, denizens of the far corner of
Beit.
But this left me with a BIG P R O B L E M , because
•now I had an E N O R M O U S G A P to fill. H o w to
•do it? I must somehow in a way the editor won't
•notice. See if you can spot the filling letter.
• Name and account number witheld
• by request.
December 14 1988 FELIX Page 3

