On the Tube
Underpants in the bath
Phillipe always jotted down his thoughts while sitting on a table in his
favourite jazz club, before the throngs started arriving. Like always, he
raced down the road in his immaculately kept dark green Bugatti Coupe
50, past the cinema outside which people waited for the next show to start.
A poster showed James Dean in a clip from 'East of Eden'. Phillipe turned
round a corner and parked his car outside a dark alley. He walked the rest
of the distance, lighting up a Gauloises on his way and went throught a
door into the basement where black musicians from Harlem played every
Saturday. This is what he wrote.
Christmas is an occasion celebrated around the world by devout Christians
and others (Protestants, Evangelists etc.) in a fashion which suits the culture
of the country. In East Beirut shots are fired at anything that moves. In
South Africa, Santa Claus races around Johannesburg in an armoured
Mercedes 500SL giving Afrikaaner children water cannons and toy guns
to protect themselves from black violence. At home we have to repeat the
same routine again. Meet all those relatives who we despise, get run over
and mowed down by little cousins who want to play Monopoly, buy a
hundred million presents, commit the sin of gluttony by eating numerous
dinners, overdoses of mince pies and burnt Christmas puddings soaked
in Cointreau, indulge in excessive amounts of champagne, port and lager.
And then make the New Year's resolutions and jot them down on a Filo-
Fax. But there are also the bright side of things. You can go to a party and
stand under the mistletoe reeking of mouthwash. If you happen to meet
your dream person, try to strike up a conversation (assuming you are not
suffering from braindeath due to the lectures you had so far). Remember
the times when Christmas used to be fun? When you were very little,
standing in a cot, a nappy tied round your bum, covered with Boots talcum
powder and had your cheeks pinched by stupid adults who made silly
cooing sounds and showered you with an avalanche of coloured blocks,
balloons, pink rubber nipples and toys which made a rattling sound when
you shook them, making you wonder if they were broken even before you
had a chance to throw them around. It is also a nice occasion when you
are old and senile and your bones rattle, so you end up listening or talking
to yourself when nobody else is interested in what you have to say. On
Christmas day you sit where the in-laws put you (most likely very close
to the fire-side) and watch Roger Moore in a James Bond yarn the umpteenth
time.
So what happened in 1988? A few months ago, the smooth talking
Margaret made the statement that there could be no united states of Europe.
I do not understand her vague political and economical reasoning but let
us examine the more obvious side of things. The matter of fact is that the
British cannot accept to be called Europeans, because this reduces them
to mere faces in the herd and puts their culture, eccentricity and
individuality at jeopardy. How can the stiff upper-lipped Englishman from
Eton who drives a smooth cruising Jaguar, lives in Tunbridge Wells and
converses with old clubby gentlemen about Spitfires and the Empire,
associate himself with plump Germans eating Sauerkraut and drinking Beer
in big electrical corporations, saying;'Und zat ist all in the past now, ya!',
or with the average Baguette carrying, beret wearing Frenchmen? Nor do
I see the Neighbours and Marks & Spencer mentality Englishwomen getting
to terms with their rather cool 'Marie-Claire' counterparts. There exists a
Dutch sailors' poem written a century ago which sings the praises of French
women in bed and English women in the kitchen. Anybody who can
confirm the truth in this statement, please do drop into the Felix
Headquarters for a drink and a chat. So if we cannot stand the idiosyncracies
of our Euro ^ns cousins, what charm do we find in the 'merchant-
minded', 1 mouthed Yanks? What makes us watch their shallow,
nihilistic films, eat their 'plastic' processed food and copy their style in
money and finance? Does Maggie feel that if we criticize their gun-boat
diplomacy they would impose a trade embargo on 501s? Well, yet another
clown got elected in the washing-powder style American presidential
cmapaign and off went the Iron lady attired in her Christian Dior dress"
(bought with money taken out from university grants) to play with him
whatever games politicians play. George Bush has been a member of the
elite Harvard University Skulls & Bones club (males only). In the initiation
ceremony, a recruit is asked to tell everything about himself. Bush disclosed
that he wore underpants in the bath. When asked why, he confessed that
he did not want to look down on the unemployed. However that was back
in the Forties and things have changed. Ms. Bhutto has become the Premier
of Pakistan, the most boring country after Saudi Arabia, and if all seats
for Siberia are booked then this is the place where you can send your
mother-in- law on a one wayticket.But the change is nevertheless welcome.
New theories are being suggested for the Kennedy assasination. Here is
our analysis: J.Edgar Hoover never developed a liking for J.F.K because
of the latter's womanizing and other colourful pastimes. He may have
conspired with the Mafia to have Johny killed. Shopping could be the most
harrowing part of the story. Buying a present for your girlfriend or boyfriend
(depending what your preferences and inclinations may be) is bad news.
Where would you go? Go to Harrods and get lost in its opulent and
pretentious interiors. And as you try to find your way to the Perfume
department to douse yourself in half a bottle of Davidoff, you see hordes
of overdressed rich aliens out to buy English goods so that when they go
back to whichever philistine land they come from and brag about having
seen all the sights in London, which in their opinion is a way to become
civilized . But as any self respecting connoisseur would tell you, it really
boils down to the rules of Cricket, either you know them or you do not.
The English people, however cannot be pardoned either. They believe that
if they know a thing or two about wines, can order pastry in a French
brassiere and have a Constable or a relic of the Raj in their living rooms
then they are made of finer clay than the rest. What nonsense! Go to Oxford
circus or Regent street avoiding the Hispanic women who stand outside
tube stations handing out pamphlets for English language schools, mad
cab drivers giving their frightened American passengers five hundred horse-
power rides down the road, and the clumsy shoppers who cannot walk
straight, to finally discover, upon entering a rather tacky shop that you
have not brought your wallet.
The 'on the tube' shopping guide: -Buy a bottle of Beaujolais Nouveau for
people who consider themselves slightly sophisticated, but tell them that
it should be drunk before New Year. -Perfumes and toiletries from House
of Fraser Armani, Dunhill, Trussardi, Grey Flannel (for men) Chanel,
Poison, Clinique (for women) Ladies leather purses in Next, High street
Kensington Unisex hats, berets and other paraphenalia in Amazon, Church
street Kensington. Jumpers for boys and girls in Jumpers, High street
Kensington Men's accessories in Blazer, King's Road and High street
Kensington Waistcoats in Kensington Market, designer waistcoats from
Tom GUby's waistcoat gallery, 2 New Burlingtion Place. American Classics
near Covent Garden tube station sell good second hand clothes Ladies items
in Hermes, New Bond street and Browns in South Molton street. Toiletries,
greasy facial creams, fuming bath salts and mediocre perfumes from Body
Shop. Probably the best bet is to buy watches, bangles, braces and silver
condom carrying cases etc. (available from a certain shop near Habitat on
King's Road) from Kensington Market, Camden Town Market and resort
to giving away scarfs, gloves, handkerchiefs, boxer shorts and braces bought
from Tie Rack and Sock shop. Finally a few words of wisdom for the new
year:
And if the Wine you drink, the Lip you press, End in what All begins and
ends in-Yes; Think then you are TO-DAY what YESTERDAY You were
-TOMORROW you shall not be less.
Omar Khayyam
Emile Nizan
December 1988
London
Page 32 FELIX December 14 1988

