Felix
Editorial
FELIX Party. The Felix Christmas party will take
place at 2pm this afternoon. If you have been at
all involved in FELIX this year, drop in with a
bottle for some festive frolicks, and
'Mammopoly.' The party will be followed by a
trip to the Texas Lone Star and an all night radio
show from 11pm on IC Radio. Bring records,
musical instruments and things to say over the
air.
FELIX In many ways this term has been a difficult
one for FELIX. The politics of the previous year
meant that the staff carry-over at the start of the
term was very small. Nevertheless the paper has
managed to build up a new and enthusiastic
team.
During this period, it has been a great source
of pleasure to see FELIX improving with every
issue and I am confident that it will continue to
develop throughout the next term.
The time and effort that many of the staff invest
in the paper can be quite astonishing and I find
it difficult to adequately express my gratitude.
I would therefore like to thank everyone who
has contributed to FELIX this term, in particular:
News Editor David Smedley for amusing the
office with his caustic wit and for looking after
the news pages with the assistance of Sez
Wilkinson, Adam Harrington, and Sophie
Wardle.
New Features Editor Robin Davison for in depth
research into issues such as Student Loans and
for his help with the news pages.
Business Manager Liz Warren for looking after
the books, collating, folding, photocopying, and
for putting far more into FELIX than the post of
Business Manager requires.
Graphics Editor Steve Meyfroidt for vastly
improving the layout of FELIX, designing covers,
collating every week, pasting up and for
spending untold hours designing the
'Mammopoly' game.
Advertising Manager Nik Jones for collating,
folding, proof reading and pasting up, in addition
to finding advertisers.
Science Editor Andrew Hall for providing a
regular stream of popular articles and Darren
Austin for helping him.
Travel Editor Paul Barton for telling us about all
the places we could visit if only we had the time
or the money.
Reviews EditorsAndy Clarke and Summit Guha
for performing an excellent job, assisted by Book
Reviews Editor, Alan Young.
Arts Editor Emile Nizan for bringing culture to
Imperial College.
Photographer Doug King for providing excellent
photographs for the news and sports page.
Music Editor Mike Dalton for having no taste and
Chris Leahy for having some.
Clubs Editor Andy Waller for keeping us
informed about all those zany clubs.
Cartoonists Noel Curry, David Griffiths and
Wouter van Hulten for providing light relief.
Office Manager David Thomas for his general
assistance and for keeping the office in good
order.
Features Editor Wendy Kite for taking up this
most prestigeous of posts.
Motoring Correspondent Adrian Bourne for
writing about cars.
Gastronomic Editor Yishu Nanda for amazing us
all with his feats of gastronomy.
Typesetter Rose Atkins for faithfully setting every
issue of FELIX.
Printer Dean 'it's a laugh' Vaughan for printing
FELIX and covering everything in the office with'
ink.
Oodles of thanks are also due to Sez Wilkinson
for her invaluable assistance this term in all
aspects of FELIX, Ramin Nakisa for his general
help and enigmatic writings, Jason Lander for his
sexy beard, Phil Hopkins for the Puzzle page and
Kamala Sen for helping him, Dev for drawing the
Baron, Ian Lodwick, Andy Bannister for moral
support, Neil Motteram for organising Felix Club
events, collating and playing good music, Rupert
Clayton and Martin Cole for writing features,
Mike Bell, Pam & Chris Edwards, Paul Dhillon,
Ina, Cosmic, Susan Appleby, Dominic
Strowbridge, and anyone I have forgotten.
Stories Here are three interesting stories:
Story 1 The Union spent £70.99 on a party for
selected members of Council during the Summer
holidays. The cost of the party was paid for out
of the Union 'sundries' account.
Story 2 Later on in the year, the Union spent
around £500, according to the Union Finance
Officer, on a party designed to allow members
of Council to meet College Officials.
Story 3 Last week, IC Union Publications Board
(the body which represents FELIX, STOIC and
IC Radio) decided to throw a party for Pub Board
Senior Treasurer Simon Langham who is about
to leave. The party was to be funded via the Pub
Board contingency fund to a maximum of seventy
pounds.
On Tuesday of that week I received a phone
call from Nigel Baker, the Union President who
told me how scandalous the idea of a party for
the Senior Treasure was and insisted that I should
write a news story to that effect.
Suprise Surprise I was interested to read in the
minutes of the Union Executive meeting the
following statement.
'Naughty Bill Goodwin - Meeting about standard
of Felix to be held Friday 2nd December in ICU'
It is encouraging to hear that the Executive are
concerned about Felix.
It would have been nice, though, if the Exec
had voiced their concerns to the Editor and
perhaps, if it was not too much to ask, if they
could have invited the Editor along to the
meeting.
Hopefully, by the time you read this I will have
had the opportunity to find out about the matter
at the forthcoming Council.
Hopfiy ChriStrr?<x$
O H S ^ O O K U M S , 1 ' t U
H <AOf y o u , | \ N p S G t u V t E X t
W O U P o R E . v / £ & A M D
E v £ R . / O t i ' Li. fn£
gEs-rts-r -revoi
O H t-M M (r l A l N O , I'LL
HUG- V o a A M P S Q U E E Z b
" f t m F O R E V E R A M P
even. . v o u 1
H E T H E
T H E W H O U E I A / O & U P . '
O
O-IT/
December 14 1988 FELIX Page 5

