LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Just be honest
et me level with you. Since
becoming Editor I have
very often worn glasses. I
consider myself a contact
wearer. However, I ran out
of contacts and I just haven’t had the
time to go to get more. Okay, I’ll be more
honest, I have had the time to get more
contacts; I just personally preferred to
spend that time relaxing. So, in the spirit
of honesty, I have changed the picture
above.That’samoreaccuraterepresen-
tation of what I usually look like when I
walk about campus (except in real life
I’m much more handsome, and taller,
just). I’m sorry for duping you all for so
long, but I decided to fess up. I hope you
appreciate me telling you the truth and
not sugar coating it.
The reason I say this is because of
some of the articles in the News sec-
tion. Relax, I haven’t made a bunch of
stuff up. Matt Proctor’s article compar-
ingOxbridgetoImperialisaninteresting
read and shows that some people have
it just as tough, if not tougher, than us.
Truth is: I wish we could have managed
to compare the full timetable and also a
mean “time working” statistic between
all equivalent (and roughly equivalent)
courses at Imperial and Oxbridge.
Unfortunately, as you can I’m sure
understand, that would take an insane
amount of time, effort and research. It
would be a really great way of seeing
how “hard” the degrees are and a great
way of ranking universities. However,
endless time and resources, and the
ability to get every student to honestly
say the exact amount of time they are
working each week, is pretty much im-
possible. It would be a great article, but
isn’t possible, so we had to do what we
could with our limited resources. I think
it still has its merits. In fact, I think the
pure contact hour approach is a good
indicator for science subjects about
how much work you are expected to do.
More lectures and labs = more work at
home, as more revision, because you
have more content to learn.
Why not engineering subjects? To
be honest: it’s because it was difficult
to compare Cambridge and Impe-
rial as they do General Engineering
and also couldn’t find the information.
So, instead of only some information, I
thought it’s best to focus on the science
and medicine and leave the engineering
to a possible later date. Also, if you keep
holding features like this back until they
areperfectthenyouwillneverrunthem.
The reason I thought of honesty
was because of the front page about
the hospitals closing the A&E Depart-
ments. Shaping a Healthier Future... by
closing A&E Departments and making
ahubinonehospitalthatwillmaketrav-
el times very long. I’ve been in an am-
bulance with someone and can tell you,
the quicker it gets to the hospital the
better for both patient and those with
them anxiously waiting. If they said “we
have to close A&E Departments as we
need to reduce our deficit and we think
this is a good way of doing it as with no
money we can’t run any hospitals” and
say “in my position what would you do?
No hospitals, or some with reduced ser-
vice” then at least they would be being
honest. If money were not an issue here
would you still close them? That’s my
key question to them. You can all guess
the answer to that one. (Note that I’m
deliberately ignoring the possibility that
it’s all just about making the Trust into a
Primary Health Care Trust.)
Of course, they could be being com-
pletely honest and have no worries
about the deficit at all. The trouble is
that everyone is so full of spin, sugar
coating, and gentle positive highlight-
ing that people assume someone is at-
temptingtopullthewooloveryoureyes.
It’s problematic to say the least.
So, tell the truth, then maybe every-
one can just be honest and we’ll be able
to have constructive, serious, real world
discussions.
Oh, and that drop cap (the big “L”) at
the start was supposed to always be in
editorials, but I kept forgetting to do it.
COMMENT TV FOOD
Did you do SOLE Doctor Whaaaat? Jamie to the test
This week, there’s an article la-
menting the Imperial apathy.
Particularlywithregardstotell-
ing our Departments about the
problems with the degree.
The Doctor Who Christmas
Special was another episode
with a lame ass “oh it was
LOVE or some shit that did it”
endings...
New year and new food.
Simple recipes and a test
of Jamie’s latest cookbook.
Food Editor Sophia goes
head to head with him.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>19 >>26 >>27
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana
Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor Veronika
McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al
Norman Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
Web designer wanted
The Medical Student Newspaper needs a designer
with experience of building multi-platform web-
sites to specification from scratch.
We will be selecting applicants based on previous
experience, quoted time-scale and price.
Potential applicants should contact the Editor-in-
Chief with questions and applications, at editor.
medicalstudent@gmail.com
Deadline for application is 31st January 2013, 1pm
L

