ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Oskar Laffont @ Fred Gallery – Emerging Mexican artist Laffont’s idiosyncractic
drawings show London in a distant future where humans are long extinct. Animals
roam the street adding their own meanings to the post apocalyptic landscape used
to know and love. January 16 - February 23.
Seduced by Art @ The National Gallery – This unusual photographic exhibition
explores old masters through the lens. The provocative show directly juxtaposes
new prints next to work from the collection. Now - January 20.
Teh Exibishun @ The Framers Gallery – We just could not leave this out. An exhibi-
tion about Lol Catz, a phenomenon apparently dating back to the 70’s. What is not
to love? But is it art? January 23 - Febuary 15
Manet @ Royal Academy of Arts – This major exhibition of Manet’s painting is the
RA’s winter walloper. The show features his depictions of friends and family and
work by contemporaries such as Monet and Morisot . January 26 - April 14
Resolution! @ The Place – It’s open season for shorter dance works art at the HQ
of London Contemporary dance. Keep checking for reasonably priced tickets to
nightly triple bill shows with 80 works to see in total. January 8 – February 15.
Not a face for radio
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
toarts.felix@ic.ac.uk.Aaniya Ahmeddrewthistheotherdayinsteadofme-
tabolism&cellpathologyrevision.
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
22
The Boy with Tape on his Face aka
Sam Wills has been causing some-
thing of a splash in recent year. From
street performances in Covent Gar-
den he has shot up the comedy league
tables with hits at the Fringe, the Mel-
bourne Comedy Festival and, in 2011,
the Royal Variety Show. His unique
brand of comedy has to been seen to
be believed.
Hearing, of course, is not an op-
tion. His tricks make extensive use of
props and audience participation all
orchestrated with twitching eyebrows
and beckoning gestures from behind
his trademark strip of gaﬀa tape. The
Kiwi performer’s silent routines call to
mind the innocence of vaudeville as
twee violin music sets the sound track
to his childish, yet immaculately con-
ceived stage antics.
The Boy was kind enough to an-
swer a few questions for Felix ahead of
his, now sadly ﬁnished, London stage
show.
Meredith: How did you ﬁrst enter
performance?
The Boy: At the age of 13 I knocked on
the door of the local clown in my town
and asked if he would take me on as
his assistant. I knew a few magic tricks
and he taught me how to juggle.
M: Where did the idea for the char-
acter of the Boy with Tape on his
Face come from?
B: I used to do a show that involved a
lot of talking and me performing some
pretty crazy circus sideshow stunts.
After several years doing shows like
this I wanted a new challenge so I de-
cided to develop a show that had no
words and no tricks.
M: How did it feel to be asked to do
the Royal Variety Performance last
year?
B: It was one of the highlights of my
year. Growing up, The Royal Variety
Performance was a really big deal, so
to have been the ﬁrst New Zealand co-
median to make it onto the stage was a
fantastic feeling.
M: What did princess Anne say to
you?
B: I decided to keep the tape on when
I met her as I thought the 20 seconds
conversation wouldn’t be that inter-
esting and a photo would be better. I
did secretly record the entire conver-
sation and you can listen to it on my
website.
M: What is it about the character of
the Boy that gets such a reaction?
B: I think that people like something
diﬀerent to the overload of talking
comedy and the fact that it is a bit of a
throwback to vaudeville times. People
like innocent humour and stuﬀ that
appeals universally.
M: Do you feel vulnerable on stage
without being able to speak?
B: Not at all! If anything I am the one
with the most power as I know exactly
what is going on.
M: Do you feel you are getting your
own back by convincing others to
perform in stage?
B: I would never want anybody on-
stage to be in an embarrassing situa-
tion as, for me, that is not funny. Every
volunteer will leave the stage to a huge
Meredith Thomas Arts Editor
Man demonstrates top half of ‘final
solution’ for Kim Kardashian problem
Ji-Eun Lee
Play.Back.Again.Then
round of applause as they have helped
the show happen.
M: How do you go about ﬁnding
new ideas for material?
B: I listen to a lot of music and I try
and look at everyday objects in diﬀer-
ent ways. It can be a little hard at times
as you end up holding something like
a broom for half an hour trying to ﬁnd
something funny about it that nobody
has ever noticed.
M: Do you use real gaﬀa tape?
B: I use a super quality brand of tape
called Nashua 357. I ship it from Aus-
tralia to my parents who the post it to
me here in the UK as it is the strong-
est tape I have ever used... and no it
doesn’t hurt when I take it oﬀ.

