ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY 23
The Argentinian dance troop came to
town preceded by its reputation. Some
six years ago, Fuerzabruta re-opened
the Roundhouse with an acrobatic ex-
travaganza that left a permanent mark
in the minds of so many Londoners as
the most amazing show they had ever
seen. The group, directed by Diqui
James and Alejandro Garcia, combines
high-tech light and sound eﬀects with
elegant pirouettes to create dashing
visual eﬀects.
Touring the world after its ﬁrst suc-
cesses, Fuerzabruta took its time to
come back with an updated show. Sev-
eral of my friends sent me the link for
their new gig, highlighting how ﬂab-
bergasted they had been at the time. It
was indeed exciting: the press release
promised a man bursting through walls
at full throttle, and pairs of elegant
swimmers hanging just on top of the
audience’s head.
Finally something I haven’t seen be-
fore! But as is often the case, sequels
are never as good as originals… And
unfortunately, Fuerzabruta does not
break that pattern. Not that it’s a bad
show. It was simply not that impressive,
a bit out-dated even. In fact, it rather
felt like a group of high-tech crowd en-
tertainers rather than a magical optical
experience.
I might be harsh here, but let me
explain: the whole spectacle is based
on the use of clever lighting, move-
Emilie Beauchamp Writer
able stages, and harnessed performers
which allow for high-ﬂying ﬂips. For
example, a man is walking on a large
‘treadmill’ is pushed at the centre of the
theatre amongst the audience. Soon he
ﬁnds obstacles on his way which he has
to dodge, facing wind, clouds and rain
(a wind machine, dry ice and a hose).
Until a wall hits him! But the wall is
made out of cardboards, and you can
see it coming and I mean literally see
Not waving but possibly drowning
it coming…
That being said, the experience is
very interactive. The crowd, standing
in the middle of the parterre, is asked to
move around, dance and clap through-
out during the show. A carnival mood
perspires with a live Argentinian band
singing and loudspeakers blasting
techno music. This atmosphere would
have been mind-blowing if it was set at
Fabric or Ministry of Sound, but at the
Roundhouse’s setting amongst a family
audience, the artists’ grins and shouts
didn’t seem to reach the audience. It
was as if the production had put all its
money on fancy visual eﬀects and had
forgotten to create a story line and add
personality to its characters. The end
result is a fragmented spectacle, leav-
ing an aftertaste of shallowness.
Yet, some numbers were fairly enter-
taining – not for the actual skills of the
performers but for the technical beauty
created by the set. The most stunning
piece was when six women paddled
and splash in two large transparent
tarps ﬁlled with water suspended right
over the audience’s head – a truly bu-
colic vision. Sadly I couldn’t appreciate
it for that long as my neck soon started
hurting from craning it to look up-
wards for 45 minutes…
I could recommend Fuerzabruta as
part of a special night out; the Round-
house oﬀers late shows at 10 pm from
Thursday to Saturday which would
be worth the £30-40 tickets. Oh, and
a warning note: this is not meant for
claustrophobes or epileptics.
Winter flooding cause reassessed as girls
admit extreme reaction to Tom Jones
Phoenix 2013 needs
an editor now!
www.facebook.com/Phoenix.IC
Imperial College’s annual arts review
magazine is looking for writers, designers
and contributors and most importantly an
editor.
If you are interested please email:
felix@imperial.ac.uk

