Return of the Master
Shiladitya Ghosh talks about Clive Cussler’s fantastic new novel
he 22nd novel in a series
penned by “the guy I read”
– Tom Clancy, Poseidon’s
Arrow has it all – from
explosions, chase scenes,
and bare-armed combat, to snappy
witticisms, spunky damsels in dis-
tress, and a (literally) earth-moving
plot. Clive Cussler, respectfully and
deservingly famed as the ‘Grandmas-
ter of adventure’, together with his son,
Dirk, yet again weaves science, tech-
nology, politics, history, and geogra-
phy into a thrilling tapestry of action
and adventure spanning the breadth
of the globe.
In this episode (though that term
is a superb understatement given the
magnitude and scale of the plot) set
in 2014, Dirk Pitt and Al Giordino
from the U.S. National Underwater
and Maritime Agency (NUMA) are
ﬁnally, after 21 books, getting on in
years. However, after the U.S. Navy’s
top-secret revolutionary brainchild’s
production schedule goes awry as a
result of a suspiciously coincidental
crippling of the world’s production
of rare earth elements, mysterious
deaths at sea caused by a hitherto un-
known and undetectable weapon, and
the sudden disappearance of a scien-
tist potentially responsible for decid-
ing the balance of power in the world’s
seas for decades into the future, the
fantastic duo get back to investigat-
ing the murky waters for clues linking
these incidents – and unearth a con-
spiracy more complex than what any-
one would have bargained for.
Even the most ardent of Cussler’s
fans (and there are a great many)
would have to accept that each book
cannot possibly keep being better
than the last, and this is one of the few
occasions where this might be true –
but this is attributable to the high sto-
rytelling standards the Grandmaster
has established for himself from the
start. After the initial excitement of
beginning another Pitt adventure set-
tles, the plot starts to become slightly
predictable (but only if one has read
a sizeable amount of the rest of the
series). This, in addition to perhaps
a smaller-than-expected dose of his-
torical linkage and a frugal serving of
explanations and details of up-and-
coming technological concepts leads
one to wonder if perhaps the book will
turn out to be a let-down.
However, the tongue-in-cheek, met-
aphor-laden, and outright audaciously
witty dialogue and banter, coupled
with the transitioning of character
roles (Dirk Pitt Sr. and Al Giordino
slowly starting to make way for Dirk
Pitt Jr. and Summer Pitt in the lime-
light) allow for forgiveness in this piv-
otal part of the series. Perhaps not the
best book to start with for readers new
to the series, but certainly an impor-
tant read for any fan of Dirk Pitt Sr.
For us here at Imperial, it may be a
common sentiment that there is sim-
ply no time to read for leisure (or even
for study, depending on your course);
however it is this reviewer’s opinion
that reading Cussler’s works, such as
Poseidon’s Arrow, can allow us to kill
two birds with one stone: ﬁrstly by al-
lowing us a (perhaps ill-fated) break
from workaholicism and secondly,
giving us an awareness of how our
STEM/Medical education can get
(mis)treated out in the real world, in
addition to seeing how much value
our potential output can have. Perhaps
some of us aren’t concerned about
that and just want to graduate and
start work, but there are also many
who wish to appreciate what they can
do in the future using their degree-
related knowledge, and the potential
consequences and impacts that may
arise – and for these people, Cussler’s
literature is surely an appealing liter-
ary supplement to following the news
or reading dry journal exposés.
This reviewer recommends Cuss-
ler’s Atlantis Found, Fire Ice, Dark
Watch, Black Wind, and Arctic Drift.
T
The Book of the New Sun is universally
acclaimed as a speculative ﬁction
classic, with its author, Gene Wolfe,
having been recently awarded the
title of Grand Master of the genre.
However, seeing how it comes in at
1200 pages, I have never really had the
time to read it. Finding myself with
relatively little to do over the winter
break I decided to rectify this mistake
– something that I’ve not come to re-
gret doing.
The book is set in the distant fu-
ture, with the sun having started to
cool and Urth, as Earth has become
known, having regressed from be-
ing the centre of a great interstellar
empire to an almost medieval soci-
ety. The novel begins with Severian,
a journeyman of the Order for the
Seekers of Truth and Penitence, or,
as it is better known by the common
people, the Order of Torturers, being
exiled for showing mercy to one of
the Order’s ‘clients’. He is left to travel
the world, encountering remnants
of more prosperous times, as well as
coming upon plans to restore human-
ity to its former glory.
The story is told in ﬁrst person by
Severian himself. He has a highly
engaging voice but is also prone to
going oﬀ on tangents – this is not a
book for those who like stories told
in a concise and linear fashion. These
tangents, however, are, for me, one
of the great attractions of the novel.
They serve not only to provide more
insight into the character of Severian
but also help to develop the world the
story is set in.
It is in the world building that this
book really shines. Wolfe has cre-
ated a truly unique environment – a
world were ordinary people live in
feudal squalor but mix with alien
visitors. Where almost all the natu-
ral resources have been depleted but
people continue to use energy weap-
ons and other advances technology
from earlier ages. Where giant sea
monsters enslave entire nations so
that their citizens are only permitted
to speak in sentences taken from ap-
proved propaganda texts.
It soon becomes clear that, in many
ways, it is Urth itself that is our pro-
tagonist – with Severian acting as a
chronicler of its fate. Wolfe, however,
doesn’t fall into the trap of revealing
too much – even by the end there are
still many things that are left unclear
or unexplained. We are told every-
thing that is essential but by not get-
ting bogged down in details we main-
tain the sense of wonder, which we
might have otherwise lost as a result
of overfamiliarity.
This is a truly excellent novel and
well deserving of the praise it has re-
ceived. While its length and some of
its quirks mean that it might not be to
everyone’s taste it’s still worth at least
trying it out.
Earth’s not doing so well.
A Journey to Earth’s Distant Future
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
24

