T
owards the end of ﬁrst
term, an interesting email
arrived in our inbox from
God records, a small
“Austrian label for new
and experimental music”,
promoting a Boris Hegenbart release
which includes collaborations with 19
artists, such as Oren Ambarchi and
Fred Frith. When the promo arrived
however, I found another release they
had sent with it to be equally grabbing:
Rdeča Raketa’s Wir Werden.
Rdeča Raketa’s music is somewhat
diﬃcult to describe at times, even
within the context of noise. Not to say
that this is absolutely groundbreaking
material or anything, it just doesn’t ﬁt
neatly into any box I know of at the
current moment. The band’s attempt:
“Wir werden deals with the past re-
peating, movements and their ab-
sence in front of systems appearing to
be crumbling, relationships between
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
25
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
AMS album of the week
Big Boi, or the other guy in OutKast,
has always been a bit lost in the shadow
of Andre 3000. Andre was the crazy ex-
perimentalist and Big Boi was just a really
good rapper. Big Boi’s excellent debut solo
album, Sir Lucious Left Foot, blurred that
idea a little. There were big pop hits as well
as great hip hop tracks. His second album
sees him taking the experimental crown
and just running with it. Vicious Lies and
Dangerous Rumours is an incredibly di-
verse and ultimately very difficult record.
The main strength of this album lies in the unusual choice of collaborators.
As well as some more obvious guests (Ludacris, Killer Mike, KiD CuDi) we
are treated to Phantogram, Little Dragon and even Nathan Williams of
Wavves fame. All the collaborators have a real influence on the tracks they
feature on and as such, the album has an incredibly diverse range of sounds.
We get Big Boi’s standard variety of Southern hip-hop filtered through trip-
hop, pop rap and indie rock. It leads to a very interesting listen if not a par-
ticularly coherent one.
The problem with this is that a lot of the tracks just aren’t good enough. The
more standard rap tracks are generally of a much lower standard than you’d
expect from a Big Boi album. ‘She Hates Me’ and ‘Mama Told Me’ are both
fantastic but the rest don’t really match expectations. For example, ‘Thom
Pettie’ sounds great on paper. Little Dragon, Killer Mike and Big Boi on the
same track sounds genius, but in reality it’s just a mess. The more unusual
tracks are just as hit and miss. The Phantogram tracks are all pretty good,
especially ‘CPU’, but the Little Dragon tracks aren’t very engaging. The high-
light of the album is definitely the Wavves collaboration. Rap verses over in-
die rock riffs may not have been top of most people’s Christmas lists but it
really works.
The biggest issue of all is that this doesn’t sound like a Big Boi album. It
sounds like a collection of him featuring on other people’s tracks. It’s a real
shame, because Sir Lucious Left Foot proved he can do it on his own and I
was really excited to see him develop. Instead, we got the quite bizarre idea
of him drowning in a sea of his own collaborators.
GODrec Present Wir Werden
Ross Gray explores apocalyptic wastelands through noise
people and their inner fears”.
That certainly resonates strongly
with this album. Both sides are unre-
lentingly bleak or haunting. The ﬁrst
side caught me oﬀ guard with ﬂat
vocals over soft electronic crackle –
reminiscent of Alva Noto and Blixa
Bargeld’s ANBB, loading me with
expectations of glitch. These were
promptly smashed. Futiristic, bomb-
dropping synths were brieﬂy explored
before the noise started really build-
ing on itself and drowned out all but a
glimmer. This technique of having the
somewhat blistering, but often some-
how ambient, noise with just distin-
guishable rhythms and notes occurs
throughout the album, and is a sure-
ﬁre path to catharsis.
Two factors that sets Wir Werden
apart relative to a lot of its peers (and I
feel ﬁrmly places it within the Europe-
an noise sound aesthetic) is its use of
both silence and its ability to relent. Si-
lence has been utilised very eﬀectively
by performers such as Runzelstirn &
Gurgelstøck, but usually in a way that
allows for greater audio shock when
the noise returns. Wir Werden man-
ages to pull its intensity down a notch
at times, with piano echoing around in
endless space, muted noise, distorted
fragments of female singing all creat-
ing a broken ethereality. Somehow it
makes it all the more terrifying.
The sheer amount of sonic textures
explored within the 40 minutes is
certainly not to be sniﬀed at. Rdeča
Raketa appear comfortable in the im-
pression they wish to portray; enough
so they can snap from soundscape to
soundscape very quickly, not allowing
any one snapshot of the desolate world
to become boring or repetitive, whilst
maintaining a cold, crushing and dark
atmosphere.
Certainly this is an album I would
recommend to any followers of the
more experimental or noisy end of
music. As a ﬁrst foray into this kind
of thing it would likely be intense,
but certainly no Lon Guy. A huge va-
riety of instruments and techniques
are successfully combined to produce
a staggering myriad of timbres and
layers within the sound. If all of their
releases can produce as staggeringly
pretentious of a review as this, I shall
most assuredly be listening to the up-
coming releases by GOD records.
Return of The Duke
This week, just as all the music jour-
no’s had ﬁnished having their “what
to look forward to in 2013” articles
published, a fuck-oﬀ metaphorical an-
vil fell from the clouds and smashed
them to pieces; all of them made irrel-
evant. No-one expected David Bowie
to return with new material; his last
release was a decade ago; he turned 66
this week, the day the announcement
was made. But by Tuesday morning
Bowie’s ‘comeback’ was plastered all
over the press and blaring out of ra-
dios.
This return to the limelight isn’t
just in the form of a couple of songs
pushed out to bump up sales of a
Greatest Hits album (c.f. The Rolling
Stones last year), a whole new album
is to be released on March 11. The
ﬁrst song from this, entitled ‘Where
Are We Now?’, was delicately placed
on Bowie’s website at 00:00 08/01/13,
and subsequently devoured by the in-
ternetz. Twitter went mental.
‘Where Are We Now?’ sees Bowies
in a very reﬂective, melancholy mood
as he looks back over his long career.
The song predominantely looks back
on his time spent in Berlin towards
the end of the 1970s; this was a pivotal
period in Bowie’s career. He moved to
the then-divided German capital to
quit his consuming cocaine habit and
become more involved in the Krau-
trock scene, bearing the likes of Kraft-
werk. It was here that Bowie also
worked with Iggy Pop, with whom
he was sharing an apartment, on his
seminal album The Idiot.
In ‘Where Are We Now?’ his vul-
nerable, tremorous vocals begin raw
and pensive before being elevated by
painfully sad yet deﬁant piano chords,
reverb-laden guitar and strings. It re-
Simon Hunter Music Editor
ally is a beautiful piece of music and
almost feels like a full stop to a career
spanning half a century. Whether it
will prove to be so remains to be seen.
Expectations for the album enti-
tled The Next Day are understand-
ably high; indeed pre-orders for both
the single and album are currently at
No. 1 on the iTunes chart. Only time
will tell whether the album lives up to
the huge promise shown by this ﬁrst
release, but when Bowie’s at his best
no-one comes close.
Big Boi: Vicious Lies and Dangerous Rumours
Stuart Masson

