FOOD
27
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sophia Goldberg on the #1 New Year’s resolution
Do you have the same recurring New Year’s resolutions? I’ve heard them all before: stop drinking so much, do a problem sheet, get organised,
text/call mum more, text/call gran more, stop texting/calling people so much and see family/friends in person, and personally, stp speakin in
txt. The most common resolution of all is to tame the bulge. Do you love food and hate scales? If you want to slash the caloricious content of
your food but not the scrumptiousness then throw out your old ‘thou shalt not eat’ New Year’s resolution – armed with this week’s helpful
issue you’ll see that you can still enjoy your breakfast, lunch and dinner guilt-free.
This recipe can be made in a matter of minutes and it always tastes great – all you need is a blender. Why add other vegtables
to the soup, like carrots or peppers and add that to the soup?
Ingredients (serves 2)
A few cups of boiled water
2 cups of frozen peas
1 onion
A blob of butter
½ an organic vegetable stock cube
6 mint leaves
Pepper to taste
A Light Lunch of Pea Soup
Pancakes are great because they are really quick to make and great fun. Here’s a
recipe for a great healthy and filling start to the day.
Ingredients (makes 6)
70g of plain flour
1 egg
100ml of milk mixed with 40ml water
Butter or vegetable/ sunflower oil for
frying
2 tbsp of yoghurt
1 tbsp of honey
A handful of strawberries, raspberries
and blueberries
Preparation
Sift the flour into a mixing bowl. Add
the egg and whisk it in. Slowly add
the milk and water mixture and whisk
until they are combined. Mixture too
liquidy? Add a little more flour if nec-
essary. Put your (very) non-stick frying
pan on a high heat and add about half
a teaspoon of oil/ butter – a little goes
a long way. Add a little ladleful of mix-
ture to the pan and spread it over the
whole pan. Wait a couple of minutes
and flip! Remember that the first pan-
cake is always rubbish – Delia calls it
a ‘test’ pancake, so if it’s crap, it’s okay
because Delia says so. Just keep mak-
ing pancakes until all the mixture is
used up. Now fill your pancakes with
the honey, yoghurt and the fruit. Roll
them up and add some more yoghurt
and fruit to the top.
Very Berry Breakfast Pancakes
My dad gave me Jamie Oliver’s 15 Min-
ute Meals this year. Like the Hairy Di-
eters (AKA the Hairy Bikers), Jamie
believes anyone can cook and eat great,
healthy food. However, Jamie claims
you can do it in 15 minutes. Given that
you’re not superhuman it may take you
a little longer – it took me about half an
hour. In Jamie’s defence, after cooking
this meal a couple of times I think could
get it down to 20 minutes.
This is Jamie’s healthy Cajun chicken
with sweet potato mash and salsa sal-
ad, apparently 651 calories per person,
with some bits taken out/added by me.
Ingredients (serves 4)
1 bag of frozen sweet corn (corn on the
cob is too much effort)
1 small bunch of fresh coriander
1 red chilli
4 spring onions
3 ripe tomatoes
2 limes
Olive oil
800g sweet potatoes
Jamie Oliver - Eat your Heart Out
2 tbsp sweet chilli sauce
4 x 120g skinless chicken breasts
1 tbsp Cajun seasoning
Pinch of salt
4 tbsp natural yoghurt
Note that I omitted the 1tbsp of po-
lenta, 20g feta cheese and 2 rashers of
smoked streaky bacon that Jamie in-
cludes in his recipe. I couldn’t justify
buying them when I was using such a
small amount. I also didn’t use 175g
okra, mainly because I didn’t know
what it was (it basically looks like a
cross between a courgette and a cu-
cumber), but also because Sainsbury’s
didn’t sell it. I added the yoghurt – trust
me you’ll need it.
Preparation
Boil the kettle with lots of water. On a
low heat, cook the bag of sweet corn on
a frying pan with a splash of olive oil –
Jamie, what kind of university student
owns a griddle pan? Peel the sweet
potatoes and roughly chop them into
small cubes so they cook quickly. Put
the sweet potatoes into a large pan on
a medium heat. Add the water so that it
just covers the potatoes.
On a large sheet of greaseproof paper
toss the chicken in the Cajun seasoning
with a pinch of salt. Fold over the pa-
per than bash and flatten the chicken to
1.5cm thick with a rolling pin (or use the
sweet chilli sauce bottle, if you don’t
own one).
Add the chicken to a non-stick pan
with 2 tbsp of olive oil, turning every 3
or 4 minutes, until golden and cooked
through. Drain the sweet potatoes,
return to the pan and mash with the
sweet chilli. Put on a very low heat.
Put the sweet corn in a salad bowl.
Finely chop the spring onion, coriander
and chilli, roughly chop the tomatoes
and add to the sweet corn. Add a pinch
of salt, the juice of 2 limes and a splash
of olive oil to the salsa.
Now serve the Cajun chicken on a
bed of sweet potato mash with the
salsa and yoghurt on the side. Trust me
you’ll want the yoghurt. It’s a bit spicy.
Jamie
Jamie
vs.
vs.
Me
Me
Preparation
Boil just over 3 cups of water while
roughly chopping an onion (it’ll be
in the food processor in a moment).
Add a blob of butter to a saucepan
on medium heat. Once it’s melted
add the onion. When browned add
the peas, half a vegetable stock cube
and the water. Add the water so that
it just covers the peas by about a cm
or so – you don’t want it to be too
watery. Stir until the stock cube has
dissolved and the mixture is boiling.
Now add the mixture to a blender
and blend! Now return the soup
to the saucepan and add pepper to
taste – there’s no need to add salt,
as there’s enough in the stock cube.
Serve in bowls and garnish with mint
leaves.

