FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
The best films from the 1970s
John Park Film Editor
10. Dog Day Afternoon (1975)
Sidney Lumet’s seemingly small but
perfectly formed bank-heist-gone-
wrong drama is unpredictable, com-
plex, and oddly touching, featuring
Al Pacino at his usual best intensity,
leading the sweaty, claustrophobic
robbery, with John Cazale pitching
in for an excellent supporting turn in
his far too brief career. What should
have been a quick and easy job devel-
ops into a deadly hostage crisis, even-
tually leading up to an insane media
frenzy that can be swayed in the most
alarming ways. “Attica! Attica! At-
tica!” is the ﬁlm’s ﬁery highlight.
9. The Sting (1973)
It’s the ultimate stylish feel-good
movie in which the good guys get eve-
rything they deserve through a clever
set of tricks. Having a duo as likable
and good-looking as Paul Newman
and Robert Redford, paired up here
again for the second time after Butch
Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, helps
immensely when selling a story this
sugar-coated and cheerful, and its
catchy soundtrack also does wonders
to uplift the jolly mood. The twists
and turns are smart, and the end re-
sult tremendously rewarding. Best
Picture winner? Absolutely..
Recently, the British Film Institute
(BFI) released the results of their
celebrated poll, “THE GREATEST
FILMS OF ALL TIME”, in which they
surveyed ﬁlm critics and directors to
list their ten favourite ﬁlms. Now the
Felix Film team, as much as we’d love
to, doesn’t have that kind of time or
resources. And so we decided to split
the ﬁlms up according to the decades
in which they were released. So every
week, we will present you with our
top ﬁlms of each decade.
8. The Exorcist (1973)
An unﬂinching, brutally shocking ﬁlm
that had audience members fainting
worldwide, its widespread ban goes to
show just how much of a scandal this
caused. Linda Blair (voiced by Mer-
cedes McCambridge during her de-
monic possession) is even to this day
the scariest in a long line of demented
psychotic children in cinema, the blink-
and-you’ll-miss ﬂashes of the demon’s
face is a terrifying series of tricks, and
Ellen Burstyn’s performance is one
born out of sheer terror. Plus who can
forget that horrendously eﬀective mu-
sic? Approach with caution.
7. Apocalypse Now (1979)
The “making-of” story is as famous
as the ﬁlm itself, and this lengthy
epic of a war story successfully rec-
reates all the horrors one would ex-
pect to see. Also present is Marlon
Brando’s cameo appearance to wrap
up one of the most unforgettable
war movies ever made. The Redux
version? There’s an hour of extra
footage; some say it slows down the
pace, others say it further enriches
the masterpiece – you’ll have to be
the one to decide. But one thing’s for
certain; this is a ﬁlm to watch many
times over.
6. Network (1976)
“I’m as mad as hell and I’m not go-
ing to take this anymore!” is a line of
dialogue that will ring true to many,
as television news anchor Howard
Beale’s (Peter Finch) public melt-
down is captured on live television.
As a ruthless, cutthroat dramatic
satire of network broadcasting, here
is a sharply realised, darkly comic
ﬁlm, and Faye Dunaway’s energetic,
no-nonsense, manipulative, success-
driven bitch is a real treat. However,
this lost out to Rocky in the 1977 Os-
car Best Picture race. We’re as mad as
hell about that.
5. Taxi Driver (1976)
About a socially deranged man who
can’t sleep, and has far too much
time on his hands to ponder in his
dark thoughts, Robert de Niro’s
Travis Bickle is a ticking time bomb
from the moment you set eyes on
him. Enter an American Presiden-
tial hopeful, guns, lots of guns, and
a 12-year-old prostitute (the excel-
lent Jodie Foster in her child actress
days), then you have a recipe that
sets up for a bloody finish; which is
does, and in the graphically shock-
ing yet classy and rather affection-
ate way.
4. One Flew over the Cuck-
oo’s Nest (1975)
Oppression, struggle for freedom,
revolution, a full-on war all feature in
Milos Forman‘s remarkable down-to-
earth, human drama set in an insane
asylum. The cheeky yet intelligent and
inspirational Jack Nicholson faces oﬀ
with the abusive (both physically and
psychologically) Louise Fletcher, who
both justly won their acting Oscars for
their exceptional performances. The
ﬁlm’s power fails to waver even to this
day, well over thirty years after its re-
lease, and it’s the second of three ﬁlms
to sweep the Big Five at the Oscars.
3. The Deer Hunter (1978)
Its butt-numbing running-time, as
well as its blatantly skewed, one-
sided look at the Vietnam War have
gathered up a fair share of detrac-
tors, but there is no denying that
Michael Cimino’s eﬀort in the por-
trayal of three young individuals
and their harsh experiences in the
war is anything but ambitious. The
young cast, who have since become
cinema’s legends, range from Robert
de Niro, Christopher Walken and
Meryl Streep on their absolute best
form, and its pitch perfect poignant
ending, stirringly beautiful.
2. Chinatown (1974)
It may start oﬀ innocently enough,
but as more characters are intro-
duced, the disturbing, corrupt con-
spiracy surrounding the control of
California’s water and power systems
are slowly unveiled, as determined
detective J. J. Gittes (Jack Nicholson)
uncovers a string of malicious leads
that endangers his life (not to men-
tion, getting his nose sliced with a
brilliant cameo from the ﬁlm’s direc-
tor, Roman Polanski). In the middle
of this murky pool is Faye Dunaway’s
Evelyn Mulwray, a woman with plen-
ty of secrets of her own.
1.TheGodfather(1972),TheGod-
fatherPartII(1974)
It makes sense to put “The Greatest
Film Ever Made” and its follow-up
“The Greatest Sequel Ever Made”
side by side, so we can free up a spot
to squeeze another ﬁlm into the list,
as these two epics belong together to
stand as one sweeping, unique cin-
ematic experience. Never has there
been a more engrossing gangster
ﬁlm, where the stakes have been this
high, the characters this intense, and
its many, many strands, so skilfully
interwoven. It’s six hours of pure cin-
ematic genius.

