What we watched over Christmas
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
Director: Ang Lee
Screenwriters: David Magee,
Yann Martel
Starring: Suraj Sharma, Irrfan
Khan and Adil Hussain
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
For those of you who have read Yann
Martel’s Booker prize-winning novel
Life of Pi, you might have wondered,
how on earth this soliloquy was going
to be transformed into a half decent
ﬁlm. The majority of the novel is set
in a small boat drifting around the
ocean, and relates the thoughts of the
lead character – how was that going to
translate successfully into a good ﬁlm?
After the release of the ﬁlm’s advert, all
hope was lost – 3D eﬀects must surely
be the focus of the producers, not the
heart-rending story of the book.
This was reckoned, of course, with-
out fabulous director Ang Lee at the
helm. Lee’s previous works include
the phenomenal Crouching Tiger, Hid-
den Dragon, Sense and Sensibility and,
most recently, Brokeback Mountain –
a very quiet ﬁlm with little dialogue.
Born in Taiwan, Lee has established
himself over the last few decades as
one of the world’s most versatile, mul-
ti-talented directors – not to men-
tion one of the most successful – so
just maybe this could be a winner.
3D glasses at the ready, thousands of
viewers have ﬂocked to see Life of Pi –
and have come out glad that they did.
The tale begins in the present: a
Canadian author (who it is assumed
is Yann Martel, played by Rafe Spall)
travels to India to research a book,
where he is told by a friend that there
is a man back home in Montreal called
Pi (Irrfan Khan), with such a story to
tell that ‘it will make you believe in
God’. Intrigued, the author locates Pi
(whose actual name is Piscine Molitor
Patel), a philosophy teacher, and Pi
relates the tale of his incredible life –
starting as a zookeeper’s son in Pondi-
cherry, India.
Growing up in India, the very seri-
ous and inquisitive young Pi (played by
Gautam Belur at ﬁve, Ayush Tandon
at twelve and Suraj Sharma at six-
teen) is intrigued by religion and the
meaning of life – a development that
the ﬁlmmakers treated with respect-
ful playfulness as Pi creates a private
religion combining Hinduism, Islam
and Christianity with the beauty of the
natural world found on his doorstep in
the zoo. But when his father decides to
take the animals to Canada to be sold,
Pi despairs and his faith is tested. He
and his family board a Japanese ship
with the animals – a journey that will
be far more thrilling than expected.
When the ship is struck by a gigantic
storm in the middle of the ocean, Pi
ﬁghts for his and his family’s lives only
to ﬁnd himself captaining a lifeboat
with just a zebra, a hyena, a female or-
angutan and the gigantic Bengal tiger
named Richard Parker for company
– watching the wreckage of the ship,
crew and his family disappear down
the Mariana Trench.
And so starts Pi’s grand adventure.
There is no peace and relief of survival
on his little boat – this is a Darwin-
ian place where animals ﬁght for their
lives. Pi must learn to command the
creatures, or die himself. Using 3D
ﬁlming at its absolute ﬁnest (eat your
heart out James Cameron) and CGI
creatures so realistic that you wouldn’t
believe they’re not, Ang Lee and his
production team make it all so hor-
ribly real, down to a few terrifying,
popcorn-ﬂying 3D moments. Pi’s 227
days at sea test his physical and mental
strength (not to mention his faith) and
the story is beautifully uplifting and
crushingly devastating at the same
time. Unfortunately the frustration of
the book’s ending is not lost in the ﬁlm
– the crux of which is a question the
adult Pi asks the author, and the an-
swer he receives.
Adapted for screenplay by American
writer David Magee, the ﬁlm is an ex-
cellent combination of narration and
monologue. The young Chilean direc-
tor of photography, Claudio Miranda,
creates unbelievable horror in the
storms, and utter beauty in the spar-
kling ﬁsh surrounding Pi: Miranda
must surely be in line for an award. In
fact, this is an awards-season movie if
ever there was one – it certainly de-
serves every technical prize available.
But alongside the magniﬁcent eﬀects,
the story of a young boy bewildered at
sea is not lost.
3.141592653589793238462643383279502884
Life of Pi
The Hobbit
Peter Jackson, after a long, diﬃcult
journey of putting this prequel togeth-
er with numerous production delays,
budget problems and creative diﬀer-
ences, ﬁnally has one-third of it out in
the cinemas. His decision to split the
ﬁlm into three has not been the most
popular, and the slow, dragging pace is
certainly felt in part one of The Hobbit,
this one titled An Unexpected Jour-
ney. There is a merry band of dwarves
who set out on a quest to reclaim their
kingdom that has been invaded by an
angry dragon. The wise wizard Gan-
dalf the Grey enlists the help of Bilbo,
a gentle-natured, home-loving Hobbit,
in joining their quest.
One worries for these men as they
can hardly seem to defend themselves
against pretty much anything dark
that comes their way, and just how on
earth they’ll go about tackling a ﬁre-
breathing dragon is anyone’s guess,
but for now, here is a beautiful, lengthy
but often thrilling view of their Middle
Earth road trip that even after almost
three hours of running time only in
fact gets them just a couple of thou-
sands of miles away from their actual
destination.
Jack Reacher
Tom Cruise steps in to portray the
character of Jack Reacher, a man of
many skills with a mysterious past
who suddenly appears to help out an
old acquaintance who has been ac-
cused of senselessly murdering ﬁve
seemingly unconnected, innocent
people on a regular day. All the in-
criminating evidence points towards
a certain James Barr and as more
is revealed, his lawyer Helen Rodin
(Rosamund Pike) ﬁnds it increasingly
diﬃcult to ﬁnd holes in the story.
But being who he is, he comes up
with cunning ways to outsmart the
bad guys, and in the end you know
where the ﬁlm is headed – that we see
a completely diﬀerent shooter in the
ﬁlm’s opening ensures us that the ac-
cused is innocent, and it’s really the
process into proving this that the ﬁlm
focuses on.
It certainly over-reaches into think-
ing that it’s dealing with a cleverer,
bigger plot than it really is, and to-
wards the end, the big reveals aren’t at
all shocking or in any way smart. But
the charming box-oﬃce draw Cruise
still appears to have what it takes to
lead an action picture.
Quartet
A less jumbled, funnier, more touch-
ing version of 2012’s hit, The Best
Exotic Marigold Hotel, here we have
the unrealistically beautiful Bee-
cham House, a retirement home for
musicians. Their days are ﬁlled with
charming songs, light and breezy hu-
mour and plenty of sunshine that re-
ally doesn’t make ageing look so bad.
Every year the residents stage a con-
cert, the proceeds from which they
use to keep their sanctuary running.
With tickets more diﬃcult to sell,
they need something big. And it just
so happens that there are four of the
greatest singers in English operatic
history staying at this place. But with
a chequered past, old age, and the oc-
casional memory lapses, will the four
(Maggie Smith, Tom Courtenay, Billy
Connolly, Pauline Collins) be able to
save their beloved care home?
Reading the plot may make this
come oﬀ as a preposterous, sugar-
coated nonsense which technically
this is. But with a cast this talented
and an atmosphere this warm and
fuzzy, it turns into that feel-good ﬁlm
you probably shouldn’t like but do
anyway.
The Impossible
Reese Witherspoon, an Oscar-winner
herself, sent a fan letter to Naomi
Watts recently, praising her “brutal
physical performance,” “the ferocity
of [her] mothering spirit” and “soul
touching moments.” And Ms. With-
erspoon is spot-on when describing
Watts’ contribution to the harrowing,
unforgettable ﬁlm based on the 2004
Indian Ocean tsunami. The last time a
famous actor (Julia Roberts) endorsed
someone’s performance (Javier Bar-
dem in Biutiful) so publicly, he ended
up with a nomination. It’s a safe bet to
assume the same will deservedly hap-
pen for Watts.
Looking at the ﬁlm as a whole, it’s
an incredibly moving story of a fam-
ily torn apart by this terrible tragedy,
bruised and battered by unstoppable
nature, and its equally horriﬁc and
challenging aftermath. The waves
crash-landing have impeccable scale
and genuine terror, whereas the
more human aspects of the drama,
strengthened by exceptional perfor-
mances from its cast ﬁnd plenty of
power and genuine emotions despite
some rare but probably unavoidable
missteps into hampering melodrama.
ARGH...salt water on nipples..!

