FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
30
2013 January Preview: f
The New Year is here – which can only
mean one thing: the exciting, glittery
Oscar season is well under way. Films
that carry their studios’ high expecta-
tions are rolled out in late December
over in the States, which means over
here in England, we see their releases
throughout January. Sick of feeling
down and gloomy with the January
blues? Felix Film takes a look at the
excellent ﬁlms on oﬀer that should be
worth your while.
Gangster Squad (10th January):
What should have been released in
November is ﬁnally getting its push
in January, although any Oscar buzz
has suddenly died down and been si-
lenced thanks to that lone gunman in
Arizona. The studio rushed to take
its trailer down, which featured a
scene in which a group of men shoot
through a cinema screen with ma-
chine guns, probably killing every-
one in the cinema, not the message
they want to be selling so soon after
the actual real-life tragedy. Hasty re-
shoots were commissioned, and there
is very slim chance we will actually
get to see that footage.
But here is a potentially interesting
cop vs. gangster scenario. Sean Penn
is the notorious mob boss terroris-
ing his city, Josh Brolin is tasked with
leading a bunch of men into taking
this man down; and the fun twist be-
ing that the “good guys” aren’t strictly
cops. They are allowed to bend the
rules and often break the law, in order
to complete their one-way mission.
Of course, there needs to be a seduc-
tive woman involved, and here it’s
Emma Stone who steals the heart of
Ryan Gosling. She’s trapped in a love-
less, frightening relationship with the
bad guy, looking for a way out with
the good guy.
No points for originality then; but it
does sound fun with an ace cast who
consistently bring their A-game. Bul-
lets will ﬂy, heads will roll, men will
get laid, and things will explode (this
isn’t a sex joke, so behave).
Les Misérables (11th January):
Tom “should-give-his-Best-Director-Oscar-to-David-Fincher” Hooper (The
King’s Speech) and the cast are mighty proud of their unique musical achieve-
ment. Basically, everyone does their own singing, and what you see on the
screen is the actors actually doing the live singing. No miming involved what-
soever. It adds intensity, and raw emotions. Anne Hathaway certainly seems to
be the front-runner to pick up the Best Supporting Actress Oscar (or a nomina-
tion at least) for her heart-wrenchingly beautiful and intense interpretation of
‘I Dreamed a Dream’ eﬀectively erasing Susan Boyle from everyone’s memory.
Yes, this further enhances depth and sense of struggle (just listen to the cast
trying to get the top notes: it’s one bloody messy struggle, perfectly mirroring
the massacre and body count that follow) in the already overwrought, heavily
saturated musical, which may be why this is racking up the nominations in
pretty much every single award ceremony. There are sensational crowd reac-
tions all over the world, with some cinema audiences literally rising up on their
feet to applaud.
But the fact remains, the cast is largely made up of professional actors, not
singers. And it certainly shows in their scratchy voices and often uncomfort-
able vocals that never sit quite right. Hugh Jackman (as much as we down here
at Felix drool over the talented Australian) almost ruins the ﬁlm’s most beloved
solo, Russell Crowe is unintentionally hilarious whenever he opens his mouth
to sing, Amanda Seyfried’s weedy soprano voice doesn’t do much to add pas-
sion to her romance, Helena Bonham Carter who sounds bored only scarcely
impresses in what should have been juicy comedy scenes, and it’s really the sup-
porting players hired for their stage credit, Samantha Barks and Aaron Tveit,
who shine.
It’s certainly a ﬁlm to watch for its scale and intensity, but not for listening to
the sensational tunes. The cast can’t even come even close to…say…the West
End cast on a dodgy day. Adjust your expectations, sit back, relax, and be bom-
barded with 150+ minutes of never-ending sentiment and passion.
Django Unchained (18th January):
Financially speaking, this is set to become Quentin Tarantino’s highest gross-
ing ﬁlm yet, and is also his best reviewed since Pulp Fiction.
Teamed up once again with Christoph Waltz (the man who played the excel-
lent Nazi Colonel Hans Landa in Tarantino’s previous Inglourious Basterds),
the unique director now tackles the spaghetti western genre, without failing to
add his very own special touches of sensibly over-the-top chaos and mayhem,
graphic violence, snarky humour, and outrageous one-liners and an astonish-
ingly well-assembled cast that consists of Jamie Foxx, Leonardo DiCaprio and
the Tarantino-favourite, Samuel L. Jackson.
It’s a revenge road-trip with slick gunﬁghts, as a slave-turned-bounty-hunter
(Foxx), with the valuable help from his mentor (Waltz), tracks down his wife
(Kerry Washington) who has been kidnapped by a merciless Southern planta-
tion owner (DiCaprio – will he or won’t he get the Best Supporting Actor nod?).
Tarantino has very rarely, if ever, set a foot wrong in bringing his ideas to the
big screen, and although an acquired taste, he never lets his fans down, a reli-
able director who always promises to bring something fresh and original to the
table, and he certainly seems to achieve that here.
Your ciggy is the
wrong way round bro
That’s where the creepy
guy from Level 2 of the
Library went
Les Miserable indeed
Cowboy hats are so in

