FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
for your consideration...
The Sessions (18th January):
It’s a romantic comedy about sex, but probably not the kind you’re thinking
about.
In a bold move to portray sex as something that’s not a trivial, drunken con-
quest, it rather sensitively approaches the theme with warmth and dignity.
For an intelligent 38-year-old journalist conﬁned to an iron lung, it’s Mark
O’Brien’s (John Hawkes) curiosity that leads to his search for a sex surrogate.
He wants to lose his virginity. He wants to know what sexual intercourse con-
sists of. Enter Cheryl (Helen Hunt), a sex therapist with whom Mark can have
a restricted number of six educational sessions. The two are not there to fall in
love, they are to merely explore their bodies, Cheryl is to teach Mark about the
various senses in his body, to have him control them in intimate moments to
ultimately engage in sex when the time comes with another person.
Using the character Cheryl, who is given a never-ending supply of warmth
and compassion in Hunt’s terriﬁc performance, the ﬁlm carefully explores
Mark, his condition, and his past, to paint a fuller picture into his life, never
patronisingly dismissing him as just another disabled Hollywood stereotype.
Critics and voters are clearly loving Hawkes and Hunt, as nominations
are ﬂooding in for the pair’s brave portrayals of their challenging roles, with
Hawkes only able to use the expressions of his face to fully engage with the
audience. It’s a humble oﬀering but a more than satisfying one, in which gentle
bursts of both laughs and tears will come and go.
Lincoln (25th January):
A ﬁlm that is as informative as it is entertaining, Steven Spielberg turns a po-
tentially dull and dry topic into a fascinating, surprisingly humourous account
of how the 16th President of the United States worked his power to pass the
13th Amendment, abolishing slavery.
Set during the American Civil War that is proving to be incredibly unpopular
as well as costing countless lives, Lincoln needs enough votes, from both his
own and opposing parties to push through his addition to the United States
Constitution. Cunning lobbying is required, as well as careful handholding of
various party members to ensure support.
One of the most dedicated method actors working today, Daniel Day-Lewis,
embodies the role of a calm, collected and softly-spoken President, whereas
Sally Field, with as much energy and guts she has always possessed in her ﬁery
performances in the past, is as astounding as Mary Todd, Lincoln’s wife.
It covers a lot of ground – ranging from various political gatherings in the
House of Representatives, delving into the grizzly battleﬁelds, serving as the
ﬁlm’s opening, as well as showing the more domestic, family-oriented side to
his Presidency.
Zero Dark Thirty (25th January):
Forget the non-sense controversy stirred up by paranoid politicians and na-
ive individuals who seem to believe that America doesn’t use torture. Kathryn
Bigelow’s gripping retelling of the 10-year manhunt and the eventual fall of
Osama Bin Laden may not have everything 100% accurate (very few ﬁlms can
actually claim to be just that), but the condensed material is a meticulously
structured, impeccably detailed, large scale procedural with a riveting perfor-
mance from its lead, the ever-so versatile Jessica Chastain. The 10-year hunt
takes a toll and forces Maya (Chastain) to sacriﬁce a lot, and it’s shown in her
raw, uninhibited performance of sheer realism. The ﬁlm is more interested in
the personal angle of the story, rather than taking a bigger, over-reaching po-
litical stance, and is more triumphant because of it.
A political thriller to blow “Argo” out of the water, it cleverly integrates sev-
eral real-life events such as its harrowing opening of a completely blank screen
only playing audiotapes of various victims of 9/11, and the 7/7 London bombing
to push the narrative forward, and even at 157 minutes there isn’t a ﬁlm more
consistently exciting throughout. And with a memorable ﬁnal parting shot, the
ﬁlm isn’t afraid of directly asking the audience, was all of this worth it?
Won’t Back Down (25th January):
So this isn’t actually even in close
range to the Oscar race, since the
reviews in the States were so disap-
pointing back in September, but for
anyone looking for an easy-going,
feel-good movie of two women defy-
ing the odds and beating the big bad
boys’ bureaucracy club, this is the
ﬁlm for you.
As usual, Maggie Gyllenhaal and
Viola Davis are inspirational as they
stand together to reform the edu-
cation system that is failing their
children. The system can fail, but a
parent can’t – says the ﬁlm’s tagline
and from that you can deduce what a
simplistic, feel-good ﬁlm this will be.
Lack of heavy-hitting drama despite
its given subject matter that could
spark a debate for hours on end, the
chances are, you will be disappointed,
and this one is for fans of the excellent
actresses only.
Movie 43 (25th January):
Deﬁnitely has nothing to do with the
Oscars. This is the deﬁnition of an
anti-Oscar ﬁlm. A crude, oﬀensive
comedy that sets out to insult every-
one, instead of vying for awards glory,
here’s something to make you laugh,
and something to make you feel guilty
every time you burst uncontrollably
into ﬁts of laughter.
Sad because he
lost his top hap
The moment
when the brain
wave hits her:
let’s look in his
house

