HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
36
Chance of completion: 0%
CLASSIC IMPERIAL
NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS
I’m going to look over all of my lecture
notes from that week every weekend.
This year I’m going to be having sex
like I’m a US rap star
Chance of completion: 5%
Chance of self-completion: 100%
The classic lie you tell yourself every year. It started at
thebeginningofyourdegreewhenyousaidthatyou’ll
bereallyhardworkingandorganisedatuniversity,not
like you were at school. Gone are the days that you
drawpenisesonnotesandwrite“cunt”ininkonarub-
ber. You’re mature now. You’re all grown up. You have
your own finances to take care of and you go food
shopping. You even have a student newspaper that
uses the word cunt twice in one paragraph.
Even the biggest lad in the rugby team who guzzles
Fosters and likes “tits” will, deep down, be an Impe-
rial nerd who’s thought this to himself. In reality, first
week of term you have exams/can’t be arsed, so you
say you’ll start next week. If you’re lucky you’ll look
over your notes one weekend and never do it again.
Chances she’s on
Facebook 100%
Unless rap stars are now famed for masturbating into
a crusty sock while crying, you probably won’t be.
You’ll maybe try to revamp your image as some kind
of Imperial College Russell Brand. In the January sales
you’ll find some pair of skinny jeans that may or may
not be in (how would you know? In the Library eve-
rything but full on nudity is acceptable to wear). Not
realising your low cut v neck tops just look ridiculous.
Also,you’reinEnglandandit’stoocoldtobotherwith
all of that “wearing fashionable clothes” thing as most
of the time they’re freezing. Perhaps you’ll try to up-
date your wardrobe with a “signature hat” that you’ll
never, ever get the courage to actually put on.
WAIT
MUM
DON’T
COME
IN
This term I’ll be organised and will
bring in pack lunches every day.
Next time I won’t cram for my
exams, I’ll start revision early...
First three of four days will be fine and this pack lunch
novelty will be new and exciting. About two weeks
in, when eating the exact same sandwhich and all of
the unneaten bananas have gone off you find yourself
eating the terrible, uncooked jacket potatoes of the
Library Café, wishing someone would inject it with
LSD to improve the dining experience. That’s where
theslipperlyslopestarts,andbeforeyouknowiteven
your Twixes aren’t packed in your bag. You envy the
person who even wraps up their middle class bread
and mature cheddar with seasonal vegetable creation
in expensive looking foil.
Chance of completion: 30%
Middle-
class wet
dream.
Whoareyoukidding?It’sdefinitelynotyourselforan-
yone else that you say this too. “Yeah, I reckon I might
start looking over shit in like Easter probably”. No you
fucking won’t. Don’t you know how much terrible
TV there is to stream at 11am the day after your latest
night out. Revision’s not going to cure that hangover.
Neither will lying in bed watching trashy TV, but that
will sure feel like a cure.
Everyone knows you can’t start revising a module
until all others are done, that’s why revision has to
start. Also, it’s like a rite of passage or a tradition or
something for students to cram. Right?
Chance of completion: 10%
Easter bunny aka
shit version of Santa
Don’t waste your jokes on your friends, as we all know you
have none, write for Hangman. Email felix@imperial.ac.uk

