SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
38
IC Rowers triumph
Move over Victoria Beckham, Pout
of the Year belongs to BS-J now
The Scullers Head of the River is tradi-
tionally an Imperial College dominated
event, with multiple pennant and overall
winners dotted around current and past
IC members. Unfortunately our most
recent winner Jamie Kirkwood was re-
leased in the summer transfer window
on a Bosman free, therefore hopes had
turned to the latest crop of IC athletes to
stepuptotheplate.Anddidtheystepup!
ICBC had the quickest female sculler of
the day as well as overall 3rd place, 5th
place and 8 pennants, unbelievable!
ItwasanabsolutelyfreezingDecember
day on the Tideway, however the wind
had been kind to the rowers and it was
very still. One of the very last scullers to
race was Georgie Phillips; she had waited
for over 500 other scullers to come past
her before she could start. In her shiny
new Fillipi she tanked it down the course
in stylish fashion, overtaking multiple
scullers on her way. However despite
the excellent row, even Georgie wasn’t
expecting to ﬁnish 105th, be the quickest
lady of the day and win an IM3 Light-
weight pennant to go with it! Even head
Coach Don McLachlan was left speech-
less during his speech at the annual din-
ner later on that evening (more on this
later). Well done Georgie!
Close behind Georgie in the overall
rankings was Helen Wood, who picked
up the IM2 pennant and was the sec-
ond fastest woman of the day. Yet an-
other pennant came in the form of
Myriam Goudet, ICBC’s latest big deal
from across the channel. Myriam has
beenimpressingeveryoneinthepastfew
months, both with her rowing ability and
the fact that she understands what the
hell Paul Jones is talking about. Myriam
Rory Sullivan Sports Writer
picked up the Elite pennant after an ex-
cellent morning’s work.
On the Men’s side, the IC-lightweight
boys have been at it again. Myles Hol-
brough romped his way to an 11th po-
sition overall and picked up the Light-
weight IM2 pennant in the process. He
was closely followed by Paul Jones, who
won the Lightweight IM1 pennant and
ﬁnished an excellent 16th overall. Myles
said he was ‘over the moon’ to beat love
rival Tom ‘grim’ Hope, new boy on the
block at IC. Despite struggling with ill-
ness and the distractions of an under-
graduate degree at Roehampton (SO
MANY PARTIES), Tom still won the
Lightweight Elite Pennant, pipping Bad-
Man Wilf Kimberley by just 1 place over-
all.
Another girl strutting her stuﬀ in a
new Fillipi was Cat Buizza. Despite rac-
ing with the weight of a hot water bottle
(to keep warm at the start) Cat managed
to win the Women’s Novice pennant in
style. The ﬁnal pennant winner of the day
was Hal Bradbury, who was the quickest
Senior Man.
Although not pennant winners, Henry
Goodier and Ben Spencer-Jones ensured
IC again dominated the top-5, coming
3rd and 5th respectively. They were rac-
ing in the extremely tough Novice cate-
gory(inwhichtheyﬁnished2ndand3rd)
despite Ben burying himself in a helpless
fellow novice somewhere around the Is-
land. These results are all the more im-
pressive considering both of these chaps
are sweepers at heart (and Ben not even
that!). Ben’s 5th place puts him in a list
of undisputed IC legends who have also
ﬁnished in the most prestigious posi-
tion at this wonderful head, including
international Boat-Man superstar Sam
Scimgeour, Desert Running nutter JPD
and of course (otherwise why would I big
it up) Yours truly.
IC had so many excellent performanc-
es that I haven’t been able to ﬁt them all
in so sorry if you haven’t had a shout out,
nexttimewinapennant!Anyway,almost
as soon as the last IC sculler had crossed
the line, attention turned to the evenings
frivolities. The ICBC Annual Dinner was
held at the Rembrandt Hotel in Knights-
bridge, and it was brilliant. Big shout out
and well done to Ben, Lily, Sammy C and
the rest of the committee (apart from
me) who did a fantastic job organising it.
It was great to see the class of ‘92 at the
dinner this year, and everyone is look-
ing forward to getting out our shiny new
eight named in their honour. There were
some beautiful moments at the dinner,
my two personal favourites were Har-
riet sweeping Myles oﬀ his feet and IC
legends Andy G and Winnie showing oﬀ
their shaven legs in Pacha (they are now
cyclists!).
ICBC are looking forward to 2013 and
have already been back training hard.
Next event is BUCS head in February
and it is all guns blazing from now until
then so we can bring home the bacon.
VA R S I T Y
L A U N C H P A R T Y
17 JANUARY 2013 / 20:00 - 01:00 / METRIC / £2.00Entry
THE CLUB WITH THE MOST ATTENDEES WINS THE TAKINGS ON THE DOOR
R e d & B l u e S O U R Z £ 1 . 1 0 A S H O T
IMPERIAL COLLEGE IMPERIAL MEDICALS
WWW.IMPERIAL.AC.UK/SPORTS/VARSITY
/SPORTIMPERIAL
imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on

