SPORT
39
FRIDAY 11 JANUARY
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rich people tend to lavish their money
on fast cars, helicopters and yachts.
Portable glass squash courts, though,
are surely the ultimate display of sta-
tus and wealth. The court can be as-
sembled at the drop of a hat (well…
within three weeks) at whatever loca-
tion the owner fancies. Which means
that he can perfect his backhand on
palm tree-lined beaches, practise his
reverse-drive on top of the Sydney
Opera House, and delight the crowds
in St. Peter’s Square…
But wait. Imperial’s three squash
courts are neither glass nor portable, so
how is it that I know about, and indeed
dream of, portable glass squash courts?
Well simply because I’ve seen one. The
ATCO PSA World Squash Finals 2013
were played on one of these unusual,
transparent, spectator courts, assem-
bled at the elite Queen’s Club in South
West London. A handful of members
of Imperial College’s own squash club,
led by Jackie Ho, were lucky enough to
witness an evening of incomparable
entertainment. Tennis fans who tire of
watching their compatriots losing at
early stages should certainly consider
defecting to squash. No fewer than 3
out of 8 men’s contestants, including
the World Numbers 1 and 2, were Eng-
lish and in the ladies’ draw there was an
all English semi-ﬁnal; as a nation, we
are a very good at squash. As are Egypt,
who had the most players in the draw,
and whose charismatic Amr Shabana
walked oﬀ with the men’s title.
The standard of squash was, need-
less to say, fantastic. The ladies’ num-
ber 1, Malaysian Nicol David, ﬂoated
across the court in a beautiful white
dress disposing of her opponent with
grace and ease. The men’s games were
fought with speed, determination and
a touch of drama – part of Nick Mat-
thew’s handle fell oﬀ his racket mid-
point and all the players were at some
point discontented with an umpire’s
decision. These human machines were
exerting themselves to the limits and
consequently, the court ﬂoor had to be
mopped at regular intervals because it
was so sweaty.
I think all spectators who attended
this brilliant event will agree with me
on the following two points: a) watch-
ing squash can be even more draining
than playing and you must remember
to breathe, especially during long rallys.
Squash’s day out with the Pros
Stephanie Walton Sports Writer
Much like Leonidas and his 300 Spar-
tans, Sat 3rd November found me
leading 10 Imperial hurlers. This time
however the hammer would fall, not
in Thermopylae, but in Birmingham.
Same diﬀerence some would say. The
challenge facing us was very much as
daunting. Our titanic adversaries were
University of Dundee, Robert Gordon
University (Aberdeen) and University
of Liverpool.
First game deﬁnitely put the wind up
us. We were ten sheets to the breeze
and two men down from the minimum
requirement (13; i.e. 11+2 = 13). Luck-
ily our brethren from County Kilburn
came up trumps and facilitated us fan-
tastically; ﬁxing two ﬁne fellas for our
force. Sean and Luke they claimed their
names were. We were sceptical but
bought it for the time being. Making
up the numbers, we descended onto
the pitch and gave the attending crowd
(estimates were from between 3 to
35,000) an outstanding display of sweet
hurling skill in a rather haphazard and
garish warm-up. I skipped the warm
up, and went out for the ‘toss’ with the
‘ref’. I won with an outstandingly deli-
cious call of ‘heads’. I elected to play
with the wind, a decidedly handsome
call, as in any hurling game the wind,
that ﬂowing channel of atmosphere,
often plays a surreptitious and provoc-
ative role. Unfortunately it made little
or no diﬀerence to our performance.
An awe-inspiring and beautiful display
of hurling (by Imperial) saw us trail by
the slim margin of 8 points to nil in the
ﬁrst half. The team talk was tricky but
using some sad rubbish I downloaded
from ‘The Internet’ I managed to cor-
ral the lads and convince them to stay
awake for the second half. “Job done”, I
smirked as we embarked back out onto
the pitch for the second half. And as if
by miracle or something, my half-time
mutterings were paying oﬀ. Big style.
We had scored a point! An excellent
move involving most of the team re-
sulted in new star signing “Seán” from
Kilburn ﬂashing over a gorgeous point.
We all cheered. Imbued by this arro-
gant display of class Imperial surged
forward and managed to only lose the
game by 21 points. Hurling’s like that
my old dad would say. One minute you
have it, then its gone. No big deal. No
sense in boiling your cabbage twice
he’d also say, so yeah, ya know yourself.
We decamped to the dressing room
in preparation for our next game
against the team representing Univer-
sity of Liverpool. Whilst in the dress-
ing room I had a cheese sandwich. I’m
sure someone else had a wrap. One of
the lads was even meditating under a
steady stream of cold water from the
shower. The level of zen and calm in
the room was palpable, as was the stale
smell of drink and the peaky hungover
faces. A lethal, and winning combina-
tion I scoﬀed.
After our 30-minute break I rounded
up the troops and told them ‘to give it
a lash this time now lads like, thanks’.
And they did just that. Once again I
heroically won the toss, sticking with
my secret formula. The lads gave an-
other expert display with the warm
up. You could have melted butter oﬀ
those pulsing legs. Staring down the
tremendously ugly opposition we let
rip in what was to be our most success-
Hurlers Retain Title (Almost)
Mitch Cuddihy Sports Writer
ful encounter. We hurled well until half
time and arrived only 1-0 to 0-1 down,
having pointed a well earned free. The
cheers were embarrassing but deﬁnite-
ly arousing. A short recess and another
boring team talk and we were back on
the pitch. I think most of the lads had a
drink of water aswell.
I felt we really did ourselves justice in
the second half. A great passage of play
culminated in Tipp All-Star Darragh
Ryan being pulled down in the box, re-
sulting in a free. I ﬂuﬀed the 21 metre
free but luckily it sailed over the bar
so we got to leave the pitch with two
whole points, which I was very happy
with. Whereas the ﬁrst result may be
compared to a heavy smacking this one
was more comparable to a playful bit
of slap and tickle, so nothing to moan
about like.
Contemplating the game with the
end of my cheese sandwich, I really felt
that I could relate to the old Irish say-
ing “don’t give cherries to pigs”.
Final game of the group stages was
against none other than – Robert
Gordon University. I told the lads that
Aberdeen hasn’t a great record in the
Champions League so therefore I felt
supremely conﬁdent that we’d do well.
This game was to be our last but by
God we gave it everything we had, in-
cluding the kitchen. Aberdeen turned
out to be a decent outﬁt and we had a
very enjoyable game of hurling. Our
All-Star and player of the tournament
came up trumps with a devastatingly
scrumptious goal. We lost, but not
by much, which made for an inspiring
trend considering our limited prepara-
tion.
Rather like General Custard and his
last stand, Leonidas and his issues with
the Persians, I proudly lead a beaten
but cheerful Imperial College Hurling
team home after the Aberdeen match.
There were no tails between any of our
legs.
In one serious paragraph, I would
like to mention a couple of things.
Thanks a million to the Union for the
lend of the bus, thanks to Warwick-
shire GAA for hosting the event – they
are credit to the GAA massive, as are
the troopers at the British Universi-
ties GAA, mighty men so they are. It is
with such unswerving dedication and
commitment that the proud Irish tra-
ditions have not faltered, in well over
100 years.
My advice to next years hurling team:
don’t be afraid to tie your haystacks
down when the wind is blowing.
May the cabbage always rise with you
and your family.
IC Squash in action....one day
Winning smiles all round
b) squash thoroughly deserves to be-
come an Olympic sport. Not only does
it require energy, skill, stamina and in-
spiration but it is also an exhilarating
game to watch. And it should bring
Britain both medals and glory. Here’s
to the Olympic Committee coming to
their senses in time for 2020!

