“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1535 felixonline.co.uk
11/01/13
SPORT
Felix’s latest My Little Pony feature
“Isn’t that just a mint with a hole in it?!”
A dark and snowy December morning
saw the Imperial College Equestrian
Team meet for their second competi-
tion of the year at Trent Park Equestri-
an Centre in Enﬁeld. The team met at
7am at Baron’s Court tube and began
the long tube journey to Oakwood for
their home competition, by the time
we got to the stables the sun had risen
and the snow was beginning to melt,
but the team was not looking forwards
to plaiting and grooming horses in the
freezing cold!
On arrival at the stables we were
greeted by a decorated Christmas tree
and Christmas carols which instantly
brightened our mood, and after a quick
brieﬁng by Captain Rachel the team
began cleaning the horses and plaiting
their manes and tails to hopefully win
brownie points with the judge! Due to
the snow, Kent were running late, but
we managed to do the draw and start
the competition nearly on time, despite
it taking half an hour to ﬁnd the dres-
sage boards that had gone missing at
the centre.
The scoring in the BUCS equestrian
competitions is complicated – the
rider who does the best dressage test
or show-jumping round on each horse
scores 0 and then the diﬀerence be-
tween the other riders score and the
best score on that horse is their score
as a penalty, i.e. 0 is the best. The dres-
sage tests are scored out of 250 points,
and the show-jumping out of 210, and
scores in both phases generally range
from 55% to 80%.
Claudia Saksida rode her horse, Ka-
liber, a dark bay gelding who was re-
placing our ﬁrst choice horse Samba,
because he had pulled a muscle, re-
ally well despite his diﬃcult nature and
complete lack of interest in dressage,
and she scored 16 penalties after the
dressage phase. Andre Wilmes rode
second on his horse, Jay, an experienced
chestnut gelding and rode a masterclass
of a test to win on his horse and score
0 penalties. Rachel Gregory was third
on her horse, Franklyn, a chestnut geld-
ing, and rode a neat and accurate test to
score 1 penalty and Liane Marshallsay
was last on her horse, Galileo, a big pal-
omino gelding, and her test was beauti-
ful to score 3 penalties
At lunchtime after the dressage Im-
perial were in second place behind the
University of Kent, who were in the lead
by 19 points after they managed to win
on three of the horses! Royal Holloway
were in third and LSE in fourth. Lunch-
time saw frantic course building and
tacking up of the show-jumping horses.
Some of the teams were surprised at
how big the show-jumping course was
(we built it as big as we could!) but after
the course walk everybody was happy
and the competition got underway.
Imperial had again been drawn as
team four, which meant that Claudia
was again the ﬁrst Imperial competi-
tor. Claudia was riding Monsoon, a
tricky dark bay gelding, but she jumped
a tidy round but had an unfortunate
pole down, leaving her on 3 penalties
Rachel Gregory Riding Captain
“Lean on me...”
once all four riders on her horse had
completed. Liane was second on her
horse Teak, and had a pole down and
a run out (when the horse doesn’t jump
the jump so you have to do a circle and
jump it again) and was given 16 penal-
ties. Rachel was third on Freddie, a bay
gelding, and she jumped a stylish clear
round to be judged the best rider on
her horse, giving her a score of 0. After
a nervy few minutes when two riders
from LSE fell oﬀ in the warm up, An-
dre was the last to ride on his horse,
Lucy, a big bay mare. He also jumped a
stylish clear round to be given the best
jumping score of the day and win on his
horse, scoring 0 penalties.
The ﬁnal results revealed that the Im-
perial team had taken advantage of the
home competition and won by a nar-
row margin of ten points. University
of Kent were second, Royal Holloway
third and LSE were fourth. Andre won
individually and Rachel was second. Af-
ter the ﬁrst two mini-league competi-
tions Imperial are top of the league.
A huge thank you goes to all the help-
ers on the day, without whom the com-
petition would not have run as smooth-
ly as it did!
Asyougazeacrosstheverdantgreenery
of the unbroken grass ﬁeld, a coursing
vibration climbs up your legs, building
rapidly until suddenly 8 horses burst
into your vision. 32 bandaged pony
legs ﬂashing bright colours as they
thunder past; players calling loudly to
one another as they jostle and ﬁght to
make a play on the tiny, white ball; the
distinctive ‘click’ as a long mallet, bent
at a seemingly impossible angle, con-
nects and send the ball soaring a hun-
dred metres or more towards a goal oﬀ
in the distance. This is the spectacle of
polo and words, much like television
don’t really do it justice. TV has been
the downfall of many sports over the
years; it’s pretty tough to televise some-
thing on a pitch the size of 9 football
pitches where the players move at 30
miles an hour and the solid ball, barely
bigger than a tennis ball, can move at
well over 110mph.
In some respects this is a great shame;
it’s high time that some of the more
obscure sports and those that have a
reputation for exclusivity are thrown
into the limelight. I’ve always said that
any sport that involves riding around
far too fast and whacking things with
a mallet is a game that was designed
more for chavs than the aristocracy, so
it’s about time it shook it’s elitist stereo-
type. Still, polo is guilty of failing to en-
tice new players and fans. You’d think
a high speed, contact sport, played on
beautiful grounds, on beautiful ani-
mals, wouldn’t have trouble attracting
people to watch. But to the outsider the
rules of polo are about as unintelligible
as my degree is to me. But polo isn’t, es-
sentially, a complicated aﬀair; you and
your three team mates just have to hit
a ball in the goal more times than your
opponents do.
Unfortunately, from there it does get
a bit more complicated. With a total of
48 legs between horses and riders, 8
mallets 1 ball and 8 brains on the pitch
(players deﬁnitely don’t have brains)
there’s too much potential for catastro-
phe not to have a few rules. With this
in mind, almost every rule is designed
with the safety of either the player or,
more often, the horses in mind. For ex-
ample, the most common foul in polo,
and the biggest thing to learn, is known
as crossing the right of way. In more
comprehensible terms, it means you
can’t get in the bloody way of a horse
barrelling along after the ball! The rule
is in place to ensure that there aren’t
collisions between horses, something
that could be extremely dangerous
whether you’re four legged or two, and
it also sets up most of the tactics of the
game.
Knowing that no one can come in
front of you means that, with clever
play (something that players seldom
achieve), you can control who is in a
position to mount a defence or make
any play at the ball. Equally crucial is
the fact that it’s illegal to reach over or
across any other players pony, for ob-
vious reasons, and the only contact al-
lowed is to come shoulder to shoulder
with another player and push him or
her sideways – though mallets can also
come into contact with one another to
spoil players’ shots. With all this going
on it’s a wonder that players ever get
a chance to hit the ball, but hit it they
do. Even with the short 7 to 7 and a half
minute periods of play (normally 4 or 6
to a match), designed to protect ponies
that have to work ﬂat out for that time,
scores can quickly get into the double
ﬁgures.
With bangs and crashes, long hits,
spectacular goals, falls, rears, thrills
and spills it’s easy to see why those
that enjoy the sport are so passionate
about it. It’s not in any way a gentle-
manly aﬀair played only by princes.
Competitively, it’s a high-speed, high-
adrenaline showcase of skill and cour-
age where horsepower (*pony-power*)
still reigns supreme. It ranks up there in
terms of dangerous sports, but oddly,
it’s the professionals in the most dan-
ger; to those trying it for the ﬁrst time,
or playing it at a low level, the speeds
and risks are much reduced. And in the
winter game of arena polo, in a smaller
enclosed space with an inﬂatable leath-
er ball, things can be even more frantic
with still lower risks. Admittedly, I may
be biased, but if you want to have a look
for yourself and form your own opin-
ion… or even hop on a horse and give
it a go; polo@imperial.ac.uk are wait-
ing eagerly to hear from you whether
you’re a polo pro or a complete pony
virgin.
Alex Savell Polo Chair
Felix Sport catches up with Riding and Polo on just what makes them love their sport so much

