12 FRIDAY 14 FEB
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Philippa Skett explains the biology behind the Big O
Come one, come all: the female orgasm
L
ook kid, it’s up to you…the
big L, or the big O?”
hese hallowed words were
immortalised through the
cinematic legacy of American
Pie back in the glorious 90’s. Uttered
by Natasha Lyonne, she outlined that
the alternative to telling a girl you
love her is simply to deliver a mind
blowing orgasm.
he pressure exerted by the extreme
commercialisation of Valentine’s Day
today may lead you into thinking
this is a decision you must make too,
perhaps some time this evening whilst
in the dark depths of Metric. Did
Shakespeare not put it as eloquently
simple as “To cum or not to cum?”
However, a lot of questions still
surround the female orgasm. Does
it even exist? Is it correct to say
the clitoris is truly God’s bribe for
childbirth? Isn’t the G-Spot some
sort of nightclub? he adjective most
associated with the female orgasm
is “elusive,” conining it to a state of
uncertainty akin to a bus turning
up on time, or that apparent last
computer on the fourth loor of the
library.
However, the female orgasm
is a very real, and very emotive
phenomenon. It is recognisable by
muscular contractions throughout
the pelvis, a giant wave of hormonal
release throughout the body, a change
in brain function, and the potential for
breakfast to be brought to you in bed
the next morning, if all goes to plan.
But just how does a female orgasm?
Orgasm in females is generally
achieved by clitoral stimulation, or
sometimes (but rarely) via direct
vaginal stimulation. he entirety of
the clitoris is actually shaped like a
sort of wishbone, which mostly hangs
internally like an odd muscular curtain
around each side of the vaginal walls.
he external protrusion, known as the
glans but usually just referred to as
the clitoris itself, contains over 8,000
nerve endings, and is the homologous
equivalent to the head of the penis.
Upon arousal, the glans doubles in
diameter as it ills with blood, and, as
stimulation continues, other tissues
throughout the entirety of the genitalia
ill with blood too, in a process called
vasocongestion. Muscles contract and
compress a vein within the clitoris, so
blood can no longer drain out of the
tissues at all, but simply continues to
build up. hink of this as a far more
superior female boner that won’t
require hiding under a baggy hoodie
should it rear its head, as all this is
going on internally and out of sight.
Increased vasocongestion inally
sets of a muscular relex – the blood
that was trapped in the surrounding
tissues of the clitoris is inally expelled
with some force by other muscles
including those surrounding the
vagina and uterus, leading to the
characteristic, climatic contractions
of the female orgasm.
Unfortunately, scientists are still
unsure what physiological link there
is to the female orgasm and her
proclaiming religious outbursts,
grabbing bed sheets or even pulling
hairfromherpartnershead,asresearch
into the female orgasm is still very
much in its infancy. One surprising
dysfunction among scientists is the
understanding of the “G-Spot,” for
example. he Grafenberg spot- named
after a German gynaecologist in the
1950s is a considered to be a small
area of the vagina that some say feels
like a walnut, whilst others remark
that it feels like the slightly bumpy
head of a bald man.
he existence of the G-Spot is
actually yet to be scientiically proven,
but research has discovered some
potential physiological evidence
of it using ultrasound; those that
experience vaginal orgasms (without
clitoral stimulation) have been found
to have a thicker anterior vaginal
wall, possibly due to the presence of
the infamous G-Spot. It is thought
to contain a large number of nerve
endings too, and vaginal stimulation
of this area is reported to result in
more intense orgasms than clitoral
stimulus alone.
However, with one study reporting
that as many as 80% of women
are unable to climax with vaginal
stimulation, and yet another showing
that even some identical twins
experience diferences when it comes
to such stimulation, the G-Spot is
unreliable at best at packing that
punch. When push comes to shove,
or rather lick comes to lick, clitoral
stimulation may prove better than
probing for a spot that may not even
exist.
But why do females even orgasm
at all? A debate currently rages
between evolutionary biologists as
to whether or not the female orgasm
is an advantageous adaptation
for reproduction. Some argue
that orgasms facilitate emotional
connections between sexual contact
and monogamy in humans based on
the same hormones being released
during climax and through long term
relationships. However, with some
of the most promiscuous of primate
species also able to orgasm too, this
may not be the case.
Others argue that muscular
contractions of the cervix cause it to
“dip” into the vagina, encouraging
sperm into the uterus in a manner not
unlike clubbers being shepherded into
TigerTiger on a Friday night. However,
with the possibility of pregnancy
occurring without orgasm, and
orgasm also practically a separate ball
game to penetrative sex, the cervical
dip theory seems unlikely too.
It has therefore been suggested that,
rather anti-climatically (ironically),
female orgasms are simply an
evolutionary accident – they serve
no real purpose, but do have that
orgasmic perk. With the evident
homologies between the clitoris
and the head of the penis, and both
developing in the same way before
birth, it may be that the female orgasm
is purely a serendipitous, if not mind-
blowing evolutionary hangover of
incomplete sexual dimorphism.
Fortunately, multiple orgasms are
much more interesting than male
nipples, which seem to be equally
theoretically pointless, if not literally
so.
Although this may not answer
that ultimate dilemma suggested by
American Pie, getting to grips with the
theory behind the female orgasm may
prepare you for the practicalities of it,
a little like learning to drive a car, or
completing that lab practical you have
next Monday.
Hopefully with some of this science
at your ingertips, the Big O may not
seem as overwhelming, and Friday
evening may go down with a tad
more enthusiasm than was previously
expected.
Felix Science wishes you a Happy
Valentines Day.
wIkIMEDIa FouNDaTIoN
If this is what comes to mind when someone says “g- Spot”, then read on my friend
MagES2.FaNPoP.CoM
Sally looking unimpressed by the lack of knowledge you seem to have about the female orgasm

