30 FRIDAY 14 FEB
Editor: Cécile
Borkhataria
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FASHION
his years Tommy Hiliger show had a decidedly
outdoorsy theme and Mr.Hiliger even decided
to have a range of snow-capped mountains
erected in the park avenue armory space,
adding to the sporty feel of the collection. he
collection itself wasn’t innovative, but rather a
classic hommage to Hiliger’s signature sporty
chic style. Plaid could be found in almost every
single look, adding a sense of cohesiveness to
the collection - even if it was a tad tedious at
times. By layering big wool coats over plaid
skirts or patched up jeans, Hiliger reminds us
that he is and has always been the master of the
Americana look.
Mercedez-Benz Fashion Week
This week the worlds inest fashion gurus descended upon the city that never
sleeps to host the hottest runway shows for autumn/winter 2014.
Cécile Borkhataria
Fashion editor Badgley Mischka Monique Lhuillier Tory Burch
Tommy Hiliger
MBFaSHIoNwEEk.CoM/PHoToS
MBFaSHIoNwEEk.CoM/PHoToS MBFaSHIoNwEEk.CoM/PHoToS
MBFaSHIoNwEEk.CoM/PHoToS
Badgley Mischka sent opulent golden gowns and
sparkling ruled dresses of pastel hues down
the runway, giving the collection a glamorous
red carpet theme. With a few tailored working
woman skirt-jacket combo’s littered throughout
the show, Mark Badgley and James Mischka re-
mind us that their skills aren’t limited to just the
red carpet.
he collections signature accessory was the
fur hat - a sensible and stylish fashion option for
next years autumn/winter season. Most of the
dressy looks were accessorised with chunky gold
bangles whereas the more formal working looks
took to leather gloves.
his year Monique Lhuillier said of her collection
that it was ‘deinitely a darker collection’ which
expresses the ‘mysterious and more edgy side of
the Monique woman.’ Lhuilier is well known for
her expertise in constructing fairytale, colourful
princess gowns for her adoring clients, but this
year her collection takes a slightly gothic twist.
Many of the looks incorporated black lace designs
overlayed on gowns which looked almost inked
on in a creepy vine like pattern. Other looks were
edgy too, especially the black PVC trench coat with
sexy peaks of transparent material throughout.
With all the looks teamed with black lace ankle
boots or black leather heels, Lhuillier triumphed
with her the goth chic inspired collection.
Tory Burch‘s collection featured mini skirts with
long wool socks as a key theme. he looks were
all very preppy chic, with paisley dresses teamed
with long knee high leather boots a strong feature
of the collection too. Burch was inspired by her
parents armour collections when she was a child,
and the theme is seen subtly throughout the col-
lection, notably in wide gold belts that featured
strongly throughout looks. jackets with strong
shoulders and pleated lame skirts all but rein-
forced the army theme in a very wearable way,
making the collection unique in its style inspira-
tion. Medieval tapestry style prints featured on
skirts and sweaters. All in all, the collection can
be summed up as a successfully blend of modern
silhouettes with antique twists.

