35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 14 FEB
TELEVISION
Three musketeers, one review
T
here are a few ways to
instantly sell me on a new TV
show, regardless of reviews
or recommendations. he
new BBC show, Musketeers,
hit virtually all of the boxes: an
adaptation of an all-time favourite
book, a cast featuring Peter Capaldi
and the hot artist from Heroes, and
plenty of sword ights. I’d have eagerly
watched it regardless of any bad
reviews, which is probably for the
best, as it had something of a mixed
reception from critics.
It’s not hard to see why: Musketeers
is trashy in the best sense of the word,
more interesting in having fun than
historical accuracy, with a mostly
young, attractive cast who spend a
lot of time wearing too little clothing.
Then again, anyone who’s read Dumas’
novel knows it was never intended
to be high-brow literature; the book
itself is definitely of the most purely
entertaining classic French novels, so
I don’t have any objection to the show
prioritising fun over accuracy.
Our protagonist is d’Artagnan, a
young country boy desperate to join
the King’s Musketeers, whose journey
to Paris starts off with a bang after the
inn where he and his father are staying
is attacked. The opening scenes
already make a rapid departure from
the events of the book in the killing
off of d’Artagnan’s father (it’s not a
spoiler if it happens in the first five
minutes), which I felt was a somewhat
unnecessary change for the sake of
adding drama.
The opening episode also introduces
us to the Musketeers themselves, the
King, and the Cardinal. The former
are, respectively, Athos, Porthos, and
Aramis, who are by turns shown to be
violent, womanising, and chivalrous.
The Musketeers, with their rallying
cry of ‘all for one and one for all’ (the
original ‘bros before hos’) are charged
with keeping the peace on behalf of
the King, Louis XIII. Tensions are
high, however, with the common
17th century power struggle between
church and state existing between the
King and Cardinal Richelieu, whose
own guards are constantly duelling
with the Musketeers. Tales of court
scheming and unwise bedfellows are
as old as most monarchies, yet always
seem to provide good fodder for
historical dramas.
This is the situation that d’Artagnan
finds himself caught up in, when
upon arriving in Paris he manages to
find himself right in the middle of a
brawl and challenging Athos to a duel
to the death after a case of mistaken
identity. The first episode is certainly
action-packed, with more than three
swordfights and a few raunchy scenes.
The cast is one of the strongest as-
pects of the show. One setback was a
minor controversy over whether the
casting of Porthos as mixed-race is
an attempt to be ‘politically correct’
(which, really, can we just stop having
this debate - not only have non-white
people been around in Europe since
at least Roman times, ethnicity is the
least of most historical drama’s issues
with accuracy. In addition, Alexandre
Dumas himself was black, so the cast-
ing makes sense if only as a nod to its
author). In reality, all of the Musket-
eers are well-cast: Athos, played by
the strong, stoic leader of the group,
and Santiago Cabrera is perfect as
‘pretty boy’ Aramis, whose talents in
duelling are matched only by his tal-
ents of enticing women into bed. Luke
Pasqualino, of Skins fame, is also good
at portraying d’Artagnan’s sensitivity
and the recklessness that comes with
his immaturity. Finally, Peter Capaldi
is unsurprisingly perfect as the Cardi-
nal, as his face does lend itself so well
to the role of scheming villain.
The main issues with the
programme are those which are
basically inherent to the book: pretty
much every female character is either
a seductive temptress (the character of
Milady is one of the most stereotypical
femme fatales around) or a feisty love
interest, and it takes a while to see the
Musketeers as sympathetic characters
rather than Renaissance-era ‘lads’
who spend all their time brawling
and chatting up women. It’s another
reason why it’s worth sticking with the
show for a few episodes to see if it’s a
grower, even if you’re not keen on the
first episode.
The most recent adaptation of The
Three Musketeers was a film only three
years ago starring Orlando Bloom and
Milla Jovovich. It met to unanimously
awful reviews, but in my opinion it’s a
book that naturally lends itself better
in TV format, given that it was first
published as a series in a newspaper
and weaves many plot lines taking
place over a fairly long period of time.
It’s also just a really good book, and
missing huge chunks of it out in order
to condense it into a two hour film
seems a shame.
It may not be a realistic portrayal
of 17th century France, but what
it lacks in realism it makes up for
in its commitment to ensuring the
viewer has a good time. Having been
commissioned by the BBC for a second
series, it’s clear that the majority of its
audience are so far on board. With
ten episodes in total in the first series,
things are looking promising for the
Musketeers.
Emily Fulham takes a swash-buckling journey into Renaissance France
BBC
BBC

