37
FRIDAY 17 JAN
TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
with contactless cards in two ways.
One, some places don’t accept them
and equally not every bank doesn’t
issuecontactlesscards.Soaubiquitous
experience isn’t there. However, if
someone is using them and they
work, it works really well but what
a contactless card doesn’t do what
Yoyo does, is it doesn’t enable you to
automate the whole stamping of the
loyalty card, it doesn’t enable you to
receive ofers. What we are building
is fundamentally very diferent.
What we have got is, efectively, a
marketing tool for retailers to have a
better relationship with consumers,
by sending them more ofers or giving
them more rewards.
ME: One aspect that seemed to put
a lot of people off Yoyo was security
issues, and one of the things that did
worry them was the whole pin thing,
if you lose your phone for example.
MR: Let’s put this into some context.
On the table in front of me, I have
my wallet and my phone. Which
one is easier for you to get access to
money from? he wallet, right? So the
minute you have access to my wallet,
you have access to any cash I have in
my wallet, access to my contactless
card, my credit cards and you had to
do nothing to get there. Now if I say
you have my phone, away you go. If it’s
locked, there’s not much you can do.
So there is a reliance that most people
do have a irst line of authentication to
get into the device, be it ingerprint,
pin or passcode. hen on the app
itself if someone wants to add a PIN
on top of that, on the next version we
are releasing, then they can do that. So
we have two layers of authentication,
which is more than on a wallet.
Equally, once you have my card details
you can go online and do all sorts of
things. One can probably get your
card, ind out date of birth and address
pretty easily, believe it or not, and do
whatever they want. With Yoyo, the
minuteyou’velostyourphone,you will
realise. You will realise you lost your
phone before you’ve lost your wallet.
Your phone is your third arm. So the
irst you can do is then lock the phone,
end of story. hen you can Yoyo, and
ask us to block your account. here is
a whole bunch of things that you can
do very quickly, that you can’t do with
a wallet. It’s very simple.
ME: Another thing that comes to
mind, it seemed incredibly easy
to set up a yoyo account. You only
needed a name, account number,
sort code and address. So what stops
me, finding out that information
of someone else, and then putting
their account details onto my Yoyo
account?
MR: We do a lot of background
checking, we match your username
versus bank details. We are also
partnered with GoCardless, which
is a very well established direct debit
management platform. I hope though,
that the irst thing that would stop
you, is that you aren’t a criminal.
However you can’t rule it out, though I
strongly advise anybody studying here
not to do it. On the basis that they are
messing with their future.
ME: Lastly in terms of secturity:
We currently live in the world of
Big Data. Obviously Yoyo get data
from the users, what is your policy
on that?
MR: Around data, and anything we do
whether it’s on Facebook or Twitter,
everything is accessible to everybody.
hey govern this under a term called
the privacy policy, which is exactly
the opposite. So what we have done, is
turned that on its head a bit. We have
come up with something called the
transparency agreement, and as part
of that transparency agreement, what
we state is that we will never share
your data with a merchant. What that
means, is your contact information,
even your name, because there is no
need to. What we can let the retailer
know is what you are buying, but they
know that anyway. What we do is give
it to them in a way that at least gives
them a little insight, to better engage
you with ofers that are relevant. So
what we do share is for the beneit of
driving better ofers, better rewards
for diferent customer segments,
diferent users. What we don’t share is
the personal identifying information.
We don’t share any of the inancial
information around funding methods,
or anything like that. So we see
ourselves as a kind of ilm in between,
which manages the relationship on
both sides, user and retailer, for the
beneit of both in a way that doesn’t
conlict anyone in anything they don’t
want to be conlicted in.
ME: So given now that you have all
the aforementioned data, will you
be able to give personalised offers?
MR: Absolutely. In fact my next
meeting is with Catering Services, to
talk about Yoyo speciic only ofers.
Going forward, this is totally what
this is about. Actually you can start to
categorize people into segments pretty
quickly, based on an understanding of
what they buy.
If you are buying cofee two times
a day, you may sit to the right hand
side of a spectrum of cofee drinkers.
hen what would the segment cofee
drinkers like to eat with their cofees.
Perhaps a cofee and pastry type of
ofer would work for them and if
they are buying cofee at 8:30 in the
morning, then we should send their
ofers 8 o’clock, so they can think
about it and then take advantage of it.
So, where we are going with Yoyo, is
actually about creating, from the user’s
perspective, a personalised commerce
environment. You are deined by your
behaviour, your behaviour is where
you choose to spend money. We are
not suggesting where you do it, we are
ofering you the ability to manage the
world in the way you want it, so you
can see the ofers and rewards that are
most meaningful to you.
What we all recognize, we, the
founders of Yoyo, are consumers, too.
A lot of the things that lead to Yoyo,
are because I found being bombarded
by e-mails and texts really annoying. I
don’t care that I am near a Starbucks,
I just don’t care. So every time it pings
up in Passbook, I just turn it all of.
But what I do care about for example
a Fernandez and Wells - which is my
favourite cofee joint - I would like to
know if I am near one. So to be able
to personalise that experience in a
way where I don’t have to download
multiple retailer apps would be great!
ME: So are you planning to expand
out of universities?
MR: What we are building is deinitely
for the high street as well as for the
campus, the reason being is that we
want to start bringing is the ability to
give more to you, the consumers, of
things that they like. As a consumer,
what do we really want out of any
transaction? We want to pay less,
and we want to get more, and that is
totally what Yoyo is relying on doing.
Yes, a retailer wants to sell more, but
obviously it also wants to provide
a great customer experience and
wherever possible they want to save
money. Saving money is equivalent
to not wasting money. By enabling
retailer to ofer rewards that are more
appropriate for diferent segments,
ticking the boxes that they want to
tick. Most importantly for a users
perspective, you are starting to get
things that are relevant to you, and not
just homogenised for anybody.
ME: So on a completely different
note, why Yoyo? What’s with the
name?
MR: Choosing a name is very diicult
in today’s world of startup boom.
he irst thing about Yoyo is that
everyone knows what a yoyo is. It’s
very international in terms of its
pollination of language. Yoyo is a
yoyo everywhere you go and most
people, unless you had one ping you
in the eye, have a positive experience.
It’s very playful and very engaging.
Equally if you think of the process of
spinning a yoyo out, and then coming
back to you, it’s the same thing when
you think about paying for something
and what you get back is rewards and
ofers. So, it’s a very engaging process,
and it’s memorable, right?
ME: Any last thoughts, any thing
left to say? Maybe why imperial
students should use yoyo?
MR: he reason why we chose
Imperial is because there is a high
concentration of smart people in one
place and you know, if we are going
to build something relevant for the
world, what better place than to launch
it at Imperial. he feedback we get is
invaluable to help us create a better
consumer experience, which we all
love and all consumers would beneit
from that. It’s something that’s very
quick and simple. Our belief is that if
we get it right here, and get it right at
the other universities we are going to
roll Yoyo out at, that the concept that
we can go to the world with is that
smart people buy with Yoyo. I would
encourage everyone to download it,
use it and start taking advantage of the
Yoyo speciic rewards and ofers.
ME: Sorry to keep you, but one last
question; You had this 10% offer for
topping up in January. Sadly that’s
over now, but do you have any other
promotions to encourage more
people to start using Yoyo?
MR: : In February, we are running
prize draws, whenever you pay with
Yoyo on campus you have a chance
of winning either £10 or £50 of Yoyo
balance (there are multiple winners).
We will be doing the irst draw at the
end of this week, and that is running
throughout the whole of February. You
can get the updates on the winners on
Twitter at @justyoyo, and On our page
on Facebook.We are deinitely making
sure that there is a chance for people to
win and enjoy their Yoyo experience.
#yoyonotyolo

