10 Music Special
Flippin' Out With The Band To Be
You probably haven't heard of Gigolo Aunts yet, but when you hear them,
you '11 want them and we have them, so let Owain introduce them.
The Gigolo Auntsl Okay, so they're not
household names but we both suspect they have
a real chance of becoming big, and anyway
they've held guitars on the main stage at
Reading so they're stars enough for us.
Blinded, we're taken to the flat they've
rented in Notting Hill Gate. Phil Hurley, guitar
maestro, is being interviewed by Sweden's
version of John Peel in another room. We're left
with Dave Gibbs, singer and guitar support.
Phil's brother Steve isn't about and drummer
Paul is munching a huge plate of pasta and
leafing through a Felix. We try to act with
'Mean Fiddler' nonchalance but unfortunately
that involves sitting in a corner and drinking out
of a bottle, only whispering occasionally to your
stoned partner. In other words, we have to buzz.
It's all too much for Tintin who duly asks the
first question. It's a devilishly clever one.
"So, how did you first get together?"
Dave of course is happy to be asked an easy
one first. This isn't Mastermind, remember - he
researched his stuff beforehand. For twenty odd
years.
"We grew up in a tiny little town in upstate
New York where we were basically the only
people who thought like we did. It took us ten
years to learn how to play because we absolutely
sucked! Then we moved to Boston in 1987
where all we did was practice, all day and all
night. Finally we put out a 45 on my own label.
It's a tiny label, it's not even a mini label it's a
micro label! We sent one to the fine folks at Fire
and they liked it and so we did a deal."
"Got a hole in my head
Got a hole in my heart
Got a hole where my soul's supposed to be
Can't you see? This is hard for me."
- Cope
Of course Fire are only a British label. Any
chance of selling out stateside?
"Yeah, we're about to do a deal with a big
fatcat major in the U S . We're gonna be
corporate whores!"
The relish Dave feels when he says that is
self evident. It's not hard to see why it comes as
a relief to finally be committing to vinyl. Over a
decade of relentless practicing, gigging, honing
their sound to its purest elements, whether it be
the breezy hookability of 'When I Find M y
Heaven' or the frantic angry fretwork on a song
like 'Cope'. Later, Phil talks of seeing a
succession of labels sink away at inopportune
moments. Besides, if you spend your whole life
at pop-school then in sheer practical terms your
career options are going to be limited.
"This is all I can do," admits Dave. "In
between, Paul and Steve went to school; Phil
and I didn't, so this is all I'm qualified for. I can
work in a record store and wash dishes and play
in a band."
As the Aunts move towards 'the big time'
Dave finds himself wishing they could "learn to
be more of a band".
Like in performance?
"Nah, not so much even that - stuff like photo
sessions, interviews and just dealing with fans. I
know this sounds really boring to people in the
record press, but we treat all our fans as friends.
We're just friendly people."
Dave already has hangups when it comes to
dealing with the press. He's tired of reading
quotes he didn't even say and, off-the-record, he
tells us of a gig review where the journalist
apparently fabricated the entire performance and
swapped his band's set with another's. Tintin
and I quake.
"Basically, they dig those people up from
under stones. Like, they said we'd slagged off
Suede a year before we'd even heard of them!
They have to have a cover story every week and
so they're going to go out and look for stuff. In
America they're just as dumb but they write for
Rolling Stone or Spin magazine which only
come out once a month, so they tend to write
more about the music."
Tintin remembers his groundnotes and asks
about the recent N M E interview.
"Yeah that went really well 'cos that guy has
a clue. N M E and M M are basically like the
National Enquirer. Usually they don't write
about music, they want to write about what went
on backstage. They're just hacks - they can't
write about music so they write about what
jumper the guy was wearing."
"In this country it seems they can't deal with
new bands unless they can find scenes to put
them in," I interject.
"Yeah, that don't even exist!" Dave exclaims.
"What you don't know means
everything to me."
- Lullaby
It would be all to easy to sit the Aunts next to
the new folky Lemonheads and, say, Buffalo
Tom and call it a new anti-grunge trad-pop
backlash scene.
"That already happens! The first question
anyone wants to ask us is 'So, are you big pals
with the Lemonheads?' I mean Evan Dando's a
rich rock star and he lives in L A ! Yeah, we are
friends with him but I wouldn't ring him up and
say 'So Evan, d'ya wanna go for a movie?' I
might see him after a show but that's about it."
These days it sometimes seems that if you
rewire your keyboards to a washing machine,
bring in a didgeridoo and cynically highlight the
fact that one of your members is from an ethnic
minority you're hailed as the new multi-cultural
This week's puzzle, another Elimination, is on page 23

