Music Special 11
Sonic Youth, unplugged then replugged and
overamped. If you play effortlessly wonderful
guitar pop, however, you're a pathetic
anal-retentive with his head stuck up his Big Star
collection. Less eloquently, I ask Dave how he
feels about being labelled 'unoriginal'.
"Well, first we want to make something that
sounds undeniably good. Then we'll work really
hard to make that sound our own. I think we're
original in a subtle way. It's not a pure pop thing
and it's not a straight rock thing - it's kind of a
combination of the both. That's where we're
trying to be original."
"Well it's not the stuff of dreams
When you're bursting at the seems
And your mothers face looks worn
And your father talks with scorn."
- Pin Cushion
And it works. Strong songs and melodies
with little guitar hitches and spirals, occasionally
quirkyness in the drum department, all kinds of
subjects, all kinds of tunes. Get it straight, this
isn't another of our weird pieces pushing
art-wank rock, this is music you'll want playing
on your car radio for that whole two week
honeymoon in wherever.
Dave sometimes has problems selling
himself. "It took us a long time to be able to
admit that we were good, to say to someone like
you guys 'Yeah, we're really good. We practice
hard, we sing in tune, we write good songs and
we kick ass live!'"
Yeah, live. On stage Gigolo Aunts are a
revelation. There's an energy in their set that has
not quite made the transition to the recording
studio yet. They operate like a single body with
guitars for arms, drums for legs and, to put the
metaphor on the rack, three tongued
beachboyesque harmonies for a mouth. There's
no friction, only lubrication. You sense they are
pushing each other forward rather then battling
for earplay. Phil kneels down at the table and
takes up the point.
"When you tour a lot, a weird thing starts to
happen. When you first start out you're trying
really hard to play as tight as possible - to prove
you're a tight band...but we've passed that point.
We're so tight we can start to get loose again."
He rumbles on in his low radio-friendly voice
that belies his airy vocal sound.
"There's a weird telepathy that starts to
happen. You know you're not going to mess up
'cos you've played the song so many times - so
you can really start to mess with it."
Tintin talks about the Smashing Pumpkins
resigning themselves to playing large venues due
to their Weimer Republic-like inflation. Where
do the Aunties like to play?
"I much prefer small venues," says Dave,
adding, "I'm a glutten for instant gratification -
it's a wonder I'm not a drug fiend! If the
audience like you and they're halfway polite
then they'll let you know - and if you suck
they'll let you know! I hate it when they don't
do anything. If we're going down I'd rather they
threw shit at us! Wait, don't say that! If they're
gonna throw something they'd better make it
light and fluffy 'cos we're all pansies."
How was touring with Suede and the
Cranberries? Half an hour must be limiting?
"It went really well. For the first song they'd
check us out, for the second they'd nod their
heads and by the seventh song they'd be
moshing away and stage diving and I'm a sucker
for that. I need that because I don't get that
gratification anywhere else..err..well..."
Cue massed laughter and rib poking from
various band members, record company people
and your two favourite musos. Tintin warms to
the theme, drooling. What about rock and roll,
what about groupies?
"The evidence is making a hasty escape in
the corridor behind you," I joke. Dave stutters
and the record company man tries to blow us off
the scent with talk of fan letters. No way - what
about the rock and roll trappings!
"I wouldn't even call them groupies," he
says. "For some reason we seem to appeal to a
weird crowd who aren't even cool enough for
Teenage Fanclub...Maybe we're just too dorky
to take advantage of the scene or maybe we're
just too polite...I'm the only one without a
girlfriend, let's put it that way."
So you're never tempted?
"No-one's going to fuck up the dynamics of
the band. Steve, Phil and Paul all have
girlfriends and the last thing they're going to do
is be disloyal to them because we've known
each other so long we'd go back and tell them!"
Okay, enough said. If we were sad music
hack types writing for N M E in three years...
"And the sacred moments
of silliness are where I
find my Heaven,"
- Where I Find My Heaven
"I'd kick your teeth in!" laughs Dave. "Nah,
you guys are too smart to be hacks, oh, I don't
even want to slag them off anymore. Sorry, what
was the question?"
Hmmm...where do you see yourself being?
"I know that somewhere deep inside our
collective soul is a classic album waiting to
come out. I wan't to make an album so good that
people who don't even like us will love that one
album...Pop is disposable in one way but in
another is timeless. Like that Nirvana record is
going to sound just as good in twenty years time
as it does now - but all those bands who came up
in the wake will be lost."
We chat about the fame trap ("We all grew
up together so none of us could ever develop any
Rock Star traits," predicts Dave), the privileged
feeling you get seeing a band lose themselves
live and the gory disaster that is 'Being Around'
on the new Lemonheads album. Sweet old Tintin
falls for a joke about the next album being a
triple 'Lord of the Rings' spectacular. The tape
runs on and we become anxious.
"Man, you guys are going to have so much
typing to do!" says Dave. Phil suggests they
interview us and Paul the drummer, "the
weirdest guy we know", claims to have added
messages to the tape subliminally. Dave
suggests:
"Just go back and say 'Man they were so
mean! We went to the flat and it was trashed,
there were booze bottles everywhere, they
kicked our ass, stole our tape recorder and threw
us down the stairs.'"
The Gigolo Aunts are cool guys, I shook
hands with their cleaning lady and you may as
well start listening to them before your little
brother (and your mother) discovers them first.
The new album 'Flippin' Out' is available on
Fire Records. See last weeks Felix for a review.
Gigolo Aunts
Powerhaus
We enter a place filled with old people. Why
are these people old? Because they're in the
music business. Tonight is a night for Gigolo
Aunts to sell themselves. But do they care for
that game? The second song is new, so much
for promoting their two day old album.
Maybe the fact that it is an awful pseudo
metal screech is even more endearing. The
beginning of the set is shaky.
The portence of things to come strangely
is another new track. The usual intersong
politeness of the American band is warmly
broken. Another new penning is dedicated to
a music journalist. Weird, positivity. The
Gigolo Aunts are facing both ways in the
media debate and starting to tap into our
hearts. The song is more fragile than you
expect and then the whole live experience
starts to move. Recorded music is alright but
only live has the ability for become our
reality.
Slowly the evening goes, a mist clears.
The singles 'Cope' and 'Gun' are rolled out
for the assembled. By this time a well oiled
machine is playing for fun and enjoying it.
How many times have songs been dedicated
to our "favorite Scandavian band" Aha? It
happened.
The first ending is carried out with
'Bloom' as solid as a day is long. A n encore
is easily provoked and the special guest is on
stage. 'Carlos Santana' stands without bushy
moustache. Strange, he looks like Suede's
Bernard. The N M E photoman certainly thinks
so as more rolls of film are used during the
next one song 'Tomorrow never comes' (the
Beatles played with a Doorish three guitar
lead) than he's used in the previous ten days.
The rolling encores continue Suedeless and
the show is on.
The B M X Bandit's 'Serious Drugs' is soft
and the ending is an effortlessly silly Smiths
'Ask'. That we now possess ear splitting grins
is endemic. Pose a question about fame and
we can face both ways. Their music reached a
dull cavity and sparked, and that's enough
greatness. Let them take the stage and run.
Tintin
The winner of the Anthrax competition is on the letters pages

