14 Reviews
The Piano
Starring: Holly Hunter, Harvey Keitel, Sam Neill
Director: Jane Campion
The Piano is Jane Campion's first film since the
multi-award winning 'An Angel At M y Table'.
It is a unique portrait of life and love in the 19th
century. Borrowing aspects from the kind of
romance that Emily Bronte portrayed in
'Wuthering Heights', it is set at a time when
people were less bombarded with media images
of sex and courtship and relied more on their
own instinct.
Hunter plays a mute Scottish woman, Ada,
who is dispatched to an arranged marriage on the
other side of the world. Along with her go her
two most precious possessions, her daughter
(Anna Paqin) and her piano. When her husband
Stewart (Sam Neill) refuses to transport the
piano inland, Ada turns, in desperation, to the
brutish Baines (Harvey Keitel) who rescues the
piano but will only return the instrument if Ada
pays him in sexual favours.
Campion's direction gives the movie a
wonderful dream-like quality. This contrasts
sharply with the harshness of the New Zealand
forests. The physical relationship between
If
objects and people is heightened by Ada's
muteness. There is no time for bullshit or small
talk. The relationship that develops between Ada
and Baines is purely instinctive and physical. It's
not the traditional view of romance that
Hollywood gives us. This romance is more harsh
and extreme, more a gothic exploration of the
romantic impulse.
Ada can only express herself through her
piano, and her haunting melodies resonate
through the primordial forests giving a ghostly
feel to the film.
The sexual tension between the characters is
IIIlllll'lIl
This week sees the start of the 37th London Film
Festival which. It opened last night with the
preview of the new Merchant-Ivory picture "The
Remains Of The Day' based on the Booker prize
winning novel by Kazuo Ishiguro and starring
Anthony Hopkins and Emma Thompson.
The Festival has a huge range of films from
all over the world. Many new blockbusters are
previewed but this is also the chance to see some
of the more obscure films not generally released.
Highlights of films include Robert de Niro's
directorial debut in ' A Bronx Tale' and Robert
Altmans' critically acclaimed 'Short Cuts'
(reviewed in Felix two weeks ago).
Details of screenings and bookings are
available from the London Film Festival box
office (071 928 3232) or come into Felix if you
want to review any of the F i l m Festival
screenings.
Kamran
The White Angel by Chris Jones and Genevieve Jolliffe
You might think that this is just another film
about a serial killer. However, this time it is a
British serial killer, an apparently very harmless
and well mannered dentist who is intrigued by
the fact that there never has been a female serial
killer.
Leslie Steckler (Peter Firth) rents a room
from Ellen Carter (Harriet Robinson) for, as he
says, only a limited period of time, until he has
found something more suitable. His landlady is
an award winning writer in the field of serial
killing. However, her writing has suffered since,
shortly after her success, her husband
disappeared.
A body was never found, but Carter is hunted
by Inspector Taylor (Don Henderson) who is
convinced that she murdered her husband.
Things get more complicated after Steckler
searched Carter's room and Carter has searched
Steckler's room and both have acquired
evidence that the other has some darker secrets.
I refuse to reveal more of the plot. Instead, go
and see it for yourself. This is a grippingly well
made independent film and might well be a
runner after being released in February or March
next year. There is some blood spilt but
generally Jones and Jolliffe rely less on ketchup
effects and more on skill. Hence, even though
this is a real thriller it is also for people who
demand more of a film than just guns and blood.
You will sit on the edge of your seat, anyway.
Kristine
extreme and this is interposed with scenes that
are extremely funny. Hunter plays her part
beautifully, never uttering a word, but
expressing herself through her piano and her
face. Harvey Keitel plays a role a million miles
away from Reservoir Dogs but he is refreshingly
raw and magnificent as the illiterate Baines. As
for Sam Neill, he's still in a forest but there are
different kinds of dinosaurs troubling him now.
This film is Campion at her best, it is
unpretentious and uncontrived. It must be seen.
Kamran Malik
• 1mm • ! • • £ 1 ^ ^ ^ B
Dave
Starring: Kevin Kline, Sigourney Weaver
Director: Ivan Reitman
Kevin Kline plays Dave Kovic, lookalike of the
'current' American president, who finds himself
requisitioned by the White House when the real
top dog suffers an incapacitating stroke while
'working' late from Capitol Hill (i.e. shagging his
secretary).
Oh, isn't power corrupting? One minute a
contended puppet on a string, Dave decides to save
his country, partly because he fancies Sigourney
and partly because he's a swell guy. He seizes
control in a way that no politician ever has.
This film suffers from three main flaws. Firstly,
'Audience Superiority Syndrome'. The main
entertainment is allegedly provided by watching
people gasp at how much Kevin Kline looks like
Kevin Kline. Comprende?
Second up we have 'Collapsed Chronology
Syndrome'. This occurs when the writer is unable
to convince us of the characters motivation, so
several speedy symbols are employed, such as
telling his bodyguard to wear a jumper so the
bodyguard would die for him. He smiles on TV, so
the country's in love with him.
The third flaw? This comedy just isn't funny.
(But the Oliver Stone conspiracy cameo is okay.)
Owain
The 37th London Film Festival runs from 4th to 21st November

