Reviews 15
Medea
"/ know what it is I intend to do.
The rage of my heart is stronger than my reason.
That is the cause of all man'sfoulest crimes "
A tragedy by the 5th Century B C dramatist and
poet Euripides, Medea is the story of a woman's
revenge on her fate. Medea, daughter of the
King of Colchis, unflinchingly inflicts a terrible
revenge on her husband, Jason, who has deserted
her. Murdering and disowning her family to help
Jason during the ten years of their marriage, she
is finally deserted by him for the King of
Corinth's daughter.
Friendless and stateless and forced into exile
once again, she determines to ruin Jason and,
through sorcery, murder his new bride in
defiance of her fate. She knows that the price of
her revenge means that she must kill her own
children.
This is another accomplished work from
Jonathan Kent, artistic director of the Almeida
Theatre, where Medea first opened last year.
Diana Rigg plays the complex, possessed
Medea, and is as unforgiving and immovable as
only the gods can be, but she cannot undo her
chosen fate.
There is not a wasted line in the dialogue of
this new translation by Alistair Elliot. Rigg's
majestic portrayal of Medea as a woman with a
fine intelligence and deadly reasoning is
chilling. T i m Woodward plays a rather
ambitious and shallow Jason, unbelieving of the
price his wife is willing to pay for her survival.
The cruelty of her revenge is that she intends
him to survive.
The chorus of the women of Corinth, dressed
in black as modern, middle-aged Greek women,
provides not only the narrative but also gives a
voice to our own reactions. The mix of
contemporary costume style with the historically
correct was rather distracting; Medea wore a
costume close to the ancient Greek style, but
King Creon, played by John Turner, wore a suit
somewhere from Chicago in the 1920s and a
very substantial black mohair overcoat.
The set, a corner of an inner courtyard with
high walls made of metal panels roughly painted
in terracotta, are as stark and unforgiving as
Medea herself. In one of two magnificent
scenes, the structure falls like the walls of
Jericho as Medea reveals herself to Jason in a
blood-soaked gown, hands covered in the still
viscous blood of their murdered sons. As Medea
regards him from above, her indomitability and
the cancer of her corrupted power have strangely
triumphed over her fate, destroying all she has
loved and valued. If Medea does not win our
understanding, she certainly holds a fascination.
Ariana Sen
Wyndham's Theatre, Charing Cross Rd. 071 867
1116. Tube: Leicester Sq. Tickets £9 - £21.
mwK
Travesties
This is not a play to go to without some
preparation. Unless you have an in depth
knowledge of Zurich during the first world war,
the dada movement, and the life and times of
Lenin, James Joyce and Tristan Tzara (or if you
bought and digested the £1.80 programme
before the performance) you w i l l be left
wondering why you spent money on the tickets
rather than enjoying an evening pondering 'Even
Further Quantum Mechanics' and the 20 Pot
Noodles which the ticket price would have
bought you (22 if you include the price of the
programme).
A retired, sartorially obsessed, consular
official is your guide for the evening and regales
the audience with witty repartee regarding the
Lenin and Joyce he knew while taking part in a
production of the Importance Of Being Earnest
and attempting to seduce the local librarian. Or
at least I assume that's what the plot was. This
two and a half hour marathon from the Royal
Shakespeare Company had half of the audience
rolling in the aisles while the other half looked
politely puzzled. It did become less tedious after
the much needed fifteen minute interval, even
enjoyable (perhaps because it gave this 'classical
educationally challenged' reviewer a chance to
swot the programme) but I left the theatre
feeling somewhat exhausted and non- plussed.
There are some memorable events which
make this performance enjoyable for the less
scholarly and at £6 a ticket during the upcoming
Armchair Proms week (see below) it is less
painful than forking out the full £20.
Highlights? The departure of Lenin from the
station is quite good as is the librarians
striptease...
MJ
In rep at RSC Barbican Theatre, Barbican, EC2
071 638 8891. Tickets: standby £8/£6.50
immediately before performance
A r m c h a i r P r o m s
From 8th-13th November, The Royal Shakespeare Company
at the Barbican Theatre are offering the best seats for three
productions for only £6 per ticket (normally £21.50).
A special Box Office by the Silk Street theatre entrance will
open at 8.30am on the day of the performance to sell the tickets.
Travesties The Winter's Tale
Tamburlaine the Great
An Absence Of
War
David Hare was allowed to go 'behind the
scenes' of the Labour Party during the last
general election. The result is a comical and also
deadly serious play that takes a look at our
political system without going into too much
detail so as to confuse the politically illiterate.
John Thaw never quite succeeds in shaking
off the robes of Inspector Morse, but
nevertheless portrays the typical Labour leader
(if there is such a thing) with pin point accuracy.
He gives an honest and friendly feel to his role
which, in politics, is a hard thing to do and on
the stage it is even harder.
The play proceeds to its sad and inevitable
conclusion with a lively pace that keeps the
humour very much alive without any sacrifice
on content or script. But David Hare might have
bitten off more than he can chew. The political
system is certainly the biggest and most
complex of all the systems that David Hare has
tackled or attempted to tackle, and he deserves
an award for such an attempt, despite the fact
that not enough was squeezed in.
It has more content than Murmuring Judges,
but not as much as Racing Demon. I would see
this play to hear a lot of political jokes and also
to see John Thaw live.
Harry
National Theatre, Olivier, South Bank, SE1. 071
928 2252. Tickets: £8.50-£21.00. Cones and
student stand-bys available (check daily press).
Right Said Fred's latest album is reviewed on page 7

