16 Reviews
Wi.
Bit 111
111
The Oldest Snowman In
The World
by Eric Jones
Claims to be a 'By Myself book, so suitable for
beginner readers. I took the words to heart and
began to read the book by myself. This is a must
for all those people who want to keep their
snowmen forever. There are many useful
suggestions in the book as the brother-sister
team struggle to maintain their snowman
through the spring, summer and autumn terms.
Eric Jones' literary limits are exposed with the
abundant use of annoying phrases like "ITl-get-
my-own-back-expression", "sulky-expression",
"cunning and thinking-hard expressions".
Exactly how a beginner reader is supposed to
recognise these is beyond my mental scope.
After all, I am a beginner reader myself, so I
should know (or not as the case may be).
There are three morals to the story:
1. Never be nice to a snowman because he
doesn't know how to appreciate anything (a bit
like most men really).
2. Never feed a snowman orange ice-lollies
3. Send them back to where they came from.
If you think this has a ring of racism in it, it's
only you responding to the recent surge in
racial-hatred world-wide.
Conclusion: At £2.50 it's good value for
money, if only to use the handy hints for making
this year's snowman last 'til next year.
Ziegler
Published by: Young Corgi
Price: £2.50
To Be Reviewed Soon:
As well as Johnny And The Dead, two other Terry Pratchett books have
just been published: The Light Fantastic (a graphic novel) and Lords And
Ladies, another novel of the Discworld series.
Johnny And
The Dead
by Terry Pratchett
Johnny And The Dead is a tale of a young boy,
Johnny, who meets a few 'post-life' citizens,
inhabitants of his local cemetery. With the help
of a few strangely-named friends (Big Mac,
Wobber and Yo-less), he decides to fight to stop
the cemetery being built upon. In doing so, he
gives the dead a new lease of life.
It is not a bad example of Terry Pratchett's
unique writing style, but it is first and foremost
a book aimed at children in their early teens, (it
was awarded the Best Children's Book Of The
Year by the Writer's Guild).
Thus, i f you are looking for a book that
excites the senses, grips you in unusual places
and leaves you exhausted, this is not the one for
you. The plot is as easy to follow as a caterpillar
munching its way, slowly, through a stick of
broccoli. The racey style exhibited in Pratchett's
Discworld series is sadly lacking. This is thus
best left to children, unless caterpillar watching
is a hobby that you find intriguing.
Ginster
Published by: Doubleday/Corgi
Price: £9.99 (Hardback)
A
i
J.M i l
TUESDAY 9th
NOVEMBER
MAIN DINING
HALL
11.45 - 2.00
SHERFIELD

