Clubs and Societies 17
A Storming All-Nighter Event!
Last Friday, City & Guilds Motor Club held the
'Freshers' Rally', a storming all-nighter event
through the country lanes of Oxfordshire,
Berkshire and Hampshire. The first surprise
came when police informed us that the area was
swarming with psychotic car thieves and to
watch out for anyone "driving a Fiesta with a big
scar on his face".
After all the competitors and marshals had
been duly warned, Car 1 set off at one minute
past midnight, followed by the rest in one
minute intervals. The field was almost entirely
composed of novices, with only one semi-expert
crew. The first half was fairly frantic, with the
fresher crews learning the knack of navigating
and co-driver/driver teamwork. There was only
one minor 'off when a Mini's wheel touched a
rock, but a quick spot of work put it right.
While the crew was waiting for a marshal to
arrive, they were suddenly confronted by two
armed police cars, who had been scrambled to
intercept what they thought were the psychotic
car thieves. Apparently there had been reports of
cars being driven at speed in the area (funny
that!), so they put two and two together and got
five. After a quick explanation, the police agreed
not to shoot the crew and let them on their way.
At halfway, Simon Tennant and Ian Davey
held the lead, closely followed by Lee Stanley
and John Hams, with Pauli Markkanen and
Stephen Waite in third place. After a 90-minute
break the second half started. After a relatively
incident free 57 miles, the crews roared into the
finish at around 6am. After totting up the totals
on the time sheets, Simon Tennant and Ian
Davey were declared the winners, the first time
Desparately
Seeking Men...
... and women. Rehearsals are getting under way
for the Operatic Society's performance of
Chicago to be staged next term, from 25th to
29th January. The show is set in 1920s Chicago.
It is an age of sleaze, jazz, black markets and
lots of sex. Lots of low life and lots of glitz.
Most main characters are cast but we still
need enthusiastic people for the chorus which is
an integral part of the show. There are no
auditions for it, all we ask is that you attend
rehearsals on Mondays (7.30pm-10pm) and
Sundays (2pm-5pm), in the Union Concert Hall.
Don't worry i f you've never done this
before, if you've got two left feet or if you
haven't got the world's best voice - it's
enthusiasm that matters, the rest you can learn.
If you think you might be interested in taking
part, just come along to a rehearsal (the sooner
the better), everyone is welcome. And a last
note to all those guys out there: OpSoc is one of
the few societies at Imperial College that has
more female members than male.
If you would like any further information,
please contact us via the OpSoc pigeonhole in
the Union Office.
in years that a fresher navigator had managed to
win the event. Second place went to Pauli
Markkanen and Stephen Waite, who actually
won the second half of the rally. Lee Stanley and
John Hams dropped down to third place, and
John Allin and Tom Howell were the highest
placed all-fresher crew in fifth place.
The next rally is next weekend, Friday 12th
November. If this sounds like fun, come to the
Rally Meeting and Clubnight on Wednesday
10th November in the Table Tennis Room (top
floor, Union Building). Don't worry if you don't
Exploration
Society
Interested in planning an expedition of an
adventurous or scientific nature? Or do you just
want to hear about those that already have? In
the past, Imperial College students have biked
across Iceland, run along the Great Wall of
China, climbed in the Pamir and furthered
science in Ecuador.
The newly formed Exploration Society aims
to provide a focus for all students interested in
undertaking such trips. We will not organise
expeditions but instead will help those who
want to organise their own.
If you are interested, come along to our
introductory meeting on Tuesday 9th November
at lpm in Biology W l (opposite the Security
Lodge under Beit Arch), to hear:
• about the aims of the Society.
• our proposed lecture programme.
• Dr. Schroter introduce the Exploration
Board.
• Dave Edwards introduce the Royal
Geographical Society.
Goretex jackets and rucksacks are not essential!
Don't worry if you don't have a car as drivers
are always looking for budding navigators!
The other event this weekend was the Skid
Control Course on Sunday, which sold out well
in advance. For all those who wanted to go but
couldn't, the next one will be on Wednesday 8th
December, so get your name down now!
To find out more about Motor Club events,
come into the City & Guilds Union Office
(Level 3, Mech Eng) any lunchtime and ask to
speak to a member of the Motor Club, or look on
our Notice Board (level 3, Mech Eng).
ICSF Present:
Rob Holdstock
Science Fiction Society are pleased to announce
that Rob Holdstock, author of the fantasy novels
'Mythago Wood' and 'Lavondyss' and the
science fiction novel 'Eye Among The Blind'
will be giving a reading from his latest book and
answering questions in the Clubs Committee
Room (top floor of the Union Building) at 7pm
this Monday.
The following Monday, K i m Newman,
SF/horror novelist ('Anno Dracula', 'The Night
Mayor', 'Jago'...) and film critic (Empire,
Melody Maker...) will be coming along for a
chat, also at 7pm, er, somewhere.
Entry to both events is free to ICSF and
Japan Society members, while I C S F
membership costs just £3.
FilmSoc's programme for this week is on page 18

