18 Clubs and Societies
FilmSoc's Next The International Tamil Society
Film Showings
Tomorrow night, FilmSoc gives you the chance
to see the cult classic National Lampoon's
Animal House. This film contains what is
possibly the most mindless violence ever seen in
the cinema, carried out mainly by the late-great
John Belushi. This is the film where the messiah
of comedy ejaculates the contents of his mouth
(a cream bun) over fellow students, proclaiming
that he is a zit. The lunacy begins at 1 lpm.
On Sunday, FilmSoc presents a film slated
by the critics which was supposed to be one of
the summer 'biggies'. Nevertheless, Last Action
Hero is an excellent piss-take, with Arnie
parodying himself in his previous films. If you
thought it was odd that M e l Gibson played
Hamlet, see Schwarzenegger doing the very
same thing, but with the usual heavy artillery.
The programme begins at 8pm and is presented
in wall to wall, ceiling to floor cinemascope.
Finally, Thursday night is the FilmSoc
presentation for Rag. Much Ado About Nothing
is Brannagh's latest offering and one certainly
not to be missed. The print of the film has been
donated by M r Trevor Green, Managing
Director of Entertainment Film Distributors.
Some proceeds will also be donated to the
cinema and television Benevolence Fund - an
organisation dedicated to providing care for
veterans of the film industry.
One final note, ICU Cinema may not be the
Empire Leicester Square, but it's certainly
cheaper. You can also drink in the auditorium,
and the back five rows are for those of you who
can't last two and a half hours without a fag.
The newly formed International Tamil Society is
increasingly showing signs of becoming one of
the most successful clubs this term. The society
was set up to unify all Tamils who come from a
variety of different countries. However, we are
also strongly encouraging students of any ethnic
background to participate in our activities.
Originally from Southern India, Tamils are
now mostly concentrated in the southern-most
third of India, where Tamil is the official
language of the state of Tamil Nadu, and in the
northern tip of Sri Lanka. Other Tamil speakers
reside in Malaysia, Burma, Indonesia, Vietnam,
East Africa, South Africa, Guyana and islands in
the Indian Ocean, the South Pacific and the
Caribbean.
The Tamil area in India is the centre of
traditional Hinduism. Apart from the literature
written in classical Sanskrit, Tamil is the oldest
literature in India, where inscriptions date back
to the 3rd century BC, and is one of the oldest
spoken languages in the world today.
The Tamils in Sri Lanka today are of various
groups and castes. The so called Ceylon Tamil,
comprising about half of them, are concentrated
in the northern part of the island. In the 1980s,
growing tensions between the Ceylon Tamils
and the Sinhalese majority in Sri Lanka, due
discrimination against Tamils prompted hostility
against the central government in hopes of
creating an autonomous Tamil homeland for
themselves in the northern and eastern part of
Sri Lanka.
This tension caused unnecessary controversy
and dispute last term from certain Overseas
Societies in setting up this club. After numerous
debates and a rejection from the Overseas
Students Committee, the society was finally
formed under the Social Clubs Committee. We
hope we can put all this behind us and start
afresh. We enjoyed our first outing to Queens
Ice Skating Rink and have a heavy schedule of
events coming up. Our major event this term is a
cultural evening of dance and music from India
and Sri Lanka to held in early December.
To join please drop in on Wednesday, lpm in
room 403a, Elec Eng dept or leave a note in our
pigeonhole in the Union Office.
Ladies Win Boat Race
Match Score: Goldsmith's 2, IC 0
For once, the Ladies Football team were early
for the train but we still didn't make it there in
time for a pre-match pint.
Paula's first half injury left us with no
substitutes and no natural forwards. Some
spectacular defending by Julianna (the player of
the match) meant that we were only down 1-0 at
half time.
The second half saw an i l l timed injury to
Chris (variation on a theme - ribs this time). We
didn't manage to equalise despite all our efforts.
Another injury led to yet another restructuring of
the defence, confusion and another goal.
But at the end of the day, the team which
scores the most goals wins (and that wasn't us).
However, true to form, we easily won the seven-
a-side boat race afterwards!
IC Finance Society
Financial Journalism Competition held in association with
The Financial Times
£ 7 5 cash
could be yours. How ? Write down your thoughts in response to the question:
"What are the implicationsfor Europe of the
currency crisis in thefinancial markets?"
There are runners-up prizes of £50 and £25 and you could have your article
published in the January issue of CAPITAL, the magazine of the FinanceSociety.
The winning articles will be chosen by a selection of committee members and journalists
from the FT. Word limit: 2,000 words; entry deadline : 20th November.
Entries to : Dineshi Kodituwakku, Finance Society, IC Union or Elec Eng 4.

