Clubs and Societies 19
Rag Week - The Fun Continues
Rag Week has already started with a vengeance but there are loads of terrifi
events still to come.
Don't forget the 'services' on offer during Rag Week: Pint-O-Grams, Handcuff-O-Grams,
Grim Reaping and the Hit Squad Flanning.
Friday 5th November - Guilds' Carnival
Tonight the weekend gets off to a good start
with the Guilds' Carnival in the Union building.
There will be a few bands playing , including
The Blues Bunch. There is a disco later on and
also, as if that wasn't enough, we have a bar
extension and lots of inflatables like Sumo
wrestling all over the Union Building. Tickets
are available from the City & Guilds Office
(level 3, Mech Eng building). If you haven't got
your ticket yet, hurry along and buy one now as
they are going fast.
Saturday 6th November - Halls Dirty Dozen
For those of you without a hangover on Saturday
morning there is the Halls Dirty Dozen
competition. This involves teams of about
twelve people from each hall or residence going
out and raising money for charity, preferably in
an original way. Some teams are staying in
London whilst others are venturing further
afield, so good luck to all taking part. The hall
that collects the most money will win a barrel of
beer with which to celebrate; last year the
winners were Falmouth-Keogh - can they be
beaten this year?
Sunday 7th November - Bungee Jump
'Have you got the balls to save the world?' is
what WWF asked our students and some of them
reckon they have. On Sunday these brave people
are going to jump off a crane in the name of
charity.Yes, it will be the day of the Bungee
Jump in Cambridge.
Monday 8th November - Dirty Disco
The Royal School of Mines are organising a
Dirty Disco which will take place in the Union
Building and the less you wear to this event the
less you will have to pay to get in. No clothes
means no cost. How far are you prepared to go
to save money?!!
Tuesday 9th November - Hypnosis
This is the night of the Hypnotist Show with
Geno Washington in the Great Hall. This always
proves to be a fun event and is highly
recommended, especially if you have never seen
a hypnotist before. Afterwards, there will be a
band playing in the Union Building with a bar
extension aswell. Buy your tickets now (from
the Union Office) as it is a popular show not to
be missed. The doors will open at about 7.30pm.
We must stress that this event is for over
eighteen year olds only.
Wednesday 10th November - Bar Night
Rag are holding a Bar Night in the Union Bar.
Anyone is welcome to come along and join in
the festivities. No doubt there will be drinking
games such as 1001 Down Darts going on. If
you like the odd drink (or ten) this is the event
for you.
Thursday 11th November
For all you cultured students out there (and the
rest of you) we have a film night. FilmSoc are
showing their premiere of the highly acclaimed
Much Ado About Nothing in the new IC Cinema.
This is the cheapest viewing you will get of any
film so come along or miss out.
Friday 12th November - Rag Bash
The end of the week is now upon us, so we
thought we ought to have yet another party. This
will see the Union Building rocking to the
sounds of live bands and a disco and all for a
very small price. The Rag Bash is the place to
be, so be there or regret it!
Saturday 13th November - S.N.K.P.J.
The last weekend sees two really crazy events to
round off Rag Week with a bang. On Saturday
there is the infamous Sponsored Nude Kamikaze
Parachute Jump which takes place at Harrods.
This sees some insane people jumping out of a
minibus dressed in no more than a parachute
harness and then legging it to college without
getting arrested on the way. This is the event to
watch if you want a good laugh so do come and
be a spectator or, if you are very brave, take part.
Sunday 14th November - Rag Rugby Match
Sunday has the IC Virgins tackling the Miners in
the rugby match of the year. Last time it was a
draw which goes to prove that women can play
rugby. Do come and cheer the teams on, it
should be fun to watch.
That just about sums up Rag Week I'm sure
there is at least something to cater for
everybodys taste, so take part and have fun. See
you there!
Johnny And The Dead by Terry Pratchett is reviewed on page 16

