20 Feature
Jimeoin
Tony Grew interviews the Irishman who took Australia by storm.
Comedy can be a dodgy business. I mean, there
are certain sad individuals out there who pay
money to see Ben Elton, the king of crap. So you
have to be really careful when recommending
comedians; you may be sitting there rapidly
losing your bladder control, but this does not
necessarily mean anyone else is. Still, Jimeoin is
truly hilarious, and if you don't think so, I have
nothing further to say to you, except that you too
can have the magic of Bob Monkhouse in your
very own sad home, on video from any bad
retailer.
Born and brought up in Northern Ireland,
young Jim moved to London and worked on the
building sites, eventually emigrating to
Australia. "Moving to Australia is always a
conscious decision. You don't just wake up there
one morning with a hangover." He says his
reasons for going were simple: "I was bored
with London; I'd worked there for four years
and was sick of it." Yet he didn't think of
comedy as a profession "until I started getting
paid for my gigs". Evidently he was a success;
he even stars as a lovable lackey in a period
sitcom, and will soon start his own series.
What is more remarkable about all of this is
the content of his act. It never makes reference
to the violence in Ireland, nor does it descend
into the more gynaecological excesses of some
people we could mention. His explanation is
disarmingly simple. "You've always got to do
something other than the obvious. M y accent
was useful as a sort of calling card, though
people tended to treat me as a clich6d Irishman.
Of course English and Irish people would do the
exact same thing to an Australian." But their
assumptions about Ireland amused him: "They
think it's like potatoes all over the floor,
everything's green and top of the morning to you
and all that!"
He has also been very well received in the
States, with several T V appearances, though he
was not impressed with the standard of comedy
he found there. "I don't find them funny in the
slightest - pathetic. I honestly prefer stand-up; by
the time you get on T V and go through the
procedure and haggle with various producers
you can't be yourself."
Hopefully the audience in London will be
more sophisticated. Among his favourite
comedians, he lists Billy Connolly and Eddie
Izzard "I think he's really talented". He is also
very fond of Sean Hughes, who he supported in
Dublin earlier in the year. "He's a very deep and
meaningful person," he deadpans.
Jimeoin's shows at the Edinburgh Festival
were all sold out, and Hat Trick productions are
sponsoring his current 35 date tour. He will be at
the Queen's Theatre (Shaftesbury Avenue) on
7th November and there are still some tickets
left. He is definitely one to watch and next time
he plays London you'll probably need a second
overdraft to buy a ticket. The box office number
is 071 494 5040, so don't say you haven't been
warned.
A Huge Range of Freshly Prepared Food
/ at the best possible prices
• ^ y ^ ^ ) G r e a t A t m o s p h e r e
G r e a t S u r r o u n d i n g s
o u t f o p S p e c i a l i t y E v e n i n g s

