Feature
Music at St Mary's
Next Friday sees the second Mary's version of
"The Last Night Of The Proms', performed at
Wilson House. This concert, given by the St
Mary's Chamber Orchestra, marks another
milestone in the development of music at St
Mary's Hospital in recent years.
The 'Proms' is, in fact, the fourth concert
given by this new orchestra consisting entirely
of players from St Mary's. This in itself is a
remarkable achievement; in a college of merely
600 there is an orchestra of around sixty
members and there are a further forty in the
choir.
Mary's, and in particular the umbrella Music
Society, is very proud of its musicians. There is
no doubt that the quality and number of players
and singers at the Medical School is greater than
ever before.
Perhaps one reason for this is the extremely
successful music scholarship scheme. Two of
the Imperial College music scholarships have
been awarded to Mary's freshers this year. It
makes Mary's the only medical school in Britain
with such a system, recognising musicians and
giving them an incentive to apply to study there.
Furthermore, the Music Society offers its own
music exhibition to players already at St Mary's
who have dedicated themselves to music and
show particular skill or potential.
Another factor involved in the extraordinary
development of music at St Mary's has been the
close link with Imperial College at South
Kensington. The Music Society is one of the few
societies which has embraced the merger and
used the opportunities provided to improve the
possibilities of music making. The dialogue
between experts, and wealth of ideas that have
crossed the park over the last couple of years,
have encouraged and assisted both institutions
equally. Much of this has been due to the
foresight of Imperial's Musician-in-Residence,
Richard Dickins, and the Mary's music
committee, chaired by Tuck-Kay Loke.
These contacts between music and musicians
in Kensington and Paddington will further
develop over the next few months. Miles Scholar
(Biology 3) will be the soloist in the Mary's
'Last Night At The Proms' next Friday. There
are more Mary's players in Imperial College
Symphony Orchestra than ever before.
The Music Society, though, does not just
provide a service to the members of the Medical
School, but the whole of St Mary's Hospital.
There are upwards of fifty staff members in the
society and many more attend functions (some
eighty at last term's summer concert). The choir
performs at hospital carol services and small
groups play for many distinguished events. The
society will be performing at Ealing Hospital
(part of the Mary's group) later this year, and
there are plans for concerts in other hospitals
when practicable.
The age-old link between music and
medicine has been well documented. The Music
Society at Mary's has existed in its present form
since 1941, when it had as members such
eminent names as Sir George Pinker and John
Ballantyne (the founder member). Its sixth
decade has produced a wealth of talent giving
the society a new lease of life, including a
restructured committee (now headed by Df
Rodney Rivers). Furthermore, the society now
seems to become efficient and well managed^
We have appointed an auditor and have just set
up a new fund held in trust for musical
purchases.
Indeed, the efficiency and competence of the
Society saw its reward in a more than 30%
increase in Union Grant for 1993-94. The
Society is also ably supported by the bean and
staff of the Medical School and hospital.
The orchestra is staging a 'Last Night Of The
Proms' for the second consecutive year on
Friday 12th November. The concert will include
the 'Carmen' suite, Saint Saens cello concerta,
'Pomp and Circumstance', 'Jerusalem', 'Rule
Britannia' and much more. Wc aim to create as
much of the Albert Hall atmosphere as possible,
even without a dome or 3000 seats!
It would be a great pleasure to welcome
students and staff from the South Kensingtoti
site to Wilson House (38-76 Sussex Gardens,
Paddington, W2) for the concert. Tickets will be
available at the door before 7.30pm and the price
(£3.25 student, £5.50 staff) will include free
interval drinks. ,
Come and see for yourselves what Mary's
musicians can do!
A review of Figaro's Wedding is on page 4

