Reviews
Barbarina (Nerys Jones) and Cherubino (Ethna Robinson) in a scene from Figaro's Wedding
Two comic operas featuring the same characters
from the same company, I decided to review the
two together.
The Barber Of Seville is the first of these two
to see if you intend to see them both. One of
Rossini's classic operas, it tells the tale of a
young Count and his attempts to woo and wed
the beautiful Rosina. Dr. Bartolo, Rosina's
guardian, has other ideas and is set on marrying
Rosina himself to get his hands on her not
inconsiderable fortune.
Count Almaviva decides to enlist the help of
Figaro, the Barber of Seville come matchmaker
and many cunning and amusing plans are
wrought to confuse and delude Dr Bartolo. A
further complication is thrown in when the
Count decides that he wants Rosina to fall in
love with him before she knows who he really is.
Two hours of frolics ensue with top marks going
to Paul Nilon and Andrew Shore for their
hilarious performances as Count Almaviva and
Dr Bartolo.
This revival of The Barber is all you would
expect from one of our top opera companies.
The sets are perfect, and the mood was apt. The
audience came about as close to rolling in the
aisles as could be expected of an opera audience
and I thoroughly enjoyed the whole production.
Two weeks later and back I was at the
London Coliseum to see the next installment,
Mozart's Figaro's Wedding. Set three years after
The Barber Of Seville, Figaro is now working as
Count Almaviva's manservant and is all set to
marry Countess Rosina's maid, Susanna.
Out to thwart their plans, though, is
Marcellina, a lady from whom Figaro borrowed
a sum of money on the agreement that he would
marry her if he failed to repay the debt. This he
is intending to do with the dowry the Count is
giving to Susanna for her wedding. The Count is
however regretting his generosity as he has
decided that he quite fancies Susanna himself.
Further, he is trying to reinstate an old
tradition which he abolished which would have
given him the right to an assignation with
Susanna as the provider of her dowry. Dr
Bartolo is helping both the Count and
Marcellina, hoping to revenge himself on Figaro
for helping Count Almaviva steal his Rosina.
To aid in all the confusion and intrigue
Cherubino, a young would-be Cassanova, is in
love with the Countess, Susanna and just about
every other female in the cast. Many a merry
dance is led by everyone and you wonder if
Figaro isn't just a bit too clever by half.
Anyway, all's well that ends well, as this
inevitably does.
Again the performances are good, although
the casting wasn't as good as for The Barber and
the sets are extremely garish, each of the four
acts in a different colour as the scenes change.
Susanna and Cherubino (Cathryn Pope and
Ethna Robinson) came across the best in my
books, putting plenty of life into their characters.
Of the two I would say that The Barber Of
Seville was the better, and not just because I
prefer Rossini to Mozart; funnier, more lively,
better produced.
That said, both operas are well worth seeing
and if you're a bit hesitant, both operas are in
English and quite understandable, so you will
get all the jokes!
F O B
London Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, WC2N, 071
836 3161. Student stand-by £14.50 3hrs before
performance (1 per person).
Figaro's Wedding: Wed, Thu 7pm, Sat 6pm
The Barber Of Seville: Tue, Fri 7.30pm
Medea, at the Wyndam's Theatre, is reviewed on page 15

