Music Special
; ;;V-:;.:
:--v;-L r
: J>''' v i l l i
i jlQ)mlM
Spinanes
Manos
Mazzy Star
S0 Tonight That I Might See
The Spinanes are a two piece band guitar,
drums, female vocals from Portland, Oregon,
and they are on Sub Pop. But they are not the
usual Sub Pop fare. The opening track on
Manos, 'Entire', makes this clear from the very
start. For what other bands on Sub Pop play
gentle, acoustic music which tensely builds up
into the gentlest most soothing chorus
imaginable? And indeed, what other Sub Pop
band has no bass guitar?
On first hearing, though, it is easy to put
'Entire' down as an anomaly, because the next
song rocks along in typical indie fashion,
sounding more like Pond or Sprinkler (poppy
grunge bands) than 10,000 Maniacs. But it
would be wrong to do so while the rest of the
album falls between these two in terms of
sound. The actual songs lean more towards the
beauty of 'Entire' than the drudgery of 'Noel,
Jonah And Me', the second track. The rhythms
wriggle and the melodies snake their way into
your head and won't go away. There are
wonderful moments on 'Dangle' when
Rebecca's voice falls between notes like Natalie
Merchant's used to, which makes it impossible
to dislike this record.
This is a well written album of pop songs,
which has a place in the collection of anyone
who likes Suzanne Vega or 10,000 Maniacs, or
indeed anyone else. (7)
Guy
Released on (take a wild guess) Sub Pop
Mazzy Star are the kind of band who everyone
seem to pin their prose on. They could be the
moon hanging over the grave of rock and roll.
That they are manics on the depressive front is
taken as par for the road they walk.
Compared to their debut 'She Hangs
Brightly', the new album is certainly what we
could label darker, but whether it is depressive
I'm not sure. At the heart of the songs is a cold
solemnity which reminds you of embracing
marble. Still, that's just the background of their
style. Only on the cavernous 'Mary Of Silence'
and 'Into Dust' do the icy fingers of sparseness
really get a grip. The surprise is that in their own
way, Mazzy Star do pick up their skirt and have
a good time. 'Bells Ring' bathes in warm
ecstatic guitar and 'Blue Light' is a dusk song
with its lazy half whispered vocals. The title
track is also the last. Comparisons are maybe a
necessary evil for a reviewer and I was reminded
of the Velvet's 'Venus In Furs.' Which is not to
say that the two sound the same, rather there was
the same latent malevolence at work. The
weirding cry of a funeral march is haunting. It
can be a sad thing but Mazzy Star do allow us to
find comfort in a world which we know is
glooming. Moonlight is still for the lunatics. (7)
Tintin
Released on Capitol
•
Lemonheads
Come On Feel The
Lemonheads
I adore this band. For weeks I'd cut into Virgin
on my way home and hog the listening post,
falling in love to 'It's A Shame About Ray'. It
was such a beautiful story, pure pop-vignettes
that inconspicuously became essential and
continued to strum on throughout summer. I fell
in love to these tunes.
It's a new season and the material previewed
at Glastonbury and Reading has come home.
Will they be wearing out the headphones at the
Megastore? I don't think so. Anyone who's
going to tune into this band has heard them by
now - as the hype machine's been cranked up
they've lost their quirky niche. Also, these
songs, however cool, don't define the band.
They've been defined by them.
The album opens with Evan grinning
goofully from under a ten gallon. "The Great Big
No' springs from the great wide open whilst
'Into Your Arms' is folky rock at it's finest. On
first listening, it's all Country and Western up
until 'Big Gay Heart'. That the initial impression
is ultimately mistaken is all the more intriguing.
Where's the grunge? It's there but you don't see
the wood for the cactus. Evan's soppy tirade
against gay bashing is twanged and 'yawled' to
the max. The Boston Boy's gone native.
Then comes 'Style', the roughest scrawl they
can add to the current penchant for suicide note
rock (see Cobain K. and Corgan B.). "Don't
wanna get high/but I don't wanna not get
high...don't wanna knock things down/so I'm
not gonna not get high." It thumps along the way
' L o v e y ' did, followed speedily by 'Rest
Assured' - guaranteed to fill the mosh with a
school-load of sweaty bodies. So Evan didn't
abandon his roots, suddenly 'Down About It' is
recognised as the choppy little gem it is.
Side B shouldn't arrive, this album was cut
for CD and the break isn't a natural one. 'Dawn
Can't Decide' is an odd little number with a
whirring chorus that fills the whole three
minutes. The Beach Boys aura is enhanced when
Dando leaves Juliana Hatfield and her girlie
squeaky vocals to hold hands with Belinda
Carlisle (and her squeaky vocals) on 'I'll Do It
Anyway'. How does he get away with it?
Because these are marvellous pop songs!
Okay, there are some flops - a gratuitous 'Style'
reprise does Evan's voice no favours by bringing
in soulful Rick James and a drugged down
tempo. And 'Being Around' has been absolutely
massacred. With just him and his guitar he was
sickly sweet, now he induces sickness beyond
the floodlights. The extra 'secret' tracks are
endless and won't seem so irksome on a CD
armed with a skip button. But these are slight
quibbles.
To those who know the Lemonheads, we
have at least ten new favourites for our
collection of favourites. The rest may like this
album, but I think there will be a feeling of
randomness, of grabbing ten good titles from the
bargain bucket. Such is the price of arriving late
at the party. (8)
Owain
Released on East-West
The Gigolo Aunts are interviewed on pages 10 & 11

