Music Special
MJhmm iifM fin
M
Jimmy Webb
Suspending Disbelief
It's been over ten years since the writer of
'MacArthur's Park' released his last album.
'Suspending Disbelief is still a triumph of
middle of the road rock, so nothing's changed.
Sentimental are the stories offered. 'It Won't
Bring Her Back' picks the country myth of
crying into your beer and swings it about. "You
can lay down on the railroad track, but it won't
bring your baby back." The last note even ends
as Johnny Cash would sing it, a sound so low
you have to dig it up. Yet a string of die-hard
anodynes always overpowers the senses.
'Adios' and 'What Does A Woman See In A
Man' have particularly grating rhyming lyrics.
Morose-close-adios and sure-insecure-pure
become a mass of bad poetry.
Thankfully, some semblance is gained on the
final T Will Arise' which is gospel worthy of
the name. A swooping joy is evident in the
Rocky Mountains Clear. "When I die, hallelujah
by and by, oh Lord, I'll fly away." (5)
Tintin
Released on Elektra
Right Said
Fred
Sex And Travel
Well, this is the second album from the Freds.
Their first, 'Up', was a lively spray of different
styles, but they seem to have settled down to a
pretty solidly dedicated dance motif: Bum titty
bum titty bum bum bum. It's a very confident,
bouncy sort of package, spotted here and there
with borrowed licks (and the odd nibble) from
external sources, but it is still thoroughly their
own style. My favourite track is 'She's M y Mrs'
which has a delightfully Abba intro and general
feel, but Boney M seeps through in the right
places, and it works really well!
I'm not so sure they picked the right singles.
Listen to 'Turn Me On'. It beats 'Bumped' as
far as I'm concerned. They haven't given us
anything particularly 'Deeply Dippy', and as a
whole it would be easy to say it's a bit
repetitive. But you only get that feeling when
you think back on what you've heard. Whilst
it's happening, it'll do quite nicely. Oh, and
they're too sexy for this review. (7)
Dave T.
Released on Tug Records
Frank Zappa
The Yellow Shark
"This is Frank Zappa gone all orchestral," was
the first comment. If you're a contemporary
orchestral music fan, there is plenty in here to
inspire you. Those familiar with Frank's
(copious) catalogue of orchestral works will find
this collection very comfortable: Okay, so it's a
bit cheesy, but it paints pictures in your head:
'Pentagon Afternoon' plays the notes you see in
Dan Quayle's eyes when he thinks about a
potatoe (sic), then digs deeper to follow the
political machinery, where you hear red-tape
twanging and twining, and the blas£ comments
of the hordes of clerks who believe in it all.
Other pieces are attempts to perform
programmed synthesiser pieces live on real
instruments. Wow! 'Ruth Is Sleeping' is
gorgeous: two pianos and two excellent pianists.
If you're familiar with it and don't like it, don't
Seaweed
Go Your Own Way
I must admit I hated this on first listen, but it's
actually quite a grower. Seaweed's sound is
most easily (if not best) described by stating that
they're on the Sub Pop label and mentioning the
'N' word. This version of the Fleetwood Mac
hit is played with much more energy and
fashionably much less ability than the original
but without really adding anything new. Well
worth buying however for the two corking B
sides which are excellent in a punky-thrashy-
grungry albeit derivative way.
Freddy Cheeseworth
Released on Sub Pop
buy it! Oh, and whoever you are, avoid 'Food
gathering in post-industrial America': It's cack
that squeezed through the net. Luckily it's short:
2 minutes 52 seconds of disappointment out of
90 minutes!
Most of what's going on, including the shark,
is explained in the honest and nicely
photographed booklet that comes with the CD. I
saw the boxed masterpiece and immediately
wanted it. It makes a friendly archive of some of
Frank's mood swings, emotional outbursts, and
moments of sheer weirdness.
If you're new to the Zappa orchestral scene,
maybe you should listen to 'Be-Bop Tango'
first; it's a cracking re-orchestration, with an
inspired and unusual 'middle-8' (I guess you
could call it) to break up what every Frank
worshipper already knows as a good, solid hit.
Nice! I'm not going to tell you what happens,
because I think you should buy it! (9)
Dave T.
Released on Zappa Records
Kingmaker
Saturday's Not What It
Used To Be
I've always had this respect from afar for Loz
Hardy, mainly due to his rhino-skinned stoicism
to the often indifferent music press.
'Saturday's...' is no doubt a very English
lament, but I haven't got a clue what he's on
about. Even with ex-Attraction Steve Nieve on
keyboards, the result is rather insipid, though
not utterly directionless. This is strictly for the
diehard.
Camille
Released on Scorch
Kingmaker and the incredibly respectful Loz
Madder Rose are reviewed in concert on page 9

