Music Special
Oh For The Wings . . . Let's Just Fly
Glyph catches up with Colin and Ian, of Glasgow's One Dove.
Perched on the edge of a creaky table, Ian tells
us about the first ever One Dove gig. "It was
about two years ago in Aberdeen and it was a
total disaster. We were supposed to be miming
one song through the PA, and suddenly under
the dressing room door, we heard the track start.
We all piled out onto the stage with instruments
and everything, then someone told the DJ to rip
it off quick, and there we were in complete
silence." Since then, however, things have
looked up, with a support slot to the Shamen in
Glasgow to their credit and the recent chart
successes of their two singles: 'White Dove' and
'Breakdown'.
The press have had more than a small hand in
their recent rise. "Yes, the press have been very
good to us so far, we've had excellent reviews in
just about everything. But the backlash is so
close now you can smell it." And a quick scan in
the N M E review of tonight's gig would confirm
their fears.
However, other types of publicity are also in
short supply. "The N M E actually asked us if
they could use one of our tracks on their
compilation tape, so no, we didn't have to pull
any strings. In fact we were also asked onto The
Beat and Naked City on Channel 4, which was a
good laugh. What we'd really like to do though,
is Top of the Pops, which sounds really cheesy
of course, but it lets your mum and your family
know that you've made it and you're not just
wasting your time." And there they were on the
following Thursday. Teatime Dub Heaven
across the nation. Dottie resplendent in her
beatnick chic and the rest of the band with 'Viva
Pedro' written on their equipment.
All the fame and attention, it would appear,
hasn't turned them into Glaswegian Madonnas
just yet. "We didn't really set out to be famous
at all, it just sort of happened. We didn't really
think about it. I [Ian] was a recording engineer
before I got into the band, so I've seen most of it
all before." Colin, it turns out, was a gravedigger
before and worked in a garage at the weekend.
Rod Stewart was another famous Scots
gravedigger-musician so a noble tradition is
carried on into the future.
A quick bound into muso rubbish then ensues
as Colin continues to practice his spangly guitar
playing. Curtis Mayfield, Bjork, and lots of
Reggae, are mentioned with pretentious frowns
exchanged all round, and then the most
important question - what was the best thing
about the Smiths?
"Johnny Marr. Without a shadow of a doubt,
definitely Johnny Marr. I don't know what that
other fella was doing, but Johnny was amazing.
Especially that single...oh I can't remember how
it goes." Lots of tune humming and daffodil
waving occurs. "Aye! 'How Soon Is Now' - that
was brilliant."
And with that, we left them to their gig. A
beautifully melodic performance it was as well,
with a stunning version of Jolene. Who knows
why the N M E slagged it off. Trainspotters, the
lot of them.
F R E S H H A I R S A L O N
the b e s t s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 L A D I E S
£ 1 2 . . . . . M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Sta
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3ES

