Music Special
1
1
1 • 1 • • •''
Madder Rose
& Nightblooms
The Garage
Holland is flat. Fact. Denied vertical diversity
the creative Dutchman must go faster or slower.
Master tempo and then, if she's an artist, build
around it a beautiful thing. Nightblooms zip
along then stop, smile and slide back into their
own musical bouquet. A bouquet encompassing
all the flowers in the alternative border.
The lead guitarist is Rocky Horror meets the
Rock Circus. The drummer stamps on the tunes,
drives them - he's not here to nod heads but to
embolden hearts. On bass we have an example
of Amsterdam's finest crust, a tiny dread-mop
with a voice like nicotine toned glass. The lead
singer, Esther, pure stereotype, milk-white blood
blushed skin topped with a blonde frizz, her
vocals high and sparkling like a crystal diadem.
Together they produce a sound that's almost
indefinable. Reference points would be the
precise gay effervescence of the early Cocteau
Twins but coupled with duelling vocal
harmonies (even at times two simultaneous
songs), complementing then offsetting each
other in a beguiling lyrical dance. The music
isn't quite grunge or standard indie-fare, it's led
a step further down that moonlit garden path.
The Nightblooms - swiped straight from the streets of Amsterdam
Choppy guitars that divide a three minute pop-
ish song into three one minute melodies.
Thinking tulips in spite of myself - the
elusive black buds of course. Nightblooms.
Dividing a night in two.
From New Amsterdam to New York
happened about a hundred years ago and now
Madder Rose are the New Yorkers of the here.
Heck they even hung with Andy Warhol before
he was no more. I hope they'll get more than
their allotted fifteen minutes because tonight, at
least they're good; verging better.
Billy's ill, let's pray for Billy to make it
through the set. Billy plays the guitar. Billy
doesn't look at the crowd. Billy plays his game.
Mary Lorson's on stage. Long, straight down
Intastella &
Shampoo
ULU
Engine Alley open this triple bill at the 'grand'
reopening of U L U . Except for a few colourful
individuals, the audience seem a little unsure of
how to react to this Irish band. Either it's the
usual cynicism to the bottom-of-the-bill band, or
more likely because they appear to be an
incredible mismatch of characters. To elucidate
this, the singer looks like Gary Numan, the
guitarist like Gary Moore, the drummer like
Alison Crane and the violinist like he's just
walked out of the Royal Festival Hall. Phew.
And to make it even more confusing, they sound
like Miss World and Suede. (Yes, them.) Back
to reality, they are good live.
Shampoo are two girls, Jacqui (19) and
Carrie (17), who dress up in camp clothes and
wouldn't look out of place in 'Bugsy Malone.'
They are the antithesis to ageing male musos but
the post-modern irony to it all is that the backing
band contain the aforementioned, except they're
'mates' and perhaps not that old. They actually
sound like the backing chorus on 'The Wall'
(the "we don't need no education" bit) and with
song titles like 'Bouffant Headbutt' you have to
like them.
Similar parallels can be drawn to Shonen
Knife with their sweet aesthetics, but the
difference here is that this lot brandish a cod
confrontational stance and proceed to charm us
out of our socks with faux precocity. Recent
interviews in the music press suggest a pair of
vacuous individuals who were nothing but pout
and peroxide, but underneath the schmoozy
veneer lie image terrorists intent on hijacking
our minds. A definite 90s band: the corollary to
the 'we don't care how we look' ethos which as
you know, became haute couture. Oh the irony.
Finally Intastella. With about eight people on
stage and a lone female grabbing the centre and
most of the male audience's attention, they play.
Easily more accessible than the previous bands,
and more popular, but frankly I couldn't take
more than ten minutes and just had to leave.
Intastella try to reach for the stars but not
surprisingly end up with a handful of dusty
cobwebs. Tonight was Shampoo's night, closely
followed by Engine Alley.
Camille
hair framing her face. She has the bum job,
getting to sing Billy's neurotica. She does it as a
native. Malaise is sweet when you get to project
what's not your own.
The tribute to Warhol, 'Beautiful John' gets
early exposure but 'Baby Gets High' is the start
of their glory. A previously ethereal song
becomes a lithe, rippling beast. Caught between
high strung vocals and plain noisy guitars,
Madder Rose find their feet and don't break for
the next forty minutes. It's continuous wonder.
Their only misnomer is the encore. It leaks
rhythm and flopped. Well with two drummers,
did they think they were Pavement? Still, we left
in peace, happy to be alive.
NB - Owain MR - Tintin
Carter USM
Brixton Academy
The first act of the night was Blade, a
politically correct rapper. There was some
trouble last time Blade supported Carter, so it
was a brave gesture for them to give him
another go. A risk I think was well worth it.
Mega City Four were obviously not
impressed by the huge Brixton Academy. The
masses of fans shouting at them were
disappointed: "You're so far away we can't hear
you." This didn't seem to stop the band playing
an excellent set, and I certainly had fun.
Then, Carter. The lights, the cameras, and
the action (the beered-up skinhead brigade had
arrived from the bar). All the same, no-one was
going to spoil this night. Despite Jim-Bob's
admitted hang-over, he was on form today, and
not even long trousers had dulled Fruitbat's
perma-grin. Accompanied by mountains of flash
equipment, they played songs spanning from
101-Damnations, right up to the latest single,
'Lean On Me, I Won't Fall Over'. (And believe
me, I only piug the good ones.) A good one.
Timsi
A review of The Piano is on page 14

