ers
•A.V
'fan.
Gorman
disgusts
Dear Judith,
For those who missed it, Teresse Gorman, MP for
Billericky spoke in favour of the abolition of the Welfare
State last week in College. Gorman advocates
individualism, where personal freedom is achieved through
wealth alone, a regime found in the USA. Personally I
believe that such a system only encourages greed and
increases disparity between the rich and poor resulting
in more crime and violence in society. Secondly, a system
based on profit can only be to the disadvantage of the less
wealthy, strangled by costly insurance premiums.
The talk itself, I found disgusting and the question-time
afterwards shocking. The majority of those present
appeared to agree with Ms Gorman. Only three students
out of about thirty offered any form of opposition. Can
this be a true representation of IC?
P J Whetman, Mech Eng II.
Rabbit rabbit
rabbit rabbit
Dear Judith,
Last week Phil Young asked where the name Echo and
the Bunnymen came from. Years ago I was reliably
informed that Echo was the name of their drum machine
before they obtained a human drummer. As for the
Bunnymen, this I'm afraid shall continue to be a mystery.
Chas Jackson
Wilmslow gets a
thumbs down
Dear Judith,
Having just collated Graham Messenger's letter in
FELIX, I am deeply disturbed to find that such a sane,
rational and intelligent individual as Mr Messenger has
not yet realised that Wilmslow (also my home town) is
a naff place.
The reasons for its naffness are mostly connected with
it being a small section of South-east commuter-land
transplanted into North Cheshire. In its yuppiness it is
beginning to rival the docklands of London. It was the
first town in Britain to have its own credit card. It has
three large specialist car showrooms for a population of
only 30,000. Nearby Prestbury has the second largest
number of Rolls Royces per head in Britain (after
Mayfair). Wilmslow is also excessively right-wing. The
last police chief made national news when he explained
that it was obvious which people in Wilmslow were
thieves—the ones with black skin.
House prices in Wilmslow are twice those in nearby
towns forcing people born there to move out as
Manchester's yuppies move into the new Wimpey homes
springing up all over green belt land.
In short Wilmslow comes second in naffness after the
Kings Road.
Yours,
Rupert Clayton, Chem Eng I.
No such thing
as bad publicity
Dear Judith,
I wish to point out an inaccuracy in the 'UGM Sketch'
on page three of last week's FELIX. I am quoted as
'complaining about the Academic Affairs Committee'. I
wasn't actually complaining about the Committee (of which
I am the Chairman) but certain Dep Reps who are members
of the Committee. These Dep Reps hadn't turned up to
a meeting specially organised so that they could pick up
supplies of the College questionnaire. As a result I have
had to chase up these Dep Reps so that they could pick
up supplies. I should point out that as Academic Affairs
Officer I am responsible for Dep Reps action (or inaction
in this case).
I hope this sets the record straight.
Yours sincerely,
Charles Brereton, Biochem 3.
Have you seen
this man?
Gloucester Road tube station, November 3 1987.1 am a
Swiss student, aged 22. I broke my ankle on the steps
leading to the station and was unable to walk. Fortunately,
a young man assisted me to the tube and took me to
Hammersmith and West London College from where I was
taken to hospital. I should like to thank him for his
kindness, however the only information I have is that he
was a student at Imperial College, studying engineering.
He told me he was called Jan, his mother was Dutch and
that his parents lived outside London.
If this brief description is recognised by the student
concerned, please would he contact me at the following,
address:
Sylviane Roserens,
14 Victoria Grove, *
London W8 5RN.
Yours sincerely,
Sylviane Roserens.
S m a l l A d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Do you find Guru Meditation
frustrating? Join Guru 'Mustaf
Rajneesh's new Kamasutra Society. PS
bring your mates.
• Join the clique! A few DocSoc shirts
still available. T-shirts £5, sweatshirts
£10. Contact Mark Taylor, DOC 2.
• Rifle & Pistol Club need more new
members. Come to Sports Centre any
lunchtime (12.30pm-2.00pm).
• If anyone would like to re-start the
Water Ski Club please meet in the
Lounge above Southside Bar on Monday
at 12.30. Anyone just wanting to ski
come along too.
• Rugby 7-a-side competition by C & G
RFC and Fullers Beers at Harlington,
Sunday March 6. All people wishing to
take part should sign up their team in
the C & G Union Office asap.
• Anyone interested in playing in a
celebrity game of football please
contact B O'Spud, Physics.
• DramSoc need actors for this term's
production of T h e Physicist'. Contact
DramSoc on 3531 or call at the
Storeroom in the Union Building or
contact Charles Robin, Biochem
Pigeonholes.
• Election for First Year Rep at the
ArtSoc meeting on Feb 1 at 12.30pm
in Union SCR. Come and vote.
• Urgently required —1 drummer,
contact Alex Robinson, Mat Sci 1.
• College bands contact IC Radio for
mega public exposure.
• Anyone with a good knowledge of
an Amstrad PCW9512, please contact
Abby Amushila on 9421 or 589 9207
Room 214, for exchange of ideas. I
would really appreciate it a million
times. Alternatively you can contact me
via pigeonholes in Met & Mat,
thanks—Abby.
• Guilds Shop now fully stocked with
t-shirts, sweatshirts, scarves, sweaters
and ties. Very cheap, see C&G Union
Office, Mech Eng Level 3.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Single room required, anything
considered. Please phone 969 8013
anytime.
• To Let—1 person to share room with
decent bloke in Earl's Court. Only
£18.27 p/w after rebate. Phone 381
2270 after 6pm.
FOR SALE
• Violin—Rumanian maker including
bow and quality case, £200 ono. Lena,
Room 702A Mech Eng, Phone 6280.
• 23" 531DB custom built 'Soens'
competition cycle frame. Never used
£120 ono. wheels—CX18 sprint rims on
mavic sealed hubs—never used, only
£50 ono. Contact Simon Nuttall via Civ
Eng 2 or Flat 9 on 373 1968.
PERSONAL
• Prize d r a w — O n l y I have the answer
to the question: Did Dom get wet in
Paris? The first correct anser drawn out
of the S Mech Eng pigeonhole will win
a pack of Bicentenial Lifesavers. Answer
revealed in next week's FELIX.
18 Friday January 29th 1988 FELIX

