INJ e w s
Union Reorganisation
Union President Ian Howgate has
proposed and achieved extensive
changes to the Union structure at this
week's Union Council meeting. Mr
Howgate told the meeting that his
aims in doing this were to 'provide
better representation, tidy up the
Union management structure and to
provide a better service to the student
body'. The changes, although
unpopular, were passed as part of Mr
Howgate's report on Monday. Both
the President and now Deputy
President will be representational
posts. The Honorary Secretary's job
description has lost duplicating,
transport and insurance
responsibilities and gained an overall
responsibility for Union events.
He/she will now be known as
Honorary Secretary (Events).
His proposals also included a new
permanent Union Manager to oversee
the Union Bar, Union Snack Bar,
Sports Shop and run the transport
system. This will mean that the
number of permanent staff members
has nearly doubled in one year.
Ian is confident that his plan is
taking the Union in the right
direction. He told Council that 'it
looks likely that the Union will
expand further in the not too distant
future and we must be in good shape
to take this on'.
'DEPUTY PRESIDENT HON SECRETARY (EVENTS)
FINANCE OFFICER
r
Catering Sports Sports Shop Assistant Union Typist
Manager Manager Manager Southside Shop Administrator
Managers
It's the Year of the Dragon!
Discover China in '88...
Beijing £ 4 5 6 *
H o n g K o n g £ 4 5 6 n„
a n d all a r o u n d A s i a
T h a i l a n d £ 3 4 5 m
M a l a y s i a £ 4 2 0 -~
India £ 3 7 5 »
B o o k n o w b e f o r e i t ' s t o o l a t e !
for low cost worldwide flights,
tours, holidays and expert advice
for the independent traveller.
S p e c i a l f a r e s
f o r s t u d e n t s
a n d a c a d e m i c s
Ask for our brochures —
see r
i
o
w far you can go!
U1U travel
ULU Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
Prince Consort Road
L O N D O N SW7
Enquiries and Bookings: 3E E3
European 01-581 8233
Intercontinental 01-581 1022
JOB DESCRIPTION: PRESIDENT
Shall be responsible to a UGM for:
" 1. The overall effective organisation of the Union; this shall include permanent staff, sabbatical
holders of office and Union officers and representatives.
2. Such areas (normally 5 of the below) of Union representation on External bodies and College
Committees as agreed by the President and Deputy President at the start of the sabbatical year.
Presenrly these are:
Academic Affairs
Accommodation & Housing
Athletics
External Affairs
Overseas Students
Postgraduate Affairs
Welfare
Co-ordinating and supporting the work of Union officers in these areas:
<i) In the areas as agreed the Deputy President shall present Union policy to College and external
bodies and negotiate on that basis.
(ii) Research and collect up-to-date information, data and statistics concerning these areas.
(iii) Keeping Council and the UGM informed of any developments in these areas.
3. Submitting their reports to the Union Administrator at least 7 days prior to Councils and UGMs.
4. Shall be specifically responsible for overviewing the work of the Union Administrator, Typist and
Assistant Administrator.
5. Representing the Union on the following College Committees:
Governing Body & F&E
House
CCSMC
Refectory Users
Shall chair the following Union Committees:
Executive
Disciplinary
Responsibility for Recipricol Membership of Imperial College Union.
JOB DESCRIPTION: DEPUTY PRESIDENT
Report to President, Council & UGM and be responsible to UGM for:
1. Security, safety and discipline in Union areas and representing the Union on College Disciplinary
Committees and Residential Tribunals,
2. Mascotry and 'Mike'.
3. Deputising for the President when necessary.
4. Overviewing the work of the Union Manager and the Finance Officer.
5. Producing estimates for the following session (in consultation with the Finance Officer) to be
submitted to College.
6. Representing the Union on the following College committees:
Governing Body
House
CCSMC
Refectory Users
Safety Council
7. Chairing the College Bar Sub-committee.
8. Chairing the following Union committees:
Union Finance
Bar
Bookshop
Catering
Transport
Deputy Chairman of Executive and Disciplinary Committees.
9. Such areas (normally 2 of the below) of Union representation on external bodies and College
committees as agreed by the President and Deputy President at the start of the sabbatical year.
Presently these are:
Academic Affairs
Accommodation & Housing
Athletics
External Affairs
Overseas Students
Postgraduate Affairs
Welfare
Co-ordinating and supporting the work of Union Officers in these areas,
(i) In the areas as agreed the Duputy President shall present Union policy to College and external
bodies and negotiate on that basis.
(i) Research and collect up-to-date information, data and statistics concerning these areas.
(ii) Keeping Council and the UGM informed of any developments in these areas.
10. Submitting their reports to the Union Administrator at least 7 days before Councils and UGMs.
JOB DESCRIPTION: HONORARY SECRETARY (EVENTS)
Report to President, Council & UGM and be responsible to UGM for:
1. The assisting in the co-ordination of Entertainments for the Union in co-operation with the
Entertainments Officer and Entertainments Committee.
2. The assisting in the co-ordination of Rag in co-operation with the Rag Chairman and Rag
Committee. »
• 3. The organisation of any event that may be staged by the Union, such as Freshers' Fair, Overseas
Students Reception Day, Commemoration Ball, etc.
4. Assisting the SCAB Chairman with the promotion of events staged by SCAB.
5. Any event/campaign considered by Council or the Executive to be the responsibility of the Events
Secretary.
6. Running elections and acting as Returning Officer for same.
. 7. Organisation of Colours awards.
8. Producing and distributing publicity for all Union events, including UGMs, and ensuring Union
publicity rules are not broken.
9. Organising Duty Officer rostas.
10. Submitting their reports to the Union Administrator at least 7 days before Councils and UGMs.
FELIX Friday January 29th 1988 3

