I_i bel
• JOHN ALLEN, ex-IC Radio
Station Manager and current IC Radio
mega-hack is getting rather paranoid
(FELIX libel). He recently accused
'cute' Alan Barnett, PG Prospectus
Editor and IC Radio person, in front
of the assembled masses, of leaking
the information. Latest news
however, is that Mr Allen is
becoming increasingly interested in
ICR's current News Editor's sex
life...mmm. While we're on the
subject it seems that current Station
Manager Steve 'Garbage' Gutteridge
is also interested. We wonder why.
•AFTER LAST week's revelations
about Gillian and Ian, she was spotted
giving him a'saucy 'birthday' kiss in
his office after an emergency SRC.
Some people will use any excuse.
• CLEAR-HEADED C & G
President Dave Tiresome has decided
to go on strike for a week due to an
overwhelming response to one of the
Guildsheet questionnaire questions.
The real question is...will anyone
notice?
• HAS CHRIS MARTIN been
pipped at the post? Is he only fishing
around? Salmon sandwich anyone!
• BRENDAN 'SLAPHEAD'
3'Spud did not take too well to being
featured in this column last week. He
attacked a FELIX member of staff
with a ruler in Physics Lecture
Theatre 1 and during a classwork he
glued his victim's pencil case to the
bench and a question sheet onto his
folder.
B A R O N
'What are we going to do?' said Dave
Braincell, Clare MacUseless and
Jumping Jehosofat, 'we are the three
clowns of Cheapskate—we can't have
any more clowns'.
They were worried because the
citizens' meeting had agreed to an
idea that the Fundamentallawsof-
naturetesters should have George, the
Lumpsofmetalworshippers Zippy and
the Diggingthingsoutoftheearthers
Bungle as their new pets. Captain
Braincell was extremely pissed off that
someone had suggested that he might
be confused with Bungle. 'There's no way that I could be mistaken
for that six foot high brown bear. He's much too intelligent for a start.
Also at the meeting and complaining was Fool Drool, the leader of
the citizens' at the Angel Gabriel's land for sick people. At the moment
his citizens were only honorary citizens of Cheapskate so he was only
an honorary clown, but that didn't stop him from acting like a proper
one. 'What about my citizens' said Drool, 'we want some pets too.
If we don't get any pets then we're not joining Cheapskate. This was
serious. Some decent pets had to be found for Drool and his citizens,
and quickly. Dave Braincell thought hard but all he could think of was
an Action Man, and that wasn't quite what Drool wanted. Jumping
Jehosofat was thinking about going for an extended session over the
bar so he couldn't come up with anything. 'I know' said Clare
MacUseless 'Why don't you have Rod, Jane and Freddy as your pets.
They look and sound like sick people already so they'd be perfect.'
'Great' said Fool, 'the merger's on then'. With that he left, and went
back to tell all the citizens of Angel Gabriel Land what a jolly nice bunch
of people the citizens of Cheapskate really were.
The idea of the pets had been put to the citizens' meeting by a group
of wacky students from Wholebean House after the meeting had been
interrupted by Martyn Prick.
Prick was a new citizen and had soon become a multi-media hack.
He was the money counter for Radio Cheapskate and also a writer
for Phallix. It was his job soon to edit the 'Alternative Book of
Cheapskate' for which he had to produce a few new pages to go inside
the middle of last year's book by Sunny Brains. Brains was no longer
a citizen because she failed her tests but she still spent lots of time
in the Phallix Office annoying Largeamounts as she stuck together
her new magazine about funny silver 3-D pictures. Prick was a bit
worried about the lack of articles for his book. 'Don't worry', said
Brains, 'you could just invent it all like I did'.
The Phallix Office was an extremely busy and popular place to be
these days. Lots of magazines (Phallix, WetNerk, Lumpsofmetalsheet,
Cairo, the cover of Thinsheet) were produced there and they would
soon be joined by the Rug Mug. The new editors, Dai Rocking and
Gail Turnip had decided to make it bigger and better than last year's
effort produced by Gehan de Silver Paper. They also planned to include
some jokes...
All these extra magazines meant lots of overtime for Rose Petal,
the pretty Phallix typist, and Dean Cockney, the Phallix printer, but
they weren't happy. 'It's not fair' said Petal, 'we weren't interviewed
and given a 2-page feature in Phallix when we started to work for
the citizens.' 'Yes, I know' said Largeamounts, 'but you didn't arrive
just before the general election when probable candidates are keen
to write articles...'
Which candidate will write an article for Phallix next week?
Should Derek be called the Red Baron?
How much is a mention in 'The Baron' worth? (Cheques to the Phallix
Office.)
Find out in the next issue of The Baron of Cheapskate.
• CONCLUSIVE proof that FELIX
sends you completely round the bend!
STOP!
THIS LEGALLY OWNED PACKAGE
IS NOT RUBBISH
DO NOT ATTEMPT
TO SELL THIS!
SEE OWNER AS TO REMOVAL
• I'VE BEEN SENT this sign by an
anonymous contributor who suggests
that it be attached to all goods left in
the Linstead Basement! Similar
contributions are always appreciated.
• HOLBEIN HOUSE Chief
'Clown' Paul Shanley's latest wheeze
is to get him and 'all his mates elected
to the top IC Union and C C U
positions next year. He must be
getting fairly desperate as he
submitted two letters to FELIX under
anagrams of his name—one praising
and one slagging his ridiculous
behaviour at the last U G M .
Chris Jones
FELIX Friday January 29th 1988 5

