The next three pages in no way encompass the whole range of
packages on offer to the student traveller. They simply
highlight three very popular ways of spending the long
vacation.
A month's unlimited travel in Europe
sounds a bit of a snip, even if you
have to shell out £139 for the
privilege. Interrailing has become a
standard holiday alternative for
hoards of adventure-hungry students
and it can be anything from a leisurely
cruise, a 'culture' tour or an initiative
test trying to cram as many miles as
possible into the month with the least
possible expenditure.
For your £140 or so, providing you
are under 26 on the first day of your
ticket's validity, you can travel second
class without charge through twenty
European countries and Morocco.
First class travel is available if you
make up the difference in ticket
prices. It's normally possible to buy
your ticket straight away but it may
take a week or more, so it's wise not
to leave things to the last minute.
Keep the counterfoil from the
application form, because if your
ticket is lost or stolen it could help you
get a replacement. It is necessary to
present your passport when buying
the ticket—it has to be a passport
issued by a participating country—
and the ticket isn't valid without the
passport either. You have to have the
ticket with you while travelling, so
insurance might be a good idea.
If you decide to sleep on trains, the
most obvious option is to crash out
on a seat. However, an Interrail ticket
doesn't guarantee a seat or sleeping
compartment—reserve a seat to be
sure you get one—and you may not
feel quite refreshed enough to tackle
the next day's sightseeing.
Other than this, you could take a
couchette, which is a compartment
which converts from seats to berths
for six people and includes a sheet,
pillow and blanket. A full sleeping car
is more luxurious but much more
expensive.
If, on the other hand, you want to
sleep on something a little more solid,
there are more than 1,900 Youth
Hostels in the countries covered by
Interrail. The YMCA also provides
'budget priced accommodation' for
both men and women. You could also
investigate small hotels and guest
houses, which may be reasonably
priced.
Having decided to go Interrailing,
the next thing to do is to work out
where you want to go. Unfortunately,
the price of the ticket does not include
travel in the United Kingdom, which
seems a bit of a con really although
they offer up to 50% off rail prices.
You will also have to cross the
channel or Irish Sea—discounts are
available on some ferry and
hovercraft routes.
Before you start, you have to fill
in your final destination on the
ticket—in other words the furthest you
will travel. Bear in mind that Eastern
Bloc countries require visas as well
as passports. It might also be a good
idea to obtain a European timetable
(these are available from Thomas
Cook). This timetable will enable you
to plan your journey fully, if that is
your intention, it will also help you
to decide where you will sleep during
the holiday, a consideration to be
overlooked at your peril.
If you are really serious about
Interrailing, an invaluable book is
Europe by Train by Katie Wood and
George McDonald, published by
Fontana. As well as details on the
various countries and general advice,
it outlines some other schemes such
as Transalpino and Eurotrain which
are similar but have less flexibility in
allowed routes.
If your intention is to cover a large
distance on your holiday, you may
find Interrailing the most suitable
option. Perhaps Circle Line parties
will give way to Continental circuit
races or most-miles-in-a-month
contests, who can tell what zany
jaunts Imperial students will get up to
next?
Taking
the trail
Youth Hostelling is gaining in
popularity and is undergoing a change
in image, recognising that many
Youth Hostellers like to go to have
a tipple and stay up late (however on
popular long distance walk routes
there may often be enough of the
'lights out at ten' brigade to ensure
an early night). Annual membership
for IC students would be £3.50 (for
England and Wales) and when a
passport sized photo is attached, the
membership card will open up
possibilities to hostel abroad.
There are organised active holidays
which last for a week or a few days
where you can learn how to windsurf,
alternatively there are special interest
breaks where everything from
sketching in Cornwall to folk music
on the Chilterns. These holidays cost
between £20 to £25 for a weekend and
£100 to £180 for a week and up to
£300 for the very long walks.
Continental hostels tend to be much
more comfortable than British ones.
It can be fun to hire a bike and tour
around the low countries, organised
weeks cost around £180 which
includes hotel accommodation, return
rail travel and some meals. Holidays
with full board such as 'Rhine Valley
Rambling' cost in the region of £250.
More exotic Y H A travel offers
include 'Insight Into Egypt and Israel'
for about £665 ftSr a fortnight which
includes guided tours of the many
historic places of interest. More of a
proper introduction to an area than
your average Club 18-30 holiday, but
you pays your money and you takes
your choice.
Full details in Y H A Handbook,
Terra Nova (YHA Travel) and 'Great
Europe' brochures.
FELIX Friday January 29th 1988 7

