FRIDAY, 8TH
MARCH, 2019 FELIX
26
MANIFESTOS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Felix Editor
Henry
Alman
H
ello! I'm
Henry, current
Science Editor
for Felix and
Student Ambassador for
The Times. I'm here to
ensure the cat stays stu-
dent-focused; I have big
ideas for Felix!As well
as maintaining the ex-
cellent standards already
in place (particularly for
Joshua
Rodgers
I
've never deviated in
saying exactly what
I think. My filter
is minimal, yet it
does exist. Consistently
defending my enemies
against their critics, and
depriving myself of blind
belief in my own opin-
ions, has made playing
devil's advocate core to
who I am. Holding union
to account will be second
nature. But critically, I can bring a fresh perspective to
Felix! In my opinion, Felix could be more relevant to
students - so my key changes would be:
• Weekly published interviews with students,
about ANY topics of their choice!
• Weekly two-page MEME highlights. Submis-
sions pool from students. Selected by an expert
meme panel.
• Pairs can apply to argue against each other, in a
section hosted every fortnight
• .Times Magazine/Economist style front cover
pages, with relevant custom artwork
• Half-page ICExposed highlights “excluding
posts about individuals.
• Original comic strip section!
• Guest comment articles about Imperial, by
students from other London universities.
• Legitimate and meaningful feedback opportuni-
ties for readers, writers, as well as editors.
• Giving writers more control and opportunity for
freedom of expression, by asking for revisions,
rather than edit for a consistent tone throughout
the paper/sections. All depend on headhunting
skilled/motivated individuals! Help me in my
quest! I would NEVER change something that
isn't broken;
Main section categories.
• Puzzles, Hangman and naked society centerfold
(yesss!)
• Horoscopes.
I won't be attending the live debate or waste ANY
union money campaigning. However, please come
ask me your questions! Vote JKR!
Jessica-Lee
Cole
H
ello! I'm Jess.
I am masters
student in the
Faculty of
Natural Sciences and
currently a sustainability
writer for the Felix!
EXPERIENCE:
• Running a success-
ful blog for over a
year.
• Working collabora-
tively with large organisations like TopUniversi-
tes.com and Eleven:Eleven (a social enterprise)
to produce media content. So, understand what it
takes to manage something of this scale.
• I am currently also a welfare rep for my campus
and heavily involved with the union - this insight
will help me be successful in this role.
•
What I want to see for the Felix's future
SUSTAINABILITY:
• A "greening of the Felix" both in the day-day
running and in the content. There is always room
for improvement!
• A week of "green" topics explored through the
lens of each of the sections of the paper to help
try to spark interest in these (often dry and de-
pressing) topics for a wider audience.
SOCIAL MEDIA:
• Increase the Felix's social media presence to
improve accessibility and encourage more
students to engage.- Social media take-
overs to increase engagement from a wider
audience.
• Opportunities to write exclusively for the social
media format.
ENGINE FOR SOCIAL CHANGE:
• As a platform, be an engine for social change in
the Imperial Community.
• Highlight issues that are important for students,
and hopefully drive change.
• Continue championing the voice the Felix gives
to those who need it!
VOTE FOR JESS! #greenfelix
inclusiveness and student engagement), I want to:
Rehaul the editorial process so we can include
more longform articles, either including a fortnightly
'Features' section or possibly by moving to a two-week
editorial cycle. This:
• Encourages writers and editors to experience a
full collaborative process.
• Allows students who cannot guarantee availabil-
ity every week the chance to get involved!
• Prioritises high-impact, high-quality articles.âšœ
Secure funding to help students take trips to events
far and wide for on-the-scene reporting and investi-
gative journalism. This:
• Diversifies our content; everyone from every-
where should be represented in our stories.
• Enables students to chase stories wherever they
may be, rather than being financially limited to
London. ICL is an international university; our
student paper should have the same mentality.
Demystify the Union. There is a contingent of
students not being catered for - those who just
don't speak Union-ese! We need to bridge that gap
and explain the inner workings more thoroughly
whenever we run Union-based content.
Increase focus on students and people. Includes
introducing more interview-based content. We want
to write about you, not at you!
Continue to partner with The Times to run workshops
for writers and editors.
• Improves article quality.
• Provides unique opportunities/training for jour-
nalism-minded students.
Vote Henners to keep the cat student-focused!
Joanna
Wormald
H
i! I'm Joanna Wormald, I've been the Deputy
Editor and News Editor at Felix since 2017.
I'm proud to have helped Felix grow by in-
troducing new sections to the paper, as well
as recruiting and training incoming editors and writers.
As a student ambassador, I've established connections
with The Times and The Sunday Times, and I also have
links with the Women in Media group and the Press
Association (where I completed a Postgraduate Diploma
in in Multimedia Magazine Journalism). I stand for
an accessible, inclusive Felix that gets to the heart of
what's important. I promise to increase opportunities to
get involved by establishing a clear pitching process and holding regular workshops
to support students in pursuing the stories that matter to them. I promise to diversify
our output by creating extra video and online content that goes beyond what you see
in the paper. I promise to hold the College, the Union, and myself to account and
I will never shy away from asking and answering important questions, no matter
how uncomfortable. Vote for an independent Felix that gives everyone a voice. Vote
Joanna for Felix Editor!
Pietro Salvi
V
ote for Adrian.If you do not vote for Adrian,
but instead vote for me, I will have to inform
you that this will end in nothing but blood-
shed (or, much more accurately, a little bit of
non-violent tear shedding).A vote for me is a promise
to see the Felix newspaper seized as the means of pro-
duction of mostly trivial news stories, converted into a
potential tool of slander (in the limits of legality) against
those who would stand against the student Union -- nay,
the Peoples' Student Union that will arise thanks to the
glorious revolution inspired by the vanguard party that controls this powerful stu-
dent newspaper.The cat will have it's true meaning reestablished as the all-inspiring
Anarchist symbol of resistance against the capitalist classes of Imperial college. I
vow to run a never-ending campaign against the bigoted, racist, *imperialist* name
of our college, to seize it back for the workers.Or, maybe, if you're suitably angry at
me for that pun, even though there's a nicely debatable serious message behind it,
then I'd recommend voting for Adrian, who will probably be taking this a lot more
seriously than me.P.S. I hope Adrian is actually running in this election. Otherwise,
this might be very confusing. Demand to be allowed to vote for Adrian anyway, I say.
27
ISSUE 1717
MANIFESTOS
FELIX
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Council Chair
Christopher
Turner
U
nion Council meetings are there to decide
on actions and policies that follow your best
interests, the students, not to suggest all the
ideas. Yet very few who aren't on Council go,
and even fewer bring their ideas for discussion.Having
taken up committee positions previously I learned there
are often better suggestions you should listen to, and
more steps to carry them into tangible outcomes. I will
work to provide:
• A welcoming environment - Anyone may attend Council
• A more enlightened view of Council proceedings - Ensuring all members act
in the best interests of the students they represent
• A starting platform - To help anyone with an idea
• A more time efficient council.
I'm not saying I have solutions to all problems; however, I am dedicated to listen-
ing to you to change your Union for the better, one step at a time. I want to be here
for everyone, for those who need assistance to get their voices heard. The Union
is great, we have so much choice in activities, so much help, but you know that it
can be so much more. And while I may not have all the suggestions, I know that
you do. I will be there to help you craft these into something that can be presented,
discussed and voted on so that you can change your Union.So, if you've ever had
an idea, a fantastic plan or even an inkling of a scheme, then vote Christopher for
Council Chair
Lloyd James
U
nion Council has the potential to be a fierce
voice for students' interests in challenging
the university, and a crucial tool for holding
all the other folks you'll elect this week to
account to their constituents. However in the four years
I've attended Council meetings, I've seen it consistently
fail to live up to this potential. Instead, it gets bogged
down in technical discussions about constitutions and
standing orders, and rubber stamping of sabbatical of-
ficers' reports on what they've been doing. The training
for Council members could go much further, and often
important policy decisions inappropriately bypass Council altogether. I'm deeply
frustrated by these failings. So I propose to:
• Require sabbatical reports to describe planned future activities for Council to
scrutinise.
• Provide comprehensive training documentation for new members explaining
key Council procedures.
• Mandate existing Council subcommittees (for Education, Welfare and Clubs)
to formulate policy proposals to provide Council with more business of sub-
stance.
• Develop clear procedures to take complex/bureaucratic matters outside of
meetings.
• Ensure that all policies due for renewal are examined and revised in plenty of
time for scrutiny before expiring.
My experience:
• Involved with Council since 2015.
• Previous roles: RCSU President, PhySoc President, both Physics UG and PG
Dep Rep.
Lobbied for:
• Ending the zero-tolerance policy on late work submission.
• Improved representation for Postgraduate students
• Union role representing economically disadvantaged students.
So vote Lloyd for a Union Council that is a vehicle for real, positive change for
students.
T
he Union Council is our student decision-making body within the Union,
but only a handful of students are aware of what goes on and how the
Union improves student life. Your voice matters and I believe we can
ensure that Imperial College London always listens to and acts on student
feedback in order to make it number 1 globally. As a currently Elected Imperial
Horizon Representative, I am working hard to improve the language courses taught
at Imperial. My aspiration is for every student to leave Imperial with an additional
language as well as having strong analytical skills. If elected, I will work for:
• An online ideas platform. I will work with the college to create a platform
whereby societies can collaborate on how the Union can help societies.
• Strong communication. I will provide a strong student voice on the Trustee
Board to ensure that students are always getting the best opportunities here at
Imperial and will work alongside the treasurer to increase funding for societies.
• Increased International Opportunities. I will work with international univer-
sities to facilitate for more summer research opportunities for undergraduates
and increased funding for summer schools in Europe, Asia and the Middle
East
The past two years have been a challenging yet rewarding part of my life and I
want to make sure you, whether you are a fresher or a final year, have the support
to thrive and enjoy your time at Imperial College London.
Maurice Yap
I
am quite comfy to sit on, therefore I'd be a very
good chair.
Abdirahman Ismail
No image or manifesto provided
Davide Vaccaro

