FRIDAY, 8TH
MARCH, 2019 FELIX
28
MANIFESTOS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Student Trustee
Daniel
Faehndrich
T
he inner work-
ings of the Union
are something
I have become
accustom to throughout
my year as a Constituent
Union President &
Sabbatical Officer. I've
seen the good, the bad,
& the ugly, and want to
ensure we are making
the Union as democratic,
transparent, & student-led
Alexandre
de Saint
Germain
I
've been at Imperial for 6 years now and it's time
to start giving back and hopefully contribute some
of the experience I have accumulated over my time
here. As a trustee, I would help ensure that the
Union doesn't deviate from its mission and takes the
best interest of its students at heart whilst also balancing
the budget. This is not something I will take lightly and
you can be sure I will work hard to make sure these are
met.This will not be my first time representing students,
managing a budget or overseeing a project. My past
experience in these areas should prove invaluable.
Ansh
Bhatnagar
A
fter two years
on Union
Council, I
know how
difficult it is for students
to get involved and make
a difference. It's time for
a change. Hi, I'm Ansh.
I'm a third year physicist
running to sit on Trustee
Board because we need
to ensure that the Union's
resources are being allocated to enact the decisions we
make, so we can truly become a member-led Union.
This year we are heading for a £365,000 deficit, pri-
marily due to hiring expensive agency staff after the
poor treatment of student bar staff - and cuts may be
made that affect us all. That's simply unacceptable.As
Student Trustee, I will:
• Be YOUR voice on Trustee Board, and keep you
in the loop
• Ensure the Union is being financially responsible
• FightagainstcutstoUnionservices-weshouldn't
suffer because of poor decisions at the top!
• Allocate resources to implement the democratic
decisions of students
As Council Rep, I have:
• Mandated the Union to implement a petitions
system, so you can make your voice heard
• Been leading the process for Union reform
• Made the case for transparency and student
consultation
I know the Union's processes all too well; in the past
three years I have:
• Been on seven committees
• Managed a £10k budget to run the most success-
ful RCSU Science Challenge in six years
• Led a society and doubled its membership
I'm the candidate with the proven track record and
the drive to push through change at the Union. Vote
Ansh for Student Trustee!
as possible.With my experience, and having attended
Board of Trustees meetings as an observer previously,
I will be able to jump in as soon as I'm elected with a
clear vision of how to use the role to achieve what you
& your fellow students want & need. I've worked with
Faculties, Constituent Unions, the Union, & College
on issues ranging from the running of your Clubs &
Societies, to welfare provision through disciplinary
procedures, & emergency planning mitigation for stu-
dent led events, so I know what change is possible &
how to go about making change happen.
I WILL:
• PROTECT the identity and history of our Con-
stituent Unions
• ENSURE that all areas and all those who work
for the Union, as volunteers or otherwise, are
held accountable to its members
• LOBBY for consultation on all large matters
affecting the student experience to maintain our
core democratic values
• COMMUNICATE what both Board, and the
Union on a whole are deciding and taking action
on, with its members
Consultation, representation, and communication
have been a hallmark of my terms in a multitude of
student volunteering positions. I want to continue
that as your Student Trustee. A vote for me is a vote
for experience, efficacy, and democracy.Vote Dan for
Student Trustee.
Lei Shen
H
ey there! I
want to serve
as your next
Student Trustee
because I want to achieve
the full potential of what
Imperial College Union
can offer. As your student
union, ICU must be held
accountable for how we
implement our financial
Michaela
Flegrova
H
i everyone, I'm Michaela and I think I'd like
to be your Student Trustee. I'll keep this
manifesto entirely honest, because that's
what you expect from someone whom
you're supposed to trust (a Student Trustee). I think
I'm better than most of the other candidates, although
at the time of writing I'm not exactly sure who those
are. I have some experience in the Union which isn't
100% relevant, but it should be enough. I don't actually
know what the role is exactly about (but I'm guessing
neither do you). I assume I'd represent the students on
the Trustee Board (duh). Anyway, that's what training is
for, so you should not worry - I'll be ready for the role
by August! I decided I should run after a discussion with one of the current Student
Trustees, which made me realise that I might be good for the role. My mum also said
I should run, or at least she definitely would if I asked her. I hope. I don't want to
promise you anything because I don't know if I could achieve it, but I do have some
ideas that I think would be good for the Union and for the students, and I generally
consider myself to be a person with reasonable views and opinions who can usually
tell good from bad. Most of my friends trust me when it comes to important things,
so I think you can also trust me and give me your vote for Student Trustee.
and physical resources, and I believe there are many
ways we can positively improve your experience at
Imperial. Some of my key goals for ICU include:
• Running more events that are accessible to the
entire student population, including pushing
for a variety of musicians to come perform at
Imperial!
• Increasing the freedom and flexibility of room
bookings and union personal resources (finan-
cial, advisory and project services)
• Implementing easy and relatively hassle-free
ways of collecting your feedback and acting on
it in a timely fashion
• Making the reimbursement and financial e-activ-
ities system of individual societies more efficient
and straightforward
Personally, my past experience has amply prepared
me for this role. I have worked within the Union
before as Biochemistry first year Wellbeing Rep
and have been trained in effective leadership and
representation. I have also worked with the Union
while I was organizing two major events for Finance
Society, and I personally understand how frustrat-
ing the union's financial claims system can be. In
addition, my experience as Marketing Director in
the Social Innovation Academy has refined my com-
munication skills, so I can use effective methods to
improve transparency and to better implement your
feedback. As your Student Trustee I will work to
make our university experience better!

