18 felix Friday 10 October 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Arts
Red squares and black-on-black
Emily Wilson gets a swanky press invite to witness the arts event of the year: Rothko at Tate Modern
M
ark Rothko, born
Marcus Rothkowitz
in 1903 in a part of
Russia now actually
in Latvia, is famed
as one of the greatest artists of the
twentieth century. Scanning through
a time line of his life, he was fortunate
enough to receive fame, fortune and
critical acclaim throughout much of
his career, but suffered from much ill
health before his dramatic suicide at
his studio in 1970. A new exhibition
at Tate Modern looks over his later
works, which are adored by art buffs
(this exhibition has attracted rave
reviews and universal admiration) but,
in my experience, are often unappreci-
ated by the rest of us because of their
perceived simplicity and lack of any
subject matter. I certainly had little
time for them up until now. But is this
exhibition likely to change minds or
does it merely cater for the already
converted?
Before I embark upon the Rothko
press view, I consume the world’s
smallest cappuccino in Tate Modern’s
espresso bar (it claims to be “medium”).
It would have been quite cute had it
not cost me £1.90. I may be forced to
keep the cup for further use just to feel
like I’m getting my money’s worth. The
gift shop on the same level as the ex-
hibit has a multitude of repetitive post-
cards that don’t inspire hope for the
exhibition, and a wide range of gifties
in that rusty Rothko red. The woolen
scarves are rather handsome, but £45.
Sigh. Following on from the diminutive
cappuccino, this is another example of
monetaryrapingbyTatetocompensate
for their free museum entry. It should
be noted that admission to the Rothko
exhibition is £12.50 and for us students
it’s only reduced to £10.50. That’s a fair
few pints in the union.
This is the second press viewing
I’ve been to. The first (who remem-
bers Duchamp, Man Ray and Picabia?
Anybody?) was practically empty, but
this one is rammed to the gills. There
are a disgusting number of film crews
present, who make noise and tut if
you get in their shot, almost ruin-
ing my enjoyment of the whole thing.
On the bright side, the crowds of arty
farty journalistic types makes for some
good people watching. Everybody here
seems to know each other (except me,
of course). There’s a lot of “DARLING!”
and embracing going on. An added bo-
nus: within 20 seconds I’ve got my eye
on a young man with some exceedingly
sexy geek chic going on. Oooh.
Something that will strike many visi-
tors is that many of the rooms are in
relative darkness. This is a bit star-
tling at first, and doesn’t aid me when
I’m taking notes, but it is necessary.
It complements the painting beauti-
fully, adding to the rich and moody
atmosphere.
The Tate is clearly very proud of get-
ting its hands on nine of the Seagram
Murals, and the press release bangs
on about them at length. The Seagram
Murals were commissioned in 1958 to
decorate the fancy Four Seasons res-
taurant in Manhattan’s Seagram build-
ing. The original commission allowed
for seven paintings. Rothko produced
30 canvases, but he withdrew from the
commission and they never made it to
the restaurant. These nine are the big-
gest of Rothko’s works here. Orangey
reds, a little brighter than some of his
others, they involve hollow squares
and rectangles, in contrast to the sim-
ple blocks of his other canvases. They
take pride of place in both room 3 and
the press release, dominating the exhi-
bition. Chronology aside, I’d have pre-
ferred them not to be so intimidatingly
early on in the exhibition. I’d rather
have been eased into Rothko, perhaps
coming to a steamy climax with them
at the end.
Room 4 is a good room after my un-
easiness in the vast room 3. Here there
are some rather charming photos of
Rothko’s studio, which is the kind of
thing I like to see in these special ex-
hibitions. Also in room 4 is “Black on
Maroon” (1958) which you can walk
behind to view, behind glass, the back
of the canvas signed by the artist. I
like that. I also like the display about
Rothko’s painting techniques, with a
splattering of art conservation exper-
tise here. This reveals the technical
brilliance of Rothko that is so often
underestimated.
Room 5 is another good one. “Unti-
tled” of 1964 (most of Rothko’s work
is untitled, which I find lackluster
– he should have come up with wild
and abstract titles for the poor things)
is simpler and crisper than a stand-
ard Rothko, and really very elegant,
while still in the usual earthy reds and
browns. “No. 5” (1964) is seemingly
black on black but really isn’t. The
more you look at it the more you see
it’s actually a deep bluey purply black
on a reddish maroonish black with a
paler tinge where they meet. It is pre-
cisely like staring into velvet, or a black
hole. I adore that about Rothko. It’s like
he’s working with infinity, looking into
the abyss. Into a deep, dark, blackened
soul. I could get poetic here. I wonder
if different people see different things
and feel different emotions when con-
fronted with Rothko. They’re dark and
empty, but to me in a comforting way
– like cuddling up in a warm, dark, vel-
vety blanket at night. But I can imagine
for some this could be terribly morbid
and depressing, like staring into the
mouth of death.
In room 6 there’s a chance to sit
down, which the balls of my feet ap-
preciate (I wore 3 inch heels. Why?
Because I’m very very stupid). This is
a good room to sit down in awhile be-
cause it’s more black-on-black (and yet
not black-on-black) paintings. There
are four of them, superficially identical
but the more you look the more they
vary. The one on my left is glossier, the
one behind me plummier, another has
more distinctive boundaries between
shades of black.
If you’re an art rookie you probably
won’t like this exhibition, which is its
flaw. It’s inaccessible and elitist (and
the ticket price doesn’t help). If you
don’t get it, fuck off. We’re not going
to explain it to you. The exhibition
launches in without proper introduc-
tion or explanation. It’s difficult to get
any sense of Rothko’s life or the story
behind his work without forking out
for the audioguide or paying dedicated
attention to the free mini guide. Upon
reading this for the first time (half way
through the exhibition, so I kick my-
self) I realise the exhibition “starts”
when Rothko was already an artist in
his prime. It starts with The Seagram
Murals because there’s at the begin-
ning of the period we’re covering.
It all makes sense to me now, but I’m
disappointed. I came here eager to find
out how an artist gets to this style, this
ever-repeating format of dark colours
on dark colours. I want to see the jour-
ney, the development. I think it’s im-
portant to see an artist in their context
– within the history around them and
among their fellow artists. I don’t feel
like I’m getting to know Rothko in this
exhibition. To me, an exhibition about
an individual artist should make you
feel like the artist is a friend of yours,
helping you to understand what they
were thinking. I like to leave an exhi-
bition teary-eyed because the hero
dies at the end. But Rothko isn’t my
friend here. I’m making friends with
the paintings, looking deep into their
souls, but I’m not looking into Mark
Rothko’s soul.
If you don’t come here with a keen,
open mind you’re going to be bored.
Let’s face it, it all looks the same. Block
colour on block colour, hint of haziness
where they meet, if you can see where
they meet at all. Even I’m struggling to
pick out key pieces to tell you about. In
room 7 we do get a sudden splash of
variation. The reds get a little brighter,
yes, but now we’re getting some shape.
Squares and stripes and bars. All still
untitled, these simple pieces are not
distinguished from the previously very
simple pieces, but the slight contrast
makes them seem so suddenly busy and
rebellious. But in the grand scheme of
Art these are still almost blank, lacking
in topic or subject matter.
Room 8 is different again. A series of
canvases split on the horizontal into
two colours. Where the split occurs
varies around the pieces and I wonder
if this is significant. The colours are
also different – more blue, more light
grey. But the brush work is rougher,
scratchier. The line splitting the col-
ours makes me think of horizons, of
looking into the distance or at the sea-
side or the sky at night. You can almost
pick out objects or structures in the
distance like it’s a landscape. Room 9
is much like room 8 with canvases split
between two colours like horizons. But
these, again difficult to distinguish be-
cause they’re all untitled, are black on
top and grey on the bottom. The can-
vases are slightly different shapes and
sizes each time, but the colours and
the outcomes are the same. Room 9 is,
unexpectedly, the last room. I can see
the exit. Usually when I reach the end
of an exhibition I’m quite keen to es-
cape, but today I’m left a little wanting.
I don’t feel like I’ve got to the bottom
of Rothko.
I feel guilty about skipping both the
curator’s tour and the audioguide, like
I might be missing the point or denying
myself the explanation. But shouldn’t
an exhibition be self-evident? It really
really isn’t. I don’t know what to con-
clude here. It’s not what I’d hoped for.
I have no better knowledge of Rothko
as an artist than I did when I walked
in. I worry that visitors, including
you readers, will be let down by this.
So many people will visit and hate it,
not get it or find it boring. But on the
positive, these paintings are astound-
ingly beautiful. I adored the blocks of
dark colours on dark colours, the black
on black, more than I ever expected
to. I could have stared into them for
hours. They’re spiritual and thought-
provoking. Walking through this ex-
hibition is like meditation. Rothko’s
work is a religious experience, and I
understand now why the Menil chapel
in the Houston, Texas, is filled with
his work. Against all my atheist beliefs
and anti-religious sentiments, a church
would be the perfect place for these
soul-searching paintings. On the wall
out by the espresso bar there is a Mark
Rothko quote that I think sums it all
up rather well: “If people want sacred
experiences they will find them here.
If they want profane experiences they
will find them too. I take no sides”.
The Rothko exhibition is on until
1st February 2009 at Tate Modern.
Admission is an eyebrow-raising
£12.50 (or £10.50 to us students)
but why not treat yourself to cel-
ebrate the start of a new year?
Open 10am-6pm and late night
until 10pm on Friday and Satur-
day, so you’ve got no excuse
“I don’t want to spend
my entire graduate
scheme staring at the
same four walls.”
©
2008
KPMG
Europe
LLP,
a
UK
limited
liability
partnership,
is
a
holding
company
of
a
number
of
members
of
the
KPMG
network
of
independent
member
firms
affiliated
with
KPMG
International,
a
Swiss
cooperative.
KPMG
Europe
LLP
and
KPMG
International
provide
no
client
services.
KPMG LIFE is our on-campus event.
It’s your chance to learn the facts about who we are, what we do and how we
offer an exciting range of graduate opportunities across Audit, Tax and Advisory.
Discover the true meaning of LIFE.
Come and see us on 13th October in Lecture Theatre 1, Sir Alexander
Fleming Building between 6.30-8.30pm.
Pre-register at kpmg.co.uk/life for fast-track entry.
Bring your aspirations to LIFE.
Rothko really REALLY liked his red squares. If you’re not a fan of red squares you probably won’t like the
Seagram Murals that Tate Modern are so proud of. And, let’s face it, you probably won’t like Rothko at all
Egads, it’s not a red square! Does it look a bit like the seaside at night?
See? More red squares. I had about 8 different press images to choose from, all red squares. I thought about flipping some round to see if anybody noticed (but didn’t, I’m a good girl)

