20 felix Friday 10 October 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl Camden
Ahhh sweet, sweet Camden. With its bridge that is home to surly punks who will swear and spit at you if
you dare to take pictures of them! The glorious loch with flashy new eateries such as Hi Sushi and Lloyd’s
bar juxtaposed with the gangs of copulating Goths further down (just close your eyes). It’s often possible to
feel pretty drab and conventional in Camden even though your attire may turn heads in the Sherfield build-
ing. If you do feel as if your wardrobe needs a shake up then this is the perfect place to accessorize with
quirky tees, skinny jeans, tutus, funky tights and way way more. Anyone with a penchant for body mods
(tats, piercings, scarification etc) will find top-notch establishments here to get the work done. Cold Steel
for piercings and Evil from the Needle for tats and I can personally assure both are clean and professional
and do a fantastic job. For the foodies Camden is a haven with lots of hidden gems serving awesome nosh.
Out of selfishness I will not divulge, go and discover your own! The stalls also do cheap, greasy Chinese,
Indian, Mexican etc. Which is also great if junk is what you crave. I would recommend taking time off
lectures/in between/on a day off to visit as weekends get awfully crowded and if you cannot abide slow,
gormless walkers then going on a Saturday or Sunday is not recommended.
The legendary Koko’s is right outside Mornington Crescent tube and puts on many live bands and club
nights and is sure to feature in your social calendar at some point. If you would like a more refined evening
try the Jazz café which is highly recommended for jazz lovers. There is no need to say Camden offers a
huge range of bars which cover all tastes, the Loch being a good area. The Dublin castle is down and dirty
and good for indie. Further down the road the Edinburgh castle is a very pleasant, calmer setting; delicious
food. Camden Arts centre isn’t strictly in walking distance of its tube station but is worth a visit for the café
and gorgeous garden if nothing else. The houses of poet John Keats and psychologist Freud are within a
quarter of a mile radius.
South Kensington
What shall I do to fill those hours between lectures? Go to the library and go over my lecture? Not a chance! It
is a theory of mine that to work hard and succeed one needs a peaceful and happy mind and so rest, leisure and
pleasure and mandatory. If this comes to you in the form of said library studies then this is will be great for your
degree. If not, there is much to distract you within the realms of South Kensington. For one, Kensington Gardens
is directly opposite the Royal Albert Hall which is located right next to Beit Hall of residence. This park I like to
refer to as Hyde Park’s younger and much more beautiful sister. Hyde Park is alright for running and has a pretty
section but is, in fact, just a patch of grass. Kensington Garden feels a lot wilder and overgrown which will come
as welcome relief if you are missing your more rural homes. The Serpentine art gallery is located within the parks
perimeter and is currently showing Richter’s art. (As in the ‘Richter scale’ except this is a different Richter).
The three big museums cannot have escaped your notice. The Science Museum, The Natural History Museum
and the Victoria and Albert Museum offer something for each and every taste and are also the cause of the gross
over population of children around Imperial on the weekdays. Each museum is free and Felix can provide press
tickets for special exhibitions at the V&A in exchanged for your words on what’s there and whether its worth
seeing.
Soho
Ensconced between the grandeur of Mayfair, the retailers of Oxford Street and Theatreland,
Soho is made up of quaint criss-crossing (largely) pedestrian streets and is regarded as the
centre of London’s colossal gay scene. Here you will never be want of something to amuse
you whether it’s an especially flamboyant queen, irresistible boutique, mouth-watering café,
restaurant or vibrant bar. Sex shops aplenty, gays, girls and straights alike will find things that
float their boat here. Girls, Paradiso Boutique in Old Compton Street has underwear to die for
and check out Moaz next door for awesome falafel.
Soho pretty much overlaps onto theatre-land; the West End. As a London student you are prob-
ably the luckiest people in the world in terms of just how much the city has to offer you in terms of
entertainment. The shows on at any time in the West End will cater for everyone, especially those
who abhor the musical, commercialised shit churned out for tourists. Stuck for where to begin?
We artsy editors here at Felix will point you in the right direction and even give you free theatre
tickets. All you have to do is muster your finest writing skills and produce a review!
For the less theatrically inclined, the Royal Academy is a hop over Piccadilly Circus in Piccadilly
itself and houses some beautiful collections of painting, sculpture and more and is always sure to
have a stupendous paying exhibition on at anytime. I even saw Sir Stephen Fry walking out in the
summer. Swoon. Again, press tickets can be arranged for you as Felix writers. The Photographer’s
Gallery will be a treat for those who love photography and it is also free and situated in Great
Newport Street adjacent to Leicester Square tube station. Otherwise stay clear of Leicester Square
as it’s nothing but a hive of tacky tourist attractions (Ripley’s Believe it or Not). However, if that
is just what your in the mood for, jump right in. The Trocadero is home to sex museum Amora
which is actually worth a look (although admission is £12), great for a first date, believe me!
Baker Street
Plenty to get up to here especially for anyone new to London and wants to get all the standard tourist
attractions out of the way. Madame Tussaud’s houses a collection of celebrity waxworks. You can buy a
ticket for about £50 to London’s “Top 3 attractions” and get Tussaud’s, the Eye and the London Dungeons
(London Bridge tube station) thrown in. Next to it is the London Planetarium. A short walk away is one
of my favourite London parks, Regent’s park. Serenely beautiful it also offers places to dine, pretty flow-
ers and events such as a current sculpture exhibition and a Frieze Art fair which features 150 of the most
exciting contemporary art galleries in the world. It runs until 19 October. The main attraction of Regent’s
Park is London Zoo, another thing yet to be discovered by me. For some absolutely delicious made-to-
order paninis then outside the park’s north-western corner is a little café on Wellington Road. The name
escapes me and so you will have to persevere. Apologies if you stumble across the wrong establishment
and get food poisoning. Man up. On the up side London’s best public convenience 2008 is moments away
up the road!
Southbank
Accessible from about 6 tube stops, South Bank spans a large chunk of the river and is a very
pretty place to go for a wander if only to soak up some of the ambience. Glorious on a sunny
day and also gorgeous at night to see the twinkling lights of London reflected on the Thames.
Crossing any bridge and looking east, St Paul’s can be seen in all its splendour set against the
City’s backdrop which is oddly peaceful. The London Eye is here for those wanting a different
perspective on the city. The Eye is another spectacular thing to behold at night when it is lit
up with pretty colours. The London Aquarium has its home by Westminster Bridge and for
something a little more ‘cultural’ the South Bank offers everything. Here lies the National Film
Theatre, the National Theatre, the Hayward Gallery (always something random and quirky
going on here as well the more conventional arts) and a book market. There are lots of bars
and restaurants, Benugo is particularly delicious for sumptuous Maris piper potato wedges,
but don’t expect student prices!
Any sk8er boiz (or girls) among you may like to hear that there is a much frequented area
and beautifully graffitied area for skaters and skateboarders. Big Ben and all that jazz is not far
if you feel like soaking up some British Heritage.
Brixton
OK, OK, normally it is more famous for an evening’s shooting in McDonald’s and it’s pretty
easy to score drugs outside the tube station (remember everything in moderation), but Brix-
ton has its charms and I find myself oddly fond of it. It has a large number of more grimy,
underground dance clubs many opening their doors when others are in the process of closing.
It also offers a surprising number of very charming and smart bars which you’d expect more
from Fulham Road. Dogstar in Coldharbour Lane is an example of this, serving up banging
tunes alongside tasty Mexican food. Further up this road Joy Boutique sells a quirky range
and men and women’s clothing as well as a random range of novelty items. If you’re partial to
delectable Caribbean food then Brixton, well known for its African and Carribbean popula-
tion will definitely fill your needs. It has its own market a few paces up from the tube and its
place on the Victoria Line means its extremely easy to reach from central London. Another of
my favourite Brixton haunts is the Ritzy Cinema which shows an excellent selection of films
(both Limited and Nationwide release) and has a harming bar selling alcohol which can be
consumed in its screens. The food upstairs in the café is truly delish too and even if you are
not planning on seeing a movie, the Ritzy is worth visiting for this reason alone.
The Carling Academy will almost certainly have something to tempt you whether it’s rock or
dance music or reggae and it’s a brilliant venue.
One very unique club in Brixton is Mass which used to be an old church and now plays
home to the fetish club Torture Garden. University is a time of experimentation and doing
things we will look back on with either shame or pride and this club night is a perfect way to
discover any hidden fantasies that might lurk beneath your seemingly tame scientist’s exte-
rior. As fetish clubs go this is pretty mainstream and it is more about the fancy dress rather
than whips and chains. By fancy dress ANYTHING goes, let your imagination run riot. The
only thing unacceptable is ‘streetwear’ (jeans, shirts and the like). Inside you will find every-
one to be down to earth, open minded and friendly which is more than can be said for most
of your ‘standard’ club nights.
Chapter One – Fun (for Fresher’s)
Written by Caz Knight designed by Rosie Grayburn

