film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Film
Film Editor – Zuzanna Blaszczak
Legendary hunks playing legendary outlaws.
Butch and Sundance
While writing this review I wonder,
how many of the people reading the
Felix film section have seen this clas-
sic movie. Half of you? The problem
with famous old films is that everyone
knows about them or has, somehow
or other, heard of them. How is that
a problem you might rightfully ask.
Well, the problem is that these mov-
ies become cultural references used all
around us but are seldomly watched
by our generation. Speculating away,
I am risking a statement that over the
summer I became one of the few of
our readers to have spent the most en-
joyable two hours of their lives in front
of a TV screen, being blown away by
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
to the wild wild west of the US of A.
For those few of you who don’t know
the story, Butch Cassidy (Paul New-
man) and the Sundance Kid (Robert
Redford) are a pair of outlaws in the
Wild West, known throughout the dry
and yellow country for their love of
bank robbing and terrorising of trains.
And love is exactly the word I wanted
to use, because one of the main things
fueling the story and the movie is the
obvious fondness for what they are do-
ing that emanates from the two anti-
heroes. At the start of the film Butch,
Sundance and their Hole in the Wall
gang enjoy a fairly peaceful life of law
breaking, knowing that Butch’s wits
and Sundance’s mastery of the pistol
has put them out of reach of the local
law enforcement, that is of course un-
til the day when a special unit is creat-
ed, trained and sent out to track them
down and ‘deal’ with the notoriously
gentle robbers. A simple story, isn’t it?
Banal even. But the execution - that’s
where this film dazzles.
First off - the cinematography. Con-
rad Hall, who won Oscars for Ameri-
can Beauty and Road to Perdition was
first recognised for his portrayal of the
great American expanse of nothing in
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.
It could be that the wild west is in itself
so beautiful that the shots are breath-
taking even in sepiatone, but I think it
takes a master’s touch to evoke a sense
of belonging in that desolate land.
But the heart and soul of the movie is
found in the friendship and camarade-
rie between the two outlaws. Redford
and Newman give the performances
This time Felix ignores the new releases bombarding the
cinemas to give you a closer look at a must see classic.
of their lives, proving that good act-
ing doesn’t equal tears and drama on
the screen. Good acting puts a smile
on your face, pulls you in, gives you
a glimpse of what it’s like to be Butch
and Sundance, takes you along for an
unforgettable adventure.
Never pass a chance of watching
this gem, you’ll regret it.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Welcome to the
Film Cynic Clinic
W
here am I again?
As if you hadn’t
heard it enough
already, and just in
case you’d forgot-
ten, welcome to Imperial! Over the
course of the next few weeks you will
proceed through a series of ancient
rituals and rites, as you are enrolled
into the wonderful congealed mass
that is Imperial College London. You
will learn hundreds, potentially mil-
lions of new names and faces, each of
which you will subsequently forget.
Your Facebook account will swell be-
yond reasonable proportions, full of
people you’ll probably never speak to
again, communicating only with polite,
embarrassed smiles as you pass them
on the walkway.
You’ll discover why your Student
Hall only had one tiny photo on the
website, and as you sign the six-figure
rental contract you’ll understand what
living in London truly means. You’ll re-
alise that your generous Student Loan
will buy you at least two loaves of bread
from Waitrose (organic, fair-trade,
healing bread mind you) and that you
can afford to go out about once every
two years.
Where was I again? Oh yes, films.
Wonderful things really. Well apart
from the crap ones. But then I sup-
pose you could always put crap films
in the same category as comfort food.
Perfect for when you just can’t be arsed
and need something warm and stodgy
to settle down with on the cold winter
nights. Think James Bond – but with
Pierce Brosnan; think Bridget Love
Four Hill Weddings Actually Notting
Jones or think Atonement – no wait,
don’t think Atonement. It’s probably
incorrect to describe the Oscar-win-
ning tragic drama as warm and stodgy.
As the soft rubber coating of Fresh-
ers’ week begins to come off the solid
metal rod of teaching, you might find
yourself in need of some mindless re-
laxation. Now to avoid offending genu-
ine Film Critics, I wouldn’t dare say
that all films are just escapist follies.
But go into any HMV and you’ll find
a large shelf that are. Nowadays twelve
quid will buy you an hour and a half of
distraction – not a bad deal when you
think about it. Provided they are con-
sumed in moderation, they can provide
that little piece of essential relaxation.
And strangely enough, all these films
seem to come from one place.
You could think of Hollywood as be-
ing a giant McDonalds, churning out
slabs of reconstituted horse packaged
in a cheerful bright box. “I’ll have a Big
Macandfries”translatesapproximately
into “any of those films with Will Ferrell
in and throw in a bit of Ben Stiller on
the side”. When you open the things up
they’re hideous affairs of the congealed
remains of Z-list actors, fused together
with the sickly sauce of Hollywood’s
bodily fluids. If you’re lucky you might
get a bit of cheese chucked in, in the
form of a veteran comedian, like Leslie
Nielsen. But most of the time you’ll be
left feeling short-changed.
However, like the fatty fast-food for-
ays of McDonalds, you’ll keep finding
yourself late one night lured to the
glowing light of the DVD player. You
know how dreadful it really is, you
know that it’ll never satisfy you in the
long run, but you still keep going back.
Why? Because every once in a while, it
tastes so damn good.
Important Reminder:
Remember to pay your TV licence. Es-
pecially if you don’t have a TV. Because
if you don’t you will automatically be-
come a smaller addition to the Axis
of Evil, slightly below Iran but above
North Korea. For those living in halls,
who are yet to receive their death writ
from the TV Licensing Agency, be pre-
pared. The agency tends to avoid using
the widely accepted principle, inno-
cent until proven guilty, and assumes
you are a cheating, signal grabbing
criminal. Still, it’s nice to know that
someone is looking after our vulner-
able state media.
In cinemas Simon Pegg teaches us how to lose friends and alienate people
For reasons unknown even to me I ex-
pected more from Simon Pegg’s newest
comedy How to Lose Friends and Alien-
ate People. And I wonder why, after all
it is a Simon Pegg movie and Hot Fuzz
should have been indication enough of
what to look out for in this, let’s just
say, fairly well publicised release.
Maybe the reason I expected more
is the story. The rise and fall of a Brit-
ish journalist (Simon Pegg) making his
way in a New York magazine devoted
to the life of stars promised to be new,
original even. A perfect way to give us
an inside view of how celebrities are
created. And, because it’s a comedy, I
envisioned a movie dripping with cyni-
cism, wit and with a spice of bitterness
- precisely the feelings that come to
mind when looking at another ‘shock-
ing’ photo in the London Lite. Obvi-
ously I misunderstood the tag lines.
Hence my surprise, because How
to Lose Friends and Alienate People
is very much a laugh out loud type of
comedy with stuff/people falling over,
cute dogs dying funny deaths and the
main character treating the audience to
numerous ludicrous facial expressions.
And although there is a noticeable lack
of satire, the dialogues are worth men-
tioning. If you’ve been to the cinema
recently you probably recall the ‘please
turn off your mobile phones’ spots by
Orange mobile where a panel of guys
listens to actors trying to sell their idea
for a movie. If you enjoy the inappro-
priate, rude and disarmingly hilari-
ous sentences that leave their mouths
you will laugh shamelessly at Sidney
Young’s remarks and the fact that any
of his attempt at an effective wisecrack
ends in the room going quiet.
That’s what kind of humour to ex-
pect. Now about the acting. Joining Si-
mon Pegg in his ventures in the Sharp
Magazine and the New York high-life
are Kirsten Dunst (the love interest),
Gillian Anderson (the bitchy publicist
Eleanor), Megan Fox (the clueless ce-
Zuzanna Blaszczak lebrity that every guy, including Sid-
ney, dreams of), Danny Houston (the
‘bad guy’ and Sidney’s love rival) and
Jeff Bridges (the boss whose nostalgia
for his student years allows Sidney to
keep his job). I’m sorry to say that both
Dunst and Houston are pretty bland
and forgettable. For that I blame the
fact that Kirsten has a girl-next-door
look and persona that, while cute,
doesn’t stand out. Danny Houston on
the other hand didn’t bring enough
life to the stereotypical character he
plays and his big, straight posture only
deepens the impression of looking at a
cardboard cut out. But Jeff Bridges and
Gillian Anderson come out shining de-
spite their limited ‘on air’ time. With
one look Anderson manages to make
it crystal clear that Eleanor is a cold,
calculating beast that gets what she
wants. While Simon Pegg shows again
that to do comedy you need to leave
self-consciousness outside the door.
If Fresher’s Week depressed you, this
movie is a cure I would recommend. Simon Pegg and Kirsten Dunst make for an unlikely couple
Welcome to a new year at Imperial and
a new year of Clubs & Societies. We’ve
just had our biggest Clubs & Societies
event of the year – Freshers’ Fair.
A big thank you to all the Clubs &
Societies, organisers, volunteers and
of course all the students who came
for making this year’s Freshers’ Fair our
biggest and most successful ever!
Despite last minute changes of the plans
due to forecasted bad weather (which
in true British tradition almost failed to
materialise), over 6,000 students came to
campus to visit the 340 stalls, talk to Clubs
& Societies, sign up to mailing lists, pick up
freebies and get involved in all the amazing
things that the Union has to offer.
There was a great atmosphere
throughout the whole campus, both in
College and over the road in the Union.
The Main Dining Hall and Ante Room
were buzzing with Arts and Social clubs
as well as numerous external companies.
Just outside the Main Dining Hall in the
Queen’s Lawn Car Park were all the
Faculty Union mascots.
In the Great Hall all of our overseas Clubs
and Societies showcased their individual
cultures and customs with some of
the most lively and colourful stalls on
campus.
The relocated RSM and CGCU clubs
swelled the numbers in the JCR which
also housed the food and drink and
gaming societies.
Upper Dalby Court not only had its own
isolated gale-force weather conditions,
but a lot of the outdoors Sport Clubs as
well as Gliding club who brought one of
their gliders along for all to see. The rest
of the Sports clubs filled the Business
School Foyer which was packed with
eager students all day and proved a highly
successful rain-based contingency plan.
Over the road in the Union, things
were no less busy. The stage in the
Beit Marquee was used to showcase a
huge variety of clubs all day, including
a Fencing demo, a Kendo martial
arts demo and even a bit of audience
participation with a Boat Club race-
off supervised by ex-Olympian Steve
Trapmore! Beit Quad also saw its first
high-striker, organised by the Royal
College of Science Union.
Meanwhile, the rest of the crowds in
the Union had plenty to see with all the
adventure sports and media clubs in the
Marquee bringing along their assorted
equipment, cameras and televisions, as
well as all the charity, social, religious
and martial arts clubs who were housed
in the rest of the Union building.
This year, Freshers’ Fair did not just stop
at 4pm. It continued in the Beit Marquee
with the Freshers’ Fair Afterparty and a
stage show featuring great music and
dance performances from Chamber
Choir, Classical Guitar, String Ensemble,
Musical Theatre, Dance Company,
Gospel Choir, Afro-Caribbean, Hindu
Society, Funkology, Capoeira and Dance
Club. The show also featured a fair bit of
audience participation with a free salsa
lesson proving to be lots of fun.
The night was finished off in great style
with Jazz & Rock showcasing one of
their student bands and Music Tech
closing the show with their student DJs.
The whole night was brilliantly compered
by one of our very own students: Billy
Feenan and teched by Dramsoc.
There are many people without whose
help and efforts in the run-up to the
event and on the day, Freshers’ Fair
simply could not have happened. My
thanks go to all the Clubs & Societies
Committee Execs and Faculty Union
Execs who turned up at 7:30am to help
set up, all the clubs who turned up
and made it a great day, everyone who
helped tidy up and of course, all the
students who came along to the Fair
and made it what it was. Thanks also
to all the clubs and Billy Feenan who
put in so much effort and wonderful
performances to make the Afterparty the
most successful Freshers’ Tuesday night
ever!
My thanks also go to all the members
of College who didn’t have to help
students take over campus, but did! To
Paula Consiglio for letting us use the
Car Park; Terry Branch and the Security
team and Tim Ashton, Peter Seal and
the Fire Officers who kept us safe all
day and who were so understanding
with the change of plans; Courtney
Richards, Steve Fooks, Graham Watson
and their teams from Estates; Neil
Mosley, Nick Gore, Grant Danskine,
Alissa Ayling and all the Sport Imperial
team who looked after the Business
School Foyer; the receptionists at the
College Main Entrance; Iain Reid, the
Ethos receptionists,
the Student Hub
Team and the
Communications
Team along with
Pamela Michaels
who helped us
distribute the Wet Weather Plans and let
all the students know what was going
on; Emily Moss in the Conference Office
and the Conference Office staff for all
their help in booking things and helping
to set-up on the day; Ian Morris for all
his help in the Sir Alexander Fleming
Building; Ian Gillett for coming along
to speak to all the clubs at the Club
Officers’ Introductory Talk and Rodney
Eastwood for letting us use the Business
School Foyer.
My special thanks to Paddy Jackman
and Jane Neary for all their help both
in the run-up to the Fair and on the day
- without them so many clubs would
have been displaced without anywhere
to go. Thank you for letting us take over
the JCR on one of your busiest days, for
helping us out in our moment of need
and thanks also to the JCR staff for
being so patient as hundreds of students
took over the room on Tuesday! The
whole Union owes you all a huge debt of
gratitude.
We hope that you all enjoyed the Fair and
that you got the chance to see and meet
all the Clubs & Societies that Imperial
has to offer. All you need to do now is
join up and start participating. You can
join any of our Clubs & Societies online
at imperialcollegeunion.org, simply log in
and browse all our Clubs & Societies!
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Amazing Freshers’ FairWelcomes New Students
LilyTopham
Deputy President
(Clubs&Societies)
dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
Photos: Tom Roberts

