games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Tom Roberts
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Games
Tom Roberts
Defector
I
did it. I’m sorry everyone. It’s
not the best way to start the
year, but I did it. On Sunday
morning at 11:32am I betrayed
my footballing love and em-
barked on a lustful affair with FIFA 09,
fuelled by attractive aesthetics, a desire
to conquer uncharted and mystical ter-
ritory, new buttons to push, and a fully
fleshed out package (matron!).
After ten years of inseparable mat-
rimony, 2008 was the lowest of low
points in my previous relationship, and
the time came for Thomas Anthony
Roberts and the Pro Evo series to go
our separate ways.
Sure, it’s not the be all and end all.
We’re still on good terms and if we meet
at a party or something, we’ll definitely
converse, appreciate the good ol’ times
and glance in each other’s general direc-
tion. We might even have a quick fum-
ble. I certainly haven’t ruled that possi-
bility out although I’m not sure my new
missus would be best pleased.
My relationship with Pro Evo be-
came stale. Heck, I barely touched
her during the 2007-08 season, I was
that tired of the old dear. Ever since
the glorious days of Pro Evo 5, things
have never quite been the same again.
The relationship slowed down, became
less exciting. The little things began to
niggle at me more. The things that I
brushed off before because my undy-
ing love was all conquering. But part
way through 2008 I began to have eyes
for fairer beauties. It’s an old cliché but
the grass started to become greener on
other football pitches. We even tried
to reconcile our differences last week
when she unveiled her latest build to
me, playable on Xbox Live. Initially I
was aghast, the flame began to reignite
and I felt that giddy excitement in the
pit of my tummy, but who was I fool-
ing? Myself. It was time to put the past
behind me and move on.
And here I am. FIFA 09 has moved
in with me and flowers are already
beginning to bloom. The memories
of Pez (that was my pet name for her,
heh! Sniff.) still remain, and sometimes
I feel like I treat Fifi (what?) too much
like my old flame, which I’m not sure
she’s keen on. But we’re getting along
just fine. She really is a looker, but
what she lacks in charm and intelli-
gence she really makes up for in other
areas. I don’t think I’ve ever seen such a
fully-fleshed out slice of fun! There are
so many things to discover, so many
secrets to unlock and I can definitely
see this relationship lasting for at least
a year or more. But then there’s the
parents. Mr Konami was a fairly mod-
est, sedate fellow who rarely interfered
with his baby’s development, but I
hear Mr EA is a hulking juggernaut of
a beast. Quite meddling in fact, and if
he gets his claws in there could be con-
sequences that ripple through our new
relationship.
Anyway, you’re probably all shout-
ing, “Get a blog emo kid,” but I’ll leave
you with this: if anyone wants a three-
some, I’m well up for it.
If you want to write something
sensible on these pages, email
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Bargain Hunt: The Game
Struggling with budgetary requirements? Tom Roberts has his priorities in order and
offers a few tips on how to fuel your gaming habit without spending a small fortune
L
iving in London, as you’re
probably already aware, is
an expensive and challeng-
ing undertaking. With so
much to do and see, budg-
eting becomes a balancing act: do I
skip breakfast and lunch every day
this week, whilst running the risk of
catching the bad AIDs and incurring
the wrath of my ever-watchful mother,
just so that I can afford to venture to
Elephant & Castle on a Friday night
in search of strobe lights and grade-B
stockhookersattheMinistryofSound?
Then, to top off your hedonistic addic-
tions you’re probably a big fan of video
games. With such a meagre loan, how
are you going to afford to live and res-
cue Peach from the clutches of Bowser
at the same?
Hopefully, the following guide will
give you some ideas about where you
can pick up games more cheaply. Ini-
tially, the article was aimed right be-
tween the eyes of our fresher universi-
ty companions but having spoken to a
number of my friends, many of whom
still rely on GAME to supplement their
cyber addiction, gaming poverty is
more widespread than I had originally
thought. On the other hand, if you’re
the gaming equivalent of David Dickin-
son and you’ve uncovered some places
that sell games even cheaper than chips
that I haven’t stumbled upon, do get in
touch and we can spread the love in a
future issue.
On the Highstreet
Buying games on the high street really
is a good way of burning money fast. At
40 quid a pop for most console games,
you’ll be drinking tap water and eating
chopped tomatoes out of a can for the
following two weeks. Not even the Na-
polina variety. If you must have a game
on release day, then you’re going to be
paying a premium whether you go on-
line or not. If you do choose to head to
the high street, shop around. On High
Street Ken for instance, many a time
Zavvi has bettered GAME. Blockbust-
ers, a bit further down the street, has
a penchant for pricing new releases at
£29.99. In fact, your best bets are the
supermarkets: only this week I man-
aged to get FIFA 09 for just under 30
notes. And yes, I am ashamed I bought
a FIFA game, see elsewhere on the page
for a flimsy attempt at justification. Su-
permarkets only tend to stock the most
mainstream titles though, so buying
Disgaea 3 on release day for less than
top dollar will be nigh on impossible.
So far GAME (replace with Gamesta-
tion if you like) has hasn’t fared too
well in this article, but their pre-owned
sections aren’t that dreadful, where you
can often pick up older releases on 2
for £20 offers. Likewise, with dramatic
price cuts on all titles – whether pre-
owned or not – after 3-6 months in
most stores, it’s certainly worth wait-
ing before buying. I managed to pick
up Company of Heroes and Lost on
the PC together for £15 from GAME
not so long ago.
Internet Retailers and Search
Engines
Now that I’ve figuratively shat on the
high street, we can move on to the in-
ternet: serious business. Many inter-
net retailers root themselves into the
fertile soils of the Channel Islands so
that they can dodge various tax costs;
play.com, hmv.com and Tesco Jersey
are just a few. Thankfully, they actu-
ally lop a bit off the RRP rather than
bunging the extra wedge into their teak
coffers. New PC releases often start at
£17.99 and console games come in at
£29.99, or £34.99 for the heavy sellers.
That’s a hell of a saving on PC games
especially. In the wake of play.com’s
success, a plethora of websites have
sprung up, all trying to out-price each
other. Competition is excellent news
for the consumer, but trawling every
site is a tedious process. Find-games.
co.uk cuts out this faff. Simply enter
the name of the title you’re after and
it will give you a link to the best price
on the interweb. Simple. A sister sites
also exists for DVDs (find-dvd.co.uk).
You could use kelkoo or whatever, but
frankly most other comparison sites
are unwieldy and don’t cater specifi-
cally to a gamer’s needs. Find-games.
co.uk is especially useful when it comes
to older titles since you’ll often discov-
er prices slashed far more on one site
compared to the others as they attempt
to shift some older stock.
Obviously, the main disadvantage of
internet retailers is the postage delay.
Times vary for different websites, and
different people will tell you different
stories about their individual experi-
ences. In my view, use the cheapest site
when it’s not urgent. Gameplay.com
is one of the best sites for pre-orders,
often breaking release date. Shush, just
don’t tell the publishers!
Finally, spare a thought for websites
belonging to electronics stores such as
Comet and Currys. Often they have ri-
diculous price cuts on games, down to
as little as a fiver for 360 and PS3 titles
that they want shot of quickly. They
should also appear on find-games.
co.uk.
Second Hand Games
eBay is an obvious source of cheap
games, but one that requires careful
monitoring. Always make sure you
check out the seller’s feedback and if
he’s labelled his item: “L@@K AWE-
ZOMES GAME FOR JU – NEED FOR
SPEED EA PWNAGE TRIPLE SIXTY
VERSHUN!!1one!11” you probably
want to avoid it. Prices often baffle me
here too; people frequently bid higher
than if they used find-games.co.uk and
sometimes even above the RRP, which
probably says a lot about the IQ of the
average eBay user. My mum included.
Whilst you’ll struggle to find the
more obscure titles on Amazon’s Mar-
ketplace, compared with eBay it’s a
decent alternative for finding cheap,
second hand games. The main bonus
is that there’s no need to deal with ir-
ritating people, vastly inflated postage
costs and the shifty atmosphere that
eBay has procured with its popularity.
There’s also a safe buying guarantee up
to £2,000 should your item not meet
the advertised specification or fail to
be delivered.
Gaming Forums
Now we’re descending into the real
sticky-taped spectacles depths of in-
ternet bargaining. Sir Dickinson would
be proud. The internet is frequented
by millions of people everyday and
guess what, they’re not actually all pae-
dophiles. I know, I know, I’ve revealed
one of the internet’s biggest secrets
there; one that could potentially put
the editors of The Sun and The Daily
Mail out of business, but it’s the truth.
Gaming forums are a hive of like mind-
ed individuals, many of whom buy and
play far too many games, many more
than they can possibly consume let
alone afford. If you join your favourite
site’s forum, you’ll likely find a bargains
thread peppered with links to websites
selling games at very low prices. Using
these forums is a great way of getting
games cheaply, the only real danger is
that you’ll still spend 40 quid, although
on three games instead of one. Hell,
you don’t even have to talk to people
on the forums. Just sign up and lurk in
the background, reaping the benefits
that your fellow gamers sow.
Better still, if you’re feeling brave join
a forum that has a Swapsies thread:
one where gamers list what they’ve got
on offer and what they’re after. For the
cost of postage, this is easily the most
effective and cheapest way of getting
through many, many games. Bearing in
mind that no-one is going to swap Lit-
tle Big Planet for Quake 64, you’re best
bet is to complete a new game as soon
as possible and then venture to such
threads whilst your cupcake is still
hot. With much smaller communities
than say eBay and written interaction
between forum-goers, you’ll soon get
a feel for the more trustworthy indi-
viduals and filter out the shady dealers.
Gaming forums are a treasure trove: I
managed to pick up an Xbox 360, with
a wireless bridge, four games and some
other bobbins, for about £100-150
cheaper than if I’d bought it online.
And finally…
It would be criminal of me to write this
guide without mentioning hotdealsuk.
com. Founded in 2004, the idea behind
the site was to filter through all the ad-
vertising waffle that is thrust through
our retinas everyday and spread the
word on the best bargains in all walks
of life. A quick glance at the site shows
me that I can get Iris with Judi Dench
what-off-the-telly for £1.99, Smash
Court Tennis 3 for a tenner and a huge
box of Coco Pops for £2 from ASDA.
You can filter the site for whatever
you’re interested in and when a new
bargain is spotted users affect its rank-
ing by voting depending on how ‘hot’
they deem the deal to be. Most forums
link to hotdealsuk.com regularly so
it’s probably not necessary to watch it
constantly, but it’s worth keeping an
eye on.
A more recent phenomenon is quid-
co.com. In a nutshell, the website acts
as a cashback scheme. After creating a
quidco account, you simply log in, click
on an affiliate link from within quidco.
com which takes you to your favourite
website, eg: play.com, and then shop
as normal. Quidco alters your web
browser’s cookies so that when you
purchase something from play.com
they know you found the website by
going via Quidco. You’re then given a
percentage of your purchase back in
cashback form; anything from a few to
ten percent or so.
Eventually you are ‘paid’ by Quidco,
who will transfer what you have ac-
crued into your bank account. I haven’t
actually set up an account myself, but
some people I have spoken to have
made hundreds and hundreds pounds
from Quidco, especially since it can be
used on just about any major website,
including non-gaming ones.
So, there you go. As a rule of thumb
shop around, especially on the high
street. Unwrap yourself from any cot-
ton wool you might be cocooned in
and do investigate the ‘darker’ depths
of the internet. And don’t just go for
the latest releases, there’s a plethora of
older gaming goodness out there for
much cheapness.
These tips are by no means exhaus-
tive though: I’ve omitted the bargains
available on Steam, rental websites, in-
die-devs and flash based sites, the lat-
ter of which have surprisingly sophis-
ticated games, all for free. Hopefully
though, this guide will give you food
for thought and food for your belly!
Four web addresses any thrifty geek should have bookmarked
www.find-games.co.uk
www.avforums.com/forums/gaming-bargains/ www.eurogamer.net/forum_thread_posts.php?thread_id=2204
www.hotdealsuk.com
Total US
revenues for 2007
Games: $18.8bn Movies: $9.5bn
Fleecing you and taking your money to the bank – laughing – since stores opened!
You’ll struggle to find the new releases much below the RRP anywhere. Supermarkets might knock off a tenner though. I’m so sorry Pez, dear

