30 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Orientation Workshops
October 2008
Monday 13th
October, 1-2pm SAF Building, Lecture Theatre 1 (room G16)
Personal Safety and Crime Prevention
Come along and meet our local Safer Neighbourhood Police Officers
Tuesday 14th
October 1-2pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Immigration Issues for non-EU/EEA students
This workshop is essential for any student visa holders.
Wednesday 15th
October, 1-2pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Postgraduate Life
How to make the most of your PG studies and succeed in your research
Thursday 16th
October, 1-2pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Using your Money Wisely
The manager of our local Natwest Bank will offer money saving tips
Friday 17th
October 1-2pm, SAF Building, Lecture Theatre 1 (room G16)
Student visa renewal
For students who have a student visa expiring in October 2008
Monday 20th
October 1-2pm SALC, Room 2, Level 5 Sherfield Building
Adjusting to student life in London
How to cope with unexpected change when far from home
Tuesday 21st
October, 12-1pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Working during and after your studies
For students who wish to work whilst studying or afterwards
Wednesday 22nd
October 1-2pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Post Study Work
How to apply for permission to stay and work in the UK after your studies
Thursday 23rd
October, 1-2pm, Pippard Lecture Theatre
Financial issues for international students
Including council tax, TV licences, financial assistance, and insurance
Friday 24th
October, 1-2pm, SAF Building, Lecture Theatre 1 (room G16)
Student visa renewal
For students who have a student visa expiring in October 2008
Pippard Lecture Theatre = Level 5, Sherfield Building
SAF Building G16 = Level 1, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
Bookings for all sessions will open on Wednesday 8th
October
contact: Imperial College International Office,
Level 1 Sherfield Building, South Kensington Campus
email: international@imperial.ac.uk t: +44 (0)20 7594 8040
Some workshops will be repeated at Silwood Park Campus, see our
website for details:
© 2008 Deloitte & Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche LLP is an equal opportunities employer.
Discover more at www.deloitte.co.uk/graduates
You may have already read how we’re one of the most successful professional services firms. You may have
also heard about the breadth and depth of the career opportunities on offer. But shouldn’t you discover
more about us for yourself?
When you come along to our upcoming Open Presentation, we’ll kick things off with a short talk. After that,
you can spend the rest of the evening asking our friendly staff questions of your own. What training will you
receive? What kind of skills will you learn from some of the foremost experts in their field? How will we help
you to balance your work with your other interests? Get the answers direct from people who know. People
who’ve been in your shoes.
Get a taste of what life with us is like. It’s your future. How far will you take it?
Event: Imperial Open Presentation
Date: Wednesday 15th October, 2008
Venue: Skempton Building, Imperial College London,
Exhibition Road, London SW7 2AZ
Time: 6.30pm
What are we offering?
Come and get a taste
This weeks TV, with a bit of
a twist
It’s another week of credit crunch TV
ahead so here are a selection of the best
of the coming days’ viewing to enter-
tain you out of your financial worries.
Friday night kicks off with Big Cat
Live (BBC1 7:30) which sees David
Attenborough visiting homes around
London with a handheld camera to
document the behaviour of particu-
larly oversized or vicious domestic
felines. Don’t miss tonight’s episode
of Coronation Street (ITV1 8:30) as
Liam tries to convince Maria that own-
brand baked beans are just as good as
Heinz while costing only half as much.
Things are hotting up on Saturday with
Casualty (BBC1 7:40): there’s been a
mass suicide at Lloyds TSB HQ, but
can Charlie convince the stress-weary
bankers that status isn’t everything?
Or chill out with Trinny and Suzanna
as they explore How to look good in
leaves (ITV2 8:00) where the pair visit
parks around London and show you
how to make a fashionable garment
for the cost of a travelcard and a ball
of string. Sunday is never dull with an
episode of Merlin (BBC1 6:30) to look
forward to, provided you can make-be-
lieve that the ‘dragon’ isn’t just a horse
covered in red crêpe paper.
Monday night TV as usual is can-
celled due to budget restrictions but
wind up your radio and tune into some
reruns of The Archers (BBC Radio 4
2:00-10:30). On Tuesday the must-
see programme is Who wants to be a
homeowner? (ITV1 8:00): Chris Tar-
rant hosts the ever-popular game show
in which contestants attempt to answer
fifteen questions to win a variable rate
mortgage from Halifax. On Wednes-
day all eyes will be glued to the BBC
News at Ten: Revolution Special (BBC1
10:00) as another American banker in-
volved in the sub-prime mortgage fias-
co is sent to the chair taking the death
toll to seventy three -- don’t forget to
defrost your popcorn! Finally Thurs-
day is movie night as all the channels
club together to pay for Casablanca (all
channels 6:00).
David Stewart
felix needs you!
Felix is written by students
for students. We need your
contributions so that we can
report on news stories and keep
everybody entertained during the
most arduous of lectures.
Felix is actively recruiting again now the new
academic year has started. We specifically need:
Webmasters
• to upload issues and articles to the
website (union.ic.ac.uk/felix at the moment!)
Medic news writers
• to report on anything that
affects medical students at Imperial
Feature writers
• to research and create unique
articles
Comment columnists
• to join in with the current
crop of opinionated writers
Contributors for all the sections
• or writers keen
on joining in with more than one section
Copy editors
• with an eagle-eye for grammar
mistakes to form part of our crack team
Yes, it is in twice, but that’s because your
contribution matters to us. Email me at
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial student
looks in mirror...
Haxz0rMcRandy_1(2.0)
L33t interweb Haxzor
Activities that are usually considered
routine for most people are more often
than not discarded by Imperial males.
Such routine activities include, but are
not limited to, showering, grooming,
trimming toe and ear hair and brush-
ing teeth. I don’t think I need to re-it-
erate my comments about their dress.
Unless you have had a night of copious
drinking like myself, it really is not that
hard to find your way to that room in
your house with the sink and toilet.
One Imperial Student, Dave Gorm-
less, took our advice with mixed re-
sults. After hours of scrubbing him-
self, the IC biochem student (because
obviously biochem students are ugly)
looked at his reflection in the bath-
room mirror. The shock has motivated
Dave Gormless to work harder than
ever. If you’re never going to get a girl-
friend with your looks, you may as well
try and get a job in a city and use cash
instead. No?
The 1st still won’t get him a
job in the city
He’s going to need some sort of awesome CV or something
How’s Jovan doing so far?
Response
This piece is a response
to the Comment article
written by Susie Peng
with contributions from
Vicky Edwards, Chris
Woolley, Katharina
Reeh, Clarissa Poh, Ei
Mun Chuah, and Drew
Thomas.
Dear Susie Peng, her female associates
and the two dudes who only went along
with the idea because they thought it
would increase their chances of getting
laid,
Hangman takes your comments very
seriously and has thought hard and long
(lol) about how to proceed henceforth.
We have done two things:
1. Wrote a much more offensive reply
to your letter which the Editor would
not let us publish... bitch
2. Taken Haxz0rMcRandy_1 to the
top of the Queens Tower shot him ex-
ecution style with a 9mm Brown-
ing automatic pistol (sweet). He
is now to be replaced by his son
Haxz0rMcRandy_1(2.0). If this is not
enough indication of our dedication
to the female population of this ‘pres-
tigious academic institution’, we just
don’t know what is.
Perhaps we can discuss this mat-
ter further over drinks. Call me. Oh
right I didn’t give you my number...
kthnxbye!
Secretive Hangman Editor
There’s nothing like the collapse of
our financial system to ruin the ca-
reer hopes of Imperial students. If you
haven’t already realised this, please
read on. Quick! Your future is literally
disappearing by the second.
As you pile up your student debt
with nights out at Boujis or trips to the
V&A or dinner out with your friends
you wouldn’t be blamed for thinking
that it’ll all be fine when you get your
high-flying job in the city.
Sure the 26 hour days will almost
kill you and the huge amount of time
you ‘ll spend with people who only talk
about the markets will chip away at
your soul bit by bit until you’re a shell
of your formal self. But all that doesn’t
matter, what matters is that you’ll have
a really hot suit and tons of cash.
The greedy U.S. homeowners/Barack
Obama/the free market has a different
plan for you however. Instead you’ll be
forced to send your worthless, boring
CV that doesn’t do anything except
display your abysmal lack of intern-
ships, to an ever diminishing number
of banks who will only be able to offer
you £30,000 a year job with NO PERKS.
Scared? You should be.
There is no hope. However if you
really insist on putting your 4 years of
scientific education to waste and pur-
sue a selfish lifestyle instead of helping
mankind through scientific research
then you should do a few things.
1. Get comfortable in a suit, employ-
ers can sense when you’re uncomfort-
able. Wear a suit everyday, even wear it
to bed. Become one with the suit.
2. Spend every free moment you
have doing internships, what do you
do when your lectures finish? You go
make coffee for an MD at Citibank
3. As the title suggests, get an awe-
some CV or something (the something
being, get a life and some proper aspi-
rations you fucking tool).
Who are we to judge other people’s ed-
itorial skills when our section is often
rude, crude, crass, sexy, insulting, and
lacking in wit, misogyny and restraint?
We’re the fucking Hangman Team
that’s who!
There has been some good and some
bad from Jov’s time so far. Let’s start
with the good and move onto the bad.
Good:
1. He managed to sneak the issue
into every single Fresher’s bedroom,
yes that was Jov. Not me. Don’t call the
police.
2. He exposed the high-prices of ac-
commodation at Imperial which is
probably why the Fresher’s were so
subdued at the Mingle. Or just that
they aren’t hardcore.
3. He put a fridge in the office, then
he put a beer in the fridge. After that
we got drunk and I think it was by the
4th beer that he started touching me
and I don’t want to talk about this any
more.
But we love felix, so saying what was
good is understandably easy. The hard
part is swallowing our pride and ad-
mitting that some of the content in the
paper that Hangman associates itself
with isn’t perfect.
Bad:
1.Grammar and spelling. Please do
not look at last weeks issue closely...
you’re going to fish out last weeks is-
sue and look now aren’t you? No? aw
cheers bruv
2. We feel like the Hangman/Coffee
Break pullout was, well some people
use the word ‘offensive’, I prefer the
term ‘complaint-provoking’. Although
we file this under bad, meaning BAD-
ASS.
3. There are never more than two
things wrong with Felix! Who do you
think we are Live!?
The Hangman give Jov a verdict of,
out of ten, EPIC FAIL. Check in next
week to see if he’s improved.
Putting the cat out to dry
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hangman
Look at him. Waste Gash.
Called evil by many for proposing a
rise in the tuition fee cap, I believe
Oxford rector, Lord Patten, is onto
something. By making home stu-
dents pay more, universities will get
more money and therefore I will have
to pay less! “How does this work?” I
hear you ask. Well, I’m foreign!
Being foreign, I pay 5 times as much
as you unwashed English bastards;
and let’s not even get started on the
filthy continentals. By paying your
fucking share, I get to come here and
get my education for cheaper so I can
spend more time and money stealing
your women and your jobs.
I applaud this old white man, even
though I never would do the same for
any other. Huzzah, pip pip, and see
you at the Wharf!
Evil Oxford rector
is totally right
“If you come round here again, I’ll use the blue laser!!!”
Ross Goldberg
Really Fat Dead Guy
Ross Goldberg
Really Fat Dead Guy
31
Friday 10 October 2008 felix

