34 felix Friday 10 October 2008 35
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
“Trolls,” our guidebook stated, “are
legendary creatures, hostile to hu-
mans, found lurking anywhere in the
mountains”. And in the mountains we
definitely were, on the Fellwander-
ers’ 2008 summer tour to Jotunheim
National Park in Norway, home to
the highest mountains in Northern
Europe. The plan was to complete
a circuit of the park’s central region
over a nine day period, hopefully
bagging Norway’s highest mountain
on the way. (And dodging the trolls,
obviously.)
And so it was that, thanks to the
magic of Ryanair (who optimisti-
cally define Stanstead as a ‘London’
airport), a group of eleven bleary-
eyed fellwanderers were to be found
queuing up in the departure lounge
at 4.30am, one Tuesday morning in
July.
Despite hernia-inducing over-
weight rucksacks and the presence of
five kilos of porridge mix (granular
white powder in unmarked clear plas-
tic bags - oh dear), everyone made it
to the plane intact, and we were soon
wandering around Oslo taking in the
sights. Oslo actually achieves the rare
distinction of being one of the few
cities more expensive than London,
fortunately the prison-like Anker
Hostel (suggested corporate slogan:
Resistance Is Useless) and the local
Subway franchise enabled everyone
to make it to the bus the following
morning feeling reasonably human.
A five hour drive north put us by
the shores of 18km long Lake Gjende,
at the Gjendesheim road-head and
hut, where Dave, Jon and Nathaniel
promptly jumped in. And regretted
it, unsurprisingly - Gjende is 1000m
above sea level and fed mostly by gla-
cial meltwater!
Apart from the spectacular scen-
ery, one of Jotunheim’s most attrac-
tive features is that there are no roads
within the park boundaries, nor any
permanent inhabitants apart from
the staff of the mountain huts. So al-
though only extending over 3900km2
, there’s a real feeling of isolation.
Not that we felt very isolated the next
morning;
Our first day’s hike, from Gjendeshe-
im to Memurubu, included the
Bessegen ridge. One of Norway’s most
popular hiking trails, the day con-
sisted of a steep 740m climb onto the
Veslfjellet ridge, which in turn drops
down a steep, exposed scramble onto
Bessegen proper, a narrow spine of
rock separating Lakes Bessvatn and
Gjende. Bessvatn is about 10m below
the ridge – and Gjende is about 400m
below, down a sheer cliff face. A great
scramble and even better views, even
if half of Norway seemed to be on the
ridge at times! (Very attractive they all
were too – definitely more so than the
denizens of the average UK mountain.)
We did note, though, that we seemed
to have bigger rucksacks than any-
one else – something that got harder
and harder to ignore as we completed
the final climb and then long descent
down to Memurubu hut, halfway along
the northern shore of Lake Gjende.
As the mountain huts can often be
expensive, we’d opted to carry tents
and about half of our food - this kept
the trek affordable, but there were
definitely times when all the gear just
seemed far too heavy!
After packing the tents, the next day
was definitely less spectacular than the
first; a long, tiring slog alongside an-
other lake, Russvatn, and then over a
col to the hut at Glitterheim. An Indi-
ana Jones style footbridge over a gorge
provided a diversion and some amus-
ing video footage, but by the time we
reached Glitterheim some members
of the group were clearly struggling,
summer term dissertations and exams
having taken something of a priority
over fitness! It was decided to reduce
the planned route by skipping the hut
at Skogadalsboen, and having a rest
day at Glitterheim. Fortunately, the hut
was operated by the DNT (Norwegian
Hiking Association) and so was cheap
to sleep in, especially as we could pro-
vide our own food – in this case, my
famous ‘Meaty pasta with meat sauce’.
Critical reviews were, well, critical;
Evelyne succinctly described it as ‘dog-
food’. Still, it did the job.
After a day of card playing, we bid
goodbye to our bunk-room and head-
ed onwards to the road-head and large
hut complex at Spiterstulen. Gorgeous
weather and a pleasant ascent of the
col at Veslglupen gave way to torren-
tial rain in the last hour of descent to
the hut; our original plan to camp was
hastily discarded as we negotiated a
group discount for a bunk-room. This
was easier than it sounds; although
none of us could tell Norwegian from
alphabet soup, everyone we met spoke
better English than we did, frankly.
We planned to stay two days at Spit-
erstulen, both to try and summit Gald-
hoppigen (Norway’s highest mountain
at 2469m), and also to try and get a
closer look at some of the glaciers in
the area. So the next morning about
two thirds of the group assembled for
an early breakfast before starting up
the trail to Galdhoppigen (literally, “Big
Peak”- imaginative types, these Nor-
wegians). Total ascent from Spiterstu-
len to the summit is 1363m – in other
words, the climb to the top is greater
than the entire height of Ben Nevis, the
UK’s tallest mountain, from sea level! A
steep walk followed by the crossing of a
large snowfield put us at the base of the
summit ridge, and a couple of hundred
metres scramble over loose scree and
boulders put us on the eastern end of
the summit ridge at Svellnose, about
220m below the main summit, which
was about a kilometre away along a
fairly narrow ridge. Unfortunately, the
weather, which had been overcast all
morning, was rapidly closing in, and
Fellwanderers battle trolls,
Imperial fellwanderers took a summer trip to Jotunheim National Park in Norway,
Christopher Mark reports on their adventures
mountains and reindeer in a tin
“Very attractive
they all were
– definitely
more so than
the denizens of
the average UK
mountain”
“Dinner
featured tinned
reindeer, while
breakfast was
packets of a
dried porridge
called ‘Grott’ ”
with visibility dropping we decided not
to continue along the ridge, which had
a lot of snow cover. With hindsight, we
regretted our early start; the weather
cleared up by late afternoon, and with
better visibility we probably would
have had the confidence to reach the
summit. Still, the herd of reindeer
we encountered halfway down partly
made up for it.
The next day Mairead, Joe, Jon,
Yvonne and Catarina decided to join
a guided group to go walking on the
Svellnos glacier, hiring crampons from
the hut. Roped together, they got a
great look at some crevasses and ice-
pillars close up. Dave, Anna, Nathan-
iel and myself meanwhile decided to
hike out to have a look at the northern
tongue of the Veobrean glacier. With-
out the equipment to get onto the gla-
cier itself safely, we settled for a quick
game of poker on a flat rock by the gla-
cier’s snout. Extreme poker – could be
next year’s big thing.
Putting Spiterstulen behind us, the
next day saw us pushing up the valley
to the hut and roadhead at Leirvassbu.
The valley walls on each side towered
at least 1000m above us for the first
few kilometres, making for a gentle but
spectacular walk to Kyrkjeglupen, right
beneath the mountain known as Kyrka
(“Church Steeple”), named for its spec-
“Extreme poker
– could be next
year’s big thing ”
tacular near-vertical summit pinna-
cle. Camping beside Leirvassbu hut at
1400m, we finished the last of the food
we’d brought with us, while a copy of
the board game Risk (in Norwegian)
inside the hut allowed everyone to un-
leash their inner tyrant to their heart’s
content.
Leaving Leirvassbu, the weather, al-
ready sunny, was perfect; we crested
the low col above the hut to reveal the
most gorgeous views down the snow-
covered Langdalen valley to Hima-
layan-looking mountain ridges in the
distance, under a perfect blue sky. The
day’s hike was relatively short, over al-
ternating snowfields and talus slopes
to a very steep snow-covered slope
leading up to a col immediately before
Olavsbu- our destination for the night.
The hut was small and wonderfully
remote; washing facilities included
a deluxe river pool by the front door,
complete with bobbing rafts of ice
which hadn’t yet thawed. Needless to
say most of the group went straight for
a mind-numbingly cold dip, followed
by an attempted group photo sitting
on the largest ice raft. Unfortunately
it wasn’t quite thick enough to take
the weight of Dave, the first person to
reach it, who sat poised on the edge for
a moment before disappearing through
it with a startled yelp.
Dinner and breakfast were provided
by the hut; unlike the others we used
Olavsbu was “self-service”, meaning
that you helped yourself to a selection
of tins and packets and paid for it all
in an honesty box. Dinner featured
tinned reindeer and a brand of tinned
vegetables called ‘Sodd’, while breakfast
was packets of a dried porridge called
‘Grott’ (appropriate name!).
Bidding a fond farewell to Olavsbu
and it’s magical location (and slightly
less magical “traditional toilets” –
think wooden seat over a large box) we
descended through rotting snowfields
and, lower down, a birchwood car-
peted with flowers to reach Gjendebu,
our final hut, at the western end of
Lake Gjende. Shortly after we reached
it, I was ambushed coming out of the
bunkhouse and dropped in the lake – a
traditional Fellwanderers way of say-
ing thank you to a trip organiser. Still, I
managed to drag next year’s president,
Nathaniel, in with me – if I was going
in, so was he!
Sadly, that was the end of our Nor-
way adventure; a boat the next morn-
ing took us the length of Gjende back
to Gjendesheim and the bus connec-
tion to civilisation, and a return to
Stanstead via a bar in Oslo. We’d hiked
88km not including the side trips to
Galdhoppigen and the glaciers. A
fantastic trip and thanks in no par-
ticular order to Nathaniel, Dave, Anna,
Mairead, Catarina, Joe, Jonathan,
Yvonne, Evelyne and Nick for making
it so memorable!
Sitting looking over the pictures
weeks later in London, I for one wish
I was still there.
Designe by Alice Rowlands

