sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 Friday 10 October 2008
felix
Sport
39
felix
Friday 10 October 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
ICURFC rumble with the Pumas
propriate to stay behind with a girl
he had met in Buenos Aires at her fam-
ily home in Mendoza.
In Cordoba, our hostel was situated
in the red light district. Disembarking
from the bus, we noticed some serious-
ly hot trannies marching past us; we
knew we had arrived. The guys in Men-
doza had promised us that the women
in Cordoba were the best in Argentina,
we hoped they would not disappoint.
After some sight seeing and relaxation,
some of the boys went quad biking in
the country which was great fun. Kier-
an “Mario” Burge on his 3rd warning in
his doon bug, collided with such force
to Alex Johnstone’s quad that the two
could not be separated. Kieran dem-
onstrated with the instructor that the
breaks did not work, only for the dem-
onstrator to demonstrate they were
working fine, Kieran then went on to
insult his mother in fluent Italian… JJ,
meanwhile, had been getting his friend
on with a rather peculiar girl on the
roof of the hostel, details could not
be extracted, apart from a mumbling
about twice as much as Chumble.
Our 4th and last match was in Gorge
Rosse, which was actually 250km away
from Cordoba. Borja arrived minutes
before the 8am depart time. The first
question on everyone’s lips to Borj
went like this:
General Tourist: “Borj did you con-
summate your friendship?”
Borj : “Yeh! And she was a virgin!”
General Tourist: “What, she bled?”
Borj : “No, she does a lot of horse rid-
ing, but I could tell”
General Tourist: “So she never said
she was a virgin?”
ICHC does Berlin
This year’s Imperial College Hockey
Club tour was to Berlin, mainly because
there’s lots to do and lots of teams to
play (always a problem on tour). We
started as we meant to go on – pull-
ing an all nighter at the Union before
catching an early flight from Gatwick.
Well, most of us caught the flight, Di-
ana forgot his passport and had to per-
suade his hall warden to drive it out to
him before catching a later flight, cost-
ing him over £130!! From the airport
the famously reliable German trans-
port network failed us, by seemingly
running out of electricity and we had
to take a circuitous route through most
of Berlin before finding our hostel in a
grimy area of East Berlin. As tour sec I
was also on a bit of a losing streak, suc-
cessfully losing people at the rate of 1
an hour for most of the first day. (Don’t
worry, they all found their way to the
hostel eventually!)
Our first match was out in West Ber-
lin against Hockey Club Argo 04. This
was played in the middle of the day and
last night’s liquid preparation (where
Praying Mantis got elected mixed cap-
tain for tour and Diana was elected
men’s captain) and the lack of hockey
for a few months showed. It was a close
match for much of the game, but their
idea of a mixed team (1 girl!) eventually
showed and we lost 5-2. However, off
the pitch, they turned out to be a fan-
tastic group. They threw a BBQ for us,
made us drink from a glass boot and
joined in our drinking games. The sec-
ond match was against TC Blau Weiss
a much younger team, with a fairer bal-
ance of girls. Yours truly was umpiring
(I think that makes me an international
level umpire, right?) and it was a close
first half, plenty of girls from both sides
leaving the score at 4-2 to us. How-
ever, our extra stamina and extra subs
seemed to show in the 2nd half and the
final score was 7-3. No entertainments
this time (I think a few had school the
next day!) So we had to make our own
amusements by consuming a vast
amount of booze and meat at a nearby
Croatian themed restaurant.
No match on Tuesday so we headed
off to the zoo where Plug confessed
he would like to sleep with a chicken
and hid his shame by keeping Dunkin’
Donuts in business for the week. In
the evening we headed off on a huge
pub crawl where there was free vodka
which could only lead to the girls and
boys of ICHC trying to put the Bonobo
monkeys from the zoo to shame, if you
get my drift… Also, some panic on my
part as Star Trek had gone AWOL at
sometime, I was just starting to won-
der how you filled a missing persons
report in German when he strolled
through the arch of the hostel!
On Wednesday, feeling somewhat
worse for wear we played a men’s match
against a very strong Berliner Sport
Club side. We played the club’s 2nd
team, but we later found out their first
team played in the hockey equivalent
of the Championship, this in a country
that won the hockey gold at this year’s
Olympics. We did lose this match 3-1,
scoring with a cracking goal from Nug-
get Porn. We did put up a great fight
though and it was only a moment of
madness from keeper Cotton-eyed Joe
and a penalty stroke that separated us!
They also turned out to be great bunch
of guys and we stayed late helping to
empty their bar. They also enjoyed our
punishment for leaving kit on the pitch,
making the forgetful player drink a
pint through it; the Germans promised
to make future forgetful players from
their club injure a similar penalty.
Our last game was against SV Berlin-
er Bären. They were a closely matched
side, but we were better and should
have won it. However, some contro-
versial umpire decisions and a moment
of madness from keeper Cotton-eyed
Joe led to us going down 3-2 with a
good showing from some of the players
from the lower teams in the club, with
goals from both Fourplay and Friendly
Fire. This team treated us to a meal
of schnitzel and chips after and plenty
Henley Royal Regatta
On the final day of racing at Henley the
pressure was on the men’s coxless four
to bring victory to Imperial competing
for the Visitor’s Challenge Cup. Don’t
be mislead by the term coxless, this was
a crew of pure 100% MAN, or beast/
machine-hybrid, we aren’t sure, but
thankfully there is no pending inves-
tigation from the powers that be. Tri-
umph lay in the large, unmoisturised
and capable hands of Imperial’s Simon
Hislop and George Whittaker, teamed
with Kingston R.C.’s Keiron West and
stroke man Trigger. After months of
intensive land training at ICBC and
water sessions on the tideway the
coaching team were in no doubt as to
the potential outcome. The first race
took place on Saturday where London
R.C. & Wallingford R.C. became the
first casualty and were easily defeated.
Bad weather conditions hampered the
final days racing schedule and after a
restart, some paint chippings and more
time delays, the race eventually got
underway with the Imperial compos-
ite crew out muscling Martyrs B.C. &
Christ Church, Oxford by 1 ¼ lengths.
ICBC are very proud of all four crew
members who were outright deserved
winners. Much expensive champagne
was sprayed around and the blazers
were dusted off for the prize giving
ceremony to collect their accolade for
‘Most Dashing Bow Pair’.
Meanwhile ICBC supporters spent
the weekend sampling Cobra Beer, col-
lecting Vaseline body lotion samples
for healthy resilient skin, trying out the
latest fad on the erg scene and gener-
ally cheering for anybody with a name
that could be easily pronounced. For
those of us lucky enough to be deemed
worthy of the steward’s enclosure, the
afternoons slipped away in a haze of
oversized blazers, sunshine, Pimms
and general poncing. Here one could
purchase ladies hats, because ladies
are encouraged to wear hats. Henley is
a unique and prestigious event, one of
the few places on earth where regatta
radio is appreciated.
Could you swim a mile for charity?
What about two? How about twenty-
four?
On Saturday 4 – Sunday 5 October,
Erika Cule (President) and Julia Hornig
(Treasurer) of Imperial College Swim
and Water Polo Club took part in the
“Ultimate Swimming Challenge” –
swimming one mile, on the hour, every
hour, for twenty-four hours.
Both managed half the distance,
twelve miles apiece - a tough enough
achievement. One mile is thirty-two
lengths of a fifty metre pool, equiva-
lent to sixty-four lengths of the pool
at Ethos. As well as swimming fatigue,
powerful chlorine fumes made breath-
ing difficult. Participants battled with
sleep deprivation, and nutrition and
hydration were difficult too.
By seven miles in the first swimmer
had called it a day, and after halfway
the numbers fell further. Of twenty-
eight starters, only the seven fittest and
most determined made it to the end,
testament to the unique severity of this
difficult task.
2swim4life was the brainchild of
Stewart Rush, a dad from Petersfield
in Hampshire whose son Joe was di-
agnosed with Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy last year. After a ten-mile
fundraising swim of his own in May
2008, Stewart cast around for a bigger
challenge and hit upon the 24-hour-
swimathon, a format that to the team’s
knowledge has not been attempted
previously.
The event aims to raise £20,000 for
Action Duchenne, the only national
Charity that exclusively funds research
for a cure and promotes campaigns for
Ultimate Swimming
better medical care for Duchenne and
Becker Muscular Dystrophy.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a
genetic disorder caused by a mutation
in the dystrophin gene. The condition
causes progressive muscle weakness as
the muscle cells break down and die. It
is a rare condition with about 100 suf-
ferers born in the UK each year and
about 1,500 boys with the disorder liv-
ing in the country at any one time.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy,
named after the doctor who first stud-
ied this specific condition in the 1800s,
mainly affects boys, with extremely
rare exceptions.
Most affected boys show the first
symptoms of motor difficulties as tod-
dlers. As they get older and the condi-
tion progresses they may be unable to
walk as far or as fast as other children,
occasionally even falling down. Some
boys may also have learning or behav-
ioural difficulties which start to show
at this stage.
Duchenne is a progressive disorder
- young men are totally paralysed by
late teens and die young from respira-
tory or heart failure. Your donations
and support will help us end this tragic
waste of young lives. To congratulate
the swimmers and donate to this im-
portant cause, visit www.justgiving.
com/2swim4life
After a great weekend, the team is
still actively fundraising, as well as
making plans for next year. If you are
interested in taking on the “Ultimate
Swimming Challenge” or want to find
out more, please visit www.2swim4life.
com
To find out more about Imperial Col-
lege Swim and Water Polo Club, email
swimming@imperial.ac.uk
Borj : “No, but you just know…”
General Tourist: “Yeh, right…”
We arrived in time for a spot of lunch
followed by watching a juniors match.
We had an epic last performance de-
stroying a very good opposition 60-5.
Our forwards came together brilliantly,
Niall Watson and Mark Saleme dem-
onstrating how much they’d learnt all
tour, with Nick Johnstone stating his
claim to a backs place, with his frog-
tadpole style side step that had the op-
position laughing in stitches. Everyone
played superbly, one man above the
rest; Freddie Chalk demonstrated a
complete running, passing and kicking
game, at his second ever performance
at 10 and rightly earned himself the
Man of the Match Award.
The celebrations that evening were
great with lots of beer and Fernet.
Some even speculated they saw Taj
with some Fernet, but it could have
been coke… We were served the most
delicious roast pig. When the pig ran
out our hosts ordered pizza for us.
Everyone was very tired and we had a 5
hour coach journey back, so some kill-
joys wanted to sleep on the coach whilst
the rest of the players went to a club.
In fairness it was empty, and we had
agreed with the guys on the coach that
we would leave at 2.30-3.00. Most of
the boys had got back on the bus, then
on the stroke of 2 the club got packed,
with loads of stunners. With only 8 of
the tour party remaining, there was a
queue of nubile young hotties waiting
for their chance to talk to us. Bevis
got touchy feely with one, only for her
brother to get a bit worried because
she was 16. She was telling him she was
free from or so he claims. This amaz-
ing scenario was cut short by Malcolm
Sim; insisting that staying whilst every-
one else was asleep on the coach, was
just “Disgusting” behaviour.
After the last match everyone real-
ised that we then had 12 days of holi-
day ahead of us. It was about to get a
little messy.
The 22 hour bus journey saw Kieran
and Alex destroy every team who dared
to challenge them at Tarnib (A.K.A.
Turnip, A.K.A. Lebanese Bridge).
Even Badger “I played international
bridge for England U16” couldn’t halt
their progression to the top. But then
again he also came up with gems such
as “Peanut once took a 6kg dump, it’s
true, it happened”.
Everyone was very chuffed to dis-
cover that we had a pool when we got
to Iguazu, with captain supreme Anjit
being the first in. After a spot of rock
climbing and a boat trip, the hostel had
a big BBQ with lots of caipirinhas. For
some reason Anjit and the manager
had a disagreement about Anjit’s su-
perb dancing abilities, which was set-
tled with a promise from one of the
younger members that he would be-
have. Later we all headed into Puerto
Iguazu for what was a great night. The
next day, Iguazu Falls was on the agen-
da and it was absolutely breathtaking,
even the great bear James Pettit was
humbled by the sheer magnitude of
the waterfalls. That evening the boys
tucked into numerous Irish girls whilst
Chumble had the privilege of visiting
one of the infamous pay per hour ho-
tels. Joe Brown was now sporting a ri-
diculous hair cut, with the excuse “The
clippers ran out of battery”.
The departure time to return to BA
was put back hour after hour as the
boys enjoyed splendid sunshine and
cheap caipirinhas around the pool.
Chumble delayed the departure back
to BA, by insisting he would just nip
to the toilet as we were departing….40
minutes later we finally set off.
Back in Buenos Aires the agenda was
shopping, and other cultural activi-
ties such as eating and drinking. A few
more memorable nights out ensured
the tour was a great success and thor-
oughly enjoyed by all. The boys were
all very nostalgic about heading back,
and our time in Argentina certainly
won’t be forgotten. Rugby gave us the
common ground to make lots of new
friends with people from a different
culture. We are certainly going to try
and emulate the Argentine’s “3rd half”
whenever we have the opportunity at
Harlington. The Argentines’ generos-
ity was beyond comparison, inviting
us into their homes and providing us
with copious amounts of food and
drink, they really demonstrated what
the spirit of rugby is all about.
Tour veteran Badger commented
“That it was far better organised than
previous tours.” This can only be at-
tributed to the hard work of the tour
committee. Special mention to Joe
Brown who toured with a broken hand
and couldn’t play but instead came
up with a simple and successful game
plan, a significant contribution to a
tour which will be remembered for
many years to come.
Ian Lawrence
ICHC Tour Secretary
Erika Cule
Disc Doctors spin Europe
The summer has been an exciting one
for the Ultimate Frisbee team, known
as Disc Doctors (or dD). For those that
don’t know, Ultimate is a mixed team
sport played with a frisbee, either in-
doors, outdoors on grass, or on the
beach. Lazily, it can be described as a
cross between netball and American
Football. More specifically, however,
there are between five and seven play-
ers on each team, with the aim being
to pass the disc between team mates,
working it up the pitch to score a point
in the opposing team’s end-zone. Good
spirit is a big part of the game, and so
matches are refereed between players,
with no external official, and any fouls
are sorted out between those involved.
At the beginning of July, 16 dD set off
to sunny Finland, the land of 22 hour
sunshine and saunas. Having never
previously entered, the tournament on
Yteri beach was to be a new experience
for the team. Rumours were spreading
of the fierce, efficient playing style of
the northern Europeans so it came with
welcome relief that we were seeded in
the very depths of the team tables.
Clad in red shorts, custom yellow
shirts and copious amounts of colour
coordinating accessories, the team had
already blown away the competition in
the style sweepstakes. Unfortunately
the match against Dark Side early Sat-
urday morning wasn’t such a walko-
ver. Having arrived several days early
in Finland, most of the squad seemed
afflicted with mysterious morning
headaches (read: hangovers), giving
rise to a sloppy first couple of points.
Some desperate play helped us claw
back to put the score roughly even but
the opposition eventually pulled away
again to win 6-4. Play started gelling
together a bit better in the next game
against PIP. Points were traded as up-
wind/downwind play rotated but with
beach Ultimate teams only consisting
of 5 players, the team were able to find
the extra fresh legs in the squad to beat
PIP at a point cap of 6-5.
For the final match of the day dD de-
ployed some advanced defence to take
advantage of the intensifying wind.
A zone formation was adopted and
proved very difficult for Finnish na-
tives Albino Wales to break through.
Lots of turnovers were forced giving
us many scoring opportunities, with a
very good number bearing fruit. Half-
way through the short 40 minute game
dD had a comfortable 5-2 lead. The
Albino Wales responded with a zone
defence of their very own, resulting in
a gruelling point. A slight advantage in
stamina gave the Wales the strength to
win the crucial point and unfortunately
the rest of the game, finishing 9-6.After
a good, hard day’s Ultimate, the team
were looking forward to showing the
rest of the world how to party. Turning
up fashionably late, dressed for sum-
mer, dD took the beach disco by storm.
An unforgettable night slowly drifted
into the morning – especially consider-
ing night only lasted two dusky hours.
The rest of the tournament went very
successfully, with two more wins and a
final seeding of 8th out of 32 teams.
The displays of diplomacy across the
three days combined with gifts for the
other teams earned dD the Spirit of the
Game prize: a massive, novelty bottle
of champagne, just going to show that
winning on the field (or beach) isn’t al-
ways the most important thing. Then,
in the dying days of the summer (Sep-
tember, actually, but there was really
no summer to have dying days of) dD
embarked upon the highlight of our
Ultimate calendar. The Burla Beach
Cup is an international mixed Ulti-
mate tournament played on the beach
in Viareggio, Italy. This year it was held
between the 19th and 21st September
and saw us returning for our 4th year
and aiming to improve upon our 17th
seeding out of 30 from 2007.
The first day of the tournament saw
us playing three teams – two Belgian
and one British – for rank in our pool.
We beat each of them pretty convinc-
ingly and the wet conditions seemed
to help us on our way. So, pleased with
our performance and our games done
for the day, and the weather now suit-
ably Italian, we had lots of time to relax
on the beach with a few drinks before
going to the party that night.
Fuelled by our successful start but
slightly hindered from drinking the
night before, we were ready to take
on the teams in our challenging pool.
We won the first game against an Irish
team in a very hard fought match, but
lost the last two to the 2007 winners
and then the eventual winners of this
year’s tournament – overall a real bitch
of a pool! We ended up joint second in
our group just to be relegated to 4th
place due to points difference, mean-
ing we would return the next day fight-
ing for 13th place. Although slightly
deflated, we knew we had a good night
ahead of us in the form of the zombie/
horror themed main party.
On the Sunday we headed to the
beach in a wholly unconvincing state
to play Ultimate: there were those of
us that were hungover and those who
weren’t – but only because they were
still drunk. It was a picture that dD had
seen all too often. However, playing in
this state is a skill every dD player is
born with, and we managed pretty easy
wins over the two teams (Belgium and
Austria) to earn our 13th place. Overall
it was an excellent tournament with a
healthy mix of competition, sunshine
and parties. Look out for Burla 2009
when dD will return to the beaches of
Viareggio!
of beer to go around. The following
night was our last night in Berlin and
we celebrated in style. We started with
a huge fine circle, with punishments
dealt out by chairman PF for trans-
gressions throughout the tour, result-
ing in a dual stick pint for Friendly
Fire and Board Shorts. We also dealt
out the tour awards; Token Lezza was
awarded Player of the Tour and Diana
was awarded T*at of the Tour. We then
moved on, in true British team on tour
style, to a local curry house, leading to
some technicolour moments courtesy
of Charlie 2. Later came various bars
and clubs of which I have no memory,
but apparently Fourplay sent me home
in a taxi due to my level of inebriation!
We made it back with no problems
on Saturday and I left everyone to
make their way home to various cor-
ners of the UK. It was a good tour,
short and sweet with lots of hockey,
how it should be!
ICHC would like to that IC Trust for
their continued support of the club.
Michael Foster
Christina Duffy
Continued from back page
Captain Praying Mantis preparing for battle.
Crew and coaches celebrate after winning the Visitor’s Challenge Cup.
The boys chilling with Caipirinhas in Iguazu!
Monday 13th October
Badminton
Mixed 1s ULU vs King’s College Mixed 1s
Netball
Womens’s 1s ULU vs Royal Holloway 1s
Women’s 2s ULU vsImperial Medicals 3s
Squash
Men’s 3s ULU vs Imperial Medicals Men’s 1s
Men’s 1s ULU vs Imperial College Men’s 2s
Volleyball
Mixed 1s ULU vs LSE Mixed 1s
Watepolo
1st ULU vs University College
Wednesday 15th October
Badminton
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Portsmouth Men’s 1st
Men’s 2nd vs King’s College Men’s 1st
Women’s 1st vs Uni of Reading Women’s 1st
Basketball
Men’s 1st vs London South Bank Men’s 2nd
Women’s 1st vs Roehampton Uni Women’s 1st
Fencing
Men’s 2nd vs University College Men’s 2nd
Women’s 1st vs Uni of Kent Women’s 1st
Football
Men’s 1st vs Brunel West London Men’s 3rd
Men’s 2nd vs Uni of Greenwich Men’s 3rd
Women’s 1st vs Roehampton Uni Women’s 1st
Men’s 3rd vs Universities at Medway Men’s 1st
Men’s 4s ULU vs University College Men’s 5s
Men’s 5s ULU vs University College Men’s 6s
Men’s 6s ULU vs King’s Medics Men’s 5s
Men’s 7s ULU vs Goldsmiths Men’s 3s
Hockey
Men’s 2nd vs Queen Mary Men’s 1st
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Essex Men’s 1st
Women’s 2nd vs Uni of Portsmouth Women’s
2nd
Men’s 4th vs Kingston Uni Men’s 2nd
Lacrosse
Women’s 1st vs Uni of Brighton Women’s 1st
Netball
Women’s 3rd vs LSE 3rd
Women’s 2nd vs Universities at Medway 1st
Women’s 1st vs Uni of Hertfordshire 1st
Rugby
Men’s 2nd vs St Barts Men’s 1st
Men’s 3rd vs Uni of Sussex Men’s 2nd
Men’s 1st vs UWE Bristol Men’s 1st
Men’s 4th vs Universities at Medway 1st XV
Squash
Women’s 1st vs King’s College Women’s 1st
Men’s 2nd vs Uni of Hertfordshire Men’s 1st
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Kent Men’s 1st
Table Tennis
Men’s 1st vs University College London Men’s 1st
Women’s 1st vs Middlesex Uni Women’s 1st
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Reading Men’s 1st
Tennis
Men’s 2nd vs Roehampton Uni Men’s 1st
Women’s 1st vs London Met Uni Women’s 2nd
Volleyball
Women’s 2nd vs Uni of Essex Women’s 1st
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Kent Men’s 1st
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Kent Men’s 1st
Waterpolo
Men’s 1st vs Uni of Warwick Men’s 1st
Fixtures in association with Sports Partnership

