felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Tours, tours, tours...
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
Another week has passed for sports at
Imperial and already we have been in-
undated with info to put in the section.
This week there are tour reports from
Hockey, Rugby and Ultimate Frisbee
which are worth a read, especially if
you still need more convincing that
tour (and sports) really is an amazing
thing.
The interest in the sports at Freshers’
Fair was amazing and it was good to
see so many budding and social sports
men and women signing up. Boat rac-
es, matchbox, fives, and the chanting
all supplemented the sports played on
Wednesday in a good hearted fashion.
For those of you who couldn’t make
it to the trials or are still contemplat-
ing which sport to play needn’t worry,
some clubs are running a second day of
trials in the near future and most run
early/midweek training sessions dur-
ing the season. Contact the relevant
club captains for more information.
Those of you in teams already, fixtures
start as early as Monday so bring your
A-Game to the table and do IC proud!
Still contemplating joining a sport?
Experience the camaraderie and
the (level 5) banter at the union on a
Wednesday and rest assured your de-
cision will be made easier, more so if
you spent the £6 entry fee on beers
instead!
Rugby tackle Argentina
The tourists departed in two groups,
one group early on Sunday morning
and the others later that afternoon.
Chumble (Richard Simons) thought it
appropriate to stay in a hotel next to
the airport the night before. Despite
his best efforts and the 3 or 4 wake up
calls delivered by members of the tour-
ing party, Chumble was late... “Won’t
happen again” he promised.
The touring party was reunited in
Buenos Aires, the first day was spent
getting over jet lag and consuming co-
pious amounts of steak. Player/coach,
well more coach, Jovan Nedic summed
up the good exchange rate and cheap
steak with what was to become the
tour phrase, “I’m so happy”. The phrase
could be likened to his mood on and
off the pitch for the duration of tour!
After a day of touristy activities the
team had their first training session in
the evening of the second day. Need-
less to say the team was a little rusty.
The first match was against San An-
tonio on the outskirts of B.A. After a
superb match, brilliantly controlled by
fly half Kieran Burge, IC were victori-
ous with Malcolm Simm being named
as Man of the Match. The third half
as the Argentines called it, involved
huge slabs of deliciously cooked meat
washed down with lots of beer and
the controversial Fernet (Argentine
Marmite equivalent in alcoholic form).
Mark “Four day hard on” Saleme de-
molished the language barrier dem-
onstrating why Lebanon should be
granted accession to the World Trade
Organisation. Half way through the
festivities, Chumble disappeared,
prompting one of our hosts to come up
with the gem, “Dónde está CHUMB-
ley”. Chumble was discovered asleep
on the 68 seater, double decker tour
coach commissioned for our services
by Joe Harris. Once Anjit had finished
coaching the girls u16’s hockey team,
the two sides boarded the love bus to
head to a club. After departing the
coach, Joe Harris was violently assault-
ed by an act of revenge by an Argentine
grandma, his favourite shirt was never
going to be the same again after being
drenched in bleach. After the beast had
been calmed the two sides proceeded
to what looked like Paradise Island.
Argentine clubs tend not to get going
until late, and this place was no excep-
tion. After we got suitably lubricated,
the huge club started to pack out and
Kieran Burge made a cameo appear-
ance to the stage show (two stunners
and one midget in a gimp mask…). The
boys crawled home in dribs and drabs
at all hours of the morning for reasons
only known to themselves.
After B.A the tour headed to Mendo-
za, where we were due to play the same
team twice. On the way there, the tour
bus had a fight with a dog. The tour
bus emerged victorious, poor dog. To
give us a chance to really experience
Argentine culture we stayed with our
hosts the night before the first game.
The first thing my host said to me in
very broken English was “You like par-
ty? You like girls? You right place” We
knew it was on. The Argentine’s didn’t
disappoint; they had organised a house
party for us at one of the hosts. At the
house lots of young lassies turned up
and Bevis was unstoppable, “Hola
Chicas” was being thrown around like
knickers at a Prince concert, whilst JJ
was thoroughly getting his friend on.
The Fernet was being demolished. The
two teams headed out to a local club at
about 1am where mayhem was to en-
sue. I am not at liberty to disclose what
happened next (I have no recollection)
but some ridiculous shapes were cut,
“half head” was attained and other
forms of debauchery occurred. When
everyone arrived at the match in dribs
and drabs at 12.45 for our 1 o’clock K.O
we felt the Argentines had played a cru-
el trick on us. Nick Johnstone, Anjit,
James Pettit and Tom Coggrave made
them pay in the loose, whilst Thomas
Carroll gave a master class in ‘Smash n
Bosh’. Needless to say the victory was
sweet but we still had things to work
on. After chilling out in Mendoza, raft-
ing, wine tasting and cactus wrestling
we returned for our second match
which was not going to be as easy. Cap-
tain for this match, Chumble, lead with
a barrage of pointless and misguided
motivational speeches. “Can we stand
in the sun, I’m cold in the shade” and
“Boys keep the language down, there
are children around”. Jovan made his
first and only appearance to the tour
side and had to be restrained and sub-
stituted after 20 minutes. This was a
hard match, TC and Howard demon-
strated some superb defence. Kieran
had to depart through injury, leading
Alex Johnstone to be ushered to full-
back and the immeasurable Freddie
Chalk going to 10. Good work from
Malcolm, Bevis, McFadge, Jack Goring
and Badger in the tight gave Freddie
the platform to launch his lightning at-
tacks with great lines from Joe Harris
and Sasha Maitala all performing to
clinch the win. Man of the Match Anjit
had a superb all round performance.
During the post match celebrations
Chumble stole himself a couple of mo-
ments to psyche himself up for the
captain’s speech, which he delivered
elegantly. After saying our goodbyes
we headed off for the overnight trip to
Cordoba.
Our departure was not without
event, Borja (the only Spanish speaker
amongst us) decided that it was ap
Alex Johnston
ICURFC Tour Secretary
Continued on page 39
ICHC hit Germany...

