4 felix Friday 10 October 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
News
Palestinian student prevented from
attending Imperial
F
or Zohair Abu Shaban,
the journey to achieve his
dreams has been more dif-
ficult than most of us will
experience in our lifetimes.
Now, not for the first time, a seemingly
intractable obstacle has been placed in
his way, threatening to throw him off
track permanently.
Zohair is a Palestinian; born and
raised in Gaza City. He is 24 years old
and his dream is to study electrical en-
gineering to a level that befits his in-
tellect. The Gaza Strip’s top university,
University of Gaza, only offers electric
engineering at undergraduate level; a
course that he aced as top of his class.
His promise as an engineer is already
apparent, he has won awards for his
innovative project, which allows heart
patients to be monitored at home
through an Internet link.
The Gaza Strip is not the best loca-
tion for a student with limitless educa-
tion aspirations and accordingly Zo-
hair has sought education abroad. He
successfully applied to study at Impe-
rial College London, starting like other
new students on the 4th of October.
He was granted a British visa with-
out complications and also won a full
scholarship from the Hani Qaddumi
foundation, a secular Palestinian char-
ity that supports promising students,
to fund his time at Imperial College;
the fees alone would be well out of the
reach of ordinary Palestinians.
Unfortunately Zohair is unable to
take up his place at Imperial. He has
been unable to leave Gaza. There are
only two crossings through which Pal-
estinians could, theoretically, leave the
Gaza strip. The Erez crossing, in the
north of Gaza on the border with Israel
and the Rafah crossing, in the south on
the border with Egypt, are both under
Israeli control. Zohair has been de-
nied entry into Israel through the Erez
crossing and so is unable to journey to
London by this route.
The Rafah crossing is only open spo-
radically and for short periods of time;
a direct result of the chaotic scenes
this January when Hamas tore down
sections of the border fence separat-
ing Gaza and Egypt. 3 weeks ago, the
Rafah crossing was indeed open for a
brief time and Zohair rushed to the
crossing. After 26 hours waiting on a
bus, he wasn’t lucky enough to be one
of the 60 students, out of around 400,
who made it through that day. The
crossing is now closed again.
Depressingly this is not the first
time that Zohair has had his ambi-
tions crushed. He applied to Imperial
after losing his U.S. visa for study at
the University of Connecticut; he had
gained a Fulbright scholarship. In May,
Zohair was first told that his Fulbright
scholarship had been cancelled. In an
unexpected move, Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice intervened and Zo-
hair was again hopeful that his dreams
would be fulfilled.
He was granted a series of visa in-
terviews at the Israeli border and was
then granted a U.S. visa. However, ul-
timately his visa was then revoked on
the basis of Israeli evidence, which has
not been made public. Presumably the
evidence, if made public, would endan-
ger Israeli sources.
Zohair’s sad story is not at all unique.
The 1.5 million residents of the Gaza
Strip have been confined within the
Strip since Hamas came to power
in June 2007. Mr Yigal Palmor, the
spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Min-
istry, although unaware of Zohair’s
situation specifically, told felix that the
“basic problem is not this or that per-
son” but rather the political situation
within Gaza. Hamas have become the
de facto rulers of Gaza and as a result
“restrictions on the population as a
whole” have been imposed. Preventing
travel abroad, for the most part, is one
of these restrictions. At the core of the
issue is the fact that, as he said, “Gaza
has become a hostile entity, ruled by
a group that have essentially declared
war”.
There has been significant opposi-
tion to the effect of Israel’s policy on
Palestinian students. U.S. Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice said in May,
“If you cannot engage young people
and give them a complete horizon to
their expectations and to their dreams,
then I don’t know that there would be
any future for Palestine”. The chair of
the Knesset Education Committee,
Michael Melchior said “We are a na-
tion that for years was prevented from
studying – how can we do the same
thing to another people?” and also
that “trapping hundreds of students in
Gaza is immoral and unwise” while in
the past Israeli cabinet ministers have
called for an end to the policy of pre-
venting Palestinian students who study
in Israeli universities from entering
Israel.
The College, through the Interna-
tional Office, has taken action to help
Zohair however possible but the Office
refusedtogointodetailsotherthanthat
the Director, Dr. Piers Baker, has been
working hard with his contacts in the
region. The British Foreign Office did
not comment on Zohair’s case specifi-
cally but said they had “raised the issue
of Palestinian students with the Israeli
government” on a number of occa-
sions in the past and that they “would
continue to do so” in the future.
Time is short for Zohair, students
must take up their place at the univer-
sity within two weeks of term’s start;
which was the 4th of October. Given
that he has been accepted for a one
year Masters course, it is unlikely that
registry will allow him to attend after
the two week limit.
While Zohair waits, it is no comfort
for him to know that he is not alone.
There are an estimated 600 students
who have been accepted into for-
eign universities in Gaza, this doesn’t
take into account promising students
who have been deterred from even
applying.
This is an issue that should be de-
bated at our university and felix in-
vites you, the reader, to send in your
comments.
T
he case of Zohair Abu
Shaban is only the most
recent in a series of similar
incidents. Many students
from Gaza are not being
allowed to travel abroad to receive the
education they so desperately want.
The state of the education system in
the Gaza Strip is poor and for many the
only option to pursue a chosen subject
at a higher level is to go abroad. For a
country under heavy economic sanc-
tions imposed by Israel, the US, Can-
ada and the EU this is hardly surpris-
ing. It is not possible to take PhD level
courses and there are few courses of-
fered at a masters level. However, there
are organisations to help students
study abroad including the Hani Qad-
dumi Foundation which gave Zohair
his scholarship for study in Britain.
The restrictions on the movement
of people out of Gaza are not only re-
served for students; since declaring
Gaza a “hostile entity” in 2006, Israel
has blockaded the area, preventing
the movement of people and commer-
cial goods in and out of the area. The
policy is in place to reduce the risk of
attacks on Israeli soil and to improve
national security.
Israel’s history has been fraught with
conflict and war. Acts of aggression on
the part of its Arab neighbours and su-
icide attacks on civilians within Israeli
borders have created a concern for se-
curity that takes precedence in Israeli
decision-making.
Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip
in the general election held in 2006. Fi-
nal results show that they won with 74
seats to the ruling party Fatah’s 45, pro-
viding Hamas with the majority of the
132 available seats and the ability to
form a majority government on their
own. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organisation by the Israel, the U.S. and
the E.U. and it has carried out attacks
on Israel for the last 20 years.
Iran’s sponsorship of Hamas has
caused more tension between the two
groups; President Ahmadinejad has
stated that Israel “must be wiped off
the map”, though his true motivations
remain controversial. Whatever his
intentions, Ahmadinejad’s comments
have created fear within Israel and his
ideological and material support of
Hezbollah and Hamas is seen as clear
evidence of his hostility to the Israeli
state.
The current cease-fire, beginning
19th June 2008, between Hamas and
Israel is shaky but holding. Israel fears
that Hamas is using the ceasefire to
regroup and rearm its forces and so it
is reluctant to change its position re-
garding movement in and out of Gaza.
There have already been breaches of
the cease-fire and there is no guarantee
that if sanctions are lifted the violence
will cease. Hamas has. in the past,
made conciliatory comments towards
Israel. In May 2003, Abdel Aziz Ran-
tisi, co-founder of Hamas said that “the
Hamas movement is prepared to stop
terror against Israeli civilians if Israel
stops killing Palestinian civilians ... We
have told (Palestinian Authority Prime
Minister) Abu Mazen in our meetings
that there is an opportunity to stop
targeting Israeli civilians if the Israelis
stop assassinations and raids and stop
brutalizing Palestinian civilians.”
For any government, the safety of its
people is a priority, so preventing pos-
sible terrorists from entering the state
and sharing intelligence with foreign
allies is a reasonable precaution. Due
to the highly classified nature of intel-
ligence, it is not possible to know what
the Israeli security service are worried
about with respect to any of the citi-
zens of Gaza they refuse to let out or
those whose American visas were can-
celled. It is also important to stress that
it is very unusual for anyone to be let
out of Gaza, so Israel allowing students
out – a practice which happens occa-
sionally – is generous with respect to
their general policy.
Also while Israel has veto power over
the Rafah crossing at the Egyptian bor-
der, responsibility must also be placed
on Egyptian shoulders. It is not in their
interests either to allow freedom of
movement in and out of a region con-
trolled by an Islamist group; consider
Egypt’s suppression of Islamist groups
within their own borders.
ThequestionofwhetherIsraelshould
essentially punish the people of Gaza
Background on the issue
student bloggers
an authentic student voice
@
"SFZPVBLFFOBOEDSFBUJWFXSJUFSQSFQBSFEUPCMPHBUMFBTUPODFB
XFFLPOUPQJDPGZPVSDIPJDFBCPVUZPVSMJGFBTBTUVEFOU
0SEPZPVBMXBZTIBWFZPVSDBNFSBPOZPVUPDBQUVSFUIFNPNFOU
BOECFXJMMJOHUPTIBSFZPVSMJGFJOB$PMMFHFQIPUPCMPH
8FµSFMPPLJOHGPSBUFBNUPQSPWJEFBOJOTJHIUJOUPMJGFBU
*NQFSJBMPOMJOF
 4IBSFFYQFSJFODFTXJUIGFMMPXTUVEFOUT
 5FMMGVUVSFTUVEFOUTXIBUVOJWFSTJUZJTSFBMMZMJLF
 
4IPXUIF$PMMFHFUISPVHIZPVSFZFTXJUIQIPUPTBOEWJEFP
'PSNPSFJOGPSNBUJPOBCPVUIPXUPCFDPNFBTUVEFOUCMPHHFS WJTJU
XXXJNQFSJBMBDVLDBNQVTMJGFCMPHT
Kadhim Shubber reports on the complicated case of Zohair Abu-Shaban, a promising Electrical
Engineering student who lives in Gaza
as a result of Hamas’ hostility is open
for debate. This is the main issue with
economic sanctions – the general pub-
lic get hit harder than the governing
power. Those with government con-
nections can come and go from Gaza
easily; usually from the Rafah crossing
As Hamas was democratically elected,
the citizens of Gaza take responsibility
for their new government. However
most Gazans do not agree with the de-
struction of Israel and Hamas’ support
rarely stems from ideology but rather
from the daily hardships created by Is-
raeli sanctions, the perceived failures
of Fatah and Hamas’ social work. Israel
is left with some very difficult choices.
Its actions are often seen as essential to
its security, however the terrible con-
ditions that these actions create breeds
resentment and further violence.
Preventing students studying abroad
could well be shooting itself in the foot,
as education is a tool for peace. Allow-
ing Gazans to access education of a
high quality and at a high level could
also help the situation. The blockade
and sanctions pushes Gazans to Ha-
mas, if only because they are the only
institution able to pay wages; often
with Iranian money.
The zeitgeist may be changing –
Ehud Olmert’s recent comments on
Israeli security were ground breaking.
But more must be done on both sides
to secure peace for the innocent civil-
ians caught within this conflict.
3 in 4 EMA grants not paid
Student discounts: Irrelevant?
Afonso Campos
News Correspondent
Palestinian student Zohair Abu-Shaban has to fill his place at Imperial within two weeks of terms start or he risks losing it.
Zohair Abu-Shaban gives a speech at his graduation ceremony
Zohair Abu-Shaban
Afonso Campos
News Correspondent
A new poll conducted by Zebra Tech-
nologies has found that a majority of
students are unhappy with the current
state of student discounts. Roughly 54%
of students do not think that these dis-
counts are properly catering for their
needs, and do not take into account
the current economic climate includ-
ing the pinch students may be feeling
alongside the rest of the population.
Students have suggested they would
rather see food and transport at dis-
counted prices than perks at popular
high street retailers such as TopShop
or HMV. The poll suggests that with
food prices at a record high, “super-
markets should be offering tailored
discounts to students to help them out,
and secure their loyalty”. A struggling
student is likely to favour securing
basic human needs such as food and
shelter over what would economically
be described as ‘luxury goods’ like CDs
or fashionable clothing. This is prob-
ably very true of any struggling Impe-
rial student who is already dealing with
the highest hall prices in the United
Kingdom in an area of London that is
anything but student friendly.
The NUS still has not leveraged con-
tracts that could really help students in
the way that this poll suggests it needs
to be done. It is perhaps reassuring that
an overwhelming majority of retailers
offering student discount will honour
it regardless if the card presented is
NUS-issued or not.
Students are turning to baked beans and living up to the stereotype
A week of bad news for student finances
According to an estimate by the Asso-
ciation of Colleges, of all applicants to
the Education Maintenance Allowance
(EMA) only 25 to 30 per cent have re-
ceived it.
The NUS has come out on record
saying that “it is unacceptable that
there is so much confusion around the
EMA situation”. The NUS has blasted
against the Learning and Skills Coun-
cil saying “it must act to boost Learner
Support Funds to ensure there is ad-
equate support for all learners in need”.
The NUS goes one step further and al-
most demands a written apology from
the LSC to all students. In this letter
the NUS believes the LSC should make
very clear how students can have ac-
cess to some sort of support while the
issue is sorted out. It is also suggested
that Liberata, the outsourcing provid-
ers for the Public Sector, “be fined for
its part in this shambles,” and that this
money should be put back into Learner
Support Funds “to ensure the money
reaches those who have been worst
affected”.

