comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters Summer self-lovin’
I
gave you seven days. At least I
can say I gave you that much. I
said to myself, “Big Gee,” I said
– that’s what I call myself when
I’m chillin’ – “Big Gee, give those
fools some time. They’ll come around.”
But no. I wasn’t clear enough, it seems.
So let’s put it in the felix archives so
I can tell the Metropolitan Police, “I
warned them,” – please stop telling
me what you did over summer. I can’t
remember the last time anyone cared
about anything you did, but I’m pretty
sure our current monarch wasn’t on
our currency. And we didn’t have cur-
rency. Or a monarch.
The simple truth is that not a lot of
people are interested in how you spent
three months of your already overlong
stay on this planet, and yes, I am of
course talking about internships. Al-
most all first-years will be oblivious to
these time-eating bastards, so here’s a
brief overview – internships come in
two flavours; wastes of time, and over-
paid wastes of time. How it works is
this – you spend most of the first term
completely oblivious to the idea of
shitting your summer down a gold-en-
crusted toilet, until That Friend turns
A. Geek
up on your email in January. You know
That Friend - the person who phoned
you up at the end of Freshers’ Week
concerned they weren’t preparing early
enough for end-of-year exams. They’ll
ask you if you have an internship yet.
You’ll answer no, of course, but this’ll
get you thinking, and thanks to The In-
credible Worry asking the same thing
to everyone you know, it’ll soon whip
up a frenzy of queries and secretive ap-
plications and interviews, which eve-
ryone will always say ‘went well’ even
if they performed worse than a quadri-
plegic-fronted tour of Riverdance. Not
that there’s any secrecy about who’s
been successful, because when you get
a confirmed place, you’ll tell everyone.
Believe me. It’s like one of those after-
school TV gameshows for kids, all it
needs is an “Acceptance Gong” in the
JCR for the freaks to smack with their
foreheads when their letter comes
through.
When that dies down, you’ll com-
pletely forget about the whole thing
until the exams are over and you feel
like sleeping all through the holiday.
Except you can’t. Bright and early starts
for you and your revision-addled body
because four days later your placement
begins!
Ten weeks pass. You experience a
mix of emotions, such as the desire to
claw your own eyes out with a canteen
spork, the wishes of death upon holier-
than-thou colleagues who probably
have a 2:2 from Sunderland University,
and momentary elation at pasta car-
bonara day in the canteen. But mainly
the sporks and death thing.
When you stumble back – having
had roughly two weeks in total not
working – you’re obviously going to
feel like you’ve wasted a considerable
chunk of your life. That’s fair enough.
So what you do is you dress it up for
everyone else. If the team knew fuck-
tonnes more than you because you’re a
moronic excuse for a student, then say
they were ‘too old’ or ‘old-fashioned’.
If you were utterly incapable of fol-
lowing orders, say the work ‘was fine,
but the team were hard to work with’.
If you simply did sod all for ten weeks,
well, you can say you ‘learnt a lot’ at
the very least. Not that that would be
an impressive feat. Staring blankly into
a small dish of yeast would probably
be a horizon-widening experience for
someone like you.
Sure, I did internships back in the
day. Placements at Imperial, in fact
– low-paid, and occasionally quite in-
teresting. But let’s be quite clear, there
are three reasons people do intern-
ships – money, your CV and money.
Money, because if you’re planning to
fricassée your sanity on the barbecue
of bad decisions, then why not start
early; your CV, because if you need a
placement year then ‘laid some sweet
ass in Tenerife’ is not going to go down
as a productive use of a Summer in any
interview process; and money because,
well, it seems to deserve a second men-
tion because you get given so fucking
much of it.
Less of the pretence that you did
something worthwhile, please. You
were taken on, patronised and but-
tered up in the hope that you’ll come
back in a few years to be trained prop-
erly. I don’t care what your manager
said, where you bought the new watch
from, or how many people said you’re
“such a nice guy”. You’re back at Impe-
rial, the JCR soup still tastes like Vomit
‘N Parsley, and there’s coursework due
soon. Welcome back to the real world.
Jelly Bean
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
I
f you haven’t noticed yet, it’s
now a new academic year. You
can tell this by observing a few
simple indicators: some of your
pencils may not have yet been
chewed (or alternatively they are all
already pre-chewed from last years ex-
ams), there is a strange and unnatural
sense of optimism in the air and your
body has gone into shock at the dra-
matic plummeting of food quality over
the last month. (Shortly the concept
of ‘dessert’ will all but fade from your
under-nourished mind and become
mixed up with vague recollections of
Nordic legend you have from primary
school. It won’t be long before finan-
cial restraints mean that 70% of the
meals you eat consist entirely of tinned
tomato. But don’t worry, you’ve got
quite a number of pints to get through
before you realise suddenly that your
loan is somewhat smaller than you
first thought and it’s only week three.)
Of course there are plenty of other
horribly over-mentioned signs of new
beginnings which I’m sure will already
be annoying you. The classic freshers’
week questions you are being asked
by everyone, the number of clubs you
signed up to etc. (end of thinking ca-
pacity). There is another clue that it’s a
new year though, which I’d like to just
dwell on a little with the sort of morbid
fascination of a child poking the eye of
a washed up fish with a pointy stick. It’s
slimy and painful and sure ain’t pret-
ty, but like every obstacle on the bear
hunt, there’s no way around it, there’s
no way over it, there’s no way under it.
You’re going to have to go through it
(90% of you in fact, according to wiki).
Students are, like mosquitoes, a vec-
tor of disease; carefully collecting vi-
ruses from across the UK, and in the
case of Imperial, the globe, and, bring-
ing them to central melting pots called
‘universities’ they inadvertently create
a new and terrifying ailment known
commonly as ‘Freshers’ Flu’ every sin-
gle year. It and landmines I would say
are the two most pertinent answers to
that most vexing of riddles ‘Why do
birds suddenly disappear?’ The symp-
toms are numerous, but invariably
debilitating, sometimes requiring am-
putation. The coughing and sniffing in
lectures will wind you up no end, even
whilst you yourself know and surren-
der to those primitive urges to voice
your grating and dribbley misery with
the chorus that punctuates every single
sentence of fluid mechanics, or gastro-
enterology, or multivariable calculus
or whatever your particular vein of
self-inflicted cancer is. It strikes with
deadly force right at the beginning of
every year; at the one time when you
still believe the coming year might be
better than the last and when a large
proportion of the population are still
bright-eyed and fending off a little
home-sickness; the metaphorical go-
nads of student life.
You’ll be told that it’s to do with pass-
rates, but the real reason the number
of people on your course drops so
much every year is ‘timor pestilentae
noviciorum’, the Latin name for the
innate fear of freshers’ flu that I just
made up. (With a little help from the
internet and a very confused Latin
teacher at a party.) In case you are in-
terested I thought that the use of the
root ‘novicius’ meaning [new, fresh;
esp. of persons new to slavery] at the
end there was particularly appropriate
to those who had just began a degree.
Trouble is though, if you were interest-
ed then you probably know something
about Latin and may still be fuming at
my ignorance; JellyBean with Latin is
like a 4 year old with ADHD trying to
mend a Swiss watch using a nine-iron.
Still, you can’t fault my enthusiasm to
attempt something I am entirely un-
qualified to handle.
Anyway, I am not one to moan and
gripe. It’s not my job to proclaim
Clarkson-esque opinions on every-
thing but the column title, but simply
to bring you my thoughts and ideas on
things from a view point so far out of
the box that it is beyond the bounds of
sanity and running nude, arms waving
frantically for the horizon. In the past
I brought you, amongst other things, a
brief history of canoe juggling, hooty
cream, numerous innovative methods
for electricity generation (one of which
involved lemmings) and inspirational
thoughts from the life an onion and I
intend to continue presenting you with
thought-provoking nonsensicalities,
amusing stories and obscure similes
for another year.
Timor pestilentae noviciorum
Caz Knight
O
n August 9 2008, The
Guardian reported that
American publishing
giant Random House
dropped plans to pub-
lish ‘The Jewel of Medina’ by journalist
Sylvia Jones, for fear of inciting vio-
lence from terrorist groups. The novel
is a fictional account of the prophet
Muhammad’s relationship with his
child bride, Aisha, and was accused of
making fun of Muslims and their his-
tory by Denise Spellberg, professor
of Middle Eastern studies at the Uni-
versity of Texas. The decision called
into question the state of free speech
in the U.S.A. Six weeks later the safety
of Martin Rynja, owner of small, in-
dependent publishing house Gibson
Square (which also published ‘Blow-
ing up Russia’ by the late Alexander
Litvinenko), came into question when
his house was firebombed following
his decision to publish the novel. Rynja
was unharmed and sticks firmly to his
“imperative” decision to publish Jones’
book.
The critics of the novel need to re-
member that this book is fictitious and
not an attempt to accurately portray
history; Spellberg took issue with the
book on the grounds that it “play[ed]
with sacred history and turn[ed] it into
softcorepornography”.ObviouslySpell-
berg is not getting enough. Not only is
the book devoid of sex scenes (instead
chartering the couple’s love story), but
also seeks to honour the prophet and
is anything but disrespectful. This aim,
according to Jones, is even more potent
when written by a white, non-Muslim
woman. One has to wonder whether
these fire-bombers had even read this
hitherto unpublished novel or whether
they were ignorantly going by hearsay
in the media.
The politics aside, even if the novel
contained some risqué scenes that
couldpossiblyoffendpeople,oneneeds
to remember that this is fiction! I do
not think that any social, sexual, politi-
cal or religious niche has ever emerged
unscathed from the realms of fiction. If
you are likely to be offended by some-
thing it is best to close your eyes and
ears and develop a thicker skin. I can
appreciate that if the ‘Jewel of Medina’
was, indeed, blasphemous against Is-
lam then this could cause offense to
certain parties. This would still not be
a just cause for halting publication.
Phillip Pullman, author of the belov-
ed Northern Lights trilogy, reinforces
this point by claiming that religion is
the WORST reason to ban something.
He says that religion is a wonderful
thing that can be the source of moral
wisdom and solace but turns sour once
its leaders start meddling in the “social
and intellectual lives of their flock”.
The bid to destroy intellectual freedom
is inarguably evil; evil being a notion
which religion usually seeks to quash.
Do the censors not realise that by
banning something that it not only
makes us more aware of the illicit text/
film/image but it makes us yearn for it
more? Oscar Wilde makes this point
through the character Lord Henry
Worron in ‘A Picture of Dorian Gray’,
“when the soul gets sick the way to
cure it is to deny the senses nothing,”
implying that to deny ourselves is to
make our souls desire that thing more.
Nothing can be truer and anyone read-
ing this will, I am sure, agree.
A few days before Random House
chickened out, exam board AQA
“ask[ed] schools to destroy book con-
taining knife poem”. It is clear from
their choice of words that The Guard-
ian shares my opinion on the matter!
Carol Ann Duffy’s ‘Education for Lei-
sure’ begins with the line, “Today I am
going to kill something. Anything”.
This sparked concerns that G.C.S.E
children studying the poem would get
the wrong idea, given the increase in
knife crime. On hearing this, my anger
surged; that the education authorities
could be so damn patronising! Can 16
year-old young adults not be trusted to
handle controversial and very relevant
issues? The poem might go a long way
to reinforcing just how fucked up it is
to carry a knife. By re-hashing the is-
sue over and over through study of the
poem, might the allure of knife crime
not be dampened a little? Removing a
poem about knives from schools only
serves to glamourise such conduct
even more. Taboo issues will be a cata-
lyst for debates and intellectual discus-
sions – the point of and a means to
learning. These children need teach-
ers; not nannies who obviously think
that their pupils are capable of nothing
else but monkey see monkey do. Carol
Ann Duffy made an excellent point in
her responsive poem ‘Mrs. Schofield’s
GCSE’ by reminding us that literature is
littered with knife crime (hello, Romeo
and Juliet, Macbeth…). Pat Schofield,
who made the initial complaint about
‘Education for Leisure’ thought that
the poem dedicated to her was “a bit
weird”. It is a wonder these critics do
not think of better ways of articulat-
ing their indignation to appear slightly
more intelligent so as to carry their ar-
gument further.
It is heartening though to see fig-
ures such as Rynja and poet laureate
Michael Rosen rise to the defence of
those who are simply exercising their
right to free speech. I think, also, that
in this climate of ever more stifling po-
litical correctness we all need to light-
en up and not be so afraid of offending
somebody somewhere.
Li-Teck Lau
I
had to physically push past
Freshers just to get through
Sherfield the other day, the
stench of naiveté steaming off
each and every one of them like a
heat haze on an third world airfield. Of
course there are no third world coun-
tries anymore in the strictest sense of
the term seeing as the Cold War is so
over, but I choose to use it if only to
aggravate those among us who oft sit
in Starbucks drinking the fair-trade
coffee option and who readily admit to
being a ‘liberal’. How is it that warmon-
gering has become such a social faux
pas? I blame the Clintons.
Alas, the political world is now em-
broiled in the problems of the econo-
my. Everybody and nobody is to blame
in (n)either Whitehall (n)or Washing-
ton; it’s all those greedy bankers’ faults
evidently. If you came to this university
with the hope of afterwards joining an
investment bank using the transferable
skills you learnt during fluids lectures
as your metaphorical ace of spades,
then I salute you; there’s nothing like
seeing cash on the table and trampling
babies just to get to it. And I mean that,
truthfully. As long as it’s not your baby,
then the rules of gene theory readily
support you. Society has been lax, in a
pseudo-euphemistic sense of the word,
to regulate the industry, probably due
to a combination of incoherence, in-
competence and collusion, and is now
in a phase of change. But looking on
the bright side, isn’t it wonderful to be
witnessing the maturing of civilisation?
It’s like the life story of Dave (a wholly
arbitrary choice of name; Lola if you’re
a militant feminist) as he learns to ride
a bike; there are wobbles, falls, the oc-
casional accident involving a car. Let’s
just hope this time it isn’t a kidnapping
or something. In the end, however,
he will be free to explore the limitless
bounds of the universe.
If money was never really your thing
(and you’re very much a hardcore poli-
tics junkie), then one comforting devel-
opment of recent is the return of Peter
Mandelson, the hero of New Labour in
the 1990’s, back from exile in Europe
to sit in Mr Brown’s cabinet. The To-
ries are on a slight backfoot after a mini
Labour bounce following the deepen-
ing financial turmoil/the realisation by
many that Mr Cameron is little more
than a glorified speaking bandwagon,
and the Prime Minister’s speech to the
Labour Party conference last month,
but remain comfortably ahead in opin-
ion polls. Felix Politics will follow with
keen enthusiasm to see whether this
one-time ‘king of spin’ can turn the
ruling party’s fortunes around.
Did I mention that I’ve always been
a fan of subsistence farming? If there’s
a single lesson to be learnt from read-
ing this column of second hand infor-
mation, it’s that the world is a danger-
ous, mischievous place, where bankers
cheat you and politicians molest your
opinions. Welcome to Imperial, if
you’ve just joined us!
Gene theory and investment banking
Freedom of speech
I
don’t know if this is a phenome-
non exclusive to timepiece-mad
Switzerland where I have spent
most of the past fifteen years of
my life, but there is one particu-
larlyobnoxiouspublicitycampaignthat
has assaulted my senses from every di-
rection for as long as I can remember.
A well-known watch manufacturer has
taken it upon itself to broadcast what
must be one of the more nauseating
advertising ideas I have seen in recent
years.
Anyone who has ever walked down
the aisles of a Swiss airport will know
the advert I mean. It is the picture of
a Man with revoltingly sleek hair, an
impossibly well-fitting suit and, quite
clearly, a capital M. He is accompanied
by a younger version of himself of more
than usually revolting narcissism, and
the imposing words: ‘You never actu-
ally own a Patek Philippe. You merely
look after it for the next generation.’
The one redeeming feature of these
posters is that they allow you to con-
struct your own back-story for the
characters. By now, I take comfort in
imagining, the father will have lost
his two million pound a year job with
the brothers Lehman and the son’s fa-
ther issues are so developed that even
his psychotherapist may not be sure
whether the Electra complex applies to
him or not. Hey, that’s two psychology
references in as many weeks – there
must be some sort of prize for that.
Maybe a buy-one-get-one-free deal on
personalities?
But I’m getting distracted. The truth
is that I don’t want to spend too much
time on the overblown pretension of
the figures in the images, the inane
grandeur of the slogan or the diseased
mind-set required to actually pur-
chase a Patek Philippe. Such reverse
snobbery is likely to come amiss from
someone typing with a wrist weighted
down by a Tissot. There. I’ve taken it
off and the gloves could potentially
come off with it.
But I have bigger fish to fry. As ri-
diculous as the Patek Philippe motto is
when applied to a piece of metal you
attach to your hand to avoid having
to look up at the sun to know when to
check your e-mails, it’s a pretty good
sentence.
And it’s ideal when it comes to de-
scribing London. London is not a city
anyone lives in. It’s a city that tempo-
rarily permits your existence until the
time has come to move on. Not even
the current resident of 10 Downing
Street (I hesitate to give him a specific
name: this article is supposed to be
relevant until next Friday. Who knows
what will have happened by then?) can
truly claim to live in the city.
WhereasManhattanintimidateswith
the ruthless grandeur of its architec-
ture and the sheer petrifying breadth
of its pavements (or do I mean side-
walks?), London needs no such physi-
cal displays of domination. The impos-
ing nature of London comes from the
ruthless grandeur of its great figures
and the sheer petrifying breadth of its
history.
If cities were high-class escort girls,
Paris would get you a good time; glee-
fully faking her satisfaction loudly and
often. Manhattan would probably have
a book open behind your arhythmi-
cally thrusting back, totally and hu-
miliatingly indifferent to you and your
inadequate performance. Asking me to
name the book might be to get carried
away by the flow of the metaphor, but I
would hazard a guess at ‘The Wealth of
Nations’ or, perhaps, the TV Guide.
London, however, is where my
metaphor really breaks down. Try as
I might, I cannot picture London as
a buxom bimbo with amusing sexual
characteristics; I cannot visualize any
act of closeness a person can have with
this city. It is impossible to be on in-
timate terms with a city that has sur-
vived wars, revolutions, epidemics,
fires, bombings and 5 months of Boris
Johnson. Let Manhattan and other cit-
ies aggressively take you for a ride, bru-
tally exhaust you and leave you spent
and broken on the sidewalk (or do I
mean pavement?). London may treat
you more gently, but with an impassive
dignity born of knowing your complete
unimportance.
London is not a place you can mould
to your own image. It is a city that in-
exorably moulds you. The city as it
stands today is the product of count-
less generations, and your own insig-
nificance weighs you down wherever
you go. In smaller cities and towns you
have the impression that you can make
a difference. As though you can leave
a mark that will last forever. Not here.
A city where you can daily walk past
the seat of kings, look up at the 51.6
meter phallus on which a one-eyed
admiral who helped save an empire is
perched, stare at the mother of all par-
liaments on your way to get something
to eat or pass by the shrapnel-indented
western wall of the Victoria and Albert
museum is not a city anyone can be so
arrogant as to claim to own or belong
to. It’s a terrifying, dominating and
unstoppable city. Our admiring may
be done while crawling the kerbs and
walking the streets, but the metaphor
stops there.
As we are breathlessly carried along
in its wake, all we can do is look after it
for the next lucky generation.
If London was a call girl (or maybe not)
Gilead Amit

