8 felix Friday 10 October 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
.Z*NQFSJBMJTBHBUFXBZUP
XFCCBTFETFSWJDFTXIJDI
XJMMTVQQPSUBOEFOIBODF
ZPVSFYQFSJFODFBTBTUVEFOU
BU*NQFSJBM1FSTPOBMJTFUIJT
QPSUBMUPBDDFTTZPVSGBWPVSJUF
XFCTJUFT MJOLTBOEBQQMJDBUJPOT
My Imperial
Why use My Imperial?
 
0OFTJUF°"DDFTTUPBXJEFQPSUGPMJPPG
POMJOFTFSWJDFTGSPNBTJOHMFHBUFXBZ
 
&BTZBDDFTT°´4JOHMF4JHO0OµGFBUVSF
XIJDINFBOTZPVPOMZMPHJOPODFBOEEP
OPUIBWFUPSFNFNCFSTFWFSBMQBTTXPSET
GPSEJGGFSFOUTZTUFNT
 
1FSTPOBMJTBUJPO°$VTUPNJTFTFSWJDFT
SFMFWBOUUPZPV
 
4JNQMFOBWJHBUJPO°-FTTUJNFTQFOU
OBWJHBUJOHJOTFBSDIPGPOMJOFTFSWJDFT
 
5JNFTBWJOH°3FEVDFEUJNFRVFVJOHGPS
BENJOJTUSBUJWFTFSWJDFTCZVTJOHPOMJOF
TFSWJDFT
your gateway to life at Imperial

T
oday I received a man’s ra-
zor. Great. After trawling
through the packed stands
of Imperial’s Fresher’s Fair
2008, I have come to an
inevitable conclusion: I am the wrong
gender.
It’s not a case of me wanting a sex-
change operation, I’m actually very
happy being female, despite starting at
a male-dominated university just over
one year ago. However, during my time
here, it has become increasingly clear
that Imperial simply cannot cater to-
wards the needs of its female (not nec-
essarily more feminine) students. This
case with the razor serves to emphasise
an unhappy truth
The fact is, with the rare exception,
women are not interested in gaming,
porn, gadgets, expletives, alcohol-
induced vomit, or sexual innuendos –
need I really continue? Women are not
objects for male sexual gratification;
we are thinking individuals who should
be treated with respect.
I have in mind here the inappropri-
ate subject matter that was printed in
last week’s edition of Felix. For our new
freshers starting at Imperial, this is a
disastrous first impression.
When ‘writers’ such as
Haxz0rMcRandy_1 have such absurd
pre-conceived ideas about women,
it is no surprise that sexism remains
rampant even now, in our modern
twenty-first century society. The ma-
jority of male students at Imperial are
decent individuals, who should not al-
low themselves to be represented by
such misogynistic, ignorant, immature
journalistic filth. Here we are, studying
together at an innovative, forward-
thinking university – and our student
paper airs views that belong to the
Dark Ages.
Does this writer really expect wom-
en to prostrate themselves before
him, dressed in the lingerie he has so
thoughtfully picked out for them, sob-
bing with gratitude?
When female students chose to study
at a prestigious academic institution
like Imperial, they probably weren’t
expecting to read about jibes on how
to dress!
Enough is enough. It is time for the
silent majority to make itself known.
Write into felix now. Make your voice
heard.
Susie Peng
The XX factor
With help from: Vicky Ed-
wards, Chris Woolley, Katha-
rina Reeh, Clarissa Poh, Ei
Mun Chuah and Drew Thomas
The Editor
E
rm, so there have been a few
complaints about the Hang-
man section. As well as the
comment article above by
Susie Peng et al. I received
an email from Chao Cui:
‘I would like to bring to your atten-
tion the Hangman article in the latest
issue of Felix, having read the article
I am sorry to say that I am appalled
and offended by the content which is
demeaning and inappropriate even if it
were meant as a joke. It is unacceptable
for a respectable publication, to know-
ingly adopt the view of women being an
object. This also the first felix publica-
About Coffee Break and Hangman
tion that freshers are likely to see, by al-
lowing this article to go to print what
image of the college would this project
to them? Do you think it’s correct to al-
low a former Guardian Media Group
Student News Paper of the Year to fall
to such low standards?
I insist that the name of the author
be made public, and that both he and
the Felix Editor, Jovan Nedic make a
formal apology to the entire student
community at Imperial College, and
a guarantee that no further articles of
this nature be allowed to go to print.
Such an article does the college no good
whatsoever, and merely serves to tar-
nish our reputation.
If you’re response is unsatisfactory I
will consider taking this matter beyond
Imperial College Union.
’
I feel that I really need to explain the
Hangman and Coffee Break sections to
all of you. In 2006 (same time we won
the Guardian Award!) Coffee Break
was the satirical section, which also
included fun games and competitions.
Hangman is merely an extension of the
satirical part of Coffee Break. Every-
thing that is written in there is meant
to be taken with a pinch of salt and to
be read in good humour. The writing
in last week’s Hangman was crude and
blunt, and I apologise for that. In the
future I will not allow that tone to be
printed. I have made my views clear to
the Hangman team and I am sure that
the section will be brought back up to
standard.
I apologise for the way the article by
Haxz0rMcRandy_1 was written, how-
ever I have no reason to apologise for
the theme of that particular article.
Like I said, it is meant to be satirical.
Some people will like it, others won’t.
As for the comment piece by Susie
Peng et al. I gladly welcome new con-
tributors to the newspaper, male or fe-
male. So please, if you have a concern
about something at college, or about
life itself, then do write to us.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy
An equal opportunity employer
Visit us at oliverwyman.com
Join us on campus this term to meet with our Consultants and Partners,
and discuss career opportunities at Oliver Wyman.
Imperial College Union Careers Fair
Thursday 30 October, 11-4pm, Queens Lawn
Oliver Wyman Presentation
Monday 3 November, 6.30pm
CBI Conference Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU
‘What is Management Consultancy?’
Careers Talk in association with Imperial Careers Advisory Service
Tuesday 4 November, 1-2pm
G34 Lecture Theatre, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
To register, please go to www.imperial.ac.uk/careers
For more information about career opportunities at Oliver Wyman
please visit www.oliverwyman.com/careers
Oliver Wyman is a leading
global management consultancy,
combining deep industry knowledge
with specialised expertise in strategy,
risk management, organisational
transformation and leadership development.

