science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mico Tatalovic
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Science
Parents have evolved to restricting the
behaviour of their daughters more than
of their sons in order to preserve their
sexual purity.
Meeting the parents of one’s girl-
friend is rarely easy, as echoed in an ad
for the soft drink Dr Pepper -‘What’s
the worse that could happen?’- where
father enrols boyfriend in a wrestling
match to the horror of his daughter.
But have you ever thought why this
should be so?
Evolutionary psychologists think
they might have the answer. The so
called ‘daughter-guarding hypothesis’
suggests parents have evolved to pro-
tect their daughter’s sexual reputation
and mate-value. The idea is that since
unwanted pregnancies and rape are
both more likely to affect daughters
than sons, parents were more likely to
evolve behaviours that interfere with
their daughter’s sexual activities, to
prevent such costly mishaps. Now, the
first evidence to support this hypoth-
esis has been published in the Journal
of Evolutionary Psychology.
Researchers from the University of
Texas in Austin asked students and
their parents to fill in questionnaires
regarding parental behaviours when
the students were in senior year at
high school. Both children and par-
ents reported parents having different
attitudes towards daughters. Daugh-
ters were less likely to get permission
to drive the family car, to go for a ride
with a male friend and spend night
over at a friend’s or a boyfriend’s house.
They were also more likely to get a cur-
few and be frowned upon for holding
hands, kissing or having sex with their
boyfriend. Parents, but especially fa-
thers, thought it’s more important to
approve of their daughter’s boyfriends
than of their son’s girlfriends. Parents
were more likely to control what their
daughter is wearing. The list goes on...
In effect, all those girls who feel their
brother gets away with stuff they would
never manage is probably right. Now
we know who to blame: evolution.
Mićo Tatalović
Science editor
BBC Natural History
Philippa For-
rester – her off
the telly – takes
us into the dark
heart of Africa
to talk to Si-
mon King about
the new series
of Big Cat Diaries. His team have live
coverage throughout October of one
of nature’s grandest spectacles, the
wildebeest migration in Kenya’s Ma-
sai Mara reserve. Watch out for juicy
slo-mo shots of nature at its reddest
in tooth and claw. Also on this week’s
podcast: migrating moths, house mar-
tins and honey buzzards, and the case
of the disappearing ospreys. Forrester’s
soothing voice is the radio equivalent
of a fireside mug of Horlicks.
www.bbc.co.uk/radio/podcasts/nathistory
Living Planet
A weekly half-
hour podcast
focusing on
environmen-
tal issues from
around the
world. Canada’s
Green party is
making political inroads as the public
become disillusioned by the lack of ac-
tion on climate change. In Kyrgyzstan
people are feeling the effects of climate
change firsthand through crippling wa-
ter shortages, while leaders in the West
can only prevaricate on restricting car
emissions. A sobering wake-up call –
we use the resources of 1.4 Earths, ris-
ing to two by 2050 – that highlights the
unsustainable way we live.
www.dw-world.de/dw/0,2142,3072,00.html
RSPB Nature’s Voice
Corny title,
and a rather
lightweight
monthly pod-
cast for bird
fans only. That
said, they do
have celebrity
twitcher Rory McGrath (the ‘bearded
tit’ from They Think It’s All Over) im-
agining life as a soaring buzzard. The
RSPB are doing plenty of good work
such as setting up reserves in Sumatra
with the help of indigenous people, and
recreating from scratch rare heathland
habitat in Bedfordshire.
www.rspb.org.uk/podcasts
NPR Environment
This goes out
on US National
Public Radio
(their version of
the BBC) and
packs a ‘helluva
lot’ into a mea-
sly fifteen min-
utes (presumably they had to fight like
a gnu for even that much science air-
time). Plans are afoot on both coasts
for ‘cap-and-trade’ schemes to restrict
energy companies’ carbon emissions,
but are they being allowed too much
leeway? Also, British palaeontologist
Richard Fortey talks about the history
of naming species, with reference to a
peculiar family of slime-mould-eating
beetles named after the Bush cabinet…
The best filler music of any environ-
ment podcast this week. And that con-
ludes the ‘podview’ for this week :)
www.npr.org/rss/podcast/podcast_detail.
php?siteId=4985907
Podview: science
podcasts review
Daniel’s Unmissable Science Videos
This week - a liquid that keeps changing colour all by itself...
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ch93AKJm9os
This week Felix Whitton reviews nature
and environment podcasts.
Meet Sir John Pendry FRS
If you have read the recent news about
‘Harry Potter invisibility cloaks’ or ‘per-
fect lenses’, you will have come across
the name Prof Sir John Pendry, FRS,
a professor at Imperial College since
1981. Among other things, Sir John is
behind the emergence of negative re-
fraction ‘metamaterials’, in which light
rays entering a material are refracted
on the same side of the normal.
Materials can be constructed which
sweep light around objects and hence
makes them undetectable. This ap-
plication created international media
frenzy, captivating the public’s inter-
est and it even ended up in the Sun
with the title ‘Boffin invents invisibility
cloak’.
The BBC was closer to the mark
with their headline ‘Invisibility cloak
‘step closer’’ as the cloaking technol-
ogy is currently limited to a narrow
frequency band and therefore making
anything disappear completely in the
visible is currently unfeasible.
However these metamaterials are
already being applied to other areas.
Special constructions of these mate-
rials can even focus light into areas
smaller than their wavelength, which
could break the current 60Gb storage
limit on Blu-Ray devices. As Sir John
says “Using conventional materials we
can’t go any further - however, negative
materials can beat this fundamental
limit.”
In another application, Boeing have
already made prototype antennae out
of negative refractive material, where
the material’s ability to respond to a
particular frequency is actually a par-
ticular strength.
Sir John turned 65 this year and to
celebrate his wide ranging contribu-
tions to science over 40 years, Imperial
organized the aptly named ‘Pendryfest’.
He has had a hand in shaping Imperial
in his time here; by building the con-
densed matter group, as head of the
Physics Department and later Princi-
pal of the Physical Sciences Faculty. In
recent years he has refocused on his re-
search away from administration with
a prestigious EPSRC Senior Research
5-Year Fellowship. Over his career he
has made fundamental contributions
to three major fields of Physics - sur-
face science, disordered systems and
localization,andmetamaterialsworkin
optics. Although he just turned 65, he
has no intention of slowing down and I
am happy to say that with his work on
time reversal about to be published in
Science, we could one day celebrate his
65th birthday once again.
In the words of Sir Peter Knight who
chaired a session at Pendryfest, “One
of the things that is characteristic and
unusual about John is that every few
years he changes his field. So you can
point to about four different John Pen-
dry’s and in each case he has made a
world class contribution. At confer-
ences there are whole sessions devoted
to subjects where John had the first
word. So his international leadership
has been phenomenal.”
Lifting the veil on the man who developed the invisibility cloak.
Daniel Burrows
Science Editor
25 days from now, America will choose
the next president of the United States.
Both sides tout ‘change’, but there is a
choice as to the nature of the change:
between youth and experience, be-
tween Ivy League education and an
American war hero and, frankly, be-
tween black and white. Putting all
other differences aside, how would a
McCain administration differ from
an Obama administration on science?
ScienceDebate2008 is a non-partisan
group which asked the contenders 14
pressing science questions to find out.
Obama says science and technology
will be a ‘central priority’ and promises
to double basic research budgets over
the next decade including increasing
support for ‘high-risk, high-payoff’
research. He promises a hands on ap-
proach with the creation of 30,000 new
teachers in high-need schools.
Whereas, McCain seems to prefer a
more ‘hands-off’ approach. He prom-
ises to streamline government regula-
tions, lower taxes, provide incentives to
research, but stops short of promising
a general cash figure. He does prom-
ise a few ‘green’ specifics including two
billion dollars every year for the next
15 years on clean coal technologies,
$5,000 tax credit for each zero emis-
sion car, and a $300 million prize for
the development of a novel battery.
So does McCain win the green sci-
ence debate? Well Obama proposes
an 80% reduction in Carbon emissions
by 2050 (as opposed to McCain’s 60%)
and Obama includes annual reduction
targets. They both believe in ‘cap and
trade’ schemes; however Obama talks
more about bringing the other major
emitters of the world, China, Europe,
and India to the table with a technol-
ogy transfer program.
No so very different I hear you say,
but McCain and Obama do differ sig-
nificantly on their attitude on stem cell
research. McCain talks incorrectly and
emotively about ‘fetal farming’, where-
as Obama promises to immediately
lift President Bush’s ban on embryonic
stem cell research which has been a
‘hand-cuff’ on researchers.
Moreover if McCain wins we are one
72 year-old’s heartbeat from swearing
in President Sarah Palin. On climate
change she says ‘I’m not one though
who would attribute it to being man-
made’. She does not believe in abor-
tion, even in the case of rape. She is a
‘proponent of teaching’ both evolution
and creationism together in schools.
And my decision is made.
Daniel Burrows
I thought Pendryfest was fantas-
tic, as I could follow many of the
talks even as a non-specialist.
What were your thoughts?
Well I was looking forward to it, but
with some apprehension because it’s a
big thing - having your old friends and
colleagues come back is a very emo-
tional experience.
In the end, it was a wonderful occa-
sion. It was a hell of a lot of organisa-
tion and I am very grateful to all those
at college helped organize it including
Prof Adrian Sutton and Carolyn Dale.
You have held a number of impor-
tant posts throughout your career
(see article), how have you man-
aged to continue to do research
while still being the heads of
these large organizations?
I am a fiend when it comes to rationing
my time. I had to cut my immediate
group down to 2-3 students and a post
doc, so the administration was very
light. They had to be very good people
who could propel themselves for long
distances under their own steam.
And of course, the number of really
good sparks of inspiration you have in
a year is quite limited. Einstein had a
lot but not all in one day and so there
is a lot of space in-between. Something
is happening, but it is not happening in
the frontal part of the brain.
Say you just graduated from
Imperial College, knowing what
you know now from all the senior
posts you have held, what field
would you choose?
That is a difficult question. I can tell
you I ended up in condensed matter
Physics by accident. Like most of my
contemporaries, I wanted to do some-
thing in cosmology and general rela-
tivity. I actually messed up my finals
and ended up with a 2:1, which was not
good enough to do cosmology. A con-
densed matter theorist took pity on me
and so I guess it was an accident. Since
then, I have moved fields a few times,
so my current field of optics is definite-
ly an informed choice. Optics is a ma-
ture field of course, but there are new
things happening all the time.
And another thing: you cannot listen
to a lecture and say that is jolly interest-
ing. I would like to do research in that
field. Listening to the Brandenburg
Concertos is interesting, but we should
not all take up composing. You have
got to feel that you are using your skills
and therefore earning your keep.
About computers in 1969: you
wrote computer simulations,
but there weren't any computers
around then right? As we know it
anyways...
Oh, well we had tape and then later
punch cards. The first machine I
worked on was punch tape - you could
punch the holes yourself if you wanted
to change a few things. There were
compilers but no code libraries, so
when I worked with problems involv-
ing matrixes, inverting them, diagonal-
izing them and so on, we had to write
all our own subroutines for analysis.
Throughout your career you have
moved fields every 12 years or
so. The first was an accident, and
the optics was a choice. Do you
think these things happen more
by accident or more by choice in
your career?
There is an immense amount of luck
and accident in it. It is always impor-
tant to realize that whatever you are
working on, in 10 years time it is likely
not to be the hot topic of the day. Plan-
ning to move on is an essential part of
career training for a scientist. The way
I work is I have one main problem I
am focussed on and then I have other
problems, like little vortices which cast
off and go somewhere else. A few of
them will grow into the next project
so all the time I am reading around my
subject. And remember science is a bit
like Wall Street, it has its successes and
disasters just like Wall Street does.
If you are sensible you choose to go
in a direction in which you can bring
some skills with you. Otherwise you
are back as a PhD student learning eve-
rything from scratch.
There was a throw away com-
ment in the recent article about
you in the Physics review letters,
which really sparked my interest.
It said in the disordered systems
and localisation work you were
doing particularly with Prof An-
gus MacKinnon, there might be
applications with the conductiv-
ity of bio-molecules. Could you
explain a bit more about this?
Well yes... I do know what they are talk-
ing about... and I think they are wrong!
Things like silicon can come in highly
ordered crystals. But bio-molecules are
not like that. For example DNA, per-
haps the ultimate bio-molecule, cannot
have ordered stacking of the base pairs.
So it can be modelled a little bit like a
disordered system, which is a very dif-
ficult problem which I worked on with
Angus and it’s not solved today.
Would you be interested in work-
ing in that field... or are you on
Meta-materials right now?
It’s very frustrating. Angus gave me
a backhanded compliment in his talk
(at Pendryfest) on this point. He said
I did some good work on it but it was
ignored, as it did not fit in with the
fashions of the times. I was very cross
about my work on disordered systems
and now, twenty years later, people are
doing experiments based on things we
did then. I would like to get back and
pick up that thread, but I'm on meta-
materials right now and this is so pro-
ductive that is what I must focus on.
Your work on metamaterials has
captivated both scientists and
non-scientists alike. The invisibil-
ity cloak has been talked about in
the pub and scientists have been
amazed at the perfect lens, but
what I want to talk about is the
application to antennae?
Yes, I think that antennae is the meta-
material area where companies may
make the first products. It is easier to
make metamaterials that operate in
the frequency range and the range of
material properties available at those
frequencies is much greater than the
range of materials available at optical
frequencies.
What do you think about the
public's view on Physics?
I think all too often it’s associated with
the areas where it carries the technol-
ogy all the way through to application,
like the military ones: radar and the
nuclear bomb. People often don't see
the physics as the essential engine un-
der the hood of major advances.
For example the endoscope was in-
vented by Harold Hopkins, who was a
professorofOpticsatImperial. Hereal-
ized that light entering a fibre, mapped
exactly to a point of light on the other
end, and it did not matter how the fibre
bends in the middle. This is probably
the single most important advance in
modern surgery. Many abdominal op-
erations do more damage getting to the
problem then fixing it. There are now
a host of operations you can walk away
from, where previously there would be
weeks of convalescing and potential for
complications. It’s all thanks to keyhole
surgery and Harold Hopkins.
This has impacted my life, I had
keyhole surgery to remove my
appendix and I walked out of the
hospital about three hours later.
These are the stories we should be
telling about Physics, Physics as the
Good Samaritan to the other sciences.
I would like more school children to see
Physics like that, as a living science.
You have never diverged into
starting a company? Have you
ever been tempted?
The problem with a start-up, is that it
is very expensive on time and it is not
my expertise. As a theorist, even one
who works closely with experimental-
ists, I am used to generating ideas, but
then you have to build on those and get
a piece of kit. This kit is the thing that
is patented and forms the bases of a
company’s worth. So you are at an im-
mediate disadvantage as a theorist.
At the end of the day you might have
something very valuable, which you
can sell and make a lot of money. I then
have to ask, what would I do with it?
If I was a young man with a family to
support I might think differently, but
as it is, I don't.
Its been 10 years, have you de-
cided which field is next?
I am building a link between the time
reversal and negative refraction. Neg-
ative refraction is like a bit of negative
space and time reversal sends things
backwards in time. Could they be
related?
I am sure that will capture some
media interest too!
Well that would be fun. It will make a
nice change from the cloak I must say.
Obama vs. McCain
“His international
leadership
has been
phenomenal”

