politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Politics
Politics Editor – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Senator McCain and his
“steep hill” to victory
Senators John McCain and Barack
Obama enter the last 30 days of their
campaigns with Obama clinging on to
a small, but significant lead and Mc-
Cain anxious to divert attention away
from the ongoing financial crisis.
This final phase of the election prep-
aration comes during the worst eco-
nomic crisis since the Great Depres-
sion. Not only is the economic system
in turmoil but the military is under
strain, fighting two wars simultane-
ously. A vast majority of the electorate
believes that the US is on the wrong
track and public sentiment toward the
departing administration appears to
verge on contempt.
With two debates still to come (at the
time of press) the battle will get more
heated with increased advertising wars
and a ground game pitting newly regis-
tered Obama supporters against older
and perhaps more dependable voters
for McCain.
The landscape of American politics
has shifted, most noticeably in the
Midwest, driven by the financial crisis,
the performance of the two candidates
in response and increased doubts over
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. These
changes in recent weeks have favoured
Obama.
McCain made the abrupt decision
last week to take down television ad-
vertisements in Michigan and shift
staff to other states. The retreat from
Michigan, a blue state once seen by
McCain’s campaign as a prime target
for shifting a big industrial state to the
Republican column, has prevented a
major blow for Obama. The economic
downturn, which has hit Michigan es-
pecially hard, appears to be too much
for McCain to overcome. Sarah Pa-
lin, McCain’s running mate, disagreed
with this decision. “Oh, come on, do
we have to?” Palin told Fox News, add-
ing: “I want to get to Michigan, and I
want to try.”
Wisconsin, where Obama’s once-
commanding lead has dwindled, has
seen a redoubling of McCain’s efforts
to ensure the state turning red on No-
vember 4th. However, McCain is be-
ing forced to compete in Indiana, a
state that has not voted for a Democrat
since Lyndon Johnson in 1964, where
polls show Obama in close contention.
Meanwhile, Obama has to pump mon-
ey into Minnesota to ensure Demo-
crats secure the state in the election.
“I don’t think it’s over, but boy, other
than the vice-presidential debate, you
would be hard-pressed to point to
anything good that’s happened to Re-
publicans in the last three weeks,” said
Charlie Cook, editor of non-partisan
Cook Political Report.
The McCain campaign plans to get
away from the financial debacle and
back to questioning Obama’s inexpe-
rience – criticisms that can more eas-
ily be rallied against Palin. Economic
issues tend to favour Democrats, and
McCain’s decision to abandon cam-
paigning and rush back to Washing-
ton received mixed views. His claim
The final 30 days: The political landscape has changed, forcing Senators John McCain
and Barack Obama to rethink tactics in the final stages of their campaigns.
to return to campaigning when the
crisis has been averted has seemingly
been forgotten, the crisis deepens yet
McCain is back on the hard sell; this
tactic appears to have been a political-
ly-motivated PR stunt which has not
worked as well as his team would have
hoped. “We’re looking to turn the page
on this financial crisis and getting back
to discussing Mr. Obama’s aggressively
liberal record and how he will be too
risky for Americans” said Greg Strim-
ple, a senior McCain advisor. However,
many Americans find the prospect of a
McCain presidency with Sarah Palin as
Vice-President a risky and downright
scary prospect.
Obama campaign manager David
Plouffe has said that they are still on
the offensive, hammering home the
message that if voters want another for
years of George W. Bush’s policies, they
should back McCain. If they want “fun-
damental change, putting middle-class
first”, they should vote for Obama.
Although poll numbers are not de-
finitive, Obama has made large gains
among white women, often cited as
a key component of the electorate, as
well as non-college-educated white
voters. “Obama’s doing well among
all the demographic groups he needs
to win,” said Peter Brown, assistant
director of the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute, describing the Illinois
senator’s lead as solid. “It doesn’t mean
the election’s over, but McCain has a
steep hill.”
Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster,
says that the race is not over. “Every
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
time in the past Obama has been able
to open up a small but significant lead,
the McCain campaign has figured out
a way to close the gap.”
Scott Reed, who ran Bob Dole’s
1996 campaign, said there’s no reason
for Republicans to panic. “If you look
back at the last 30 days and what we’ve
been through, look at how many times
things have changed,” he said. “That’s
why I still have hope.”
Meanwhile, Obama is still on the of-
fensive in Virginia, Colorado, Florida
and Ohio where Bush won four years
ago. “We assume all these battleground
states will be competitive until the very
end,” said Plouffe, cautiously describing
himself as “pleased” with the progress.
To win the election, Obama needs
270 electoral votes. To reach this total,
Obama could try the one-state option,
going all-out to win a big state like
Florida or Ohio, which would put him
over 270 if he also held the states Kerry
won four years ago. On the other hand,
Obama could try the two-state strate-
gy, winning Virginia and a smaller state
such as Iowa or New Mexico. Obama’s
advisors are also saying there is a three-
state option, coupling wins in Iowa and
New Mexico with one in Colorado.
Obama has an advantage in money,
having chosen not to take public funds.
This means he can spend as much as he
raises whereas McCain is limited to the
money he receives from the govern-
ment. The Michigan decision was seen
as a move to concentrate money where
it counts however McCain’s advisors
say it doesn’t reflect any problems.
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
McCain has gone on the attack in the latest ‘townhall’ style Presidential debate, focusing on Barack Obama’s character
We have arrived comrades, at the first
politics section of the year. Freshers
week is drawing to a close, time per-
haps for us to start thinking about seri-
ous matters... like the financial crisis we
now find ourselves in having spent the
majority of the week drinking ourselves
silly. The most common response now
seems to be to pour ones heart and
soul into blaming all lifes problems on
the crisis that is the ‘credit crunch’.
For example, whilst standing at the
Union Bar this week, I could not help
overhearing a conversation that made
my ears bleed; one young man turned
to his friend to bemoan the price
of snakebite increasing, his friend
promptly and pompously reflected
that it was all to do with this “blasted
credit crunch”.
Sorry... what?!? It shouldn’t be sur-
prising I suppose when Paris Hilton
genuinely thinks that credit crunch is
her next filming destination, and an
Imperial Fresher (you know who you
are) was convinced that it is in fact a
tasty cereal.
The point here is that this phrase is
bandied about continuously, so much
is said about it but very little is un-
derstood, it is simply something to
complain about. So how much does
the credit crunch actually affect us
students?
To answer this question, I took to
Imperial’s campus and the union to
gain an insight into the student psy-
che. For the most part I was treated
with bemused replies; “I haven’t re-
ally thought about it...” and “er, its al-
right” came flooding forth. There were
a small number of people who were
mildly irritated at rising food prices.
A few overseas students lamented the
strength of the pound decreasing as it
means that they now get less Euros in
exchange. Aside from this, the mood
was certainly quite uninterested.
Throughout my wanderings, I de-
tected a definite undertone of detach-
ment, a feeling that as students we
don’t consider ourselves to be real peo-
ple, we live in a alcohol coated bubble
above the rest of the world, union poli-
tics becomes more important that na-
tional politics and there is sometimes
a tendency to forget about the world
beyond campus.
So, it seems that the answer to the
aforementioned question is that in
general it really does not affect us all
that much. Hoorah!
It has been a week where Gordon
Brown has thrown money into keeping
the Highstreet banks afloat and staving
off an economic apocalypse, as well as
trying to coax the banks into lending to
each other again.
“That certainly should stop the
panic in terms of people wondering
whether or not the banks are safe.” said
Terry Smith, chief executive of Tullett
Prebon. With new schemes being put
forward continuously, it feels like the
crisis will never be over.
Oh well, I’m booking my holiday to
Credit Crunch for some sun and sand.
Until next time fellow students!
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Politics
Israeli Prime Minister calls for withdrawal
Ehud Olmert, who recently announced
his resignation, last Monday stated that
“almost all the territories, if not all the
territories” should be handed over to
the Palestinians to ensure peace. This
will effectively reverse the occupation
of territories gained in 1967. Olmert
added that the withdrawal will have to
extend to eastern Jerusalem, the future
seat of government for the Palestin-
ians, a bold move as the city has long
been proclaimed as Israel’s “eternal,
undivided capital”.
The Israeli Prime Minister will con-
tinue in power until a new government
is assembled to take over on November
3rd. Olmert announced his decision in
Julyaftercomingundermountingpres-
sure due to multiple corruption inves-
tigations. Tzipi Livni is the likely can-
didate to take over the premiership.
Both Ehud Olmert and Defence
Minister Ehud Barak have recently
called for a tougher stance to be taken
against those who attack Palestinians.
“An evil wind of extremism, of hate, of
maliciousness, of violence, of losing
control, of lawbreaking, of contempt
for the institutions of state, is passing
though certain sections of the Israeli
public,” Mr Olmert told the cabinet as
a Palestinian shepherd was killed near
the city of Nablus in the occupied West
Bank.
Some, including former Meretz
chairman Yossi Beilin believe he has
made a serious mistake calling for the
withdrawal: “Olmert has committed
the unforgivable sin of revealing his
true stance on Israel’s national interest
just when he has nothing left to lose”.
Meanwhile MK Yuval Steinitz ac-
cused Mr Olmert of gambling on Is-
rael’s future. “Ignoring the distance
between rockets fired from afar and
the enemy sitting on top of Jerusalem
reveals how little he understands the
basis of security,” Mr Steinitz said.
Prime Minister Olmert furthered his
previous comments by saying that any
peace deal with Syria would require
pulling out of the Golan Heights, held
since 1967 after the six-day war against
Syria amongst other Arabic nations.
“We have to reach an agreement with
the Palestinians, the meaning of which
is that in practice we will withdraw
from almost all the territories, if not all
the territories,”.
Mr Olmert said. “We will leave a
percentage of these territories in our
hands, but will have to give the Pales-
tinians a similar percentage, because
without that there will be no peace,” he
added.
It appears from an interview con-
ducted with Yedioth Ahronoth, along
with news that the governments of Is-
James Goldsack rael and Syria have been engaged in se-
cret talks since February 2007 and Mr.
Olmert is hopeful that in exchange for
surrendering the Golan Heights, Da-
mascus will cut its ties with Iran
A withdrawal will most likely leave
400,000 Israelis stranded in the occu-
pied West Bank and another 20,000 in
the Golan Heights. The call for with-
drawal and peace is a departure from
comments previously made by the
Prime Minister, who once believed
that Jerusalem should wholly be within
Israeli territory.
Whilst reflecting on his tenure,
Omert was anxious to point out that he
was “not trying to justify retroactively
what I did for 35 years. For a large
portion of these years I was unwilling
to look at reality in all its depth” said
Olmert.
The fact that Mr. Olmert not only felt
able to make his comments, but also to
actively show disapproval for the way
the situation was handled, is perhaps a
change in mood he was only ready to
discuss once his political career was
already over so there could not be any
repercussions.
His recently voted successor, Tzipi
Livni, has been more cautious than
Olmert. Despite his brave comments,
there seems little hope for a peace
agreement in the time Ehud Olmert
has left as Prime Minister.
Austrian far-right steal 30% in election sparking fear of neo-Nazi resurgence
Heinz-Christian Strache, former dental
technician and bigot, has shot to dubi-
ous fame for leading his Freedom party
to 18% of the vote in an early general
election last Sunday, whilst his former
boss and mentor-cum-rival Jörg Haid-
er led his extreme-right party Austria’s
Future to 11%. Despite claims to the
contrary, Strache has been branded a
neo-Nazi by many political opponents
and with good reason: keeping com-
pany with banned German neo-Nazis,
photographedgivingthethree-fingered
neo-Nazi salute, promising to repeal
laws banning Nazi revivalism, filmed
in forests carrying arms and wearing
military fatigues, the list goes on. “I
was never a neo-Nazi and never will
be” Strache has insisted, yet recently
while suing Viennese newspaper Profil
for defamation, the court ruled that he
could reasonably be said to display “an
affinity to national-socialist thinking”.
Europe’s extreme-right poster boy
has stirred up support mostly from
the 72% of Austrians who are against
James Goldsack inclusion within the E.U. by bashing
Brussels. Strache’s current aspiration
is to become Chancellor then to form
a coalition with Flemish separatists,
France’s National Front, Bulgarian ex-
treme nationalists and any other ex-
treme-right nuts under the banner of
“European Patriotic Party”. However,
the E.U. is not his only pet hate; Stra-
che hates Muslims. Believing “Vienna
must not become Istanbul”, it is no
wonder he plans to set up a ministry
for the deportation of immigrants and
is pushing for a constitutional ban on
Settlers march in protest of withdrawal
Frolicking in the woods with neo-Nazi paramilitary groups left a huge grin on Strache’s face
building minarets.
Liberals reeled in Vienna as the re-
sults of the election were released, with
Profil describing the proceedings as “a
unique case among the western de-
mocracies”. One hopes this is the case
although in 2002, French extreme-right
candidate Le Pen came a shock second
in the Presidential elections and then
was last year’s 4th place; perhaps lib-
erals and left-wingers alike should be
worried. This result in the election on
Sunday puts the extreme-right col-
lectively comfortably ahead of main-
stream conservatives Austrian People’s
party and neck-and-neck with the So-
cial Democrats who scraped a win. It
will be very difficult for any party to
muster a parliamentary majority, leav-
ing the choice between inviting Strache
into government and forming a coali-
tion with the Christian Democrats – a
coalition that collapsed in June after
only 18 months in office. Attempting
this coalition again and having it fail
can only serve to raise support for the
extreme-right, putting the Social Dem-
ocrats in a very difficult position.
In 1999 the Freedom Party, under
Haider’s command, stunned Europe
when it received 27% of the vote and
a place in government. This Sunday,
under Strache, the combined far-
right did slightly better, meaning that
almost one in three Austrians voted
extreme-right. Since his youth Strache
has been heavily influenced by and in-
volved with far-right politics; he was
once engaged to the daughter of one
of the founding members of the Aus-
trian Branch of Germany’s neo-Nazi
National Democratic party. A master
of P.R., Strache managed to become
a Vienna City councillor in the early
1990s using a combination of Haider’s
techniques: snappy dressing, outra-
geous soundbites and populist rabble-
raising, entertaining the people. The
leader at the time, Haider, quit in 2005,
leaving Strache to continue running
the party while he effectively retired,
before staging a comeback on Sunday.
Strache is widely accepted as more
aggressive and rightwing than Haider,
he insists on calling himself a patriot.
“Thirty percent for people who portray
national socialism as innocuous,” wrote
commentator Hans Rauscher, sum-
ming up “who toy with anti-semitism
and develop contacts with the Serbian
radical party whose leader, Vojislav
ŠeŠelj, is in the dock at the war crimes
tribunal in The Hague. Austria is tops
again”.

