16 felix Friday 10 October 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Greyburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 10 October 2008 felix
Arts
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
Nope, we hadn’t heard of it either
Timon of Athens is the Shakespeare play most people don’t know about. Caz Knight sees it performed
T
imon of Athens made its
mark on Shakespeare’s
Globe this summer de-
spite running alongside
many other much more
well known, cherished and under-
stood of the Bard’s works. Rarely heard
of, even among those familiar with
Shakespeare, it is a hot topic for debate
among the learned as to the date of its
creation, its creator(s) and perform-
ance circumstances. Scholars are di-
vided on whether or not it was actually
finished and whether playwright Tho-
mas Middleton was a collaborator with
Shakespeare on Timon.
Thus, director Lucy Bailey took on a
challenge by realising this complex and
obscure work. In doing so she has man-
aged to present it in a fashion that will
appeal to audiences with an appetite
for digestible summer entertainment.
Also described as a ‘poor relation’ to
some of the other major tragedies such
as Othello, Macbeth and King Lear, this
play is described both as a tragedy and
as a problem comedy despite the death
of its main character. Set in Athens,
Lord Timon is a popular, wealthy and
generous man bestowing on his loyal
friends numerous epicurean banquets
rank with wine and women. However,
the sudden loss of his fortune sees Ti-
mon forsaken by his supposed brethren
and transformed into a misanthrope
and so he casts himself asunder to live
life in rags in the wilderness. Upon dis-
covering hidden treasure he plans an
assault on the city in a fit of bitterness
towards mankind.
The play’s negative view on excess,
expenditureandmoneyhavemadeitan
unpopularcandidatewithwealthy,pay-
ing audiences in the past and it seems
a little ironic that Timon, rife with the
notion of lost riches, is brought to the
Globe at this time of economic uncer-
tainty. It has also been chastised for its
lack of any serious female characters
(bloody feminists). The only women
to appear in Timon are those fit soley
for the sexual whims of the banqueters.
For those of you who care, this cast sees
many woman in roles besides those of
the whores. The production’s fantastic
design team have really outdone any
previous performance at the Globe by
a very dynamic and interactive set de-
sign. Vulture-like, black-clad demons
dangle down and pounce upon Timon
and his friends and scuttle over the
huge net which is cast over the thea-
tre’s open roof. The churlish and dis-
gusted philospher, Apemantes, strolls
through the standing audience before
making his presence felt on stage to
berate Timon for his indulgences. The
ugly notion of greed, juxtaposed with
the jocular banquet atmosphere is bril-
liantly conveyed by calypso drums get-
ting a sinister makeover when played
over deeper, heavier drums.
Simon Paisley Day as Timon makes
a stupendous effort in portraying the
lavish host and carries the play through
its comic to tragic status by his trans-
formation into the loin-cloth wearing
pessimist. The play has moments of
lewd hilarity as we see Timon, very
Dip into the life and literary
genius of Graham Greene
Caz Knight introduces us to the British writer who reignited her passion for reading
N
ot since I was a care-
free schoolgirl, bereft
of worry and academic
burden, have I devoured
literature as I have done
this summer. My will to read was re-
ignited and I have Graham Greene to
thank for it. Like the great author’s
name, his books are easy to swallow
and savour, leaving you with nothing
but vivid images. Officially Henry Gra-
ham Greene (1904-1991), he was born
in Hertfordshire and attended a board-
ing school there where his father took
over as headmaster. His intense bore-
dom prompted an interest in Russian
Roulette which, Greene said, helped
him to appreciate life and to treat his
insufferable boredom which “expand-
ed like a balloon” inside his head. Aged
16, he ran away from school to escape
his “irrational melancholy” and later
spent time with a psycho-analyst in
London, a time he described as one of
the happiest in his life. He had replaced
melancholy with normal unhappiness
and this, according to Freud’s defini-
tion, meant he had been successfully
psycho-analysed.
Greene’s exciting and, at times, con-
troversial life has coloured his huge
array of literary output. Whilst work-
ing for Night and Day he caused the
magazine to close after writing that 10-
year-old Shirley Temple in Wee Willie
Winkie displayed “a certain adroit co-
quetry which appealed to middle-aged
men.” His extensive travels to places
such as Mexico, Argentina, Russia, Vi-
etnam, Haiti, Cuba, Sierra Leone and
all over Europe led him to be recruited
by MI6, as well as proving useful in
creating the often poor, hot, dusty and
tropical settings (“Greeneland”) of his
novels. Like many creative geniuses
such as Beethoven, Van Gogh, William
Blake and Charles Dickens, Greene
had bipolar-disorder, a psychological
condition which greatly affected his
writing and personal life.
Greene found his way to my heart by
serenading me with the political novel,
The Quiet American. Re-made into
a film in 2002 with Michael Caine as
the protagonist Fowler and Brendan
Fraser as the boyish Pyle, the book is
set across Indochina, now Vietnam.
Just back from the tropics of South-
East Asia myself, I eagerly dove into
the sweltering landscape created by
Greene set in the 1950s just before the
outbreak of the U.S.A.’s Vietnam deba-
cle. Teeming with tales of espionage,
political twists and turns, violence,
action, smatterings of love and even a
happy ending, this work of Greene will
make you read until the last sentence
has been gobbled up and then have you
running to the bookshop/library/shelf
for the next one. And so my summer
continued, with interludes of Joseph
Conrad (Heart of Darkness, Nigger
of the Narcissus), Leo Tolstoy, a biog-
raphy on the delectable young Josef
Stalin, before he became the nihilistic,
bloodthirsty tyrant we all know and
hate, and The Guardian.
My next Greene discovery was un-
earthed from the bookshelf of my par-
ents’ home, a hardback copy of one
of his latest works, The Captain and
the Enemy (1988). Another one of his
compelling political stories, it starts
out with a young boy’s removal, or
kidnapping, from boarding school by
the Captain to a young woman’s flat in
Camden Town where he stays through
his adolescence until his emergence as
a journalist. The autobiographical al-
lusions are clear and continue as the
young man flies to Panama in search of
the Captain, to find that his ‘father’ is
mixed up in the dealings of the Nica-
raguan Sandinistas. Short, even for a
Greene book, this is another delight
and can be consumed within a matter
of hours with ease.
His acute ability to conjure setting in
a paragraph taking us to the exact spot
of the story’s backdrop is seen in The
Ministry of Fear, reminiscently Or-
wellian by its greyness. That is not to
say that the progression of this fantas-
tic suspense thriller is a bore to read! It
has its low moments, as does the life of
anyone living in (wartime) London, the
novel’s setting. Ministry features less
political nuance and more philosophi-
You know you’ve made it as a writer when someone makes a film of your work starring Michael Caine and
Brendan Fraser (here in The Quiet American). Graham was chuffed. Or not so much, what with being dead
cal ideas, which are explored through
the character’s experience of pity and
responsibility. I found myself angered
intensely at Brown’s feeling of respon-
sibility to almost complete strangers,
at the expense of his happiness as well
as sharing in Brown’s misery: Greene
has succeeded in conveying the intri-
cate thought processes of his charac-
ters. This murder mystery, with just
the right amount of love story added,
explores a wide range of metaphysical
issues without feeling cumbersome to
get through.
Onto Cold War politics in Russia and
Italy respectively in No Man’s Land and
A Stranger’s Hand, which are two no-
vellas designed solely as film outlines to
develop characters. Only A Stranger’s
Hand was made into a film. Each is no
longer than 50 pages, but once again,
an extreme sense of place is created as
well as a strong connection with the
characters of Brown (not the same as
in Ministry of Fear: a possible play on
‘Greene’) and his love interest, political
refugee, Carla (a play on his then mis-
tress’ name, Catherine). Greene criti-
cised authors such as Virginia Wolf and
E.M. Forster for the absence of religion
and faith in their characters which re-
sulted in lifeless and superficial ones.
Greene believed that to create depth
his characters must have some sort
of religious ‘element’ in them. Greene
converted to Catholicism upon marry-
ing his wife Vivien, although they did
not stay married and Greene went onto
have many subsequent affairs. In every
book I have read of his thus far the reli-
gion is consistently present even if it is
a passing reference to a rosary. One of
the “Catholic” books, The Heart of the
Matter, deals with the Head of Police’s
perdition. Fuelled by his experience in
Sierra Leone during WWII, this book
is set in Greeneland proper. It is hard
to finish reading this book and not feel
as though we too have experienced the
hammering rains of West Africa; the
dank humidity punctuated with mos-
quitoes and the padding of our “boy’s”
feet on stone floors. Henry Scobie, like
Brown in Ministry of Fear, is shackled
by his pity for his once loved wife, Lou-
ise. He yearns for peace and his wish
is fleetingly granted as Louise departs
for South Africa, but returns as he
takes a mistress in the form of child
widow, Helen. Love quickly turns into
pity, which doubles as Louise returns
home. Scobie damns himself by con-
tinuing the affair whilst continuing to
take communion with Louise at Mass.
In the end, through his suicide, he for-
sakes God at the expense of his soul so
that the two women in his life can be
happy in a world where he is not. At
times I did not feel positive enjoyment
reading this book for it is too potent,
too successful in recreating human
emotion and turmoil: I felt dragged
along through the grind of his dam-
nation, but came out the other side in
awe of what Greene has managed to
do, again.
True, his novels thus far often fol-
low what I call the ‘Greene Formula.’
This is the appearance of features such
as Catholic allusions, some small and
some the main feature of the novel.
Another is the single, troubled but
sturdy woman with whom the protag-
onist inevitably falls in love; references
to English public schools; the protago-
nist who suffers from pity; sepulchral
similes and fond references to women’s
powder and other ablutions. One of
my favourite lines in any book would
be taken from Ministry of Fear, “All
the way upstairs to his room he could
smell her. He could have gone into
any chemist’s shop and picked out her
powder, and he could have told in the
dark the texture of her skin.” Brown’s
passion is so blatant from his attention
to such a small detail of the woman he
loves. To the less neurotic mind these
would go unnoticed, but as I read the
books in reasonably quick succession
(Greene wrote them over several dec-
ades), I began to see a pattern emerge.
It is a credit to his talent that such a
formula can be reused and can still
manage to create works that baffle, are
original and make me feel as if I have
read much, much more than just one
author over the course of five books.
Greene certainly is a genius in the
way he manages to transport one to
places and through experiences with
relatively so few words. Quite a con-
trast to friend and fellow Catholic,
Evelyn Waugh, author of the Brides-
head Revisited institution. I am in
complete agreement when Waugh
said of his friend, “the words are func-
tional, devoid of sensuous attraction.”
This is lean, fat-free fiction leaving
nothing but stark realism; effortlessly
good, although one comes out feeling
gorged, replete as if having feasted on
the fatty goodness of Waugh’s sensu-
ous narratives.
Graham Greene, the man himself, performs the classic “thoughtful intellectual” pose, with added eyebrow
Ok, so, Russian Roulette. Greene was into it but that doesn’t mean we in the Arts pages encourage it Timon of Athens is about an angry caveman apparently
Early this morning I found myself lying
awake thinking about who I am. A lit-
tle along the lines of those “I am who I
am because of everybody” adverts by
Orange, I started to think about what
defines me. Those of you readers who
have the great misfortune of being
freshers have by now probably got sick
of defining yourself by name, subject
and where home is. My name’s Emily,
I study biology, I come from Marlow in
Buckinghamshire.
Meanwhile, many third/fourth years
faced with the impendingness of life
after Imperial might be finding them-
selves defined by the contents of their
CV. I worked in a bookshop for two
years, I’ve been an Oxfam volunteer,
I’ve spent a summer as a telemarketer
and more recently I spent a summer as
a corporate whore. Then you’ve got to
pad out your CV with all of your extra-
curricular clubs and societies – I’m an
arts editor for Felix and I’m president
of Imperial’s Amnesty International
Society. See, Mr. Employer, aren’t I a
well-rounded person?
This is before we get on to the Fa-
cebook definitions. Relationship sta-
tus: married to my best friend (we’re
clearly not married, really I’m single).
Interested in: men (oh but I’m married
to a girl – what a conflict, tee hee!). Po-
litical and religious views: champagne
socialist and rampant atheist (I like to
be descriptive). And THEN we’re on to
lists of activities, music and films… but
who cares about that because you’re
all just judging me on my number of
friends anyway.
My point, reader, is that this is all
just the bollocks we put on paper. Sure,
all the stuff above is true, but how do
I really define myself? I define myself
by my habits and my quirks, by what
I do with my weekends, and by what
makes me happy. I like nights out,
nights in, gigs, but not festivals, sitting
in pubs with pints of Stella. I’ve drunk
three mugs of coffee already today.
I buy The Guardian every morning.
I organise my non-fiction books by
height of spine. I spend my weekends
mostly alone and wandering through
art galleries or around the streets of
London. I have no qualms about go-
ing to the cinema solo or sitting alone
in cafes and eating extravagant cake.
I like diet coke, but not regular coke.
I used to have a blog and I created a
webcomic that never got online. I hate
team sports, but I’ve been to the gym 7
times in the past 9 days.
What’s my point? My point is that
you should think about who you are
when you’re not a physicist or a medic
or captain of the football team. What
do you like doing other than getting
smashed on a Saturday night? Univer-
sity’s the place to find out, and the arts
pages here in Felix are a good start.
Forget what might go on your CV or
whether it’ll get you more friends on
Facebook. Try something new. Go to a
play, pop into a museum or an art gal-
lery, write a poem, read a book. And
you know what else? Write an article
about it and send it to arts.felix@impe-
rial.ac.uk - we’ll print it.
convincingly, take a dump into a hole
and then (accidentally?) smear it over
one of the senators who have sought
him out after hearing of his discov-
ered treasure. Such a moment shines
in a comical sense but momentarily
detracts from the dialogue and subject
matter: a point made by other critics
also in reference to the elaborate set
design.
Whatever its faults, this highly origi-
nal and fun production has totally
shaken Shakespeare up for audiences
and given them a delightful evening’s
entertainment in an extremely differ-
ent theatrical setting while still suc-
cessful in conveying the play’s themes
and gravitas.

