CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
10
Reporting back on an extraordin
erelj is located 60km
away from Ulan Bator,
the capital of Mongolia.
The national park has
smooth sloping valleys
that climb up to become rocky peaks.
This past July, the rains were plentiful.
Grass carpeted the landscape, though
not the soft type you’d ﬁnd in your
lawn. Rather the blades grew in little
clumps with wiry roots that ran deep
into the dry earth. The hardy vegeta-
tion provided an abundance of food
for the horses, cows, sheep and camels
that seemed to have free roam of the
park. In sharp contrast to the green
underfoot, a deep blue sky spread
overhead with clouds so high they
hardly seemed to move.
A narrow strip of pothole riddled
asphalt carved through the park and
about 10km from the entrance the
road passed alongside our campsite.
We volunteers arrived ﬁrst. Twelve
Singaporeans, a Mongol cook, a social
worker, two translators, and myself.
We had a day’s head start to prepare
for the kids. When they came, the
twenty-ﬁve little Mongolians shuﬄed
out of their bus and made for the gers
(tents). It took several minutes to get
them settled down. Some ﬁfteen min-
utes later, they were running amok ex-
ploring the camp. One boy hit another.
Some tried to run oﬀ. The smaller chil-
dren were crying. Our attempts to re-
store order amounted to nothing and
the situation became more and more
chaotic.
The children in the camp were not
ordinary. They had been abandoned
by their families, struck by misfor-
tune, left to the vices of the street. The
police had rounded the kids up and
held them a shelter. That was where
we picked them up for the camp. In
their world, authority and rules were
lacking. We tried to keep them under
control. We had to. How else could we
manage the camp? The ﬁrst day even-
Phillip Rodriguez, an English teacher, writes about his summer spent i
tually drew to a close and we volun-
teers returned to our gers exhausted.
It is an understatement to say we were
shocked by the children’s behaviour.
Day two: the situation got worse.
The morning began with ﬁve of the
boys disappearing from the camp. The
group had hitched a passing car and
returned to Ulan Bator. The police
were brought in and they came down
hard on the coordinators of the camp.
It was several days until we heard from
the police that they had made it back
to the city, and in the time between, we
were worried over their whereabouts.
There was also concern that others
might try to abandon camp. We took
night shifts in the freezing Mongolian
weather to ensure that children did
not run away at night.
For classes, we broke the kids into
two groups. I was in charge of teach-
ing English. The twelve or so kids sat
at a table while I scrawled letters and
numbers on a white board. They re-
peated words and made use of their
workbooks. To reward them I gave out
stickers that Stephanie had brought.
The ones they loved were those of
Winnie the Pooh and his friends, but
the prospect of getting a sticker was
not enough to keep them focused.
Some refused to do anything, others
wandered oﬀ, and those that did try
were easily distracted. I mixed in a
few games to maintain their attention.
Explaining the rules and giving a dem-
onstration on itself should not have
been much work, but with these kids
it took a great deal of eﬀort. That was
how it went with everything. The sim-
plest of tasks demanded our utmost
energy. For example, when we took a
group photo, all we needed was for the
children to sit down and remain still
for ten seconds. However, as soon as
one boy took his place another would
jump up, scratch his head and pick his
nose. Even with fourteen volunteers,
we had to shout, point and pull to get
them to do what we wanted.
Horseback riding was the highlight
of the camp. One of our translators,
the young and aﬀable Bilguun, had
the local nomads bring their horses
to our camp. We rented ﬁfteen of the
animals for two hours. They were the
small stocky variety known more for
their stamina than their speed. I went
with ﬁrst group. Many of the chil-
dren were natural-born horse riders.
They smiled, they cheered, and they
laughed as they rode round the Mon-
golian countryside for the ﬁrst time in
T
their lives.
The great Genghis Khan has now
been dead for over eight hundred
years, but his legacy lives on in this
country. Many of the boys bore his
name, Chinggis, as pronounced in
Mongolian. There was also a Temujin,
the name the great Khan had before
he became ruler. The other children in
our camp had names that were harder
to remember. There was Yataashk, Ne-
mun, Babilguun, Sahnder, and so on.
Since we failed to learn them right
away we resorted to using nicknames.
In the case of Sahnder, we called him
‘Carry Me’, because the boy went up
to all of the volunteers and said those
exact words while reaching up with
his arms. And then there was ‘Horny
Boy’ who had an aﬃnity for the female
volunteers and their womanly parts.
Looking back, I might think it hu-
morous that we called him that had I
not known he had spent time on the
streets hanging around prostitutes
and pimps. It was that past that shaped
him.
Sadly, the other children’s pasts were
no better. The boy Temujin had lost his
father in a car accident. As a result, Te-
mujin’s family fell apart and his moth-
er being unable to care for him, aban-
doned the boy. The siblings Pagma and
Khan-tseg-rik, only four year olds, had
been sent out by their aunt to beg for
money. When the police caught them,
the aunt refused to take them back.
The authorities did what they could to
place street children with relatives or
in foster homes. I guess you could say
the kids were broken, but if they were,
they had grown resilient and strong
with time. I’d seen it a hundred times
over. As much as they fought with
each other, scraped up their legs and
cried, they always bounced back with
a smile.
In time, some of their good qualities
surfaced. The 14 yr old boy Temujin
was special in that he had a strong
sense of propriety. Though he was a
little fat and geeky, the other children
did as he said. It was a respect that
came from the care he openly gave. It
could be something as simple as help-
ing the others going to bed. The little
ones needed that. They had no mother
to tuck them in. No brother to lean on.
The older children took on the roles of
brothers, sisters, mothers and fathers.
This was the world they came from.
The real darling of the camp was
Tengis. He was a small boy with sandy
brown hair, cherub cheeks and curi-
ous eyes. He certainly had cuteness
in his favour, but it was his carefree,
happy attitude that won us over. He
was mostly smiles and giggles, even
for no apparent reason. Incidentally,
his birthday coincided with the camp.
We celebrated in the kid’s tent. Rather
than a cake, Tengis received a choco-
late pie with a single candle sticking
out from the center. Sitting at the head
of the table, he looked down and his
brown eyes sparkled bright as the mo-
ment took hold in his heart. The tears
came and we realized then it had likely

