CLUBS & SOCIETIES
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER 11
nary experience in Mongolia
n Mongolia Summer Camp 2011
been the ﬁrst birthday party anyone
had thrown for him
In retrospect, I can now say that
the children were all unique and spe-
cial in their own way. I could write on
and on about each of them. Like how
we mistook the boy Chingu for a girl
and did not realize our folly until one
of us noticed he was peeing standing
up. We simply assumed he was a girl
because he had long hair, but young
boys in Mongolia are like that. They
get their ﬁrst haircut at the age of four.
Chingu got his a little earlier because
we discovered he had head lice. As
we cut oﬀ his locks with a pair of dull
scissors, he beamed proudly, having
entered the next symbolic stage of his
young life. The other children who had
lice reacted diﬀerently during their
haircuts. They cried and pouted, and
no amount of candy or comfort could
appease them.
For a week, we spent roughly twelve
hours a day with these children. The
volunteers were sun burnt and sick
from the weather, and our energy was
exhausted. I admit I too was getting
burnt out. I wanted to get back to the
capital, have a hot shower, wash my
clothes and drink myself in to a stupor.
It would have to wait.
Our last full day at the camp was
particularly rough. We had exhausted
most of our ideas for activities and
there was far too much free time for
the children to run around. Dinner
was poor as we were ﬁnishing the last
of our food.
After dinner, we had a ﬁnal meeting
with the kids. Stephanie had origi-
nally lied to the children that the camp
would continue for several more days.
She did it so they would not try run-
ning away, because the consensus was
that none of them wanted to return
to the shelter where they were often
bullied by others and occasionally
mistreated. When Stephanie admitted
the truth the children seemed a little
disappointed. She quickly shifted topic
and handed out postcards to write on.
These were meant as thank you let-
ters to the many people who had given
donations to make the camp possible.
Next, the children wrote comments on
a diﬀerent slip of paper thanking the
volunteers.
The ﬁrst child to cry was Sahnder.
He dropped his head, his shoulders
shook, and he drew in short breaths.
A volunteer walked up and held him
from behind. Others soon shed their
tears, and the whole tent became
drowned in sniﬄes and sobs. Some
children would sit in a corner and
sob, while others would wail openly.
Through their choked up voices, the
children said things to us. We had to
get one of our two interpreters to re-
peat their words in English. Temujin
told me he did not want me to leave
him. He said he thought of me as a
father. I looked at him and shook my
head. I had my own life to get back to
and told him as much. The words rang
true for each volunteer. We could only
give the children so much.
The following morning the bus came
to take us back to the capital. We shuf-
ﬂed in, took our seats and the engine
started up. The drive back took a little
over an hour. Green, treeless swaths of
land gave way to muddy earth studded
with gers and shanty houses. Concrete
soon ﬁlled in the edges of the road, and
we came to a stop next to the welfare
oﬃce near the city center. The children
went in to another shuttle bus bound
for their shelter while we were free to
ﬁnd our hostel. It was a short goodbye.
We had given a group of street kids
the opportunity to enjoy things they
would never have had the chance to
enjoy. It was an experience, and how
they choose to learn and identify with
it will inﬂuence their young and im-
pressionable lives. Perhaps that is only
wishful thinking, but looking back I
feel a strong fondness for the children
and the times we shared. For both vol-
unteers and children, it was a crazy,
wild and unique series of events that
unfolded in the hills of Mongolia. And
beneath it all, there was the laughter,
the smiles and the desire to do some-
thing good and meaningful.
For that much I am grateful.
Interested in volunteering for Mongolia
Summer Camp 2013?
Contact David at weiyu.tan10@imperial.ac.uk

