CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
12
Cinema help you go all night
And you thought you were done with staying up late sipping coffee staring at a screen? Except this time the screen’s 33ft, and it hasn’t got tomorrow’s lab report minimized while reddit gently soothes your woes.
Imperial Cinema brings you six of the latest releases, back-to-back, for your chance to catch up on the recent blockbusters. With the added challenge of trying to decipher the mind of Joss Whedon at 6am.
Just before finishing for the holidays, Imperial Cinema gives you one last chance to prove your All-Nighter chops. After all, that’s what all those sleepless nights at the Library were for, not for your degree that’s for
sure. So here’s a guide to the All-Nighter, more valuable than having Bear Grylls with you to explore the North Pole.
Looper
So you’ve turned up to the Union Concert Hall, found a seat
or two to nestle in like a hibernating bear, only the cool-
est bear on the block has this winter entertainment setup.
Kicking things off is the sci-fi action thriller Looper. Joseph
Gordon-Levitt is a “looper”, a hitman hired to kill those sent
back from his future. It’s best not to ask questions about the
physics and just enjoy this rare smart sci-fi action film.
Rotten Tomatoes – 94%
Skyfall
As the memories of Bruce Willis crawling through the vents
in Die Hard come flooding back, you feel like you need an-
other hit of action to take the edge off. Imperial Cinema
gladly hands you what you need. Daniel Craig reprises his
role as Mr Bond, which sees the franchise firmly ground
Bond in the 21st century while also questioning whether
espionage and exploding pens really fit in with the age of
cyber terrorism.
Rotten Tomatoes - 92%
The Perks of Being a
Wallflower
Time for a coffee and some food for your action come
down. The shakes slowly fade as you ask for a coffee, shaken
not stirred, and get called a twat. Time for some childhood
reflection. Based on Stephen Chbosky’s coming of age nov-
el, this often clichéd subject feels sincere rather than sickly
with angst. Emma Watson shows she’s more than just a foot-
note in the Harry Potter universe, but a rising young star.
Rotten Tomatoes – 86%
Madagascar 3:
Europe’s Most Wanted
Now the true All-Nighter begins, it’s all about pride, show-
ing how hard you are at staying up late and ooooo talking
animals. Third in the animation series, the Madagascar cast
return with what manages to be a fresh animation that de-
cides to do away with making sense and sticks to the ab-
surdity of it all.
Rotten Tomatoes – 79%
Lawless
The Cabin in the Woods
With a cup of instant coffee grounds, because to hell with
water diluting your coffee, and a firm slap to the face, it’s
time for the final stretch. Not your standard horror fair, this
genre bending film twists and turns like no other and only
tries to unravel horror movie clichés.
Rotten Tomatoes - 91%
After updating your Amazon wish list with all the Mada-
gascar beanie babies, glad you brought your sleeping bag
and PJs, it’s time to grit your teeth for the 5th or “nap time”
film.
Tom Hardy proves he doesn’t sound like David Attenbor-
ough on steroids in this prohibition era movie. Based on the
true story of the Bondurant Brothers, who get in too deep
once the mob and the law come down on their bootlegging
business.
Rotten Tomatoes – 68%
The End
If you made it this far: congrats, you can now wear the title Trusted Idol Rector of Extended Days, or
TIRED for short. It’s time to step out of that nest you made, now resembling a hobo lair with Pot Noo-
dles and cups of questionable liquid scattered about. Time for the SCR to fill you up to the brim with a
fried breakfast before going to bed. Fair warning: attempting lectures in this state will only end badly,
with you being escorted out of the building, raving about seeing unicorns frolic with jelly babies.
Sleep deprivation will give you some crazy ass hallucinations but my god you will never sleep better.
Where:
Union concert hall, 2nd floor of the Union
Tickets:
Tuesday 11th December.
Tickets:
For the whole night £10 online (£12 on the
door)
All you can eat hot food and tea/coffee £5
Individual films £3 each on the door
Drinks available all night courtesy of the
Union bar
tickets.imperialcinema.co.uk
Lineup:
6.00pm Looper
8:30pm Skyfall
11.15pm The Perks Of Being A Wallflower
1.30am Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted
3.30am Lawless
5.45am The Cabin In The Woods
6.00pm
8.30pm 5.45am
3.30am
11.15pm
1.30am

