BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Looking Beyond Binary
Fiona Hartley explores a refreshingly different anthology
peculative ﬁction, that
hard-to-deﬁne genre that
encompasses everything
from science ﬁction to
alternate histories, is all
about the fantastical, the what-ifs. It is
all about imagination. It’s a genre that
challenges the reality that we live in,
dreaming of and exploring new ideas
about society. Stories exploring gen-
der-identity, therefore, are perfect for
such a genre.
Beyond Binary is an anthology of
seventeen stories, edited by Brit Man-
delo, that have little in common aside
from them all exploring how their
characters deﬁne their gender identi-
ty. It’s 256 pages of enjoyable thought-
provoking ﬁction and wonderfully de-
signed to boot.
When I ﬁrst read a review of Be-
yond Binary, I did so as someone who
knows very little about challenging
gender identity. I am still that now,
feeling that I’m somehow unqualiﬁed
to tell you about genderqueer ﬁction
when I am a cissexual woman and at
ease being that way. I didn’t know that
I wanted to read something like this.
But perusing that review, I suddenly
discovered in myself the desire to read
this thing beyond my realm of experi-
ence.
I’d never read a book like this one.
I enjoyed the sci-ﬁ, the fantasy, the
stories in between, and I loved the fact
that it was queer. Yes, I am biased, and
perhaps that might make my opinion
less valid. But Beyond Binary is just
refreshingly diﬀerent. Even now every
story makes me think about the world
we live in, and those stories that I’m
not as keen on still leave me with some
interesting imagery or an absorbing
concept.
This is a fascinating anthology, and
important because it succeeds in
breaking the heteronormative mould
that permeates ﬁction. But it is in no
way perfect, and that’s not just be-
cause it’s an anthology – meaning that
the likelihood of one loving every sin-
gle story is low. For a book that prom-
ises to go beyond the gender binary,
there are very few genderqueer char-
acters; not every story is as fantastical
as I would have liked, although given
the broad nature of the speculative
genre I’ve come to the conclusion they
all ﬁt in somehow.
Take one of my favourites, ‘Another
Coming’ by Sonya Taaﬀe. It’s a fabu-
lous little bisexual story about the par-
entage of an unwanted child conceived
in a poly relationship. But that doesn’t
make it genderqueer. Richard Larson’s
‘The Ghost Party’ is a menacing piece
about a ghostly rave, but aside from
the party its main character Charlee is
basically dealing with her attraction to
another girl – again, not particularly
challenging to the gender binary, in
my opinion anyway.
Since this is an anthology there’s
something for everyone. My favour-
ites include Kelley Eskridge’s nov-
elette ‘Eye of the Storm’, which is so
good that I will simply recommend
you read it, regardless of whether you
do that by buying this book or one of
the author’s other collections. Keyan
Bowes explores the concept of par-
ents being able to choose the gender
of their child and what might happen
if their child disagrees with that choice
in the story ‘Spoiling Veena’. ‘Sex with
Ghosts’ features an asexual narrator
coming face-to-face with her doppel-
ganger, who is a customised sexbot
made by her sleazy boss for the pleas-
ure of brothel clients.
Equally the nature of an anthology
means you probably won’t be a fan
of every single story you read. For in-
stance, I struggle with the Caribbean
dialect in Nalo Hopkinson’s ‘Fisher-
man’ and usually skip it, but most re-
viewers call it one of the best stories
in the collection. I originally disliked
‘Pirate Solutions’ by Katherine Spar-
row, which is about a group of com-
puter hackers who drink special rum
that turns them into pirates, or they
re-inhabit their past lives as pirates
because of the rum, or something.
Somehow the tale has grown on me
precisely because I don’t understand
it, so I read it fairly often, unable to get
the imagery out of my head.
On reﬂection, this collection doesn’t
always live up to its title. But I think
I could have done worse for an intro-
duction to queer ﬁction. The stories
are solid and enthralling. You might
not know that you want to read this,
just as I didn’t. But I hope that I’ve
encouraged you to think about step-
ping beyond the boundaries of what
you normally read by telling you that
this anthology exists. Try it. You might
ﬁnd Beyond Binary to be one of the
most interesting things you’ve ever
read.
S
Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen
was ﬁrst published in 1813. It hardly
belongs on the latest bestsellers chart
so why have I landed on this book,
now? A few reasons. One, it’s one of
those classic books that you always
promise yourself that you’ll read (but
never do). Indeed, I’ve put oﬀ read-
ing this book for nearly two hundred
years. Two, my girlfriend adores Aus-
ten and I wanted to know what all the
fuss with this chick-lit is. So, in total,
a milieu of self-improving and self-
motivated reasons.
“It is a truth universally acknowl-
edged, that a single man in possession
of a good fortune must be in want of
a wife.” Yes, yes, we all know how it
goes. The book details the fortunes of
the Bennet family of Longbourne, fo-
cusing on Elizabeth, the second eldest
daughter. Through a burgeoning mu-
tual attraction between her elder sis-
ter, Jane, and Mr Bingley, an eligible
bachelor new to the neighbourhood,
she is introduced to the aloof and
proud Mr Darcy.
Finding him intolerable (and him
ﬁnding her wilful and uncivil), she
declares an immediate dislike of him.
However, over time, as their social
circles intersect and interact, they
ﬁnd that they’re feelings and impres-
sions begin to change.
But we all knew that already, right?
Admittedly, I was ignorant on a few
of the details.
The writing is complex and irritat-
ing in places. If I submitted this as an
English assignment, there would be
red pen all across the page. Austen
is guilty of double negatives, overly
long sentences and speech unchained
to characters. However, I can’t tell if
that is how people used to talk back
then, how people of their class used
to speak or a peccadillo of Austen
herself. I sense the diﬀerence of two
hundred years at work here.
However, despite my frustration
at the over-complicated address, the
book is still highly engaging. I don’t
know if I could call it pacy, as, for the
majority, the characters rotate be-
tween a series of balls, dinners and
travel. Life was hard back then, cer-
tainly!
If the previous few chapters have
been spent on reactions to the last
event or revelations, it’s a fair bet that
the next chapter will include a letter
to further the plot.
This is chick-lit but it is exqui-
site chick-lit. In fact, it is archetypal
chick-lit. The strong-willed female
protagonist? Check. The handsome
yet broody love interest? Check. The
“Will they? Won’t they?” question
that hovers around for the best part
of 300 pages? Check. Everything else
is detail. If you’re in any doubt, check
out Bridget Jones’ Diary.
But could someone please explain
the point of Mary Bennet?
After this, I feel more tolerant of
chick-lit but this could still have been
helped a little more plain English. It’s
a classic and part of the English canon
for good reason. More than that, it’s
part of our popular culture and it is
always so much more satisfying when
you know why. It also helps to be a lit-
tle bit more interesting at dinner par-
ties.
As a ﬁtting tribute to the 200th an-
niversary of the book, ICSM Drama
will be performing a stage adaptation
of Pride and Prejudice next March.
Auditions will be held next week. 12-
5pm, Sunday 9th, 2-5pm, Wednes-
day 12th, 6-9pm, Tuesday 11th and
Thursday 13th in the Glenister build-
ing, Charing Cross campus. Auditions
on Monday 10th will be in the Sir Al-
exander Fleming building, room 121,
6-9pm. For more details, please con-
tact as2708@ic.ac.uk.
Looking back at Pride and Prejudice
Rhys Davies Writer

