“”
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Don’t let your heart rule your head
Cognitive decline is often accepted
as an inevitable part of aging. Even
aside from speciﬁc conditions such as
Alzheimer’s disease, poor short term
memory and impaired reasoning abili-
ties can be among the problems that
come with older age, and for many
people they can be severe enough to
interfere with daily activities and the
ability to live independently. But there
is mounting evidence that the risk of
developing such problems is strongly
correlated with common health and
lifestyle issues.
Age and Aging journal recently
published a large cohort study by re-
searchers at Kings College London,
looking speciﬁcally at the relation-
ship between cardiovascular risk fac-
tors and cognitive decline. Such risk
factors – including obesity, smoking,
blood pressure and cholesterol levels
– have often before been proposed as
signiﬁcant. It matters, because these
factors are usually modiﬁable: if de-
tected early enough, we may be able
to do something about them and pre-
vent the damage. However, until now,
there were no large-scale, long-term
population-based studies to conﬁrm
or disprove the hypotheses. It was this
gap that the current study aimed to
address.
The study analysed data mostly col-
lected between 2004 and 2005, and
many participants also took part in
follow-up studies several years later.
This allowed researchers to track the
progress of physical health and cogni-
tive variables over time. Health pro-
fessionals use a standard set of tests
to measure memory and ‘executive
Sarah Byrne Writer
function’, which involves verbal ﬂuen-
cy, attention span and mental speed.
These tests strangely resemble chil-
dren’s games: how many animals can
you name in one minute? How many
of these ten words can you recall?
Nonetheless they are widely accepted
as reliable measures of cognitive func-
tioning. In this study, the researchers
used the results to calculate a cogni-
tive index for each participant, based
on a composite of their scores in each
study, and how those scores deviate
from the average.
The results conﬁrmed the suspicion
that the same risk factors that predis-
pose a person to have cardiovascular
health problems – stroke and coro-
nary heart disease – also put them at
risk of impaired cognitive function.
ntelligence has been a hot
topic in robotics for decades –
ever since we started creating
computers and machines, we
have wanted to imbue them
with a similar level of learning and in-
telligence to our own. So we turned to
the most intelligent machine we had
– our brains. Researchers in this ﬁeld
have been simulating neuron maps in
hopes of replicating the human abili-
ties. Over time, they have been getting
ever-more eﬃcient at it; the Blue Brain
Project was able to simulate 1 million
neurons. The more recently created
Cognitive Computation Project was
able to simulate 1 billion neurons, the
same amount as the average cat. How-
ever, an ambitious new project has
been reported to simulate near the hu-
man scale of 100 billion neurons.
While previous experiments only
sought to increase computational
power by including more neurons, the
team, including Chris Eliasmith, Ter-
rence Stewart, Xuan Choo, et al., also
tried to answer the question of how
a complex brain produces behaviour.
The project included many anatomical
and physical constraints to be as close
to the real life neural data as possible.
A research paper, published on sci-
encemag.org, shows how the team’s
model responds to eight diﬀerent
tasks; nicknamed Spaun, the model
is shown performing actions such as
reading and writing a list, counting
from a given number, and reading the
position of a given number. The input
is given through a 28x28 image of a
character and the output is the move-
ment of an arm – essentially, Spaun
writes the answer to whichever task he
is trying to perform.
The ﬁgure above shows the function-
al architecture used to create Spaun.
The bold lines are indications where
the brain passes information between
diﬀerent elements of the cortex, whilst
the thinner lines represent commu-
nication between the action selection
Building a virtual brain
Smoking emerged as a particular
risk, being strongly and consistently
associated with loss of memory and
executive processing abilities at both
the four year and eight year follow-up
studies.
Interestingly, even borderline-high
blood pressure appeared to be corre-
lated with loss of memory function.
In fact, this appeared to be a bigger
risk factor than very high blood pres-
sure: possibly because the borderline
cases were less likely to have been
considered worth treating with pres-
sure-reducing antihypertensive drugs.
This new ﬁnding points to a possible
beneﬁt of treating even the borderline
cases. The good news is that the dam-
age appears to take place slowly over
several years, giving hope that early
intervention may be able to success-
fully prevent it.
The researchers recommend using
these ﬁndings in the design of future
clinical trials to study attempts at pre-
ventative measures, eventually leading
to population-based interventions. It
is becoming increasingly clear, how-
ever, that there are many factors con-
tributing to cognitive decline, and any
successful intervention will have to
take this into account and address the
multiple causes.
DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs166
(equivalent to the basal ganglia) and
the cortex. Communications between
the diﬀerent components of the model
are analogous to how our neuron ﬁr-
ing patterns in the brain transmit im-
pulses.
The process of compression can also
be seen in the model, where represen-
tational impulses are compressed from
higher dimensional space (images
taken from the visual input) to lower
dimensional space (the standard 3D
A clever visual metaphor too pretty
to leave out. As if smoking needed
more reasons not to be picked up...
A step closer to an artificial human brain? Pavitar Devgon discusses
map used to draw the output). By us-
ing compression fewer cells need to be
used further down the line, so allow-
ing the brain to be more eﬃcient and
functional with its manipulations of
impulses.
This experiment is hoped to be the
ﬁrst step of further successful ven-
tures, building on how neural path-
ways adapt to diﬀerent tasks. Even
though there are only ﬁve subsections
in the main model, which deal with
performing tasks, Spaun is able to
map across them, choosing the best
one suitable for the task. The purpose
of the research is to build towards a
proposal for a uniﬁed group of neural
mechanisms able to perform any task,
which embodies the choice inherent in
our brains. As the research paper says,
“Spaun’s main contribution lies in its
breadth… Spaun’s uniqueness lies in its
being a platform for exploring the ro-
bust ﬂexibility of biological cognition.”
DOI: 10.1126/science.1225266
Not quite like our brains,
but getting there
I A new pro-
ject simulat-
ing 100 billion
neurons
sciencemag.org
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER

