SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18
t’s beginning to look a lot like
Christmas… isn’t it? No doubt
you are reading this already
snuggled up warm in your
knitted jumper complete with
reindeer design, sipping mulled wine
and getting positively drunk on the
festive cheer. Of course you aren’t; you
are like any other Imperial student-
walled up in the Library, slowly chew-
ing your arm oﬀ. However, who said
science can’t be joyous? Spice up your
Christmas dinner banter with some of
these festive facts, or use them to tell
that particularly annoying younger
relative once and for all why there is
(probably) no Santa.
First oﬀ, you need to go out and buy
that perfect Christmas tree. It is envi-
ronmentally better in the long term to
buy a real tree, as fake ones are made
primarily out of polyvinyl chloride,
non-renewable and a producer of car-
cinogens when synthesised. They may
also contain lead and other additives
that could lead to health impediments.
Real trees can look worn and lose their
needles very quickly, but studies show
that if you maintain your living room
at around a 90% humidity level, there is
a ﬁvefold increase in needle retention,
as this reduces water loss and any xy-
lem tension that causes the needles to
drop oﬀ. You might want to give your
Christmas party a tropical theme this
year…
Still not a tree fan? Mistletoe may be
the hemi-parasitic evergreen for you.
Viscum fraxini, an aqueous extract
from mistletoe species Viscum album
L., may have medical potential. V al-
Have a very Merry Christmas and a
fact-filled New Year!
Philippa Skett, signing off for Christmas with some festive facts
The general reaction of women
when I try to kiss them
bum L. is known to produce proteins
that target and kill rapidly dividing
cells — those that can lead to cancer.
The serum may also be used in the fu-
ture to induce cell death of immuno-
logically important natural killer cells,
which could prove useful in treating
autoimmune diseases such as rheuma-
toid arthritis. However, don’t go chew-
ing these plants if your joints start to
feel sore — ingesting V. album L. can
cause stomach pain, diarrhoea and a
low heart rate.
Speaking of ingestion, how many
mince pies do you think Santa Claus
really eats throughout his one night
of employment per year? Take Britain,
with a population of 63.1 million. This
includes 10,854,360 children. Remov-
ing those who won’t be celebrating
Christmas or were on the naughty list
(based on the number of ﬁrst time en-
trants to the criminal justice system)
then leaves us with 10,240,466 chil-
dren in total. With the average number
of children per household being 1.8,
and assuming in this waste-conscious
time we only leave one mince pie per
household, that is still 5,689,148 mince
pies Santa needs to get through. That is
1,422,286,933 calories. Santa eﬀective-
ly puts on around 29,000 stone from
Contrary to popular opinion, Santa Claus is in fact incredibly ripped. Said
one woman, “‘I’d give Mr Claus more than just mince pies to munch on.”
I can barely contain my over-
whelming excitement.
Waka waka waka? Pac-Man: The Sequel
giving presents to English children
alone. Santa is probably dead from
obesity-related diseases. Sorry kids.
Even if Father Christmas did slim
down over the year, reindeers still
could not pull him through the sky.
They are particularly unsuitable for
ﬂight because mammals are evolution-
arily derived from earlier tetrapods; for
reindeers to even have wings the devel-
opment of another set of limbs, bring-
ing their grand total to six, would have
had to occur. Reindeer instead have
four limbs developed into large circu-
lar hooves used to scrape snow from
lichen and to spread out their weight,
which are hardly aerodynamic. Also,
on average, they weigh around 350kg
and do not feature hollow bones, or a
respiratory system based around four
air sacs (as seen in birds) that acts a lot
like bellows. Reindeer are destined to
stay on the ground.
On a cheerier note, there is always
the potential for theoretical physicists
to ﬁll in the gaps, with wormholes or
space-time warping having the poten-
tial for Santa to deliver all the presents
in the allotted amount of time. Some-
thing some of you could consider for
Ph.D research? Lastly, you will also
be pleased to know that the Met Of-
ﬁce predicts that more than half of all
Christmases recorded should turn out
to be a “White Christmas,” with 38 out
of the last 52 years Christmas days see-
ing snow. So there is still hope yet for
that traditional Christmas card scene
for when we take a revision break
sometime this holiday.
Laurence Pope Science Editor
At one point it was just Mimas, one
of Saturn’s 62 moons, that looked like
80’s gaming legend Pac-Man (below).
Now Tethys, another Saturnian natu-
ral satellite, becomes the second.
The unusual pattern, recorded using
NASA’s Cassini probe’s thermal imag-
er, was ﬁrst spotted on Mimas
in 2010, with the warmer ar-
eas making up the Pac-Man
shape. Recent observations,
published in the journal
ICARUS, reveal Tethys to
saturn.jpl.nasa.gov
possess a similar anomalous
heat pattern.
It has been theorized that
the unusual pattern of both
moons is formed due to the
impact of high-energy elec-
trons generated from Saturn’s
magnetosphere. Both moons are
composed of water-ice, with Saturn-
facing struck areas at lower latitudes
converted to hard-packed ice, increas-
ing its thermal conductivity. This
causes the aﬀected regions to
heat more slowly during the
day and cool more slowly at night,
generating the anomalous heat
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
I
patterns. Electron bombard-
ment patterns match up with
the unexpected heat maps.
Mimas already has anoth-
er claim to fame — from cer-
tain angles, it looks like the
Star Wars Death Star. (left) The
image is created due to Mimas’ huge
impact crater, Herschel, named after
the moon’s discoverer. The Herschel
crater, almost a third of the diameter
of Mimas and wider than Australia,
also resembles one of the power pel-
lets from the original Pac-Man.
DOI: 10.1016/j.icarus.2012.10.013
Maybe this article should have
gone into the Games section...

