LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Merry Christmas
The title says it all really! Merry Christ-
mas and have a fantastic new year
everybody. If you have exams, then,
as I said before: relax, panic a bit, but
try to take at very least Christmas Day
and New Year’s Eve off. Saying that,
I’m pretty sure that for my third and
fourth year exams I didn’t take New
Year’s Eve off. Not to rub it in your fac-
es, but this is the first exam free holi-
day I’ve had in years and I’m frankly
absolutely loving it.
I also want to use this opportunity
and space to openly invite every sin-
gle person to write for Felix! Honestly,
I don’t bite, unless you’re into that sort
of thing. It really is a great break from
your work and can be lots of fun. Plus,
groan, it may even look alright on
your CV.
There are some other issues
to address though. The Holland
Club will soon be closing its doors.
Maybe it’ll pop u p
somewhere else at some point, but it
will be interesting to see what hap-
pens with that space.
Podcasting, well, it’s a reality in a
way. It was a big thing a while ago and
they are crawling their way out. By
that I mean that they are being rolled
out at a pace that a snail would scorn
for being “a bit slow”. The big question
really is: if others can do it, why can’t
we? Yeah, obviously you shouldn’t
just do something as others do, but
that’s not the point here.
This is an issue I find interesting as I
think it would have been pretty useful.
There was one lecturer who did pod-
casts in my time, but that was it from
what I remember. I don’t under-
stand what’s so tough about
recording something and
shoving it on the in-
ternet. Obviously,
that’s not the hard
part. The tough bit
is the boring stuff
about people not
wanting to be seen
lecturing in public.
This raises the inevi-
table: if you’ve got nothing
to hide, then
what’s the
problem ques-
tion. That is-
sue is actually just one
of many with lecture
videos/audio, but,
as it’s Christ-
mas, and un-
less you want
smaller pretty
pictures (which you
don’t) I will
leave it
at that
and let
you mull over the
idea of podcasts
yourself. They
were brought
up, specifically a n d
unprompted, in feed-
back question- naires.
However, think a b o u t
this: do you w a n t
them if you don’t have them? Do you
use them at all if you do? It would be
really interesting to see how much
of the student body thinks
it would be a great
addition to learn-
ing resourc- es.
FASHION FILM PUZZLES
Fast fashion? Christmas films! LAST CHANCE
Fashion has been gone for a
while but makes a glorious
return just before the end of
term. This week, is high fash-
ion becoming fast fashion?
It’s the best holiday
movies for the ridicu-
lously cold nights.
Home Alone is a must
really.
The last chance this week to
storm up the leaderboard
and become the biggest
FUCWIT of them all. Plus a
festive, massive, nonogram.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Tutor wanted for A Level
I am looking for a tutor to review my daughter’s A2
Biology coursework (EDEXCEL). She is repeating in
January ‘12 but is getting little help from school and
we need someone who is experienced with EDEXCEL
coursework and can give her advice on where she is
going wrong and how to improve it. There probably is
no need for you to meet my daughter and everything
can be done by email/phone. She can send a pdf by
email and we can discuss how you can help, what you
will charge and how to pay you.
If interested get in contact with Paul
email: tutor_needed@afe2.org.uk
>>29 >>30 >>51
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors
Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou,
James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editors Veronika McQuade,
Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors
Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Lizzy Griffiths
Have a great holiday everyone!

