BUSINESS Business Editor: Deepka Rana
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
20
Getting in with the Crowd
tart-ups have to raise money,
whatever the business there
will be a need at some point.
The biggest issue for most is
how.
Traditional options are Business An-
gels – wealthy individuals who provide
capital and advice in return for equity,
and venture capitalists who generally
provide higher sums of seed but with
harsher conditions. But, obtaining in-
vestment is very hard for ﬂedgling busi-
nesses as these sources rarely part with
money without seeing a proof of con-
cept. For many businesses it is extremely
diﬃcult to get to this stage without any
ﬁnancial backing in the ﬁrst place. Bit
of a vicious circle you might have no-
ticed. Secondly, because the options
are so limited, such groups hold a lot of
control over small businesses; an early
stage start up never holds much bar-
gaining power and the more desperate
for money it is the worse the terms of in-
vestment are. It is in this way entrepre-
neurs quickly lose ownership and hence
morale in their businesses. Clearly, this
type of funding is massively in favour of
the already rich and successful. On the
other side of the coin, this also means
only wealthy people have the opportu-
nities to invest money in start-ups. In
both cases the regular people seem to
be losing out (what a shocker).
So, already I have highlighted two
problems for entrepreneurship: one,
start-ups face a huge uphill struggle to
get that initial investment, and two, the
masses have no platform from which
they can invest in new projects. Not a
very optimistic view if you fancy your
foot on the business ladder. Cue the so-
lution: crowd-funding.
It’s a pretty simple concept: lots of
people each invest a small amount in
a start-up, contributing to a big pot of
overall capital. This means a company
can obtain ﬁnancing more easily and
does not have to give a majority of eq-
uity to one person, the obvious appeal
being that owners can retain more con-
trol over their business. Investors also
do not need to commit huge amounts
into one project therefore opening up
investment opportunities to the general
public i.e. the Crowd; hence the concept
is aptly known as crowd-funding.
In fact people can tactfully “hedge
their bets” by investing smaller amounts
in many start-ups in the hope that even
if some do not follow through there will
still be an overall return. This is analo-
gous to the way a venture capital ﬁrm
works, essentially avoiding putting all
its eggs in one basket by investing in
several companies, knowing that just a
couple need to boom to ensure an over-
all proﬁt; except where Mr V.C invests
£100,000 a time, John Smith is able to
invest £100. This is a very attractive op-
tion for individuals who do not want
their savings to stagnate in a bank ac-
count.
The model of crowd-funding has pro-
pelled the formation of “middle-man”
companies who have seized the poten-
tial to design platforms from which this
initiative is easily accessible for both
start-ups and potential investors. Ex-
amples include Crowdcube, a UK lead-
er, and AngelList and Prosper.com in
America. A crowd-funding portal will
typically allow start-ups to pitch their
ideas and personalise their pages, which
can then be searched for and viewed by
individuals. An interesting new take on
the world of social networking. Crowd-
funding portals are innovating business
ﬁnancing even more by allowing com-
panies to oﬀer incentives other than
equity, for example a new bar may oﬀer
free drinks to the investor if they put in a
certain amount of capital. Rewards like
this can also promote the start-up to a
bigger audience and draw in supporters.
There are even more obscure crowd-
funding platforms such as those for
public sector organisations like schools,
or for artists, perhaps to raise money for
a ﬁlm production.
Another implication for crowd-fund-
ingisitsabilitytoweedoutstart-upsthat
are likely to fail. If a start-up reaches its
desired target is it more likely to succeed
as a business concept? You could argue
it is. In the case of traditional ﬁnancing
involving a small number of parties it is
deﬁnitely plausible that those few inves-
tors have made a silly mistake, but when
hundreds or even thousands of people
have invested into a business it gives a
sense of reassurance – surely that many
people can’t be really stupid?
Crowd-funding: bringing a host of
strangers together in one innovative
meeting place somewhere in the depths
of “the web” where they can join forces
to drive the success of the newest busi-
ness generation, and potentially reap
the rewards. Is this the ground-breaking
future of business ﬁnancing? In 2011
alone $1.5bn was raised via online
crowd-funding and I say why not put
faith in the masses? We can’t all get it
wrong.
Joanna Taylor underlines the benefits of crowd-sourced funding
S
Just a short while ago, I was a Fine Art
graduate slowly coming to realisa-
tion that conceptual art & me is not
a good match. Back then, looking for
a ‘real’ job, I accidentally stumbled
across Songkick and got to be one of
the lucky ones to become their intern.
Starting out as a Data Warrior (don’t
ask), after just a few months I pro-
gressed to full-time project assistant
role working with the hiring team. The
oﬃce was smack dab in the middle of
Silicon Roundabout, where the start-
up scene is buzzing (and before Song-
kick, I didn’t even know it existed).
I left Songkick to study full-time
for my MSc at the Imperial College
Business School last September – and
what an intense year that was (anyone
studying at Imperial is familiar with
the pace)! Not wanting to lose touch
with the incredible start-up roots I
had planted, I led ICBS Innovation &
Design club and sat on a committee of
Entrepreneurs Interactive. Together,
we arranged for loads of famous as
well as up-and-coming start-ups to
come and speak at Imperial.
Then, nearly as serendipitous as the
YPlan app itself, I became an alpha
tester for what looked to be the best
last minute ticketing app on the hori-
zon. As I met one of the co-founders,
Rytis Vitkauskas, for the ﬁrst time
during an early UX walk-through, I
was enthralled not only by what they
were trying to do – provide tickets for
same night entertainment – but also
by a really slick app design and awe-
some user journey (I’ve seen a few al-
pha versions of other apps before and
could only wish that any of them were
as ﬁnished as YPlan’s one was). Even
though I didn’t pursue the artist path
eventually, I do have an eye for beau-
tiful design. Alpha ﬁnished in about
a month and I found myself crushed
that I couldn’t access the app every
morning as per my new ritual.
The other co-founder, Viktoras Juci-
kas, re-contacted me mid-summer an-
nouncing that they were taking oﬀ and
on the hunt for interns. I found myself
more than just interested and started
as a part-timer (as I was still working
on my ﬁnal paper at this point), and
following my last exam, got a full-time
job oﬀer (and couldn’t be more excit-
ed). I’ve been with YPlan from the very
ﬁrst day (I mean the very ﬁrst – where
we actually got keys to our brand new
oﬃce – at that time, a shared oﬃce
space at TechHub). As the concept
began to pick up steam, we quickly
outgrew our oﬃces moving to a much
more suitable space in King’s Cross.
From 6 people on the very ﬁrst day
to 15-full time and 2 freelancers in
just a few months, not to mention a
phenomenal launch with impressive
press mentions (Wall Street Journal,
Wired, Guardian, Gigaom, The Mail,
Shortlist, and #1 New And Notewor-
thy as chosen by Apple, just to name
a few), I’d say it’s been some pretty
awesome growth for a brand new
start-up! We’ve just announced seed
round investment of $1.7m, our user
base is growing, the events are being
booked, and YPlan is standing next
to other mobile commerce apps such
as Hailo, Uber, Hotel Tonight, Airbnb
and the likes. As smartphone users are
growing (currently making up 50% of
total mobile subscribers in the UK and
nearing that in West Europe and the
US), the time couldn’t be better for the
mobile commerce apps to start taking
over the world.
To give you a bit of a background of
YPlan – it’s the world’s ﬁrst mobile-
only ticket booking app that makes
going out tonight easier than it ever
was. Londoners can get inspired,
pay in two taps, and go on the same
night. UK ticketed entertainment is
a $5bn industry, utilised only at 50%,
and currently only 2% of events are
completely sold out, so YPlan solves
a problem for venues and promoters.
It also allows Londoners to be more
spontaneous and book awesome stuﬀ
from a carefully curated list of events
(think chess boxing, rickshaw racing,
rooftop cinemas, art exhibition open-
ings, ping-pong tournaments, cabaret,
comedy, brewery tours, etc.) in some
of the best venues you never knew
about. The simplistic design makes
the experience a breeze and no need
to print out tickets, just show the
in-app-ticket on the door (oh, and it
works with Apple’s Passbook, too).
Our team is awesome & has unrivalled
experience from places like Time Out,
Toptable, GetTaxi, Airbnb, lasminute.
com, Goldman Sachs, and more… and
I think I’m really lucky to be among
them.
Now, if you’re interested in start-
ups and follow their game, you’d say
– what do you need all those people
for (and how can you aﬀord that)?
Where’s all that lean start-up ap-
proach everyone’s talking about? Well,
YPlan’s founders Rytis Vitkauskas (28,
HBS graduate and former VC) and
Viktoras Jucikas (31, former Execu-
tive Director at Goldman Sachs) were
taking up a very lean approach while
they were in ideation phase. In fact,
you might have met Rytis already, and
heard him talking about
his journey into YPlan – in
the past few months, well
before the launch, he was
invited to speak at Imperial
College a number of times
– as a keynote speaker of
ICBS Entrepreneurs Club,
leading the very ﬁrst work-
shop (topic: ideation, how
you can structure it, and
how YPlan was the idea
51) at ICStartup (you can
read the full article here: http://www.
icstartup.com/news/what-did-we-
get-ﬁrst-workshop/), and also partici-
pating at Silicon Valley comes to Im-
perial, where he was on a panel to ‘An
Insider’s Insight: Day 1 to Scale.’ Quite
a few Imperial students were among a
small community of early YPlan users
who got access well before the launch
and were trialling out the app while
the YPlan team was ﬁne-tuning.
Thing is, after graduating from my
course, not many people got to start
their own businesses or were able to
start working at such an early stage
start-up getting to see how things re-
ally happen. I remember sitting in IP
(Intellectual Property) class thinking
it was the most boring thing in the
world – guess what one of my ﬁrst
tasks was at YPlan? Filing a trademark!
And I got pretty excited about it, too.
The moral of the story is, a few years
ago I was a Fine Arts graduate plagued
with worry on how I was actual-
ly going to make it as an artist. A
chain of very odd and fortuitous
events led me to work at Song-
kick, then study at Imperial, and
ﬁnally be one of the early mem-
bers of YPlan team, and so I got
fully immersed in the exciting
start-up experience. I’ve learned
that as long as you’re not afraid
to delve into the unknown and
take challenges head on, start-
up life is really the place to be.
From Fine Art to the App Store
Ausrine Kersanskaite Writer

