TECHNOLOGY Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ast Friday three young
whippersnappers (i.e. the
Felix Tech team) made
their way to the Gadget
Show Live, in the ExCeL,
hoping to see the newest tech on the
market, as well as have some well-
earned time oﬀ. Once we arrived there
and got our shiny press passes sorted
out, we decided to split up so that each
of us would have a diﬀerent view of
what actually was going on in the tech
world.
The two biggest areas of the exhibi-
tion were given over to Microsoft and
Nintendo. This does ﬁt with the con-
clusion that the companies who re-
ally need media attention to sell their
product are going to try as hard as they
can, at every opportunity that is avail-
able. Since I am not the Windows guy
of the Tech team, and we had enough
coverage of Windows 8 anyway, I de-
cided to skip out on the Microsoft
area. On the other hand I was quite
intrigued by the Nintendo stand, due
to the recent release of the Wii U. As
I made my way over to the large al-
most playground like area, it seems
others also had similar ideas. A larger
than life Mario and Luigi were walking
around the area, uttering the occa-
sional “Mamma Mia!”, and in general
everything was packed. The attention
to detail was great, and I did have a go
on the Wii U for two games and man-
aged to avoid the queue by waving my
shiny press pass! (see page 42)
After I had my ﬁll in Nintendo, I
decided that other parts of the Gadg-
et Show also needed my attention.
I walked over to EA (which was a
cube thing) and looked into that, but
I quickly decided that this would not
be worth my time, as several teen boys
had staked their territory in front of
the large FIFA 13 station, and were
hogging it like their was no tomor-
row. Anyway I thought that I had seen
too much gaming already and needed
to ﬁnd some real cutting-edge tech to
write about.
So I wandered around in search of
something absolutely stunning, but
the majority of stands that I saw were
below par to be honest. There were
some interesting things that caught
my eye and I kept their locations in
mind, however at that given moment
I was more into browsing the whole
area than looking at speciﬁc things.
One of these was a portable projector,
a little beamer thing that you attached
to your phone and it would project
what was on your screen onto the wall.
The projection was a little faint, but
it had to be kept in mind that it was
quite bright in the hall. While I was
playing with the beamer with my iP-
hone (apparently it is compatible with
any OS), I had some interesting things
in mind. This technology if marketed
correctly could replace the need for
televisions. The majority of users who
have a smartphone have some kind of
TV app on their device, be it Sky Go
or BBC iPlayer. The only problem with
watching any program on their phone
is the relative small size of their screen.
Yet with the mini projector, the area
you are watching becomes roughly the
same as the size of a medium sized TV.
After my rendezvous with the pro-
jector I continued my stroll among
the stands. To my disappointment
only the minority of things were truly
revolutionary. The rest were either
toys for teens or for older men, who
will always remain children at heart.
Examples of these were lego (lego at a
tech show!?!), RC cars, RC helicopters
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
24
L
or battle robots (like the ones on Robot
Wars). I actually had a try and totally
dominated my opposition (well....not
really). Anything that was not a toy or
for wellness was an accessory for your
smartphone. I would estimate about
60% of the stands at the Gadget Show
were smartphone accessory related.
Thus when I met up again with the
tech team to relay what I had seen, I
was actually quite disappointed. Luck-
ily I had not payed the £30 entry price
for the show, but I still felt somewhat
ripped oﬀ. This exposition did not
seem to want to display the newest
tech, but rather advertise and sell the
stuﬀ it already had. These thoughts
were echoed by the Tech writers, and
we all felt rather cheated. However we
decided to give it another try for you,
dear reader, but this time, together so
that we could brave the disappoint-
ment as one.
On my previous meandering I had
encountered some rare interesting
things, and therefore when neither
Jason (Tech Editor, who should actu-
ally have been in charge) nor Yong
Wen (the other Tech writer) put a vi-
able point of interest forward, I took
charge (sigh) and guided them to what
I thought was interesting. First port of
call was LG, and boy it did not disap-
point. Not only did we get to see the
world’s ﬁrst 84” Ultra HD TV, but then
saw something that was the absolute
highlight of the show. A TV that could
show two diﬀerent things at the same
time. Like with a 3D TV, when part of
the screen is polarised one way and an-
other, the other way, it did this but with
two totally diﬀerent screens. Jason and
I both had a go, playing a racing game
(I naturally won) where we saw diﬀer-
ent things, like a split screen superim-
posed.
After this wonder, things were look-
ing up, and the next place I lead to did
not disappoint either, i.e. Stone pa-
per. Yes, you read correctly, stone pa-
per. Made from Limestone instead of
trees, it has some beneﬁcial properties
compared to normal paper, and is en-
vironmentally friendly to boot! Writ-
ing on it was a bit strange, especially
under water, but its tear resistance and
all round originality was very cool.
Without further ado the tech team
had bough a few booklets to test at
home! Next we had a look at a bunch
of wiggly ears that move according to
your brainwaves. Although the actual
use of these things eluded us, we still
decided to have a look at these weird
contraptions. As we were listening to
the “sales person” giving us his pitch,
Jason was wearing a pair of these pink
cat ear things on his head. I watched
with fascination when the ears gave a
twitch every so often. After that rather
funny episode we made our way to the
3D printer, where we watched a little
stick man being created right in front
of our eyes. Although 3D printers have
been around for a while, this was the
ﬁrst time I had seen one and I thought
it was quite amazing. The various
models littering the table around the
printer were very diﬀerent, including
model castles, balls and even a plas-
tic chain that apparently could carry
a grown man (although I wouldn’t im-
agine for very long). Shortly after we
visited a stand full of toilets, Yong Wen
and me wanted to move on, but Jason
was quite intrigued by these porcelain
thrones. The special thing about these
toilets is that they wipe your butt for
you (actually as Yong Wen put it: “they
wash it gently with warm water, and
then dry it with hot air”).
After we had seen the most inter-
esting things, it was not the turn of
the somewhat pointless contraptions
on which most people spend their
hard earned money. We ridiculed the
Christmas tree that sprayed styrofoam
snow, and wondered at its use. We had
a go at a vibrating plate that apparently
qualiﬁed as a work out, maxing them
out to the highest rpm they had and
laughed at the eﬀect the vibrations had
on our voices. We also came across a
bunch of designer 3-D glasses (yes the
ones you get in the cinema, just de-
signerised), which were actually quite
fairly priced. Our last stop was the sec-
tion of old arcade and computer games
set up by the Computing History Mu-
seum. Although I was thrashed by
Jason in the old fashioned tennis and
football games, when the antes where
upped it was my turn to exact revenge.
Yong Wen on the other hand managed
to spectacularly lose in an old version
of Super Mario. Then we bid farewell
to the Gadget Show, and these three
young whippersnappers headed back
home!
The Gadget Show is very consumer
orientated, with the majority of stands
trying to sell you something instead of
show you something you haven’t seen
before. I, and the others for that matter,
where disappointed as we had expect-
ed more awe-inspiring tech. Yet when
we actually took the eﬀort to look
among the little stands that the crowd
overlooked we were pleasantly sur-
prised at all the original stuﬀ that we
got to see. The big companies just want
to get rid of what they have, instead of
introducing something new, as tried
and tested is always better than going
out on a limb. The little guys however
have nothing to lose. They don’t have
any old tech to rely on, instead trying
to create their own market and show it
oﬀ to anybody who wants to see. All in
all, I would have felt cheated if I would
have had to pay £30 for the tickets,
even though there was some nice stuﬀ,
however there wasn’t enough to war-
rant such a relatively high price.
From left to right: The best way to watch X-Factor; two men who take Movember way too seriously; A visual metaphor for most men’s internet history; and a 3D printer model, Library computers won’t connect
We went to the Gadget Show
Max Eggl and the Felix Tech team play around on some of the latest tech
... attached to
your phone
and it projects
what is on
your screen
onto the wall
”
“
about 60%
of the stands
at the Gadget
Show were
smartphone
accessory re-
lated

