TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Make your 3D TV more useful
Yong Wen Chua checks out LG’s amazing new dual vision 3D TV
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Nokia & Deadmau5
Last week Nokia teamed up with Deadmau5, yet again, to put on an amazing
light-themed event in London to launch their latest flagship phones. On event
day it had been exactly 365 days since Nokia originally teamed up with the art-
ist for the launch of the Nokia Lumia 800 at Millbank. This Editor went along to
the unbelievable display of the world’s most advanced LASER technology and
banged on about, mostly, how great the phone was!
This time round, for the launch of the Nokia Lumia 820 and 920, Nokia
closed off an entire street by London Bridge and the Shard, rigging everything
from rubbish bins to window frames with lights. The result, another incredible
light display while Deadmau5 played first on the roof, then cycling past the
crowd and playing on a moving stage. This Editor, having his contacts, secured
two of the 50 free public tickets and I can say with full certainty, the event did
not disappoint.
You can watch the 4 minute highlights here: http://goo.gl/OvlNM
25
onsumer electronics
manufacturers often like
to proclaim that their
products boast the high-
est numbers in a certain
arbitrary unit that often make no
sense to the consumers, or are simply
immaterial. Cameras like to boast that
they have the highest amount of pixels
while computers used to tout their “gi-
gahertz” as their selling point. It seems
that this phenomena is almost absent
in the realm of televisions.
When the rush to 1080p HD-TV
ended, television manufacturers
rushed to implement 3D imaging in
their products, to the chagrin of some
and the delight of others. It seems like
you cannot sell a TV without having
3D in it nowadays. Whether consum-
ers like 3D on their TV or not is ir-
relevant – 3D is here to stay. LG has,
however, managed to make the 3D
capabilities of their TV more useful
by leveraging the technology behind
the 3D TV itself to allow two images
to be displayed simultaneously on the
screen. Firstly, let’s take a brief look at
how 3D works on some of the TVs.
The human eye perceives depth in
our vision through the slightly diﬀer-
ent images that our left and right eyes
receive. 3D TVs takes advantage of this
by making use of a technique known
as stereoscopy to create an illusion of
depth. This is why you can “see” im-
ages ﬂoating out or into the screens
when you don those 3D glasses.
One of the ways to deliver diﬀerent
images to each eye is to polarise the
light coming out of the screen. A light
source will usually emit light in all the
directions. A polarised light source
will only emit light in a certain plane.
Some 3D TVs will display two diﬀer-
ent images in two diﬀerent polarisa-
tions, usually at 45 and 135 degrees.
The lens on each side of a pair of 3D
glasses are polarised to only allow
light polarised to a certain plane to
go through. In this case, each side of
the glasses will be able to deliver dif-
ferent images to the right and left eyes
of the view, allowing the user’s brain
to be tricked into having a perception
of depth.
“
... a very in-
novative and
seemingly
very simple
application of
the 3D... TV
LG makes use of this same tech-
nique to deliver two simultaneous
images over one screen. Two diﬀerent
pairs of glasses are each attuned to dif-
ferent polarisation. Two users wearing
the diﬀerent pairs of glasses will thus
see diﬀerent images. This was demon-
strated during the Live Gadget Show
when two players could simultane-
ously play a racing game that would
usually be in the form of a split screen.
In this case, the image for each player
was blown up to take advantage of
the whole screen. The LG representa-
tive said that this works for all game
consoles without needing any special
form of processing. The user would
just have to hit a few buttons on the
TV remote control to tell the TV how
the game consoles splits the screen, ei-
ther vertically or horizontally, and the
TV will do the rest of the work.
This is a very innovative and seem-
ingly very simple application of the
3D capabilities of the TV. There are,
however, some kinks to be worked out
ﬁrst. While I was playing as one of the
players, I could see the silhouette of
the images for the other player. It was
like there was a “ghost” image behind
the one I’m seeing. My conjecture is
that this was because my head was
not properly aligned with the plane of
polarisation of the image intended for
me, resulting in this eﬀect. As the im-
age I saw was upsized from an original
split screen image, the graphics appear
stretched and look lower in quality.
Still, there is potential in making
fuller use of the 3D capabilities of the
TVs beyond just simply displaying 3D
images. There could be the possibility
of working with game console makers
in the future to deliver higher ﬁdelity
images to two diﬀerent players rath-
er than using the current “hackish”
method of expanding the split screen
images. There could even be the pos-
sibility of screening two ﬁlms at once
on the same TV screen.
It is exciting to see companies like
LG “think out of the box” by mak-
ing use of technology meant for one
thing (in this case 3D) in a diﬀerent
fashion (to deliver two images simul-
taneously). With the ever competitive
consumer electronics market, such in-
C
novative approaches can only be good
for the consumers, until the patent
lawyers start knocking on the doors of
course.
Jason Parmar Technology Editor
The dual screen
Modelling
some designer
glasses at the
Gadget Show
(see page on
the left)

