Christmas Cheatsheet
ow that December is here, we’re actually not bemoaning the fact
that all the festive tunes in stores and Christmas delicacies are
too much too soon. In fact, they’re a rather welcome indication
that holidays and the festive season are nigh, despite the fact
most of us will have a bit to slog through in the last week before
lessons are over. Which can only mean one thing – yummy Christmas dinners
ahead!
Here we’ve provided a bumper guide to planning your own Christmas dinner –
this is chieﬂy aimed at those who might not have made a full Christmas meal but
would like to try their hand at it (international freshers who will be stuck in halls
this holiday, I’m looking at you!). That said, however, we do hope that this guide
will have some new tips and ideas for old hands to consider trying. All in all we
at Food believe that preparing a hearty, impressive Christmas meal needn’t be
overtly taxing or pricey – you just need a tiny bit of forethought and prep. So go
on – ﬁre up your ovens, pour yourself a glass of mead, and cook away!
N
FOOD
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
26
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tradition dictates that the usual meat for
Christmas roasts is a nice plump turkey,
complete with all the trimmings. Tra-
dition can also be damned, though; it
doesn’tHAVEtobethatway–we’rerisk-
ing the wrath of some purists by making
this statement! The options you have at
your disposal for roast meats are actu-
ally aplenty; if you include ﬂavour com-
binations e.g. lemon and thyme vs citrus
spice,youcouldcookoneroastmeatdish
every night and have a meat marathon
longer than the 1001 Arabian Nights.
Beef, chicken, lamb, pork – they’re all
equally valid choices for roasts. Besides,
some of us with smaller ovens and less
time can’t conﬁdently ﬁt a plump turkey
into them as opposed to a chicken.
Vegetarian or (heavens!) vegan? No
Main Attraction
You don’t necessarily *need* to have a
starter in your menu – but if you do,
please. PLEASE K.I.S.S. (keep it sim-
ple, sexy) so you’re not doing more
work than you have to in the kitchen.
After all, you’ll be spending quite a bit
of time in there prepping your other
courses anyway! You should also keep
it light enough (but still scrumptious)
so that your guests won’t be too stuﬀed.
The point of a starter is just to get your
guests’ appetites (for the main) going
anyway, not to feed them for the whole
12 days of Christmas.
What to serve, though? Popular and
not-too-taxing options include a small
helping of soup (feel free to look back
at Issue 1531 for our guide to soups)
– plus points to you if it’s made with
pumpkin; keeps the festive theme go-
ing! Canapés are just as acceptable
The Start-Up
and classy – think cocktail sausages,
salmon and cream cheese blinis, (mini)
bruschetta, prawn cocktail shots or
vegetable crudités (just a fancy way
of saying raw veggie sticks like carrot
and celery) with dipping sauces. In all
essence they’re not tricky to make, ei-
ther; having it presented in such a...
erm, “fun-size” manner just takes it to
a whole new level.
If you really want to cheat and go
the store-bought route for sauces and
some of the cooked canapés, that’s ﬁne
by us. Some supermarket options have
been pretty fabby in terms of quality
over the past few years – justbe sure to
check the ingredients label for any nas-
ties that you’re not particularly keen on,
and follow instructions. We won’t tell if
you don’t – well, unless you present us
with a particularly limp set of crudités...
Carol’s Banging Tomato and Basil Bruschetta
A simple healthy starter (we do need something to counteract the sinful other
courses!) that doesn’t skimp on the flavour. I’ve suggested plum tomatoes as their
thicker skins make for easier peeling, plus they’re less juicy and seedy (groan!) -
but normal toms work just as well too. (Vegan Friendly)
6-7 ripe plum tomatoes
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 tsp balsamic vinegar
6-8 fresh basil leaves, chopped (don’t
sub in dried – doesn’t work the same!)
Salt and pepper to taste
1 baguette French bread, or similar
crusty Italian bread
1/4 cup olive oil for brushing
Makes 24 small slices
Prep: 15 mins // Cook: 10 mins (max)
Preheat oven to 230°C, or as high as it
will go. Lightly score a cross in the bot-
tom of the tomatoes with a knife, and
blanch for a minute in some freshly-
boiled water right from the kettle/
stove. Drain, dunk in cold water to
stop them cooking, and remove the
skins. Dice up finely, removing the
seeds and juice as you go. Put in bowl
with minced garlic, extra virgin olive
oil and vinegar. Mix well, add chopped
basil plus salt and pepper to taste.
Slice baguette on a diagonal into
roughly 1/2 inch thick slices. Brush one
side of each slice with olive oil, and
lay out on a baking tray oil side down.
Toast on the top rack for 5-6 minutes
until the bread starts turning golden
brown. Remove and arrange olve oil
side up. Top each slice with the tomato
mixure just before serving – or let your
guests DIY if you’re that way inclined!
TRADITIONAL PROTIP – Purists
who make bruschetta tend to toast the
bread without oiling first, then rub-
bing a cut garlic clove on the top and
drizzling with oil. Feel free to try!
Simply Recipes
Carol’s “Not Yo Momma’s” Lemon and Herb Crimbo Chicken
Lemon, rosemary and thyme may be an oft-rehashed flavour combination, but stuffing a boiled and pierced lemon into the
cavity may not be something good ol’ mum may have thought of. The hot steam from the lemon will permeate the bird, slightly
cooking and flavouring its juices from within. Experiment with other herbs and seasonings!
1largechicken(>2kg-noteitsweight!)
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 large lemon, preferably unwaxed
1 whole garlic bulb, broken into cloves
Handful of fresh thyme
Olive oil/butter
Handful of fresh rosemary sprigs,
EXTRA: 8 rashers streaky bacon
Serves 4
Prep: 30 mins max // Cook: See chicken
Rub chicken all over and inside cavity
with a decent amount of salt and black
pepper (freshly ground please, no
sneeze dust!) If possible do this ahead
of time and leave in the fridge – maybe
in the morning – so the seasoning has
time to seep in prior to roasting.
Preheat oven to 190°C. Boil up your
lemon and garlic – either do this when
you’re boiling water up to blanch to-
matoes for bruschetta (recipe below
left), or together with your potatoes if
you tend to parboil them before roast-
ing/mashing. Once this is nice and hot,
remove lemon and garlic – they’ll be
slightly soft.
Take the chicken out of the fridge
and pat down with kitchen paper. Rub
Budgens
need to despair – Yiango, one of our
own Editors, is vegan herself; and there’s
nothing wrong to preferring your farm-
yard animals celebrating Christmas to-
gether around the table (as opposed to
beingservedup).Youoryourveganmate
don’t have to resort to purely picking at
the sides, or the oft-served option of your
mother’s nut roast – good news for those
with nut allergies!
Think lentil and mushroom shepherd’s
pie, baked risottos, or hearty vegetable
pot pies. If you’re preparing a separate
option for a vegan mate, it’s not that
much extra work and the meal can stay
just as social as long as you keep your
sides vegan friendly (sub butter for olive
spread, etc) – all you’re just preparing is a
separatemain,asopposedtoafull-blown
vegan meal.
As for omnivores, once you’ve picked
your meat and seasoning of choice, it’s
just a matter of doing the prep along
with working out how long to pop it in
the oven for. We’ve prepared a handy-
dandy time/temperature guide down
there, though some people do like to
kick-start the roast at a higher tempera-
ture for about 30 minutes so they get a
crispy crust/skin on their meat. Whatev-
er you do, though; make sure after you’ve
cooked your meat that you let it rest for
at least half an hour prior to carving –
this gives it a chance to reabsorb its juices
so it stays moist. Neglect that rule and
you may just ﬁnd Sophia or Carol charg-
ing at you with the turkey baster or a hot
pair of tongs.
all over with olive oil, or softened butter
if you’re feeling cheeky. Stab hot lemon
carefully with a knife about 10 times –
this will steam and sizzle. Put this in the
cavity with the garlic cloves and thyme,
then pop on your prepared roasting tray.
Work out how long your total cooking
time will be based on the weight of your
bird (see below), making sure to baste a
few times during roasting.
If you’re using bacon, roast until 45
minutes of your total roasting time re-
mains. Take out chicken pour off some
excess fat (save for gravy or to roast
potatoes with), lay the bacon rashers
over the breast and sprinkle rosemary.
Roast until time is up and chicken is
cooked. Otherwise, roast for full dura-
tion of the cooking time, draining ex-
cess fat halfway through if you need it.
Remove from oven, letting meat rest
15-30 minutes. Crumble bacon up if
you used it, and remove garlic and lem-
on from cavity. Mash up garlic, spread-
ing it all over the chicken. Carve at the
table, and dig in!
Roasting times and temperatures
Common sense dictates that the heavier/bigger your joint (or bird), the longer you’ll have to cook it for. Below you’ll find a
guide to how hot your oven needs to be depending on your choice of meat, and how long it needs to be in there for. Remember
that ovens can vary, though; what the dial says may not be the true temperature – so do conduct visual testing too!
BEEF: 180C, 25 mins per 450g + extra
25mins for medium rare. Common
roasting cuts these times apply to in-
clude rib, sirloin, and eye of the rump.
PORK: 180C, 35 mins per 450g-500g
+ extra 35 minutes. Generally pork
should be fully cooked, but if you want
it medium, drop the times here to 30
mins per 450-500g + extra 30 minutes.
Or just get a food probe and check
that the internal temperature of the joint
is 75-80C (as opposed to 80-85 for well
done pork.) To get crackling, score skin
until the fat and rub in salt an hour prior
to roasting. Roast initially at high heat
(as high as your oven will allow) for 25
minutes, then follow times for pork done
medium.
LAMB: Depends if you’re rushed (quick
roasting) or have time (slow roasting).
Quick roasting is done at 200C, 20-
30mins per 450g + extra 20 mins. Slow
roasting is done at 180C, 35 mins per
450g + extra 35 mins.
CHICKEN: 180C, 20 mins per 450g +
extra 10-20 minutes. If you stuffed the
cavity, expect to wait longer – NEVER
OVERSTUFF. Juices run clear and thigh
meat pulls away easily from the bone
when cooked.

