FOOD
27
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Just as rice is the de facto carb present
in Asian meals (and may be out of place
as a side with a roast, while we’re at it),
spuds are the de facto form of carbo-
hydrate you’d expect to accompany
a Christmas roast (well, if you’re do-
ing a meat or nut roast for instance.)
Mashed, boiled, sautéed – the world’s
your oyster. Additionally, they don’t
have to be normal white potatoes; So-
phia’s explored the possibility of sweet
potato mash that takes on a bit of a
Thanksgiving twist.
We have a few cardinal rules for the
traditional favourite (roast potatoes) if
you want them to rival Aunt Bessie’s.
You don’t HAVE to parboil them, as
Yiango’s lovely recipe above will indi-
cate – it saves you time and energy. But
if you’re looking to get the lovely, rough
crust on the outside with the ﬂuﬀy in-
terior, then parboiling prior to roasting
is deﬁnitely the way forward. Don’t do
it for too long – just enough for the
outside to get slightly soft, so about
Side Stories
Yiango’s Perfect Roast Potatoes
These are probably the easiest, quickest and most delicious roast potatoes ever
–perfect for Christmas dinner! (Vegan friendly)
1kg Maris Piper Potatoes
1/3 cup olive oil
1/4 tsp dried rosemary
1 clove garlic
Salt and pepper to taste
Prep: 5-10 mins // Cook: 30 mins
Firstly preheat your oven at 200°C.
Peel and wash the potatoes. Leave
them as they are or cut them to any
shape you want. Why not try wedges?
Chop the garlic and combine it with
the olive oil, rosemary, garlic, salt and
pepper. Put the potatoes in a big bowl,
add the oil mixture and using a spoon
stir everything to make sure that all
the potatoes are covered with the oil
and herbs.
Put a sheet of parchment paper in
a baking tray, place the potatoes on
it and then cover with another sheet
of paper. Fold over the edges a few
times to create a pouch and staple so
that everything is well sealed. Bake for
about 30 minutes or until the potatoes
turngoldenbrown.Serveonahotplate
to keep them warm and delicious!
Sophia’s Ho Ho Ho So Simple Sweet Potato Mash
Want something sweet, warming and that tastes great this Christmas? Um no – I’m not talking about that… I’m talking about
a quick and scrumptious sweet potato mash, of course – a great side to beef or just about anything! (Vegan friendly)
2 medium sweet potatoes
2 medium carrots
1 garlic clove
2 teaspoons of maple syrup
1 tablespoon of olive oil
Sprinkle of fresh coriander
Salt and pepper
Serves 4
Prep + Cook: 25-30 mins max
Peel the carrots and sweet potatoes.
Cut them into cubes of approximately
equal size. Boil for approximately 10-
15 minutes – if your cubes are bigger,
cook for longer. Keep checking to see
if the carrots and sweet potatoes are
done with a fork: if a fork slides into
them with ease then they are done!
Don’t worry if the sweet potato is
done before the carrots – it’s all going
to be mashed up in a mo.
Meanwhile, peel a garlic clove and
crush with the back of a knife (this will
release all the flavours) before cutting
into small pieces. Add the olive oil to a
pan on medium heat, and when hot,
add the chopped garlic. Once the
garlic starts to soften add the maple
syrup and turn off the heat.
Drain the carrots and sweet po-
tatoes and place them back into the
pan. Add the sauce from the frying
pan. Now mash! Add salt and pepper
to taste, and serve with a sprinkle of
coriander on top.
SOPHIA’S TIPS:
* If you’re in a rush, cut the carrots
and potatoes up into smaller cubes.
They’ll cook quicker this way.
* Sweet potatoes can add moisture –
if your mash is looking a bit too wet,
leave it in the pan after mashing on
low heat until some of the moisture
evaporates. Keep stirring so it doesn’t
burn at the bottom, though.
* Why not make this recipe your own
by adding a little extra something?
You could dice a red chilli or 2 slices of
bacon, fry until crispy and add on top.
10 mins if you cut your spuds up into
golfball-sized pieces.
When you’re done, drain, cover the
pan, and shake them around a bit to
ﬂuﬀ up the exterior. Then coat in oil/
fat of your choice; some toss them to-
gether in the roasting tin that contains
the meat halfway through the roasting
time, coating it in the oil that’s drained
oﬀ during the process. Cooking them
both in the same tin does save you on
the washing up!
Spuds may be well and all, but how
about other veggies? Mother certainly
would balk at the thought of you not
getting your 5 a day, even if it is the fes-
tive season! Parsnips, carrots, squash,
leek and the like roast beautifully (es-
sentially, most root veg) – just make
sure you lightly oil and season before
you pop them into the oven.
Roasting isn’t the only way to do
them, though; boiling/steaming some
broccoli, peas, corn etc. is perfectly ac-
ceptable if the rest of the meal is very
rich and dense. Just be sure to not keep
1 1⁄4 cups flour
3⁄4 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
Pinch of salt
1/3 cup oil
3⁄4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1⁄2 teaspoon strong vanilla extract
1 cup milk (preferably almond)
1 teaspoon white wine vinegar
Flaked almonds
1⁄4 cup chopped walnuts or
hazelnuts
For the ganache:
1⁄4 cup milk (soy for vegans)
120 grams dark chocolate
Makes 12
Preheat the oven at 180°C. Line a
cupcake pan with cupcake cases. In
a cup mix the milk with the vinegar
Yiango’s Celebration Cupcakes with Chocolate Ganache
Sinful only in taste, not in portion size. (Vegan friendly)
and set aside for a few minutes. Then
add the oil, sugar and extracts and stir.
In a bowl mix all the dry ingredients
and then add the wet ingredients. Stir
until the flour is just dissolved but be
careful not to overmix. Fold in the al-
monds. Place the batter in the cupcake
cases so that 2/3 of each case is full.
Bake in the oven for about 20 min-
utes or until they are golden brown.
To make the ganache boil the milk
and then add the chocolate. Stir until
all the chocolate has melted. Using a
spatula cover the cupcakes with the
ganache and then add some chopped
walnuts on top for decoration.
Wahey, you’re at the home stretch
now! Our good ol’ mate (read: Brit-
ish tradition) advocates fruity treats
like dense Christmas fruitcake,
mince pies, and the misleadingly-
named Christmas plum pudding –
yes, misleading because the Victo-
rians thought it would be clever to
use plums to refer to raisins back in
Just Desserts
Carol’s Cheerful Mulled Wine
Feel free to serve any tipple or beverage of choice during your meal – but if you’re
after Christmas in a glass, mulled wine comes up tops along with eggnog. This
drink would warm even the cockles of Scrooge’s stony heart. (Vegan friendly)
1 unwaxed orange
Peel of 1 unwaxed lemon
150g caster sugar (don’t use anything
else, the flavour is too strong)
5 cloves
5 bruised cardomom pods
1 cinnamon stick
Pinch of freshly grated nutmeg
2 bottles red wine (go for something
fruity and unoaked - and no need to
break the bank!)
150ml ginger wine
Makes 12 servings
Peel and juice the orange. Add to a
saucepan with lemon peel, sugar and
spices, and add enough wine to just
cover. Heat gently until the sugar dis-
solves, stirring occasionally, then bring
to the boil and cook until you have a
thick syrup. This helps to bring out the
flavour of the spices through simmer-
ing, and prevents all the alcohol from
the remaining wine boiling off.
Turn the heat down and add the rest
of the wine into the saucepan with the
ginger wine. Gently heat through, ladle
up for your guests, and enjoy!
days of yore, so there aren’t any ac-
tual plums in said pudding per se.
Bah humbug.
On the other end of the spectrum,
there are the non-fruity alternatives
that come in all forms, just wait-
ing to have a festive twist added to
them. Crème brûlée maestro? Get
adventurous and try infusing cinna-
mon, cardomom, brandy or whiskey
in your cream before you add it to
the eggs.
You’re perfectly at liberty to go
for lighter options for dessert – it
depends what you’ve picked for the
rest of your meal. If you’re after fruit,
you could also take a leaf out of the
Asian books and opt to serve a fruit
kebab platter – perhaps with dip-
ping chocolate on the side for those
them on the boil for ages; it’s nice to
have them still looking fresh and col-
ourful with a bit of a bite/crunch still
intact. As long as it doesn’t taste raw,
it’s ﬁne – and if you need a bit of extra
help in keeping your boiled broccoli
looking green, add a teensy bit of oil to
the water you boil it in.
feeling a little more cheeky! Alter-
natively, keep portion sizes for rich
desserts moderate and your guests
won’t feel overstuffed anytime soon.
Try out Yiango’s Celebration Cup-
cakes below for one such example.
All said and done, the last bit of
advice we can offer is to be organ-
ised. Write lists and timetables
down if they’ll help with planning –
the effort will all be worth it when
the smiles and comments from your
mates keep coming in. Even better:
plan and prep a meal together with
your mates!
Finally, we at Food wish you all the
best with your meal preparations...
as well as a Merry Christmas and a
very Happy New Year. See you next
term!

