ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Twelfth Night @ The Apollo, London – Nothing to do with fairies and sprites,
Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night is always a magical play. Mark Rylance, Stephen Fry
and the all-male cast give a wonderfully delicate, utterly hilarious performance of
a play in which every line has deep meaning. Now - February 13 2013.
The Young Van Dyck @ El Museo del Prado, Madrid – One of the largest single
gatherings of Van Dyck’s paintings and drawings, this exhibition shows work that
the artists produced from the age of fifteen (1615-1621). Now - March 3.
Body Language @ Centre Culturel Suisse, Paris – With the human body in all its
multidimensional glory as the subject, this exhibition presents a recollection of
nudity in the photography of both well-known and lesser artists.
Calabash Club @ Calabash Club, Berlin – This venue doubles as a club, but, run by
a Berlin arts collectIve, it also has a cinema, a theatre, and a gallery. Sure to have
something suitably independent running!
George Wylie retrospective @ Mitchell Library, Glasgow – This exhibition, explores
a back catalogue of work from a famed artist known for his humourous stunts. In-
cludes some unseen works. Now – February 2.
A Grand-age
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This evil ocotopus doodle is the brainchild of Umar
Hossain.
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
30
This autumn, a new theatre compa-
ny has joined the ranks of the pres-
tigious London scene: the Michael
Grandage Company (MGC). Born
from the union of two notorieties
of the UK repertoire, artistic direc-
tor Michael Grandage and execu-
tive producer James Bierman, this
new troop has only just revealed its
first 15-month season of five plays
that will be nestled in the heart of
the West End at the Noel Coward
theatre.
There are a few things here that
are worth saying about this new
company and why this is an exciting
development.
First, Michael Grandage has an
award-winning track record from
his previous position as artistic di-
rector at the Donmar Warehouse.
To translate this into a compara-
ble figure, Grandage is the theatre
equivalent of, say, Christopher No-
lan: he turns almost every produc-
tion into an acclaimed, fresh, yet
tasteful gem. Second, the season
will feature a sensational mix of
well-established celebrities includ-
ing Judi Dench, Daniel Radcliffe and
Jude Law, as much as new up-and-
coming actors like Sam Swainsbury.
Third, in order to appeal to a wide
mass of cosmopolites, MGC is of-
fering no less than 100,000 tick-
ets for £10 only across its season.
That’s 200 out of the 950 seats of
the venue for a tenner for each per-
formance. With such a renowned
track record, why would MGC be
taking such a cut? Primarily to send
a clear message about what it wants
to be known for: the new kid on the
block whose every play will make
it on your must-see list. Aiming to
complement the seasons of the likes
of the National Theatre, the Almei-
da and the Old Vic, MGC’s policy
opens the door to younger theatre-
goers and students while still prom-
ising high quality productions.
Fourth, MGC will be performing
for free across London schools and
colleges, launching an education
programme tagged ‘MGC Future’ to
introduce young people to theatre.
In the same spirit, for each play the
company will seek to hire starting
directors and designers as part of
a training scheme, giving new stars
the chance to shine. If the price tag
alone did nothing to convince you,
it must surely be good to support a
company that does not perpetuate
the uptight standards that theatres
often seem to uphold.
Oh, and I almost forgot: the set
five plays, starting this December,
all promise to be captivating! I sug-
gest jumping on one – if not all – of
these opportunities within the next
year:
Privates on Parade, on first, fea-
tures Simon Russell Beale as drag-
queen army Captain Dennis in Pe-
ter Nichols’ comedy, which is set
against the murderous backdrop of
the Malaysian campaign at the end
of the Second World War.
Peter and Alice, starting in March,
and starring Judi Dench and Ben
Whishaw, hypothesizes on the
meeting between Alice Liddell Har-
greaves and Peter Llewelyn Davies
– the two children who inspired
Caroll and Barrie to respectively
write Alice in Wonderland and Pe-
ter Pan.
The final play of the (school) year,
The Cripple Of Inishmaan begins in
June. Have you ever wondered how
Daniel Radcliffe would fare without
a wand and a sizzling scar? Look
no further. He will be taking on the
lead role for this play: a young disa-
bled man living on a remote island
on the West Coast of Ireland set to
become a movie star when a Holly-
wood production comes to shoot on
an island nearby.
For more information on how to ob-
tain one of those £10 tickets go to
http://www.michaelgrandagecom-
pany.com
Emilie Beauchamp Writer
If you are a fan of extraordinary theat-
rical experiences and still have room
on your Christmas gift list, have a
look at the world acclaimed show
Fuerzabruta passing by London next
January. This Argentine-born multi-
sensory spectacle, translating literally
into ‘brute force’, uses state-of-the-art
visual eﬀects to create scenes that will
blow your mind. Think of a man burst-
ing through a series of moving walls
at running speed, or four performers
frolicking under water in a basin sus-
pended right on top of the audience…
Top it up with a music playlist ﬁt for
your latest night out in the East, and
you have got the winning mix for a
show that, rightly so, has gathered
praise around the globe for its inno-
vation. The troop is coming back four
years after its ﬁrst tour of the UK,
when it was named the biggest and
best show at Edinburgh Fringe 2007,
among others.
Tickets are not cheap – ranging be-
tween £30 and £40; but it’s a gig scor-
ing in the Cirque du Soleil category.
With its cutting-edge moving aerial
imagery technology, Fuerzabruta
promises to be the show you will want
to see in 2013. And who knows when
it will be showing again at your door-
step?
Running for four weeks from Decem-
ber 27th at Camden’s Roundhouse –
http://www.roundhouse.org.uk.
Emilie Beauchamp Writer
Breaking
a fourth
wall
Movember is over,
I must shave now!
He’s got his eye
on Private Parts
Nobuyoshi Araki
at Body Language

