ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER 31
At what point does someone be-
come a national treasure? This is
the question Alan Bennett must
have been asking himself when writ-
ing People, his latest play, which
premiered at the National Theatre
last month. Bennett, who has been
working in the world of theatre for
more than 50 years, is Britain’s most
well known playwright, and arguably
one of the best. Responsible for The
History Boys and The Habit of Art,
Bennett has come to represent mod-
ern British drama; People continues
in this tradition, centring around the
idea of national institutions, class
divides, and the death of the English
country house.
People’s plot centres around a
large mansion, located near where
Bennett grew up, in South York-
shire. The house is unmanageable,
expensive to run, and inhabited by a
pair of old women, Dorothy and Iris
(played by Frances de la Tour and
Linda Bassett respectively), who are
slowly atrophying in the large draw-
ing room. Dorothy does not want
to get rid of the house, but realises
that it is inevitable if she is to sur-
vive. She has a number of options;
a cinema company want to use it to
shoot a pornographic film, there has
been interest from a group of Japa-
nese businessmen, and others wish
to turn it into a golf course, but at
the centre of the struggle there are
two major players. There is a group
of investors, dubbed ‘The Concern’,
who want to move the building to
Devon, and the National Trust, who
want to open it to the public. Both
of these options would allow Doro-
thy to carry on living in the house,
but she does not want the house to
change. All she really wants is run-
ning water and privacy.
Frances de la Tour shines as Doro-
thy, portraying a woman who is try-
ing to hold on to her dignity, but is
completely powerless. Put under
pressure by ‘The Concern’, ‘The
Trust’, and her nagging sister, a dea-
con in the Church of England, Dor-
othy tries to hang on to her slowly
crumbing house with all her might.
When asked by Mr Lumsden, a rep-
resentative of the Trust, whether
she wants the house to progress or
not, she simply replies that ‘decay
is a form of progress’. Much of the
play is focussed on the idea of trying
to hang on to the past, warning of a
near-future where the stately home
has simply become a pastiche of a
bygone age.
In the work, Bennett delivers an
acerbic attack upon UK institutions;
the Church, and the middle classes
get hit pretty heavily, but it is the
National Trust that received the
brunt of the criticism. It is portrayed
as a multi-armed monster, grabbing
at any buildings which may be in
the public interest, and delivering
a tacky, artificial representation of
history. In one memorable scene Mr
Lumsden talks about how the trust
is planning on acquiring the Maze
Prison in Northern Ireland and rec-
reating the ‘dirty protest’ staged by
IRA prisoners during the Troubles.
This treatment of the past clearly
misery to Dorothy.
While Bennett’s witty attacks
against institutions are convincing,
one must take them with a pinch of
salt; after all, Bennett himself is an
institution of British theatre, and
having lived in North London for
the last few decades, he may have
more in common with the middle
class than he cares to admit. But
People should not be taken too se-
riously; it is after all a comedy, and
a damn good one too. The set and
lighting are excellent, as is to be
expected from the National Thea-
tre, and Nicholas Hynter’s sublime
direction helps elevate what would
be a light comedy into a real work
of art. While Bennett may be trying
to escape becoming a national treas-
ure, this work does not do him any
favours; if anything it simply further
entrenches his role as king of British
theatre.
horrifies Bennett, who closes the
play with the line ‘let what is gone be
gone, and not fetched back’. Bennett
is describing a world where ‘Britain
is at a standstill’, obsessed with the
past, and unable to move forward.
The Trust, for Bennett at least, also
represents its target market: the
middle classes, who are described
as ‘the shockable ones’. The idea
of swathes of middle class parents
wandering through the house brings
Dealing with Trust issues
Meredith Thomas Arts Editor
Fred Fyles Writer
Minotaurs and major excursions
The Architect is Shunt’s ﬁrst produc-
tion in three years and it was well
worth the wait. Shunt is an unusual
collective centred round an experi-
mental theatre company. The group
have had a presence around East Lon-
don for years. Some readers might
just remember the astonishing club
they ran in the tunnels under Lon-
don Bridge station of the same name.
It was amazing folks; the only dance
ﬂoor I have ever graced where one of
the major dangers was drunk rickshaw
drivers. The core work of Shunt how-
ever has always been theatre and so,
as I traipsed my way into the wilds of
Bermondsey to their new hideout in
an abandoned biscuit factory, I was
more than a little excited.
I am nervous about revealing too
much about the show. So much of its
eﬀectiveness relied on surprise, mis-
direction and disorientation, done
with such ﬁnesse that the audience are
hardly aware. There is a fear that what-
ever I tell you would subtract from
your enjoyment should you choose,
and I recommend that you do, to get
tickets. Nevertheless, I have a job to
do so here goes.
The Architect was wilfully and con-
sistently bizarre. The entire perfor-
mance incorporated live music, in-
stallation, aerial performers, acting,
comedy and a good amount of drink-
ing, all from a cast of barely ten. I was
shocked, terriﬁed, bewildered and
amused in turn due to an atmosphere
and sense of spectacle that were per-
fectly engineered on an astonishing
scale.
Audience participation normally
ﬁlls me with dread. Too often it can
seem contrived and actually serves as
a barrier to an immersive experience.
The the cast managed it perfectly.
This was probably because, despite
the scale of the venture, the set being
several times the size of their last show
Money, the entire enterprise retains a
playful, amateurish feel.
I have mentioned the scale, and it is
astounding. One of the inspirations
for the show was Jorge Luis Borges’
short story The House of Asterion,
which is itself based upon the leg-
end of the Minotaur. To reﬂect this,
you enter the venue through a claus-
trophobic plywood labyrinth. The
space is genuinely hard to navigate,
ﬁlled with bizarre items. After some
struggle you reach as door and pass-
ing through, ﬁnd yourself, quite sud-
denly in the dining hall of a cruise ship
(complete with bar) where much of
the action takes place.
The true genius of the show is caught
in glimpses amongst the madness and
by picking apart the allegory in the
narrative. Odd thematic motifs recur
and interact with varying degrees of
symbolic opacity. In addition to the
a Minotaur myth, there are clear ref-
erences to the credit crunch and the
European debt crisis as well as other
classical sources. The show may be
silly and occasionally obscene, but it is
most certainly not unintelligent.
A large part of my brain will be dedi-
cated to going over my own interpre-
tations of the performance for some
time to come. Do not go if you are
afraid of the dark, or cows.
The pain of
Gothic piles...
Catherine Ashmore

