ately, the horror genre
has experienced a surge
of interest with TV-se-
ries such as The Walking
Dead and my personal
favourite American Horror Story. The
latter is truly a breath of fresh air in
your weekly TV-schedule and the end
of its second season is approaching
fast! This show has received high ap-
praisal by many TV – critics thanks to
its high originality and accredited cast.
Personally, I am mostly impressed by
how it manages to transform gory,
suspenseful and physiological horror
into rather cheerful entertainment.
But considering this show is brought
to you by the co-creators of Glee, the
gleeful twist is perhaps not too sur-
prising after all. Don’t worry though,
this TV-series is completely free from
happy tunes and annoying teenagers
played by 28+ year old actors.
The ﬁrst season sets oﬀ as a family of
three moves into a wonderful chateau
in sunny California. They were at least
notiﬁed that the house has a murder-
ous past but little did they know that it
also has dozens of otherworldly dwell-
ers... or that occupiers rarely make it
out alive or out of this world. One epi-
sode at a time, the history of the house
unravels and you begin to understand
why this haunted building has become
the major attraction of a murder bus
L
TELEVISION
Television Editor: Lucia Podhorska
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
A Glee-ful Screamfest
Astrid Armgarth gives American Horror Story: Asylum a raving review
tour that passes by on a daily basis to
revel in the unfortunate fates of past
residents. The halls are crawling with
both murder victims (a gay couple,
nurses and creepy children) and mur-
derers (a high-school shooter, a doctor
and a dentist). Meanwhile, the family
is on the brink of destruction, with
serious neglect of their suicidal teen-
age daughter and a marriage cracking
at the seams by adultery. As puzzle
pieces slowly fall into place the view-
ers become increasingly attached to
the living as well as the dead.
The second season brings on a new
theme of horror that takes place in an
insane asylum (Briarcliﬀ) in the 1960s.
This institution is run by iron ﬁsts of
a nun (Sister Jude) that carries a past
of alcoholism and tragedy. And as they
say: bad habits die hard, and people
from the ward seem to be dropping
like ﬂies. Many of these deaths are
attributed to the asylum’s experimen-
tal medic Dr. Arden who transforms
these poor souls into deformed crea-
tures. I should probably mention that
he also used to serve as an SS oﬃcer
back in the day. By his side is the gul-
lible and loyal Sister Mary Eunice who
becomes possessed by the devil half-
way through the season. In addition,
one of the inmates has been commit-
ted on the basis of false murder ac-
cusations, while the real ‘bloody face’
killer is still on the loose. This nick-
name was picked up from his passion
for carving oﬀ the faces of his victims
to wear them as masks (or make pretty
lamp-shades).
Yes, the second season does sound
drastically wackier than the ﬁrst (and
I did not even mention the aliens). But
regardless of its extreme oddities the
amazing cast makes it virtually im-
possible to stop watching this show.
Some actors are re-occurring in both
seasons due to their phenomenal per-
formances. The fact that they are por-
traying completely diﬀerent roles in
the two seasons strengthens the proof
of their theatrical aptitude.
The top three cast members to
keep an eye on include: Jessica Lange,
Zachary Quinto aka Heroes’ Sylar and
Evan ‘Kickass’ Peters. Jessica Lange
won an Emmy award for her outstand-
ing supporting role as the nosy next-
door neighbour Constance in season
one. Her portrayal of the drunkard
Sister Jude this season is on par with
her previous performance, so who
knows what prizes await her? Zach-
ary Quinto is constantly associated
with psychopathic tendencies ever
since his brilliant enactment of mass
murderer Sylar on Heroes. But, im-
pressively, he shows no signs of incli-
nation towards evil in the ﬁrst season,
where he plays the role of the kind and
slightly depressed, gay ghost Chad. In
this season he portrays a psychologist,
Dr. Threadson, who happens to have
severe deep-rooted mummy issues.
Evan Peters’ performance in the ﬁrst
season is excellent as a high-school
shooter (Tate) who falls in love with
the suicidal daughter. He continues
to do a good job in this season as the
wrongly accused asylum inmate Kit.
There are no other horror shows that
can match the acting performances,
depth of characters and intricate plots
in American Horror Story. I cannot
wait to unravel the remaining myster-
ies of season two. I heard rumours that
Briarcliﬀ gets an especially festive visit
by a Santa dressed killer, so see the
show to get in the Christmas spirit!
Interested in writing for
Send your reviews to :
tvfelix@imperial.ac.uk
So much drama in the workplace...

