MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
34
Competition Time!
Win tickets to see Craig
Charles at the Bloomsbury
Lanes on 15th December.
To be in with a shout of seeing Craig
Charles at the launch of his Funk & Soul
Club CD as well as a copy of the
release, answer this question:
From which north-west town
does Craig hail?
Send us your answers by the
10 December 2012
AMS album of the week
Everything Everything had a lot to do
to impress me with new album Arc, out
January 2013. As an intrigued listener, I
tried to get into them but found I really
couldn’t stand them whatsoever. After
listening to Arc, I’m not quite sure where
I stand.
Leading single ‘Cough Cough’ is a
powerhouse of percussion and jittery
synthesiser; the perfect song to reap-
pear with after a two year hiatus. After
listening to this album opener, I was be-
ginning to doubt my initial cynicism. Next up is ‘Kemosabe’, which I found
even more impressive in melody and structure. The song constantly changes
its direction, getting better at each turn – so much so that I was even close
to “liking” Everything Everything’s Facebook page. And then something hap-
pens. Arc stops being as brilliant as the first two songs would suggest.
Next song ‘Torso of the Week’ is bizarre in a way that I feel Everything Eve-
rything does best, but not in a good way. Named after a column in Heat mag-
azine, the song is uninteresting musically and tries too hard with its quirky
lyrical content. ‘Choice Mountain’ starts off very promising with some lovely
staccato guitars, all going to waste as the song ends up dragging on.
The back end of the album features the only other songs to tickle my fancy
on Arc, with everything in between boring the shit out of me. ‘Radiant’ is a
triumph of glittery guitars, while ‘Don’t Try’ is as nice and catchy as you’d
expect, without Everything Everything’s trademark silliness.
Out of all the indie bands with an electronic leaning, I feel Friendly Fires
and Dutch Uncles do a better job than Everything Everything- the former
also with an album out in January. Judging by the success of the first single, I
don’t doubt that Arc will do very well in the charts. If you enjoyed their 2010
debut Man Alive, chances are you’re not already irritated by Everything Eve-
rything so you’ll probably enjoy Arc too.
Yasmin Malik
Neurosis in conversation
Riaz Agahi talks to Scott Kelly about Neurosis and his solo work
One of the most inﬂuential bands out
there, progressive sludge outﬁt Neu-
rosis have left their mark on the metal
scene and anyone who’s seen their live
performance. After seeing an impres-
sive show of theirs at ATP, I was able to
speak to Scott Kelly of Neurosis about
Neurosis’ decision to remove visuals
from their live set, his solo project and
the post metal scene.
RA: The most striking question I
think is about the changes to your live
set. What led you to think it was time
for a change?
SK: It was a mutual thing and we just
reached a point where we didn’t feel
inspired to have visuals anymore, and
Josh really didn’t feel like doing them
anymore, he didn’t want to be a pro-
jectionist. I think he wants to focus on
his band.
We wanted to do something diﬀer-
ent, we wanted to take it back to where
we were 20 years ago and just revisit
the whole idea. I’m not sure whether
we’re gonna go back to doing visuals or
not, we’ll see. We’re just kind of start-
ing at zero and seeing what it brings
us and it actually was good to get out
and do it.
RA: Do you feel that your solo pro-
ject is a way of catharsis for another
aspect of your personality?
SK: It is for sure. It’s something that’s
kind of developed over the years as I’ve
been working on it. For me, music or
any kind of creative process is an act
of submitting to whatever will become
of the songs and you don’t really try to
guide them as much as you let them
guide you. So I don’t really question
the lyrical content. I question more the
melody and the sound of things. The
acoustic music just tends to bring this
whole other aspect of who I am and
my experience to light.
RA: Was there any change of ap-
proach with Honor Found In Decay?
SK: Not really, we always look to let
the music write itself. I think that we
were focusing on our dynamics quite
a lot on this record and trying to cre-
ate more extreme dynamics within our
sound, just basically get better at what
we do. The recording process itself was
the same as we’ve had for the past 5 re-
cords with Steve Albini in his studio.
Same time frame, same place, same
engineer. That’s remained the same
and probably will for a while. That’s
something that really works for us.
RA: With Neurosis, you write lyrics
that are primal yet inward looking and
deep, what process do you go through
writing them?
SK: It’s pretty much open to your
interpretation. We’re deﬁnitely not
sitting down with a message or a vi-
sion for what the lyrics should con-
tain or what we should be imparting
to people. We just trust the spirit of
the whole thing, we just believe that
the words that should be there will be
there.
Typically, it starts oﬀ with a tone
or melody of sorts where I’ll hear the
words or what they should sound like
and then just decipher it and then I
just go through that process a num-
ber of times until I feel it’s at the point
where they should be. That’s basically
it; it takes as long as it takes. I write
words all the time but not in that way.
Sometimes I’ll just sit down and words
will just come out of the pen and
sometimes they work. But typically it’s
because I’ve heard this sound in my
head of what the lyrics should sound
like and the cadence and the rhythm
and the melody.
RA: How do you view the post-met-
al/metalgaze that came as a result of
you guys and to some extent Isis?
SK: Just like any other kind of music,
some of it I like and most of it I don’t
like. Some bands do it very well and
some of it’s very emotionally honest
and intense and most of it just weak.
That’s the way with most music or art
or whatever. That’s just my two cents
on it.
RA: It seemed to me that many
bands were somewhat imitating it
without adding much
SK: Such is the way of the human be-
ing and who knows what these artists
will grow up to be some day? Typically
your ﬁrst eﬀort is not your best. If we
were to be judged on the bands we
were doing when we were kids people
wouldn’t give a shit whatsoever. My
ﬁrst band sounded like Discharge and
my second band sounded like D.R.I.
Not very inspiring to anyone. It took
a lot of time and work and rethinking
the process and happening to connect
with the right guys at the right time
in the right place. All sorts of things
come into play.
Scott Kelly is currently touring Eu-
rope with his acoustic solo project.
He’s way less intimidating on the phone

