MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
35
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Oui Love
As part of the UK tour, the promotion-
al platform for popular French music
stopped oﬀ in a tiny room of a Dalston
pub for their London date.
First up was Yan Wagner, a hand-
some young Frenchie with a recently
released debut album; slightly reminis-
cent of acts such as Jimmy Edgar. Be-
ing solo, it was diﬃcult to be animated
while trying to press buttons, sing,
and charm the crowd which probably
accounted for some of the awkward
and unsure dancing. Being the ﬁrst
up is never so easy. However, it prob-
ably can’t be refuted that his whispers
of “looovesick…all week” produced a
tingly warm feeling deep, deep, deep
down which may have also accounted
for the awkward and unsure dancing.
Although not an overly-impressive act,
Wagner’s set was nonetheless enjoy-
able.
Following were groove and funk-
saturated Jupiter. Their joking around
and crowd banter managed to get
everyone excited and up for, again,
awkward and unsure dancing – there
seems to be a pattern re-emerging here.
The highlight of the set was French
beauty Amélie who pranced around
in a pretty pink skirt and demonstrated
how to dance without showing signs of
awkwardness. Her vocals, accented by
Parisian tones when crooning “I need
a boogieman”, were equally as charm-
ing. However, there is only so much
of French disco that one can take, and
sadly their set had to come to an end.
Juveniles ﬁnished oﬀ the evening
with their electro-oriented indie-pop.
Classiﬁable more along the lines of
Housse de Racket and Is Tropical,
these Kitsuné protégés were more for
watching and less for dancing. Their set
was slightly disappointing compared to
the eagerness that Jupiter managed to
rile up in the crowd, and they stuck out
a little on the line up compared to their
more electro-heavy predecessors of
the night. Unless you are 15 or able to
maintain love for all things indie-pop
for more than ﬁve years, Juveniles may
not be the band for everyone. However,
their ending on most accessible track
‘We Are Young’ in which deep vocals
are contrasted against synth (yes, we’ve
all heard those Joy division compari-
sons thank you) was the highlight of
the set.
Lily Le Writer
Electro-Swing at KOKO
November 21st, was an important day
for British fans of the electro-swing
band Caravan Palace. They held their
ﬁrst ever concert in the UK – which
took place not too far from Imperial
College, in the Camden KOKO venue.
Caravan Palace started oﬀ in France
with three members – Vial, Payen, and
Delaporte – who were originally hired
to produce a soundtrack for silent porn
ﬁlms. They formed a group and a year
later met a music producer who booked
them for a series of gigs. At this point,
they decided that they needed more
band members, and found the rest with
MySpace.
Caravan Palace deﬁne themselves as
an electro-swing band. The most com-
mon type of electro-swing band is a
small group of two to four members;
one of which is a singer and one laptop
musician who deals with loops and pre-
recorded sounds. Caravan Palace are
diﬀerent in that most of what they play
is live – aside from the base two mem-
bers, they have an additional ﬁve playing
live instruments (violin, clarinet, guitar,
bass, trombone and even a vibraphone),
and feature a stronger jazz inﬂuence
than some bands – certainly as com-
pared to Swingrowers or Bastardos
Brothers (who played at last years sum-
mer ball).
They toured France for about a year
before recording for their ﬁrst album,
called Caravan Palace too, which was
released near the end of 2008. They
reached #11 in the French album charts,
and the success kept on coming. Their
latest album, Panic, was released in the
UK just two days before the concert –
on the 19th November 2012. Whilst
many people prefer the ﬁrst album, this
is still deﬁnitely worth listening to.
Upon my arrival at the concert there
were few others there, although many
people trying to buy spare tickets out-
side as it had been sold out for months.
By the time the support band (Swing-
rowers) were on stage, the place was
packed – there was barely space to move
on the dance ﬂoor.
And after an enjoyable set by Swing-
rowers that did a good job of getting the
crowd in the mood, we had to endure
15 minutes of waiting before Caravan
Palace (bear in mind that at this point,
myself and some others had been here
for over 2 ½ hours) themselves came
on – but when they did the excitement
coming from the crowd was amazing.
We were treated to some great scat
from Hugues Payen, the violinist, in ad-
dition to the amazing voice of Zoé Colo-
tis and of course, I must mention the vi-
braphone solo that Paul-Marie Barbier
treated us to early on. As it turned out,
there wasn’t nearly enough space on the
Sanchit Sharma Writer
ﬂoor to dance properly, so a lot of peo-
ple ended up moshing. That was quite
unexpected, and at ﬁrst I thought this
wasn’t justiﬁed for a swing concert. But
when listening to swing as good as that
from Caravan Palace, you really can’t
help but move to the beat in some way,
and this was the simplest method avail-
able to most.
Unfortunately, there were problems
with one song in particular, ‘Je M’amuse’
,
which has backing vocals but no lead
singer. The band decided not to sing
the backing vocals and instead had the
audience sing it, but as this was played
quite early on people were not so happy
to join in. As a result, the song felt quite
incomplete.
One other thing that caused some
people problems, including the friend
that I went with, was the overuse of
strobe lighting, though it did make the
dances look more impressive.
Overall, I have to say that the concert
went by much too quickly. There was a
mix of songs from both albums and the
atmosphere was powerful indeed. By
the end I was left wondering where the
time had gone, but very glad I’d spent it
there.
Get Katatonic with Dead End Kings
Whenever I am asked which my
favourite Katatonia album is, my
standard response is to stare pensive-
ly into the distance for a moment and
then simply reply ‘every Katatonia
album’. And now their ninth studio
album Dead End Kings has entered
the equation... my answer remains
the same.
Since their humble beginnings in
1991, Katatonia’s music has constant-
ly evolved, whilst maintaining a con-
sistent, uncompromising quality and
abiding faithful to their melancholy
concept. This latest masterpiece of
sumptuous, searching songs is cer-
tainly a far cry from their early doom/
death days as a Swedish duo, taking
the underground by storm. Yet, their
darkness persists.
I was totally captivated by this al-
bum within the ﬁrst couple of seconds
of the opening track, ‘The Parting’.
The cellos add an air of vulnerability
and solemnity, which perfectly com-
plements Jonas Renkse’s heartfelt
and powerful, clean vocal style. Their
sound has developed into a distinct
mixture of prog and melody, with
a sophisticated hint of gothic key-
boards and orchestration. The songs
are deﬁnitely catchy and the overall
execution is ﬂawless, making this al-
bum very accessible, especially (I im-
agine) for new Katatonia listeners.
A constant feeling of emptiness
and longing is exposed throughout
the album. This desolation is gravi-
tated by the eloquence of the lyrics;
most notably in the exquisitely bleak
song, ‘The One You Are Looking For
Is Not Here ft. Silje Wergeland’. The
increased abstraction and surrealism
of the lyrics is an obvious change in
this album, focusing more on pure
emotion and less on storytelling.
Every song appears to simply linger,
until it fades into its successor. By far
the most sobering song on this album
is ‘Undo You’; written by the only
other original band member, lead
guitarist Anders Nyström. It harks
back to their 1995 EP For Funerals To
Come. This track portrays the popu-
lar theme, amongst Katatonia songs,
of our inescapable doom; whether
Jemma Pilcher Writer
or not we positively turn our lives
around, and achieve all that we want
to, and become happy…our death is
still inevitable. (Cheerful stuﬀ!)
“One of these days
Hours pass yet the night stays
When your spirit won’t turn anew
The world shuts down with no
goodbye to undo you.”
The album artwork is as beautiful
and bleak as the music itself. Again,
harking back to earlier days of Brave
Murder Day, the image of the dead
bird is used. This bad omen reiter-
ates the foreboding sense presented
in the songs. This surreal, rural meets
urban, landscape perhaps depicts
their Dead End as a physical place;
an icy white scene that has become
blackened with pollution and a back-
drop that is reminiscent of the Alfred
Hitchcock ﬁlm.
This Monday, 10th December, Kata-
tonia return to London as part of their
highly anticipated European Tour.
They will be performing alongside
the French shoegazing, concept band
Alcest, oﬀ the back of their exquisite
third album Les Voyages de L’Âme,
released earlier on this year, and Ju-
nius, an art rock band from Boston.
I deﬁnitely urge anyone who is partial
to doom and gloom to attend, as this
is a line up not to be missed!
Anders Nyström comments –
“We are very much looking forward
to a tour that deﬁnitely stands out
from the rest. Stare into November’s
darkness with us! Be with us at the
side of December’s deathbed! Come
meet us at the chosen dead ends of
Europe...”
So, what should we expect next
from the doom quintet? Will they
ever return to the death days of old
or continue to diverge down the prog
route? Or perhaps they really have
become stuck in a Dead End... I sin-
cerely doubt it.
Stereotypically metal cover
French stereotype

