MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
37
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
AMS Albums of the Year
Alt-J: AnAwesomeWave
OK, I’m hardly thinking outside the box here.
Δ (or Alt-J to those of you who aren’t massive
pricks) have already won the Mercury Prize for
AnAwesomeWaveandthealbum’sseenmassive
criticalacclaimfromallover.Assuch,itseemsabit
ofacopoutformetocallitmy‘albumoftheyear’.
It’s certainly losing me valuable hipster points,
butIseriouslycan’tthinkofanythingI’veenjoyed
more this year. 2012 has not been a great year for
innovation, and as such, this is the closest I’ve got
togettingexcitedaboutanything.
Thatallsoundsabitharsh,andIsupposeI’mbeingabitunfair.Thisisareallygood
album. It’s “arty” indie pop at its best. It’s complex but it’s not painfully so. It’s catchy
andintricate.It’slikeTwo Door Cinema Club andWild Beastshadababyandthen
gave it a really stupid name. ‘Tesselate’, ‘Breezeblocks’, ‘Dissolve Me’ and ‘Fitzpleas-
ure’ alright. I’d get rid of the secret track, but that’s because secret tracks are stupid
and should all be permanently removed from existence. An Awesome Wave is not
mindblowing. It won’t change your life. It’s just the best new album I’ve listened to
thisyear,andisn’tthatjustalittlesad.
Stuart Masson
Purity Ring: Shrines
This decade brought internet “microgenres” of songs shared by friends on tumblr, covered
in gaudy aesthetics as important as the sound itself, never meant for public consumption.
Some were picked up by critics, given names that the artists rejected, gained some legitimacy.
Witch-house, with its cult imagery and haunted, pitch-shifted vocals was the most prominent
of these, coming into the public eye over 2011.
Doomed to fail almost as soon as it arose, most artists had unsearchable names made of
cross, dagger and triangle symbols, releasing a single EP then disappearing into obscurity. The
buzz died, an aborted aesthetic experiment which became a ghost like the sheets of so many
witch-house album covers.
Of the few notable acts to rise from the scene, it’s perhaps telling that the one furthest re-
moved from the genre, Purity Ring, became the most successful. Releasing a few choice singles over the course of a year, they
showcased witch-house production without the pretension: a typical male/female synth-pop duo in the vein of The Knife or
Crystal Castles, but with throbbing bass synth swells, muted 808 kicks and eerie distorted backing vocals.
They brought this into a coherent work with their release of their debut, Shrines, in July: a continuation of their already-
trademark sound, with the tracks all just variant enough, and the album just short enough, to keep things from getting boring.
The lyrics play on the sound - a jarring mix of romance and sheer body horror, from “cut open my sternum and pull / my little
ribsaroundyou”or“drilllittleholesintomyeyelids/thatImightseeyouwhenIsleep”alltrilledinapoppy,almostcutseyvoice.
It’s here that the witch-house image is most apparent, but the lead vocals cut above the mix with surprising clarity - Shrines is
pop, of a sort, and signals the end of a dying subgenre while rising from its ashes.
Keir Little
Portico Quartet: PorticoQuartet
Whenmanygenresarethrownagainstoneanother,gettingtherightbalancesuchthatthebeast
will actually get off the ground is difficult enough, but to create an entirely new space, where
eachconstituentideaisrepresentedinjusttherightamount,vergesonaccidental–ormagical.
Portico Quartet manage exactly this with a humble palette of instruments. On their debut
album released in 2007, they played straight forward, cheerful jazz as a four piece (saxophone,
double bass, drums and hang). Two albums later, their self-titled album released this January
has its sound completely changed by adding synthesisers, electronic percussion, violin, and an
assortment of loops and drones. The basic ideas of jazz are re-appropriated for creating dark
instrumentals with progressive structures, experimental soundscapes starring Art Blakey style
drumsolos,andsparseambientinterludesconstructingsoftdelicatemoods.
Thefirstsingle,‘Ruins’,opensontoadoublebassleadandsimpleelectronicgroove.Whatsetsthetoneisthehang,providing
an ominous, bassy swell as the beat becomes more complex. The energy of the band rides up and down led by emotive saxo-
phone lines, which, whilst jazzy in style, feel accurate and meaningful. The background ambience never gets busy enough to
losetheinterplaybetweenbandmembers,whichiswhathasmadetheirpastworksosuccessful.‘Steepless’isanotherindivid-
ualtrackworthmentioning,featuringCorneliaDahlgren,aSwedishsinger,whoaddsdelicatevocalstoasparse,glitchyballad.
Electronic music meeting jazz isn’t exactly new. Portico Quartet, however, have managed to craft an album with the mood
of Kid A whilst keeping core ideas from jazz intact. The overall result is an album that should entertain those up for a smooth,
intelligentride,ortojusttakethemsomewheretheyfeelthey’veneverreallybeenbefore.
Robin Thomas
Grimes: Visions
When talking about Claire Boucher, a.k.a. Grimes, it is difficult to make her not seem like some
kind of hipster parody created by VICE magazine; a 24 year-old Canadian native who sports a
variety of hair colours, released her first album Geidi Primes on cassette tape, and went without
foodorsleepforthreeweekswhilecreatingherlatestalbumVisions–abeguilingmixofdreamy
synth-popmixedwithinfectiousbeatsandanincrediblyhighvocalrange.Sofar,sokooky.
However, if you look past the ever so slightly hipper-than-thou image Grimes projects, you’ll
findthatVisionsisanabsolutelyincrediblealbum,andcompletelydeservesthetopspotthisyear.
Usingahugerangeofsamplesalongsidelayeredandloopingvocals,Grimescreatessongswhich
manage to be both complex, and somehow also sparse. Standout tracks include ‘Genesis’, an in-
crediblycatchytuneinwhichairyvocalsfloataboveabouncybackingtrack,and‘Skin’,inwhich
Boucher’s shrill, somewhat unnerving voice delivers intimate, confessional lyrics such as “You
touch me once again and somehow it stings/because I know it is the end”. Beautiful stuff. The video for ‘Oblivion’, another quality
track which conjures up a hazy, dream-like atmosphere, manages to perfectly encapsulate the essence of Visions; Grimes sings in
the audience of a packed stadium, moshes with a group of frat boys, and dances outside with skater kids. The pastel-hued video is
wonderfullyeccentric,andGrimescomesacrossasacompletelyjoyfuloddball–watchitandseeforyourself.
One of the many unique facets of Grimes’ personality is how much control she has over her artistic vision. In a recent interview
with Dazed and Confused she described herself not as a musician, but as a “curator of stuff”, something which comes across in her
work;aswellasprovidingvocalsforthetracks,sheproducedtheentirealbum,directedthemusicvideos,anddesignedallthecover
art.ThelastyearhasbeenunbelievableforGrimes,whoseascentfromobscuritytohipsterstardomdoesn’tseemtoshowanysigns
ofslowingdown;Ilookforwardtowhatshedoesnextwithbatedbreath,andsoshouldyou.
Fred Fyles
Killer Mike: R.A.PMusic
“Hardcore G shit, homie, I don’t play
around” are the words that mark the be-
ginning of R.A.P. Music and there isn’t a
moment in the next 45 minutes that don’t
live up to this intensity. The greatest
strength of this album is this energy that
runs through it. The record was created
almost entirely by Mike and producer El-
P, with only a few guest appearances, and
this is exactly how it feels. It oozes this
passion of two guys making music they
love for people who love music, a huge
love letter to the last three decades of hip hop, while simultaneously providing
the genre with another great, forward looking album. Music that celebrates
the past like this would usually run dangerously close to being cheesy but it’s
how genuine Mike is that makes this work. “I’ve never really had a religious
experience, in a religious place / Closest I’ve ever come to seeing or feeling God
is listening to rap music” claims Mike on the title track. And when records are
being made like this, it’s not hard to see why. A record with such vitality is well
worth a listen if you have the even the slightest interest in hip hop.
Adam Ravenscroft
Lower Dens: Nootropics
Itseemstomethatveryfewpeopleseemtobetalkingabout
Lower Dens at all. Surprising considering they toured with
Beach House and Deerhunter following the release of
their debut Twin Hand Movement, and that the follow-up
Nootropicscansitsecurelyasmyalbumoftheyear.
Named for a hypothetical type of mind-enhancing drug
withoutside-effects,Nootropicsisarecordconcernedwith
humanity and it’s future. But, if the subject matter sounds
oppressive,thealbumisinfactincrediblyimmersive,envel-
opingyouinfoldsofguitarandlettingyougetlostinitssoundscapes.Restingsomewhere
between shoegaze, dream-pop and art-rock, each track is an exercise in precision, built
aroundcarefullylayeredmelodies,drum-linesandkeys.Attimes,suchason‘Propagation’
orclosingtrack‘InTheEndIsTheBeginning’,itsoundsvastandcavernous,withHunter’s
voice seemingly echoing into infinity. At other points, the sound is close and taut; tracks
‘Brains’and‘Stem’arewrappedtightlyaroundtherattleofthedrums.
AsImentioned,Nootropicshasatheme,ofprogressanduncertainty.Butit’snotforced
uponyouthroughbluntlyricsorsermonising. Rather,itseemstobeconveyedbyeveryas-
pectofthemusic. Elegantandinvolving,Nootropicsisaphenomenalrecord.
Padraic Calpin

