NEWS
4 FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Podcasting arrives,
well, sort of...
The implementation of video lecture re-
cordings across the College has been a
hot topic for discussion of late. Although
video lectures have been piloted in Im-
perial for certain years in certain depart-
ments, the scheme is not yet available to
all students.
The Panopto lecture recording suite
is being implemented over a three year
plan across the College. However, the
enthusiasm exhibited by departments
varies drastically. Although College need
to allay staﬀ fears to ensure students in
certain departments are not disadvan-
taged by lecturers not participating in
this scheme. Members of the Union have
praised the College for the introduction
of online lectures as they believe it will
enable students to revise better and be
an attractive plus point for prospective
students.
Video podcasts can help students con-
solidate their learning, particularly stu-
dents whose ﬁrst language is not English
or those who ﬁnd note taking diﬃcult.
The scheme should ideally be available
to all students, both undergraduates as
well as taught postgraduates; especially
as this academic year the number of in-
coming postgraduates exceeded under-
graduates.
The College is behind international
competitors such as MIT in the delivery
of video lectures. Other UK institutions
such as Cambridge, UCL, Manchester
and Oxford have podcasts and video
lectures to aid in learning. Manchester
is one of the Universities that was short-
listed for the Times Higher Education
Awards 2012 for the Outstanding ICT
Initiative of the Year award. Further-
more, Manchester is also running work-
shops to educate participants about the
best practice in the use of lecture capture
in teaching and learning.
Felix caught up with the Chemistry
Department to learn about the use of
technology in lectures. Alan Spivey, Di-
rector of Undergraduate Studies, com-
mented on the fact several staﬀ have
produced podcasts of their undergradu-
ate lectures. As well as this, a series of
one-oﬀ “research highlights” lectures
have been recorded as podcasts. “There
are several factors limiting further ex-
pansion. The process for getting these
recordings approved by Comms and
Nida Mahmud News Editor uploaded to the College i-TunesU site is
not as straightforward as would be ideal
and their uploader does not support en-
hanced podcasts. The slow emergence of
toolstoallowlecturerstoassessthelikely
beneﬁt and IP/copyright position of pro-
spective recordings is another factor.
With the introduction of Panopto re-
cording facilities into many College lec-
turetheatres,theopportunityformaking
podcasts has increased and the energy
barrier to do this has also decreased. The
main advantage of the iTunes-U format
over Panopto is the compatibility with
mobile devises as I see it”
Doug Hunt, Deputy President (Edu-
cation) said: “Other Russell Group Uni-
versities are oﬀering audiovisual lecture
podcasts to their students and to stop
Imperial students being dissatisﬁed, we
should be installing it across our lecture
theatres as quick as possible, while put-
ting enough resources behind training
academics to use it.
It needs to be rapidly rolled out to
prevent some students in certain depart-
ments and years who are not receiving it,
becoming disgruntled and the College
needs to handle its implementation, the
best it can by eﬀectively communicating
with all students on this issue.”
The Business School currently has
video lectures. Other departments such
as Chemistry and Maths are piloting it.
The Chemistry pilot is focused on ﬁrst
and second years. The issues that have
been raised by staﬀ include: intellectual
property, decline in student attendance
to lectures, illegal distribution, rights of
students asking questions, the time tak-
en to upload the videos and the cost in-
curred due to installation. Other depart-
ment speciﬁc issues, such as for physics,
include the cost of ﬁlming equipment for
the diﬀerent boards; but a student has
suggested the lecture can be ﬁlmed by a
student moving with the board.
A screenshot of Panopto – where all podcasts can be found
UCL piloted a programme of lecture
recordings in 2008/09 to determine if
there was a requirement for a podcasting
service.Thesuccessofthepilothasledto
UCL investing in recording equipment
for lecture theaters. They found:
• “The staﬀ felt that podcasting had
added value to their teaching and
would recommend it to others.
• 85% of student respondents
agreed or strongly agreed that
podcasts aided understanding of
the module.
• 91% agreed or strongly agreed
All too small scale rollout
Video podcasting is undoubtably
beneficial for students here at Impe-
rial College, as well as potentially
beneficial to the Imperial College
brand.
The reason I campaigned for pod-
casting is because I believe it can
significantly improve the student
learning experience and further en-
hance students understanding of key
concepts taught at university.
Students can’t always grasp con-
cepts or all content during a lecture,
either they have momentary lapses
in concentration or can’t quite pick
things up as fast as some. Through
re-watching, these students can pick
up what they missed out on, as well
as reinforce previous understanding,
this aiding their understanding on
the whole.
There were really just two main
qualms I’ve come across that have
hindered a significantly large scale
rollout of podcasting, although we
successfully achieved a small scale
rollout that I believe has gone suc-
cessfully. The first was attendance
and the second, a more significant
reason, was cost.
The first problem I came across
were claims, or worries, that attend-
ance would fall. However, I saw no
evidence what-so-ever for this being
true, to the contrary, I was actually
told of evidence that it had no effect
at all by lecturers who had piloted
it and also from the business school
who have had lecture captures for
several years now.
Interestingly, the statistics from the
Business School showed large spikes
in re-watches of lectures during re-
vision, as students re-watched spe-
cific parts of lectures to refine their
understanding or lectures they had
in fact attended. Some students also
do use the system to re-watch missed
lectures, often as they are unable to
make it due to other commitments
(e.g. job interviews), not because
they’re lazy. All-in-all if students are
going to miss lectures, they are going
to miss lectures, regardless of wheth-
er the lectures are recorded or not.
The more significant of the two
problems is cost.
This is what I believe is the real rea-
son there hasn’t been a significantly
large scale podcasting initiative in-
troduced (although, again, I want
reiterate there has been a small-scale
rollout this year).
The cost, depending on how large
the project, could be very large for
the College to bear.
With the large expansion of the
College to Imperial West and not to
mention gigantic government cuts,
it’s understandable that the College
has had to tighten its belt.
Although we are told that the Col-
legeisfocusingonthestudentexperi-
ence, it would appear that the budget
for this focus is minimal, which, al-
though annoying, is understandable.
For us to live up to what we are of-
ten referred to ,“the MIT of the UK”,
we would need a big injection of cash
to rollout the system for all lectures,
in all lecture theatres at the College
and also expand our ICT resources &
staffing as well as departmental staff
to manage the large system.
Overall, at the moment, I feel
that podcasting is underway on the
small scale and has the potential for
a large full scale rollout in the next 5
years. However, until there’s a bigger
budget to be spend on the student
experience we’ll have to be happy
with smaller scale podcasting pro-
jects within some departments that
choose to adopt it.
Jason Parmar “
”
... until there’s a bigger
budget to be spend on
the student experience
we’ll have to be happy
with smaller scale pod-
casting projects within
some departments
that podcasts would be useful for
revision – one student noted that
the podcasts were ‘probably the
best form of revision material I
have come across’
.
• Some students noted they helped
support diﬀerent learning styles.
• Students valued the opportu-
nity to clarify topics and concepts
which had been missed during
the class, and to improve their
notes.
• A number of students asked for
‘podcasting in every lecture.”
Deputy President (Education) 2011-12
Tim Arbabzadah
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

