FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
41
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Top Fifteen Films of 2012
15) Brave
Pixar seems to strike gold with
every ﬁlm they produce and their
2012 effort is no exception to this
rule. The tale of a young, red-head
princess (voiced by the feisty Kelly
Macdonald) is a charming, sweet
treat full of action, comedy and heart.
14) Looper
An emotionally charged, intelligent
sci-ﬁ full of slick action and clever
strands of narrative that all weave
together, it uses the complex theme
of time travel to its advantage. Joseph
Gordon-Levitt also shows he can take
charge as a competent leading man.
13) Killing Them Softly
Gangster ﬁlms don’t always require
bullets and bodies to be compelling,
as director Andrew Dominik proves
here. With obvious parallels made to
the world economy and politics, the
cleverly written script is also given
proper treatment by its superb cast.
12) Silver Linings Playbook
A romantic-comedy with an off-beat
twist of mental illness, here is a bold
but sensitive probe into characters
who are far from perfect. With
outstanding performances all-round,
it builds up to a rousing, resounding
feel-good ﬁnale.
11) Life of Pi
Chances are, this is the most beautiful
ﬁlmyou’llseethisyear,asAngLeehas
captured the unﬁlmable, adapting
the best-selling novel of the same
name. That the ﬁlm doesn’t have a lot
to say doesn’t matter; you’ll be blown
away regardless.
10) Moonrise Kingdom
Wes Anderson is at his best in which
he explores the trials and tribulations
of a couple of 10-year-olds who are
on a quirky romantic adventure of
a lifetime. It’s a delightful journey
looking at innocence, hope, love and
perhaps giving life another shot.
9) Avengers Assemble
Without a doubt the biggest movie
of 2012, it’s not at all surprising that
Joss Whedon’s superhero ensemble
smashedallsortsofboxofficerecords.
Well constructed, ﬁnely detailed and
above all, hugely entertaining, this is
exactly what the summer needed.
8) Pitch Perfect
Glee without all the cheese and
the repetitive “be yourself” vomit-
inducing, corny messages, this is
funnier and smarter than that show
wil ever be. Also featuring Rebel
Wilson in a star-making turn. Best
Supporting Actress Oscar? Why not?
7) Chronicle
With darker spins, less budget, and
more honest perception into the
corrupt side to power, here is the
superhero ﬁlm to beat in the future.
Featuring three very different but
relatable characters, it’s an exciting
addition to a predictable genre.
6) End of Watch
Handheld ﬁlming methods seem to
beoverdonethesedays,butunderthe
right hands, it can turn even the more
tiresome genre into one of the most
exhilarating cinematic experiences.
with utmost realism, fresh banter,
and plenty of hardcore action.
5) Amour
Michael Haneke is an arthouse
favourite, as his patient but invasive
methods are hard to ignore. His latest
is by no means a cheery affair, dealing
with a slow death of a woman, but in
its quiet, understated direction, there
is plenty of beauty to be found.
4) The Hunt
A consistently haunting, morally
reprehensible tale that couldn’t have
come out at a more appropriate time.
It features a powerful performance
from its lead, Mads Mikkelsen, as an
innocent kindergarten teacher falsely
accused of paedophilia.
3) Seven Psycopaths
The weirder, wackier and wilder it
gets, the better. Martin McDonaugh’s
follow-up to his highly acclaimed
In Bruges, is more hysterical, more
bizarre, and even more watchable.
Plus you get plenty of pure gold
Christopher Walken moments.
2) Argo
Ben Affleck cleverly sustains nail-
biting tension juggling a hostage
situation, a secret CIA operation,
Hollywood involvement, politics,
intermittent yet effective comedy, all
put together perfectly to produce his
best directorial feature yet.
1) Beasts of the Southern Wild
Yes, it’s probably a ﬁlm not many people have seen yet, but trust us when we say that this truly is the most spectacular piece
of ﬁlmmaking of this year, which may come as a shock, as no big names are involved, and it’s a feature ﬁlm debut for a ﬁrst-
time director. And yet what Benh Zeitlin (director) manages here is to create a whole new different world for the audience to
become a part of, a world so powerful, colourful, rich and touching that you would want to immerse yourself fully into and
explore the unknown. Quvenzhané Wallis, only a ﬁve-year-old girl at the time of ﬁlming, gives a performance so tender and
beautiful (I’M THE MAN!!! I’M THE MAN!!!) that she can stand alone at the ﬁlm’s centre and completely grab our attention.
Heart-breaking at times but undeniably stirring even at an incredibly short length, you owe it to yourself to go see this movie.

