COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
44
Christopher Kaye
Democracy and the law
omen are safer
drivers. That is
a fact backed up
by overwhelm-
ing statistical
evidence. By being male I pay more
for my car insurance.
Surely, then, I should welcome the
fact that, as of 21st December, ‘gender
discrimination’ in the insurance in-
dustry is to be banned?
No, I don’t welcome it at all. In part
because it would be very hypocriti-
cal for me to criticise the self-styled
‘equality’ movement when it tries to
censor Felix, only to then keep quiet
on the rare occasions it beneﬁts me.
But there’s a greater principle at stake
here: democratic legitimacy.
On a concept as controversial as
this, you would think that Parliament
would’ve spent months debating such
a bill; ping-ponging its way between
Commons and Lords until ﬁnally, af-
ter many late evenings, the enacting
scrawl ‘Elizabeth R’ turns the bill into
an Act. But no. On this issue, none of
that has happened.
You see, this ban on ‘discrimination’
is not something our elected MPs have
decided to introduce. In fact, the UK
Government is ﬁrmly against it. It
W
The EU’s implementation of “equality” legislation is undermining
national democracy, argues, Christopher Kaye
wasn’t even the European Parliament
(who, in theory at least, is vaguely ac-
countable) who nodded it through.
Instead it was the European Court of
Justice who in March 2011 decided to
amend European Directive 2004/113/
EC because its provisions speciﬁcally
allowing gender-sensitive pricing was
“incompatible with the principle of
equal treatment in EU law”. That is
despite the fact such a derogation was
explicitly included in the original Di-
rective!
Now, last time I checked, the ECJ
was not elected by anyone. Call me
old-fashioned, but I always assumed
that it was a judiciary’s job to uphold
law; what the law actually says. Not
what they think the law should say.
Because the UK is a member of the
EU, we are obliged to implement EU
Directives whether we like them or
not. Our Government didn’t like this
amended Directive. Among other
things, HM Treasury pointed out that
female drivers would be eﬀectively
subsidising male drivers, also incenti-
vising the purchase of higher risk cars
by men.
In addition to motoring, life insur-
ance will also become more expensive
as fewer women (who have longer life
expectancies) can aﬀord to buy it, thus
increasing the risk-pool for the insur-
ance company.
Despite their sensible opposition,
the UK Government still ultimately
bent over and took it. We will soon
ﬁnd out whether Parliament will also
bend over and accept Votes for Pris-
oners too. Whatever your view on
these issues, you have to ask: Where
is the scrutiny?
Personally I would be against such
meddling regardless of who intro-
duced it. But at least if it was our
Government, I could use my vote to
show them the error of their ways at
the next election. Sadly, as long as EU
law is supreme over national law, with
Euro-judges making up laws on the
spot, there’s bugger all we can do.
Online
In response to “Pick-up artistry & arseholery”, 30th November:
I believe this article is clear sexism against men, there is so much
hate into it. I believe that when there is a problem it is always more
than one’s fault. So girls that fall from this ‘’tricks’’ (as you suppose)
should actually wake up as well. Maybe guys should create a Guys
Society (there is a Feminist society) so that they ﬁght against sexist
articles like these one. (Feminist Society=Sexism Source). My point:
The answer to sexism is not sexism!
- Anonymous
Anonymous, I’m sorry, but no: it’s really not, and I agree with you
entirely that sexism shouldn’t be fought with further sexism. De-
spite what you may think, feminism ﬁghts against sexism towards
men too, and we don’t condone articles like this. That said, I don’t
think this is anywhere near as problematic as PUAs themselves
who literally believe in manipulating women into sex.
- Keir Little
I got stalked by a fat girl back at school and she didn’t leave me
alone till I stomped on a Frube and it went all over her. If you can’t
understand that the guy at the union wearing a stupid hat who
claims to be in IBD at Goldman and a adult ﬁlm star is lying you
deserve what’s coming your way. Seriously who cares?. With all the
articles about female right recently in Felix I think it’d be better
managed by Rupert Murdoch.
- Annoyed Penguin
This article is awesome. Some nerdy loser tried this on me in the
union once. He was so conﬁdent, until he asked to read my palm
and I realised what was going on. The second I said “OMG you
are NOT just trying the game on me?!” His face dropped and his
entire conﬁdence-act vanished completely. I’m not even angry at
the guys whose self-esteem is so low that they feel their only way of
getting women to sleep with them is by insulting them and lying. I
just have one piece of advice for guys who think tehre is any value
in this: The ultimate path to being alone forever is building all
your social interaction “skills” with women on lies an manipula-
tions, so I suggest you think about what’s more important to you
in the long run.
I also personally think that this kind of behaviour completely
objectifies women, and that is an insult to every single girl, espe-
cially within Imperial. We all have brains, that’s why we’re here...
- Anonymous II
Annoyed Penguin, well, you’re clearly a charmer. Here’s why it mat-
ters: Imperial has a terrible reputation for sexism. This is so well
known now that it’s now known by other universities around Lon-
don. This is not to say that other universities don’t have their own
problems with sexism (they do), but at IC it is blatant. It prevents
women from doing what they want or need. It’s embarrassing and
limits the university’s outlook. You are also aﬀected by it and it
sways opinions about whether people should go there for under-
graduate and postgraduate study.
- Old Boy IC Graduate
Imperial only has a terrible reputation for sexism because no-one
will shut the fuck up about it. I seriously can’t be the only one who
opens comment, sees the sexism article of the week (because there
is -always- one) and goes “Oh for FUCK’S sake...
”
- Park Jae-sang
---
In response to “Clubs with Wordpress sites need to upgrade or
be hacked... intense”, 30th November:
It’s too easy to hide behind the whole ‘OMG USE SSL’ thing, just
because one of the Ss stands for “secure”. Most browsers won’t
warn about iframes or cross-domain AJAX requests, particu-
larly if the user has ticked the “don’t warn me again” box. It’s
no substitute for writing secure code, and I would have thought
that Wordpress, as an open source community-reviewed pro-
ject, would be far more resilient to attack than some contributed
code by Imperial students. I have seen code written by the cur-
rent Union President and ex-Sysadmin that has made me feel
physically sick. I say you force everyone to use PDO prepared
statements.
- Careful
I’m not using SSL as some form of silver bullet that will magically
solve all these issues, it’s part of a number of things I am doing.
Don’t worry! I’m not going to sit in my chair and relax now! An
added beneﬁt of mandating SSL will hopefully be realised once
I get the necessary approval from the powers that be, but you’ll
hopefully ﬁnd out about that one soon.
- Philip Kent
---
In response to “Sexism and science”, 23rd November:
Warning: word “sexism” detected! Brace for impact of 9000-mega-
ton rage bomb
- Anonymous
evi
for
S
fact
disc
Well, she’s not
getting insurance
driving like that

