NEWS
5
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Female students recruited to be escorts
The Independent has uncovered that
female students are being oﬀered
up to £15,000 a year to pay for their
university fees in return for having
sex with a stranger. A website called
SponsorAScholar.co.uk proclaimed
that they have set 1,400 women be-
tween the ages of 17-24 with wealthy
businessmen that funded their stud-
ies.
The website advertises women with
glowing testimonials from satisﬁed
customers and claims that most of
the sponsors are “men between the
ages of 28 and 50 who run their own
successful business and want to have
discreet adventures with a student
whilst helping them fund their studies
through a scholarship”.
The website states: “Because of
the considerable sums of money our
sponsors are oﬀering in scholarship,
they tell us that they have expecta-
tions of a high level of sexual intimacy
with their chosen student.”
SponsorAScholar.co.uk oﬀers young
women “up to 100% of your Tuition
Fees” in return for two-hour sessions
with men in hotel rooms or private
ﬂats up to four times per term.
The website takes advantage of the
‘grey area’ of Britain’s sex laws that
allow escort agencies to function le-
gitimately by oﬀering introductions
between clients and sex workers. It
is illegal to run a website where sex
is oﬀered for money but as a bypass
services can oﬀer models and escorts
instead. People can only be arrested
for controlling prostitution if there is
direct evidence that sex is being ex-
changed form money.
On the SponsorAScholar.co.uk
website the extensive terms and con-
ditions describe an agreement which
covers time and companionship to-
gether. It says the “level of sexual in-
timacy” is privately agreed between
student and sponsor whilst the own-
ers of the website are not responsible
for what occurs between consenting
adults in a hotel room.
An under-cover female reporter for
The Independent secretly ﬁlmed an in-
terview she had with a male ‘assessor’
from SponsorAScholar.co.uk who told
her that: “The more you’re prepared to
do, the more interest you’re going to
get, obviously the more sponsorship
amount you’re going to get for that.”
He went on to say that she would
have to undergo a ‘practical assess-
ment’ with him for ‘quality control’
purposes and explained that “We have
to do that, to make sure when we put
you in front of your sponsor you’re
conﬁdent in doing the things you said
you would do.”
The man added: “You see what
you’re trying to do is attract a certain
level of sponsorship, you don’t want
to go up there saying you know you’re
not even going to hold hands type of
thing… cause you’re not going to at-
tract any interest at all.”
The male ‘assessor’ was later iden-
tiﬁed as Mark Lancaster. He refused
to speak about the Sponsor a Scholar
scheme when asked by a television
programme. The website was taken
down soon after the Independent pub-
lished the story and secretly ﬁlmed
video. The website has been altered
and now say: “Sorry website unavail-
able for maintenance”.
Despite the website closing, a fe-
male escort claimed that she was ap-
proached by a man claiming to be
from the website and are still trying to
ﬁnd new “scholars”.
Kelley Temple, NUS Women’s Of-
ﬁcer, said: “It appears to be… exploit-
ing the fact that women students are
in dire ﬁnancial situations in pursuit
of an education.”
An anonymous student told Chan-
nel 4 News that when she went to a
rented ﬂat with the man for an inter-
view, she was made to dress up in a
schoolgirl outﬁt and pressured into
having sex with her ‘assessor’.
When it came to the ‘practical’ part
of the interview, the student found
herself unable to ﬁght oﬀ his ad-
vances. She said, “then he just kissed
me before I really had time to think
about it or ask any questions… and I
just froze because I really didn’t know
what to do. Then he started undress-
ing me.
“I was in a diﬀerent city, and he’d
picked me up from outside the place
and walked me in so in my mind I was,
like ‘I can’t leave right now because
I don’t know where I am and if I do
leave and he chases me, I don’t know
what to do’. So I just froze and went
along with what he was doing.”
Even after having sex with the stran-
ger she was sent an email rejecting her
from the scholarship programme but
told her to reapply later. She said she
had contacted the website as she was
struggling to pay her university fees.
Concerns have been raised that
due to the rise in tuition fees, some
students will end up graduating with
debts of up to £53,000. It has been
thought that due to these huge debts
students are turning to ulterior forms
of employment such as pole dancing,
escort work or prostitution in order to
pay back these debts.
It has been said that university
welfare oﬃcers are largely unaware
of these situations and are poorly
equipped to deal with these issues and
the increase in young student’s in-
volvement which such activities.
Research by Dr Ron Roberts, of the
University of Kingston, published in
2010 suggested that one in four stu-
dents know someone who had worked
in the sex industry to fund their stud-
ies – up from three per cent in 1990.
Dr Roberts found 16 per cent would
consider working in the industry
while more than one in 10 were open
to the idea of being an escort.
Dr Dan Boucher, Director of Parlia-
mentary Aﬀairs for the International
Christian Charity Care, said young
people should not have to subject
themselves to exploitation in order
to complete their studies. “The Inde-
pendent’s investigation has revealed
one particular and disturbing mani-
festation of sexual exploitation.
“With a background of an 8 per cent
fall in applications to university this
year and mounting concerns about
debts, it is clear that sexual predators
have seen an opportunity to exploit
the ﬁnancial vulnerability of strug-
gling students,” he said.
The police are currently examining
the evidence collected during The In-
dependent’s investigation and will try
to establish whether the people be-
hind the website can be prosecuted
for the accused oﬀences of incitement
into prostitution and sexual exploita-
tion.
Following the success of last week’s
Imperial Fringe event focused on
bone research taking place across the
College, which was estimated to have
gathered around 400 people through-
out the evening with 120 people par-
ticipating in the panel discussion, a
new event called ‘A Feast of the Sci-
ences’ is about to take place.
This month’s event includes a wide
range of disciplines such as thermo-
dynamics, biotechnology, agriculture,
medicine and many others. Neverthe-
less, all of them are there to celebrate
the festive spirit to create a true ‘Feast
for the Sciences’.
The evening will start with the
presentation of Miss Cakehead, a re-
nowned confectioner who’s famous
for a variety of her works, including
‘Eat your heart out’ series of anatomi-
cally decorated edible arts. This time
the audience will be delighted with a
variety of Christmas dainties made of
sponge and sugar. This will be followed
by a great number of other yummy
treats including ice cream out of a ﬁre
extinguisher presented by Professor in
thermodynamics Erich Muller, honey
from Imperial’s own hives located in
the garden just behind Ethos and Al-
chemists Dreams oﬀering to create
and taste your own seasonal drinks.
On a more serious note, the speak-
ers will touch upon the issues of food
production including Imperial’s own
fertilizing machine, its sustainability
and security as well as health related
food concerns such as obesity.
Event organiser Harriet Martin
said: “A food and drink-themed Impe-
rial Fringe at Christmas is the perfect
seasonal way of introducing people
to some of the College’s research. We
hope that members of the Imperial
community as well as external audi-
ences will enjoy the exciting activi-
ties, as well as sampling some festive
delights.”
The event is open to general public
including, of course, Imperial stu-
dents, and will take place on Thursday
the 13 December 2012 at the Main
Entrance of the South Kensington
campus between 5 and 8 pm, how-
ever, everyone is free to come and go
as please.
Feasting on sciences at Imperial Fringe
Yulia Negreskul Reporter
Aemun Reza News Editor
An ex-Imperial
student, who
just refused
to leave the
Library
The SponsorAScholar
website at the moment
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

