SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
52
Airborne rangers began to assemble
in our illustrious union from 1PM on
Friday 16th November. An impromptu
Nando’s wade left our stomachs full
of chicken, our appetites whetted for
the weekend ahead and our dreamy
ex-club captain alone. As the tour-
ists arrived and the ﬁrst beers of the
weekend were consumed there was
one notable absentee: an extremely
late drop out by Dale, citing commit-
ments to his biological studies, left the
congregation delighted. The pengest
of tour shirts were distributed and the
most entertaining of journeys began.
It is rare that the two worlds of pub-
lic transport and ICUAFC’s ﬁrst sport
collide but when they do carnage is
certain to ensue: Train Box was met
with bewilderment by commuters,
awkward smiles by young mothers and
delight by the present airborne rang-
ers. A bout of silent box and a lullaby
of Bohemian Rhapsody, led by Wat-
kin’s soothing tones, sent the baby to
sleep whilst an origami swan was pre-
sented meaning public relations were
maintained and Rochester will never
again pass a CRB check. By our arrival
in Brighton whistles had been whet-
ted and mini tour had well and truly
began. The bus to the hostel involved
a rousing rendition of airborne ranger
whilst a failed Klinsmann attempt by
Stillwell left onlookers wincing.
Our ﬁrst night in the beautiful city
began with matchbox pairs leading to
widespread animosity between fresh-
ers and old boys. An exception to this
was the pairing of Murphy and Watkin
who struck up a certain romance (in
the library). Pints of the dirtiest vari-
ety were consumed. Murphy, think-
ing this punishment was not enough,
decided to provide his own natural
punishment (in the Library). The dis-
appearance of this pint remains one of
the many weekend’s mysteries. Then,
dancing shoes were donned and the
group headed out to one of Brighton’s
premier venues where highlights in-
cluded knee slides and Wright’s frank
confessions to a member of the oppo-
site sex. Bennett and Dabbagh decided
it was their lucky night and headed out
into the night to win big. The casino’s
security guards had other ideas. Af-
ter a civilised exchange of views, one
particularly frustrated bouncer took it
upon himself to violently throw Dab-
bagh from the roof of the tallest build-
ing in Brighton (although on further
inspection of the sight of the crime
it became clear that the fall had been
wildly exaggerated). The absence of
Schon at the hostel set minds rac-
ing about the potential for providing
shoulders to cry on leading to his re-
appearance being greeted with mixed
emotions.
The Saturday of the weekend saw
ICUAFC’s big game against Brighton
and Hove Medical School. Peacock
gave room 15 a treat and they were
scarred by the view. From the after-
noon’s forced pints the group headed
to the game. Thanks to Bennett’s ex-
ceptional knowledge of his hometown
and ability to fend oﬀ multiple ques-
tions with ease we arrived at the venue
promptly and with Bennett’s house
still unfound. 36 man headers and Vol-
leys, a patented Smithy warm-up and
shouts of “TK Maxx” left the squad
raring to go. The game started as a cag-
ey aﬀair with Beasley’s work rate being
questioned and Bizzell failing to hit
any barn doors with his trusty banjo.
The game changed with the introduc-
tion of Cann. Refusing to rest on past
tour successes Cann brought a breath
of fresh air to proceedings and he un-
doubtedly had some involvement in
ICs ﬁrst goal which Maizonnier ﬁn-
ished with aplomb after a swift break-
away and through ball from Mur-
phy (from the Library). Cue delight
amongst the 25 subs/backroom staﬀ/
fans. Stillwell’s introduction only tight-
ened Cann’s grip on the game and IC
reached half time with a comfortable
1-0 lead. Wholesale changes at half-
time led to IC losing their ﬂow slightly
despite Stillwell’s tireless eﬀorts and
well-timed challenges in midﬁeld. As
the pressure on the IC goal mounted
the medics made it count as their
striker evaded the attentions of Wright
and ﬁred his shot through the legs of
the otherwise outstanding Mason in
goal. The disgust of Bennett as he left
the pitch epitomised the frustration of
the team. Cue another round of sub-
stitutions from Milo “the tinker man”
McGrath. The second coming of Mur-
phy (to the Library) swung the game
back into ICs favour and, with a rela-
tively small amount of time remaining,
IC made the decisive breakthrough.
Butt played a trademark outside of the
foot pass wide to Maizonnier whose
deep cross from the right was met at
the back post by a marauding Jarvis
who volleyed home impeccably. Cel-
ebrations resembling a game of FIFA
(other football simulators are avail-
able (but are shit)) left no doubt over
which team had put the most prepa-
ration into the game. The ﬁnal whistle
sounded and IC were victorious. Man
of the match was awarded to Mason
for his tireless standing and saving
whilst McGrath’s insightful tactics,
most notably the pioneering 3-3-1-3
formation, were deservedly praised.
However, as we headed out Ma-
son’s mind must still have been on his
ﬁne performance as his box play was
atrocious much to Bennett’s disgust.
Meanwhile, Murphy and Watkin ex-
changed wedding vows over Jaeger
bombs (in the Library), the captain
player relationship between Stillwell
and Lawson completely broke down
with a moist outcome and Wright
reacted violently to all the fun (fortu-
nately medical professionals were on
hand). ICUAFC showed their creative
side by producing a work of art. No-
table contributors included Maizon-
nier, Murphy and Butt who eloquently
named their creation “cubicle three”.
Searle was determined to make the
most of the night, after some crafty
watch work allowed him free entry,
and set about repelling the female
population of Brighton with a ma-
noeuvre that become known as “The
crab”. Tensions between two of the
party’s ethnic minorities rose leading
to an exchange of bodily ﬂuids whilst
Adelowo had a night to forget end-
ing up being assaulted by his own bed
after making some bold and slightly
disturbing claims. As eyes became
bleary and thoughts turned to bed a
late night breakfast wade was clearly
in order. Whilst Dabbagh marvelled
at the burger and chips sneaked onto
his plate, Ogunbiyi’s love of Chicken
drew the attentions of the door staﬀ.
Fortunately, before the riot van was
called, the bouncer settled the argu-
ment by sharing Ogunbiyi’s love of the
meat and silencing Cann. Meanwhile,
Murphy had decided the hostel was
too far away and sought alternative ac-
commodation with a sea view (in the
Library) and Stillwell and McGrath at-
tempted to fake the death of Watkin.
Friends and family of Watkin were said
to be convinced by a text stating “I am
dead” much to Watkin’s amusement. A
late night episode of George Bizzell’s
story time was the perfect end to an
eventful evening.
On Sunday morning the airborne
rangers were woken by shouts of
“come in, it’s open!” and the Sun
streaming in through the windows
of the hostel whilst a heated debate
over the age old question of sitting or
standing erupted in room 105. There
was just time for a stroll along the sea-
front and a trip to Brighton’s famous
pier where plastic horses amused for
hours, Dabbagh was successful on the
teddy picker and Lambe and Bennett
duelled on an air hockey table: it was
a cagey aﬀair with neither player really
dominating the early stages with the
turning point being an extraordinary
triple wall bounce goal to which Ben-
nett had no reply. Before we knew it
we had left the sea air behind us and
returned to London with new Face-
book friends, relationships in tatters
and some sights we may never be able
to forget.
IC Football get hot and sweaty in Brighton
Spencer Bennett Tour Secretary
If football had given us a higher res pic we
could’ve zoomed in. You still couldn’t see his
penis though... Ohhh burn
CHRISTMAS
For more info: syncswim@ic.ac.uk
www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/synchroswimming
SYNCHRONISED
SWIMMING
TASTER SESSION
+ SHOW
7pm-9pm
Wed 12th Dec
St Mary’s Pool,
Praed Street
Come learn synchro and watch our show!
Pay what you can

