SPORT
53
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The bigger they are; Kings get smashed
On the very cold afternoon on
Wednesday the 5th December we
went out to face a team that had not
only beaten but really thrashed us at
the beginning of the season 7-0. It was
not an exciting prospect with a captain
Gigi having now become captain hook
and only able to watch from the side-
lines after breaking her hand a few
weeks ago. We have also been strug-
gling though a few injuries and were
depleted due to the usual end of term
deadlines. But we set out with nothing
to lose; at least we looked better than
the mottled purple of Portsmouth!
The game started tentatively from
both teams with the possession fairly
even and staying around the centre of
the pitch. With some screaming from
the side-line we push on running hard
at Portsmouth and forcing them to
make some bad tackles giving us some
possession in our attacking third, but
to no avail. We had some good passes
around the back from Celia, Kirsty,
Emma and Maria who were able to get
the ball down the side-lines allowing Ju-
les, Kirsten and Anna some close break-
aways in our attack. We earned an early
short-cornerbutitseemsthatthenaked
boys running around the pitch were a
distraction to our usual scoring duo and
we narrowly missed the goal. Finally we
broke their defence with 5 minutes to
go of the ﬁrst half giving Sorcha a one-
on-one opportunity against the keeper.
Their keeper appeared stunned and
didn’t move as Sorcha carefully slotted
the ball past her giving the team a mi-
raculous boast as we were unexpectedly
ahead! Unfortunately we hadn’t been
able to impress the crowd of Men’s 3s
who had decided moments earlier to
head for showers.
At half-time we knew that Ports-
mouth would come out attacking, but
with our pirate spirits we took to the
pitch ready to defend all ﬂanks. Almost
immediately they were on the attack
but one of their players literally ‘hit-the-
deck’ and we had to wait for the injury
to be sorted. The second half was a very
tough aﬀair but some tight marking
of their central midﬁeld by Hazman
and fresher Bryony and fresher Hay-
ley took their main strengths out of
the game. Some insane interceptions
from Celia led to a give-and-go run all
the way down the pitch with Sorcha
supporting and our resident peg-leg
(Celia) almost scoring a fantastic goal
from her sweeper position! Needless to
say we needed her in defence and she
really battled though pain to hold of
defending unit together for the rest of
the game. We were undoubtedly on the
back foot with a relentless attack from
the Portsmouth girls. The voices on the
side-lines were getting higher and high-
er as 3 successive goal lines saves were
made by Emma and Bryony. Thanks to
our very own Will Turner-goalkeeper
Purcy was saving us all with her con-
tinuous clearances, preventing our ship
from sinking!
Our defence managed to hold out
until the ﬁnal whistle when we real-
ised that we had won! The entire team
played amazingly and all the girls
should be so proud of the achievement.
This was one of the best team perfor-
mances we’ve had this year and just
shows the distance we have come over
the past few months! There were some
very merry pirates celebrating in the
union later. Hopefully we can carry this
spirit into next term with the return of
our captain.
ICHC Womens 1s win against all odds
Sorcha Cotter Sports Editor
Jonnie Clowes
Hockey HonarySecretary
Many of you may have read the article
written by the Hockey Club Captain
last week referencing the email writ-
ten to the Imperial 2s captain by the
KCL 1s captain. The email undoubtedly
showed unsportsmanlike behaviour on
the part of the KCL captain but also
gave the 2s even more motivation to go
out there and show KCL exactly what
they are made of.
The task ahead of the 2s was undoubt-
edly a daunting one. KCL 1s are 3 BUCs
leagues above them, pushing for the
LUSL Premier Division title and were
coming oﬀ the back of a 4-0 victory
over IC 1s, but therein lies the beauty of
the cup. The chance for the underdogs
to shine, pull oﬀ that great upset, win
against all the odds and, above all else,
enjoy playing the sport they love on a
grand stage. Each and every player in
the 2s team knew what the game meant.
Win, and they had pulled oﬀ the biggest
cup upset of the year so far, lose, and
they could hold their heads up high and
say they gave it their all.
The pre-match warm up was unfor-
tunately non-existent due to a frozen
pitch and late location change but the
rousing pre-match speech delivered
by injured captain Jimmy S was all the
warm up the boys needed. With keeper
Sifter still putting on his helmet and
gloves, the umpires started the game.
Instantly KCL 1s were on the attack
and looking to put the game to bed
early. Barely having adjusted his helmet,
Sifter was called into action after some
slack defending with a smart save at his
near post. If the 2s didn’t know they
were in for a tough match beforehand,
they did now.
Undaunted by their slow start, the
2s got to work at what they do best.
Simple yet eﬀective passing moves be-
gan to unlock the KCL defence. Every
player on the pitch was happy to re-
ceive the ball under pressure knowing
that a teammate was there to receive
the next pass. The 2s ﬂuid style of play
soon gave them their ﬁrst opportunity.
A quick free hit taken by B. Tablet at the
back gave Fresher Alex space to run at
the KCL defence. After skinning two
players he pulled the ball back for the
on rushing Tinkerbell, again playing
in his unique position of creative cen-
tre back. A square ball found the ever
reliable Strap-On on the left ﬂank who
delivered a peach of a ball into the KCL
circle met by Fresher Tim, running at
full pace, for a ﬁrst time shot that was
tipped over the cross bar.
With the KCL defence looking rat-
tled, IC pushed on. Strikers Brickney
and Fresher Jay-Zed were full of run-
ning upfront giving the KCL defenders
a torrid time tracking them. Cummy B
was creative as the attacking midﬁelder
knowing that Old Man Mikey was be-
hind him to mop up any loose ball that
should come his way. However the KCL
team still looked dangerous going for-
ward and the IC defence had to be on
their toes. What happened next was
deﬁnitely not in the KCL script.
IC centre back, Soggy, decided he
had had enough of marking his man
(which he doesn’t like doing at the best
of times) and stepped in front to cut out
a dangerous through ball. He played a
peach of a pass out wide to Meat Spin
who played a deft one-two with Y.Bag
before winning a penalty corner. Cum-
my B received the ball at the top of the
circle, drew two defenders before play-
ing an under arm pass to Fresher Tim
who smashed the ball home into the far
corner of the goal. The IC players went
mad celebrating and, still buzzing from
their moment of glory, nearly allowed
KCL to hit straight back.
Poor defending allowed the KCL
striker a free shot from less than 6
yards. Goalie, Sifter, rushed out to
smother the initial shot before jumping
back to his feet and diving right to keep
out the rebound. Two further rebounds
followed with the ﬁrst being blocked by
the keepers out stretched stick and the
latter beaten away by his outstretched
hand. The ball eventually found its
way to a KCL player no more than 3
yards from an open goal only for him
to inexplicably play the ball millimetres
wide of the post. This was the shock
to the system that IC needed and they
stepped up their game to see oﬀ the rest
of the half with no major scares.
At the start of the second half, KCL
came out with a renewed vigour. They
pushed forwards looking for the equal-
iser and no more than 5 minutes into
the second half they nearly had it. Slick
play down the right hand side say a
cross whipped in leaving an unmarked
player to slot the ball home. However,
IC protested that the ball had come oﬀ
the player’s foot but with the umpire
unsighted he was unable to make a
call. Then followed a display of sports-
manship not previously shown by
KCL; when questioned by the umpire,
the KCL striker admitted that he had
kicked the ball in. That was the second
let oﬀ for IC and they were determined
that they wouldn’t need a third.
Hitting KCL on the counter attack
from a short corner that was magniﬁ-
cently blocked by Soggy, IC won a short
corner of their own. The corner rou-
tine broke down but the ball eventually
found its way to Y.Bag who played a
dangerous ball in that was deﬂected in
by a KCL defender. Not wanting to sit
on their two goal lead, IC grew in con-
ﬁdence and began to push KCl deeper
and deeper into their own half. Several
chances fell to IC players with Strap-On
one of many players guilty of poor ﬁn-
ishing.
KCL had put 3 past the IC 1s in the
last 10 minutes of the game the previ-
ous week and so IC knew the threat that
they still posed. KCL decided to have
one last roll of the dice and pushed men
forwards. A rocket of a ball was played
straight through the heart of the IC
defence only for the IC keeper to once
again be on hand to make a double save.
KCL’s frustration began to tell and, after
numerous oﬀences, they went down to
ten men after a player was sent oﬀ for
repeated stick tackles. This spelt the
end of any threat they still posed to the
IC clean sheet.
At the ﬁnal whistle the IC players
were elated at avenging the IC 1s loss;
the KCL team were shell shocked by
their 2-0 defeat. The biggest cup upset
of the year so far had just occurred, I
say so far as IC 2s face UCL 1s in the
quarter ﬁnals next term. So to echo
the words of the ICHC Club Captain,
whether it be in the league or the cup,
just remember, the bigger they are, the
harder they fall.
Hockey man love. Standard
Pirate Hockey. Wtf.

