SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
54
Netball girls on a roll
On Monday IC 2nds took on RHUL
3rds away, and it truly was away. A
tube, two trains and a 12 minute walk
later we arrived. Funny that this was
a LUSL game for London Universities
and we were playing in Kent some-
where, needless to say we were very un-
impressed. With freezing cold temper-
atures and only 7 players, we weren’t
exactly excited about the next hour.
The ﬁrst quarter started out slowly
with the cold clearly taking its toll on
everyone’s brain function, neither
IC nor RHUL had anything much to
shout about. We started to pull away
capitalising on RHUL mistakes, thanks
to some fantastic interceptions from,
smallest player on the team, Emily
Rolfe. It was clear that our new “ﬂing a
limb” tactic was working, with IC arms
ﬂailing everywhere we were making it
diﬃcult for RHUL to string together
any signiﬁcant number of passes.
The second quarter started oﬀ well
with about 5 goals in a row from IC,
impressive cross-court dives from Re-
becca Tyne ensured that no loose ball
went to waste. RHUL 3rds were slow
to pick up on our pattern of play and
centres repeatedly went from Abi, to
Beverley, to Emily, to Harriet to goal.
At this point the umpires decided to
become extra strict on our team and
we were called up for some very du-
bious “ball control.” However, a lack
of keeping up with the new rules also
worked in our favour with RHUL’s GD
being blown up for marking oﬀ court.
The end of the second quarter and we
were pulling further away.
IC 2s vs RHUL 3s
The day started oﬀ eventfully, with
snow delaying all trains to Egham.
When we arrived with 7 players, al-
ready at a disadvantage, crossing our
ﬁngers there would be no other in-
cidents, two of our players were told
they couldn’t play because of pierc-
ings that needed to be taken out. Ac-
cording to said players these piercings
were ‘impossible’ to take out. ‘You
need pliers’ ‘you can push it through
my ear’ ‘someone just pull it out’
‘there’s blood’. After multiple attempts
we managed, as a team, to remove all
earrings and play commenced as the
clock struck 3, with the Sun blinding
players eyes even in the freezing con-
ditions.
The ﬁrst quarter started oﬀ event-
fully with some strong interceptions
from new player Kirstin and some
good shooting from Izzie. The score at
the end of the quarter didn’t reﬂect the
level of competition with them leading
13-8. In the second quarter, the slippy
court and an over zealous shooter got
the best of Laura, and she went tum-
bling slamming her knee into the ce-
ment, which could be heard from the
other side of the court. Play stopped
and she was carried by 6 people, in-
cluding both umpires, oﬀ the court.
She managed to bandage herself up
(what do medics need 6 years for?)
and play continued with only 6 players.
Two goals were scored in quick suc-
cession, showing RHUL that we were a
force to be reckoned with. That quarter
ended with RHUL 21-14.
Laura had managed to create a band-
age strong enough to hold what was
left of her knee together and hobbled
on court. Despite her injuries she man-
aged some fantastic interceptions,
causing players and umpires to applaud
her courage and determination. The
fourth quarter opened with a swift in-
terception from Kate, leading to a goal
for IC. The game ended as the last of
the sun disappeared behind the trees,
with a disappointing loss for IC, but
ready and full of fury to take on Brunel
6s next Wednesday.
IC 3s vs KCL 3s
Last Monday IC 1sts played in their
second LUSL cup match of the sea-
son against LSE 3rds in Ethos. With a
few key players missing Nancy Edge
and Amelia Al-Qazzaz stepped up
to the plate having their first team
debuts. With the centre court be-
ing completely re-modelled no one
was quite sure how the team would
perform and this showed in a shaky
first quarter. The passing was slow
and inaccurate with many mistakes
being made by both teams but IC
managed to gain a small advantage.
In the second quarter with some
amazing interceptions by Verity
Roberts and Sophie Andrew in de-
fence the game flowed a little more
and IC started to pull ahead. Tereze
Gaile and Amelia Al-Qazzaz were
steadily bringing the ball from de-
fence to attack and IC was on a roll
finishing the quarter well ahead.
In the third quarter the team re-
ally did start to shine. Nancy Edge
provided some perfect passes into
the circle and Tamar Loach was on
fire (as usual) never missing a shot!
IC 1s vs LSE 3s
Felix Sport gets the lowdown on netball’s continued success
The final quarter was almost a for-
mality; the play dipped in quality as
the win became inevitable and some
very silly mistakes were made. The
target of 80 wasn’t quite reached but
everyone was pleased with a final
score of IC 70, LSE 23. The 1sts next
LUSL cup match is against Royal
Holloway 1sts in January, which
promises to be a slightly more chal-
lenging game. The IC 1sts are flying
the flag for imperial as they are the
last IC (non-medic) netball team in
a cup this season so make sure you
come and support them if you get a
chance.
The 3rd quarter came and we all
started to relax a bit, the game wasn’t
very intense and we were ahead by
enough. Catherine Burrows employed
a new “pencil jumping” technique that
was hugely eﬀective against their goal
shooter, and she was almost cut out of
the game. Great shooting from both
Beverly Tsang and Harriet Rumgay en-
sured that every opportunity was tak-
en, although we did have some fancy
footwork from Harriet who seemed to
think we were doing some dancing.
It was the ﬁnal quarter and RHUL
had just been promised Nando’s by
their coach if they managed to get it
back and win, unfortunately no one
was oﬀering to take IC out for din-
ner for being consistently awesome.
Sloppy play and agitation from RHUL
meant that goal attack was blown up
for contacting Toni Semmence a lot,
but no amount of bruises were go-
ing to make IC back down now. If we
weren’t getting Nando’s no one would
be.v Domineering play in the centre
court from Abigail Johnston Hume en-
sured that our lead only increased. Un-
fortunately the ﬁnal score is currently
unknown because as soon as the ﬁnal
whistle blew IC were oﬀ court, grab-
bing our stuﬀ and sprinting to the train
station so we didn’t have to wait half an
hour for the next train. A rash shout
by Toni stating she” knew which car-
riage to get on so we have to walk less
at Wimbledon” ended up being a 100%
wrong and IC 2nds were forced to walk
the entire length of the platform.
Reach! Climb every mountain!
Reach! Reach for the moon!
ICUNC have had a fantastic start to
the season especially in the BUCS
leagues, with the 1sts currently 2nd in
their league and with promotion still
very much in their grasps.
The 2nds are still joint top and pro-
motion could easily come down to
the last game of the season against
QM 2nds. IC 3rds are currently hold-
ing a strong mid-table position and
with some strong play in the return
ﬁxtures, promotion is still on the
cards. In the new LUSL league IC
have 5 teams competing for the ﬁrst
time. The 1sts are currently mid-table
in the premier division, but are the
only IC team left in the LUSL cup.
The 2nds and 3rds share the same
league alongside some very tough
Toni Semmence Sports Writer competition such as UCL 3rds, both
teams are in comfortable positions.
The 4ths and 5ths also share the same
league and are again in comfortable
positions in the league. Unfortunate-
ly ICUNC have yet to ﬁnd a sponsor
this year, and who wouldn’t want to
sponsor 60 beautiful, intelligent la-
dies like ourselves. Watch this space
for news on our upcoming Netball
Funday; it’s going to be wild!
Either someone submitted an
action shot or my vision is
blurry
Semmence’s cyborg ankle
makes another appearence

