SPORT
55
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Having already achieved impressive
13.5-2.5 and 9-7 victories over South-
ampton and last year runners-up
Portsmouth, Imperial Tenpin Bowl-
ing has had a promising start to the
year. Portsmouth and Southampton,
having suﬀered their defeat on Sun-
day 11th November in Newbury, must
now wait to ﬁnd out who can enter the
BUTBA Cup ﬁnals, while IC had au-
tomatically qualiﬁed. With the strong
support of the best bowlers in Lon-
don, Matt Miller and Mike Quarry,
the Imperial team is getting well-pre-
pared as we make our way to our ﬁrst
ever tournament ﬁnals, which will be
against Sheﬃeld, Loughborough and
the winner from the group stage.
‘It has been a historical moment for
the Imperial team to enter the ﬁnals
for the very ﬁrst time.’ Team Captain
Kelvin Wong said, ‘Every member of
my team has put their full eﬀort into
bowling. I have a lot of faith in them
to once again be outstanding in the
ﬁnals.’
In the same month, Imperial Trios
hosted the ﬁrst Order of Merit tourna-
ment organised by Imperial, Romford,
North-East London. Three teams were
sent from Imperial, bringing together
both students and alumni bowlers,
and IC came away with some incred-
ible performances. Much congratu-
lations to one of our teams, Xin Yan
Goh, Gabriel Lim, and Gavin Lai, who
were placed ﬁrst runner-up in the stu-
dent handicap division! More spectac-
ularly, Xin Yan Goh and Gabriel Lim
won the female and male high handi-
cap games. It was also astonishing to
witness two 300-perfect games being
bowled by other members of the team
that day.
With experience comes conﬁdence;
we know the road ahead and are ready
to face even stronger opponents and
pressure. We look forward to the
BUCS Championship this coming
February in hopes of achieving even
better results than last year: most
stunningly our women’s team won
second. If you are interested in sup-
porting us, drop us an email at ten-
pin@imperial.ac.uk or join our Face-
book group, Imperial College Tenpin
Bowling Soc 2012-13.
Bowled over by Tenpin
Ka Hin Chan Secretary
Wednesday 4th December brought
the Ladies 1st Lacrosse team a bril-
liant win following a 16-4 score ﬁn-
ish against the University of Reading.
Braving sub-zero degree weather,
the ladies ﬁrst lacrosse team trekked
to Reading for their ﬁnal match of
the term. The bright sunshine was
deceptive: it did nothing but produce
glare on the pitch. Layering and sun-
glasses were key in equal measure.
The match kicked oﬀ with fresher
Lexi Wisentaner in centre. Her ﬁrst
draw went straight to teammate Oli
Morley, who ran it down the pitch
towards the Reading goal. In rapid
succession, the ﬁrst three goals were
scored by Liv Sinclair, Captain Lizzie
Allen and Oli Morley, with shots on
goal by Cat Hedley and Lexi. Very
soon though it was the turn of Im-
perial’s defensive side to be put to
the test and by the end of the quar-
ter Reading had equalised: the score
standing at 3-3.
For the 2nd quarter, Imperial tight-
ened up its defence. Players Abi
Murugesh-Warren and Bex Singh
double-teamed their Reading player
to regain possession of the ball. Lexi
transported the ball down the pitch,
barging past many a defender, and
after some settle play around the fan,
Imo Simmonds scored goal number
four. Hannah Brooks and Lydia Uden
doubled dangerous number 10, re-
leasing the ball for Rachel Castola
to recover and pass to goalie Gaby
Prager for the clear. Bex took the
ball up the wing and by half-time, a
further two goals by Oli Morley had
brought the score up to 6-3.
Huddling close in half-time the
Imperial side reviewed their situa-
tion. Defence had not conceded a
goal in the previous quarter, and the
double-team technique was deemed
eﬀective. On the attacking side, in
addition to six successful goals, sev-
eral failed shots on goal had been
made. Captain Lizzie Allen stressed
the importance of making decisive
cuts through the fan, and that the ﬁ-
nal pass before shooting be safe and
easily converted.
Seconds after the whistle had been
blown in the third quarter, Imo Sim-
monds scored her second goal of
the match. Shortly after however,
Reading gained and held possession,
working the fan around goalkeeper
Gaby Prager. Our goalkeeper and de-
fenders withstood the pressure, and
when the ball ﬁnally turned back over
to Imperial, Abi Murugesh-Warren
rapidly took the 8th goal. Moments
Savvy Stickwork Spells Victory for Lacrosse
Hannah Tullett 2nd Team VC
later, some impressive team-play
gave Imperial the edge: Imo took the
ball behind the Reading goal, Lydia
Uden made a cut in front, and scored
oﬀ a quick-sticks pass. Clearly under
pressure, the Reading side made a
foul stick swipe to Imo’s head. Knees
bent and eyes focused on the goal,
Imo took the free ball at the head of
the fan. The ball hit its mark in the
back of the net and a whistle prompt-
ly signalled the quarter.
Fourth and ﬁnal quarter and Impe-
rial acknowledged that Reading were
feeling the pressure. Stick checks
were becoming dodgy, but our policy
was to keep our play clean. Defender
Shosh Krasner-Macleod in regaining
ball possession took a swipe to the
face, but undeterred, she played on,
leading to Abi scoring goals 14 and
15. Playing up from the Imperial la-
crosse 2’s, Hannah Tullett stuck close
to her Reading player and again, no
goals were conceded during this ﬁnal
quarter. Imo scored three goals and
Oli one in the last quarter, producing
an impressive ﬁnal score of 16-4.
Wednesday was not the ﬁrst time
Imperial had met Reading, and it
was admitted that their side had im-
proved immensely. It took an equal-
ised ﬁrst quarter to prompt the Im-
perial side to really up their game and
make use of some stunning tactics.
This result in the ﬁnal match of term
was a testament to the hard work of
Captain Lizzie Allen and Vice Imo
Simmonds, and the invaluable team
work the Imperial ladies have used to
take them up to second place in the
league. The team look ahead to next
term, to continue and expand upon
their eﬀorts, and where a hoped-for
victory against Royal Holloway will
take them to the top.
Man-of-the-match, awarded both
by Reading and Imperial, went to
Imo Simmonds. Dick-of-the-day was
also awarded to the Vice Captain,
when it was noted in a moment of
heated match play that she had man-
aged to hit herself in the head with
her own stick. Three shots later, it
is needless to say that she was a fair
bit woozy on that long minibus ride
home…
Pinheads
See the pervert behind
them?

