“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1534 felixonline.co.uk
07/12/12
SPORT
I see you baby, shaking that ass...
ICU Dance salsa to success
Such a serious face
As the Imperial Dance team celebrate
another success at Nottingham’s Var-
sity 2012, there’s no better time to learn
This is a little daunting for most peo-
ple. It was most apparent to me when
I attended a wedding recently in which
the groom was unable to lead his wife
in a slow waltz. We seem to be ap-
proaching a situation in which the tra-
ditional, reﬁned and tasteful style of
impressing the punters with a quirky
Quickstep, winning their hearts with
an impassioned Argentine Tango, or
setting the ﬂoor on ﬁre with an energis-
ing Jive, have long been forgotten in the
realm of the younger generations. In-
stead, many such functions these days
are more oriented towards entertaining
a rowdy bunch of party-seekers after a
rave and a whiskey rather than a whisk
and chassé. Have we just become lazy?
In times past, ballroom dancing was
social dancing for the privileged; the
lower classes were left with folk danc-
ing. The modern waltz is derived from
the Renaissance dance the Volta; it ar-
rived in England in around 1812, and
was met with great opposition due
to the impropriety of the closed hold.
In the early 20th Century there was a
movement towards dances where cou-
ples moved independently, and many
newly invented dances arose with the
growing popularity of Jazz. Many of the
well-known Latin dances originated in
African and Central American regions
but in 1910, a diverse assemblage of
professional ballet teachers and musi-
cians came together and standardised
the curriculum used today. In modern
competitions dancers are assessed on
poise, frame and posture, musical-
ity and expression, timing, body align-
ment and shape, ﬂoor craft, foot and
leg action, and presentation. It is the
product of dedication and a great deal
of sometimes – in fact, often – pain-
ful training and conditioning. But it is
surely worthwhile for the impression,
the glamour, excitement and unpre-
dictability. Ballroom, Latin and social
dancing are a beautiful spectacle, but in
modern times they seem not to enjoy
the same popularity and appreciation
they used to be met with in the younger
generations. Despite this, in the UK
there are currently around 30,000 peo-
ple regularly competing at local, na-
tional or international level, from ama-
teur to professional, of which around
14,000 of these are in the university
circle. Of course, these ﬁgures have
greatly proliferated since around 2004
with the advent of Strictly Come Danc-
ing. Competition between universities
has been manifest in the UK for over
40 years. In the 1960’s, a dance teacher
from the society at the University of
Manchester thought it would be bet-
ter if his students were able to compete
against those from other universities, in
the knowledge that many other univer-
sities in the UK also had teams. In this
way, the modern inter-university com-
petition was formed as it exists today,
and is still gaining momentum, as one
of the most successful and recognised
competition series in any discipline un-
dertaken by university students.
The ICU Dance Society is historically
the largest and one of the most pres-
tigious and well-endowed societies at
Imperial, currently with over 200 mem-
bers competing regularly or just danc-
ing for leisure. It is also one of the most
active. Those new to Ballroom and
Latin dancing can join the beginners’
team, which enters ﬁve competitions
throughout the year, including three
regional events, and the Southern Uni-
versity and Inter-Varsity Dance Com-
petitions (SUDA and IVDA), the lat-
ter taking place at the magniﬁcent and
prestigious Blackpool Winter Gardens
Ballroom, an internationally renowned
venue which has held everything from
political conferences to pop concerts.
ICU Dance has a reputation for pro-
ducing top quality dancers, many of
whom go on to dance professionally,
and coach new, up-coming talent. One
such example is Arman Sahovic, who
with his partner Maria Naumchenko
won the national championships in
ballroom twice and in Latin once, and
ranked in the top 100 according to the
Blackpool rankings (the most famous
in the world). The outstanding level of
talent, performance and activity within
ICU Dance also attracts the very best in
external professional coaching, with in-
ternationally reputed teachers such as
Elena Plescenco, who was eight times
Portuguese National champion, and is
currently ranked in the top 48 in Latin,
and Snow Draper, who reached the
semi-ﬁnal of the Blackpool champion-
ships in ballroom and was ranked in
the top 10 in the world. With this level
of instruction and coaching, it is un-
surprising that this year’s team captain
won every competition she entered at
intermediate level in the 2011-12 sea-
son, and this year is competing in the
Ex-Student advanced level category;
or that a former Imperial beginners’
couple, Natasha and Stefano reached
the top 24 in the Blackpool ballroom
rankings; or indeed that historically
the Imperial beginners team has been
the most successful at the competi-
tions since the 1990’s, with three cou-
ples qualifying for the Latin ﬁnal and
two for the ballroom ﬁnal at this year’s
Nottingham Varsity Ball competition
on 24th November. On average a be-
ginners’ team couple from Imperial
will win at least three of the ﬁve com-
petitions entered every three years.
Continued success is promoted be-
yond university as well, with the Impe-
rial College Dance Alumni Association
(ICDAA).
Dance Society is not only about Ball-
room and Latin however. Dancers are
coached in social dancers such as Salsa,
Swing and Argentine Tango, regularly
perform in major showcases includ-
ing Mega Maalai and East Meets West,
and even participate in classic external
events such as Céilidh at Burns Night.
Laith,theSalsainstructor,wastwicethe
British National Salsa champion in the
period 2004-06. There are also enchant-
ing socials including the Winter Ball
and Spring Ball in which there are live
bands and top professional performer
demonstrations. The annual “Imperial
Come Dancing” competition is hosted
– in which professors and senior Union
staﬀ from across Imperial team up with
couples from the ICU Dance team, and
are taught how to dance, and a host of
other mind-blowingly glamorous black
tie events all accompanied by dedicated
semi-professional photographers to
capture those key moments, take place
throughout the calendar.
As a university team, overall Imperial
averages around third in the national
competitions, only to Oxford and
Cambridge. No other institution comes
close; but is it not time to prove to Ox-
bridge that we are better than they?
So, instead of just watching a bunch of
blundering inelegant thrill-seekers on
Strictly and pretending to be impressed
because your parents are watching,
isn’t it time to dust of the shiny black
shoes, fasten the cuﬄinks and blitz that
dance ﬂoor?
Alex Mason Sports Writer
Watch out goatee man! The
girl in red is going to pounce!

