NEWS
6 FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
Business school gets triple accreditation
Nida Mahmud News Editor
Imperial College Business School has
achieved triple accreditation. This
comes after meeting the required
standard from the Association to Ad-
vance Collegiate Schools of Business
(AACSB).
The Business school is now in
the top 1% of business schools in
the world to have triple accredita-
tion from the largest and inﬂuential
business school accreditation asso-
ciations. These associations are the
AMBA (Association of MBAs), EQ-
UIS (European Quality Improvement
System) and now the AACSB.
Professor Dorothy Griﬃths, Act-
ing Principal for the Business School,
said: “We are delighted with today’s
announcement that conﬁrms our
position as a world-leading Business
School. Our programmes combine
the highest academic standards with
the very latest business practices. By
virtue of our unique position in Im-
perial College London, we are able to
collaborate with world-class experts
in science, engineering, technology
and healthcare, to ensure that our re-
search has real impact and inﬂuence
in business and government, as well as
engaging the wider public.”
The AACSB international accredita-
tion is achieved after the AACSB staﬀ
undertakes a meticulous review of
the business courses, which can take
years to complete. There are 21 qual-
ity standards that must be met. The
criteria relates to faculty, resources,
the communication between staﬀ and
students, and the demonstration of a
commitment of continuous improve-
ment of the programmes.
Factors mentioned in the business
school review report include: the high
quality faculty and staﬀ, the com-
mitment to excellence, the strong re-
search environment and the support-
ive culture. The review also states that
the applied, practical nature of the
programmes is valued by students.
The President and CEO of AACSB
International commented as follows:
“We warmly congratulate Imperial
College Business School and welcome
it into the AACSB family of interna-
tionally accredited business schools.
AACSB accreditation represents the
highest achievement for an educa-
tional institution and its college of
business. The Principal, faculty, di-
rectors and administrative staﬀ of the
Business School are to be commended
for their dedication and commitment
to continuous improvement, and for
their role in earning initial accredita-
tion.”
An international response
Maciej Matuszewski Reporter
Concerns have been raised about
the high fees that Imperial charges
international students. The average
(excluding medicine) yearly under-
graduate international fee is over
£24000. This is greater than most UK
other UK universities – UCL charges
£18500 a year for laboratory based
subjects while Kings charges £17800.
The fees, however, are one par with
Oxbridge, once their additional Col-
lege fees are taken into account, and
the most prestigious US universities –
MIT asks students for $40732, equiv-
alent to about £25580.
Fen Wong, a Chemical Engineering
student whose course costs £24500
a year, told Felix that she “deﬁnitely
think we’re being overcharged”. She
said that while she has “access to the
pilot plant, which is supposed to be a
huge deal and a great learning expe-
rience” and while she maintains that
“Imperial is a good university, if not
in terms of student satisfaction, then
in terms of education” she thinks that
the College “would need gold-plated
furniture and a butler to carry my
bags around in order for the fees to
be worth it”. Another Chemical En-
gineer, ﬁrst year David Leng, added
that Imperial was “the most expensive
University in the UK” that he’s seen
and that while he believes that it “is
of good quality” its “still a bit too ex-
pensive”.
Second year Aeronautical Engineer-
ing student Quraisyia Talib-Merican
went further, questioning whether
the College provides good enough fa-
cilities for the amount that it charges:
“My course costs £24000 in Impe-
rial. It costs £13000 in City [Univer-
sity Lond]. Compared both courses;
pretty much the same [and] City has
better facilities.”
Winston Barry Lee concurred, say-
ing: “I think we are overcharged. It is
a shame that Imperial treats overseas
students as some sort of ﬁxed source
of income because they know that
overseas students value the Imperial
brand. Imperial is very inaccessible to
those who have academic merits, but
not the means.“
Not all international students, how-
ever, believe that the College charges
an excessive amount. Emmilyn Yeoh,
a ﬁrst year Materials student told Felix
that she didn’t “mind if we pay slightly
more than other people (like maybe
18-19k or something) for the facilities,
location and stuﬀ.” Another student,
who wished to remain anonymous
urged those who think the fees are too
high to consider the many additional
resources provided in and around
College, saying: “Go hog library, both-
er tutors, careers fairs come to your
doorstep, take advantage of all of this!
London is so central, such a fantastic
environment to work and play and
live in. For those who want to learn
more there are ample libraries, muse-
ums, landmarks and all of it is steeped
in history.”
While opinion about the fees re-
mains divided it seems unlikely that
the College is set to cut down on such
a lucrative income source any time
soon.
Grantham says
scientists should be
more vocal
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Imperial College London
Jeremy Grantham, who, through the
Grantham Foundation for the Pro-
tection of the Environment, funds
the Grantham Reasearch Institute on
Climate Change (of which there is one
in Imperial) has written for Nature
saying that scientists should “Be per-
suasive. Be brave. Be arrested (if nec-
essary)”. He wanted scientists to speak
out forcefully over issues that concern
global warming. He argued that there
was a resource crisis coming and that
more scientists need to speak out
about climate change. In the opinion
piece for Nature he said: “It is crucial
that scientists sound a more realistic,
more desperate, note on global warn-
ing”. In the article he also discusses
economic issues such as food prices.
He ended with: “This is not only the
crisis of your lives – it is also the crisis
of our species’ existence. I implore you
to be brave.”
Outi Supponen
Outi Supponen
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

