NEWS
7
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
The AMP has many aims that are all
hoped to work together to refurbish
and refresh the buildings, improve
the thermal performance, and (sub-
jectively, of course) make them more
aesthetically pleasing. The thermal ef-
ﬁciency increase should cause savings
that mean that the building work will
pay for itself
More speciﬁcally, the aims of the pro-
ject, as told to Felix by Steve Howe, are:
• Revitalising the services within the
Mechanical Engineering building.
• Extensively refurbish the southern
column and south-eastern annexe
of the Mechanical Engineering
building; this is so that Aeronaut-
ics can move in there.
• Using the above, release the
Roderic Hill (Aeronautics build-
ing) and Bone buildings (Chemi-
cal Engineering currently inhabit
it).
• Refurbishment of the northern
and central columns of the Me-
chanical Engineering building to
accommodate Mechanical Engi-
neering.
• Connecting the Mechanical Engi-
neering and Skempton buildings
to allow teaching facilities to be
shared between multiple depart-
ments (Mechanical, Civil and
Aeronautical Engineering and the
Business School).
• Improve the aestethics of the Im-
Not just a superficial
change for South Ken
perial buildings with more mod-
ern facades to complete Exhibi-
tion Road and Unwin Road.
The Mechanical Engineering build-
ing was the ﬁrst to be noticeably chang-
ing. The services within it have reached
the end of their working life and are in-
creasing the risk associated with opera-
tions inside the building. Mr Howe said
that “numerous elements and services
are approaching the end of their life
expectancy” and mentioned the “press-
ing need to renew the areas to meet the
current requirement for a world lead-
ing engineering research and teaching
facility”
. The AMP gives the opportu-
nity to meet current health and safety
standards as well as energy standards.
During the project there will be an
almost musical chairs required to com-
plete it. The optimum phasing has been
found by representatives from the de-
partments involved agreeing them. The
phasing of the project, which is to say
the practicality of where and how it is
done, has been agreed on a “room by
room” basis. Mr Howe also said that
“particular requirements for teaching,
research or support functions” have
been recognised, hence the room by
room analysis.
Discussing the project, Mr Howe
said that “the AMP projects provides
for the collocation of the Depart-
ment of Aeronautics into the existing
Mechanical Engineering Annexe and
Skempton Buildings and, at the same
time, refurbish the remainder of the
Mechanical Engineering Building”. He
went on to say that the project “aims
to refurbish the buildings in a way that
ensures their long-term sustainability
but which avoids the cost of radical
restructuring.” At the same time, the
project will address the fact that some
buildings are over 40 years old. How
said that it will address “the backlog of
maintenance issues, the external fabric
of the building and the services, plant
and infrastructure”. The project will
also free up space, which is currently
occupied by the Roderick Hill and
ACEX buildings.
With respect to the new facade of
the Mechanical Engineering building,
construction of which was completed
in early summer of this year, there
has been some response from those
involved. Plans for the works on the
building, situated in the South East
corner of the South Kensington Cam-
pus, were proposed in 2010, when the
College was informed by local authori-
ties of the full extent of their plans for
improvements to Exhibition Road.
Plans for the £1.19 million project were
approved in 2011, with the initial plans
being produced by regular College ar-
chitects Sheppard Robson and further
design, as well as the ﬁnal construc-
tion, carried out by D&B Facades.
Facilities Management Director
Nicholas Roalfe told Felix: “My view is
that the Recladded Annex provides the
ﬁrst visual impression of Imperial Col-
lege London especially with the Lon-
don 2012 Olympic and World Wide
audience. The location is very promi-
nent with the Exhibition Road Campus
buildings, including the setting with
the other neighbouring buildings and
the Local Authorities improvements to
Exhibition Road.
In terms of quality, the impression
is of a new building albeit the original
Annex Building structure remains. In
my opinion, it is a vast improvement
on the original 50+ year old building,
whose window and fabric had gone
past its economic life . To date, we have
received many compliments from Col-
lege Staﬀ, Students and Local Neigh-
bours”
As well as improving the building’s
outer image the new facade was also
designed to improve its energy eﬃ-
ciency. Nicholas Roalfe added: “ the
cladding is also having a signiﬁcant
impact on the building thermal perfor-
mance, it isn’t just a redecoration of the
building”.
The new facade is just the ﬁrst phase
Aeronautical Mechanical Engineer-
ing Project, which aims to refurbish
not only the Mechanical Engineering
building but also parts of Skempton,
with a ﬁnal goal of creating space to
allow the Department of Aeronautical
Engineering to move into the build-
ings and join the other departments
already housed there. The next stage of
the project is under design review, with
the College aiming to ﬁnish the entire
development in 2017.
continued from the front page
>>
Imperial College London
60 minute makeover
has got nothing on
Imperial
• Revitalising the services within the Mechanical Engineering building.
• Extensively refurbish the southern column and south-eastern annexe
of the Mechanical Engineering building; this is so that Aeronautics
can move in there.
• Using the above, release the Roderic Hill (Aeronautics building) and
Bone buildings (Chemical Engineering currently inhabit it).
• Refurbishment of the northern and central columns of the Mechani-
cal Engineering building to accommodate Mechanical Engineering.
• Connecting the Mechanical Engineering and Skempton buildings to
allow teaching facilities to be shared between multiple departments
(Mechanical, Civil and Aeronautical Engineering and the Business
School).
• Improve the aestethics of the Imperial buildings with more modern
facades to complete Exhibition Road and Unwin Road.
Main aims of the AMP
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

