FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
A Lordable conversation
Alex Morton interviews constitutional expert Lord Norton
about constitutional reform
Alex Morton: Thank you very much
for giving up your time this after-
noon Lord Norton. Could you brief-
ly explain the principal functions of
the House of Lords, and why it mat-
ters?
Lord Norton: It matters because it is
the second chamber, and because it is
not elected it is complimentary to the
ﬁrst chamber, and that is what gives it
its value as it’s neither duplicating nor
challenging the elected ﬁrst chamber.
It adds value by pursuing tasks that the
ﬁrst chamber doesn’t have the time,
the political will, or it may not have
the resources. Its principal tasks are
legislative scrutiny, diﬀerent from the
Commons, which focuses particularly
on the principle – so if you like, the
ends of legislation – we don’t seek to
challenge that as the unelected cham-
ber. So we focus on the means and
therefore devote our time to looking
at the detail, trying to improve legisla-
tion. This can be time consuming and
can be very demanding and the sort of
thing we can do because of the nature
of our membership and because we
don’t need to do things, which if you
like, are high proﬁle – [we don’t] get
political attention the way that MPs
do. That is why we compliment the
Commons and the nature of our mem-
bership allows us to do it, because we
are a House of experience and exper-
tise, which can therefore examine leg-
islation in a way the elected politicians
may not have the time or the will so
to do.
Legislative scrutiny is our main ac-
tivity, it takes ﬁfty to sixty per cent
of our time in the chamber, and then
executive scrutiny, or scrutiny of pub-
lic policy. Not just [UK] Government
policy, but European policy as well,
that is one of our strengths. And again,
we seek to compliment the work of the
Commons, we don’t duplicate, we’re
increasingly specialised through the
use of committees, but whereas the
Commons has got departmental select
committees, Home Aﬀairs, Foreign
Aﬀairs, and so on, we go for cross cut-
ting committees that transcend diﬀer-
ent departments. So we add value by
looking at areas that are not covered
usually by the Commons, and again
complementarity, for example, in
scrutiny of European Union propos-
als. The Commons has the European
Union scrutiny committee, but that
checks every document, if you like it
goes for breadth, against particular
changes. We go for depth with our EU
committee, just selecting those pro-
posals which are politically or legally
signiﬁcant, adopt to one of the sub-
committees and therefore examined it
in detail. So there is great liaison be-
tween the two committees, we com-
plement one another, and it makes us
one of the more eﬀective Parliaments
within the EU with scrutiny of the EU
proposals.
Our third function is essentially
debate, not just debating legislation,
but debating issues, many of which
come outside the context of the nor-
mal party debate and issues that can
aﬀect people or sections or particular
groups in society, which may not be
that popular, but nonetheless have a
case that deserves at least to be heard.
And we’ve got as a subset of that de-
bate function, an agenda setting role.
So sometimes we will be able to bring
on to the agenda a subject that’s not
been considered before or hasn’t been
considered for quite a considerable
period of time – make sure it’s heard,
but not for resolution or legislation,
but to get the ball rolling on the agen-
da. Good recent example: assisted dy-
ing. Controversial, deserves to have an
airing, some MPs a bit wary, contro-
versial, keep an eye on their constitu-
ents. We raise it, get the ball rolling.
AM: Considering your unelected
nature, how can the public actively
engage with you if are not account-
able at the ballot box?
LN: They can engage with us quite eas-
ily in the same way they can with MPs,
in a sense, insofar as we’re account-
able, it’s more collectively through
the Commons because ultimately the
Commons can get its way. If you like,
more generally, more basically, we are
fairly transparent and people can see
what we are doing, and we do wel-
come input. So we try to exploit all
the opportunities we can to encourage
people to make clear their views when
committees are considering matters,
or indeed when legislation is going
through. Let’s say it’s a bill, which has
been sent to a Joint Committee, the
Lords members will be eﬀective as
the Commons members in soliciting
views of interested parties. We do get
lots of representation from individuals
and from groups on an ever increas-
ing scale. People are aware of what
we are doing, and we welcome it, and
we can engage with it because we’ve
got members who can understand the
subject and therefore can engage with
people outside who are also informed
about it. We can have a proper dia-
logue as a prelude to our scrutiny of
legislation, and indeed of raising other
issues.
Also, we try to be fairly proactive.
For example through the “Peers in
Schools” programme, we are going
into schools to explain what we’re do-
ing, and so far we’ve reached about
ﬁfty thousand. And of course we are
reaching teachers who can then con-
tinue disseminating the information.
So we are trying to engage with peo-
ple. We are now trying to reach out
more generally at the University level,
so that people who weren’t aware of
what we’re doing are now more aware
[of both what we are doing] and the
fact that they can have some engage-
ment. We’re as keen to hear from
them as anyone else, in terms of mak-
ing their views known to all.
AM: Earlier this year you were a
member of the Joint Committee
appointed to conduct pre-legisla-
tive scrutiny on the Draft House of
Lords Reform Bill. As well as sitting
on the committee, you were a signa-
tory to the Alternative Report that
was published. What prompted you
and eleven other members to pro-
duce this report?
LN: A number of reasons, mainly the
deﬁciencies with what the Govern-
ment had brought forward in terms of
their Draft Bill. We were limited, we
had to deal with the bill before us, so
it wasn’t a case of looking at the issue
from ﬁrst principles, reform [by] elect-
ing the second chamber was taken as
a given, and that’s never really been
addressed in terms of “Why?”. We had
to deal with the detail of the bill. The
detail of the bill itself was fairly… deﬁ-
cient… for all sorts of reasons. It’s a bad
bill, lots of problems with it, including
the attempt to try and ensure the pri-
macy of the House of Commons, in
relation to the Lords. The way they try
to do that through Clause 2 was inad-
equate, and that wasn’t just the view
of those who signed the Alternative
Report, it was the view of the whole
committee. It was fairly unanimous.
That was a particularly serious prob-
lem. There are others as well. So the
report was ﬂawed, our Joint Commit-
tee report drew attention to that, but
the alternative report went further be-
cause we actually questioned the need
for electing the second chamber and
felt the need to stand back and look at
the role of the House of Lords as part
of Parliament and what they expect
of Parliament in our political system.
My argument is that the bill looks at it
from the wrong end of the telescope.
It’s dealing with composition without
addressing form, and you need to start
with what we expect the institution to
do, then you create the people to carry
out the speciﬁc tasks you expect of it.
Not the other way round.
AM: How would you respond to
comments, such as those from Lord
Ashdown, that there are only a very
few other chambers in the world
which are non-elected? Do we want
to be, as he puts it, in such company
as Belarus, Bahrain and Yemen?
LN: Well, we’re not. As I’ve pointed
out to him, he’s wrong. In many re-
spects, he’s blatantly got his ﬁgures
wrong, both in terms of elected sec-
ond chambers and indeed where they
are elected, the relationship between
them and the ﬁrst chamber. So, bit
ﬂawed. There’s only a minority of sec-
ond chambers that are wholly elected,
a minority are appointed, and the oth-
ers are a mixture of them in form of
composition. It varies, so you can’t
generalise particularly, but we can say
we are not the only appointed second
chamber. And even if we were the only
appointed second chamber, that’s not
an argument against having an ap-
pointed second chamber if you can
demonstrate the beneﬁts that derive
from it. To say that there are elected
second chambers elsewhere and they
work is not to suggest in any way that
they are better than the second cham-
ber we have and the job that it does.
AM: Given that you are against the
abolition of the House in its current
form, what sort of reforms would
you like to see introduced to the
chamber?
LN: There are quite a lot of changes
that can be made, because I’m in fa-
vour of reform but against election.
I want it to be eﬀective but not elec-
tive. It’s really strengthening the exist-
ing House in what it does, because it
does add value to the political process.
However, an elected chamber arguably
is value detracting as there is no obvi-
ous beneﬁt that would derive from it
in terms of what it would do, because,
as electors would be voting for the sec-
ond chamber on exactly the same ba-
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
8
Lord Norton, not reading Felix. Tut tut

