FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
FRIDAY 07 DECEMBER
sis as they vote the ﬁrst chamber, there
would be an element of redundancy in
the process. So it’s a case of strength-
ening what it currently does. Some
of that can be achieved by the House
itself without legislation, and we’ve al-
ready strengthened our resources over
the years and we continue to do it. We
are looking at a lot of our procedures;
[to] see how those could be strength-
ened. We’ve made some changes [and]
we’re discussing more. Also, enhanc-
ing our use of specialist committees,
I want to see more evidence taking in
dealing with legislation. But a number
of changes require legislation – put-
ting the Appointments Commission
on a statutory basis, getting rid of
the by-election of hereditary peers
making them de facto Life Peers. We
want to have provision for expulsion
of some members, particularly if they
have committed serious criminal of-
fences, so to bring us into line with
the procedures and rules of the Com-
mons, but also, if necessary, to be able
to expel members. I’d like to see a cap
on the numbers as well (we’re quite a
large chamber), and make provision
for those who don’t attend, or have
more direct methods to reduce the
number of members. Those changes, I
think, would enhance what the House
does. I think what it does, it does well;
particularly, legislative scrutiny, the
diﬀerence it makes there to legislation,
but you must never be complacent in
what we do well, we could do even
better. So I think we need changes,
and that’s what we’re exploring at the
moment.
AM: Frequently, over the last decade
or so, there has been considerable
appetite for constitutional reform,
recently the Fixed Term Parliament
Act, and with the last Government,
the abolition of the Law Lords and
expulsion of the majority of the he-
reditary peers. Does this illustrate
the dominance of the executive, and
as such, were proposals properly
scrutinised? If not how would you
prevent that from occurring again?
LN: Well, to some extent they were,
it depends on political will, but part
of the problem is the government
itself not fully appreciating the na-
ture of constitutional change and
that it should be subject to a some-
what diﬀerent procedure than that
for ordinary legislation. Getting the
government to accept this is proving
diﬃcult, but what they’ve got to ac-
cept is that the constitution is bigger
than the government. That is [to say
that] government is the creature of
the constitution and not the other way
round. So they need to accept more
that the Lords fulﬁl quite a good role,
ultimately it’s up to the Commons, but
the Lords have been able to make a
diﬀerence because of the scrutiny that
is aﬀorded, both when the legislation
is going through, and through its com-
mittee work. The Constitution Com-
mittee in the House of Lords has been
very inﬂuential in terms of the reports
it has been producing on some of the
changes going through, and achiev-
ing some change and inﬂuencing the
House on the stance it takes on them.
Fixed Term Parliaments, a particu-
lar success in the last session on the
Public Bodies Bill, which was changed
quite dramatically in light of the work
we did. So the Lords does quite a good
job in that respect, but we are work-
ing hard to get the government to en-
hance, to look at the way it deals with
constitutional measures and accept
they are qualitatively distinctive and
needs to be treated as such.
AM: I have a couple of questions
from our readers. The ﬁrst one I
have is aside from how one would
get your job, if you could draw up a
constitution based on three princi-
ples, what would they be?
LN: I’m a bit wary of having a codi-
ﬁed constitution and therefore … it
depends on principles. I can tell you
about the basic tenets, in terms of
form, but that would be to keep what
we’ve got. Given the nature of our
constitution, where we tend to go for
what is known as positive constitu-
tionalism, rather than like the States,
which goes for negative constitution-
alism. That is where there are certain
principles, which take precedence,
political principles that transcend all
of the majority. We go somewhat to-
wards the other end where the will of
the majority will prevail, but tempered
by Parliament and that’s important.
So, the three principles. One would
retain the principle of Parliamentary
Government, of government being
chosen through the House of Com-
mons and being answerable. That
comes onto the second principle,
which is accountability. To add to the
core principle, accountability, which
the present system delivers because
we have core accountability through
elections to the House of Commons.
Governments are chosen through
elections to the House of Commons,
and are answerable through elections
to the House of Commons. That is
fundamental. In this country, we know
who is responsible for public policy,
in a way that American citizens can’t
always identify who’s responsible for
American public policy. What if Con-
gress overturns what the President
wants? There’s the question of ac-
countability. So, Parliamentary Gov-
ernment, or if you like, Parliamentary
Accountability. Now… choice as to
what would come next in our… ar-
rangement. Because one could go with
the principle of maintaining a Union
state, that’d possibly be one, where it is
strengths from each part of the Union
coming together, thus within a unitary
state. So, I suppose those are the main
ones, and an ancillary to core account-
ability of course, is maintaining the
primacy of one legislature, having an
elected chamber, which is necessary in
democracy and suﬃcient.
AM: Another question was whether
the omnipotence of the ﬁfty per
cent plus one majority is a weakness
of British Democracy?
LN: No. There are all sorts of prob-
lems with supermajorities under our
system, because they can be amended
by legislation anyway, which would
need an ordinary majority. No, I don’t
think there is a problem in our system,
because there is core accountabil-
ity, as I say, the government’s elected
through an elected House of Com-
mons, and is answerable to the elected
Commons. In other words, the gov-
ernment knows it can be turned out
at the next election, so even if it did
just win with ﬁfty per cent plus one,
it knows it won’t be normally able to
engage in political musical chairs after
the next election, as some systems can.
It’s that aspect which makes Govern-
ment therefore responsive in between
elections, which is another value to
the system. So it’s not, it tempers the
arrogance of governments: if it ig-
nores what the public think between
elections, it’s going to lose the next
election. So it is tempered by that.
So I think the way it comes together
is, when you think about it, you have
core accountability, you have eﬀec-
tiveness because the government can
govern. It can deliver on the coherent
programme of public policy, but it is
also responsive between elections. It
knows it wants to win the next elec-
tion. And members of both Houses
are more independent than they used
to be – certainly the Commons – MPs
[are] more willing to vote against their
own side. So it tends to come together.
You have accountability, eﬀectiveness,
responsiveness, in a way that few oth-
er systems have.
AM: Thank you for your time, Lord
Norton.
LN: Thank you.
Guest talk:
Lord Norton
11th December at 7pm
Room G.01, RSM
Free for Imperial students
Brought to you by Conserva-
tive, Debating, and History
societies.
I want it
[Lords] to be
effective but
not elective
Wouldn’t mind the people that did this
to redo my room in halls actually. I’d
ask for more gold though, OBVIOUSLY

