F E L I X
a S T A G E
BY THE S E A
being an account of ay v i s i t
to Northern Ireland with the
Dramatic Society*
JU 0. Boss.
It was a Saturday morning; one
of those mornings when the body inst-
inctively oalls for another ten min-
utes" i n bed. The a i r was grim with
drizzling greyness and the oold of
dawn s t i l l clung to every building.
After dispelling most of the lethargy
with a cup of black coffee and a couple
of fried eggs disposed around a piece
of burnt toast, I set off for the out-
skirts of London. Barnet seemed a good
point to start from and, sure enough,
I was soon rolling across the oomfortr
able low oountryside of Southern Eng-
land i n a large, slow, but steadily
moving lorry. Prom Leicester to Lough-
borough I got a l i f t i n a nippy l i t t l e
van, which lapped up the roads i n as
light and chatty a manner as the driver
lapped up the details of my identity. A
Jaguar took me i n comfort through the
verdure of the Derbyshire Dales and the
Peaks to Manchester, from the lush
greens to,the greys and dirty ochres of
this large .industrial, spread. Again i t
rained. I took refuge this time with
British Railways and, for the usual nom-
inal fee, I travelled by train to Hey-
sham, boarded the steamer, and waited
for the rest of the party to arrive. We
constituted the advance party of the
Dramatic Society's summer tour to Port-
rush, Co. Antrim, Northern Ireland.
It was a smooth trip across the
Irish Sea and the light of morning found
us coasting down Lough Belfast. Slip-
ping past a granary, a power station, a
retinue of cranes and ship-building
yards, a l l spidery against the sky i n
construction but massive i n concept, we
finally entered Belfast City. After a
long journey right across Antrim-Ballymena,
Ballymoney, Ballybogy, - wo collapsed
thankfully into the sitting room of our
host and hostess with thoughts Of the
flats and props which were following us
only nebulously i n our minds. Our mouths
were f i l l e d with ham sandwiohes, our
glasses with Irish whiskey, our bodies
with travelling tiredness and our minds
with vague happiness when a small calm
voice carried with i t the momentarily
shattering news that our flats, already
painted and prepared, were too big for
the stage by a mere two foot. A curs-
ery examination of the stage however
soon showed that, although i t was un-
thinkable to shorten the flats, we oould
raise the roof. Meanwhile sleep, beaut-
iful sleep.
Portrush, like many sea-side
resorts, i s an ugly conglomeration of
large boarding houses, noisy amuse-
ments and quaint public buildings. The
town hall, whioh was als'o the theatre
and the centre of many religious meetings,
is a quaint squat red brick building with
a dumpy round tower of the witohes hat
variety, and across the road the railway
station stands out, white and black a l -
most imitation Sudor, resembling anything
but a railway station. Amusement arcades
are as much a feature of Portrush as the-
atres are of London, but the various fruit
machines to be found i n them were not
designed to stand up to the rigours of
the Scientific Method as taught at
Imperial College. During our stay i t ins
not uncommon to see a frustrated change
attendant mounting guard i n his l i t t l e
kiosk, refusing to accept h«ndfulls of
pennies i n exchange for silver, or a bevy
of tiny tots watching, mouths agape, at
the torrent of pennies initiated by the
delicate touch of our experts.
I cannot resist mentioning the
soastal scenery of Antrim, despite the
risk of turning this aooount into a
travel agency brochure. Aroung the har-
bour the rocks provide shelter for a
wonderful garden of sea--weeks, lazy
green strands, exploding tufts of b r i l -
liant green and huge wafting sheets of
tough tubber brown. To the east a white
strand, stretching straight between the
ever rolling waves of the ocean and the
rising rolls of sand-dunes, i s finally
terminated by an outcrop of limestone.
The o l i f f s rise steeply from a micro-
cosm of rook-pools and sharp beds of
mussels and limpets. Further east s t i l l ,
the Giants Causeway, a massive rooky
storybook reoounting intrigues and rom-
ances of an age when angry giants scooped
out the land of Ireland and hurled i t at
Sootland. We sat around the only seven
sided stone, the removal of which, the
guide books would have us believe, would
allow the whole Causeway to collapse.
Amongst the columns of this massive bas-
altic structure we found the giants chair,
the wishing well and countless other
suggestive structures. We found also a
melee of shacks defiling the scenery i n
a way of which only Homo sapiens i s cap-
able. Buy your genuine Causeway rock,
your Irish shillelagh, your licky sham-
rock, postcards, ices and fizz hereJ
So back to the production, flats
to paint and touch up, a tomb and a
balcony to construct, furniture to be
found and a roof to raise. Looking for
the furniture introduced us to some of
the seoond hand furniture dealers of
Coirsine. One entered a building which
can only be described as a cross bet-
ween a farm yard and a large ware-house
in which the moth and dust have ruled
for many years. I f i t i s raining these
places provide shelter for many a wander-
ing family, and mother manoeuvres baby
and pram amongst the thread-bare furni-
ture keeping a sharp eye open for the
very occasional bargain.
Wednesday night and, no sooner had
the final curtain fallen on Noel Coward's
"Blythe Spirit", than our stage crew were
on, tearing the stage to pieces like a
lot of termites.- The next evening was
to be the f i r s t night of our own prod-
uction, Terence Rattigan's double b i l l
of "Harlequinade" and "The Browning Ver-
sion". Thursday was a day of mixed emo-
tions for a l l of us, feelings of failure,
of oblique tiredness, feelings of oomplete
loneliness, of frustration and annoyance,
but finally the relaxed feelings of suc-
cess of perfection, but something that
lay i n the joy of achievement. The hum-
our of "Harlequinade" might have been a
shade too deep for the average Portrush
holidaymaker, or perhaps they were too
polite to laugh, whatever the reason i t
was very obvious that a lack of audience
participation was having a profound
effect on the cast. Mike Spence, the
producer of this piece, recognised the
symptoms and successfully cured the dis-
ease by allowing his original production,
to take on a somewhat elastic nature.
The emotions of "The Browning Version",
however, certainly l e f t the stage and
were received by the audience i n a sus-
pended silence which, though occasion-
ally broken by the crash of a falling
pop-bottle> I shall always remember.
Portrush had become a familiar
place, a friendly place and i t was easy
now to find i t s charms, to feel the
warmth that one assooiates with that
nebulous term humanity. But the time bad
come to break; another group to take the
stage, another group watching the box-
office eagerly welooming the sale of One
more ticket, not for the price of that
scrap of paper, but for the knowledge
that one more seat ha3 been f i l l e d i n
that great void to which every actor
plays his part.
PROFILE
Hilary has been educated at sev-
eral girls High Schools, i n Bristol,
Nottingham, and Luton. It was during
her stay at Luton that her ability to
wield a hockey stick, on the field, was
noticed; and as a result she played for
a Bedfordshire Junior XI.
In '57 Hilary, tired of the
rarified atmosphere of a Girls High
School, came to read Botany at I.C. ( i t
is rumoured that she spent several months
growing fungicide i n order to become
acclimatised). Maintaining her high
standard of hockey i t was not long bef-
ore she became a regular member of the
U.L.U. 1st XI, and followed this by be-
ing selected for the united U.L.U. and
Cambridge team.
On the homely side, she has a love
for embroidery, playing the piano, and
reading (she also enjoys driving the
"Family Rolls", when Daddy says so). A l l
in a l l she has a l l the fine qualities
that rate her suited far her present
post. In a post-election speech she
announced her intention of putting I.CJ6A.
well and truly on the map, we wish her
luck.
Her sporting prowess has been
much appreciated by I.C.W.S.C, and not
restricted to hockey she has also taken
part in netball, tennis, swimming, and
even croquet matches! She has held the
posts of Secretary of I.C.W.S.C. and
also, the Natural Nistory Society. It
was whilst i n the former rule that she
helped make the women's athletics team's
v i s i t to Delft, the success that i t was.
Don't imagine that H i l a r y i s a •
b u s t l i n g , e f f i c i e n t , battleaxe, sports-
woman. She i s a pleasant, easy person,.
and most a t t r a c t i v e . Unfortunately she
f a i l s t o discuss her romances (which a r c
reputed t o be enormous) even with XWArians-
which i s a wise p o l i c y .
^PETAPH ON AN OLD HOSTEL BED.
Oh bed that took a great delight,
In keeping me awake at night,
I hope the god of beds gives thee,
E'en suoh a rest as thou gov'st ma.

