F E U X
L O N G A G O A N D F A R A W A Y
Trumpets blazed forth from the
rostrum and the Tribune of the Plena
stepped forward to make his announce-
ment. Unfortunately, owing to the
amount of timber wLioh had been used
in building ships f o r the Carthaginian
War which had just ended, the rostrum
was shorter than usual. The Tribune of
the Flabs pioked himself up, remounted
the platform, and commenced, "Civites"
(because "aivites" was the usual way of
addressing Roman citizens). "I have an
announcement to make." (Which was rathex
superfluous as everything else was made
by slaves). "A huge speotaculum-i-
(neuter) i s going to be held i n the Cir-
cus Pioadilla." (Which was a less not-
orius spot than the Circus Mauimi H a ) .
"Festivities w i l l take place for fifteen
days Soman Summer Time." Loud cheers
greeted this as up t i l l then i t had been
very doubtful i f there would be any sum-
mertime. However, there was some daisy
in the festival arrangements (History
repeats i t s e l f does i t not?) owing to
certain birds of i l l omen found near the
Circus Pioadilla. The workmen struck fez
two months t i l l the birds had flown. Fin-
a l l y the work on the arena was finished
and i t would have gone down i n History
had i t not gone down i n a strong wind
f i r s t .
The great.opening ceremony was
performed by the leading lights i n the
Senate. Reading from left to right waa
appiua Claudius, who" was blind, and
reading from right to l e f t was Ch» Chin
EXPLORATION BOARD
Thirty-four I.C. students have
spent their summer vacation as mem-
bora of expeditions which have visited
six localities from the Arctic to the
Andes.
In the Apolobamba range of the
moles which farms part of the border
between Peru and Bolivia the s i x man
I.C. party has conquered no less than
fourteen hitherto unclimbed peaks ever
18000 feet high and made topographi-
cal and geological surveys of a
considerable area. Also i n S. Ameri-
ca, three zoologists have been making
films and sound recordings of the
fauna of British Guiana Zoologists
were also active i n the Jhteres
where nine underwater swimmers were
studying the fauna and geology i n the
coastal waters of Teroeiva island.
In the Mediterranian, ten botanists,
zoologists and geologists worked on a
small Greek Island not far from
Athens. In the colder regions a
small geological party worked i n the
east of Iceland, and four I.C. men
joined up with four geologists from
Birkbook College to v i s i t Jan May en
which was visited by an I.C. exped-
ition just before the war.
Articles by members of these
expeditions w i l l appear i n later
issues ef 'Felix', and tile Explor-
ation Society w i l l be arranging i l l -
ustrated lectures.
The Exploration Board i a a
joint College and Unwin organisation
to which a l l proposals for I.C.
expeditions must ba submitted. I t
has an income of £1200 per annum
which oan be given aa grants to pro-
posed expeditions. Ideas for exped-
itions t o take place during 1960 w i l l
be considered by the Exploration
Beard towards the end of this term.
The closing date for applications i a
November 14th - watch the Exploration
Society notioe board i n the Union
Foyer.
Ihow, wno was uhinese. The f i r s t day waa
taken up i n speeches and Cicero would
have revelled i n verbosity had he been
present. Unfortunately he could not
make i t as he was not born at the time.
Nothing daunted, the people
flocked from a i l over Rome for the
start of the seoond week's proceedings
and they were- not disappointed. The
show recommenced with jugglers, perform-
ing bears, close-harmony singers and a
curly-haired "soat* ainger, especially
captured i n America far the ocoaaion, by
name - Daanlus Cains, He was a great
success, which oaaaed some concern
amongst the proprietors of the Coliseum,
who were putting an "Me Osoulare, Kate."
The next four days were taken up
with parlour games suoh as throwing
heretics, slaves, suffragettes, etc.,
to the lions. Many people shuddered at
some of the horrible sights and one small
child who was a B.C. minor, was heard to
cry, "Oh, look at that poor lion, who
hasn't got a Christian to eat." So say-
ing he rushed into the lion's mouth and
quite disgusted that beast with his
exhibitionism. Finally, with customary
Roman "sang froid," he k i l l e d him i a
sold blood.
Next came the Gladitoriel show.
At one point the great Spartaous t r i -
umphed over his r i v a l and appealed to
the mob. They wished him to administer
the death blow, but as the vanquished
•as good looking the Vestal Virgins turned
S their thumbs as a sign that he should
spared. Spartaous also made a sign
according to customary r i t u a l , to show
his opinion.
The week ended with a spectacular
fijght between some of Pyrrhus' elephants
and some African ones. The sight would
have cheered the heart of Cecil B. de
Mille (especially as the Baths oould be
seen from the arena) but i t was brought
to a rather unseemly end by the appear-
ance of a mouse. The elephants fled
leaving the mouse i n sole possession of
the sandy floor.
The great finale came on the f i f -
teenth day. Thousands of dancers danced
to hot rhythm played by afrioan slaves,
and the mob were allowed to participate
in oommuncal singing. They sang a l l
their favourite tunes, including the No.
1 Hit, "Our Soldiers Went to War."
Thus ended-the f i r s t festival on
record. It was an immense success, oost
the Senate millions of sesterces, and
ensured their suooess at the next General
Election.
H A L D A N E L I B R A R Y
Have you ever heard of the rTalftaaia
Library? Most people haven't. The
•Id Union Library, whioh consisted
mainly of fiction, has been greatly
enlarged daring the last nine years
with the aid of generous grants from
Touchstone. These have been primarily
devoted to reinforcing the non-fiction
sections, and as a result the college
new iossesses a balanced collection to
suit every conceivable taste. Housed
in 13 Princes Gardens and renamed after
a distinguished member of the oollege,
the late Lord Haldane, the library
awaits to amuse arid to educate. I t
i s now under the control of a joint
aommittee ef students and staff with
strong financial support from both
oollege and Union. Mr. A.G. Quinsee,
B.A., F.I.A. i s the full-time librarian
and the hours of opening
11 _ 5,30 en Mondays, Wednesdays
and Fridays and until 7 P
>
m
* °°-
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Every conceivable Interest i s
catered for. The following typify
thetype of reading that the Haldane
Library offer to students. 'A
Treasury of Ribaldry' ed. by L. Unter-
meyer, or on a slightly more sophist-
icated plane, the complete works of
Arthur Miller and Eugene O'Neill.
For the tongue-tied, 'English Love
Poems' may provide some assistance, as
might that best-selling collection of
American Folklore - 'The Kinsey Report'
- albeit a l i t t l e ragged at the edges.
Among the seemingly unending
stream of war-books, 'Arnhea' by Major
General Urquahart i s noteworthy, as
i s 'Hitler's Youth' by Franz Jetzinger.
If you prefer to take your science
from the 'Tele', Patrick Moore's 'The
Amateur Astronomer' w i l l be familiar.
The series on the History of Tech-
nology i s , surprisingly enough, worth
browsing Into, and Herman Oberth'a
•Man into Space' makes absorbing
reading.
For those interested i n hobbiea,
ether than the above, 'The Art of
Cricket' by Bradman i s vastly superior
to the efforts of Lon and Dennis;
'The Focal Encyclopaedia of Photo-
graphy' , a 'Sailing Premier' by W.D.
Fork and the 'Logical approach to
Chess* by Blaire and Rumble are also
recommended. The Guinness Book ef
Superlatives w i l l inflate your ego i n
the Bar.
Thursday. 8th October
Literary and Debating faeiowjr
Freshers Tea, Snack Bar, 5.45 p.m.
g**4*,Ti ? r * Of***
Political Society's Freshers Tea,
Ayrton Hell, 5*15 - 8 p.m.
Church Sooiety Freshers Tea, Snack
Bar, 5.15 - 6 p.m.
Monday. 12th October
Oathelie Society's Freshers Tea,
Saaak Bar, 5*15 - 6.J0 p.m.
Others which come to mind i n a
necessarily personal choice are 'The
Church i n Russia' by Splnka and the
vicious 'Parkinson's Law or the Pursuit
of Progress'. But even i f you cannot
read at a l l , don't fret. We have a
useful Reference Atlas of Greater Lon-
don, and, even i f this i s a l i t t l e
herd, a series of j o l l y picture travel
books of Greeee, Turkey, etc.
COMING EVENTS
c a r s — — _ ~ Mines, R.C.S. and
Guilds, 12th - 30th October.
Tuesday. 13th October
Student Christian Movement Freshers'
Tea, Snack Bar, $.15 - 6 p.m.
Freshers' Debate, Concert Hall,
1.15 - 2.30 p.m., President o f
London University speaking.
Thursday. 15th Ootober
Glyding Olub, Freshers' Tea,
5*30 - 7*00 p.m.
Friday. 16th Ootober
Mechanical Engineering Department,
Postgraduate Tea Party, 5 - <
> p.m.
Thursday. 22nd October
CoBBMBMzratiOB B a l l , f p.m. at C l a r i -
dgs'a Hotel. Tickets may be obtained
from the Hon. Secretary, Entertain-
ments Committee, I.C. Union.

