8 F E L I X
A T H L E T I C T O U R
O F
G E R M A N Y
On Sat. Juno 20th the I0A0 dep-
arted from Victoria on a fourtenn day
tour of Germany. The after effects of
the President's Ball held on the prev-
ious night were apparent on at least
five members of the parfer who staggered
bleary eyed from train to boat to train
in quick succession. The party trav-
elled through Germany i n two mini-buses
which proved an enormous success through
time saved and added convenience.
The f i r s t match was a triangular
fixture between Manheim University,
Manheim Glub and 10 resulting i n the
narrowest of victories to the Club with
77 points followed by the University
(76) and IC (75). Curtis (lO0m), Ludlum
(400m), Smith (B3J) and Connolly (Jav.)
a l l won their events whilst Collins did
well to finish second i n a very fast
1500m.
After spending two days i h Man-
heim the party travelled on to Heidel-
burg for probably the toughest match
of the tour. Here we lost the match by
another narrow margin despite fine
sprinting by Curtis and Ludlum. The stay
in Heidelburg proved to be delightful.
Visits were paid to the local beauty
spots as well as the famed night clubs.
A party held i n our honour proved an
enormous success though some of the party
were s t i l l groping for form.
Whilst at Heidelburg the team
travelled to Maintz to compete i n an
open meeting with competition drawn from
the U.S. forces i n Germany, Nottingham U.
Maintz and IC. Dave Smith won the HSJ
with a leap of 14.04m and Curtis was the
winner of the 100m. Briggs was runner
up in both the 1500m and the 3000m whilst
Ludlum was unlucky to be l e f t i n his
blocks i n a faulty 400 start. After the
meeting the team taught the US forces
many new ballads and lyrics that they had
not previously heard. During a subsequent
v i s i t to Maintz we spent a most enjoyable
day with Nottingham University on a coach
tour organised by our hosts through some
of the most beautiful Rhine, valley country.
Dave
Smith was another consistent competitor
and won three out of four HSJ's. His
jump of 14,04m at Maintz was well up to
the national standard. Tony Aloock per-
formed entertainingly i n the throwing
events whilst an out of form Colin
Connolly offered grimmer resistance to
the German supremacy. Graham T i l l y and
Lionel Pillinger compleitmd the middle
distance team running methodically and
never failing to complete the allotted
distance.
Finally the athletic part of the
tour finished with a visit to Marburg,
probably one of the finest University
towns remaining. The match resulted in
a safe victory to the hosts by 71 to
54 points. Curtis (200m), Ludlum (400m)
Smith (HSJ) and Briggs (1500m) a l l won
their events whilst Curtis and Smith
finished second i n the 200 m, and high
jump. Collins repeated Brigg3' unique
iouble by finishing runner up in the
1500m and 3000m.
This was the first IC tour for
many years and was of necessity experi-
mental i n many respects. One of the
most important points to be made was
that peak fitness should be reached by
the second match of the tour. The
strongest fixtures should then be in the
middle with the f i r s t and last treated
as warming up and finishing matches.
WEST COUNTRY
ANNIHILATED
Emulating that great seaman and
renowned duck hunter, S i r Francis
Drake, the I.C. Swimming Club again
went west this year- with a vengeance.
Lacking that eminent bobber from
Wogga-Wegga, Mr. William Maemillan,
who was struck down with Kensington
Bush, fewer, the I.C. contingent set
forth on safari for Plymouth and a l l
points west.
The f i r s t match was
something of a catastrophe, the
Lymington team beating I.C. by the foul
method of scoring 16 more goals than we
did. By a tremendous effort we only
lost to Weymouth by 5 goals to 3. At
Weymouth we stayed i n a pub and im-
bibed enough beer to beat Bridport
6-1 next day. The next match was
against Fowey, where the b a l l could
only with difficulty be separated from
the jellyfish. Several of these
creatures stung the goalkeeper, Mr.
Brian ("Fatso") Hart, and paid a dire
penalty for their temerity.
After
more beer and a l i t t l e sleep, the team
proceeded to Saloombe, where an
astounding victory was achieved by
10 goals to n i l . The shook was too
great, the next game was lost to B r i -
xham by the odd goal i n seven. An
attempt was made to blame this defeat
on the absence of the I.C. captain,
Mr. Roger Harford, who had l e f t to
play far Hertfordshire on the Minor
Counties Championship.
The tour ended
on a note of triumph with a victory
over Brittania Royal Naval College by
7 - 1. The dormobile was driven
throughout by Mr. Roy Basham, and Mr.
William Lampard, however, strangely
enough no injuries or accidents were
recorded. Taken a l l i n a l l a good
time was had by everyone except the
Fowey jellyfish.
J.C.
SOCCER
I.C. Soccer Club extends greetings
to a l l freshmen and welcomes back old
lags who managed to pull strings with
tho Board of Studies. This year we
are running seven teams,again playing
twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday
afternoons, so whatever your standard
we oan f i t you in. We are also
determined to retain the U.L. Cup which
we won last year with a side including
five freshmen, so don't miss the Trials
at Harlington on October 7th and 12th.
The club like so many others i n I.C.
has a very high reputation to maintain
and with your help and enthusiasm we
shall hold our place as the premier
oollege i n the University.
D.F.
During this tour we reflected a l l
the British weakness i n the field events
and could only muster one victory i n the
throwing events over the whole tour. On
the track there was a happier picture.
Curtis ran most consistently i n the 100m
and 200m, and never failed to record at
least one victory per match. Ludlum
showed no signs of a hard season and set
up a personal best time of 50.0 sec over
the 400m. Sub 50 sec should be only a
matter of time now. The IC captain Pete
Rayment never realised his potential
over the 800 though Paul Clifton found
the speed that has eluded him through-
out the earlier season and recorded a
personal be3t time of 2:1.6 at Marburg.
Briggs and Collins formed a formidable
combination over the middle distance
races and i n taking f i r s t two plaoes i n
the 1500m at Marburg they gave the best
team performances of the tour.
SQUASH
The Club welcomes new members,
especially beginners. The following
meetings have been arranged.
FRESHER'S TRIAL, Wednesday, Oct* 7 t h ,
2.00.
CLUB TRIAL, Thursday, Oct. 8th, 5.30.
at the Squash Courts.
The courts are situated behind
Che Aero and Chem. Eng. building.
The Club has a large competitive
squash program again this season with
over 40 matches to be played. Subsid-
ised coaching can be arranged i f i t i s
supported, and concessions axe given to
the Club at leading London Sports Stores
SKI CLUB
The Club has two main activities:
1) To train and enter a team for the
Universities Ski Championship.
2) An annual skiing party for a l l grades
of skiers, especially beginners. This
party i s arranged at very favourable
rates.
Membership i 3 open to a l l members
of I.C. Union, and their friends are
welcome for the vacation.
This year the Club will be stay-
ing at Saas Fee i n Southern Switzerland.
We shall be leaving On December 29th,
the basio cost being £29.10s.0d. You
should write for f u l l details to the
Secretary through the Union Raok.
Published by FELIX BOARD, Imperial College Union, S.W.7
Printed by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., 307a Telephone Place, W.14 Tel. FUL 7969

