FEATURE 6 March 1998
ERVIEW
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
Mr C should be a familiar name to all of you. He
is a member of a band called The Shamen that
has had considerable mainstream success since
the beginning of this decade. As if that wasn't
enough, he also produces cutting-edge music
which he describes as tech-house and is a much
sought after D) in the global dance scene. Layo's
CV reads very much as above without the Shamen
section. Together they both own and run a night-
club in central London called The End, and a cut-
ting-edge radio station called Gaia Live that
broadcasts solely on the internet.
Electronic music has many enemies and critics.
There are those w h o dismiss it as the lowest caste
of music; generated by machines with no real need
for any talent as such. There are people w h o accept
computers as musical instruments but cannot
understand the concepts of techno music so far,
shunning the phrase "underground" and blaming the
artists for being too anonymous and out of touch
with the general public.
I'm glad that electronica, techno or whatever
you choose to call it actually has role-models like M r
C and Layo. Although it was conceived as an anti-
establishment youth movement, they are not afraid
to push it onto the widest possible audience that it
can reach. They are diplomats, manouevring big
commercial interests alongside the simple values of
artistic passion and integrity. They are both real and
3-D characters and are not afraid to show that they
are having fun and enjoying what they d o .
I asked M r C how he began in dance music. "I
got started when I was twelve I suppose, dancing on
a dancefloor, getting in front of the speakers and
having it latge! I was a disco kid when 1 was in my
early teens and 80's soul, funk, electro were all
major influences on me."
Getting involved is how M r C learnt what he
wanted to d o as a musical artist. M o s t people don't
realise that he was making music long before the
Shamen ever carried his name into the charts. "I
started DJing at the end of 1987. Basically, I'd made
my first track and decided that I didn't want to just
do raps on records. I wanted to get into it a lot
more; find out about writing and producing and
sequencing. 1 thought the best way to d o that would
be to DJ because you have hands on experience."
The route that took Layo into music is equally as
interesting. He started putting on and promoting
parties from the age of sixteen. DJing didn't come
into the picture until his university days. A year of
making shows for his local student radio station led
his passion to organising and DJing at his own club-
night. " H o w he got that degree with that club I'll
never know because it was mental!" quips M r C, "It
was absolutely bonkers every single M o n d a y ! "
As a DJ, Layo is very much a force to be reck-
oned with. He describes his sound as "varied, as my
interest in music is fairly varied. W h e n I play a set it's
predominantly a kind of tech-house, but I have a lot
of interest in breaks. I play a lot of breakbeat and
that also slips into drum'n'bass quite heavily and
some downtempo breaks. Basically if music is funky
I'm into it, whatever it is!"
So what is this sound called tech-house that the
dance media has adopted? "It's actually been
around for a long time." explains Layo, "It's more of
an attitude in the music." This style is seen by many
as being the saviour of techno, going back to the
days when house and techno shared equal space in
the DJ's box.
Layo also explains his role as a pro-
ducer of music. "I d o two types of music
predominantly. O n e is a tech-house
sound on a deeper level which I do with
Richard as Killer Loop. I also do breakbeat
with Matthew B as The Usual Suspects.
This is a similar kind of vibe, but instead of
just four on the floor, it's breaks." Layo
describes his musical standing as a pro-
ducer of "intelligent party music."
I had decided before the interview to
talk to M r C about his involvement with
the Shamen. In all honesty I wasn't even
sure whether they were still togethet or
not! I actually ended my teenage years lis-
tening to their music, but lost touch with
all that when I got into the music 1 now
cover. I also wasn't sure how my ques-
tions would be answered; so long after
the time and on the subject of such a
well-trodden conversational path.
Throughout, M r C showed no sign of
impatience and responded to the best of
his ability.
Not many people know that The
Shamen started out as an indie band and
that over time an electronic element pro-
gressed into their sound. M r C got
involved with the band in 1989 when they
worked together on a track called M o v e
Any Mountain. The track was released as
Progen '91 and made it as a top five UK
hit. The success continued with a string of
hit singles and albums. Was it this mixture
of different styles that made the Shamen
a success? "I think it was definitely a con-
tributing factor." says M r C, "We were the
first hybrid rock/dance band to crossover.
I like to think that The Shamen opened a
lot of doors in that respect to a lot of
other bands."
The most (in)famous piece of work
from the Shamen was the track
Ebeneezer Goode. This picked up a vast
amount of media attention and criticism,
mainly for it's so-called "blatant pro-drug
message". I was eager for M r C to give us
his version of events, and from his
response I get the feeling that it was not designed
to offend.
"I was DJing in Edinburgh when a kid came up to
me and said T was only thirteen or so at school
when I heard EG and we thought the chorus was all
about this guy called Ebeneezer G o o d e and he was
called Eezer for short.' That's what everyone in his
school thought. They didn't perceive it to be a drug
song and it wasn't until the media blew it out of all
proportion that people started to say ' O h ! Maybe it
means that then!'
"To the granny listening to it on Radio One, she
would have thought it was a cheeky song about this
Dickensian character. So it was really the press that
hyped it O N L Y as a drug issue tune. A n d , yeah of
course it was about ecstasy. I can put my hands up
and say that now. It's out of the way and 1 don't
have to promote it anymore. It wasn't pro-drugs
though. You just have to listen to lines like, 'e's the
kind of geezer w h o must never be abused' and 'very
much maligned and misunderstood' to realise that
we're actually trying to tell people that the drugs
available are actually rubbish, and you shouldn't be
taking them and be aware.
"Get information about what's going on,
because it's an information society that we're living
in. Unless you're informed about what you're doing,
you're going to get yourself into trouble. It's very
important that people receive information and that
was partly what the song was about."
With his roots in the electronic underground, M r
C doesn't believe that mainstream success com-
promised him in any way. "Being in a very success-
ful band like The Shamen has allowed me to go and
do other ventures; like build a state-of-the-art stu-
dio, get involved in night clubs and labels and stuff
like that. All 1 can say is that The Shamen has been
a most marvellous experience and has helped me
out no end!"
The Shamen are still together. Look out for two
forthcoming singles (Universal and / Do) and an
album in M a y called Ultimate Voyage. Due to other
commitments, M r C sees this as the last ever
Shamen material.
This period seems to be a time of transition for
both M r C and Layo. M r C is winding d o w n his leg-
endary techno label called Plink Plonk for the mote
accessible sounds of a newer company named after
6 March 1998
I N T E R V I E W
FEATURE
J F
3
o
I
liqence
Mr C and ^ ^ c o h o r t Layo
his club The End. H e is also bringing The Shamen
chapter of his life to a close to help Layo run The
End. So why this gradual manouevring towards a
new direction? This duo are on a mission! They want
to change the way techno is perceived and treated.
"It's time to push to a new direction. Techno
needs to be reinvented, it's an old thing that's been
around a long time. It's received a lot of bad press
and negative attitude. Techno is seen to be hard,
bland, in yer face music that girlies don't like. Well
that's all totally wrong! That's why it needs to be
reinvented, so that people can see that techno is
funky and glamourous.
"Plink Plonk got stereotyped as an abstract tech-
no label." M r C describes the music from his new
label The End as, "Dead groovy beats, dark as heck
techno, yet sexy sexy sexy. A n d that's what it's all
about. You can't have this macho, minimal, young
man, top-off thing. It's going nowhere apart from up
people's rectums and it's not g o o d ! "
O n e of the ways that M r C and Layo have tried
to redress the issue was to open up their very o w n
nightclub called The End. They now have the power
to choose the music they deliver each day of the
week. The End is a large club with a capacity of
about two thousand. W h e n it opened in 1995 it was
famous as being a club that had been designed, not
by promoters w h o find the lowest c o m m o n denom-
inator to make as much profit as possible, but by
two DJs w h o were passionate about the music they
played and wanted to spread it to as many people
as possible. Phrases such as 'well thought out' and
'user-friendly' were used to describe it on its open-
ing.
So how does Layo describe the club?
"The design! It speaks for itself. Probably
the best soundsystem in the world. A
stunningly beautiful club. Really friendly,
totally safe and fully air-conditioned." I
ask M r C if, after The Ministry of Sound
and other places, London really needed
another superclub. "Absolutely! London
didn't have an underground club culture
at that time, it had a handbag culture, and
maybe a bit of a hardbag culture if you
were lucky. London needed a kick off its
handbag to go somewhere in another
direction."
It's not only the music that M r C and
Layo play that is served up in The End.
Layo cites DJs as diverse as Sasha and DJ
Hype, all of w h o m have graced The End.
And with regular residents such as Darren
Emmerson, Carl Cox and Jim Masters, this
must be quite a place! "We're trying a
huge variety of nights to bring all g o o d
quality music under one roof." concludes
Layo.
I ask if they are worried that London's
notoriously fickle club culture might one
day deem The End 'out of fashion'.
"People are very fickle to fashion. We're
not a fashion club," explains M r C, "1
mean we d o get fashionable people in but
we don't court all that. We're about music
and what's actually happening before it
happens."
Another of the duo's collective babies
13
is Gaia Live, a radio station that broadcasts exclu-
sively on the internet. The concept of electronic
radio is still in its infant stages and Gaia Live is a few
months old, but towards the end of last year it was
achieving one hundred thousand hits per month.
The possibilities are endless, as it can be picked up
by anybody w h o has access to the internet.
The sound of the station is naturally very impor-
tant to both partners. "We're not after the pirate
sound, which can be quite commercial." says M r C,
"We're more concerned with the quality and musi-
cal output of shows." The DJ lineup can only be
described as the cream of London's underground.
M r C, Layo and Matthew Busnwacka B, Wiggle
Crew, Rugged Vinyl, DJ Rap, Giles Peterson, Dr S
Gachet, Dave Angel, Weird Beats Collective, the list
still goes on...! The station broadcasts from Friday
night to Sunday night at www.Gaialive.com and is
worth a listen!
In its present form, the presentation is much like
any terrestrial radio service. I'm curious to know if
the possibilities of the internet could one day make
projects such as Gaialive m o r e interactive.
"Absolutely! I mean what you can d o with the inter-
net is more interactive anyway. W e already broad-
cast events from The End (by audio and visual
means) onto The End website. I do a weekly show
on Kiss F M which is broadcast onto the website as
well," replies M r C.
"Basically electronic radio is the way forward.
People are getting into the internet in a big way. It's
right around the corner where you can buy a little
box to plug into your TV and a telephone socket and
you're on the net. That is going to mean a hell of a
lot. Give it another five years and every home will
have access to the internet. Then the power of
entertainment and promotion and marketing and
everything else that c o m e s with electronic informa-
tion will all be at our fingertips. The sky's the limit.
"We already have chat rooms where people can
talk while Gaia Live is going on. It might be g o o d to
have a list of records and soundbytes of these
records. With the aid of a virtual set of turntables
and mixer you could mix them yourself. That would
be g o o d fun. W h o knows what the future holds?"
I asked them whether mixing records is an over-
rated and overpaid hobby that should have been
confined to the bedroom. M r C has something to
say about this, " A great comparison is football. W e
can all kick a ball around in the streets just as your
bedroom DJ can mix some records together, but
there's loads more to it than that. People have a very
warped impression about the whole thing. It takes
loads of dedication and hard work."
There is always a constant struggle and war of
words between the mainstream and underground
camps. I ask them both to comment. "Music is art
let's not forget." says M r C, "If someone makes a
piece of music that everyone says is really nice then
how can that be art? It isn't challenging. Everyone is
of the same opinion. A true piece of art should move
people to be critical for and against it otherwise it's
not really art. If it doesn't make you question it and
it doesn't form some sort of debate then it isn't art."
Layo has the final word, "It's easy to knock the
cheese. It's harder to be on the ball and actually
know what's going o n . "
You can check out M r C and Layo as Djs at The
End club every month where they play the Subterrain
night. al;ck

