Rag Week Pull-Out 3
M A S S D E B A T E '98
Killer
WANNA SLAUGHTER YOUR FRIENDS? ELIMINATE
ABSOLUTE STRANGERS ?
Throughout the week, we will be running Killer. The
idea is simple: on signing up you are given a target
to eliminate. Once eliminated, you proceed to
eliminate your target's target and so on. All the
while, however, you are trying to avoid being killed
by your own killer, who may change when they are
killed by their killer. Confused? Never mind - take
part anyway. It's great fun and there are CASH
PRIZES for the most inventive kill, and the
Survivor. To take part, collect an application form
from the Union Office or come along to the RAG
meeting. - You'll need two passport-sized
photos, and £2.50.
Hypnotist
Martin Taylor (ex-IC student), hypnotist
extraordinaire is back! After five years in exile from
ICU the man himself is here to entertain, delight,
amuse and mystify. Martin Taylor explains the
history and practise of hypnosis, and throws in a
few jokes, and will attempt to hypnotise anybody
who wishes to be hypnotised. Some people regard
hypnosis in the same light as astrology,
demonology and corn circles. It's not. It is a
genuine feature of the human mind. But don't be
afraid of coming along, as he won't do anything too
evil without your permission. If you want to see
this, or be part of it, then come along. This show
usually sells out very quickly and we advise you to
buy tickets in advance from the Union Office. A
bargain at £3.00. NB. No boys & girls under 18,
Members of IC only. By the way this is called a
'Hypnotism Lecture with Presentation" (Don't
worry! It's a legal thing!)
C&G Slave Auction
On Tuesday lunchtime it's the City & Guilds' annual
slave auction. If you haven't signed up yet and you
want to, do it quick. The general idea is that
people are sold as slaves to people or groups that
then have the services of that person for a day. If
you don't fancy being a slave then go along and
buy one. They're always good for tidying the odd
room, or two and taking lecture notes! If you think
you can't afford your own slave, why not form a
consortium.
The Great Hedgehog Hunt
A typical Friday night at the Union - I think not.
Hedgehogs have escaped from the Biology
Department seeking freedom from scientists who
think culture is to be found in petri dishes. Trapped
within Beit Quad, they quiver and shiver awaiting
rescue. Can you help them? OK then, how about
if I told you of the small rewards for all those
rescued? Watch out, they could be watching you!
License to hunt - 50p
S.N.K.P.J.
By now, you may have heard all about the
Sponsored Nude Kamikaze Parachute Jump, but
for those of you who haven't, let me inform you.
This is a little activity where a certain number of
people jump out of the back of a minibus outside
Harrods, wearing an invisible parachute. This is
usually done, as rapidly as possible but for the
maddest amongst you there is a prize for the last
person back in college!
RSM 3-Legged
70s Pub Crawl
Don those flares, dig those collars, as Boogie
Nights hits South Ken. Wednesday night is RSM's
70s Pub-Crawl and just to make sure you don't lose
your friend you'll be attached by the leg. A
bonafide excuse for not walking in a straight line, if
ever I heard one!! Meet 6-7pm Union Bar, for the
magical mystery tour visiting the Queen's Arms,
Finnegan's Wake, Bricklayers' Arms, the Rat and
Parrot, Ennismore Arms and Southside. And with
an optional trip to the infamous Kwality Tandoori.
£750 Tankard £1500 Portable CD Player

