4 Rag Week Pull-Out
RAG - eh ?!
By now everyone should know what RAG (Raising
And Giving) is. The main aim is to raise money for
charity whilst having a fun time. This may seem
impossible, but it does work. I feel totally justified
in saying this as everybody who turns up to a RAG
Week event will automatically raise some money
for the worthwhile charities we support this year
and hopefully experience some of the best ways to
enjoy yourself that's legal.
Why bother I hear some of you say? Primarily, we
are supporting needy causes, but then some
people would say we students are a fairly needy
cause and shouldn't we be out extracting money
from people who already have tons of money?
However, there are people in situations that are
magnitudes worse than ours. It's only by taking
some time out and really look at the world that we
begin to recognise the needs of others. By going
out and making some money you are showing that
you care, no matter how small the amount raised.
The ultimate aim of RAG is to make money for
charity. Naturally, this doesn't happen on it's own
and we need as many people as possible to get
involved.
R a g S t o c k S a l e
At all the above RAG event we will be selling a
large amount of bygone RAG memorabilia -
including T-shirts, Mugs, Pint Glasses. Of course,
this year's infamous RAG Mag will also be on sale,
as well as many others from previous years and
other universities.
B e e r F e s t i v a l
At this stage, we would like to thank the RCSU, for
organising such an outstandingly successful Beer
Festival earlier this academic year. Unfortunately,
college wouldn't let them run another one so soon
- Roll on October. Thanks again!
Nominated Charities 1998
Leukaemia Research Fund aims to improve
treatments, find cures and prevent all forms of
leukaemia and the related blood cancers including
Hodgkin and other lymphomas, myeloma, the
myelodysplasias and aplastic anaemia, through
nationally organised research of the highest
calibre, guided by international collaboration.
People's Dispensary for Sick Animals
(PDSA) was founded in 1917 to provide free
medical or surgical treatment to animals belonging
to persons who appear to the Society to be unable
to afford the services of a veterinary surgeon.
Each year 1.4 million free treatments are carried
out in 48 PDSA Veterinary Centres located
throughout Britain on sick or injured animals whose
needy owners qualify for its charitable service.
Riding for the Disabled Association is the
national charity for riding, and physiotherapy on
horseback - known as Hippotherapy. They provide
disabled and impaired people the opportunity to
improve their physical and mental health through
education and fun with horses.
IC Community Action Group organises twice
weekly soup runs, distributing sandwiches and hot
drinks within Central London. They also organise
weekly visits to Parkcare - a home for elderly
people near college, and support the ROMA project
- which provides residential support for drug users.
Interested in R A G ?
We are continuously looking for people to help
organise and attend RAG events - should you feel
up to the challenge, please contact us today:
e-mail: rag@ic.ac.uk,
Internal mail: RAG c/o ICU
Telephone: Ext. 58099.
Acknowledgements
The RAG Committee would like to take this opportunity to say thank you to the following people, without who's
help and support these and other events could never take place:
Andy Heeps, Rob Clarke, Charlie Joynt, Mark Home, Mandy Hurford, Michelle Lewthwaite, Neil
O'Shaughnessy, Jeremy Thomson & Felix, Andy 'Inky' Thompson & Print Unit, C&GU, RCSU, RSMU, Jon
Lambert, Jane Hoyle, Pat Baker, Zona O'Sullivan, Louise van der Straeten and of course you - the students
and anybody else we have forgotten!!!
RAG Meetings are held in dB's every Thursday @ 1.10pm

