6 March 1998 COLUMNS
ML?L
T
D
a t e r
If, like me, you're sick and tired of kak industrial
bread that has no consistency or taste, then pay
attention. To come up with this recipe, I've taken
four or five different sources, mixed them up,
boiled them d o w n to their essence and then
through trial and error brought forth something
which is (I reckon) a g o o d compromise between
complexity and result. That is to say, it's not too
much hassle and it tastes alright.
Now it seems to me that most people are
scared of using yeast. Yes, it is alive but no it
won't eat y o u . I can, however, almost guarantee
that your first attempts will not be spectacular,
but you will soon hang of it.
Anyway, less rubbish more action. The liquid
volumes are approximate as they depend on lots
of thinks like how d a m p it is, what sort of flour
you're using etc so they vary from time to time.
You will need:
*• 3 pints strong white flour
(About 1 kg don't y o u know)
«* 1 pint warm water
About 1/2 wine glass of oil (olive if you're
feeling rich)
r 1 tbl salt
•* 1 tbl dried active yeast
«" 1 pinch sugar
Start off by diluting the yeast and sugar in a
glassful of the w a r m water. This is to get it going
and generally happy. It will take about 10 min-
utes to start bubbling and foaming if your kitchen
is reasonably warm.
Put the flour into a large and preferably heavy
bowl, sprinkle the salt onto it.
M a k e a well or dip in the middle of the flour,
pour in some of the oil and mix well with your
hands (yes, hands so make sure they're clean).
To test whether or not you've put enough oil in,
take a handful of flour and squeeze it. The flour
should just about bind into a solid lump but
crumble easily.
N o w pour in the yeast and mix thoroughly.
A d d the rest of the water a glassful at a time to
start of but be wary after about 2/3 of the pint,
you don't want to get the dough too soggy. This
is the tricky consistency bit. 1 reckon the ideal is
a dough that comes off the bowl cleanly but just
leaves bits sticking to you hands when you pull
them out.
N o w for the hard bit, kneading. Find yourself
a clean surface and plonk the dough onto it. To
start off, just flatten the dough out and fold it
back onto itself, twist it, beat it, squidge it and
generally take your stress out on it. After a cou-
ple of minutes the dough will become more elas-
tic and will stop sticking to your fingers. This calls
for a change in tactic. Roll out the dough into a
thick sausage shape, fold it in three
lengthwise, give it a quarter turn and
repeat. You'll need to d o this for about
10 minutes by which time your forearms will
burn and you'll be cursing my name but rest
assured, 1 don't care.
Your dough is now ready to rise. Grease your
bowl with some oil, put the dough into it, cover
with a d a m p cloth and leave in a nice warm place
until it has doubled in size.
O n c e the dough has risen put it back onto
the clean surface, punch it violently 2 or three
times and then start kneading it again. Same
technique as before and hopefully your arms
should have recovered by then. Do this for just a
couple of minutes, add a few herbs and things to
the dough if you fancy and then put the dough
into greased baking tins (only fill up to half way)
(this recipe will make two o n e - p o u n d loaves) or
cut it up into balls to make rolls or whatever your
imagination can c o m e up with. The dough now
needs to rise again to make it nice and fluffy. It
should at least double in size but don't leave it
too long or the whole thing will just deflate like
leaky fart bag.
Once risen to your heart's content, bake the
bread in a preheated hot (210°C, gas mark 7)
oven. Rolls take about 15 minutes, loaves 30 -35
minutes. To check that the bread is cooked, take
it out of it's tin and tap the bottom. A hollow
sound means it is cooked.
Piece of cake eh?
O n e last tip: for some reason (which I'm sure
some spod can come up with), bread making
usually goes pear shaped if the weather is very
unsettled or thundery so don't bother kids.
Antoine
The ICU Cypriot, French, Hellenic,
Italian & Spanish Societies
fc present
la Fiesta
jjpca-uNia ^
TONIGHT! (06/03) 8.30pm - 2.30am
Main Dining Hall
Live Bands
Loads of Food
Plenty of Sangria
Disco
Bar until 2am
£4 members, £5 non-members
(Food and sangria included!)
Tickets on sale at lunchtinre in the .ICR and tonight on door
Present 1
50 years of pain and hope'
A Palestinian week marking 50 years of Israeli occupation
9th-12th M„nh <JH
Mon 9th : Debate ' 50 years on', speakers include:
Jewish Chronicle editor,
Times Newspaper cdilor,
&PLO general delegate to the UK
Plaee: Old Lecture Theatre
SOAS, nearest station: Russell Sq.
6,30 for 7 pm
fuc 10th : Documentary: 'Music in the line of fire',
Channel 4 commissioned film
Place: Room G2
SOAS, 6.30 for 7pm
Wed 1 !th : Palestinian cultural exhibition
Featuring: Paintings, Embroidery, and Palestinian produce
Place: Junior Common Room,
SOAS
Starts 12pm
Thu 12th Film: Tale of the three jewels'
A tale of life under occupation
Tickets: £2
place: Lecture Theatre 1
Opp. Madam Tussauds
Westminster Univ., 6.30 for 7pm
Nearest station: Baker St.
Fri 13th Palestinian Party
An evening of live music, Dabkch, dinner and dance

