Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
DESIRABLE
KNIGHTSBRIDGE
RESIDENCE
Eighty postgraduate students will be housed in a new hall
which the College has agreed to purchase, subject to
contract. Although final negotiations need to be completed,
work should go ahead next week to prepare the building for
use in October.
The building, situated in Montpelier Street, is very close to College
and was constructed in 1896. It was used as a nurses home for St
George's Hospital until 1979 and has since been empty.
The property was first put up for sale at Easter and the College's
original bid was rejected. Other concerns sought to rc-devclop the
prime Knightsbridge site into luxury Hats, but as the building was
originally constructed with the money of a generous benefactor, a
condition existed that it should remain hostel accommodation. This
meant that a second bid from the College was accepted two weeks ago.
despite higher offers from business concerns.
Plans for the hall are still in the very early stages. There has been an
amount of deterioration following two years of neglect and complete
refurbishment is necessary before habitation is possible. Some external
repairs and communal areas will have a lower priority than the
preparation of bedrooms and may not be completed until after
residents move in.
Although the hall will only be used to house postgraduates, their
overall number in College residence will only increase in proportion.
The hall, situated in Montpelier Street, has not been named. It was
originally built due to the benefactions of a Sir Chalres Hall to be used
as a nurses home.
There will be more places available in the current halls and houses for
fresher and first time applicants as a result.
A l l plans arc in an early stage ol preparation and no delails about
applications for places are available al present.
This is
Your Leader
Remember this face. Douglas Armstrong, Chairman of the
Postgraduate G r o u p is here to defend your interests. His first
message to you all appears on page four.
Royal Wedding Special
A look at some of the more obscure Royal Wedding
items by our ace royalty correspondent, B B Wolffe. See
page 6.
No. 589 Friday, August 7,1981 Free!

