14 Reviews
Macbeth
Weirding sisters ascend the misty stage. Three
hags, starting a tale of Doom. They call Macbeth
to be Thane of Cawdor and King thereafter.
Quickly proved true on the first count, what
about the way to Royalty? The scene is set of an
infamous tale. How a man is driven by his ambi-
tion, by circumstance, by his wife, surely by the
supernatural powers themselves, to commit mur-
der, gory ever increasing murder. Kill the King,
kill your best friend, dash out the brains of
babies, turn all Scotland red. So what can the
RSC, with the principles of Derek Jacobi and
Cheryl Campbell, bring out of the play in 1993,
a year full of Bosnian genocide and decompos-
ing morals?
The leads are conservative, even pedestrian,
during the first half and only come alive during
the downwards slope of the second. Jacobi is
solid, rather an awful way to play Macbeth.
Fire, hell and damnation crouch at his feet and
they are not polite. He should be a sane man,
losing but fighting for his morality, not an
observer. Cheryl Campbell frankly struggles as
Lady Macbeth. Although her character is prob-
lematic in that she appears to be of steel only to
collapse in vigour towards suicide, there's noth-
ing of either world on show.
To shine brighter, Malcolm (Jason Durr) and
Macduff (Michael Siberry) play the most heart-
felt scene after the interval. Unfortunately this is
usually called 'the boring scene'. Christopher
Ravenscroft (Banquo) is also a cut above even as
Lady Macbeth wanders lonely as a cloud. Tut. tut, looks like she could get some spots (of rain)
a ghost. Its appearing is the strongest part of the
play and also show something of how the direc-
tion could have been. This subplot revolves
around a bumblingly jolly Duncan, who gets cast
as Christ in a last supper, eating with his Judas.
This is continued as Macbeth has twelve guests
for the ghost banquet. The twist comes as the
witches use the same table and vestibles for a
pseudo black mass which Macbeth has to
receive to get his final three visions. OK, it's
subtle but it has so much rich symbolism which
could be infused throughout. But it just remains
a clever subplot from a director who we already
know is clever.
To end, in the dying minutes Macduff has
Macbeth at his mercy, the final blow is to be
laid, but Macbeth pushes himself onto the point
of the sword. It's the kind of suicide a man fight-
ing for this life would not even want to live for.
Macbeth is so far dyed in blood he must go on.
The implication of suicide is only workable if
the entire play points towards it. That it doesn't
damns the whole.
Maybe this is a play to introduce you to
Macbeth, but for an understanding of its textual
consistency or an idea of what it has to say at the
start of 1994, look elsewhere.
Tintin
RSC Barbican, Barbican, EC2. 071 638 8891.
Tube: Moorgate/Barbican. Standby £8, £6.50.
Stupid Cupid Buddy
This is one of the best shows I have seen in a
long time. A fifties musical with singing, danc-
ing and plenty of merriment. Stupid Cupid
invites you to step back into the twilight world
of fifties cinema where the Hollywood dream
becomes reality; romance in the back row and
movie star worship.
This is the story of Sid, a cinema usher in his
search for true love, and Frankie, a tough butch,
out to get his girl, Cupid, back from the glitzy
world of Holly-wood.
Action alternates between the Peckham cine-
ma and the off-screen activities of the movie
stars themselves in Hollywood. Moving, sensi-
tive, humorous and high-spirited. May I recom-
mend that, if you only see one piece of theatre
in 1994, you make it this one. But, be quick, it
closes on January 16th. Well worth seeing
twice.
Rachel
Batter sea Arts Centre, 176 Lavender Hill,
SW11. 071 223 2223. Train: Clapham Junction.
Tue-Sat 8pm, Sun 6pm. £7.50, £6 cones, pay
what you can on Tue. Until 16th Jan.
Like any West End show in its '5th Fantastic
Year' there must be something special that
keeps the appeal going. However, I was very
ambivalent as to my views on this by the end.
The first half, before the interval, mainly cen-
tres around the life story of Buddy Holly & The
Crickets. It traces the guys from their early
beginnings, signing first to a Country and
Western label until disillusioned by being forced
to make music that wasn't their own. The swift
rise to stardom, their first gig at the Apollo in
Harlem due to the country assuming that by their
style they must be a black group. Up to this
point the music is in short snippets so as not to
get you hacked off with the same tunes time and
again. It is smoothly done with suitably simplis-
tic sets and easy to lose yourself in the era.
The second half in contrast is predominantly
taken over with a concert performance at a sig-
nificant point in their career. Along the same
lines as other musical plays such as 'Return To
The Forbidden Planet' there is a live feel with
dancing encouraged in both the central aisles
and front row. So if you're into that sort of exhi-
bitionist participation take note when booking
seats. I was quite happy at this point to be stuck
in my safe seat in the middle of a row a few
back from the front. However as the tempo
increased I found my feet tapping and wanting
to participate, but of course I was now stuck in
the middle of an inaccessible row with no room
between the seats for dancing.
If they're putting on a whole show of the cal-
ibre of the first half I'd quite happily sit for the
entire performance. On the other hand if they're
going to put on an amazing gig of the calibre of
the second half, then it is a crying shame that
they supplied seats at all. Lastly I must profess
to being a fan of the music from that era and I
believe that helped with my enjoyment consider-
ably. So as a cautionary note, people who are
not bee-bop-a-lula fans should maybe think
twice.
Bonnie (& Clyde)
Victoria Palace. Victoria St, Wl. Tube/train:
Victoria. 071 834 1317.Tickets from £12. Mon-
Thu 8pm, Fri 5.30pm & 8.30pm, Sat 5pm &
8.30pm
Next Week: Merry Wives at the Lyric Hammersmith

