Reviews 15
Imagine You Are . . .
Imagine you are visiting an art gallery. You
shuffle amongst the looming concrete abutments
and staircases of the complex, weighed down by
a leaden autumn sky and the alienating power of
the architecture. You step through the doorway,
looking for the paintings, but you do not find
them. Instead you experience an overpowering
sense of deja vu. Everywhere you look the
images seem strangely familiar, you've seen
them before somewhere. No, not somewhere,
but everywhere...
Julian Opie's art is modern in the truest, most
exciting sense of the word. He draws his inspira-
tion from familiar topics: motorways, video
games, architecture. He doesn't paint, sculpt or
draw, but all three, and more. Everything
becomes part of his work, even the viewer. It
demands to be 'used, abused, and taken apart'.
He paints motorways with the sterilised purity of
a computer, then recre-
ates them on the screen
of a PC in the corner. He
builds concrete race-
tracks which sprawl
across the floor, then
instructs you to 'Imagine
you are driving'. He
covers the walls with
giant images of arcade
game mazes and builds
model houses and cas-
tles. On the terrace you
step over his fortified
walls, dwarfed by the
vastness of the South
Bank centre. A series of coloured boxes stand
together and the entire view merges with it to
become part of the work. His titles either edify
or instruct - 'The aver-
age speed of a car in
London is slower than
that of equestrian traffic
at the turn of the centu-
ry' reminds you of the
congestion which clots
the city's roads but is
seemingly unrelated to
the sculpture. 'Imagine
you can order these'
invites you to play with
the work, rearrange it to
your own desires. He
has done so himself, and
has recreated the images on canvas with obses-
sive purity.
Opie's work is there for Y O U , and it
demands your participation. Don't go to look,
but go to toy with it, to mess about with your
own sense of reality. It's not to be taken serious-
ly (spot the air conditioning vents) but to be
taken to pieces. Experience the irony, simulate
the simulation and above all, take part - you'll
never see a road in the same way again.
Julian Opie is showing at the Hayward, along
with Roger 'looks like it was painted by a five
year old' Hilton. See them both and remember
one.
MA
Hayward Gallery, South Bank Cnetre, SE1. 071
928 3144. Tube: Waterloo. Open 10am-6pm.
Cones £3.50.
To See The Unseen
OK, so I have to admit I was sceptical. In the
past, 'video art' has always implied the tedious
films that used to be thrown up late at night on
Channel Four before it became popular, the sort
of film where 'home video quality' is equated
with artyness. With this in mind, I was expecting
Bill Viola's 'Unseen Images' at the Whitechapel
Gallery to be pretty disappointing (In fact I'd
pretty much written my review before I arrived,
but being a smug self satisfied bastard I would
do that). Imagine my shock when I arrived, and
witnessed the horror within.
I knew something was up the moment I
entered the door. The people going in were
laughing, joking. Those who left drifted past like
pale, deathly ghosts. The whole gallery has been
filled with a dark, throbbing menace. Machinery
reminiscent of the film 'Brazil' protrudes from
walls or hangs in omniscient clusters from the
ceiling. Viola has combined the media of film
with space, sound and hulking pieces of mechan-
ical hardware to create four dimensional sculp-
tures of a horrifying intensity. In 'Slowly
Revolving Narrative', two projectors shine from
opposite ends of the chamber towards a giant
central screen, which rotates slowly to stretch
and distort each projector's image in turn. The
other side is mirrored to reflect the viewers, their
faces scarred by the pixellated projector light.
Above a deep rumble of undersound a voice
chants endlessly, 'the one who educates...the one
who packages...'
In 'Threshold' you witness the intense bright-
ness of a scrolling display which brings the latest
news items direct from Reuters. Through the
door in the centre and disorientation hits - the
brightness of the information outside has blinded
you, and the darkness of the passage is claustro-
phobic. If you walk on, instant calmness over-
takes as you enter a darkened room where each
wall shows the image of a sleeping person, the
sound of snoring permeating the room.
Somehow, Viola has managed to capture the
moment of falling asleep in the threshold. Other
displays are more tranquil. By far the most beau-
tiful is 'Heaven and Earth', in which two screens
face each other intimately closely, one depicting
birth and the other death. Each screen is reflect-
ed in the other, the two layers floating in space.
Unfortunately, Viola's most touted piece,
'Nantes Triptytch', is disappointing. The theme
of birth and death which is explored so intensely
in 'Heaven and Earth' here just seems tacky and
obvious. Another room worth missing shows
some of Viola's early films, which really are of
the Channel 4 type. When Viola made these
films he somehow forgot to include a plot, and
ten minutes of random imagery is just not worth
sitting down for. A few arty pseuds stayed for
the entire showing, either to pretend that they
enjoy it or because they were waiting for some-
thing to happen (it didn't, not while I was there
at least).
So for those who want to spend an afternoon
with some of the more exciting modern art, or
just those into 'weird shit, man', the White-
chapel gallery is well worth a trip out to the East
End.
MA
Bill Viola - Unseen Images. Until 13th Feb.
Whitechapel Art Gallery, Whitechapel High
Street, El. 071 377 0107. Tube: Aldgate East.
Open Tue-Sun llamSpm. Admission FREE!
Kevin Costner plays a baddie! Find out more on page 7

