16 Reviews
Cowboy
Junkies
Pale Sun,
Crescent Moon
They said that the title of their debut album,
'Whites Off The Earth, Now!!' was a joke;
white men could never sing the blues. Yet even
then the Cowboy Junkies updated and twisted
songs from delta bluesmen like John Lee
Hooker for a 1986 audience. And despite the
more traditional country-folk road they've trav-
elled since, the crossroads at midnight have
always exerted a fatal pull. Now, four albums
later, the Junkies get to play their own games.
Initially it appears as if little has changed.
Margo Timmins' voice still strips the bone and
Michael Timmins' lyrics remain polished as he
writes standing in either gender's footsteps. But,
as a whole, there's more range in the content,
more emotional variation. It's a hard listen at
first, but in time, it could be their classic.
The early triptych of love warms. That 'Ring
On The Sill' is about the joys of marriage rather
than D.I.V.O.R.C.E. is as surprising as the fact
African
Headcharge
In Search of
Smashamane Land
that it also embraces the fear of having nothing
to give, of being empty for the one you love.
Then the middling spreads. It feels the icy
breath of Robert Johnson's devils all over, mem-
ories become "dead men making trouble", things
get dark.
The end hits a climax of unplayed bleakness.
Penultimate, 'Hunted' comes from the fear of
women alone in a city, alone in relationships,
alone in a man's world. "Do you know what it's
like to be hunted?" Maybe you do. Only the last
line of the following track, 'Floorboard Blues',
save us from despair.
Starting creepy as the figure described in his
piggy fingers and belt cinched too tight, it's a
specific hunting in progress. Whatever's under
those floorboards it could well be as blue and
decayed as hinted. Margo end whispering...
"it's a f***ed ole world, but this ole girl,
well she ain't giving in"
...and a harmonica wails out into the dusk.
From the spirits of long dead negroes in the
Southern States to the still kicking hearts of four
white North Americans, more than just music
passes. If we lose that thread we may as well
wish the whole shooting show into the vein of a
junkie, getting salvation through the eye of a
needle. (8)
Tintin
Released on RCA
Unfolding lush jungle greenery, they weave lay-
ers and layers of tribal chanting and drumming.
With all this supported by a steady dub beat,
they add extra spatial dimension to your bed-
room.
The key to African spirituality, their sensu-
ous roots and primal sounds stretch forever,
evoking vast lands on the way, and leaves you
with an earthy vibe that encircles your head. The
call-and-response form often found in blues is
And what do we have for those greedy little fin-
gers in this wonderful new year? Well not much
at present, but alas ye not, there are good things
in store just for you, so said the spider to the fat
fly, anon, oh yes, anon...
...first up after the sparkly tinsel: Terrorvision
with 'My House' {Total Vegas). Take it away
Camille: "Cheesy riffs, crunchy chords, an
amusing cover of Men At Work's 'Down Under'
but ultimately it's only trivial. And what is the
'3D' stereoscopic cover supposed to be any-
way?" Well he's not too impressed.
Let us hasten on to that sultry young Tasmin
Archer. Her 'Shipbuilding e.p.' (EMi) is a trib-
ute to that well loved popster Elvis Costello.
Unfortunately his presence hangs too brightly
over all as frankly it's rather difficult to cover
Costello without, well, being the man himself. I
suppose it's pleasantly tasteful an' all, smooth
as a baby etc but only 'Deep, Dark, Truthful,
Mirror' really breaks out from the atmosphere
of respect. As our own dear Inky was heard to
moan: "She's massacred them songs. Now that
Robert Wyatt he could handle himself..." But
that's just Inky, addicted to his 'Teenage Kicks'
and XTC.
Now to a very different beast. She was on
Jools Holland over the hols, so she can sing, but
does it have to be Andrew Lloyd Webber? Of
course I refer to Dina Carroll and the passing of
what was for her, at least, 'The Perfect Year'
(A&M). Penguin, renowned for his idolisation
of the lady, said, and I quote: "Stunning voice
and her album was the best of 1993. I was scep-
tical about this song at first but it grew on me
and is now a firm favourite."
Not content with that, the birdman continued
on a cinematic theme to review the title song
from 'The Three Musketeers', 'All For Love'
(A&M), sung by that triple bill of stardom: Bryan
Adams, Rod Stewart and Sting. "Although early
reviews of the film are not good, this strong bal-
lad has the potential of soaring to the heights of
'Everything I Do', hopefully for not as long."
It's surely a bad sign that Adams, Kamen and
Lange, writers of 'Everything...' also wrote this
one. Seems like we could end up wishing for the
next Meatbread single.
And so dear reader we must end. Suffice to
say next week we will have the likes of Kristin
Hersh, Drugstore and Therapy? to warm the
cockles of your handies. Ahh. Tintin
present here, mimicking the inflexions of speech
and laying out the complexities of the African
languages in one of the richest of polyrhythmic
cacophonies. An amorphous album, incorporat-
ing the occasional jazzy uplift, they make you
want to drop everything and run. Meanwhile,
though, African Headcharge will continue their
search for the spiritual El Dorado. (8)
Camille
A bear, however hard he tries, grows tubby without exercise..

