Feature 17
Revitalising Your Curriculum Vitae
Afraid your Victorian stamp collecting won i turn them on at IBM? Just do it!
"How do I acquire Personal Transferable
Skills?" may not be the first question you ask
yourself in Da Vinci's. But the sabbaticals
would be delighted if you decided to spend more
time making use of other ICU facilities - and not
only by propping up the bar!
Personal Transferable Skills
In a survey of employers a few years ago, to
which over 80 responded, the following emerged
as the main personal transferable skills most
sought after in graduates:
- Identify problems
- Pose solutions
- Work in teams
- Communicate
- Speech
- Writing
- Numerical skills
- Adaptation to change
- Creative thinking
- Good appearance
- Leadership skills
- Selfmanagement
Looking Good
Good appearance may strike you as the odd one
out. What it means is that you have taken the
trouble to make the most of yourself and dressed
appropriately for the occasion - such as an inter-
view.
Other skills mentioned by employers include:
- Planning and organising
- Decision making
- Motivation
- Personal strength
- Analytical reasoning
Personal strength is nothing to do with your
physical ability; it refers to self-confidence, real-
ism and coping with pressure.
Taking Part
So if these are the qualities that employers are
seeking, how do you set out to acquire them?
Although some abilities may be innate, many
skills can be developed through practice and
experience. This is where you can benefit by
taking part in one or more of the many activities
organised by ICU. This does not mean that you
always have to aim to be the president, chair or
captain of the society or club; any position of
responsibility will help you to gain useful expe-
rience. And even just taking part will develop
your skills of working with people.
Knowing Yourself
"I don't need a shrink", I hear you say. Of
course not! But it does help to understand what
you are good at, what you enjoy and what skills,
abilities, interests and values you have because
these are the starting points for choosing a
career. The Careers Service has work books and
a computer aided careers guidance system -
PROSPECT (HE) - to enable you to match your
profile with those of a large number of different
occupations. You can always arrange to see a
Careers Adviser for a quick query between 1pm
and 2pm or book a longer discussion. So you
have no excuse for saying that you haven't a
clue what you want to do next.
Skills to Develop
Your course should encourage you to develop
many of the important skills, such as analysing,
calculating, drawing, investigating, evaluating,
designing and diagnosing.
ICU societies and clubs can also help you to
develop some of the other important skills such
as writing, editing, decision-making, planning,
synthesising ideas and lateral thinking.
Communication
If you can't communicate, you are at a severe
disadvantage in life. You really do need to be
able to express yourself adequately, both in writ-
ing and in speech. Contributing to committee
meetings will give you the self-confidence to
speak up and to express your views in a group.
Making a presentation is another important skill.
In business and industry you may spend more
time communicating to people than in calculat-
ing equations, so practice now is well worth-
while.
Start Today
So make a New Year Resolution, start planning
today how you are going to acquire a complete
education - before you have completed your
education.
John Simpson
Director, IC Careers Service
E n t s L o u n g e 1 p m
2 8 t h J a n u a r y
(2 weeks from today)
Deadline for motions: Friday 21st January
(1 week from today)
i C U
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION

