Features 19
3-D Christmas Crossword Update
For anyone still ploughing their way through the 300-odd clues, here's new
of an extended deadlinefor the competition and an updated list of errata.
Final Errata
1. Day 8 7-a '...(6)' should read '...(2,4)'
2. Day 5 1-a 'Imprioned' should read 'Imprisoned'
3. Day 5 6-a '...(7)' should read '...(6)'
4. Day 5 16-a 'catastrope' should read 'catastrophe'
5. Day5 12-t. New clue to dispel any ambiguities:
'It is hot and cold, we hear' (5)
6. Day 3 Grey square missing at reference point 10
along and 10 down.
7. Day3 14-a 'puss' should read 'pus'
8. Day1 2-d. Entire clue is wrong. It should read 'I
leave Sofia something to sit on (4)'
As you may have noticed, nowhere in the entry
instructions for the 3-D '12 Days of Christmas'
Crossword, did it exclude non-IC Students from
qualifying for the prizes. Since we are an IC
publication and having had many IC and non-IC
entries so far, we have decided that, in the event
of a tie, any IC entries will take precedence.
Also, any members of FELiX staff are
automatically disqualified as they couldn't have
failed to hear our crossword team yelling phrases
such as "I need a clue for ..." and "Does ... have
one or two f's?" towards the end of last term.
Although we have already had many IC
entries (by no means were all of them correct), to
encourage a few more people to take part we are
extending the deadline for completed solutions
to:
6pm on Monday 17th Jan '94
Complete entries should be placed in the
Competition pigeonhole in the FELiX office
(bottom left corner of the Union Building, Beit
Quad), with a note of your name, department,
address and a contact telephone number.
At the end of the day, these rules are at the
discretion of the judging panel which consists of:
the Designer, the Clues Editor and the FELiX
Editor whose decisions are final. The inter-
pretation of these conditions is also at the
discretion of the judging panel.
So, if you have not tried it yet, there is still
time to attempt it this weekend; copies of the
Christmas FELiX, 3D Crossword included, are
still available from the FELiX office.
Don't forget the great prizes: 1st Prize worth
over £35! & 5 Runners Up Prizes worth over £25
each. Each prize consists of a top dictionary and
top crossword manuals.
In the box above is a full and final list of
errata. Don't worry if you've already handed in
your solutions, this list is just to correct a few
inaccuracies and it will not count against you.
Solutions and a list of winners will be printed
in next week's issue of FELiX.
Lastly, look out for the next FELiX 3-D
crossword. It will be a 15x15x15 and should
appear in the Easter edition which will be
available in all departments on the last day of
this term.
Also, to help those of you who are not
completely familiar with cryptic crosswords, we
will be running a weekly guide on how to go
about solving them in the weeks running up to
the Easter edition. So, keep an eye out for them.
We will still be running a weekly puzzle, either a
crossword or an elimination, to keep you
occupied in those Friday morning lectures.
Until Easter, happy puzzling.
The Munster Road Kitchen
by Samin Ishtiaq
There were only five of use when we moved into
this Munster Road place. There was supposed to
be a sixth person. Or a non-person: this guy
wasn't really part of our household (i.e., he
wasn't an IC student) but used to live in a
(separate) bedsit right in the middle of our house
(these landladies will do anything for more
money, won't they?). Apparently he used to be a
dustman but got made redundant (yep, even
Hammersmith and Fulham 'Quality Promise'
Council are making people redundant) and
before the academic year started told our
landlady that he would be moving out.
Which means that he wasn't there when the
five of us moved in. Which was a real pity -
especially for Paul and Nils (okay, okay, and
me) - 'cause we had this brilliant plan to kill
him.
We had nothing against him personally, you
understand. I mean, it didn't really matter that he
was only a dustman. Or that he was unemployed.
Or that he was white. No, no, there was much
better reasons than that. Firstly, he was
occupying a large room that could conveniently
be turned into a sitting room for us lot. How
civilised it would be, a sitting room [What, to
take tea in? How poncy! - Ed] and it would be
an ideal place to put Nils' T V in as well. And
secondly Paul had these theories about the
perfect murder. Could we pull it off?
I would have thought not. Especially since
one of the ideas was to take him down to the
local barbers (conveniently sited just opposite
our house) in the dead of Sunday night and use a
cut-throat razor to finish him off. After that we'd
haul his body back and feed it to the dog. (Of
course, one of the problems was that we didn't
have a dog; in fact, our tenancy agreement
specifically ruled out pets, but anyway...)
Getting rid of the tooth and hairs (theoretically
considered to be the most difficult) would be
done by weighing them down and throwing the
whole bundle into the Thames (conveniently
sited just a block or so away).
I never actually thought we could have pulled
it off, but went along with the whole idea
anyway. Now we'll never know.
Crossword competition deadline extended to Monday 6pm

