Reviews
11
All
Morse's Greatest Mystery
(and other stories)
by Colin Dexter
I wouldn't class myself as much of a reader nor-
mally, but when the chance came to review the
latest book by Colin Dexter, the author of the
Inspector Morse stories, I jumped at it. It is a
collection of ten short stories, five involving
Morse and Lewis, and five others.
The thing that sets Dexter's work apart from
the rest of the market is not only the high level
of readability, with his simple yet captivating
style, but that each story has its own cunning
twists in much the same way as those of
Geoffery Archer's ' A Twist in the Tail'. The
tales are rivetting and the characterisations with-
in them deep enough to make them absorbing,
but not too deep as to retract from the free flow-
ing style of each piece.
In those stories involving Morse and Lewis,
it is hard to tear your mind from Thaw and
Whately in the T V series, which in truth does
much for Central TV's adaptation of the original
novels. Often you still can't quite figure what
has been happening by the end of a story, but the
fact that it almost seems to make sense is
enough, especially when, as usual, the final out-
come is quite different from anything that you
thought at any other point during the story.
One of the stories that doesn't concern Morse
is a short but rivetting Sherlock Holmes story. It
is obvious from the piece that Dexter has great
respect for Arthur 'Conan' Doyle as the style he
has used within the story so closely matches that
of Doyle, that apart from the subtle plot twists, it
could have been written by the great literatist
himself.
I thought that the other short stories wouldn't
grip me as much, not being used to the charac-
ters, but again I was pleasantly surprised.
This book is highly recommended to anyone
who enjoys a good think during a book to catch
the twist before it happens. The style is great and
the book highly enjoyable.
Little Blue
Published by: MacMillan
Price: £14.99
Accomplice of
Love
by Titia Sutherland
Accomplice Of Love, compared to other books
I've read, is worth every penny.
The purchase of a painting sparks off a chain
of events culminating in an odd love triangle
involving art dealer Leo, the painter and his
wife and when tragedy strikes Leo's life, it
affects all those around him.
All the action takes place over one weekend
during which the characters' tolerances for
whiskey outdo that of any student.
The storyline is quite credible and the char-
acters are interesting and well-drawn, giving a
tale that is quite difficult to put down once
begun.
Brought to a timely and fitting end, when the
painter's revenge becomes his salvation, the
reader is left satisfied and most likely a little
thoughtful. Not a heavyweight or classic novel
by any means, but certainly good holiday read-
ing.
Beachball
Published by: Black Swan
Price: £5.99
The Union Advice office provides free
confidential advice to all Imperial College
students on a wide range of issues. It aims
to reach all students regardless of gender,
race, religion, culture, sexual orientation,
age, disability, class, marital status or
whether postgraduate/undergraduate, home
or overseas student. The Union also extends
the advice service to staff and Academic
visitors. Currently there is one Adviser in
the office and she will try to be of assistance
on any issue or suggest a referral if
appropriate.
Your contact with the Union Adviser will
remain confidential at all times and will not
be discussed or divulged to any third party
without your express permission. The
Union Adviser will not disclose the reason
for your call to anyone without your
agreement. This means that your business
will not be disclosed to anyone, not even
College, unless you have agreed to this.
If the need arises, the Union Adviser will
open a personal file for you in order to keep
casework, correspondence and to make
notes. You have the right on request, to see
and read this file. This file remains the
property of the Union Advice Office, and its
contents will not be divulged to any third
party without your express permission. Files
are destroyed 7 years after being opened.
PROBLEMS HANGING OVER TOO?
>tSRA3ION ROUSING.^
Do you need free confidential advice?
Tilt' Union Adviser, Minever kavlak, will
be on holiday until 18/01/94. II" you need
advice during this period contact the
Union Receptionist who can priovde
details of where to go for free &
confidential advice.
If you would like to see the Adviser you can
arrange an appointment at the Students' Union
reception. Appointments are up to a
maximum of 30 minutes, during the following
times:
am pm
Mon 11.00-1.00 2.00-6.30
Tue 10.30-1.00 2.00-5.00
Wed closed 2.00-5.00
Thu 10.30-1.00 2.00-5.0
Fri appointment only
Alternatively, you may obtain advice on 071
589 5111 x3507, during 10.30- 1pm on
Tuesdays, or 2- 5pm on Thursdays.
The Advice Office is closed to callers
approximately 1 and a half days per week.
This allows the Adviser to concentrate on
casework and administrative duties which is
an essential part of the work. Free leaflets
providing information are available in the
Students' Union Office. The Adviser also
provides outreach sessions at Silwood Park
and St. Marys.
Should you have cause to complain or be
unhappy about the service you receive from
the Union Adviser you should state your
grievance in confidence (by letter or in
person) to the President of IC Union. Your
complaint will be investigated and you will
notified of any action to be taken.
If you have any suggestions about the
service or ideas for improvement please feel
free to contact the Union Adviser with your
thoughts. We will do our best to take on
board any ideas or
suggestions which
could improve the
service in
consultation with all
interested parties.
/cu
l\IHhKIAI.C<'l.l.hGt-'(.NIi>N

