Reviews 7
A Perfect World: See that Kevin Costner? That's your dad, that is.
A Perfect
World
Starring: Kevin Costner, Clint Eastwood, TJ
Lowther, Laura Dern
Director: Clint Eastwood
Probably the best film to be released over the
Christmas period was A Perfect World. It's a
road movie set in 1963 Texas, following the
relationship between an escaped convict, Butch
Haynes (Costner) and the boy, Philip (Lowther)
he takes hostage. It is directed by the now expe-
rienced hand of Clint Eastwood, who also stars
as the Texas Ranger sent to catch Haynes. He's
accompanied in this task by a young criminolo-
gist (Laura Dern).
The film's strongest point is the relationship
between Butch and Philip. Philip, a fatherless
Jehovah's Witness who has been denied many of
the joys of life, strikes a chord in Butch who had
also been denied both a caring father and the
joys of youth. As a result Butch becomes a
father figure to his captive.
Even if you're not a Costner fan you have to
be impressed with his performance in this film.
Playing the bad guy, you assume that the acting
will naturally be bad as it's so unlike his other
roles, but Costner fits so easily into the role that
Malice
Starring: Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman
Director: Harold Becker
The director of Sea of Love is back with a new
suspense thriller, set in a town called Malice.
Andy and Tracy Safian (Pullman and
Kidman) are a recently married couple. Andy is
a college dean while his wife works in the local
hospital. Enter Dr Jed Hill (Baldwin), an arro-
gant, self-assured surgeon recently transferred to
the hospital, who just happens to be an old high
school buddy of Andy. Needing the money, the
couple reluctantly take him in as a lodger.
The plot apparently begins with the hunt for
a murderer who is praying on the female stu-
dents at Andy's college; Andy is implicated
when one of his own students is murdered. At
first this seems to be an unoriginal and simplis-
tic story, however a subplot complements an
even more intriguing storyline where the rela-
tionship between the three can only lead to
money, betrayal and deception.
This film is well worth seeing as it has many
unexpected twists as the main plot gathers
momentum.
Kin
it's no longer Kev, but Butch you're watching.
We learn more of Butch's unhappy youth, espe-
cially his hatred of child abusers, leading to
some scary moments later on when he witnesses
situations too close to home.
If the film has a down side it is the seemingly
inconsequential roles of Eastwood and Dern.
They are mostly there to highlight the problems
of punishing juvenile offenders. Eastwood's
character, Red Garnett, was Butch's arresting
officer 20 years earlier, and decided that Butch
would benefit more from a jail spell than the
custody of his broken home. The decision
WliSMBBI
Starring: Kathleen Turner, Dennis Quaid
Director: Herbert Ross
New Orleans, the home of Jazz and Cajun
Chicken, makes a delightfully relaxed setting for
this new laid-back comedy by director Herbert
Ross.
The story concerns the spies for the nineties,
the loving caring parents of a little baby, Mr
and Mrs Blue (Dennis Quaid and Kathleen
Turner). As the film starts, they are on maternity
leave from the FBI but are soon convinced back
into work. Being good parents and not wanting
to leave the baby, they naturally take her along.
Along with the main plot are the side charac-
ters consisting of the stupid cops sent to trail the
Blues, and a street thug called Muerte (meaning
death), who has it in for the Blues and is con-
stantly trying to kill them. These characters are
perhaps not as rich as the Blues but do much as
a sounding board for the Blues own characters.
In the end what makes the film enjoyable is
the whole relaxed nature of the piece, as with
Jeff Blue's casual smugness as far as the local
law is concerned.
Although it could have been a smash action
comedy, the relaxed direction taken makes it a
proved bad with Butch becoming a career crimi-
nal, a fact which adds a black irony to the chase.
This point is unfortunately underplayed; the pur-
suers merely provide the director with a break
from the tale of Butch and Philip.
The real star of the film is TJ Lowther, who
almost upstages Costner and blows the socks off
Eastwood and Dern in their smaller roles. His
repertoire of expressions is endless and his
puppy dog stare would melt even the toughest
hearts. The ending is superbly emotional and
guaranteed to bring a lump to the throat.
Sphen
good film to see if you're looking for something
to do one afternoon.
Sphen
Undercover Blues
Next week: Kurt Russel in Tombstone

