Issue No. 511 Friday, 2nd March. 1979
T H E NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
RECTOR SAYS NO
ON FEES ISSUE
The Rector has stated that accepting the demands of IC Union's
tuition fees campaign is "not on", but he could support a "sensible
national campaign" on the issue.
IC Union is asking College not to increase tuition fees next year and to
charge overseas students the same fees as home students. The cost to
the College would be around £440,000, a sum which the Rector said is
just not available.
External Affairs Officer Sheyne Lucock, organiser of the campaign,
commented afterwards that he had realised that it was unlikely that
College would agree to the Union's demands in full.
He now hoped that a hardship fund for students suffering financial
difficulties because of fee increases could be set up. The campaign
would continue as it was also aimed at trying to influence Government.
He welcomed the Rector's support.
The Rector was answering questions at Monday's IC Union Council
meeting on a variety of issues at the forefront of students' minds.
availability of associated studies,
the Rector made it clear that
departments had a high degree of
autonomy and he could not lay
with
was
Asked about refectories he said
he had personally experienced
food being served not hot
enough, and sympathised
students' complaints. He
trying to improve matters.
Student accommodation was
the subject of another question.
The Rector outlined the efforts
College was making to increase
the number of places in students
r e s i d e n c e . T h e L i n s t e a d
extension was expected to be
ready in 1980, but otherwise the
College was concentrating on
converting older properties.
In response to aquestion on the
failure of most postgraduate
research students to finish their
degrees in three years he stated
that it had always been College's
view that three years was long
enough. The problem would be
looked into very carefully.
The Rector was very much in
favour of increasing the number
of women students in College but
was not prepared to lower entry
qualifications for women. He
believed College had to be made
more attractive to women and he
strongly supported the existence
of ICWA.
Answering several questions on
details such as exam resits,
provision of coffee machines and
down a common policy on several
matters.
Asked about recruitment for
jobs in^South Africa, a subject of
recent concern to the Academic
Affairs Committee, the Rector
agreed that it was reasonable for
the Union to communicate its
views but it should not intimidate
the students involved.
He was against College having
a policy not to allow firms to
recruit for South African work in
College, but would not allowthem
to distribute racialist literature.
The College Careers Advisory
Service could not be expected to
help the Union put forward its
views.
Academic Affairs Officer Roger
Stotesbury told a FELIX reporter
afterwards that he still believed it
was wrong for College to allow its
resources to be used to help firms
which prop up a racialist regime.
Sheyne Lucock said College
should recognise that the Union
represents the views of the
students and take note of its
policy on South Africa.
Asked finally whether he ever
regretted becoming Rector of IC,
Lord Flowers answered "never".
Battle of the Mine 'bottle" rugby match
M I N E S B E A T C A M B O R N E
Last Saturday, at Harlington, Mines beat C a m b o r n e by 15
pts to 3. The rugby m a t c h was described by one player as the
hardest non-dirty game that he had ever played. Before any
points had been scored Mines suffered a major setback when
their centre, S. Andrew, had to be taken off with a broken nose.
However, John Coates was on target with f o u r penalty goals
a n d one drop goal. C a m b o r n e managed to score one penalty
goal although i n the last minutes of the game they came close
to scoring a try but M i n e s had the strength to repulse their
attack.
It had been a hard game with constant pressure from both sides. Each
team was positive that it would win and Mines were overconfident at
the start of the match, but by the second half Mines had C a m b o r n e
reeling back on their heels and Mines knew that by keeping up the
pressure they would win. R S M were helped to victory by the vociferous
support of over 150 people including many staff. It was pleasing to note
that during all the penalty kirks there was silence from both sets of
supporters. O n e member of the crowd described the game as more like a
'battle' match than a bottle match.
The emotive atmosphere is
difficult to describe but for
everyone who experienced the
game the Mines win will be long
remembered. T h e rugby captain
S. Potter was congratulated for
leading Mines to a memorable
victory over Camborne.
Before the rugby, Mines played
Camborne at football. T h e game
opened with an own goal scored
by the Camborne defence and by
half time Mines scored another to
make it 2-0. T h e supremacy of
R S M led many of the supporters
to expect an easy victory. T h e
second half saw a comeback from
Camborne who drew level with a
goal and a penalty. M i n e s were
unlucky no.t to score several times
and left it to the last minute to
score the winning goal m a k i n g t h e
result 3-2. " R S M are magic
. . . C S M are tragic." shouted the
supporters a n d sadly there was
almost a tragic end to the game
for Camborne. T h e C a m b o r n e
goalkeeper was injured while
trying to save Mines' w i n n i n g
goal.
In the evening a sports' dinner
conld. on back page

