Page 10
THE PANCAKE RACE
Last Tuesday, 27th February, the Annual Pancake Race took
place in Beit Quad. The race, between an Executive team and an
ICWA team, is made more arduous by the simultaneous
"testing" of the Union Building's fire hoses. The referee for the
event is traditionally the FELIX Editor, who completes the final
lap in case he/she has managed to remain dry until then!
The water started flowing at noon. Hoses by the main
entrance and from the Dramsoc vantage point, outside their
store-room, covered the front of the Union Building, while the
residents of new Beit, armed with saucepans and waste-paper
baskets showered bystanders on the South side of the quad.
Tansy Hepton had a hose to herself in the entrance to the Union
Bar, but the Botany and Zoology sides remained dry. This was
probably due to the fact that this year onlookers were kept off
the roofs.
The race itself started fifteen minutes late at 12:45. Daphne
Websper and Mark Corrigan were the first to run: the course
being one complete circuit of the quad starting from and
returning to the centre. In addition to the hoses, one of the
hazards encountered on the route was a dustbin-wielding
Bruce Willis.
ICWA cheated first by taking a short-cut to one corner of the
quad from the centre. Their advantage was lost, though, when
some of the Exec, team "held-up" the ICWA runners by Beit
Archway. Despite a pact between Daphne and Andy Lewis to
dead-heat, ICWA finished first. The race is, however,
traditionally a draw since both teams usually manage to get
disqualified.
After the event the two teams retired for a shower and
pancakes before the Exec, left for the U G M at 1:30 p.m. One
late-comer, Mr. Ron Nash of the Nat. West Bank, thinking it was
safe to enter the quad was duly drenched and has sworn that he
"will kill the bastards that soaked him on Tuesday." He knows
Mark Corrigan and Andy Lewis were involved. Beware you
others!!
A slightly damp Exec, arrived for the U G M which started, as
usual, six minutes late.
Photos by John Shuttleworth \
i p r
Liz Lindsay, standing in for Chris Fox, running for the Exec.
mm
8
»
i
' • • :
_
John Harris on the final lap.

