Page 7
Do You Take
It For Granted?
Although it is important to publicize grant anomalies
throughout the student population, appropriate authorities
and the general public, it is absolutely vital to keep sight of the
basic issue, the m a i n rate. O f course, cases of individual
hardship must be pursued vigorously and, in particular,
c o m m o n problems, such as those arising f r o m the Means Test,
need special attention. However, the most important grant
issue for most British students is the m a i n rate and, for IC, the
London rate.
This year the N U S are asking the Government for an increase of 27%
on the main rate, which is at present £1100. This is based on an estimate
of 12% for inflation and a revised assessment of students' costs.
Several aspects of this revision students is travel. There is
are specially relevant to I C
students. The most important of
these are the rent and food
elements. In recent years, these
board and lodging rates have
increased d i s p r o p o r t i o n a t e l y
compared to the overall rate. For
London students in particular,
this has meant even less money for
everything else. Rents in ' the
private sector in L o n d o n have
increased alarmingly and College
and University residence rents are
f i x e d a c c o r d i n g to t h e
appropriate element in the grant.
Hence the residue for travel,
pocket money, books, clothes and
e n t e r t a i n m e n t has b e c o m e
smaller proportionately, lagging
behind inflation.
The other major element of the
grant which is of interest to I C
T h e
BrainDrain
POSTERS
I've had complaints from some societies that people are taking their
posters down, in some cases probably to put on their own walls. Posters
can cost a lot of money, and removing them is a disciplinary offence; if
you want one for your wall, have a bit of patience and wait until the event
being advertised has happened, then you can take as many as you want.
NOISE
I'm sorry that I've had to be so stroppy at parties and concerts in the
Union of late, but we have been visited by the police recently because of
the noise and some local residents have been threatening to take the
Union to court because of it. Hopefully, the use of the Great Hall for
concerts in the future will help the situation, and later on in the year I will
be applying to College for help to noiseproof some rooms, but in the
meantime if you're organising an event in the Union, please turn the
music down when I tell you, otherwise we might be stopped altogether.
REFECTORIES
I notice that there was a letter in last weeks FELIX from someone who
did not support the recent refectory boycott because he finds "the
quality and price quite reasonable". The author of this letter appears to
have given some thought to the issue (unlike, I suspect, the other people
who broke the boycott) and I apologise to him for any comments I made
in a previous article. Since he finds the quality of food satisfactory, it is
presumably the standard he was accustomed to before commg to I.C. I
wish to offer, on behalf of the vast majority of students at I.C., our
sincere sympathy for the pains his alimentary canal must have suffered
over the years and hope that the resulting stomach ulcers are not fatal.
THANKS
Thanks are due to Rugby Club for making an excellent job of washing
down the Union Building, and Adrian, Mike and Howard forvarious help
over the past week.
Malcolm Brain
ICU Deputy President
is travel. I here is a
certain amount (£34) in the grant
for this purpose, and any extra
incurred through commuting,
and travel from home, is generally
paid by the L E A at the end of the
year. This system means that
many students have a lot of
money tied up in season tickets
until the end of the year, which is
o b v i o u s l y a n unsatisfactory
situation.
T h e N a t i o n a l G r a n t s
Demonstration is next Friday,
9th M a r c h , and includes a float
from IC. Everyone interested in
the grants issue, which means all
I C students should take part and
anyone prepared to help with the
float should contact me.
T i m Hillyer
External Affairs Committee
Elk's Epistle (5)
ELECTIONS (of the Sabbatical kind)
These tributes to the democratic structure of Imperial College Union
are taking place by college wide ballot on the 12th and 13th March
(Monday and Tuesday). The point of this little bit of prose is that if you
know for some reason that you're not going to be in college on those
days (and it has to be a good reason) then you can have a 'postal' vote.
The details of this haven't been worked out yet, but if you come up and
tell me next week, I should be able to tell you what you have to do.
A n d talking of sabbatical elections, we need people to man ballot
boxes on 12/13th March for 1 pound /hr. from 1 0 a m - 5 p m , ifyou fancy
earning some easy money, just come up to the Union Office and tell Jen.
HUSTINGS
The hustings for the saboatical elections occur on Thursday 8th
March at 1 pm in the Great Hall. It's easily the best way of finding out
who are the best candidates for the various positions and I urge you to
attend. You can ask any candidate any question you might think
relevant, so it's an opportunity not to be missed! Lectures, lab, seminars
etc. for the 2:30 - 3:30 period are all cancelled so you can stay until 3:30.
If you're not certain who to vote for - make sure you don't miss it!
STV
No it doesn't stand for Sex Televised Vertically or Southern
Television it stands for single transferable vote and it is a method of
voting by which instead of voting for one person you place all the
candidates in an order of preference, using numbers 1,2,3 etc.... I'll
explain the full ramifications (what?) of it all next week...same time,
same channel).
Mike Elkin
ICU Hon. Sec.
MARY MUTTERS
Ever since Sonia has been
visiting me to collect news
stories she has pinched all the
useful information. Now I
can't sound very important
by writing about all the
wonderful things I have been
doing (well at least not
without repeating what is
elsewhere in F E L I X ) .
Other than hiding under my
desk every time the media appear,
another solution to this problem is
for me to investigate new topics
and tell interesting stories.
M y first new story is the full
unexpurgated facts (why should
M i k e have all the sex stories?) of
the meeting held between myself,
four members of the Union's
P e r m a n e n t W o r k i n g P a r t y
(who?), C a p t a i n Lindley (College
D o m e s t i c S e c r e t a r y ) . M r .
Mooney (Refectory Manager)
and three managers of individual
refectories.
We discussed a fascinating
report prepared by P.W.P. based
on surveys of the refectories they
did before Christmas. The report
contained such gem comments as
"About 50% of those asked were
satisfied that the quality of food teas up
to the standard expected from
Inirersity refectories. However, the
majority agreed there to be room fin
improvement. Apparently many of the
"satisfied" 50% were actually only
"resigned" to the fad that they could
expect no belter".
Lots of useful information and
hopeful developments came out of
the meeting. These included:
l . Coleslaw in the U n i o n Lower
refectory will contain onions (to
give it more taste) in future as an
experiment.
2. Fried eggs will be introduced
into the U n i o n Lower Refectory.
3. T h e i n t r o d u c t i o n of a
"students' salad" (i.e. a cheap
one) will be investigated for
Southside refectory.
4. A l l vegetables and fruit are
brought fresh from Covent
Garden Market on Tuesday and
Thursday morning (except some
frozen veg.)
5. Custard in Sherfield L o w e r
refectory may not contain enough
sugar and is t© be investigated.
6. New suppliers of beefburgers
are being looked into, after
complaints.
7. Overhead infra-red heaters are
to be introduced in some
refectories in the next 2-3 weeks,
i.e. food may be too hot!
8. Vegetarian (cheap) m a i n
courses will be looked into.
It was quite a useful meeting
and we hope in future that the
complaints and suggestions sub-
committee of the Refectory
c o m m i t t e e w i l l meet more
regularly and informally in order
to take up specific complaints.
The only thing I should end on
is a warning about cornish
pasties . Apparently they are
specifically designed to have as
little meat content as possible! So
don't complain.
M o r e stories next week.
Don't forget Hustings on
, Thursday. Y o u get until 3.30 p.m.
off from lectures. See you on the
I Great H a l l .
M a r y Attenborough
I C U President

