Page 9
Day B y D a y
1 A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS Jilt? ,
«
5 SfSlft
Wednesday 21st
British Leyiand use Biggs for advert
The latest poster advertising the Mini states
that the Mini nips in and out like Ronald
Biggs. T h e advert is part of a £400,000 -
advertising drive by British Leyiand. Austin
Morris denied charges that the campaign
glorified crime.
The Biggs poster is one of three being
exhibited throughout the country on 300
sites. T h e other two say "More gripping than
Agatha Christie" and "Better in jams than
strawberries."
Ronald Biggs was involved in "The Great
Train Robbery" that took place o n 8th August
1963.
Thursday 22nd
Budget will be tough
A budget described in Whitehall as "strict"
is to be unveiled by the Chancellor on April
3rd. Increases in the price of tobacco, drink
and petrol are expected, which could amount
to at least 30 p on a bottle of whisky, I p on a
pint of beer and 2 and a half p. on a packet of
cigarettes.
NUPE urge rejection of 9%
The executive of N U P E , which represents
at least half of the council workers,
recommended rejection of the fatest pay
offer. Mr. Alan Fisher, general secretary,
recommended acceptance of the offer, which
applied to local government, health service
and ambulance workers.
Get a degree for £10!
...with a reduction of £2 if two degrees are
required. This is provided by a firm in S a n
Francisco. T h e Universal Life C h u r c h at
Modesto in California enables school
caretakers or dustmen who fancy becoming
bishops or even cardinals to do so for as little
as £2.50.
Luxuries for The Queen
A special toilet costing £150,000 w a s
installed for the Queen's visit to a racecourse
in Qatar.
Friday 23rd
Owen angers strikers
Dr. David Owen strode across a civil
servants' picket line outside the Foreign
Office, declaring "/ have great pleasure in
crossing this picket line. This is one of the
most irresponsible strikes I have ever seen."
The pickets were junior and middle-grade
civil servants who were holding a 24 hour
strike in support of a pay claim.
Radiation Leak at hospital
Liquid radioactive waste leaked from a
container in a store at Essex County
Hospital's radiotherapy department. Hospital
staff are undergoing tests at Harwell Atomic
energy centre. The radioactive material used
in clinical diagnosis could cause cancer and
associated illness, and could be spread by
people touching contaminated surfaces.
There is, however, thought to be no
immediate danger to health.
Man's abuse of world could change climate
Scientists ended their world climate
conference in Geneva with the warning that
significant climatic changes could occur
within 10 years if mankind continues to
disregard his environment. If man continues
to burn fossil fuels and cut down forests at the
present rate, the increased Carbon Dioxide in
the air would gradually raise the planet's
average temperature.
Saturday 24th
Soviet naval threat to China
Sources in Tokyo state that there has been
a steady build-up of the Russian Pacific Fleet
in the East China Sea. 11 Russian surface
fleet u nits are already at sea after leaving their
base at Vladivostock. Many nuclear-powered
missile submarines are o n patrol within
sailing distance of Vietnam.
Japanese sources believe that the threat
exists that theKremlin may lose patience with
China's war against Vietnam and may decide
itself to take "punitive action" against the
Chinese perhaps by blockading Chinese sea
traffic.
Concorde bill written off
The British Airway's £160 million bill for its
fleet of five Concordes has been written off by
the Government. In return British Airways
has agreed to hand over to the Treasury 80
per cent of the running profits of Concorde
flights.
Monday 26th
Callaghan intends to hold on until the autumn
The Prime Minister was interviewed on
"Panorama", this evening. H e said that an
election should be held every five years, and
that the Government's term would be up in
October.
Speaking about the strikes and their threat
to the economy. Mr. Callaghan said he was
hopeful that the level of pay settlements this
year would be lower than last. This would
mean something below 15 per cent.
Scientists less interested in eclipse
The last total eclipse to be seen in North
America this century interested American
and Canadian citizens but scientists w h o
have obtained much information from the
Sklab project were less concerned about
carrying out experiments than during the last
total eclipse.
People in Britain's West Country will see
the sun totally eclipsed by the moon on A u g
11, I999.
BBC urge Unions to accept news cameras
News cameras using video tape instead of
film have been "blacked" by the B B C unions.
The great advantage of the lightweight
electronic news-gathering equipment (ENG)
is that it cuts out time-wasting film
p r o c e s s i n g . P i c t u r e s a r e r e a d y f o r
transmission as soon as the vidoo tape can be
transported back to base.
The unions have objected because they
fear that the use of E N G could ultimately
mean loss of jobs. ITV, w h o deal with a
different Union, have not been allowed even
to begin experimental operation.
At Imperial College S T O I C have been
using cameras using video tape for several
years.
Sunday 25th • T u e s ( i a y 27th
USA criticises China over invasion
Chinese forces continued to press south-
wards o n three fronts in northern Vietnam.
Mr. Michael Blumenthal, the American
Treasury Secretary who is visiting Peking,
sternly rebuked his hosts for launching the
invasion. H e declared that "even limited
invasions risk wider wars and turn public
opinion against the transgressor."
Russians send armoured divisions to
Bulgaria
Diplomatic sources in Sofia and Belgrade
state that the Russians have sent three
armoured divisions, each consisting of about
10,000 men, to Bulgaria. Joint Russian-
Bulgarian manoeuvres were held in 1978 and
a "sea-bridge" was recently completed to link
Russia with Bulgaria across the Black S e a by
means of huge ferryboats.
Yugoslavia has reacted to the arrival of the
troops by moving armoured units to the
Bulgarian frontier.
Miners accept pay offer
The National Union of Mineworkers voted
• 15-10 to accept the National Coal Board's
offer which could eventually bring rises of
upwards of 10 per cent. T h e settlement
includes a productivity agreement.
Iran Oil from Monday
Iran is to export oil again from Monday. The
new managing director of the Iranian Oil Co.,
Mr. Hassan Nazih, announced today that Iran
would be selling oil at between $18 and $20 a
barrel. This compares with the present opec
price of about $14 a barrel.
Woman sues over abortion failure
A mother sued a Harley Street surgeon for
damages for breach of contract and
negligence because an abortion operation
| did not work.
i She claims that as a result of having the
ibaby she has suffered anxiety, distress and
sorrow and was unable to continue a course
;at a teacher's training college.

