Thursday, December 10, 1970 FELIX Page 5
Z A P 11 R E C O R D S . .
Emerson, Lake and Palmer.
(Island 1LPS 9132)
(otherwise—'Egotrip' by
Keith Emerson)
This album is magnifi-
cent. LISTEN T O IT—I
can't really do it justice.
Side one has three tracks
each emphasizing one mem-
ber of the group although
Emerson is plainly evident
on all three. Side two begins
with some dramatic work on
the Royal Festival Organ
by Emerson who then flips
through some brilliant piano
playing to a track called
Tank. This track is good—I
played it at a disco the day
it was released and people
got so involved with it they
even danced with it.
The whole album is one
of involvement; subtle, per-
suasive with sudden excite-
ment, the music absolutely
refuses to be ignored.
Keith Emerson was asked
(why the Nice split up. 'Be-
cause on 'Five Bridges
Suite' we had gone as far
as we could.' Well O.K. but
on this album Emerson has
both gone back a way and
forward again to reach new
heights. With Greg Lake on
,bass (ex King Crimson) and
Carl Palmer (ex Atomic
Rooster and Crazy World
of Arthur Brown) Keith
Emerson has produced a
startling new album with
the influence of the Nice
showing only subtely. There
are only a few well placed
A N D F I L M S
electronic gimmicks like
occasional drum phasing and
a Moog synthesiser; and the
vocals are rare, which per-
haps is as well since they
tend to be weak.
It has been said (Island
press release) that 'Emerson,
Lake and Palmer are poten-
tially the most important
group to emerge in the world
this year'. I agree, they cer-
tainly have the potential,
between them they play or-
gan, piano, bass, guitar,
drums, Moog and an assort-
ment of other noise and
rhythm makers. I hope all
the potential hasn't yet been
fully realized, the second
.album is already planned,
J for one will be waiting for
it.
Figures, Scrooge
and the LFF.
Joseph Losey has not fared well with film distributors recently. "Secret Cere-
mony" was well received, but hardly found its way out of London. The American
distributor apparently thought it too ambiguous for the audiences there, and accom-
plished a mixture of surgery and addition. Losey's work is not the only to suffer in
the USA. Peter Hall's "Three Into Two Won't G o " '. . . had ambiguities about Miss
Geeson's character and motivation . . . clarified for T V audiences in a prologue in
which officials explain why they are looking for the girl.'
It seems surprising that the film makers seldom have much say over alterations
to their finished work. Joe Losey describes film direction as 'total freedom to make
something for someone else to destroy', but he should be better treated with his latest
film, "FIGURES IN A LANDSCAPE" which opened in London recently. Barry
England's novel, on which it is based, tells of the desperate flight of two escaped
prisoners-of-war" across 400 miles of alien territory. The chief menace is a helicopter,
seldom far away, directing their pursuers ever nearer, the pilot playing a brutal and
cynical game as the helicopter swoops low like a mechanical bird of prey whose only
interest is to harass.
In the film the two fugitives, Ansell and MacConnachie are played by Malcolm
McDowell, who previously appeared in "If . . .", and Robert Shaw, who also adapted
the book for the screen. Losey thought the book's ending, in suicide just before in-
evitable capture, 'unduly pessimistic—such a film would be futile' and the film ends
in AnselPs escape over the friendly border as MacConnachie, overcome with hatred,
turns back to shoot at the approaching helicopter; shots where the reply is his death.
The tension achieved in the book, and the film, largely derives from the lack of
specified cause, time and place. If anything, the film seemed to give away a little
more, and perhaps this contributed to the screenplay's often falling short of the book's
intensity. However, the menace of the helicopter, sometimes observed from within, but
more often from the perspective of the fugitives, is superbly captured. One can only
admire the actors' nerve during the shooting of scenes in which their fear could hardly
have been much less than quite genuine.
The LONDON FILM FESTIVAL is something of a model film festival. Ticket
prices, at 10/-, are favourable compared with West End cinemas. It is far from a black
tie scene, selection of films is unrelated to national quotas or likewise irrelevant cri-
teria, and it is non-competitive. Thus, from its inception 13 years ago it has avoided
the eruptions and accusations of festivals elsewhere.
This year's festival, which finished last week seems to be well up to par. For the
cinema-goer it is a chance to see what is usually the first screening of a film in London,
and one may often wait a year or more before further public screening. Unfortunately
with so many films concentrated into only a fortnight, one can only sample.
"DEEP END", an English film by Polish director Jerzy Skolimowski, reminded
me of "Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush". It too is about the problems of grow-
ing out of adolescence, and is quite engaging. The humour and confident progression
of the story should assure its release, and it's well worth looking out for
"QUIET DAYS IN CLICHY" has already been refused a certificate by the B B F C
and hopes of a G L C licence seem improbable. Hence you're unlikely to see this adap-
tation of the story by Henry Miller except on the club and film society circuit. The
lechery of Joey, Miller's self portrait, and Carl in Paris, accompanied by the apt music
and lyrics of Country Joe, and, apart from Joey, handicapped by generally poor and
contrived acting, is shown without the slightest regard to sensibilities and decorum. This
is a film to disturb the squeamish and to outrage Mrs. Tilney and fellow travellers. Often
disjointed, and perhaps overlong, nevertheless a blue movie with artistic merit!
Whilst the London Film Festival is a forum where distributors can look out for
films they think potentially profitable (however exasperating their frequent myopia re-
garding the market), there are some films which presumably can't go wrong in the box
office. "SCROOGE", obviously released as a pantomime-substitute, based on Dickens'
" A Christmas Carol", is such a candidate. Rifi reports that, unlike many musicals in
which dialogue and set-piece songs form a hapless concoction, the screen-play and
direction of "Scrooge" have led to an excellent integration of the spoken and sung.
Albert Finney, in the title role, should receive special praise, promulgating the dis-
covery that the actor with restricted singing ability will often give the more convincing
characterisation. Rifi also mentions the excellent portrayals by Edith Evans, as the
Ghost of Christmas Past, David Collings as Bob Cratchit and Richard Beaumont as
Tiny Tim, but found Kenneth More's Ghost of Christmas Present disappointing.
JOHN ACKERS
SANTANA ABRAXA
(CBS 64087) i
If you haven't turned on
to, got in to, or heard San-
tana yet, you are badly mis-
sing out. Their first album
came out a year ago and was
held as a priceless possession
by its owners at that time;
the second album is as good.
It's not the same yet it's not
entirely different, it's not
better, it is certainly not
worse. Whereas on their first
album Santana seemed to be
introducing a new sound to
Rock, they now seem to be
introducing a new atmos-
phere.
Some of the tracks, par-
ticularly 'singing sinds, cry-
ing beasts' seem to pervade
the room and your mind with
the gentleness and peace of
.a warm summer's day on
the beach, but all the time
/with an underlying menace
maintaining excitement and
interest. Some of the tracks
are straight Latin jazz/Rock
like the first album but
again—with something else
atmospheric, intangible al-
most ethereal, added.
Muchly recommended al-
bum.
I don't enjoy reviewing
good albums—prefer just
listening to them—so we re-
peat last week's invite—come
up and listen to the music—
either 577 Selkirk or at Disco
T or OCTOPUS SOUNDS
INC. playing in and around
college.
Now by way of a change
—here are some quick re-
views of recent bad records.
Melanie—Ruby Tuesday—
pretentious rubbish.
Free>—The Stealer—ridic-
ulously unoriginal.
Dave Edmond—I hear
you knocking—boring.
Most the Hoople—Mad
Shadows — Don't know,
haven't heard it yet.
Neil Young—After the
Gold Rush — heard one
track, heard it all.
Pink Floyd—Atom Heart
Mother—sounded like I need
a new stylus.
Curved Air—Air Condi-
tioning—I did need a new
stylus.
Voices of East Harlem—
didn't even bother looking
at the title.
Some girl came up to the
Disco last week and said
'Have you got Clarence
Carter—Patches?'
'No' I said.
'Thank God' she said.
More next issue,
CHRIS A N D T I M .
P.S. Sorry we haven't re-
viewed Pentangle and John
Rembourne as promised,
but due to the organisation
of this stupid newspaper they
won't be out before this has
to be printed.
THE THEOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY
50 Gloucester Place
London WIH 3HJ
has no obligatory beliefs
except that of universal
brotherhood.
Each man must seek
truth for himself
— with an open mind.
The Society is a religio-
philosophic one and arran-
ges lectures, discussions,
study groups & home-study
courses. It seeks guidance
in the great concepts of
THEOSOPHY that have
been the inspiration and
impetus of the great philo-
sophers and religious teach-
ers of all time.
The Society has a very fine
library on philosophy, com-
parative religion, psychism,
yoga an mysticism.
For book lists, introductory
leaflets, programmes,
please write to the
above address.
Arthur Andersen & Co. are looking . . .
for graduates who are seeking rapid career
development in a fast growing international firm
of chartered accountants. Your career development will
be based on training . . . training in management consulting,
international tax, modern auditing and
financial management.
They will welcome . . .
an opportunity for a discussion with you. If you are
considering a professional career. They are looking
for future partners and would expect you to earn more
than £4,000 within five years. Starting salaries for
1971 graduates will average more than £1,300.
For further information on career prospects and training
facilities with Arthur Andersen & Co. in their
London, Manchester, Glasgow and Dublin Offices,
or to arrange an interview, please contact:
David Steel
St. Alphage House
2 Fore Street
LONDON E.C.2.

