Page 6 F E L I X Thursday, December 10, 1970
K E N S I N G T O N C O M M U N I T Y
T H E S O U T H
2. I am the ents man
I am the walrus
This is the second article in the series and the writers invite
constructive criticism and comment. Let us know about whom
you wish to know more and any specific questions that may
be answered.
The varied and prolific range of entertainments offered in
Kensington seemed too formidable a task for an exhaustive
study; therefore we selected one cinema, one theatre and a
discotheque to work on. This provided an insight into ithe
behind-the-scenes activities of the establishments visited and
also some knowledge of the bosses behind the 'show'. One
could even say we took a statistical sample of three.
Studio '68 — ST. MARY ABBOTS
THEATRE
"It's five minutes to five—the appointment was for five
o'clock, was it not? Well would you mind waiting here while
I finish up what I'm doing at the moment?"
This stickler for propriety was M r . Robert Henderson, the
Artistic Director, whose stern and austere nature did not
facilitate our informal conversation.
The studio usually puts up premiers of plays acted out
by the students at the school of drama there, and the writers
are invited to discussion with the actors and the guest artists.
The decision on what play to put on is made by the two
directors and the guest artists.
Born in Annarbor, Michigan in 1904, he sports a mid-
Atlantic accent and a Ph.D. Robert has lived in New York
for twenty years and is something of a celebrity even this side
of the Atlantic.
"I suggest you have a look in the British 'Who's Who',
you will find a column and a half about me in it."
His string of successes as director and actor include such
famous plays as 'South Pacific', 'Night to Remember', 'School
for Scoundrels' and Tobacco Road'. He also starred as
Superintendent Nicholson in the stage version of 'Ned Kelly'.
He doesn't approve of audience participation and thinks it
is a passing phase; a well constructed play has and always
will have more effect than stray actors making lines (he's
obviously been to R.C.S. Smoking Concert).
A t the moment the Studio is working on 'Bar in Tokyo
Hotel', a slapstick tragedy by Tennessee Williams. The stu-
dents at this institution come from all over the world, from
very different backgrounds and have to withstand the rigor-
ous training they get in Classical Technique, improvisation,
the study of Classic roles, movement and speech control. It
is a three year course they have to do and are expected to
appear on stage right from the beginning, together with pro-
fessional actors. They realise that the profession is over-
crowded and that the cost of running a theatre is higher than
ever. But they are not worried about this and don't think
there will ever be a drift away from the theatre.
Mr. Henderson and colleague.
Inside the Pheasantry . . .
The interview came to an abrupt halt at 5.20 p.m. . . .
The Pheasantry Club
This club is located centrally on Kings Road and as its
location suggests, it caters mainly for 'trendies'. It is a disco-
theque, but a restaurant and bar facilities are available at
"reasonable" prices.
Mr. Sam David is the manager and makes no bones about
the fact that he is in the business only for the money, and has
foregone pleasantry to this end. The decor is reminiscent of a
bomb shelter and no attempts are made at hospitality: just
a brusque and impersonal greeting as they pocket your
money.
Despite the fact that it is a discotheque, live groups are
often featured. Music-lovers note that the music played is
teeny bopperish to the extreme and 'heavy' sounds are not
featured. Jazz or folksongs are sometimes played.
If any unruly or troublesome behaviour breaks out the
fuzz are immediately summoned; no shadows of bouncers
mar this convivial scene. "There have been no fights here
(touch wood) for the past two years." This lack of unruly
behaviour is probably due to the fact that applicants for
membership are scrutinised before they are bestowed this
honour. They are then subject to a membership fee of 4 gns.,
and pay 10s. entrance for every visit. They can then enjoy
the wonderful music, bar facilities (double whiskey lis.) and
the restaurant (six oysters for 12/6) with its attractive wait-
resses, up to 2 a.m.
Mr. Sam David escorted us round the establishment which
was rather deserted on a Tuesday night ("it is very crowded
on weekends"). This bearded gentleman with a foreign accent
was always the businessman who remarked about the reason-
Shekhar (right) in the projector room
. . . and one of the waitresses
ableness of his prices and how much better his establishment
was compared to others. (No—he was not an East African
Jew!). His act of the professional charmer had procured
over one thousand members and he left it to them to per-
petuate the club and did not believe in advertising.
The Kensington Odeon
This cinema on High Street Ken is not just a place for a
quiet snog with your girlfriend (boundary conditions); it is an
institution. Most Kensington residents regard it as their own
local cinema from the local shopkeepers and students right up
to the top brass in the film world including the director of
Rank Organisation. (Soc Soccers note).
But this institution is coming down! Though renovated
only six to seven years ago a plan exists to tear down itha
whole kaboodle and build a new hotel, with two cinemas.
This might offer more choice of viewing but in the years it
will take to build this rather ambitious structure (if one
knows the British Workman) the people will be left with no
cinema at all.
Mr. Pearce, the manager, seems rather saddened at this
prospect as he has become rather attached to the place, but
sheer business sense must override sentiment. After all, the
forecourt alone is worth £100,000 and in these days when
real estate in the city is at a premium we must step aside for
progress.
A tall, genial family man with three children, M r . Pearce
has been in the cinema for 30 years—three years at the Ken.
Odeon. He started off playing the organ at what the Ameri-
cans call a nickle-odeon. After the war it was suggested that
organ players actually kept people away and the practice de-
clined. He then turned to management and hasn't looked
back since.
The two principal releases in this country are made by
Rank and A B C each week. These are circulated in North
London, then the South, and finally all over the country. The
trend these days is to show historical films, although a few
films about American youth are doing commercially well at
the moment. The manager doesn't have much say in the
choice of films he shows, but what he does have is freedom
in the choice of films for special presentation. The Kensing-
ton Odeon has been showing a few old films for a one day
run between major releases and these have proven to be very
successful.
There is very little contact between the Censor Board and
the managers. It is usually the film-makers who are interes-
ted in this curious body. The secretary of the board, John
Trevelyan is considered to be T H E CENSOR, although the
name Lord Harlech is familiar to everyone.
Mr. Wheeler is the projection manager and certainly knows
his job. He clued us in on the physical principles used in the
making of projectors as well as the transformation the pro-
jector room has gone through in four decades. This informa-
tion was well spiced with good humour, which gave him a
head start on any of our lecturers.

