Thursday, December 10, 1970 F E L I X Page 7
S h a p e o f t h i n g s t o c o m e E N G . S O C
Educational Thoughts from Steve Cooke.
1960's
The Educational System of this country is perhaps the
main factor in the preservation of our abominable class-
system. Born into a working class family and your education
will more than likely be primary — secondary — leave at
16 and remain in working class. Born in the upper middle
class family and your education will more than likely be pri-
vate preparatory school — public school — University and
remain in upper middle class. Basically the working class
pupil has a chance to do well by either passing the atrocious
11 plus (an institution we can well afford to do without) or
by working very well during the secondary education — by
no means an easy task; the private and public school educa-
tion wins here for no matter how intelligent you are, provided
your parents have the money then you can travel the simpje
path up the educational ladder completely avoiding the 11 + .
However the narrow mindedness of the system doesn't end
here. It is extremely difficult, in many cases impossible, for
middle aged people to take advanced courses and in fact no
incentive exists for the average person to leave his job for a
year or so to study. Admittedly the Open University may
bridge this gap a small way but there are many other forms
of education difficult to receive and then, of course, there's
always the financial problem.
Grants are awarded by Local Educational Authorities for
students on higher educational courses. A simple and good
idea in theory; however in practice it is largely abused by the
co-called 'means test'. Under this system the more the parents
earn the less grant the student receives down to the minimum
(£50) grant i.e. it is the poor students who can easily survive
economically during their course and the students in sup-
posedly 'better off' families that suffer financially because
their parents cannot or will not pay their contribution. The
student is of course perfectly entitled to take his parents to
court to claim their grant contribution, however this could
lead to family friction!
1970's
So what is to be done far education in the laite nineteen
seventies. One thing is certain, a major change to a compre-
hensive system must and will take place soon. This is* a
change for the better but it is not complete as at present
planned. The Tory Government have called a temporary
halt to this change and now is the time to give it a bit more
thought. Taking into account that everyone should receive
the education that they require and that there should be op-
portunities for anyone to leave or join the sytem at will it is
relatively easy to see that the simplest form of education
would be the following.
Up to five years old play school would be available for at
least two half-day sessions a week. A l l Monte Sore and pre-
.sent play schools and recreational groups would be eligible
What's o n ?
Today, Thursday, 10 December
D R A M S O C : "Juno and the Paycock" by Sean O'Casey.
20.00, Concert Hall. Tickets on the door 3/6. 4/6, 5/6.
SCOUT & G U I D E : Modern weapons as used by the British
Army. 12.30, Mines 303. AH welcome.
Friday, 11 December
D R A M S O C : "Juno and the Paycock" (last night). 20.00,
Concert Hall. Tickets at the door 3/6, 4/6, 5/6.
FILMSOC: Delphine Seyrig and John Abbey in "MISTER
F R E E D O M " , Charles Denner and Daniel Gelin in " L A
T R E V E " . 19.15, ME220. Guest tickets in advance from 436
Tizard or 528 Linstead.
Monday, 14 December
W E L L S O C : "Are Machines Taking Over?" Find out 1930,
M E 220.
Tuesday, 15 December
F I L M SHOW F O R K A R N I V A L : Joseph Strick's controver-
sial film of Joyce's "ULYSSES". 2 shows (possibly 3). Look
out for more details soon.
C H R I S T I A N SOCIETIES O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
UNITE! Sing a "Karol for Karnival" in the West End. Meet
19.15 Union Lower Lounge, and bring an instrument if pos-
sible. Soup provided afterwards.
Thursday, 17 December
W E L L S O C F I L M N I G H T : " T H E F.B.I. STORY"—another
load of corn 19.30, M E 220.
Friday, 25 December
Christmas (Merry).
for grants from the Government. No Fees. Non-compulsory
attendance.
School level 1. From 5 years onwards until age 13. This
course provides the basic school work as at present but from
age 11 to 13 academic records of students are kept and de-
pending upon how the student does he will be placed in either
a 2 year or a 3 year stream to the level 1 examinations (O-
level). The 3 year stream covers ground in more practical
subjects—needlework or metalwork whereas the 2 year
stream will deal mainly with academic subjects.
At completion of this stage the student is free to leave the
system if he so desires i.e. at age 15 or 16 and from this stage
onwards the system becomes highly flexible. The principal
idea being that a student would be welcomed to level 2 from
level 1, or after a year V.S.O. say or after 15 years as a lorry
driver.
School level 2. Age flexible. Non compulsory attendance.
No fees. This is a three year course leading to a secondary
level certificate—obtained on course work on any subject
(maximum 5). A t this stage only students who have done
sufficiently well at level 2 will be permitted to travel to level
3. It would be encouraged for a student to do a year or so or
any length of time in industry or business in the subject he
intended to pursue at level 3.
School level 3. Age flexible. Non compulsory attendance.
No fees. Students at the level 3 educational establishment 'the
comprehensive university' would be given a weekly wage of
£15, out of which they would be expected to pay N.H. Con-
tributions etc., but which is tax-free. Entrance qualification
would be a pass at level 2.
So where does the money come from? In the long term
from the student as part of income tax there would be edu-
cational tax i.e. taxing those students who have lived off
others for a certain time this would probably be in the region
of 6d. in the £1 for level 3 education. In the short term in
addition to the educational allowance taken out of the in-
come tax it would be necessary to raise taxes or rather sort
tiiem out. Ideally ithe ntinimum taxable amount ought to rise
to at least £650 and after that rise to a standard tax at level
£1200 of 9/6 in the pound. This would have little or no effect
on anyone earning up to say £2000 and would add an extra
£60 to someone earning £3000 and an extra £1000 to some-
one earning £11000. This would in fact adequately support
the system and fairly finance it.
This resume has been greatly shortened and I've had to cut
some sections. I hope to cover 'the Comprehensive University'
in an addition to 'the Cultural Revolution.'
p o s t m a n
"3tf tijep siut j>ou lintb paper;
toritt trje oilier toap."
F A B E R P R I Z E
In 1943, Dr. Oscar Faber, O B E , a well known member of
the Civil Engineering staff, endowed the Society with a sum
of £200 to be invested in trust, the annual interest of which
was to provide a prize—to be known as the F A B E R P R I Z E
—to be offered annually for the best student paper presented
before the Society.
The object of the Prize is to encourage students to take an
active interest both in the Engineering Society and in writing
papers and presenting them before the Society for discussion.
At the moment, the annual prize amounts to £8, but the
winner also receives the distinction of " F A B E R P R I Z E -
M A N " , and this fact is included in the student's academic
record. The winning paper is usually published in "Spanner".
A l members of City and Guilds College Union are invited
to submit papers which can discuss any subject connected
(however vaguely) with engineering. For example vacation
training, group or individual projects, and topics prepared
for colloquia all make excellent subject material. The paper
should be less than 3,000 words, and suitable for presenta-
tion in about twenty minutes, as the best three papers will be
presented at a meeting of the Engineering Society in the
Spring Term. Entries should be submitted by 5th February,
1971, to the Chairman, Barry Brooks, Elec. Eng. 3.
Papers are assessed in two parts:
(1) for technical content, by the Dean and City and Guilds
College, Prof. A . W. Bishop, PhD, FICE, who will co-opt
other members of staff as necessary.
(2) for presentation, by the Society.
Recent winning titles have been: "The strength of trees",
"Design of a flying submarine".
Do not hestitate to ask me for further information or
advice. B A R R Y B R O O K S
- A N D MORE
May I first remind all members of C & G Union that they
are members of the E N G SOC, which holds meetings during
Tuesday and Thursday lunchbreaks, organises various visits
on Wednesdays and above all has an Annual Dinner in the
Spring Term.
The Society invites a distinguished engineer (usually from
industry) to be president for each session. This year's Presi-
dent is M r . G. B. R. Feildon, C B E , FRS, who is Director
General of the British Standards Instution. He will be giving
his Presidential Address on Tuesday, 19th January, 1971, en-
titled "Invention, Innovation and Design."
The first meeting of the year was a well illustrated talk by
Dr. Grootenhuis of the Mechanical Engineering Department
on the "Vibration problems in the turbines of the QE2". We
heard a very interesting treatise of the development of the
turbines, their "testing", failure and subsequent analysis. It
proved to be a very good example of the role of the engineer
in industry today.
Our second talk was given by Mr. Haslam, of the U K A E A ,
when we learnt about "The Steam Generating Heavy Water
Reactor". Not only were newcomers to the subject of nuclear
s engineering well catered-for by this excellent lecture but we
became aware of the engineers' socio-economic problems, e.g.
whether or not to replace coal-fired power stations with this
splendid new equipment, with the coal mining industry set
against the idea.
We were very fortunate to hear Prof. Thring of Q M C dis-
cuss "Robots" and show a film of some of his ideas and de-
signs for our third meeting. He too emphasised that it is the
engineers who must think carefully about the effects of their
new ideas on society. He suggested that it was the engineer
who cause large numbers of people to have to work in repeti-
tive, de-humanising conditions as a result of the "industrial
revolution", and that it is up to the engineer to end this by
improving automated production of goods so as to free people
for more leisure.
The rest of this year's programme includes: "The Hover-
train Project" (Tracked Hovercraft Ltd.) on 8th December,
1970; "Developments in Power Engineering (large generating
sets)" (CEGB) on 16th February, 1971; "Helicopters" (RAF)
on 4th February, 1971; "Dams and Reservoirs" (Binnie and
Partners) in March, A N D a scoop to scoop last year's scoop
—details later!
Our visits programme is also developing apace: Rolls
Royce, London Fire Brigade H Q , Concorde at Filton (next
term), Decca Navigator, Road Research Laboratory (Sum-
mer term), a colliery and possibly a brewery.
The big event of the year is the Annual Dinner which will
be held on Wednesday, 10th February, 1971, in the Union
Dining Hall. The success of the evening depends on the num-
ber of students who come along to this affair. We hope to
have quite a few OCs and members of staff as well as guests
from other College's EngSocs.
Remember that the Engineering Society aims to provide
lectures and visits to show students what is being done in en-
gineering in that outside world. Further details of EngSoc
activities can be found on the notice board on Level 3 of
Mech. Eng.

