Page 8 FELIX Thursday, December 10, 1970
MygTERy
T O U R
"Do you want a free lunch? " asked Arthur.
"What's the catch? " I replied, cynically.
"Oh, you've just got to show a group of prospective
students round the college."
"Great — I've always wanted a position of responsi-
bility. Maybe I could con Paul and Andy into helping."
"Just two points," he said, stamping out our names on
Dymo badges. "Show them the steam engines lab 'cos it's
most impressive, and don't over-emphasise the failure rate."
So, stuffing the remains of the fruit-cake and biscuits
into our pockets, we set out on the expedition; first stop the
steam engines lab.
"See that big thing over there — that's a boiler. Impres-
sive, isn't it? "
"Yes," responded a studious-looking character. "What's
this thing here? "
" A h , hmm, yes . . . Andy, what's this? "
"Oh, I think it's a turbine."
"Ah, yes, this is a turbine. Let's go and see something
else. I wonder what's through here . . . er, this is the fluids
lab."
Suddenly I realised I didn't really know the purpose of
any of the systems of ducts, etc. at which some of the more
enthusiastic candidates were gazing interestedly. Quickly, we
hustled them off towards the Applied Mechanics lab. Here
was a place I really knew well and could describe intelli-
gently. Unfortunately, however, there was already a character
there who knew far more about the whole thing than I did,
and I couldn't really say anything.
Wondering what I had ever learned at this place, I
shepherded the herd in the direction of Southside, via the
Union office ("Buy your Carnival tickets here") and the
library.
"This is the library, which lis supposed to be quiet."
"Sshhh".
Arriving at Exhibition Road, the hitherto quiet crowd
suddenly burst into a chorus of questions.
"Do you have to cross this road all the time? "
"Isn't there a subway? "
Important questions indeed.
"This is the South Side Union Building. There's sup-
posed to be a refectory here, but I'm not sure where, because
it keeps moving about."
"What's the food like here? "
" A h , yes, down here is the bar," I rushed on, feeling
thirsty. "I think we've got time for a quick half. Hands up
who wants a drink."
One tentative hand went up, as I realised that most of
the party were probably under 18.
"Still half an hour before the interviews. What would
you like to see? "
No reply.
"Why not show them a typical hall room."
"Good idea."
Just my luck to encounter the housekeeper as I was
about to fit all 14 people into the hall lift! After a brisk walk
across Princes Gardens ("Notice the superb stereo effect.")
we shuffled into the sports centre.
"Down here is the swimming pool — oh no, sorry, it's
the weight-training room. I didn't know we had a weight-
training room."
"Oh, yes."
Andy always did know too much.
And so finally, after braving the traffic again, we rolled
back into the department, ten minutes late due to the clocks
being ten minutes fast, and while I unknowingly ambled off
to consume the contents of my pocket, Andy proceeded to
entertain the girlfriend of one of the candidates while he was
away at the interview.
So if you ever wonder next year why there's nobody in
Mech Eng I . . .
XMAS GIFT
Don't let the ('grass" grow under your feet
*********************
-K
-jc
*
*
l**************************************
*
What do you do with it, you might well ask . . . and a
fair question too, (who wrote this rubbish?) Procure pipe and
insert blade vertically. Light "grass" and take down long
drawers. Blow your balloon on a Felitrip.
Feeligras Inc.
L O O K Y O U
Persons who would like copies of the photos that Felix prints
(or simply manages to take) and / or feel choked about the
Felix financial situation may quell both passions and pur-
chase such photographs. Person to contact - Malcolm Bailey
- Tizard 434,
Gen. Studs.
Currently in progress on Tuesday lunchtimes is a series
of lectures by Kevin Gough-Yates, of the British Film In-
stitute, on the subject of famous film directors. The approach
adopted by Mr. Gough-Yates is to let the films speak for
themselves as much as possible; two or three selected extracts
are shown during each talk, the effect of which is to leave
most people wishing they could have seen the whole film.
The first of the series, on Alfred Hitchcock, was particularly
interesting in that the extracts shown were from some very
early films, including "Blackmail", and the first British-made
"talkie".
The second of the series, on Tuesday 24th, concerned
Jean-Luc Godard, a French director who, although less well-
known to the British public, is considered by Mr. Gough-
Yates to be one of the greatest of all. Two clips were shown,
from films made in the early Sixties, revealing Godard's
somewhat weird approach to filming — using available light
only whenever possible, including very long takes, etc. I came
out of the lecture fascinated, but slightly bemused.
A further series of lectures related to the Cinema has
been given by Kenneth Roland, a director of films on art.
His technique in film-making is to include only shots of the
work of a particular artist, blending together different works
to give a "short" of 10-40 minutes duration on the work of
that artist. The films are accompanied by modern music, but
Mr. Roland prefers to show the extracts in silent form, 'to be
fair to the composers.'
The talks are accompanied by a mixture of rather
badly-mounted slides and short film clips, a technique which
does little for Mr. Warner's blood pressure, and tends to lead
to mishaps and hold-ups. Not recommended as light enter-
tainment, but at least not in French.
P I E R ' S P I E C E
What is the connection be-
tween IC's increasing links
with industry and the Dec.
8 National Day of Strike and
other action by workers and
students against the anti-
union laws and the recent
mini-budget?
Last issue I showed how
the attitudes of the Chief-
tains of Industry who sit on
our Governing Body and
propogate their industrial
links moulded the 'hierarchi-
cal, autocratic, narrow,
money b e f o r e culture'
ethos of IC.
This ethos and these links
— in various aspects —
have been in Imperial Col-
lege since its inception in
1907, but have taken in-
teresting developments in the
last two years.
18 months ago — when
the Parliamentary Select
Committee o n "Student
Relations' visited IC, Lord
Penney — Rector — said he
did not want IC to imitate
industrial factory type rela-
tions and conflicts but pre-
ferred to see 'participation'.
At the same time he, and
the Governing Body, de-
cided to increase IC's links
with Industry.
Not surprisingly, as these
links increased, industrial
methods and attitudes have
been increasingly applied in
IC. Last year a Work Study
(Speed up) was carried out
on the cleaners, and at-
tempts were made to make
them believe it was all be-
cause of the Prices and In-
comes Board. Now the
cleaners are unhappy and IC
is dirty.
I n d u s t r y - orientated
courses have increased in IC
and work-load (or 'modern
detail') has gone up. A n In-
dustrial Liaison Officer was
appointed; Professors were
encouraged to take up indus-
trial Directorships and con-
sultant posts. A private com-
pany (IC Optical Systems
Limited, in Physics) has
been set up — and the pro-
fits are being used to line
the pockets of various people
— instead of for more re-'
search. So these staff and the
others who hold director-
ships and consultant posts
will become more profit-
motivated and 'buy else-
where' rather than 'freely
seeking after knowledge', or
giving you decent lectures.
Recently a Personnel Sec-
retary (Mr. Malone an ex-
N A L G O official) has been
appointed to confuse and
divide the ASTMS, Main-
tenance Men and Clerical
Workers, (who will be en-
couraged — it is rumoured
— to join N A L G O ) . . . M r .
Malone's stalling and 'con-
sultations' might result in a
strike soon. The ICRC
(slandered by Broadshit) is a
way we can organise against
this 'divide and rule'.
The point is all these de-
velopments are an inevitable
result of the pressures of
modern Capitalism (call it
by something else if you
can!) on this College, as are
the mini-Budget and the
anti-union Laws. Who are
the Tories after all if not the
Chieftains of Industry (like
our Governing Body) and
their cronies?

