SCIENCE
FELIX
10
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dr. Riemann’s Zeros
by Karl Sabbagh
And a few suggestions...
You won’t believe it...
This Valentines Day, instead of following your heart
go with your brain. Researchers have identified
a dozen brain regions associated with the feeling
of being in (puppy) love. The regions release neu-
rotransmitters and other chemicals that induce sen-
sations such as attraction and pleasure. And if you
break up before the big day, don’t worry. Scientists
are hoping to treat broken hearts by artificially ad-
justing the levels of these chemicals.
This is the story of a million dollar problem, one that
was created by the famous Dr. Riemann when he
produced an answer to a mathematical conundrum
but without a robust proof to accompany it. Mathe-
maticians have slaved over the Riemann hypothesis,
racing to uncover the truth and prompting the offer
of a million dollar prize for a comprehensive proof. It
all sounds like a slightly melodramatic thriller, and
perhaps this is as close as a popular mathematics
book will get.
Both interesting and informative, Sabbagh’s writ-
ing is the perfect introduction to this area of math-
ematics, leaving the reader with a sense of awe
at the genius of the mathematicians involved. He
paints an exhilarating picture of the discipline, going
some way to expel the myth that maths is boring.
Sabbagh finds exactly the right way of engaging his
audience; after all, making a lot of money in a highly
competitive industry sounds like a dream job, espe-
cially for an Imperial graduate.
Katya-yani Vyas
Magic show success open to
Copenhagan interpretation
Kadhim Shubber
It is somewhat topsy-turvy to say that there are
no mysteries in magic, but plenty in physics.
But as Dr Nic Harrigan, our Master of Ceremo-
nies for the evening (complete with magician’s
attire), explained: all magic tricks are expli-
cable, but not all physics is yet understood.
And no area of physics is as enigmatic and so
begging of explanation than quantum mechan-
ics. ‘Real Tricks: The Quantum Mechanics
Show’ aims to draw parallels between magic
tricks and the quirks of quantum mechanics.
As we settled down for the show, it struck me
that linking quantum mechanics with a magi-
cian’s tricks most adequately demonstrated the
power with which it has to bewilder even the
most skilled physicists; as Richard Feynman
famously opined: “I think it is safe to say that
no one understands quantum mechanics.”
The show had an amateurish charm to it. The
performers were modestly dressed with an ear-
nest enthusiasm for the concepts that they were
explaining.
Although not master magicians, they pulled
off the tricks convincingly enough to elicit
gasps, laughs and whispers of “How did she
do that?” Obviously if I were to Google any
of the tricks, I could quickly ruin the magic for
myself. But the demonstration of quantum en-
tanglement was a genuine puzzler. To demon-
strate the weird connection between entangled
particles, coloured balls were first placed into
soft, velvet bags. They were rubbed together
to ‘entangle’ them and then, from opposite
sides of the room, the performers simultane-
ously pulled the same colour ball from bag.
This demonstrated the peculiar property of en-
tangled particles that allows them to ‘know’the
properties of the other – measure one electron
as spin up and the other will instantaneously
measure as spin down. Initially, I did not sus-
pend my disbelief entirely – perhaps they had
hidden balls in their sleeves? – but when they
repeated it with audience members I was un-
ashamedly stumped.
There were other highlights. Pushing a pencil
through a £1 coin as an analogue of quantum
tunnelling was neat while the explanation of
quantum cryptography – complete with ninjas
leaping out of the audience to steal the ‘data’
– reached the highest standard of educational
entertainment.
However, saying that the show had an “ama-
teurish charm” does not excuse all of its rough
edges. At times the little hiccups distracted the
good-natured audience and Dr Nic Harrigan
could probably have given his co-performers
the courtesy of introducing them on-stage by
name.
But I shouldn’t over-emphasise the little nig-
gles. Judging by the attentive silence and then
outpouring laughter from the audience behind
me, it was certainly a successful evening. Prob-
ably most pleasing was the sight of groups of
children excitedly discussing the physics that
they had seen as they tramped up the aisles out
of the lecture theatre.
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Take two leeches and call me tomorrow
Most of us believe that leeches belong to the
category of the most disgusting and dangerous
creatures of this world. They can, however be
beneficial for people’s health.
Leeches – the word deriving from the old
English word for physician, laece – are mainly
used for treating abscesses, painful joints, glau-
coma, myasthenia, and to heal venous diseases
and thrombosis. They are also used in plastic
surgery and can improve brain circulation.
These medical applications of the leeches are
the main topic of a recent paper published in
the Journal of Postgraduate Medicine last week.
The team of scientists from Ohio State Uni-
versity Medical found that leeches have been
fairly chosen as one of the best assistants to
doctors, from antiquity until now. The authors
say: “Modern leech therapy is based on sound
scientific principles and has resulted in impor-
tant patient care enhancements”.
Let’s look in more detail the behaviour of
those creatures. They have two ways to suck
your blood; either they use a proboscis to punc-
ture your skin, or they use their three jaws
and millions of little teeth to bite their way
in. They live almost anywhere where there is
water. Leeches find you by detecting skin oils,
blood, heat, or even the carbon dioxide from
your breath. Although about 600 leech species
have been identified, only 15 are currently used
in medicine.
But how do leeches know how much blood
the patient should lose during the treatment?
They take in a big amount of blood when they
feed and for this reason they do not feed often.
The European species can consume between
5 and 15 ml of blood in a single feeding (its
American counterpart consumes ten times
less) which is why the European leech is pre-
dominantly used. Usually, doctors use up to 10
leeches so the patient can lose up to 150 ml of
blood during the treatment.
Another question that comes into mind when
learning about leech therapy is whether the
leech bite causes pain. Most patients say that it
feels like 2 or 3 mosquito bites, so don’t worry
too much; it is not painful! Leech saliva also
contains a painkiller, which stops its victim
from feeling the bite, and an anti-coagulant,
which keeps the blood from clotting.
Douglas Chepeha, an ear, nose and throat
surgeon at the University of Michigan, said
that he treats two or three patients a year with
leeches after rebuilding faces or mouths deci-
mated by cancer.
This widespread use of leeches is the reason
that, in Europe, millions of leeches are sold
every year. Sometimes, leeches do a better
job than other medical treatments in remov-
ing pooled blood and help the healing of skin
grafts; something that is well tested over the
centuries.
Many people are afraid of these creatures
crawling on their body and of being bitten by
them, but they have been used since ancient
times, are well tested and nowadays are rou-
tinely used. The Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) has even determined that leeches are
medical devices because they meet the specifi-
cations, as defined by the Food Drug and Cos-
metic Act.
Nature has, once again, provided a solution
to a crucial medical problem.
Is it in the hat? Schrödinger would know
Friday 11 february 2011
“Leeches find you by de-
tecting skin oils, blood,
heat or even the CO2
from your breath.”

