FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Sci-Fi Column
Seeing how I’ve been doing this for a
few weeks now I think it’s high time I
tackled one of the best known science
fiction phenomena out there, Star Trek.
The franchise has been a massive suc-
cess and even most people who aren’t
fans can recognise Captains Kirk and
Picard. My favourite Star Trek show,
however, is a bit more obscure than The
Original Series or The Next Generation;
it is, in fact, Star Trek Deep Space Nine.
The only Star Trek show set on a
space station, this allows it to have far
longer story arcs than those of its prede-
cessors: the heroes couldn’t simply fly
away from the issue of the week at the
end of an episode. Don’t get me wrong,
single episode stories can still be very
good, as was shown by the brilliant Next
Generation, but personally I prefer the
plot to be allowed to grow and develop.
While it has nowhere near the depth of
Babylon 5, which it was initially ac-
cused of copying, the overarching story
is still very satisfying.
All of the Star Trek shows tried to
cover serious issues but Deep Space
Nine does it the best. Who can forget
the powerful examination of the horrors
of war in “The Siege of AR-558”? The
show is also helped by very well de-
veloped, and even morally ambiguous,
characters. Gul Dukat is, in my opinion,
one of the best Star Trek villains ever:
responsible for the brutal occupation of
a peaceful alien planet yet strongly be-
lieving that what he is doing is right and
caring deeply for his daughter. Or take
my favourite character, Garak, a former
spy and assassin who befriends and of-
ten helps many of the main cast and yet
tortures the station’s security chief when
he believes this is necessary to help his
people.
That is not to say that the show is with-
out flaws. It has its fair share of tech-
nobabble and stupid moments. In the
pilot episode, for example, the science
officer was asked by Captain Sisko to
study an alien artefact he’d been given.
This task simply consisted of repeating
the order to the computer and literally
going to sleep for a few hours.
The acting was also often far from
brilliant. While some have praised Av-
ery Brooks’ portrayal of Sisko, to me it
seems that he says most of his lines in a
dull monotone. Nana Visitor and Rene
Auberjonois are good at playing angry
and gruff respectively, which is lucky
as these are their characters’ default
states, but terrible at portraying other
emotions. Auberjonois’ smile in “The
Search”, when his character discovers
other members of his species for the first
time, looks even more fake than Gordon
Brown’s, though admittedly this could
have been due to his makeup.
These issues, however, are all easily
ignored in the face of what is a truly
great show.
Orbit shift led to ancient methane increase
An investigation into the mysterious
rise of methane levels in the atmosphere
over the past 5,000 years has suggested
its causes are natural, not anthropogenic.
Joy Singarayer at the University of
Bristol and colleagues found the Earth’s
rotation, and not agriculture, is likely to
be to blame for the rise in atmospheric
methane concentration in an interglacial
age known as the Holocene, which be-
gan around 10,000 years ago. The study
undermines suggestions that humans
and our agricultural activities were alone
sufficient to influence these concentra-
tions before the industrial era began.
Methane is a greenhouse gas that can
hang around in the atmosphere for up to
15 years. Levels of atmospheric methane
have increased by approximately 150%
over the last past two centuries as a result
of human activity, such as agriculture,
coal mining, and the automotive industry.
Over the latter half of the Holocene,
the concentration of methane in the at-
mosphere rose from 550 to 700 parts per
billion by volume. Whether this increase
was caused by human activity too, in the
form of early rice cultivation and bio-
mass burning, has been the subject of
much debate. Methane measurements
taken from Greenland ice cores sug-
gest the rise might have natural causes
instead, such as increased tropical and
wetland emissions in response to the
warmer Holocene conditions.
In an attempt to show how the increase
might have been provoked by natural
causes such as these, Dr Singarayer and
colleagues reconstructed the ice core re-
cord using models of methane emissions
from wetland and atmospheric concen-
trations caused by natural mechanisms
over the last 130,000 years.
The results, published in Nature,
matched the methane measurements
from the ice cores, indicating the in-
crease in methane levels that began mid-
Holocene were a result of the Earth’s
orbit, alongside increased methane
emissions from wetlands in the Southern
Hemisphere, particularly South Ameri-
ca, caused by weather patterns provoked
by small shifts in the Earth’s rotational
axis. Most importantly, the findings cap-
ture the pattern of decline in methane
A new hypothesis about the lifelong hal-
lucinations of romantic composer Fred-
eric Chopin suggests he suffered from
temporal lobe epilepsy. New research
published in the journal Medial Hu-
manities made this diagnosis based on
eyewitness accounts of Chopin’s friends
and family describing his hallucinatory
episodes.
Chopin was known to have ill health
throughout his life, such as fever, na-
sal blockage and recurrent coughing of
blood. However, his hallucinations were
commonly attributed to his sensitive na-
ture as a creative genius rather than any
neurological or psychiatric disorder.
The researchers, led by Manuel
Vasquez Caruncho of Xeral-Calde Hos-
pital in Lugo Spain, compiled data from
letters, memoirs, and accounts that re-
vealed some common characteristics
of Chopin’s hallucinations. They most
commonly occurred in the evening and
were sometimes the accompaniment of
acute infections and fever. Chopin was
able to recall them in great detail but he
would often become detached from real-
ity during an episode. He suffered from
complex visual hallucinations, in par-
ticular Lilliputian hallucinations, where
the people and images appear smaller
than they are in reality.
Chopin himself recounts an occasion
where these Lilliputian images forced
him to leave the room while playing his
Sonata in B flat minor: “Suddenly, I saw
emerging from the half-open case of my
piano those cursed creatures.” Death was
a recurrent theme of his hallucinations.
Hallucinations are a common symp-
tom of psychiatric conditions such as
bipolar disorder, major depression and
schizophrenia. However, hallucinations
as a result of these are mostly auditory
in nature and so could be ruled out of the
researchers’ diagnosis.
However, temporal lobe epilepsy is a
type of focal epilepsy, where only part
of the brain is affected by seizures, and
is known to produce complex visual
hallucinations. In some cases small ani-
mals and people have been reported,
which is consistent with Chopin’s Lil-
liputian hallucinations. This epilepsy is
also sometimes preceded by psychiatric
symptoms such as anxiety, depression
and sleeplessness, conditions Chopin
Mysterious Chopin list of brain disorders
Thea Cunningham
Polly Bennett
Maciej Matuszewski
emissions in the first 5,000 years of the
Holocene that preceded the increase in
the later half of the period. The team be-
lieves the change in methane levels be-
tween these two halves is a result of dif-
ferences between the size and rate of the
Sun’s solar radiation, along with a lack
of glacial ice in the Holocene period.
Though the findings suggest we ought
not to point the finger at early agricul-
ture for a rise in methane concentrations
before the industrial era, there are still
concerns about how the feedback of
methane in the atmosphere may amplify
global warming. In light of this, further
research is needed to investigate meth-
ane cycles so that we can better under-
stand the release of methane and its in-
volvement with global warming.
Friday 11 february 2011
often commented that he suffered from.
He was also a known insomniac. Finally,
and consistently with the characteristics
of temporal lobe epilepsy, Chopin’s hal-
lucinations lasted from seconds to min-
utes, making the case for epilepsy as his
cause of hallucinations convincing.
Methane emissions from wetlands are increasing – well done wetlands Scientists, like this one holding his big rod, are measuring methane levels
No photochopin here – the composer was known to have hallucinations

