felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Faced with declining paper revenues and stiff
competition from free online alternatives, Ru-
pert Murdoch’s News Corporation made a bold
foray into online publishing last Wednesday
with the release of their subscription-based
iPad-only publication The Daily. The Daily
is one of a handful of publications that exists
solely as an app, a big gamble from a corpora-
tion that has until now been relatively wary of
online media.
The subscription model on which the maga-
zine is based on is very similar to print mod-
els: users can choose to pay $40/year or $0.99/
day for continued updates to material, with a
promise of up to 100 pages of fresh content
every day.
The advantage of the iPad-only nature of
the magazine lies in the fact that it has been
designed to seamlessly interact with HD qual-
ity videos, photo galleries and popular social
networks. Unike many other news publications
with supporting iPad apps, the content doesn’t
mirror material on a more traditional website,
but caters specifically to iPad users.
The move is likely to be watched closely by
other media houses as print revenues dry up.
Murdoch has played up the financial viability
of the move, stating that the monthly invest-
ment on the app is a relatively low $2 million/
month. If it does succeed, it will probably be
Free App of the Week
iOS - Google Shopper
Google Shopper has finally made it to iOS, and now
you get the power of Google’s search for shopping
on the go. Photo, barcode, and voice search. Sorted.
Google Shopper has been on the Android Market for
a while now, and it’s just as good if not better than
on iOS. Price comparison in the palm of your hand.
Android - Google Shopper
Murdoch launches Daily
newspaper for iPad
Feroz Salam
The iPod touch is an outstanding media player
for the most part. Packing almost all the tech
behind the wildly popular iPhone, save for the
cell radio of course, and playing host to up to
64GB of storage, there’s a lot to love about
Apple’s touchable media player.
Of course there’s one thing that’s nearly al-
ways bound to be a let down, and that’s battery
life. The iPod touch actually has pretty decent
battery life, but there are lots of occasions when
you just can’t get to a power outlet to get your
pocket pal all charged up, and that’s where Mo-
phie’s Juice Pack Air comes in.
The Air performs two functions: firstly, it’s a
fully-fledged case for your iPod touch, cover-
ing everything but the screen and chrome be-
zel. It’s main feature however, is its integrated
1000mAh lithium polymer battery capable to
adding up to an additional seven hours video
playback or 42 hours music playback. For
those keeping count, the Air almost doubles the
iPod touch’s playback time.
As additional battery case combos go, the Air
has a few nice touches. It’s got an integrated
power switch to disable charging of your touch,
a four-LED power indicator and a mini-USB
To protect and charge: the Juice Pack Air
Samuel Gibbs
yet another nail in the coffin for print publica-
tions, with the extremely low distribution costs
a highly attractive proposition for beleaguered
news agencies.
Regardless of financial viability, first reac-
tions from critics have been decidely luke-
warm. John Gapper, writing for the Financial
Times, describes the app as lacking “not im-
pressive newfangled technology but enough
news stories.” With embedded video adverts
another gripe for some reviewers, it’s clear that
the design team has some work to do before
they get the media/content balance perfected.
Despite the teething problems, Murdoch has
made clear his intention to drag the print in-
dustry into the 21st
century. Whether he’s got
enough quality journalism to back the effort
remains to be seen.
socket that essentially replicates the dock con-
nector, meaning you can charge and sync your
iPod touch, as well as charge the Air, all from
one USB cable. It’s even available in three
fetching colours – red (as photographed), ‘Gun
metal gray’ and blue.
Of course there is one downside to the Air
“For those keeping
count, the Air almost
doubles the iPod touch’s
playback time.”
Friday 11 february 2011
12
Pah! It’s got nothing on The Daily Felix... (28th Feb – 4th March)
and that’s additional size and weight it’ll add
to your iPod. The Air clocks in at 64g bringing
the total weight of your iPod touch to around
174g, while adding an extra 0.6cm in thickness.
The battery also enlarges the base of the iPod
touch bringing the total length to 13.3cm. Now
we’re not talking about masses here, but as the
iPod touch is such a svelte device to start with,
the Mophie Air is certainly noticeable when on
the device and in a pocket. That said, as battery
packs go, the Air is one of the most slimline
and least intrusive to date, and if you’re after
a bit more life from your pocket media pal, is
certainly worth considering.
The Mophie Juice Pack Air for iPod touch
reviewed here fits both the 2nd and 3rd gen-
eration iPod touch. But if you’re packing an
iPhone 3G/3GS or iPhone 4 instead, Mophie
has you covered with others in the Air line.

