Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX 13
BUSINESS
Is Microsoft a dying firm?
In the world of Google and Apple, Rudolf Lai asks if there is a future for Microsoft
T
en years ago, Microsoft’s
products were synonymous
with personal comput-
ing. The Internet was just
stepping into households;
Apple narrowly escaped bankruptcy,
and its computers were seen as luxuri-
ous goods made for designers. In a blink
of an eye, Apple became the largest
technology company in US by market
capitalization in May 2010; in 2009,
Google attracted nearly two thirds of
the worldwide search volume through
its search engine and its sister sites. All
that Microsoft seems to be doing is to
follow what everybody else has done:
launching Bing after Google, releasing
Windows 7 Mobile after Apple’s iOS.
In fact, many people have declared that
Microsoft is “dead”.
But is that the case? Microsoft’s
dominance has long preceded the rise
of Google and the comeback of Apple.
From a multi-stage dividend discount
model perspective, Microsoft should
be in its stable growth period (i.e. the
last stage of the model), hence it would
be perceived that Microsoft is not as
‘trendy’ or ‘strongly growing’ as the
other two companies. Nonetheless, the
two biggest elements of Microsoft’s
business, the operating system and the
Office suite, still have significantly
greater market share than its competi-
tors. The Windows operating system
and Office make up 53% and 42% of
Microsoft’s 2010 revenues respec-
tively. As of December 2010, Windows
had about 85% share of the operating
systems market, and Office has 94%
market share, according to Gartner. In
contrast, Google’s business is largely
internet-based; around 70% of Apple’s
2010 revenue is from mobile computing
products like the iPhone, iPod, and the
iPad, and the rest are in its OS and Mac
hardware. One could argue Google and
Apple’s recent stardom is mostly based
on a combination of new technologies,
like faster internet connections, cloud
computing, and mobile computing, and
that Microsoft’s traditional playgrounds
of the OS and the Office suite remains
relatively unscathed.
Microsoft still has its competitive ad-
vantage in the OS and Office area, and
it has entered the gaming console mar-
ket, which neither Apple nor Google
have access to. Undoubtedly, Apple and
Google are trying their best to step into
the OS and business productivity ap-
plication territory. For example, from
Apple we have the OSX and iOS operat-
ing systems, and the iWorks office suite;
from Google we have internet-focused
software like the Chrome OS, Google
Mail and Google Docs. Just by the num-
bers, however, we can see that there is a
long way to go before we can even say
that there is major competition in the OS
and Office markets.
Corporations and businesses are one
of Microsoft’s major sources of rev-
enue. The prime reason for corpora-
tions to stay with Windows is Micro-
soft Excel. Excel’s variety of functions,
and the extent of which these functions
are implemented, is unparalleled in
the commercial electronic spreadsheet
market. Specifically, equipped with Vi-
sual Basic for Applications (VBA) and
now .NET, Excel offers the possibil-
ity for programmers and developers to
embed code directly into spreadsheets.
Through the embedded code, a spread-
sheet can offer functions that manipulate
data in ways normally impossible using
standard spreadsheet operations. In a
way, Excel is like the Apple App store
for business and finance. It provides a
common platform on which software
houses can develop and release appli-
cations, and the spreadsheet format is a
widely understood input method. From
option pricing tables, to portfolio opti-
mization software, Excel offers an easy
way to represent the input and outputs
of mathematical models or other number
crunching engines.
On a related note, a second reason that
businesses are reluctant to change from
Windows to another operating system is
the cost of switching to others. Corpo-
rations have invested a lot of resources
into supporting a Windows oriented
infrastructure. They have hired .NET
and VBA developers, and made custom
applications that only run on Windows.
They have trained their staff to use Ex-
cel, the Office suite, and VBA. They
have virtual desktop systems devoted
to delivering a Windows environment
to a new computer or a new user in a
matter of hours. Costs aside, there is just
little reason for corporations to switch to
another operating system that does not
run Excel natively, and one that requires
re-training staff. As such, Microsoft will
continue to reap sales from new versions
of Office and Windows. In 2009, a new
version of Windows was released, and
as of 2010 it has sold 175 million cop-
ies, making it the fastest-selling operat-
ing system in the world.
Microsoft is also strong in is the gam-
ing market. Arguably, the iOS platform
from Apple also provides a platform
for gaming, but due to the nature of the
hardware, the range of games cannot be
considered a direct competitor to the
Xbox franchise. Xbox has performed
well relative to other major consoles:
sales of video games and other software
for the Xbox 360 topped $3 billion in
2010, topping the Nintendo Wii (at $2.6
billion) and Sony’s PlayStation 3 (at
$2.1 billion), reports a NPD Group mar-
ket research.
A gaming console is largely depen-
dant on the games that are played on it.
In November 2010, Microsoft released
the “controller-free gaming and enter-
tainment experience” Kinect for Xbox,
which triggered a wave of new games
taking advantage of the new hardware.
Game/software sales for the Xbox 360
rose 29% in December 2010, compared
to the same month the previous year, ac-
cording to the BMO report on the NPD
numbers. The introduction of Kinect
puts Xbox in direct competition with the
Wii in terms of using body movements
for input, but the absence of a physical
controller for Kinect may prove to in-
duce a greater variety of games devel-
oped for the device in the long run.
Admittedly, under the guidance of
Steve Jobs,Apple seems to be delivering
hit product after hit product. Google, on
the other hand, seems to be permeating
every aspect of our cyber life. In the vast
industry of technology, we cannot say
that Microsoft has its monopoly over the
business like it did. But we can attribute
that change to a shift in the boundar-
ies of the tech industry, rather than an
absolute shrinkage of Microsoft’s busi-
ness. With the recent uprising of what is
called the ‘closed internet’ – Facebook
– a network that Google has no access
to, and the health concerns surrounding
the Apple CEO, the scoreboard of tech
giants is still undecided.
Friday 11 February 2011
On the 15th of February, McKinsey &
Company will visit Imperial College to
launch “McKinsey Students in Society
2011,” a new social enterprise business
plan competition for university students
across the United Kingdom.
The competition offers a unique op-
portunity for students to develop their
business skills while seeking to make a
real difference to society or their local
communities.
To participate, teams of 3-6 under-
graduates from UK universities will
submit business plans for social enter-
prises – financially sustainable busi-
nesses which are run to benefit society.
Launch events in Imperial College
will kick off at 6pm on Tuesday 15th
February in the Skempton Building,
Room 301.
The first round is a simple online pro-
cess. Students have to submit a compel-
ling business idea and describe what
its impact would be on society. From
these submissions, six national finalists
will be selected to develop their ideas in
greater detail.
These national finalists will receive
further coaching to develop their plans
in preparation for the National Final in
London, in April 2011.
The winning team will receive seed
funding for their business and ongoing
support from McKinsey consultants to
help get their idea off the ground.
Launching the competition, Kevin
Sneader, Managing Partner of McKin-
sey & Company in the UK, said “There
is no motivation more powerful than
to make a positive lasting difference to
the world around us by developing and
implementing a visionary business idea.
I hope this competition will help encour-
age the next generation of entrepreneurs
with the vision to transform society for
the better.”
Tom Rippin, CEO of social enterprise
On Purpose, commented, “Social enter-
prises promise to help solve many of the
most challenging issues society faces to-
day. Politicians, the media and investors
are showing ever-greater levels of inter-
est in this potential. If social enterprises
are to fulfil these expectations, it is im-
perative that they also attract the most
exceptional people to be the leaders of
tomorrow. It’s great to see this initiative
to get the best and brightest students en-
gaged!”
Initial submissions can be made on-
line from now until Sunday 13th of
March at msis.mckinsey.com
McKinsey Students in Society contest announced
I don’t care if Macs are ‘stylish’, Steve Jobs is a certified fashion disaster...

