POLITICS
FELIX
14
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
United States
More than 1,000 protestors have stormed a court-
house and burned two churches in Central Java.
The crowd were demanding a stiffer sentence for
a man who was sentenced to five years imprison-
ment for distributing leaflets deemed insulting to
Islam. This attack comes after a deadly attack on
a minority Muslim sect in West Java. These attacks
were condemned by the both the US ambassador to
Indonesia and the Indonesian President. Indonesia
is the world’s largest Muslim nation and is a secu-
lar state. However, religious minorities have been
under increasing attack by hard-line Islamist groups
and the Indonesian Government stands accused of
doing too little to protect the rights of all citizens.
Indonesia
The US is bracing itself for yet another winter
storm barely a week after a record-breaking storm
roared across the American heartland. It is forecast
to dump up to 8 inches of snow in Arkansas and
Oklahoma and could affect up to 150 million people
in 40 states. The US is still recovering from an ear-
lier storm which saw hundreds of flights cancelled
and highways closed. That storm may cost US insur-
ers up to $1.4 billion.
Russia
Doku Umarov, the Chechen separatist leader, has
claimed responsibility for last month’s bombing
at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport which killed 36
people. Mr Umarov has said that the attack was in
response to Russian ‘crimes’ in the Caucasus and
threatened more suicide attacks in pursuit of an
independent Muslim state in Russia’s Caucasus re-
gion. Mr Umarov is one of Russia’s most wanted men
and is the self styled ‘Emir of the Caucasus Emir-
ate’. He has previously claimed responsibility for the
2010 Moscow Metro bombings and the 2009 attack
on a train from Moscow to St Petersburg.
Last year the Conservative party and the Liber-
al Democrats seized power after the 2010 gen-
eral election and since then the ruling coalition
has taken austerity measures, spreading the ru-
mour that UK was on the fiscal brink. They cut
governmental employment by 460,000 work-
ers, and slashed public spending including the
educational budget and infrastructure. They
also raised VAT from 17.5% to 20% this year,
which is partly responsible for a rise in com-
modity prices. The Liberal Democrats, who
had pledged to vote against any rise in univer-
sity tuition fees before the election, tripled the
fees last December.
Nick Clegg, the leader of the Liberal Demo-
crats, claimed that when the coalition formed
Britain was on the edge of bankruptcy. David
Cameron, the current Prime Minister, claimed
that the bond markets were demanding auster-
ity and so if Britain did not introduce immedi-
ate cuts, we would lose the confidence of the
bond markets. Debt hawks often say that debt
repayment is a cost to the country.
Readers of Felix may be aware that the Dep-
uty Prime Minister has told lies in terms of not
only tuition fees but also the fiscal state of this
country in order to justify the coalition’s poli-
cies. Every schoolboy knows (or should know)
that a government cannot go into bankruptcy
like a private business. As long as Britain has
its own currency, it has the power to print
money. Governments can only be in default if
they have incurred debts in another currency,
that is, if they cannot finance their external
current account deficit (which includes inter-
est paid abroad). Iceland, which has its own
currency, Iceland Krona, was in default in
2008 because they could not finance a large
amount of external debt. What about the U.K?
According to George Irvin, a Guardian colum-
nist, about 80 % of public borrowing is from
the domestic market- what economists call
the “non-bank public”. To those who buy UK
government bonds – either directly or through
pension funds – British bonds are financial as-
sets on which holders receive a payment total-
ling £34bn per annum. The remaining 20% is
either held by government departments or is
owned by foreigners. Most public borrowing
appears as liability on the government side of
the ledger, but as an asset on the ledger of do-
mestic bondholders. Roughly speaking, there-
fore, UK citizens are Britain’s creditors, not
debtors.
Cameron’s argument does not stand up either.
Paul Krugman, who won the Nobel economics
prize in 2008, says that Cameron has invented
“invisible bond vigilantes” which do not exist.
Actually the bond markets were demanding no
such British austerity. They rather punish the
measures Cameron has taken. UK citizens may
well remember who the last two countries were
to be downgraded by the bond market. The
answer is Ireland and Spain, which took im-
mediate austerity measures, that is, Cameron-
style. Indeed, the bond markets got angry, and
U-turn ahead
Tomokazu Miyamoto
the interest rate of the Irish governmental bond
soared to 9% because these policies cause a
serious recession. (There is an inverse relation-
ship between bond valuation and interest rates;
the low rate means that the price of a bond is
stable.)
Prof. Krugman said that the austerity mea-
sures by the Conservative/LibDem coalition
had a lot to do with ideology: they have used
the deficit an excuse to downsize the welfare
state. He said in a New York Times column:
“The British government’s plan is bold, say
the pundits – and so it is. But it boldly goes in
exactly the wrong direction.”
He also predicted that the Britain in 2011
would look like Britain in 1931 or the United
States in 1937, adding that premature fiscal
austerity would lead to a renewed economic
slump.
A recent economic report is likely to confirm
Prof. Krugman’s prediction. The Office of Na-
tional Statistics said on 25th January that GDP
fell 0.5 % in the previous quarter. George Os-
borne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, seems
to continue his austerity measures, while the
opposition counterpart Ed Balls said that Os-
borne must urgently re-think their reckless plan
to cut the deficit too far and too fast. Concerned
about this country’s economy, Balls required
the coalition to start prioritising growth and
jobs.
Joseph Stiglitz, who won the Nobel econom-
ics prize in 2001, also criticises Osborne’s fis-
cal policy. Britain, where the economy con-
tracted in the fourth quarter, is already seeing
the fallout, he said at an investor conference in
Moscow on 2nd February. He added that aus-
terity measures adopted by the UK coalition
government were not justified.
Although Cameron and Osborne often exag-
gerate the budget deficit of UK, referring to the
PIIGS debt problems, the U.K’s deficit prob-
lem is completely different from PIIGS. Un-
like the UK or USA, Eurozone nations cannot
print money to pay their debts with their own
wills; they cannot take advantage of devalua-
tion in terms of export by expanding money
supply, either. It is the only European Central
Bank (ECB) that can conduct monetary poli-
cies in the Eurozone. Let’s consider the cur-
rent account balance from 2002 to 2009 for 4
countries: Germany, Iceland, Ireland and Nor-
way. Germany was in surplus constantly, while
Ireland was in deficit due to disadvantageous
exchange rate of the Euro. Iceland improved
the figure dramatically, and Norway kept a
favourable balance. Since the latter 2 do not
belong to the Eurozone, they can freely control
monetary base to make themselves more com-
petitive in terms of export.
The coalition’s austerity measures are not
justified currently because UK has the power
to take appropriate monetary policies. UK
citizens should be more sceptical about the co-
alition’s statements. This country is going in
exactly the wrong direction.
George Osborne selling the Big Issue? In 2015, we can make it happen
Is the UK’s economy going in the wrong direction?
Joshua Yerrell
Friday 11 february 2011

