The role that women play in the allevia-
tion of poverty is becoming increasingly
apparent in development research. In a
sad irony, it is also increasingly clear
that they bear the majority of the bur-
den of this same poverty. The figures are
alarming – women work two thirds of
the world’s working hours but directly
earn just 10% of the world’s income –
money which they are more likely to
spend on education and food for their
children than their male counterparts.
Women also make up 70% of the world’s
poorest people and are underrepresented
in society from classrooms to politics
(holding just 19% of the world’s parlia-
mentary seats).
To address these gaping gender im-
balances, the UN set up UNIFEM in
1976 to directly tackle gender discrimi-
nation, primarily through working with
other UN organisations such as UNI-
CEF and other official aid groups. By
2006, the body had a budget of over
$200 million and was present in 80
countries and yet it was slammed by the
UN itself as being “incoherent, frag-
mented and under- resourced”. This
January, in light of this criticism and
new evidence regarding the importance
of women in development, the UN cre-
ated UN Women; a new centralised
body with a much larger budget and
more political clout. Just this week the
month old body called a press confer-
ence for student journalists to make a
plea for help – they were already un-
derfunded, receiving about a quarter of
the funding desired; effectively giving
them the same budget as the old UNI-
FEM. Their solution was clear: more
funding. But does international aid ac-
tually deliver results? This is a question
too often brushed aside as heartless –
how on earth could someone question
the noble aims of aid? And yet, noble
though the aims may be, the results are
often staggeringly far from those prom-
ised. This article will look at the case
against international aid and argue that
we should have fewer, not more, bodies
like UN Women.
The chief justification for internation-
al aid is that poor countries are stuck in
a poverty trap. That is, if they only had
the basic resources to start things off
they could work their own way out from
there. The argument then follows that
unless wealthy countries give poorer
ones aid, they will never escape poverty.
This seems to be backed up with evi-
dence as the poorest fifth of the world’s
countries had much lower growth from
1985-2001 than the other 4 fifths; just
POLITICS
FELIX 15
Female empowerment to save the world
“Women hold just
19% of the world’s
parliamentary seats”
aid for political reasons, thus discount-
ing the possibility of aid being simply a
response to slow growth. According to
Boone, it seems that aid promotes con-
sumption but not investment.
So, what makes countries stay poor?
They don’t. Or at least, they are just
as capable of good growth rates as any
other country, once you allow for bad
government. It is possible to control for
bad government in the data above by
using indexes on corruption and democ-
racy, the oldest such indexes compiled
since 1984 by the International Country
Risk Guide and Polity VI, a project of
the University of Maryland. Using these
indexes to statistically control for bad
government (those with high corruption
and low democracy ratings), it becomes
clear that it is bad government that keeps
poor countries poor, not a poverty trap
as those with good governments enjoy
similar growth rates to their wealthier
counterparts.
But why is it that external NGOs fail to
promote growth, acting separately to lo-
cal and potentially corrupt government?
Too often, they are not there to fulfil the
needs of the poor but rather those of the
0.2% compared to the wealthier coun-
tries’ 1.3%. Poor countries seem to stay
poor because they are poor in the first
place.
But a closer look at the statistics re-
veals a different story. Firstly, over the
longer period from 1950 to 2001, the
poorest fifth of countries increased their
average income 2.25 fold which is sta-
tistically indistinguishable from the in-
crease in income of the richest four fifths
of 2.47 fold. The reason for the gap in
growth in the period 1985-2001 (a pe-
riod of much higher international aid) is
that the countries in the bottom fifth kept
changing – strong evidence that in fact
countries aren’t doomed to be trapped in
poverty. This data excludes Soviet and
Persian Gulf oil producing countries as
special cases.
Was it aid that caused these countries
to break out of the bottom fifth? No,
countries with above average aid per-
formed no better than those with below
average aid. While it is of course pos-
sible that aid is given in response to low
growth and so hardly causes it, these
data (compiled by Peter Boone of the
LSE) look only at countries receiving
Rory Fenton
wealthy country donors. The emotive
images of those suffering from AIDS
causes foreign governments, urged by
their citizens, to donate money to buy
antiretroviral drugs for poor countries.
However, research shows that for every
year of life given to an AIDS patient,
the same money could provide between
75 and 1,500 years of life through a fo-
cus on prevention. A Western focus on
school enrolment (one of the UN’s Mil-
lennium Development Goals) means
that investment in actual school supplies
is overlooked, when such investment is
estimated to be 14 times more effective
than simply building new schools. If
the poor were in charge, these wrongs
would surely be righted but when inter-
national aid is accountable only to do-
nors, this is unlikely to ever be the case.
But this does not mean that aid is hope-
less, far from it. The success of schemes
based on microfinance show that aid can
make a difference. But this aid should
not come in the form of large, multina-
tional plans to ‘end poverty’. The his-
tory of aid has shown that these grand
schemes simply do not work beyond
the great concerts and the well mean-
ing wristbands. Rather, small projects
that work with and empower the poor
themselves can make a real difference.
Couldn’t the poor be given some kind of
aid vouchers to let them decide how the
money is spent? Highly centralised aid
is exactly the kind of solution to poverty
that we would never wish on ourselves
and not only is it patronising and unac-
countable, it doesn’t work.
Organisations like the new UN Wom-
en could learn a lot from this. It is sim-
ply preposterous to tackle ‘all forms of
gender discrimination’ in one go. Much
better to look at particular areas where
outside funding and expertise can make
a real difference. Ditch the grand plans
and seek piecemeal changes in a way
that is both accountable to local people
and uses their own expertise. It is pos-
sible to end poverty, for both men and
women, but not in one big go.
Do you give to charity? Well you just burned Africa you lefty-liberal jerk!
But is the U.N.’s newest agency’s plan to end gender inequality and poverty in one
fell swoop just more of the same?
Amanda Diez
Friday 11 february 2011

