16
COM M ENT
felix
P
resident Mubarak is current-
ly in quite a mess and just
about clinging on to power.
The government resigned,
on his request, and a new
one has formed and held talks with op-
position parties about the constitution.
Mubarak has even banned some mem-
bers of the political elite from travelling
abroad. I assume a similar ban is im-
posed on people living in Birmingham,
otherwise that place would be a ghost
town, but I digress. The point is, I think
it’s a fairly non–controversial statement
to say that Egypt’s president Mubarak is
currently under fire. By which I mean
metaphorically, don’t worry; you didn’t
miss anything big on YouTube.
There has been widespread violence
between demonstrators and the authori-
ties. UN General Secretary Ban Ki-
moon has weighed in on this saying: ‘I
once again urge restraint to all the sides.
An unacceptable situation is happening.
Any attack against the peaceful dem-
onstrators is fucking unacceptable and
I strongly condemn the fuck out of it.
For fuck’s sake Egypt, first Tunisia now
this. Oh and to add to this the shit’s re-
ally hitting the fan in Yemen. Can’t I just
get one day off! That’s all I’m asking,
this shit is stressful. I’m off to scream
into a pillow and cry if anyone needs
me. Which I’m sure they fucking well
will judging by the last few days.’ That
isn’t a 100% accurate direct quote; the
swearing and last few sentences were
just implied.
Mubarak has been a dictator for
years. So long, that it’s a miracle he
doesn’t have a moustache yet. The fa-
cial hair worn exclusively by dictators
and people in London who think they
are edgy and different (ie. exclusively
dickheads). He reached the point where
gigantic posters of him are all over the
place; must have cost an absurd amount
of printing credits. That may be hard to
picture for us – just think of David Cam-
eron before the election but with, hope-
fully, less airbrushing.
He recently gave an interview with
ABC news. During this he said that
he would ‘never run away’ and that he
‘will die on this soil.’ Perhaps, more
correctly, he will die on the expensive
Italian marble that he obtained using
money that should have been used else-
where. This quote could be seen as a
dig at former Tunisian President Zine
El Abidine Ben Ali, who fled to Dubai
during the recent protests. I highly doubt
Ben Ali will care though. It’s not like the
two will get into a viscous twitter feud.
Mainly because Ben Ali probably does
not remotely miss power due to his mas-
sive personal fortune. Reports say his
wife took out 1.5 tonnes of gold, worth
about £38 million, from the bank before
leaving. That really is some absolutely
textbook corruption. In the slightly al-
tered words of another recently deposed
figure, Andy Gray, take a bow ma’am.
Saying that, roughly half will be used to
pay the extra baggage fee when she flew
out so it’s not as much as you think.
Mubarak thinks that if he leaves now
it would be ‘chaos’. I think it’s safe to
assume he doesn’t read newspapers or
even look outside his window. He clear-
ly means that, you know, riots, protestors
being killed, that shit would go down
without him. Luckily he’s still there so
none of that is happening. On that note,
the protestors said they would storm the
presidential palace if he doesn’t resign.
They say that, but I had a look on Face-
book and most people responded ‘may-
be attending.’ We all know that’s code
What a dick–tator
for one of a) ‘I’ll decide on the day but
probably wont’, b) ‘I’m not attending
but am too polite to click not attending’.
The interview wasn’t all impassion-
ate rhetoric. He actually seemed a bit
blasé about the whole being in power
thing. He stated that he is ‘fed up’ and
that he has ‘had enough’ and wants to
go. I guess after many years doing the
same job it must all be a bit samey. The
thing is, being a dictator is like a pet. It’s
for life, not just for Christmas. He needs
to remember that everyone loves an un-
derdog, he should listen to ‘Eye of the
Tiger’ and run up the steps of the Phila-
delphia Museum of Art. At this point,
it seems that he is not going to run for
office in the next election, which is due
in September. He found time to mention
his son in the interview, saying ‘I never
intended Gamal to be president after
me’. I’m guessing he is like my dad; be-
ing president isn’t good enough, if his
son isn’t a doctor or a lawyer he is a
failure (by the way I do Chemistry). His
son was actually sitting in the room with
him at the time, but didn’t say anything
– probably on Facebook scanning the
pro–Mubarak rally events for hotties.
Mubarak clinging to power has become pathetic. It’s time
he got a life. Even Ban Ki–Moon is getting pissed off...
As the elections grow ever closer and each
of the Union’s Sabbaticals offers an account
of their experiences and some advice for
would-be successors, the arrogant urge to
do the same has become uncontrollable.
It would be farcical to interview oneself so
I shall instead substitute what is usually a
space to editorialise on “the issue of the
day” with some words of advice for the man
or woman that will follow me.
Of the many things of which I was not
aware when I began the job, there are two
things that are certainly the most important.
The first is the ever-present sense of fa-
tigue. An average day usually begins be-
tween 8-9am and ends between 7-9pm. The
Wednesday/Thursday “sprint finish” is even
worse, I begin at 8am on Wednesday, work
until 3-5am at which time I take a short nap
on the office couch and awake at 6am; I fi-
nally rest my head upon a pillow at 10-11pm
on Thursday evening. The weekend only of-
fers rest if you’re willing to forgo social inter-
action; I have not been willing. So it is hardly
surprising that the bags under my eyes have
grown considerably. If you are considering
taking the helm of this illustrious newspa-
per, do not deceive yourself about the physi-
cal toll that it will take. You could work fewer
hours, of course, but then the paper would
suffer – if that is a compromise that you’re
willing to make, then I doubt that the posi-
tion is right for you.
The second is how much the paper’s suc-
cess is carried, not by the Editor, but by stu-
dents who volunteer their time to contribute
to it. They are the ones who come up with
new ideas, write the articles, edit and lay
out the paper and exceed your expectations
each and every week. It is the dedicated
student volunteers, not the Editor, who are
truly the lifeblood of this paper. For that
reason the Editor must encourage Imperial
students to participate in the production of
their newspaper and must help them shape
it with their ideas. If Felix isn’t completely
open and welcoming to those students who
tentatively and modestly request the oppor-
tunity to write an article, it will suffer.
To finish, I’ll recount something that I did
know when I started and still hold as key to
the job six months on: there is no use in try-
ing to hide your mistakes or shortcomings.
I have made errors of judgement and there
are things, though I am too ashamed to list
them here, that I regret. But this already dif-
ficult job – see lack of sleep above – would
be impossible without the humility to say
that the next girl, or guy, could probably do a
far better job than me.
FELIX
Tim Arbabzadah
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
A few words of advice for
those considering running
for Felix Editor
Stop hogging the stage! Man, dictators are so freaking self-centred...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
“
“
e so freaking self-c
”
The thing is, being a dictator is
like a pet. It’s for life, not just
for Christmas.
Friday 11 february 2011
Ben Kennedy

