18 felix
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How clips from Hollywood
movies could liven up
news footage
As news breaks at 7am about a man fighting
the Russian airforce in the Indian Ocean, the
BBC use live footage. They cut to Tom Cruise
celebrating victory after shooting down all
the enemies, despite his sadness at the
loss of his co-pilot.
It sounds bizarre, but in China it’s actually
happened. Not to that extent perhaps, but
the use of scenes from Top Gun in a report
about missile tests is a comical deception.
To use archive footage would be one thing,
but to use footage from an eighties film is
something else. It’s taking a long walk off a
short plank; one step too far.
What made them use it anyway? You
would expect a grainy amateur video cam-
era recording from a bloke in a control tower,
not Tom Cruise pulling the same face every
three seconds in the vain hope of pulling his
teacher. It’s the kind of mistake a schoolboy
who’s left his homework to the last minute
might make.
This made me think about what other situ-
ations could be covered with blockbuster
film footage. There is a bit at the start of
Inception where there is a riot in an Arabian
town. This could be used as coverage of
the ongoing tensions in North Africa (and
increasingly the Middle East) about social
liberty. Obviously, the bit where it cuts to Ken
Watanabe and Leonardo DiCaprio would be
removed, leaving about ten seconds of use-
able footage, but I’m sure if Kate Silverton
tries her hardest she could rattle through
the brief encounter whilst acting as if it were
real.
Pearl Harbour could be used as ‘brand new
footage’ of the historical event. Obviously,
those astute members of society may notice
the fact it’s in colour, it’s all CGI, and Ben
Affleck is an awful actor. The colour would
probably swing it towards being improbable,
because it’d be like sending Russell Howard
to the court of Henry VIII; painfully funny
now, painfully disemboweled, emasculated
and beheaded then.
Perhaps if Nick Clegg was reluctant to do
a press conference you could show archive
footage of a boomerang, always going back
(on it’s promises, clever huh?) and then
have it get asked questions by a panel. Per-
haps the panel itself could be from a press
conference in a film.
However, not from Iron Man, because un-
like Robert Downey Junior, Nick Clegg is
certainly not an iron man. If anything he’s
a toilet tissue boy. Flimsy, afraid of being
destroyed, full of crap. So, next time you
watch the news, which, if you’re a student,
will be sometime in 2017, watch out for
footage that may not be what it’s supposed
to be.
And no, I don’t think that’s Fiona Bruce’s
real face either.
Rob Cleaver
Don’t pity singles, pity me!
I
t’s Valentine’s Day pretty soon, as you’ve no
doubt realised from the world’s sudden desire
to shape everything into hearts and paint itself
red, and that can only mean one thing. It’s time
to feel unnecessarily awkward about being in
a relationship when other people aren’t. Valentine’s
Day must be the only holiday that actively segregates
the population and hands out gold stars to one half of
it. Even the bloody Christians let everyone else chuff
down chocolate come Easter time.
I’m not about to troop out that tired line about
Valentine’s Day being extremely unfair on the poor
lonely sods that litter London. Screw those guys. It’s
unfair on me. I get to double down on feelings of in-
adequacy and awkardness by simultaneously having
to rub my relationship in everyone’s faces all day, and
then feel bad whenever someone walks past with a
marginally larger bouquet of flowers. I’m the dude
visiting famine–stricken regions of China, only I’m
there to attend a hotdog speed–eating competition.
It’s this state of panic that pisses me off. One minute
I feel like I’m dangling my sex life in the face of a
second–year Physics student, and the next I’m being
cock–slapped by some bulky arsehole from Medi-
cine. Do I put in my inflatable chest muscles when I
don my shirt? Or do I grab the dark glasses, stuff the
missus under my overcoat, and hope no–one notices
me sneaking into South Kensington? Either sound
like they’d lead to a lawsuit. Or a fight.
To alleviate some of the panic this year, I will be at-
tempting to go abroad for a few days with Mrs. Geek.
This will allow me to make up for any glaring cock–
ups on the big day itself, whilst also putting me in
a sufficiently alien environment that I can’t decipher
the whispers of disapproval when I completely mis-
read the opportunity for romantic moments.
If that doesn’t work, I plan to move to Columbia
and stay there for six months of the year, as for some
reason they only celebrate Valentine’s in September.
This works for me, as I can set up my continent–span-
ning crime ring and get to work on my people–traf-
ficking and corruption–mongering skills in time for
my coup d’etat around the time of the next general
election.
I’ve been assured by most action films that there’s
nothing more romantic than a man in uniform, except
one being saluted by sixty million deferent semi–loy-
al subjects. So claiming the throne of England would
not only be an extremely attractive gift that keeps
on giving, but I’d also be able to outlaw any trace
of the day for the foreseeable future. Thank me later,
readers.
So Happy Valentine’s Day to you, Mrs. Geek. This
time next year, we’ll be sunning ourselves among the
cocaine factories, dreaming of a Britain where I have
banned the occasion altogether. Love you!
Angry Geek
“To alleviate the
panic this year, I
will be attempting
to go abroad with
Mrs Geek.”
Rhys Davies
Dating tips? From this guy?
“Try to express
your sensitive side
– or, if missing,
fake one.”
O
f all the highlights that come with
every lap the Earth makes around
the Sun, Valentine’s Day I think is
the trickiest. For some, it’s plain tire-
some, as all media seem to gravitate
around hearts and puppies and little naked children
with wings. On any other day, these things would
rarely feature among your top interests, unless
you’re a veterinary cardiologist...or a paedophile.
But for those you for whom it has become impor-
tant, it is on a par with the worst Lovecraftian night-
mare: finding that special someone (for 24 hours at
least), making reservations, rehearsing with pains-
taking precision your spontaneous wit for the even-
ing, practising dance moves that suggest a basic
understanding of rhythm, and at last, at the end of
evening, scouring the whole of west London for a
place that sells...a puncture repair kit.
I won’t pretend to be some great Casanova. Rather
than cruise the hottest clubs for a bit of action, I find
my chances are more realistic if I hang out near the
opticians. However, I still class myself as a romantic,
no matter how hopeless. I believe in love, or some-
thing roughly approximate to it, is out for there for
everyone. Strengthened by my delusion, I thought
I might share some tips with the reluctant Romeos
among you.
Firstly, you need to make an impression. Whether
you are in the Union looking for love or it’s your dia-
mond anniversary, you have to make an effort to stand
out. The girl by the bar will, I assure you, be tired
of the same chat–up lines and free drinks laced with
“sugar.” Just like in a job interview, you need an edge
to catch her interest: wear a fez, make sexy chit–chat
in Esperanto, signal “Large Hadron Collider? I hardly
know her!” in Morse code with the lights. Contrary to
popular belief, luck does not favour the brave. Luck
and love favour the clinically insane.
Next, women like a man who can sweep them off
their feet. I suggest you bring a broom. If nothing
else, you can use it to compare favourably with your
own physique. Another trick would be to choose your
attire for the evening and shrink it in the wash.Abody
so ripped that it can hardly be contained is impres-
sive, even if you are technically wearing children’s
clothes. Alternatively, dim the lights; it is well–
known that there is an inverse correlation between
the amount of light in a room and romance. If you
want, you can take this principle to its logical conclu-
sion and have dinner in the dark; you may scoff but
there is a guaranteed spike in the birth rate after every
major blackout. These are just statistics I’m throwing
out – sexy, sexy statistics.
Let us assume by this point, you are (still) on
speaking terms with your inamorata. Seize this op-
portunity to dazzle your sweetheart with your verbal
wit. Try to express your sensitive side – or, if miss-
ing, fake one – through the media of compliments
and poetry. Bonus points are available if you are able
to combine the two. Here’s a little taster to start you
off; “your eyes are so blue, like a patient etherised
upon a table.”
Some of you may think I’ve been quite sexist up
to this point. For that, I apologise. In the interests of
equality, here’s a tip for the fairer sex; go to FiveSix-
Eight and wait by the bar. If you see someone talk-
ing gibberish with a fez on his head playing with the
lights by the door, walk up to him and take a chance.
Friday 11 february 2011

