HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Lolcat of teh week
Felix JCR Stall
On campus
Free Wushu Taster Class
The Wushu Society
are offering a free
taster class for anyone
interested in trying out
Wushu (Chinese Martial
Arts) to improve their
fitness, health and
to be able to say that
you do Martial Arts.
Email the society at
icuwushu@ic.ac.uk for
more information about
getting involved.
Lunchtime concert
Conflagration seems to follow this Alvin Moisey. He
performed on the Israeli-Lebanese border during a
Hezbollah rocket attack, appeared on Kuwaiti TV as
his hotel was being requisitioned by the US military for
the invasion of Iraq and found his performance with
the Royal Oman Symphony clashing with a scheduled
coup attempt in Muscat. The concert is open to one
and all first come, first served. Contact Andrea Rob-
ins – a.robins@imperial.ac.uk – for more information.
Sherfield Building, Read Theatre
17 February 13:00-13:45
Union Building, 3rd Floor (Gym)
15 February 18:00-20:00
Carbon Footprint Challenge
In connection with EcoTeams, the Energy Society is
challenging College members to track and reduce
their carbon footprints. The initiative aims to
encourage people to think creatively about reducing
theirs. They are launching the initiative with a Speed
Dating event. Contact Tamaryn Brown – tamaryn.
brown@imperial.ac.uk – for more information.
Grantham Institute
14 February 17:30
Union Notice
Sabbatical Elections!
Oh good god! It’s so close!!! (Or if you’re reading this
on Wednesday – shame on you – it’s already started!).
That’s right, the Sabbatical and Trustee elections for
Imperial College Union kick off on the 15th of February
when nominations finally open and would-be candidates
reveal themselves. The positions up for grabs include
Deputy Presidents for Finance & Services, Clubs & Soci-
eties, Welfare and Education as well as Felix Editor and
finally, President.
See Page 6 for interviews with Deputy President (Fi-
nances & Services) Ravi Pall and Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) Heather Jones.
Also, check out the new elections website at imperial-
collegeunion.org/elections
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine
Bettany Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports
Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat
Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley
Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Clubs & Societies Editor Roland Sookias Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth
Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya
Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Joe Marinelli Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Illustrators Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
I’m not trying to say that the Felix JCR Stall is so unattended that one
expects a tumbleweed to roll past, I’m saying that the Dust Bowl period
in the U.S. in the 30s was deeply damaging to farmers there...
Nominations open on Tuesday
Friday 11 february 2011
Each and every Monday lunchtime, we
roll up the Felix banner and head over to
the JCR for the Felix stall, from 12–12:30.
The point of doing this is to try and open
up this newspaper to as many students
as possible. If emails aren’t your thing, or
coming to the office seems intimidating,
you can come and speak to the Editor,
in person, about anything you wish. If
something in the paper has annoyed you, if
you would like to contribute in any way or if
you’ve got an idea for story or way we could
make Felix more enjoyable, please, come
along and tell us. We’re always keen to get
new students on-board and to hear your
feedback.

