CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
20
Religion
“Orphan that adopted the world”
“O Prophet! Truly We have sent thee as a Witness, a
Bearer of Glad Tidings, and Warner,-
And as one who invites to God’s (grace) by His leave,
and as a lamp spreading light.”
As I attempt to find words concerning my beloved
– may peace and blessings be showered upon him
– it is these eloquent verses of Qur’an that come
to mind. When writing about Muhammad – revered
across a quarter of the world’s population as the
Messenger of God – the problem of “writer’s block”
vanishes, as a lamp disperses darkness, for he is
the highest of inspirations to those who know him.
In its stead, I am faced with the dilemma of how to
articulate the beauty and eminence of this person-
age in whatever my word limit works out to be!
For this simple reason - that this article could not
possibly do justice to the personality and achieve-
ments of Muhammad - I therefore aim only to pro-
vide an impetus for the reader to go further than this
article; to serve as an introduction to a personality
so essential to understand; to raise points for the
conscience to ponder.
“When I closed the second volume (of Muham-
mad’s biography), I was sorry there was not more
for me to read of the great life.” – Mahatma Gandhi.
There can be no doubt on the position he holds
in the hearts of Muslims – love that is expressed
rightly by those millions who emulate his noble way,
and wrongly by those who transgress in defence of
his honour. It is a love that has made his name the
most widespread on the planet, his resting place the
most frequented, his personality the most praised,
his habits the most imitated and his life the most
well-preserved. Seeing a map of the Islamic empires
that were – historically speaking –present only yes-
terday, one could come to the conclusion that Mu-
hammad was a victor of land. Indeed, Michael Hart
puts him at the head of “The 100: A Ranking Of The
Most Influential Persons In History” and mentions
that this may surprise some people but Hart placed
at the head for his achievements both religious and
secular - but in reality Muhammad was a victor of
hearts, uniting a dispersed and ignorant people that
even the Roman and Persian superpowers did not
consider governable, sowing the seeds of a civilisa-
tion that was to blossom spiritually, culturally, scien-
tifically and morally.
How is it that a man who was illiterate manage to
deliver literature that taught us lessons in politics,
economics, history, law, science and morality...this
literature being the Quran...a book that is still recit-
ed 1400 years later and remains to be the only book
in which if all copies were collected and thrown into
the sea, it would still be able to be reproduced to
the utmost perfection due to millions of worshippers
memorising it to the full stop. Why was it, then, that
the Almighty selected this man for such an honour?
So here we are - the inheritors of Muhammad. It
remains for me to tell you what it was about him that
freed our hearts, and I therefore extend to you an
invitation to discover and to understand... “Muham-
mad: Orphan that adopted the world”. 6pm, 17th
February, Huxley LT308. Whether or not you are able
to attend, you owe it to your intellect to know who he
is and what this message is that he brought and to
which he dedicated his incredible life.
“And We sent thee not, but as a Mercy to the
worlds.“
Umair Aasem and Zara Hason
Beautiful Warfare
The African Caribbean Society put on a stunning show
Alan Liu
Its creation definitely involved a kind of war-
fare, but together, Imperial College’s African
Caribbean Society (ICACS) managed to cre-
ate something truly beautiful. ICACS’s 12th
Afrogala, entitled “Beautiful Warfare” and
performed to a packed out Great Hall made an
otherwise dull weekend, truly memorable.
I was privileged enough to watch this project
grow from planning to practice and finally to its
fantastic execution. The showcase of African
Caribbean music, dancing, acting and fashion
was all the more impressive having witnessed
the painstaking efforts and fierce commitment
of the committee and the performers. Both the
production team and performers were complete
professionals, correcting technical difficulties,
particularly the issues experienced on the night
with sound, with calmness and speed.
The theme of Beautiful Warfare, a nod to the
prejudice and inequality faced by African and
Caribbean people in the past and, sadly, the
present, gave the evening a sense of continuity
that was maintained throughout the night. The
costumes, sets and marketing were all carefully
and well designed in a military style. In fact,
the entire show was in keeping with the theme,
with the exception of one of the guest perform-
ers. Nick Holmes’ dancing, while impressive,
was a little bizarre: I overheard one audience
member commenting that his act was akin to
“tap dancing to lounge music”.
The opening act; a step dance, was terrify-
ingly powerful. The performer’s movement
creates the music, anyone who stepped out of
time would have ruined the act. However, each
and every step and stamp was perfectly precise.
This is no mean accomplishment and is a tes-
tament to the skill of the choreographers Kem
Katherine Bettany
Onubogu and Tiffany Monu, considering that
there were four changeovers, 20 dancers, and
multiple complex and syncopated rhythms.
My favourite performance, however, was
that of Tobi Obisanya and the Afrogala Band,
in their version of ‘Destination Love’. The
band really could have been an authentic
jump blues band from New York in the 40s,
and Obisanya’s impersonation of Wyonie Har-
ris was almost flawless. The choice of music
did play a big part in the success of the show.
African and Caribbean music and associated
dance is a huge part of their culture: Beautiful
Warfare celebrated its diversity with blues, hip
hop, and authentic African dance. The stars of
the show were the Afrogala band, who com-
pletely blew me away with their authentic Af-
robeat sound.
The overriding theme for me, though, was
summed up in the lyric: “It’s more than just a
colour”, sung by the talented Toyin Oni. Per-
forming on stage were people from a multitude
of backgrounds – but they share more than just
a skin colour. Their vibrancy, joie de vivre and
pride in their culture is infectious: at points the
show felt less like a performance and more like
a party that spilled out into the audience. I left
that night with a smile, and a new appreciation
not only for African Caribbean culture, but also
for their beauty and passion.
Sci-fi acolytes rejoice, Picocon returns!
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Society is
preparing for its annual convention, Picocon,
due to take place on Saturday 19th February at
the Imperial College Union. Picocon has gone
from strength to strength since it started in
1984 and this year’s event has all the makings
of being one the best ones yet.
Planned activities include a quiz, silly games
and the ‘Destruction of Dodgy Merchandise’.
The latter is a long held tradition Picocon and
often involves liquid nitrogen and large sledge-
hammers. This year the items being destroyed
include a copy of the notorious “Star Wars –
Ewok Adventures” and figurines of the mutat-
ed Tom Paris, from the much reviled Star Trek
Voyager episode “Threshold”, and the Hulk
on a quad bike. Guests are also encouraged to
bring their own contributions.
In addition, there will be stalls selling books
and official Picocon T-shirt as well as a LAN
tournament of Introversion’s acclaimed game
DEFCON. The company, which was founded
by Imperial students, has donated three Intro-
version Anthology tins, containing their entire
game catalogue, which will be presented to the
winners.
The highlight of the day look set to be the
three guests of honour, who will be giving indi-
vidual talks as well as participating in a group
panel. Juliet McKenna is a fantasy author who
is best known for her series of books set in the
world of Einarinn. She is due to publish the
first book in her new Hadrumal Crisis Trilogy
later this year. Dr Kari Maund is a medieval
historian who writes fantasy under the name
Kari Sperring. Her debut novel,” Living with
Ghosts”, recently won the British Fantasy So-
ciety’s Sydney J Bounds Award for Best New-
comer. Both are involved in the Write Fantastic
initiative aimed at promoting fantasy literature
and encouraging new writers. Paul J. MacAu-
ley is a renowned hard SF author whose novel
“Fairyland” won both the Arthur C. Clarke and
John W. Campbell awards. Last year’s guest of
honour, the science fiction author Jaine Fenn, is
also set to make an appearance.
All are welcome to attend with entry £8 for
students, £5 for society members and £10
for others. Doors open at 10am for what
promises to be an exciting day, and not just
for fans of fantasy and science fiction.
Maciej Matuszewski
I was literally so close to using the headline, “Afrotastic!” Unfortunately my sense of
shame decided to suddenly reemerge at the last moment
Science Fiction and Fantasy Society’s annual convention
Friday 11 february 2011

