CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX 21
W
hen the application
was first submitted,
some said a knitting
society would never
work at Imperial. On
the 27th January KnitSock (witty pun
intended) celebrated its 3rd Birthday
with a healthy membership and person-
alised birthday cake to prove those scep-
tics wrong. But KnitSock is just one of
the many success stories in the midst of
a craft renaissance.
Over the past 10 years or so, the craft
scene has been changing drastically and
is no longer soley the preserve of the
Women’s Institute and Girl Guides. Part
of that reputation came from an era of
necessity with poster boards filled with
mottos like ‘Our Jungle Fighters Want
Socks. Please Knit Now’, and the ab-
sence of TV. During peace times knit-
ting was also a huge industry producing
vast quantities of knitwear before the
Industrial revolution took over with au-
tomated knitting machines.
Now the tables have turned: vast fac-
tories in far flung places could render
the craft obsolete as cheaper as quicker
production is plentiful and accessible.
And yet a rising trend in craft popular-
ity suggests otherwise. Men and women,
young and old are bucking the trend of
quick, disposable fixes from Primark in
favour of something that represents sig-
nificant time and effort, but also some-
thing meaningful. Even celebrities like
Madonna, Kristen Davis and Geri Hal-
liwell have been spotted working the
Happy 3rd Birthday, KnitSoc!
Jennifer Wilson looks back at a society that has defied expectations
It’s coming to the end of our second Sex-
ual Health Awareness (SHAG) week,
and that means you’re nearly free of
‘The Guilt’. The Guilt of not speaking to
the lovely people handing out condoms,
lube and information, that your eye is
always drawn to before quickly look-
ing away like an embarrassed school
girl. The Guilt of not getting tested
even though you think to yourself daily
“you know what, I should get tested for
Chlamydia, there was that one skanky
looking girl last week”. The Guilt of un-
derstanding the biology of most STD’s
better than any charity, and yet never
having been tested for any of them.
I understand the feeling you’re hav-
ing, I can relate well. I’ve had my fair
share of sexual ‘faux-pas’in the past and
ignored all the posters and advertise-
ments basically telling me that I’ve got
every disease known to man. I was once
afraid of going to the clinic and telling
them anything about me, let alone give
a urine sample to the doctors like they
were a vampire with an odd fetish.
However I’m going to stand up and
say “Hi, I’m Stuart, and I’m a reformed
Iatrophobic” (Google does wonders for
your vocabulary!). I can now stand up
and proudly say “I’ve been tested, I’m
clean!”
We live in an age where our sex is
good, and our STD’s are even bet-
ter. They are can be silent and deadly,
they could give you unsightly spots
and blemishes, some will even leave no
symptoms until you find out 6 months
later that you’re completely infertile.
I’m not here to scare you and chase you
all into the John Hunter Sexual Health
Clinic dressed as giant Human Im-
munodeficiency Virus, nor am I here
to comfort you and tell you nothing is
wrong with having unprotected sex with
every man, woman and inanimate object
who’ll give you a drunken nod or a beer-
goggled wink. All that I’m saying is that
there should always be a few things you
should take into account while you’re
out on the pull.
I’m certainly not one to say that absti-
nence is the way forward either. To deny
your basic human instincts to leap on top
of the next appropriate person you see
is a fallacy in itself. What I’m trying to
put across is that if you are leaping from
person to person, that you need to keep
your health and that of the many people
you leave in your wake at the forefront
of your thought. Wearing protection and
getting regular tests (I get tested once
every 6 months if you want something
to aim for) should be your main preroga-
tives.
As Aldous Huxley once said “an Intel-
lectual is a person who’s found that one
thing that’s more interesting then sex” ...
I certainly haven’t found it, and I doubt
I ever will.
Staying sexually healthy needn’t be
a chore. Right are two nearby clinics
that won’t leave you feeling awkward.
needles.
Knitting wouldn’t be so popular in the
first place if it was as difficult as some
perceive it to be. My mantra is ‘if a
granny can do it, and you go to Imperial,
it can’t be that hard’. In actual fact it’s
a relaxing endeavour and ideal for com-
muting or long journeys, and at the very
least saves you from staring blankly at
tube posters trying to sell you car insur-
ance.
For the devoted Imperialite, knitting
and its close relative, crochet, both have
an intrinsic mathematical appeal. In
1997 Dr Daina Tamina, a Latvian math-
ematician at Cornell University, USA
even chose to express hyperbolic space
through the medium of crochet and mo-
bius models are easy to do even by ac-
cident when knitting.
Now in its third year, like a good un-
dergraduate, KnitSock has a great foun-
dation and is aspiring to grow further.
It hosts themed lessons on a fortnightly
basis and on the alternate weeks we
have a chance to progress with our own
projects with help close at hand. With
lots of new exciting yarns, knitting is
no longer doomed to the embarrassing
Christmas jumpers of yesteryear and
new designers are keeping up to date
with latest trends. The club has a sup-
ply of yarn and needles, and we’ll en-
deavour to teach anyone whatever they
want to know within the craft world, so
there are no pre-requisites. Everyone is
warmly invited to come along and give
it a go.
John Hunter Clinic for Sexual Health
This is the closest (and in my opin-
ion best) clinic to Imperial College
students, who they deal with on a
regular occasion.
369 Fulham Road, Chelsea, Greater
London, SW10 9NH, 020 8846 6699
Appointments: 020 3315 6699, Advi-
sors: 020 3315 6155/6156
Walk-in Clinics: Monday: 9 – 10:30am,
Tuesday: 5 – 6:30pm
www.chelwest.nhs.uk/jhc/
West London Centre for Sexual
Health
They have a women’s only clinic ev-
ery other Wednesday between 1:30
– 7:00pm, which is suited to wom-
en’s issues.
Ground Floor, South Wing of Charing
Cross Hospital, Fulham Palace Road,
London, W6 8EP.
020 8846 6699
www.chelwest.nhs.uk/wlcsh
Get tested. Stay clean
Stuart Haylock
Friday 11 february 2011
“CAKE! Or death?” “Whatever, as long as it’s not knitting...” ZING!

