A R T S
FELIX
22
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Of all the Karma Sutra books on the market, this
would be the easiest to read on the tube without
upsetting conservative commuters. As a Kindle edi-
tion, it comes without an erotic front cover, allowing
discreet study of the sen-
sual arts in the most
public of places. There
are no diagrams inside
– on the one hand a
little disappointing, as
although positions are
described very clearly
in the text, visual aid
would clear any possi-
ble confusion – but it is
again a plus for Kindle
owners like myself, who
like to read everywhere,
without fearing over-the-shoulder peekers.
The book is very comprehensive and covers ev-
ery aspect of love-making. The Karma Sutra begin-
ner would find the ‘Seduction’ section enlightening,
and there are plenty of valuable new techniques for
even the most experienced readers to learn. To start,
individuals are guided to separate themselves into
different types depending on their genital size. For
men: the hare, the bull and the horse. For women:
the deer, the mare and the elephant. Lovers should
then choose positions most suitable for their combi-
nation. According to the book, “the least satisfying
scenario is a hare man with an elephant woman”. A
little more clarity on exactly which positions are best
for which combinations would have been helpful, only
some rather general guidelines are given.
The best aspect of the book is the great volume
of extra advice which accompanies the position de-
scriptions. The book reads like a thorough explora-
tion of erotic pleasure, rather than a dry list of sexual
acrobatics (the kind of book we are so used to). The
material also has a pleasantly modern feel about it,
without removing emphasis from the original Karma
Sutra philosophies. Overall this book makes an ex-
cellent addition to your Kindle library, and since it’s
transmitted wirelessly, you can guarantee its delivery
in time for Valentine’s Day. It’s also available in pa-
perback, for those who seek a fresh approach to their
love-making, but find themselves lacking a Kindle.
If you read nothing else
this week...
We rate the mother of all famously
sensual books... on a Kindle
The Modern
Karma
Sutra By Kamini Thomas & Kirk Thomas
Which book do you love more than any other? Tell
us why it’s so good - Send 300 to 400 words to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Your memorable Valentine
It may be a ridiculously overhyped and commercialised,
but then again, we’ll take any excuse for a celebration
This story starts with clenched, muscular but-
tocks. The buttocks in question comprise the
cover art of the latest Scissor Sisters album
Night Work and while they certainly deserve a
second glance you would not grasp their full
significance unless you had also knew of the
man who took that photograph: Robert Map-
plethorpe.
The Scissor Sisters, in case you do not know,
are fantasic glam-rock/pop/dance band from
New York who emerged from the city’s gay
scene in 2000. After the group chose Map-
plethorpe’s work for an album cover they
were approached to curate an exhibition at the
Alison Jacques Gallery in London. I was in-
trigued, between this photographer and such a
brilliant band there was a great tangle of glam
rock, high art and homoeroticism to unravel.
Mapplethorpe was a controversial artist ac-
tive in New York from the early 70’s. A long-
term partner of Patti Smith, they eventually
broke up after he came out as gay. Examples of
his work now sit in the National Portrait Gal-
lery, but at the time he was heavily criticised for
his approach to racial and homosexual themes.
Before dying of complications relating to AIDS
in 1989, he succeeded in splitting the art world
in two with his short lifetime of work, which
often featuring highly classical portraits of men
exposing themselves or engaging in sexual acts.
A word of warning if you intend to visit;
the gallery space is split over two buildings
in the same street. Do not forget, as I did, to
visit them both. The sign at the entrance warns
visitors of explicit images and this is no exag-
geration. There is work from a number of other
artists influenced by Mapplethorpe.
Oswaldo Macia and Gillian Wearing deserve
special mention. However, none came close to
stealing the show. Mapplethorpe rules supreme
and the exhibition features the full spectrum of
his photography. It ranges from delicate, sensu-
ous photos to some very challenging, obscene
portraits. My reaction to the photos was initially
shock, but this was soon moderated to wonder.
It is impossible to deny his talent in a technical
sense. All his work is immaculately and cleverly
composed in such a way that he actually demon-
strates considerable restraint. In every case the
models are portrayed intimately as creatures of
perfect beauty and subtlety.
There is a potent sense of tension in all his
pictures. The muses, male and female, mostly
dancers, strain against fabrics or bonds, muscles
bunching as if poised to jump from the frame
and connect tangibly with you. The fact that you
rarely see their faces focuses the viewer on the
sensual. Other works in the gallery feature mir-
rors which achieve the same effect.As you catch
sight of your own reflection you are framed
in the gallery, forced to view yourself through
Mapplethorpe’s vision of human sexuality.
Despite being charged with sexual energy
there is never the suggestion that you are view-
ing anything close to pornography. This is not
simple titillation; there are overt liberal mes-
sages in many of his pieces. The iconic image
of a man in a suit, his large black penis jutting
proudly out, screams out a desire for liberty.
In the context of a time when racism and ho-
mophobia were still commonplace, this is a pas-
sionate battle cry. The owner of the buttocks,
a dancer named Peter Reed, was to fall victim
a AIDS a few years after the photo was taken.
The dark subject matter could leave you mo-
rose but in fact you come away with a sense
of celebration. It is interesting that when inter-
viewed, Mapplethorpe said of his work “[that]
It was about me, what I wanted to see”. The
Scissor Sisters have made sure that the gallery
is balanced with pure 80s glam. The homage is
not just to the sacrifices made by New York’s
gay community during the period but to its life
and vibrancy. Macia’s video installation, for ex-
ample, shows an aerial silk performer dressed
head to toe in black latex performing on two
white ribbons. This nod to the band’s obsession
with dance is truly beautiful and upbeat.
So what is the message to take home? Well,
it is a particularly appropriate one given a cer-
tain auspicious date in the near future. Human
sexuality is a strange, beautiful thing. It has as
many weird and wonderful variations as there
are people on this planet. Whether this Valen-
tine’s Day will be spent in the arms of your be-
loved or at home with ice-cream, be happy you
are alive, filthy/gorgeous... and you can dance.
Night Work is on at the Alison Jaques gal-
lery until 19th March
Butt-clenchingly good: that album cover from the Scissor Sisters, which kicked the whole thing off
Meredith Thomas
The ultimate guide to the
secrets of erotic pleasure
(Kindle Edition)
Friday 11 february 2011

