FELIX 23
ARTS
Get hot
at pole
dancing
class
Apparently, Imperial is one of the few
universities in the country not to already
have a pole dancing society (I wonder
why…). Even Cambridge University
is better catered for! Given the grow-
ing interest in all forms of erotic dancing
– the much hyped Burlesque the movie
has recently been released – and the shift
in emphasis from XXX to exercise, it
seemed a good time to find out whether
we should think about starting one…
Having rounded up a substantial pro-
portion of the female students in fourth
year Physics (and Chem Eng) we decid-
ed on a pre-Valentine’s taster session at
the shiny Riverside Studios in Hammer-
smith run by the Pole Dancing School
A word of warning: the School insists
on short shorts, bare legs and high heels,
even for the taster class. This is not for
the faint-hearted in the middle of Brit-
ish winter! Fortunately we were all girls
together with legs of varying shades
of pasty – thank god, since I had come
down with a heavy cold and couldn’t
have looked less sexy if I’d tried.
Our instructor was the actual found-
er of the whole school and Miss Pole
Dance World 2005! Elena is classically
trained as a ballet dancer and it showed
in her gorgeous figure and total poise.
She took up pole dancing as part of her
rehabilitation following a serious car ac-
cident and says she immediately loved
it. Watching her demonstrate some of
the amazing gymnastics she could do
I shall be open here, I’m not sure how
to review a comedian. Does it suffice to
say that Alun Cochrane was hilarious?
Do I have any hope of conveying the
humour of his jokes by retelling them
here? The answer, I suspect, to both
these questions is no, so I shall give it
a go. He’s a Yorkshire comedian, with a
number of television appearances under
his belt, and took delight in lampooning
the audience’s middle-class sensibilities:
he ends a joke about cooking by noncha-
lantly whipping out the phrase “hacher”
before turning it on the audience when
they laugh in recognition.
That said, there was something un-
comfortable about his set; as if he’s not
entirely on the ball. At times his pauses
are perhaps a little too long to be delib-
erate and his joke about wasting much
of his time staring out of windows, is
lingered on awkwardly; he gazes out at
the street as if trying to spot his thoughts
flagging a taxi down.
But I'm probably being too harsh. My
chest was heaving with laughter and
he had the audience positively howling
at times. However, The Royal Albert
Hall’s Elgar Room itself is starting to
get on my nerves. It adapts to all types
of performance so effortlessly and nat-
urally that one wonders if it isn't a bit
smug about it all.
The room, which has seen a variety of
music from the twee Johnny Flynn to the
mind-pummelling Factory Floor, was
filled with cabaret-style seating, adorned
with couples giggling into their wine –
'robustly' priced wine at that – and fall-
ing into each other with laughter. After
sending the paper to print, and upload-
ing the articles to the website, finding
Christina Flanagan
Kadhim Shubber
on a pole made me wish it was easier to
watch this kind of performance outside
of a strip club. A quick search online
didn’t turn up many pole dance venues,
but there is a good range of burlesque
shows in London.
Our session started with Kondi-style
warm up exercises and very quickly pro-
gressed onto having a go with the poles
themselves. We learnt Fireman Spin
(leap on and twizzle round and round),
Pole Slide, Swan Slide (sliding with your
legs kicked out behind) and Sitting Hold
(just sitting knees-bent half-way up the
pole a bit like a pole dancing genie),
mastering them with extremely varying
degrees of success! The main problems
were sweaty hands sliding off the pole
which led to knees hitting the floor at
speed, and in extremely grippy thighs,
which didn’t allow for any spinning!
Towards the end of the class we even
managed to put it all together in a rou-
tine set to music that involved lots of
sexy walking around the pole and stand-
ing ‘seductively’, hand on hip. This was
maybe my favourite part since Elena
had excellent tips on posture and style,
which are actually valuable far beyond
the world of pole dancing.
But they are not kidding about the fit-
ness aspect! Days later my thighs are
still aching and it is hard to raise my
arms above my head. The most impor-
tant requirement seems to be upper body
strength and couldn’t help wondering
if pole dancing might actually be more
suited to men, although the visual im-
myself in such a rarefied environment
was deeply relaxing.
Luckily, Alun Cochrane’s sanity res-
cuing performance is only the first in
a new series of comedy shows at the
Royal Albert Hall. Looking ahead, on
the 16th of March the rapper-turned-
comedian Doc Brown takes the stage
and on the 28th of April – they do like to
space them out, don’t they? – Alex Zane
will join his compatriots in playing one
of the swankiest comedy gigs, probably
in the country.
Slowly, bit by bit, creeping along at an
elderly snail’s pace, Kensington is be-
If laughter be the food of love, hear here
“He had the audience
positively howling at
times.”
pact of all the pretty twizzling would be
somewhat lost.
We had a really fabulous, funny girls’
night out and despite the many bruises
we’re all very happy to have given it a go.
Maybe soon there will be poles set-up in
the UDH for an evening, but otherwise
Pole Dancing School runs tasters and
beginners courses all over London, as do
several other dance schools which can be
found easily online. At £15 for an hour
it’s a pretty costly exercise class, but at
least half of us would seriously consider
getting lessons in the future – we’ll just
have to wait for a good deal on Groupon!
Courses can be booked from
beginner to ‘addict’ level:
www.poledancingschool.com
A pole-dancing class gets warmed up at the Hammersmith pole-dancing school. This is serious exercise people
ginning to offer some entertainment for
its residents. If you include The Build-
er’s Arms’ comedy night on Monday
then who knows, Albertopolis might be
turning into quite the stand-up comedy
destination – well perhaps I may have
stretched myself a bit there. Neverthe-
less, if you’re free on the 16th of March,
I’ll see you at Elgar Comedy – we can
share a table!
Friday 11 february 2011

