FELIX SEX
Before I begin this short analysis of the
figures displayed above, I would first like
to express my appreciation to those who
trusted us enough to share their deeply
personal data. We strived at every juncture
to ensure that the data was completely
anonymous, and college usernames were
not seen at any point in the data analysis.
By the time of going to print the raw data
has been entirely deleted.
It is also important that I confess my
inexperience in the fields of surveying
and statistics. There were a number of in-
stances where the questions and availa-
ble answers limited data collection. Sever-
al questions did not allow multiple choice
where they plainly should have (‘Where
have you had sex on campus?’ being an
obvious example), and others had too lim-
ited a range of answers – many legitimate
respondents complained that a limit of
four sex toys was far
most egregious mist
to group people with
sexual partners toge
1-5 category instead
3, 4, 5). This loss of
a lot of interesting an
Presented above is a small, X-rated snapshot of the
sexual lives of Imperial students. While the data has
certain obvious flaws (see ‘Sensitivity and Reliability’
below), it nonetheless leads to interesting conclu-
sions. For instance, the Union was the most popular
place on campus to have sex – followed by the Library
and, disturbingly, the Felix Office. The Maths Depart-
ment simultaneously boasts the highest proportion of
virgins as well as of students who have sex every day
(the department must be full of envious stares across
the lecture theatres).
We saw that male-dominated departments collec-
tively masturbate more than their gender-equal equiv-
alents; mainly because men were revealed to mas-
turbate far more than women. Imperial students are
overwhelmingly straight, but also, interestingly, more
respondents identified as bisexual rather than gay.
The majority of students (around 60%) lost their
virginity between the ages of 16-18, but on average,
50%
100%
0%
Key: How often do you masturbate?
Daily
A few times a week
Once a week
Once a month
A few times a year
Never
How often do you masturbate?
Guys vs. Girls
The results confirmed the common assumption that men
masturbate more than women. 68% of men at Imperial said
that they masturbated every day or a few times a week while
only a quarter of women at Imperial said the same thing.
Whereas students in a relationship masturbate less fre-
quently than their single counterparts, the total fraction of
onanistic students (of either gender) is unchanged.
Bisexual women and gay men were the most likely to make
use of sex toys, though nearly 30% of straight women and
16% of straight men admitted to their use. One unexpected
result was the number of respondents claiming to use more
than 4 sex toys – a figure over 10% in certain departments.
83.3% 9.4% 6.2%
What sexuality are you?
The majority of polled students
were straight; hardly a surpris-
ing result. But the data became
more interesting when we com-
pared responses across sexuali-
ties. Gay men and bisexual wom-
en (there were no gay female
respondents) were substantially
less likely to be virgins than their
straight peers. Bisexual women
were twice as likely to mastur-
bate regularly than straight wom-
en and had the highest propor-
tion of respondents claiming to
have sex daily. 50% of gay men
said that they masturbated every
day, compared with only 20% of
straight men.
Number o
By Depar
Surprised?
Sensitivity and
Reliability
Editor
*Materials recorded 0
virgins out of a very small
sample size of 11

