MUSIC
FELIX
26
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Folk music is in good hands
Album of The Week
Ducktails
Ducktails III: Arcade
Dynamics
Woodsist
2011
★★★★✩
Ducktails is a one man-band consisting of Matthew
Mondanile, the guitarist of Real Estate, and this is
an album brimming with good-time summer vibes.
Minus the extended drifting of the final track, Ar-
cade Dynamics consists of short hazy pop songs
that sound like they were written on the way to the
beach. Mondanile has a way with simple melodies
that stick in the head despite the lo-fi production,
and this results in an album that never compels you
to listen but instead slowly seeps into your subcon-
scious each time you put it on.
Jamie Fraser
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Bright Eyes
Scala, King’s Cross
14th February @ 20.00
The time is nearing when
we must kiss the beauti-
ful folk-rock act Bright
Eyes goodbye as they
are retiring the moniker
forever. Conor Oberst
will surely continue to
explore the depths of the
human condition through
his other outings, but it will never be the same. Bright
Eyes are unique in their passionate delivery of folk,
striking an emotionally resonant chord with roman-
tics and heartbroken lovers across the globe. Their
latest album The People’s Key stands as a monument
to the sheer force of the band at their peak and this
(probably ultimate) London show will feature new hits
amongst old classics. It’s the perfect gig for Valen-
tine’s Day: when Conor starts singing “First Day of
My Life” that’s when you take your man/lady-friend to
what I like to call “The Bone Zone”. Can I get an amen
brotha’? Aw, yeah... Greg Power
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Kanye West
2. Radiohead
3. James Blake
4. The xx
5. Muse
6. Daft Punk
7. Crystal Castles
8. Caribou
9. Bon Iver
10. Sleigh Bells
Metronomy
She Waits
Because Music
★★★✩✩
It’s always a nervous wait for new material
after a band has released a truly great album,
and that wait has ended for Metronomy with
this free single released on their website. In-
stead of going for an overtly upbeat theme,
‘She Waits’ is in contrast a groove infused
with subtle melodies that with repeated lis-
tens become infectious. It is intentionally less
quirky than say ‘Radio Ladio’ and the synths
Darling Marling
Chapel Club
Palace
Loog Records
★★★✩✩
The darker 80’s sounds of The Smiths, Joy
Division, and Echo and the Bunnymen have
L
aura Marling is a remarkable artist.
She left home at 16 and moved to
London carrying, you would like to
imagine, only a guitar, a straw hat
and a few vinyls. She then befriend-
ed – remarkably, given her shyness – members
of lightweight-campfire-singalong bands Noah
and the Whale and, later, Mumford and Sons.
Most people will have noticed her first singing
cutesy backing vocals on Mystery Jets’ ‘Young
Love’ and Noah’s ‘5 Years Time’ and would
have rightly thought her a songstress of little
substance. However, delve even slightly into
any of her solo work and you will notice a com-
plete transformation. No longer is she the naïve
poster girl of such hollow genres as “indie-folk”
or “nu-folk” but rather a songwriter of (almost)
the highest quality who contemplates woman-
hood and the hazards of love rather than sunny
days at the zoo. That is not to say that childlike,
happy songs are bad: sunny days at the zoo are
some of the happiest memories of my life. How-
ever, anyone can write a catchy tune about the
sun, but it takes great talent to sing about love
and sadness without cliché, something Laura
manages every time.
Many comparisons have been drawn between
Laura and 60s/70s folk-jazz singer-songwriter
Joni Mitchell, comparisons which I originally
thought were either unnecessary attempts at cat-
egorising her into the folk-hippy compartment
of the music world, or else just plain wrong. In
hindsight I can see that these comparisons were
quite correct. Both artists, on a simple-minded
level, play guitar and sing songs about love and
feminity, but much more significantly, Laura
and Joni, until about 1971, have very similar
high-register vocal styles – listen to Laura’s
‘Flicker and Fail’ and you’d think it was Joni
singing). Thematically, both artists seem to be
following similar routes, Joni started off sing-
ing light-hearted lovesongs, then more serious
lovesongs, songs about children, marriage, the
end of love, and, finally, travel and restlessness;
Laura has followed an identical thematic path,
though she has not yet reached the last stage,
naturally, being only 21. Joni Mitchell was for
many years my favourite artist, so it pains me
to say that Laura Marling may be coming close
to bettering her. Obviously in situations like
this one must take into account that fact that
Joni almost single-handedly invented the fe-
male singer-songwriter genre whereas Laura is,
in the nicest possible sense, recycling what has
already been done, but to say that this makes
Joni necessarily better than Laura is to misun-
derstand what folk music is about. Clearly folk
music does not extend the boundaries of mu-
sical possibility as some electronic genres do,
nor does it constantly yearn for newness and
freshness as pop music should. Rather, folk is a
genre that celebrates the past, that reworks over
and over what has already been done in order to
reach a perfect musical description of the high
and low points of everyday life. It is exactly
this that Laura is doing so well.
I have only seen Laura Marling live once, at
the Norwich Waterfront in November last year,
and it was undoubtedly the best gig I have ever
been to, partly due to the setting. If you have
never been to Norwich, don’t expect anything,
it is a completely average English town. The
day I went to see Laura there was the day in No-
vember when it started to snow, and the weather
transformed Norwich into a beautiful, old, Tu-
dor town. The relevance to Laura’s music was
magnificent, for her music transforms the me-
diocrity of daily life into something of age-old
beauty. Laura played 13 songs (no encore, she
considers them arrogant), three from her debut,
seven from her second album, I Speak Because
I Can, and three new songs. Naturally, her ten
already-released songs were wonderful to hear,
her voice, smokier now than in 2008, chang-
ing early songs – which appear gentle on Alas I
Cannot Swim – into more gritty, 3-dimensional
pieces. Halfway through the set, she was on
the verge of treating us to a rendition of Neil
Young’s ‘The Needle and the Damage Done’
but, much to my annoyance, an audience mem-
ber insisted on another, less good song. Usually
at gigs, much irritation is caused when an art-
ist insists on playing new rather than old songs,
but it is a testament to Laura’s writing ability
that the new songs were by far the highlights of
the set. Two of the new songs, ‘Rest in the Bed’
and ‘Night After Night’, have names, the third
was a nameless medley. I very highly recom-
mend looking up those two songs on Youtube,
for they are sublime, send-a-shiver-down-your-
back, images-of-dark-forests, musically excel-
lent, lyrically fantastic songs.
I can’t express how beautiful those new songs
sounded that night, in a beautiful snowy town,
standing a metre away from one of my favou-
rite artists, hearing music that was entirely new
to me and yet sounded as if I had known it all
my life. It was music that evoked the most mel-
ancholy memories of my childhood, walking at
night in the woods, camping in a freezing cold
glade. Listen to these songs and you will hear
true campfire songs, never will you go back to
Noah and the Whale or Mumford and Sons. In
fact, to even mention such bands while listening
to Laura’s new music is laughable. She (alleg-
edly) has a new album coming out this month,
though the lack of any publicity would suggest
otherwise. If you have never heard Laura Mar-
ling’s music before, now is the perfect time to
start listening. If you are already a fan, her next
album promises to be phenomenally good, keep
on the look-out for a release date.
are more smoothed and rounded than ‘A thing
for me’. If this is a good indicator, their forth-
coming album ‘The English Riveria’ is cer-
tainly looking out for when it comes out in
April. Christopher Walmsley
been suitably rehashed by many bands,
updated into the new millennium and un-
leashed upon Radio 1. This, the debut effort
by London based band Chapel Club may fit
into the aforementioned description; deso-
late (but not quite depressing) vocals, verses
littered with guitar sprawl, accompanied
with a punchy rhythm section. The formula
is incredibly well executed and results in a
remarkably accomplished album for a first
release. However with all the echoes of simi-
larly influenced bands such as Editors and
White Lies, it is hard to find much original-
ity here.
Christopher Walmsley
Stephen Smith is clearly a fisher-
man... and he’s after the Marlin!
Friday 11 february 2011

