F
I
L
M
True Grit is a force
to be reckoned with
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Ethan Coen, Joel Coen
Screenwriter Ethan Coen, Joel Coen,
Charles Portis (novel)
Cast Jeff Bridges, Matt Damon, Hailee
Steinfeld, Josh Brolin.
True Grit
Guo Heng Chin
Jeff Bridges snaps after one too many Pirates vs. Cowboys questions
FELIX
28
iCU Cinema - Made in Dagenham
£3/£4 for members/non-members
Tue 15th Feb 6.30pm
Thu 17th Feb 9:00pm.
Union Concert Hall
EVENTS
You can’t watch True Grit without being
warmed by the strength of will and determination
of Mattie Ross in seeking justice for her dead fa-
ther. Played by newcomer Hailee Steinfeld, she
may be a damsel but she certainly not distressed.
Mattie Ross is the epitome of the strong female
lead and in some ways, Republican values of
self-reliance and independence from the estab-
lishment. As she goes through her adventure, we
True Grit was truly a surprise at the Golden
Globes. Not for any record breaking achieve-
ment but rather for its surprising lack of rec-
ognition. The film was hailed as one of the
racehorses set for a slew of gongs during the
awards season, but gasp! The Coen brother’s
latest western was not even graced with a sin-
gle nomination at the Globes.
A remake of the Oscar-winning 1969 film
based on a novel by Charles Portis, True Grit
is the story a 14-year old Mattie Ross seeking
to bring justice upon the coward Tom Chaney
who murdered her father. True Grit is the Lord
of the Rings in a western genre, as Mattie’s quest
brings her on an epic journey in the great wilder-
ness of the Indian Territory in 19th century US.
HerAragorn and Boromir are renegade US Mar-
shall Rooster Cogburn played by Jeff Bridges,
and straight-laced Texan ranger LaBoeuf played
by Matt Damon. It a tale of growing up and in-
nocence lost (the way Frodo lost his to Sam…).
For all the gunshots seen and heard in the
trailer, True Grit is more drama than action. It
is a masterful contemplation on the nature of
vengeance and female strength in a Wild West
backdrop with a bunch of unruly gunslingers. It
challenges the motive of those seeking to bring
justice in their own hands, when the line be-
tween revenge and justice becomes blurred. A
first time foray into the western genre, the Coen
brothers’ gun standoffs are superb and stylish.
There’s even a Tarantino-style scene!
The plot of the movie unfolds in its own sweet
time as if reading a Frank Herbert novel. Scenes
like the 10-minute introduction to Rooster Cog-
burn may well falter and become a drag, but not
under the direction and script of the Coen broth-
ers. The script is peppered with sardonic wit and
dark, deadpan humour and, together with the
heavy southern twang, they make the film such
fun to watch. Though the film’s motley crew and
their humorous antics in trying to get along are
priceless, what makes the film a must-watch is
Jeff Bridge’s character. The shoot-first-talk-later
Cogburn, is the antithesis of the cavalier cowboy
from classic western flicks. Though a lawman,
his actions are sometimes questionable and as
Jeff Bridges describes it, he has a foot on both
sides of the law. Mattie Ross hired him to hunt
down Tom Chaney due to his reputation as a
man with ‘true grit’. Rooster Cogburn is such
a likable character, not just for his don’t-give-
a-damn charisma but because beneath the gritty
exterior, there lies a knight who rides in and save
the day when Mattie is in need.
see her transform, lose her innocence, and ulti-
mately learn the price of retribution.
Josh Brolin plays the villain, Tom Chaney. His
character was built up from what the protagonist
talked about him, until we are finally introduced
to him in a climactic meeting. It’s particularly
enjoyable to see Brolin’s wonderful character
in action, and I wished that he got more screen
Classic Cinema
Kramer vs. Kramer
With Valentine’s Day approaching, I realise that it’s
pretty pessimistic to be reviewing Kramer vs. Kramer
– a milestone of a film that discussed the then-rare
topic of divorce in frank, almost brutal honesty. Nev-
ertheless, Kramer vs. Kramer was a hit at the Oscars
in the late 70s and continues to be an enduring em-
bodiment of modern families. Starring the ineffable
duo of Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman as a couple
parting ways, leaving their young son caught in be-
tween, Kramer vs. Kramer could be considered to be
pioneering in the way it portrayed its characters.
Released in 1979, the film reflects feminist move-
ments at the time by having the housewife, Joanna
Kramer (Streep) as the one to cut and run. In her
wake, father, Ted Kramer (Hoffman) and their six-year
old son are shaken to the core, their comfortable,
routine lives irreversibly altered. We watch Ted – pre-
viously the stereotypical workaholic father – and his
son both struggle to understand what has happened,
and try to form some kind of life without Joanna.
Streep, though not on screen nearly as much as
Hoffman, is strongly felt in her absence and her ap-
pearances as the isolated wife in turmoil, fighting
for custody of her abandoned son, are measured
and impeccably delivered. Hoffman meanwhile car-
ries the film well with young actor Justin Henry (who
never beat this performance and instead faded into
semi-obscurity), trying to gather their world together
in a moving, daring and truly excellent film.
It is not as thoroughly miserable as this synopsis
sounds, though –there are funny moments, such as
the classic father-son bonding-over-peeing scene
that seems to have got rehashed somehow in Adam
Sandler’s Big Daddy. But for a film about divorce – a
topic that so often gets chewed over in Hollywood
films for easy dramatic effect – Kramer vs. Kramer is
one of the most delicate and touching portrayals of
this intimate family tragedy.
Jade Hoffman
Dustin Hoffman: child-snatcher
The Coen brothers’ gun
standoffs are superb and
stylish.
“
lishment. As she g
lishment. As she g
ut not
roth-
h-
t and
and
h the
h the
such
such
w and
w and
g are
are
The Coen
The Coen
standoffs
standoffs
”
superb and
superb and
time. Nevertheless, the Coen brothers have a
knack for staying faithful to the book, just as
they did with No Country for Old Men.
Set in the epic wilderness of the Indian Territo-
ry, this must be one of the most scenic westerns.
The soundtrack by the Coen brother’s long time
collaborator, Carter Burwell brings to life the
spirit of adventure in the sweeping wilderness,
in the manner of the late John Barry’s theme
for the score of Dances with Wolves. Burwell’s
theme for Mattie Ross evokes her taste for ad-
venture and ever-present optimism amidst the
harsh challenges she faces. All in all, it’s a well-
composed modern cowboy score.
As if retribution for going unrecognized in
the Golden Globes, True Grit wrath is felt in
the BAFTAs and Oscars with 8 BAFTA nomi-
nations and a stonking 10 for the Academy
Awards. Perhaps the 6000 plus filmmakers and
actors at the Academy who are responsible for
voting found True Grit to be more to their taste
than the 60-odd film critics at the Hollywood
Foreign PressAssociation who decides who gets
what in the Golden Globes.
Whether you are up for some cowboy action
or some drama, True Grit is well worth watch-
ing.All in all, True Grit shows us that a woman’s
wrath is truly a force to be reckoned with.
Friday 11 february 2011

