FILM
What does it means to
be a human being?
Welcome to Hailsham, an idyllic Eng-
lish boarding school in the peaceful
countryside. Students of Hailsham are
special and the headmistress Miss Emily
(Charlotte Rampling) emphasises that
the students’ well-being is of paramount
importance. Nothing seems to be out of
the ordinary for this seemingly prestig-
ious school but these young and naïve
students have no idea what awful future
awaits them. Indeed, the students of
Hailsham are special. They have been
created artificially to be used as donors
of vital organs for people in the outside
world. Essentially, the school is a for-
ever functioning genetic factory.
Based on the best-selling book by Ka-
zuo Ishiguro, the adaptation of Never
Let Me Go follows Kathy, Ruth and
Tommy (Carey Mulligan, Keira Knight-
ley and Andrew Garfield); three young
“students” of Hailsham who are caught
up in this disturbing drama. Even from
a young age, they are bound by a love
triangle that develops into an awkward
relationship as they grow up. As a ru-
mour spreads that a couple truly in love
will be given a “deferral,” a few years’
extension on their short lives, this is
brought to a crunch. Hope runs high,
but not everything can resolve itself in
a neat and painless way. Mulligan and
Garfield both have chances to show off
in the story’s climax, and they embrace
their dramatic moments, with Garfield’s
intense performance marking the film’s
most highlighted scene with utmost
confidence.
Mulligan also plays a central role
which, though not an obviously showy
part, is deeply moving in its subdued
and warm delivery. Anyone who’s seen
Mulligan in An Education knows just
how much potential and talent the young
English actress possesses. With Never
Let Me Go we are firmly reminded that
all praise was justified and she holds a
great deal of promise. But the true rev-
elation of the film is the new rising star
Garfield. Looking worryingly thin and
pale, his shy, soft-spoken character is in
stark contrast to his confident, slick per-
formance in The Social Network. As he
struggles to fully voice what’s going on
in his head, the often clueless nature of
his character is captured with fine preci-
sion by the young actor.
Another feature of the film which
plays well is the lack of mystery around
the fact that these clones were created for
the purpose of becoming donor. There is
absolutely no action/thriller component
in the film and director Mark Romanek
wisely chooses to steer away from a
overly twist-filled and puzzling tone.
There are many hints throughout and the
revelation comes at a very early stage,
FELIX 29
in a depressing monologue delivered as
warmly as possible by Miss Lucy (Sally
Hawkins). Instead, Romanek is inter-
ested in the consequences our characters
face and the lack of free will all human
beings should be entitled to. Donating
your organs is a selfless act, but being
forced into this – manufactured for it –
when you’re barely thirty is horrifying.
A couple of undeveloped ideas do
make us question the validity of the
film’s ending. Some of its elements
seem too forced for the sake of the mel-
ancholy mood. Because it spends too
much time zooming in on the characters’
expressions and love triangle, it hardly
tackles the important issues which are
instead rather hastily wrapped up in a
clumsy voiceover. Although leaving the
viewers to do much thinking is not bad
in its entirety, the film’s focus appears to
shift somewhere along the way.
What it means to be a human being,
how our souls and bodies function are
important issues to address in this time
of much technological advancement.
To an extent Never Let Me Go gets you
started in that thought process. Whether
you are moved enough to think deeper
about the subject matters is entirely up
to you, but for me, this was an unques-
tionably depressing and touching film.
Passionate and cool:
not just another film
about boxing...
Hilarity ensues at the thought of Keira Knightley eating a full meal
Director Mark Romanek
Screenwriter Alex Garland, Kazuo
Ishiguro (novel)
Cast Carey Mulligan, Keira
Knightley, Andrew Garfield
Never Let Me Go
John Park
Do we really need another boxing film?
Can anyone make a film that will better
the much loved Rocky? Or a film that is
as aesthetically pleasing as Raging Bull,
which has the reputation of being so
beautiful that each frame could be hung
on a wall as a piece of art? Will we ever
see a true story documentary as thrilling
and as exciting as Rumble In The Jun-
gle? The trailer for The Fighter leaves
us guessing.
The Fighter tells the story of Micky
Ward Micky (Mark Wahlberg) who
reaches the heights of the world of box-
ing in 2000 by becoming light welter-
weight world champion. Though he
achieves this with the help of his friends
and family, the film really centres on the
conflict within this group, with the star
of the show instead being Micky’s broth-
er, Dickey (Christian Bale): a washed-
up, drug-addicted, ex-boxer who trains
Micky. The other key characters that
play their roles in this conflict, include
his mouths-to-feed manager/mother, I-
believe-in-my-son father, hot-red-head
love interest and take-no-shit trainer.
The passion between the brothers is
captured beautifully, and it’s not really
about Micky winning the world title but
about Dickey getting over his crack ad-
diction. Christian Bale has always been
one to drastically alter his body for a
role (life-threateningly thin for The Ma-
chinist, bulky-hunk for Batman Begins)
but you would swear that he’s a been
crack-smoking, street-cleaner for the
majority of his life with this character.
Personally I don’t think Bale should be
up for the Best Supporting Oscar but
should be up for Best Leading Actor; he
far outshines Wahlberg as an eccentric
and as a socialite.
What David O. Russell has achieved
is a different kind of boxing story: an
exciting, enticing and elevating story.
Think of the coolness that Three Kings
achieved with its expert use of music
and apply this to an exciting boxing sto-
ry. It’s got success written all over it and
the downfalls are few and far between.
Though we don’t see much of the fieri-
ness of the love interest, and perhaps
more of Dickey’s time in jail would have
been interesting for the viewer, these are
all just small blemishes on what is the
complete finish of an excellent film.
Director David O. Russell
Screenwriter Scott Silver, Paul
Tamasy, Eric Johnson
Cast Mark Wahlberg, Christian
Bale, Amy Adams
The Fighter
Jake Lea-Wilson
Nobody has ever looked as
uncomfortable as Wahlberg here
Friday 11 february 2011

