NEWS
FELIX 3
£940 million cut to funding
behalf of the government, has allocated
£6,507m for the 2011-2012 academic
year, covering teaching, research and
building among other areas. The teach-
ing budget is to be reduced by £180m
to £4.3bn and the research grant by
£17.4m to £1.6bn. £223m has been al-
located to capital projects, such as new
buildings, a 58% reduction from the
previous year. The cuts come as the
government makes savings across all
departments, a strategy aimed at reduc-
ing the UK’s large budget deficit.
Whilst the Universities Minister, Da-
vid Willetts, has called for the teaching
budget to be protected as far as possible,
he acknowledged, “higher education,
like other areas of public spending, has
had to take its share of savings.”
Imperial will not learn of its exact
funding until next month when grants
to individual institutions are decided.
However, Sir Alan Langlands, Chief
Executive of Hefce, said that the Board
“welcomed the decision of the govern-
ment to ring fence and maintain in cash
terms the overall funding provided by
the Department for Business, Innova-
tion and Skills (BIS) for science and
research”. Therefore, it is likely that Im-
perial, being primarily a science insti-
tution, will not experience funding cuts
as drastic as other humanities-focused
universities.
The Hefce Board have indicated that
the quality of research will be a key de-
terminant in the allocation of research
funding to a university: “Funding is
being allocated more selectively by pri-
oritising internationally excellent and
world leading research.”
£150m for the Higher Education In-
novation Fund (HEIF), enabling uni-
versities and businesses to work more
closely together, is also being main-
tained in cash terms. Langlands also
said that this HEIF would be allocated
among the “most effective performers”.
The Hefce has also detailed reduc-
tions in funding for the current aca-
demic year 2010-11, the first time such
changes have been implemented part
way through. This is because the De-
partment for Business, Innovation and
Friday 11 february 2011
Funding Council reveals almost £1 billion cut to university budgets in 2011/12
Universities Minister David Wil-
letts has called on universities to
adapt to the new environment of
higher education funding
Skills grant announcement for 2011-12
relates to the financial year (1 April to
31 March), therefore affecting funding
for the final four months of the 2010-11
academic year. The funding cuts will be
implemented through Hefce’s monthly
grant payments to institutions between
April and July 2011.
Langlands said, “we are attempting as
far as possible to support a smooth tran-
sition for all institutions to the new stu-
dent finance and funding arrangements
which will take place in the academic
year 2012-13. Universities have antici-
pated the challenges ahead and many
have already taken difficult decisions to
reduce their costs.”
David Willetts supported the funding
announcements and called on univer-
sities to adapt to what he called “the
different environment” that they now
find themselves in: “It is essential that
universities move quickly to prepare for
the different environment in which they
will operate in future years, striving to
meet the aspirations of students for high
quality teaching. As well as benefiting
from investment in student support, the
higher education sector will continue to
benefit from sustained ring-fenced in-
vestment in science and research.”
Meanwhile, Paul Marshall, Director
of the 1994 Group which represents
small, research-intensive universities,
warned that universities were facing
a tough future: “the sweeping funding
cuts show that universities will need
to work harder than ever to make their
contribution”.
Gareth Thomas, Labour’s shadow
Universities Minister said, “the decision
to cut so much from university teaching
budgets, the massive cut to capital fund-
ing and then to load the cost on to the
next generation of students by trebling
tuition fees is unfair, unnecessary and
unsustainable”.
Meanwhile, aside from the funding
cuts, the Hefce has set up a £12.5m
fund to support the development of
cloud computing on hosted systems by
universities. They have used part of the
University Modernisation Fund to make
£10m available for developing a shared
IT infrastructure and £2.5m for setting
up shared services for administration.
The programme is aimed at improving
efficiency in higher education.
David Sweeney, Hefce’s director of
research, innovation and skills, said,
“At a time of pressure on university re-
sources, it is critical that technology is
used in a collaborative and cost-effec-
tive way, to deliver services that will
benefit the sector. Cloud computing has
the potential to do this in ways which
will serve the academic community
leading to improvements in research,
teaching and administration.”
A group of five PhD students have ex-
pressed complaints after they encoun-
tered issues with funding from the Im-
perial College Business School. The
students, ranging from second to third
years on the Graduate Teaching Assis-
tant (GTA) scholarship scheme com-
plained that they were expected to per-
form teaching as part of their contract
while first years have no such condition
in the terms, therefore allowing them to
earn more money for doing so.
The GTA scheme, which offers a bur-
sary of £16,000 and has an expectation
of six hours of teaching per week, had no
official contract until last year. Students
were considering whether the hours they
worked exceeded the expectation and
felt they were working far more than
six hours per week performing other
teaching duties. The students therefore
approached the department which was
later convinced to draw up contracts for
the PhD GTAs.
The contracts included terms start-
ing October 2010 which detailed the
£16,000 bursary with the expected six
hours teaching time plus nine hours non-
contact time such as marking. The issue
arose after the students signed the con-
tract and later realised the one drawn up
for first years starting in October 2010
was for a bursary of the same amount
but with no expectation of teaching
time. This meant that while those who’d
signed the contract for second and third
years were expected to teach as part of
the terms, first years were able to earn
extra money by putting in hours which
were not expected of them.
The Graduate Teaching Assistant
scheme offered by the Imperial College
Business School involves postgraduate
students undergoing employment on a
Alex Karapetian temporary contract in order to assume
teaching related responsibilities. The
scheme is a valuable career step for an
aspiring academic and responsibilities
are split up into contact hours which in-
volve teaching, assisting in tutorials, etc
and non-contact hours such as marking
coursework or setting questions.
Professor David Begg, Principal of
the Business School, has described the
Business School’s courses as “taking the
best strategies from around the world’’
and “combining them with ground
breaking research […] to equip our stu-
dents with the knowledge and the con-
fidence they need to be key players in
the new global economy”. Formerly the
Tanaka Business School, it offers man-
agement modules in accordance towards
some degrees taken by Imperial College
students and separate finance, risk man-
agement and research courses for post-
graduates.
The mismatch in the terms outlined
in the new contracts surprised the af-
fected students with what appeared to
be unfairness considering both contracts
had been drafted and signed at the same
time, with different sets of conditions
for students on the same scholarship
in the same department. A number of
postgraduate funding issues have arisen
over the current academic year, notably
the confusion surrounding student fund-
ing in the Department of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering, where payment
was not given to students who complete
additional duties alongside their work.
The Department of Aeronautics were
also criticised for cutting eleven PhD
students’ monthly bursary payments
without warning. The Business School
declined to comment on the issue. It is
understood that the Union are actively
encouraging PhD students from all de-
partments to double check their funding.
£190m additional cut
this academic year
Sophia David
PhD funding woes hit Business School
As more issues with PhD funding arise, Union asks students to check their accounts
Imperial College London
...Continued from Front Page
Mmm, jaunty angle... *drools

