FOOD
FELIX
30
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Valentine’s dessert
Gastronomical Musings
Vicky says:
Ahhh Valentine’s Day, how I love you. Happy days are
here again. I shall refrain from unnecessary acerbic
comments on the significance of the day (bitter-
ness of the spinster) and skip to the part I love:
the food. Decanters of red wine, chocolate in shiny
foil wrappers, strawberries in champagne and half
shelled oysters would make any schmaltzy, cheesy,
sentimental (and many other words that mean the
same thing) “holiday” worth it’s while in my book.
Valentine’s Day was made for the foodie or for those
with the love of the set menu, depending on your
gastronomical bent. Either way, whatever way you
decide to indulge, the importance of flower giving
cannot be underestimated. Even better is if you can
go that extra mile and sneak in a few extra blooms
into your meal. Rose Martinis and lavender icing are
girlie and romantic for a reason: all the soft pastels
or sexy vibrant hues set the mood. However flowers
are especially expensive around this special day,
so alternatively try Roccoco Chocolates Mini Flower
Chocolate Bars for £5. They taste divine and the
wrappers are a treat in themselves. Tuck a rose in
the ribbon and I’m sure your lady friend would ap-
prove of your generosity.
S
ingletons hear me out, it’s com-
ing up to that time of year again...
you’re reminded that you are very
single, lonely, cold and depressed.
However, you have in your sights
a gorgeously hot girl you have REALLY want-
ed to impress since first casting your eyes on
the back of her head during lectures, but “Oh
no!” She is playing hard-to-get: ignoring your
gestures, blanking your advances. Quite frank-
ly it’ll take nothing short of bathing yourself
in the Russell Brand’s pheromones for your
sorry-ass self to ever get noticed by this gem
of a girl, who is, by the way, completely out of
your league.
But fear not, there’ll be no need to lick Rus-
sell Brand’s armpits this year. With this one
dessert, she’ll be blown away by your culinary
expertise! She’ll be thinking “W-O-W! Where
has this guy been all my life???” and before
you know it… BOOM, she’s all yours.
According to Cosmopolitan (the Wikipedia
for understanding girls), every girl secretly
dreams for a man, so that’s your chances gone
boy… ha! Nah I’m just kidding. After much
research, it has been found that (I hope you
are ready for this), chicks love cooks! A guy
with the ability to whip up an amazing meal is
a man destinied for success, a master in mak-
ing every girl’s heart melt, a man capable of
launching a thousand ships, each crammed
full of adoring loving female fans. With this
one gesture, that man could be you. Dammit
by the end of Valentine’s Day this year, your
face will in the dreams of every girl at Imperi-
al who has heard, in the wind, whisperings of
your culinary marksmanship. Statistics show
that 67% of women admit to having slept with
cooks before, 78% of women admit to fan-
tasising about men cooking before, and here
is the match winning goal, 100% of women
admit to having food in the hours before bed,
therefore you know for sure what’s happen-
ing next after she eats your dessert! Laugh out
loud. Truely.
Anyways, how true the stuff above is I don’t
know. Yeah fine I could have ‘overcooked’ the
stats you see above, but in all honesty this re-
ally is one tasty dessert which I highly recom-
mend for you to try out and I can assure you, it
will go down a treat!
BY’s Valentine Dessert
Costs: £7 max
Preparation time: 30 minutes
Makes 3-4 (when using wine glasses)
Ingredients:
150g Blueberries
3 tablespoon caster sugar
250g tub mascarpone
4 tablespoon icing sugar
5 tablespoons of double cream
5 digestive biscuits
25g butter
2 clear glass containers for serving (small
Nutella jars works well or wine glasses)
Get a bowl and mix together the mascarpone,
the double cream and the icing sugar. Keeping
on mixing until it’s a nice smooth consistency.
Put on some clean gloves (get your scientist
friends to grab you a pair of those disposable
ones from labs or hospital)
Crush the digestive biscuits into a bowl so
they are nice and crumbly. Melt the butter in
the microwave and pour into the bowl with the
biscuits. Mix the butter and the biscuits.
Carefully line the bottom of your glassware
with the biscuit/butter mix and press down with
your finger or a teaspoon to compact together
the crumble mixture. Eventually you’ll have
your glassware lined at the base with a layer of
biscuit just under 1 cm thick.
Add in your mascarpone/cream/icing sugar
mixture, leaving space at the top for your blue-
berry topping.
Place your glassware with the biscuit cream
mixture inside into the fridge to cool.
Turn on your stove, medium head and find a
nice small saucepan.
Add to it the blueberries and your caster
sugar. Heat it up until the sugar has melted and
the blueberries have released their juice onto
the sugar turning forming a deep purple colour.
This should take around 3 minutes. CARE –
don’t overcook the sugar or else it would burn
and then disaster, you’ll set your fire alarm off
causing your hallmates to kill you.
Take your glassware out the fridge and care-
fully spoon over the top your blueberry top-
ping. This should create a beautiful purple
topping over a white creamy base interlaced
with a few drips of the blueberry sauce coming
through, lined at the bottom with biscuit base.
Place your pot back into the fridge to cool
until the time comes when you want to serve it.
Voila! You are done! Easy.
Bobla Gnay explains how it’s done
Look for this voucher every week to enjoy kickass
waffles at Wafflemeister for the next month and a
half – you know you want to...
John Lewis
Flowers, hearts and candy. Tick, tick, tick
“After much research, it
has been found that...
chicks love COOKS!”
An Anti-Valentine’s Recipe:
Even if you’re single, you should celebrate Val-
entine’s Day rather than commiserate. In fact,
the real winners of Valentine’s Day are those
who are free from having to scramble around
to secure scented candles, roses, chocolate truf-
fles, champagne, restaurant reservations and
other such curiously expensive ammunition to
quell the threat of a serious nuclear shitstorm.
However, if you can’t help feeling a bit put out
by the whole thing, why not turn to an excess
of bachelor junk food (we’re talking ribs, fried
chicken, chips, nachos, pizza...) to keep you on
a high? I came across a brilliant suggestion for
an anti-Valentine’s activity online. Watch “My
Bloody Valentine 3D” while eating Devonshire
sandwich – a filthy, comforting savoury treat
from Pittsburgh, where the movie was shot.
Devonshire Sandwich
50g butter, melted
40g flour
30g cheddar cheese, grated
150ml chicken stock
150ml hot milk
A pinch of salt
2 slices toast with crusts trimmed off
A few slices of bacon, cooked crisp
A few slices of cooked turkey breast
melted butter
parmesan cheese
paprika
To make the cheese sauce, melt the butter in
a pan and add the flour, stirring constantly. Add
the chicken broth and then the hot milk and
salt, and cook on a low heat for 5-10 minutes.
Remove from the heat and mix in the cheddar
cheese. Leave to cool.
Preheat the oven to 230C. Place the slices
of toast in adish and top with bacon and tur-
key. Cover completely with the cheese sauce.
Drizzle with a little melted butter. Sprinkle with
paprika and parmesan. Bake 10 to 15 minutes
or until golden brown. Aki Matsushima
When pink hearts just ain’t ya thang...
A Taste of Freedom
Cha-Ney Kim
mavra_chang/flickr
Friday 11 february 2011

