FOOD
FELIX 31
I
s there any food more seductive
than the oyster, with its shells
brimming with succulent juic-
es? Knowing where to look, the
classic Valentine’s Day treat for
grown-ups is cheaper than you’d think.
High-end food markets are great plac-
es to find affordable oysters. You’ve got
to have them standing up, but you know
it’s better that way sometimes.
The Partridges Saturday food market
near Sloane Square tops the list with the
Maldon Oyster Company stall selling a
half dozen for a mere, crumpled fiver.
Compare this with the Harrods seafood
bar, where you’ll pay £14 more for the
same thing, get elbowed by tourists, and
still be expected to tip the staff for being
inattentive. This delicious little market,
just outside the elegant Saatchi gallery,
also has a SoBo chocolates stall who
make the absolute best double choco-
late cookies -- devilishly sweet and rich.
Oysters contain just 10 calories each, so
there’s no reason not to indulge in the
other delectable offerings.
This also applies to Borough Market,
which needs no introduction. There are
a few places you can pick up oysters in
Borough, but I love the simplicity of the
£1 oysters at Shell Seekers. It’s hardly a
glamorous experience when the food is
served on polystyrene trays in a fishmon-
ger stall setting. However, a true foodie
would be most excited by the taste of
the freshest oysters between some live-
shucking shellfish in wellies and gloves.
If slurping while sitting in the warm
indoors seems like a better idea in these
bitter English months containing the let-
ter R, there are still some excellent op-
tions. Loch Fyne in Covent Garden is
a relatively casual affair for a seafood
restaurant. It’s popular with a merry,
relaxed clientele of West End theatre-
goers. At £9.50 for a half dozen, the
pricing isn’t particularly modest oyster-
wise. Nevertheless, it’s worth a mention
How not to shell out for the
ultimate luxury, oysters
Aki Matsushima shows you how to impress and indulge your date on the cheap
for having one of the capital’s best value
seafood platters and some generous of-
fers online (http://www.lochfyne.com/
wYou can get £10 off bills over £30 until
13th February).
If you ever decide to swap your pre-
ferred Wednesday afternoon activity
from team sport to decadence and de-
bauchery then head to Randall and Au-
bin in Soho. It’s seedy-chic and their
offer of six rock oysters and a flute of
champagne for £7.50 (weekdays 3pm-
6pm) is irresistible to the student lib-
ertine. Yes, it is too good to be true.
fotoosvonrobin/flickr
Probably not the most attractive of aphrodisiacs but whatever works, eh?
“It’s seedy-chic and
their offer of six rock
oysters and a flute of
champagne for £7.50
is irresistible...”
ly banter with the shopkeeper, who’s
There’s a cover charge of a couple of
quid or so, but still!
Pescatori is expensive, as expected
from the luxe locations of Mayfair and
Charlotte Street. But what if you could
pay for a visit with money you didn’t
know you had? You can exchange your
Tesco clubcard points for triple points to
spend at Pescatori. Their cooked dishes
are mediocre, but you can’t go far wrong
with oysters or seafood platters where
there’s such little cooking and seasoning
involved.
Just be sure that your date is someone
who understands that your act of pay-
ing with Tesco vouchers is practical and
impressive, rather than downright stingy
and unattractive. Alternatively, settle the
bill while they’ve gone to the bathroom
and keep the romance alive.
Partridges Food Market, Duke of
York Square SW3 4LY Nearest tube:
Sloane Square, Saturdays 10am to
4pm
Shell Seekers, Middle Market inside
Borough Market, Nearest tubes: Lon-
don Bridge/Borough
Loch Fyne Covent Garden, 2-4 Cath-
erine St WC2B 5JY. 020 7240 4999
Nearest tube: Covent Garden
Randall and Aubin, 16 Brewer St,
W1F 0SQ. 020 7287 4447 Nearest
tube: Piccadilly Circus
Pescatori, 11 Dover St, W1S 4LH.
020 7493 2652 Nearest tube:
Green Park
Friday 11 february 2011

