32
TELEVISION
felix
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
Veronika McQuadeova
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sex, Drugs & Growing Old
Corrie Berry
Skins, Season 5, has just started, and the
first comment on Twitter was “Where is
all the sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll?”
Following a cast of teenagers through
Sixth Form, the show provides a com-
mentary on life in Bristol for 16 to 18
year olds attending Roundview College.
Seasons 1 and 2 were totally unique, ad-
dressing (among other issues) teenage
pregnancy, loss of a parent and death of a
friend. School was treated as a platform
for social dramas; the only academic is-
sue being coursework deadlines – met
after an all-nighter at a groaning com-
puter. Along the way, we were treated
to gratuitous amounts of sex, drug and
alcohol. Seasons 3 and 4 addressed the
same themes in a slightly different way,
with a revitalised cast that brought a few
added surprises. The second casting ini-
tially met resistance, but was ultimately
accepted as the fourth season came to a
shocking and nail-biting conclusion.
The show picked up a number of
awards, including a BAFTA and a Gold-
en Rose for outstanding drama and best
titles. Names such as Nicholas Hoult,
from “About A Boy” and Dev Patel
from “Slumdog Millionaire” rubbed
shoulders with relative unknowns, who
were no less brilliant despite their in-
experience, particularly the one unify-
ing character over the cast change: Effy
Stonem, played by Kaya Scodelario. Of
particular surprise was the way the casts
seem to adjust to their roles with appar-
ent ease; mature content is convincingly
portrayed by actors as young as 14. (In-
cidentally, MTV has just started airing
the American equivalent and are now
facing child pornography charges, with
their youngest cast member at 15.)
The third generation cast has totally
replaced any recurring characters from
Season 4. Season 5 opens with Dakota
Blue Richards, of “The Golden Com-
pass” playing Franky, the character
around whom the first episode centres.
Instead of rampant sex, alcoholism
and drug abuse, this character is quiet,
clearly disturbed, and so awkward that I
cringed as I watched.
Instead of aiming to shock, the writers
appear to have changed their observa-
tion of teenage life, concentrating on
the progression from awkward teenager
to adult instead of jumping straight into
fully-fledged badly-behaved adults.
Skins 1 to 4 were so shocking because
they left audiences asking the question
“Do teenagers really behave like this?”
The probable answer was no; the format
of the show necessarily had to change.
The second episode features Rich, a
‘metalhead’ – stubborn, obsessed with
metal, trying to get the girl, and so Im-
perial that anybody who watches it will
What We Watched...
It’s that time when all the post-Christmas series are
coming to an end, and writing this column is really dif-
ficult when there’s sod all on telly, so a couple of the
shows could possibly be repeats. They should be just
as good as when they were first broadcast though so
no complaining.
Lark Rise to Candleford is one of those pro-
grammes that is guaranteed to bring a smile to your
face. Set in 19th-century Oxfordshire, the delightful
series is based upon an autobiography written by
Flora Thomson about a young girl sent to the local
market town to begin an apprenticeship with the
postmistress. Not many costume dramas manage to
effect a whole spectrum of emotion whilst bestow-
ing a few good moral scruples, and that’s what re-
ally makes Lark Rise stand out as the epitome of
cheer-me-up-it’s-Sunday viewing. It’s just beautiful.
The filming of the series must have been terribly dif-
ficult due to its dependence on cloudless skies in
all but one episode. Postman Thomas’s musings on
the “ways of the almighty” and half-witted housemaid
Minnie’s constant worryings and faux-pas are funnier
than most of the egregious bunk which falls under
the banner of ‘comedy’ today.
The rather ominously titled The Chinese are Com-
ing’ – thankfully not a government-commissioned
porno – tells the story of the said government’s im-
moral and rapacious ravishment of any African coun-
try happening to be in a sufficient state of poverty.
Kenneth Brannagh returned this week in the title
role of the BBC’s adaptation of the Swedish detec-
tive series Wallander. The Swedish version is occa-
sionally shown on BBC4 and is actually much better
- though you really have to be ‘in the mood for sub-
titles’ to fully appreciate it. Some of the gore-laden
scenes are almost as disturbing as Gary Gilitter’s
idea of a dirty weekend, but don’t forget to show off
how intellectual you are because you watched some-
thing on BBC4.
ITV’s new thriller Marchlands, having had a full
page ad devoted to it in The Times, looked as though
it may be better than the usual commercial-splat-
tered arse-gravy that ITV generally broadcast. Star-
ring Dean Andrews (Ray from Life on Mars/Ashes to
Ashes) it is based around the lives of three families
in the same (rather spooky) house, spread twenty
years apart.
Strange happenings build up the suspense nice-
ly but the (presumably low) special effects budget
mustn’t have permitted anything more than a few
misbehaving domestic appliances, unexpected fac-
es in mirrors and a fall from a stepladder (...scary
times!).
Other than that it’s actually rather good! Commer-
cial breaks are more irritating when experienced via
the ultra-low-resolution ITVPlayer because the ad
break is long enough to put the kettle on but too
short to make a brew. They are obviously not from
the North.
If you didn’t get the box-set for Christmas (or your
mum didn’t) Julian Fellowes’ (recently Baron Fellow-
es of West Stafford) pre-WWI costume drama Down-
ton Abbey which stars Hugh Bonneville and Maggie
Smith (also Brendan Coyle and Ruby Bentall from
Lark Rise), is definitely a must-see! (And it’s repeat-
ing on ITV at the moment).
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday If you missed it...
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday
One Born Every Minute
Valentine’s in front of the telly?
Watch babies come out of vaginas.
C4, 9pm
BAFTAs
Or as they’ll call them from now
on, the “Colins”.
BBC2, 8pm
Air Force One
A film so bad it’s not only good,
it’s incredible.
BBC3 , 9.45pm
Reggae Britannia
People who are too ashamed to go
to the doctors do so on TV...
BBC4, 9pm
The Nutty Professor
Still down about Valentines Day?
This will sort you out.
ITV1 , 10.30pm
Air Force One
Twice?! In two weeks?! This is
why I pay my license fee!
BBC3, 10pm
Skins
Do you agree with the review? I
do, but only because Corrie hits
me. E4, 10pm
Outcasts
The Beeb make a gripping drama
with a refreshing lack of corsets.
iPlayer
What to watch this week
Skins drops the old format, but is it really that bad?
James Simpson gets wicki
low with da Tee to the Vee
immediately know someone who is
Rich. Again, a totally different tone to
any of the characters we have seen pre-
viously, and a complete divergence from
any familiar storyline.
We have had a couple of hints at the
rest of the cast – Grace, a ballerina, who
seems too good to be true, but is clearly
a deeper character than she appears on
the surface; Mini, a Queen Bee (think
“Mean Girls” but a west country accent);
Matty, an enigmatic mystery man who
has stared down the barrel of a gun and
sex-obsessed Alo, the token ginger.
So far, I withhold judgement. I don’t
know why I loved the first two casts so
much – probably because they were so
out-of-this-world that it was fascinat-
ing to watch, instead of what felt like
an in-depth exploration of the teenage
psyche. I’ve found the use of awkward
silences and stilted conversation re-
ally uncomfortable; but the show is still
compelling, and perhaps the thing that is
so strange now will revitalise it and give
it a different kind of edge. I don’t know
where the writers are going to take it but
I will be sticking around to find out.
“Think Mean Girls, but with a
west country accent”
I’m sorry, but nobody dresses like the guy second from the right. Well, not
at Imperial anyway... Dammit Imperial!
Friday 11 february 2011

