GAMES
FELIX
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
hh, cosplay. There’s nothing I
like more than putting on my
robe and wizard hat, striding
round the Queen’s Lawn and
waving about my enormous
magical staff, casting spells of such power that
mere mortals can only gasp in awe. Then, some
killjoy policeman arrests me for public inde-
cency, or something like that.
Oh right, this is a review, my bad. So, Magic-
ka. Magicka is a… well, I’m not quite sure
what genre it fits into, but action-adventure/
quasi-RPG probably does it justice. Developed
by Arrowhead Game Studios, Magicka is one
big parody from start to finish, satirizing RPGs
and drawing heavily from a variety of cultural
references including, but not limited to: inter-
net memes, the Zelda game series and the Brit-
ish classic, Monty Python.
I’m not usually a fan of RPGs, in much the
same way that I’m not the world’s greatest fan
of strychnine, so I was initially a little hesitant
to start playing Magicka. However, I am noth-
ing if not open to new games and genres, so I
decided to give it a sporting chance, donning
my wizard robe and hat to get into character
before loading it up.
The game revolves around combining eight
different magical elements – Water, Cold,
Lightning, Arcane, Earth, Fire, Life and Shield
– into spells. These elements can be cast alone
or, for greater effect, combined in different and
interesting ways. For example, Fire will cast...
well, fire, but combine Fire and Water and you
get their proud bastard child Steam. Likewise,
the Earth element fires off boulders but com-
bine it with Fire and you get FIREBALLS.
There are also Magicks, which you ‘learn’
by finding spell books scattered about the land.
These are not regular attacks, but special el-
emental combinations that have to be cast with
a separate button for a special effect. For exam-
ple, Life and Lightning will combine to resur-
rect fallen comrades, and Water and Steam will
summon a temporary rainstorm. The driving
force behind the game is very much the discov-
ery of all the different elemental combos, with
a generic ‘follow a linear pathway and kill the
evil boss’ – which in itself satirises most other
RPGs – binding everything together.
Magicka feels very much a game for people
with a lot of enthusiasm and time to spend ex-
ploring its every nuance, spell and secret area,
because there are a lot of them. The few hours I
could snatch playing it were far from sufficient
to explore every spell combo and in the end I
pulled a Darth Sidious and spammed forked
flaming lightning everywhere like it was going
out of fashion.
This brings me very neatly to my first gripe.
You may have a huge array of spells to pick
from, but when a group of goblins/wizards/
golems/resurrected skeletal warriors are bear-
ing down upon you, there’s no time to summon
up fancy spells or Magicks – you pick the sim-
ple yet effective stuff and spam it relentlessly.
This problem only intensifies when the screen
is visually cluttered, and fine control of your
spells is nigh impossible. A popup tip tells you
that you can see what spells others are cast-
ing and use that information against them, but
it’s a filthy lie. I couldn’t tell the small float-
ing magical particles apart in the maelstrom of
chaos I was embroiled in; it was far simpler to
just fry everything with fire lightning.
Co-op mode only exacerbates the problem.
Ignoring the fact every server I found was
laggy as hell and finding games was an exer-
cise in frustration, I could no longer shoot bolts
of burning energy about without torching at
least one, or more often, all, of my colleagues,
which put a bit of a damper on the whole ex-
perience. As someone put it: “Co-op is fun to
‘n00b’ about in.” Finesse is rudely booted out
the window and you spend more time resur-
recting allies than slaying enemies. It’d take a
good connection and three dedicated friends to
get me to play co-op regularly and quite frank-
ly, I abandoned all forms of human contact
years ago in favour of becoming a heartless
jaded bastard (read gamer).
I guess now you’re looking towards me for
a recommendation; I really wish you weren’t.
Magicka is a very mixed bag. If you enjoy
RPGs and want something brightly coloured
and light-hearted, Magicka is a ‘nice’ game
that would be well worth the green stuff. If
you’re like me and RPGs aren’t quite for you,
be prepared to invest a fair amount of time ad-
justing to the controls since you can’t just hop
in and expect everything to run smoothly.
Did I have fun? Initially, no, I didn’t, but that
was down to the time I had to spend getting
adjusted to the controls. Will I keep playing it?
I think so. Magicka is a half-decent game that
certainly deserves at least a few more hours of
my time, and it’s not like I want to get good
marks on my coursework anyway!
Magicka is available now from Paradox In-
teractive and Arrowhead Game Studios.
A mad, mixed bag of tricks
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Sushi Cat 2
armorgames.com/play/10471
It has a cat. It has sushi – with faces. Oh, and it’s
Japanese. That should be all you need to know that
this is cutest, most kawaii game you’re ever likely to
play on this side of the world. Sushi Cat is on a mis-
sion to rescue his beloved, but he’s going to have to
eat a bucketful of sushi first. Drop the bouncy kitty
and watch him nom is way through the sashimi and
tofu. Brilliant!
The gameplay isn’t exactly challenging, but it
doesn’t need to be. Collecting the light bites is, for
some reason, enjoyable enough and extremely ad-
dictive. Graphics too are a highlight, with the some
of the highest-quality visuals it’s possible to find in
a Flash game.
Finally, a bit of originality in the zombie genre! In this
isometric strategy game, you play the leader of a
group of apocolypse survivors trying their damndest
to stay alive. This isn’t just about killing zombies,
people need food, medicine and happiness, and it’s
your job to find them those things.
Being able to completely customise the fort is a
great feature, and the huge scope for expansion
makes everything much more interesting. There’s
alos a lot of depth to the strategy and plenty to keep
players interested for a good little while.
Rebuild
tinyurl.com/rebuildgame
34
Laurence Pope is too much of a n00b to play Magicka
Friday 11 february 2011
This is a daily occurence in the basement of Blackett

