GAMES
FELIX 35
or monsters. By the third level I was al-
ready getting annoyed with how many
times I had to restart, and how hard it
was to keep heroes interested. With he-
roes being sent in every three minutes
or so, random tasks being set involving
ridiculous requirements (usually involv-
ing sending all your money), failure
penalties that hold you back – all this
slows down the game even further.
However, when the game comes down
to just designing dungeons (in sandbox
mode) where you are rid of the stupid
tasks, it is a lot more enjoyable. Having
free reign over traps, monsters and ar-
tefacts really lets the game flow better
and allows you to really do well at tak-
ing down heroes. In this version of the
game it is easy to get distracted for ages.
Unfortunately, this really doesn’t make
up for just how awful the campaign is.
In all, the game presents a good idea,
and it could have worked really well.
It’s just a shame that the campaign ex-
pects so much of players right from the
beginning and causes pure frustration.
Had the campaign been more similar to
that of the free style mode then I could
easily have seen it being a much more
enjoyable game. But as it is, while the
sandbox mode is a lot of fun in it’s own
right, the campaign just felt like more
effort than enjoyment – really not what I
want in a game.
Dungeons is available now from
Realmforge and Kalypso Media for
PC, retailing at £29.99.
D
ungeons, the sequel to
the 90’s classic Dungeon
Keeper, is a sim-man-
agement game that sets
the player as a Dungeon
Lord who must design their foul, evil
cave of despair to entince in heroes...
before brutally murdering them at their
peak to steal their ‘soul energy’. The
idea is basic enough; your dungeon is
made more tempting by artefacts, mon-
sters and traps. In order to buy more of
these you must harvest more and more
soul energy from captured heroes.
Different heroes are interested in dif-
ferent things. Some enjoy looting and
stealing treasure, whereas others get a
kick out of avoiding traps or fighting
monsters. Therefore, it is important to
have a good mixture of both gold piles
and monsters in order to keep all the
heroes interested. Heroes enter your
dungeon through special gates and are
led through your dungeon by artefacts
that you own which attract their atten-
tion. As they wander through, they find
your piles of gold or monsters and begin
fighting or looting at their will. You then
must watch carefully as their interest bar
fills up so that you can kill them and take
their soul energy when it’s full.
The types of monster you have depend
on the monsters you can find in the area
around your dungeon. You can search
for new types of monster and by plac-
ing a pentagram near their habitat you
can start to spawn that type into your
dungeon. However, there’s a limit on the
number of pentagrams you can place,
and it’s infuriatingly low meaning that
you can only have a very small number
of monsters present in your dungeon.
This very quickly becomes an issue as
heroes enter every two or three minutes
and each of them is strong enough to kill
all your monsters. As you can imagine
this makes it very difficult to maintain
the interest of heroes that like fighting
monsters, and the game slows down a
lot as it becomes so challenging to build
up soul energy.
Often it can take hours to get through
certain levels and considering that you
aren’t directly doing anything this makes
the game unbelievably dull at times. Not
only that, but pentagrams must be built
on the edges of your territory in order to
expand, so monsters end up out of the
way rather than being somewhere useful
in your dungeon.
Monsters are not controllable, which
means they stick to their pentagram
and do not make any impression on the
heroes unless the heroes start fighting
Being a Dungeon Lord
ain’t all fun and games
Friday 11 february 2011
them. It’s too easy for heroes to breeze
through your dungeon with little risk
at all. The entire burden of looking af-
ter the dungeon comes down to your
Dungeon Lord – the only controllable
character in the game. This would be
all well and good were it not for the fact
that often even the most basic hero can
take out your lord with relative ease. So,
as the heroes level up it becomes almost
impossible to gather soul energy and
progress in the game.
There are also a very limited amount
of choices in Dungeons. The monsters
Last weekend I bagged tickets to an ex-
clusive Nintendo 3DS hands-on preview
– and first impressions were excellent!
After a vague demonstration of Street-
Pass, “real-life” demonstrations of Street
Fighter and Resident Evil, and a brief in-
troductory video featuring Jonathan Ross
(seemingly the new face of Nintendo Eu-
rope), I got my hands on the 3DS.
First off, the main selling point, the
screen: it works brilliantly! As soon as
I picked up the 3DS I was seeing the
full effect of the 3D – it worked straight
from the off. The effect was fantastic,
especially considering the fact that it
was glasses-free and instant. While not
all the games I played made great use of
the 3D, those that did (Kid Icarus: Up-
rising springs to mind) looked excellent,
with enemies zooming in from the dis-
tance and text coming out of the screen
at you. However, the 3D effect only
works in certain ‘sweet spots’. You can
tilt the screen as much as you like to-
wards and away from you with no con-
sequence, but twisting the device from
side to side removes the 3D effect until
you hit another sweet spot.
The rest of the hardware also worked
well – the analog pad felt good under the
thumb, gliding easily with the games re-
sponding accordingly. The dual camera
system on the outside of the system pro-
duced great 3D photos, however when
using the screen as a viewfinder the im-
age looked a little blurry and some of the
objects’ depths looked a little off. Luck-
ily, the software then seemed to perform
some sort of rendering process that re-
sulted in a realistic 3D image.
The “Next Generation Portable” a.k.a.
the PSP2, was announced two weeks ago
at Sony’s ‘Playstation Meeting 2011’.
The world stared, the world gaped and
the world was awed. Quite right too:
few had been expecting such an impres-
sive device. (Thankfully it won’t be long
before the device itself slams onto our
supermarket shelves).
But while the world stared doe-eyed,
cooing over the newborn baby, another
equally important announcement passed
right over everyone’s heads. It wasn’t
just a new console; it was 32 million
new consoles. Sony announced the Play-
Station Suite, a hardware-independent
platform that will bring a whole new
way of gaming to a range of devices,
starting with any mobile phone running
on Android 2.3. You read that right, any
Android phone.
This is great news for any owners
of those aforementioned smartphones.
Sony have already guaranteed that
they’ll be bringing PlayStation One
games to the Suite within the calen-
dar year, so owners can look forward
to some sweet 3D PS One titles – um,
Crash Bandicoot anyone? Third-party
titles have also been assured, although
no names have been dropped, yet.
Developers are likely, however, to
sign up in droves to this new initia-
tive, as it’s great news for anyone in the
business of building games. The whole
concept behind the Suite is that it’s hard-
ware-independent, meaning that a game
built to run on one smartphone will also
run on any other. Compatibility is a big
gripe for developers and users alike,
and hopefully the Playstation Suite will
allow more time to be spent on actu-
ally building games, rather than porting
them from one platform to another.
The Suite is not limited to Android
phones either. There have been rumours
that Sony is planning to bring the frame-
work to a lot of new, unconventional
platforms. The PlayStation 3 seems an
obvious choice, and bringing the Suite
to the iPhone and even to Windows has
also been rumoured. Given their place in
the TV market, some sources have sug-
gested that Sony also want to open it up
Internet-enabled Bravia TVs, too.
Whatever the specifics, the PlaySta-
tion Suite is certainly a huge leap in a
new direction for Sony. Some commen-
tators have been sceptical over whether
or not such a system really can be made
compatible over such a large range of
hardware. Certainly, bringing games to
any Android phone is a massive techni-
cal challenge, and Sony has quite a suite
of problems to solve. But with the po-
tential to bring big name titles onto so
many new devices, let’s all keep our fin-
gers crossed that they manage it!
PlayStation Suite
to bring big titles
to Android phones
Nintendo 3DS: an
exclusive hands-
on preview
Simon Worthington Chris Bowers
“The 3D worked
straight from the off”
“When the game
comes down to just
designing dungeons
it’s a lot more
enjoyable”
I managed to play a good selection
of games across the two sessions, from
a range of developers. Ocarina of Time
and Kid Icarus both looked great and
played really well. Also on display was
the fantastic Augmented Reality card
system which was great fun, spawning
giant crystal snakes out of the surface
you place the card on, and Face Raid-
ers, a quirky but fun game that made
good use of the 3D cameras and facial
recognition technology. From third party
developers, Raving Rabbids: Travel in
Time was just a pretty standard platform-
er, while Super Monkey Ball made good
use of the available motion sensors with
some minor control issues.
Overall, the 3DS is looking like it’ll
be a great console, and a huge hit too.
Forget the (arrogantly named) “Next
Generation Portable”, this is the hand-
held to have.
Sean Harbison unleashes his wrath in Dungeons
are limited to what you find in the level,
and the number of pentagrams you can
set. There are three types of building,
two to keep the heroes interested (librar-
ies and armouries) and one to drain more
soul energy from them (prisons). For a
management game this is an unbeliev-
ably poor amount of choice.
The main problem with this game is
how unbalanced the campaign is. The
difficulty increases far too quickly with
little progression is useful items, traps
He may be wielding a bloody axe, but all he really wants is a hug

