TRAVEL
36
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
It’s time to get away
Intrepid Travel is a small adventure travel company
that offer trips all over the world: trips typically in-
volve travelling via local transport, eating local food
and even staying with local people.
In addition to their rare ethos of embracing lo-
cal culture so much more than their rivals, Intrepid
Travel are also a carbon-neutral company who have
racked up several awards for their work.
Their latest deals include 20% off trips to:
India from £485
Peru from £765
Nepal from £1130
China from £1390
Tanzania from £1525
All tours are fully customisable with respect to con-
tent and duration: while the above figures may seem
pricey, it is worth noting that all flights are included
and a quality experience is assured.
Visit IntrepidTravel.com to find out more!
Travel Deals of the Week
Inspirational Slough by Chris Richardson
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Planning a trip and want some advice from experi-
enced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share with
Imperial? Send us a tweet with #FelixTravel or drop
us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
ith a significant proportion
of you currently being in a
‘dry spell’ (as highlighted
by Felix’s excellent sex
survey) this article is prob-
ably irrelevant to a lot of you. But I urge those
it concerns to take some of the key points on
board before hopping on the lovey-dovey trav-
elling bandwagon. It takes some serious co-
jones and a lot of hard work to properly pull
it off.
Travelling alone is liberating: you can em-
brace people and experiences no holds barred
and do whatever you want. As soon as you
numb yourself with the morphine that is a
friendship circle you instantly limit yourself
to the route plans that you’ve probably had
to compromise, because Gary doesn’t see the
point of looking at some dumb old rocks made
by some insignificant hill tribe. Well replace
your Gary with a Sophie and you’ve got bigger
problems.
Travelling together is a bit like moving in,
but a lot more intense. I guarantee that in swel-
tering heat and constantly in each other’s de-
testable company you’d soon rather be back on
the Piccadilly Line, scratching your arse with
your copy of the Metro, instead of gazing up at
Christ the Redeemer.
Bon voyage to the budget
Oh sure, by shacking up and sharing a room
it’ll probably work out marginally cheaper over
the course of a long trip. I mean hey, you’re
getting a room for two for less than the cost of
two separate rooms, right? Well unfortunately
that’s where the cost benefits of travelling as a
couple end. In fact, the above logic could prob-
ably apply to tagging along with a group of fun-
loving Mexicans, or just sticking to much more
social dorms.
Couples like to do nice things. They like to
eat in fancy restaurants, opt in for the air condi-
tioning, take a taxi over the filthy bus, and gen-
erally swim in that over-indulgent way of life
like they’re better than the rest of us. So much
for budget travelling, eh? In spite of the pleas
of ‘hey, we can just go for the cheaper option!’
you’ll still find yourself compelled to fork out
on the fancy stuff regardless.
And those dastardly looky-looky men that
you’ve finally learnt to handle? They sudden-
ly become a lot more ruthless. They see you
coming as a couple and treat you like you’re
thicker than the fat yank in the baseball cap be-
side you. Yes, the babbling idiot with the thick
Texan accent who gets angry at the slum child
for not understanding him as he requests direc-
tions, and inadvertently coats the young boy
in flecks of spit when he speaks. You’re now
on the same level as this guy. The looky-looky
men will bleed you dry and make you pay for
your monogamy.
Chris Richardson orders you to toss away the Valentine’s
Day courtesies, and consider travelling alone
The detestable royal “we”
Ah, the royal “we”. It’s an inviting little com-
fort zone, isn’t it? No need for the repeated triv-
ial conversations with people on bus journeys
now, you can just further bow down to being
the travelling equivalent of a Fifties housewife.
Couples are the most difficult group to inter-
act with on the road – they’re like, totally on
another level of understanding of each other’s
consciousness: you wouldn’t understand.
Oh sure, you might rock another look: you’re
one of those chilled couples who pride them-
selves on being social with everyone in their
path. Congratulations on breaking a tiring
cliché, but don’t expect anyone else to avoid
the stigma. While you may have overcome the
stereotypes, people will still avoid you like the
plague. If you travel as a couple, you come as
a package. To the people around you this pack-
age is a time bomb that they’ll do everything
to avoid.
Bickering and bus bathrooms
The following figures are from a real life case
study. Young Jimmy spent three weeks on
holiday with his girlfriend, took 500 photos, of
which about two look worthy of appearing in a
holiday brochure. Said two photos took ten sec-
onds to pose for – ten seconds out of 1.8 mil-
lion seconds spent on holiday. Yet those photos
are for some reason always the emphasis.
What the photos fail to capture are the count-
less bus journeys. You know the ones: the air-
conditioning is causing your nipples to shrivel,
andAustralian Bob has got a woozy tummy and
has decided to fill the toilet with the nauseating
contents of his bowels. Thanks a bunch, Bob,
thanks. Anyway, your photos hopefully never
capture this, and if they should you should be
more conservative with your memory card.
The point is that the seeming romanticism
always generated by those snaps in Halong
Bay are really not so glamorous: the couple are
probably mid-argument, following a rather un-
comfortable bus journey surrounded by Austra-
lian nutters. They say it’s all about the journey,
but journeys of this sort can really detract from
the passion and bliss that you’d come to ex-
pect. It’s much easier to have no expectations,
no standards and nobody else to please.
In the wise words of LCD Soundsystem “it’s
time to get away, it’s time to get away from
you”. Keep your travelling options limitless.
And if you’re heading to South-east Asia,
there’ll be plenty of ladyboys at your disposal
anyway – if you’re lucky you might even bag
yourself a free STI!
Russ’ expression shows a combination of anger at Katy and a terrible case of the runs
It’s nothing like this. You’ll be on an uglier beach and never get to shag Brittany Murphy
FELIX
Friday 11 february 2011

