37
The latest antics from Priya Garg, who tosses away her inhibitions and em-
braces the manic culture of Argentina’s booming capital
Ambling Argentinean escapades
S
urviving a semi-camo twen-
ty four hour bus journey,
we arrived at the slightly
grubby omnibus terminal
in the iconic metropolis of
Buenos Aires. Throwing ourselves onto
the Subte (Argentina’s answer to the
tube) we were presented with an antique
wooden carriage complete with grey
leather sashes hanging from the ceiling
and extravagant glass wall lights.
The London Underground it was not.
Winding through the quaint streets of
San Telmo to our hostel, we found it
amidst broken paving stones, crumbling
colonial buildings, pillared walls, beau-
tiful balconies and intricately carved
gates. This was the hippie art district of
Buenos Aires, a small residential area
boasting artists, musicians and design-
ers, housed within a bustling city full of
light and life.
That night we attempted to cross the
Avenue 9 de Julio, one of the widest
roads in the world, each flank compris-
ing of more than seven lanes in each
direction, with careering Argentinean
taxis speeding wildly round each corner
spilling profanities. Bemusedly, the cen-
tre-piece of this magnificently broad av-
enue was formed by a soaring phallus-
like obelisk which rose up to touch the
sky, translating little of Buenos Aire´s
Argentinean charm.
As we walked toward the centre of
the city, we quickly discovered again
the disappointing taint of globalisation,
from American-influenced street names
to fast-food restaurants, and the unfor-
tunately termed ´Palermo Hollywood´
district that boasts showy nightclubs and
pizza restaurants. Several blocks down,
the Avenue de Florida was alive with
tango dancers and merchants flogging
the deprecatingly termed ‘gringo gear’
– everything from leggings, teapots
and glowing snow-globes to maracas,
friendship bracelets and postcards.
Beyond this hectic gathering lay the
grandiose Casa Rosada, a huge pink
palace, home of the executive seats of
the ruling government of Argentina
and offices of the President. Gilt, gold,
fountains, finery and ostentatious guards
now cover this historic monument. Per-
haps the most infamous President, Juan
Domingo Peron, husband of the much
glorified ´Evita´ Eva Peron still imposes
his presence upon both the building and
the rest of the city.
Peronism remains a contentious is-
sue in Buenos Aires, with ´Up Evita´
scrawled across walls next to our hotel
and bygone Peronist politics under con-
stant hushed discussion. If you wander
around the non-government funded
´Evita Museum´ you will find an en-
capsulated shrine to the actress-come-
women´s rights activist, telling of her
social reforms and charitable welfare
policies but little to enlighten you as to
why her body was desecrated before it
came to lie in the Recoleta cemetery,
only adding to the mystery over Argen-
tina’s chequered and complex political
history. Asking locals to unravel our
confusion, we were often told “we don’t
want to speak about it”.
Several streets down, next to the
Institute of Tango, we visited the old-
est cafe in Argentina, the Tortoni. A
popular building where elderly waiters
in striped trousers, bowties and car-
rying white cloths over one arm, click
through mahogany walled surroundings
and stained glass ceilings, memorising
orders and bringing you fried sweet
‘churros’ pastries or sticky ‘dulce de
leche’ caramel covered biscuits. As if
static from the 1920s, it gives an other-
worldly air to the painted, modern sur-
rounding streets.
Finding much more live music here
than in our search for samba in Rio de
Janeiro, we were delighted to see guitar
bands and drummers on every corner.
Disappointed by some of the passion-
less glum tango couples flicking heels
for tourist pesos, we were mesmerised
by one Spanish guitarist, whose fingers
ran down his fret board strumming and
plucking, until two street children ran
up and smacked his guitar mid-perfor-
swayed and jumped to loud Argentinean
beats, recorders and saxophonists. The
club was aswirl with cigarette smoke,
sweat, Brahma beer underfoot and the
passion of a pounding band behind.
Walking out of the heat of the venue
couples dotted the streets, wrapped in
public displays of affection, on benches,
in parks and against walls. Our English
reserve and respect for personal prox-
imity seemed almost prudent as we,
arms extended, shook hands with our
Argentinean neighbours, very ´proper´
and ´how do you do´, while any local
would grasp us by the arm and kiss on
the cheek in a first introduction. Our
national stereotypes were magnified in
their dichotomy in manner.
On our penultimate evening, we were
treated to a typical national meal with
two locals, who were kind enough to
take us to a hearty restaurant, buzzing
at one o’clock in the morning, full of
people slicing grilled meats and savour-
ing deep-flavoured red wine. If you go
out in Buenos Aires, the party only re-
ally gets started in the early hours of the
morning: clubs stay open until 7am, then
after-clubs and even more after-clubs.
Even within our own hostel, the South
Americans were the ones who were still
awake at 8am for breakfast from the
night before. Our early nights became
something of a joke. According to the
Argentineans, English people are very
´controlled’, in reference to our early-
night behaviour, finances and emotions.
We were out-partied by fifty year olds,
tangoing the night away in lively local
dance halls.
Our final day was spent gazing at the
popular, emblematic multi-coloured
houses of La Boca next to the harbour,
attempting to drink the acquired taste of
bitter alcoholic ´furnet de coco´ (a both
surprising and unusual mixture of a bit-
ter menthol liquor paired with the fizzy
sweetness of Coca-Cola) and preparing
ourselves for the mountainous, cold sce-
nic beauty of the Argentinean lake dis-
trict in Bariloche.
As we bid goodbye to Buenos Aires
– a vibrant city packed with vitality,
music, and all-night entertainment – we
reflected on what we had learnt from our
visit: to throw away our reticence, mod-
erate our English reserve, and simply let
ourselves go.
mance, jerking him out of his daydream.
Later in our stay we went to a gig in
the Ciudad Cultural Konex to experience
the fervent drumming of ‘La Bomba de
Tiempo’, a popular percussion group in
the Abasto area of Buenos Aires. Girls
with nose rings and boys with mohicans
“We were out-partied
by fifty year olds,
tangoing the night
away in lively local
dance halls”
Your mind is now infected with the moreish melodies of ‘La Bamba’
Daily commuters flock to the phallus to exploit its mystical healing powers
Quit staring at her and get back to the article. Why are you still here?!
TRAVEL
Priya Garg
Priya Garg tropical-blizzard/flickr
FELIX Friday 11 february 2011

