Scorpio
This week you feel a small tinge of re-
gret, combined with sorrow and aching
dull pain. It’s so difficult to say, “What
happened, happened. Let’s move on.”
You do try, but it’s hard. Wait a minute.
What the fuck is this shit? MIDGET
PORN! *sigh, Horoscope saved...
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you are feeling particularly
vicious. You wait for your drowsy house-
mate to get into the shower, early in the
morning, and – wait for it – you burst in
and stab him in the head. Whahey! BAN-
TER! That’ll fucking teach him for shit-
ting on your pillow! LAD!
Taurus
This week, the Hindu god Shiva comes
to you in a dream and tells you a magic
word that will have any woman weak at
the knees. Ok, well it’s not a ‘word’in the
traditional sense. It’s more like a sharp
knee-jabbing implement. Fine, it’s a
knife! Jeez what’s with all the questions?
Gemini
This week, it’s your birthday! (No I
don’t know if Gemini corresponds to
this month and I don’t give a shit.) Your
boyfriend has completely forgotten about
it and so to pay him back, you sleep
with his hamster. And by sleep, I mean
suffocate... In a really... moist manner...
Cancer
This week, you’re banging your girlfriend
but you notice that things are a little,
how shall I say, shallow. You carry on
nevertheless but just before you cum, she
leaps up, pulls a bloody rotting hamster
from her clunge (“No, not Harry!”) and
dumps you on the spot. Poor Harry :(
Leo
This week, you discover that not a single
lesbian completed the Felix Sex Survey.
Conclusion? Lesbians hate surveys.
Or lesbians hate the Internet. Lesbians
don’t exist? Lesbians lie? I don’t think
I’m quite getting it. Umm, lesbians don’t
speak English? This might take a while...
Virgo
This week, your hamster is killed by your
psychotic ex-girlfriend. The worse thing
is that you went down on her before you
realised. She was bleeding but hey, who
HASN’T done that. Now you know you
were happily lapping hamster blood...
and strangely, it tasted pretty good
Libra
This week, you ask, does anyone gets of-
fended by the Horoscopes? Does anyone
spit out their coffee in disgust? It might be
quite a good tactic for spitting at people
you hate. “Dude! You just spat coffee on
me!” “Sorry man, I’m just so disgusted by
ANAL PROLAPSE!” “Damn Felix!”
Sagittarius
This week, you finally get accepted into
Imperial. There’s once catch though:
you’llonlygetyourplaceifyousleepwith
a girl in the next 5 minutes. But you’ve
got no arms or legs, and you’re tied to a
chair. And you don’t have a dick. Damn,
Imperial has high entry requirements...
Capricorn
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint? Pint?
No, it’s not funny is it? SO FUCK OFF!
Aquarius
This week, you notice the back of your
hand peeling away. Layer by layer.
Brown, red raw, blood red, muscle, bone,
wire, chocolate fudge, mixed vegetables,
soft cheese, salami, milk, Tropicana, pork
sausages, bread, apples...What? My shop-
ping list isn’t funny? Meh, tough crowd...
Pisces
This week, you decide to shave your head
during sex. You tie your boyfriend to the
bed, ride him like a bucking bronco and
when he’s totally lost in the moment,
whip out the clippers and start screaming
“I’m going to Vietnam!” as you baldify
yourself. Damn I love role-play...
99% of parents pretend
their ginger kids don’t exist
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
I like this guy, he’s got a sense of class about him. Notice how he lifts his middle finger to the cameraman, as if
to say, “if you send this photo to Hangman, I’m going to stick this finger up your ass!” Truly a gentleman...
FELIX 39
Friday 11 february 2011

