The Union’s response to the visa consultation in detail
Summer PhD Placement
Opportunities for Imperial’s PhD students to get a
taste of studying on the other side of the world are
available at the upcoming International RSD Sum-
mer School and Research Placements.
Taking place in Singapore and Hong Kong, the two
four week programmes consist of a four-day trans-
ferable skills course, followed by a three week re-
search placement at some of Asia’s most prominent
universities.
The idea of the programmes is to help students
gain valuable skills for their PhD, learning how to
manage their research projects effectively, build in-
tercultural awareness, succeed in collaborative re-
search and build successful working relationships,
all in an international environment. The placements
provide an experience of university life elsewhere
and students get involved with a series of challeng-
es in a new and exciting social setting. This year,
students from Imperial, NUS, NTU and A*STAR will
be participating in Singapore, and students from Im-
perial, HKU and Shanghai Jiao Tong University will be
taking part in Hong Kong. Working in small groups,
participants get to share ideas and practices: it’s a
great networking opportunity.
Tomasz Cwik, a 2nd year PhD student, in the Aero-
nautics department, took part in last year’s pro-
gramme. “It was very interesting to interact with the
local students, getting an understanding of why this
part of the world looks how it looks, and experienc-
ing their lifestyle for a couple of weeks.”
“The group became good friends and we spent a
lot of time together. During the day we worked on
our individual research, while in the evenings we ate
different kinds of food and chilled together.”
“The course was also a great opportunity for es-
tablishing useful research contacts at other univer-
sities. You should not hesitate to sign up!”
Fatma Dogan, a 2nd year Chemistry student who
took part last year, said: “I hadn’t been to Asia be-
fore, so it was also a really good opportunity for me
to meet with Asian students: Singaporeans, Chi-
nese, people I wouldn’t have met otherwise. It cre-
ates a global scientific network.”
“We discussed our projects with others from dif-
ferent fields: it was interesting because you had a
banker and a marine biologist working together! It
broadens your horizons and makes you realise that
you can collaborate with others no matter their field
is.”The opportunities are open to all students in the
first 18 months of their PhD who have not attended
the Graduate Schools RSD course.
For more information and to apply, please see:
www.imperial.ac.uk/international/students/inter-
nationalopportunities/summerschools2
NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 february 2011
Union: Minimum English
requirement should rise
Imperial College Union has revealed its re-
sponse to the government’s student visa con-
sultation with a mixed response to the suggest-
ed proposals.
As reported last week, the 31st of January
saw the end of the consultation period for the
review of the United Kingdom’s student im-
migration system. Launched by immigration
minister Damian Green on the 7th of December
2010, the public consultation aimed to receive
opinions on several proposals put forward
about the reform of the ‘Tier 4’ visa – or the
international entry route to study in the UK.
Green explained the motivation behind such
proposals to the House of Commons in De-
cember: “The government is committed to
minimising abuse of the student route by those
whose primary motivation is not to study but
to work and settle in the UK.” This followed
the Home Office publishing statistics which
state that 41% of students coming through the
Tier 4 route were studying below degree level
courses.
The Union’s submission to the visa consul-
tation was formed by a group of student rep-
resentatives – including Union President Alex
Kendall, Deputy President (Welfare) Charlotte
Ivison and Deputy President (Education) Alex
Dahinten. Ivison explained to Felix how the
process was carried out: “We had a number of
meetings where we read through the consulta-
tion documents and discussed how we thought
we should respond, and we talked to the Inter-
Matt Colvin national Office for College’s views.”
“We then brought our submission to Union
Council, where it was discussed, amended and
passed.”
Students were encouraged by the Union to
fill out the consultation submission as indi-
viduals, with the form existing as a free online
survey, alongside Damian Green’s encouraging
response “from a wide range of people” dur-
ing a speech to the House of Commons at the
launch of the consultation.
Among the proposals that the Union agreed
with include the suggestion that the minimum
English requirement should be raised and that
highly accredited sponsor institutions should
be allowed to offer below degree level courses,
but the Union also offers its own suggestion
that ‘these institutions should be given 1-2
years to become highly accredited.’
Information from the Home Office provides
details on the Government’s proposed mini-
mum level of English, B2. This ‘upper inter-
mediate level’ of English requires the learner
to be conversant on a wider range of topics and
equates to approximately 150 more hours of
study than the lower level in place currently;
B1, which focuses on understanding public an-
nouncements and instructions.
However, the Union found fault with sev-
eral of the government’s proposals. Charlotte
Ivison explained to Felix the reasoning behind
particularly disagreeing with the suggested clo-
sure of the Post Study Work route, which cur-
rently allows students to stay for 2 years after
their course in order to find skilled work, by
arguing that “this leaves international students
with four months in which to find work, which
we think is unacceptable.”
Regarding the proposal that recommends
students to return home in order to apply for
other courses, Ivison argues that, “doing so
would potentially incur significant personal
expenditure, deterring would be applicants, as
well as being incredibly wasteful.”
“We disagree with the proposal that if stu-
dents want to remain in the country to study
an additional course after their first one, that
they should have to provide evidence of aca-
demic progression, as this would limit those
who choose to swap degrees or do a second,
unrelated degree.”
Another contentious issue was that of stu-
dents being required to prove academic pro-
gression in order to take further courses, with
Ivison pronouncing that “this doesn’t allow for
students wishing to take courses at the same
level – switching courses or taking a second
BSc for example.”
Whatever the Union’s response, or indeed
any of the 30,000 other replies to the consulta-
tion, the fate of student visas now lies in the
hands of the government. With the results of
the consultation expected to be released in
April, it won’t be long before international stu-
dents discover whether the process for study-
ing in the UK will be helped or hindered.
“Deterring Internationals” – Page 6. Ksenia
Rostislavleva argues that the government’s
visa proposals risk catastrophe.
£3,000 reduction for poor students
that Cambridge intends to make the £9,000
fee grade the norm: “The level of tuition fee
charged from 2012 entry should be the maxi-
mum permissible, i.e. £9,000 per annum with
any subsequent adjustment for inflationary in-
creases.”
The University’s line of defence is also of
particular interest as it rationalises that set-
tling for lower fees might risk putting Cam-
bridge’s reputation in jeopardy as this “might
raise questions about our commitment to excel-
lence since a reduced fee in the long term could
only be sustained by reducing costs and hence
quality” . The report further justifies its deci-
sion by stating that it expects ‘most, if not all’
other universities to follow Cambridge’s lead.
This statement also happens to be in perfect
coherence with Aaron Porter, the NUS Presi-
dent’s comments, when questioned about Cam-
bridge’s decisions.
“It comes as absolutely no surprise that Cam-
bridge University intends to charge students
the maximum amount it is permitted to [...] We
can now expect a race to the top as universi-
ties rush to gain kudos by joining the ‘£9,000
group’ as quickly as possible. How long before
the most expensive universities start asking for
the freedom to charge even more?”
To counter the inevitable problem of students
belonging from poor backgrounds being ‘put
off’ from applying, Cambridge has announced
its own fee waiver and bursary plans, accord-
ing to which students belonging to households
with an annual income of less than £25,000
would be offered a £3,000 fee reduction, hence
resulting in a net £6000 fee per annum. A bur-
sary of £1,625 has also been declared which
would proportionally decrease and taper down
to zero as household income increases from
£25,000 to £42,000.
With the deadline (31st march) for submis-
sion of Universities’ 2012 fee structures loom-
ing close, it is expected that many Universi-
ties will follow Cambridge’s footsteps and
announce their fee decisions in the coming
weeks. Oxford University have also initiated
their fee-fixing process this past week by or-
ganising a debate between academics and the
University governing body and have hinted
that they will opt for the maximum as well.
As expected, the situation has resulted in
growing tensions and an exponential increase
in the amount of parents expressing their con-
cerns over their children’s future. A recent
survey conducted on a total of 3000 people
by ING Direct found that up to 10% had in-
creased the amount they were saving for their
children’s University expenses, with a further
13% going as far as setting up a ‘University
fund’.
...Continued from Front Page
Umair Aasem

