45
felix FRIDAY 11 february 2011
SPORT
Ice Hockey:
Knights unable
to slay the
mighty Devils
Some recent strong performances saw
the Devils in good spirits ahead of the
home game against Kent, currently bot-
tom of the league table. There is also the
added rivalry of going up against Impe-
rial’s old coach, Vince Miller, a lecturer
at Kent who encouraged the formation
of Kent’s own team.
Despite a great performance at the last
fixture against Birmingham, the Devils
were slow to pick up the pace in the first
period. Kent was able to keep posses-
sion for long periods and get a few shots
on goal, successfully turned away by
Devils’ Net Minder Collins, 38. Verbal
encouragement from coach Dave Coo-
legem during the period saw play pick
up and develop, culminating in an unas-
sisted goal by Philippe Benani-Kamane
playing in the number 2 Jersey. Just as
the period was drawing to a close Dev-
ils’ winger and alternate captain Marcus
Ulmefors, 25, was fairly penalised for
checking from behind, putting the Dev-
ils on the Penalty Kill and Ulmefors out
for 10 minutes. Starting the 2nd period 1
man down the Devils held off well un-
til a last second goal by Kent pulled the
score-lines level. Back in 5-on-5 play it
was moments before defence-man Kurt
Kolb, 12, slotted the puck, assisted by
Captain Ed Grant, 14. Play continued
hot and heavy with some great body
checks being thrown, notably by Kolb.
Mid-way into the period Kent equalised
again, giving the Devils no time to rest.
The remainder of the period played out
with several scoring chances for the
Devils, sadly none of them finding the
puck in the back of the net.
Inspiring words from Coach Coole-
gem put the bit firmly between the Dev-
ils’ teeth. The third period started with
a couple of strong attempts to score be-
fore Benani-Kamane, 2, got his second
goal assisted by Grant, 14. Back in the
lead the Devils’ had one purpose and
they followed up with a fourth goal min-
utes later by Ulmefors, 25, assisted by
Lohner, 67, and Belair, 81. Kent imme-
diately called a time-out and it was clear
they would go all out to score. Coach
Coolegem put the emphasis on safety-
play, minimising the risk of conceding.
Back on the ice and moments after the
face-off Benani-Kamane, 2, seized the
opportunity and scored himself a hat-
trick, assisted by Kratky, 68, and Grant,
14. Kent were enraged and drove for
goal on the very next face-off, scoring
their third with little time remaining in
the period. The Devils’ had a couple
of extra chances, but played out the re-
maining minute with no goals leaving
the score-line at a comfortable 5-3 win.
Man-of-the-Match went to Knights’
33, credited with two assists and gen-
erally agreed to be fastest on the puck,
whilst Devils’ Dan Belair, 81, was also
named despite not having scored.
Will Mason
Ice Hockey
IC 1st 5 - 3 Kent 1st
Netball: Three games in three
days for the ladies 1st team
Having 3 matches in 3 days is never fun
but ICUNC 1s stepped up to the chal-
lenge.
On Monday, faced with playing UCL
1s, who looked stylish as always, the
IC girls began their campaign to win
three matches in three days. With some
good movement around the court, it
wasn’t long before IC realised that UCL
were out to win and would play dirty to
make sure they did! Every centre our
GD, Bernice Cutler, was elbowed in
the ribs as her player ran to receive the
ball as well as GA, Nicole Evans, being
pushed around at the other end. When
a complaint was put in to the umpire,
she simply asked if Bernice was going
to move away and if not, then to get the
GA back.
At half time UCL were at least 17
goals in front. But some good team
spirit enabled us to gain back nine of
those goals as GS, Tamar, was on top
form! Although we lost (simply due to
them playing dirty) we had to keep our
heads held high as Tuesday’s match was
against the UCL Medics- RUMS.
Wherever the medics are from, IC
always want to beat them and RUMS
(UCL Medics) were no exception.
Meeting at South Ken as always, Cap-
tain Nicole remembered that Emma
Gould was unable to play sending panic
through the team. How were we sup-
posed to win with six players? Partic-
ularly as Emma was the player of the
match on Monday.
Arriving in Brixton to take on RUMS
for the second time this term, we were
determined to win even with six players.
They are medics after all!! It soon be-
came clear that we were able to wipe the
floor with RUMS winning comfortably
to go through to the next round of the
ULU cup...
What we didn’t know was that our
competition for the next round was UCL
1s who we had played the day before!
Next time we will show them how it is
done.
Our final match of the three was
against LSE 1s in the far, far away
place that is Berrylands. After an hour
journey there, the team were not as en-
thusiastic as they were at the beginning
of the week but the fighting spirit soon
kicked in. With fantastic movement and
interceptions from many players on the
court including Rachel Zaborski and
Carolyn Sharpe, IC entered the final
quarter ahead, but not as comfortably
as they would have hoped. Not to worry
though as LSE only managed to break
down the defence once in the whole
quarter because they pushed over WD,
Sorcha Cotter. It was quite clever of
them to distract IC 1s from defending
by pushing over the token fresher! But
their dirty play was not enough to beat
the 1s!
We’re up against the Medics 1s next
week, so let’s hope it’s another Medics
team which IC 1s are able to beat!!
Netball
IC 1st 38-46 UCL
IC 1st 31-16 RUMS
IC 1st 32-22 LSE
Bernice Cutler
ever, as the second half saw the midfield
trio of Zarnas, Wilson and Benincasa
dictating play with neat interchanges.
Imperial’s lead was extended to three
goals when Eshun was clattered by an
outpaced RUMS full-back, just yards
from the box. Benincasa lofted the re-
sulting free-kick into the danger zone,
and Zarnas duly leapt to steer the ball
into top-right corner of the net with a
well-placed header.
Having effectively sealed the game
Imperial’s tempo dropped temporarily,
permitting RUMS a few tentative for-
ays towards the Imperial goal – pressure
which was readily absorbed, and failed
Football: 1st
team go top of
table and into
ULU Semi’s
to draw a save from Garner in goal.
The final minutes of the match saw re-
newed efforts from Imperial, with Rob-
inson and Roshid both going close. The
last word in the match was grabbed by
Beswetherick who, having been hacked
down inside the area, rammed the re-
sulting penalty into the roof of the net in
emphatic fashion –despite protestations
from Imperial defender Graham.
Honours for Man of the Match were
split between Zarnas and Benincasa,
though there were many potential can-
didates. 4-0 was the final score, with the
1s easing into the Cup semi-finals, and
in good spirits ahead of the upcoming
match against league contenders LSE.
...Continued from Back Page
Mixed bag of results in London fixtures

