FELIX
6
ELECTIONS
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Heather Jones
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
W
hat has been your biggest
challenge?
The most obvious challenge
for the Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) is Fresh-
ers’ Fair but actually since it didn’t rain it wasn’t
anywhere near as stressful as it might have been.
I personally didn’t really like doing the talk to all
the Club Chairs the previous day, as it was cer-
tainly the most people I’d ever spoken to in front
of at the same time!
What is an average day like?
I get in at or before 10 and spend at least the first
hour sorting out e-mail, though this varies day to
day. Sometimes I get less than 30 e-mails over-
night, on a Monday morning it can be well over
100 though, I think I once received 300 e-mails
over a weekend! I’ll generally have 2 or 3 meet-
ings a day which can be with Union staff, with
students or with College depending on what I’m
working on and the rest of the time I’ll try and
keep up with all the e-mail/phone calls coming in
as well as getting on with some more long-term
projects. I try not to leave at the end of the day
until I have fewer than 30 flagged e-mails left as I
don’t like keeping people waiting but sometimes
it’s just not possible!
What do you enjoy most about your job?
It sounds really cheesy and cliched but it’s defi-
nitely the sense of satisfaction from knowing that
in some small, or not so small way, you’ve made
a real difference to people’s lives every single day.
It’s also great to be thanked which happens pleas-
antly often. The other fun part is getting to have
really interesting discussions with people in Col-
lege about why things are done in a particular way
and how to get the best deal for students – on the
whole College are happy to help but often don’t
know how!
What do you enjoy least?
There are some pretty tedious parts of the job. The
100th time you’ve answered the same question re-
quires a lot of patience and you have to tell your-
self that they wouldn’t ask if it was clear so making
it clearer for everyone should be your main prior-
ity. Also room booking approval can be a fairly
dull process but again, it’s important for someone
to have oversight over what’s going on so it’s im-
portant to mix it in with the more fun stuff to stop
yourself getting frustrated.
What is your biggest regret so far?
I really do regret that I forgot to put giant maps up
at Freshers’ Fair, there were still plenty of maps
but it was frustrating as it was something I’d meant
to do and then forgot! Generally any time I forget
to deal with a student’s problem, or I could have
solved it but didn’t get round to it in time. Those
kinds of things make me pretty depressed.
Do you have any advice for anyone considering
running for your position?
It’s a pretty high stress position. You often have to
work very long hours so you need to be comfort-
able with that and also get used to the idea that the
Union will steal your life; it will almost certainly
take over large parts of your social life. Also, it of-
ten requires a LOT of patience and being able to
multi-task is pretty useful. That said, it’s amazingly
rewarding and challenging.
Have you delivered your manifesto promises?
Some but not all of them, however at the same time
I think I made the best decisions for clubs – mani-
festos shouldn’t be set in stone. The two major
promises I didn’t keep were a) a buddy system for
struggling clubs – which when I asked clubs about
they overwhelmingly said they wouldn’t find use-
ful, and b) searchable inventories which has been
put on hold to allow an online club finance system
to be developed, something that the Clubs & Soci-
eties Board said would be much more helpful for
club officers.
What will be the most important challenge for
your successor?
I would say it’s whatever they make it; everyone
comes to the role wanting to achieve something
different. I guess if there is anything then perhaps
they’ll have to finally work out a fairer system for
booking rooms as we’re getting to the point where
saturation of certain space types is occurring.
W
hat has been your biggest
challenge?
The biggest challenge in my
role is definitely the constant
battle to provide students with
all the services they want. It’s tough to not be able
to cater for everyone, or when you put plans in
place to do so, it takes time to mature. Ultimately,
I’ve realised that it’s not possible to please every-
one, but the best that you can do is try and be fair to
as many people as possible.
What is an average day like?
I get to the office at either 9am or 10am, depending
on how busy my day is. Mondays and Tuesdays
tend to be the busiest as I’ve got quite a few meet-
ings and obviously I’m constantly dealing with
day-to-day issues with services in the Union and
also financial issues with Clubs & Societies. There
are a lot of forms to sign and regular meetings I at-
tend to help steer the Union’s customer service, and
various internal projects.
What have you enjoyed most about your job?
The thing that I’ve enjoyed most this year is the
launch of Metric and FiveSixEight. The Union has
changed so dramatically since I was a 1st year and
being able to contribute to that positive change has
been really fun. I’m really proud to be a part of the
beginning of what is sure to be an incredible next
few years with regards to our commercial services.
All these venues are sure to play a key role in our
plans for the Summer Ball 2011.
What have you enjoyed least?
I guess it’s the flip-side of that same coin. The de-
lays and hiccups with the club and bar were really
frustrating. Mostly because there’s a limit to what
you can do when, for example, you find asbestos.
But I think in the grand scheme of things, they
were just little road-bumps. We’ve picked up well
since the launch, and are in fact doing better than
we originally thought.
What is your biggest regret so far?
I’m not sure if I would call it a regret, but I wish I
had known how long it takes to get things changed
around the Union. Sometimes is can be quite de-
moralising when you come into work and you are
faced with the same issues as a few weeks ago. The
key is to stay focused on the bigger picture. If you
get bogged down in petty issues, you can miss im-
portant milestones in the projects you have started
which are here to improve the student experience.
Do you have any advice for anyone considering
running for your position?
If you’re thinking of running for Deputy President
(Finance & Services), I would talk to Club chairs
and treasurers, and learn how the union finance
system works. The more experience you can get
and the more you can prepare yourself, the better.
The system can be a bit daunting at a first glance,
but once you understand it, it’s very easy and ef-
ficient. I would also advise going over to the Reyn-
olds building on Charing Cross campus. It’s one of
ICU’s commercial outlets, and has in the past been
overlooked. It really does help if you can talk to as
many students who are active in the Union’s op-
erations to get a better understanding of the culture
and procedures involved.
Have you delivered your manifesto promises?
I promised quite a lot of things and I think I have
delivered on most of them. Of course, I can’t take
all the credit for those, the Union has been improv-
ing on so many fronts over previous years and ob-
viously Metric and FiveSixEight were begun be-
fore I was a sabb. But the only promise that I think
I haven’t managed to deliver is a cashless payment
system for the bars; it turned out to be unworkable.
What will be the most important challenge for
your successor?
I think that my successor has to ensure that Metric
and FiveSixEight remain responsive to the needs
of students. We need to keep helping Clubs & So-
cieties put on nights in Metric and make sure that
we don’t let the time, effort and money invested in
the refurbishment go to waste. They also need to
continue the work that has begun to revolutionise
our club finance system. It’s a big task and we’re
reaching the end of it but it will fall to my succes-
sor to follow it through to the very end.
Ravi Pall
Deputy President
(Finances & Services)
“It often requires a lot of
patience and being able to
multi-task is pretty useful.
That said, it’s amazingly re-
warding and challenging.”
You’re going to need a lot of patience
With elections starting on Tuesday, Felix talks to the Sabbs about their experiences
Friday 11 february 2011
“The key is to stay focused
on the bigger picture. If
you get bogged down in
petty issues, you can miss
important milestones”
Look at how happy she is to be interviewed “Hahaha, what money?”

