FELIX 7
FEATURE
Friday 11 february 2011
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
The Government’s visa proposals risk catasrophe argues Ksenia Rostislavleva
O
n January 26th, a press-
conference focused on
the international student
migration regulations
was held in the Queen
Elizabeth II Conference Center. The
speakers included Tony Millns (English
UK), Aaron Porter (National Union of
Students), Dominic Scott (Universities
and Colleges Information Systems As-
sociation), Susan Hindley (Study UK),
Nicola Dandridge (Universities UK) and
Professor Edward Acton (University of
East Anglia).
Major education sector stakeholders
highly object to new visa proposals that
include raising the minimum level of
English proficiency required for entry,
limiting opportunities for work expe-
rience and part time work for students
and total abolishment of Post-Study
Work Route. Those changes could have
“catastrophic effects on universities”
that could potentially “…make home
fees matter slightly fade from the central
stage…”
International education is a key
growth sector of the British economy,
contributing almost 5 billion pounds a
year. International students’ fees sub-
sidise home students allowing courses
and sometimes whole departments to be
run. At a time when the whole country
is facing financial difficulties and cuts
are being made to the state funding of
universities, international students are
absolutely vital to the survival of most
educational institutions. Many univer-
sities are also highly dependent upon
international researches and teachers to
teach STEM (science, technology, engi-
neering and mathematics) subjects. The
implementation of these new regulations
will therefore lead to the contraction of
the whole sector. Taking into account re-
duction in cultural diversity UK univer-
sities were always proud of, that would
definitely have a major impact on home
students’ experiences as well.
The proposal is to raise the minimum
level of English required for entry into
the UK to B2 on the common European
framework of reference which is equiv-
alent to a high grade A-level. This is a
real threat to pre-university education,
which provides international students
with an opportunity to improve their
language and independent learning
skills together with a subject top-up
which at the end enables them to study
in UK universities. Most of the students
following this route do not have the
necessary English level required for en-
try according to the new proposals, and
therefore they will not be allowed into
the country (for example, up to 80% of
Foundation students, which make up to
50% of the total international students
recruited by universities, do not have
the required English level). Other pro-
posals include limitations to students’
rights to work experience and part time
jobs (increase allowed study to work
ratio from 50:50 to 66:33). Dependants
of those international students, e.g.
wife/husband, will not be allowed to
work at all. This extends even to vol-
untary work.
However, the change most interna-
tional students feel extremely frus-
trated about is the abolishment of Post
Study Work visa. Currently students
are allowed to stay in the UK for two
years after they have finished their de-
gree to get work experience essential
to prove the creditability of their de-
grees. Now international students will
no longer have this opportunity and
will be forced to leave the country as
soon as they finish their course. With
no work experience after graduation it
would be extremely difficult to find a
job elsewhere, especially in the current
economic crisis.
All of these changes not only make
international students extremely unsure
of their own future but together with
numerous tightening of visa regimes
over the past two years, makes them
feel very unwelcome in the UK. British
universities were known for their excel-
lence for decades, and the majority of
international students (93%) were com-
pletely satisfied with their stay in the
UK. However international students are
no longer getting the world class expe-
rience they were expecting when they
invested thousands of pounds into the
British economy. Many undergraduate
students who were planning to continue
their studies in the UK with a Masters or
a PhD now feel they need to search for
a more stable and trustworthy environ-
ment in other countries.
Indeed, this issue is not just about
money. It is about respect, trust, repu-
tation and business links around the
world that once destroyed will be ex-
tremely difficult to restore. The current
proposals will not only cause a sub-
stantial loss of income, it will seriously
threaten the image of UK as “opened
for business”.
The changes proposed by the gov-
ernment are indeed the most radical
in decades, if not generations, and are
probably not that thought through. The
Migration Advisory Committee (MAC)
undertook a proper weighting of eco-
nomical pros and cons of economical
migration but there was no equivalent
assessment of temporary student mi-
gration. The main goal set by MAC
is to reduce net migration to “tens of
thousands” during this parliament. In
assessing the scale and make-up of
current net migration MAC was relay-
ing on International Passenger Survey
(IPS), however even MAC does not
consider those figures to be completely
accurate. According to IPS, Student
Route contributes 60% to the total net
migration with Work and Family routes
each contributing 20%. MAC then de-
cided that the reduction to be borne by
each of those routes should be in pro-
portion to its contribution to net migra-
tion recorded by IPS – which means a
60% reduction of thoroughly legitimate
students coming to the UK. Those re-
ductions, however, cannot solve the
migration problem the government is
trying to tackle because international
Deterring Internationals
All of these changes
make international
students feel
extremely unsure of
their future and very
unwelcome in the
United Kingdom
“
students are not economical migrants
but merely a transient population, with
approximately equal number of stu-
dents coming and leaving each year.
Therefore student migration should be
decoupled from the total economical
migration and not addressed in attempts
to reduce the number of migrants com-
ing to the UK.
It looks like the government simply
Visa restrictions could deter international students, to the detriment of the UK’s higher education system
ant.photos/flickr
does not understand the consequences
of these changes to student visas. The 8
week consultation period ended January
31st and received more than 30,000 re-
sponses. The results of the consultation
will be announced in the coming weeks
and there is nothing left to do now but
hope that the government will moderate
the proposal and not let the catastrophe
strike the British education system.

