Science
Satellites
on a string
by Mike Morton
Space tethers have been described
as 'the discovery of the wheel i n
space'. Although the concept is far
from new, it is unfamiliar to many,
'probably because no space mission
using it has ever been launched. The
basic idea is quite simple (see box):
two satellites in different orbits will
assume a stable configuration if they
are connected by a long cable (of the
order of 10's of km), and will orbit
together with the cable along the
radius of the orbit. This simple trick
of orbital mechanics will have a
huge impact o n almost all aspects
of space exploitation, making it both
simpler and cheaper.
Late next year, the first of three
missions of the joint US-Italian TSS
project (tethered satellite systems)
will be launched. This will involve
the deployment and subsequent
retrieval of an Italian built satellite
from a space shuttle orbiter. The
reusable, modular satellite has a
mass of around 500 k g and is
powered by silver-zinc batteries. A s
the satellite will only be deployed
for about 20 hours so solar cells
would be unnecessary. The satellite
will carry a variety of instruments,
mostly concerned with investigating
the electric and magnetic fields of
this region, however the main
objective of the programme is to
simply demonstrate the feasibility of
tethered satellites i n space.
The first and third TSS missions
will involve deploying the satellite
upwards from the shuttle, initally '
Artist's impression of
TSS
The Pull of Gravity
Gravity pulls more strongly on objects closer to the earth's surface.
Everybody weighs slightly more on the ground then they do at the
top of a tall building. This effect is the basis for space tethers.
Imagine t w o satellites in separate orbits around a planet (A);
according t o Newtonian mechanics they would much rather be
moving in a straight line. T o make them move in a circular orbit a
force of some kind must act on them. This is provided by the gravity
of the planet. As the inner satellite experiences a stronger gravitational
force it is able to move with greater velocity on an orbit with a smaller
radius; it takes less time to complete one orbit.
This is summarised by Kepler's third law which states:
Where K is a constant, T is the time to complete one orbit and R is
the radius of the orbit. Imagine the t w o satellites are connected by
a cable (B). The cable has a tension because the lower satellite is
forced to slow down and the upper one is forced to speed up. The
upper one will want to rise and the lower one will want to fall but
they will exactly balance, producing the tension in the cable and
allowing the stability of the system.
The orbital period of the system will depend on the position of the
centre of mass, and is the time in which a free flying object will orbit
if it where at the position of the centre of mass.
If the cable is suddenly cut, the upper satellite will be boosted into
a higher orbit and the lower satellite will drop into a lower orbit (C).
This trick is known as momentum scrounging because it is based on
the principle of conservation of angular momentum and is one of the
possible practical applications of tether systems.
Slower, higher Sped-up satellite Satellite moves
satellite wants to rise toward higher orbit
Faster, lower Slowed satellite Satellite moves
satellite wants to fall toward lower orbit
June 21 1989 FELIX Page 13

