Felix
What a whopper!
What relevance does all of this have to next
year's FELIX, you may ask? Well none
whatsoever. Bill has promised me a page
of my own and I intend to be totally
irresponsible with it. Little does he know
what is to come. Yes ladies and gentlemen,
here is your chance to see Billy as you've
never seen him before.
Of course, I wouldn't dream of doing
anything like this next year... would I ?
Next year's FELIX will bring you a
Loadsa Looto Lotto, with a chance to win
a free overdraft at Nat West Bank every
week. PLUS! Chas Brereton's serialised
memoirs, 'Chas Brereton - The Twilight
Years.'; Top Soap exclusives, including
'How Camay kept my skin soft,' by Ian
Morris and 'How FELIX thickened up mine'
by Nigel Baker.
That's the Sabbatical slagging off for the
year, here are a few more reasons for
reading and writing for FELIX next year.
What the cleaner saw—guess the room and win a prize* 'Pull out' London Section•Cosmopelican—all
will be made clear... later*Food and W i n e • Features and R e v i e w s • Science in action at I C * G o s s i p
C o l u m n s • C a r t o o n s • And Finally...News !
FELIX has a great staff this year but we need more. Whether you write, draw, paste up or just have some good
ideas, we want your help. If you are interested in any of the ideas above or have more of your own, pop in. If
you want one of the prestigious jobs still available, (including Business Manager!) drop in some time and we'll
help you get the bug.
Bill rewards this year's top collator, Larry 'Between the sheets' Eduardo.
ffi The Baron of
j
j
j
j
j
? Cheapskate
The time of year had come when everybody in Cheapskate was
looking back over the past and looking forward to the future. John
Secretary smiled as he mused over some of the battles of old between
the Citizens of Cheapskate and the Surefield Fortress. Now he was
leaving it all seemed so trivial.
It had never been the same since.. since...since Arthur Michael had
left. Phallix had a field day but never again would Surefield have such
a perfect scape goat. He still remembered the time Arthur Michael
had bought a new boat for the boat club, only to find himself promoted
to the heights of Chief Landlady instead of Fleet Commander. That
was when they'd sent him to the tower as well. Yes, Arthur Michael
had spent a joyful Summer, throwing money from the top of the tower
whilst telling everybody exactly how many steps they'd have to climb
to catch him.
Of course when Michael had left, everybody had been terrified of
becoming his replacement in Phallix. The only candidate with the right
initials had been Senior Assistant Dogsbody, Malcolm AldHump, but
that had been td#obvious.
John Secretary had an inward snigger as he thought of the Baron's
face as he had realised that the new Arthur Michael was none other
than the Baron himself.
Derek Dash had proven himself worthy so many times that there
had been little choice in the matter. His best entries had always
involved him letting Mad Dash loose with the chequebook. Mad would
go out shopping and before he knew it she would have bought a crate
of fancy lights for the Dining Room; thank goodness she'd managed
to offload them all on McNorthey.
McNorthey, now there was a potential source of amusement. Such
a pity he had threatened to sue Phallix and forced Editor
Willhebegoodforacolumninch to be nice to him all year. There's always
next year., thought John Secretary.
The Citizens' Office was so different now as well. Things had never
been the same since Jolly Hockeysticks had privatised the Office two
years ago and the Citizens had voted in a group of accountants and
management consultants to lead them. John Secretary still
remembered the days when the citizens had rebelled and had held
a last stand over McNorthey's Burger Bar. What revolutionaries they
must have felt as tl>ey refused to eat the burgers under the watchful
eye of the Chief Citizens. Surefield had shut the burger bar in a panic
and had offered the new Chief Citizen, Ian Whygate, a free bag of
chips for everybody who wanted to be ripped off by the burger bar
in the future. John Secretary sure as hell knew who was boss...
The balance of power amongst the Citizens now lay with the
balance of the books. Nobody in the Citizens' Office wanted to know
how the Citizens felt about anything any more; their time was spent
on far more important things like what colour the new wallpaper in
the Citizens' Snack Bar should be and which new space invader
machine they should put in the fun room. John Secretary knew that
the Surefield Fortress had never changed, the changes in the Citizens'
Office just made it seem that way.
Page 18 FELIX June 21 1989

