BulbQuest
You enter the Caterpillar Caf6 and spend £8.37
on a extra-special super-duper-wondermeal
consisting of a curried caterpillar, three lettuce
leaves and a piece of garlic bread. After you
have eaten this magnificent portion of food, go
to 47.
[¥|
Now you know why nobody bothers to help
collate. It is incredibly boring and, since the
Editor has terminally modified the printer with
a misplaced screwdriver, collation continues
until 5a.m. Spend a whole day asleep and then
go to 38
You stop at the door of the Hon See's Office.
You can hear grunting and squealing noises
coming from inside. Someone shouts 'Oh no,
not the cash register'. You hear a bell. If you
pluck up the courage to enter, go to 11. If
decency overwhelms you, return to 7.
[49]
You arrive at the committee meeting and sit
through ten hours continuous discussion before
the committee finally reach your light bulb.
Someone raises a point of information a vis that
you failed to buy them drinks earlier. Therefore,
a motion to propose that a sub committee is m
set up to investigate the possibility of calling j§
you a 'tight-fisted bastard', is substituted and
Do you go and complain to FELIX Igo to 4|1
or grab a large axe and attempt to 'reason' with
the Deputy President (go to 27).
52
You decide to go to Beit Quad. As you arrive
you notice a large numbers of builders and
electricians standing outside the Union Building.
Do you want to go to the Union Office (go to
8) or go to the committee room Igo to 28)?
55
The article appears with the paragraphs in the
wrong order under the headline 'Extremely
Boring' in the following week's FELIX. Later
that day you get a note from the Rector's wife,
written in a strong American accent, expressing
deep concern over your 'terrible predicament'
and suggesting that you pay a visit to the HUB
Office immediately. Do you go to the Sherfield
building (goto 20) or not (go to 36)?
You run panic-stricken down the tunnels. Go
to 48.
[
7
T
1
You continue down the brightly lit tunnel past
the graffiti until you come to an unlocked high
security door. You can go through the door (go
to 6) or go back down the tunnel (go to 34).
y than you were
ey say about the
Go back to 40
1 of yourself. He listens
vg#$ away to write an editorial ir
4^erjfces you as a being 'From the
lowest parts of the depths of the pits of the
f society, and an arrogant
little tosspot to boot.' He also refuses to prim
your article in disgust, you decide to go to 36.
The Deputy President looks up from a table of
figures and you explain your predicament to
him. 'How very interesting,' he replies
monotonously, 'We may be able to help you at
the next fascinating meeting of House
Committee (which is one of our many major
subcommittees and is chaired by myself,
personally, in a solo capacity on my own). Just
fill in all these forms in triplicate using block
capitals in green biro and return them to me by
five o'clock today.'
He hands you two thirds of the Amazon Rain
Forest. Do you fill In the forms Igo to 33) or
give up as a protest against mass deforestation
(go to 30).
56
The Rector's wife kills you and sells your
body to Biochemistry for research purposes to
help cover her costs.
_57_
You open the envelope. It contains a bill from
the HUB Office demanding £100,000 for the
installation of the new lighting system. Do you
panic a bit (go to 26) or panic a lot (go to 48)
[¥1
The light bulb sub-committee (a minor sub-
committee chaired by the Deputy President) is
due to meet late that evening. In the mean time,
do you go to see that night's Hypnosis Lecture
(go to 13) or would you prefer something to
eat Igo to 251?
[451
Bad luck. Not everyone on the list is in today.
Do you want to try again (go to 24) or give up
(go to 30)?
[¥|
The panic subsides eventually but you decide
you can't face the Rector's wife again. You can
either hire IC Rugby Club as bodyguards (go to
32) or write a letter to the Rector's wife,
explaining the situation (go to 3).
pa]
You find yourself outside the entrance to the
HUB Office. You open the door and walk in. The
Rector's wife turns to you with a strange
fanatical look in her eye. She gestures for you
to sitdown. 'So you've been having a bit of
trouble with room lighting have you?' she asks.
Go to 14.
|~54]
You wake up in a hospital bed. Due to hospital
overcrowding you are sharing it with three
others. At the end of the bed sit the members
of the Left Hand Screw Thread Tungsten
Filament Light Bulb Replacement Finance Sub-
Sub-Sub Committee, LHSTTFLBRFSSSC for
short (a completely superfluous sub-committee
of Imperial College Union chaired by the Deputy
President). They have decided to hold their
meeting in the hospital in deference to your
condition.
Toss a coin. If it lands on heads go to 9,
otherwise go to 35.
58
You go down the featureless corridor, which
zigzags through the Sherfield building past
numerous locked doors. Finally you come to a
sign which says 'To The HUB Office' You can
follow the sign to 6 or go in the opposite
direction, which should bring you to 34.
Page 26 FELIX June 21 1989

