Letters
Dynamic Duo
Dear Bill,
We are writing to thank you for printing all our
letters and articles, and for your very favourable
references to us. We hope Dave Smedley will
prove as generous and considerate next year.
We have each been (separately) derided as
isolated loonies without the backing of the people
for our cause. But we each express total approval
for all that either of us has said, so neither of us
is a minority of one. (And as one of us is Dylan
that makes three of us.)
Yours,
Dylan James, Maths 1,
Saradakis Emmanuel, Physics 1.
Not a spastic
Deor Bill,
I would like to comment briefly as one of the
implied 'social spastics' at the Physics leaving
party mentioned in Dave B u m s ' article.
1. I object to the derogatory use of the word
'spastic'.
2. There are plenty of 'sportsmen, socialisers
and doers' at Imperial and many are Physics
undergraduates.
Happily I share Dave's view of a worthwhile
time at Imperial, having experienced both the
'warts' and advantages of my decision to come
to a non-campus London college with a
reputation for hard courses. It happens that my
studying and chosen activities left me time for
RCS Rag or spending evenings i n the Union
Snack Bar.
Finally, thanks to Paul, Paul and Margaret for
making the Physics party such a good evening.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Jacques, Physics 3.
Nail in my foot
Dear Bill
Another Friday, another article i n FELIX
knocking Imperial College. A s an M S c student
coming to London after a first degree at a
provincial university I confess to finding the
whole debate somewhat painful. Perhaps the
worst aspects are the assumptions made by some
authors about life at other universities. If Imperial
is guilty of anything, it is of engendering severe
attacks of 'grass-is-greeneritis' i n some of its
undergraduate population. Perhaps a few myths
need to be destroyed.
Myth 1) Imperial turns people off science and
engineering, so they all run off and become
accountants.
Yes, a high proportion of Imperial students do
leave science. In fact, a large proportion of all
science graduates leave science. In Cambridge,
over 50% of engineering graduates go into other
occupations. This reflects more upon the status
of such jobs in our society than where the student
studies, as a cursory glance at the letters page of
most institute journals would reveal. Realistically,
capable people will go where they get the best
deal. Blaming dull lecturers, by no means an I C
monopoly, is tempting but inaccurate.
Myth 2) You have to work harder for an Imperial
degree, and yet people don't think of it as
special.
Makes your heart bleed, doesn't it? I thought I
worked hard for my first degree, but Imperial
engineering courses do seem frightening. This is
hardly a secret; in fact it is one of the reasons why
Imperial did not appear o n my U C C A form.
However, they are well regarded. M y sponsors
were eager to get people to come here, and
several recruitment agencies note the regard with
which Imperial degrees are held. Don't expect an
easy ride anywhere though. In my o w n course,
students were supposed to read beyond set
coursework, and discuss such extra work i n
tutorials. Technical subjects always have a
reputation for being difficult; people who want
three years of work, and a good degree at the end
of it are in the wrong field, rather than at the
wrong place.
Myth 3) IC students are more
apathetic/immature/self-serving than elsewhere.
Of course there are representatives of these
sections at Imperial; there are anywhere you go.
Trying to inspire students to chip in and help out
is always a problem. Let me assure Dave Burns
that 'social spastics' are a feature of all
universities, as well as life in general, and not
confined to Imperial College. Some would claim
the entrance requirements keep out the
sportsmen, socialisers and doers. Sadly the
entrance procedure at Imperial is little different
from elsewhere, although the required ' A ' level
grades may be higher. In my o w n case, after
taking an exam I was offered two E's, with no
interview. Was this an elitist attitude towards me?
Student politics seem to have occupied large
amounts of FELIX, yet little of the conversation
i of students. This too is mirrored at other
universities. Student politics is seen as largely
unimportant by most students; I make no
comment on this, I only note that it is no different
from any other university. The low turnout of
voters at every student election during my o w n
first degree, as well as at the initial election of the
LSE President provides suitable evidence.
Myth 4) There are no women at Imperial.
There is obviously an imbalance. What strikes me
more are the somewhat selfish reasons put
forward for change by the male population of
College. A t least Imperial avoids the all-male
heartiness of the older Oxbridge colleges, where
knocking nails through feet was seen as an
acceptable punishment for losing a round of
'University Challenge', and rugby or rowing
were (and possibly still are) the only routes to
acceptance. Noticeable is the disproportionate
amount of input women give to Imperial; a look
at the number holding office in clubs and societies
shows that many do not feel intimidated by the
situation. The fact is that sciences are still seen
as a male domain; as long as this situation exists,
and Imperial remains a science college, there will
be more men than women. The women have my
sympathy. The male undergraduates w h o
expected university to resemble an enormous
knocking-shop should have read the prospectus
more carefully.
In Conclusion, of course there are things wrong
with Imperial, and these should be changed, but
to imagine that Imperial College is far worse than
anywhere else is foolish. I enjoyed my first
degree, and am glad that I did not do it at
Imperial, but I am sure that if I had, I would be
glad I had not done it anywhere else.
Yours,
S J Kukula, MSc Composite Materials.
The staff agree
with you
entirely
Dear Bill,
I had intended to write a vicious letter slagging
off the lack of humour in your prodigious organ
.(Fnarr, "Fnarr, etc), I was also going to fill it with
nasty, bitchy comments like; 'Perhaps you should
call FELIX "The Snoozepaper of Imperial College
U n i o n " . But I won't.
Why? The reason is that on careful examination
of this year's FELICES I have been converted (but
not by Pat Baker) and seen the light: Bill, you are
without a doubt the greatest humourist and
satirist alive today!
Whilst other, lesser publications like Punch and
Private Eye insist on being so unoriginal as to print
humour on the humour pages and the boring
stuff on the letters pages, you have shown your
true genius, Bill, by being completely avant garde
and printing tasteless drivel, such as 'Dear
Marge', that would not raise even a giggle from
a Hyena, on you 'Humour' pages; and yet, you
paint verbal sketches of ludicrous, surreally
unreal characters with satirical genius on your
letters page.
You started off the year with minor political
satire—an hilarious spoof on the far left entitled
'IC Class War Group and the P C Blakelock
scandal', a theme you have recently returned to
with your side-splitting character, the absolute
tosser James 'I think LSE were right' Nathan. It
was at Christmas that you really moved into the
big boys' league; religious satire. With your
'Bottle of Whisky and the Koran Farce' you
p r o d u c e d a biting satire o n Islamic
fundamentalism that left Rushdie's standing and
more than likely hastened the Ayatollah's recent
demise.
Recently, y o u have shown your originality yet
again by combining political and religious satire
to form right-wing 'Chistian' (I use the term
loosely) Dylan James. His arguments that G o d
really does give a damn about what colour of
rosette you wear on your lapel made me laugh
so much that I needed emergency treatment on
my ribs at St Mary's (remember the side-splitting
'Mary's don't like U G M s ' ? ) .
However, Bill, I feel that you may have gone
too far and could be accused of racism for your
character 'Emmanuel Saradakis'. By making a
complete dickhead like that Greek I fear that you
may have deeply insulted the entire Greek
nation.
Yours in worshipful awe,
Rick Eiardiman, ME1.
Page 2 FELIX June 21 1989

