Welfare
A. You should List the last three jobs you dtd, the employers you worked
tor and the starting .ind finishing dates Don't refuse'to list previous
Q3. What was your last WEEKLY GROSS W A G * (ie before deductions)
in your last job?
A . Enter the correct amount, and state the number ot hours per week
A. Knter the qualifications and or experience you have which support
your answer to Q4. this could include anv voluntary work or training
Q6. What other jobs are you willing to accept? If none please give your
A. It is best to say that you <ire willing to accept anything suitable.
Q7. When can you start work? If not today, please say why and when
A . You should be available to start work on the same day, as any other
answer will raise doubts about your availability and you could lose
Q8. What are you doing to find work? (You may be asked to produce
A. Sav that you are looking in the lob Centre and local newspapers
that yoi are looking for any suitable temporary vacation work. If you
have reac hed the end of your studies you must say that you are looking
Q . If you are looking for part-time work only please give vour
A. To be available for work you must be willing to take up full-time
employment—if you say you're looking for part-time .'ork you may
A . Don't limit your hours—not even Saturday because this is a working
Jay so you should say you are available to work a six day week It is
suggested that you put the hours you can work each day as
Q12. What is the MINIMUM WEEKLY gross wage (ie before
A. You could either sav that vou want the going rate for the job or give
an amount that i-> lower than your last weekly wage. (If you put a higher
Q13. If the amount at Q12. is more than you were earning in vour last
A ll you have answered Q12. in the ways suggested you can leave this
Q14. In what areas are you looking for work? Which other areas are
A It would be best to say that you are looking in all area* within
Q15. If, for health reasons, you are limited in the work you can do:
a) are you registered with the Disablement Resettlement Officer (DRO)?
A Unless you are obviously ill it is better to leave this section blank
If you do have a health problem that restricts the work you can do then
it is possible that you do not reallv need to sign on as unemployed m
order to receive benefit. If vou think this applies to you. you should
seek independent advice. The Welfare Adviser at IC Union could advise
Q16. Do you have any adults or children to care for? If 'Yes', what
arrangements can you make for their care if you get work? How soon
A. It is best to say you can make immediate arrangements and have
the name of a person who would be able to care for your dependants
HUT R E M E M B E R do not name anyone as a carer if they are receiving
Q17. Please give any other details which you think may affect your
A. It is best to leave this section blanl unless there are things you feel
H o w to claim U n e m p l o y m e n t
Benefit and/or Income Support
If you have not got a job to start at
the beginning of the vacation and
want to claim benefit then you must
follow this step by step guide:
1. A s soon as term ends you should
register as unemployed at your
nearest Unemployment Benefit
Office. A s the summer term ends on
Friday the earliest you will be able
to register will be Monday June 26.
To find your nearest U B O you
should look in the phone book
under Employment, Dept of. The
offices are usually only open
between 9.30am-3.30pm so do not
leave too late in the day to go to
register. When you go to the U B O .
you should take your National
Insurance card and if you have ever
worked before, your P45.
2. When you register you will have
to complete various forms and you
will be told about arrangements for
signing, how benefit will be paid
etc. One of the forms you will have
to complete is a UB671. This form
includes a questionnaire designed to
test your availability for work. A
person's 'availability for work' is
central to his or her claim for benefit.
It is therefore most important that
you answer the questions correctly
otherwise you could jeopardise your
claim, the questions with suggested
answers are shown here.
3. When you register you should
also be given a B l form to claim
Income Support. There are two
reasons for this:
• A s a student it is unlikely that you
will have paid sufficient National
Insurance Contributions to qualify
for Unemployment Benefit.
•It takes several weeks to get a
person's National Insurance record
checked so it is usual for most
people to claim Income Support for
at least part of the time that they are
unemployed.
When you have completed the B l
you must send it to the DSS Office
that covers your address. The U B O
staff will be able to tell you which
one it is. Make sure before you send
the form that you have answered all
the questions and enclosed any
proof required.
It is then a question of waiting for
the DSS to process your claim. It
should be processed within 14 days
of being received in the office but in
practise it is usually much longer. If
you are concerned about your claim
then you must contact the DSS. If
you have no success then seek
advice. Don't just assume that your
claim is being dealt with as it is
always possible that your claim was
never received in the first place or
the DSS may have written to you
and you failed to get their letter for
some reason.
Although you will most likely be
One of the options: working behind the union Bar.
June 21 1989 FELIX Page 35

