10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Freedom of speech in a civilised society
Last week’s heinous attacks
on Charlie Hebdo caused
an outpouring of grief and
support from around the world
for the innocents who lost their
lives that day, and in the days that
followed. The brazen assault was led
by two masked gunmen claiming
that they were avenging the name
of the Prophet Muhammad, whose
gross caricatures Charlie Hebdo had
published in years gone by. And yet,
2 of the 12 murder victims that day
were Muslim – one named Ahmed,
the other Mustapha – both names of
the Prophet Muhammad, a telling
symbol of the character assassination
that took place that day. In the
coverage that followed, it became
clear that the terrorists did more to
defame the name of Islam than any
cartoon ever could.
It should be absolutely clear that
these attacks were the antithesis
of Islam’s peaceful teachings. The
Qur’an does not allow any act of
terrorism, likening the murder of
a single innocent to the murder of
the whole of mankind (5:32). One
wonders then, how many Earths these
terrorists would fill with blood. At
this point, critics often join hands
with extremists in misquoting verses
regulating rules of warfare, whilst
hiding the proviso that such warfare
is explicitly only permitted in defence
of innocents who have been attacked
first (22:39), who have undergone
severe persecution and whose
legitimate rights have been ransacked
(2:191-193). Freedom of conscience
too is enshrined as a fundamental
human right in Islam: “There is no
compulsion in matters of religion,” it
says, effectively rebutting the totality
of extremist ideology in just a few
words (2:256).
With this said, the attacks have
reignited the debate over how
civilised society should practice
freedom of speech. From the vile
film released a few years ago, to
the cartoons published by several
European outlets, caricatures made
of the Prophet Muhammad have
repeatedly hurt the sentiments of
1.6 billion Muslims the world over.
In the wake of last week’s attacks,
western media has wisely refrained
from re-publishing any of the
concerned cartoons, but there is a
strong sense that this was more out
of self-protection than responsible
editing. “Publish and be damned”
was the Independent editor’s initial
reaction, only tempered, he said, by
a duty towards his staff. Worryingly
for Muslims, two thirds of the
British public would also support
their publication, as a YouGov poll
revealed last weekend.
This kind of reactionary abandon
is understandable, but misplaced.
Free speech itself is a means by which
society can exchange productive
ideas and become better informed
as a whole. However, when such an
exchange threatens social peace and
unnecessarily vilifies parts of the
population, it is always curtailed. For
instance, the French Catholic Church
successfully blocked an ‘offensive’
advert depicting the Last Supper in
2005. Charlie Hebdo themselves fired
one of their cartoonists in 2008 for an
anti-Semitic article and cartoon. In
general, western society acknowledges
that gratuitous insulting, which
serves no other purpose but to
incite hatred and divide society,
should be censored. The art of satire
lies in the weak highlighting the
inconsistencies of the powerful.
Caricaturing the beloved hero of
the already beleaguered French
Muslim population, whose women
cannot even wear headscarves whilst
employed in public service, is a gross
caricature of satire itself.
This does not mean to say that
Muslims hold Islam to be somehow
above criticism and debate. Muslims
do not seek preferential treatment,
but equal treatment to other
populations whose sentiments are
routinely safeguarded. Horrendous
though the attacks were, the British
public mustn’t let them knock askew
their usual poise on issues like these.
For the time being, as a Muslim, I
take the Prophet Muhammad as my
role model in dealing with attacks
on his character. Not only was he
slandered repeatedly in his own
lifetime, but several attacks were
made on his life. Through it all, he
stuck to the teachings of the Qur’an,
to ‘bear patiently with what they
say’ and turn to prayer for success
(20:130); to ‘turn away’ from the
slanderers, and ‘keep on preaching’ to
those who would listen (51:54-55). Not
only this, but he was deeply sensitive
to the sentiments of others. On one
instance, he rebuked a Muslim for
having said to a Jew that the Prophet
Muhammad held a station higher
than the Prophet Moses. Though this
was consistent with Islam’s teachings,
he disliked the idea that religious
beliefs were being expressed in a way
that would unnecessarily hurt the
sentiments of others. With rights
come responsibilities, he taught, and
the commitment to social peace is one
we must all fulfil.
This teaching is not just a thing of
the past. A contemporary Muslim
spiritual leader whom I follow
exhorts the very same in this day
Many Muslims condemn the caricaturing of the Prophet Muhammad. Photo: Huffington Post
UMAR NASSER
COMMENT WRITER
Should freedom of speech be given when it threatens social peace?
“Let it not be
in the name
of freedom of
speech that
the peace of
the entire
world is
destroyed.”
and age. After the infamous 2012
film caricature of the Prophet
Muhammad, Mirza Masroor Ahmad,
Caliph of the Ahmadiyya Muslim
Community, counselled all Muslims
to respond productively. He said
they should defend Islam not with
violent demonstrations, but through
reforming their characters and by
educating people about the true
character of the Prophet Muhammad.
But he also advised the public at large
to use their freedoms responsibly,
saying, “Let it not be in the name of
freedom of speech that the peace of
the entire world is destroyed.”
The tragic attacks last week have
given all sections of society much
to think about. Condemnation has
resounded from all quarters, but
we cannot follow up injury with
insult. We must defeat the terrorists
by showing them that we will not
let extremist thinking of any kind
dominate our mindset, and that we
will continue to safeguard the rights
and sentiments of all sections of our
society – an idea that is anathema to
their twisted ideals. In defiance of
them, we would all do well to take the
following as a motto in these trying
times: “Let not a people’s enmity
incite you to act otherwise than with
justice. Be always just – that is nearer
to righteousness.” (Qur’an: 5:8).

