THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 23
FELIX 16.01.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pig Girl – A Murder Most Foul
Dying Woman (Kirsten Foster) and Killer (Damien Lyne) in Pig Girl. Photo: Finborough
Theatre
Max Falkenberg explores Finborough Theatre’s gruesome new production
Office Politics - A Car Crash of a Play
Two days before I went to see Office Politics, I
was hit by a car cycling home. Unfortunately…
it would not be the only time I came close to
death that week.
In my time writing for Felix I’ve seen shows which
were great, and some which were mediocre, but nothing
has come close to the complete travesty of Ben Worth’s
Office Politics at the Theatre 503 in Battersea. Maybe
I’m boring – after all a hefty chunk of the audience
laughed throughout, but crass, poorly stereotyped,
immature rubbish just doesn’t cut it for me.
Office Politics is a play about… wait for it… Office
Politics. Mindblowing, I know. Now, think of all the
standard, boring office stereotypes you can think of;
the whiny jealous woman; the coke fuelled banker; the
slightly less attractive, less coke fuelled, less successful
banker; the posh private school boy whose ‘daddy’ got
him an internship; the ‘chav’ who’s gotten the same
internship; and the slightly ditsy bimbo who’s sleeping
with her boss. Now put them all together with dialogue
written by a hyperactive fourteen year old, and the
result? You guessed it, Ben Worth’s Office Politics.
Ok, I admit, it hasn’t exactly been a glowing start to
this review, but there really were very few redeeming
features. The show is made up of three twenty minute
plays which stand-alone and link with the office theme.
Although the theme is clear, the three plays display
little story. Rather, the plays form stories about the
characters interaction with colleagues. In principle,
this is not a bad thing, giving the play an opportunity
to play with straight and comedic characters. But
instead, everyone seemed to linger in the middle. None
were really funny enough to justify the abysmal story
line, and equally, none were serious without seeming
completely farcical.
I could go on but very little remains to be said. While
the show was generally let down by its writing, none
of the ensemble cast really stood out, and the staging,
while suiting the venue, was an almost blank stage
throughout. It is a shame considering the theme has
great potential for situational comedy (Ricky Gervais’
The Office etc.), but on this occasion it simply wasn’t
worth it.
MAX FALKENBERG
"None
were really
funny
enough to
justify the
abysmal
story line."
“People don’t disappear into thin air. Not
in this country. Not in Canada.”
Pig Girl is a gruesome story we’ve
heard all too often. Although
a work of fiction, the play
is inspired by the disappearance
and murders of predominantly
indigenous women over a number
of years in Canada. Plagued by poor
communication and the indifference
of police forces, the carnage led to
the deaths of thirty three women at
a single pig farm on the outskirts of
Vancouver.
The play depicts the interactions
between a dying woman and her
killer, the pain and devastation of the
woman’s sister and a police officer’s
role in the investigation. Staged at the
intimate Finborough Theatre, the
audience watches as the killer slowly
unfolds his desire to hang the woman
by a pig hook, as he has done with
countless women before her.
The desperation of the dying
woman is beautifully played by
Kirsten Forster whose mentality
towards her captor is fascinating from
start to finish. Perfectly balanced
between anger and a necessity to
plead with the killer, the comforting
stories she tells from her childhood
only seems to deepen the pain her
sister feels recounting the same
stories to the police.
In contrast to his victim, the
killer, played by Damien Lyne, has
an incredibly harrowing, obsessive
consistency in what almost feels
like an out of control fetishistic
game. Lyne’s physicality perfectly
matches the nervousness and mental
instability of the killer, but also
highlights how he is emotionally
damaged in a very similar manner
to his victim. While the killer and
his victim’s story develops over a
number of days, the sister and police
officer’s story unravels continuously,
spread over a number of years. What
starts a plea for attention from the
sister, played by Olivia Dornley, turns
into an officer seeking her help after
years of uncertainty. Placed either
side of the victim and her killer,
their conversation accompanies the
violence from a perspective even
more painful for an audience since it
feels so much closer to what could be
our own experiences.
Generally, the delivery of the story
and the commitment of the actors
give the story a powerful and effective
narrative. However, the script does
little to show real development in
the characters. Except for the police
officer, played superbly by Joseph
Rye, the characters feel like they
are emotionally at the same place
throughout the performance. While
for Dornley, this seems to be a result
of the writing, the more graphic
moments between the woman and
her killer are at times stunted from
the difficulty of portraying violence
in such a small, intimate space.
Likewise, the use of the pig hook feels
unconvincing. Although I appreciate
hanging an actress upside down is
not easy, I feel the director Helen
Donnelly could have taken a few
more risks throughout the staging.
This said, the limitations of the space
make it understandable that some
images could not have been achieved
from a practical standpoint.
The overall result is a dark,
powerful production which has
all the hallmarks of an excellent
psychological play. Colleen Murphy’s
script does a good job of balancing the
emotional stance of all the characters
Office Politics was performed at Theatre503 in
Battersea
without at any point feeling
overbearing.
Although not a production which
should be seen for enjoyment, the
show is definitely worth seeing for its
realistic depiction of such a horrible
story.
Pig Girl is showing at the Finborough
Theatre until 16th
February. Tickets are
£18, £16 for concessions
"The overall
result is
a dark,
powerful
production"
"The script
does little
to show real
development
in the
characters"

