THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 25
FELIX 16.01.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
and Metal. Photo: Stephen Flavin/Artists Rights Society (ARS),
have Nazgol Ansarinia, whose cut and
paste versions of Tehran’s newspapers
draw a direct line from the dadaists
to today.
Another interesting aspect of
the exhibition is the focus it places
on women artists. The majority of
the art world is largely focussed on
male artists, mostly dead, nearly
universally white – the abstract
modernist movement is no exception.
For many art historians, the story
begins with Malevich, and ends with
rugged American minimalists like
Flavin and Richard Serra. Slipping
through the cracks are innumerable
women artists, particularly those of a
minority. Luckily, the curators of this
exhibition have clearly undertaken
meticulous research, and can offer us
a wealth of little-known artists.
A personal favourite of mine is
Dora Maurer, a Hungarian artist
who defied the official censors of the
1970s by refusing to conform to the
Socialist Realist movement; instead
she pursued her interest in abstract
photography in her Rotations series.
Initially holding up a blank square,
she repeatedly photographs herself,
twisting the camera around until her
form dissolves into a kaleidoscopic
mirage of shape and form. Another
Eastern European artist, Běla
Kolářová, explores the role that
feminine articles can play within
art, creating abstract compositions
with cosmetic samples and clothes
fastening; by using such material,
traditionally dismissed as frivolous
and immaterial, Kolářová makes us
reinterpret what we mean when we
make such judgements. After all,
what could be a better representation
of Soviet industry than the miniscule
poppers, meticulous in their detail,
that make up her work?
It is easy to overlook the political
and social connotations of abstract
art. From our vantage point, it is
difficult to see Malevich’s Black
Square as anything other than a
playful jibe at traditional art, let
alone a severe political threat, but
this is not always the case. Malevich
could feel the rising tension in the
USSR, and fled the country in 1927,
leaving his work to be destroyed by
the censors. Klutsis never got out; he
was murdered by officials under the
order of Stalin. This atmosphere of
tragedy is one that never quite leaves
the exhibition, but there is youthful
optimism in there too. These artists
believed, and still believe, in a better
future through abstraction.
Modern political links are explored
through the work of American artist
Jenny Holzer; in TOP SECRET 24
the black square becomes areas
of censored documents, the text
redacted by the US government as
part of their war on terror. What
was in 1915 a symbol of hope and
optimism now has become a tool used
by an oppressive regime, a powerful
reminder that art is a tool for both
liberalism and totalitarianism. The
very spirit of abstract modernism has
its roots in revolution, with many of
the original Russian constructivists
seeing their art as a means of
furthering the dictatorship of the
proletariat, and therefore it should
be no surprise that the political is
intertwined with the aesthetic. Even
with this expectation, however,
the dearth of art coming out of
Altin America during the years of
numerous military juntas is still
harrowing, leaving a noticeable gap in
the time-frame of the exhibition.
We end on a brighter note, with
an exploration of the legacy of
the black square by Scottish artist
David Batchelor; he attempts to
oppose the overwhelming tendency
for chromophobia among the arts
community by filling the blank space
with expanses of colour. He takes the
square apart, filling it with coloured
baubles; a black triangle becomes a
Composition with Yellow, Blue, and Red, Piet Mondrian, 1937-1942, Oil paint
on canvas Photo: DACS, London/VAGA, New York 2014
pyramid, spouting beams of bright
light in rainbow colours. He turns the
black void on its head, and by doing
so reveals the bright new future that
it promises. Abstraction has always
had a sense of humour and fun at its
core, as well as a never-ending hope
for a brighter, better tomorrow; the
Whitechapel Gallery has recognised
this, and avoided the po-faced
seriousness that often accompanies
discussion of the abstract art
movement. We are invited along for
an adventure that charts a century of
creativity, chaos, and celebration; I
suggest that you go along for the ride.
Adventures of the Black Square:
Abstract Art and Society, 1915 - 2015
is running from 15th January until 6th
April. Tickets £11.95 adults; £8.85
students.
"An
atmosphere
of tragedy
never quite
leaves the
exhibition,
but there is
optimism"
Seven Rotations 1-6, Dora Maurer, 1979, Gelatin Silver Print Photo: Dora
Maurer

