THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 29
FELIX
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16.01.2015
Inside Charlie Brooker’s weird
and wonderful mind
Giulia Gabrielli reviews the Black Mirror Christmas Special
Goodbye Miranda!
So Miranda Hart has decided to wave goodbye to
her beloved eponymous character and pursue less
typecast roles.And Christmas Day and New Years were
the chance for loyal fans to salute this great woman of
comedy for the final time.
The event in itself was slightly disappointing.With the
last two episodes of the sitcom Miranda,which started
in 2009 and gave us classics such as the human gallop,
proving more of a look on past gags and happy times
rather than a new entertaining plotline.
Season 3 left us last Christmas with a surprising cliff-
hanger: romantically challenged Miranda gets asked for
her hand in marriage by two very eligible bachelors.
However,these final episodes were less about who
Miranda was going to get with and more about who she
was going to develop into as a person.With actress and
creator Hart claiming she wanted Miranda to“grow up”.
Of course there is a romantic ending,one which the
fans will find very satisfying (and which we won’t reveal
to maintain the magic,but it is far from surprising).
Even so,the focus really is on the main character freeing
herself from her mother’s protection and from the
quirks we are used to,in order to become an all together
less ridiculous human being.What is the only problem?
A less ridiculous human being is also a less entertaining
one,and Miranda’s humour,which was largely based on
slapstick,fails to mature with her.
Nevertheless,in memory of the lovely times spent with
this show and because,after all,it’s only the last two
symbolic episodes,I feel like complementing the effort.
This really was a Christmas bonanza for the whole family
–one to watch when the tummy is slightly too full and
the remote is slightly too far.
GIULIA GABRIELLI
Iwill say one thing: this article
will be biased. Biased because
I love Charlie Brooker, biased
because I want to be Charlie Brooker,
biased because I enjoyed the first two
seasons of Black Mirror so much that
it would physically pain me to have to
criticise it.
Luckily, there is no need to lie.
We’ve seen what Christmas is
like in the head of this great – if
quite abrasive – man, and it is evil
and wonderful. Not only was the
Christmas Special as brilliant and
subtle as the rest of the show, it
also starred a very special main
character: Jon Hamm, of Mad Men
fame. Since whenever Don Draper
enters the scene one can’t avoid being
transfixed, it is no surprise that the
combination worked.
Brooker decides to take a stab at
social media (shocking) by creating a
society where people can be blocked
in real life and prevented from
interacting with others; a simple idea,
with harrowing consequences.
His is a world where a person’s
brain can be exploited to discover
their habits and secrets. A world
where eyes that show everyone what
we are looking at exist and where
mini-copies of our identities act as
slaves for their larger owners.
Even so, it is not a futuristic world.
Technology doesn’t look foreign
and alien. It is a reality like today’s,
with products surprisingly similar to
Apple iPhones, and where something
has gone terribly wrong.
Normal people are put through
mental torture by a society that has
simply grown too big for its boots.
Joe (Rafe Spall), who – if you hadn’t
guessed from his name – is an
everyday guy, has few worries in life.
Happy enough in a stable, if boring,
relationship, he drinks too much and
enjoys karaoke and taking stupid
selfies. Sounds familiar? However
Joe’s life becomes a nightmare when
his girlfriend harshly blocks him,
dragging him through an emotional
spiral of rage and desperation which
eventually comes to a climax in a
terrible event.
His story is narrated through a
conversation with a dark, and frankly
dodgy, companion (Jon Hamm) while
the two share a lonely Christmas
meal in a far away hut. Since there
is nothing more introspective than
a desolate hut, Joe reveals way too
much, while we learn few, disturbing
elements of the other character’s life.
This adds a great veil of mystery to
Hamm, who obviously wasn’t sexy
enough to start with.
Whether it was meant to provoke
or entertain, I must say that Black
Mirror: White Christmas definitely
struck a chord. Maybe I spend too
much time Facebook stalking? Maybe
I read too many “Top 10 Celebrity”
Buzzfeed articles? Maybe I form too
many of my opinions from trending
hashtags? I guess once again, Charlie
Brooker has served his purpose. His
latest work is a masterpiece, or at least
a thoroughly entertaining choice.
Rafe Spall, an admirable performance, despite not being Jon Hamm. Photo: Channel 4

