30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
The colder and darker side of Prague
The main Christmas Market at Old Town Square Photo: Yung Wing Cheah
Yung Nam Cheah visits the infamous Christmas Markets and more
Why traveling should be your New Years’ Resolution
It is the start of another New Year,
though for many of us that just mean
it’s getting close to exam time, or
course work deadline. New Years’
Resolution? Who has time for that!
However, whether you had time to jot
a list that you vow to adhere to for the
restoftheyear;ormerelyre-wrotethe
one from last year,here’s some reason
as to why traveling should be on your
list!
1) Student/Youth discount
That’s something every student
should be familiar with. Your student
card is actually worth more than you
think. You get discounted tickets or
even free entries to major sites and
museums. I saved thirty euros alone
when I was in Athens.
2) It is an experience like no other
Thismightsoundcheesy,buttraveling
is one of the few things you can buy
that would make you richer. It will
openyoureyestoawholenewculture,
widening your horizon. It also gives
Despite the chills and long nights,
there’s something amazing about
Europe during December, when
the festive spirit of Christmas is at
its highest. One such destination
is Prague, who, with its medieval
cobbles stone streets and squares
flocked with wooden stalls, will get
you into the joyful holiday mood in
no time. The Czechs have spared no
expense, putting up lavish Christmas
lightings virtually everywhere, and
almost every square spots a Christmas
tree. Unless you live under a rock, it’s
near impossible not to notice that
Christmas is near.
The main Christmas market is
at the Old Town Square, with an
impressive backdrop of churches,
palace and historical houses. Every
effort was made to bring Christmas
to the Old Square; with a towering
Christmas tree beaming like a beacon,
brimming with all manners of lights
and baubles. A stepped stand allowing
tourists and locals alike to climb up
and admire the views on a vantage
point, there is even a petting zoo for
children on one side of the square.
The surrounding trees and green
space is filled with lights of all kind;
angels blowing trumpets to sheep and
three wise men. If you want a better
view of the whole square, you can
climb up the astronomical clocktower
adjacent to the square and tour the
heritage site.
A mere five minutes’ walk away
is the Wenceslas Square. Spanning
across several blocks, it hosts two
markets on either end. Though stands
are fewer in number, and decorations
less extravagant, a smaller Christmas
tree and a novelty stand were present
in area.
Here’s where I introduce you to
the two best buds that will keep your
energy and temperature up: Svarak
and Trdelnik. Whilst they might
sound exotic, Svarak is actually just
traditional Czech mulled wine, and
Trdelnik is a Transylvanian snack
consisting of a roll roasted on a bit
and dredged through cinnamon and
nuts. Traditional hams, sausages and
fried potatoes are amongst the other
food stuff you will find dotted across
the markets. In terms of shopping,
stalls usually sell souvenir, winter
accessories or Christmas decoration.
Wooden figurines, baubles, lace
cutwork or the typical magnets,
most stalls sell very similar, tourist
targeted items. If you are looking
for more than just the usual tourist
hideouts, try the Christmas Markets
at Namesti Miru (Namesti means
square) in district two.
Aside from the Christmas markets
and decorations, the cold, wintery
times brings out a different side to
the sights, too. Head to Charles Bridge
after dark (which shouldn’t be that
hard at all), where the fog will descend
giving the medieval bridge a sinister
vibe. You might argue that you can
see the bridge in the summer during
night time, too. However it would
never feel the same as when you see
it in the cold, dark night of winter.
Legend has it that the statues of the
bridge come alive during the night
and roam the city, and it’s not hard at
all to imagine the weathered figures
stepping down from their centuries-
old place and stretching their stone
limbs like a scene out of Night at the
Museum.
The gloomy Charles Bridge at night Photo: Yung Wing Cheah
From top left clockwise: a view of Prague from Castle district; Santorini donkey riding; famous shipwreck
bay on the island of Zakynthos Photo: Yung Wing Cheah and Yung Nam Cheah
you a break from the gloomy weather
of London.
3) Time
Believe it or not, you are never going
to be more free, or more free of
responsibility in your life. You can
go wherever you want to whenever
you want to (providing you don’t run
out of cash or miss too many classes)
withouthavingtoexplaintoyourboss
why you suddenly need an extra week
off.
4) You can endure the hardship
This might sound a bit dodgy, but
trust me, as you grow older you get
more picky and fussy. You don’t want
to stay at a cheap hostel, you want
your own room so you can have some
privacy, or you can’t walk as much, or
stand cramping on a tiny seat for ten
hours.
5) Because the world is beautiful
YUNG NAM CHEAH

