THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
16.01.2015
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
This week you miss out on a
PhD. The reason? Over the last
year you have slept with every
member of the research team.
As you tell your friends this,
they are not sure whether to
judge you, congratulate you, or
worship you as their god.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week you’re woken up
by the sound of the postman
ringing the doorbells. He
hands you a mysterious
package which, when you open
it, turns out to contain glitters
that goes all over the hallway.
As you and Henry team up to
clean up the mess, you try to
figure out who could have sent
it. 23 possibilities so far.
This week you are completely
heartbroken. The person most
important to you throughout
your childhood has betrayed
you. You don’t know what to
do or who to trust any more.
They’ve changed the chocolate
in Cadbury Creme Eggs.
Everything is over.
This week your film is snubbed
by the Oscars. Despite what
you’ve been trying to convince
people for the last few months
through the medium of very
catchy song, it turns out
that not quite everything is
awesome.
Thisweekyoucomehomeafter
theChristmasholidays,tofind
yourhouseanabsolutetip.
Therearemaggotsinthesink,
cockroachesinthebathroom,
miceinthehallwayandyou
findadeadratinyourbedroom.
Yourhousematesaredelighted
bythediscovery,they’vefinally
hitpestbingo.Onlysixmonths
togo…
Thisweekeverythinghasbeen
goinggreat!You’reexamsare
over,yourgirlfriendhasfinally
agreedtotryanalandyou’ve
finallygotthebiggestroomin
thehouseoffthehousematewho
wasn’treallytherethatmuch
anyway.Theonlyslightproblem
isthatyourFrostiestastedabit
strangethismorning.
This week you post to Imperial
Secrets. “A girl I’ve had a
thing for for days just told
me she’d never want the D…
PW. I’m currently crying
heartbrokenly in the toilets.”
Of the twelve responses, the
nicest is “Shut up wanker”
This week you’re on Jeremy
Kyle because at New Year,
you accidently kissed your
girlfriends mum rather than
her, and now she’s pregnant
with your baby, and no-one is
talking to each other. Oh well,
could be worse, at least your
teeth mostly fit in your mouth.
This week you’ve got your
first exams at Imperial. You
didn’t do much revision over
the Christmas holidays, but
it’s not like the exams are
going to be that much harder
than A-Levels. You leave the
exam room in the knowledge
that if you get everything you
answered completely right, it’s
still only 30%. Bless.
This week, you’re stuck on
Level 4 of the library, when
you see someone walk past
without shoes on. At first
you’re disgusted, but as the
hours drag by, your toes start
calling out to you. When you
answer their siren song, you
delight in the moment of sweet
relief before the cheesy smells
wafts up to join you.
This week you start your New
Years resolutions. You’ll go
to all your lectures, do all the
problemsheets the day they
are set and spend at least three
hours a day writing up notes.
It’s been a couple of days and
you’ve only had one lecture.
You’ve already failed.
This week you return home to
find out that your housemate
has decided to switch rooms
with you, leaving you with
the tiny box room that your
furniture doesn’t really fit into,
and he’s somehow changed the
locks to. To get revenge upon
him, you decide to take the
only course of action available
to you, and jizz in his milk.
Saturday 10th January
Packing to go back to uni now, and it is taking forever as I don’t want to leave
any Christmas presents behind in case Mom gets offended. Like, I don’t need a
lamp desk or another dressing gown but she might start crying again about me
leaving. So ready to go back to uni though, I have missed my hallmates so much
Sunday 11th January
It was kind of odd being back in halls, with a roommate and a single bed. The
fridge is a state in the kitchen and not full of free food and I forgot how cold it
is without heating. I forgot that weird musty smell all the corridors seem to have
Whatsapping home friends straight away about being back in London and how
crap it is. They are taking the piss as apparently all I spoke about at home was
how good London was but I dunno I thought I was pretty modest and humble about
living in the city.
I unpacked then went straight to the library (fourth floor). Am still here.
Monday 12th of January
Have been in the library for 23 hours and no longer can focus on the page.
Exam is tomorrow and I only managed to do 80 out of the 600 hours I needed to
cover each lecture twice then do outside reading. Have literally only revised about
10 lectures out of 50 but have spent all of today working out what is most likely to
come up then reading a load of random wiki pages surrounding the topic.
That should pull me through, right? I ran into my lab partner in the library and
he said he had only really looked at his notes a bit, and hadn’t really revised at all.
He reckons he will scrape a 2.1 he said, which he said he is cool with because its
literally only 60% which is basically a low B and he got three A* at a-level anyway
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
Saw Dorothy getting a jacket potato during a revision break, she’s on crutches now and has
an eye patch, but she looks good.
If I sleep for two hours I should be able to get up at 5am then revise another four
lectures. I have a plan, it should be fine.
Tuesday 13th of January
Overslept and was nearly late to my exam. It was a disaster. I ran to campus and got there
sweaty and out of breath, then spent the first twenty minutes trying to calm down before
asking for some water.
So embarrassing. I also could only answer like one question but I waited long enough so it
would appear I had just bossed it by leaving early, although now I am like what if I fail and
don’t get back in. Maybe the next one will go well?
Might google UCAS final deadlines just in case
Wednesday 14th of January
Just missed UCAS final deadline
Been in library for about eight hours and literally did nothing. I think I was staring at some
point on the wall for around 2 hours before snapping out of my daydream and realising that
maybe I am fucking thick and university was way too ambitious. maybe I could do a BTEC or
something?
Thursday 15th of January
Second exam. Went just as bad. Want to cry. Now very drunk at the union and saw Kris
Caye on the screen and just bawled and bawled and bawled. Am now crawled up in a ball
scrolling through our old whatsapp messages.
Hall mates are knocking on the door asking if I want more sambuka but I think I will literally
be this sad forever. I want to go back home. I miss Mom

