THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
FELIX 16.01.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Give Felix a Go!
Ben Howitt on the daily life of the student newspaper
A Week in The Life of: Felix
We decided to ‘start strong’
with Felix, under the
assumption that we could
write most of this over the break.
I started writing on Monday
morning .
Saturday/Sunday
The Union staff have already been
back for a week, and the news that’s
come in over Christmas means we
have things to reprt on other than
rugby clubs misbehaving. IC Radio &
LeoSoc take over the Felix Office for
their weekly meetings.
More organised section editors
have already sent out their
commissioning emails, leaving the
rest of us trailing in their wake.
Skett is excited, and tweets about it.
Monday
Content is starting to be written,
with other section editors in as well.
This week the Food Editor’s busy on
an essay.
Typical Mondays are usually
admin and social media updates, as
well as sourcing stories. This is also
when section editor’s meetings take
place, as most people tend not to be
writing up stories.
Tuesday
Content keeps being written, the
keyboards (and writers) sounding a
little more tired and harassed. Skett
asks us in an email to tell her how
many pages we have by 18:00 or “I’ll
cut your fucking section”. As this is
still being written, I have little idea
how long this piece will be.
The never-ending cycle of
searching for non-stock images starts
in earnest, to finish on Thursday
when all of the high quality versions
have been found.
Today there’s been a long dicussion
on Charlie Hebdo, as there’ll be a
comment piece going in this week.
A few people usually come in
on Tuesday to start layout, and
many of the comment articles and
collaborative pieces are written
today.
Wednesday
Layout day! Arts are in early as
always (7 pages this week). Most of
the content should be (read, isn’t) in
now, so all that’s left is fitting it onto
the page. Pretty much everyone picks
Wednesday to lay out, or, often,
write their editorial.
I pick up the camera that’s
lying around in the office, having
realised that my glorious plan of
doing excellent photojournalism
throughout the week has failed
in spectacular fashion – I quickly
realised that I have absolutely zero
talents as a photographer. I collar the
next person through the door and
pressgang them (thanks, Tom!).
Thursday
We go to print this evening. Copy
Editors start coming in to go through
the paper, although there are only
two of us at the moment. Usually we
barely reach 11:00 before the first
shout of “Why can’t they spell?!”
goes out – highlights from last term
included an in depth conversation on
whether 4000 should have a comma
Scenes from a newsroom's mind. Photos: Thomas Lim/Twitter
in (hint: it shouldn’t), and whether or
not avengement is a word (hint: it’s
isn’t).
Tardy section editors wonder
exactly how much more of this they
can take before snapping, and decide
to stay late on Wednesday from now
on.
News is still being written, and
Skett decides again that we really
need to get some more News writers.
We receive a picture of A Fresher’s
Diary from an anonymous source,
and everyone gathers around the
computer for a reading.
We have sourced enough pictures
to fill the issue!
The print deadline is at 23:00, and
we agree that it’s looking like a late
finish.
Friday
The paper arrives from the printers
on Fridays, and the web team come
in to upload News and Comment.
Angry emails arrive to complain
about the Issue (more on this next
week!).
Commissioning emails are sent
out. The cycle of looking for pictures
starts again.
Skett is tired. And tweets about it.
Earlier this week,Abi (the DPCS) put up a blog advertising the Give-it-a-Go (GIAG) events that Clubs and Societies are running this term. Felix are also running a
challenge to give new writers a chance to get their first article published.Here’s how it works:
1) Email us at felix.clubsandsocieties@ic.ac.ukwith the subject line
“GIAG Challenge”
2) Come to theFelix GIAG event on Monday 26th January,12:30-13:30.
3) Attend as many GIAG events as you can,and keep us updated of your total.
4) Write a 400-500 word article about one (or more) and send them into us!
The only rules are that events cannot be run by a society of which you’re already
a member and events must be on the Union What’s On Calendar
The challenge is also open if you don’t want to write about it (although we
would really appreciate it.
Looking forward to hearing from you!

