8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
All change come elections time
New rules set to affect larger Clubs, Societies and Projects at Imperial
Plans have been announced to
change election regulations
for clubs that have more than
150 members. Under the changes,
clubs that hit the criteria would have
to hold their committee elections as
part of the Big Elections. Despite this,
voting would still only be available
for members of that society.
The move has been hit with
criticism from some societies
that would be affected under the
new scheme. One society said
that they would be meeting with
representatives from the Union on
Friday to discuss the changes. Cinema
and Squash have also voiced concern,
and their comments can be found
below.
Some clubs have claimed that they
weren’t consulted about the proposed
changes and were instead just told
that they were being implemented.
When asked about this, Abi de
Bruin, Deputy President (Clubs
and Societies), said, “Last year we
ran a trial of inclusion of some
of the Clubs, Societies & Projects’
elections in The Big Elections process.
Several of the larger student groups
were approached and some clubs
specifically asked to be included as
part of The Big Elections.
“The general feedback we had was
that it was a positive change that
increased turnout and also reduced
administrative work. The Union
Governance Committee discussed
both of these outcomes from the test
last year and made the decision to
move all elections for Clubs, Societies
or Projects with more than 150
members online.”
De Bruin also said, “It did also
highlight to us that some of the
groups weren’t actually holding
democratic elections in line with the
rules set out in our bye-laws”. Last
year Felix reported that two student
societies – the Christian Union
Do you want to pursue a career in European and international affairs,
international business or national administration? Are you ambitious and ready
to study intensely in a multinational community of students from more than
50 countries and build a transnational network which will last a lifetime?
If so – the College of Europe is the institute of
postgraduate studies of interest to you.
The College of Europe offers the best applicants full scholarships
for any of its ﬁve postgraduate programmes.
Deadline submission of applications: 31 January 2015.
LEARN TO
NEGOTIATE, WORK AND
NETWORK WITH EUROPE
APPLY NOW coleurope.eu/study
PHILIPPA SKETT
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
(CU) and the Chinese Students and
Scholars Association (CSSA) were
found by Imperial College Union to
be in breach of the Union’s election
byelaws. The CU have fewer than
150 members and aren’t affected by
the changes, but the CSSA will have
to have their elections in the Big
Elections.
When asked why the number 150
specifically was chosen, de Bruin
said, “This number was chosen to
reflect the reality of the size of lecture
theatres available to hold offline
elections in.”
She continued, “We communicated
this change to those affected at the
beginning of the month and have
received some feedback from groups
who would prefer not to be involved
in the online election. In each case
we’ve asked for the reasons for
this and will, in cases where a clear
demonstration of how their current
or planned election process will be
fully democratic, make appropriate
exemptions from the rule.”
Medics laughing all the
way to the food bank
Imperial medical students made a
last-minute but sizable donation
to the local food bank earlier this
month, after collecting dried goods
before the Christmas bop at the end of
last year.
Students brought non-perishable
foods to the Reynolds building on the
last day of the autumn term, which
were crated up and collected by the
local food bank after Christmas.
Three crates were filled all in all:
amassing to a total of just under 44kg
of food that included tinned goods,
pasta and cartons of juice and long
life milk.
The amount of food collected
will be able to feed between 8 to 10
people for up to three days. The food
bank, which serves Hammersmith
and Fulham residents, donates the
collections to those in the local area
who are referred to the centre by
social services, their local GP, their
school or any other frontline care
professionals.
Daphine Aikens, a member of
staff who works at the bank, spoke to
Felix. Daphine thanked the students
of Imperial for the kind donation,
and told us what a difference it can
make to those who are in difficult
circumstances.
“People who come to the food bank
may not have eaten for days on end
and may not even know where there
next meal will come from.
“It is great that we can say the
donations came from someone in the
local community, including a medical
student from Charing cross hospital,
or a mum who lives down the street or
a local business. That is very powerful
and meaningful to these people
receiving the food.”
The collection was organised by the
Imperial College School of Medicine
Student’s Union (ICSMSU), and
Mala Mawkin, the current social
secretary, told us how inspiring it was
to see classmates and other students
donating to the cause. Mala said
“What was really nice was that even
though we were all poor students by
the end of last term, everyone still
was giving what they could to the
people that needed it most.”
ICSMSU President, Dariush
Hassanzadeh-Baboli concluded: “We
are very proud of our students. This
goes to show the amazing community
spirit at ICSM and the students’
willingness to help those in need in
the local community.”
Students who are keen on getting
involved are welcome to contact the
Food Bank directly via their website:
http://hammersmithfulham.
foodbank.org.uk.
Philippa Skett reports on the substantial
bounty given to Trussell Trust project
Sponsored Advertorial
That humanities essay wasn’t enough fun writing for you?
Just so happens that we need and like more roving reporters.Come write
for us-we ply you with free tea and coffee.
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
For the larger CSPs, this is no longer an option. Source: Wikipedia

