CLETTERS
Letters
Demonstrably
Promotablc
Dear Sir,
Another of your reports ( F E L I X 19 June)
on the Department of Computing is
incorrect. It is untrue that academic staff
promotion in the Department is only
dependent on research performance. The
requirements are the same as throughout the
College.
Good evidence of a serious and effective
committment to teaching is always required
for promotion to the senior staff. Other
factors also, of course, weigh heavily,
including: a demonstrably successful
committment to research or scholarship,
administrative service to Department or
College, and special achievement in the
transfer to industry of expertise or advances
in science and technology.
While this Department has major
responsibilities to the country by virtue of its
internationally pre-eminent research in New
Generation Computing, it continues to
recognise an over-riding responsibility to its
undergraduate and postgraduate students.
Your faithfully,
B McA Sayers
Head of the Department of Computing
Dean of the City and Guilds College
Sexist
Magazine
Dear Sir,
I am writing to express my opinion about
the two photographs of 'strip-o-grams' which
appeared in this week's edition of your
magazine and which I found highly offensive.
I believe that all members of this College
should be able to enjoy a lunchtime or
evening in the Union Bar and to attend
lectures without having to witness this sort of
thing. If certain members of the College wish
to watch women taking their clothes off they
can do this in strip clubs, cinemas or in the
privacy of their own homes. I was fortunate
enough not to be present at either of the
events but I would have been offended and
embarrassed if I had been and I am sure that a
large number of women(and quite possibly
men) at this College feel the same way.
The Union Bar ought to exist to cater for
the needs of all of our membership. If
activities are allowed to take place within it
which offend a number of them, then it is
failing to do so. By publishing photographs
of these events your magazine is not only
alienating some of its readership, but also
condoning the use of College and Union
premises for such activities. Although you
state that your previous comment about
banning women from the bar was 'tongue in
cheek', you Have redeclared your sexist
attitude by unnecessry republishing the
photographs. The inclusion of a picture of a
nude male does nothing to redress any
balance, even if that was what was needed.
If the persons responsible for the events
and for the articles in question are of the
misguided opinion that women exist for the
titilation of men upon payment of money,
would they kindly keep it to themselves and
not force either it, or its consequence on the
rest of us.
Yours sincerely
S Chittenden
Post Graduate
Elec Eng
Unmarried
Freebie Hunter
Dear Sir,
Poor Nick James! My heart bleeds for him.
After all, he is going to be made homeless
when the unfortunate residents of the
Fremantle Hotel move out, and he can't get
another sinecure (sorry-wardenship with free
accommodation) because he isn't married.
Nick James will have to start paying rent-just
like the hundreds of postgraduate students at
this establishment who would have leapt at
the chance to be warden of the Fremantle—if
the post had ever been advertised.
I am horrified that someone like Mr James
can actually Complain about the way College
appoints student managers and wardens.
Just look at the facts. He was appointed
warden of the Fremantle Hotel without an
interview, when his sole contribution to its
social life was keeping the bar open all hours
for Michael Arthur. He was given free
accommodation for several years, during
which he made no impact whatsover on the
disgusting state of the residence, where
around a hundred students were forced to
pay above the going rate for damp, under-
furnished and squalid surroundings.
People like Nick James ought to be shot,
the old-boy network method of appointing
candidates ought to be scraped, and then
perhaps there will be an improvement in
conditions in some of the worse hell-holes
College thinks are fit for student
accommodation.
Name and address supplied
FEUX
Goodbye Lord Flowers
When Lord Flowers came to Imperial College
twelve years ago, he perceived that Imperial was
'supposed to be good, but not quite as good as it
should have been.'
When Sir Peter Swinnerbon—Dyer visited IC
With the U G C this year, he said that Imperial is
'good, but not quite as good as it is supposed to be'.
It would be a mistake, though, to assume from
this that Flowers has achieved nothing during his
time here. H e started by righting many of the
College's wrongs, like making Headship of
Department a fixed-term, appointment. He set up
the vitally necessary inter-disciplinary centres. He
saw the College through a difficult period of its
history in the first round of cuts. A n d he leaves it in
a good position to deal with the imminent difficult
period.
It has been said that the Rectorship of Imperial
College is the single most important job in the
university system—it is Flowers who has made it
so.
He has, of course made unpopular decisions.
The Flowers report on re-organsation of medical
education made him many enemies. But they have
since come to accept the logic of it. Some of his
appointments within the College have, in
retrospect, seemed wrong.
But time, which modifies opinions, will put the
seal on his reputation. In spite of what has been
said against him, his name will never be mentioned
at IC without respect, nor without calling to mind a
style of administration that is tryly memorable
Welcome, Professor Ash
Congratulations to Professor A s h on his
appointment as Rector of Imperial College. The
Rector of Imperial College has unparalled
opportunities to influence science policy in this
country. However Imperial College has too many
problems of it's own for the Rector to concentrate
exclusively on forming national policy. The Rector
must work with his staff at finding solutions to the
problems of accommodation, teaching standards,
government cuts. If College is to continue to be a
'Centre of Excellence' Eric Ash is descirbed by his
postgraduate students as being hard working,
quick and most importantly interested in students.
He certainly seems prepared to listen to students
problems and work towards finding solutions.
There are no easy answers to College's problems.
Hopefully, though, Professor Ash will be able to
use his undoubted talents to, at least, improve on
the situation. He certainly seems to have many of
the qualities required.
PG FELIX
In recent years there have only been one or two
postgraduate issues of F E L I X . When one
considers that there are almost two thousands
postgraduate students at IC this seems a little
unfair. This summer we would like to produce a
short issue every two weeks. We can only do this
though with your support.
Credits
Thanks to Professor Ash, Hugh Stiles, Chris
Martin, Nigel Atkinson, Rosemary Ivor-Jones,
Tony Churchill and Lynda Davies.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College
Union Publications Boardand is printed by the Union Print Unit, Imperial
College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-1589 5111 Ext 3515
This special edition Editors: David Rowe and Hugh Southey.
Business Manager: J Martin Taylor.
Advertising Manager: Paul-Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Wednesday 26 June 1985 FELIX

