NEWS FEATURE J
Professor Eric Arthur Ash was nominated as the new Rector last Friday. In a
searching interview with FELIX he discusses his past and hopes for the
future
FELIX: Could you start by telling us
something of your background, family,
home and childhood?
Ash: I was born in Germany. My family
emigrated to this country in 1938 when I was
ten years old. I have one sister. My father was
a lawyer. I went to University College School
and subsequently to a place called Imperial
College, City and Guilds. Since then I have
acquired one wife and five daughters.
F: When you were at Imperial were you
involved in the Union? What sort of
social life did you have?
A: I didn't have very much connection with
the Union. I participated in quite a lot of
activities. I used to go rowing every weekend.
Since at that time I only weighed 9\ stone,
the only thing I could usefully do was sculling,
but I did that fairly religiously. There wasn't
at that time an orchestra at Imperial College
so I played in the orchestra at University
College instead.
What else did I do those days? Well, we had a
fair amount of social life. It seemed to involve
the RCM quite a bit. I don't know whether
this still goes on or not.
F: A little.
A: I think that is something to be
encouraged.
F: What musical instrument do you
actually play?
A: I play the violin or the viola—but I haven't
played very much for the last five years so I
am distinctly rusty.
F: Your CV says that you left IC in 1952
to go to Stanford. From there you went
to QMC in 1954 and Standard
Telecommunications in 1955. Why did
you move out of the university sector
and why did you return to university life
in 1963?
A: I moved out of the univerity sector
because I feel that industry is the natural
habitat for engineers, or at least it is one that
they ought to experience. When I went into
industry, I had absolutely no intention of
coming back to a university. Like everything
else in my life it seems to have happened by
accident.
F: What is your research field?
A: My current field is primarily developing
new forms of imaging, in particular ultra-
sonic imaging using accoustic waves and
thermal wave imaging, and also some new
ways of imaging with light. In the past I have
spent a lot of my time working on micro-
waves, micro-wave tubes and solid state
devices in general.
F: We noticed that you have just
received a major award from the UGC
for your research group. Are you
planning to bring your group over to
Imperial?
A: I have talked to my colleagues here and
my new colleagues at Imperial about this. I
think there really wouldn't be anything to be
said in favour of doing that. The group here is
well enmeshed in the infra-structure. I think if
I were to take out any of my PhD students
and ask them to move West, they would
probably lose something like a year getting
resettled, so instead I am simply going to
spend a little bit of time over here. However,
in the long run I would very much like to start
some research at Imperial.
F: Do you see yourself primarily as an
administrator or as an academic
researcher?
A: I don't think there is really any choice
about it. I think if one is going to play the role
of Rector of Imperial College, you are
primarily an administrator. But there isn't
any reason why one needs to spend one
hundred percent of one's time doing one
thing, and so I very much hope that I can
continue to be a part-time academic.
F: Why did you decide to move out of
academic research and into
administration?
A: Getting a letter asking me whether I was
prepared to be considered for the Rectorship
of Imperial College. Like everything else in
my life, it really wasn't planned. In fact I have
turned down a number of previous
opportunities for Vice-Chancellorships
cheerfully and rapidly. To me Imperial
College was different. First of all, I was there
in my youth and enjoyed it enormously. It is, I
think, the most challenging job in academia -
at least on the science side.
F: Would you agree with the Chairman
of the UGC Sir Peter Swinnerton-Dyer's
comment that it is the most important
job in the University sector?
A: I think it would be very unwise of me to
start quarrelling with Sir Peter Swinnerton-
Dyer at this stage.
F: There is a rumour going round
College that you were offered the
position of Head of the Electrical
Engineering Department. Is there any
truth in the rumour and, if so, why did
you turn it down?
A: You mean recently?
F: Yes.
A: No, there's absolutely no truth in this.
Many years ago there was some discussion
of my moving from here to Imperial College
to the Electrical Engineering Department,
but at that time I really felt I was so enmeshed
in the research I was doing here that it didn't
seem sensible to move.
F: Do you think you'll have time to
involve yourself in skiing, - music and
your other recreations?
A: I certainly hope to continue to go skiing.
When you get to my age and you stop for a
season or so, you'll probably never start
again but, unhappily, that never takes up
more than about ten days. We've normally
gone skiing over Christmas. Now we have
just reached the happy phase of life when we
no longer have any children, or at least no
children who are subject to school holidays,
so we might go at other times.
F: Have you got any views on the UGC
report on Imperial, in particular the
criticisms of teaching standards?
A: I have only seen an abstract of this report,
maybe in the Times Higher Educational
Supplement. Obviously I don't have views on
this. My knowledge of Imperial College dates
back about thirty three years. Since then I
have only had intermittent contact with a few
of my colleagues. I obviously don't have an
overview at all.
F: How do you think IC has changed
since you were an undergraduate here?
A: I think that in a third of a century a place
changes so much that it is hardly worthwhile
trying to make the comparison; of course, all
the buildings are new and the place must
have doubled in size. I suspect that what I
remember from my student days won't really
help very much at this stage. I know a bit
about it from current contacts. At the
moment, for example, I am the external
examiner for the applied optics course in the
Physics Department.
F: What are your views on the present
government's policies on higher
education and on the recent green paper
in particular?
A: Well I have of course read the green
paper, but not with any great enthusiasm. I
do have to say that I believe we have no
alternative but to redirect our resources
towards the applied sciences. To that extent,
Continued overleaf.
FELIX Wednesday 26 June 1985 3

