LNEWS FEATURE
I would go along with one of the themes in the
green paper. What I find immensely
depressing is the view that the resources that
we are devoting to higher education at the
moment can, at best, be kept constant. In
spite of everything this is an affluent society
and education has a value quite apart from its
ability to back up industry. I feel that there is
an enormously strong case for having an
increase in the total resources going into the
applied sciences whilst preserving and
perhaps enhancing the rest as well.
F: The green paper criticised four year
courses saying that some of the training
provided should really come from the
industry. Have you any views on four
year courses?
A: I do have a view, but all I can offer you at
present is a parochial view. I can tell you what
we have recently done in the Department of
Electrical Engineering at University College.
We have started a four year course where
some students will obtain a BSc after three
years, and some will go on for a fourth year.
The decision as to who does what will be
taken at the end of the second year, and will
depend, first of all, on student preferences,
and secondly on academic attainment. The
view that I hold is that there really is a very
strong case for four years of study for those
people who want to engage in it. I think that if
we are going to try and claim that our
university courses are equivalent to those
that you find on the continent, France and
Germany in particular, we do have to have at
least some people taking four year courses. I
do not take the view that was advocated in
the Finneston Report; that the brighest
people should take four year courses and the
less able three year courses. I believe that
there will be some exceedingly able students
who will to leave after three years, perhaps to
do research in a university, or to go straight
into industry. I think that the people who
want to do four year courses will all be able.I
don't see it as a simple separation of the
sheep and the goats.
F: What do you think about the
governments proposals for two year
degree courses?
A: I really havn't had a chance to look at that
at all. My initial reaction is pretty negative.
There are two year degree courses that I
have seen in the United States, but they are
really intended to be a halfway house on the
way to a proper degree. There is an intention
to pack into two years what would otherwise
go into three.
F:The green paper was very critical of
student unions. It criticised them for
ultra-vires expenditure and failing in
their duty to ensure freedom of speach.
What do you think is the role of student
unions?
A: I didn't really participate in Union
activities when I was a student, and I havn't
really had much contact with Union matters
at University College either, have to confess
that engineers on the whole tend to be
apathetic, and don't participate as much as I
feel they should. My general views on
student unions is that they should flourish.
When you talk about the freedom of speech,
are you talking about the issue that has
arisen at other universities of whether unions
should give speaking rights to certain
unfavoured politicians?
F: Yes.
A: I think that's to be deprecated. I feel that
any university society has a right to invite
whoever they want, and having invited them
they should be welcome and listened to; if
not with respect, at least with attention.
F: Students at IC are very concerned
about the teaching standards in certain
departments. Will you support the
present Rector's drive to improve
teaching standards?
A: Obviously I can't comment on teaching
standards at IC I can't even comment on
teaching standards at University College,
but I have a passionate interest in teaching
standards in my department. It is a fiendishly
complex issue. Promotion in universities has
been traditionally been based primarily on
reasearch and not on teaching. The
arguments in favour of continuing to do this
are really quite faulty. However there is one
thing that one has to admit and that is that it
is quite possibly to judge research
performance, whereas it is fiendishly difficult
to judge teaching performance.
Nevertheless I think it should be attempted.
I've had one minor impact on the promotion
system at University College during the time
that I was Dean, and that relates to the
criteria adopted when promoting to a senior
lectureship. Very roughly the criterion
adopted is that for promotion to readership,
two-thirds on one's performance isjudged on
research and one-third on teaching and
other administrative duties. In the case of
promotion to Senior Lecturer the
proportions are reversed. I have always
emphasised that, even for a Reader, you
should regard these assesments as
multiplicative. In other words, if someone
scores nought for teaching ability, then it
should not be possible to promote him or her
to a Readership; however good they are as a
researcher, and vice-versa. However good
one is as a teacher, part of one's life at
university must involve research, and so
some indication that these people have
contributed to research also seems essential".
One of the problems in assesing teaching is
that the people who seem to know about it
tend to be ther person's immediate collegues
in his or her own department. I feel that one
ought to seek more references from senior
members of a department when promoting
junior members of that department, in order
to make a better attempt at assessing
teaching teaching. This is ending up as a
speech but I do feel very strongly about this.
There is one more thing that I've tried in my
own lectures at times and which is almost
universal in some American universities
including Stanford, and that is where the
lecturer hands out at the end of the course, a
questionaire in which the students are asked
to assess all aspects aspects of that
particular course; the subject matter, the
speed, the degree of stimulation or boredom
and so on. I feel that it is a rather good
discipline for everyone to subject themselves
to, although I would not be in favour of
utilising this information or making it
available to any third parties. I feel that it's a
very good feedback mechanism for the
lecturer himself.
F: Many departments have already
adopted similar schemes.
Another problem that many students
find is that of finding accommodation.
College is considering building a new
hall. It may use the profits from the sale
of the gravel at the Harlington sports
ground to pay for it. Do you see this as a
solution? Do you see accommodation as
one of your main problems?
A: Yes absolutely. We regard it as a very
major issue at University College. It must
count as one of the key issues for any
acedemic institutution in London. Obviously
I can't comment at this stage on the
disposition of available resources.
F: The union are very worried about the
College's attitude to overseas students.
They believe that the College present an
unfair view of London when recruiting
these students. They also believe that
these students are sometimes treated
differently from home students and as a
result ghettos are created. What policy
do you think the college should adopt
towards overseas students?
A: I think I would like to duck the details of
that question because it is very difficult to
comment from the outside. I think one of the
great things about the University of London,
since its inception, has been that there has
always been a high percentage of people
from all parts of the world. I agree that with
you that it is highly undesirable that overseas
students feel that they can only talk to each
other, and do not spread through the
community. To give you one example, we
have five Chinese scholars studying in the
Electrical Engineering Department here at
University College. I have made it an
absolute rule that they can never share an
office together, for this reason.
F: Another thing is that the Union is
worried about access by the President of
IC Union to the Rector. Do you feel that
the President is an important person.
A: I do think that the President is important
and I do not believe that access to me will be
a problem, provided that people are
prepared to see me at what might be called
unsocial hours.
F: IC almost regards itself as a
university, and often ignores the rest of
the University of London. Do you see
this changing?
A: Again, I would prefer to judge that when
I'm on the spot, but I suppose the fact that
Lord Flowers will now be the Vice
Chancellor of the University might help to
strengthen links.
F: Finally, have you got anything that
you are very keen to change at Imperial?
A: I think that I'm going to duck that one too.
I think having a. new doctor come in and
immediately start prescribing remedies
would be a big mistake.
F: Thank you very much, Professor Ash.
A: Thank you.
4 Wednesday 26 June 1985 FELIX

