20 felix Friday 12 June 2009 21
Friday 12 June 2009 felix
W
hen did they all
grow up? Doesn’t
it seem like only
yesterday that all
the new eateries
sprouting up were colourful places
crowded with murals and complicated
light fittings, their fancy names dis-
played in even fancier typefaces? Their
crockery was angular, glass, slate or
crackle-glazed ceramic, glasses were
faceted and jewel-toned, chintzy tea-
cups were perched on artfully mis-
matched gilded saucers. Paintings and
tessellated photographs adorned walls,
staff wore quirky uniforms and, well,
the food was equally as busy. Fusion
was in fashion and, though spectacu-
lar when done well, haphazard confu-
sion was commonplace, crowding the
menus like lacquered découpage on
the tabletops.
Thank goodness then, that a gen-
tle, nostalgic and very, very serious
revolution has been taking place in
London. Food grew up. Food is no
longer fancy, overly sophisticated or
unpronounceable, but just grown up,
with a distinguished silver streak in
its well-groomed hair. Just like a need
for roomy vehicles and an unavoid-
able fondness for jazz, the newly old-
fashioned grown up menu is serious,
simple and really quite ordinary. Col-
oured walls have faded to glossy white
tiles; the plates (as everyone inevitably
does) have grown rounder and whiter;
the cappuccino froth melted away
to inky filter coffees once more and
brunch woke up a little earlier and be-
came breakfast again (though in some
places, it lingers until dinner). Over
the past couple of years, a number of
unassuming sans-serif bakeries and
restaurants have sprung up all over
the city, all white tiles, red type and no
miso black cod or sesame macaroons,
where the food’s title is all you’ll find
on your plate. This new fraternity of
establishments includes Canteen, St
John, Gail’s, Peyton & Byrne, Melrose
& Morgan and most recently, Albion,
a self-proclaimed caff on the ground
floor of Terence Conran’s new hotel
venture, The Boundary, sandwiched
between an upscale restaurant in the
basement and a roof-top bar and grill
upstairs. The former Victorian indus-
trial building is tucked away in an un-
likely – but growing ever more likely
– lane near Shoreditch High Street,
a few metres from its antithesis, the
complicated taxidermy-adorned Les
Trois Garçons, and cheekily close to
members-only colossus Shoreditch
House.
In its own words, Albion serves
“typical British caff food, noth-
ing challenging or complicated, just
straightforward hearty ingredients
and recipes.” This pretty much sums
it up, and even though “caff” is per-
haps a term more often conjuring up
Even the Bard would be proud of this Albion
Marta Bobić finds out what sets Albion apart from the rest of a million trendy East London eateries
Albion Caffe HHHH
2-4 Boundary Street, Shoreditch,
London E2 7DD
www.twitter.com/albionsoven
Best bits: The cakes and breads
are divine
Worst bits: Absolutely no way to
reserve a table
Price: Very reasonable
greasy spoons and Eastenders, Albion
has taken these simple and classic
often-craved dishes and made them a
little more presentable for its public,
without needlessly making them more
sophisticated (read: complicated) ei-
ther. The menu is British, nostalgic,
comforting and – rather cheeringly
– not at all health conscious, though
unlike standard caff food, Albion’s fare
is thankfully not swimming in grease.
Food is served from 8am to midnight
every day, with breakfast stretching all
day and no main course costing more
than £10. There is a shop at the front
of the restaurant stacked with not-
exactly-cheap groceries, though their
well thought out selection is uplifting
and resolutely British. Its refrigerated
shelves are filled with goods to cheer
anyone up halfway through a slow
work day, especially the enormous
door-wedge sandwiches on fresh mat-
tress-thick bread filled with corona-
tion chicken or smoked ham and egg.
The most attractive feature of Al-
bion is without a doubt the vast selec-
tion of reasonably priced (dare I say
cheap?) breads and cakes on display.
I defy any visitor to walk away with-
out sampling one of the treats on offer,
such as classic Victoria sponge cake,
bakewell tart, battenburg, swiss roll or
the perennial favourite, sticky, chewy
(50p!) flapjacks, solely responsible for
the golden syrup tins housing Sheffield
steel cutlery on each table. The bread
and cakes are unbelievably fresh, and
this is something they are ostensibly
proud of: Albion’s oven has a Twitter
account. Yes, really. Occasional tweets
announce which variety of delicious
hot baked goodness has recently es-
caped the oven (though thanks to Al-
bion’s no reservations policy, it would
perhaps be more useful if their mâitre
d’ could announce available tables).
The dining room is a tall, white
space with large windows on one side
and an open kitchen on the other, fill-
ing the room with a dizzying aroma of
freshly-baked everything. Spartan in-
dustrial light fittings hang above neat,
bare wooden tables surrounded by
red-seated wooden chairs more than
slightly resembling wartime school
chairs. Albion has a subtle sense of
humour – grown up, of course – to it,
albeit a very Conran-esque deliberate
one; Brown Betty teapots are dressed
in knitted tea cosies, oak bar stools are
topped with former tractor seats and
hot beverages are served in white chi-
na builders’ mugs - Conran for Royal
Doulton, what else?
Breakfast is, amongst other things,
a kipper, alone and uncluttered with
only half a lemon and butter for com-
pany, a breakfast bap of unbeliev-
ably tasty, chewy brown bread filled
with runny-yolk fried egg and herby
sausages, or simply scrambled duck
eggs. Dinner is fragrant kedgeree,
hearty Irish stew, golden-crusted
pies, chunky rarebit and salty, crackly
roasts. Dessert is what everyone re-
members fondly from school: steam-
ing bread and butter puddings, fruit
crumbles, glossy apple pie and gener-
ally anything that welcomes a flood of
hot custard.
Hopefully, this serious and hon-
est revolution will catch on and put a
smile on the face of hungry London;
within the tiled walls of these new
places, simplicity and quality is forcing
a comeback. Not to mention that the
inner child in all of us is being subtly
indulged; how can even the most se-
rious not giggle when faced with jelly
and ice cream or battenburg?
The restaurant is inviting for small parties as well as relatively large groups for great, but relaxed meals
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Food
Take a Given Bloke or Bird. Suppose
this Given Bloke or Bird were not a
staunch member of the Campaign
for Real Ale (Camra). Then, on being
asked his/her opinion on real ale (s)he
might say something like this:
Real ale? Urm. Flat. Warm. Dank.
Probably has some Middle Earth
name like ‘Hobgoblin’. Drunk by old,
fat, bearded, smelly men with bits of
pork scratchings stuck in their pubes.
Served in some vile pub which gives
life to a horrific dystopian reimagining
of normal social interaction. You know,
hell, pitchforks, evil and so forth. The
drinks industry and the Campaign
for Real Ale are well aware of the im-
pression that some people entertain
of ‘real ale’ (a phrase of Camra’s own
coinage). Part of the reason for the
inception of Camra back in 1971 was
to change this sort of opinion; in that
respect it was remarkably successful
and it provides an excellent case study
for where getting-off-your-arse-and-
doing-something-about-it is a genu-
inely effective philosophy. Back in the
seventies, real ale was an animal on the
brink of extinction, as lagers (which
at the time had a reputation as a girlís
drink) swept through the country and
became the drink de la mode of men
as well as of women. Lager’s popular-
ity was maintained by virtue of its tast-
ing of little and its being chilled down
to the point where it tastes of nothing
at all, thus offending no-one. That it
is also carbonated, I am sure must be
comforting to those brought up on a
diet of Pepsi or Coca Cola. Real ale’s
threatened existence could not be en-
tirely blamed on consumers, though.
The so-called ‘keg beer’ alternatives to
lager being offered by the huge brewer-
ies at the time (who had Britain’s pubs
in a half-nelson), were typically rancid
and disgusting. To put it into context,
John Smith’s was counted as one of
the better examples in a raft of sewage
which included Watney’s Red Label
and various upsetting offerings from
a company called Whitbread. Real ale
was being tarred with the same brush.
So Camra began. It campaigned so vo-
ciferously and ubiquitously that it ef-
fectively destroyed the keg beer indus-
try and put real ale (back) into pubs up
and down the country.
What it is, why it is so much better
than lager and why we should all de-
velop a taste for it is the subject of the
rest of this article. I should start with
a definition: ‘Real ale [as defined by
Camra] is a beer brewed from tradi-
tional ingredients (malted barley, hops,
water and yeast), matured by second-
ary fermentation in the container
from which it is dispensed, and served
without the use of extraneous carbon
dioxide.’ Although it is most recognis-
able as the liquid which pours out of
one of the hand pulled pumps at the
bar, notice that the definition permits
bottle-conditioned beer to be counted
as real ale. So much for the ‘what it is’.
These are the reasons it is good: tradi-
tion, typicity, intensity and complexity
of flavour, variety.
I’ll elaborate on these in no particular
order. Firstly, lagers all taste the same.
The people that claim to hate one or
other lager and like others are delud-
ing themselves. If you don’t believe me,
get half pints of three or four lagers of
different types, mix them about and
try to work out which one it is that you
think you hate. Without heavily pro-
moted labels to guide you, you’ll soon
find that they taste bewilderingly simi-
lar. Certainly there is not enough of a
difference to claim that you hate Stella,
for instance, which many people say
they do. On the other hand, if you gave
me a few popular real ales to identify,
chances are I could tell you precisely
which one was which. I don’t claim this
as some super-power. It only requires
that you spend a bit of time thinking
about what you’re drinking and the
differences become crystal clear. This
is essentially the meaning of ‘typicity’.
It is a fairly new word which has been
borrowed from the French typicitè by
the wine industry. It is broadly iden-
tifiable with the word ‘recognisability’.
Real ales, as opposed to lagers, have
recognisable flavours, which mean that
they fall into broad categories like Por-
ter, Stout, Mild, Summer Ale, Best Bit-
ter and so forth. Within that category
individual beers have dramatically dif-
ferent personalities, which are the re-
sult of choices made about ingredients
and production methods, including
the water used. (You wouldn’t believe
how much difference changing the
yeast has, for example.)
Historically, Anglo-Saxons are not
great at preserving traditions, seeming
to prefer the latest thing from abroad.
The French and Italians on the other
hand have had various appellation
systems in place to preserve traditions
for centuries. It was only last year that
Melton Mowbray pork pies and Ched-
dar cheese got recognised by the EU.
Admittedly not all traditions are good,
but provided they are not doing any-
one any harm, there’s much more to
be lost by not maintaining a medio-
cre one. Otherwise it is one possible
experience which disappears from
the menu forever. What I’m saying
of course is simply that variety is the
spice of life. Britain is the only country
which makes a substantial amount of
real ale and I would argue that it is far
from a mediocre drink. So what is to be
our national (alcoholic) drink? Fosters?
Pinot Grigio? Vodka and coke? Or real
ale?
It shouldn’t even be necessary to
ask the question, to my mind. So why
should real ale be in constant need of
saving? There is a quality issue. The
members of Imperial College do very
well in ploughing though a lot of naff
beer from the Union. Put it in one of
those awful plastic skiffs and I could
think of many places I’d rather be.
The Union isn’t atypical though. Many
landlords simply do not have the skills
necessary to keep beer properly. With-
out going into the details, believe me
that there are number of steps which
must be followed scrupulously to gen-
erate a good pint. What results is a
feedback system. If everyone loved real
ale, they would go where it was good,
complain where it was bad and places
would have to up their games to pro-
vide the punters with what they want-
ed rather than just filling pint glasses
with fizzy piss. Then people would
drink more of it because it was better,
introduce their friends to it etc. etc.
Women. There are several reasons
why women don’t, as a rule, tend to
flock to real ale. Chronic perception
of it as a man’s drink is important, of
course, but even excluding that, there
are some fundamental reasons why
real ale is unlikely to appeal to women.
One is the bitterness. A major com-
ponent in beer is the hops which add
bitterness and aroma in equal propor-
tion. Women tend, biologically, to be
more sensitive to bitterness and rarely
is there any sweetness in a real ale to
counteract this. Another issue is vol-
ume. A pint, put in a global context,
is quite a daunting amount of alcohol
to have to imbibe. 330ml is the usual
size of a bottle. On the continent, one
would expect 500ml or less, rather
than the whole 568ml. I contend that
it’s a significant difference. A pint is
an inelegant amount of liquid in an
inelegant container. A wine glass is
tulip shaped: a pint glass is about the
same size and shape as a full air-sick
bag. So a glass of wine becomes a ro-
mantic present, a pint of beer merely
something to be disposed of. Half pint
glasses are hardly more elegant. (Note
though that the Belgians have solved
this problem already.) Whatever the
reasons for the lack of female interest
in beer, the industry goes out of its way
to find or produce pictures of attrac-
tive women drinking pints. As such,
this is hardly a surprising gambit--it is
used to promote every product from
cars to contact lens cleaning solution.
As an example, the pictures above/
opposite/below were used as part of a
poster campaign run by Camra a cou-
ple of years ago, promoting Real Ale
as an 100% NaturAle drink (get it?). In
spite of these efforts though, women
have been elusive and wine remains
the drink of choice.
One last reason that real ale is less
popular than it should be is its lack
of a top end. Again, wine has a hugely
glamorous image. Rappers routinely
refer to drinking Roederer’s ‘Cristal’
champagne. Top Bordeaux sells for
about £10k for a case of a dozen bot-
tles. It would be mad to think that none
of that trickles down to Jacob’s Creek.
So there are certain things which
need changing and a lot of work left
to be done by Camra and other lovers
of real ale, but it’s hardly all doom and
gloom. Nary a week goes by without
some beer festival taking place some-
where in the UK and giving anyone in
the area chance to taste some fantas-
tically different brews running all the
way from the lemony tang of Timothy
Taylor’s Landlord or Dark Star’s Hop-
head, though the mellow caramelly
taste of London Pride or Harvery’s
Sussex Bitter through to the dark ba-
cony mouthful of Kelham Island’s
Smoked Porter or the sumptuous St
Peter’s Honey Porter. These induvidual
interesting drinks are out there, they’re
relatively cheap and they aren’t avail-
able outside this sceptred isle.
David Stewart is on the commit-
tee of the ‘RSM Real Ale Sock’.
The society will be attending
the Great British Beer Festival at
Earl’s Court, 4-8th August 2009
and requests your company.
Please email realale@imperial.
ac.uk for details.
How to survive the summer on real ale
David Stewart

