4 felix Friday 12 June 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
With only two weeks to go until the
end of term and a mass move-out of
Halls across Imperial, many of you will
be clearing up and clearing out belong-
ings accumulated over the last nine
months. Plenty of people will be going
through their stuff wondering what
they were thinking when they bought
a particularly interesting but useless
item. How much of your stuff will you
realistically take back with you over the
summer?
An increasing amount of re-usable
items are being sent to landfill in the
UK, even those in good condition
which can be re-used by others. In
universities and in particular in halls
of residence, a waste peak occurs dur-
ing move-out at the end-of-term, when
students want to get rid of anything
they cannot or do not want to take
home with them.
How to sensibly dispose of the waste
generated from move-out weekend
is a real issue for the accommodation
teams who often need to clear rooms
and prepare them for summer vaca-
tion guests on the same weekend, and
in some cases, the same day as the stu-
dents move out.
This year, Imperial’s Accommoda-
tion Services and Facilities Manage-
ment departments have joined forces
with re-use organisation, CRISP, in
an effort to minimise waste during
moving-out weekend. CRISP provide
tools for universities to facilitate a re-
use service which allows students to
donate any unwanted items for re-use
as they move out of halls. Re-using un-
wanted goods is far better for the en-
vironment than recycling as it reduces
the use of natural resources.
The scheme will be running for the
last two weeks of term and each Col-
lege owned hall will have a designated
space which will be used as a donation
drop-point. Items will need to be sort-
ed into different categories and then
placed in the bins provided. You can
donate all sorts of things such as:
• clothes and shoes
• bedding and bed linen
• unopened non-perishable food
items, e.g. canned goods
• kitchen items such as cutlery,
plates, pots and pans
• electricals like lamps, computers
and printers
• CDs, DVDs and books
• stationery – folders, pens, pencils
etc
Leena Barrett
Commercial Services
Are you moving out of
halls? Re-use don’t waste
• furniture
• you can also donate any mixed pa-
per for recycling
CRISP will collect all donations
and redistribute to reuse outlets such
as charity shops, hospitals, markets,
councils, homeless shelters and many
others. Last year CRISP worked with
38 university halls providing accom-
modation to 8962 students from over
14 different universities located in 10
inner London boroughs. Over the
summer period in 2008, the project
collected 23.98 tonnes of unwanted
goods and materials for reuse – the
equivalent of 0.69 tonnes per hall.
If you’ll be moving out of halls and
have items to donate, you’ll find details
of your hall’s drop-point around your
hall or you can ask your Hall Supervi-
sor or Warden for more information.
Two men found guilty of the
murder of UROP students
Jovan Nedić
Editor-in-Chief
After six weeks, the trial of Dano Son-
nex and Nigel Farmer at the Old Bailey
has come to an end, with both men be-
ing convicted of murdering two French
exchange-students studying at Impe-
rial College. Dano Sonnex, 23, must
serve a minimum sentence of 40-years
in prison whilst Nigel Farmer, 33, must
serve 35 years.
The trial has, however, brought to
light the failings of the Crown Prose-
cution Service and the Probation Serv-
ice after it was found that Mr Sonnex
had committed multiple offenses since
he was released in February 8th 2008.
At the age of 17 he was sentenced to
8 years in jail after a string of armed
robberies and in 2004 he admitted to
a prison doctor that he feared that he
might kill in the future, but this in-
formation was never passed on to the
prison service. After only a few days of
his release in February 2008, Mr Son-
nex had allegedly tied up a pregnant
woman and her boyfriend, however,
his probation officer only gave him a
verbal warning instead of sending him
back to jail.
An order was given to the police to
arrest Mr Sonnex on the 13th June
2008, however, the police didn’t actu-
ally visit his house until 14:00 on 29th
June after there was some confusion as
to which police force would handle the
arrest. By the time the police actually
got to his house, the bodies of Laurent
Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez had been
discovered and it took 11 days for the
police to arrest Mr Sonnex after Mr
Farmer handed himself in at Lewisham
police station.
These failings have angered the pub-
lic and as a result David Scott, head of
the London Probation Service, has re-
signed and Justice Secretary Jack Straw
has made a personal apology to the vic-
tims’ families.
Mr Straw said of the criticism, “there
is nothing that anyone can do to bring
these entirely innocent French stu-
dents, these sons, back to life. But what
we have to do is learn the lessons, and
these lessons have been pursued ever
since that I learnt about these failures
at the end of last year.”
Dano Sonnex (left) and Nigel Farmer (right) were convicted of murder

