Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 12 June 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović & Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 12 June 2009 felix
Ape rights are no laughing matter
“I had to laugh a lot of times, the care-
takers laughed many times too, and
of course the apes,” recalls Dr Marina
Davila-Ross. The source of all this
merriment? A rather unusual experi-
ment that Dr Ross, a primatologist
from the University of Portsmouth,
conducted recently – tickling baby
apes to see if they laugh. The answer, it
turns out, is yes; they do. Humans have
often thought that laughter made us
special, but the joke’s on us – laughter
is not just a human thing.
As well as finding out that great
apes do laugh, Dr Ross listened to the
sounds they make. She compared the
noises made by tickled baby chimps,
orang-utans, bonobos, gorillas and
humans, and mapped the results onto
an ‘evolutionary tree’ of laughter. The
tree shows that our closest laughing-
cousins are bonobos and chimpanzees
– which given the sounds they make,
may or may not be a good thing!
Dr Ross explains that several previ-
ous studies “have indicated that laugh-
ter is deeply rooted in human biology”,
so she expected to find something
when she tickled the apes, but “the
acoustic findings… were unexpected”.
No one thought apes might laugh like
us. But does this similarity matter?
The Danish humorist Victor Borge
once said that “Laughter is the shortest
distance between two people.” If apes
Abigail Orr
Although very well-documented, the
‘Focus’ on green energies issued in the
last I, Science does forget the most effi-
cient, cheapest and “greenest” energy:
the one we do not consume.
Lately, global measures have shown
that climate change amplitude widely
and systematically overpasses the sce-
narios simulated a few years ago. Since
the beginning of the year, climatolo-
gists and personalities (Al Gore, Nico-
las Stern...) warn that the increase in
global temperature is very likely to be
around +2C in 2050 while all the poli-
cies and negotiations aim to reach +2C
no sooner than 2100.
This issue is capital for the Copen-
hagen Summit in December (where
all the nations will set the post-Kyoto
rules for the next decades).
Consequences are countless and
priceless: millions or billions of dead
caused by flooding, droughts, storms,
lack of water and food, animal and
vegetal disparition or proliferation...
resulting in massive migrations, dicta-
torships, wars... and it starts within the
next few decades. We are not exempt-
ed – democracy, for example, may
Green energies: hopes, reality and journalism
flicker. This is the story of our lives and
the only question is how bad it will be.
In order to cope with it, “green ener-
gies” are of course needed, they must
play a major role and great efforts must
be put towards them. The I, Science re-
port gives a whole range of interesting
projects and it shows that a lot is pos-
sible to do.
For us, engineers and scientists,
these projects are all very exciting, they
offer a large place to technology and
some are somehow the “flying cars” of
our generation. But, we have to keep
in mind the objective: reducing our
impact on the environment as quickly
and deeply as possible. Each year, each
month, each day is precious to curve
the global warming and attenuate its
future repercussions.
Waiting five or ten years for (hypo-
thetical) revolutionary energies is too
long; 80% of world’s electricity comes
from coal and it will take years to
switch from fossil to renewable ener-
gies once we got them. We don’t have
that time.
Moreover, until now every single
technological progress has been used
to consume more in the end: our en-
gines get a few percent more efficient
each year but we drive heavier cars
farther and faster; we get miniaturised
electronics but bigger phones with
more functions. It is really unfortunate
but this cannot hold, and it must be
said.
As scientists, it is our duty to ex-
plain to the world the dangers of global
warming and the possible solutions.
And scientific journalists have to lead
this movement. It would not be hon-
est to imply that energy from waves
will save us. It will if we learn how to
drive the same distance, or less, with
our more efficient cars. It will if it is a
way to reduce the overall CO2 emis-
sions, not just the CO2 per kilome-
tre. Besides, cutting our emissions by
10% by changing some behaviours and
customs would be infinitely easier and
more efficient than doing so by waiting
for renewable sources. We should al-
ways remember that every little green
Watt is the consequence of years and
millions spent in research.
In articles like the one issued in I,
Science, the MWs produced by some
wind or tidal turbines should always
be compared to the 16,000,000 MW,
exponentially increasing, consumed in
the world each second.
Technology will not provide a mira-
cle solution on its own. It is a gloomy
mathematical fact and it is a lie to sug-
gest such a thing. Science will help but
now the issue is political (how do we
live our lives). This is why Copenhagen
Summit in December is probably one
of the key events of this century, be
aware of what is decided there.
Green energies are a bright hope for
mankind but waiting for them we must
cut consumption. And we, engineers
and scientists, must say it loud to the
world.
Does their laughter actually mean anything, or is it just monkey
business?
can laugh too, does that shorten the
distance between us and them?
Dr Ross describes “the tickling play
with the apes” as “not all that differ-
ent than tickling play with a child.” We
know that children enjoy being tickled,
and this seems to suggest that apes en-
joy it too. This isn’t the first research to
show that apes and humans have simi-
larities: previous research has shown
that apes can recognise themselves in a
mirror and even learn simple sign lan-
guage. Perhaps they are more human
than we realised.
These similarities lead some people
to ask questions about whether apes
deserve some of the same rights as
us… Dr Ross certainly thinks that apes
should have rights. “Apes seem to have
various emotions humans have,” she
says, “why should they not have the
right to life and freedom from torture?”
Whether apes deserve rights has
been tickling our consciences for some
time now. For example, in the UK it has
been made illegal to use great apes in
animal experiments, and Spain looks
set to grant them the rights to life and
liberty soon. Many scientists and phi-
losophers are in support of this move-
ment, including Richard Dawkins and
Peter Singer, who are involved in the
Great Ape Project. This is a group
which campaigns to extend some hu-
man rights to great apes.
The philosopher Roger Scruton,
however, is opposed. He doesn’t think
that ape laughter means anything.
“When you are tickled you laugh,
but not about something, and the
orang-utan being tickled is not in fact
amused,” he states. Roger Scruton is
Research Professor at the Institute for
the Psychological Sciences and has
written a book entitled Animal Rights
and Wrongs. He accuses the animal
rights crowd of anthropomorphising
animals. “You can trace back a lot of
things to points on the evolutionary
tree where we branched one way, and
other species another,” he continues.
“That doesn’t entitle you to describe
the mental and moral capacities of
those other species in the terms you
would use to describe us.”
He has written against animal rights
before, and this latest research has not
affected his opinion. Yes, some animals
may laugh when tickled, but “the prin-
cipal point is whether other animals
are capable of sorting out their rela-
tions by means of the concepts of right
and obligation, as we do. If not, what
does that mean?” he asks.
The question is an interesting one.
The more we find out about the great
apes, the more we seem to find our-
selves reflected in them, but is it all
just a mirage? Dr Ross admits that this
research doesn’t mean that apes have
a sense of humour, and we have no
idea what is really going through their
minds. But then, do we ever know what
is going through someone else’s mind?
The government has a long-term goal
to reduce carbon emissions by 80
per cent by 2050. Homes account for
around 27 per cent of the UK’s carbon
emissions, and around 10 per cent of
global CO2 emissions are from the
cement industry. It is clear that if we
want to come anywhere near the tar-
get, we need to change the way we
build our homes.
At present most UK homes are built
from cement but we may soon see
a revival of a green ancient building
technique that could help us reach the
2050 target, thanks to recent research
from Durham University. Parts of the
Great Wall of China and the Alhambra
at Granada in Spain were built using
rammed earth, which is long-lasting
and sustainable. Rammed earth is a
manufactured material made up of
sand, gravel and clay which is mois-
tened and then compacted between
forms to build walls. The Durham re-
searchers have discovered that it is the
moisture that gives rammed earth its
strength and longevity. The rammed
earth technique is already championed
by a small number of specialist con-
structors in the UK, including Row-
land Keable from Ram Cast CIC, who
has over 20 years experience building
rammed earth structures across Africa
and the UK. It is hoped that the Dur-
ham findings will help the technique
to become a more mainstream build-
ing method.
The team that made the discovery is
headed by Dr Charles Augarde, who
says: “We know that rammed earth can
stand the test of time but the source of
its strength has not been understood
properly to date.” The scientists found
that the strength of rammed earth
was, at least in part, due to the small
amount of water present. If the water
content in the earth is low, suction is
created between soil particles.
The work could have implications
for the future design of buildings us-
ing rammed earth as the link between
strength and water content becomes
clearer. This is good news for the
rammed earth community who can
now look to develop what Dr Au-
garde calls a “recipe” for constructing
strong buildings based on a suitable
ratio of earth to water. “Our next job
is to devise a way of writing down the
rules.” With simple rules, perhaps the
rammed earth method will be taken up
by mainstream building companies.
Rowland Keable explains that
rammed earth has a number of green
credentials. It’s cheap and sustainable,
materials can be sourced locally and,
unlike cement, its construction does
not give off CO2 emissions. Dr Au-
garde mentions another benefit: “With
rammed earth buildings, the walls act
as sinks of heat. On a hot day they ab-
sorb heat and in the cool evenings they
release it back into the building.” This
is useful because “people won’t need
air conditioning.”
So, will the rammed earth take off
in Britain? Keable hopes it might: “A
lot more people in the industry have
now heard of the term. 10 years ago,
no-one had even heard of it. Interest is
growing but everything takes time.” Dr
Augarde is more reserved: “Builders
don’t have a great deal of confidence
in the method. It is a viable method.
The trouble is the current uncertainty
about its long-term behaviour.” He be-
lieves that we will see rammed earth
becoming more common as a building
technique in the “next 10 to 15 years”.
Keable sums up the situation nicely: “I
think that there is a normal bell curve
of acceptability. At the start of the
curve there are us nutters, then there’s
a wave of early adopters. The backside
of the bell are the normal, conservative
people and at the back-end are those
who will have a brick house come what
may.”
But is it the low cost or the green
credentials that will ultimately sell
rammed earth to the public and the
building industry? Dr Augarde goes
for green: “At the moment it’s the green
box they’re ticking. Big companies are
thinking about it.” Keable agrees: “10
years ago, if you mentioned climate
change you’d be given a sceptical look.
Now, there’s not even a question about
its importance.”
That is good news for our climate
and good news for the government
too.
Louisa Garnier
Revival of an ancient building technique
could help save our planet
The small island of Principe off the
coast of Africa is famous for two
things: cocoa plantations, and a sci-
entific revolution. Some people enjoy
the chocolate, but the whole world has
been transformed by the revolution.
In the summer of 1919 on this small,
lush, tropical island, Arthur Eddington
took photos to back up Einstein’s now
famous theory of relativity. The pho-
tos of a solar eclipse showed that light
from stars bent towards the sun due
to the pull of gravity. Eddington’s pic-
tures “propelled Einstein into the lime-
light” and made an ‘inarguable’ impact
on the world we live in, according to
Marek Kukula. Marek is the public as-
tronomer from the Greenwich Royal
Observatory where Eddington worked
100 years ago.
“The theory of special relativity is so
weird and counter-intuitive,” explains
Marek that, “concrete evidence for it
must have been amazing at the time:
mind blowing!” In fact, “it still is!”
90 years on, scientists are still using
telescopes to use and test Einstein’s
legendary equation, E=MC2. The lat-
est project to do so is the British super-
telescope network, ‘e-MERLIN’. A far
cry from Eddington’s basic equipment,
these radio-telescopes represent a ma-
jor step forward in ‘scope sensitivity’.
Astronomers will be now able to study
areas of our universe we have not yet
been able to see in detail.
The first signals were recently re-
ceived by e-MERLIN and,
“When e-MERLIN comes fully on
line later next year,” says Tom Muxlow,
one of the lead scientists in the project,
“we intend to be able to trace out the
basic star-formation history of the
Universe.”
“These observations will again test
Einstein’s General Theory of Relativ-
ity” he explains, since they hope to de-
tect “central images” at the heart of star
forming galaxies that are “predicted by
Einstein’s theory” but with previous
technology, we haven’t been able to
observe.
“We hope to be able to not only test
relativity but also understand more
about how the universe began.”
If, though, Eddington’s photos pro-
vided concrete evidence almost 100
years ago, why are scientists still test-
ing the theory?
Although there are internet rumours
that Eddington may have fudged his
results, the continued observations are
mainly because many of the weirdest
consequences of relativity theory have
been impossible to test with our cur-
rent technology.
For example, the faster you travel,
predicts Einstein, the shorter you be-
come, and the heavier you get. This
would mean a 30m, 2000kg bus trav-
elling 99% the speed of light would
contract down to just over 4m long
and weigh an amazing 100503kg. You
would never, states the theory, be able
to travel as fast as light because at that
point you would become infinitely
heavy. Sci-fi writers and theoretical
physicists have been trying to get their
heads, and their storylines, around
that for years.
Unable to create a bus that will travel
at 99% light speed, scientists like Tom
Tropical islands, Sat Nav and atomic bombs:
How stargazing transforms society
Maria Hogan Muxlow and Marek Kukula have had
to leave such things to the sci-fi writ-
ers and content themselves with mak-
ing smaller observations like that of
Eddington. They look at the ways that
stars interact and compare their obser-
vations with the predictions made by
relativity theory.
Over the past 90 years, each time
there have been new technological
advances, scientists have taken the op-
portunity to both make use of relativity
and to test it out further. So far it has
passed each test with flying colours.
From the Apollo moon landings 40
years ago to the Hadron collider at
CERN this year, special relativity has
been foundational to much of mod-
ern day science. And, explains Marek,
whilst at extremes the theory throws
out weird and wonderful conclusions,
our everyday world would be a very
different place without it.
“All our nuclear technology is based
on E=MC2, including the nuclear
power we use for electricity as well
as atomic weapons” he highlighted,
“which have not only affected science
but also defined much of the politics of
the past century”.
“Even GPS on phones” he says
“works by tracking signals from satel-
lites. Those satellites are taking into ac-
count gravity and staying in orbit using
E=MC2”
So next time you switch on the light,
watch a sci-fi film or program a post-
code into your sat’ nav’, remember rela-
tivity. Don’t forget the story of Principe,
and Arthur Eddington, the stargazing
astronomer who provided concrete
evidence for a counter-intuitive, revo-
lutionary idea. Because, says Marek
Kukula, “without Einstein’s theory, this
technology would be impossible.”
Hugo Frederich
Did the recent I, science’s ‘Focus’ on green energy miss the point?
Are mud huts going to become standard buildings in the future?
It was a cloudy day in London, but
Dr Dave Clements’ spirits soared as
he gazed up at the sky. With the pop
of a champagne cork, his colleagues
around him erupted into songs of cel-
ebration. Clements and his team from
Imperial College, London, were just
some of the scientists around the globe
celebrating the launch of two spectac-
ular giant telescopes into space.
Over the last decade, astrophysicists
at Imperial College have been plan-
ning the launch of two European Space
Agency telescopes from the other side
of the pond in French Guiana. The
Imperial team have also developed an
instrument known as SPIRE (Spectral
and Photometric Imaging REceiver)
to tag along for the ride. SPIRE has
“essentially very sensitive thermom-
eters working at temperatures only a
few tenths of a degree above absolute
zero” (that’s a rather nippy -273°C).
“These detectors absorb light, heat up
a little, and the temperature change is
measured,” explains Clements. These
changes can be used to create an im-
age of space, using filters and other
instruments.
The telescopes, named after emi-
nent physicists Herschel and Planck,
are being thrust to a point in space
almost a million miles from our own
planet. This point, known amongst
the scientists as “L2”, is what Clements
describes as a “’balance point’ be-
tween the sun and the earth’s gravity,
so things are more stable at L2 than
elsewhere.”
Herschel and
Planck: A tale of
two telescopes in
the night sky
Jessica Hamzelou Planck, the smaller of the two, will
be observing the cosmic microwave
background of the universe (its glow),
what Clements refers to as “the dull
echo of the Big Bang.” Herschel, the
bigger of the two, and in fact the larg-
est space telescope ever, will use the
SPIRE technology to look at cosmic
infrared background, the “result of
energy produced by stars and the su-
permassive black holes” and reproc-
essed by space dust. This means that
the information, when it is beamed
back down to scientists on Earth, will
provide much more information than
regular optical telescopes. As Cle-
ments puts it, “optical telescopes, like
Hubble, only see half the story. That is
why we need instruments like SPIRE
and telescopes like Herschel, so that
we can see the whole story of the uni-
verse, not just some fraction biased by
our dependence on the optical.”
Herschel and its SPIRE technology
will also enable the teams to take a
peek at “dusty towers” where stars are
formed. These towers simply don’t
show up on the normal optical tel-
escopes. Clements is among the hun-
dreds of scientists who hope Herschel
can provide a “full understanding of
star formation.”
For now, the Imperial team, along
with their international colleagues,
will have to wait for the snapshots of
the universe, which will hopefully pro-
vide the missing pieces of the puzzle
of the birth of our galaxy. The earliest
information is expected in 2010, when
it may be time for Clements to order in
some more champagne!
If you look closely, I mean really closely, you will the felix team saying “Hi!”

