12 felix Friday 12 June 2009
All right, then, not really. Still, a lot of
people believe passionately in a whole
range of ‘alternative’ remedies for ail-
ments ranging from the common cold
through to HIV and cancer: the one
thing that all these remedies have in
common is that no-one’s ever been
ever to prove that any of them work.
Most of them are fairly harmless: take,
for example, the acupuncture adver-
tised in the sports pages of felix two
weeks ago [issue 1,433] – acupuncture
has been repeatedly shown to be noth-
ing more than a really theatrical pla-
cebo. While patients do report a better
response with acupuncture than with
placebo tablets, you’ll receive exactly
the same therapeutic benefit if your
mate stabs you with cocktail sticks
whilst reading from a Chinese takea-
way menu1. Draw your own conclu-
sions regarding the healing power of
Qi.
Still, the consequences of alternative
medicine and its surrounding culture
aren’t always so benign. Next week,
a conference in Holland will seek to
extend the practice of homeopathy in
the developing world, (mostly in sub-
Saharan Africa), to treat diseases such
as AIDS, malaria and cholera. This is
not a good idea. To protest about the
conference and to raise awareness of
the problems posed by the use of al-
ternative treatments in Africa, Sense
About Science have asked the WHO
to condemn the promotion of it and
other untested, unproven or outright
fraudulent miracle cures in vulnerable
areas of the world.
For those of you unfamiliar with the
practice, homeopathy involves taking
something poisonous, then repeatedly
diluting it (banging it with a Bible in
between), on the principle that ‘like
cures like’, and that dilutions make the
treatment stronger. So far, so counter-
intuitive, but the ridiculousness of the
whole affair only really become ap-
parent when you look at the numbers.
Here comes the science bit – stay with
me…
Avogadro’s number, the number of
molecules in one mole of a substance,
is 6.02 × 1023, so a really concentrated
solution might hold 1024 molecules of
solute per litre of water. This is lot of
zeroes, but then again it’s going to get
pretty dilute. Each of a homeopath’s se-
rial dilutions effectively involves a mil-
lilitre of solution being dropped into a
litre of water: a dilution of 103, or 1C in
homeopath-speak. Standard ‘strength’
(I use the term loosely) homeopath-
ic remedies are 30C, or 1090 times
weaker than the original – meaning
that you’d have to look through 1067
litres of water to have a fighting chance
of containing a single molecule of the
original mixture. In real terms, that’s
around the size of the solar system.
That’s going to take some drinking.
So, this final jar of extremely pure
water is sprinkled on some sugar pills,
and given to people to cure all ail-
ments. It’s not too big a deal if it’s for
something trivial: colds and headaches
will normally get better on their own,
hay-fever will vanish mysteriously
around September time – and it’s fair
to say that homeopathic treatments
will do you no direct harm whatsoever,
unless you’re lactose intolerant. On the
flip side, if you take them for a serious
condition and don’t take real drugs too,
you’re going to die. This is where the
problems arise.
The people selling these ‘remedies’
genuinely believe they work, and can’t
understand why nasty, sceptical people
like us won’t take them seriously. So
what if it doesn’t perform in clinical
trials? It must be because it’s too radi-
cal, too magical a treatment to be de-
tected by such mundane tools. The up-
shot of this is a general distrust of real
medicine: for example, Jeremy Sherr,
one of the speakers at next week’s con-
ference, is on record as saying that if
anti-retroviral drugs are given to Afri-
can children with AIDS “they will die
very quickly”. It is people pushing inef-
fective pills while denigrating proven
and effective treatments that pose the
real dangers.
While no-one doubts that those at-
tending the conference will be doing
so with the best of intentions, if they
proceed with their proposals then
many people could die unnecessarily
of diseases that are largely treatable, or
can at least be effectively managed by
proven, effective therapies. This isn’t
just about sneering at aging hippies;
it isn’t even about promoting science:
it’s about the lives of patients who have
not had the benefit of a science educa-
tion and are unable to distinguish be-
tween real medicine and magic beans
when a ‘doctor’ gives them pills.
Magic beans save the world?
Duncan Casey
We have a right not to be tortured. It is
a basic human right – one that stretch-
es across borders and cultures to soci-
eties that share few other values. The
condemnation of torture is a constant
where many other things are not.
But what do we mean by torture:
forcing prisoners to stand for hours
at a time? Playing them the same song
over and over for three days? Recreat-
ing the feeling of drowning? Under in-
ternational law, none of these are. They
are mentally, but not physically abu-
sive. And torture is defined as physical
abuse.
The public debate following Obama’s
release of the details of CIA interro-
gations in Guantanamo has centred
round whether or not these men-
tally abusive techniques are torturous
enough to make them illegal. And new
research published last week adds to
the mounting evidence that they are,
or at least that they should be.
Torture victims from former Yugo-
slavia countries and Turkey rated the
stressfulness of their overall torture ex-
perience. Those that experienced high
levels of cruel, inhuman and degrad-
ing treatment (CIDT), such as forced
stress positions or waterboarding, rat-
ed their overall torture experience as
more stressful than those who suffered
physical torture. CIDT victims also
showed higher rates of post-traumatic
stress disorder.
“There is a widely held misconcep-
tion of torture,” said Dr. Metin Basoglu,
author of the study. “It is not just some-
thing that happens in the course of the
interrogation process. It incorporates
all of the other circumstances in which
these events occur.”
Basoglu identifies 46 different con-
textual factors and it was the stress
these caused that participants were
asked to rate. “Think of it from the per-
spective of the person. They perceive
a wide range of stressors, even when
these stressors are not intentionally
inflicted upon the person for torture
purposes.”
It is not just that context is impor-
tant. It is more important than the
amount of physical pain. There is no
clear correlation between increased
physical pain and overall stress. But
the correlation between CIDT and
overall stress implies that psychologi-
cal context is influential.
Therefore, Basoglu argues, the defi-
nition of torture used in International
law should be modified. “It would be
based on four parameters” Intent,
purpose and removal of control are all
widely-accepted criteria for torture.
But Basoglu adds a fourth criterion:
“multiple stressors must be present.”
So, both combinations of physical
events and psychologically stressful
situations would constitute torture un-
der this definition.
Others argue this kind of interna-
tional redefinition is impractical and
unnecessary. “Changing international
law is not a relevant solution requires
a lot of energy and negotiations. And it
would take a long time to go through,”
said Professor Henry Shue, Professor
of International Relations at Oxford
University and author of an influential
writer on torture. Instead, he believes
that what needs to be changed is the
US legal definition of torture.
“Under the UN Convention law both
torture and what Basoglu calls CIDT
are illegal. So the distinction between
them does not much matter. But when
the US ratified the convention in 1988,
Reagan interpreted the convention as
only applying to physical abuse and
psychological conditions arising from
physical abuse.” This meaning is the
one that was incorporated into US
law in 2006 in the Military Commis-
sions Act. Shue emphasised that “this
is not something that started with Ri-
chard Cheney and George Bush”. But
under the recent Bush administration
it became law. And despite publishing
torture memos detailing interroga-
tion techniques used in Guantanamo,
Obama has done nothing to reverse
the distinction between the UN con-
vention and US law.
“I am disappointed with Obama’s
response on this issue. He has said he
wishes to abolish torture, but has not
addressed the definition of torture,”
Shue said. He explained that it still
leaves open the possibility of future
Guantanamo like interrogations.
In the face of research like Basolgu’s,
it is difficult to see how America can
keep using the narrow Reagan defini-
tion. Redefining torture might seem
like a pedantic effort in the case of
international law. But in the US, we
have already witnessed the horrifying
consequences of leaving a gap between
what is torturous and what is law.
Let’s hope the Obama administration
doesn’t let this linger – that they don’t
let it become their first mistake
Jessica Bland
The psychiatry of torture:
waterboarding and pain
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Become an Editor!
Do you have what it takes
to be the Science Editor at
felix newspaper? E-mail us
if you would like to edit this
section next year: science.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
All I said was that I was thirsty, this is just taking the piss really isn’t it?
imperialcollegeunion.org/ball
Summer Ball 2009
Imperial College London
Saturday 20 June
£40
ENTERTAINMENTS
£75
DINNER
ALSO...
JOIN US FOR A SUPERB 4-COURSE DINNER
• FUN FAIR
• BIG WHEEL
• DODGEMS
• AMAZING LIGHT SHOWS
• 3D PROJECTIONS
• FOOD VANS
• WANDERING ACTS
• FIREWORKS
• SURVIVORS’ PHOTO
• TONI & GUY HAIR SALON
• PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHER
DEADLINE FOR DINNER TICKETS
IS TUESDAY 16TH JUNE 2009 AT 5PM
Choosing a ticket that includes dinner is the best way to experience the Imperial College London
Summer Ball. We provide a superb 4 course meal, prepared by award winning chefs, in a spectacular
Queen’s Lawn setting. Our after-dinner speaker rounds off a memorable dinner before the partying
starts!
Dinner tickets also include a champagne reception starting at 17:30.

