16 felix Friday 21 November 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 12 June 2009
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 12 June 2009 felix
Arts
From silver screen to the West End
felix’s musicals connoisseur Lucy Harrold gives the frothy, frivolous Sister Act a tough review but is not left
disappointed
O
n paper Sister Act ap-
pears to be the faultless
musical – a strong story
based on a well-loved
film, a score by a multi-
Tony and Oscar-winning composer, a
cast including stage and screen legends
and a talented “hot young thing” and
plenty of backing by famous producer
Whoopi Goldberg. After all, many mu-
sicals have been successful with much
less than this and I expect Sister Act
will follow suit, yet even with these
components well executed the musical
felt empty as if there was a vital ingre-
dient missing.
For those of you who have never
spent a Christmas in front of Brit-
ish television, Sister Act the Musi-
cal is based on the film of the same
name. Deloris, a lounge singer played
by Whoopi Goldberg is placed under
witness protection in a nunnery. Hi-
larious hi-jinks ensue as Deloris revo-
lutionises the church choir and learns
all sorts of morals that come with this
warm fuzzy type of family film. The
musical has developed the gangster
storyline further adding three stooge-
type sidekicks for Deloris’s beau Shank
(the striking similarity to Shaft is not
a coincidence). There is also now a
love interest for Deloris, Eddie, but I
felt this was added purely to increase
the male/female ratio. This storyline
never develops beyond Eddie asking
Deloris to dinner and so seems a little
superfluous.
The cast were fantastic – full of en-
ergy and with good characterisation
of some parts that could otherwise ap-
pear flat and one dimensional. I knew
Patina Miller was going to be good
from seeing many a video of her per-
formance as Dionne in the New York
Public Theatre production of Hair and
I was not disappointed. Miller’s voice is
incredible and she had the spunk and
personality to live up to Goldberg’s
original portrayal of Deloris. She was
well-matched by Sheila Hancock as the
Mother Superior although I feel she
and Ian Lavender’s Monsignor Howard
could have been better integrated into
the story. Lavender in particular had
very little to do, acting more as an Em-
cee than a character in the story. A par-
ticular highlight for us was Julia Sutton
as Mary Lazarus who gave a star turn
as the aged rapping nun – she rocked!
The ensemble were all strong with
some amazing harmonies that led to
my “amazing harmonies grin” appear-
ing for a large portion of the show.
The score itself is fun and mo-
mentarily catchy if not memorable,
strangely I couldn’t hum you any of
the songs now. The style and themes
fitted well with the light, bouncy feel
of the musical. Favourite songs in-
cluded ‘Fabulous Baby’ sung by Deloris
which cleverly interwove exposition
with funky diva vocals and ‘Take Me
to Heaven’, the first number sung by
the revitalised choir featuring some
amazing solos and a Nun kickline! The
composer Alan Menken is usually as-
sociated with the Disney musicals of
the early nineties; The Little Mermaid,
Aladdin and so forth, so one could be
mistaken that he can only write child
friendly perky tunes. But lest we forget
not only were these songs clever, intel-
ligent and (sometimes) Oscar winning
but they are far from his entire back
catalogue. Menken’s first musical, in
conjunction with his late lyricist part-
ner Howard Ashman, was Little Shop
of Horrors, a black comedy taking in-
fluences from 50’s bebop, rock and roll,
and Supremes-type girl groups. He
has taken the same approach with the
score using influences from the period
of the piece such as Barry White, Shaft
and seventies disco.
Unfortunately somebody forgot to
tell the set and costume designers of
this and so we see seventies style book-
shelves containing DVDs and tramps
wearing decidedly present-day hat/
coat combinations. Aside from this
oversight the set was magnificent and
completely automated, there were no
scene changes just scene transitions.
The way the nightclub set spiralled and
completely disappeared into the stage
was astonishing. My friend and I de-
cided we wanted to take the giant shin-
ing Mother Mary home to put in our
living room, what our other flatmates
would say about that is another matter.
Macbeth: East-End London, the 60’s
David Lloyd ventures “off West End” to the Riverside Studios and witnesses one of Shakespeare’s greatest
tragedies, Macbeth, as close as one can get
They even had a sparkly gold version
for the finale – everything looks bet-
ter in gold sparkles, even nuns’ hab-
its and prisoners’ garb! The costume
designer managed a minor miracle in
making nuns’ habits look attractive,
I loved Sheila Hancock’s fitted pur-
ple-trimmed number and the novice
pinafore of Katie Rowley Jones’ Mary
Roberts. One issue with the set is that
because it was so magnificent it took
away from the action at times with
some movement being obscured by the
constantly moving set. The production
relied on the set to provide momentum
highlighting the patchy pacing in parts.
Although this review may not appear
encouraging, I did like Sister Act – it
had great acting, an infectious score
and some intelligent moments. It was
fun and frivolous and certainly not
a bad way to spend an evening. The
audience of mainly coach parties and
“women of a certain age” had a ball,
applauding absolutely everything and
rounding the night off with a prema-
ture standing ovation. If you’re look-
ing for a carefree evening with lots of
laughs then I’d highly recommend it.
Sister Act follows in the long line of
light and fluffy movie to musical trans-
fers that are well-made but never going
to change the musical theatre world. I
think I just expected more from such a
brilliant creative team who were obvi-
ously trying to make a commercial suc-
cess than something artistic and new.
Sister Act is on at the London Pal-
ladium until February 2010
www.sisteractthemusical.com
for information on the cast and
performances
Patina Miller as Deloris, the company and the great, shining Mother Mary
Patina Miller with one of the ensemble
Patina Miller takes on the role of lounge singer, Deloris, played by Whoopi Goldberg in the film version
A
n East-end boozer isn’t
the first place you’d ex-
pect a Shakespearean
tragedy to unfold but this
is what I found when I
went along to The Riverside Studios to
catch a performance of Shakespeare’s
Macbeth. Set in the 1960’s, but still
retaining the original dialogue, the
slicked back hair and sharp suits form
an interesting contrast to some of the
Bard’s most powerful dialogue.
For those who are neither Shake-
speare fans, nor were obliged to study
the play at school, Macbeth is a tale of
one man’s ascendency to the throne of
Scotland fuelled by a deadly ambition
and the machinations of his poison-
ous wife. As in the style of any tragedy
worth its salt the play ends with plenty
of people being killed: in this case
characters are dispatched by crowbars
and Stanley knives. Just a normal day
in 1960’s London.
The quality of acting is excellent, es-
pecially for a production deemed “off
West End”, outside the mainstream but
not quite fringe theatre. Will Beer as
Macbeth brings a power to the stage
that is tempered by a particularly un-
hinged and disturbing Lady Macbeth
(Jody Watson). The supporting cast is
also strong: Jack Bence as Malcolm is
convincing in his theatrical debut, pos-
sessing a stature that belies his youth-
ful appearance.
The adaptation should be commend-
ed for its novel staging. The group I
was with was seated at a table in the
centre of the stage. Before the play
started in earnest we were joined at
our table by the characters of Malcolm
and Duncan. There was a distinct air
of intimidation as they gazed upon us
and I was immediately drawn into an
entertaining two hours of “betrays in
deepest consequence”.
The stage was used to excellent effect
as verbal volleys ricocheted around us.
We were never more than a matter of
feet from the action and as the story
developed and the daggers were drawn
I became increasingly concerned with
what was happening around me. The
actors interacted with us on occasion,
offering us a bowl of crisps during one
celebratory scene. The net effect of this
innovative staging is that I actually felt
I was part of the performance. I was
the metaphorical “fly on the wall” as
Macbeth delivered the infamous line
“is this a dagger which I see before me”,
grasping at an apparition next to my
drink.
Instead of three witches, who usually
tell the prophecies that lead Macbeth
to his doom, there are two musicians.
It is an interesting choice by the direc-
tor to move away from tradition and
use live music in place of three hags.
However I believe it works well and is
more in keeping with the setting; they
frame scenes nicely and provided a
dramatic soundtrack to events.
I would highly recommend heading
down to Hammersmith to witness a
very engaging adaptation of Shake-
speare’s play. The fact that it is cheaper
to buy tickets to sit on the stage than
in the actual audience should be all the
motivation you need to become part
of the action after your exams. I’ll be
looking out for future performances
by this group; after the play, one cast
member described their forthcoming
production of Sophocles’ Ajax as “80
minutes of death and destruction”. If it
is anything as involving and provoking
as their present work it should be an-
other great night out.
Until 23 July 2009

