Bucharest delegation censured
C H A R L E S C L A R K E , Alastair Stewart
and Trevor Phillips came in for heavy
criticism over their conduct at the 13th
European meeting of national unions of
students held in Bucharest last December.
The conference felt that all three had
acted inappropriately by not adequately
representing NUS policy on topics
discussed at the meeting.
Delegates were also displeased
with the signing of the final communique
issued at the end of the meeting. It was
felt that the delegation had followed to
much of a pro-Soviet line during the
meeting.
Charles Clarke (top) and Chris Morgan
All three were censured and the
report of the meeting which included the
offending communique rejected by the
conference. Charles Clarke was also
censured for not making available, before
the conference began, the text of the
communique as he had promised at the
Universities Policy Conference. The
motion of censure on Mr Clarke was
moved by Mr Peter Teague, ICU
President.
The section of the communique which
angered delegates most dealt with
women. The communique stresses
"that due to continuance of a capitalist
order in many European countries,
women remained totally oppressed and
were denied equal rights in education
and many other fields of endeavour."
• "Inadequate sex education, con-
traception and abortion facilities means
that much hardship and pain was caused
to women in the capitalist countries.
Their position as sex objects in society
was accentuated by these inadequacies",
the communique continued.
The s o c i a l i s t countries, the
communique claimed, were way ahead
of western European countries in
establishing equal rights for women.
However, it was noted by some delegates
that in Romania, the host country,
abortion was illegal.
The conference rubbed salt into the
wound by deciding to elect the next
delegation from itself despite determined
opposition from the Executive.
N O CUTS" D E M A N D
IN POSSIBLY the most comprehensive
of all policy motions passed at this
conference, total opposition to all
forms of cuts in Public spending was
reaffirmed. The Government's economic
policy, which is leading to a reduction
in Social Services and Education
expenditure, was deplored and criticised
throughout the nine page document
dealing with "Grants and C u t s " .
The case of 16—19 year olds, for
whom education in the form of day —
release courses had been promised by
the Government, was specifically
mentioned. Large cut-backs in F E ' s and
Tech's are expected; and policy is
now that we should press for compulsory
(and fully paid) day-release education
for youths who left school at sixteen.
It was felt that on this, as other
topics, we should liaise more closely
with Trades Unions, in the belief that
cuts affect not just students but the
whole of the community. Indeed, the
same view was expressed concerning
the rise in the pupil-teacher ratio. in
most, if not a l l , schools; especially
since, at the same time, trained teachers
are finding it impossible to get employ-
ment as such, and the training colleges
themselves are reducing their intake.
Conference resolved that the Government
must "come to terms with the demand
and need for Education."
Whilst no single point in the grants
campaign was prioritized (many felt that
they should be); the abolition of the
means test and the discontinuation of
discretionary awards received most
attention. The Anderson Report of 16
years ago called for an end to the means
test, but there was still little progress
in this area. It was claimed, that this
caused hardship to students whose
parents cannot, or choose not to, pay
their "contribution". It was also
stated that the main-rate grant claim
has always taken precedence over the
other, equally important aspects of the
campaign; the Press were criticised
for heightening this differential \w
ignoring the parts not considered
newsworthy. A l l the same, the motion
says, "the main rate is abysmal . . .
anything less than the main rate is
totally unacceptable" — quite clearly a
request for a higher grant, of £1140,
with no deductions or exceptions.
Eighteen candidates put themselves
forward for the three posts that were
available. Of these, Mr Peter Ashby,
Deputy President elect (Broad Left), Mr
Andy Durgin, executive member
(International Socialist) and Mr Tony
Fekete, Edinburgh University (Con-
servative) were elected.
The conference further gave vent to
its disapproval over the international
section of the Union's work by censuring
Chris Morgan, Treasurer elect. Mr Morgan,!
was censured for not doing enough work
on the Southern Africa mandate. No
direction had been forthcoming from the
NUS Executive to COS to campaign on
this issue it was said.
What was seen as a Broad Left ploy
to limit debate on the international work
of the Union was defeated when the
conference decided to extend time for the
debate well into the time alloted for
lunch. This came about when the guest
speaker from the Chilean NUS, Mr
Alejandro Rojas, was allowed to speak
for nearly 45 minutes — well over his
alloted time — this taking the morning
session right up to lunch.
Pete Ashby
In his speech, Mr Rojas praised the
solidarity work of the NUS in support
of the repressed Chilean students.
"Every democratic achievement achieved
during Allende's government had been
destroyed by the present fascist junta,
Mr Rojas said. He called for a day of
mass action on May 8th to protest against
the imprisonment of students and at the
loss of university autonomy in Chile.
Conference comments
Jackie Webber: "No conference, you
can't suspend the constitution."
Pete Ashley: "The pattern of Tories
transfering their votes to Broad Left
candidates after the first ballot must be
seen as a recognition of the Broad
Left's remarkable competence."
Elections Committee: "There were so
many spoilt papers, Mr Chairman, that
the candidate "Rubbish" nearly won
this election."
(VP Welfare)
Stewart Mcintosh: " A m I correct in my
assessment of your parts?" (to delegate
requesting a vote to be taken in said
manner)
Charles Clarke: "I do intend to be
rigid." (on interpretation of standing
orders)
AI Stewart: " T h e ultra-left is to the
right of the Broad Left."
Al Stewart: "I have developed a taste
for the jugular veins of Trots."
Al Stewart: The SRP are not a political
group: they are an insult to all other
groups on the floor of conference."
Charles Clarke: "I really must apologise
for my voice.''
S Mcintosh: "Sir, I think you are trying
to drill a hole into a piece of wood that
nobody has got."

