13
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
L
inks between businesses
and universities have ex-
isted in one form or another
at least since the start of the
industrial revolution, but
over the past 30 years there has been a
gradual and significant change in that
relationship, a process that has been
called by many the ‘commercialisation’
of universities.
From early in the 20th century, the
official, and to a large degree operative,
policy of government towards univer-
sity funding of general research (i.e.
funding not associated directly with a
government department like the Min-
istry of Defence), had been an adher-
ence to the ‘Haldane Principle’. This
guaranteed autonomy for Research
Councils so that science would be
free of political (and other) pressures,
which might discourage research in
certain areas. This policy allowed a
certain space for faculties and faculty
members to pursue research on the
basis of their own instincts and inter-
ests. Furthermore, during this period
universities received close to 100% of
its funding from government, either
directly through government depart-
ments or through these autonomous
Research Councils.
The first phase of the ‘commercialisa-
tion’ of universities began in the 1970s
when, due to increasing international
economic competition, industrialised
countries were losing their monopoly
over the world’s heavy industry. Gov-
ernment and corporate managers real-
ised that their economic dominance in
the future could only be sustained by
a move towards more capital-intensive
high-technology industries (e.g. space,
electronics, telecommunication, bio-
engineering), for which universities
were the source.
The campus became a major source
of the intellectual capital that would
be required for this economic strat-
egy and profit-seeking activity. It was
in this context that new Patent legisla-
tion was passed in every industrialised
country, the two major ones in the UK
being the Patents Act (1977) and the
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act
(1988).
This legislation made it clear that
all forms of intellectual capital gener-
ated by an employee (in a university
or a business), would belong to the
employer – even if that research that
was funded with public money. This is
significant because, for the first time in
the eyes of the law, universities became
producers and owners of property
which could be traded with the private
sector – like any other business. And
like any other business they became
subject to commercial pressure. A
need to produce commercially-viable
products (research) became the pri-
mary concern of university manage-
ment. Corporate ties were cultivated
and private sector funding for research
duced a new requirement that re-
searchers seeking grants must now
describe the economic impact of the
work that are intending to do. This is
clearly at odds with the principle that
researchers themselves should set the
agenda for research, not state or cor-
porate managers – the basis for the
Haldane principle.
We must conclude that universities
are being turned more and more into
corporate research centres, in order to
create the seeds for new profits based
on high-tech industry. The govern-
ment is using them to push national
economic growth in a direction which
plays to the UK’s perceived econom-
ic ‘competitive advantage’ – that is,
capital-intensive, knowledge-based
industry.
Are these positive trends? Do they
impact on the quality of research? Do
they serve the greater good of soci-
ety? We know what the government’s
response to these questions would
be. And big business loves it. Ob-
jective analysis can only come from
sources outside the state-corporate
circles who are benefiting from these
tendencies.
A recent analysis has been pub-
lished by the independent non-profit
group ‘Scientists for Global Respon-
sibility’ (SGR), an organisation sup-
ported by many prominent scien-
tists, including physicists Steven
Hawkins and Lord Rees. The report
runs through case studies in various
research sectors – pharmaceuticals,
military/defence, oil and gas, and
biotechnology – and concludes that
there have indeed been detrimental
effects caused by commercial influ-
ence. Among the problems identified
are:
The commercialisation of science
The SGR report also comments that universities are “being
internally reorganised so that they behave more like busi-
nesses”. This observation doesn’t only have significance for
the research function of a university, but also for the edu-
cational function. Technology historian David Noble points
out that a characteristic of the past thirty years has been
“the wholesale reallocation of university resources towards
its research function at the expense of its educational func-
tion. Class sizes swelled, teaching staff and instructional
resources were reduced, salaries were frozen. At the same
time, tuition soared …. In the end, students were paying
more for their education and getting less...”. Of course, this
isallinlinewithwhatagoodbusinessshoulddo–maximise
income and cut back on expenses. The expense happens to
be quality of tuition, but who cares about that?
The commercialisation of the research function of uni-
versities is being followed by a new and emerging com-
mercialisation of the educational function. Traditionally,
just like in the case of a faculty member’s research output,
the faculty member’s teaching output (e.g. course notes,
problemsetsetc.)usedtobetheintellectualpropertyofthe
individual(s) who produced the work. Today, the copyright
for a faculty member’s teaching material belongs to the col-
lege under a “royalty-free” licence, although Imperial Col-
lege’s policy document on IP states that “Imperial College
generallywaivesitsclaimtocopyrightinteachingmaterials,
textbooks and research publications”.
This is the state of affairs at the moment. However, there
is a growing trend among universities in the US towards the
use of computers and information technology to automate
and sell education services and ‘courseware’. This trend is
being driven by university managers who see the selling of
university courses and instructional material via the medi-
um of computers as both another way to make money, and
a way to cut costs on teaching staff. Its advocates claim that
this is the way to administer good education efficiently in
the 21st century in a way which benefits students as well as
the university.
A transition to such a system of university education will
require faculties to completely relinquish their right to their
teaching material to the universities. These resources will be
used as ‘courseware’ in an automated process of education
which ultimately undermines their own roles as educators. All
of this is going ahead, despite protests by many students and
faculty staff, who see this development as one which reduces
the quality of education provision.
Theparadigmwhichunderliestheautomationandcommer-
cialisation of education is a view of universities as ‘producers’
of education and students as ‘consumers’ of education. This
view of education is antagonistic to everything that is known
about ‘best practice’ in teaching and learning in general. The
broadconsensusamongeducationprofessionalsateverylevel
is that a good education involves students actively participat-
ingintheirlearningprocess,withscopeforpursuingpointsof
interest – not passively consuming prepackaged ‘courseware’.
Consequently, moves towards commodification of university
courses is bound to have a detrimental effect on the quality
of education if it is used in place of traditional methods. De-
spite this, the number of advocates of the pretence that the
‘producer/consumer’ paradigm is consistent with pedagogy
continuetogrowamonguniversitymanagers.Prestigiousuni-
versities may be able to resist this trend (if they decide to – an
uncertain‘if’),butthescarcertheresourcesofauniversity,the
more alluring this option becomes to its managers.
The National Union of Students (NUS) has taken up this
issue and have expressed support for the idea that students
should be viewed and treated as ‘co-producers’, rather than
‘consumers’. The voice of Imperial College students would be
weak on this issue, if it existed at all, due to our union’s deci-
sion to pull out of the NUS.
Whetheryoulikeordislikethedevelopmentsinhigheredu-
cationoverthepastfewdecades,thereisachoicetobemade.
Current institutional arrangements ensure that students and
faculties have little or no say in these issues of great signifi-
cance.Willwestandby,voiceless,whileotherforces(whether
malevolent or not) shape our institutions and our society in
theirinterests?Orwillwejoinwithotherstudents,willfaculty
members join with other faculties, to ensure that our voices
areatleastafactor(butpreferablytheleadingforce)indeter-
mining the future of our universities?
The classroom vs the boardroom
Philip Avraam traces how historical success of universities in research has paved the way for their own demise
...producing a
commercially viable
product is likely to
stifle the best kind
of research
at universities grew, with obvious po-
tential consequences for the erosion
of the values which lie behind the Hal-
dane principle, discussed later.
Perhaps these developments are noth-
ing to worry about so long as govern-
ment funded, autonomous Research
Councils still exist. However, the auton-
omy of these Research Councils is also
being attacked by their paymasters. In
contemporary political rhetoric, science
is always mentioned in the same breath
as the economy. The newly formed De-
partment for Business, Innovation and
Skills places business and university re-
search under the same high level admin-
istrative umbrella.
This phenomenon is further exempli-
fied by the 2007 Sainsbury Review on
‘Science and Innovation Policies’
, the
suggestions of which the government
says it will implement in full. This docu-
ment is dotted with recommendations
like (Recommendation 2.4) “The Tech-
nology Strategy Board should work with
the Research Councils to identify the
complex, high-value-added production
technologies that current and emerging
industries require and which are likely to
flourish in high-cost economies”
.
Last year, research councils intro-
(1) In regards to funding, commer-
cialisation has led to the “introduction
of significant bias and marginalisation
of work with clear social and environ-
mental benefits”;
(2) “Direct commercial funding of a
research study increases the likelihood
that the results will be favourable to
the funders”;
(3) “Openness in research can be
compromised through the use of com-
mercial confidentiality agreements (in-
cluding patents) and other...”;
(4) Orientation of faculties and de-
partments to “commercial needs rather
than to broader public interest of curi-
osity-driven goals.”;
(5) Decisions about controversial
technologies are taken with very little
public consultation.
And what about blue-skies re-
search? Having to justify one’s re-
search on the basis of the likelihood
of producing a commercially viable
product is likely to stifle the best
kind of research – that which enters
new and unknown domains. Einstein
once said about research that, “If we
knew what we were doing, it wouldn’t
be called research”.
Imperial College: University or corporate research centre?
Scientists for Global Responsibility:
corporate influence is damaging
research

