14 felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Case for Intellectual Property
Kin-Hing Lo opposes Edward Townes’s article against IP that was featured in last week’s business section
I
t was interesting to read Ed-
ward Townes’ article in felix last
week as he threw his hat in the
ring to argue against intellectual
property rights. Like Edward, I
would describe myself as a Libertar-
ian but I found it difficult to sympa-
thise with the arguments in his article.
Property rights don’t exist just to pro-
tect scarce resources nor do they usu-
ally lead to stagnation and problems
of “navigating a minefield of existing
intellectual property”. In this article, I
want to tackle some of his arguments.
I also argue that intellectual property
rights are actually consistent with a
Libertarian philosophy – rather than
hindering free speech and free thought
as Edward suggests, I believe it pro-
motes it.
Edward first argued that property
exists primarily to allocate scarce re-
sources between people and to prevent
conflicts over that scarcity. He then
went on to briefly mention what I be-
lieve to be the more important point:
that property rights exist also to pro-
mote development and investment.
Most economists now agree that in or-
der for countries to develop, property
rights must exist and there must be a
strong system of institutions to regu-
late them.
Let us look back to the 18th century
when property rights and enclosure of
farmland were introduced during the
British Agricultural Revolution. Before
enclosure, it made no sense for a farm-
er to invest in improving the yield of
the common land – he bears the costs
of the investment himself but the ben-
efits are equally shared between every-
one. So, imagine a town of 100 farmers
sharing common land.
Each individual farmer could choose
to make a £1 investment in improving
the land which would give a total re-
turn of £10. Without ownership rights,
every farmer benefits equally from the
improvement in the common land so
they share the £10 return equally (each
farmer makes 10p).
Of course, the investment never hap-
pens because the farmer making that
investment spends £1 and gets just 10p
back.
What if we replay the scenario with
property rights? We have 100 separate
enclosed farms. Each individual farm-
er would now be happy to make a £1
investment knowing they will get the
full £10 return from the land. All 100
farmers choose to make that invest-
ment. The net effect to society is we
now have 100 farmers investing a total
of £100 and getting a return of £1,000
(lots more food production!). In this
case, it is obvious that the main benefit
of property rights is not the allocation
of scarce resources – sharing the com-
mon land with 100 farmers (essentially
each having a 1% stakeholding in it)
is as fair an allocation as each farmer
physically owning 1% of the land. In
this case, the additional investment
caused by property rights is the pri-
mary benefit to society.
We can draw a parallel scenario with
modern society here. James Cameron’s
Avatar cost $237million to produce
and has taken revenues of about $2100
million. If there were no intellectual
property rights on Avatar, anybody
could decide to distribute Avatar and
make a profit from it. Imagine that
20th Century Fox and 99 other compa-
nies are distributing Avatar and make
equal revenue… 20th Century Fox,
who produced the film, takes $21mil-
lion revenue on that $237million
investment.
Do you really think that the film
would have been produced? This
economic argument shows that intel-
lectual property rights are vital to the
production of the intellectual property
in the first place.
Although the final film is not a scarce
resource (it can be illegally copied at
close to zero cost), the factors of pro-
duction (i.e. the time spent producing
it and the investment in technology)
are scarce resources. People simply
won’t give up their scarce time and
money unless they will get a good re-
turn from it. Similarly, we recognise
as a society that intellectual property
must exist in the pharmaceutical in-
dustry even though more people will
have access to existing drugs if we
scrapped them. We recognise that no
individual or company would bear the
costs of designing a new drug if every
other company would profit from it
with no work and they would make a
loss from it.
Edward tackled this argument of in-
tellectual property rights promoting
innovation and investment by claiming
that they can also restrict innovation.
This is a weak argument in my opinion
– it requires further analysis weighing
up how intellectual property rights re-
strict innovation more than they pro-
mote it. Of course, there are examples
of where intellectual property have re-
stricted innovation –technology firms
often register patents to prevent other
companies from being able to imple-
ment those ideas (the most ridiculous
example that comes to mind is Ama-
zon’s 1-Click ordering patent).
I certainly think that we do need
to look at how we assess patents and
when we award them, but this is an ar-
gument for patent reform; it is difficult
to then make the leap to the abolish-
ment of intellectual property rights in
all cases.
There are plenty of examples where
intellectual property rights don’t re-
strict innovation. For example, no
fiction writer would ever complain
that Disney’s intellectual property on
“Winnie the Pooh” harms their abil-
ity to write a new work of fiction. No
original songwriter would complain
that Pink Floyd’s intellectual property
of their songs harms their own ability
to write new songs. Similarly, the fact
that I can’t just rip off the stories from
Heroes to create my own television
drama series doesn’t restrict innova-
tion – if anything, it forces me to in-
novate by coming up with new stories.
As far as I can see, the only effect of
abolishing intellectual property rights
would be to encourage the plagiarism
and profiting from other people’s ma-
terial – something which doesn’t ben-
efit society at all.
Finally, I want to explore the effects
of intellectual property on freedom
of speech and thought. We recognise
freedom of speech to be important in
society because it is necessary for a
marketplace of ideas to exist and work.
As citizens of a democratic country,
we all participate in the marketplace
of ideas: sharing our ideas, discuss-
ing our thoughts and making sugges-
tions. A strong marketplace of ideas is
important as it allows society to weigh
up new ideas based on their merits and
arguments.
This allows the very best ideas to
propagate and then to become social
norms and beliefs. How do intellectual
property rights limit my freedom of
speech? The fact that Amazon holds
intellectual property and patents on
one-click ordering or that Disney own
the intellectual property to “Winnie
the Pooh” doesn’t stop me from men-
tioning or discussing those ideas with
other people. It does not restrict my
ability to seek, receive or impart these
ideas. But it does make the market-
place of ideas work better: firstly by
intellectual property rights facilitat-
ing the development of new ideas and
secondly preventing old ideas from be-
ing needlessly copied, plagiarised and
duplicated – something which would
only add to the noise in the market-
place. As much as the typical Imperial
student hates referencing their lab re-
ports, it is difficult to make the argu-
ment that copying ideas as opposed to
referencing and recognising the origi-
nal researchers would be beneficial for
society.
In conclusion, I have demonstrated
that property rights exist not just to
allocate scarce resources but primarily
and more importantly to encourage
investment and development of those
resources.
I have demonstrated how intellectual
property rights encourage innovation
in the movie industry and pharmaceu-
tical industry – why it is necessary for
us to have those intellectual property
rights if we are to have the intellectual
property at all. Finally, I looked at the
reasons for free speech existing in our
society and how intellectual property
can contribute towards it.
On balance, I strongly feel that the
case for scrapping intellectual prop-
erty rights is weak at best and that do-
ing so would be immensely harmful for
society.
A clear argument against IP - Avatar may not have been made without it
Would anyone have bothered making Heroes if something like freeonlineepisodes.net/heroes existed? I think not...
“...of course, there
are examples of
where intellectual
property have
restricted
innovation”

