POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
Pope’s homosexual equality comments misunderstood
In an ill-informed piece in Politics last
week, James Lees got into the debate
over the successful attempts to ex-
clude religion from the most recent
Equality Bill to go to parliament. James
said what many newspapers have;
that,”Benedict XVI... urged Catholic
Bishops in the UK to fight the Equali-
ties Bill with missionary zeal”. Unfortu-
nately for James, this is not actually the
case as, if he had read the Pope’s An-
nus Sacerdotalis, he would have seen
that the Pope’s criticisms were clearly
of the already existing legislation on
adoption services, not on legislation
being currently considered.
But let’s assume that the Pope had
indeed meant to criticise the Bill
and look at James’ argument that “[t]
he Pope should not be interfering in
British politics”. He claims that “[t]he
problem arises from Catholic bishops
who maintain seats in the House of
Lords, and as a result still have some
say in the running of the country”– a
situation that would no doubt worry
anyone who believes in democracy
and the separation of church and state.
This assertion, however, is also laugh-
able to anyone with basic knowledge of
British politics, who will know that the
Catholic Church has been historically
oppressed by the political elite in Brit-
ain, and certainly hasn’t got a single
Bishop in the Lords. This is opposed
to the Church of England, which was
not the focus of the comment piece.
The size of this worrying gap in James’
knowledge of British politics is made
clearer by the irrelevant quip that the
Pope’s visit in September will cost £20
million; a necessary expense caused by
the visit of any head of state as not only
is it essential that the security be pro-
vided by British police, but also that we
as a nation remain a good host.
But now for the important part of the
debate; namely the conflict between
religious freedom and the freedom
of others. I believe in a separation of
church and state; bishops should not
be in the House of Lords due to being
bishops. I also believe that no one ap-
plying for a job should face discrimina-
tion on the grounds of political belief,
religious belief or sexuality. But, like
most, I believe that there are clear and
common sense exceptions to this; the
Labour party’s manifesto clearly states
that only those who support its poli-
tics can stand for election within the
party. It would be ludicrous for this to
be banned as political discrimination.
Yet if a conservative applied to be a
postman, then to discriminate would
be wrong. Surely the same applies to
religious belief; religions clearly can-
not say that gay people mustn’t deliver
their post; they can however insist that
priests, bishops, etc adhere to Catholic
This
week
MPs back vote on
electoral reform
MPs have agreed to in-
troduce a referendum on
whether we should ditch
the “first past the post”
system we currently
have and replace it with
an “alternative vote” sys-
tem where candidates
are ranked in preference
order. MPs backed the
referendum by 365 votes
to 178. The plan was put
forward by Gordon Brown as a way of increasing the pub-
lic’s trust in government. It is not certain, however, whether
the legislation will be introduced before the coming General
Election. Jack Straw, Justice Secretary, (pictured) called it an
“important debate” for democracy in this country.
Government’s torture
appeal lost
The European Parlia-
ment has voted over-
whelmingly in favour
of the 27 new Euro-
pean commissioners,
each having previously
faced the Parliament. .
MEPs cast 488 votes in
favour, 137 against and
there were 72 absten-
tions. The Commission
is responsible for drafting EU laws and ensuring that all 27
member states comply with EU treaties. The vote on the
Commission was delayed by three months due to delays in
ratifying the Lisbon Treaty. The president of the Commission,
Portuguese Jose Manuel Barroso, was approved for a second
term by the EU government leaders before the latest vote.
EU Commission
chosen by Parliament
Judges ruled that redacted
paragraphs describing
Binyam Mohamed’s treat-
ment as “cruel, inhuman
and degrading” should be
released. “We have fought
this case and brought the
appeal to defend a prin-
ciple we believe is fun-
damental to our national
security - that intelligence
shared with us will be pro-
tected by us,” Mr Miliband
said. The paragraphs say that interrogators subjected him to
sleep deprivation and threats and inducements. Mr Moham-
ed was secretly flown to Morocco by the US where he claims
he was tortured with the involvement of the British.
beliefs which since the second Vatican
Council in the 1950s have held that it
is wrong for employers to descriminate
on the grounds of sexuality. Besides,
if employment legislation applied to
Priests they would be in for a nice pay
rise and dramatically reduced hours;
exemptions work both ways.
James argues that “you are allowed
to believe what you like; you’re just
not allowed to do whatever you like”. A
meaningless statement as belief, most
would say, is nothing without practice.
He cites the example of religions that
promote polygamy not being allowed
to do so in practice. I would like to ask
James what exactly is wrong with po-
lygamy in principle? If people consent
to it; why not? Surely he sees that hav-
ing more than one wife or husband is
of no harm to anyone else. And harm
is a key issue – were polygamy to be
forced on others, this would be wrong.
But this would not be the case. James’
reasoning, along with the reasoning of
the proponents of this Bill, is in clear
contradiction of that cornerstone of
modern British liberalism; do as you
want, just don’t harm anyone else with-
out their consent. As long as Catholic
teaching on homosexuality doesn’t call
on them being harmed, I don’t see how
it’s anyone’s business. You may not like
it, but there are no grounds for ban-
ning it. Like James Blunt.
As for what right the Pope has to
“meddle with Britain”; the Pope has
no legal authority here. It is up to Brit-
ish law makers and citizens to decide
whether or not to take his advice. It
is interesting that no one complained
when the Vatican called the invasion of
Iraq “a crime against peace”, an issue of
vastly greater importance. Not to men-
tion that one of the greatest criticisms
levelled against the Church is (with
some justification) that they didn’t in-
tervene enough against Nazism; critics
simply can’t have it both ways.
The belief in the separation of
church and state works two directions;
the church can’t force the state to be-
have in a certain way and the state can’t
start telling the church what it can and
can’t do in its own business. That’s only
sensible.
Rory Fenton
Rory Fenton
Pope Benedict XVI’s comments on equality and homosexuality have caused a stir in the face of a new equality bill.

