16
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
In memory of a mad Swedish alchemist
I
say “Disorientating Swedish psy-
chodrama featuring alchemy, the
occult and Telepathic Sex, any-
body?” You say “Gee, well, I might
actually be busy that night…” But hold
on just a minute there, this play is not
as trippy as the blurb sounds, and has
some very very positive features. So
keep reading. Please keep reading.
The story is this: there is a brilliant
artist who has thrown it in to dedicate
his life to alchemy, and is fast going
crazy as he downs litres of absinthe,
can’t sleep or eat and desperately at-
tempts to get his wife to come back.
But somehow it does manage to cling
to reality, probably due to the excellent
script and acting by the very unique
characters (including an amusingly
welsh landlady).
In some unbelievable way, it all
seems very real; so much so that I
didn’t get much sense of actually being
‘inside the mind’ of the alchemist with
the unravelling life. His nightmares
were manifested in his occasional
breakdowns and obvious paranoia,
but I liked the fact that we didn’t have
to share his fanatical paranoia, it was
rather with his wife and doctor that we
could empathise, at least to begin with.
The really cool thing about the venue
for this play is that it is a ‘theatre-pub’
, if
you haven’t been to one, it is absolutely
worth it. The room is small and the
front row (out of three, running along
two walls of the room) sits on the set.
This means you are ridiculously close to
the actors; intense doesn’t come close
to describing how powerful the atmos-
phere is.
There are some stunningly personal
scenes and the environment created by
the sound of weather outside feels real-
istic; you can even smell the food, per-
fume and musk.
The set, being so tiny and hemmed
by the audience on two out of four
sides, is one room which cleverly
morphs every ‘scene’, into the room of
each of the respective characters. This
all seems quite normal if a bit dream-
like, but is quite easy to follow which
really speeds up the pace, and doesn’t
leave the set feeling constricted as ‘one
set’ plays can be.
Complaints might be that there are
a lot of stressful shouty scenes when
people are angry and crazy (at least it’s
exciting) and at points it’s difficult to
see how the play is moving forwards.
Sometimes the unravelling in the sec-
ond act feels a bit gratuitous, but it
is also genuinely captivating and you
have just over one week left to see it.
Review by Rox Middleton
Maria Dalberg as Harriet and Tom Cornish as the crazy Edgar Lutzen. Photographs by Jack Ladenburg
College Hardship Fund 2009
Money worries affecting your studies?
EU and Overseas students may be eligible for a grant from the
College Hardship Fund (home students can apply to the
Access to Learning Fund.)
We understand that despite careful planning some students may face
higher than expected costs or a financial emergency. In such
cases we may be able to assist with a small award from the
College Hardship Fund which could provide the additional
support you need to continue with your studies.
Autumn term application deadline: 19 February 2010
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Web: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/registry/studentfinancialsupport/hardshipfund
Email: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
Telephone: 020 7594 8122

