17
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mr Tambourine Man snaps the world
Photographer Mark Edwards embarked on a mission in 1969 to illustrate each line of Bob Dylan’s song A Hard
Rain’s A-Gonna Fall. The Hard Rain Project is the result of that endeavour. Caz Knight previews the project
before its arrival at Imperial College
“
And I’ll tell it and think it and
speak it and breath it/ And reflect
it from mountain so all souls can
see it…
” It is 1969 and, lost in the
Sahara desert, Mark Edwards is res-
cued by a Tureg nomad who whisks
him back to his people, gives him a cup
of tea and puts a cassette player on. It
is Bob Dylan singing A Hard Rain’s A-
Gonna Fall. The images conjured up
in the song inspire Mark to set about
illustrating each line: the result is the
Hard Rain exhibition in which 200
photographs taken all over the world
bring up a multitude of global issues,
tying them together and conveying
the intrinsic ways in which they are
linked. Beautiful images of ugly truths
are explored including climate change,
poverty, the wasteful use of resources,
population expansion, habitat destruc-
tion and species loss. The exhibition is
presented as a 60m banner in which the
photos are interspersed with Dylan’s
lyrics, and has already been viewed by
over 10 million people despite only be-
ginning last year.
The Hard Rain Project was created
as an exhibition and as a charity to
support educational programmes for
schools, colleges and universities with
the support of the United Nations En-
vironment Program, ClimateCare and
Still Pictures – Edward’s photography
agency specialising in social and en-
vironmental issues and nature. The
project is also available in book and
DVD form, entitled Our Headlong Col-
lision with Nature which examines the
Bus driving across a flooded plateau, High Andes, Bolivia
state of our planet with some shocking
photographs including a washed-up
corpse alongside the Taj Mahal be-
ing sniffed by a dog, the Amazon be-
ing burned for agriculture, a shattered
portrait of a dead Palestinian in Leba-
non and some poignantly relevant pic-
tures of hard rain and deforestation in
the Haitian capital Port-au-Prince.
The Hard Rain Project, located until
recently in St Martin-in-the-Fields, off
Trafalgar Square, has toured countless
countries; been enjoyed in venues as
diverse as the Eden Project, botanic
gardens and the United Nations Build-
ing; has touched scientists, politicians,
corporations, organisations and has
also made a stand in Copenhagen dur-
ing the December conference on cli-
mate change. As of Monday 15th Feb-
ruary, Imperial College is extremely
privileged and excited to host the ex-
hibition along the Queen’s Lawn, until
12th March. In that time, students and
staff will have the chance to take their
time and reflect on the images, absorb
the lyrics and realise the urgency of the
issues presented. In addition, on 3rd
March, last November’s Royal Photo-
graphic Society award-winner himself
will be presenting his exhibition as a 50
minute slideshow with his personal ac-
count of the journey he began in 1969
and Bob Dylan’s song played over the
photographs.
Gordon Brown describes Hard Rain
as “an impassioned cry for change”.
Yet, the kind of change we need to un-
dertake to reinvent the world so that
it is compatible with nature is a whole
lot more genuine and imperative than
any change any politician can ever
promise.
To reserve seats for Mark Edward’s
Hard Rain Project presentation please
email your name, contact details and
required seat numbers to Amanda.
cerny@imperial.ac.uk.
The Hard Rain Project presentation
will take place in the Great Hall on
3rd March 2010 at 5pm, followed by
refreshments.
The exhibition will be situated on
the Queen’s Lawn as of Monday 15th
February until Friday 12th March
Bangladeshi refugees, Calcutta, India: a man carries his cholera-striken wife during the 1971 Bangladesh war

