28
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
A philosopher’s very own volcano
A
ll the stoicism and
tranquillity this man
emanated did not in the
least prepare me for his
description of the Mt
Yasur we were ascending.
“I tell you,” his voice, laden with an Ar-
gentine accent, hushed as though com-
mitting sacrilege. “It’s f**king crazy.”
I humoured him with a grin. I had bet-
ter concerns, like fending off the tempta-
tion to hitchhike a ride to the very top.
Too many of those package-tour patrons
had sped by on their jeeps, snubbing us
for our apparent low social - and finan-
cial - status, before throwing black dirt
in our faces. But then, I was the geology
student making pilgrimage and with Es-
iegel - a volunteer teacher from Buenos
Aires - accompanying me as my guide
and supplier of spiritual enlightenment,
perhaps it was appropriate to scramble
our way up to the second highest point of
Tanna, Vanuatu.
The Earth quivered. Yet another
eruption.
Little beknownst to me, who barely
knew of Vanuatu’s existence before my
visit, it was the close connection the local
A winter warmer anyone? Dylan Lowe recalls his visit to a volcano and how he still, err, likes geology
Ni-Vanuatu share with their natural habi-
tat - and indeed their appreciation for it
- that can account for the bizarreness the
local customs and routines exhibit. The
pig prevails as the preferred currency; the
sick receive treatment of jungle medicine
while the despised live under the bane of
curses conjured by witch doctors. Tribes-
men residing deep in the jungle await the
return of Prince Philip, whom they wor-
ship as a god.
I was about to come face-to-face with
the alleged birthplace of the Duke of
Edinburgh.
The rancid sulphuric aromas could not
have signified the presence of the volca-
no better than the smog surrounding it.
Even the rustle of gusts of wind, battering
against our will to hoist ourselves to the
summit, could not eclipse the grumble
that droned, brewed in those pools of lava
beyond the reach of our eyes. It occasion-
ally pampered its spectators with the odd
splutter; and then, just as the cramping
arms yielded and cameras stooped, the
halo of smoke would radiate, swiftly pur-
sued by a cascade of molten rocks show-
ered beyond the crater. I staggered. Rec-
ollecting my composure and wiping off
An Insider’s Haunt, a column which is
to become a regular occurrence in felix
Travel, has me – Dylan that is – seek-
ing out the hidden spots of locations
around the world. This is where resi-
dents spill beans on their hometowns
and the places worth your while ditch-
ing the guide book and experiencing.
Physically.
Kicking us off, signore e signori, we
have Edoardo on la città di amore itself.
*
Rome is not just about the Colosseum,
St Peter’s Square and the Forum. It is im-
possible to capture the essence of Rome
in these places. I am often told by people
who have visited Rome that it is a noisy
and chaotic city – that is true if you stick
to the traditional tourist trek. If you wan-
der just a short distance away from the
main attractions you will discover the
true atmosphere of Rome, an atmosphere
composed of silence, unexpected sights
and romantic scenarios (not saying that
just because we are close to St. Valen-
tine’s Day).
From the Circus Maximus walk up the
Aventino Hill along Via Clivo dei Pub-
licii. After a slight bend keep right along
Via di Santa Sabina and after 5 min-
utes you will have reached Piazza Pietro
d’Illiria (named after a Dalmatian priest
from the 5th
century). Once you are in the
square take a quick look inside the Basili-
ca of Santa Sabina, then enter the gates on
the right side of the square. These gates
are the entrance to a small, symmetrical
garden called Giardino degli Aranci –
literally translated as ‘Orange Garden’.
The garden offers a quiet and contempla-
tive atmosphere that is centuries away
from the noisy motorcycle-packed Rome.
Walk around the orange trees but avoid
eating the oranges because they are very
bitter (at least the ones I tried were) and
then enjoy the panoramic view of Rome
from the Belvedere. If you have some
extra time to spare leave the garden and
walk along Via di Santa Sabina, in the
opposite direction from which you came
from, until you reach a small square
where the road terminates. In this square
you will notice a big green gate surmount-
ed by a large arch. This gate leads to the
headquarters of the Knights of Malta. If
you approach the gate and look through
the keyhole you’ll see the best thing one
can possibly see from a keyhole: St Peter’s
Dome in all its magnificence.
the embarrassment, we waited, before yet
another explosion some ten minutes later
knocked me off my balance again.
I must confess how appropriately put
were Esiegel’s words.Being his ninth
visit, Mt. Yasur held a special place in
Esiegel’s heart. Sickened by his alcoholic
violent old life, he travelled, serendipi-
tously stumbling across Tanna. Its mysti-
cal lures kept him there for a six-month
placement and, becoming connected
with the environment himself, he recti-
fied his ways and enriched himself with
philosophy, taking inspiration from the
extraordinary feats nature had fashioned
on the island. The volcano, he observed,
symbolised our vulnerability and mi-
niscule presence in time - it inspired the
former materialist to become a devotee
of minimalism. Even as nightfall drew its
curtain we stood our ground. The scar-
let hue began to smoulder. Soon our eyes
were spoiled to the night-time fireworks,
its majesty magnifying one eruption after
another. It could’ve been a textbook re-
cital of scientific knowledge. Rather, as the
stoic did, I let nature indulge my senses.
Don’t suppose you’ve seen a post office anywhere on the volcano have you?
An Insider’s Haunt: Rome, Italy
Edoardo Borgomeo
Edoardo Borgomeo

