FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
Imperial China’s Siu Mai. Here you can see the crab roe in all its glory; visit the place and you can enjoy its glorious taste.
The age old debate about Dim Sum
D
im Sum. There’s little de-
bate that it is surely one
of China’s greatest con-
tributions to world cui-
sine. But If I was to per-
form a little survey amongst London’s
Chinese community about which res-
taurant serves the best Dim Sum, I’m
pretty sure I could start a little debate
of my own. Even in my own mind, a
fierce quabble rages over where to find
the best of these fine creations. After
much contemplation, day-dreaming
and general pondering, I can’t say that
there is one particular place which ticks
every box. If only there was a way to
create the perfect place for Dim Sum,
by hand-picking the most noteworthy
creations from some of London’s most
revered Chinese restaurants…
I can remember the taste of Imperial
China’s ‘Wu Kok’ (taro croquette) as
if it graced my tongue only moments
before writing this article. Puffy, crispy
pastry encapsulates an unctuously rich
taro packed centre, brought to life with
a few salty punctuations of pork. Their
steamed items are also worth shout-
ing about. Not many other London
eateries create Siu Mai (‘Prawn and
Pork Dumplings’) where the individual
elements aren’t masked by a tad too
much pork fat. The juicy meat of the
pig, sweet prawn, earthy mushroom
and delectable crab roe are all eas-
ily identifiable. Also worthy of filling
your tummy is their ‘Har Kau’, prawn
dumplings composed of juicy, sizeable
prawns, a featherlike touch of garlic
and not-overly-sticky translucent skin.
Royal China (Bayswater or Baker
St branch) produces some pretty top
notch ‘Char Siu’ (barbequed pork),
and its no surprise that their ‘Char Siu
Bao’ (Steamed Roast Pork Bun) and
‘Char Siu So’ (Roast Pork Puffs) are
some of the best I’ve tried. Every time
I eat either of their renditions of these
dishes, an explosion of flavours engulfs
my mouth upon penetration of the
cloud-like softness of the exterior of
It might not be a Chinese New Year speciality, but Chris Sim tends to eat a whole lot more of it at this time of year
the former and the crispily rich pasty
of the latter, with juicy and salty sensa-
tions of the pork awakening your pal-
ette, quickly mellowed by the soothing
sweetness of the gooey sauce.
‘Cheung Fun’ (steamed rice noodle
rolls filled with either prawn, char siu
or dough stick, in a soy based sauce)
is generally of a pleasing standard in
London, but there is one restaurant
which gets it spot on. In my opinion,
the secret of the Dragon Palace’s (Earl’s
Court) Cheung Fun is to make the rice
roll amazingly thin and slick. In doing
so, the rice roll doesn’t fill your mouth
with an unpleasantly gloopy ball of
starch but instead creates a wonder-
ful textural combination of smooth
roll and firm filling, brought to life by
the soy-based sauce. Also worthy of
a tasting is their ‘Lo Bak Ko’ (Turnip
Paste Cake), whose subtly sweet tur-
nip paste, dotted with salty hotspots
of Chinese sausage, is beautifully cara-
melised to create a truly moreish taste
sensation.
At this point, some of you may be
wondering where Golden Dragon fits
into this equation. Well, their ‘Lo Mai
Kai’, an expertly engineered banana
leaf housing voluptuous sticky glu-
tinous rice, prawn, Chinese sausage
and mushroom, should definitely be
ordered. Their ‘Dan Tart’ (egg custard
tart) provides a timely and sweet treat
at the end of a meal. The secret of their
success is to use a flaky pastry and a
sweet, wobbly, yet not too soft filling.
Dim Sum is never complete without
some quality Chinese tea. Yauatcha
really stands out in this department,
though this level of decadence re-
quires a slightly larger foray into your
bank account than you might usually
be prepared to embark upon. Wheth-
er you pick a classic such as green or
something slightly less mundane such
as Oolong blue, the quality is evident
from your first sip.
To complete the perfect Dim Sum
experience, I feel that Imperial China
provides the perfect setting. It might
not quite have the class of Yauatcha,
but it has some of that lively atmos-
phere which I feel gives it a slightly
more authentic touch. While my
dream to combine all these dishes into
one conveniently brilliant Dim Sum
establishment might not be the most
likely of prospects, it does indicate
one thing: London has the key skills to
create this brilliant meal and with a lit-
tle more TLC and probably at a much
loftier price, the perfect Dim Sum ex-
perience can be created.
Restaurant Review of Joy King Lau, from a vegetarian viewpoint
Holly Cumbers offers a non-carnivorous opinion of the Chinese creations that this restaurant has to offer
I
f you are looking for somewhere
to celebrate the Chinese New
Year then I would suggest that
Joy King Lau is at least worthy
of your consideration. Okay, it is
renowned for bad service, but on the
plus side the food is excellent value for
money and there is plenty of choice
(perhaps too much!). The restaurant
is split over three floors and is always
popular, which may mean you might
take a while to get served, however it is
quiet enough to hold a proper conver-
sation. The restaurant caters for both
vegetarians and non-vegetarians (un-
fortunately I won’t be able to comment
on the meat, however my fellow diners
informed me that their food was very
good indeed!).
I visited on a Sunday afternoon,
which seems to be a popular time
for the Dim Sum menu. Dim Sum
is great for sharing, it can either be
eaten as a midday snack or as an ac-
companiment to a main meal. The
Dim Sum is divided into categories:
fried, steamed and ‘Cheung Fun’, and
with prices starting from just £2, this
represents pretty good value. If you
haven’t tried them before I would
suggest trying the vegetarian dump-
lings which are basically rolls made
out of rice that are also very slippery!
Fillings can be added to them such
as vegetables, prawns or, if you are
feeling adventurous enough, shark
fin.
Unfortunately I didn’t manage to
try the deep fried custard buns, but
they did sound interesting!
As for their mains, I personally did
not enjoy the monk style vegetables
- I felt they had a slightly funny fla-
vour to them and were a bit boring.
However I did enjoy the sweet and
sour beancurd, a classic Chinese dish
which I never seem to get bored of.
The tofu had an excellent texture and
the sauce was nice, however the dish
didn’t contain much pineapple. There
are various other vegetarian dishes
which you may also like, such
as asparagus with straw
mushrooms and cloud
ear mushrooms -
this dish sounds
extremely exotic,
it may be worth
asking the waiters
what a particular dish
is like if you are curious.
If you want them to decide
what you’re going to eat there
is a vegetarian set meal, you seem
to get a lot of food and it is relatively
cheap. It includes dishes such
as spring rolls, beancurd and seaweed
- however it doesn’t appear to include
any Dim Sum, so you might want to
get this as well. For the carnivore in
you, I have been told the fried crys-
tal prawns are definitely worth trying,
but if seafood isn’t your thing then the
fillet steak with black pepper is also
a flavoursome dish well worth a
try.
For something to refresh you
after all that food, the Chinese
green tea is exceedingly
good value at just
50p per cup,
with
free refills. Not only is it ridiculously
cheap but it also adds to the Chinese
feel! If you don’t fancy tea there are
plenty of other traditional Chinese
drinks, not to mention the Chi-
nese beer which, unsur-
prisingly, is slightly
more expen-
sive. So all in all, I felt this place rep-
resented pretty decent value and was
definitely worth the visit.

