32
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
x
Can Bangladesh develop independently?
Abdul Hannan from IC Bangladesh society on their recent debate and exploration of their country’s future
I
n 1971 Henry Kissinger famous-
ly labelled Bangladesh as “an
international basket case”, since
then the name has stuck. We’re
all very aware of Bangladesh’s
poverty, floods and susceptibility to
climate changes. In fact, Bangladesh
has contributed marginally nothing
to global warming, yet will be affected
the most, and most catastrophically.
In light of this we, the IC Bangladeshi
Society, thought it was appropriate to
put on a debate titled “Can Bangladesh
Develop Independently?” (held on 2nd
Feb. ‘10). For our event we had two ex-
perts of their field speak: Sandra from
BRAC, which is an international non-
governmental organisation (NGO)
and Mujib (a financial consultant). It
was a very refreshing talk and I think
the audience left informed. I’m writing
this article hoping that other societies
might take up points made in the talk
and maybe discuss it further.
Mujib started the talk with a very
blunt refutation, saying “The title is
invalid. Bangladesh has no choice but
to develop, and develop independent-
ly.” He mentioned a survey (by Demos,
published in The Sunday Times, 6th
Dec. ‘98) which found that Bangla-
deshis were the happiest people on
earth; this survey was taken not too
long after a recent flood. I definitely
think this needed explaining, and so
“this is because all that the people re-
quire is some land to farm on, and it
just takes one season to re-grow your
crops”. The people are Muslims, they
have faith in Allah and what He pre-
ordains for them, and they start to
plough the land again.
Sandra’s take on the debate was
that “although Bangladesh is an over-
whelmingly Muslim majority country,
there are many non-Muslims too; all
have their own cultures and deep-root-
ed practices. Bangladesh is becoming
modern by the day, but is steeped in
the past. Bangladesh should develop,
but not in isolation.”
From here on the debate became
very frank and detailed and I think this
is where, I for one, would like to see
further events on the international role
in keeping countries like Bangladesh
dependent on foreign aid and interfer-
ence. Accusations were made against
the likes of the IMF, World Bank and
other donors which give loans with
strings attached in the guise of Struc-
tural Adjust Programmes (SAP) and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers
(PRSP); all of which end up recuper-
ating the money (and more) for the
donor countries through consultancy
fees!. Bangladesh in general hasn’t suf-
fered from the international recession
(as it’s not big on the international fi-
nancial market). One way of making
Bangladeshis feel the recession is to
make them take up small loans, but in
large numbers. This is done through
NGOs (like BRAC and Grameen Bank)
through micro-credit and -finance;
heavily encouraged by rich Western
nations. Accusations were levelled
against USAID which seeks to create a
dependency on US foreign aid and spe-
cific products from a grass-roots level;
one example being the Vitamin A De-
ficiency (VAD) programme. Through
the VAD programme, fortified flour, oil
and milk is sold through NGO shops to
the locals; of course the Vitamin A can
only come from the USA.
The government of Bangladesh didn’t
escape from being lambasted in the de-
bate either. If all the people require is
a piece of land to sweat and toil over,
then why is the government of Bang-
ladesh withholding 3.4million acres of
land from the public? For whose ben-
efit is it being withheld? Karl Marx got
a bashing too and the concept equality
(pushed by Communists) was refuted,
in that “people are not equal, everyone
is unique and have different talents”.
We had a good audience-participation
but a question which came up and
again was that “Can the Khilafah (Is-
lamic State) be established in Bangla-
desh?” and “How realistic is it to call
for Islamic solutions to Bangladesh’s
problems?”
In conclusion: I think we all agreed
that for people to be independent they
need a vision; the public need to buy
into that vision and the leadership need
to drive the people with objectives in-
line with that vision. Inevitably this
will mean that some will become your
friends and some, your foes; you can
allow foreign advice, but not foreign
interference. If Bangladesh can do this,
then yes, it can develop independently.
ChemSoc and Joe Rumer raid college archives under Sherfield
S
ome say there’s a nuclear
bunker under the Queen’s
Lawn, others say there are
filing cabinets full of old ar-
chived papers. I don’t know if
either is true, but I do know if you head
down some empty corridors in Sher-
field you will come to a large model of
a fish, some chemical samples from the
1800s and a picture of how beautiful
our college was before they knocked
down the buildings that once framed
the Queen’s Tower.
This mysterious place is the college
archives, now you can’t nose about
yourself as you probably have dirty
undergraduate hands, but a very help-
ful lady can solve your qualms. And
ours was to find the original coat of
arms or crest for the Royal College of
Chemistry.
Bored of seeing a feeble pick axe
and hammer paraded by the common
manual labourers in the Royal School
of Mines we felt the need to establish
our illustrious history. After all, (ignor-
ing the unworthy medics) Chemistry is
the oldest department at Imperial, dat-
ing back to the founding of the College
in 1845. Being a Royal body one would
expect a glowing crest, like that of the
RSC with a beautiful lady, phoenix ris-
ing out of the fire and sexy benzene
ring.
Alas the College archives couldn’t
help us, but a bit of research lead us
to a blue plaque in Oxford St. on the
former site of the Royal College, which
sadly now is a Moss Bros. suit outlet.
Total fail. Snooping around our own
department found very little too, even
the foundation stone of the original
College (which now sits happily in
RCS1) has no emblem.
And then we found it: on the original
lecture notes of August von Hofmann,
the first Professor of the Royal Col-
lege, a couple pages in after a picture of
another lady (less beautiful this time),
was printed a small seal. To this day we
don’t know who the lady is, perhaps an
Ancient Goddess, or maybe just the
college secretary. But the ChemSoc
crest had been found…
‘The title is invalid.
Bangladesh has no
choice but to de-
velop, and develop
independently.’
The cover poster for the talk. Bangladesh is the home of micro-finance, one of
the keys to development and liberation for the poor
From the USAID website, a Bangladeshi pineapple farmer. He’s happy.
A mysterious girl, that once did Chemistry, and the ChemSoc crest has been found in Imperial’s archives.
Trawling through the junk.....

