felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
12.02.10
Continued on page 39
IC Equestrian Club deliver near-faultless performance
Ilse Daly Equestrian
On a miserable, rainy day and far
too early in the morning, the Impe-
rial College equestrian first team made
their way into deepest darkest Surrey
to compete in the first of the BUCS
league equestrian competitions. The
event was a four-way fight between
universities Surrey, Brunel, Royal Hol-
loway and of course Imperial.
The Dressage phase got underway
with team member Ilse Daly riding a
little horse with rather too much en-
ergy for its own good. None the less,
the Dressage test (hastily learned from
a copy scrawled on the back of a phys-
ics problem sheet) was fairly calm and
collected, with only a few additional
sideways manoeuvres! Mikaela Bryant-
Meisner was allotted the largest horse
in the competition by far, who was
also feeling a tad excitable. However,
Mikaela managed to remain perfectly
calm and rode a beautiful test. She
also managed to find the brakes, which
was more than some of the later rid-
ers managed. Katie Lawrence’s horse
was none too helpful either; having
the opposite problem to the one face
by Mikaela- this time the hand brake
was permanently on. However, after
an exhausting ride, involving no small
amount of cajoling, Katie produced
an excellent test well worthy of a true
Dressage geek. Last to go from Impe-
rial was team captain Andre Wilmes,
and his horse, a rather grumpy fellow,
didn’t stand a chance of misbehaving!
Riding by far and away the best test of
the day, his score cinched Imperial’s
domination of the Dressage. At the end
of the first round, IC had a grand total
of zero penalty points, meaning the IC
riders were the best riders on each of
their individual horses. Trailing behind
them came Royal Holloway with 42,
then the host team Surrey with 54 and
finally Brunel with 64.
The show jumping phase was accom-
panied by a relentless freezing drizzle,
but did nothing to dampen the (in
some cases competitive) spirit of the
IC team. However, the jumping course
built by the venue certainly caused no
small amount of trepidation amongst
the more Dressage-oriented of the
team members. Nor did the fairly bad
behaviour of the competition horses
when shown the course!
First to go from IC was Andre riding
an unfortunately clumsy beast. At the
end of his round, he amassed a number
of poles on the floor, but luckily the
horse was consistently lazy, perhaps
more so for the other riders, and An-
dre’s enviable jumping style held him in
high stead to gain 0 penalty points. The
pony Mikaela rode was, in contrast to
Andre’s, rather feisty and she whizzed
around the course in true show jump-
ing tradition, but had an unfortunate
clip of a pole. Next was the turn of the
Dressage riders. Katie’s horse was both
impeccably behaved and ridden to gain
the first clear round for IC. Unfortu-
nately, she was just 1 style point behind
a show jumper from Surrey. The last
rider of the day was Ilse whose horse
had worryingly put his rider on the
floor while being shown the course. It
was with no shortage of nerves that
she rode her round. Luckily, the horse
seemed to have let off enough steam to
be surprisingly ridable, which gave IC
a second clear round and the highest
jump style points of the competition.
Silverware up for grabs
Mustapher Botchway Football
Imperial’s season since the start of term
has been much like that of the begin-
ning of the previous term; indifferent.
With the prospect of winning three
trophies, the BUCS South Eastern 3A
Conference, the ULU Challenge Cup
and the BUCS South Eastern Knock-
out Cup, all fixtures from 13 January
on are (well, were) must win games.
As previously reported (Issue 1450),
Reading University dashed the chances
of succeeding LSE 1st XI as BUCS Cup
victors.
Next up was a ULU Challenge Cup
Quarter-Final against SOAS. Previ-
ously unbeaten, this was a tough game
in which Imperial battled valiantly to
secure their first clean sheet of the sea-
son, winning 2-0 to set up a Semi-Final
clash against RUMS (UCL Medicals)
1st XI.
As the hopes of winning the ULU
Premier Division were over since their
disappointing, unexpected loss against
UCL 3rd XI in the last game of 2009,
captain Mustapher Botchway is using
the remaining games to experiment
with the team and give some 1st XI ex-
perience to some well deserved 2nd XI
players.
A disappointing 1-all draw against a
frankly average St Barts (Queen Mary
Medicals) further displayed the incon-
sistency of the team.
Quality was restored on Wednesday
3 February when Imperial moved to
joint top of the BUCS conference after
a comprehensive 4-2 victory against a
strong St Mary’s 3rd XI.
Last weekend brought a ULU League
tie against RUMS. This, a precursor
to the semi-final meant that it was all
to play for with the victors going into
the forthcoming tie as favourites. After
dominating possession for most of the
game but not finishing off their chanc-
es punished Imperial as they suffered a
2-1 loss. With both teams raring to win
some silverware, the Semi-Final is set
to be a tense encounter.
Two days ago, an away fixture to the
4th XI of St Mary’s presented an op-
portunity for Imperial to move three
points clear of the BUCS conference.
Similar to the RUMS game. a 2-1 loss
restored the ‘topsy turvy’ nature of the
1st XI’s season.

