6 felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
COLLEGE’S
MOST FAMOUS
GEEKS
W
hen the gong sounded,
everybody cheered, for
Imperial College Lon-
don had won!
That was in year 2001, when the Im-
perial team - Siegfried Hodgson, John
Douglas, Captain Gavin Estcourt and
Alexander Campbell – defeated St.
John’s College, Oxford by 250 points to
195 points, leaving in their wake Cran-
field University, Durham University,
Manchester and Hull.
In 2002, Imperial valiantly defended
the title, but lost out in the eleventh-
hour of the final to Somerville, Oxford
by a margin of only 15 points. Since
then, Imperial College School of Medi-
cine have twice put on a show, but Im-
perial as a whole sadly dropped off the
radar for the while... until now.
Monday, 7th September, 2009 saw
Ciarán Healy, Simon Good and Ben-
edict Nicolson, captained by Gilead
Amit with reserve Edward Brightman
officially press the buzzers for the first
time. For their first appearance on the
39th series of the programme, they
were accompanied by a felix cat.
In the first show, our team accu-
mulated 175 points to University of
Southampton’s 135. In round two, the
team completely outclassed St. Hugh’s
College, Oxford with an utterly fabu-
lous 280 points to the opponents’ 80.
Quarterfinals. For those who have
been living under a text- or lab book
all year, each team must win two quar-
terfinal clashes before proceeding to
the semi-finals. Against University of
Edinburgh, Imperial produced an awe-
some 240 points to their 110.
As we eagerly anticipate the boys’
next move, is it not time to
find out a little bit more
about the people be-
AS IMPERIAL’S UNIVERSITY CHALLENGE
TEAM LOOK TO SECURE A PLACE IN THE
SEMIS, JIA-OU SONG TALKS TO THE BOYS
hind the names? How do they know all
that sports and arts trivia? What meth-
ods did they use to prepare for the on-
slaught? And since when does Gilead
know so much about everything? We
hunted them down for your benefit,
and this is what we found out...
felix: University Challenge quizzes
vary wildly on content, how did you
prepare/do you know information on
topics that are not your ‘speciality’, i.e.
your course?
Edward: “Some team members did
more diverse A-level subjects such as
History and English, instead of just
the usual sciences, which helped a
lot. Other topics are a combination of
practice-questions from quiz books,
and an ability to make good guesses!”
Ben: “I’ve not done much specific
preparation outside my area. How-
ever every time I hear a hard fact,
like a name or date, I have put special
mental effort on trying to slot it into
my brain somewhere. In fact, I tried
a little reading up on things that non-
mathematicians might assume a math-
ematician knows. This is an area we all
dread: not being able to answer a ques-
tion in our area. Paxman often starts
a question ‘In maths...’, or ‘In physics...’
etc. It puts us on the spot.
In a sense Amit and Good, who both
study physics, had it easy; if they did
not know an answer to such a question,
then they could trust the other one to
jump in. However if neither of them
knew the answer then it just must be
particularly obscure question.”
Ciarán: “Personally I’m not sure it’s
possible to do much useful preparation
when it comes to learning things, due
to the sheer range of possible subjects
for ques- tions. However
there are things you can do in prepar-
ing for the quiz itself, being good at
guessing is important and that partly
comes with doing practice questions,
and we all improved our speed on
the buzzer by competing against each
other in practice. I was actually pret-
ty poor generally on my own subject,
chemistry, I’m pretty sure I got more
wrong than right on it. Partly it’s down
to the fact that I was only a first year, or
right at the start of second, when the
filming was done, and lots of science
questions – particularly for chemistry
– seem to come from more difficult
material later on. “
Gilead: “After every match we played
we promised that we’d definitely revise
before the next one. That never hap-
pened, of course, and so most of our
preparation came from informal quiz-
zing. When it comes to a show like
University Challenge, you either know
your general knowledge or you don’t –
what distinguishes teams is how good
they are at making intelligent guesses
and how fast they are on the buzzer.”
Simon: “We had sets of University
Challenge-style questions that we went
through as a team quite regularly, es-
pecially in the immediate run-up to
the matches. I think we used them to
familiarise ourselves with the format
of the show, rather than as a source of
new facts. Although a question we had
practiced the day before did come up
in one of our matches. I made very lit-
tle preparation individually – I did not
go trawling through encyclopedias or
anything like that. I just relied on what
knowledge I already had. I think a lot
of what I know comes from having had
wide academic interests as a child – in
fact, I think I picked
Gilead Amit
(Team Captain)
Age: 20
Course: Physics
Extra-curricular interests:
Writing for felix, getting involved
with Imperial’s vastly under-
appreciated Dramatic Society.
Which moment in UC so far are
you are most proud of?
Whether owing to modesty or a
genuine (though unsuccessful)
attempt at originality, we all
claim to be proudest of our close
encounters of the third kind with
Jeremy Paxman. And what the hell,
I’m no different. One of the definite
highlights of the series for me was
being able to talk to Jeremy Paxman
between takes, though having him
nonchalantly flirt with my girlfriend
was a little unexpected.
Although he was more than happy
to chat to us and very willing to sign
the umpteen autograph books and
nameplates that were handed to
him, he drew the line at a copy of
the Daily Mail I ironically asked him
to initial. After having persistently
worn down his principles, however,
I’m proud to say I now have a copy
of the Sun’s TV guide which bears
his signature.
How important is winning?
Winning a match on UC is
unquestionably a great feeling, but
I think you’ve lost something much
more fundamental if just being
able to take part doesn’t ring your
buzzer.
up most of my general knowledge
when I was younger.”
felix: Has Imperial contributed to
this width of knowledge in any aspect?
For instance, do you take any business,
language or humanities options?
Gilead: “One of my most cherished
beliefs – or in other words one of my
profoundest delusions – is that sci-
entists can be better-equipped to an-
swer questions on history or art than
any politics student would be to face
a question on quantum physics. Sci-
entists have a tremendous advantage
in that respect, and it gives me a huge
amount of pleasure that we were able
to show the world that four hard sci-
entists and a fuel cell researcher can
discuss Dante and Hobsbawm with the
best of them.”
Ben: “It is a great asset that Imperial
is in South Kensington, and generally
London. I enjoy being able to go to the
V&A and other museums in London.
One question was about a picture I had
literally seen the day before in the na-
tional gallery, although that question
has not been shown!”
Edward: “I did take Chinese evening
classes for a term but I do not know
how much that will have helped!”
Ciarán: “I am doing a humanities op-
tion, politics, this year, and I did one in
history last year. I am sure it helped a
little, although I have always been in-
terested in the humanities anyway, I al-
most chose to do a degree in history, so
I have picked up lots of bits and pieces
of information just from taking an in-
terest in things.”
Simon: “Besides physics, very little
I think, though that is no fault of Im-
perial’s – you’re meant to be given a
general knowledge of things at school,
not university. I do not take any non-
physics options.”
Watch Imperial take on St. Hugh’s, Oxford on Monday the 15th in dBs

