7
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A chance of failure
College Hardship Fund 2009
Money worries affecting your studies?
EU and Overseas students may be eligible for a grant from the
College Hardship Fund (home students can apply to the
Access to Learning Fund.)
We understand that despite careful planning some students may face
higher than expected costs or a financial emergency. In such
cases we may be able to assist with a small award from the
College Hardship Fund which could provide the additional
support you need to continue with your studies.
Autumn term application deadline: 19 February 2010
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Web: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/registry/studentfinancialsupport/hardshipfund
Email: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
Telephone: 020 7594 8122
Age: 20 Course: Physics
Extra-curricular interests:
Walking, reading, music, politics
Which moment in UC so far are you are
most proud of?
Perhaps getting the first starter question of our
first match, broadcast last September. Having a
photo taken with Jeremy was a proud moment
too.
How important is winning?
It is fairly important, and it is/was always our
goal, but (although it’s clichéd) the experience
of taking part was important too – the
excitement of the matches and being filmed for
TV were great.
Simon Good
Age: 21 Course: MSci Maths
Extra-curricular interests:
Member of IC radio, Arabic language, cycling
Which moment in UC so far are you are
most proud of?
Sitting next to Paxman while having our make-
up done.
How important is winning?
We are progressing much further than I
imagined. Admittedly, I did not even think we
would make being on television. So I already
feel proud of how we have done, anymore will
be a bonus. So, to answer the question, it is not
very important.
Benedict Nicolson
Age: 19 Course: Chemistry
Which moment in UC so far are you are
most proud of?
When I got a few starters in a short space of
time, particularly the set of World Cup football
questions I answered. There is a certain level
of obsession with regards to facts and figures
amongst some sports fans, which can become
quite competitive, so I was pleased that I
managed to pip the football fans on the other
team.
How important is winning?
As with any competition the point is to win,
that is what you are there for. However when
it came to this one, knowing that it was going
to be televised, there is a certain element of
not making a fool of yourself, which I think I
managed to avoid.
Ciarán Healy
Age: 25 Course: PhD research in Fuel Cells
Extra-curricular interests:
Music (Orchestra and A-cappella singing), and
lots of other things I do not have time for.
Which moment in UC so far are you are
most proud of?
Getting a photo with Paxman.
Tell us something other people did not
know about you, e.g. a secret talent:
I can knit...
How important is winning?
IT’S EVERYTHING!!!!!!
Ed Brightman

