9
felix FRIDAY 12 FEBRUARY 2010
L
ast year the lives of the
people of Gaza changed
dramatically for the worse.
1400 were killed, many
more homeless and des-
perate with short supplies. Last week,
Imperial College was educated about
Gaza. The aim of ‘Gaza Week’ was to
inform us (Joe Public) of the impor-
tance of supporting the people of Gaza
who are in need of our support. The
AhlulBayt society took it upon them-
selves to promote this worthy cause.
Unfortunately, the opportunity was
squandered and what positive effect
they might have had was lost under a
platform of hate. The stall which was
set out everyday with the supposed
aim of informing students about the
situation in Gaza was covered with
leaflets and fliers about the “Palestine-
Israel” conflict with several different
fliers demanding a boycott of Israel.
As an inquisitive bystander I wan-
dered up to the stall to ask the people
manning it why, if they were going to
talk about the conflict surrounding
the situation, did they not mention
some key facts? For instance, the very
reason why Israel took the action they
did, whether you agree with it or not,
was because over 8,000 rockets in 8
years had been fired from Gaza and
fallen onto Israeli soil. The towns of
Sderot and Ashqelon, and surround-
ing areas in the Negev were terrorised
with these bombardments to such
an extent that tens of thousands fled
in fear. There are children living in
Sderot who have never played outside
because of the fear of what could hap-
pen to them if the 15 second warn-
ing went off and a rocket hit. In fact,
why wasn’t it mentioned that rockets
are still being fired from Gaza? Gi-
lad Shalit, an Israeli soldier, was kid-
napped and taken into Gaza by Hamas
on the 25th of June 2006 and still has
not been returned to Israel. Hamas
have refused the International Red
Cross to visit him contrary to Interna-
tional Human Rights. A plain obvious
fact absent from any of the informa-
tion provided was that Gaza shares
a border with Egypt. If a boycott on
Israel is called for in order for them
to open up the borders then it would
only be fair and correct if a boycott of
Egypt was also called for.
Upon closer examination of these fli-
ers, it wasn’t just that they were one sided
but they also had factual inaccuracies (a
nice way of saying lies). Misquoting UN
resolutions; not mentioning one suicide
bombing when talking about the Intifa-
das, failing to mention Israel’s unilateral
withdrawal from Gaza with the hope for
peace, to name a few.
The one possible redemption for this
waste of trees was “The Gaza Massa-
cre one year on...” event. In terms of
its title I was already suspicious that it
wasn’t going to be very Israel friendly,
yet my hope would be that it would at
least promote the Palestinian cause in
order for progress to be made.
The attendance of this event was
slightly er...shvach to use a Yiddish
term and just as well because the
quality of content was worse. The
first of two speakers, Raza Kazim, a
senior speaker from the Islamic Hu-
man Rights Commision, had one
main message: “Are we going to stand
with the oppressed, or are we going to
stand with the oppressor?” In fact he
liked this phrase so much he had it on
his T-shirt just in case we didn’t get
the message the first time. His black
and white view of the conflict not only
showed his naivety and ignorance, but
also simplified the conflict to such an
extent he missed out the basic facts
which I mentioned above.
So passionate was he on human
rights and the cause he was promoting
(which veered off helping those suffer-
ing in Gaza and went onto boycotting
Israel) he proclaimed: “Sometimes in
order to uphold the law and to make
sure that the spirit of the law is actu-
ally preserved we need to sometimes
break the laws that are actually there
and we need to, as a result of breaking
that law be prepared to suffer the con-
sequences of having broken that law.”
Now I’m no pacifist when it comes to
speaking out against wrongs but is
this what a senior spokesman of the
Islamic Human Rights Commision
should be encouraging us to do?
The next speaker who was dressed
more formally in suit and tie and who
spoke very eloquently indeed was
Toufic Machnouk, the associate direc-
tor of the Institute for Policy Research
and Development. He had a few years
ago visited the College, linking what
was happening to the Palestinians with
the Holocaust and he didn’t disappoint
this time round either. The Holocaust,
which resulted in the death of over six
million Jews as well as blacks, gays and
gypsies, was an event which if educated
about goes beyond the simple numbers.
It was the dehumanisation of a people
to not even animals. Those that don’t
understand why the Holocaust can in
no way be compared with the situation
in Gaza and the Palestinians, should
go visit Auschwitz, Birkenau , Bergen-
Belsen, Majdanek, Treblinka etc... all
the different concentration camps and
death camps. To desensitise what the
Holocaust was in order to score politi-
cal points is disgraceful and an insult
to those that perished and those that
survived.
Not only did he equate the Holo-
caust with the events in Gaza but he
was very keen to talk about the “Jenin
Massacre” where it was believed that
the whole refugee camp of Jenin had
been wiped out by Israel, where in fact
nothing of the sort happened and was
shown to be a complete lie.
Lie after lie and quotations taken
out of context were used freely in his
very persuasive presentation. The sad
thing was that the amount of time he
spent talking about the plight of the
Gazans was minute compared to how
long he spent demonising Israel and
its people. Another lost opportunity
to talk about a necessary cause.
In a time where dialogue is neces-
sary to promote strong connections
between two sides it is irresponsible
and extremely divisive for such hate
speech to be brandished. It is time for
the people who take sides to under-
stand and talk about both sides ma-
turely. Israel is not a perfect country
but which country is? Why is there not
a call to boycott the countries which
murder homosexuals, oppress women,
ban freedom of speech and freedom
of expression? On the contrary, we
should be investing in both sides in or-
der to forge strong bonds and to reach
a state of unity between two people.
Maybe next year Gaza week will take
on a different stance, one to strive
towards positive rather than burying
their heads in hate.
StephenLongon the proposed smoking ban
T
he other week, the idea of
banning smoking in our
Union Quad was mooted.
On Monday, a proposal
will be made to the Coun-
cil to pass this into Union rules. This
appears to me to be very ill thought-
out, and hopefully after reading this
article, it will to you too.
To begin with a disclaimer: yes, I do
enjoy having an occasional cigarette
with my pint, and my face will be
amongst those on the benches shiv-
ering the winter through. But my ob-
jection to a ban goes beyond “I’m too
lazy to leave the quad to smoke”.
The paper intends to be acting for
the welfare of Union members, by
discouraging them from smoking,
and also allowing non-smokers a
more pleasant environment. It says
that smokers block the entrances,
restricting access. It also states that
since the 2006 national smoking ban,
bar takings have actually increased,
with the implication that a further
increase will result from a total ban.
At the moment, smokers usually
sit on the benches on the north side
of the quad. Generally, there is little
conflict of smokers and non-smokers,
as it’s usually too cold to go outside
for no reason. Even come the summer,
people are generally decent enough to
respect each other’s rights, both their
right to smoke, and their right not to
be forced to breathe other’s smoke.
Everything is fairly peachy.
Banning an activity will never stop
its practice, merely move its location.
The consequence of a ban would be
that people would have to go out onto
the street to smoke, most likely Prince
Consort Rd. I doubt this small incon-
venience will persuade anyone to give
up smoking (more likely they will
give up coming to the Union). What
is inevitable is a sizeable crowd out-
side the main gates. This will restrict
access worse than the present situa-
tion. Smokers and non-smokers alike
will have to barge their way through a
crowd of (in all likelihood) drinkers, a
poor welcome to our Union.
There will be a constant flux of
people entering and leaving the Un-
ion, increasing the workload on the
door staff. It will also bring loud
talking right under the noses of Beit
residences. At least only the rear
bedrooms are currently disturbed
by the nocturnal activities at the Un-
ion, moving smoking to the street
will bring similar disturbances to the
front bedrooms. There would also be
a huge increase in litter on the streets,
souring our relations with neigh-
bours and the council. Also, policing
this ban would fall to the stewards,
who already have their work cut-out
with the thankless task of keeping us
all safe whilst we drink. I think these
effects would far outweigh the bene-
fits of a smoke-free quad, and maybe
few less smokers.
I think the overall result of a ban
would be more work for Union staff,
more disturbances for more Beit resi-
dents and greater inconvenience for
non-smokers, with very few people
actually giving up and at the cost of
some loss of custom. A ban would
simply be counter-productive, de-
spite being (laudably) intended to
improve students’ lives, in fact, there
will be a net decrease in the overall
quality of life.
As a further point, I don’t think it is
the Union’s place to be dictating our
lifestyle choices, and doing so on the
grounds of health seems incongruous
in a place with frequent “all you can
drink” bar nights. I urge you to think
about the consequences of this ban,
and don’t allow it to pass Council.
Ben Gross on missed opportunities
“Banning an
activity will never
stop its practice,
merely move its
location.”
“...the Holocaust
can in no way be
compared with the
situation in Gaza”

