BOOKS
FRIDAY, 28TH
FEBRUARY, 2020 FELIX
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22
Notes to a fresher: What would you say to a fresher?
The work and the deadlines will pile up, and
the stress will seem almost unbearable at
times. But Fresher I want you to know that I
will feel your pressure too. I will creak under
the weight we both feel, but my back will re-
main strong to support you even as you try
to break yours. It will be tough Fresher, but I
shall remain soft for you.
I don’t ask for your appreciation, I just hope
that you will warm to me as I am certain to
warm to you.
Chair xoxo.
-Anon
4th
Year Electrical Engineering
Hey you!
Get to Bessemer. It’s a big glass building with a vile pink entrance. Have you got it? Good.
Hi, I’m the mannequin on the fourth floor. At least I think it’s the fourth floor, never been out of
this room. Don’t even really know why I’m here but I’m pretty sure I’m being held against my will.
They’ve taken my arms and my legs, most of my organs and half my face. Who knows what’s next?
You out there, you have everything before you and I hope most of your body parts to help you
along the way. Maybe you’ll help someone hold a pen and write again.
Or help them walk and run again. You’ll tinker in your lab and moan and sigh but eventually, may-
be, you’ll grow a heart for them. Maybe, now that I’ve gifted you all this heartfelt crap, you’ll find it
in your heart to save me from death, destruction or worse, first year labs.
Lots of love,
Xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxox Manny the Mannequin
-Anon
3rd
Year Bioengineering
To EIE first year,
Our removal from this space arrives, leaving you with gaps and your own stark limits. We seek your
improvement, and offer advice from our experience of your previous versions:
· Those of us remaining shall fall short of your inexplicable expectations - so attempt patience, as you
have tried everything else.
· If you do not succeed, trying again must involve a significant change, not simply frowning first.
· Halt your procedure immediately when late, not after your misconception of a minute.
Congratulations! You evidently cannot learn these yourself, so resume improved,
Lab 3 Computers (Departing)
-Harriet Humby
3rd Year Electronic and Information Engineering
You turn me over and over, your fingers slid-
ing over my smooth surface. Imperial College
London, right next to your face; the face of who
you were. You scoff at the warnings not to lose
me. You smirk at the tales of your predecessors,
forced to trek to security, barefoot through the
night.
You would never be so foolish.
We’ll grow accustomed to the habitual pock-
et pat whenever we leave your room. But the
day will come, the quiet click of the lock will
sound, a deafening reminder of the forgotten
routine. An untethered symphony of profanity
will erupt, and in that one eternal instant you
will realise; you are so foolish.
-Leo C.
3rd
Year Mechanical Engineering
All icons are obtained from Icons8 // Icons8
Here are some more answers from Creative Writing students - Freshers, you’ve been warned

