Nominations closing.
Union Page
Meet the candidates
Spring Carnival tickets are on sale now!
Last chance to stand
#icuElections
Nominations close today, noon Friday 28 February. If you’ve been thinking
about running for a position and you’re reading this before the deadline, submit
your nomination before the close of nominations.
There are plenty of positions available to you, regardless of your year, campus
or experience. Why not stand for an Officer Trustee position, such as Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies). Or consider a Liberation & Community Officer
role, such as Disabilities Officer, Interfaith Officer, LGBT+ Officer or Mental #icuElections
LIVE DEBATE
ELECTIONS
15:00, Wednesday 4 March
Metric, Beit Quad, South Kensington Campus
Facebook livestream @imperialcollegeunion
Submit your questions here:
imperialcollegeunion.org/electionsdebate
Propaganda are taking over Metric for Spring Carnival 2020! Early Bird tickets
have been released for only £3.00, and prices will increase when they sell
out. As voted by you, our Spring Carnival theme is 2000s, so expect massive
throwback hits and dance like its 2006.
Prep your matching velvet tracksuit, frost those tips, and whip out your Motorola
Razr because we’ll be giving away prizes on the night for best dressed. As
well as a huge set from Propaganda, you can also enjoy giveaways, DJ’s in
FiveSixEight, drinks deals, themed cocktails, and more! This is a night you do
not want to miss.
Get your tickets now at imperialcollegeunion.org/springcarnival20
Join us at the Elections Live Debate and meet the candidates standing inThe
Leadership Elections 2020. You will have the chance to ask questions of the
Officer Trustee candidates and other main positions, as well as find out more
about how the candidates plan to tackle issues concerning the student body.
Come along and ask your questions to the candidates, otherwise if you are
unable to make it, you can catch the livestream of the debate on our Facebook
channel: @imperialcollegeunion and ask your questions live on the day.
See you at Metric, Beit Quad, South Kensington Campus onWednesday 4
March, 15:00-18:00.
Health Officer. You could work to improve the experiences of these under-
represented groups of students and causes.
There are almost 800 positions available, from Clubs, Societies &
Project and Constituent Union committee members, to Academic &
Wellbeing Departmental Representatives. Submit your nomination at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections before the deadline.

