10
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
We’re doomed
As the UN Climate Change Conference
looms, are our attempts to slow global
warming too little, too late?
Barely a week goes by without another
scientific report and another batch of
headlines telling us yet again that the
Earth is doomed. Climate change has
become such a big issue in the media
that paradoxically it’s becoming hard
to take seriously and all too easy to
ignore. As selective hearing stead-
ily slides towards carefree impassiv-
ity, there is a real danger of forgetting
about global warming altogether.
We’ve all done it. You check the BBC
News website and see another gargan-
tuan lump of ice has fallen off Antarc-
tica. This promptly jump-starts a fit
of tutting suffused with a noble desire
to be the best friend the environment
ever had. After faithfully screwing
in your energy efficient light bulb,
you wake up the next morning all too
happy to throw away recyclables, leave
lights on all day and generally spew as
much carbon into the atmosphere as
possible.
But how much effect do these ac-
tions really have on what is evidently
a planet-sized problem? Some sci-
entists have suggested that our po-
tentially climate-changing chemical
emissions are offset by the Earth itself.
The Gaia hypothesis loosely describes
the Earth as one giant organism, and
is a theory often hijacked by those un-
convinced of climate change or other-
wise unwilling to change their ways.
In much the same way as the human
body will attempt to keep the temper-
ature of the blood constant through
certain physiological alterations, the
Earth is said to be composed of a se-
ries of feedback loops that keep the
atmosphere hospitable and conducive
to life.
This is a beautiful idea. It is beau-
tiful partly because it suggests an all-
encompassing compassion for all spe-
cies around the world, but mostly it is
beautiful because it means we can do
whatever the hell we want with the
planet without worrying about the
consequences. Mother Earth may be
a tolerant and forgiving parent, but I
fear the level of damage currently be-
ing done might be akin to pushing a
bottle of gin into her hand and poking
her with a stick.
Okay, so this problem isn’t going to
go away by itself. But as a race we’ve
developed the technical genius re-
quired to create computers, space
ships and deep-fried Mars bars. Surely
we have the know-how to come up
with a solution.
Paul Crutzen, a winner of the Nobel
Prize for Chemistry, has suggested a
radical solution involving using high-
altitude balloons to supplement the
stratosphere with sulphur. The sul-
phur particles would reflect light and
heat from the sun, effectively cooling
the Earth. His idea mimics the cool-
ing effects of volcanic eruptions and
seems a wonderfully innovative and
simple idea. We should, however, be
extremely apprehensive about any
such schemes of geo-engineering.
Among other things, his proposed so-
lution would lead to an increase in acid
rain, killing millions of fish and huge
amounts of plant life.
The fact is that at current rates the
global temperature is set to rise by any-
thing from 2-6O
C in the next 50 years.
Our children and grandchildren will
inherit a world being overwhelmed by
deserts, droughts and famine. So do
recycle, reuse shopping bags, buy food
without much packaging and turn ap-
pliances off instead of putting them on
standby. The small things really will
make a difference. I know the effect
of each semi-regurgitated warning be-
comes ever weaker as our apathy over-
comes our better senses. I just don’t
think that excuse will cut it.
JamesBeal
JamesBeal Science Reporter
Has the standard ‘polar bear in broken ice’ photo lost its impact through over-
use in the media?
Some think
plenty of time.
We think
use it wisely.
Thinking New Perspectives.
Credit Suisse is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate in its employment decisions on the basis of any protected category. To the extent permitted or required
by applicable law, a candidate who is offered employment will be subject to a criminal record check and other background checks before the appointment is confirmed.
© 2009 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Right now, graduation feels a long way off. So how can you possibly know which career path is right for you?
Our Spring Program has been designed especially for first year students – or second years on a four year course.
Joining either Investment Banking (including Fixed Income and Equities) or our support functions (which
include Investment Banking Operations, Information Technology and Finance), you’ll spend five days learning
about real life at Credit Suisse. Because it’s never too early to start looking ahead.
Take a closer look at www.credit-suisse.com/careers
Artificial penis engineered
It’s a tabloid headline writer’s dream
when a story such as this comes along.
The headline may only relate to a mi-
nor detail of the story, and it may be
‘selling out’ to exploit it in this way, but
at least it’s made you read the science
section for once rather than having you
just brushing straight through to find
the more entertaining parts of the pa-
per as usual.
But this is actually a fairly impor-
tant piece of work. The penis was en-
gineered in rabbits using cells from
the animals themselves. It enabled the
rabbits to use the new organs to father
baby rabbits.
Whilst the creation of a penis for a
rabbit may seem a little bit pointless,
it is the implication of such research
that matters, that of actually being able
to generate an organ using non-stem
cells. It helps take scientists closer to
creating other complex organs such
as livers and hearts, organs which are
quite possibly more critical for actual
survival.
The study was led by Dr Anthony
Atala of Wake Forest Univeristy
Baptist Medical Center’s Institute
for Regenerative Medicine in North
Carolina.
Dr Atala focused on the penis not
because of a deep-rooted obsession
with phallic objects, but because of
the fact that he is a urologist who has
for a long time specialised in disorders
and defects of the bladder and sexual
organs.
“That was the inspiration for this
work. We are seeing babies born with
deficient genitalia all the time. There
are no good options.”
Dr Atala’s team first created a scaf-
fold for the rabbit penis removing all
the living cells from it, leaving only
cartilage. They then took a small piece
of tissue from the penis of another rab-
bit and grew the cells in a lab dish.
The work took his team 18 years to
complete. “We had to find the right
growth factors, the right soup to grow
the cells in,” he said
The key thing about this research is
not that an organ was generated, but
that normal animal cells were used
rather than stem cells, which have the
potential to generate any cell type but
also whose usage in research is limited
due to the crazy ethical and religious
shit that accompanies them (especially
in America with all their fundamental-
ist nutters). But anyway, let us rejoice
in this quite seminal piece of work.
Functional penises now able to be grown from animal cells
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
18
The number of years spent
by Dr Atala in completing
his work on the Penis

