12
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
Warning!
Contains Rant
T
his place really pisses me
off at times. This place
being Imperial. Over the
few weeks of term this off-
pissing has been building
up, & it’s time to get it off my Chest.
Here is a brief summary of what I’m
moaning about. So I’m a Chemist, just
entered my second year. I live relative-
ly close to college, in Fulham, a half-
hour walk away. My general day will
go as follows; 9.00 till 11.00 lectures:
some dull lecturer teaching some dull
topic. Fair enough, I understand that
we have to cover the basics to be able
to move onto the interesting stuff, but
it feels like they are actively trying to
make them as boring as possible.
Then comes lab, 11.00 till 5.00. Ei-
ther a computer lab, where you spend
weeks in a dark basement computer
room playing with an annoying piece
of software just for the sake of it, or
proper lab – that in my opinion isn’t
too bad, it’s actually what I want to be
doing, as a Chemist.
Ahh, just had a nice productive-ish
day, maybe if you’re lucky, and didn’t
loose all your product to a rotary evap-
orator. Time to go home, and rela - ‘O
shit, we have another lecture. Dam!’
Seriously, who thought that 5.00 till
6.00 lecture would be a good idea?
Looking around the theater, it reminds
me of nap time at primary school, just
with more facial hair (Yes, chemistry
are a hairy bunch, and that’s worrying
when we have one of the highest male :
female ratios on campus).
Then I’ll go home, do some food
shopping, cook, eat, and before I know
it’ it’s 8pm. That leaves about two
hours before I have to go to bed be have
even the slimmest chance of getting up
in the morning. Yes, I admit it, I go to
bed at 10.00. So, I struggle through the
problem sheets, lab reports, thinking I
really couldn’t care less how the reduci-
ble representations can be expressed as
the sum of irreducible representations
(Don’t ask…).
What about the hour-per-lecture at
least we are told to spend looking over
our notes. If I did it on the night we
had had the lecture, obviously the best
time to do it, since it’s fresh in your
head, I’d be lucky to go to bed at 1am,
then miss the lecture’s next morning be
oversleeping – something I have done
far to often. How about at the week-
ends? Nope, afraid not, there’s lab re-
ports to be done.
They tell us this problem has been
addressed, and this year, reading
weeks have been introduced, to give us
that all-important time to review the
course’s. This week in fact. Brilliant,
you would think. Just what we need!
Until they go and set all the deadlines
for this terms major pieces of course-
work right at the end of the week. Be-
fore you know it, it’s Friday, and you’ve
only just figured out what an irreduc-
ible representation is, handed in an-
other mediocre piece of work, and no
review done.
You keep telling yourself that it’ll be
OK, and you’ll be able to pull it togeth-
er come exam. I’ve been telling myself
that since the end of term 1 year 1,
and nothing has so far changed. I feel
like I am constantly swimming against
strong currants, never managing to get
ahead, and barely keeping afloat.
Maybe when I decided to come here,
I should have known I’d have no social
life, no free time, no between-term
holidays & no fun for the next four
years, but I don’t remember seeing that
in the prospectus anywhere. Maybe I
am being naïve, and I’m sure a lot of
you are telling me to man-up, but I
know that I am not alone in my year.
Maybe again, it’s just chemistry that
unfortunately got it wrong, but I think
not. In the 2010 Times Good Univer-
sity Guide, Imperial ranks 3rd overall,
behind Oxbridge, but a sorry 58th in
terms of Student satisfaction.
Anyway, rant over. Ahh, feeling bet-
ter already. Now onto proper politics.
This week has, of course, involved
far more important issues than me
failing my degree. Sunday was Re-
memberance Sunday, Tuesday was 20
years since the fall of the Berlin Wall &
Wednesday was Armistice Day.
This week, we have seen World
Leaders put aside political differences
& past disagreemnts, to honour those
who have died defending freedom. I
am talking about the countless mil-
lions who have died in the numerous
Wars that have been fough in the name
of freedom. And Wars are still being
fought. There are currently 4100 UK
troops in Iraq, & 7800 in Afganistan.
It matters not whether you think the
Government was morally or legally
right or wrong to patricipate in these
Wars, all that matters this week is
our unwavering public support of our
troops in the difficult & dangerous job
they are doing.
The leaders of the UK, France, Ger-
many & Russia stood side-by-side,
with the US president on video-link,
Monday, at the Brandenburg Gate, the
site that has come to symbolise the fall
of the Wall. The 96 mile long Wall
was to seperate the enclave of Capital-
ist West Berlin from Communist East
Germany, to stop East Germans flee-
ing to a better life of democracy. The
razing of this wall has come to sym-
bolise the fight of the people over a
tyrannous regime. The ceremony on
Monday included a toppling of 1000
massive dominoes, along the course of
the wall, followed by fireworks, and for
some reason, a Bon Jovi concert.
So I’m sitting here trying to think of
some poigniant closing remarks, but I
can’t, & I’m tired & hungry, so farewell,
and have a good week.
Think this is total crap? Why not try
to do better? Email us at
politics.felix@ic.ac.uk
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor
Yemeni Rebels cross northern border to Saudi Arabia, and kill officer, prompting a military responce from the Airforce
Yemeni Rebels Bombed
The growing conflict inside the Arab
peninsula’s oldest multi-party democ-
racy has not exactly taken over world
headlines, even though fighting has
been going on between the central
government and rebel fighters for the
past five years.
With attention to the Middle-East
devoted almost entirely to negotia-
tions in between Israelis and Palestin-
ians, and the threat of a nuclear Iran,
it has been all too easy to completely
ignore less flashy, though by no means
insignificant altercations occurring in
the Gulf.
On November 4th, Yemeni rebels
crossed the country’s northern border
into Saudi Arabia, killed a Saudi officer
and claimed to have taken a strategic
mountaintop within the kingdom. The
very next day, Saudi aircraft report-
edly bombed strategic rebel positions
within Yemen, sparking anger and giv-
ing credence to rebel claims that Saudi
Arabia has been meddling in Yemeni
affairs. The Saudi government directly
disputed all accusations, claiming its
air force had only been deployed on
rebel strongholds within its own bor-
ders. What interest could a prosperous
Saudi state have in getting so deeply
involved in the sensitive affairs of its
close, markedly less wealthy and pow-
erful neighbour?
Despite taking power in 1978, Yem-
eni President Ali Abdullah al-Saleh’s
government has never exerted much
control outside the country’s main cit-
ies; rough mountainous terrain that,
as in Afghanistan, is notoriously dif-
ficult to police. That he has managed
to stay in power so long owes more
to his skill in manipulating, co-opting
and coercing rival factions and tribes
than the existence of any form of wide-
spread popular support. However,
with his government mired in corrup-
tion and revenues from oil dwindling
fast, he has found it increasingly diffi-
cult to satisfy demands in this fragile
juggling act. Perceived coziness with
Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia has
not helped feelings within the minority
Shia community, who view their radi-
cally conservative northern neighbor
as a pernicious cultural influence.
The clashes of the last five years pit
government forces against fighters
loyal to the Houthi family, a powerful
northern clan. They style themselves
as mujahideen, in the manner of the
guerrilla fighters who chased the Rus-
sians out of Afghanistan. Although
their chants and slogans suggest links
to more dangerous global jihadist
groups, most of their adherents belong
to the Zaydi sect, a markedly quietist
sect that is unique to Yemen. Confus-
ingly enough, Zaydis, who represent
a third of Yemen’s population, are in
general markedly well represented in
the Yemeni government; President
Ali Abdullah al-Saleh is himself Zaydi.
But his perceived ineptitude as a ruler,
his neglect of northern regions of the
country, and, perhaps more profound-
ly, long-held resentments over the way
he came to power (he overthrew the
clerical rule of a Zaydi monarch) have
bred and produced a radical Zaydi
group staunchly in opposition to the
central government; the Houthis.
Although the Houthis are less well
equipped than government forces,
the army’s ferocious yet unskilful ap-
proach to dealing with the guerilla
fighters (bombing and open artillery
fire) has resulted in significant civilian
casualties, with the counter-produc-
tive effect of turning local sympathy in
favour of the rebels. Guerrilla fighters
have quietly gained control of a few
strategic roads and positions, and a
general increase in lawlessness across
the country has begun to cause serious
concerns among international observ-
ers on the ability of the government
to run the country. Saudi Arabia is
especially concerned that a failure in
Yemen to contain Shia rebellion could
spill across the border and undermine
its own hitherto successful efforts in
quashing similar dissent.
Most significant perhaps is the sug-
gestion of regional power-games.
Houthi rebels accuse the government
of truckling to Sunni Saudi Arabia,
while the government maintains that
Shia-controlled Iran has quietly been
supporting rebel efforts. The possibil-
ity of a proxy struggle between Shia
and Sunni interests in the Arab world
would heighten stakes considerably,
with serious potential implications
for the rest of the world. Saudi news-
papers have described the problem as
a “mushrooming cancer”; something
that the entire surrounding community
of Yemenis, Saudis, and even Omanis
must deal with collectively. However,
without a strong central government
in Sana’a, chances for this happening
remain slim.
Anthony Maina
Anthony Maina

