14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
On My
Own...
LucyHarrold
LucyHarrold Arts Editor
I
’ve always had mixed feelings
about doing things on my own.
I definitely know that I don’t like
eating on my own as it makes
me feel sad and lonely, whereas I
prefer to shop on my own as I get more
done. The arts appears somewhere
between these two extremes. I used
to hate going to musicals on my own-
who can you chat to about the fit-ass
leading man and the catchy tunes?
So this week I tried out solo culture
by taking in Little Fish (review on the
page opposite). It was a spur of the
moment thing. I’d received an offer
of reduced price tickets through the
Finborough’s facebook group, and so,
after a fruitless day in lab, decided to
treat myself. Luckily I’ve been there
before so I didn’t have the embarrass-
ment of not knowing where anything is
and looking like a lost child (in my case
literally, I look about twelve). Once
I got into the theatre I began to reap
the rewards of being on my own. For a
start, there’s no having to hold the oth-
er person’s coat as they grab a drink. I
actually enjoyed not having anyone to
remark to because: a) I could concen-
trate on the show without feeling that I
had to check they were happy and, b) I
didn’t have them complaining at me for
constantly analysing everything from
the plot to the lighting. I don’t think
this works for every show - I could
never imagine going to the Rocky
Horror Show on my own or anything
that makes me look like a middle-aged
matinee lady. My flatmate loves to at-
tend arts events on her own, she thinks
it makes her feel cultured. I think I’ve
finally realised what she means.
This week we’ve got a bit of every-
thing to delight you. Caz Knight has
been to see John Baldessari’s new ret-
rospective at the Tate Modern. My last
memory of the Tate Modern is buying
a ridiculously tiny and overpriced cof-
fee but I guess we shouldn’t go to art
galleries for the caffeine fix. Christo-
pher Self has been waxing philosophi-
cal about I Am A Cat, a collection of
Japanese tales and we start a new fea-
ture: Science in Art and no, its not a
typo, this week’s is by my sister but it
was just too awesome to not put in.
Science as Art: Part 1
We take a look at art without leaving the comfort zone of science
L
evel four of the formida-
ble Tate Modern is a hive
of activity this autumn.
Visitors swarm to the neon
glow of its Pop Life exhibi-
tion following the controversy that
photographs of a naked, thirteen year
old Brooke Shields had to be removed
on the grounds that they overstepped
the line of what is acceptable. Just op-
posite, is the slightly less ostentatious
entrance to Pure Beauty, a retrospec-
tive of the work of American artist,
John Baldessari. This latest exhibition
coincides with the retrospective of Ed
Ruscha (reviewed here a few weeks
ago) almost next door at the Hayward
gallery; another Californian of similar
age.
Upon entering Pure Beauty, it is clear
why the parallels are drawn between
the two artists. During the seventies,
Baldessari painted words onto can-
vases which bring to mind Ruscha’s
fascination with letters and word-play.
While they might pale in comparison
to Ruscha’s bright, bold colours, Bald-
essari makes up for in humour. In one
work the artist has painted, in capitals,
Tips for Artists Who Want to Sell, in-
structing that paintings with bright
colours tend to sell better. This sense of
humour pervades all his work during
the seventies and eighties as Baldessari
challenges the way in which art has
hitherto been created as well as try-
ing to order and categorise the things
in our world. In one example of this,
Baldessari photographs all the cars
parked in a street so that one sees only
the colour of the car door and mounts
the pictures in frames in the order they
appear on the street to give the illusion
of a paint chart.
John Baldessari was one of the pio-
neers of conceptual art and, walking
through this collection, it is clear to
see where other artists have been in-
fluenced by him. His photographic
series, The Artist Hitting Various Ob-
jects with a Golf Club, capturing him
trying to hit inanimate objects to the
centre of the photo is mounted as a se-
ries of twelve (three by four) and recall
the work of the much younger concep-
tual artist, the South African, Robin
Rhode.
Another instance where an artist has
emulated Baldessari is Tracey Emin’s
burning of all her work in 1989 when
she decided to change her direction. In
1970 Baldessari conducted the ‘Crema-
tion Project’ of all his earlier works and
this act is commemorated in the exhi-
bition by an urn shaped like a book.
Not only did he kick start the notion
of conceptual art −where the process
is just as, if not more, important than
the final product − but Baldessari also
questions common art practices. The
notion of aesthetics is put into ques-
tion by a canvas upon which is painted
a statement declaring that we are pow-
erless with respect to whether we like a
painting or not: the aesthetic judgment
is made in a split second outside of our
consciousness. In order to eliminate
subjectivity, Baldessari photographed
his hometown of National City, snap-
ping away at random without ever
looking through the viewfinder. This
captured the city as it was without any
influence from the artist’s aesthetic
judgements.
This approach seems haphazard and
unconventional when compared to
what would have been standard prac-
tice at the time (Baldessari also got
others to paint some of his works such
as Commissioned Painting: A Paint-
ing by Anita Storck) but it makes for
pieces which make one laugh out loud
frequently and sigh in wonder at his
ingenuity.
The next stage of Baldessari’s career
is filled with images taken from the so-
ciety pages of newspapers, the faces of
the people obscured by coloured dots,
movie stills and collages. His later col-
lages made up of a collection of ap-
pendages are often unsightly and make
one miss his witty earlier works. But,
like Ruscha, Baldessari returns back to
common themes. The ‘clouds’ appar-
ent in Cigar Smoke to Match Clouds
That Are the Same make a reappear-
ance in Brain/Cloud artwork.
A huge brain is fixed to the wall of
the last room and visitors become part
of the art as they watch themselves
projected onto the opposite wall but
with a time delay, showing that while
Baldessari may have grown older, his
sense of humour is still well and truly
here.
Pure Beauty is at the Tate Modern until
10th January, entry costs £10 so treat
yourself to an early Christmas present.
Conceptual Art? Must be Tate Modern
Caz Knight challenges common art as she embraces the world of John Baldessari’s retrospective Pure Beauty
Those large coloured areas must be covering up some really ugly people
Medics, you can tell everyone you’re an artist! That’s one way to get the girls
T
his is from a series of
paintings looking at the
microscopic world inside
our bodies. Blood clots are
usually seen as something
a bit icky, but close up they’re really
quite pretty.
This picture makes me think of lots
of squishy rubber rings all piled up,
ready to take a dive through the blood
vessel. Or maybe some delicious rasp-
berry doughnuts. Art is all about the
using your imagination, so what do you
see? Answers on the back of a postcard.
The harsh attack of the yellow string,
instead of destroying the painting,
adds another dimension and makes us
realise how delicate our bodies are.
I think this painting shows just how
awesome the body really is; there are
millions of these floating around our
body and we don’t even realise the
beauty of them. And red blood cells
are just the beginning: the body is full
of little systems like this each with their
own beauty and wonder.
This week’s Science in Art is Blood
Clot by Lisa Harrold, 2009, acrylic and
string on canvas. Made any amazing
art w/science discoveries of your own?
Send us a picture and description and
we’ll show it.

