15
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Little Fish- A Parable For The Smokers?
Lucy Harrold finds it all smoke and no mirrors as she goes off-westend in search of good theatre and new shoes
L
et’s be honest, one of
the joys of reading a
book is getting to the
end. Standing over
your defeated oppo-
nent with a self-righteous smirk
of contempt is the main reason
anyone does anything and this
is no exception. It doesn’t matter
how much you liked the book, how
much you engaged with the plight
of the characters or how compel-
ling the fiction; at the moment of
completion you cast it asunder and
light a cigarette like you just aced a
maths test. Or so I thought.I recently
read a book by Sōseki Natsume called
I Am a Cat. Attracted by the quirky ti-
tle I bought it on a whim and it sat on
my shelf until late summer boredom
reached critical point and I was forced
to start reading books and revising
school work. So, I picked it up and read,
and read, and then it was over. It’s by
no means a short book but it’s the most
remarkably readable piece of prose I’ve
ever come across. And when I reached
the end the glory of my conquest was
the last thing on my mind, lost beneath
the waves of sadness that it couldn’t
simply go on forever.
The book itself is a translation of a se-
ries of articles published in an influen-
tial Japanese literary magazine, Cuckoo,
over the early years of the 20th century.
Within them, Natsume follows the life
of an unloved, unwanted, wandering
kitten who spends his days observing
the human world and commenting on
human nature. Set in a time when Japan
was at a crossroad struggling to retain
independence from the encroaching
European empires. The Meiji era saw
an explosive period of modernisation
where Japan’s borders were opened
to the world and an influx of western
values and fashions inevitably ensued.
This allows Natsume to give a rare
objective analysis of the culture upon
which our modern world is built and
the often incongruous juxtaposition of
western values and eastern spirituality
that the cultural revolution of the 1960’s
brought back our way.
I could quite literally talk for days
about the stories themselves; with their
surprisingly modern style of the humour,
cynical deeply philosophical feline nar-
rator and perfect cast of characters. But
I won’t because, while I would recom-
mend it to anyone, plugging I Am a Cat
isn’t my main goal here. At Imperial we
get a lot of work and too often we let that
get in the way of less important things,
like being happy or enjoying ourselves.
This of course leaves absolutely no time
for spiritual and philosophical develop-
ment. Which is tragic since considering
most of us won’t become scientists it
means Imperial’s main impact on a lot
of our lives will be the deep-seated social
awkwardness and isolationist mindset
that permeates the campus. This should
not and need not be the case. Natsume’s
cutting analysis of people, religion, phi-
losophy and our modern world has
changed my view on a lot of things, not
least that it is possible to miss the read-
ing part of reading a book. Something I
had never questioned and here, at last,
is my point. Don’t let the only questions
you consider at your time in Imperial be
scienific problems; look out at the world
and into your mind, read quirky books
and discuss Descartes not for his coor-
dinate axes but for his philosophy. After
all, you’ll need a world view much more
than you’ll need to know how to solve
that tricky second order partial differ-
ential equation.
I
arrived at the Finborough thea-
tre rather grumpily (no matter
how awesome cowboy boots
are, they should never been
worn to walk from Battersea to
Earls Court) to find I was the first per-
son there; well it was first matinee so
I didn’t expect a crowd. I had come to
see Little Fish- a small scale musical by
Michael John LaChiusa, a prolific if not
eminent writer in the off-Broadway
scene. I’ve always found LaChiusa’s writ-
ing a bit intellectual just for the sake of
being intellectual and not very riveting.
Therefore I was dubious about this pro-
duction but willing to be proven wrong.
The theatre has changed a lot since
I last went; the seating has switched
sides which makes a lot of sense as the
entrances are now on the same wall as
the set so actors do not have to pass by
the audience. The set itself was inno-
vative and made clever use of such a
small space- cupboards appeared from
nowhere, a bed was concealed within
a cupboard and even anonymous look-
ing frames became swimming pool
lockers. As has become the fashion
in off-West End shows, the band were
placed above the set which I always
find amusing as I enjoy watching the
musicians almost as much as the ac-
tors. And everything was in blue...
The title, Little Fish, was more than a
bit deceiving. The play actually focuses
on Charlotte, a thirty something New
Yorker who has just given up smok-
ing and her tales on how she got there.
The little fish is reference to both
Charlotte’s new hobby of swimming
and the feeling that we are all little fish
in a big world. It is propositioned that
Charlotte’s smoking habit is due to a
doomed relationship with Robert, her
college boyfriend. We see in flashback
that Charlotte ran away to New York,
made friends and developped relation-
ships. In the present, she is trying to
give up smoking and occupy her mind
with various new hobbies.
LaChiusa’s score is rich and intel-
ligent but ultimately forgettable bar
a few numbers. The opening number
Days got me rather excited- a multi
layered number with slight jazz in-
fluences and a Sondheim-like use of
rhythm to conjure up the idea of taking
the last puff. Another number that got
me excited was Perfect, sung by Kathy
as a plea to be treated as anything but
perfect. There were some awesome
harmonies and just clever lyrics and
music, another song I’d be interested
in performing. The benefit of writing
both score, lyrics and book are obvious
in the seamless way they combine
The storyline is quite flimsy- the
show is definitely more of a charac-
ter study than a plot driven musical,
yet the characters, besides Charlotte,
aren’t very well developed. Characters
pop in and out for one or two songs
seeming superfluous to the plot. Those
characters that do carry Charlotte
through the musical are her friends
Kathy and Marco. Kathy is at one
minute flighty and journeying to Peru
and the next minute, the most sensible
person in the room. The addition of
a cancer storyline right at the end of
the show seemed like LaChiusa sud-
denly remembering his Theatre 101
classes that all musicals must contain
tragedy. I don’t know whether my gay-
dar was failing or whether the writing
was failing but I actually thought he
was Kathy’s straight boyfriend to start.
Later on we find that Marco is in a vio-
lent relationship. This is, again, added
right at the end with no resolution but
is another tick in the box on LaChiusa’s
end of term Theatre 101 exam.
Despite the somewhat patchy writ-
ing, the cast were brilliant. Julia Wors-
ley holds the show together with an
understated but charged performance
as Charlotte and was well backed up
by Laura Pitt-Pulford playing a slightly
neurotic Kathy. Another standout was
Alana Maria as the cocaine sniffing,
boutique owner Cinder with an amaz-
ing belt and crazed energy that lit up
the stage. The direction was top class,
Adam Lenson’s use of the space was
ingenious especially in the swimming
and track scenes, portraying an entire
track or pool only 6 feet from the audi-
ence. Although somewhat puzzled by
it at first, I loved the use of spotlights
to move the story on and distinguish
Charlotte’s thoughts from her real
life. My only problem was then distin-
guishing flashback from the present
as these scenes are scattered through-
out play, whenever Charlotte is free
to think. The choreography was also
well thought out with some delightful
touches like the use of glitter covered
floats in a slight nod to Bob Fosse.
Overall, Little Fish was not a bad way
to spend an afternoon but just wasn’t
memorable enough - it lacked a sense
of urgency or just a big push to tell you
that this show will affect you beyond
the theatre. At times it did make me
think of Company- a similar charac-
ter study although the impetus in this
case is much stronger; the need to have
someone to love. Somehow smoking
just seems too trivial to base a musical
on it, and although it is just the start-
ing point for other stories and tales, it
doesn’t hold the show together.
Christopher Self takes a look at I Am A Cat, learns to enjoy himself and lets go of the Imperial social stigma
I Can Haz Japanese Literature Pleeze?

