21
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk TECHNOLOGY
Weekly Wrap-up: A quick guide to the best of the rest you might have missed
The war for neutrality rages
W
ith all the debates on
knobbly vegetables, it’s
easy to forget that the
European Parliament
plays a huge role in the way that we
all live. MEPs from all over Europe are
currently debating the proposed ‘Tele-
coms Reforms Package’, which will put
in place new laws to regulate the way
we use and access the Internet here in
the EU. In doing so they will decide the
outcome of the most important, yet
least reported, debate the Internet has
ever faced, about ‘net neutrality’. What
is decided now on net neutrality will
shape the way the Internet grows and
changes, and will ultimately affect the
way we work and play in the future.
OK it’s important, I get that, but what
the hell is net neutrality? Well simply
put, net neutrality is the principal that
all information on the web should be
treated equally.
‘Net neutrality is
the principal that all
information on the web
should be treated equally.’
Tim Berners-Lee, often credited
with invention of the web, defines it as
“the freedom of connection, with any
application, to any party”, meaning that
everybody should be able to use their
Internet connection without any sort
of limit to access whatever they want.
If you’re thinking that’s how it works
already, then you’d be right, but all that
could soon change.
Telecoms companies such as Virgin
Media in the UK, as well as Comcast
and AT&T in the US, have expressed
interest in limiting or blocking access
to certain websites owned by com-
petitors or charging website owners a
fee to have their site delivered at un-
restricted speeds to users as they are
at the moment. Those who couldn’t
pay would have traffic from their sites
slowed down through traffic shaping
or even stopped from passing across
the company’s network.
Hopefully by now it’s pretty easy to
see why net neutrality is a good thing.
Freedom on the Internet has been the
main reason that the web has grown
into the powerful tool we know today,
with surfers able to drive innovation
of ideas and technology from their
back bedrooms or garages. No-one can
doubt this innovative force when they
remember that Google, Skype, eBay
and Twitter, tools many of us use daily,
were all started by a regular person with
an idea.
Without a neutral Internet it would
make it hard for those sites to even
come into existence today as single
Simon Worthington reports on why your freedom to use the net as you choose is at risk
with the European Parliament considering a non-neutral Internet as ISPs line their coffers
developers struggle to pay the fees re-
quired to get their idea noticed.
Anti-neutrality systems would be
beneficial for the present day Google
and eBay though, as it would help to
stifle their competition and generally
reduce the competitiveness of the In-
ternet as a whole. Big companies like
Amazon could afford the prices to have
their service upgraded whilst smaller
companies offering the same home-
delivery services wouldn’t be able to pay
the money and keep low prices and so
would fall out of the market. This is of
an obvious disadvantage to me and you,
because loss of competitiveness would
hamper the drive to the low Internet
prices we know and love. Enforcing
neutrality across the web would help
ensure even small companies get a slice
of custom and so can make the market
competitive.
Another area in which the Internet
is often applauded is free speech, with
blogs providing a platform for any-
Google
acquires
AdMob
This week Google extended its ad-
vertising reach deeper into the mo-
bile market with the acquisition of the
mobile advertising leader, AdMob.
The purchase is reported to have cost
Google $750 million in stock, making
waves in the relatively small mobile ad
serving market. It’s important to note
that the mobile ad serving market ben-
efits from the lack of widely available
ad-blocking technology that plagues
the desktop market meaning that in
most cases each ad served is in fact
seen.
Google already had a mobile adver-
tising system in place that mimicked
it’s signature Google Adsense text ads
from the desktop. In purchasing Ad-
Mob, Google not only buys a signifi-
cant market share but also the technol-
ogy for mobile display ads. Google’s
VP of engineering, Vic Gundotra said
that acquiring the AdMob engineering
team was critical to Google’s accelera-
tion of its mobile ad efforts.
AdMob, which has good links with
content providers and the lucrative
mobile app space, will propel Google
to the forefront of the mobile sector.
Having Google leading the charge in
mobile ads may also see an expansion
of the market sector, especially with
Google’s tie-ins with its open-source
Android operating system. The mobile
app space, which has seen rapid expan-
sion on the iPhone and Android plat-
forms in recent years, has increasingly
seen ad supported programs provid-
ing a potentially lucrative market for
Google to have bought into.
set up a company to do it better. War-
Mouse is aiming this at the OpenOf-
fice MMO playing crowd and they
might go potty over it, but I think I’ll
stick to my trusty Logitech thanks.
This week Mozilla had a party to cel-
ebrate Firefox turning the big 5-noth-
ing. Yes that’s right, the browser of
choice for the web savvy, but Google
hating, user really is five years old. The
project which grew out of the death of
the Mozilla suite (aka Netscape Navi-
gator) celebrated its fifth birthday by
being crowned the vulnerability king
and not in a good way.
A recent study found that Firefox
suffered from 44% of the total vulner-
abilities affecting todays browsers.
Safari, which includes Mobile Safari
came in second and the normal culprit
of the browser wars Internet Explorer
came in at number three. The winner
in all this happens to be the least used
browser Opera.
Now I know there are Opera fanboys
about and for good reason, it’s fast and
reliable, but it goes to show there’s
safety through minority.
Speaking of vulnerabilities, this week
it’s emerged that there’s a new threat
from the computer virus. Your normal
everyday virus either wants to steal in-
formation from you, send out a load of
spam or turn your computer into part
of a botnet. Although that’s pretty in-
convenient and could potentially be
damaging to your finances or identity,
it doesn’t come close to causing jail
time for the infected.
A new type of virus has started to
crop up which paedophiles use to es-
sentially store their collections of kiddy
porn on your computer. Now this is
pretty disturbing just from the thought
of kiddy porn being on your compu-
ter and some hideous person access-
ing it for their ‘needs’. But you might
be shocked to know that it might even
lead to you facing a conviction for pae-
dophilia because who’s going to believe
‘a virus did it’ claim? It all comes down
to the fact that the exams that courts do
on your computer are costly and they
don’t like paying for them meaning
they’re often skipped. In essence un-
less you fork out a pretty penny for the
exam you could be convicted straight
up for having kiddy porn. So next time
you click on that .exe or browse that
dodgy website with the ‘free stuff’ just
think twice and always use protection.
NEC this week showed off its Tele
one and everyone to air their views on
whatever they want. There have been
countless examples in Internet history
where bloggers have made a difference
in the real world, in everything from the
revival of Family Guy to your screens,
to forcing the resignation of ethically
ambiguous US Senator Trent Lott. Eve-
ryone can contribute equally, and with
that comes choice and diversity. With-
out a neutral network the playing field
isn’t level any more. Rich commentators
would have more impact on discussion
because they wield the financial power
to get themselves a better quality of
service.
Thankfully, it’s not too late just yet
to do something about this. There are
several campaigns (Internet based, of
course) to fight for net neutrality, and
many of them have active petitions.
If you want more information, go to
www.laquadrature.net for the low-
down on net neutrality in Europe, and
also check out the rather corny sound-
ing www.savetheinternet.com. What-
ever you do, don’t just sit there, because
your freedom to browse, play and work
across the internet really is at risk. In
the end, the governments and commis-
sions have to listen to somebody, and
it’s either going to be us or the telecom
companies looking to line their wallets.
Who would you rather it was?
‘Whatever you do, don’t
just sit there, because
your freedom to browse,
play and work across the
internet really is at risk.’
fantastic enough, NEC aims integrate
this technology with real-time spoken
language translation which would give
the wearer the ability to read translated
text projected into their eye balls when
someone speaks to them in a foreign
language.
OK, I know that sounds a bit fishy,
but we’re nowhere near April and it’s
not inconceivable that with advances
in voice recognition, this kind of sys-
tem could revolutionise the way we
communicate in foreign countries.
For the time being NEC said the Tele
Scouter glasses could be implemented
using facial recognition to give sales-
men an overview of a particular clients
recent purchases.
NEC hopes to have the glasses tested
and available in November 2010. I just
hope they can build in a bit of Termi-
nator style augmented reality for the
ultimate wearable computer system.
Forget Layar and the other phone
based augmented reality apps, having
info beamed into your eyes is definitely
the way forward.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Another week in tech has passed us
by and what do we have to show for
it? How about the hideous looking
OpenOffice Mouse?
Featuring 18 buttons, 63 program-
mable profiles and even an analogue
joystick, this instant carpul tunnel sur-
gery inducing monstrosity is soon to
hit the stores for the bargain price of
£45. Obviously not a fan of the Mag-
icMouse, a World of Warcraft-loving
gamer decided his mouse didn’t have
enough buttons and went ahead and
Scouter glasses in Tokyo. The glasses
work by projecting information di-
rectly on the wearers retina provid-
ing a HUD type overlay. If that wasn’t

