23
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
Yet more reasons to stay on the sofa
The XBox Fall Update is here, with tweaks and goodies. But should you care? asks Simon Worthington
A
h yes, it’s that time of year
again. Leaves are falling
off the trees, the nights
are drawing in. Hallow-
een? Nope. Christmas?
Hell no! We’re due another Xbox
360 Fall Update of course! It’s been a
year since the New Xbox Experience
launched, and since then we’ve seen
downloadable games, an avatar store,
games on hard disk and many other
features besides, but this is the time of
year where Microsoft typically release
their latest and greatest developments
to the public at large. This year sees
the uncaging of a myriad of new so-
cial networking features, new ways to
access music and video and a number
of subtler changes to the Dashboard.
The update is reportedly happening in
November, so we can hope to see these
features in the next few weeks.
Whilst not strictly part of the Fall
Update package, some of you may
have noticed the new Sky Player has
dropped onto consoles in the past
week or so. From BSkyB (the satellite
TV people), it will allow you to watch
television channels and programmes
live on your console. The download is
free, you’ll need some kind of subscrip-
tion to actually watch any content: if
you’ve already got Sky with the multi-
room package then you can start view-
ing right away, but if you don’t have a
box or dish you can subscribe to the
online service whose prices start at £15
a month. People who can’t afford that
(all of us) are stuck with free access to
Sky News.
By far the most discussed new fea-
ture is Xbox Live’s new Facebook in-
tegration. One quick download will
allow you to log in to Facebook di-
rectly where you can access news feed
items, update your status and view
and comment on photos in a cool,
full screen slideshow mode. There
is, however, no support for videos or
any other applications so any dreams
of playing FarmVille on your 360 are
unfortunately scuppered. One of the
cooler aspects of this feature is that
“gamers will find
little of interest” compatible games can also post sta-
tus updates and even upload photos
or screenshots straight from the game
itself. The first game to support this
will be a future version of the Tiger
Woods PGA TOUR® series.
Twitter also makes its first appear-
ance onto consoles with an Xbox
screen allowing you to post tweets,
read the top fifty tweets from your
feed, browse by tag and also view tweet
trends. Actually typing tweets how-
ever is a massive faff because using the
controller is painfully slow, but this
can be alleviated by using the Chatpad
controller add-on or a USB keyboard.
Twitter, along with Facebook, can be
found in an all-new My Community
section of the Dashboard, which also
becomes home for all the Xbox Live
events that happen from time to time.
The last social networking feature
to look out for is integration with the
music discovery service Last.fm. Any
tracks available to play on the site can
also be played on your 360, and all of
your favourites and preferences are
brought down when you log in. The
familiar features are all there, includ-
ing the ‘like’ button, and this infor-
mation is also sent back to Last.fm
for synchronisation. Unfortunately it
seems unlikely that you will be able
to play this music outside of the free
download, so anyone wanting to play
Last.fm stations during games may be
disappointed.
Microsoft’s Zune music and video
service and Xbox Live have never re-
ally got along, but all that changes with
this update. Zune’s HD video shop will
allow you to rent 1080p quality mov-
ies on your Xbox, and will also allow
you to fully purchase movies for the
first time. Content is streamed in HD
directly so there are no lengthy down-
load times and purchased content
can be watched on the web or a Zune
Hah! Where’s your evolution of gamers gif now, science editors. That’s right. We’re all modern and social and hip.
“it takes the XBox
in a new direction”
HD device as well. Movies can also be
watched in party mode with friends,
allowing chat during the film.
Apart from a new music store for
music game downloadable content,
that’s pretty much the full selection of
features available this year. Microsoft
has clearly tried to take Xbox in a fresh
direction with this year’s update to
establish it as an all-round entertain-
ment console. Don’t get me wrong, all
the new video and music features are
pretty cool, but people who still only
want to use their Xbox to actually play
games will find little of interest in this
update. If these really are Microsoft’s
latest and greatest developments, it’ll
be interesting to see if come next year
they’ve got any tricks to pull out of the
hat at all.
The Gamers’ Voice - Videogames come over political
A
Labour MP stepped into
the discussion of Mod-
ern Warfare 2’s contro-
versial game sequences
this week by creating a
group on Facebook that he described
as “unashamedly pro-video games”.
Tom Watson, MP for West Brom-
wich East, started the group appar-
ently in response to Keith Vaz MP’s
comments on Modern Warfare 2 in
the Daily Mail, where he deemed the
game ‘shocking’ and said he was ‘par-
ticularly concerned about how realistic
the game itself looks.’
Watson’s group, titled The Gam-
ers’ Voice, only has a Facebook group,
where Watson himself admits that ‘I
don’t know how it should work’, but it
intends to bring the gaming commu-
nity into the political debate on games
and become part of the discussion.
Keith Vaz is well-known in British
politics for taking sides in the videog-
ames debate, claiming that the killers
of schoolboy Stefan Pakeerah had been
influenced by the videogame Man-
hunt. Amusingly, the investigation into
the murder concluded that the only
person involved who owned a copy of
the game was the victim himself, but
this has done little to dampen Vaz’s en-
thusiasm for games-bashing.
“Last Thursday, the British Board of
Film Classification gave a 15 certificate
to a video game formerly called “Bul-
ly”.” he told the Commons back in 2006,
“The game contains scenes of violence,
including scenes of players terrorising
teachers and students, teachers being
head-butted and the aggressive use of
baseball bats. Currys has banned it.
Given the link between video games
and a propensity to encourage violence
that some research has demonstrated,
will the Prime Minister convene a
meeting of stakeholders—including
representatives of the industry and
parents’ groups—to discuss the issue?”
The problem stems from Vaz’s claim
that research has demonstrated a link
between video games and an increased
tendency to violence. It’s a point made
again and again worldwide, but never
really investigated or pulled apart.
Hand-waving and vague assertions are
often made, and that’s all that’s needed
to convince people reading the Daily
Mail’s articles on Modern Warfare 2.
Watson’s group wants to solve these
problems, not through immature cam-
paigning and shouting but through di-
alogue, examination of the issues, and
a discussion of misunderstandings that
have already occured.
In this writer’s opinion, neither side
is really prepared to discuss the topic,
and Watson may have quite a job on
his hands. Parliament will be unlikely
to make large concessions in the face
of heightened media interest, which
the mass media always affords discus-
Keith Vaz has been critical of videogames - Watson hopes to challenge him
sion of violence in games. Similarly,
many games may find themselves un-
prepared for dialogue too.
Although the group - which has nine
thousand members at the time of writ-
ing - is full of enthusiastic wall posts
and messages of support, many gamers
are expecting a walkover, where poli-
ticians immediately see the light and
come to see gaming in the same way
that its proponents do. It’s the same
mistake that Vaz has made in the past
- the truth is that neither party is go-
ing to have an easy time. What Vaz has
failed to do in the past is make any con-
cessions. If gamers are willing to pro-
pose solutions and - crucially - accept
certain compromises, then we may re-
ally be looking at a brighter future for
the PR face of the games industry.

