FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
‘Banh xeo’. I guess it’s the Vietnamese answer to a French crepe. Just go try it.
Restaurant Review: Cay Tre worth it
I
magine you’ve been overindulg-
ing on fatty and greasy nibbles
and your body starts to cry out
for a good detoxing. Or if the af-
ter effects of a big night out on
the town start to wreak havoc on your
stomach and brain. Such times call for
light, refreshing, and if at all possible,
healthy meals. Few cuisines can truly
claim that they fit the bill for this situ-
ation, but in my opinion, Vietnamese
food is king.
The advent of 3 ‘Pho’ outlets around
London has got people talking about
cuisine from this former French colo-
ny, whose aromatic soup noodles and
fragrant rolls seem to satisfy many
Londoners’ cravings for health-con-
cious eating. Overall these little ea-
teries aren’t bad, but they don’t quite
stand up to the more authentic offer-
ings of the ‘Pho Mile’, an area which
for me consists of the eastern end of
Old St and a good chunk of Kingsland
Rd. This area has been known to food-
ies for a while, but I reckon it’s about
time it really got put on the map.
If you haven’t had Vietnamese food
in this area before, Cay Tre is a pret-
ty good place to start. I’m not one of
those who likes to stand outside and
watch the red buses career their way
down Old St, so if you’re like me, ad-
vance reservation is recommended
for dinnertime. As you’d expect from
a restaurant with hoards of expectant
customers outside pondering what de-
lights will fill their bellies, the service
was efficient and we were promptly
guided to our table. Nothing about the
interior of this eatery struck me as spe-
cial, but the tables were fairly spacious
and the seats adequately comfortable.
The menu was one of the most in-
teresting and varied that I had seen in
quite some time. It revealed that the
classic dishes such as Pho or summer
rolls were available, but also on of-
@ 301 Old St, EC1V 9LA. Yes, I know what you’re thinking, it’s pretty far from Imperial. But well worth the visit.
fer were eloquently described tummy
rumbling-inducing regional speciali-
ties from both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City (Saigon).
My curiosity directed me to try both
classic and regional dishes. I’ll start
with our classic beef noodle soup,
a.k.a. Pho. Ok, I lie, it wasn’t exactly
the classic version. It was their Hanoi
version, which was basically the same
but just 50p more. The price increase
could be justified by the inclusion of
extra beef. Overall, I was satisfied,
but it didn’t blow me away. The soup
base was aromatic and the fresh herbs
really added an extra dimension, but
that’s what you would expect from
Pho. For me, I felt the soup needed
an extra depth of rich beef shin taste
and the noodles could have been a tad
thinner.
At this point, I really couldn’t un-
derstand the rave reviews about this
place. But this was about to change,
and fast. ‘Bun cha ha noi’, a dish com-
prising of beautifully cooked, tender
pieces of lemongrass infused pork loin,
accompanied with a wonderfully light
vermicelli salad, delighted my senses.
The temperature contrast of the warm
meat with the chilled noodles, brought
together by the refreshing tastes of
mint and Vietnamese basil, got my
tastebuds dancing. All for just £6.50. I
was now halfway to being happy man.
But the fun didn’t stop there, not
only because I was excited by the nov-
elty of a regional speciality, but also
because of its sheer brilliance. ‘Banh
xeo’, whose rather misleading descrip-
tion of being a Vietnamese pizza,
turned out to be a true gastronomic
gem. This Saigon speciality comprised
of an elegant crispy pancake, folded
in half and filled with juicy pieces of
chicken and succulent prawns. The
beauty of this dish takes on a new
form when you place a chunk of the
pancake in a lettuce leaf, top it up with
fresh herbs and pickle, and dip it in
‘nuoc cham’ (the omnipresent sweet
and hot Vietnamese dipping sauce).
Upon placement into your mouth, I
can guarantee a merry-go-round of
savoury, aniseedy and sweet flavours
and a serenade of crunchy and soft
textures will soon follow. Also sure to
get your tastebuds talking is ‘Bun Bo
hue’, a spicier version of Pho, whose
fragrant lemongrass and chilli infused
broth will please those fans of curry-
based soup noodles. I’d recommend
that you get this dish with their mor-
ish crab cakes.
With each of these dishes giving
more than adequately sized bowls of
quality cuisine, this place really hits the
mark in terms of value. I guess the only
downside about my visit to Cay Tre
was that I didn’t get to try their house
speciality of Cha Ca La Vong, a unique
fish dish hailing from an appropriately
named restaurant in Hanoi. All the
more reason to return.
Food: 9.0
Value: 9.0
Service: 7.0
Ambience: 7.0
Overall: 8.0/10
Hummingbird Bakery – a delicious experience not to be missed!
@ 47 Old Brompton Road South Kensington – a taste of America literally on your doorstep.
T
here is a little bakery near
Imperial College. It sells
cakes so delicious just
walking past it makes your
mouth water! I thought it
would only be fair to tell you about it so
that if you wanted to, you could pop in
there yourself for a special treat.
Hummingbird Bakery in South Ken-
sington really can’t be missed as there
is a picture of a hummingbird on the
shop front. There is also a long queue
of people, which tells you just how
popular it is. The bad thing about this
is that you do normally have to wait
at least ten minutes before you get
served. Don’t let this put you off – it is
well worth it!
On its website the owners describe
their cakes as being freshly-baked and
only using the best ingredients, which
would explain why as soon as you en-
ter your mouth begins to water. There
are so many delicious cakes to choose
from that it is incredibly tempting
to buy more than one. The bakery is
well known for its American-inspired
cupcakes, however there are also many
other desserts to try. A particular fa-
vourite of mine is the red velvet cake.
This cake is topped with a scrump-
tious mixture of whipping cream, mas-
carpone and cream cheese and it is so
rich that one cake is definitely enough!
Some other favourites of mine in-
clude the Brooklyn Blackouts - a choc-
olate sponge covered in custard, and
I cannot forget about the New York
style cheesecakes.
The cakes they make don’t have any
preservatives in them, which means
you don’t have to worry about harm-
ful chemicals. So if you want to buy
these cakes as a present for little chil-
dren you can do so without worrying
about the harm it may be doing them.
However this means that they don’t
keep their cakes in stock so if you are
after something in particular contact
them in advance.
One of the bad things about this
bakery is the price. Like anything in
South Kensington it really isn’t good
value for money. Expect to pay at least
£2 for a small cake. However you do
get an absolutely scrumptious cake
for your money so it is worth forking
out the cash – at least once in a while.
Because of how expensive these cakes
are, I only visit this bakery if it really is
a special occasion, perfect for a birth-
day treat or even a treat for simply go-
ing into university.
I also tend to find that the staff are
not the friendliest, they don’t make
you feel like a valued customer. It
feels more like you are just another
customer with money to spend – you
can almost see the pound signs flash-
ing in their eyes! However, this can be
explained by the sheer business of this
place. Whenever I go in they are always
rushed off their feet and therefore they
don’t really have the time to give you
the best service.
Once you have chosen which cake to
get you can then decide whether you
want to eat in or take your cake away.
It is usually a lot more expensive if you
want to eat in and therefore I tend to
take my cake away as there are so many
nice places in London. You can sit and
eat your cake and watch people at the
same time – a perfect way to spend
an afternoon. I make sure I take one
of their wooden forks with me, which
I think are really cute. Although this
may be because it doesn’t take a lot to
amuse me!
If you are really celebrating some-
thing special, or want to treat a loved
one to a cake they will not forget, it may
be worth taking a peek at their website
as they can make a cake especially for
you. This includes drawing and writing
on your cake and even adding sugar
flowers, coloured sprinkles and other
colourful decorations – perfect if you
like pretty cakes like I do.

