26
TRAVEL
Travel Editors
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
I
t was 6am on Sunday, Westminster
Bridge. I’d had less than one hour’s
sleep and was very hung-over. At
this point, I was seriously wonder-
ing why I’d martyred myself to help
my dad film the London to Brighton Vet-
eran Car Run. This is the longest running
motoring event in the world (2009 was
its one-hundred-and-thirteenth year),
and veteran cars made before 1904 travel
from all over the world to take part in re-
living the first ever “long distance” car
trip. It is immortalized by the 1953 film
Genevieve, filled with sun, lots of old cars
and a drunk woman trying to play “the
plumpet” (trumpet).
However, what I was experiencing was
not a rose-tinted view of sun and old
automobiles. Frankly, I was very cold, it
was windy and I wanted a coffee from
Starbucks. Did I mention it was raining?
It was drizzling; a bleak, Irish-style rain
that kept most onlookers away apart from
the professional cameramen. These men
looked like club bouncers and had lenses
about a foot long; the Nixon equivalent
of a Ferrari in manly compensation. The
only other people around were police and
two girls dressed as witches coming back
from a Halloween party, one of whom
stopped to take a drunken picture. Over-
all, it was a depressing scene but with an
air of expectation.
After about half an hour, the sunrise
was stunning – a beautiful blaze of pink
over the Eye, which even my vodka-
narrowed eyes could appreciate. Actu-
ally, it was a shame not more people were
watching because when the first cars
came up over the bridge, mingled with
London buses and modern traffic, they
looked rather good. The oldest cars came
first, tiny delicate little motor vehicles,
some powered by steam, wound up the
bridge at 10mph towards us, set against
the sun rising over Big Ben. Even me,
who knows nothing about cars, was im-
pressed at 104 year old cars navigating in-
ner London. Being used to seeing lots of
ostentatious cars around South Kensing-
ton, I also enjoyed the different kind of
show put on by these old cars. Travel has
definitely moved on during the century;
we get pissed off when our AC breaks
when some of these cars couldn’t even
make it up the hill and had to be rescued
by bemused RAC vans.
Cadillacs, a fire engine and many more
all motored past us at a very slow speed.
I had a chance to space out; imagining a
time when a drive to Brighton from Lon-
don was an ambitious journey. For a start,
travel back then took so much longer!
What we would class a long journey (for
me, I guess this would be the twenty-
three hour long flight to Australia),
would probably be the same as London
to Scotland for someone living in 1904.
The documented trip my great great (etc.)
grandmother made as a convict to Aus-
tralia took four weeks in a ship – a month
travelling would be a much bigger chunk
out of your life, and for her, the start of a
whole new one.
London to Australia aside, the cars that
hadn’t broken down in Hyde Park (the
start), were passing me in more frequent
numbers now. Some were steam driven
and eerily silent, others sounded weirdly
like lawnmowers. Most drivers had re-
cruited passengers, who all seemed to be
smiling and waving despite being soaked.
After the four-hundred-plus cars passed,
it was time to follow them in a much
more modern car.
The rain continued as the cars made
their way out of London and I tried to
read the map as our TomTom had failed.
This highlighted how much I rely on that
thing to get around; I had no idea how to
navigate without a female voice saying “At
the end of the road (pause) turn right”. I
drive around with no idea of where I am
half the time, relying on a GPS signal
from a satellite to guide me to Tescos. In
dad’s Ford Ka, trying to stab the re-set
button on the TomTom with an earring,
I felt even further from the cars in front
that didn’t even have door-handles or
windows, let alone an automated female
voice to direct them.
Considering the weather, quite a few
people had come out to watch us pass.
The children in particular looked at the
cars like they were made at NASA; it was
so unlike what they were used to see-
ing on the London ring roads. For once,
travel by car seemed less like a small non-
event during the day and more like an un-
certain adventure. The street was lined
with cars that had run out of steam or wa-
ter, had wet brakes or gear failure or any
Racking in karma being Daddy’s Girl
Olivia Davies travels on a seven-hour drive to Brighton tailing a 1904 Cadillac in the 2009 LBVCR
of the other multitude of odd problems
that occur with cars that often had what
looked suspiciously like a big bike chain
underneath them to turn the wheels.
This novel uncertainty, in place of the
“you have arrived at your destination”
robot style transportation, was vaguely
exciting.
We made several stops along the way,
one in Crawley on the outskirts of Lon-
don where all the cars congregated in
a tiny car park. Old style banners dis-
playing adverts for American “lube”
were hung up, and all the men were
drinking pints in the pub (I think pos-
sibly the drivers were still in the mind-
set of the old style drive-thru liquor
stores...). Surprisingly, there were lots
of different people there, not just the
slightly geeky and loveable enthusiasts.
Young guys with full leather motorcy-
cle gear were riding the (slightly more
bike-like) oldest cars, loud Americans
were talking about different paint jobs
and authentic trimmings, and I saw a
really cute couple under the rug of an
old black and yellow Ford.
About seven hours later, and af-
ter another stop at a Welcome Break
for Krispy Kremes (me) and an M&S
sandwich (dad), we arrived in Bright-
on. I rode in one of the finishing cars,
squashed in the back between two
Dutch people. We passed though a
line of people on the Madeira Drive
walkway along the beach and got inter-
viewed by a man over the tannoy. For
some people who I heard interviewed,
it was their fourteenth time complet-
ing the run. Getting out of the car, I
walked down to the beach. I had been
to Brighton once before but had forgot-
ten its “run-down-but charming” ap-
peal. Fish and chips were everywhere,
as were those sugary hot donuts that
every sea-side has. £1 stores ruled, and
the pier, sticking out into the sea, was
filled with rides and arcades. For me, it
was the sea that really stood out – a big
raw grey expanse of waves that was so
different from London streets. Christ-
mas lights were already up, and they
twinkled dully as I walked back up to
the cars.
Back where the cars were parked,
people were all talking about the run. It
looked like we had it good going up, as
some people had taken more than nine
hours due to many rescues by the RAC.
Coffee was handed out, and an appar-
ently traditional beer that tasted a bit
like Hoegaarten.
After about an hour though, we went
home. This journey took about three
hours, and before I knew it I was being
dropped off back at South Kensington. It
felt so strange to be back in London after
a whole day travelling to a destination
I only spent an hour at. On the back of
my bus map, there is an advert for IKEA
that says “Travel is a means to an end.
Home.” In the case of our return jour-
ney, this was definitely true; I couldn’t
wait to get back into my room and warm
up after a whole day being wet. On the
way there though, travel was purely for
the travel. The seven-hour journey was
all about the cars, with Brighton’s pier as
final destination only a quick interlude
between the main journey there and the
journey back. It was a cold, wet and long
day but it did bring home to me the satis-
faction of actually working to get from A
to B. It was also a chance to step back to
a time when travel was an event in itself.
For more information, check out
http://www.lbvcr.com
Cramped in the back behind two quintessential ‘car enthusiasts’

