27
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
Lucy Shepherd
Seventeen-year-old Sixth-former and Arctic explorer
by
byDylanLowe
DylanLowe
Interview with the Extraordinaire
I
am a reasonably well off Indian,
and I walk whenever possible. So
does my grandfather – at the age
of 78 – and my grandmother, even
after a double knee replacement.
Outside of Mumbai’s elite, most Indians
will find it more trouble than necessary
to start their engines for a trip to the lo-
cal shops. Of course, it could be that Fleur
Thomas was being ironic but the rest of
her article reads as the experiences of
someone who decided to travel abroad on
a whim without reading up on the desti-
nation. Indeed, the article itself provides
an unabashed critique of Indian traffic
masquerading as advice, something sadly
symptomatic of the lack of effort shown
by tourists towards understanding a lo-
cality bemoaned by Dylan Lowe’s piece a
month ago.
In fact, most of what Ms Thomas says
contains a vague element of truth that is
lost in the mists of ‘humour’. It is far less
eloquent and knowledgeable than the
average Lonely Planet guide, which any
diligent traveller should have stuffed in
his back pocket anyway. Traps exist cer-
tainly but exaggerating aspects of a coun-
try that occur all over the world simply
diverts attention from them. Incidentally,
that dripping ‘liquid’ is water from the
exhaust.
Firstly, it is no secret that Indian traf-
fic is chaotic. The population is im-
mense, and expecting the roads not to be
crowded is like going to Fabric without
expecting to be approached by drug deal-
ers every five minutes. Crossing the road
is based on instinct, and other road users
tend to swerve to avoid you anyway; prob-
lems only occur when you hesitate, some-
thing also true of places like Vietnam and
Thailand.
Auto drivers only tend to play up if they
spot weakness or aggression on your part,
yet they are still safer than your average
unlicensed minicab. Do not be fooled by
the flashy N95 in his hand, it will have
cost him his last three month’s earn-
ings. As a tourist, chances are you have
more money (and less nous) than a lo-
cal, hence his persistence in getting your
fare. The mode of transport is basic in
the kindest terms and cheap to use even
at the ‘foreigner rate’. If someone fresh
off the boat went to Portobello Market,
do you think the traders would refrain
from ripping him off? Groups of station-
ary autos should be avoided as the driv-
ers are friends who tend to bargain as a
collective. Auto drivers in motion will
sometimes even squabble for your atten-
tion. Regardless, ask for half of what he
quotes and haggle like you mean busi-
ness – chances are he will slash his price.
This attitude works in all markets in the
world, can it not be extended towards
transportation?
Public transport in India is heavily
subsidised and so has a negligible effect
on your bank balance. They are under-
standably crowded, but it is nothing if
you have used the District line during
rush hour. They break down less often
too. If you want luxury, then you can still
hire an air-conditioned car for a full day’s
usage. This comes at the same price as a
one-way trip between London City and
Heathrow Airport.
In terms of safety, my mother and her
contemporaries have all used the buses
for years (nay, decades) without any prob-
lems whatsoever. In my case, the only
times I have ever felt threatened occurred
on the Tube. Should you find yourself in
trouble, screaming blue murder will re-
sult in the satisfaction of seeing your as-
sailant being clobbered by helpful stran-
gers, and is especially true for women and
foreigners.
The truth is, I could have also singled
out aspects of any country’s structure
citing some personal experience as jus-
tification (eight of the world’s worst cit-
ies for pickpockets are European, how
appalling!). Outside of Western Europe
and North America, most of the world is
still quite poor and suffers from poor or-
ganisation. As a traveller, you can choose
to highlight common issues negatively, or
you can adapt and offer constructive ad-
vice on how to deal with the real issues
you will face. If you cannot do the latter,
then stay at home, because it is your at-
titude that is the real problem.
Aditya Narayanan is scornful of last week’s featured article, and offers his perspective on travelling
Arrogance is expecting things laid on a plate for you
T
o spot an extraordinaire in
the middle of Power Shift,
a climate change conference
hosted by the UK Youth Cli-
mate Coalition, is like find-
ing a needle in a needle sack.
Not so much about the fact that there
was ingenuity in every corner of the In-
stitute of Education – the venue playing
host to the event – but the overwhelm-
ing humility that prickles when I waded
through a sea of individual whose port-
folios are at least a hundred times more
illustrious than mine.
Ian Katz, the Deputy Editor of the
Guardian, whizzed by; I expressed my
gratitude for my nomination and him
dismissing any responsibility for grant-
ing me such prestige. Any chance with
seizing the opportunity and conduct an
interview with him? Not a chance.
Lucy struck me as the ‘someone else’.
Her stage presence, though slightly un-
dermined by a lack of experience, was
no less spectacular, especially when our
judgement was based on the achievement
of the speakers in the ‘environmental’ cir-
cles. But the concept of what she spoke
about – and its sheer scale – snatched
my attention, especially when I was still
grief-struck from returning from the
South Pacific only weeks ago.
And so I approached her, found a spot
within the cacophonous conference hall,
and fired away with questions at a young
explorer whose deeds would shame me a
thousand times.
Dylan Lowe Hi guys, your travel
editor here, at the first day of Power
Shift where I’ve heard from speak-
ers talking about their work they’ve
been doing, Lucy here being one of
them.
Lucy Shepherd Hi.
DL So you’re about to embark on an
amazing adventure – tell me more
about it?
LS I’m off the Arctic wilderness of Sval-
bard for ten weeks in April 2011 with the
British School of Expedition Society.
DL Like I said earlier, well done for
being the most courageous girl I’ve
ever met.
LS Thank you.
DL I applied to go on an Antarctic
expedition once, though what BP
said to me is that they don’t usually
accept first-years, and that I was too
young and inexperienced. Being a
seventeen-year-old, what makes you
think that they accepted you for the
trip?
LS I think I showed the right skills, and
the right experiences – they don’t re-
ally want to take first-timers. I’ve just re-
turned from Nepal in the summer. You
have to be quite motivated, work well as
part of a team.
DL And the selection process?
LS I saw an advert in the paper for BSES
expeditions. Went onto the website and
downloaded an application form. It was a
bit like the questions you answer in a per-
sonal statement or interview: for exam-
ple, why do you want to go, what would
you bring to the team, your experience in
extreme environments and mountainous
areas. If you impressed the guys at BSES
then you get invited to an interview. A
few weeks after the interview you get a
yes or no.
DL What is the most daunting thing
about the trip you can imagine?
LS The idea of – even though it’s never
dark with 24-hour daylight – getting out
of my tent one morning and perhaps see-
ing a polar bear.
DL Really?
LS Because apparently it happens quite
often. And staying in a tent for ten weeks
in -25o
C will be a bit frustrating. [Chuck-
les] And no washing.
DL Well, you haven’t been through
university life, have you?
LS Not yet.
DL You’ll get to experience untidi-
ness then.
LS [Laughs]
DL On the contrary, what do you
reckon would be the most fun part
of it?
LS Meeting new people, spending time
in that kind of situation. We’ll be hack-
ing through ice and snow, travelling long
distances by sledges and skis. It’ll be ten
weeks of constant adventures, constant
challenges. Not to mention travelling on
dog sleds.
DL Sounds awesome. So you’ll be
coming off the trip – will you be go-
ing to university soon?
LS Hopefully.
DL It’ll be weird for you as you’ll
be going into university, and every-
body would have come straight from
school; you would have been through
a year in the University of Life. You
would have done all these amazing
things that you’ll be so far ahead of
everyone else. Does that worry you?
LS At the moment I don’t know – I don’t
know how I’ll be like when I come back
fromthetrip.I’mhopingtomeetdifferent
people who would have done different
things. I’m more worried about settling
down after spending a lot of time travel-
ling – hopefully it won’t be too hard.
DL One thing they’ve mentioned to-
day in Power Shift is motivating peo-
ple. How do you think what you’re
about to do will motivate people,
especially – in conjunction with the
conference – with the awareness for
climate change?
LS People will hopefully hear my story
and think, “this girl went on this big trip
to the Arctic, perhaps I can go on an even
bigger trip.” Linking that with climate
change, it’s all about ordinary people go-
ing ahead to do extraordinary things.
DL This might sound a bit prema-
ture, but will you be up for any future
projects? Any plans?
LS Hopefully, after the expedition, I’ll
have a feel for expedition life and may-
be do similar trips to raise money and
awareness for combating climate change.
Possibly something involving trekking to
the North Pole? Not a clue at this stage.
DL I understand that you enjoy film-
making in your spare time – tell me
more about it?
LS [Chuckles] I direct, produce, edit,
screen-write films and occasionally act.
I get my friends to act, having to boss
them around. I now send in some films to
competitions – so far I’ve won two out of
two. I’m currently waiting for the result
for another.
DL Thank you for the interview –
best of luck with the trip. Maybe you
could write an article for me when
you return from the trip?
LS Only if you’d sponsor me.
DL What for?
LS I will need to purchase expensive,
specialised equipment for the trip, for in-
stance crampons for ice-climbing.
DL How about if I say to people in
Imperial that, if they want to help
out, they can do so by contacting
me through felix.travel@imperial.
ac.uk?
LS Sounds good.
DL Now can I have my article?
LS No.
Lucy in Nepal

