29
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
F
ollowing in a long tradition
of ambitious summer tours,
the Fellwanderers bravely
set off to Poland and Slova-
kia. We were soon on our
way to Zakopane, the gateway to the
Tatra mountain range. As we all know,
nothing can be accomplished without
full stomachs so the group’s first major
effort was to find some typical Polish
cuisine. With this mission accom-
plished we returned to the hostel to try
and share out group kit. Despite our
best attempts at fairness Ande persist-
ently protested about his inability to
take too much kit lest it not tessellate
perfectly in his rucksack...
6:45am the next morning felt very
painful. However, the free breakfast
certainly went some way to livening
things up and a short bus ride later
we were well and truly in the Tatras at
Javorina (~1000m) and taking our first
steps into the mountains.
Continuing upwards we were re-
warded by alpine meadows and the
stunning views we would become ac-
customed to, though by the first pass
the costs of not properly breaking my
boots in were already becoming ap-
parent. By lunchtime we had reached
our first hut and most of the group de-
cided to bag our first peak, Jahnaci stit,
2230m. We got within perhaps 100m
(vertically) of the summit before peals
of thunder started echoing round the
mountains and after a hasty photo we
beat a swift retreat. However, as thun-
derstorms move a good deal faster
than people the retreat was not swift
enough and we had the hair-raising ex-
perience of crossing a snowfield whilst
lightening flashed around us. With our
first hearty drenching under our belts,
the Spicy Sausage Pasta was fed to very
approving masses.
Day 3 was the day where the epic
fail mentality of the trip truly came
into being. Starting with an annoying
alarm setting error depriving us of an
extra half hour of sleep it was also the
day of the legendary vodka fail. The
walk itself was uneventful, highpoint
2038m, impressive thunderstorms in
the Tatra basin and a bypass of the im-
posing Lomnicky stit which stands at
2634m. From the hut, the “metropolis”
of Stary Smokovec was a mere hour
and a half’s walk away. Some took this
opportunity to gorge on icecream and
buy essentials such as Tang and Vodka.
Joe was guardian of the vodka and af-
ter lovingly carrying it all the way back
up the hill and cooling it mountain
spring disaster struck! Those back at
the hut were peacefully playing cards
when they heard a smash and a suspi-
ciously familiar smell... After carrying
the bottle for over 2 hours Joe dropped
and smashed it on the steps of the hut.
Morale sunk lower after the vegetarian
nature of the following week became
apparent and we had to watch the dog
lapping up our vodka!
Day 4’s walk was where the challeng-
es of the terrain became apparent. Our
route was still impassable due to snow
and instead we had a change of plan
to conquer a 2376m snow-covered
delight before beating the rain and de-
scending to intermediate hut Teryho
Chata for lunch. With strict sausage
oriented instructions yet another party
made an afternoon trip to Stary Smok-
ovec returning with a giant sausage to
appease the carnivores.
Day 5 was my worst of the fortnight,
instead of “contouring” as promised
it soon emerged that the Slovakians
prefer paths which are a sequence of
impossibly uncomfortable ups and
downs. By the time we stopped for
lunch at Sliezsky dom, Chris had to
perform minor foot surgery to al-
low me to continue. We continued in
blistering heat and as if Chris’s first
aid skills had still not been adequately
proved Nathaniel, Jim, Ande and Joe
decided to take a cooling dip in a lake,
each emerging covered in various cuts
and bruises. To add insult to (at this
point considerable) injury, the high
point of the day, whilst only at a mere
1966m, was round a corner the likes
of which I hope never to see again. Its
never-ending nature baffles me even
now; geometry just didn’t seem to
work with this beast. I very nearly shed
a few tears of gratitude when the pole
of the summit appeared.
Combined with the threat of im-
pending rain we started descending
the sheer 500m slope to our next ho-
tel/hut. After never ending zig-zags we
were down almost without mishap.
On Day 6 the group split into 3. Rafal
and I saw an impressive thunderstorm,
whilst having a restful shopping day,
Chris and Yvonne bagged the mighty
Rysy (2499m) and the others did a
long circular walk with Eva (high-
point 2314m). After all of this activ-
ity, the seventh day was (nominally)
a day of rest. In Fellwanderers terms
this turned out to mean either a con-
quering of Koprovsky stit at 2363m or
a trip to Poprad. In Poprad we experi-
enced culinary delights such as vam-
pire quelling garlic soup and in Joe and
Nathaniel’s case – raw sausage!
Day 8 was Rysy day. Chris and
Yvonne went back to England, leaving
only 7 of us behind. Though Chris and
Yvonne had already conquered Rysy,
they hadn’t done it hauling up their
packs with them, as we were about to
attempt. We were walking by 7 hoping
to beat any bad weather. Despite calf-
strain issues we made good time up the
1100m ascent to the summit, though
decreasing visibility and increasing
doubts about the weather for the most
technically demanding descent of the
tour were concerning.
As we started the 1000 vertical me-
tre descent the rain commenced and
visibility dropped to ~5m. The chains
were more or less constant for 500m
of the descent across rock faces with
streams of water providing the lu-
brication none of us needed to make
a quicker descent than desirable. By
the time we reached the path section
we were brutally tired and hungry but
vowed not to eat until we reached the
lake just a short distance from our next
hut. The exhaustion took its toll and
Rafal dramatically slipped and gashed
his forehead open. We realised at this
point that Nathaniel’s first aid certifi-
cate may need renewal when he stuck
the plaster over Rafal’s left eye...
As a mark of how exhausting the
day was, we were in bed by 8:30 after
merely boiling some water, putting it
with some couscous and stirring some
random ingredients into the mixture:
trekking cooking at its best.
After Rysy the next day was merely
a walk into Zakopane (Zak-the-Pony,
if you’re asking Jim) and despite ach-
ing muscles and wounded feet we still
summoned the energy to walk to an
out of town restaurant, recommended
by Rafal’s friends to celebrate our sur-
vival so far and some excellent exam
results! The food was amazing and was
followed by a night of wild celebration,
perhaps a little too wild for some as it
concluded with Nathaniel throwing up
out of the hostel’s window...
The next day a hung-over Nathaniel
sheepishly went outside with a mop
whilst most of us conquered Koscielec,
which Rafal found an inexplicably
frightening experience. Ande managed
to scare him whilst just sitting still on
the top whilst moving his arms around
excitedly. Tired of authentic Polish
food we defected to an Italian for din-
ner, eagerly anticipating our next day
of trekking. However, the next day the
weather was bad and we all woke up
feeling fractious. After getting to the
hut most of us just sat around playing
bridge, though Jim and Joe somehow
summoned the energy for another
walk, getting a cable car ride in the
bargain.
We battled through Wales-esque
weather for the day, climbing a ridge
so windy we considered turning back.
Whilst walking along the top we sud-
denly discovered we’d lost Ande, a mat-
ter of concern considering the steep
cliffs and strong winds. Eventually he
was found, but we were relieved when
the clouds cleared at last for beautiful
lunchtime views.
At the next hut Jim had his epic fail:
he locked himself, and the key to our
room, in the shower. Rafal came to the
rescue eventually after dark mutterings
about stupid undergrads (in the previ-
ous hut we blocked their only sink dur-
ing doing the washing up).
Day 13 was our last proper trekking
day and by now, I for one was feeling
truly exhausted. However, clearly not
everyone shared my sentiments as Jim,
Joe and Gavin decided to do an after-
noon walk and managed the 4h15 walk
in under 2 hours!
The last walk of the trip was, in my
opinion, also one of the best. After a
slog up through a forest we emerged
onto a giant horseshoe ridge encom-
passing 7 major peaks and affording
magnificent views of all the different
parts of the Tatras. Even the weather
spared us the customary afternoon
thunderstorm, it really was a perfect
end to the trip. Which, and I’m sorry
to say this, is more than can be said for
the attempts at food on the last night...
We had sort of accidently run out of
carbs, which resulted in Jim, Ande, Joe
and Gavin being convinced that with
onion, garlic salt, milk powder, gouda,
sausage, porridge, sugar, herbs and
spices and a pack of bourbon biscuits
they could make something edible. We
were all doubtful, especially Rafal who
resorted to hut food even before their
attempt.
I have to say that especially con-
sidering their ingredients the main
course at least was a great success,
oat balls with a creamy sausage sauce
and a cheese side were truly excellent
however “dessert” was where they fell
down a little. For any freshers reading
this; be warned you CANNOT make
cheesecake with Gouda and attempts
to do so are a crime against human-
ity. The prevailing kitchen opinion ap-
peared to be “if we add enough sugar
it will work”. Error. The tang and pow-
dered milk sauce as custard substitute
was particularly unwelcome. Never try
this at home.
Too soon, tour was over! We re-
turned to Krakow and after all Rafal
had put up with from us, we promised
to meet him promptly at 6:45 to go
to his favourite restaurant in Krakow.
Despite the challenges this posed to a
group of people with no clean clothes
we so very nearly accomplished this
mission but for our small, reoccurring
problem on this trip: OCD, tessellation
obsessive Ande somehow managed to
separate himself from the group... Af-
ter waiting for 5 mins on a street cor-
ner we decided he must have missed
us and gone ahead. We met Rafal on
time but had to confess that even in
this, us undergrads had disappointed
him. Eventually reunited we ordered
“The Trough”, a giant shared platter of
meat, dumpling and all other amazing
Polish food. After a quick drink we all
rolled back to the hostel except Jim and
Joe who went off for a night out in the
town, rolling in around 5 having fallen
prey to kebabs.
As I assume is customary, it came
to light at this meal that many more
fails had taken place than first imag-
ined. In fact, it appeared that almost
everyone had an interesting story to
tell about getting to Krakow bus sta-
tion, from Ande’s wallet loss, to Chris
and Yvonne sharing a carriage with a
woman throwing up into her handbag,
to my personal favourite, Joe’s rescu-
ing all the carbs that he had previously
thrown into an airport bin to save
weight in his luggage.
Of course, with this group there were
so many hilarious fails it’s impossible
to recount them all here. So, I shall
leave you with just a few more of the
best:
1. Joe knocking over a full pint of
beer, trying to grab the last few drops
of a shot of rum
2. Nathaniel “what are these?” I know
I’ll eat a teaspoon full of them, them
being chilli flakes
Ande adding salt to his sweet pan-
cakes instead of sugar before anyone
could warn him off, he maintained it
still tasted good but I’m fairly sure he
lied
3. Jim’s failed attempt at dealing
cards: he was so tired he managed to
deal himself and Joe twice the number
anyone else got.
Finally, I think everyone who attend-
ed would like to wholeheartedly thank
Eva, Rafal and Nathaniel for making
this trip happen; it really was amaz-
ing and has definitely set the standards
of both organisational excellence and
undergraduate stupidity for coming
years.
The Fellwanderers’ Summer Tour to Slovakia and Poland
Heather Jones on walks in Eastern Europe with weather extremes, odd alcohols and Polish bear-riders.
The Polish army’s secret weapon

