3
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial win multiple awards at iGEM
Three of Imperial’s award-winning team of eight at the 2009 iGEM competition talk to Sina Ataherian
Imperial team members present the ir award-winning “encapsulator” pill at the 2009 iGEM competition at MIT
Imperial (right) and Paris (left) winning prizes for considering the ethical issues around their respective projects
A
team of eight Imperial
students has returned
from winning a series
of prizes at this year’s
iGEM jamboree in MIT.
The iGEM, or international geneti-
cally engineered machine, competi-
tion considered the most prestigious
Synthetic Biology competition in
the world for undergraduates. It has
grown exponentially out of an MIT
course into an annual event attract-
ing over 1200 participants from more
than 110 teams this year from across
the globe. Projects have ranged from
banana and wintergreen smelling bac-
teria, through an arsenic biosensor, to
buoyant bacteria.
Imperial College won the prize for
the best manufacturing project; the
prize for the best consideration of
ethical issues in relation to device de-
sign; a gold medal and came fourth
overall. The Imperial team had spent
the summer working on their ‘encap-
sulator’ project.
The pill, the first of its kind, is
self-manufacturing in the sense that
it can produce a drug and then also
produce an acid-resistant capsule
around itself. Each encapsulator can
produce one of a number of different
drugs, making it a universal platform
that can be widely used in the phar-
maceuticals industry.
The challenge for competitors is
to specify, design, build, and test
simple biological systems using only
standard, interchangeable biologi-
cal parts. The teams presented their
projects at the iGEM Championship
Jamboree between October 30 and
November 2, but the Imperial team
then decided to have a holiday in
nearby New York, and so only gotww
back this week. felix managed to get
an interview with three of the team
members.
The team spent four months ge-
netically altering cells so that they
could manufacture a drug - such
as an enzyme or protein needed to
treat a disease - inside themselves,
on demand. Pills usually need an
acid-resistant shell in order to pass
the stomach and reach the intestine
without being ruined.
The unique aspect of this project
was enabling the cell to then make
this acid-resistant shell and encapsu-
late itself. Encapsulation is an espe-
cially important issue as the problem
of safe transport to the intestine has
been a major barrier for the rapidly
growing biological drugs field. The
team also encoded a control mecha-
nism for the ‘encapsulation’ process,
which is triggered automatically using
genetic switches.
The Imperial team has thus shown
that cells can be used as safe, flexible
and controllable drug making devices.
The implications of this could be sig-
nificant for the pharmaceutical sector,
which may be why drug manufactur-
ers have already approached the team
about possible research opportunities
to further develop their concept.
They also used modelling tech-
niques to show it would be possible
to induce the bacterial cell to delete
its own genome, effectively killing it-
self, once the drug has been made and
the encapsulation process completed.
This would render it completely in-
animate, and therefore more palatable
as a drug for human consumption.
This aspect of the project led to them
winning the award for the best con-
sideration of ethical issues in relation
to device design.
Professor Richard Kitney from Im-
perial’s Department of Bioengineering,
who co-led Imperial’s students along
with Professor Paul Freemont and Dr
Geoff Baldwin from the Department of
Life Sciences, congratulated the team,
saying: “They did an absolutely bril-
liant job with a technically challeng-
ing project. The idea of having an all-
in-one bacterial drug production and
pill-like delivery unit is revolutionary.
It could offer a low-cost, simple and
efficient way of producing drugs that
can be safely delivered to the human
intestine. That’s why iGEM is such a
fantastic competition – it gives under-
graduates a unique chance to get their
teeth into a ground-breaking research
project, and explore ideas that could
change the world.”
Professors Kitney and Freemont,
who co-direct Imperial’s newly-
founded Centre for Synthetic Biol-
ogy and Innovation, say the students’
work will now be developed in their
lab, with particular focus on research
to develop the synthetic biology de-
vice into a more general delivery sys-
tem where drugs need to bypass the
stomach. This was Imperial’s fourth
year of participating in the event and
the deadline for applying to join next
year’s team is fast approaching. Whilst
some of the other teams are thought
to be strongly encouraged to choose
particular topics, the teams that com-
pete at iGEM from Imperial are com-
pletely free to pick their own topic. At
the same time, they receive tutoring
The 2009 Imperial team in a group photograph ahead of the iGEM competition
The team has asked interest-
ed undergraduate students
to send, as soon as possible,
their CVs to:
imperial.igem2010@gmail.com.
from the staff supervisors that the
team described as ‘unparalleled.’
There is also a charitable element to
the project as Imperial help UCL with
their attempts, because they have less
experience and because they generally
need help. In addition, the teams also
get a kit from the Registry of Standard
Biological Parts.
This year’s team comprised Bioen-
gineering and Life Sciences students,
but the team is keen to attract talent
from all different departments for
next year, as they believe a variety of
skills will be helpful.

