unionpage
Green Week is the Union’s annual
sustainability awareness campaign which
encourages students and staff of the College
to adopt more sustainable practices at
university and at home. This year we’ll be
focusing on a few key topics, including the
impact the food and clothing industries have
on the environment, meeting our growing
energy demands and encouraging people to
get digging!
The week isn’t about preaching, but rather
enthusing everyone to get involved and
make a difference. While it might feel that
as an individual you won’t have much of an
impact, multiply your efforts by 20,000 to
match the number of people in the College
community and we’re talking big numbers!
During the week we’ll be encouraging
people to sign up to the national 10:10
campaign which is an individual commitment
to reduce your personal carbon emissions
during the year 2010 by 10% while providing
more information about the College’s own
targets for the upcoming years. We’ll be
tying up the week with a finale in the Union
with live bands and other acts.
Above all the week should be fun- we’d love
to see you at some of our events!
Highlights include:
• Meat-Free Monday
• Digging for Victory workshop
• Energy Forum
• Climate Change and Health
• Make do and mend workshop
• Flash Mob and more….
Green Week is just the start of a number
of initiatives by the College and the Union
this year. As the UK and 191 other countries
prepare to send delegates to the UN Climate
Change Conference in Copenhagen, millions
of people across the globe will be anxiously
discussing possible outcomes and urging
their country’s representatives to take
meaningful and timely action on Climate
Change. We have the science to prove that
our actions are responsible for the observed
changes in our global climate- now we
need politicians and individuals to follow
up with firm policy. We’ll also be attending
the national demonstration on the 5th of
December in anticipation of the Copenhagen
summit.
For more information about the
events during Green Week and other
sustainable initiatives at Imperial visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/green
Look out for the Green edition of Felix which
will be coming out next week!
GreenWeek 2009
imperialcollegeunion.org
After the success of the Battle for the Ball,
where we witnessed great Imperial bands
fight it out for the chance to play at the
Summer Ball before the headliner Athlete,
we are running the Union Battle of the
Bands. But we need you and your bands to
compete!
If you are interested in appearing in the
competition you need to send an email to
m.macpherson@imperial.ac.uk with the
subject line “Battle of the Bands” and details
of your website or myspace with examples
of your music. Good luck!
Battle of the
Bands! Saturday 14th
November
Including Hog
Roast and
traditional
entertainments
!Entry Only £5!
Free commemorative Pint Glass
tankard with first 500 tickets

