39
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Vital away
win for
the 1st XI
Mustapher Botchway Sports Editor
Imperial College Men’s 1st XI 4
University of Surrey 1st XI 3
A distinctly average start to the BUCS
(league) season for the Football Club’s
1st XI was something captain Musta-
pher Botchway wanted to put behind
him. After a performance deemed as
“Not good enough and not to the level
required to gain” the half-expected
promotion, last week against Chich-
ester, Wednesday’s trip to the Univer-
sity of Surrey became the third ‘biggest
game of the season’ in a row.
Though an average start has been
made, the quality of football played by
1st XI has at times been of the qual-
ity to fight for promotion into the 2nd
South Eastern division. The ‘imperial-
itis’ of falling apart in the second half
has resulted in leads being reduced to
draws and closely fought games ending
in narrow losses.
To this fact, Botchway decided to
adopt narrow midfield formation
with wing-backs Theocharis Tofis and
Gavin Graham having the freedom to
use the flanks. Within 10 minutes of
the start, fresher Nathan Ferrol contin-
ued his hot-streak of scoring in every
game he has played in with a cool fin-
ish to the goalkeeper’s near post, after
jinking past the Surrey right back.
Just before the twenty minute mark,
Surrey had equalised after a loose ball
rebounded off Botchway and fell fortu-
nately to the Surrey centre midfielder
who slotted it into the empty net.
A well worked free-kick by Romain
Chauvet fell to debutante Tim Lunn
whose header was stabbed in by Leslie
Eshun on the rebound. Lax defending
of a set piece led the ball falling to the
Surrey midfielder who finished it well
in to the bottom corner.
The score 2 a-piece at half time, and
the new formation working well, the
team were encouraged to increase the
work-rate and improve communica-
tion to ensure consolidation on their
first-half domination of possession.
A miss-kick by the Imperial captain
gifted Surrey a goal to go 3-2 up before
the 55 minute mark.
The outfield players responded
strongly to this increase in pressure
and after impressive composure from
the centre backs Tom Fryatt and Pat
McMullen, along with midfielder and
debutante, Jon Hill led to a counter-at-
tack which fell to Eshun who lifted the
ball over the out-running goalkeeper
to equalise 15 minutes from time.
The reversal in momentum in Impe-
rial’s favour was rewarded when Eshun
completed his second hat-trick of the
season after reacting well to knock in
the rebound off his first shot, 7 min-
utes from time.
A vital away win for the 1st XI now
restores our aims for this season and
will put them in good spirits for next
week’s BUCS Cup 2nd round match
against London South Bank University.
Road to Victory - How Haye’s got to the Title Fight
The Haye-maker hits home
B
igger is not always bet-
ter. This point was proved
perfectly by Britain’s new
WBA heavyweight cham-
pion David Haye in Nurem-
burg on Saturday night when he beat
the gigantic Nikolai Valuev on a ma-
jority points decision. In victory Haye
became the first British Heavyweight
champion since Lennox Lewis who
retired in 2003 and he has already got
his sights set on one of the Klitschko
brothers Vitali and Wladimir who hold
the other World heavyweight titles.
Any unification fight will however;
have to wait primarily for Haye’s right
hand to heal from a suspected fracture
sustained during the Vauev fight. Sec-
ondly Haye will need to successfully
negotiate a mandatory defence of his
title against former champion John
Ruiz.
Haye himself has publicly stated
throughout the build up to the fight
and indeed this week after winning
the title that he has dreamt of becom-
ing the heavyweight champion since
he was a little boy. However, his coro-
nation some may feel is slightly over-
due: Haye established himself as an
explosive power puncher in the cruis-
erweight division, the weight below
heavyweight. He won 18 from 19 con-
tests with seventeen victories coming
through knocking his opponent out.
At this stage in his career Haye had yet
to win a world title and cement him-
self as a big player in the cruiserweight
division. Despite this he stepped up to
heavyweight for his next fight in April
2007 where he destroyed Tomasz Bon-
in within one round proving he could
transfer his destructive punching up to
the heavier weight division. Even this
commanding victory was not enough
to appease some critics who thought
that to prove he was the best cruiser-
weight in the division, Haye needed to
fight the French cruiserweight world
champion; Jean-Marc Mormeck. Not
a man to shy away from the challenge,
Haye fought Mormeck in France pick-
ing himself off the canvas after being
knocked down to defeat the champion
in the seventh round, proving himself
to be a world class fighter. One final
fight at cruiserweight followed against
the Welshman Enzo Maccarinelli.
Maccarinelli was knocked out in the
second round following a barrage of
punches from Haye. Before last Sat-
urdays fight against Valuev Haye had
fought just once more at heavyweight
almost a year ago, beating former
David Wilson Sports Editor
heavyweight hopeful Monte Barrat.
Since then a fight with the aforemen-
tioned Vitali Klitschko fell through
and a fight with Wladimir in June
this year had to be cancelled as Haye
injured his back whilst training. So to
say that David Haye has had to bide his
time before becoming become heavy-
weight champion is somewhat of an
understatement.
Before Saturdays fight Haye talked
himself up insisting he would knock
out the 7ft 2”, 23 stone Valuev, who in
all 52 previous fights had never been
properly shaken. Throughout the build
up Haye goaded the champion calling
him a ‘circus freak’, taking a pop at Val-
uev’s hygiene and comically decapitat-
ing a cardboard cut out of the big Rus-
sian at a press conference. Haye oozes
confidence, he will never enter the ring
thinking that anything but a victory for
him is possible, and this is exactly the
attitude that a boxer needs. His confi-
dence and the ways in which Haye can
sometimes act such as his brashness
and swagger shown before this fight
have, for some people, made him a dif-
ficult character to like. Like him or not
but David Haye is exactly the charac-
ter that is needed to spark some much
needed life into what has been, for re-
cent years, a dormant and boring divi-
sion both in the ring and out. Haye is
an articulate and confident young man
oh, and he has proved he can box a bit
too, at 29 years old he is a spring chick-
en of the heavyweight ranks. He talks
the talk and backs it up with victories,
his pre fight antics are reminiscent of
Ali while his power, although not as
devastating is a throwback to Tyson’s
one punch knock outs. His ambition is
to become the undisputed heavyweight
champion and retire by the age of 31. It
remains to be seen if this will remain
a realistic aspiration as too many box-
ers retire but cannot live without the
ring and return to fight as a shadow of
their former selves with George Fore-
man, Larry Holmes and Mike Tyson
being prime examples. However this
week it has been reported that Haye
could earn around £72million from a
showdown with a Klitschko brother in
America, getting up to train is always
harder when you sleep in silk sheets.
Haye entered the ring on Saturday
seven stone lighter and almost a foot
shorter than his Russian opponent.
Valuev is a spectacle his entrance to
the ring was just comical though es-
pecially the sight of his diminutive
trainer, Alexander Zimin, scurrying
behind him. Haye’s camp were decked
out in blue shirts which symbolised the
fight plan for the night. This was the
first sign that Haye was bluffing when
he had claimed he was going to knock
out the champion as the team wore
red shirts the night Maccarinelli was
beaten in what was always going to be a
quick fight. Haye fought a perfect fight
in the 10,000 seat arena using slick
speed to move in and out, landing con-
sistent punches and using the whole
ring space evading the lumbering
champion. Valuev seemed glued to the
centre of the ring, few shots he threw
landed due to Haye’s elusiveness. Haye
was no doubt the better boxer of the
two with his work rate and boxing abil-
ity superior to that of the champion;
however whether he was being ‘busy’
enough to get the decision from the
judges was not a full gone conclusion.
Haye finished in the twelfth round
with a flourish wobbling the giant Rus-
sian with a crunching left hand but
both boxers remained standing as the
round finished. As is the Haye way he
celebrated enthusiastically confident
he was the new champion. After an
anxious wait for the judges’ scorecards
to be collected Haye won on a majority
decision with two scores of 116-112 in
his favour and the third judge scoring a
114-114 draw.
Haye now has numerous commit-
ments to attend to as the new cham-
pion before he can start training for his
next fight in the New Year. Congratula-
tions on a well deserved victory, David
D Haye, WBA heavyweight world
champion.
Tomasz Bonin Jean-Marc Mormeck Enzo Maccarinelli
Jean Marc Mormeck
t
D Haye, WBA heavyweight world
champion.
Monte Barrett
15.11.2008
15.11.2008
08.03.2008
08.03.2008
10.11.2007
27.04.2007
The Haymaker lands another direct shot to the face of the ‘Goliath’ Valuev

