4 felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
felix
One of the earthquake-resistant houses Imperial students built in the town of
Colima in El Salvador over the summer. Colima was hit by 120 mm rain
Landslides hit El
Salvador Project
Two houses built by Imperial’s El Sal-
vador Reconstruction and Develop-
ment Project in El Salvador’s Colima
community has been hit by devastat-
ing landslides. Over a hundred peo-
ple have been claimed dead and many
more are feared to have undergone the
same fate. Thousands of houses have
been either fully or partially destroyed,
including the two earthquake resistant
houses built by 11 Civil Engineering stu-
dents this summer.
They worked with REDES, a char-
ity organization committed to promis-
ing construction projects in an effort to
rebuild the country after a sequence of
deadly natural disasters, most notably
the 2001 earthquakes.
Domingo Alas, worker for the NGO
REDES (Reconstruction and Develop-
ment Organization of El Salvador) says:
“So far 154 women, elderly and chil-
dren have died because of floods. We are
in much sadness and suffering. Thou-
sands of families have lost their homes
and belongings and are left with nothing,
absolutely nothing.”
Rolando Morales, REDES’s Director of
Planning, speaks of urban areas like Ve-
rapaz ‘having been reduced to half their
size’
. “The scale of destruction caused
without a doubt exceeded the devasta-
tion of tropical storm Stan and the Ila-
matepec volcano eruption of 2005”
, Mo-
rales remarks.
The most affected areas in the country
are the departments of San Salvador, San
Vicente, Cuscatlán and La libertad.
felix has obtained initial figures from
REDES about the aftermath of the disas-
ter: 154 dead of whom 40% are believed
to be children, 13,860 people displaced,
209 homes completely destroyed, 1835
houses damaged and 18 crucial bridges
collapsed or displaced.
The board of Imperial’s El Salvador
Project urges in particular Civil Engi-
neering students to try to get involved
over the coming years to provide crucial
assistance to the parts of the poor coun-
try that need it most.
RazJabary
RazJabary News Reporter
Inter-faculty mascotry
kicks off this week
The time old tradition of mascotry at
College has kicked off once again with
the RCSU and CGCU reporting the dis-
appearances of their violate mascots.
Bolt, one of two CGCU mascots was
easily violated by the RCSU at last week’s
organised Bonfire Barnight held in the
Union bar. However, CGCU have levelled
the score as they stole approximately a
third of RCSU’s Theta with the equal ease
this week.
Last Thursday saw the Union hold host
to both the CGCU barnight and RCSU
comedy night; CGCU Kirsty Patterson
admitted mascotry was nigh on the night.
“I had expected one to go missing
this evening but had thought Spanner
protected by the Links Club.”
Both of CGCU’s mascots were on
display on the night, with the CGCU
tie club, Links, protecting the 68lb Bolt
and the Miss. Patterson herself pro-
tecting Spanner.
However, little distraction was need-
ed to violate Bolt on the night. Acting
RCSU Vice President (Activities) Chris
Gibbs casually picked up Bolt from the
stool it sat on in the middle of a circle
of Links Club members. The first Engi-
neer to raise the alarm was reportedly
CGCU Vice President (Finance & So-
cieties) Rikki Norris as Mr. Gibbs wan-
dered out of the Union bar to quickly
conceal the mascot into hiding. Its
whereabouts is currently unknown.
Spanner and Bolt have only recently
been returned to this year’s committee
last month after they spent the entire
summer at an unknown location off
campus with anonymous captors. After
a long and hard struggle, Kirsty Patter-
son agreed to the return of the two mas-
cots back to campus at the Freshers’ Bar
Night on the 15th October.
The RCSU’s success in violating the
CGCU mascot could not be savoured
for long however, as a section of Theta,
RCSU’s 7ft tall steel thermometer was
taken from its hiding place in the Fe-
lix office this week by CGCU’s Trojan
Horse Society.
It is the first time in recent years that
the RCSU has partaken in the annual
rounds of mascotry, and have been cri-
tised by rival Faculty Unions for their
lack of activity. The design of Theta al-
lows it to be taken into much smaller,
concealable parts, and into hiding. It was
said to have been assembled completely
for the first time under the new RCSU
executive committee this week, after
A WINNER
IS YOU!
We ran a competition two weeks ago giving away a month’s supply of
Relentless Energy Drink. We asked “In what year was the very first issue of felix
published?” The answer was 1949. It’s our 60th birthday this year, duh.
James Mardell, you lucky boy, you’re going to be very awake and alert for
the next month. To collect your prize, come down to the felix office in Beit’s
West Basement.
former RCSU President David Charles
revealed the location in the Sir Alexan-
der Fleming Building where he had hid-
den the RCS-engraved bulb component
of Theta.
Jovan Nedic, Ex-Felix Editor and a
Guildsman well known for his mascot-
stealing antics, has got one up on his
successor Dan Wan. The current Felix
Editor and Scientist was entrusted with
the piece by RCSU President Katya-yani
Vyas, but Engineers easily located the
Scientists’ mascot in the obvious hiding
place that was the Felix office. The RCSU
President is understandably livid.
With scores level and RAG Week ap-
proaching, the tradition is to auction
back the mascots to their rightful own-
ers with agreed monies given to the
RAG charity bucket.
The sport of mascotry has existed as long as anyone can really remember at College and
is steeped in tradition and superstition. It involves the capture and return of each other’s
Faculty Union mascots. Tactical skill and sometimes brute force has been used to capture
rival Faculty’s mascots.
Mascots involved are “violate”, meaning the steal of a rival mascot is technically permitted
but rarely desired. A stolen mascot is said to be”violated”. The safe return of the mascot is
ensured if the ransom fee set by the capturing Faculty Union is met. The ransom money is
then donated to RAG charity(Raising and Giving).
The Royal College of Science Union’s violate mascot is a 7ft steel thermometer, named Theta.
Two mascots, Spanner and Bolt fly the flag for the City & Guilds College Union. Neither are
traditional Faculty Unions, but both Royal School of Mines and RAG have their own violate
mascots in the form of Davy (lamp) and Chris (large collecting bucket).
There are unwritten rules that accompany mascotry. Some include, the mascots are not
allowed to be taken and hidden off-campus, they are not allowed to be driven around in cars.
TraditionalsostatesthatifThetaisentirelyviolated,theRCSU’scommitteemustthrowitinto
the Round Pond in Kensington Gardens on its return, and commission a new Theta.
What is this ‘mascotry’ all about?
Waniel Dan
Waniel Dan Reporter
www.relentlessenergy.com

