5
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Even higher fees? It’s not for us, thanks
The government launched a review of
higher education funding for students
on Monday that, according to NUS
warnings, could lead to soaring tuition
fees. The review will be chaired by Lord
Browne, former CEO of BP and the
current president of the Royal Acad-
emy of Engineering, and is expected
to report back next year. Lord Browne
made the headlines following his res-
ignation in 2007, after revelations that
he may have used BP resources on his
boyfriend, whom he reportedly met on
the escort website Suited and Booted.
He is said to be a close friend of Peter
Mandelson.
The Conservatives have been talk-
ing about lower state contributions
towards the cost of university degrees
for months as one of many proposed
measures to tackle the record budget
deficit. Shadow Secretary of State for
Innovation, Universities and Skills,
David Willets, has recently called for
the cap on undergraduate student tui-
tion fees, currently set at £3225, to be
raised to £7000. The Rector of Impe-
rial College, Sir Roy Anderson, has
also called for the caps to be ‘relaxed’
in order to keep top universities glo-
bally competitive. Sir Roy is himself ru-
moured to be in line for a conservative
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian News Editor peerage and job as an education minis-
ter in the next government. The review
now enjoys bipartisan support mean-
ing that its recommendations will have
a significant impact regardless of who
wins the next general elections.
Ironically the review was initially
promised in 2004 in order to appease
rebel Labour MPs who were threaten-
ing to vote against the bill to introduce
a £3000 annual tuition fee. They were
under the impression that it could rec-
ommend scrapping the fee, yet now
it looks almost certain that it will ar-
gue for higher fees and for loans to be
charged at commercial rates. As part of
that promise, the review had to begin
this year, but the fact that it will not re-
port until after the elections has led to
accusations that both parties are trying
to avoid this becoming an issue at the
College Hardship Fund 2009
Money worries affecting your studies?
EU and Overseas students may be eligible for a grant from the
College Hardship Fund (home students can apply to the
Access to Learning Fund.)
We understand that despite careful planning some students may face
higher than expected costs or a financial emergency. In such
cases we may be able to assist with a small award from the
College Hardship Fund which could provide the additional
support you need to continue with your studies.
Autumn term application deadline: 20 November 2009
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Web: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/registry/studentfinancialsupport/hardshipfund
Email: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
Telephone: 020 7594 8122
Union President
Ashley Brown
has signed letter
of support
conceived by
the NUS which
lobbies against
any rise in higher
education tuiton
fees
general elections in May.
Although the recommendations look
very likely to include higher costs for
students, and to be implemented at all,
they will not affect anyone currently at
university or due to start next year. The
review has been asked to consider how
much students will be charged and to
look at ways of increasing the numbers
of students from poorer backgrounds
at university, as well as simplifying the
funding system. It is feared that if stu-
dents cannot afford to enter higher ed-
ucation, it will lead to fewer graduates,
reducing the competition for graduate
jobs and increasing salary costs for
employers. This means that the most
vocal opponents of the proposals, stu-
dent groups, could also be their great-
est beneficiaries. To address this issue,
the review will also consider getting
employers to pay part of the cost of
higher education.
On Wednesday 11th November,
the NUS published a statement to the
press, signed by ICU President Ashley
Brown, calling for “Labour and Con-
servative MPs to come clean on their
stance” over higher education fees,
while suggesting that current policy
aims to “duck difficult questions on
student fees and finance at the next
general election”, thus implying that
their silence aims to avoid alienating
the student vote by voicing their true
opinions. The letter goes on to discuss
that review panels are likely to be bi-
ased against students as it is “dominat-
ed by business and university leaders”.
Speaking about the decision to posi-
tion ICU alongside the NUS on this is-
sue, Ashley Brown said: “I was asked to
sign a letter from all students’ unions
in the country, which was published
in the Guardian [on 11th November].
The letter calls for MPs to sign up to a
pledge that they will vote against an
increase in fees and for a fairer fund-
ing system. Although we disagree
with the National Union of Students
on a number of funding issues, their
letter agrees with our current policy,
so I was happy to sign it.”
Current ICU policy on Higher Edu-
cation Funding was passed by Union
Council on 18th February 2008 and
can be found on the Union website.
Ex- BP CEO Lord Browne will head the review of higher education

