6 felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS FEATURE
T
en SIFE (Students In
Free Enterprise) stu-
dents flew to Tanzania
on August 23rd 2009,
embarking on a journey
to help the TEKUA Centre become
self- sustainable.
So, what is the story behind the
TEKUA Centre? Two local Tanzanian
volunteers, Chris and Ally, felt great
pain seeing youths in their community
forgotten due to their lack of educa-
tion. In 2003, they took action and
founded TEKUA, which provides free
lessons in English, Computing, Art and
Social Education.
They believed that education was
the key to success, and that TEKUA
would aid young people in obtaining
the necessary opportunities to suc-
ceed. TEKUA has been educating its
students against the struggles of pov-
erty, illiteracy and the dangers of HIV
which, unfortunately, for many Afri-
cans is still a death sentence.
The road has been far from easy,
Chris and Ally have struggled to run
and sustain the Centre. It depends
mainly on external charitable support
such as Helping Africa 100. This is un-
sustainable and TEKUA has had many
financial difficulties. When asked
about their future plans, many stu-
dents answered that they hope to get
external sponsorship to fund higher
education. However, this is not always
possible, and this is where SIFE came
in!
SIFE’s philosophy is “give me a fish, I
eat for a day, teach me to fish, I eat for
a lifetime.” It is a global network join-
ing university students and business
leaders that together empower others
to become self-sustainable through
knowledge transfer and entrepreneur-
ship. There were three aims: to first
diffuse the culture of dependency on
donations through our SIFE Voca-
tional Programme. Secondly, to enable
the Centre to become more financially
independent through an Art Consul-
tancy Project on the Centre’s art busi-
ness (their only self- generated income
activity, which sells TEKUA students’
artwork) and thirdly, to teach English
IN THE CONTINUING SERIES OF IMPERIAL STUDENTS
SERVING THE WORLD AROUND THEM, SIFE STUDENTS
MELISSA NG, HANAN L’ESTRANGE-SNOWDEN, ALEXANDRA HO,
& SAHIL CHUGANI CREATE SUSTAINABILITY IN TANZANIA
THROUGH THE POWER OF ENTERPRISE
and Computing.
In the Vocational Programme, we
taught CV, letter writing and inter-
view skills. We also taught them how
to make savings through small- scale
businesses, allowing self-funding of
further education rather than waiting
for ‘sponsorship’. The students had a
simulated art sale within the Centre,
and real life practice at the local mar-
ket selling maize and bananas. They
have learnt that it is possible to realise
their dreams, to become the teachers,
chefs, and tour guides that they aspire
to be, in a self-dependent manner.
Take one of our students- Mary
Gabrielle established her own banana
business and passed her interviews to
enter a Vocational Cooking School.
Another, Emanuel Geoffrey, is estab-
lishing a hair salon. Due to the success
of our summer programme, we are
working with the centre to permanent-
ly integrate it into the school curricu-
lum, which will be taught by students
who graduated this September.
The Art Consultancy Project identi-
fied the reasons for the lack of profit
in the past few years. To improve rev-
enue, the project revamped the art
shop, rebranded their marketing strat-
egy and reviewed their pricing and ac-
counting system. The once muddy and
unwelcoming TEKUA art shop is now
clean and inviting. A signpost has been
erected and brochures distributed to
nearby hotels. To expand their market
scope, we are now identifying further
opportunities for TEKUA in London
for the sales of their original paintings,
greeting cards, jewellery and bags.
This would ensure long term and sta-
ble sales for TEKUA. As we have in the
past, we will also be holding art exhibi-
tions to further help the sales of their
artwork.
We didn’t change TEKUA overnight,
but we are making a noticeable differ-
ence. We hope that we have inspired
these youths just as much as we have
been inspired by their optimism and
determination despite all the adversities
they face.
“They have learnt
that it is possible
to realise their
dreams, to become
the teachers, chefs,
and tour guides
that they aspire to
be.”
CARVING A
FUTURE
IN TANZANIA
Congratulations to all 10 who volun-
teered this summer - Alexandra Ho,
Alex Shen, Edward Poynton, Hanan
L’Estrange-Snowden, Heather Wong,
He-In Cheong, Janice Luo, Melissa Ng,
Sahil Chugani and Sammy Ho.
Our best wishes go to all the staff and
students at TEKUA who will always
stay in our hearts - Chris, Ally, Pendo,
Harry, Eczekiel, Lea and Tenopa.
Our special thanks go to IC Trust, IC
Summer Tour Fund, Deloitte and Ro-
tary Club Fund who provided financial
support. Our deepest appreciation goes
to everyone who made this project pos-
sible- Khushbu Lalwani, Garrie Bolton,
Mary Goudge, Krishna Bakhai, Paul-
harveer Singh, Suraendher Shanmu-
ganathan, Raghav Saboo, Advait Rao,
Kathleen Pheasant, and Swiri Konje.
This project runs throughout the
academic year and over the summer
in Tanzania. SIFE also runs other UK
based projects from working with
youths and single mothers, to tackling
environmental issues and encouraging
science entrepreneurship. New project
ideas are always welcome too.
Join SIFE Imperial (ranked 4th in UK)
, and transform the lives of others and
your own simultaneously through the
power of volunteering and enterprise!
Maybe even represent UK in the SIFE
World Cup 2010.
The Imperial College TEKUA Project team and the TEKUA Centre’s volunteering staff after a day’s work of teaching the
15 -30 year olds ready to DalaDala back to Makumira for some Ugali na Kuku and a Serengeti beer mmmmm...
PHOTOS BY SAHIL CHUGANI

