9
felix FRIDAY 13 NOVEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
here’s a great deal of casual
hypocrisy floating around
out there. Take the Creation
of the World, for instance.
We are happy to refer to the
Greek, Norse or Chinese versions of
this event as ‘mythology’
, whereas even
the most devoutly atheistic of us will ac-
cord a special status to the account set
out in Genesis. A distinction made for
purely cultural reasons – not because
the Judeo-Christian timeline makes any
more sense than the others. Well, we
should at least be grateful nobody ever
came up with a specifically English ver-
sion of the Creation myth...
In the beginning God created the
heaven and the earth. And the earth was
without form, and void; and darkness was
upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit
ofGodmoveduponthefaceofthewaters.
And the Lord said: ‘let there be light’
.
And the electrician said: ‘I can fit you in
on Thursday, at around 3.’
And the Lord said: ‘Thursday? That’s
no bloody good to me – I’ve got to bring
the land forth from out the sea, cause the
firmament to shine with the lights of a
million stars and create all the creatures
that swim in the water and fly in the air
by Thursday.”
And the electrician said: ‘Sorry, guv’nor
– it’s not up to me. What you’ve got ‘ere is
a decontracted spindle, y’ see. That could
take - what, a week, a week and ‘alf to re-
place? Ain’t that right, Eric?’
And Eric said ‘yerr.’
‘Bu-ut, because I likes you, y’see, we
might be able to fix it all up by Thursday.
But that’s the fastest I can do’
, said the
electrician. ‘Nasty business, decontracted
spindles.’
‘Yerr,’ said Eric. ‘Very.’
‘Well, couldn’t I have some sort of re-
placement?’ Quoth the Lord. ‘I mean,
it’s all very well you talking about decon-
tracted spindles, but it’s bloody hell trying
to create a Universe if you can’t even see
what you’re doing. Believe me, I should
know. Made a right mess last week when
thefuseblew.Isn’ttheresomesortoflight-
ing I could borrow in the meantime?’
‘I see’ said the electrician. ‘Well, it just
so ‘appens we do have a variety of replace-
ment illyoominashun apparatus in stock,
guv’nor. Ain’t that right, Eric?’
‘Narrr’ said Eric. ‘We don’t got none any
more.’
‘Oh Jesus Christ, Eric! No offence
meant, guv’nor.’
‘None taken’ assured the Lord.
‘Why ain’t we got no lights?’ asked the
electrician.
‘I went and gave them all to that Mr.
Vishnu, didn’ I?’ Croaked Eric. ‘He said he
neededthemforhisDee-wall-eeorsome-
thin’
. Heathen, if you ask me.’
‘Oh bollocks.’ Said the electrician. ‘Well,
I’m h’awfully sorry, guv’nor, but I don’t
think we’ll be h’able to furnish you with
your replacement h’illyoominashun serv-
ice at the present time.’
‘Is there nothing you can do for me?’
Cried the Lord.
‘What d’you think I am, guv’nor – a
bloomin’ miracle worker?’
And the Lord knew that there was a
witty comment that would be appropriate
atamomentlikethis,butcouldnotforthe
life of him remember what it was. Oh yes.
‘Piss off,’ said the Lord.
And Eric and the electrician did piss off.
Andtheeveningandthemorningofthe
ThursdaydidtheLordwaitimpatientlyby
his telephone. And the edges of the finger-
nails which he bit dropped onto the land
beneath and became the mountains and
the valleys. And little bits of snot which he
picked out of his nose while nobody could
see him because the lights were still out
became marshes and swamps.
And lo, the doorbell rang, and the heav-
ens and earth resounded to a colossal
‘Ding.’ And then did they resound to an
equally colossal ‘dong’
.
‘Hello?’ said the Lord
‘Err, yes. Hello. Is this Mr. J. Hova?’ said
a nasal voice.
‘Yes, it is I’ said the Lord. And on reflec-
tion added ‘or should that be ‘me’?’
‘You see, Mr. Hova, I’m from the local
branch of the RSPCA. Err – where are
you, exactly?’
‘I’m standing over here,’ rumbled the
Lord.
‘Ah yes – thank you, sir. I’m from the
RSPCA, and I’m here to follow up on a
number of complaints that have been
made about your property.’
There was quiet. A deep, profound
stillness broken only by the sounds of
an ostrich tripping over a pelican in the
darkness.
‘What sort of complaints?’ asked the
Lord, groping around for a cuttlefish he
had put down only a few minutes ago.
‘Well, Mr. Hova, is it true that you
are keeping one of the world’s largest
menageries of exotic birds confined in
utter darkness, lasting from moment-
when-darkness-is-supposed-to-start to
moment-when-darkness-is-supposed-
to-finish?’ asked the inspector as he sat
down on a penguin, mistakenly beliiev-
ing it to be a cushion.
‘Ah, well –’ started the Lord
‘And is it also true, Mr. Hova, that a
number of particularly fine species of
maritime life are forced to endure exist-
ence in a body of water where they are
not receiving enough light to survive?’
the voice continued.
‘Yes, but that’s all temporary. You see,
I’ve only just moved in to the neigh-
bourhood and my lighting isn’t sorted
out yet – the electrician should be
around later today, as a matter of fact.’
‘Is that so, Mr. Hova. Is that so.” said
the inspector. The penguin squawked,
loudly. The inspector jumped up and
tripped, heavily.
‘No no, Mr. Hova, I’m afraid these
conditions are quite appalling. I’ll be
back at the same time tomorrow, and
if things haven’t sorted themselves
out then I will take steps to have your
planning permit for this little Universe
revoked. Good undefined-timespan,
Mr. Hova.’ And the inspector did turn
sharply on his heel and fall flat on his
face in the Aegean Sea.
And the Lord sighed and said: ‘If you
want to get anything done in this coun-
try, you’re better off doing it yourself.’
Gilead Amit blasphemes. Ish. Just a smidge
“AndtheLordsaid:
‘lettherebelight’,
andtheelectrician
said:‘Icanfityou
inonThursday,at
around3:00”
I
have Facebook. No, I didn’t
think that would come as a sur-
prise to you either. I also have a
blog. I can see some raised eye-
brows in the back, but it seems
that blogging is fairly normal too. OK,
what about if I told you that I have
Twitter and frequently use it? Yep, just
as I predicted: most of you are snigger-
ing. What’s so funny about it, though?
Most people who dismiss Twitter as
pointless and laughable mumble some-
thing along the lines of, “Why do peo-
ple need to know what you’re doing all
the time?”. Well, they don’t, but I could
apply exactly the same argument to
certain people who frequently blog, or
even constantly update their Facebook
statuses. Apparently, broadcasting
inanities on Facebook is acceptable,
whereas tweeting is not.
That’s not to say that said inanities
should be posted on Twitter, either.
Contrary to popular belief, most peo-
ple don’t tweet things like “havin my
dinner lol”. Many Twitter users post
links that they think would be of gener-
al interest to their followers, or directly
communicate with each other using @
replies, as well as answering the ques-
tion Twitter asks on its homepage:
“What are you doing?”. To pick at ran-
dom from my homepage at the mo-
ment, one of the people I’m following
has failed her ECDL, another is asking
his followers what colour HeartBeats
he should buy, and yet another is look-
ing forward to her English Language
lesson. To quote a certain Sue Denim
(any Robots In Disguise fans in the
room? Nope, I didn’t think so either)
tweeting is like leaving your curtains
open, and following is the equivalent
of peeking inside. Part of the appeal of
Twitter is that it’s a bit like a legal way
of stalking someone, and who doesn’t
indulge in the odd bout of Facebook
stalking? Plus, if you want to follow
celebrities, you can, safe in the knowl-
edge that they won’t file a restraining
order.
If I had to classify websites, I would
put Twitter somewhere between blog-
ging and social networking. I asked
the student union here a question via
Twitter before I arrived as a bright-
eyed and bushy-tailed fresher. Ashley
Brown himself tweets. Other people
use Twitter for slightly insane projects.
The artist Johanna Basford, who got
her followers to submit ideas for a
‘Twitter Picture’. I suggested a chicken
walking along holding an umbrella, for
example, which is now sandwiched be-
tween a laughing Buddha and a llama
in the final picture.
I’ll freely admit that Twitter isn’t for
everyone. Gaining followers is pretty
difficult in itself. People you start fol-
lowing might follow you back, but the
chances are fairly slim in general, and
close to nil if it’s a celebrity. Most of my
followers are bots of some sort.
I’m not telling you to rush out and get
Twitter. Just let me tweet in peace, OK?
EmilieStammersthinkssheisnotatwit
“I suggested a
chicken walking
along holding an
umbrella... which
is now... in the final
picture”

