Welfare Reshuffle
The Welfare Centre and the Residence Office
have been combined into one unit which is
going to be called the Student Services
Office.
We have moved into a new office in 15
Princes Gardens which will be open every
weekday from 9:30 to 5:30pm. The Student
Services Office brings under one roof all the
services that were provided by the Residence
Office and the Welfare Centre and so will deal
with:
College Accommodation
Student Services will deal with the same
aspects of application to College accommo-
dation, the billing, etc., as the Residence
Office used to.
Privete Sector Accommodation
We have details of all types of accommodation
currently available in many areas of London.
We also have an 'Accommodaion Guide'
which includes a list of flat agencies.
Legal Advice
We can help with all kinds of legal problems
including making claims under the small
claims procedure in the county court.
In certain cases where you may have to
have a solicitor as, for example, you would if
you wanted someone to represent you in a
magistrates court we have lists of solicitors
who do legal aid work — so you don't have to
pay — together with the areas of the law that
they specialise in. We also have lists of
solicitors who speak languages other than
English.
Landlord Problems
These can be many and varied. One of the
problems is knowing just what your rights
are. Other problems, such as involving an
imminent b r e a k d o w n in r e l a t i o n s h i p s
between tenant and landlord, can often
helped through an intermediary such as
ourselves.
Consumer Problems
Recent government legislation has given the
consumer considerable protection. However,
it is still up to the individual to find out what
his rights are in any transaction that appears
to have gone wrong and summon up enough
energy to commence battle! This is where we
can provide reinforcement with advice and
assistance when appropriate.
Immigration/Home Office Problems
We don't exactly have a hot line to the Home
Office, but lots of useful contacts with
organisations that give advice in these areas,
including our list of specialist solicitors, if we
can't help directly ourselves.
Insurance
This area is covered by various leaflets on all
types of insurance, including cars, motor
bikes, cycles and life.
Covenants
A useful way of supplementing your income
by reclaiming tax paid by your parents on
their contribution to your grant. Forms
explaining the procedure can be collected
from student services.
Benefits
We have the complete current range of
Department of Health and Social Security
leaflets, including information on all aspects
of the N H S , medical treatment abroad,
National Insurance contributions, child
benefit, unemployment benefit and various
other ways of supplementing a low income.
We also have details of rent allowance and
rate rebate schemes.
Grants
Advice on eligibility for grants, details of
certain discretionary allowances and lists of
charitable organisations offering some cash
help can be provided.
Miscellaneous
We also have an assortment of leaflets
covering consumer matters and many other
areas, reference books on such things as
holiday jobs, working holidays and copies of
Which from this year as it comes in.
Michael Arthur
Haldane Library
Books and records are now being lent for
three weeks, instead of two, as a result of a
decision by the Library Committee last term.
Fines for late return of books and records will
now be charged at 10p per week or part of a
week. Please return your books on time —
we don't like charging fines! (Any money
from them is used to buy more books, so you
still benefit.)
Loans can be extended either in person or
by phone (external ext 2106, internal 3980), if
no other user has requested them.
flunt ©0dnz Visits friends
Episode Seven
1 thought daddy was God!" cried tiny Charlotte
in a transport of disappointment. But her mother
only put the dripping teddy bear on the window
sill and turned down the lamp.
Aunt Deidre pondered on the click-click-clackety-
click of the point-wheel intercourse and
shuddered. The man opposite her smoked a
cheap cigar till its fiery tip burnt his yellowed
fingers and he cried: "Oh!" and dropped it in
sarcastic tribute at Aunt Deidre's feet.
Page 4 FELIX, January 9,1981

