4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 8TH NOVEMBER
NHS funding crisis passes St Mary's by
MARIA IOANNOU
It looks set to be a hard winter for the
National Health Service, with 36
Trust Hospitals in the red despite a
statutory responsibility to break
even. However, unlike several other
London Trusts, St Mary's Hospital
has carried over a surplus for the
year.
Running up a total budget over-
spend of £34 million in the 1994-95
financial year, the individual trusts
are under far more pressure than the
health authorities to prevent such
deficits. The health authorities are
expected to be £118 million over
their budget, with 63 of 99 having a
deficit.
The Trust Hospitals who are suf-
fering financial difficulties include
The Royal National Orthopaedic
(£3.4m), Royal United Hospital,
Bath (£2.5m), Greenwich, South
London (£2.8m), the Royal National
Ear, Nose and Throat Hospital
(£826,000) and Swindon and
Malborough (£500,000).
These deficits in Trust Hospitals
may giveriseto ward closures, oper-
ation cancellations, staff shortages
and longer waiting lists, with the hos-
pitals trying desperately to wipe out
their debts.
Stephen Dorrell, Secretary of State
for Health, made a bid for an addi-
tional £1.5 billion for the NHS bud-
get at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday
and came out with an extra £1.3 bil-
lion. The easy benevolence of this
may be slightly undermined by the
fact that John Major has recently
renewed the Conservative manifesto
commitment to spend more, in real
terms, on the NHS every year. This is
despite government attempts to cut
the £286.2bn public spending bill by
£4 billion to make way for tax cuts
on the Budget on the 26th of
November.
St Mary's Hospital Healthcare
Trust has fortunately managed to
stay within its budget limitations this
year, whilst still providing an excel-
lent service. However, sources at St
Mary's could not confirm for how
much longer the Trust's finances
would stay in the black; despite the
extra money aquired by the Health
Secretary the NHS still faces a short-
age of adquate funding.
With your intelligence,
shouldn't you be working with ours?
Reuters is a world-class organisation, supplying critical, real-time
information to the financial services industry and to the major
financial centres around the world.
Perhaps you haven't considered us as a career option. You see
yourself as a potential high-flyer: someone with exceptional
promise, an international outlook and the ability to adapt to
change and new challenges. So chances are, you've set your
sights on investment banking, management consultancy or a
blue-chip business environment where you've been told you'll
be fast-tracked to a successful career.
That may be the case, but if you want to ensure you get the
support and opportunities to reach the very highest levels, take
a look at Reuters. You won't just get management training -
Reuters high-exposure programme means the sky's the limit. It's
a programme that will give you real business responsibility from
day one and groom you for a senior management future. And it's
a programme that has consistently achieved its objectives.
We'd like to show you the evidence. Why not come and meet us at
our presentation on campus - we look forward to seeing you there. «
r. r, ; r '? \
r r. r L ;

