F E L I X FRIDAY 8TH N O V E M B E R NEWS FEATURES 5
The phenomenon known as
Aldwych
Amidst the confusion surrounding the imminent HE teachers' strike (FELIX
1067) Simon Wistow courts controversy once again by investigating.
You may or may not have heard of
the Russell group. For those of you
that have; well done for keeping
abreast of current affairs particularly
those that involve dear old IC, for
those of you that don't; here is a
short synopsis
Half way through 1994 Sir Eric
Ash (ex Rector of IC and now the
Chief Executive of the Student
Loans Company) met up in The
Russell Hotel (hence the name, neat
huh) with representatives from five
other Universities namely Oxford,
Cambridge, Warwick and UCL, to
discuss ideas. These included break-
ing away from national pay bargain-
ing so that they can offer higher
salaries to attract top staff and
opposing Government plans to share
out limited research funding more
evenly with polytechnics (that policy
failed by the way). Other
Universities were fearful that the
Russell group would break away to
form a superleague that would attract
the best students and the most lucra-
tive research contracts and the stu-
dents were worried that all this talk
about top-up fees would mean that
only the rich could afford to go to the
top Unis. The words 'Ivy League'
were bandied around and nobody
really knew what was going on. The
numbers in the group rose and,
amongst others, the London School
of Economics, Manchester,
Birmingham and Edinburgh
Universities joined. Then later in
1994 the LSE Students' Union initi-
ated what it called the Aldwych
Group to protect students' interests.
They were set up as non-exclusive
group of Student Unions to lobby the
elitist movement in Higher
Education (i.e. the Russell group).
This is were we rejoin the story
A couple of Thursdays (the 24th )
ago the Aldwych Group held a
meeting at the University of
Sheffield Students' Union. Amongst
the things discussed was a formalisa-
tion of the Terms of Reference
(which I can't get a copy of because
our Student Union hasn't got it
despite the fact that the meeting was
two weeks ago), the so called
'Event' at Huddersfield university
and the forthcoming 'National
Shutdown' (the strike to you and
me).
The 'Event' is apparently a
rally/meeting which, I've heard
through the grapevine, smells suspi-
ciously like a badly camouflaged
Campaign for Free Education do.
The members of the Group decided
that they would not go although the
chair did give them permission to
attend if they wanted to.
It was also decided that during the
strike (called for the 19th by the way,
if you want to organise something)
the ICU Staff would not be allowed
to go on strike because, due to the
fact that although they are paid by
the College they are employed by the
Union, this would be secondary
action.
Scanning through my notes I can
also see that there is going to be an
Emergency budget meeting on
Monday the 2nd of December at
LSE to discuss any actions they
might have for action around the
time of the Budget and, on a slightly
more interesting (but not much)
note, a pre-Budget rally outside the
Russell hotel and a post-Budget
press conference.
It was decided that the Aldwych
Group to go public and, to this
extent, are planning to put a full page
ad in TTie Guardian which will cost
somewhere in the region of four and
a half grand (about £288 for each of
the 26 constituent Unions) although
this does not include spell checking
(that was a joke by the way).
And that was about it really for the
agenda. However it was revealed
which Universities were going to
charge top-up fees next year. Read
on and thank god that you chose to
come here. These universities are:
Birmingham, UMIST, Manchester,
Keele and Warwick. Also, LSE has
decided that it will instigate a policy
of top ups, though just not at the
moment.
So it appears that the age of elit-
ism is upon us once again. How soon
before we end up with a system like
that circa 1900 when only the rich
could afford to get a decent educa-
tion? Logically this can only
decrease the value of our degrees
and hasten a revival of the old-boys
network. It will also mean added
pressure in a not particularly friend-
ly job market where it is already a
necessity to have a degree to get a
half way decent job. It will be inter-
esting to see what the Aldwych
group does to prevent this; whether it
will lobby the participants to prevent
it or sit back and indulge in some
militant tub bashing.
Mystique of the sandwich maker's craft revealed
JACKIE S K E A T E
An interesting letter appeared in
Felix last week. No, I'm not talking
about the numerous responses about
activities cards. Nor am I concerned
with the perfunctory missive from
Mr Caldwell. I mean the one that
begins with the wise words "I would
like to bring to the attention of IC stu-
dents the fact that the sandwiches
sold in QT are of both poorer quality
and higher price than the sandwiches
sold outside the college."
Not that this is big news to the
average student. Avocado, chicken
and bacon sandwiches such as those
sold in QT are regarded as a little bit
poncy. After all, everyone knows that
real students live exclusively off cig-
arettes, alcohol, chocolate, and the
occasional £1 curry. Only the true
gourmets amongst them can be seen
ambling down towards a certain shop
along Gloucester Road after 4.00pm.
But this letter is interesting neverthe-
less. It goes to highlight the very spe-
cial place that the lunchtime sand-
wich has in the hearts and stomachs
of the British people. Only a cultural
heathen could stand resolutely by the
unenlightened opinion that sand-
wiches are always stale, sticky, plas-
ticky and overpriced. The price
reflects the quality, and, as any true
connoisseur knows, the staleness,
stickiness and plasticness can only
add to the experience. Worth a men-
tion are the ones with an inch-thick
liquidfilling...biteinto one, and the
contents end up on the opposite wall.
It is also good if you find something
that shouldn't be there when you take
the first mouthful...top marks for
wasps, needles, and dead rodents.
Lower down the scale, points can be
awarded for toenails, pubic hairs, and
any unidentified bits of metal.
The fact that these are blatantly
cheap substitutes for a proper filling
leads me to wonder about just how
much someone can get away with
charging for two boring slices of
bread, mayonnaise, and cold meat.
Bearing in mind that a whole loaf of
bread costs about 40p, making a slice
cost roughly 4p at most, and that fill-
ings like cheese, ham, and lettuce can
be brought cheaply, implies that
either only the finest ingredients, lov-
ingly hand-prepared by highly-
skilled sandwich-making craftsmen
can ever be used, or that there is a
silently-acknowledged agreement by
profit-hungry caterers to fix prices at
an artificially high level. Having said
that, however, College doesn't actu-
ally make a lot of money from cater-
ing, so maybe there is something else
going on here. Maybe it's the afore-
mentioned lovely plastic wrappings
that are costing a phenomenal
amount. Maybe buying lunch is even
turning into a form of gambling, and
that there are some lucky people out
there who bite into their midday
sandwich to discover a few pound
coins along with a slice of ham and a
few elderly lettuce leaves. If so, I'll
keep visiting the JCR...one day, it
could be me...

