Union Page
The Sex Ed Talk You Never Had
Come along to Union Council
Shape your Union
Nominate yourself and lead the change at Imperial
#icuElections
Each position available in the Leadership Elections can influence great
change at different levels of the College and Union. Consider standing for
one of the nine Liberation & Community Officer roles and be the voice
for our underrepresented groups and causes:
Black & Minority Ethnic Officer
Represent the views of students on BME issues.
Disabilities Officer
Improve the experience for students with disabilities.
Ethics & Environment Officer
Promote green and ethical initiatives to students at Imperial.
Gender Equality Officer
Represent students with any gender-related equality issues.
Interfaith Officer
Advocate for the faith needs of students at Imperial.
International Officer
Champion the needs of international students at Imperial.
LGBT+ Officer
Represent any sexuality-related needs of students.
Mental Health Officer
Work to improve the experience and wellbeing provisions in place for
student mental health at Imperial.
Working Class Officer
Represent students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Read about the 700+ positions available and nominate yourself at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
As part of our programme of LGBT+ History Month events, we’ll be
joined by sex educator, Ruby Rare, who will deliver a refreshing take on
sex education. She’ll guide attendees through all things LGBT+ sex and
relationships, which are topics often missed from the curriculum.
Join Ruby in this warm and welcoming space, and share opinions
and experiences, inclusive of all sexualities, genders and relationship
structures. This event is open to all, so come along on Thursday 20
February, 19:00-21:30 in the Union Bar.
Book your place at imperialcollegeunion.org/ruby-rare.
Come along to the next Union Council meeting where you can raise
issues and have important discussions that will shape the future of
student life at Imperial.
At Union Council, your representatives make some important decisions
regarding issues affecting student life, such as halls rent. All students
are welcome to attend.
Come to the next meeting on Tuesday 18 February at 18.30 in RSM
G01. Find out more at imperialcollegeunion.org/unioncouncil.

