10 felix Friday 1 February 2008
Anyone but Huckabee
C
ompared with the crown-
ing of His Majesty Gor-
don Brown last year, the
US presidential race has
enthralled the media on
both sides of the pond. News organisa-
tions all over the world pick apart each
intricacy, skirmish, and outright war
primarily because of the major cross-
roads before America today. Not only
are the candidates so different in their
ideals, but major issues are coming to
a head. Global warming, terrorism,
creationism, gun violence, the Middle
East, and the state of the world’s largest
economy have all reared their contro-
versial and sometimes ugly faces dur-
ing Bush’s tenancy and require decisive
action from a new President.
George Bush will leave with the in-
ternational relations of America be-
yond a joke in many countries. The
‘Star Wars’ missile system has antago-
nized Russia; France and Germany fell
foul of his foreign policy machinations;
Guantanamo Bay and allegations of
torture have stained the image of the
US across the world and that’s without
mentioning his cosy stances on Iraq, or
Iran, or Cuba, or Palestine, or ...
That is why the thing America des-
perately needs most is a Democratic
President. Someone who will not off-
hand greenhouse gas emission as a
‘problem for technology’. Someone
who will work with, not against, the
UN. Someone who will not let faith get
in the way of reason (“God told me to
invade Iraq ...”). Someone who repre-
sents what America was founded on
and in its heart stands for: Unity. Tol-
erance. Secularism. Freedom.
Fortunately, the voters of the land of
the free have a choice. Both Democrat-
ic candidates would be the major im-
age change for the US it so badly wants.
Barack Obama, the first black presi-
dent. Hillary Clinton, the first female
president. Both represent the diversity
of America and its opportunities to
all, embodying the age-old American
Dream. Both talk about stewardship
of the environment and taking active
measures against carbon emissions.
Both want to improve relations with
Europe and China. Both want to start
withdrawing troops from Iraq. Obama,
especially, has a strong record of peace,
voting against the Iraq invasion, whilst
Clinton states that ‘had she known
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Scorpio
then what we do now’ she would not
have given her support. Obama and
Clinton also want to integrate the mil-
lions of illegal immigrant workers in
America with the communities they
live in and have devoted livelihoods
to, instead of further alienation. Both
have the potential to bring atheists and
Christians, liberals and conservatives,
and business and environmentalists
together who for too long have bitterly
divided the country.
Facing them stands the Republicans.
Cue the Imperial March. Although, to
be fair, even the die-hard conserva-
tives in the party acknowledge that
change is due. Both Mitt Romney and
John McCain have been accused of
‘left-leaning’ in policy areas on social
security and immigration. Disappoint-
ingly, however, only John McCain has
stated that environmental care is one
of his priorities, with no mentioning
of capping greenhouse gas emissions.
The remaining candidates talk only
of ‘energy security’, i.e. ‘less dealings
with Russia and Saudi Arabia so we
don’t have to play so nice with them’.
All mention homeland defence as the
main thrust to their campaigns: the
very same stance that got George Bush
re-elected. Combating ‘evil’ and ‘ter-
rorism’ are common themes and, as we
all know, it is dead easy to spot those
with evil intent amongst the hundreds
who take religion a bit too far and the
millions who diligently observe their
faith peacefully instead of lumping
them all into one picnic.
A terrible state for America to be in
is to have a female or black candidate
lose the general election due to gender
or racial prejudice. A Democrat loss
due to their inter-faction policy dif-
ferences is regrettable. However, the
worst possible scenario is to vote in the
staunchest right-wing Republican can-
didate. The candidate with medieval
views on homosexuality. The candi-
date who most threatens the separa-
tion of Church and State in America
that has protected citizens of all be-
liefs. The natural heir to George Bush,
with his foreign policy, but one step
further. The creationist candidate who
will be in command of the education of
a nation holding on dearly to the Dover
school ruling.
Please, America, I beg of you. Do not
let Mike Huckabee become President.
James Wang
My invisible friend
T
here are some things in
this world that are down-
right wrong. Global pov-
erty is amongst the chief
concerns in this respect.
If the developing world were richer,
then they’d be able to solve their own
problems, to prevent disease, civil wars
and malnourishment, have productive,
happy lives, and contribute to every-
one’s well-being. Unfortunately, pov-
erty is hardly an easy problem to solve.
Throwing money at the problem, for
example, is a pretty stupid way to do
things. And this is my main problem
with Fair Trade.
The premise sounds simple enough,
and it also sounds effective enough.
Offer people a choice between giving
impoverished farmers a better deal,
and pay for it, or the regular stuff
they were getting before, which gives
greedy multinationals fats wad of cash.
In principle, it can only help, right?
Impoverished farmers will end up with
more in their pocket, no matter how
successful the scheme is. And we can
end up with a better conscience. Eve-
ryone’s happy.
Unfortunately, not quite. How much
Matt the Hat
The only Fair Trade is free trade
extra do you pay for the privilege of
your cup of Fair Trade coffee, say?
20p? Probably more. And I suppose
you would expect this to end up in the
pockets of the farmers. It doesn’t. The
vast majority of this premium is safely
tucked away by the outlet you bought
it from. They know you’ll pay more
for it, so they charge as much extra as
you’re willing to pay. Your average cof-
fee farmer sees in the whereabouts of
an extra penny or two per cup. This
is still probably enough to give them
a decent raise in earnings. But that’s
not the point. Fair Trade might be giv-
ing the farmers a fair deal, but it’s not
giving us, as consumers, a fair deal. It’s
both ripping us off for the product, and
pocketing the change we wanted to go
to a good cause!
There are larger, more fundamental
concerns I have though, and that’s the
incompatibility with the free market.
Poverty is an economic problem. There
are huge underlying problems with the
global economy responsible for the
poor wages of Third World farmers.
Fair Trade will not cure this. Subsidis-
ing a farmer for the sole reason that
they are poor will not help anyone in
the long run. Subsidising leads to price
distortions, and price distortions will
lead to robbing money out of some-
one else’s pocket – let’s say, for exam-
ple, other Third World farmers not
on the Fair Trade scheme, whose pro-
duce doesn’t sell for as much because
demand is being diverted elsewhere.
Perhaps they are just bad farmers that
don’t deserve to be on the scheme.
Maybe not. The free market tends to
be a more responsive judge of who is a
good farmer, and what they should be
paidaccordingtodemand(c.f.econom-
ics 101) than an arbitrarily designated
committee, and can handle everyone
without vast swathes of bureaucracy.
And farmers who rely on Fair Trade
will not be able to stick it out in the
real world. We need the economy to
tip back in their favour. Remember the
principle of how people prefer fishing
rods to truckloads of fish? Or farming
tools rather than handouts of corn? It’s
the same thing.
One thing that can honestly help is
closer to home than you think. Most
Third World countries are not able to
compete properly in the western world
because we subsidise our own farmers.
That’s right: our farming industry is so
bad that we need to give it money to
keep going. Third World farmers are
willing to work for less, they pay less
for land, and produce similar or bet-
ter quality crop. Yet our own govern-
ment pays farmers to farm things that
the Third World could be just as good,
probably better at. The EU spends 45%
(!) of its entire budget on the archaic
Common Agricultural Policy (CAP),
responsible for the infamous food
mountains, encouraging oversupply
and the production of food nobody
wanted. We’re burning our tax money
and screwing ourselves as consumers
by effectively blocking competition.
The competition is anyone who hap-
pens to not be wealthy enough to live
in the EU. Yet, with Fair Trade, appar-
ently the way to resolve the situation is
to screw ourselves even more, and pay
out money so that a small fraction ends
up in their pockets.
It’s a noble gesture, but it can only be
a short term fix. The CAP is the real
enemy. It’s unfair, and a waste of mon-
ey. Let the Third World farmers trade
freely and fairly with us, and we can all
have a better standard of living.
P
eople sometimes claim that
they have imaginary or in-
visible friends. I do in fact
have an invisible friend. But
I see him almost every time
I walk into college. It’s not that he’s any
good at hiding or is able to blend into
the crowd – quite the contrary. But to
the crowds passing every day he might
as well be invisible.
The first time we both sat and sipped
our cups of tea, I found out that my
invisible friend is already in at work
before I wake up most days. Recently
he tells me that January business is go-
ing slowly because of people having
spent all their money over Christmas.
He does share some pieces of good
news. He’s managed to get a second
job cleaning part time and has finally
gotten a place to stay. Given his cur-
rent circumstances (which have re-
mained unchanged for five years), one
wouldn’t have thought that he was once
a teacher: English and History, neither
of which were my strong subjects. He
says that he has never claimed social
benefit, and I believe him. I’ve never
seen him force his sales on anyone
passing by either. Pride, he tells me. It’s
what he has left. Unfortunately, as he’s
getting on in his age, he says he cannot
keep doing his current job. My invis-
ible friend isn’t bitter or angry over his
situation. Instead, he thanks me heart-
ily for the cup of tea before I have to
head in to my lectures.
Some people are born the sons and
daughters of monarchs. Others are
raised orphans. I don’t think it really
matters. It’s a simple fact of life that
some are luckier than others. What I
do think matters though, is that you
appreciate what you have. People bitch
about the smallest things. Some go
through their entire lives without real-
izing how good they have it. Next time
your two hundred pound coat with the
designer logo doesn’t quite manage to
keep the chills out, imagine sleeping on
the ice cold pavement an entire night
with just that coat to keep you warm.
Next time the sandwich shop runs out
of your favourite kind of wrap, imagine
going a whole day without eating. One
thing people I know hear me say quite
often is – it could always be worse.
I’m not trying to guilt-trip you into
donating to the homeless. In fact, one
of the things that really piss me off is
the smug fuckers who give up insig-
nificant amounts for the sole reason
of inflating their own egos, then walk
away with a smug smile. Take your pa-
ternalistic sympathy and misguided al-
truism and shove it. Stop being a slave
to society, trends, and the media. Enjoy
what you enjoy instead of what they tell
you to enjoy. If you still haven’t figured
out whom my invisible friend is then
it’s just another day for you and me in
paradise.

