science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 1 February 2008 felix
Science
"We wish to suggest a structure for
the salt of deoxyribose nucleic acid
(D.N.A.). This structure has novel fea-
tures which are of considerable bio-
logical interest".
Our understanding of DNA has
come along way since James Watson
and Francis Crick published their era-
defining paper in Nature all the way
back in 1953, but the remarkable mole-
cule's latest feat seems to be bordering
on witchcraft. A team from Imperial
have discovered that individual strands
of DNA are capable of recognising and
organising each other without the aid
of any assisting enzymes or proteins.
The findings, published in the Jour-
nal of Physical Chemistry B this month,
could be important in helping to un-
cover the way in which homologous
recombination gets started.
Homologous recombination is a key
process which our genes use to reshuf-
fle themselves between generations, as
well as repair themselves after damage,
and involves identical stretches of ge-
netic material on different strands of
DNA lining up with each other before
swapping information. It has generally
been assumed that this kind of behav-
iour would be impossible without the
help of some protein or some other
mediation.
The researchers, however, have pro-
posed that the identical DNA strands
actually attract each other electrostati-
cally - the same way a suitably charged
balloon can attract your hair.
The idea is controversial, because
the bits of DNA which allow it to carry
information - the A, T, G and C bases
- are located on the inside of the fa-
mous double-helix. They're encased by
two relatively boring sugar-phosphate
'backbones', which provide the struc-
tural integrity of the molecule. Because
Imran Khan
DNA strands seek partners electrostatically
the backbone of the molecule is uni-
form in structure, it was assumed that
any electrostatic properties of the bas-
es on the inside wouldn't make any dif-
ference to the electrostatic properties
as visible from the outside, and so one
double-helix of DNA would look pretty
much the same as any other.
The researchers found, though, that
strands with similar sequences actu-
ally do have a habit of pairing up with
each other. Prof. Alexei Kornyshev, one
of the study's authors, pointed out that
"seeing these identical DNA molecules
seeking each other out in a crowd,
without any external help, is very excit-
ing indeed".
The molecules are capable of finding
each other from distances of more than
a nanometer apart, and the longer the
strands of DNA are, the stronger the
attraction seems to be.
This lends weight to the electrostatic
hypothesis, though the team admit
they can't rule out other mechanisms
just yet. "Formation of local single-
stranded bubbles and base flipping may
cause transient cross-hybridization",
they point out, but also consider it to
be "rather unlikely".
The famous double-helix. Imperial scientists have just shown how similar strands of the stuff can identify
each other at a distance. Turns out it's all to do with the pattern of electric charges inside them
JPMorgan is a marketing name of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries worldwide. ©2007 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. JPMorgan is an equal opportunities employer.
jpmorgan.com/careers
A WEEKIS A
VERY LONG TIME
IN BANKING.
Our spring week programme offers a
surprisingly comprehensive introduction
to the world of investment banking.
You’ll spend some time with each of our
five business areas, watching what we do,
understanding how we do it and learning
what roles graduates play in the bank.
We pack a whirlwind of new experiences
into the week, such as interactive seminars,
work shadowing, interview skill workshops
and social events with our business
representatives. For an experience that could
be your first step into a career in investment
banking this is where you need to be.
The spring week programme is open to
students from all disciplines who are in their
first year (or second year of a four year course).
Apply by February 10, 2008.
“The molecules
can find each
other despite
being separated
by over a
nanometer”

