politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 1 February 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Winners and inevitably losers
L
oser, Rudy Giuliani has seen
the collapse of his campaign
to win the Republican Presi-
dential nomination after
failing to win the Florida
primary. His campaign strategy was
untested and unfamiliar. He avoided
contesting the early primaries and
cauceses held in Iowa, New Hampshire
and others, instead focusing his money
and energy on a late big win in Florida
that, he hoped, would propel him to
victory overall.
Although spending 3 times as much
time campaigning in Florida than the
victor (John McCain) as well as $50
million overall on his campaign, he
finished an uninspiring 3rd. He has not
yet withdrawn from the race, though
an announcement is expected soon.
Negotiations with frontrunner John
McCain will lead to him announcing
his support for McCain’s candidacy
soon after he drops out of the race.
Traditionally, in U.S politics, the early
primary states have a large amount of
influence in decideding who becomes
the final presidential candidate. This is
because a series of early wins allows a
candidate to gain momentum.
By ignoring this conventional wis-
dom Rudy Giuliani either promised to
ensure a quick exit or rewrite the polit-
ical rules in the U.S. While other nomi-
nees have thrown up surprises during
this years campaigning, this was not to
be the case for Giuliani.
A week is a long time in the world of politics; as these people found out, fortunes can change quickly
Union President Stephen Brown has
never been afraid of controversy – but
as the Sabbatical elections draw close,
‘Red Stephen’ has come under fire
from rivals.
The behaviour of his colleagues is
under question. Deputy President (Fi-
nance and Services) Chris Larvin is
under pressure to resign after lying
about accepting a free luxury holiday
as a guest of youth camp organisation
Kamp Afrika. The Deputy President
initially denied being in Nigeria; the
Union also issued a statement saying
that he was in London at the time.
However a photograph of him canoe-
ing in Nigeria forced him to admit the
truth. Questions are now being asked
over why he and the Union gave false
statements but also about how stupid
someone has to be to take a picture of
themselves when they’re somewhere *This is satire; keep your hair on
they’re not meant to be.
Stephen Brown personally, has come
under enormous criticism for admit-
ting that he enjoyed a personal fiefdom.
He defended himself saying, “That’s
exactly what Sir Richard Sykes – and
remember I was opposed to the idea
at the beginning – set out to create.
And if we didn’t have that, I couldn’t
have got the Union re-development
through.” However a disgruntled Un-
ion employee, lets call her K. Patter-
son; no - Kirsty P, has informed Felix
that Mr Brown is completely close-
minded and refuses to work with other
people. He responded firmly “The Un-
ion system is one in which the Presi-
dent is the elected executive; I do not
work through endless layers of Deputy
Presidents.”
Unfortunately for his credibility, this
is not the only admission he has made.
Recently, when asked why alcohol al-
ways goes missing from The Union
Bar, Stephen Brown admitted he drinks
whisky at 10am, usually before the
Sambucca but always after a few shots
of Tuaca. As a defence for the whiskey
drinking, the Union President claimed
he used it “as an anaesthetic” in win-
ter months to help his chest problems.
When asked why he continues this re-
gime during the spring, summer and
autumn months he slurred, “It helps
numb the pain…”
Coming back on the offensive, Presi-
dent Stephen Brown has pointed to the
many successes of his time as a Sabbat-
ical officer. “Violent crime in Quad is
down, there are upgrades to the South-
side underground resulting in better
service and we’ve seen great results
from the walkway congestion charge”
He conceded the incidence of unsolved
murders has increased but denied that
the creation of an Assassins Society
was related. Keen to sound unworried
by recent events he declared, “If the
students don’t like me they can vote me
out.” This is exactly what his main ri-
val, former Deputy President (Finances
and Services) Jon Matthews, is hoping
will happen. He has described Stephen
Brown as being drunk on power, add-
ing: “No matter how long someone
has been in the job, they’re not above
accountability”. It remains to be seen,
however, whether Mr Matthews can
shake off his floppy haired image, bal-
ance an election campaign with a suc-
cessful career on Have I Got News for
You and go twelve minutes without of-
fending a city, race or continent.
Luckily for Jon Matthews, the scandal
surrounding his presidency seemed too
much for Stephen Brown in the recent
Union Council meeting, Felix reported
last week. With the council unwilling
to succumb to his iron-fisted rule, he
lost his temper with Deputy President
(Education & Welfare) Kirsty Patter-
son. The full account of the meeting
has only come to light recently, ap-
parently he not only told her to “Pipe
down!” but continued “So help me God
if you don’t shut up I’ll delay fixing the
constitution till 2012; you are just like
a concentration camp guard, you are
just doing it because you are paid to,
aren’t you?”
Giuliani loses, Kadhim celebrates Money, money, money, monieee!
W
inner, former Brit-
ish Prime Minister
Tony Blair has seen
his bank accounts
filled up after tak-
ing a series of jobs with major banks.
His most recent appointment, as an
advisor to Zurich Financial Services
Group (Zurich) will see him working
closely with Zurich’s newly launched
Climate Change Advisory Council.
While neither Blair nor Zurich have
released details of his salary, it is be-
lieved to be around £2m a year. He also
works part-time as an advisor for JP
Morgan. His salary for this part-time
job could be as high as £2.5m a year.
It is believed that Mr Blair will at-
tempt to become the first full-time EU
president from next year. Among his
supporters for this £200,000 a year job
is French President Nicolas Sarkozy.
It is believed that he will face private
resistance from Gordon Brown who is
uneasy about having Tony Blair com-
ing back into EU politics. Tories have
already taunted him over the prospect
of seeing him welcome ‘President Blair’
to Downing Street. Any sign of tension
between Tony and Gordon would be
seized on by the media.
Gaining the EU presidency would
mean that Tony would have to give up
lucrative business advisor roles. In the
meantime, he is clearly happy with a
guaranteed healthy bank account for
years to come.
The Comeback kid. Well not really
W
inner, John McCain
wins in Florida,
beating Giuliani
out of the race and
pushing himself to
the front of the field and putting him-
self in good stead for future primaries
Just a few months ago John McCain
was floating dead in the water, politi-
cally of course. After appearing as the
obvious presidential candidate, his
campaign lost supporters and funds
started to dry up. He was as good as
out of the presidential race. However,
after victory in New Hampshire, South
Carolina and now Florida he has staged
a remarkable comeback.
He is likely to secure the backing of
Rudy Giuliani after he drops out, and
with a general perception that McCain
has the potential to beat a democratic
candidate such as Hillary, things are
looking good for the ex-POW.
However up to this point the race for
the Republican nomination has been
anything but assured. McCain still
faces strong opposition from rival Mitt
Romney. Romney’s campaign staff
believe that his ability to raise money
and spend his own millions will allow
them to better highlight the contrast
between their candidate’s business
background and McCain’s long tenure
in a partisan Washington.
The 5th of February, Super Tuesday,
will finally cement either McCain or
Romney as the Republican candidate.
Seriously, I’m not corrupt. Honest
L
oser, Peter Hain resigned
his position as work and
pensions secretary due to
the announcement that the
Metropolitan police will
begin an investigation into his failure
to declare donations to his deputy
leadership campaign worth more than
£100,000.
Hain has always insisted the failure to
declare the donations to his campaign
was an accident and sources indicated
he would fight to “clear his name” from
the backbenches.
However at the Electoral Commis-
sion officials were not impressed by
Hain’s explanation that he was too
busy to comply with electoral law. The
party funding rules have been in force
for some time and failure to obey is a
criminal offence.
The Hain investigation is particular-
ly embarrassing because it will be the
third high-profile police investigation
into alleged Labour breaches of elec-
toral and funding law.
In the past some ministers have re-
turned to office after resigning. But
Hain is not close to Brown and it is
unlikely he will stage a comeback like
Peter Mandelson or David Blunkett.
This latest investigation is likely to
increase pressure on Harriet Harman
and Wendy Alexander who have both
admitted irregularities with campaign
donations and cement Labour’s image
as corrupt and sleazy.
Why doesn’t anybody like me?
L
oser, Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi has handed
in his resignation after los-
ing a confidence vote. He
will continue as caretaker
leader while the President, Giorgio
Napolitano, decides whether to hold
general elections early.
He was forced out after just 20
months in office, having been defeated
in the senate, or upper house, by five
votes. The defeat, which spelled the
end of the country’s 61st government
since the Second World War, could
also herald a comeback for Silvio Ber-
lusconi, the controversial former pre-
mier. Berlusconi has kept up pressure
for new elections that he hopes will
bring him back to lead Italy.
The collapse of the government had
been widely predicted following a
stream of defections. Several key fig-
ures in Mr Prodi’s centre-Left coalition
had refused to support him in the vote,
effectively ensuring his defeat.
During the vote, the Italian Parlia-
ment was the scene of intense drama.
Senator Tommaso Barbato was forcibly
removed from the Senate session while
Senator Stefano Cusumano collapsed
during the vote. Senators from the op-
position National Alliance party cel-
ebrated with champagne as the results
of the confidence vote was announced.
The change of government is unlikely
to bring the radical change needed to
help Italy’s unhealthy economy.
Scandal hits Union President Stephen Brown*
Samuel Black

