16 felix Friday 1 February 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rosie Grayburn
Arts Editor
A
re you feeling cooped up
like those poor chickens
on the telly? Do you con-
stantly moan about how
you haven’t had a proper
break since September? My diagnosis
is you clearly need to top up your RWC
(recommended weekly culture). A sim-
ple way to do this is to read Felix Arts
pages once a week.
If symptoms persist, you may be suf-
fering from severe laziness. This can be
easily treated with a couple of hours’
exposure to an art gallery, museum
or theatre. Consult your newspaper
arts listings before carrying out any of
these treatments. Alternatively, see the
opposite page for a guide of how to ap-
proach the South Bank’s amusements.
Complementary treatments can be
added to improve further the results of
culture exposure. [Fairtrade] Caffeine
can be purchased widely in many arts
institutions and is a popular addition
to any gallery visit. On the other hand,
many patients have found writing an
article for their student newspaper has
massively increased their RWC.
On this topic, Delighted of Hammer-
smith commented, “My RWC soared
after I was sent to review a big gallery
opening for Felix… And all I had to do
was email arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk!”
This week in Felix, we have some
lovely regular features to keep you
glowing with culture. Lucy Harrold,
our own Musical Theatre guru, tells
you all you need to know about West
Side Story. When you eventually get on
University Challenge, your little face
will light up when Paxman announces
“Right, your bonuses are on that fa-
mous Leonard Bernstein musical.”
I continue my mission this page to in-
troduce famous areas in London where
you can chill for the day whilst conven-
iently upping your RWC and decreas-
ing your DTA (Daily Telly Allowance)
and LISL (Lab-Induced Stress Levels).
We at Felix Arts are currently re-
cruiting writers and we would love to
hear from you. If you are interested
at all in reviewing the ‘From Russia’
exhibition at the Royal Academy, the
National Portrait photographic Prize
at the National Portrait Gallery or the
new Launchpad at the Science mu-
seum, please get in touch at the usual
address. We will sort out the tickets,
which applies to anything you fancy
reviewing.
Apart from that the theatres around
London are blooming with life. I blame
global warming personally. At the Old
Vic Jeff Goldblum stars in Speed the
Plow alongside Kevin Spacey.
Before you get too excited, don’t
forget the smaller productions. At the
King’s Head Theatre in Islington, The
Dybbuk is showing until February 24th
(www.kingsheadtheatre.org) and on
some nights you can see the acclaimed
Fucking Men at the Finborough Thea-
tre (www.finboroughtheatre.co.uk). If
you find yourself gracing these theat-
rical institutions and you find yourself
angered or inspired by the play/concert
you are viewing, please tell us about it.
We’d like that.
How to get out of your hole
Part 1: South Bank. Rosie Grayburn shows you how to do the South Bank. Oo-er
T
his week in Felix’s Guide
to Days Out of Fun and
Enjoyment, we take you
on a journey along the
South Bank of the Thames
from Waterloo to Southwark.
The South Bank is a cultural hub of
theatres, galleries, restaurants and ar-
chitecture. There is the National Thea-
tre, Shakespeare’s [excellent imitation]
Globe Theatre, The Tate Modern, The
OXO tower…
Fuck me – that is a lot of culture!
You are very observant, Mr Generic
Student in Bold Type. How to get
there: train/tube/bus to Waterloo. Easy
peasy. Things you need: Camera (to fit
in with generic tourists), money (to
buy sustenance and postcards) and a
copy of Hamlet’s soliloquy (to play pre-
tend at the Globe). Websites to check
out before you venture out: www.visit-
southwark.com
1. The South Bank is clearly signed
from the station, but still bring an A
to Z or map of some description as it
may be useful further on. When you
get to the river, turn RIGHT onto ‘The
Queen’s Walk’, which will take you
most of the way along the South Bank.
If you dare turn left, you will see the
London Eye and the Houses of Parlia-
ment straight in front of you. Please
don’t go that way. We’ve seen it all
before.
2. Follow the river and you will pass the
National Theatre and the Royal Festi-
val Hall, purveyors of fine concerts and
plays for years. The National Theatre
has recently been saved from concrete
death by being presented with a ‘mood’
light on its head. This detracts from
the ugly concrete and looks very pretty
when it is dark.
Incidentally, there are some very
tasty cafes underneath the Royal Fes-
tival Hall in case you get peckish this
early on in the day, fatty. See http://
www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/ for cur-
rent ‘what’s on’ listings. If you don’t
fancy a play or concert, the buildings
are interesting to have a poke around.
3. As you continue to walk in the SAME
direction along the Thames, you will
pass under the OXO Tower. This hous-
es a very fancy restaurant owned by
Harvey Nicks. Someone recently sug-
gested that all they served was different
flavoured OXO cubes with a garnish of
salad. We can only dream, eh?
4. You will next pass under Blackfriars
Bridge, home to buskers and traders
selling little, useless objects. When you
have passed this section you will be
faced with the gargantuan Tate Mod-
ern in what used to be the Bankside
Power Station.
I love this building. The turbine hall
is so cavernous and dwarfing – it is
worth just popping in the [free] en-
trance to stand in the centre of it to
soak up the grey, empty atmosphere.
The infamous ‘Crack’ or ‘Shibboleth’
is currently occupying some Turbine
space, so watch out for overexcited
small children and adults.
5. Once you have exhausted the Tate
Modern and perhaps had a coffee break
in its café, the next amusement along is
the Globe Theatre. It was painstakingly
reconstructed from original designs
and authentic materials, like blood,
mud and macadamia nuts (honestly!!).
The open air theatre does not start
its season until April but it still does
tours around the theatre with exuber-
ant guides all year round. Have a look
at www.shakespeares-globe.org for
more details. The mostly hands-on ex-
hibition underneath the theatre is very
enjoyable, if you like pretending to be
Shakespearean characters and dressing
up in pantyhose. I do.
6. If you are getting bored of the South
Bank now, or if you have superstitions
about ‘banks’ or ‘south’ things take a
ride (and it really is) on the Millennium
Bridge towards the City. Indulge in St.
Paul’s Cathedral, the Bank of England
and The Museum of London.
7. If you want to stick to the South
Bank, follow signs and crowds in the
same direction to the area of South-
wark. Follow a map if it will make you
feel better.
This is a very old part of London. You
can imagine it being smelly, noisy and
wonderfully ‘orrible. It is mostly cob-
bled and contains ancient cathedrals
(www.southwark.anglican.org/cathe-
dral); , historic ships docked (www.
goldenhinde.org) and the very authen-
tic tourist trap: The London Dungeon
(www.thedungeons.com). Have a wan-
der around the streets, but don’t stray
too far or you’ll end up at Guy’s Hospi-
tal (booo!).
8.AttheendofthisslogalongtheSouth
Bank, you are greeted by the welcome
sight of Borough Market (www.bor-
oughmarket.org.uk). It is a labyrinth
of stalls selling wonderful, local, deli-
cious produce. If you are repelled by
the not-so-wonderful, delicious prices
it is fantastic to walk around and soak
up the atmosphere. It is open Thursday
to Saturday until the mid- afternoon.
9. Time to go home. If you are super-
adventurous, why not wander a bit fur-
ther up the Thames to Tower Bridge,
the Tower of London and all that
comes with it?
If you do end up venturing up that
far and your stomach starts complain-
ing about neglect, why not take it for a
rollercoaster ride in the famous Brick
Lane ‘curry mile’, just around the cor-
ner from the Tower of London.
We come to the end of our jaunt along
the South Bank. To get home, you can
walk back along to Waterloo bypass-
ing the sights or get the tube from
Blackfriars, which is closer to Borough
Market.
If your expedition has been a sucess,
please send us a postcard. If there was
anything you discovered on your trav-
els that we missed off, please send us
an email to let us know and we might
just publish it.
Next week we push you a little
further and explore Greenwich
and Canary Wharf.
The wonderfully industrial OXO tower where you can eat very poncy
food: OXOtail soup, OXO caesar salad, OXO and martini, OXO frites...
All the world’s a Stage... Inside the Globe Theatre. You’d be fucked if
you promised “I’ll eat my hat” and you were wearing one of those

