18 felix Friday 1 February 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Frolic about in the Big Smoke
South Ken Museums
South Kensington Station
Go to the world-renowned museums on Exhibition Road, just 5
minutes from College, including the Natural History Museum,
the Science Museum, and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
Favourites include the Flight section in the Science Museum, the
Gems section and earthquake simulator in the Natural History
Musuem, and the Raphael Cartoons in the V&A.
Chapter Seven – Free things to do in London
Parks and Gardens
Hyde Park Corner, Green Park, Camden Town, Holland Park, Regent’s Park, St
James’s Park Stations
Visit London’s parks and gardens for a relaxing walk, reading, a picnic or to sunbathe. Highlights include
the following: Hyde Park, the largest central park, is still quite quiet – visit the Round Pond to feed the
swans; Green Park is leafy and cool; St James’s Park has pelicans and a great view of Buckingham Palace;
Holland Park has peacocks and beautiful formal gardens; Primrose Hill, near Camden Town, has a great
view of the city and is lovely for sunbathing; Regents Park has the beautiful Queen Mary’s Rose Gardens.
Tate Modern and Tate Britain
Southwark and Pimlico Stations
Tate Modern displays the national collection of international modern art, defined as art
since 1900. It includes masterpieces by Picasso and Matisse and one of the world’s finest
collections of Surrealism, including Dalí, Ernst, Magritte and Mirò. There are also major
works by Pollock as well as collections of Pop art, including Warhol, Minimal art and
Conceptual art. The Tate Britain comprises the national collection of British art from 1500
to the present day, and international modern art. In the twentieth century section there is
the work by Stanley Spencer, Henry Moore, Barbara Hepworth, and Francis Bacon. Special
attention is given to three outstanding British artists from the Romantic age – Blake,
Constable and Turner. A boat connects the two museums, although this is not free.
Speaker’s Corner
North East Hyde Park
Marble Arch Station
Traditional site for public speeches and debate as well as the
main site of protest and assembly in Britain. Although many of
its regular speakers are distinctly non-mainstream, it has been
frequented by such people as Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, George
Orwell, and William Morris. Its existence is frequently upheld as a
demonstration of the principle of free speech, as anyone can turn
up unannounced and talk on almost any subject. Come on Sunday
mornings to listen to all sorts of views from the sensible to the
obscure!
Changing of the Guard
Green Park Station
South Kensington Station
No visit to London is complete without seeing this military tradition.
The Queen’s Guard in London changes in the Forecourt inside the
gates of Buckingham Palace at 11.30am every day in the summer and
every other day in the winter.

