arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 1 February 2008 felix
Arts
See a Trial at the Old Bailey
Newgate Street
St Paul’s Station
The Central Criminal Court, or the Old Bailey, is the probably the most famous criminal
court in the world. It hears cases from all over England and Wales as well as the Greater
London area, and you can see them all from the Public Gallery. They are open Monday to
Friday from 10am-1pm and 2-5pm. Be warned, security is tight and no cameras, mobile
phones, bags or food are allowed.
British Museum
Great Russell Street
Tottenham Court Road Station
The British Museum is a museum of human
history and culture. Its collections, of more than 13
million objects, are amongst the largest and most
comprehensive in the world and originate from all
continents. Highlights include: the Rosetta Stone,
used for deciphering hieroglyphics, the Elgin Marbles
from the Arcopolis, Egyptian mummies, Greek
vases, and the Mausoleum of Halikarnassos (one of
the Seven Ancient Wonders of the World).
Bank of England Museum
Threadneedle Street
Bank Station
The Bank of England Museum tells the story of the Bank of England from
its foundation in 1694 to its role today as the United Kingdom’s central
bank. See how banknotes are made, be a broker on the stock market and
crack a safe. You can also hold a gold bullion bar worth over $140,000.
Well worth a visit!
Street Theatre
West Piazza, North Hall and Courtyard, Covent Garden
Covent Garden Station
Mention Covent Garden Market and most people think of entertainment: from the
first Punch & Judy shows in the 17th century to the world’s very best street theatre.
Be amazed by the street acts from sword-fighting knights to knife-swallowing acts,
chain-saw jugglers, death-defying unicyclists, opera singers and classical musicians,
as well as escape artists, clowns, mimes and human statues. Walk among the acts
and maybe sit in one of the numerous cafes to take in the atmosphere.
Written by Sally Longstaff, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Ceremony of the Keys
Tower of London
Tower Hill Station
The Ceremony of the Keys is the traditional locking-up of the
Tower of London and has taken place each and every night,
without fail, for at least 700 years. The importance of securing
this fortress for the night is still very relevant because, although
the Monarch no longer resides at this royal palace, the Crown
Jewels and many other valuables still do! Tickets are free but you
havetoapplyinwriting.Gotowww.hrp.org.uk/TowerOfLondon/
WhatsOn/ceremonyofthekeys.aspx for details.
Street Markets
Notting Hill Gate/Borough/Camden Town/
Liverpool Street
PortobelloRoadMarket:world-famousmarketsellingantiques,
jewellry, second hand clothes and bric-a-brac.
Borough Market: one of the largest food markets in the world,
selling a large variety of foods from all around the world.
Camden Market: arts and crafts, jewellry, 2nd hand clothing
food stalls. Higher-priced items indoors.
Spitalfields Market: indoor market selling books and clothes.
Organic food and crafts on Sundays.
Brick Lane Market: sunday market. Sells furniture, fruits,
exotic spices, saris, kitsch collectables and vintage clothes.

