film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 1 February 2008 felix
Film
When the apocalypse comes, film it
Patrick Tumilty
With Lost producer J.J. Abrams overseeing new sci-fi blockbuster Cloverfield, should we believe the hype or
is it just more unfulfilled promise? Felix investigates to find a pleasing lack of tropical island mysteries
Prior to release, this movie has been
hugely hyped, with rumours spring-
ing up all over the web. The specula-
tion surrounding the movie is mainly
due to a tantalising teaser trailer, but
has also been fuelled by the shroud
of secrecy that has cloaked the whole
production process. Was the 10.30am
start and ensuing dash [my alarm clock
failed me again!] to Empire in Leicester
Square worth it? Let’s find out.
According to producer J.J. Abrams
of Lost fame, the idea for Cloverfield
was loosely inspired by the Godzilla-
themed toys he noticed on a trip to
Japan; not the most profound motiva-
tion for making a sci-fi motion picture.
My expectations were anything but
sky-high as I took my seat, but hav-
ing recently watched Sidney Lumet’s
brilliant Before the Devil Knows You’re
Dead and the Coen brothers’ intrigu-
Cloverfield ★★★★✫
Director: Matt Reeves
Writer: Drew Goddard
Cast: Lizzy Caplan
Jessica Lucas
T. J. Miller
Michael Stahl-David
ing No Country for Old Men, I was
probably more receptive than usual to
some standard action fare.
The movie begins in Rob’s apart-
ment, where his friends are throwing
him a surprise going-away party before
he leaves New York for Japan. The ini-
tial 20-min party sequence reveals the
complicated web of relationships be-
tween the film’s main characters and is
a useful counterpoint to the upcoming
action.
The opening scenes are shot by Rob’s
best friend Hud, using a hand-held
camera. In the midst of Rob’s friends
wishing him farewell on camera, the
lights go out and things take a turn
for the worse... Everybody rushes to
the roof, where they are horrified to
see the distant destruction of sev-
eral towering skyscrapers by “some...
thing.” The audience hear a forebod-
ing moan from whatever is wreaking
this havoc, but we are kept waiting to
find out more. Hud continues filming
for the remainder of the movie on his
camcorder, stating, “people are gonna
wanna know how it all went down.”
The main premise of Cloverfield is
that a massive beast has emerged from
the sea near Liberty Island, beheaded
the Statue of Liberty and proceeded
to destroy downtown Manhattan. Not
until some way into the movie do we
get a view of the monster and no-one
even attempts to justify its existence
with some bogus science. This meant
the viewer could focus on the gripping
action, rather than some contrived ex-
planation for what had happened. The
remainder of Cloverfield depicts Rob
et. al on a quest to save his friend Beth
from her apartment, where she lies
trapped. The ending is both fitting &
poignant, if somewhat depressing.
Although I have heard many com-
plaints about the jerky, disorientating
camera work in movies such as Trans-
formers, I had no problems giving Clo-
verfield my full attention.
The fractured, stop-start nature of
the recording method really added au-
thenticity, especially given that much
of the shooting was actually carried
out by T.J. Miller himself, the actor
playing Hud. It’s not revolutionary, but
it’s a well-used device and I agree with
Abrams’ opinion that this is what it
would look like if someone was, “vide-
otaping a spontaneous, horrific event.”
Consequently, we don’t see eve-
rything that happens; we don’t hear
everything that is said. This really
helped keep me interested in what was
transpiring. If you’re into action and
creepy-crawlies [spoiler!], this movie
is definitely worth a watch and is any-
thing but boring. If we’re all going to die, can we at least make that home movie at last?

