26 felix Friday 1 February 2008
The Big Screen on a budget
Andrew Slater and James Finnerty show readers how home-cinema can be cheap
D
o you like watching TV?
Like video games? Like
films? If you are thinking
yes to any of these, then
we’ve got a bit of treat
in store for you. The thing most of us
suffer from at Imperial, is not being
able to afford some of the more expen-
sive luxuries that exist. The world of
big TVs and surround-sound systems
tends to fall into this category, but not
necessarily. This where we step in. We
thought we would put together a home
cinema on a budget and see what sort
of results were produced.
If you want to buy a reasonable TV
these days you’ll be going HD. At the
moments there exists two flavours of
High Definition. These are 720p and
1080p, the latter is the better. If you
don’t know what these numbers mean
it refers to number of lines of pixels
that the TV can display. So the more
lines you have the more pixels you
have and therefore you get a sharper
picture. At the moment 1080p televi-
sions, of a decent quality, are beyond
the price range of many students so we
are going to focus on the 720p range of
televisions. Now you might think why
is high definition so important? Well
if you’re asking yourself this, then it
might not be. If you just use your TV
for watching TV, as absurd as it sounds,
then you won’t have much need for it.
Where it comes into it’s own is the dis-
play of cinema quality-films and PC-
quality gaming in your living room.
The next most important thing is
not the size of the screen but what we
call the contrast ratio. Decent student
models now have a ratio in the range
of 5,000:1 to 20,000:1. What this fig-
ure refers to is the luminosity of the
display’s brightest colour (white) to its
darkest (black). The results of a low
contrast ratio is what you may have
seen on a cheap computer monitors,
areas of black appear as weird shades
of grey.
Now here’s the killer question- How
big do you want? Actually, maybe that
should be- How big do you need? In
W
elcome once again
the Tech section.
This week we have
put together a
Home Cinema is-
sue focusing on explaining what you
should look for in good equipment and
more importantly for us, good value
equipment.
Now there has been a decent
chunk of news this week, so in this
editorial I’ve decided to run through
some of the forefront news and whack
the rest in the headlines section on the
next page. So lets get one with it.
As mentioned in previous issues, Ap-
ple is claiming sales figures of above 4
million iPhones. Sounds great doesn’t
it, but not when you delve a little deep-
er. AT&T, the network all American
iPhones are on, has reported it only has
2 million iPhones on it’s network and
the European networks ( O2 here and
T-Mobile in Germany ) have reported
totals of around 700,000. There is a big
discrepancy there. Some of this, how-
ever, can be attributed to large stocks of
the phones in warehouses that haven’t
been sold to the public yet. This isn’t
shocking but what is, is that it is be-
lieved a significant number of these
have been unlocked from the “compul-
sory” networks. It’s predicted if these
figures continue then this could have a
large impact on Apple’s profits.
Online-auction kings eBay have an-
nounced a change of charging. The
cost to list an item has been halved but
this money is made up by increasing
the fee if an item is sold. Basically this
just lowers the risk if your item does
not sell, as it will cost you less but if it
does, you will pay more or less the same
as before. This change has sparked
debates about what would really im-
prove eBay- that is improved customer
service to its users. Many people have
received zero aid from eBay in resolv-
ing issues with sellers and buyers who,
through varied means, have taken both
cash and item.
Also there are rumours forming
about a new PS3 package with a larger
hard disk ( 120gb to 160gb ). Sony has
announced that these rumours are false
which is a bit of a shame as it is one of
the Playstation’s weaker features. Also
this week, I noticed that there has been
a slight price drop on most Xbox 360
packages of around £10 to £30. Not
a huge drop but it does improve the
value of the machine and makes it very
competitive against its rivals.
As you may be able to tell from pre-
vious reviews I’m a bit of a fan of the
Asus eeepc. Well much to my delight,
and hopefully yours, Asus have an-
nounced a new desktop- an all-in-one
TV PC and a PC monitor with a desk-
top built in. All of these devices follow
on the laptop’s aims of being cheap and
providing fantastic functionality for
their power. To add to this announce-
ment, 8” and 9” versions of the original
laptop have been announced which will
have the long-awaited WiMax technol-
ogy built in as well as a possible touch-
screen model. A tiny tablet would also
probably sell well.
So with little left to ramble on about,
I will let you get on to the main feature
of big screens and big speakers.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
I think this is about the most generic picture of a home-cinema I could find, self explanatory really
practice a lot of people go for the big-
gest television they can afford ignor-
ing all other factors. This never a good
idea. If a set is low quality, the bigger
you make the screen the more obvious
the low quality will be. Go for HD TV
and find a range with a decent contrast
ratio. Then at this point you should
compare the prices of different sizes to
your budget and strike where the two
meet.
A good method for deciding the op-
timum-sized TV to buy is to measure
how far you will sit from it. The ratio of
screen size to seating distance should
be around 1:2.5. Any bigger and the
image will start to overpower viewers
and any smaller, you may struggle to
see everything that is going on.
Big speakers are great but not necessarily the best choice
Another factor to consider when
buying a set is what inputs it has to
take. HDMI is the big buzzword right
now, as it is a discrete input that can
carry HD video and audio in a single
package. Also you will probably want
to consider what legacy inputs you
need. You may have some old games
consoles laying around or even a VHS
player that you still want to use and
these guys are not friendly with the
newer digital inputs. For these you will
just need a couple of SCART sockets
and a set of composite sockets.
There are two ranges of TVs that
you can’t really go wrong with. The
Sony Bravias and Samsung Bordeauxs.
These are not the cheapest for their siz-
es but their value is represented in very
good contrast ratios and input options.
If you don’t want to go through every
model of television there is, just skim
these models to find the one you want.
I would suggest spending around £400
- £500 in order to get the best quality to
value ratio, you can go cheaper but it’s
not always a great idea.
Moving onto speaker setups, the first
thing you should decide is whether
you get a 2.1 setup or a lower quality
5.1 setup for the same money. Now is
more less, or is less more? Personally
I would suggest going for a better 2.1
setup as in the end you will be left with
higher quality sound and ultimately a
better experience. You may see pack-
ages offering 7.1 and higher but unless
you’re spending tens of thousands on
your living, these options aren’t worth
their price tag.
There is one huge mistake I’ve seen
a lot of people make when they buy a
set of speakers. You can spot it a mile
off. When someone refers to their
speaker setup by its wattage then you
know they’ve bought some crap. Its
almost comparable to the aforemen-
tioned buying the biggest TV possi-
ble. The maximum volume of a setup
has nothing to do with the quality of
the sound produced and even worse is
the fact that a cheap setup has prob-
ably gone for power over quality as it
does sell better. In the end you can ac-
tually spend more money on a speaker
setup than you do on your display, this
is thanks to the legions of audiophiles,
as they like to be known, who pride
themselves on owning equipment that
costs more than the house they’ve put
them in. In the end you can get a good
enough 2.1 speaker setup for around
£100.
So now you’ve decided on the ac-
tual setup that you’ll be using for the
TV and speakers, it’s time to consider
turning it into that home cinema sys-
tem. There’s two main avenues that you
can take, the “Media Centre PC” or the
console route. Each has their own ben-
efits, so lets have a look at both before
we decide.
I’m currently typing this article on
my media-centre PC using a wireless
keyboard and mouse with the HDTV
being my main monitor and some
FLAC Foo-Fighters going in the back-
ground. This demonstrates the main
benefit of having a PC-based setup and
that is flexibility. From here I can load
up a game and play on the TV, listen to
music with an HD visualisation, stream
media off the Net or watch anything
from my downloaded or DVD collec-
tion. Now it’s far easier to do this than
many think, with the ability coming
from a few upgrades.
Almost any PC is suitable for a home
-media PC, your current PC may be
able to do everything right now! For
the media PC you need a fairly basic
box with a Pentium 4 3.0Ghz, 1GB
RAM and a basic graphics card being
plenty for multimedia functionality.
Alternatively you can soup-up your
box allowing for far more functional-
ity. By beefing up the RAM and adding
a TV-tuner you can turn the box into a
Sky+ style media box with timeshifting,
recording to hard disk and writing to
DVD. TV-tuners are cheap now, from
£30 upwards. When paying for a TV-
tuner, the higher-oriced products tend
to provide you with hardware encoding
and a remote control. This takes the
stress off the processor when recording

