games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 1 February 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
I
are back, my friends! it’s been
a rather slow month for gam-
ing – a true set of doldrums that
refuse to end. Fortuitously, it’s
been punctuated with the large
exclamation mark that is the Devil May
Cry 4 demo.
For those uninitiated, Devil May Cry
is a series of slick action games where
the focus is to make your own epic
eye candy. The games offer a flexible,
mercurial repertoire of moves that one
can apply in whatever way imagineable
to drive the style meter to the ever-
coverted S (Stylish) or, with the last
game, SSS (SStylish, durr). For those
who like challenge, DMC has consist-
ently offered in spades, doing away
with cookie-cutter enemies that stand
back so you can feel powerful. Here,
complacency is rewarded with a gory
death whereas rhythmic reflexes and
an eye for panache are juxtaposed with
true gratification. DMC4 continues the
proud trends set by the first and third
iterations (the third one was a boring,
tame affair by DMC standards; still a
decent action game, mind you).
Visually, it maintains the sombre
Gothic (in a good way, I swear) un-
dertones in terms of character design
and architecture. Technically, it’s also a
rather brilliant looking game, offering
crisp, detailed visuals and a luxuriously
smooth frame rate (which is quite im-
portant in the context of fast-paced ac-
tion games).
Similarly, the gameplay itself is still
pretty damn awesome. Newcomer
Nero’s arrival introduces the Devil
Bringer which allows for all manner of
grappling and distance-based combos
whereas the Exceed system gives dar-
ing players the chance to rev up (pun
intended, as you’ll see) their attack
strength. The game gives you a taste
of the bosses on offer with the fiery
demon Berial who seems to be trying
to give the Balrog of Morgoth a run for
its money. He’s tough, he’s massive and
being wreathed in flames hasn’t appar-
ently helped his temper. it’s quite a fun
battle since you get to witness the true
power of the Devil Bringer as you lit-
erally lay the smackdown on the fiend.
Also, expect to get your butt whooped
– a lot – since the somewhat enclosed
arena means that your dodge roll abili-
ties have to up to scratch to avoid his
sword swipes. Pain.
Besides that, I have the pleasure of
announcing another Expansion (har
har) to Felix Games in the form of
‘TableTops’. This is where we cover
board games. Yes, you read that cor-
rectly: board games. No, this isn’t
some tablet-top uber-geek fest, as well.
Rather, we aim to bring to attention
certain ones that are sophisticated in
design, addicting to play and robust in
execution. We start off with a little gem
called Ticket to Ride that’s been earn-
ing a gamut of awards across the world.
And with good reason, as you’ll see.
As always, your comments, critique,
flames, articles and credit card details
should find their merry way along to
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk. Have fun
and don’t let the dice bite.
This
Week
Play this when it’s sunny
Ticket to Ride: Europe
Resident Evil: Redux Monkeys = brilliant (no durr)
It’s raining... raining blood
Eduardo Vasquez-Silva unfurls his umbrella revealing an unholy armoury within
A
s the name implies, Um-
brella Chronicles tells
the story behind the fall
of Umbrella Corp. by re-
visiting Resident Evil 0, 1
and 3. This game has the signature at-
mosphere and looks of a Resident Evil
game but, like RE4, it strays from the
traditional formula and goes for a first-
person perspective – much like an
arcade light-gun game. It may sound
shallow, but you’d be surprised by the
amount of length, depth and variety
UC has to offer.
To begin with, there are two control
schemes to choose from: you can either
use the wiimote on its own or use Wii
Zapper settings. I personally prefer the
latter, where you hold the wiimote and
Zapper with your right hand and hold
the nunchuck with your left hand. This
makes the game a little more immer-
sive as you feel like you are holding a
gun and it helps you reload by shaking
the nunchuck instead of the wiimote,
helping you keep a steady aim.
Before you take on any mission, you
are asked to choose a character (which
does not affect gameplay at all) and
pick from a wide selection of weapons,
which are unlocked by collecting them
during the game, so keep your eyes
open! These include automatic pis-
tols, shotguns, machine guns, rocket
launchers and magnums, among oth-
ers. All the weapons in the game can
be upgraded by spending stars you ob-
tain at the end of each mission, based
on your performance, which is a nice
incentive to come back and try to im-
prove your high scores.
When it comes to actual gameplay,
it’s easy to see that UC has gone for
action and pinpoint accuracy rather
than scares and quick reactions. This
is emphasized by the fact that all en-
emies have a ‘sweet spot’ that will usu-
ally award you with a one shot kill.
This is especially gratifying when you
see a crimson head’s… head blow up
to pieces when rushing towards you;
although, it can be frustrating at times
when you keep missing (you might end
up begging the zombies to f***ing stay
still).
The fact that you are ‘on rails’ actu-
ally adds to the sense of anxiety RE
games are known for, because you can-
not run away and you have to kill pret-
ty much everything you see coming to-
wards you. Even if they catch up to you,
though, you usually have the chance to
counterattack by either shaking the
nunchuck or quickly pressing specific
buttons, but these events can some-
times be a bit unforgiving.
As you progress, you will notice that
even during quiet moments you are still
meant to shoot stuff, as lamps and fur-
niture usually contain ammo, health or
secret documents that help boost your
score – just make sure you leave some
lamps on though – you don’t want to
end up walking in the dark!.
Boss battles are also present and they
are some of the most memorable mo-
ments of the game, like jumping 50+
meters in the air as Wesker when fight-
ing those weird-ass massive-shade-
wearing Russian droids or wondering
how the hell Nemesis manages to take
five rockets to the face and still man-
age to look straight! The battles require
pattern memorisation and choosing
the right weapon to do the job, as long
as you still have some ammo left in
them, of course.
The game’s presentation is good. The
atmosphere is tense and the dark array
of colours really works (it makes Mario
Galaxy look like you are high on mush-
rooms… HA! geddit?) .The graphics
may be a bit behind RE4, but the de-
structible levels and the torch levels
later in the game really make up for it.
The sound effects are good, although
the music sometimes doesn’t fit very
well and the dialogue can be a bit dull.
Overall, UC really manages to do
very well in a seemingly restrictive
and left-for-dead genre, with lots of
secrets to find, different routes and
weapons to unlock, a 10+ hour cam-
paign (which can be played also with a
friend… or your mom, whatever makes
you happy), while getting a feel of what
the story behind RE is and present-
ing an all-new episode. This is a game
that can really be enjoyed by everyone,
even those who aren’t too familiar with
the franchise, but RE fans will love
the chance of re-visiting the mansion
and Racoon City from a thrilling new
perspective.
Review
Smile for posterity now
Clearly, certain aspects were omitted from the job description
“No honey, I swear I’m not trying to kill you... honest!”

