news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 1 February 2008 felix
News
Anonymous posters on campus
The internet declares war on the Church of Scientology. Felix reports from Battlefield Imperial
In the past week a new poster cam-
paign has been launched, almost un-
noticed, on Imperial’s South Kensing-
ton campus: a campaign, born from
an underground internet movement,
which has reached across the globe
and broken out of its electronic form
to create a publicity barrage in cities all
over Europe and America.
The Sherfield Walkway is adorned
with many different adverts and pub-
licity for our many societies and events,
but its most recent addition is for a
campaign symbolising a global protest
against a ‘religious’ entity: the Church
of Scientology. It calls for governments,
media, organisations and individuals
to destroy what it refers to as a “vicious
organisation which routinely uses legal
action, defamation and assassination
to silence those who speak out.” The
posters also urge students to become
part of the “Anonymous” group and
join the London cell of the global anti-
Scientology picket on 10th February in
Blackfriars, where the UK Scientology
headquarters is based.
On 16th January global newspapers
and media reported on the internet
leak of a video showing Tom Cruise
talking about his Scientology beliefs,
coinciding with the publishing of an
unauthorised biography of Mr Cruise
by renowned biographer Andrew Mor-
ton. The embarrassing leaked video,
set to the “Mission: Impossible” theme
tune and full of controversial quotes,
was posted on many news sites, but
then rapidly removed from most after
threats from the much-feared Scien-
tology legal team.
These events and legal threats were
seen as the ‘final straw’ for a commu-
nity on 711Chan, one of the internet’s
most notorious social forums, which
interpreted the move as an attempted
censorship, and the most recent in a
series of alleged “unethical practices”
practisedbytheChurch.Theylaunched
a massive underground campaign “de-
claring war” on Scientology under the
moniker of “Anonymous,” (“We are
Anonymous, We are Legion”), issuing
several Youtube messages to the world
news services.
The main focus of the campaign is
the worldwide picketing of Scientology
buildings on 10th February at 11am,
handing out flyers and information
about what “Anonymous” claims is the
true face of Scientology.
This is only the most recent in a
series of incidents involving the con-
troversial religion. Early last year saw
respected BBC investigative journal-
ist John Sweeney losing his temper on
camera at a high-ranking member of
the Church of Scientology; a Panorama
episode exposing some of the more
sinister aspects of the organisation;
and much tense discussion amongst
journalists, pundits and the public at
large about the nature of Scientology.
The Church in turn has redoubled its
efforts to become recognised as a bona
fide religion in the UK, fight its ban
in Germany, and improve its much-
mocked public image.
These new developments, however,
are newsworthy on several fronts.
The initiation of the “Anonymous”
campaign has tapped into a strong
undercurrent of public mistrust and
skepticism of the Church, and as
more people have begun to do a lit-
tle research into the organisation that
has been parodied and pilloried in the
mainstream media, many have become
concerned about the global intentions
and actions of this powerful minority
and its stranglehold over certain as-
pects of US society, most notably Hol-
lywood. The protesters cite evidence of
conspiracy, espionage, harassment and
manslaughter to justify their online at-
tacks (denial of service and defacement
of pro-scientology websites) and their
picketing of the physical parts of the
Church.
The online movement has a real air
of popular uprising against what is
interpreted as a suppressive, invasive,
and greedy entity. It has the potential
to become one of the first global, po-
litical campaigns to begin solely on
the internet amongst people who have
never met in real life.
The momentum that the campaign
has already gained is signified by its
rapidappearanceatImperial:notorious
for its lethargy on most issues. Despite
beginning only two weeks previously,
on Monday there were already over 10
posters along the Walkway alone, and
more over the rest of campus. Some
have been removed since, by parties
unknown (although many people have
brought them to various officers of the
Union), but the posters have not gone
completely unnoticed and more are ex-
pected over the coming weeks.
Felix has talked to several students
who are already members of “Anony-
mous,” and all are preparing for 10th
February and the surrounding events,
but none have admitted to being the
originators of the physical publicity.
What becomes of the campaign is
still to be determined. Opinion is di-
vided over whether it will fizzle out like
many other internet fads, or stay for
long enough to make a difference and
put a dent in the previously indomina-
ble Church of Scientology.
The public eye, however, is clearly
watching this standoff between a ‘re-
ligion’ and an ‘anonymous’ group of
online troublemakers.
Science Challenge Awards
Ceremony location unveiled
O
n Tuesday night, RCSU
Science Challenge or-
ganiser Daniel Burrows
finally revealed that the
awardsceremonywould
take place in the Science Museum’s
IMAX Theatre. The IMAX Theatre
stands taller than four double deckers
and measures wider than my mum.
There will also be a black tie recep-
tion in the Science Museum’s Energy
Hall afterwards.
Entrants are required to attend the
awards ceremony on Tuesday 18th
March if they want a chance of winning
the £2,500 first prize along with an Ap-
ple Macbook, the latter of which was
revealed to be an additional prize on
Andrew Somerville
Deputy & News Editor
Next stop, Beit Quadrangle?
The bus stand currently outside the Holy Trinity Church
Tuesday. Similarly, people who signed
up to the mailing list to win a Wii must
also attend the final evening.
Sir Brian Hoskins gave his seminar
on Tuesday night too; his question be-
ing: “To what extent is geoengineer-
ing the solution to the climate change
problem?” Sir Brian’s talk was clearly
and concisely delivered in this report-
er’s eyes and anyone who missed the
presentation is advised to download
and watch it by heading to www.rscu.
org.uk/sciencechallenge.
Next week, seminars will be given by
Dr Paul Snaith and Dr Philip Campbell.
Lord Robert Winston will be present-
ing on the following Tuesday. Seminars
take place in MechEng 220 at 6:30pm.
The Challenge will be held at the Science Museum’s IMAX Theatre
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
The archway to Beit Quadrangle could
become a shelter for people hiding
from the rain whilst they wait for a bus
depending on the outcome of a Prince
Consort Road bus stop implementa-
tion scheme.
Westminster City Council (WCC) is
making changes to two of its bus routes
in the area: 360 and 70. The original
plans proposed involve the lifting of
the right hand turn ban for buses turn-
ing onto Exhibition Road as well as the
installation of a new bus stop directly
outside the archway entrance of Beit
Quad.
Since the plans were proposed, WCC
has received letters from residents in
the area and the Union has also been
in contact to express its dismay with
the plans.
The entrance to Beit Quad is a ma-
jor thoroughfare for students plus it
is only metres away from a pedestrian
crossing. Furthermore, clubs and soci-
eties often park minibuses outside the
archway entrance before heading off
for fixtures and tours.
The proposals have left residents
scratching their heads and wondering
why the bus stand currently in place
outside the Holy Trinity Church – next
door to Beit Quad – can’t be converted
into a bus stop.
Felix contacted West One Project
Engineer, Guy McNamara, who is in
charge of the implementation scheme
for more information.
Mr McNamara said that he had re-
ceived a number of letters from people
in the area and that he had been con-
tacted by Imperial College about the
proposals. The plans are being recon-
sidered with the possibility of moving
the bus stop 15m down the road to-
wards the Royal Albert Hall. Whether
the management of the Royal Albert
Hall agrees to the revisions remains to
be seen.
The bus stop was originally sched-
uled to be finished by 5th February.
Once completed, Beit Hall residents
can expect to roll out of bed, onto a
bus and end up in Elephant And Castle
or perhaps Acton. If they’re that way
inclined.
One of three “Anonymous” group posters on the Sherfield Walkway

