Hillbillies win Imperial Idol
Lizzie Bolton reports on Save the Children society’s fund-raising talent show held in dB’s on Monday
C
ontestants, compères,
judges and organisers all
ensured that the audience
was well-entertained all
night.
The judges panel comprised Dr Chris
John, who provided most of the wit, Dr
Steve Cook, who got more drunk as
the evening progressed, Kay, who was
the ‘Sharon Osbourne’ of the evening,
flirting with the male contestants, and
finally Alex Ross, who was supposedly
the ‘Simon Cowell’ of the evening, but
received abuse from fellow judge Chris
John for being too much of a ‘pussy’.
Many of the soloists had incredible
talent, including Matt Woods, who
successfully opened the show with his
own James Blunt-esque interpretation
of ‘Bridge Over Troubled Water’. An-
other soloist who caught my attention
was Jeremy Eve, who could not only
sing beautifully while playing the gui-
tar, but also wrote his own song.
Rina Endo got the crowd going with
her confident rendition of ‘I Love Rock
n’ Roll’, followed by Malcom Sim whose
professional, all-round performance
got everyone’s feet tappng with his ver-
sion of the Kooks’ ‘She Moves In Her
Own Way’.
Emily May was in need of ‘Somebody
To Love’, but it seems she could have
had the pick of the audience as they
had clearly fallen for her. Evidently,
Emily May is a born performer.
Dinachi Onuzo and Anita Fernando
were two stunning soloists who sang as
great as they looked; according to the
judges, however, their song choices let
them down. Needless to say, a barrage
of booing broke out.
But the judges didn’t always get it
wrong. In response to Matt Rinaldi
and Nour Fourali’s Britney Spears’
medley, judge Dr. Chris John decided
that “the problem with saving the chil-
dren is that two of them turned out to
be [them],” to which judge Alex Ross
proudly added “it was toxic” (I think
he was more surprised by his own wit
than the audience was). Nevertheless,
Matt and Nour provided a very enter-
taining, light-hearted performance,
which the audience clearly enjoyed.
The group ‘Old Lady’ would have
been better off folding away the zim-
mer, putting their feet up and watching
‘Countdown’ repeats. Alanis Morris-
sette would have been less than im-
pressed with their version of ‘Ironic’.
Although it seemed that the judges
didn’t enjoy the performance, they
sure as hell enjoyed hurling abuse such
as “you probably don’t deserve your
degrees” at them. Luckily for them,
Dr Chris John won’t be marking their
dissertations.
This leaves us with the three prize-
winning acts. The gorgeous sisters
Dehydys and Ibis Pimentel sang and
danced their way to third place with
their performance of ‘Heaven’. While
this was controversial, the two man-
aged to sell the most tickets for the
event, raising a great deal of money for
Save the Children.
In second place was the hugely tal-
ented Waaka Moni-Nwinia, who sang
Whitney Houston’s ‘I Have Nothing’,
managing to make it look effortless.
She would have definitely given Leona
Lewis a run for her money. Her beau-
tiful, powerful voice amazed the audi-
ence, leaving goose-pimples tingling
up our arms.
The bluegrass band ‘Jacob and the
Hillbillies’ pizzicato-ed their way to
success with their highly entertaining
version of ‘Mamma Mia’. The band
consisted of two talented violinsists,
one of which amusingly serenaded
the judges, a banjo player and Jacob
the singer/guitarist. The whole ar-
rangement worked extremely well,
entertaining both the audience and the
judges who could not fault them. The
winners were presented with a bottle
of champagne and a £200 prize. How-
ever, they took everyone by surprise by
very generously donating the money to
Save the Children.
The compères, Shiv Chopra and Lau-
ren Waterman, provided the audience
with an endless supply of witty com-
ments, kept the judges in order and
ensured seamless transitions between
acts. Perhaps the two medics should
consider a change in career.
The evening was a great success, the
audience loved it, the performers loved
it, and the judges loved it. If you missed
out, don’t panic, the society is hopeful
that Imperial Idol will be repeated year
after year, so don’t forget to look out
for next year’s auditions.
Save the Children managed to raise
over £1700 as a result of the 420 ticket
sales, ‘Krispy-Kreme’ sales and dona-
tions. The money will go straight to
Save the Children, helping children in
the UK and internationally, fighting for
change where change is needed and
voicing the opinions to those not given
the chance to speak out.
The committee members have
high hopes and many more possible
projects in the pipeline, including a
massive summer festival next year. So
watch this space!
Sisters: Dehydys and Ibis Pimentel
The honourable judges
The event organisers with Queen’s Brian May (centre) whose daughter
entered the competition
Waaka Moni-Nwinia who sung Whitney Houston’s ‘I Have Nothing’
The Winners: Jacob & the Hillbillies
35
Friday 1 February 2008 felix

