felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Splash
Felix Sport welcomes waterpolo to its pages. See page 38
On Wednesday, while the rest of the
ACC was already going crazy in the
Union Bar, Imperial College Kendo
Club was visited by the British Nation-
al Coach Matsumoto-sensei. He joined
us for our practice session and a few
drinks afterwards.
As usually the first half of our prac-
tice focused on footwork and basic
techniques. Matsumoto-sensei was
watching us practice under the direc-
tions of our instructor Yung-sensei.
Apparently Matsumoto-sensei was
pleased with what he saw and joined
our seniors as sparring partner for our
beginners. So all our beginners got the
rare chance to hit the National Coach
on the head. In the second half of the
practice our seniors put on their bogu,
the kendo fencing armour, for some
more advanced practice. Matsumoto-
sensei joined these drills and gave
many valuable comments and advice
to our seniors.
At the end of the session we prac-
tised kendo sparring matches, called
jikeiko. Everybody got the chance to
fight Matsumoto-sensei. Although
nobody of us had the slightest chance
against him it was an exciting and in-
spiring experience.
Highlights of the evening were the
matches between Matsumoto-sensei
and our instructors Yung-sensei and
Yoshikawa-sensei. Both our instruc-
tors are high ranking kendo players
themselves: Yung-sensei fought for
Hong Kong at the last World Champi-
onship and Yoshikawa-sensei recently
won yet another international com-
petition in Dublin, Ireland. So all our
members were watching in awe: their
fights against Matsumoto-sensei were
kendo presentations of highest quality.
Without noticing we overran our
normal practice time and it was almost
11 when we arrived at the Union bar
to have a pint with the National Coach.
Overall this visit was a great experience
for our members. It proved once again
that our club has a good reputation in
the UK and that we are really lucky to
have two excellent Kendo instructors
here at Imperial.
O
ver 1,150 university stu-
dents will be heading
west to Swansea this
weekend for the BUSA
Cross Country Cham-
pionships, with a few students look-
ing to impress before the World Cross
Country Championships, which are
being held in Edinburgh on 30 March
of this year.
In the men’s competition 720 ath-
letes line up with Frank Ticker’s (ex–
Birmingham) 2007 title on the line.
With the top 3 men from last season
having left university, the gold, silver
and bronze will find new university
homes this season.
Kevin Deighton (Loughborough)
finished one place outside the medals
last year and will look to go one better
and head back to Loughborough with
a medal. Deighton has been hampered
by injuries this season and missed out
on leading the European U23 Cross
Country team; look for him to make
a big impact this weekend. With over
65 universities competing in the men’s
event expect the local support for the
18 Swansea university students to be
strong with the university hosting the
event for the 1st time.
Felicity Milton (Durham) took the
gold from Elle Baker (Brunel) by one
second in 2007 and both are in the race
this season to revisit the battleground.
Both, however, will be looking over
their shoulder as the two time Euro-
pean Junior Cross Country Champion
Steph Twell (St Mary’s) enters the
event for the first time after starting
university in September.
European 5,000 metres Junior Cham-
pion 2005 Emily Pigeon (Loughbor-
ough) also comes into the event as a
fresher. Pidgeon, from Shurdington in
Gloucestershire, could well be one of
our Olympic hopefuls at London 2012
if she continues to mature as a middle
distance runner and will be one to look
out for at the BUSA Championships.
IfcompetingfortheBUSAtitlewasn’t
enough the Championships are also a
key selection event for the World Uni-
versity Cross Country Championships
being held at Mauquenchy, France
from 5-6 April 2008. The top two fin-
ishers in both the men’s and women’s
‘A’ races are automatically selected for
the World University Cross Country
Championships.
The Championships is being hosted
by Swansea University with the sup-
port of Swansea City Council and
Gwent Athletics, for more information
about the please visit www.busa.org.
uk/athletics.
Students gear up for
BUSA Cross Country
Championships
National Kendo coach visits Imperial
Daniel Wagner
The national Kendo coach (in black) showing how it’s done

