8 felix Friday 1 February 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Response to the funding debate
More readers give their views on the Higher Education funding debate whilst the Union responds to last
week’s articles. You can still give your opinion on the debate: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/hesurvey
Steve Brown
Union President
Why a referendum is inappropriate
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
A
Union consultation of
students as to whether
a university education
should be free was hardly
going to produce interest-
ing results. The exercise seems to me
to be akin to asking turkeys whether
Christmas is a great idea. Irrespec-
tive of the economic and social argu-
ments, I would much prefer someone
else to pay for my education. And a
house would be nice. Also, a Mercedes,
please. Thanks.
The problem, as I see it, is that the
question hasn’t been well posed. Peo-
ple have been asking whether a uni-
versity education should be free, but it
has to be paid for somehow. Lecturers
and tutors will not work for free, and
the equipment needed for a science
university is certainly expensive. The
question is, should the British taxpayer
pay for us to have a university educa-
tion? Free university education would
be fantastic for university students, but
would it be good for the millions on
low wages who would be paying for it?
There are good arguments for wide-
spread university education, just as
there are good arguments for univer-
sal health care. A high level of educa-
tion would improve our economy and
it would also increase social mobility,
something it is impossible to object
to. But it separates the benefit from
the payment. Of course dustbin men
would benefit from other people hav-
ing a university education, building up
the economy, supporting more jobs
and spending more. But they’d benefit
more directly from lower taxes.
On the other hand, a system with in-
dividual payment and individual pric-
ing for courses would result in better
funding, and even better funding for
universities that command a reputation
(c.f. the U.S., where prices range from
$8k to $35k p.a.). It would encourage
people to actually trade off the value of
their education against their expected
benefits. I hope it would encourage
more flexible studies; for example, do-
ing a one-year course on server main-
tenance and operating systems, rather
than a three-year computing course. It
would also shut the media up about so
called “media studies”-type degrees, as
the market would decide their worth.
It would also have the advantage of not
charging people for something they
weren’t benefiting from.
Of course, it comes hand in hand
with the risk of excluding low-income
families. But our current system does
that, by driving people into debt (albeit
at inflation rates), while having the side
effect of transferring money from the
state to middle-class tossers such as
myself. A better system would be to re-
quire individual payment with means-
tested grants for those who need it. A
system exploiting market forces with
state intervention to cushion the blow
and ensure social mobility would be
fair for wealthy and poor students. It’s
even fair to the dustmen.
Free for whom?
Robert Gallen
I have just completed the Higher
Education Funding Survey and
hopefully let the Union know my
position on the subject. How-
ever, I imagine that based on the
answers that I gave, my position
will certainly be contradictory and
confused.
Many of the issues addressed in
the survey I, and no doubt many
other Imperial students, have not
given much consideration before.
Nor could we possibly claim to be
educated on the topic.
I am extremely interested to see
the results of the survey and how
the Union interprets them, how-
ever I feel if there was one mes-
sage that most Imperial students
would like to send to the Union,
it’s that “we don’t want to pay”. As
uneducated or misinformed we
are on the matter, it still falls to us
to pay off the mountain of debt we
are to be burdened with when we
leave university.
Kadhim Shubber
HE funding
survey: a case
of the blind
leading the
blind?
I
understand the concerns ex-
pressed in last weeks issue about
our survey not being as binding
as a campus wide referendum on
this topic. I would like to reas-
sure readers that the raw data we have
collected will be made available in full
should anyone wish to scrutinise it. At
this point I imagine it would become
obvious if the Deputy President (Edu-
cation and Welfare) and I were being a
bit “creative” in our interpretations of
the data and if Ms. Clark still doesn’t
trust us then there are lots of wonder-
ful democratic mechanisms in place to
prevent us doing so. I seem to recall
dealing with the question of putting
this to a referendum last term so to il-
lustrate why the topic of how our uni-
versities are funded please consider the
consequences of a campus wide “yes”
vote in favour of free education. Un-
der our electoral rules questions put to
referenda must be clear cut and have a
“yes” or “no” answer which I hope peo-
ple will agree is an inappropriate and
overly simplistic mechanism for a topic
which touches on so many different ar-
eas of our student experience.
First of all, “free education” is not
even on the agenda in the run up to
the 2009 review. This is not the posi-
tion of the Labour and Conservative
parties who are the only ones that will
realistically form the next government
and even the dear old Liberal Demo-
crats are allegedly contemplating mov-
ing away from their current position
of opposing all methods of graduate
contribution. The socialist Labour
Party has made it perfectly clear that
they would not increase taxes to fill
the funding gap and if you believe this
should happen (in my view I don’t re-
ally want to start work next year and be
taxed through the nose) then you will
need to take considerably more drastic
action than ticking a few boxes on an
online form.
Equally ridiculous is the concept
that any government will turn round
and say “actually, we are going to shut
down several underperforming institu-
tions and give all their funding to Im-
perial College.” The diverse nature of
the higher education sector does mean
that some sections of it will be of more
use than others but this problem will
not be solved overnight by the imple-
mentation of a reactionary policy such
as this which in a lot of cases would see
society throwing the baby out with the
bathwater. In time, the introduction
of the correct market mechanisms for
teaching funding would act as a selec-
tion process in itself and would de-
termine exactly how much students,
employers and society value different
types of degree courses. Imperial’s de-
grees are very expensive to teach com-
pared to the costs of teaching the same
subject elsewhere but this is not cur-
rently reflected in the way the govern-
ment allocates teaching money.
From the thousands of words gener-
ated on this topic this year in my view
it is obvious that this is far too compli-
cated to be settled by a referendum and
it would be detrimental to our Union
to formulate such an important policy
in this way. A referendum was a good
way to determine whether or not we
should affiliate to the National Union
of Students (NUS) as it was a clear cut
issue. For your information, the NUS
currently don’t believe that Impe-
rial College should have the freedom
to set their own bursary packages for
less well off over and above the gov-
ernment minimums and that our stu-
dents should be forced to pay in to a
National Bursary Scheme that would
see the contributions we make spent
at other universities. This is another
topic in itself so I will finish by urging
you to get online, take the survey and
give yourself a chance of winning one
of the prizes on offer!
Generic Student: “I’ll have a Mercedes to go with my free education!”
Complete the HE survey, win prizes!
Fill out the survey at www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote and if there
are enough responses, you could win from the following:
0 responses = Return ticket to Paris on Eurostar
150 responses = West End theatre and dinner voucher for two
300 responses = Thorpe Park tickets for two
500 responses = Crystal Experience gift voucher for one
750 responses = 3 x £20 HMV vouchers
1000 responses = 5 x £10 ODEON Cinema vouchers

