2 F E L I X
LETTERS THE EDITOR
Sir,
While appreciating the strictest need for eco-
nomy i n the refectory, especially to produce a
chep.p lunch, I oan see no reason to include so much
potato at the expense of other vegetables, when
cabbage i s only 2£d. per lb. Is this omission an
admission of an inability to cook cabbage? If i t
is due to labour problems, I am sure the lady who
slams the door i n my face the moment I reach the
•precincts, or the other charming creature, the t i c -
ket whipper, would be only too delighted to do
something useful.
Yours faithfully,
K.P. Eldridge.
The Refectory Committee write :
Mr. Eldridge discourses eloquently of Cabbages
and Queens. On the first point, one might quote
Juvenal (VII. 154} who, freely translated,said that
"..endless cabbage browned off even the wretched
folk in the Upper Dining Hall"; or, more seriously-
plead that we have not yet found out how to make
both ends meet on the 1/6 lunch, even without the
cost of buying and preparing a second vegetable.
On the second point, many will recall that to-
day's queues would last year have had to wait 20-30
minutes longer for their lunches: only tight contr-
ol of the queues makes for to-day's more expeditious
working. The taker of tickets referred to was prob-
ably the managerial "queen" responsible for seeing
that a l l went well.
J .F.levy. (Deputy Chairman,Refectory Ctte.)
26th November, 1950.
Dear FELIX,
Heartiest congratulations on your first
anniversaryI
My dear chap, you have grown out of a l l
recognition - i f you wi 11 excuse the avuncul-
ar phrase. I remember a time when you were
a l i t t l e kitten, knee-high to a typewriter,
and now you're a sleek and well-groomed Cat,
as black as printers-ink and tremendous i n -
stitution around I.C.I
There i s not the least doubt that as l o -
ng as there remains an Imperial College bar,
our respective Editors shall annually toast
your health on the 9th of December, so many
happy returns of your birthday, FELIX, and
here's power to your elbow.
Bless your fur and whiskers.
Yours, PHOENIX.
24th November, 1950.
Sir - London i s a cold and impersonal city and i t s
character is strongly reflected in i t s colleges.
Young though this university may be, there is a sad
lack of the tradition and individualism that i s so
much a part of others.
Have we not a professor with personality and
character enough to institute weekly beer parties
at the 'Gloucester' or the 'Queen's Arms'? Our
ridiculous licensing hours and the 'nine-to-five'
students would probably reduce these to afternoon
tea parties at Jane Brown's or Vi's Cosy Cafe, but
nevertheless occasions when students and teachers
could forgather on equal terms in a congenial at-
mosphere to argue and discuss nothing in partic-
ular .
What popularity such a Werner would achieve'.
But perhaps South Ken. tea would lack the stimul-
ating effect of Swiss beer and anyway, the board
of examiners would no doubt deplore the loss of
practical work. Yours faithfully, Peter Rowe.
(Chem. Tech.)
I prof Werner of Zurich became as famous for his
beer-garden sessions with students as for his work
in inorganic chemistry. Indeed i t is said that
he did hie best work when he had been carried back
from the beer garden to his laboratory'. - Ed.)
18th November, 1950.
Sir,- Great prominence was given i n the last
issue of FELIX to the debagging of a student
who sells the 'Daily Worker'.
As one of those concerned, who has now
had his character blackened by your editorial,
I wish to point out that this was not a rag
directed against a political party.
There can be no doubt that i f member of
I.C. was foolish enough to offer FELIX for
sale outside L.S.E. he would be treated with
brutal assault. Who then can grumble when
the reverse takes place. Yours sincerely,
D. V. Parker, GUILDS.
P.S. I suspect that the seller on 17th had
a few kittens when Marcus Hall arrived.
(Mr. Parker's point was made i n our last
Editorial,-Ed.)
Foreign Correspondence
The colourful item of correspondence re-
produced below was received by Mr. M.C.Blythe,
Newcastle Manager of the Brush group of com-
panies, from Porto Rico.
"Gentlemen,
I got he pump which I by from you, but
wy, for God'8 sake, you doan send me no handle.
I loose to me my customer wats the use of
a pump wen she doan have no handle. Sure I
think you doan treet me rite I wrote ten days,
,, and my customer he holler for water like hell
Mfrom the pump you know he i s hot summer here
'now and the win he no blow the pump.
She got no handle, so what the hell I goan
to do with i t doan send me a handle pretty quick
I send her back and I goan order some pump from
Mayer's Company. Goodbye.
Yours truly,
X.U.Z.
Since I write this I find the goddam handle
in the box, excuse to me.
THE UNIVERSITY
Three weeks ago a new publishing venture in the sha-
pe ofa London University newspaper was launched. The
f i r s t issue was limited i n scope and appeal but as
coverage extends to include news from a l l the London
college^, "The University" should perform an indispe-
nsable service i n integrating the l i f e of our geog-
raphically scattered university. Anyone willing to
serve on the staff of "The University" should con-
tact the Editors of PHOENIX or FELIX, or directly the
Editor of "The University", c/o Pi Office, University
College, Gower Street, W.C.I. I.C. Salesman for"The
University" are particularly required.
"The University" i s published fortnightly alter-
nately with FELIX.
We wish our new contemporary every success.
i
R O Y A L C O L L E G E OF S C I E N C E
C h r i s t m a s C a r n i v a l
" F A I R G R O U N D F R O L I C S "
Friday, 15th December, 1950
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
ACIS & GALATEA - Handel I Conductor :
i . e . CHOIR & ORCHESTRA 1 JOHN CLEMENTS.
Tues. 5 Dec. - 5.30 - Gym.
(Entrance Free)
ADVERTISEMENTS IN FELIX.
Advertisements can now be accepted for i n -
sertion i n FELIX. Conditions and rates are av-
ailable on application to the Advertising Manager
No charge i s made for advertisements or an-
noucements for Imperial College Union, the con-
stituent college unions and ICWA. Clubs and so-
cieties w i l l be charged at cost price.
A nominal charge (6d per 20 words) i s made
for insertions i n the Personal Advertisements
column.
SADIST'S DEPT.
Notice i n 'bus: 'Please do not let your children
stand on the seats; other people want to sit on
them'.
STRICTLY FEMININE
Father: "Daughter, I can't imagine why you want to
switch to the Royal School of Mines. Why, you'd
be the only the only g i r l there!"
Daughter: "Right f i r s t time, Pop."
HYSTORICAL PITTANCE
William Pitt the Younger was actually so thin
that one of his colleagues once referred to
him as "The Bottomless Pitt".

