FELIX 3
EDITORIAL
ORIGIN OF A SPECIES
On Dec. 9th last year, FELIX was horn; many
have since wondered how this momentous event came
about.
The conception of an Imperial College newspaper
has for a long time been a twinkle i n the Onion's
eye, but the only previous attempts were The Muckrake,
which raked so thoroughly that i t was quickly stopped,
and a weekly Phoenix which died i n 1930 i n mortal com-
bat with the Hector and the Board of Governors.
The matter was again raised at a meeting of the
Phoenix Board of Directors lastyear, and the idea so
appealed to Derek Howe that he undertook to inquire
into i t s feasibility. The f i r s t thing he did was to
buy copious quantities of beer for an unemployed f r i -
end, Ted Hughes, and talk him into accepting the ed-
itorship, Ted being so overcome by the hitherto un-
precedented spectacle of Derek " i n the chair" that he
accepted. The promise of help was obtained from a
few other stalwarts, and the s t i l l unofficial FELIX
Board held i t s f i r s t meeting.
After some cajoling the Union Executive Committ-
ee agreed to back the venture to the limit of £5,this
figure being more an indication of Derek Howe's elo-
quence than of the innate generosity of Council. It
is perhaps of interest to note that Q.M.C's paper,
The Cub, is subsidised by their Union up to £125 a
year. The new FELIX Board therefore decided that
the paper should be launched in a form that would
ensure that i t payed i t s way, and Miss Larcom agreed
to type and Roneo i t at an economical price.
It now remained only to find a name, and some-
thing to put into the paper. The former problem was
solved for us by F. C. Ewels, and we are s t i l l con-
gratulating ourselves on our fortunate choice; the
latter i s a constant source of worry to the Editor,
but usually seems to turn up in the end. 600 copies
of the first issue were produced and sold at a rem-
arkable speed; thereafter 1000 copies were sold each
fortnight.
The end of the year found the paper established
as part of the College, and recognized and constitut-
ed by Council as the o f f i c i a l newspaper of I.C. The
time had come to find a new method of printing to
give us more scope, and yet remain economical - a
decision which was i n any case forced on us by the
increase in the price of paper. The success of the
new format may be seen i n the circulation figures,
which has already gone up to 1250, whilst s t i l l a l l -
owing us to clear a few shillings on each issue.
We feel that the most flattering reflection on
our present position was the recent suggestion that
an effigy of FELIX be obtained as College mascot.
POOR COXING
The collision between two of the boats during
the iV.orphy Cup race has reduced i t to a near-fiasco
for the second year in succession. There is l i t t l e
doubt that the Mines thoroughly deserved their vic-
tory; but the placing of Guilds and R.C.S. - had
there been no collision - has been hotly debated in
rowing circles. Thequestion of blame for the occ-
urence need not concern us here: that is for the Um-
pire to decide. The point i s - that a race is no
longer worth the name once i t has been stopped and
restarted.
The coxes in a race carry a very heavy respons-
ibility, and must concern themselves not only with
urging on their crews but also with exemplary steer-
ing; in addition, they must remain always alert to
the Umpire's megaphone.
Morphy Cup -
Lowry Cup
Senior Sculls
Junior Sculls
Novice Sculls
BOAT CLUB DINNER
This year's Boat Club Dinner surpassed a l l others
in the length of the speeches; as a result i t ended
perilously near to closing time and but for the prom-
pt action of Derek Coomber i n asking for a bar exten-
sion, there would have been no opportunity for memb-
ers to get 'one for the road1
.
After proposing the toast of the King>, the Cap-
ttain, D.W.North, asked Mr. Morphy to present the
trophies and tankards:-
Royal School of Mines.
City and Guilds College.
Tizard Challenge Cup) - CH-Barwise.
Webber Challenge Cup) - D. Benfield.
Lindsav Memorial C U D ) -G.W.Benson '
Pair Oars(Wynne-Finch Cup) CHBarwise & SJPeerless
The toast of the club was proposed by the coach
Charles Bristow, who outlined the history of the club
from the early day after the f i r s t World War, stress-
ing to the freshers that the fine equipment now i n
use was due to the sacrifices made by members in the
early days. Charles welcomed to the dinner K. C.
Wilson (first captain of I.C.B.C.) and Mr. Morphy as
being men who gave much useful encouragement in the
early 1920's. Commenting on the day's racing, Char-
les said that the standard of therowing was <|xtremely
high and augured well for the future; he was confident
that under the leadership of 'Micky' North the club
could look forward toa successful year.
In replying, the Captain said that he too looked
forward toa successful year under the trustworthy
coaching of Charles. In his speech he mentioned and
quoted from a recent letter to the Editor of FELIX,
in which the view was put forward that a college i s
judged on i t s academic achievements and hence "brown-
bagging" i s justifiable. 'Micky' refuted this sugg-
estion and quoted S i r Henry Tizard, sometime Rector
of I.C., who said that the achievemnts of the '46
Henley crew had spread the name of the college quite
as much as any academic distinctions.
In proposing the toast of Thames R.C., David
Nowell, Vice-Captain, emphasized the close associa-
tion between I.C. and Thames, typified by the corr-
idor between the boathouses known as "Charles' cut".
The reply by the H.Rushmere, Captain of Thames, was
livelyand witty; he summed up our relationship in
the words: "
W
e supply the beer and you a constant
stream of beer-sodden oars men."
The toast of the guests was proposed by Brian
Thwaites and replied to by Derek Coomber i n the most
appreciated of the evening, which consisted of three
very good jokes, and a promise of a bar extension
t i l l eleven. This completed, the beer-sodden oars-
men retired to the bar to enjoy their extra half-
L.I.F.C.U.
THE MISSION IN RETROSPECT
During i t s two weeks' run, ending ten days ago, the
Mission i n the London University as applied to Imp-
erial College, showed that God said much in the past
that i s specially applicable to the present time.
The meetings were well attended and aroused consid-
erable interest, and i f one of the aims of the Miss-
ion was to provide an opportunity of hearing the
Christian Faith expounded in a clear and practical
way, i t was certainlyachieved.
The resident Missioner, Mr. Metcalfe Collier,
now a familiar figure i n the Hostel, proved himself
both an able speaker and a helpful friend to many.
It was surprising to find how many lacked an under-
standing of the logic and truth to be found in Chris-
tianity, though many of the basic facts were known.
A further series of meetings i s therefore being arr-
anged for next term. Competnet speakers are being
asked to talk on subjects such as:-"The reliability
of the New Testament Documents"; "The Church";"How
to approach the Christian Faith", and others. De-
tails will be announced later.
However, the work of the Mission will never be
finished as there i s always more to be gained i n
knowledge and practice of the Christian Faith.
P. M. Harlow.
YOU MUST
get y o u r tickets n o w for the
M I N E S
DANCE
ON
WEDNESDAY DEC.6TH.
Tickets from Unio\ Ban

