F E L I X
4
FELIX ROAD TEST-NO. 3
T H E B I C Y C L E M O T O R S
With so many students living some miles away
from College, these inexpensive l i t t l e motors have
become of great personal interest to many of us.
They are quickly and easily fitted to any type of
bicycle, are outstandingly eoonomical, and their
manoeuvrability enables them to negooiate London
traffic at least as quickly as other motor vehicles
We are therefore giving a serious description
of the three most popular types on the market, and
impressions of the machines based on the experience
of owners in the College.
MINI-MOTOR
This is undoubtedly the fastest and most pow-
erful of the three. It is a two-stroke engine of
49 o.c. developing 1-3 H.P., that drives the rear
wheel through a deeply milled roller. It is simp-
ly fitted to any bicycle without any modification
beyond the removal of a section of mud-guard, and
is raised or lowered into contact with the wheel
by means of a lever on the handlebars. This sys-
tem has the merit of simplicity, but i t is inclin-
ed to sling mud and is fairly heavy on tyres - e
tandem type tyre lasts about 1500 miles. A poss-
ible criticism is that its top speed of 30 m.p.h.
is too high to be safe on most bicycles, but the
discomfort of driving an unsprung machine at this
speed would keep most people down to a more moder-
ate 20-25, and only use f u l l power on h i l l s .
The fuel consumption is about 200 m.p.g.,
and the price £21 inclusive.
CYMOTOR
This is another friction drive motor, via a
carborundum roller to the front wheel. It is
the cheapest of the three under review, and in-
corporates a powerful lighting system driven by
the magneto-generator. Although of nearly the
same capacity asthe Mini-Motor, 45 cc, i t is not-
iceably less powerful, giving a maximum speed of
20 m.p.h. and an accleration poor by comparison.
It is understood that a modified engine is to be
produced, with redesigned cylinder ports to give
greater power. The two owners of these motors
in the College also complain of poor starting.
It is open to the same criticism of mudslinging
and tyre wear as the Mini-Motor, a tyre lasting
about 1500 miles but costing only 13/2d. The
makers claim 250 m.p.g., but our owners find
they get about 180 m.p.g. in London. Price 18
gns. inclusive.
CYCLEMASTER
This is certainly the neatest power unit,
the whole contraption including engine, fuel
tank and drive being housed in the rear hub.
The whole rear wheel is sold comlete and no
modification to the bicycle is necessary. It
is a much smaller engine than the previous two,
being only 25 cc, but i t gives a quite remark-
able amount of power, giving a top speed of 23
m.p.h. and sufficient use for most London h i l l s .
It has a real clutch that can be used as such,
although i t appreciates a l i t t l e pedal assist-
ance in starting from rest, and will accelerate
smoothly (albeit gently) from a walking pace on
the throttle alone. There is not space here for
technical details, but i t is a remarkably ingen-
ious and efficient piece of engineering. Fuel
consumption is 260-300 m.p.g.-, and the price £25
inclusive.
K E M P S O N ' S S f V -
SHOE REPAIR SERVICE : t = f c
'
44, Queen's Gate Mews,
Queen's Gate,
Kensington, S.W.7
SPLITTING THE INFINITIVE
Oneof the most closely guarded secrets of the
era can now be told, how an anonymous group of gram-
marians, working in secrecy in a remote sectian of
the country, have finally succeeded in splitting the
infinitive.
The so-called "Bronz Project" got under way in
19*3 with the installation of huge Infinitron spec-
i a l l y constructed for the job by Caltech philologists.
Though the exact details are s t i l l withheld for
reasons of security, i t is possible to desribe the
general process.
From a stockpile of fissionable gerunds, encased
in leaden cliches to prevent radio-activity, a suit-
able subject i s withdrawn and placed in the infinit-
ron together with a smallamount.of syntax. A l l this
material must be handled with great care as the s l i -
ghtest slip may lead to a painful solecism.
Once inside the apparatus, the gerund is whirl-
ed about at great speed, meanwhile being bombarded
with small particples. A man with Gender Counter
stands always ready to warn others i f the Alpha-Bet-
ical rays arereleased in such high quantities as to
render the scientists neuter.
The effect of the bombardment i s to dissociate
the whirling parts of speech from one another until
at length an infinitive splits off from i t s gerund
and i s ejected from the machine. It is picked up
gingerly with a pair of hanging clauses and plunged
into a bath of pleonasm. When i t cools, i t is re-
ady for use.
The question i s often asked: Can other count-
ries likewise split the infinitive? I think we
can safely answer "No".
Though i t i s true that Russia, for one, i s kno-
wn to have large supplies of the saurus hidden away
behind the Plural Mountains, i t i s doubtful i f the
Russians possess the scientific technique. They
have the infinitive but not the know-how.
(Originally published in "Tennessee Valley Engineer")
I.C.W.A. DANCE
Friday evening the 17th November was a notable
evening at the Union. The ladies of I.C.W.A.
were demonstrating their capabilities as
organisers and their charm as hostesses on the
occasion of the I.C.W.A. dance. This dance,well
known as one of the leading social events of the
I.C.year, proved to be quite as good as its many
predecessors and was very well attended. The
•Vice-President of I.C.W.A., Br. Pratt, with her
usual good-natured enthusiasm, set the pace for
a really enjoyable evening. Two past Vice-
Presidents, Miss Sherwood and Lady H i l l were
also present. It seems extremely unlikely that
J I.C.W.A. will ever spoil their reputation for
fbeing able to put on a "good show" at their
dances. Many thanks to tlaem from a l l who
attended.

