COUNCIL VOTES COUNCIL INTO II PI
Monday'"s Council meeting degenerated into a farce of petty bickering. Many tppics
which should have brought fruitful discussion were killed by swift proposals to move to
next business. Under rather reak chairmanship from President lowin only the more ,
aggressive members were able to get much business done.
It i s likely that the number of freshers i n Hall w i l l be unaltered next year and
that there w i l l be 25,i i n Student Houses. It was decided to recommend this to the, Rector,
after Spike Ban tin reported that the majority of student opinion favoured no change in
present Halls structure. The Rector w i l l circulate Council's report around the Wardens,
and it. i s expected that they w i l l agree with the recommendations. In addition, Council
expressed dissatisfaction at the scrapping of the camp beds idea; guest rooms are not
popular because -peovle do not like to use other people's bedrooms. Application forms
for Hall & Student Houses w i l l be i n different colours next year, and Group applications
for houses w i l l be accepted. Lon't forget that one house (out of 2) w i l l be for WOMEN!
Council also voted themselves back into Hall, recommending the removal of the rule
restricting residence for officers to 3 years.
£310 was authorised for a nursery to cater for 15 students but Piers Corbyn's
motion to donate £25 to MDRADE was again rejected. However on a motion by Dave ¥/ield,
Council i s to give lOgns for group membership of Institute of Contemporary Arts. Members
are abie to go to exhibitions, poetry readings, films and plays arranged by I.C,A, at
half price,
Ents report Traffic having broken up cannot play at the Albert Hall Concert. Butl.C.
may engage Stevie Winwood plus the erstwhile members of the Cream, Ginger Baker and Eric
Clapton,
The security, of Mike i s now the responsiblity of the Deputy President, I,C.U. i s to
reimburse the £5 each payed by the constituent College Unions to buy our mascot from the
clutches of Kings College.
It was mentioned that after the Stoats Club Dinner when Beit residents were
disturbed i n the early hours of the morning and several guests stayed overnight i n the
S.G.R., the position of the dinner i s to be reviewed next term.
It has been decided to extend the amnesty on returning glasses to the bar until the
end of January owing to poor response. So i f you have any glasses in your room get
them back soon. Remember, stolen and broken glasses cost £12000 a year of your money.
Dave Y/ield walked out in digust just before the end, and other Council members
dissociated themselves from the proceedings. P.A.H. and M.J.W.
PARKING-
A barrier i s to erected at Southside to secure the resident's parking places, and
each holder of a resident's permit w i l l be given a key on payment of a 10/~ deposit.
The space in. front of Southside at present used for scooters w i l l be reallocated to
cars atid alternative accommodation found for scooters.
Also at the meeting of the parking committee yesterday, i t was decided, i n view of
the number of places left vacant i n commuter zones, to over-allocate, and thus gain an
extra "ten places.
FAVOURITISM IN MINES?
FELIX has received a copy of a circular which has been passed around RSM this week.
This circular alleges unfairness in the selection, by RSMJ, of students for foreign visits.
It quotes the example of a Paris trip, for which two names were placed on the l i s t for the
two places available. One of the applicants had later been told that he had been replaced
by a person whose name was not on the l i s t .
LETTER
Dear Sir,
I would like to dissociate myself from the duplicated sheet at present being passed
around concerning the RSMU selection for overseas visits, and thoroughly object to my
name being printed without my permission on the said sheet.
The sole reason I signed the petition was to enable an RSM Union meeting to be called
to discuss the matter. ROBIN DIBBLEE,
MOONEY CHRISTMAS DINNER today 3A Alka-Seltzer w i l l be provided by FELIX in exchange
for 3-v completed years back dated.
:
,
; SMALL ADS \
As a Christmas gesture, would the person who NEWTHINK 3 - what i s student power?
borrowed the Guilds Hon.Jun. Treasurer's UK - David Steel, Terry Bull, etc: Japan.
Tankard from the Union Bat at the beginning Germany. Bookstall. 621 Tiaard. 2/6d.
of term please return i t ,
\ £j> A HAPPY EASTER TO 4 *L
ALL OUR REiJJERS
Christmas treat, for one issue only:- EDITOR Ian William with Tony Kirkfaaa and Patsy.

