Cutting right down to the bone?
A report on the College health service
O u r own health service consists of two full-time doctors, namely D r
Haines and D r Addenbrooke. As well as these, there is D r Gillan who
shares his time between the health service and the Journal on M e d i c a l
Ethics, which he edits. O n the same terms as D r G i l l a n there are two
additional doctors from a local general practice and also a psychiatrist
who works at the health service.
As well as students the service also caters for members of staff who
register there. Apart from providing medical attention to students, D r
Haines also serves on various committees such as the Safety Council
and the Biological Safety Committee. According to D r Haines it is
generally an interest in younger age groups which draws doctors to
come and practise in college health services.
Other special servies which our health service can oiler to students
include advice on examination learning and counselling to students
sulfering from stress, particularly near examination time.
Due lo the very limited funds obtained from the N H S the service is
vcrv heavily dependent on the University Chants Committee. As of
yet. the cuts in expenditure have not aflecled the health service but it
does not seem that this state of allairs will lasl very long. D r Haines
stated that at the present time he was involved in appealing against a
refusal to allow him to provide unrestricted general medical services. If
successful this would provide additional funds. At the moment the
health service receives a specific amount per studeni registered.
II recent proposals under consideration by the Department ol Health
are enforced, overseas students will lose their right to tree medical
treatment under the N H S . The X L ' S are urging all overseas students
beginning their course this year to register with a doc tor al once to
make sure of free treatment. W h e n asked about this new government
policy. D r Haines remarked that il was very "shortsighted" of the
government to put up Ices and not account for the health service. He
IC Radio
Imperial College Radio is the only student radio station in London, and
broadcasts on 301metres (999kHz) medium wave to the Halls ot
Residence round Princes Gardens. If you are interested in the station
then you are very welcome to drop into our main studios (beside the
Southside Shop, underneath the College end of Southside) at anytime
during lunchtimes or throughout the evening. If you would like to present
programmes, you're especially welcome, and we'll show you how to use
the studio equipment and give you some advice on how to put a
programme together. Another way to get involved is simply to phone in
requests, which we will try to play as soon as possible (usually within a
very few minutes)—so if you're in the Southside or Linstead Bar during
the evening dial 3440 on the internal phone for the music you want to
hear.
A typical weekday's programmes on IC Radio looks like this: 8:00-
9:15am B r e a k f a s t p r o g r a m m e , including c i n e m a and gig guides,
competitions, national and College news, and details of that day's College
events. 6:00pm Live From Six, with news of events happening in and
around College, and entertainment and T V guides for that evening.
8:00pm The Request Programme, this time of the evening is when we
particularly encourage listeners to ask for their favourite music on
internal 3440 (0-3440 from the Southside staircase phones). J0:00-
midnight The Late Late Late Late Early Show, some late night music and
a nightly competition (with records as prizes) and news and views from
around College.
The schedule varies a bit on some nights of the week, and is very
different at weekends (for instance there's the Heavy Metal Show 'Scrap
Metal' on Saturday evening), but in all our programmes we try to provide
the sort of radio station that students like to listen to: IC Radio is your
type of station—why not tune in and prove it?
commented that the administration problem for the health service
would be immense, especially in terms ol collecting money or running
insurance schemes, and even under insurance schemes these would not
cover free prescriptions or hospital treatment. As for the cost of
prescriptions he cited a recent ease of a prescription for an overseas
studeni consisting of a one month's supply of 240 tablets costing the
student £50. Over a year this would come to £000. being the cost of
treatment for only one illness.
When asked to comment on how lie could see the health service
developing in the light of recent cuts D r Haines staled simply "no way-
will it expand". The gloomy outlook however does not seem to have
dampened his enthusiasm lo develop the service. In fact Dr Haines
stated ihal lie would like to engage the services of a psychotherapist,
thai is, someone who could provide a form of in-depth student
counselling.
Asked whether in the light of a recent request made ol IC lo increase
lis student n u m b e r s w i l l the h e a l t h service be e x p a n d i n g to
accommodate for this change. D r Haines commented dial he doubted
whether the U G C would provide funds for ibis and he- could nol
realistically envisage an expansion. If the situation floes start to worsen
rapidly, it will not be the students who will be- aliened lirsi. since the
stall provide a form of buffer in that they w ill be the lirst patients to feel
the elicits of belt tightening.
Il seems that the health service does have a great deal lo oiler
students in u-rms of direct medical advice as well as the not so direct
counselling services for e x a m i n a t i o n worries, study stresses, etc.
However it is clear thai the dependency of the funding of the service on
the U G C , coupled with the reduction in finances made available will
inevitably take its toll and what is all too clear is that if this reduction
in funds continues it is the student who will lose out eventually.
OLD CENTRALIANS
Sir David Nicolson, M.E.P.
Chairman of Rothmans International L t d .
M e m b e r of E u r o p e a n P a r l i a m e n t for L o n d o n C e n t r a l
Constituency
Former chairman of British Airways (1971-75)
Fellow of Imperial College
Educated at City and Guilds College (Mechanical Engineering,
dept.) 1940-42
This man is an Old Centralian - how about you?
For further information contact;
Helen Brookes, Room 303 Sherfield Building
Mike Richardson, City and Guilds Union Office,
Mechanical Engineering dept.
FELIX, October 23, 1981 Page 5

