CLUBS AND SOCIETIES;
Boardsailing
Early last " S a t u r d a y m o r n i n g , a group of
drowsy students gathered outside Southside,
around a bedraggled mini which was laden
with a windsurfboard. Yes, these were some
enthusiastic members of the boardsailing club.
A quick drive down the M 4 took us to the lake,
where the three 'experienced' boardsailers
went to don wetsuits, whilst the two others
joined the five hour beginners course. The
first two hours were spent standing on dry land
in the pouring rain by a board simulator,
learning the basic skills of sailing and turning.
Occasional jogs delayed hypothermia setting
in. •
At lunchtime we invaded the local pub and
hogged the log fire in an attempt to warm up.
Somehow we all managed to force ourselves
back into the cold rain, back to the lake. The
beginners crowded into the communal lorry to
be fitted up with wet suits. W e all then took
our boards and sails and paddled them out to:
attach them to some buoys whilst we rigged
and practiced our skills. Falling in was agony
and the skill of getting out of the water as
quickly as possible was developed rapidly:
Soon all feeling had left feet and hands. Some
of the more frozen beginners were taken by
boat to land to have a reviving coffee before
being let loose on the lake. Despite many
setbacks we all manged to sail across the lake
at least once, just enough to get us well and
truly addicted.
Back on dry land dressing was difficult with
numb hands that refused to function. We then
oiled into the caravan for coffee and a talk on
safety precautions at sea. Then it was all over,
back home to showers and baths to dream of
next week's attempt (that is if we haven't all
contracted pneumonia by then!).
Rebecca M a y (a 'hooked' beginner)
SF Soc
Apologies first for Alien ballsup. I trust you saw
it last Tuesday instead, and 1 must repeat that
it wasn't our fault (look out for Ridley Scott's
new film next year Blade Runner, a film
version of Philip K . Dick's D o Androids Dream
of Electric Sheep?). But first the news. F r o m
now on, S F Soc library meetings will be on
T h u r s d a y s ( s a m e t i m e ) i n t h e G r e e n
Committee Room on the top floor of the Union
Building. C o m e and peruse our 450+ volumes
(if you're a member that is). Y o u may have
noticed that this week's bulletin is almost
embarrassingly full of information. This is
unavoidable I'm afraid, since now and then
news mounts up until nothing can be done to
stave it off any longer. I would also like to
apologise for the informative nature of last
week's bulletin, but our kindly editor explained
the reasons for that in his editorial. So, now
you'll never know how to teach a rat not to
read, how to generate power with vampires,
and the mysterious link between B N F L and
the C h u r c h of Scotland.
But still in this weary world, where man is
born to trouble as the sparks fly upward, there
is little to gain by speculation on what might
have been, and instead we must, as Walt
Whitman advises, tuck our trousers into our
socks and have a good time. I will leave with
some food for thought for you all, in the first of
our series, "words I will remember".
"I've measured it from side to side
It's four feet long and two feet wide."
W. Wordsworth
"The glebe cow drooled."
Thomas Hardy
That's all folks, from all the boys at the Shop
and the bears in the back room.
Angling
Early last Saturday morning saw the first
expediton this year of the nearly formed IC
Angling Club. The venue was the Thames at
Hampton Court and after a fruitless wait at
South K e n . for one or two members who
decided to remain in bed we finally began
fishing at around 9:00am. The weather was
not, as Capital Radio had predicted, dry and
sunny, but wet and miserable with occasional
spells of extremely wet and miserable. This
however did not detract from the sport and the
fish were soon being reeled in. The best fish of
the day was a one pound chub caught by Dave
Hardy on a swim feeder. Vic Butorijs and Van
Scott proved to be a formidable team, catching
thirteen dace, and a couple of roach between
them with Andy Chapman also catching a
couple of dace. A l l in all a successful day
marred only by the weather and the quality of
the D i r e c t o r s in the P r i n c e of Wale s at
Hampton Court.
The next outing will be in about a fortnight's
time, so if anybody is interested why not come
along to our Thursday night meetings which
take place at 6pm in Southside Bar or get in
touch with one of the following: Dave Kelsall,
C E P G (Rm G10, C E ) or John Davies, EE3.
OSC
Thank you for making the freshers' reception
last Wednesday such a big success. Next week
the O S C will hold two events you can't afford
to miss.
Firstly replacing our originally advertised
film The Klansman we proudly present Where
Does It Hurt (Cert X) starring Peter Sellers in
Mech Eng 220 on Tuesday, October 27 at
6:00pm. Tickets will be on a price differential
basis w i t h 60-70°o r e d u c t i o n s for O S C
members. Obviously it is highly advisable to
join the O S C or one of its nine national
societies, y o u c a n join a c l u b before the
filmshow and make the most of the reduced
rates for members!!!
/ would like to take this opportunity to
stress that the overseas students clubs are
open to all students and home students are
most welcome to join the clubs.
Secondly, on Thursday, October 29 there
will be a talk on A s i a a n d the Brandt Report in
the Read Lecture Theatre, Sherfield at 1:30pm
to be given by M r Qutbodin Aziz, Minister of
Information, Pakistan Embassy. A s you may
know Pakistan withdrew from the Common-
wealth and is not a member of the Lome
Convention so this talk will certainly be super,
don't miss it for anything.
Met & Mat Sci
Soc
G e m s , gems, gems.
Geologists search for it, miners dig it up,
beautiful young ladies wear it, but what do
metallurgists and materials scientists do with
it.
Find out at the metallurgy and materials
science society's illuminating first evening
lecture, on gemstones by Professor R . A .
Howie (Kings College London) on Tuesday,
October 27 (see What's On for details). He's
bringing over six square metres of exhibits and
100 slides, plus other demonstrations.
If you think that's a sparkle, wait till you see
our last lecture—in the spring term—it's on
explosives.
Lecture programme cards are available from
the H o n Sec.
CND
Y o u are, in all probability, a scientist or
engineer. D o your departmental staff use
alloys in cruise missiles, electronics in weapons
delivery systems or programmes in Mirving
guidance as lecturing examples? D o you think
it correct that your ideas are put to use in
nuclear weapons of mass destruction? If you
want to 'protest and survive' march to Hyde
Park with C N D on Saturday, October 24.
I C C N D will be marching as a group from Beit
Archway at 11:00am. Packed lunch essential.
Leadlined suit optional.
Railway
O u r first talk will be on Tuesday, October 27
with M r J . Knowles speaking on Australian
railways. Two weeks later M r P. Hunt, a civil
engineer on Western Region, will be speaking
on the preparations for Inter-City 125 services.
Both meetings will take place in our usual-
venue, Huxley 340 at 5:40pm.
Following the talk next Tuesday, we will be
holding elections for the vacant posts on the
C o m m i t t e e , w h i c h are V i s i t s S e c r e t a r y ,
Publicity Officer and Model Railways Officer. If
you are interested in standing, the papers and
job descriptions are on our noticeboard in
Southside (at the bottom of the stairs by the
Refectory). For further information contact
me.
I am hoping to arrange a visit to the National
Railway Museum, Y o r k , if there is sufficient
demand. Details at the meeting, or, again, see
our noticeboard.
Paul Skinner, Physics 3
Bookshop News
Staedtler have been producing products for
technical drawing and drafting for over two
hundred years, and this week we are having an
exhibition of their products in the Bookshop.
O n Friday, October 23 (today) their represen-
tative will be in the B o o k s h o p between
11:30am and 1:30pm to show and explain their
main products.
I C O N , Imperial College Review is now on
sale in the Bookshop, price 25p. However, if
y o u would like to receive it through the
internal mail, subscription forms are available
from the Shop.
New Titles
Clans & Tartans of Scotland by Robert Bain,
Fontana £2.95.
Book of Railway Journeys by L u d o v i c
Kennedy, Fontana, £2.95.
Country Cuisine by Elizabeth Kent, Fontana
£3.95.
Face the Future by David Owen, O U P , £2.95.
Motorcyclists Handbook by David Minton, Pan
£5.95.
/ Ching by Richard Wilhelm, R K P £7.50
Complete Indoor Gardener by Michael Wright
(ed), Pan, £6.50.
Book of the Cat by Michael Wright (ed), £6.50.
Face and Body Book by Meriam Stoppard,
Pan, £5.95.
Gnomes, by Wil Huygen, Pan £4.95.
Trees in Britain, by Roger Phillips, Pan £6.50.
Beningfields Butterflies by Gordon Beningfield,
Penguin, £4.95.
For the young at heart
Incredible Hulk Pop-up Book, £2.99.
Spiderman Pop-up Book, £2.99.
Quote of the Week
" H o w do you spell Imperial?"
"Is Imperialcollegebookshop one word?"
Page 10 FEUX, October 23, 1981

