Kite February March
A war of words has broken out over
proposals to give students a role in
assessing lecturers' pay. The
scheme is one of several plans
which are set to form a students'
charter, aspects of which may be
included in the Conservative Party
general election manifesto.
The initiative plans to link pay
awards for lecturers to student
(customer) views of their
performance in lecture halls and
seminar rooms, and is reported to
have the support of the Secretary of
State for Education, Kenneth
Clarke. Mr Clarke was one of a
group of ministers and advisors who
attended a seminar in Downing
Street midway through January.
Senior sources close to the Prime
Minister have disclosed that Mr
Clarke was directly asked by an
official from another department if
he was in favour of a link between
student assessment and lecturers
pay. The Education Secretary
responded that it was a good idea
that the Department of Education
and Science (DES) could work on.
This has caused confusion within
Mr Clarke's own department.
Roger Frost, DES Press Officer,
told Imperial College News
Network (iCNN) that 'there are no
departmental plans'for a students'
charter,' but he added that if it were
to be a manifesto proposal, the DES
could not work on the idea until it
became Government policy. Tessa
Kesswick. senior policy advisor to
the Secretary of State, told us that
the idea of students assessing
lecturers' pay was 'not a
Conservative idea. It may be
something the Labour Party would .
do, but it is not one of our ideas.'
Media sources have already
reported that tensions exist between
the policy 'think-tank' at 10
Downing Street, and the policy unit
at the D E S . The Guardian
Westminster Correspondent, David
Twenty five thousand students from all over Great Britain attended a mass rally called by the National
Union of Students (NUS) on Wednesday 12 February. The march was called to protest about student
debt and the student loans system and was supported by Imperial College Union.
Mr David Taylor, acting NUS press officer, described the meeting as 'large, peaceful.. and very
successful. ' Mr Taylor also stated that the message about student debt had 'got across' as the coverage
of the march had been very good.
Henke, reported yesterday morning
that the Prime Minister has
instructed Sarah Hogg, the head of
the Downing Street policy unit, to
rewrite the manifesto by pledging
a raft of initiatives in the public
sector. Mrs Hogg has already
received a dossier of ideas
following on from the January
seminar. These include the
students' charter, and charters on
health and transport.
The pay initiative has been widely
condemned. The National Union of
Students and the Association of
University Teachers have already
indicated that they will not support
the proposals. Stephen Twigg, NUS
President, has said that the charter's
ideas 'show no understanding of
students' problems, nor any genuine
commitment to solve them'. Labour
Higher Education spokesman,
Andrew Smith, told iCNN that 'the
only pieces of paper students want
to see from this government is ten
pound notes.' (iCNN)

