Feature Felix 926 14 February 1992
The mountainous north of his turban. When I arrived he was
Pakistan is a land of legend and sitting cross legged on the floor of
mystery. It is a land where three his open fronted shop. Sacks of
great mountain ranges: the Pamirs, walnuts and dried apricots leant
the Hindu Kush and the against the dusty walls and tins of
Karakorums meet in a vast cooking oil towered precariously by
explosion of vicious towering peaks the back door. I introduced myself
and sharp grey crags. It is a land and asked about the jeep to Gupis
where frantic streams weave across the following day. Nazir smiled,
the earth like veins of quartz and exposing a few lonely teeth, and
along their paths they have carved promised that the next day he would
deep valleys into the yielding rock. send me to Gupis for 60 rupees.
In mid-October of last year, as a Inshallah.
Demons and Stones
Peter Wright
explores stone
circles in
northern
Pakistan
part of an expedition to investigate
the Mongol Empire and its legacies,
I found myself deep within this
stark and isolated world. Here, in
the small town of Gilgit, in a
cramped and musty bookshop on
the bazaar street, I came across a
certain book. Written in the 1890s
by a British Army Colonel, John
Biddulph, it was a personal survey
of the north of Pakistan and its
people. In one chapter was a lively
description and accompanying
illustration of an ancient stone circle
in the region of a village called
Gupis, a day's journey from Gilgit.
Always one to be intrigued by the
mysterious, I set out to find them.
I was told by my hotel manager
that Nazir, a shopkeeper with a
store on Gilgits Punial Road, had
a cargo jeep going to Gupis the
following day. So I went to find
him.
He was an old willowy man with
a large hooked nose and yellowy
white hair that stuck out from below
The next morning, at 8.00am, I
walked up the damp road to Nazir's
shop. The sky above was an
unbroken grey into which the
surrounding mountains gradually
dissolved. Nazir was again sitting
on the floor of his shop. He was
writing receipts for the boxes and
sacks which were then loaded into
the back of the ancient blue jeep
parked outside. Judging by the weld
marks on the body, it looked like
the jeep had broken completely in
half at least twice before.
The driver came into the shop,
shook my hand vigorously and told
me to come back at 10.00am as he
had to have some more work done
on the jeep.
As it turned out we didn't actually
leave until 3.30pm. Nazir blamed
the delay on 'stupid engineers'. I'm
sure he had one less tooth this time.
The back of the jeep was packed
level with cargo up to the cab roof
and I shared an unstable perch up
there with three others. As we
followed the dirt road into the
mountains along the Gilgit River I
passed around the bag of walnuts
that Nazir had given me. In the
fading light the river seemed like a
fallen ribbon of the dark sky lying
across the valley floor below. The
mountains reared up around us and
we travelled in the trough of some
monstrous frozen wave. As it began
to rain they lost their sharpness and
the darkness became absolute.
Our headlights cut white cones
into the driving rain and the four of
us huddled together on the pile of
cement bags and filing cabinets in
the back of the jeep. We were cold,
wet and sore. In front of us, picked
out in staccato black and white,
stood an old Bailey bridge. It
straddled a river that was invisible
below us in the swirling black. The
bridge was barely a skeleton, with
only a metal girder chassis
remaining. As we inched over it,
our wheels slipping on the wet
beams with impervious strips of
night and the roaring noise of
unseen water between them. There
was a crash followed by the squeal
of rubbing metal and our vehicle
lurched over to its left nearly
pitching us four into the greedy
river. The jeep stopped and we
carefully climbed down onto the
bridge to find it resting on its axles
with its two left wheels hanging in
space. We were already halfway
over and luckily the two right
wheels retained their tenuous grip
on the bridge. The rain had reached
epic proportions now and we
slipped repeatedly as the four of us
struggled with our shoulders against
the fully laden jeep while the driver
and his mate shouted
encouragement from the warm cab.
Eventually we got it back on the
bridge and set off again. It was now
very late and obvious that we
wouldn't get to Gupis that night, so
the driver suggested that we stop at
Gakutch village. We all readily
agreed and as we rounded the
corner, beyond the bulk of rock, we
saw the lonely light of Gakutch tea
house.
After a cup of glutinously sweet
tea we were given charpoys and
thick blankets under a large straw
roof. There were no walls and the
wind whistled through pulling
strands of rain with it. Drops of
water fell from the none-too-
substantial roof and I had to sleep
in a curious zig zag position with
the blanket over my head to avoid
getting soaked.
All through the night wild dogs
fought in the yard outside and it was
a relief to be roused an hour before
dawn. The rain had stopped but it
was icy cold as we climbed back
onto the wet top of the jeep.
On the way to Gupis the driver
— 1 0 —

