Sport
Football: Cup Final Defeat
Q M C II 1 IC III 0
In a scrappy, closely contested match last
Sa:urda> at Motspur Park. IC III were
narrowly defeated by Q M C II. The game
was dominated' by mid-field stalemate, both
sides playing 4-1*2. The pick of the chances
wen: to the opposition. Paul Simpson
keeping IC in the hunt several times with a
sc'.id performance between the posts.
Dave Lynne was unlucky in the first half
when his flashing shot was turned past the
rx>>". Apart from this, few other chances fell
to Dave or Steve Cussens up front and the
half-time interval arrived with the score still
A fighting mid-field of Paul Snedker.
Dave Wadsworth. Mark Whitehead and
Anton Miiner set the pitch alight early in the
second half, but the flames of passion were
doused seven minutes from time when an
unlucky run of the ball in the box ended up
with Pau! finally being beaten. Substitute
Matin Barnes pulled a muscle. Captain
Chns Gordon shouted at everybody but it
was all to no avail. The rest of the defence.
John Barden. Bryce Goldborough and
Dave Keliand all contributed to a solid back
four performance but in the end the lack of
penetration was our downfall.
Special thanks to our most l o y a l
supporter. Sue Matthews, who lasted right
to the Vindaloo end. and to all the others
who came along.
Kings II 1 vs 2 IC II
A Bill calling for IC 2nds to be awarded
the Divisional Cup was passed by a two to
one majority on its First Reading in the
Chamber of Colliers Wood on Saturday.
The Final Reading will be on Wednesday 21
March.
The debate began with a strong attack
from a Militant King's Left Winger which
iorceC Defence spokesman Rob Richards of
IC to conceed an early clause. There
followed some heated exchanges and several
times the Speaker was forced to make
controversial interventions. John King from
the IC front benches redressed the balance of
the proceedings by forcing home a Point of
Order. The Speaker called for an immediate
adjournment.
After the second sitting produced no more
than forty-five minutes of filibustering from
the King's members, the Speaker agreed to a
guillotine under the 2 x ten minute rule.
David Lyunne the IC spokesman on
Energy with clear Right Wing tendencies
leapt to his feet and carried the day with a
sweeping attack on an Opposition back-
bencher. In an Amendment M r Barry Tuzio
i Independent) called for more Bank
Holidays and a re-ordering of the days of the
week. This left both Whips a little non-
plussed. Nevertheless after a division the
Motion was carried and the House rose at
4:45pm.
Page 10 • • • • H H H I
IC Intergalactic Sailing Tournament
The sun rises, and IC Sailing Club are
changing their gear in the open air in
preparation for the international tourna-
ment of the year in Tilburg. Holland. Jones
was not deterred by the onlookers (or
pursuits). Racing began with a fresh wind
and freezing conditions, but the two IC
teams were undeterred by this harsh
environment as they sailed towards victory
after victory.
The event was sailed in Vauriens—best
described as a shoe box with a point at the
front. IC perfected the art of rolltacking
these tubs, while opposition's imitations
failed miserably (interesting fact considering
it was our first experience of these boats).
Even so. the racing was close and some
matches were quite tricky. The tension could
be felt both on the bank and on the boats.
IC's consistent team work pulled us through.
Tostevin's tactic of confusing the opposition
by altering the start line produced some
amusing results. He managed to sail off with
the starting buoy. In another eventful race,
Robson managed to maintain the team's
winning position despite persistent attempts
at abadoning ship, following the trend set by
Jones earlier in the week. Kennedy had
considerable success in a very reluctant
boat—it stopped still after each tack.
The apres sail was equally enjoyable and
was centred around various pubs/night
clubs in the town. We delighted the natives
with a display of British vigour and managed
to totally dominate the dance floor in our
own inimitable style.
Our windsurfing attempts were less
successful and our thanks must go to the
Tilburg team for winning our only race. The
sailing crews should also be mentioned, for
without their continued efforts such excel-
lent results would not have been achieved.
Finally our two captains—Jones and Bevan
should be thanked for leading us to our
respective victories.
With the weather getting warmer by the day,
and the smell of freshly mown grass drifting
on the breeze, some of you must be itching to
get back into your whites, and to hear the
sound of leather on willow once again. IC
Cricket Club plays on Wednesday and
Saturday throughout the summer. As well as
friendly games, we are entered for the U L U
and U A U Knockout competitions.
We hope to run three or four XIs, but
because of College's uncivilised behaviour,
putting our exams in the summer term, we
need a very large 'pool' of players.
If anyone is interested in playing either all
season, or only occasionally, please contact I*
Eastland, Chem Eng 3 (Captain) orT Hclsby.
Civ Eng 3 (Sec), giving playing standard and
type (ie bat/bowl/wkt), for further details.
Indoor 6-a-side
IC3
set off early Sunday morning to make
their debut in the U A U 6-a-side (Indoor)
tournament at Brunei. LSE were dispatched
with consumate ease (they never arrived!)
and the team progressed to a straight
showdown with Warwick University for a
place in the final. IC batted first and, after
start by Eastland and Helsby, collapsed.
Jarret managed to steer the side to 122 after
12 overs, with 42. IC then dismissed
Warwick for 71 thanks to a sprawling, one-
handed catch by Eastland.
And so to the final. IC found themselves
in the field and some good bowling and tight
fielding restricted their opponents, U E A , to
94 runs off their alloted 12 overs. IC
scornfully breezed to 95 off only 6 overs with
some notable performances from Helsby
(25), Harlow (20) and Jarrett (20).
IC deserved to win as they provided the
balls for the tournament (in every sense) and
the most competent umpire, Stuart Turner.
Now the boys must go to Lancaster for the
finals on April 2.
Detective Gregor Booth had been hired by
the Wimbledon Wombles to investigate the
theft of a horde of badges from Tobermony,
who wanted them back to make into a
necklace for his lover, Madame Cholet.
Suspecting a team of West Country wombles,
Grego was led to Winslade Park, Exeter.
Perchance, the final race of the Reebok
Southern Universities Cross-Country League
was taking place. Our hero ran in it, purely to
avoid suspicion, and finished 25th. He then
turned to greet the rest of his C I D team as
they finished the race.
'Well done Sam,' he said to Sam.
'Gee thanks, Gregor,' was the reply.
'Nice run Graham,' he commented.
'Yeah, thanks,' Graham answered.
'Well run Rob,' he said to Rob finishing
51st.
'Well done to you to,' Rob replied.
'Good one,' Gregor said to Dave Evans as
he finished last.
'Piss off, you pear-faced bastard scum-
bag,' spluttered Dave casually.
In the end it was all too easy for our hero
detective. Hundreds of badges were given out
at the prize ceremony afterwards. Imperial
College took home six for being the best
overall college team. They won't be returned
to Tobermony.
Don't forget the Hyde Park Relay is
tomorrow at 2:30pm.
Friday, May 4, 1984] I FELIX

