Demented
Any pretence of credibility Michael Newman had must surely have
gone out of the window following the publication of his pornographic
short story in The Phoenix. The story is strewn with references about
the protagonist 'enjoying himself alone' and contains one
particularly distasteful rape scene. M r Newman claims that it is an
honest and personal comment about our society, a cry from the
heart—however, the only insight to be gained from this story are the
workings of a filthy little mind.
Don't let M r Newman's story put you off buying a copy of The
Phoenix. It is arguably one of the best Phoenixes produced for several
years. Apart from Newman's little jerk off The Phoenix is full of
excellent articles and short stories and is to be thoroughly
recommended. It is on sale at the moment from the F E L I X Office,
Haldane and Lyon Playfair Libraries.
Apathetic
Summer time, a time when students are forced to resist all the
attractions warm summer days and nights have to offer. Instead they
must work diligently inside wrestling with unfathomable concepts,
incomprehensible lecture notes and illegible equations. Naturally all
social and Union activity grinds to a halt and everything winds down.
There is less to write, comment or complain about this term so
F E L I X is inevitably going to be considerably slimmer this term. As
well as letters, small ads and club articles, any contributions such as
opinion articles, essays, cartoons, malicious ideas will be gratefully
accepted.
Uncontrolled
The Handbook Editor, J Martin Taylor, has graciously extended the
copy deadline to 1:00pm Tuesday 8 May. Anyone with articles
arriving after this time will face the total, uncontrolled wrath of M r
Taylor.
The copy deadline for club and C C U events to be inserted in the fun
fun F E L I X calendar is also 1:00pm Tuesday 8 May.
Desperate
Desperately needed are people to help collate F E L I X on Thursday
evenings. Collating entails inserting folded sheets inside each
other—a simple but vital part to producing F E L I X . If you have
anything between half an hour to two hours to spare on Thursday
evenings then please please pop into the F E L I X Office at about
9:00pm. Reward includes a free drink, an advance copy of F E L I X
and a mention in the credits.
Credits
Jon Jones, Lynne James, Dave (Spend, Spend, Spend) Rowe, Ulysses,
John Scott, J Martin Taylor, Nigel Atkinson, Hugh Stiles, Diane Love,
Karen Stott and of course Maz and Peter.
N E X T WEEK: The secret life of Internal Services Chairman Hugh
(Boy George) Southey. Pallab Ghosh
The puzzles will generally be fairly easy this term,
"as I don't want to take up too much of your revision
time.
Yesterday, I met five members of the orchestra in
the bar, and spoke to them for quite a while. When I
got home, my memory, for some reason, was a bit
hazy.
I met them again today.
'Would I be right if I said that John plays the
trombone, Katy plays the violin, Louise plays the
oboe, Mike plays the clarinet and Nigel plays the
cello?'
'No,' they said, 'butyou've remembered our names
correctly, and our instruments.'
'In that case, would I be right if I said that John
plays the violin, Katy plays the oboe, Louise plays
the clarinet, Mike plays the trombone and Nigel
plays the cello?'
'That's closer, but not right.'
'Would I be right if I said that John plays the oboe,
Katy plays the cello, Louise plays the clarinet, Mike
plays the violin and Nigel plays the trombone?'
That's closer still, but not right. Louise doesn't
play the clarinet or the cello.'
Who plays what?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected
winning entry.
Cross-number puzzle
ACROSS: 1.38720; 5. 91; 6.44; 7.384; 8.1110; 10.72;
11. 1918; 14. 792; 15. 27; 16. 16.
DOWN: 1.340; 2. 7921; 3.21; 4.544; 6.48; 7.30976; 8.
12; 9. 11; 10. 792; 12. 19; 13. 829.
The method is too long to go into here, but with a
bit of perseverance it is possible to work it out.
Thirteen correct solutions and Steve Morgan of
Physics 3 was the randomly selected winner.
The extra square
An old puzzle, but I thought it was worth setting as
most of you probably hadn't seen it before, and it
seems to have confused a lot of people. The extra
square comes from the fact the hypotenuses of the
two smaller triangles do not form an exact straight
line; the discrepancy amounts to about three per
cent of the large triangle's area.
Again, thirteen correct solutions, and C H
Eldridge, an Elec Eng P G , was the randomly
selected winner.
Try to Lose
White: P—KN8, promote to bishop
Black: B—B6
White: P—N8, promote to rook.
Black: B—N7
White: B-B3
Black: BxB, mate.
Thirteen correct solutions and the winner was M
Begley of Maths 3.
The winners can pick up their£5 cheques from the
FELIX Office after 1:30pm on Tuesday.
FELIX is published bv the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union PubUcations Board, and is printed by the UnionPrintUnit Prince Consort Rd SW7
Tel01S89S111 ertZtm o7internal2881. Editor:Pallab K GhoshjBusine,, Mam,ger.PeterRodaers;Advertisin3Mana3er:HuShSoutheyCopVr,ghtFEUX 1984

