N e w s r a n H H R M H i
Government C u t s
Travelling and Housing Slashed
The Easter vacation has seen two sources of bad news for students'
financial position. Firstly, the beginning of April saw the implementation
of the government's cuts to the troublesome Housing Benefit scheme
which will reduce term time benefits for many students; and secondly, on
4 April Sir Keith Jospeh announced the forthcoming changes in the grant
arrangements for meeting students' travel costs. Both these changes will
particularly hit students in London where rents are high and where many
students are forced to live some distance from their colleges.
1. Housing Benefit
During the Easter vacation the 'Unified Housing Benefit' system
celebrated its first birthday. Since the scheme came into full operation
last April, it has dragged the benefits network to new depths of chaos
and disrepute and has hoisted severe financial hardship on some of the
poorest members of the community.
Now the government have decided to mark the anniversary of the
scheme's birth by imposing more cuts onto an already inadequate
system. The draft proposals for the changes, announced in the
government's autumn statement, were greeted with severe public
criticism which forced a re-think of the strategy. However, the final
proposals, announced on 6 February, made no substantial alterations
but naively attempted to defuse opposition simply by delaying the
implementation of some of the cuts until November 1984. Although
this delay and confusion within hard-pressed local authorities who are
now faced with having to implement two sets of complex changes in
the regulations, with the resultant administrative chaos, in both April
and November.
The April changes are designed to reduce benefits for those with
incomes above the government's 'Needs Allowance' figure and that
unfortunatly means term time rebates for many students will be
affected. Thus many of you will not have been delighted to find a letter
awaiting your return for the new term informing you of the amount by
which your benefit has been reduced. Particularly hit will be students
receiving rare rebates during term time, and those who have extra
income above their grant eg sponsorships, scholarships etc. Average
term time losses should be around £1.00 per week so if you seem to
have lost much more than that it could be worth checking the figures
with the Student Services. Luckily vacation rebates should not be
affected (this time) apart from the extra delays the changes will cause.
2. Grants and Travelling Expenses
On the 11 November 1983 Sir Keith Joseph announced that the main
rates of student grants would be increased by 4% from Autumn 1984.
Thus, the main rates of grant for 1984/5 will be:
Students studying in London £2,100
Students studying elsewhere £ 1,775
Students living at home £1,435
At that time the Education Secretary also indicated that plans were
afoot to review the arrangements for the reimbursement of student
travel expenses. The results of this review were duly announced in the
House of Commons on 4 April 1984.
At present there is an element of £50 per year included in the student
grant towards travelling cotsts. In addition, students are entitled to
claim back any extra amounts they spend above £50 on daily traveling
costs to College and on 3 return journeys to their parental home. From
September 1984 all this will change. The flat rate of £50 included in the
grant will be raised to £100 which is good news for those students
whose travel costs are below £100. However for those with higher
travel costs the news is that you will no longer be able to reclaim
monies above the flat rate unless your travel costs exceed £250. This
means that all those students whose travel costs are betwen £100 and
£250 will have to meet the excess out of their own pockets. Needless to
say this will particularly discriminate against students for who it may
be unrealistic to seek alternative accommodation partway through
their courses to take account of the changed regulations. These
students will be allowed to claim reimbursement of any costs above
£150 although this will still leave them having to meet any deficit
beween £ 100 in their grants and £ 150 above which they can claim, from
their own pockets.
'Summer Letting'
Vacation Work
INTRODUCTION
Last year there was a major re-organisation of the way in which many
of the College's residences are dealt with during the summer vacation.
In the past, many rooms were left empty during the long vacation.
Last summer, however, effective organisation and marketing resulted
in all residences maintaining high occupancy levels throughout this
period and the income which we produced was more than double that
of any previous years.
Although marketing is carried out centrally the letting schemes are
managed by teams of students who are responsible for almost all
aspects of management from keeping financial records to cleaning the
rooms.
THE JOBS
Each scheme will be operated by Assistant Managers and cleaners and
there will be a Co-ordinator who has overall responsibility for the
schemes as a whole. The Assistant Manager'sjob is hard to define since
it requires a willingness to do whatever is required.
At the beginning of the scheme the main task is to clean the rooms
ready for the summer guests and set up an office. As soon as the
lettings start, vast numbers (we hope) of guests will arrive. This will
involve handing out keys, taking money and dealing with a lot of
enquiries from guests. This period tends to be incredibly hectic calling
for considerable stamina and patience to cope with the volume of work
and the long hours.
After the initial period the job settles into a routine of taking new
bookings, collecting rent and maintaining a high standard of service
and cleaning. At the end of the scheme, all the rooms have to be
prepared for the returning students.
The volume of work is high throughout the summer, but there is a
great deal of variety and it offers an unique opportunity to gain
management experience on an exciting and challenging project.
For those of you who are looking for a slightly less demanding
summer, there are a number of vacancies for cleaners. Although the
work is mainly concerned with cleaning rooms, changing linen and
showing guests to their rooms, it is a chance to work as part of a team
in a lively environment.
THE SCHEMES
Evelyn Gardens
This is the largest of the schemes with around 400 beds to fill.
There are eight cleaners.
Duties include running a small continental breakfast service.
Hamlet Gardens
Initially we are looking for three assistant managers. Traditionally the
managers at Hamlet have done the cleaning themselves in order to
increase their earnings. We will need to discuss this possibility with the
new managers before deciding on cleaners. Hamlet Gardens offers
accommodation for over 200 guests which includes some specially
equipped flats for families.
Beit Hall
Beit Hall is being included in the summer letting scheme for the first
time this year. We need one assistant manager here whosejob will be to
assist the housekeeper in all aspects of the scheme's management.
Remuneration
The basic wage for assistant managers is £80pw plus free
accommodation and a bonus at the end of the scheme.
We can offer cleaners £ 1.70 per hour, plus free accommodation with
a minimum of twenty-four hours work per week and opportunities for
working additional hours.
Application forms for all these jobs (together with the answers to
any questions that you might have) are available from Student
Services.
The closing date for applications is 18 May.
Page 4 \ Friday. May 4, 79841 IFELIX

