The National Union of Students (NUS) held its Easter
Conference at Hull during the vacation. Imperial College
sent two visitors, Hugh Stiles (RCC Chairman) and David
Rowe (Publications Board Chairman), who report here on
their findings.
The annual NUS Conference at Christmas chiefly
considered the report and plan for next year, whereas the
Easter Conference debates policy and the financial
estimates. In addition the hustings and elections for the
major Union posts are held at this time.
The Conference was held in Hull's City Hall, and was
attended by about 1,500 delegate students from ail over
the country. The first impression that anyone gets at the
Conference is that NUS is still an intensely political
animal. The presence of the student groups such as the
National Organisation of Labour Students (NOLS), and
the Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) was very
evident. At caucuses, held between Conference sessions,
they exerted a great influence on the voting behaviour of
delegates. Despite this, however, the proceedings were
very democratic and every attempt is made to allow any
delegate, whatever their politics, to have their say.
"Together we are
strong" says Stewart
Opening Address
"Whether you like it or not, the public
recognises the NUS." With this quote Neil
Stewart opened the N U S Conference. And
delegates were stunned to learn that these
words came from none other than John
Selwyn G u m m e r , chairman of the
Conservative party. Stewart went on to warn
us of something that we were soon to find out
for ourselves. The delegations to N U S
Conference contain "small groups of
unrepresentative dogmatists". "The new
leaders of the FCS," we were told, "toy with
racism, sexism, ignorance and prejudice." He
criticised the far Right and the far Left for
their politics of fatalism, defeat and despair.
"We will stand against them, we will defeat
them as we did in the past," bellowed Stewart
to rapturous applause.
The President made special mention of the
"New Deal Campaign' which calls for every
student to be treated as an independent adult.
He said that this would be the centre-piece of
the conference.
The President ended his stirring address on
an optimistic note. He said that N U S was
stronger now than for many years. It had
routed all dissaffiliations (for the simple
reason that NUS is now democratic) and
enjoyed a high standing with the public and
members alike.
Page 6\JMWkWkWHtkWMWMkWB^SBBMM
Neil Stewart, retiring President of the
National Union of Students.
WkWBMWFriday, May 4, 1 9 S 4 H H H
Motions
-the great
policy debate
The motions debated at Easter were the
most important part of the Conference,
since they determine the policy of the
NUS.
Of the hundreds of motions proposed,
only seven are 'prioritised' for debate. Most
of these are of immediate concern to
students; others affect society as a whole.
Motion on Further Education
The NUS condemned the Government's
white paper 'Training for Jobs'. The motion
on Further Education was critical of the
centralised control of FE and pointed out
that the White Paper does nothing to tackle
unemployment, challenge the crisis in FE and
expand opportunities for training and
education. Further Education Colleges now
account for more than 50<7c of the N U S
membership.
The increasing influence of F E colleges was
evident in some parts of the motion,
encouraging a concentration of resources in
the F E sector within the NUS. The
Conference voted to instruct the executive to
launch campaigns on 'Political Education'
aimed at F E and Youth Training Scheme
students.
M H ^ — r e t i x

