Motion on Disabled Students
The Conference voted to campaign against
discrimination towards disabled students.
There was a call for integrated education f
o
r
the disabled, and improved access 1
0
buildings in schools and colleges.
An amendment condemning the N U S
campaign "Students with Disabilities' as
being under-staffed, under-funded and
under-prioritised was defeated.
Greater participation in Union affairs by
disabled students was encouraged. At the
same time, the setting up of a "Social Policy
G r o u p ' for disabled students was
recommended.
Sen Deal Motion
The NUS "New Deal for Students" campaign
replaces the old Grants and Cuts campaigns.
Conference called for opposition to all cuts
in all educational sectors. The general theme
of the debate was the insistance that students
should be treated as independent adults and
not as children living away from home. A set
of right wing counter proposals, suggesting
that N U S should "'mind its own business"
were heavily defeated.
Along with the main motion a call for
better lecturer training was passed.
Law. Civil Liberties and the Police Bill
The Conference voted to campaign against
the Police and Criminal Evidence Bill, but
rejected more radical moves which would
have included non-cooperation with the
Police.
All the hard left proposals were heavily
defeated during the debate. The Union was
mandated to write, however, to M r Leon
Brittan. the Home Secretary, calling for the
immediate withdraw) of the bill.
The motion, approved overwhelmingly by
Conference, said that the bill would lead to a
lack of trust between the Police and the
community.
Financing and Ultra-Vires
Conference passed the motion condemning
the fact that student union automony and
financing were being increasingly subject to
attack. This particularly impinged on the
ability of student unions to make payents to
outside bodies (ultra-vires).
A more extreme amendment, advocating
illegal payments by student unions, was
defeated.
Racism and Fascism
In a heated debate on racism and fascism.
Conference voted that anyone who was a
declared racist of fascist should be banned
under the NUS policy of ' N o Platform',
which should be rigorously upheld.
There was some debate about who should
decide who were racists and fascists and who
were not. A right wing motion calling for
freedom of speech for all, including racists
and fascists, was heavily defeated.
National Health Service
A motion concerning the principle of free,
universal health care for all was passed by
Conference. In addition, the nationalisation
of the pharmaceutical industry, and the
abolition of all private medical care was
called for.
FELixWmmwmammmmmauummmmummm
Emergency Motion
Of the emergency motions proposed, ranging
from discipline of students. Sarah Tisdale.
VA'I on takc-awav food and Travel Grants,
the following were selected:
1. 7 ravel Cjrants
2. Miner's dispute
3. Rugbv tour of South Africa
4. Liverpool City Council (not debated
due to lack of time)
The Government's announced intention to
replace the present travelling expenses
scheme with a flat rate payment was strongly
condemned in the first emergency motion.
And the Government's policy was again
condemned in a debate on the miner's strike,
a debate of little direct relevance on students.
A proposal for an ultra-vires payment to the
miners strike fund .was defeated however.
Sporting links with South Africa were
condemned, and there was a call for the spirit
of the Gleneagle's agreement to be upheld.
Elections
-Labour
maintain hold
Elections
In the election for President of the NUS Phil
Woolas (Labour) narrowly defeated Jane
Taylor (Left Alliance). The Labour majority
was slashed from 319 last year to only 26 this
year, an indication of the increasing influence
of the broad-based Left Alliance grouping.
The National Organisation of Labour
Students (NOLS) held all the posts they
wanted and therefore kept their grip on the
executive for the third year running.
Of the seventeen members of the National
Executive for next year eight are Labour, four
are Left Alliance, one is Socialist, two are
Independent, one is Conservative and one is
SDP.
Phil Woolas, the newly elected
President of NUS, prepares for the
year's journey ahead of him.
mmmmww Friday, May 4,1984 amwmwm
Guest
Speakers
Guest Speakers
The speakers nominated were:
1. Arthur Scargill. President NL"M
2. Peter Heathfield. Gen Sec S U M
3. Des Wilson. Campaign for Freedcr. ::
Information
4. Paul Lucock. Liverpool City Course.
5. Dave Banner, a rank and file mine:
6. Women's African National Congres;
7. Iraqui Students Society
8. Nicaraguan Teachers" Society
9. Presfdent of the Union of Irish Student
10. A visually handicapped F E sruder.:
11. A Birzeit University representative
12. A C N D N a t i o n a l C c u n c
representative
13. An Iranian student
Of these, the first six were invited to spei>
as a result of the ballot held.
Peter Heathfield and the rank and fin
miner predictably spoke out against the
Government's policy of pit closures and
redundancies. Both of these speakers were
very popular with most of the delegates anc
received standing ovations.
Conclusions
The main arguments put forward in recent
years against IC's re-affiliation to NUS have
centred around politics, democracy and
money. It has been said that NL'S is too left
wing, undemocratic and too expensive. The
political complexion of the Conference, and
therefore the NUS. is moving towards centre-
rather than far-left, since delgates are now
elected by cross-campus ballots. The cost of
re-affiliation would be £15.000 which is about
6% of the Union's budget. One must consider
what £15.000 means to IC Union. It could
mean new vans, new sabbaticals or new clubs
and societies. It could also mean membership
of the NUS coupled with a leaner look to IC
Union. With our £15,000 the NL'S could
afford to take on two new members of staff
and thereby possibly provide services of
greater value to IC. We could not be sure of
this.
One thing, however, is sure. Join N U S or
not, IC cannot afford to continue to plough
an independent furrow, mindless of the
intolerable divisions that exist in student
society today, and which threaten to
undermine our future, our jobs and the future
of education in Britain.
Hand on heart, we cannot say that re-
affiliation to N U S could give a big.
independently minded College like IC. value
for money. But on moral grounds, if none
other, we must look to align ourselves with
the aims and policies of the National Union
and to seek closer links with other colleges
(especially in the London area). To use a
phrase from Conference: 'Together, we are
strong." Think about it.

