I'ttfiiit; Untie
by Dr Bernard Lamb
An extract from The Phoenix 1984.
The writer turned over in bed, torn between composing
the next dramatic sentence of his novel and the subtler lures
of sleep. Just as his subconscious formed the phrase:
"There was a pregnant pause..." his mind relaxed into sleep.
The thought was trapped where it was formed in his brain,
deep in the word-generating convolutions of the cortex.
Swiftly, the denizens of the verbal underworld pounced on
it.
"Have you heard?" hissed the quotation mark.
"Heard what?" asked her partner at the other end.
"About the pause. The pause is pregnant!"
"Well! Well!" cried the exclamation mark. "Whatever
next!"
"What I'm in a terrible hurry to know," panted the dash,
"is who did it—who's the wicked father-to-be?"
"You can stop looking at me," said the dot dot dot dot. "I'll
admit I often insinuate, but I never inseminate. Maybe one of
the parentheses did it...They always seem to need a suitably
curved partner."
"You're asking for a punch up the bracket," retorted the
parenthesis. "We need a suitable partner, yes, but no one
could say a pause was a possible parnter for a parenthesis.
Anyway, how do you know the pause is pregnant?"
"I can answer that," replied the full stop gravely. "The
pause missed her period twice, and that's a most serious
matter."
"Well, I didn't do it," said the colon. "I was feeling much
too turgid when the pause must have conceived, though I
feel a new man since my irrigation. It could have been the
solidus who did it: we all know he has his inclinations."
"You're doubly dotty to accuse me, colon," replied the
solidus. "After all, I'd only just had a stroke."
"Yes, but stroking whom'" chipped in a kinky comma.
"Look up there!" indicated the caret.
They looked—and saw that a question mark hung over
them all.
"Which of you made the improper liason?" it asked.
"Not I," replied the ampersand, curling its curves tighter
and huging its tail. "I was only briefly standing in for A N D .
Perhaps it was the hyphen—always trying to cut a bit of a
dash and link up with anything in sight."
"Thank you, but I'm a hyphen, not a lowphen," came the
dignified reply.
"I don't believe that any of us respectable punctuation
marks would ravish a pause," said the semicolon. "After all,
most of us put a stop to things or at least come in in the
middle; we don't usually start things on our own. It's far
more likely that one of those words did if."
"Yes," said the apostrophe, "it must've been that horrid
little word O F . Not only is he terribly possessive, but he
frequently has tendencies that can only be described as pro-
genitive."
"Of course it wasn't me," replied O F indignantly. "It was
far more likely to be you, apostrophe, always hanging
around those sinuous s's—might easily go for a pause, too."
This reply made the apostrophe so cross that he was
almost beside himself with rage, looking more and more like
an umlaut every minute. Pairs of 'acutes' and 'graves'
twittered in foreign accents, looking like sets of raised
eyebrows beside the from of the circumflex. The cedilla
softened gently under the sea.
"We're all getting nowhere," snapped the asterisk. "We
still haven't identified the *ing villain who *ed the pause. M y
guess is that INTO done it. He's always trying to proposition
things."
"All right, so I take the accusative," said INTO, "but I
can't simultaneously be dative or genitive."
"He's got a case there—several in fact," remarked the
ablative absolute, "so we must see that his case goes to the
right court."
"That's easy," pointed out a rather demonstrative pro-
noun. "It all depends on the type of word. If it's lower case, it
goes to the lower court; if it's upper case, it goes to the
higher court, where it can be sentenced to capital punish-
ment."
"I don't think a preposition would proposition a pause into
pregnancy," remarked INTO. "It's far more likely to have
been a verb: they're always doing things, not just showing
others the way."
| "Don't blame me," said W A S DONE. "I've been in a
I passive mood for ages! The guilty party must have been in
| an active mood, like F O R C E . "
F O R C E looked threateningly at W A S DONE.
"No!" he shouted. "Force, forced. See, I'm only a weak
verb. I couldn't have raped the pause single-handed. It
would have taken a strong verb, like D O , DID."
"But I didn't!" answered DID, "not with the pause, any
. way. I had my heart set on a gorgeous feminine noun, but
when I wanted to conjugate, the noun simply declined!"
"Well, that's indicative, I must say," declared the impera-
tive bossily. "Come on, own up you verbs. Tell us who did
it."
"Not I," said W A S S A Y I N G . "I may be imperfect, but I'm
! past falling for pauses. Surely H A D D O N E has done it?"
"Impossible," snapped back H A D D O N E . "I'm too old for
that sort of thing. They tell me I'm past historic but recently
I've been falling positively pre-historic."
"And may your future always be perfect," added a kindly
j adverb. "Personally, I think B U T did it, in conjunction with
I others of his kind."
Who made the Pause pregnant?
To find out, buy THE PHOENIX, now on sale in the
Bookshop, the Lyon Playfair and Haldane Libraries
and in the FELIX Office.
Page 9^ I Friday, May 4, 19841 [FELIX

