t h e a t r e : a n g e l a h i t l e r ibabe magnet
Contemplating a play about the evil of the Hitler
family, I could only worry about how approach-
able this piece would be. Its slow start of a mime
to opera set the pace for the first forty minutes,
with an empathy for the characters taking a con-
siderable time to build.
We were given the premise of a nephew of
Adolf Hitler returning to investigate whether he
was really dead. In the process he discovers
Angela Hitier (a cousin of Adolf) and her house-
maid, testifying to a fictional Nurenburg Court.
Through a process offlashbackshe also jumps to
conversations he had with Angela Hitler's
daughter (Adolf's niece) many years ago.
Confused?...I was for a while too. It is
important to understand how someone could be
as evil as Adolf Hitler, and this play exposes
some of the (true) things that happened; his own
physical abuse suffered during childhood and the
sexual abuse and eventual murder he inflicted on
his niece. Amongst these disquieting facts we see
the still living bias of Angela Hitler - she remarks
at one point to her nephew, "your blood is not
pure, it is staining our tablecloths."
The play draws to an abrupt climax as
Angela Hitler begins to believe that Adolf may
actually have committed some of the acts he
stands accused of.
This play said something noteworthy, but
despite some convincing performances, the ac
tors could not hold together a fragmented plot
on an almost bare stage. I went away thinking
'that was surprisingly unmemorable' - not the
sort of intense drama I had expected it to be. At
£6.50 (if you get a student discount) I would
avoid this unless you really want to know the
story tehind Adolf Hitler's atrocities.
s i m o n b a k e r
By the time you read this, the
Commonwealth Conference will have finished.
This esteemed organisation, for which I have
considerable respect, is not usually the source of
hot news. Not this year it would seem, following
the French nuclear tests and more
recently, the executions in Nigeria,
a despicable act of an evil regime
that cannot go unpunished. To that
end, there have rightiy been calls
for Nigeria's expulsion and trade
sanctions. I shall not repeat my
views on the French tests, but offer
a possible explanation of John
Major's singular support for our
Gallic cousins. As far as I remem-
ber, we were quite late in our
response to the first test and cer-
tainly later than Germany. It is therefore possible
that by not condemning the French, John Major
is hoping to curry favour with Jacques Chirac,
drive a wedge between France and Germany
and reduce the prospect of monetary union and
greater federalism in Europe. Before the leader-
ship election, I would never had thought that he
was capable of such a master stroke. Perhaps he
still isn't. But if I'm right he's a damn sight more
clever than we give him credit for.
Auckland is not the only place where the fur's
been flying. Our poor friends in the physics
department have finally had their place of nico-
tine nirvana closed, the last inside an academic
department. Despite being a non-physicist (on
grounds of health risk) and only a passive 10 a
day man, I am less distressed than some are
undoubtedly are. Nevertheless, let me offer
some possible solutions. As I have said before,
smokers are more than welcome in the JCR.
Come along and while away the day trying to
stain those nasty little signs yellow to the point of
illegibility. Better still, since the JCR is already
crowded, the College couldfreeup
,^*mm^ some more space in Sherfield for
H the more productive activity of
• these displaced students. The
'Philip Morris Reading Room' has a
nice ring to it.
Elsewhere, the Linstead bar debate
continues, culminating in the atten-
dance of a pro-Rector at a hall meet-
ing. We read that he heard the case
for re-opening and acknowledged
the somewhat hasty action taken.
He goes on to say that 'he would
have preferred to close the bars of both Linstead
and Southside'. Professor Swanson, a word of
advice: even at the most apathetic university in
the country, the closure of Southside bar for a
matter of minutes would almost certainly result
in an outbreak of war, with a barricade on Watts
Way that is both vandal-proof and a bit better at
halting cars than its predecessor becoming nec-
essary.
When your humble columnist is not lovingly
assembling words for your delight and delecta-
tion, he likes to 'hang out' with the young peo-
ple, dancing to tunes from the hit parade. To this
end, I attended 'Club Alien' at The Rocket on
Friday. A most excellent evening's entertainment
was provided. I cannot recommend it highly
enough.
bridge lane
queen carol
riverdancv*
i;
I f l l l l 1
j j
Jlo
:
31
tre
I f
Cld

