- t h e a t r e : a p a t r i o t f o r m e career of army officer Alfred Redl (James
a paftiot for me % jdba odbome
filiA Alfell
iiatioi
n i l
YolpO
VtlM] AAAijii:;,
almetda 017J 3594404
abneida st Nl • angel tube
111!!!!
ifl«i| $
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
i i f e ;
l l l l l l
I I P - ' ! l A l l I l
\ P B £ I ^ ^
^AA^ I:
. ^ •=:
;:::::!;;iA;;;^!!::;:: ll -: v:!l!;|ily;A!
kalashnikov
The most striking thing about A Patriot For Me'
is the scale. Lavishly produced with a cast of
forty the costumes as well as the props reflect
the decadence of tum-of-the-century Austro-
Hungary.
The choreography of the scene changes is
impressive, as almost all the cast appear and
swap scenery behind some incidental act.
Originally refused a performance licence in 1965
for its frank portrayal of sexual relations, both
straight and gay, John Osborne's play tracks the
Wilby).
Displaying widespread homosexuality in
the Imperial armed forces, it seems more than
coincidence that the piece should resurface at a
time when the British armed forces are facing
the same issue - a connection reinforced by the
appearance in the programme of a foreword
from Stonewall's director.
Nevertheless the glorious extravagance of
the production, crowned with an amazingly
camp ball scene, absorbs you as you pick out the
familiar faces from television and the four hour
epicfliesby.
m i c h a e l l u d l a m
London is the place of extremes. It is the
most amazing multi-cultured mix of men and
women from all over the world. Ah, but then
there is Imperial. The place that is so different
from the rest of London, not because it isn't a
mix of peoples, but because it is predominately
full of one gender: the male one. I realise that I
haven't just made a startling new revelation to
most of you, but it really is something that you
can't help noticing. Where else can you find so
many men all alone in one place?
I was promised that college was going to be
in the 'real world' but it isn't. The real world just
doesn't have four times the number of men than
women. In the 'real world' there just slightly
more women than men. In the big wide world
outside of this college, including just about every
other college and university in Britain there is
more or less an equal number of men and
women. But here there aren't.
The reason for this imbalance is simple. We
all go to a science college. And for as long as any-
one can remember, boys have been good at mak-
ing things go tick and blow up, and women have
done all the artistic stuff. Unfortunately this atti-
tude still prevails... and sucks. Women and men
are equally intelligent - given all the same incen-
tives I tkink there would be as many women
doing science as men, and as many men doing
'arty things' as women do.
like it or lump it, Imperial College is going
to be male dominated for a long time to come.
But things are getting better. Each year more
women come here, so the percentage of women
at Imperial has risen to a giddy high of twenty
seven. However, this still means there are three
men to every woman, accounting for the large
surplus of spare testosterone that floats around
South Kensington. Let's talk at the basic level,
without becoming too crude: there just aren't
enough women to go round and somehow this
odd situation has created special types of people
that seem to only exist at Imperial.
Firstly, it takes a special type of tough
.woman to come to Imperial, and I admire those
who do brave it. I can see it would be hard for
many women to have lots of friends here . If you
are a woman at this college you are without
doubt being constantly chatted up. Trying to
comprehend this situation the other way
around, I can only imagine going to a Swiss fin-
ishing school full of geeky boring women. The
prospect seems vaguely enticing at first, but it
would drive me up the wall within a week. It
must be so intimidating for women here know-
ing that just about every bloke they talk to is
somewhere on the wrong side between normal
and sheer bloody desperate. And while the
attention is, I am assured, flattering it can hardly
be particularly comfortable.
Imperial seems to attract various types of
women, but two in particular. Firstly the female
equivalent of the male geek. Unattractive and
sexless, the type who works so hard that they
know little about the outside world. Then there
are the women who come here who choose
Imperial because of the imbalance which makes
them that much more desirable. They are the
ones who enjoy knowing that there are plenty of
men to choose from and that their choice is end-
less. It is such a shame this little ploy does not
work. Didn't anyone tell them that a consider-
ably large proportion of this college comes from
the male geek factory?
So while most of the men at Imperial are
definitely available, only a tiny minority are in the
least bit desirable. Let's be honest with ourselves
guys, we are hardly a model show for the rest of
mankind. We can't really be proud of our show
of bristling attractiveness. It also requires a spe-
cial type of man to come to Imperial-one who
knows that his early twenties will be spent single
and competing with at least two other men for a
woman. It is a sad thought-wasted youth and all
that.
This observation of the imbalance in college
is hardly a new one. Never a day goes pass when
some reference is not made to the lack of
women (and lack of 'decent blokes') attending
IC. Every year the same arguments come back
time and time again. The thing is, there ain't a
great deal you and me can do about it. I'm afraid
to say it, but it's true. College themselves are the
only ones who will be doing anything about it,
because they are the only ones who can. And so
while they get along with the arduous task the
rest of us will just have to keep on whinging
about it. Ah, we do it so so well.

