s i n g l e s :
' : : '111!!!!!!
y:t'vM -ppyiPU$w£§.
Ui«upy? -doi*-
'Hie. .jS'' or
• a l b u m : a n t h r a x - s t o m p
4 4 2 ^
Welcome dear readers to the weekly column that
attempts to introduce youto bands who you have
either: a] never heard of, b) never wanted to hear
of, or c) will possibly never want to hear of. Oh
well, you can lead a horse to water but you can't
make it drink. Not unless you keep trying and give
it a swift boot up the rear end, that is.
And so this week to those loveable thrash-
ers, Anthrax. Let's clarify a few idlings at the out-
set. They don't bite the heads off chickens. They
don't think they're hard. They have never have
spouted misogynistic nonsense. They sung about
the plight of American Indians before Rage
Against the Machine had reached acne age. They
wrote the theme song to 'Judge Dredd' in 1987.
They were one of the first metal acts to delve into
rap territory, culminating with the ultimate amal-
gam of cross-genre superpowers in the 'Bring the
Noise' single with Public Enemy. In other words,
they're what you'd call innovators, avant-garde,
the sort of people who put the carrots in front of
the donkeys and then watch them try to catch up.
'Stomp 442' is Anthrax's seventh album but
sounds as charged and powerful as the car engine
that it's named after. Opener, 'Random Acts of
Senseless Violence', not only has a delectable song
title, but is a perfect melange of apocalyptic
images with its morse code guitar intro, air raid
sirens and scything riffs. Indeed, as the album pro-
ceeds, the listener is led through a myriad of emo-
tions, each song serving as a postcard of fear and
violence. The aptly named 'Riding Shotgun' is a
galloping bronco of a song while 'In a Zone' takes
you to a great height and then drops you in one
fell swoop with its gargantuan, descending chorus.
The album closes with 'Bare', a plaintive and
downbeat musical discourse, replete with bongos
and bowed guitars. This is the necessary calm
after the storm and reminds you that this is one
metal band who don't just bang their heads
against a wall every day. The last line John Bush
croons is, "But mostly I wonder why". And I'll
leave you to wonder why I couldn't ihink of a
decent way to finish off this review. (8)
a l b u m : s a i n t e t i e n n e -
t o o y o u n g t o d i e , ^
When I first heard St. Etienne, my heart
fluttered and my head went into the
clouds. I was in lurrve (not that I fancied
Sarah Cracknell, you understand).
Avenue' had just come out and I wrote
a rave review for it in these pages (that
was '92).
Today I'm slightiy disappointed. It's
not that their blend of techno-pop has
dated. It's just that like, say, The
Carpenters, their music cannot be taken
in big doses - it has to be rationed. And
this causes me pain. I want to be on a
permanent ackenaline high from singles
like 'You're in a bad way', 'Who do you
think are?' and 'Hug my soul'.
Throwaway kitsch, of course, and there-
fore repeated listens in a short space of time tend
to be, well, disappointing. Maybe it's asking too
much. Maybe I should turn to some serious drugs
instead.
Anyway, this album has all the Saint Etienne
singles. As well as those mentioned above, there's
'Join our club', 'Hobart Paving', 'Pale Movie', etc.
It also has the rather good new single, 'He's on the
phone'. The only blot on the landscape is 'I was
bom on Christmas Day'.
Saint Etienne are the emlxidiment of cool,
where style is of paramount importance and
where substance is not sacrificed either. They are
both exciting and refreshing and, on an aesthetic
level, intriguing. You should know by know if you
want to buy this album...(9)

