0: r f
fiwich kiss 1.40.4.20,7,9.40
2.0S, 4.35,7.0S, 9,35
.. ..; v a >
tniibon tR.Jp 111' • -i\ " "A1 1
I5
40'. i l l
*!!
the neon hiblc 2.40,4,45, 6.50,9
11 S i r . •
£i|i:|4 is||«£: .' ;
gig;
larrington 6.15,8.45
. .«a[k||::S:i::
£6.50, 14 matinees
a illll
nftf: I
'
a
m
o
t
e molesti) 1.30 & 6 the
• •;• •'• '.;
1
nft2: good old daze 1.45 6.15
the written hue 4 & 830
foreign land 8.30
^ t::i;il:..SVs:!::
s.:--,*-:;<^
nfthcitizeulanglois I lam it's a
shorts 4.15 interview John mitts 7
nft2: the gas inspector 1.45 zar gai
' ' i f l l l l t : ? ' ^ '
left;
night gala: casino O ' I
walk on thewild side 2 wild b i l l : a
:1 g
. £gl.
I ' ( ^ MMIK' kind of lite 4 IUKIIT the
645.. a
• f i l m : h e a v y k
Heavy is set in the backwaters of upstate New
York in a roadside cafe - 'Pete and Dolly's'. It is a
place where some of life's losers seem to have
congregated: Victor (Pruitt Taylor Vince) -
Dolly's son who still lives with his mother and
cooks her an elaborate fried breakfast every
morning, Delores (Deborah Harry) the waitress
who tends to offer Victor more than just the cus-
tomers orders, and Leo - who spends each
evening at the barside. Into this steps Callie (Liv
Tyler) a pretty college drop-out who becomes
the new waitress. Victor is so smitten with
Callie, though unable to overcome his intense
embarassment whenever she pays him any
attention all he can do is watch her leave work
every night with her boyfriend (Evan Dando).
As the film progresses, Dolly dies and we
see Victor trying to come to terms with having
to take control of his own life without his moth-
er. Despite all this Victor continues to fantasize
about Callie.
The director James Mangold wanted to
make a moving, quiet film, minimizing the
words and making those that are spoken inartic-
ulate. This makes it hard for the viewer to main-
tain concentration as there is nothing to renew
the interest - should you lose it.
The film doesn't feature anything signifi-
cant, just Victor moving from 'a state of possibil-
ity to a state of intense possibility'. Victor's prob-
lem with communicating with any woman at
even the most basic level makes you feel at times
embarrassed for him.
Having said this, the film has been highly
praised at this year's Cannes Film Festival and
also features in the London Film Festival. Liv
Tyler received considerable acclaim for her part
as Callie, but how hard can it be for a 17 year old
girl to act the part of a 17 year old girl? Along
those lines, who ever told Evan Dando that he
can act? Too many singers (Deborah Harry, Evan
Dando included) seem to think they can act as
well as sing, often with disastrous results. Dando
just acts moody and strums his guitar so the role
was hardly taxing.
The director wanted to tell a story about the
people he grew up with, loved and admired, it is
a pity he didn't live somewhere more interesting.
film: u n z i p p e d e
Arriving late, as one should, I arrived in the mid-
dle of the adverts. Some designer or other -
"Isaac Mizrahi's Summer collection is now avail-
able". Oh joy.
It goes on. Waifs on cat walks, stubbly
blokes on New York balconies; the usual stuff
The designer wanders around, goes into
newsagents, reads his own reviews. Gets
Depressed Eh? 1 Iardly kicking sales techniques.
This is because it is not some post modem
advert, it is the film.
Flicking between close-ups of Isaac's banter-
ing mug, strutting models, someone's gran and
some fairly daft clothes, the picture loosely tells
the tale of the creation of a collection from inspi-
ration to flirtation. Filmed in Mack and white,
the film occasionally jumps to a colour shot to
bring out the true lunacy of the diS$p£.
Perhaps this is a little unfair. The adventur-
ous style does somehow work, and brings you to
a friendly closeness to Isaac and his work. In
summary, it is not a bad film, but the preten-
cious effeminate characters are expressed too
strongly to meet widespread appeal.
film: m u t e w i t n e s s ^ y
A really enjoyable, though slightly silly
action/murder thriller, but without Hollywood's
incessant explosions and typecast heroes and bad
guys. A woosie american director is shooting a
murder film in the Moscow sUidios, when he,
his wife and their mute special effects helper, get
embroiled in a real murder mystery. Enter
policemen, KGB agents, sub plot and twist after
twist in the story. It has comic moments, but also
has enough emotional scenes to suspend the dis-
belief.
This is one of the few festival films I have
seen that has prompted audience applause dur-
ing the production, with plenty of laughs too.
Anthony Waller's premiere, he handles the audi-
ence brilliantly, the tension is raised with inven-
tive turns, then released in an amusing or make-
|||ptl-juiip?
vlif:!
Chcheed as it might sound, you
never know what's going to happen next.
This film is going to be very popular, and
what's more, it's British.

