T W E N T Y - T W O . FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 17TH 1995 DIARY
Third World First
Third World First's opening talk this year will be presented by Lazarus Tamana, president of
the Ogoni Community Association in Britain. He will be discussing the persecution of the
Ogoni people which resulted last weekend in the suspension of Nigeria from the
commonwealth following the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa, the Nobel Prize nominee and
founder of MOSOP (The Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People), along with eight
other human rights activists.
The Ogoni people have come into conflict with their government over the issue of oil.
The accumulative effect of unregulated extraction of petroleum over several decades by the
Anglo-Dutch corporation, Shell, has caused widespread environmental damage. The livelihood
of the local population, mostly subsidence farmers and fishermen, has been directly affected.
In return they have received little compensation from a government which receives vast sums
in oil revenue.
Frustration has led many to protest. In response, the Nigerian government has conducted
a major military clamp down in the region and stands accused of widespread human rights
abuse. Last weekends executions are just the latest incident in a long-running campaign of
suppression.
If you would like to find out more, please come along to the SCR in the Union Building
at 1pm, on Wednesday 23rd November.
Lebanese Society
Presents The Lebanese Party 1995. Friday 24th November, IC Main Dining Hall, 7pm. Cost
is £10 members, £14 non-members. For tickets please contact: S. Younis (ChemEng 4), S.
Nasr (Materials 2), I Avdos (ChemEng 4), E. Sahyoun (MechEng 4), or Tel 0171 373 3302.
next
diary
deadline:
noon,
November
20th
thursday
november
Yacht Club Meeting
12:30pm. Lecture Theatre 2, Physics. (R)
Fitness Club
12:30pm. Die Hard Circuit Training
5:30pm. Beginners Aerobics
Gliding Club
lpm. Aero 266. (R)
Consoc
1pm. Southside Upper lounge. (R)
Christian Union
6:30 - 7:45pm. SCR in the Union.
(Right above the bar). (R)
Explosoc
6pm. Jack Jackson lecture: 'Exploration for a
Living.' (see earlier)
Ents
5pm. No calypso, no frills, just the best
value COCKTAIL NIGHT in London.
Davinci's.
t h u r s d a y
stoic
12:00pm The Ski Show Report
Get of piste with all the latest in Ski related
accoutrements on show at the 1995 Ski
Show from Olympia.
12:30pm Wash and Go
Milestone documentary about London's
oldest coin operated Launderette.
12:45pm My Life Story
Music from an up-and-coming Camden
Town Band. This was their concert as
performed live at IC Union.
1:30pm Level 3
A big budget entertainment series with
novel games and features such as 'Celebrity
Exam Results', and your chance to win a rare
prize in 'Bottoms Up' - not to be missed.
ON FRIDAY AT 12pm....
CHILDREN IN NEED SHOWBIZ
EXTRAVAGANZA
Entertainment and games with a diabolical
sense of humour, with the best of intentions.
friday
24
november
Rag Meeting
1:10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Islamic Society
Friday Prayer
lpm. Southside Gym. (R)
Fitness Club
5:30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics
Ents
It just keeps getting better... BUST-A-GUT
COMEDY. This week's acts are the
lightening comic mind, 1995 Perrier
nominee & soon to be Hollywood star
BOOTHBY GRAFFOE, possibly the
funniest man to be named after a small
village. Supporting him is ED BYRNE, plus
the Open Mic entrant. A top night out
guaranteed & it's yours for £2.50 or £2 with
an entscard. Plus you get free entry to
"CLIMAX" our after show club night.
Otherwise entry is £1 / Free to entscard
holders.
f r i d a y

