six . FEUX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 1 7TH 1 9 9 5
FEATURE
• land on the other side
of the tunnel, the place where peo-
ple speak tongues and eat strange
concoctions. Yet tor some bizarre
reason around a hundred Imperial
students a year go to study there
through the ERASMUS scheme.
They spend about nine months
exploring the ins and outs of a for-
eign city, to which all intents and
purposes could well be on another
planet. But don't panic or pull your
hair out in frustration because you
don't know what to expect. Just ask
someone who has been before (and
read this of course).
The main countries involved are France,
Germany, Italy and Spain and although each
place has its little quirks, there are generali-
ties:
• Beer in pubs and restaurants is expensive -
a sad iact but one you will (soon) learn to
live with. A pint of beer is anything from
£3-4.
• Beer (and alcohol in general) is extremely,
even shockingly cheap in supermarkets.
This means at most parties it's actually
free. Look out for money-back on bottles
- buying a crate is also much cheaper, and
accommodation is cheaper than in London
(OK, not exactly difficult to achieve).
• Food is generally more expensive, but this
is more than countered by the accommo-
dation.
• The vast majority of universities offer e-
mail, but beware of confusing foreign key-
boards. You may have to ask the comput-
ing department, or pay a small fee - but it
is there if you look and you can log into
Imperial - Y-talk here you cornel
• The libraries have English text books -
don't bother wasting space (or weight
allowance) by taking them with you.
• It is worth taking your own lab coats,
safety glasses, specialist equipment - they
might expect you to pay for them.
• It's much cheaper for people in England to
phone Europe than vice versa. Get your
loved ones (oo er) to install Mercury -
you'll save a fortune.
• Student unions do not exist in the same
manner as here, it's far less centralised and
organised - but 'parties' are arranged if
you look for them.
• Halls of residence are not the social places
they are here - no friendly re-apps to
show you the ropes. Students live there
for 4/5 years so it's very cliquey and you'll
be shocked how all the rooms are person-
alised.
• Other ERASMUS students of all national-
ities are very friendly, so get to know
them - they're in the same boat as you
are.
• Take your birth certificate, driving license,
Imperial registration documents, passport
photos (lots of them), student loan docu-
ments (if you intend to apply for the first
time have your interview before you go),
bank references and details of where your
money is coming from i.e. grant cheques.
Even a passport is useful!
• Credit cards and Eurocheque cards are
handy; NatWest should offer a
Eurocheque card free for a year. For
France though 'Cirrus' is more useful.
• European postal services are not to be
relied on. It takes approximately three
(Germany) to five (France) days for let-
ters to reach England or arrive in Europe
and for a letter to reach Paris it needs a
whole week. Yet in Italy it takes a stagger-
ing two weeks!
• It's easier to talk to other foreigners - they
speak more slowly.
• Take your own bedding - or live in a hos-
pital.
• Look out for the Irish Pub - they're every-
where and generally lively and a good
laugh. (Also they tend to speak English
and you can get pints of Guinness!)
• Look out for travel opportunities: special
offers . on trains etc. For example,
Hannover to Berlin (takes 6 hours) for a
mere £1.50 - honest! In Italy a "Carte
Verde" is very useful. Public transport is
excellent in general and thoughout
Germany at least, cycling is safer.
• The technical side of a foreign language
can be picked up very easily.
• Take your own BluTac - it's unknown on
the continent (take a suitcase and make
your fortune!)
• Language lessons are usually available and
definitely worthwhile (even if only to
meet other foreign students). In France
you will probably be expected to pay for
these and then claim a proportion back.
• Enquire about the climate before you go -
thermal vests in Germany may be advis-
able.
• Registration is a long, painful process - ask,
beg, plead for help and save yourself
weeks as your supervisor can jump the
queue.
• Everyone asked said they'd definitely go
again.
OK, so now you've packed your lab coat,
thrown out your text book and installed
Mercury. Take a look at the individual coun-
tries...
s O you
voczxnf to
s p e n
P
yea
d c\
2
^51^
Sun, sand, sea and hot weather are on oiler
in this country of hospitality. One festive
occasion not to drag yourself away from is
"Fallan" (mid March), unless of course it is to
go bullfighting. A constant supply of porn has
also been cited as an advantage (they know
who they are!) and an ISIC (International
Student Identity Card) is very useful. The
university canteens are cheap, but "night§
mare chaos" rules in the queues. Everything:
is generally cheaper there, in fact.

