FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 1 7TH 1 9 9 5 . SEVEN
::>:AAA
Tht Lmd 'f romance and dreams - or so peo-
ip^say Florence is also perhaps the only city
where people |udge status by your footwear.
It's time to throw out those DM's and invest
in some kinky boots.
Italian universities often have few or no
university halls, but they normally provide
private accommodation for you. (Ask if bed-
ding etc. is there for you.) Florence even goes
as far as to subsidise the rent by approxi-
mately £35-40 per month. This money could
be even better spent by joining one of the
numerous small members only bars/restau-
rants. To join they only need a small fee and
then the food, drink and general ambience on
offer is superior to the alternative. Try "la
Pentola d'Oro" in Florence for the best rea-
sonably priced Renaissance food. Though the
Italian student canteens do offer the usual
European excellent value three course meals
(around £1.20), the main difference is that
theirs come with wine. A relaxed place;
where they "don't do today what can be.:g|||
off until tomorrow."
If ViSjl MS (understandably) worried about
term times, <
>
> commodation, travel, money,
etc. ask as soon as von are given a contact.
Lots of people experience teething problems
with: flats / halls - they are sorted out very
quickly. The general philosophy is "they'll do
it but you have to ask."
Term usually starts a week or so later
than here, but you may be expected to attend
a language / introductory course there. After
that holidays are pretty relaxed - find out
what suits you and your course.
Travelling is tricky (persuade your folks
to give you a lift) but flying is generally the
least awkward, ask to be met at the other
end. Be forceful - explain that you will have
luggage, no idea of where you are and the lan-
AJovely place! First things first - the French
iastaallv respect students! Imagine it - people
gpBfio know that what you are doing (i.e.
enjoying yourself) is worthwhile! (Yes, they
are mad.)
The French also offer Housing Benefit -
tricky to get around the bureaucracy, you
will need to provide a full sized (has to be
requested in England apparently) birth cer-
tificate, residence permit and bank refer-
ences. But if you can stand "the Anneka Rice
Treasure Hunt around Government Offices"
you will have a significant portion (£40-£60
per month) of your rent paid for (take note
Mr Major).
The system of "CROUS" or "restaurant
universitaire" - which provides students with
three course meals for around £1.50 is not to
be sniffed at. The cooking facilities in Halls
are admittedly limited, but then with meals
available for that price - who cares?
Wine (as well as nuclear testing) is
extremely popular. Look out for "appelation
controllee" or a green top on a label for
excellent cheap plonk.
In France you'll need phone cards, have
to visit EuroDisney and listen to 102.3FM
for crazy English radio. Also look out for
FNAC - a government record store of sorts
which provides excellent lunchtime con-
certs. And if you are planning to visit the cin-
ema in Strasbourg - buy your student ticket
between 5:30-6:30pm.
II ' . r | . . r " \
guage level of a three year old. They will help.
Money is a bit of a gamble. Exchange
rates mean that unless you're an economic
genius you can lose out (or gain) whatever
you do. Investigate credit and EC cards, but
a bank account is usually necessary for one to
two vital transactions. It can be cheaper to
exchange your money in one bulk transac-
tion. Ask someone to help out and find out
the full facts before you go (look for hidden
charges).
Life in Europe is a once-in-a-lifetime
experience, which is not to be missed: the
culture shock, the sophistication of European
students (they have dinner parties), the way
they celebrate their birthdays whenever it
suits and not when they actually occur and
^jlll^lpucratic nightmare of a country, but
HHjpkal sausage and sauerkraut-eating folk
peri I all that bad. When they party they do
itit's in style. Don't miss the "Karnevals" of
February and many smaller curious customs
both in and out of the universities. Erlangen
has a particularly popular ten day beer festi-
val in the beginning of June. They are great
believers in cakes at 3pm (who's complain-
ing?) and Sekt (German champagne).
They also believe in putting people of a
common background together - so beware of
only meeting foreigners. Germany philoso-
phy hasn't grasped the fact that people want
to learn German by meeting Germans. (Also
be prepared to do your shopping in the
mornings as having shops open after 3pm
seems to be a sin.)
Phone boxes are fun. They're yellow and
only accept incoming calls if they have a ring-
ing phone symbol on the front - so hunt
around for one. You will need a bank account
to pay for rent and in Hannover at least you
have to pay (£75 per semester) to be a stu-
dent - but in return you travel on public
transport for free and there is a variety of
free sports lessons available. For an illustra-
tion in German efficiency try the university
canteen (the "Mensa").
the lack of "The Sun" all mean it can be
slightly bizarre. Yet life without the great
British cup of tea in front of Eastenders all
seems somehow worthwhile when sat in a bar
at 4am.
If you have any questions then Adrian
Hawksworth at the International Office
(room 321, Sherfield) deals with non-
academic enquries. Your European
Departmental Coordinator will deal with any
academic problems.
Special thanks for contributions go to
Karen, Alick, Graham, Karen, Walter, Tom,
Alex, Clare, Tilly and Vicky. Written by
Sarah Hickingbottoni.

