Friday the 1st of December is oﬃcially the launch of the Centenary events
orgainised by the students at Imperial. There are a whole host of events planned
throughout the year for all of us to enjoy. We have glossed up some of the old
favourites, created some new ones especially for the big 100 and ensured that
we cover all interests. So for those who have no idea why we are celebrating
this year, here comes the science bit…
Imperial College was established in 1907 in Londonʼs scientiﬁc and cultural
heartland in South Kensington, as a merger of the Royal College of Science,
the City and Guilds College and the Royal School of Mines. St Maryʼs Hospital
Medical School and the National Heart and Lung Institute merged with the
College in 1988 and 1995 respectively.
Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School and the Royal Postgraduate
Medical School merged with the College on the1st August 1997 to form, with
the existing departments on the St Maryʼs and Royal Brompton campuses, the
Faculty of Medicine.
Therefore, this summer the college will be celebrating both “100 years of living
science” as well as 10 years of the merger of the three medical schools to
become the School of Medicine.
Over the past few months I have set up a project board to co-ordinate our
clubs and societies into creating and developing their centenary ideas. In next
weekʼs issue of Felix I will be detailing as many events as possible that we have
in store for you. But to whet your appetite here is a list of just a few:
• The Centenary Summer Ball
• Arts Fest
• Athletics Varsity
• Green Week
• The Fashion Show
• New Yearʼs Day Parade
• International Night
• Charity Music Concert
• Varsity
• Inter-faculty University Challenge.
One very special event we have planned is a “Centenary
Runner” for this yearʼs Flora London Marathon (April 22nd). So for your chance
to run for your favourite Centenary cause (Student hardship funds/Beit re-
development/Library project) simply enter our competition. The Rector himself
will donate £10,000 to the cause of your choice. All you have to do is email
300 words to me (medic.president@imperial.ac.uk) on why you want to run for
Imperial. The winner will receive free training and support from Sport Imperial.
The entry deadline is Wednesday 13th of December.
So look out for the next centenary update in Felix from me, Shiv Chopra.
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Centenary Events Introduction
Shiv Chopra
Medics President
medic.president@imperial.ac.uk

