After months of discussion and consultation, the Imperial College London
Council has ﬁnally given the Union the go-ahead to introduce a new governance
structure.
From November 24th 2006, the following changes have been enacted:
• A Union Court has been established to play a judicial and scrutiny role in
ICUʼs governance. Elections and appointments to this body will take place in
early December.
• The Student Activities Committee will focus exclusively on clubs and
societies activities and will now be known as the Clubs and Societies Board.
• The Welfare and Academic Affairs Committees have been merged to form a
new committee called the Representation and Welfare Board. The board has
been granted policy making powers and funding to strengthen representation
and campaigns at Imperial.
• The Accommodation Committee has been renamed the Halls Committee
and will now report to the Representation and Welfare Board.
• The Trading and Retail and Services committees have all been abolished.
All trading matters will report to the Executive, all Advice Centre matters will
report to the Representation and Welfare Board and all minibus matters will
report to the Clubs and Societies Board.
• The Health and Safety Committee has been re-established as a sub-
committee of the Union Executive.
• The Permanent Secretary will now be known as the Union General
Manager.
• The Overseas Students Committee will now be known as the Overseas
Societies Committee.
• More Informal forums will be organised as a means of engaging more
students in the democratic elements of the Unionʼs governance.
• Several Union Regulations have been deregulated by the Imperial College
Council, enabling the Union Council to make changes to these Regulations
without seeking formal approval from the College.
Although the major reforms to the governance of the Union have now been
passed, further reforms to change the composition of the Union Council and
the legal identity of the Union will be discussed by the Union Council in January
2007.
ICU is preparing to launch a democracy homepage, which will describe how the
Union works and how students can get involved in its democratic processes. It
is envisaged that this resource will be ready before Christmas 2006.
If you are interested in standing for a position on the new Union Court, or if
you have any further queries about the new governance structure of the Union
then please contact the President.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
New Union Governance Structure Announced
ULU are running a campaign to get TFL (Transport for London) to extend the
student discount for travelcards to day and single tickets.
Currently students at London Universities, including Imperial College London,
are eligible for 30% discount on Oyster Travelcards - Get 30% Discount on
all your London Travel!. However, this discount does not apply to single
tickets and day travelcards.
To register your support send your name to ULU Tfl Campaign also ownload
the petition from imperialcollegeunion.org.
TFL Discount for Day & Single Tickets Campaign
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Old Union Structure
New Union Structure
The Student On-Line Evaluation (SOLE) survey will open this
Monday at this website:
www.imperial.ac.uk/newsole
Please ﬁll in this survey, it is the Collegeʼs main way of
collecting feedback about your courses and a brilliant way
of highlighting your concerns. Cash prizes will be awarded
to the department that scores the highest turnout. If you
have any further questions about SOLE then please contact
Ben Harris at dpew@imperial.ac.uk
New SOLE Survey Online From Monday
For club and society oﬃcers who have
yet to join their club or society, you have
until the end of 1st December to join.
Failure to do so will result your club or
societiesʼs budget being frozen. So make
sure you join today!
You can join online at
imperialcollegeunion.org
Last chance for Club & Society Officers to Join

