For the gamer who has everything
Tasteless, geeky and utterly essential – Michael Cook looks at the best game-related things since games
B
ack at home – home be-
ing a relative term, given
that my PC is with me at
Imperial – there is a par-
ticularly strange piece of
gaming paraphenalia. It’s nothing
sexually deviant, or illegal. It’s just
a bit... strange.
And actually, if you looked at it
you might doubt that it wasn’t sexu-
ally deviant, consisting as it does
of a rather large round ball and an
eight-inch blue tube. But I can as-
sure that it plugs into the television
and is family-friendly.
Ahm. Yes. Best stop there.
Euphemisms aside, it’s actually a
lightsaber game that plays directly
through the television, imported
from Japan by a friend of mine as
a gift. It’s all in Japanese, which
makes it a little hard to distinguish
“New Game” from “Quit” and so
on, but this isn’t really important.
What’s important is that I can
swish the plastic lightsaber around
madly, and droids explode. And it’s
unbelievably cool.
Something special happens when
gaming starts thinking outside of
the box. The results tend to be in-
credibly geeky, and rather strange
– but no matter how much you
smirk, scorn or chuckle, there’s still
a hardcore part of you that really
must have one this instant.
Take, for instance, the NES Buck-
le (http://www.nesbuckle.com). It’s
a classic, genuine 1985 NES con-
WIN! – A WotR T-Shirt!
Why yes, yes they are hella cool. And because they love you so much,
the folks over at Way of the Rodent have given us three t-shirts to give
away to our readers! Your choice of size and design is up for grabs if
you can convince us you’re worthy.
But we’re not messing around with multiple-choice questions here,
oh no. We want you to make us happy. It’s December now, which
means Christmas should be just twenty-five chocolate-filled days
away – but we’ve been told that we’re simply too old to have advent
calendars any more.
Balls to that. We want you to draw, paint, scribble, construct or just
dash off in Microsoft Paint something festive and games-themed, and
either drop it into the Felix offices (Beit Quadrangle, downstairs in the
Media Wing) or send it in hyperdigitalised form to games.felix@impe-
rial.ac.uk with the subject line, “Objection!”.
The best three entries received by December 8th bag themselves a
t-shirt each, it’s as simple as that. Go get those crayons.
troller, grafted lovingly so that it
works as a proper belt buckle.
Now, Lord knows that most peo-
ple wouldn’t be seen dead with it be-
cause it’s just that little step too far
past Geek. But you can’t help look
at it and feel that your life is emp-
tier without one.
And it’s Christmas now, so who’s
to say it should be for a second long-
er? But if you think you might like
something a bit more fashionable,
then Way of the Rodent (http://
www.wayoftherodent.com) is one
of the many gaming websites out
there on the web that have a t-shirt
spinoff store.
WotR’s main site is a regular gam-
ing magazine with a thriving inter-
net community – but their shirt de-
signs are a tasteful way to proclaim
your love for Ico, Phoenix Wright:
Ace Attorney and other games in
an understated (and, yes, some-
times not-so-understated) way.
But both the NES Buckle and t-
shirts with “OBJECTION!” written
on them in large, red letters share
one problem – they’re fairly public.
And not everyone’s as happy with
sharing their secret addiction with
everyone else on the Tube.
Well, there’s more than one way to
skin a bank account. Maybe you’ve
always wanted to see your favourite
games immortalised forever in the
form of... a game?
Eagle Games (http://www.eagle-
games.net) is a boardgame design-
er and manufacturer that’s con-
verted some of the most popular
videogames of all time into some of
the most obscure boardgames of all
time.
From the intruguing Railroad
Tycoon to the epic Civilization,
they’re not the easiest things to
get to grips with, and will certainly
take a little longer to complete on
Christmas day than a game of cha-
rades (even with that particularly
deaf uncle of yours), but it’s one of
the most interesting uses of videog-
ames that we’ve seen – even if it’s a
little obvious.
If nothing’s hit you so far, well...
you’re beginning to make life dif-
ficult. And let’s face it, if you’re too
self-conscious to wear a NES con-
troller around your waist, then a full
Princess Peach outfit (http://www.
farmgoodsforkids.com) is probably
going to be considerably over the
mark. And Farm Goods’ Mario cos-
tume merely makes you look like a
camp window washer.
So I guess that just leaves... cul-
ture. Sigh.
Alright, so maybe you don’t actu-
ally want to do anything with gam-
ing at all, you just find it interesting?
Half-Life 2 creators Valve released
Half-Life 2: Raising The Bar some
time ago, now – a book that delves
into the art direction, as well as the
deeper plot, of the seminal first-
person shooter series. It’s not Epi-
sode 2, but it’s a good replacement
for the time being. Bungie commis-
sioned a similar book – The Art of
Halo – that explores the famous
game trilogy in-depth too.
Or there’s fiction. The decidedly
less-geeky Halo Graphic Novel
perhaps (http://snipurl.com/13cvy),
featuring a collection of spinoff sto-
ries in Master Chief’s universe, or
a collection of novels based on the
ResidentEvilcanon(http://snipurl.
com/13cw2). Or maybe you’d just
like some Metal Gear Solid Vamp/
Raiden hot gay fan fiction?
Well we’re not linking you to that,
so there.
But you might find it all a bit
overdone and hyped up. Halo, for
instance, is a game based around
shooting the crap out of things.
Subtlety, characterisation and plot
development aren’t high on their
to-do list, and they don’t always
transfer that well to story form.
So have we begun to scrap the
barrel yet? Not quite. There is one
sensible suggestion left. Because
if you’ve gone through all that and
decided that you’re just not brave
enough to take the step towards
gaming obsession, there’s always
film.
Resident Evil, Final Fantasy
VII, Tomb Raider and now Silent
Hill have all been given the silver
screen treatment, as well as many
others – to varying levels of suc-
cess. If you’re looking for a quiet
night in but want to fondly remem-
ber the little grey box in the corner
of the room, one of these should do
just fine.
Whatever you go for this Christ-
mas, gaming isn’t just about games
any more. So if you’re thinking
about spending a bundle on a next-
gen console or some new hardware
for a PC, just bear this in mind :
nothing says ‘hardcore’ like a life-
size statue of Lara Croft.
(http://tinyurl.com/txz3m)
Yes.
Some men who like to be open with their preferences. For games.
GAMES felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
felix
Friday 1 December 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

