And there is no need to be afraid
At Christmas time we pre-order games only for them to be delayed. Do they know it’s Christmas time at all?
Ah, laziness. Face it; we’ve all been
there. Whether it’s ten extra min-
utes in bed, getting the bus when
we could have walked, or leaving
it a month to write your first Felix
piece. Delays are commonplace in
the world of gaming.
When a new console or killer
game is announced, you don’t ex-
pect it to be released on the first
date that’s set (especially if you
live in Europe). You have to wait
to see when the first delay will be
announced to get a better idea of
when you can get your grubby mitts
on the thing, only for your plans to
be smashed when further delays
are announced. Great.
So delays, then. What has recent-
ly been delayed? Well, the episodic
trilogy expansion thing for Half Life
2 has recently suffered a setback.
Episode 2 (along with Team For-
tress 2 and Portal – you get them all
together in one big, shiny pack for
anyone that didn’t already know)
has been pushed back to some time
in 2007. I think we can all live with
this one though, if only for the Por-
tal expansion. Believe me when I
say this will keep FPS fans hooked
for days, and I can only imagine the
multiplayer possibilities. Check the
official site (http://www.apertures-
cience.com) if you want to see why
it’s worth waiting for.
Another delay announced ear-
lier this month was for the World
of Warcraft expansion pack, Burn-
ing Crusade. Originally tipped for
release in time for Christmas, de-
veloper Blizzard has pushed the
release back to January 2007, giv-
ing some excuse about allowing de-
velopers enough time to polish the
game.
Now, I have two problems with
this. The first is that an excuse like
that is bollocks. “Polish the game”
just has “we were too lazy to do it
in time” smeared all over it. They
couldhaveatleastputsomethought
into making it feasible – why not try
the old “we had a problem produc-
ing the PAL blu-ray diodes” trick?
Secondly is that I really don’t think
we need an expansion pack for this
drivel. I would carry on with this
one here, but I think I’ll leave it for
another time because I can go on
for ages and ages and ages. Which
is still nowhere near as long as
some people spend playing the crap
(Back in the drawer, Mister Sharp!
– Mike)
The thing is though, there are
some times when the developers
just go too far. Let’s go back, to, ooh,
1997? Perhaps one of the most well-
known video game characters of
shelves. The official line from de-
veloper 3dRealms is that it will be
released “When it’s done.” Wow.
Nobody knows what the hell is go-
ing on with them anymore, and they
give the most half-arsed release
date ever.
Guys, you wouldn’t release half a
game would you?! They even went
as far as threatening legal action
against a mod team developing a
Duke 3D Source game, as a mod
for Half Life 2. My thinking is that it
was because Duke Nukem Source
looked considerably better than
whatever rubbish was being thrown
around the development offices at
3dRealms. Selfish gits.
Maybe I’m complaining too much
though. As the old saying goes, good
things come to those who wait. Most
hope that the PS3 will be the best
on the market when (alright, if) it
eventually arrives. Many delayed
games in the past have been well
worth the wait.
Rikki Norris
It’s not just gamers who suffer when there are delays – Burning Crusade (above) was set to be a big Christmas seller for developers Blizzard
the time has his sequel announced.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Duke
Nukem himself would be reappear-
ing in his brand new video game,
Duke Nukem Forever.
Having played the original series
like the little nooblet that I was, I
was excited. So I waited. Screen-
shots were released, so I waited
a bit more. Videos were released,
and still I was waiting. Here we
are, a decade on, and Duke Nukem
(taking) Forever is yet to hit our
Left – Half-Life 2: Episode Two, a triple pack of Source games now delayed until Summer 2007. Right – Duke Nukem Forever, and the newest screenshot available. Six years old
“Look at you, Hacker. A pathetic creature of meat and bone.
” – SHODAN,
System Shock
23
felix
Friday 1 December 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

