29th November – 2nd December,
7:00pm
MORT
DramSoc
Union Concert Hall
A Terry Pratchett book adapted by
Steve Briggs
Sunday 3rd – 4th December, 7:30pm
MTSoc Revue
Union Concert Hall
Free entry. Donations for the Terrence
Higgins Trust
Friday 1st December, 8pm
Imperial College Symphony Orchestra
Great Hall
Short Ride in a Fast Machine – John
Adams
Britten Piano Concerto – Soloist Melis-
sa Daly
Shostakovich – 10th Symphony
Saturday 2nd December, 7.30pm
Imperial College String Ensemble
St Paul’s Church, 32 Wilton place
(nearest tube: Hyde Park Corner)
Parry – Lady Radnor’s Suite
Vaughan Williams – Fantasia on a
theme by Thomas Tallis
Boccherini – Cello concerto in G Major
by Soloist Nelson Ferreira
Elgar – Introduction and Allegro
and special appearance by Imperial
Brass
Saturday 2nd December, 7.30pm
University of London Symphony
Orchestra
St Stephen’s Church, Gloucester Road
Tchaikovsky – Marche Slave
Stravinsky – Firebird Suite
Rachmaninov – 2nd Symphony
It’s that time of year again! You can’t get up or down Oxford Street for manic shoppers convinced that the High Street will sell out of all those novelty socks and ties that inevitably end up under
everyone’s tree. The electricity bill for the City of London increases tenfold while people complain that the decorations were much better last year. And coursework deadlines are coming in
thick and fast. If this depresses you then take some time to chill out at any of the great shows below. Imperial Students have been working hard all term to put on a challenging and impressive
programe of events for this festive season. Tickets are very reasonably priced for students and I personally will be attempting to go to all of them! Don’t be scared of a little culture – get out
there and have some fun! For more information on tickets and prices contact Arts and Ents Secretary Kirsty Patterson at aes@ic.ac.uk.
25
felix
Friday 1 December 2006
CLUBS & SOCIETIES clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
End of term music and shows diary
Tuesday 5th December, 1pm
Imperial College Wind Band
Great Hall
Jacob – Ballad for Band
Holst – Second Suite in F
Tchaikovsky – Capriccio Italien
Grainger – Lincolnshire Posey
Friday 8th December, 8pm
IC Choir
Great Hall
Poulenc – Gloria
Stravinsky – Symphony of Psalms
Saturday 9th December, 8pm
New London Opera Group
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort
Road
Sunday 10th December, 6pm
ICSM Carol Concert
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort
Road
Wednesday 13th December, 6pm
IC Carol Concert
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort
Road
Thursday 14th December
Jazz Big Band Gig
dB’s at the Union
Friday 15th December, 6:30pm
ULU Chamber Choir Carol Concert
St. Georges Church,
Bloomsbury
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED!
Why not get active in the community whilst you’re at
Imperial College London? It doesn’t matter if you work or
study in Imperial - volunteering will have always something
to offer you! We have over 250 volunteering opportunities
in our database, so there should be a project for you.
The easiest way to get regular updates about volunteering
is by signing up to our mailing list. You will receive all the
latest opportunities on a weekly basis, directly to your
email inbox. Simply send us an email, clearly stating that
you want to receive the weekly news bulletin and we will
do the rest!
volunteering@imperial.ac.uk
020 7594 8141
www.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering
IMPERIAL VOLUNTEER CENTRE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Imperial Volunteer Centre
Linking Opportunities

