Scientific journalism is “boring”
Does science in the media over-hype its results too much and has the real meaning of research been lost?
Colin Barras
Ben Goldacre, the Guardian’s Bad
Science columnist, is unhappy.
We know because he told us so, at
great length, in that newspaper
last year. The science reported in
the media is “simplistic, boring, or
just plain wrong.” Journalists gloss
over the scientific method behind
new research (too boring) and in-
stead choose to over-emphasise the
‘groundbreaking’ conclusions. This
isn’t how it was supposed to be! But
are Goldacre’s concerns substanti-
ated, or is his complaint no more
than a sanctimonious rant at the
reporters who fight to spread the
word of science? I spent a week be-
hind the Times (and the Independ-
ent and Guardian newspapers) to
find out.
Who better to ask for an assess-
ment of science journalism than the
scientists whose work is reported?
“Wherever the press folks inter-
viewed the involved scientists and
tried to present a balanced view,
the coverage was decent,” Profes-
sor Swaroop, of the University of
Michigan, told me. He was referring
to the media response to a paper he
co-authored that appeared in Na-
ture early in November. That paper
detailed the successful transplan-
tation of precursor cells into the
damaged retina of a blind mouse.
The precursor cells integrated and
developed within the damaged reti-
na. To put it crudely, the procedure
allowed blind mice to regain their
vision.
I’m not a cell biologist, and until
reading this research I didn’t know
that ‘precursor cells’ are slightly
more advanced than ‘stem cells’.
I doubt that the science journal-
ists at the Times, Independent and
Guardian were aware of this dis-
tinction either. But all of these writ-
ers recognised that this distinction
was crucial to the researcher’s suc-
cess (because earlier attempts to
integrate stem cells into the dam-
aged retina were unsuccessful). It’s
because I read these newspaper re-
ports that I now know what a ‘pre-
cursor cell’ is.
Goldacre suggests that science
journalists choose to dispense with
just this kind of information in fa-
vour of over-promoting the impli-
cations of the research. “Some of
what I saw was…hype,” admits
Professor Swaroop. But from which
quarter did this hype issue? “We
are now confident that this is the
avenue to pursue to uncover ways
of restoring vision to thousands
who have lost their sight,” said Dr
Robert MacLaren, one of Professor
Swaroop’s colleagues, in the Guard-
ian. In that article, the voice of cau-
tion came from outside the science
community: “It is important not to
raise the hopes of people who have
lost their sight until the results of
human trials become available,”
said a RNIB spokeswoman.
In fact, while scientists are keen
to distance themselves from hype,
most realise that a little hype can
be a good thing. In the 1980s, inter-
feron was hailed in the media as a
miracle cure for cancer. When the
New York Times began to publish
reports that were more cautious
about its efficacy, it was criticised
by scientists who felt that such re-
porting could undermine public
support for interferon research.
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED!
Why not get active in the community whilst you’re at
Imperial College London? It doesn’t matter if you work or
study in Imperial - volunteering will have always something
to offer you! We have over 250 volunteering opportunities
in our database, so there should be a project for you.
The easiest way to get regular updates about volunteering
is by signing up to our mailing list. You will receive all the
latest opportunities on a weekly basis, directly to your
email inbox. Simply send us an email, clearly stating that
you want to receive the weekly news bulletin and we will
do the rest!
volunteering@imperial.ac.uk
020 7594 8141
www.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering
IMPERIAL VOLUNTEER CENTRE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Imperial Volunteer Centre
Linking Opportunities
4 felix Friday 1 December 2006
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Goldacre complains that science
is too often portrayed as “bonkers
and irrelevant.” When research-
ers at the University of Stirling are
pre-occupied with identifying the
key features of the ‘perfect comedy
face’, as reported in the Times, it is
clear that some science is bonkers,
whether Goldacre cares to admit
it or not. Perhaps Goldacre fears
that scientific investigation of this
calibre damages the public image
of science.
But the reality of the situation is
that the public image of science is
in no need of protection. There’s
plenty of evidence that science is
trusted and respected. And it’s the
journalists, the source of Golda-
cre’s ire, who do most to encour-
age this respect. Alok Jha writes
in the Guardian, the same paper in
which Goldacre vented his spleen.
Jha is a journalist who fights for
science rather than against it: “The
biggest threat to science doesn’t
come from…the extremist who
burns down farms in solidarity with
research animals. It comes from
those [in Government] who claim
to respect the way science creates
knowledge, but who misinterpret,
distort or ignore that knowledge.”
It’s disingenuous for Goldacre to
ignore the positive effects that the
media reporting of science can
bring.
Although Goldacre likes to im-
agine that scientists are misrepre-
sented in the media, many scien-
tists, including Goldacre himself,
are regularly given column inches
to peddle their own agenda. Writing
in the Times, Dr Stephen Minger, di-
rector of the stem cell laboratory at
Kings College London, put the case
for his own research programme:
“We are not mad scientists trying
to play God, just scientists seeking
a solution to the problem of creat-
ing cloned embryonic stem cells by
‘therapeutic cloning’. This, we hope,
will lead to new treatments for neu-
rological disorders such as Alzhe-
imer’s and Parkinson’s diseases.”
This brings to mind the words of
Neal Lane, former director of the
National Science Foundation: “Sci-
entists [must] sell themselves to
the public to ensure that science
retains both public support and the
funding that goes with it.” This was
clearly Dr Minger’s motivation too.
After making the case for the ne-
cessity of his research programme,
he’s quick to remind us, the public,
that the success of his research de-
pends on successful grant applica-
tions to the HFEA.
It should be clear that the man-
ner in which science is reported in
the press is far more complex than
Goldacre suggests. So, how best
to interpret Goldacre’s polemic?
Paradoxically, it is perhaps that po-
lemic, and not science journalism,
that is “simplistic, boring [and] just
plain wrong.”
Are these perfect comedy faces?
Is science portrayed as too
“bonkers” in the media today?

