on us now. After all, I’d drink there but I
wouldn’t trust any of them or say thank
you at any time to them.”
“Well John, why don’t you just ignore
them? Its worked for me. Hide behind
our beloved staff-student protocol.
Whilst we push pencils in these offices,
they are only on the front line at mini-
mum wage. I don’t respond to anyone
who doesn’t earn above £7 an hour.”
“What if all the old bar staff walk out,
Ron? Won’t we be left with amateur bar
staff that would likely waste more mon-
ey than we save?”
“You let me and my feather tickler
worry about that. Besides, I wholly con-
sider them replaceable. What are one
or two ants in my vast army of prawns?
“I like working with you, Ron. In fact,
I like the way the light shines off your
head.”
“And I, too, like the fact that you
haven’t started to shave yet, John.”
“Look away now, Ted, your Uncle Ron
and I have some important things to do
in my office.”
As overheard by Windy Forest.
Wielding the
mighty organ
L
ast week, I told you a little story about a man
called Ed Murrow. I also promised I wouldn’t
weigh in on the argument about Islam that’s
been raging within these very pages for the
last few weeks. I lied.
My position, to clarify, is that of the true atheist. I do
not believe in any form of supernatural power, whether
it be the fartherly God of the Christians or the God-in-
creation of the Deists like the Founding Fathers.
The truth is that you cannot argue with the religious.
All religion is based on a set of axioms; for the non-tech-
nical (hah!) among you, these are unproveable rules
whose truth you take for granted. These axioms are laid
down in the holy texts, and all religious observance is
derived from them. Atheists, on the other hand, have a
totally different set of axioms, from which they derive
their ‘life rules’ in a similar fashion. Without a common
set of axioms, you cannot argue with another person, as
you will always strike the bedrock of each other’s argu-
ments: the unproveable axioms.
The only way you can argue is if you choose to tempo-
rarily accept one another’s axioms for the duration of
the argument. That way, you can argue about the deriv-
ing of religious observance or ‘life rules’ with a common
ground. And herein lies the rub; those with religious
belief will often refuse to accept another’s axioms, even
temporarily, because they the added weight of the “di-
vine word” behind them. In other words, because the
axioms are taken directly from the holy texts, which
are reckoned to be word of God, the axioms cannot be
wrong, and so to discard them would be sheer fallacy.
I’m not saying atheists are much better in this respect;
some of the more militant anti-religionists would believe
their axioms, though again unproveable, are completely
correct.
Hence, the argument is nearly always completely
meaningless. Alex, the Managing Editor, says that I’m
being way too logical about it all, and reducing every-
thing to derivations and axioms in a meaningless fash-
ion. I disagree, though you may not. That is all I’ll say
on the matter, as I have no specific problem with Islam
any more than I have problems with every religion that
proports to be ‘the real truth’.
Lastly, I do support the recent rumblings to reverse
the smoking ban, at least in the Union bar. Those of you
that know me outside this rag may realise that’s for
selfish reasons, but I think it prevents a happy medium
between, on one hand, those that wish to eat without
breathing fag ash, and those that crave nicotine.
And with that, I’m off to bemoan my personal troubles
in the bar over a pint (oh, the fairer sex and their border-
line psychopathic nature). Have a nice week.
Fun with John and Ron
“Wow, John! New tills at the Union! It’s
about time they ditched those archaic
machines. I mean, manually adding up
drinks prices?! That’s so risky; what
if they don’t carry the one? And talk
about slow. Imperial College students
shouldn’t be expected to cope with that
much pressure; what if someone or-
ders a round? Of different beverages?!
God forbid they throw a pie or packet of
nuts in that order as well. How will they
cope?”
“I know, Ron, me old mate “one-for-
the-road-skip”! Let’s replace them with
computers. Ones that run off Windows.
We can’t do that? Not technologically vi-
able to replace humans with robots just
yet? Fiddlesticks. How’s about buying
some EPoS tills? Yeah that will make
everything a lot better. I mean, add-
ing up drinks prices in your head how
2005.”
“Great idea John, have you used one
before? Oh well, I’m sure we’ll find
someone who has. Instead of adding
prices up in their head they could make
the customers wait whilst they trawl
through multiple menu pages to find
the drink they want then punch it in.
Military precision! Why didn’t I think of
this before? But how long do you think
the customers would have to wait? We
have to justify the £20k price tag.”
“Gee wizz, you’re right. Well how’s
about we give the bar plenty of time to
train their staff in their use over sum-
mer? That way when the freshers move
in on Saturday 30 September 2006 it will
all be ready to use!” exclaims John.
“So the Friday before then?” asks
Ron.
“Sounds good. What do you think Ted,
my prize winning pigeon?”
“*SQUAWK*” responds Ted.
“So it is agreed, John, we’ll make
Felix presents you with part of an exchange between our favourite
comedy duo and their beautiful prize-winning pigeon known as Ted
them use these tills. That will improve
‘stuff’ around the bar. But what if it
crashes; isn’t a Windows based system
unstable?”
“No, Ron, my slap-headed friend, Win-
dows will never crash. I mean, come on,
what do you expect? That the till in the
Union bar will crash 15 minutes before
the close of service on the first night the
freshers arrive? Don’t be silly, or else I
will have to take your army toys away.”
“Please, John, anything but that. I
wanna play soldiers some more. But
how can we justify the vast spending?
Do we have this sort of money?”
“Indubitably, my good man. We’ll just
get rid of some of the fat from here or
there. Or we can offer them less pay.”
“You mean demote them?”
“No Ron! Bad, bad Ron! We don’t
use that word here. Its not a demotion.
We’ll offer them the job as part of the
ongoing “Union Restructuring” to bet-
ter serve the students and get my name
mentioned.”
“*SQUAWK*” Ted interrupts.
“What’s that, Ted?” asks John. “You
think that some of the bar staff might
be upset about that? The old managers
were the best thing the bar had going
for it? Ha! I have a steel pot in the un-
ion bar. That makes me better than any
manager.”
“Too true and silly buggers, John!
Besides, they aren’t allowed to have
an opinion. It says so in the staff-stu-
dent protocol. Why, just the other day
I humiliated one of the serfs whilst he
was trying to change the TV station. I
owned him! Yeeeeeeeeah!”
“Err Ron, you might want to put your
shirt back on; it’s only midday, after all.
We’ll get to that later. But you may be
right, Ted, my dear feral pigeon. We
don’t want the part time staff revolting
Last week I had the pleasure of enter-
taining my cousin. It’s always nice to
hear from family and I was delighted
to receive a call from him asking if i’d
like to meet him for a drink in our Union
once his meeting was finished. Catch-
ing up with him over a few beers should
have been the perfect way to end what
had been a very stressful week. All was
well until he reached into his pocket
and produced a packet of cigarettes. I
recoiled in horror. “You can’t smoke in
here” I shrieked as he struck a match. I
went on to inform him that if he wished
to smoke he would have to leave the
building.
He exclaimed “What? Thats absolute-
ly bonkers! I’ve been working hard all
day and now you’re saying that im not
allowed a fag to accompany my pint?
Felix says: “Bring back smoking!”
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
It’s bad enough back home in Scotland
that they wont let me light up anywhere.
I’d expect that people at a prestigious
institution such as Imperial to have a
slighly more enlightened view. What
sort of wankers run this place?”
I went on to explain that last year Un-
ion Council voted to ban smoking and
then followed up with some mutterings
about “health Nazis” and “nannying.”
“Ah Mr Brown, you’re just another an-
gry smoker who thinks it’s acceptable
to belch out your poisonous fumes,” I
hear you cry. Not true, im afraid. You
could probably count the number of
cigarettes i’ve smoked in my entire life
without taking your socks off. Aside
from the libertarian argument about
it being unfitting for our elected “rul-
ers” to pass judgement on our personal
habits, the reason that I am in whole-
hearted agreement with my nicotine
addicted cousin was summed up that
Friday evening, its just plain annoying.
I find it very frustrating that every
time im out with my friends that some
of them keep buggering off to feed their
addiction. I am fully aware that there
may be dangers associated with sitting
with smokers. Life is all about taking
calculated risks. Given the somewhat
flimsy evidence as to the effects of pas-
sive smoking I have decided that al-
though it may not be good for me I think
that having some decent, uninterrupt-
ed banter with my mates is a benefit
which outweighs the negative effects.
Im prepared to set aside my dislike of
inhaling second hand smoke in return
for not having to see some of my friends
leave the table at regular intervals. In
short, the ban disrupts the atmosphere
and detracts from a good night out. The
point is that it should be my choice as
to how seriously I take the scaremon-
gering from health fascists, not anyone
elses.
At the end of the day people are vot-
ing with their feet. The Queens Arms
have been doing a roaring trade ever
since ICU banned smoking. Where are
all the hordes of oh-so disgusted non-
smokers who didn’t previously attend
to make up for the lost custom? Most of
the people who use the bars would still
go regardless but a minority have been
driven out as a result of mindless politi-
cal persecution.
Some might argue that even if we
scrap the ban it wont make much dif-
ference as the government have plans
for a nationwide ban. I’ve not read very
much on this proposal recently so i’d be
prepared to wager that it is not one of
their pressing priorities and is destined
for the long grass. Felix wants to scrap
the ban to end the harassment of a mi-
nority of our students. I know smoking
is a bit minging, but I would rather go
to the pub with the addicts as they’re a
hell of a lot more fun than people who
support these illiberal measures.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,366, Friday 1 December 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tomo Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Omar
Hashmi | Business Editor Michael Olymbios | Music
Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson |
Film Editor Andrew Somerville | Arts Editor Emily
Lines | Fashion Editor Sarah Skeete | Comment
Editor Stephen Brown | Environment Editor
João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor Kirsty
Patterson | Copy Editors Jesse Garman, Edmund
Healey, Andrew Somerville | Sports Editors Alice
Rowlands & Mona Haghani
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
Ted, the feral pigeon, yesterday
7
felix
Friday 1 November 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

