10 Travel Feature 1 June 1999
An Oasis in West Africa
Working and living in Ghana is not only personally satisfying,
but carries valuable CV points as well...
Claire Bayntun shares her experience of
living and working in this vast African
nation, and the benefits of voluntary
work in general.
Amid a swirl of unstable, corrupt and often internally vio-
lent francophone countries, Ghana sits comfortably, as
wide and grand as its women sat on the packed 'tro-
tro' minibuses.
Where is Ghana? Despite my love of the world
and an insatiable desire to be on 'speaking terms'
with as much of it as possible, I did not know where
in the dark continent this country held court. I was
going to live and work there, so I had better know
its coordinates. I always feel that it is a traveller's
duty to be able to find his own way to his destina-
tion, just in case the pilot loses his sense of direc-
tion. You never know.
Dramatic realignment was needed on leaving
that special aircraft-cabin climate. Heat and humid-
ity hits like a wall. That warm tropical smell was famil-
iar to me from other equatorial lands that I had
travelled in. Excited anticipation. Removal of the
fleece.
The roads were roads. The houses, houses.
And then... the shanty shacks, the pot hole crevasses,
the smells, the sounds... Africa. But each ensuing
day there was a developing story.
Ghana is much more than a part of Africa: It
reserves the right to be rather different from what
one might expect. African countries are always
going to have an intriguing attraction; the warmth
of their 'developing' status, a fascination with the
peoples' 'almost' contentment in living with so lit-
tle, and a jealous delight in the discovery of the free-
dom and closeness of their communities. I feel that
these sentiments are felt by most foreigners visiting
Africa. And, of course, being white-skinned in a con-
tinent of black, you get the honour o f . b e i n g 'a
guest in their land', every moment of the day.
Usually these features bring many added dis-
advantages and difficulties in moving and living
within these countries. This is where G h a n a
becomes so special.
Ghana is an oasis In West Africa, or indeed, the
African Continent. It is remarkably safe, unswervingly
hospitable, and can offer those Western comforts
around the clock, throughout the year. And the peo-
ple? My new way of describing the most friendly of
personalities is to refer to them as 'Ghanaian'.
There are sand, palm-fringed beaches, body-
boarding waves, bars, clubs, restaurants, cinemas,
jet-skiing, go-karting; a place of plenty for anyone.
You can also teach in the schools, help with con-
servation projects in the tropical rainforests, do your
Medical Elective in the hospitals and rural clinics,
practice law In a firm, accountancy, IT, marketing, or
complete your dissertation there.
These are just some of the opportunities avail-
able to you. I was there for four months, living,
breathing and working in G h a n a with the organisa-
tion Teaching and Projects Abroad. Volunteers were
doing a full range of work, and an equally rigorous
programme of social activities. Volunteers are the
creme de la creme, guaranteeing g o o d company,
firm friends and excellent contacts for life. It can
seem a bit odd to pay for the honour of 'volun-
teering' yourself, but when you are there you do
realise what you are achieving; real personal satis-
faction is yours on an immediate basis. And the long
term advantages are also substantial in this present
day scramble for graduate jobs.
G h a n a is a superb destination for this pro-
gramme. It is 'Third World', but with all the mod-cons
if you need them. You can get a position in almost
any area of work through the organisation. Both
yourself and the people that you are assisting gain
enormously from the cultural exchange.
If you fancy the idea, but not In Ghana, or want
to use the opportunity to brush up o n a language
at the same time, the organisation also operates in
Mexico (Spanish), Brazil (Portuguese), T o g o (French),
India, Nepal, Russia .... And a few others! Wherever
you chose to work it is a great way to take a break
from studying, whilst giving yourself something that
will help you in the long term; prospective employ-
ers look at volunteers who have worked in devel-
o p i n g countries as resourceful and dynamic
individuals who can cope with challenges, have an
international breadth of experience, and are, after
all, a bit of a saint. Perfect.
For me, Ghana did offer something outstanding.
It has found itself clearly defined on my map; the
emphasis is on having as much fun and madness as
possible in a beautiful part of the African continent,
full of culture and tribal groups, and where you can
live 'a life of Riley1
for a few pounds. Try it - wedge
yourself in next to a large Ghanaian lady, and feel
the ampleness this country has to offer.
You can contact Teaching and Projects Abroad on
01903 859911, or e-mail: lnfo@teachlng-abroad.co.uk

