1
J"n e 1 9 9 9
Competition "
Win Young Persons Railcards!
As any conscientious traveller knows,
rail is the way to go. Coach may be
slightly cheaper, but trains have a ten-
dency towards speed a n d comfort,
and, whatever bad comedians may
say, are a damn sight more reliable.
What could be more useful to the aver-
age student, therefore, than a Young
Persons Railcard?
Not only does the Young Persons
Railcard offer o n e third off all stan-
dard rail fares in Great Britain, but it
also offers savings on the other essen-
tials of a student lifestyle. Current
offers include 3 pints for the price of
2 at Firkin pubs, reductions at M c D o n -
alds, discounts off Sony CDs and a
load of gadgets.
To buy a Young Persons Railcard
and take advantage of all these amaz-
ing offers, all you need to d o is g o
down to your local Student Travel
Office or BR station with a passport
photo, an application form and proof
that you are aged under 26 or a full
time student. O h , and the trifling sum
of £18, which will entitle you to a full
twelve months of discounted travel.
I'm not entirely sure why we were sent a picture of a stuffed sheep, but
I believe It Is meant to imply that one gets out more when one has a
railcard. Yours pretentiously - Ed
Competition
Somewhere above I seem to remem-
ber asking the question "what could
possibly be better than a Young Per-
son's Railcard?".And, of course, the
answer is simple: a free one. Thanks to
Powerhouse PR, there Is no need to
pay your £18, as they have kindly
offered up five railcards for us to give
away to Felix readers. However, we're
not Just going to hand these things out
to the first five random punters w h o
walk in off the street. O h no - that
would be too easy. No, we're going to
force you to exercise that thing you
keep between your ears. And I don't
mean your nose. No, you're going to
have to exercise your grey matter, and
answer the following question:
When was the first railway-
opened for public use in
Britain?
Send answers to fellx@lc.ac.uk with
the subject header 'Railcard C o m p '
before Wednesday evening, along with
contact details.
The first five names out of the vir-
tual hat, as our esteemed film editor
calls it, will win themselves a railcard,
and the love and adoration of all. As
ever, the competition is open to all
staff a n d students of the College
(although, of course, in this case you'll
need to be under 24 to be able to
accept the prize). Felix staff, their fam-
ilies and significant others are not eli-
gible. N o cash alternative will be
offered. Correspondence will not be
entered into. The Editor's decision is
final.
We are looking to appoint a part-time University Manager to co-ordinate local fieldwork for
national student market research projects for The Times and Channel Four.
The post will be paid, part-time work during term time between October 1999 and April 2000 and would be an ideal
job for a finalist, a postgraduate student or a recent graduate still living near the university.
Frevious experience of market research is not required, but to be successful you must have plenty of free time and
will need to be:
• very knowledgeable about the university and final-year students in 1999-2000, with Jots of contacts within
student societies & clubs
• keen, enthusiastic and not afraid of meeting new people
• extremely well-organised and efficient to meet demanding deadlines
If successful, you can look forward to excellent work experience, a generous pay scheme, and references to help
with your future job applications.
For more information, please contact Carla Holmes at High Fliers Research on 0171 428 9200.
H
I
G
H
F
L
I
E
R
S
-

