1 June 1999
Albums
BASEMENT JAXX
Music 13
H
mmm. Methinks I have found
the sound of the summer here.
But first of all, who are the Jaxx?
Simon Ratcliffe and Felix Buxton take
responsibility for this album. They hail
from Camberwell and hold degrees in
engineering and languages. So they
aren't just a pair of brainless monkeys
who fluked out a wicked album by ran-
dom button pressing.
The best thing about this album is
that it doesn't take Itself too seriously.
There has been a worrying trend recently
of a lot of tunes that may have some
great technical features, and are very
nice to listen too but don't get you danc-
ing. Which is what dance music is all
about after all. It's practically impossible
to listen to this album and not at least
swing some body part in time to the
music (ooh-err missus). Seriously though
this maybe the best dance album of the
year - until the Chemicals present their
effort at least - and it's going to be pretty
hard to beat this one.
The first single off the album Is the
rather funky Red Alert, it's the one with
the great quote 'ain't nothin' goin' on
but history' that is being relentlessly over-
played on Radio 1 right now. The really
great thing about this tune is that it
blends so many different styles and
voices that it always surprises you with a
little something that you hadn't noticed
before.
Another bunch which will be sure to
get you grooving are Bingo Bango, Yo-
Yo and Jump n' Shout. How can a track
called Bingo Bango possibly not be fan-
tastic? I'm not sure about that, but this
one certainly hits the spot. It goes crazy
with relentless Latin rhythms, calms it
down with a nice bit of plinky plonky and
then brings it all home with that whole
carnival atmosphere -1 defy you not to
samba. Yo-yo has what I would describe
as a crunching bass line, tisten and you
will understand. Drugged out lyrics also
feature heavily - 'You were a prophet
from above, then you came and sucked
my butt, my pain became my strength,
I am reborn and deaf not dumb, the
street forget' - meanings on a postcard
please. Jump n' Shout brings in a bit of
dancehall sound that has recently been
enjoying mainstream success such with
artists such as Glamma Kid. Anyway this
tune has all the classic dancehall quali-
fications - a thumping beat, almost inde-
cipherable lyrics and that indefinable
swing that causes uncontrollable body
movement when heard. Nicesh.
This album isn't house, garage, pop,
acid jazz or funk. Basement Jaxx only
have one style - if you ain't dancing,
change it. It works to superb, effect on
Remedy. Get the Jaxx, get funky, get
happy - what a great remedy for the
classic British summer. El Joel
AFRO CELT
SOUND SYSTEM
Volume 2: Release
I
f you were to think that Afro Celt
Sound System made music that
was a strange crossover between
tribal African music and the sort of Irish
music that makes you cringe, you'd be
just about right. You'd also probably
think that it's a blend that's about as
advisable as tipping custard in your
beer, but on that count you be most
certainly wrong.
Surprisingly the crazy pipes of the
Irish and the banging tribal drums of
Africa fit together like hand in glove, and
further, the blend of Gaelic and African
vocals doesn't turn out to be such a bad
idea either. The album features guests
such as Sinead O'Connor and ex-Pogues
James McNally, and although at times
the album turns out to be more Irish
than African, the cheesyness of River-
dance is thankfully avoided.
Volume 2: Release therefore turns
out to be not as bad as expected and
should give the Afro Celt Sound System
a much longer life expectancy than their
satanic half-sisters Bewitched. El
James
BARRY ADAMSON FURSLIDE
The Murky World Of. Adventure
J
esus, there's me thinking
Portishead's music was seedy and
dank. They've got nothing on for-
mer Magazine and The Bad Seeds
member Barry Adamson, and this
album amply highlights the fact.
Kicking off with a reworking of
Bernstein's title-track from the Sinatra
Smack-flick The Man with the Golden
Arm we're plunged neck-deep into the
mire. Horns squeal as they slowly
asphyxiate and OI' Blue Eyes chases
that one last fix. Jesus Devil swings and
slides with Impeccable grace as Barry
eulogises about untimely death -
m m m m m m , nice! Mitch and Andy
describes the grisly end of a small-time
hood who gets off on pulling jobs
whilst wearing his dead wife's panties -
no really, if I'm lying, I'm flying, hepcat.
This music would be perfect accompa-
niment to a James Ellroy novel or
Hubert Selby Jr.'s 'Last Exit to Brooklyn'.
You can just imagine a world of petty
crims on the make, drag queens wired
off their tits and chewing the roach of a
recently toked joint. The Vibes Ain't
Nothin' But The Vibes is lounge-room
music of the most gorgeous sepia-
toned hue; John Barry xylophone and
oh-so-cool piano. 007, A Fantasy Bond
Theme sees reggae beats and a tune
I'm sure you all know intertwine in
Kingston, Jamaica. Taking tracks from
the alburns Moss Side Story, 'oul
Murder, Oedipus Schmoedipus,
Something Wicked This Way Comes
and As Above So Below the collection
presents us with a real smorgasbord of
eclectic beats, vibes and tunes. El
Chris
A
dventure is the debut album of
the New-York based indie band
furslide. The album starts off
well with Over My Head a rousing tune
with some great throaty vocals. Jennifer
Turner (lead vocals) is plainly the boss
of this band - belting out tuneful har-
monies and growling along with the
best of them for the ranty bits. Of which
there are few. I am really glad that
furslide haven't taken the route of
most female fronted indie bands and
just whined about how crap it is being
a girl in the '90s. Jennifer knows what
she wants and by all accounts has got it
- she's not afraid to sing about It either.
Over My Head is a great first track
with some tasty distorted guitars and an
evil catchy chorus that is sure to get
loads of air time on indie radio and TV
shows. Jennifer seems to be singing
about how scared she is of some new-
found responsibilities and how oddly
happy she is with the situation.
My favourite tune of the album is
the hard rocking, organ-tastic Today For-
ever. The tune comes complete with a
wicked chorus containing some very
nicesh harmonizing from the rest of the
band. This track grabs you by the ear
hole and won't let you go until you are
well and truly awake and wide-eyed.
My Friend's Gallery is a coy, kooky lit-
tle grower of a track. It's full of some
almost Sergant Pepper-esque moments
of echo boxes and drums cresendo-ing.
It doesn't seem like much on first lis-
tening but it definitely plants some
seeds, which blossom on further listen-
ings.
The rest of the album, apart from at
most 3 other tracks, ultimately just lives
up to the high expectations set up by the
first track. But only just. Furslide are
extremely technically proficient - they
just need to take a little more time on
the more creative aspects of the next
album, and perhaps explore more of
the electronic aspects of their sound
which emerge towards the end of the
album. It should be a corker.El
Joel

