14 Music 1 June 1999
Singles Round-up
A-Old Folks
The lead singer looks like he should be
in 911 but that aside this is pure adren-
aline power-pop. The chorus is incredibly
catchy, irritatingly so (in a good way)
and there are some smashing har-
monies. All this is backed up with a
breezy riff and thumping beats. Get up
and dance!
Gay Dad - Joyl
It's difficult to pin down what's so good
about these lot because there are so
many faces to the music. They've got that
70s Glam thing going on but with such
a contemporary 90s sound. Joy! has a
dark, mysterious verse and a totally jux-
taposed chorus that work well together.
All Gay Dad need now is a real break into
the mainstream.
I A m Seven - Welcome
A lot of the offerings this week sound
quite similar, like these, Trashmonk and
Liberty 37. I A m Seven do have a little
more to offer than Liberty 37 in that the
single's a smidgen more poppy and will
most definitely appeal to a wider audi-
ence. There's a hint of Ash (God forbid)
in the vocals and a punk style riff that, all
in all make for an enjoyable track. The
other tracks on this are of a high standard
too.
Liberty 37 - Oh River
A British version of the Deftones? Not
quite. Liberty 37 are certainly loud and
have their hearts set on being the
Deftones but with those lyrics and vocals
the note they hit is more along the lines
of Silverchair. The b-sides were In the
same vein too. They can have a point for
making me giggle at the line mice
have eaten all the strings.'
The Moffatts - Until You Love Me
If ever there was a reason microwaves
were invented, this is it. Full power for a
couple of seconds was all it needed to
kill the offending kids' noise and create
pretty blue lightning to bring happiness
to all. Just think Hanson but with less orig-
inality and the inability to write their own
songs. Spare us.
Ruby Cruiser - (Wow, How Cool Is) Joe's
New Car
And Crap Song Title O f The Week goes
to Ruby Cruiser. It's not a bad song but
the whole sound is that of a bunch of
mates messing about in a garage and
not being too bothered about who's lis-
tening. Having cars (and explaining them
in minute detail), buying drugs and age-
ing hippies do not a good song make.
Remy Zero - Cramarye
This is a bit of an arty one, this. Gramarye
gets a touch dreary in places but the
overall feel is a melancholy one. I got the
image of an 80s rock star from the
singer's voice but maybe that's just some-
thing wrong with me. The second track's
less mental hospital and more a walk in
the park. Talented.
Trashmonk - Polygamy
Do you remember Terence Trent D'Arby?
Well, the lead singer has a sound of old
Terence about him, which is unfortu-
nate. Apart from this sad fact Polygamy
isn't that bad, in fact I rather like it. It's
one of those songs that makes you feel
like you're being watched: it's creepy. I
got pissed off by the third version,
though. H
Christian
Beastie Boys - Remote Control / 3 MCs
and! DJ
Ahh, the boys at their best. Missing the
usual superb lyrics and some insane DJ
skills from Mix Master Mike. There are
two versions of this single - try to get the
second with the added bonus of a live
video rendition of 3MCs and One DJ.
Another classic from the Grand Royal
vault.
Fridge - Klnsoshlta Terasaka
If you like lyrics don't buy this single, cos
it ain't got any. They would get in the way
anyway. This is a lovely piece of chilled
out beats and keyboard. Ahhhh.
Lovecraft - Fun With Flashlights
This indie-ish slow number ambles along
pleastanly enough. The B-sdies rock out
a bit more - sounding more and more
Radiohead-like as they progress. The
singer starts to sound worryingly Bowie-
ish at some points. He wants to watch
that.
Super Collider - It Can't Be Long
Sounds a bit ketamine influence, this
one. Very drugged out and as a result It
feels like the tune is dragging its feet at
times. The midfield general remix is
much more correctly paced and the big
beats really help it along.
O n e Lady Owner - Police Car Sex
Predicatable, punkish pointlessly dis-
torted pap whcih tries to seal a couple
more copies by putting a sexy nurse on
the cover of the single. Works for me.
Garbage - You Look So Fine
Is it me or do all of the Garbage tracks
have exactly the same beat in the back-
ground? It'll doubtless be very succesfful
- it's just not much of a change from pre-
Symposium
vious efforts. The fun Loving Criminals
remix on the other hand is just so much
better. Lovely and twisted and dark. Buy
it for the remix alone.
Erassy - Bonus Beats EP
Very college rock with a bit of break-
beats thrown into the mix. They rock out
impressively on one of the b-sides while
the final track provides a bit of free beat-
age for all you budding Fatboy Slims out
there. Like a chimp with a 303 on bad
acid. Nope, I don't understand that last
sentence either.
System of a Down - Sugar
Thrash metal punk from some tediously
weird looking guys. Not very good at all.
And the 'uncut' version doesn't have
nearly enough swear words in it.
Toploader - Achlllles Heel
Just a really good song. Takes elements
of Robbie Williams, Neil Young and Soun-
garden - but much, much bigger than the
sum of its parts. It's just epic on the
scale of the Phantom Menace. Will be
huge if there is any justice.
Stroke - Internal Call
Very Spiritualized. Very, very Spiritual-
ized. First track sounds similar to a
Sneaker Pimps (remember them?) song
that I can't quite remember the name of.
Pleasant enough to the eardrums but
accompanied by an almost permenant
sense of deja-vu.
Six by Seven - Two and a Half Days In
Love With You
Both the title track and B-sides get quite
epic at times. They can talk the talk but
I am not quite sure if they can walk the
walk. Have a listen first.
Nojahoda - Teach Me How to Fly
Annoyingly catchy. With the emphasis on
annoying. I swear there Is a casio key-
board bossa nova beat in the back-
ground. Suddenly goes from bossa nova,
to sheer ROCK. Should have been rock
all the way through in my opinion, fea-
tures a mental video on the cd too -
great.
Symposium - Killing Position
Nrggggh. This is very much a balls out
song. Wicked riffs very much in evidence.
Still not sure about the singer when he
isn't belting it out at full volume. Other-
wise no complaints. H
Joel

