16
Reviews
Film 1 June 1999
Notting Hill * * * *
Starring : Hugh Grant, Julia Roberts, Emma Chambers, James Dreyfus, Rhys Ifans, Tim Mclnnerny, Gina McKee
Director: Roger Michell
B
y now you must know what
Notting Hill is all about; the long
awaited follow-up to second-most-
successful-British-movie-of-all-time Four
Weddings & A Funeral, it starts with
almost exactly the same set-up, is driven
by the same calibre of script, and pro-
duces an equally brilliant end product.
Unless something very strange happens,
this will be the most successful British
movie of 1999. No question.
Considering how many trailers,
reviews and clips there have been on TV
and in magazines over the last few weeks,
you've probably got a fairly thorough
grasp of the plot too - and again, it owes
a lot to its predecessor. Hugh Grant
returns, repleat with comedy hair, upper-
class stutter and winning style, and once
again he's trying to win over the Ameri-
can girl who keeps disappearing back to
the states at inopportune moments. This
time, however, there's an even bigger
challenge blocking the path to true love,
as this time the object of his affection just
happens to be the biggest movie star in
the world... oh, and the Greek-chorus
support characters are back- the dippy girl,
the disabled loved-one, the life-long
Interesting trivia: his salary - $1 million; her salary -$15 million.
looser, the weird flatmate - and once
again they get all the best gags.
So haven't we seen this all before?
Well, no. Sure, it doesn't have the same
brilliantly fresh feel of Four Weddings
(whilst the jokes are all new, their style and
delivery is familiar) and, like its predeces-
sor, you can see the end coming from a
mile away - yet the quality of the writing
lifts it head and shoulders above its com-
petitors. The characters come alive (OK, so
they're all charactures, but so what); the
plot twists and turns its way towards its
inevitable conclusion to a satisfying
degree; and Roberts and Grant make a
fun (if unlikely) romantic pairing.
It's the support cast, however, who
provide the real turns of brilliance - indeed
Roberts has so few lines that she's mostly
left to smile and react to those around her,
whilst Grant makes the most of the lion's
share of the dialogue. BBC stalwarts
McKee, Mclnnery and Chambers are on
top form (the scene where Grant turns up
to his sister's party with a date that just
happens to be the most famous actress
in the world is simply superb comedy), but
the real star of the show is Ifans. His every
appearance on screen is a moment of bril-
liance, as he slides through life completely
unaware that he's saying and doing com-
pletely inappropriate things - and, to take
nothing away from his movie-stealing per-
formance, it's the quality of writing that's
behind it all.
f ike all sequels, however, it's going to
suffer in comparison to its predecessor
(OK, let's ignore The Godfather Part Two
for a moment). It's not as original (for obvi-
ous reasons); Hugh Grant's stuttering
shtlck is slightly more predictable, and
disbelief just begins to creep in. Yet, it's
just as funny, Roberts is clearly superior to
Andie MacDowell and, if anything, it's
even more upbeat -
1 defy you to leave the
cinema In anything less than an incredi-
bly happy mood. Stress relief par
excellence. Q
Dave
She's All That * • * *
Starring : Freddie Prinze Jr, Rachael Leigh Cook, Matthew Lillard, Paul Walker, Anna Paquin, Jodi Lyn O'Keefe
Director: Robert Iscove
O
K, before I begin I feel it's only
fair to warn you that I'm a suck-
er for really cheesy romantic
comedies. More to the point, you'd bet-
ter be one too, otherwise you're going to
absolutely hate She's All That. Filled with
every cliche, predictable turn and time-
honoured teen caricature in the book,
it's like an episode of Dawson's Creek
with the intelligence surgically
removed... yet I loved it. It's brilliantly
uplifting, unbearably cute and (surpris-
ingly) genuinely funny. The only down-
side is that, like all the best teen flicks, it's
completely and utterly detached from
reality.
The premise is simple. Prinze is the
Student President, the coolest guy in
school, and a cert for Prom King. Yet with
only a few weeks to go before that leg-
endary event, he gets dumped by mega-
bitch O'Keefe. Cue rash promise to best
friend Walker that he can make any girl
into Prom Queen. [If that sounds strangely
familiar, then you're probably thinking of
George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion (or the
musical incarnation, My Fair Lady), which
the writers of She's All That seem to have
borrowed heavily from.] Anyhow, empow-
ered with the ability to pick any girl in the
entire school, Walker picks introverted
geek Leigh Cook as the girl Prinze can't
possibly turn into Prom Queen. Er, hello?
I realise it's a plot requirement, but surely
unless you're phenomenally shallow, you
can't help but realise that this girl is incred-
ibly pretty? Oh well, at least it gives Prinze
the opportunity to launch into his winning
(albeit formulaic) chat-up technique -
which, as we're all perfectly aware, can't
help but succeed in a movie like this.
The point of all this is that, yes, the
movie is very predictable, and no, it does-
n't have a Kevin Williamson style ironic
twist at the end. The movie is formulaic,
but the fact that the makers have actually
spent some time putting some effort into
the dialogue, sub-plots and, most Impor-
tantly, the material around the edges,
brings it to life. Consequently, whilst you
can't help but root for Cook and Prinze,
and yearn for O'Keefe to meet her come-
uppance, it's Scream's fillard who steals
the show, overacts like a man possessed
whilst remaining thoroughly obnoxious.
Oh, and his dancing is a sight to behold.
In truth though, it's the dream-like
state of this world that I love (complete with
my all time favourite - the comedy synco-
pated dance routine). After all, who would-
n't want to live in a world where
even the short, fat geeky kid
gets a girl? Q
Dave

