1 June 1999
Reviews & Competition
Film 17
My Favourite Martian * *
Starring : Christopher Lloyd, Jeff Daniels, Elizabeth Hurley, Daryl Hannah
Director: Donald Petrie
O
h my God, not another sixties
TV series that's been made
into a movie? Sadly, the
answer is yea - and this time we haven't
even heard of the original (which is a
good thing, as by all accounts it's no
better than the movie). Apparently, My
Favourite Martian was a sitcom where-
in an alien wreaked havoc o n his
human companion, based around fair-
ly generic plots wherein some authority
figure, on the verge of discovering the
secret, was driven mad by the alien's
weird behaviour. So, nothing like /
Dream Of Jeannie or Mork & Mindy
then.
Consequently, the movie follows
the now traditional TV to celluloid con-
version process - throw out the spirit
and most of the humour, and paste
over the cracks with a massive special
effects budget. Yeah, sure it's a kids
movie, but that surely doesn't mean
that producers and directors don't need
to try? Anyway, even the lame gags
mostly fall flat, largely because this is
clearly a movie which thinks it stars Jim
Carrey, despite the fact that it actually has
Back to the Future's Christopher Lloyd in
Help! Retro-futurlstlc style Is back. Noooooooooooo.
the title role. Director Petrie thus
attempts to fill the movie with the same
kind of manic energy that brought Car-
rey flicks like The Mask and Ace Ventura
to life, and would probably have much
rather made the movie as a cartoon.
Anyhow, if loud, crude and obvious
is your thing, or if you've got some kids
to look after and don't care much about
their mental health then I guess you rep-
resent the target audience. Enjoy. Q
Dave
Win tickets to Notting Hill with the
KENSINGTON
As you'll see from the review above, Not-
ting Hill Is the great new film from the
makers of Four Weddings & A Funeral. Star-
ring Hugh Grant and Julia Roberts, and
written by Richard Curtis, its got box office
smash written all over it.
Thanks to the Odeon Kensington, how-
ever, you can see it for free. To be in with
a chance of winning, all you have to do Is
correctly answer the following question:
Both Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant have
starred opposite Alan Rlckman - but In
what movies?
Email your answer to ftlm.fellx @lc.ac.uk
before Wednesday evening. The first five
names out of the virtual hat will win a pair
of tickets.
A record number of entries -180 in all -
poured in last week - clearly a sign that the
standard of questions is slipping, as it seems
that everyone is aware that Sarah Michelle
Gellar appears in both Scream 2 and She's
All That. Anyway, the winners were:
Bob Henhouse
Ben Hedley
Syarlza Kamsan
Dominic Guppy
Jennifer Penk
Dave Grey
Jason Ramanathan
Markjellnek
Cllve Owen
Phillipe Dauvllle
Please collect tickets from the Felix office.
The Cube
Low budget sci-fi? With no-one you ever
heard of in it? And it's not even based
on a sixties TV series? Oh dear. But, no
- The Cube is actually a damn fine movie,
basing itself on (dare I say it) genuine
suspense, inttigue and slow, confusing
revelation (good sci-fi should be at least
a little confusing - if your average punter
can understand it then why doesn't it
exist now?) The characters may be rid-
den with stereotype, and the dialogue
doesn't flow very well, but you should-
n't let that get in the way of a clever and
inventive concept and some very scary
statistics. Oh, and it's pretty gory into the
bargain (the slicing and dicing of the first
victim is frighteningly engrossing).
Home Fries
Since her return from rehab. Drew Bar-
rymore's work-rate has been impressive
- with half-a-dozen (by-and-large suc-
cessful) movies a year, she's clearly try-
ing to make up for lost time. This
particular effort may have gone straight
to video, but it's surprisingly likeable
nonetheless. Pitting waitress Barrymore
against the sons of the married man
who she has become pregnant by, it's
a bizarre mix of black and romantic com-
edy (the boys are intent on scaring their
father back into the arms of their
mother, and whilst one son wants her
dead, the other falls in love) which never
quite works out which of the two it
wants to be. Nonetheless, Barrymore's
engaging as ever, and the movie ends
up as easygoing fun in spite of itself.
Children or the
Corn IV
Yep, it's time for yet another Stephen
King adaptation -
1 mean, just how many
books has the man written? More to the
point, how much has he earned? O h
well, ignore such petty squabbling and
get down to the review...well, this latest
installment of Children of the Corn is
adequate if not exciting; It's weird, it's
gory and it's got psycho Pagan American
kids. In other words. It's exactly what
you'd expect from any horror franchise
where Individual movies can only be
discerned by their accompanying roman
numeral. Very eighties.
Dave

