2 News 1 June 1999
Tuition Fees: Where Are We Now?
The recent demonstrations by students
at Leeds University (see last week's Felix)
are the latest in a long line of campaigns
against the imposition of tuition fees.
The most high-profile opposition to
fees has been at Oxford, where several
students refused to pay on principle.
They eventually capitulated in January,
after losing the use of University facilities
and severe pressure from their Colleges.
Students at Sussex University
stopped their occupation of the finance
offices two weeks ago due to fears that
it was preventing students from collect-
ing their grant cheques.
After the demonstrations at Univer-
sity College London last term, meetings
have been taking place between stu-
dents and staff in an attempt to resolve
the situation. UCL Union, whose failure
to support the occupations drew criticism
from both students and London Student,
are involved in the negotiations. Com-
munication Officer Ollie Burbage-Hall
By Gareth Morgan
said that the Union, although supporting
the students' claims, felt that the demon-
strations had been counter-productive.
Meetings could have taken place sooner
without the disruption, he said.
The only genuine success story so far
has been at Goldsmith's College, as
reported in Felix 1140. The High Court
ruled in favour of the protesting stu-
dents, and prevented the College author-
ities from interfering with the education
of anyone who was genuinely unable
to pay.
Meanwhile, there are increasing
fears that the crisis in University funding
could result in further fees and costs for
students. Rumours of top-up fees, dif-
ferential fees and even outright privati-
sation abound, although no institution
has levied extra charges on Undergrad-
uate degrees. Postgraduate courses are
not covered by law, though, and fees
have been rising. There are also 'hidden
extras', such as library or internet access
- there have been proposals to charge
Cambridge students for accessing web-
sites based overseas.
Sir Ron Oxburgh, Imperial's Rector,
has ruled out top up fees, which would
have been added onto all students'
tuition bills. Some leading universities
have contemplated differential fees, in
effect charging more for expensive
courses such as sciences, but no insti-
tution has spoken out on either side of
the debate. The final power lies in the
hands of the Secretary of State for Edu-
cation, David Blunkett, who can block
any efforts by universities to charge addi-
tional fees.
Despite the fees, many universities
will still suffer a drop in funding next year
of up to two percent, prompting many
people to wonder where the money has
gone.
Big Tutor is Still
Watching You
The cameras in the BMS building,
allegedly used to catch out rowdy
medics In lectures, have found their
way into the Times Higher Education
Supplement (THES). First discussed in
'Mish Mash', Felix issue 1144, an article
appeared on page 2 of THES on 21 May.
The cameras and microphones in
the building's lecture theatres are sup-
posed to be there to aid communica-
tion, and allow remote lecturing.
However, some students have claimed
that the surveillance equipment could
be used to "identify the trouble-makers",
according to THES after speaking with
Wade Gayed, ICSM President.
While all sides seem to be taking the
entire affair as a bit of a joke, it has to
be asked whether the cameras are
indeed used for such Draconian pur-
poses and, if so, what is being done to
stop it. _
ISSUe 1147
1 June 1999
Editor: Ed Sexton
Assistant Editor & Films: David Roberts
Photographic Editor: Jonas Lindsay
Music Editors: Dennis Patrickson
& Jason Ramanathan
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Clubscene: Giles Morrison,
Gurminder Marwaha &Joel Lewis
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
Science Editor: Alokjha
i
Is your
pint really
necessary?
KOSOVO
APPEAL
0870 60 60 900
Collection box in the Union Office
Drought Continues
The eyebrows of sta-
tisticians have been
raised all over Impe-
rial College this week, as once again
the summer term proves to be devoid
of any interesting news.
Although this perceived drought
seems to be far less severe than it
was last year, where space-wasting
articles were given the glory of the
front page, Felix is still struggling to
find anything at all worth writing
about. The editor of Felix, Mr Ed Sex-
ton, was heard to comment: "There's
no bloody news! Where's my lighter?"
Senior statistician Mr J M o n k e y
commented: "We have been attempt-
ing to find a correlation between this
seemingly perennial lack of news and
some other factor or factors which is
or are heavily prevalent in the summer
term. O n e theory is that Felix staff are
far too busy taking drugs to be both-
ered to find anything useful to do."
Felix does not discount this point
of view, although Mr Sexton believed
the constant and demeaning train of
examinations to which students are
subjected throughout the summer is
more likely to be the root of the prob-
lem,- indeed, two senior Felixers have
been in psychotherapy after attempt-
ing particularly fiendish contour inte-
grals. O n c e again
By All Campbell Union staff were lit-
tle help in providing
inspiration, merely laughing hysteri-
cally when probed, but it seems likely
that this is just sour grapes due to
their incarceration in the Union build-
ing during such beautiful w e a t h e r
Chris Ince, Deputy President (Finance
& Services) was heard to comment "I
hate Unions", although it was later
revealed he had in fact said "Onions".
The situation seems so desperate
that allegations of "news-fixing" are
rife, with one intrepid amateur jour-
nalist allegedly considering staging his
own death to help fill just one page.
The occurrence of such questionable
practices as these have been strenu-
ously denied by all those involved in
the Felix news team. O n e member
refuted all allegations: "It wasn't mc".
O n a positive note, however, an
old ping-pong ball was found under-
neath a table in Beit Hall. The ball was
apparently left there some years ago
by a then fresher, and only surfaced
last week. The owner is believed to be
in his mid-twenties, and could possibly
play ping-pong. Felix hopes to bring
you more on this shocking, enticing
and really rather exciting discovery in
next week's issue.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Fellx E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 - 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040-0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

