22 Arts 1 June 1999
SELF TAUGHT - DAVID BIAMEY
Sherfield Gallery
H
ow many elastic bands does
Imperial College use every day?
Just speculating... I should think
that the offices, labs and hospitals use
hundreds. If not thousands.
David Blarney, the artist behind the
recent exhibition at the Sherfield Gallery,
is deeply interested in elastic bands, just
like all you people who actually consid-
ered the question opening this article.
David Blarney is probably not much inter-
ested in numbers, however. He is more
interested in how elastic bands fit into
the 'paraphernalia of an educational insti-
tution'.
But how does he stretch our per-
ceptions of the elastic band? You sit
down and watch a continuous loop of
slides, each depicting an elastic band.
Some elastic bands are new, clean,
starkly photographed. These would not
be out of place on the Ikea desk of an
up and coming graphic designer. Other
slides show elastic bands as grimy,
screwed up tangles of rubber. If you
looked hard enough, you might spot
these sprawled over the floor in the dusty
office of an ageing Cambridge don. All
contorted, twisted, like spaghetti. The
creations of an anguished pasta chef
tripping on acid, perhaps?
The elastic bands are microsculptures,
devoid of scale and projected onto the
wall at enormous size. You can see every
fine structural detail. Initially you might
think: 'Oh, how boring, let me get back to
beauty of these everyday objects. This is
surely an exercise in Zen.
Every so often, the elastic bands
are interspersed with travel brochure
photos - an alpine forest, a mountain
my fluid mechanics revision.' But stay a lit-
tle longer and relaxation will set in. Now you
will concentrate on the detail and, if you're
lucky or drunk, begin to appreciate the
valley, an orchid, a tropical fish, a beach
at sunset. As these slides fade into their
elastic band counterparts, they produce
some interesting, even soothing,
effects. The elastic bands are one instal-
lation. The other is an empty slide pro-
jector struggling to focus its light beam
onto a wall. A square of white light
changing size - in and out, blurring and
focusing. And all the time the projector
frantically whirring and clicking. Once
you have seen the elastic bands, this all
seems to follow quite naturally. Is this
Zen again?
Maybe this exhibition annoyed
some of you ("this isn't art, dammit!"),
but if you responded in this way, I think
that you are missing the point entirely.
Challenging our perception of art has
been tried many times before, not least
by the great Marcel Duchamps, who at
the beginning of the century either
made a good living passing off toilet
bowels as sculpture, or challenged the
accepted norms of his age. Which view-
point you chose depends entirely on
your conception of art, of course!
I don't believe David Blarney is try-
ing to create phoney controversy. He is
clearly too sophisticated an operator to
simply be repeating the old cliches of art
versus non-art. Whatever it means (and
it may mean nothing!), I liked it anyway.
William Burns
A NIGHT AT THE MOVIES - ICSO CONCERT
Great Hall
T
he theme of the Imperial College
Symphony Orchestra's latest con-
cert held on Friday 21 May was dis-
tinctive. Entitled A Night at the Movies,
it featured popular music from past films.
According to a member of the orchestra,
the feeling was that with the e n d of
term a few weeks away, they may as well
have some fun with the music they
played. The concert itself was conducted,
as always, by IC's Musician-in-Residence
Richard Dickins with assistance from
Andrew Zolinsky and Alex Cominos on
the piano and violin respectively. An
inspired and passionate rendition of
Tchaikovsky's great work, the Swan Lake
Suite, opened the evening. Everyone
has probably heard the piece at o n e
point or another but may not know who
wrote it. The performance had to be
paused though due to a couple of late
arrivals with very loud boots. A technically
accomplished performance of Rhapsody
In Blue by George Gershwin (a popular
composer at IC) was played next.
After the interval, the chairman of
the orchestra, Euan Barr was thanked
for his hard work and commitment
"absolutely wonderful" piece of music
that he was conducting for the first time.
Music from Indiana Jones, the last per-
formance according to the programme,
followed. Once the piece had ended, a
few unsuspecting members of the audi-
ence left somewhat prematurely as we
were then treated to a sensational and
topical encore of Star Wars.
Audience reaction was generally
favourable although some complained
that the trumpets were too loud during
several sections a n d there were too
many dodgy notes for their liking. As to
their favourite piece, most people I spoke
to believed the Gershwin was the best,
although I personally favoured
Schindler's List. The soloists, in particular,
delivered sensational performances.
While as professional as the orchestra's
previous efforts, this concert was proba-
bly not as accomplished as the last one
(featuring Mahler among others).
Mansoor Choudhury & Tank Miller
through the past years. He was pre-
sented with a bottle of champagne and
proceeded to lead off with Jurassic Park,
the first of the John Williams composi-
tions to be played. Next came Schindler's
List which Mr Dickins introduced as an
I

