Letters 1 June 1999
To Legalise or Not?
Dear Felix,
I am writing in response to the excellent
article by Andrew Vivian in Felix this week.
I found the article to be a real breath of
fresh air. It was a pleasure to read an arti-
cle written by someone who has clearly
considered the effect of the legalisation (or
decriminalisation) of cannabis on the entire
population. I wholeheartedly agree that
the medicinal benefits of the drug should
be made available via prescription. I also
feel that the point is missed by most peo-
ple when considering the legalisation of
the drug is the fact that the drug is illegal
because the majority of the population
do not wish the drug to be legalised. It
would not be an advantage to the major-
ity of the population to have the drug
legalised.
There are a few extra points I'd like to
make which support the law on cannabis
as it stands.
It is impossible to test drivers to see if
they are under the influence of cannabis.
There was recently a trial for a test that
turned out to be unreliable. Consider a
young man or woman who has been
"pulling bongs" for an evening can drive
home knowing that they can not be pros-
ecuted for driving under the influence
unless they admit to doing it. I think we'd
all rather this person could not get away
with it so easily, for the sake of everyone's
safety.
Cannabis users are shown to be more
likely to suffer from psychosis than non
users.
The fact that the decriminalisation
would be impossible to reverse if imple-
mented.
Current cannabis dealers are likely to
move onto dealing harder drugs, espe-
cially those who deal drugs for members
of the criminal fraternity only because they
are in debt to them and those in the deal-
ing cycle (those who "tick" drugs to help
pay back debts).
Cannabis is currently "almost freely
available" and can be used and enjoyed by
people in their own home with virtually no
chance of police interference and
absolutely no chance of a custodial sen-
tence unless they are criminally active in
some other way.
Edd Dixon
Dear Felix,
There was one thing in particular that
sprang to mind after reading Andrew
Vivian's article on cannabis. The problem
with illegal substances isn't supply or the
police. It's the (fairly reasonable) attitude
taken by most employers and say, univer-
sities, that people who take cannabis are
criminals and should therefore be pun-
ished, fhe threats of unemployment,
homelessness and expulsion are very real,
but would fade if cannabis were to be
decriminalised. When was the last time
you heard of anyone being kicked out of
Halls for having a beer?
Oh yeah, before I forget: the Net does-
n't create porn, terrorism or whatever, it just
makes it a little easier to find. A copy of Raz-
zle probably costs less than the time you'd
spend downloading a couple of images,
and all you need to make bombs is a small
amount of chemical knowledge and a lot
of care. Having said that, the Net will
probably need some kind of regulation
soon befote it collapses from over-use
anyway...
Let's see, if I sell my entire stash, I can
almost afford a Summer Ball ticket.
Anon
G M Food Lacks Research
Dear felix,
I read with interest the views of one SW
Cooper in his recent letter to Felix (24th May
1999). I am glad he was disturbed by the
laminated sign on which the guarantee of
G M free food was not possible. Unfortu-
nately he then went on to heap praise on
it because IC is a 'veritable centre for
genetic research'. This is precisely the rea-
son why so many people in Britain are not
too keen on the idea of transgenic food -
lack of research. Much of the research
done on the effects of G M food is done
by the companies who patented the novel
plant in the first place. In a largely unreg-
ulated industry, most guidelines are vol-
untary, and it seems to many that tesearch
is kept to a minimum so that the company
can recoup its outlay as soon as possible.
Many claims made by companies such as
Monsanto are along the lines of "feeding
the world," "lowering costs," and "lowering
herbicide use". Yet we currently overpro-
duce food to the tune of one third, and it
is due to unfair economic distribution that
there are starving people in the world.
Pharmaceuticals are subject to very
rigorous testing before they are released
onto the market, delaying the release for
an average of about 12 years. This is to pre-
vent disasters such as the thalidomide case
recurring. Drugs, in any case, can always be
recalled should any effect prove undesir-
able. However, a rogue gene can never be
'recalled' and instead will proliferate very
quickly once in the environment, so effects
not seen now could appear in the future,
with nothing we could do to stop it. There
are also other ethical issues - to what extent
is it acceptable to patent the food chain,
effectively giving monopolies to those
patent holders, and does the continued
desire to make agriculture as monocul-
tural as possible have any positive effects
on biodiversity, and wildlife in general? Do
consumers have the right to choose not to
eat G M food?
The scientific community is by no
means united in its views on the technol-
ogy, as can be seen by the recent press
release by the BMA and while I can see that
biotechnology could have many positive
effects in the fields of medicine and phar-
macology, it seems to me that the lunatic
release of G M organisms into the envi-
ronment is possibly one of the biggest
errors we could make. I would like to fin-
ish with a quote from the report the BMA
published (probably not 'sound scientific
minds' here but never mind):
'..We recommend a moratorium on
the commercial planting of G M crops in the
UK. The moratorium should continue until
there is scientific consensus (or as close
agreement as reasonably achievable)
about the potential long-term environ-
mental effects'.
Thomas N.D. Tibbits
Lecturers v Students
Dear Felix
Contrary to the advice in Felix, I did not elect
to show solidarity for my lecturers on Tues-
day. Several friends who took the occasion
as an opportunity to have a lie in asked me
why not:
1) I do not know of one lecturer who
showed any solidarity to their students
over the tuition fees issue.
2) Several of my lecturers have made
it crystal clear that teaching undergrads is
a chore and that we are an annoying hin-
drance to their research work.
3) Having sat in a pub and overheard
mech eng lecturers deride the (perceived?)
personal and academic inadequacies of
their students, I wondered exactly why I
should bother supporting people who feel
so much contempt for me and my fellow
students.
4) Exactly how much do lecturers earn
from consultancies?
The phrase Give and gifts will be given
to you, for whatever measure you deal out
to others will be dealt to you in return' (Luke
6:38 & The Beach) comes to mind...
2nd yr bio undergrad
The phrase "Why do you look at the speck
of sawdust In your brother's eye and pay
no attention to the plank in your own eye?'
(Luke 6:41) comes to mind...
Summer Ball Update
Dear fellow students,
Three times more rides, including an indoor
Big Wheel, Classic Horse Carousel and
Dodgems. Twenty-four coaches instead of
eight to get you there and back. £15,000
spent on production, compared with only
£5,000 These are just three improvements
the 1999 Summer Ball has on last year's ball.
Tickets were selling at 25/hour last
week and are only on sale for another 5
days. Monday the 7th June is the closing
date, but don't be the one to leave it to the
last minute only to miss out, buy your
ticket today. Congratulations to Nalini Bal-
akumaran (Biochemistry III) and Josh Law-
son (Physics I) who have both not only won
their money back from having got their tick-
ets early, but will also enter this week's and
every subsequent week's draw for more
prizes. This week, all ticket holders at 5pm
today will have the chance to win a meal
for two at Luigi Malone's, a two-person
tent, and even a 14" Colour Television.
Anyone who wants to join an existing
group can collect their tickets at anytime,
just use the booking name or number of
your friends at the Union Office. If there's
more than 10 of you, we can give you
tables next to each other at the ball.
We all look forward to seeing you on
the 25th June, for what's being called The
Party of the Year'.
Kind Regards,
Summer Ball Team
PS Please bring a valid cheque guar-
antee card with you when you pay by
cheque.
Regulating the Internet III
Dear Felix,
As the parent of two young children I
believe that I have the right and respon-
sibility to protect them from unsuitable
content. In all countries the state also
asserts this right. In the UK the most
obvious manifestation of this is the clas-
sification of film and video content Uc,
U, PG etc.
Content labelling has been extended
to the internet and products such as Inter-
net Explorer support it. Seewww.rsac.org/
and www.w3.org/PICS/ for details. These
sites are useful resources for anyone inter-
ested in this issue.
For content labelling to be effective it
Is essential that publishers label their con-
tent. It is particularly important that inof-
fensive content is labelled as such else
children may be blocked from reading it.
Many readers will have the opportunity to
influence this in their professional lives
and I urge them to do so.
James Bayley
(Web Solutions Manager)
Deadline for letters for
is 12noon Wednesday.
Letters may be edited for length, but
will not be altered in any other way.
Letters need not be signed, but a
swipe card must be shown when sub-
mitting anonymous letters.

