Columns 1 June 1999
L
ike every God-fearing Englishman,
I appreciate a nice bit of horticul-
ture. You will remember, dear
reader, my running commentaries o n
the legendary flowerbed, but if you
think that's the only planting feature
that has caught my attention, you
do, but any such pay rise should be as
a c o n s e q u e n c e of root and branch
reform of their working conditions,
bringing them into the 20th century. To
achieve this, the A U T should start
behaving like a representative body for
professional people, lobbying the uni-
would be wrong. From that frosty day versity authorities and government,
last winter when the enormous crane emphasising the double difficulty that
arrived, I have, along with many others, low pay causes, namely a brain drain
been watching the progress of the two and the problem of attracting overseas
huge trees that were planted outside academics. There is already evidence
the BMS. Granite aficionados every- from Oxford and Cambridge that this is
where shed a tear when thousands of being addressed, which only goes to
pounds of the infamous paving were make the strike seem more unneces-
ripped up to make two holes four foot sary.
square to a c c o m m o d a t e the new The first important change should
greenery, and when the articulated lor-
ries arrived, I assumed that College had ^ | ww% g \ w%
completely lost the plot by ordering " J I 1 1 l l l l I
two Christmas trees designed to give
Irafalgar Square a run for its money,
rhankfully disproven, it soon became
clear that Imperial was now the proud
owner of two very large twigs, bereft of
life, ex-trees. Showing uncharacteristic
disloyalty to the cause, I was gleefully
counting down the days until I could
confidently announce that the trees
had gone to the great arboretum in
the sky. then a leaf appeared. I was . >'.f||ยง
shocked. Immediately I suspected foul
play and began to look for signs of a bit
of handiwork with some foliage and
Araldite. N o w the bloody things are
covered in leaves and- this really hurts-
are starting to look like proper trees.
Damn you, Ian Caldwell! In the words
of old man Jennings, the fairground
owner, I'd have gotten away with it if
it wasn't for those pesky Estates senior
managers.
The Battle of Orgreave it wasn't.
The AUT strike was a bit of a damp
squib, with precious little evidence of
any real disruption, at least as far as I
could tell. As you know, I'm not usually
the first one on the barricades hoisting
the red flag aloft, but I have some sym-
pathy with this cause, if not the actions
taken. Calling a strike during an exam
period is questionable, but for the
Imperial AUT president, Laura Barker, to
say that 'she will stand behind students
who skip exams' Is grossly irresponsible, be to scrap national payscales. A relic
I suspect that using secondary industrial from the sixties and seventies, it is
action as an excuse u t patently ridiculous
for not attending an "...in the words of old that academics at
exam would get Imperial and De
short shrift from man Jennings, I'd Montfort on the
both the College and same grade are paid
Senate House. Addi- have gotten away the same wage,
tionally, you are on f excluding the Lon-
shaky ground saying With it if it WdSn't for d o n allowance,
that 3.5% is derisory when it is obvious to
at a time when infla- those pesky Estates everyone that they
tion is less than 2% _ n are not of the same
and many people in SeniOF managers... calibre. Universities
industry are settling should be free to set
for the same or less. But that is not to their own salaries, rewarding people
say lecturers do not deserve more. They commensurate with their standing. Sec-
ondly, the last vestiges of tenure should
be swept away. The idea of a job for life
is unacceptable these
days, serving only as an
almost insurmountable
barrier to sacking
incompetent acade-
mics. If people are
good, they have noth-
ing to fear from such a
measure as their abili-
ties will secure their
long term prospects.
That is not to say that
one should fear as
instrument of personnel policy. Short-
term contracts are less than helpful,
"...this strike was
not helpful, but
not as unhelpful as
a pledge of support
from the NUS
president..."
Baker
Voice of Reason
but have appeared in part as a conse-
quence of the risk of giving tenure,
just in case the person concerned turns
out to be a disappointment. If we had
the same employment regime as the
real world, good people would stay and
prosper, while the wasters would be
shown the door. Finally, performance-
related pay should be introduced. It is
painfully simple to assess the perfor-
mance of academics by a combination
of publication records and existing
appraisal methods. If somebody hasn't
published in years and is universally
perceived to be a crap lecturer, why
should they be entitled to an automatic
pay rise? Publications o n their own
rarely succeed in quantifying the con-
tribution of a lecturer, since many do
more than their
fair share of teach-
ing, and do it
extremely well.
Taking both
together, the set-
ting of bonuses
could be achieved
simply, cheaply
and, most impor-
tantly, fairly. I have
always believed
that it is deeply
unfair that lecturers are paid so little
given their qualifications and the time
taken to achieve them. They should
receive more, but I fear that this petu-
lant, outmoded approach will win them
few concessions. Despite their assur-
ances, students are bound to be
affected by strike action. If they wanted
to focus the attack on the university
authorities, they should direct their
members to refuse to comply with their
non-academic, administrative duties.
Come to think of it, if you managed to
bring Sherfield to a halt, after a week
the College would have saved enough
money to quadruple your salaries. This
strike was not helpful, but not as
unhelpful as a pledge of support from
the NUS president. Frankly, with friends
like Andrew 'ooh Tony, you're such a
wonderful man, please will you give
me a safe seat when I've finished
destroying the reputation of the NUS'
Pakes, w h o needs enemies?
I was going to give my two 'pen-
neth on the Ericcson PFI bid to run the
phones and suchlike, but space has
beaten me again. More about that next
time probably, but now for something
completely different. I'm going to say
something nice about College Catering.
Honestly, not a wind-up, I assure you.
A couple of weeks ago, I attended a
combined '22/Links/Chaps Clubs din-
ner in the SCR. For those of you not
familiar, these are the three elective
social clubs of Imperial, dismissed by
certain senior College members as lit-
tle more than a collection of pissed up
louts, despite counting the Deputy Rec-
tor a m o n g their number, which pro-
vide the backbone of alumni relations.
Anyway, the point is that the food was
good. No that's not right- it was excel-
lent, the best meal I have ever eaten at
IC. Normally in such situations, there is
tendency for the beef to be over-
cooked, but this was knocking on the
door of perfection. All in all, a superb
three courses, served and presented
very well. M y old sparring partner John
Foster, Head of Catering, should con-
gratulate all his staff for performing at
their very best to deliver a brilliant
evening. Christ, if you can please me,
the sky's the limit, John.

