1 June 1999 Opinion
What would Legalisation Lead to?
In the second of our two part exploration of the attitudes surrounding the legalisation of drugs, Felix looks at the arguments in
favour of de-regulatlon. Danny Kushllck, a spokesman for Transform - a pressure group which believes that current British drug
laws should be re-examined - answers questions on the benefits and problems of legalisation.
Q: Will direct action such as the may-
day march help legalise cannabis?
A: I don't know whether rallies like
this actually change anything in them-
selves and we are deluding ourselves if
we think that they do. However, as part
of a larger plan, it plays its part.
Cannabis will be legalised when
the crisis caused by its prohibition com-
bined becomes too great for Govern-
ment to bear - financially and in terms
of public opinion. And also when
the government feels
safe enough to put it
properly on the polit-
ical agenda.
Our job as drug
law reformers is to
raise the issue on
that agenda. Our activ-
ities range from standing
in elections on the single
issue of legalisation,
speaking to local and
national policy makers, direct
action like smokey bears picnics,
producing policy documents, getting
media coverage, starting student
groups etc.
Transform is part of a larger alliance
to change policy and legislation in the
UK. Or work falls into three main areas:
Policy, Membership and Media. We are
involved in policy making forums at a
local and national level. We have an
active membership who involve them-
selves in activities from writing to their
MP to putting on debates and parties.
We have three active student groups
one of which is an official student soci-
ety affiliated to the NUS.
Q: How do events such as the may-
day march fit In with Transform's policy
of re-examining the legal status of all
Illegal drugs?
A: Cannabis prohibition Is one part
of the problem. It is an important fight
to repeal this bullshit law. I received a
letter this morning from a 50 year old
guy who's serving 9 months in a Welsh
prison for growing his own to alleviate
back pain. Eric Mann is also serving a
year for growing his own for arthritis.
He's 50 odd too. It's positively bar-
baric.
However, the consequences of the
prohibition of heroin and crack are far
worse. At least half of all property crime
is related to fundralsing to support a
habit. It is purely because of the pro-
hibition of these drugs that the price is
so high and consequently addicts have
to steal to support it. Most of the
Mafia's profits accrue from illegal drug
sales. The market belongs to them. It
costs the UK 6 billion pounds
a year dealing with the fall-
V out from prohibition. The
Illegal trade in the UK is
worth 19 billion a year.
Many of our inner city
areas are being decimated
by street dealers
and violence, dirty
needles and acquis-
itive crime. Intra-
venous drug users
themselves are
scapegoated and
suffer the health con-
sequences of prohibition.
Increased HIV and Hepatitis
transmission, death from
pure heroin (ten in Bristol
in the last 2 months, six In Nor-
folk) etc etc. As far as we are con-
cerned it is anti-prohibitionism which is
the important Issue rather than the spe-
cific issue of cannabis. And by address-
ing drug policy as a whole we can begin
to see the underlying issues involved in
creating progressive change.
Q: What Is your response to the
often heard criticism "It's all very well to
legalise some relatively harmless drugs,
such as cannabis, but these Inevitably
lead on to harder and more addictive
drugs, which have serious and unde-
sirable social problems associated with
them"?
A: We are absolutely clear that it is
so-called dangerous drugs which need
to be legalised. It is absolutely madness
to leave the dangerous drugs In the
hands of an unregulated uncontrolled
marketplace. We have a choice here:
We have four methods of distributing
drugs -1 Over the counter eg. aspirin,
2 Licensed outlets eg. alcohol 3 Pre-
scriptions eg. prozac, or 4 The crimi-
nal market. The choice is ours. We
know that there are 200-300 thousand
heroin addicts in the UK. Do we want
them to buy their drugs from Interna-
tional cartels or from doctors. Would
we want alcohol and tobacco sold
exclusively through the criminal market?
If we were to ban them we'd increase
the price massively, lower the quality
and have a massive increase in property
crime associated with feeding a
tobacco habit. And let's not be deluded
by the language of the government.
Alcohol and tobacco are very danger-
ous drugs. How come we're so con-
cerned about the gateway myth of
cannabis leading to 'harder' drugs,
when the gateway drugs that we all
start using first are the very dangerous
ones of alcohol and tobacco. Tobacco
kills 300 each every day, alcohol 100
each and every day, heroin 3 each and
every day. Interestingly most of the
heroin deaths are to do
with ignorance of the strength of
what they were using. A problem that
would be solved by legalising. Heroin
is a relatively safe drug compared with
alcohol and tobacco. And let's not for-
get that cannabis is not harmless. It is
generally smoked and smoking causes
disease. Remember Bob Marley died of
lung cancer.
The serious and undesirable social
problems associated with heroin, crack
and speed are in the main created and
definitely exacerbated by their illegality.
The issue is to create a policy around
drug use and misuse that first and fore-
most reduces harm and reduces costs.
Prohibition does not do that and legal-
isation does. It's that simple. Legali-
sation is not a cure-all however. People
will still get ill and die as they do with
alcohol and tobacco. But we could
reduce the crime associated with mis-
use, raise revenue, stop stigmatising
addicts, give out better information,
restore civil rights, empty our prisons
and ultimately begin to address the
underlying problems drug misuse,
namely poverty and lack of opportu-
nity.
The Arts Appreciation Society
wishes to thank all of its 283
members for their continued
support over the last year.
Some of the shows for which
we intend to arrange, tickets
during the coming year include:
Chicago * The Lion King
West Side Story * Rent
Saturday Night Fever * Cats
...plus loads more, including other
musicals, opera, ballet an<I ,ir cvhihiiioris
$0 y
A R T S O C
Imperial College Union Arts Appreciation Society
For further information, please e-mail a" .o<(«,ic ac uk

