FELIX reviews last Friday's carnival..
al
991
For those of you who have an
inordinately short attention span, or are
terminally hard of thinking, here is the
conclusion of this report: The 1991
Carnival was a great night out.
It was a drizzly Friday night with a dull
grey sky that looked like getting worse.
The skies opened soon after the doors,
and the RCS burger stand was soon
rained off (steamed hamburgers don't
taste too good). They returned later in
the evening, when the rain had reduced
to a fine drizzle.
The music started with a disco playing
downstairs with the usual tracks, slowly
attracting people and preparing them for
the first band.
BoyGirl Soup, a band of uncertain title
who seemed just as unsure of their music,
had a few problems with the sound gear.
Every time one of the guitarists touched a
string, the speakers emitted white noise
at an earblasting volume. The trouble was
cured, but the delay was enough to
convert a slightly bored audience into a
thoroughly bored one. About one in three
of their songs was quite successful and
some were even danceable, but the
momentum the band generated by a
good song was not enough to carry them
through the less impressive ones. The
trouble with the band was not that they
were particularly bad, or that their
songs were particularly dire, but that they
didn't seem to have enough material.
Instead of picking and choosing the best
songs that they had written, they seemed
to be playing everything they had ever
written. A reasonable band, but I would
be very surprised if they made it big
time.
Upstairs, in the concert hall, the Love
Kittens started playing. The lead singer
didn't much like us to start with, but we
certainly liked him and the rest of the
band. He showed his lack of enthusiasm
for IC students by slagging off the way
we danced. He was right, it was dire to
start with. Soon, though, the whole room
livened up, and their distinctive brand of
heavy indie rock went down really well.
They were applauded so m u c h that they
even came on for an encore. For
Desmond Decker

