FELIX
An Iraqi student presents his views on the situation in the
The Puppet Whc
I would like to express m y views, as a n
Iraqi, o n the Gulf War. Before I go into
detail about these views, I would like to
stress that I am, and have always been
vehemently opposed to Saddam and his
Ba'ath regime. Now I am just as opposed
to the USA, and the war it has started i n
the Gulf.
Firstly, I'd like to present the
background to the war. Whilst watching
the tremendous growth of economic
power of Germany and Japan, the US has
been experiencing a deep economic crisis.
The US felt it had to get itself out of the
crisis the only way it knew how: oil. A n
important A m e r i c a n report had shown
that most of the oil fields outside the
Middle East were o n their way to
exhaustion, and that the only major
sources of oil in this region for the next
century would be i n Iraq, Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia. Controlling this region .
meant controlling the oil, and therefore
having superiority over Japan and
Europe, who rely far more o n oil imports
than the US.
For a while the US maintained control
over this region through the use of
puppet governments and manipulation of
the regional balance of power. Their
main bases of cotnrol were in Iran, before
the Islamic Revolution, and i n Israel.
They also tried for years, without success,
to put military bases i n Saudi Arabia and
other Gulf countries, but their lack of
success did not matter m u c h until the
overthrow of the Shah b y the Islamic
Revolution i n Iran. The US felt it had to
remedy this situation; it's therefore no
surprise that soon after the Iranian
Revolution, Saddam got into power
(helped b y the US) and was encouraged
to wage war o n Iran.
Saddam, with A m e r i c a o n his side, was
hoping to gain a quick victory over Iran,
so that he could fulfil his dream of
attaining regional mastery. The US, a
country which does not like to see any
state i n the Middle East gaining strength
(with the exception of Israel) wanted Iran
and Iraq to fight for as long as possible,
thereby weakening both countries.
Saddam gradually became disenchanted
with the US, firstly after the Israeli strike
on Iraq's nuclear installation, and later b y
the exposure of the Tran-Contra' scandal.
After the eight year war w i t h Iran, a war
which brought immense destruction and
loss of life to both countries, and yet
brought no real gains to either side,
Saddam put pressure o n Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia to stop demanding debt
payments from Iraq, his reason being that
his country suffered economically while
defending them from Iran. Saddam also
demanded payments from Kuwait for
dropping oil prices against O P E C
regulations, claiming that this cost Iraq
£14 billion annually.
I believe that the US intended to fight a
war against Iraq as soon as it saw that it
was getting too strong. The US saw the
tension growing between Iraq and Kuwait
and almost encouraged Iraq to invade.
Prior to the invasion, the US Ambassador
to Baghdad said that the US had no
opinion o n Iraq's border disputes with
Kuwait, and even while Saddam was
massing his troops o n the border with
Kuwait the US was negotiating o n loans
with Iraq. This shows that the U S
effectively gave a 'green light' for
Saddam to invade, so that the US could
use 'the liberation of Kuwait' (liberation
for whom, the corrupt Sabah family or
the migrant workers who actually ran the
country?) as a pretext for taking military
control over the region, and starting a
war. Some would say that they gave
Saddam five months to leave Kuwait, thus
allowing him to secure peace, but the US
refused to compromise i n any way during
their negotiations. The clearest indication
of this is their veto of the French peace
proposal o n January 14. The US knew
that Saddam, fearing his deposition,
would not leave Kuwait without a face-
saving compromise.
I think that the US wanted to avert any
chances of a peaceful settlement, and this
is why it refused to link the invasion of
Kuwait to the invasion of Palestine and
its continuing occupation, a link which I
and millions of other people can see very
easily. Israel, a state created and given
tremendous support by the West, like
Saddam, invaded a country recognised b y
the UN, Israel, like Saddam has expressed
interests i n extending its regional power.
Israel, like Saddam, has tried to build
nuclear weapons, but unlike him, has
succeeded i n building a hundred
warheads, some of which may be used i n
12
Cut His Strings FELIX
this war. A n d yet for all these similarities
between Saddam and Israel's invasions,
the US has refused to link the t w o
together. Some may argue that Israel has
done all these things for its security. One
could argue that Saddam too, invaded
Kuwait for his o w n security, although I
think that this does not justify his
invasion, a n invasion w h i c h I totally
condemn. 'There's a difference', some
people might say, 'Saddam is a brutal
individual, his security is not important,
and he should not exist'. This is true
enough, but Israel, i n its present form, is
blatantly racist and brutal, a n d never
should have existed.
The US, a country which gave millions
to the Contras so that they could terrorise
thousands of innocent civilians i n
Nicaragua, a country which backed
Pinochet, a brutal dictator, so that he
could overthrow a democracy i n Chile,
says that it is fighting for democracy. I
believe that the Iraqi people have striven
for democracy for the past 22 years, but
their efforts have been supressed b y the
Ba'ath Party of Saddam, a Party which
was given help b y the US, m u c h i n the
same way as Pinochet of Chile, and the
Contras i n Nicuragua. For years the Iraqi
people have suffered under Saddam and
his regime, a regime armed to the teeth
by both East and West, but their cries for
help were almost completely ignored b y
the media and governments in the West.
It was not only the Kurds who suffered:
in the South of Iraq thousands of Arabs
living in the marshes were gassed to
death, and yet, with the exception of the
gas attack o n Halabja, all other attacks o n
Kurds and Arabs i n Iraq, the sum of
which resulted i n the genocide of tens of
thousands i n Iraq, were almost
completely ignored b y the media. This is
the same media which n o w ignores the
150,000 deaths i n Iraq as reported by
Turkey and Spain only two days into the
war. (Anyone doubting the plausibility of
the figure should remember that i n the
first two days of the war, bombs whose
total explosive effect was five times that
of the nuclear bomb dropped o n
Hiroshima were unleashed o n Iraq and
Kuwait). A n A m e r i c a n general said,
before the war, that they 'will bomb
Baghdad back into the Stone Age'. H e
was subsequently sacked, presumably for
having given away the intended effect of
the air raids o n Baghdad.
The truth is that Saddam was just a
puppet created b y the US, and now that
the puppet's strings have become twisted,
the puppet makers, discontented with
their puppet, have come to do the dirty
work themselves.
If the US really wanted peace i n the
Middle East it could get it immediately: it
just has to stop interfering. A l l the major
problems i n this region (like other regions
around the world) have been caused,
either directly or indirectly, b y the West;
the creation of Israel and of the filthy
rich oil states, the propping up of puppets
such as Saddam, the conflicts in Lebanon.
I urge all those who support the war to
think and learn about the history of
Western interference i n the Middle East,
and to engage i n debate about the
necessity of the war, a debate which has
been almost completely suppressed by the
media. N o doubt those of you who
support the war don't like it and its
brutality, but feel that it is a necessary
evil. Well, before you commit yourself to
supporting mass genocide, you have a
responsibility to learn more about the
issues involved.
I appeal to all those who are opposed
to the war to campaign against it. There
are many people across the world who
have willingly died i n their fight for
freedom of speech. Y o u have that
freedom, so please don't waste it. Use it
to stop the war before it spreads and
becomes far more disgusting than it
already is. Saddam has said that he 'Will
leave Iraq a barren land', meaning that
he would gladly sacrifice all of his
country and its people before he is
deposed. The US knows this, and quite
frankly, does not give a d a m n about the
people (not even their own), after all,
they put him in power i n the first place.
The corrupt feudal monarchy of Kuwait
called upon the US to start a war in order
to gain their 'liberation'. I would like to
make a call for peace, for it is only
through peace and non-interference in the
Middle East that the people of the region
can build just and democratic nations.
13

