FELIX
Anna Teeman continues to discuss her opinions on the current crisis in the Gulf...
What Can Be Done?
W e are indisputably at war, but the
reason w h y is unclear. The President of
the United States is himself confused.
President Bush has given a variety of
justifications for war. The cynics see this
as weakness but the truth is that he
believes every reason he gives. What he
says varies simply because he is
attempting to give a particular reason at
a particular time to be in line with public
opinion.
At one stage we heard that oil was the
reason to go to war. Mr Bush said this
not just because he believed it but
because he thought that it was what
people wanted to hear. It is the one
reason that has been condemned by
peace activists globally. The argument is
'would the international community, or
USA, have interfered if Kuwait had grown
vegetables?' The West has a history of
interference in the area that is based on
it's presence at the birth of the Middle
East oil industry. The Western presence
in the Middle East has been a reality for
many years. The West was never present
in Afghanistan. The Western involvement
in the Gulf War is an extension of this
historical interference.
It can be argued that the Gulf War is
about oil, but on two different levels:
firstly, historical linkage with the West
through the oil industry, and secondly, an
attempt to protect about a quarter of the
world's k n o w n oil reserves. A s the
world's energy policies stand, these oil
reserves are vital to the maintenance of
our modern lifestyle. The moral validity
of Western involvement in the conflict is
not so easily defended on it's historical
setting. This interference is based upon
western greed for the benefits of Arab oil.
H o w did everyday human greed carry
the Middle East to a conflict situation?
The Western Alliance with its European,
A m e r i c a n and Arab members is at war
with an Arab country. The predominantly
Western-led Alliance is fighting an eastern
country. West met East and not only
didn't know what to say but it didn't
k n o w what language to use. Neither East
nor West was willing to lose face, but the
West was totally unwilling to
compromise. The Western perception of
the morality of the situation is of no
practical value. Their attempts at
negotiation were based on a radically
different perception of the situation from
the Arab point of view. The West folded
its arms and passed judgement on Iraq,
from an entirely Western set of moral
values. The French (admittedly a nation
that has reaped enormous profits from
arms sales to the Arab states and of
Argentine Exocet fame) did attempt
negotiations with the Arabs on their
terms.
On their political involvement and
diplomacy, no Western ally is blameless.
Iraq has been armed and funded by the
West. Iran was also armed by the West.
Iran and Iraq bought Western weapons
and filled Western coffers. Not only did
the Western countries reap enormous
financial rewards, but for years stood by
and watched Arab kill A r a b . Then the
unthinkable happened, Iran and Iraq
stopped fighting. Iraq, under a brutal
dictatorship, still functioned as a cohesive
unit. It seems hardly surprising that a
country armed to its teeth should enter a
new conflict.
Much has been said about one
individual, President Saddam Hussein, as
if the war was solely due to him. Hussein
is product of western greed, ineffectual
diplomacy and irresponsible meddling.
The Americans, under the aegis of the
CIA, actively sponsored the rise of
Hussein in Iraq. Both Iraq and its leader
are the Frankenstein creations of the
West.
Now blame is allotted, where do we go
from here? At the end of this war (as at
the end of any war) there will be a peace
conference. At the end of the Second
World War, the aggressor, Germany, was
not shackled or financially undermined,
she was disarmed but her infrastructure
was rebuilt and a new society was born.
Despite the obvious inequities of the land
settlements that accompanied peace,
Europe has been in a stable state for over
fifty years and Germany has never since
been an aggressor: in fact, quite the
opposite. At a Gulf peace table the
western allies will sit alongside Middle
East leaders. The West cannot impose
either its morals or culture on that peace
conference. The countries of the Middle
East must be the major players in the
negotiations and the West must act just as
observers, or, at most, intermediaries.
The only good to come from this
terrible conflict would be a long-lasting
peace based on solutions to all the
grievances of this troubled region. Such
solutions include the restoration of
Kuwaiti borders, Iraqi disarmament, and
the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian
problem. The role of the West is not to
dictate how these problems are solved,
but to sit silently and observe, and if
requested, to aid communications. If we
do not trust our Middle Eastern
counterparts to sort out their own
problems, it is a reflection of our own
arrogance rather than the reality of the
situation.
A cessation of hostilities in the area will
provide the Middle East with an
opportunity to settle its problems and
provide the West with a route out of the
interference and meddling that has
contributed to what will perhaps be the
bloodiest of modern wars.
14

