Brits Awards
—Wembley Arena, 19.1.91
For the second night of Wembley's own Greatest Hits Parade, the line-up promised a
riot. The only night to be sold out with touts asking up to £95 per seat.
B i l l y B r a g g
Yes, in desperation to afflict as m a n y
people as possible with his dirgant
whining, Billy Bragg w a l k e d on. Most of
Wembley w a l k e d out. Obviously the
shock of seeing him at nineteen different
angles on the immense overhead video
screen was too much of a shock for
them.
Ride
The fans, baggies and Cure-heads alike,
bounced back for young demi-gods, Ride.
All bands were severely stunted by the
20 minute set brutally imposed upon
them, but did not flinch. Ride gave us
their schizophrenic best, including faves
Dreams Burn Down and Chelsea Girl. The
sound was crap, but what more do you
expect from Wembley?
Carter The
Unstoppable Sex
Machine
O n came Carter, or did they, standing
on either side of the stage. I expected
them to come o n and do something
interesting, silly me. The concept of live
obviously being way above their heads as
either end of the stage they stayed. The
drum machine launched into their first
track, I got a headache and launched
myself towards the exit.
Gedge's bowl?
Jesus Jones get Real
Jesus Jones
Next came the winner of The Memeber
W h o Does Nothing But Dance Stupidly
award. Will you please welcome Jesus
Jones? Following the current trend, they
advertised their latest hits with a quick
plug for The New A l b u m (out next
week!). 'Back on Planet Purple, things are
getting Real,' but no-one cared that the
songs sounded the same w h e n their
crazed circus gave so m u c h to watch.
A n d the members definitely H A D to
watch the guitarist's lethally flying hair.
The video close-ups shot at typically
drunken T O T P s and D E F II angles
revealed suitable expressions of glee,
ecstacy, insanity and, of course, blind
panic. Good o n video but boring live,
with none of the wildness of the early
days. They didn't even play Info Freakol
Next!
New Model Army
Fresh from their tour, New Model Army
had a perfected set, if somewhat
miniscule for such an epic band. If ever a
band deserved more it was now. Between
them, the Cure and NMA fans had sold
Wembley out and it showed.
The plaintive notes of a live electric
violin told us we were in for this epic,
and Vagabonds began. Slade surveyed his
minions, just as harsh, convicting and
uncompromising through the eyes of the
ruthless camera. He commanded the
encapsulated crowd like a thirty foot icon
from the screen dangling above. Only the
hardest survived the sweat a n d violence
of their soldiers below. They don't make
'em like that any more! Only NMA could
breathe life and devotion into the sipid
venue.
The tracks were carefully chosen, the
best of Thunder and Consolation, from
the serenity of Green and Grey to the
climax / Love The World and the single
(as ever) Get Me Out. Finally this had
become a gig rather then a giant T V
show.
The Wedding
Present
Now time for The Wedding Present to
ruin the atmosphere and Gedgie's silly
haircut. The c r o w d loved them, umping
up and down, swaying from side to side
to the three chords, and some doing
some very odd things on the steps next
to me. I almost forgot I hate The
Wedding Present and joined in.
The Cure
A n d indeed they were, heralded on by
The Mish's Tower Of Strength video, a
tribute to W a y n e Hussey's presence
tonight. The c r o w d roared at the vaguest
movement on stage, those drowned in
baggy t-shirts as well as those drowned in
hair. Then the legend lit the stage and
Pictures Of You tingled down. Now the
screen was useless, drenched in too m u c h
dry ice and atmosphere to be seen, but
all eyes were on the band and... Robert
Smith's pony-tail! Start spotting those new
cult hairdos today.
Would they play the Mixed Up hashes
or even dare anything new? No, it was
yet another Greatest Hits Parade, all
highly sterile to fit as many pop singles
into the alloted 45 minutes. The baggies
loved it. The fans sweated. The Cure
were a success, but seemed a little shy at
they're T V glory as Bob Himself hunched
and snarled and laughed behind his
oversize clothes and hair.
Thankfully, they were divinely allowed
an encore to bring the festival to a close.
W e were given Five Imaginary Boys who
are still capable of a cult following,
international prestige and a place in
today's chart. A n d with the emotional
flood of Disintegration, the song which
'should have been a single', Wembley
again subsided into silence and waited for
the next legend to arrive.
The Cure are Never Enough
The Morons From Planet Purple

