Bitch Magnet
mm
H
Bitch Magnet is American slang for a
looker, a bloke who attracts chicks
without having to do so m u c h as wiggle
an eyebrow. They don't sound like
lookers. They don't sound sane. This
band is about screaming noise and
juddering sense dynamics.
Now that the thirst for A m e r i c a n rock
'n' roll has died down Bitch Magnet are
reduced to the level they know. This does
not mean their European tour started
well. O n the contrary, their date
supporting the Wedding Present at the
Kilburn National was a wreck. For a band
used to playing to a m a x i m u m audience
of 200 the crowd of thousands, who
weren't particularly interested in anything
without David Gedge, was daunting to
say the least. To compound this, their
tour van had been broken into and they'd
lost their guitars, t-shirts, cash and custom
amp.
Perhaps unluckily their last tour
coincided with the sub-pop boom and
they were quickly picked up and
promoted in the national music press.
This is a stark contrast to their recent
situation where the only attention was a
two star review.
But their material is impressive and the
new album, Ben Hur, definitely represents
the quality side of American music. The
raw power, of this, their third release is
strengthened by the production of the
noise god. Steve Albini, whose rough
engineering and fetish for powerful beats
and scratchy guitars is clearly audible.
The progression from Star Booty ('1 still
don't know how 1 got that guitar sound')
to Umber and now Ben Hur is natural.
The rougher sounds are smoothed out
and all that remains is the more musical
tones without all the noise. The guitar
sound is still crazed and Sooyoung Park's
barely audible vocals still relate the tales
of their A m e r i c a n experience. A b o v e all
else a thread of thinly concealable
violence runs through the LP. The aura of
the band certainly contradicts such an
observation and singer/bassist Sooyoung
Park claims not to have been in a fight
since the age of eleven.
It is on the stage that the band
schitzophrenic tendencies are brought
under the spotlight. As soon as the first
few riffs hang over the c r o w d the band
transform. Wielding guitars as terrible
weapons. After opening w i t h perhaps
their least instant song, Dragoon, and
running through most of Ben Hur they
reverted to the old favourites of Star
Booty. A l t h o u g h the distinctive guitar
sound has been lost with the amp he still
manages to b e n d his strings into shapes
which previously existed solely in his
head.
What more can I say? A great bunch of
guys who I sat and talked to for two
hours without gleaning any juicy chunks
of gossip and w h o play shit-hot A m e r i c a n
hardcore/rock 'n' roll.
Seb.
17

