With A Fistful of Dollars Sergio Leone
revitalised the western genre by
introducing us to the man with no name,
shooting an u n k n o w n by the name of
Clint Eastwood to instant stardom, and so
establishing the spaghetti western. He
followed up o n his success with For a
Few Dollars More and The Good the Bad
and the Ugly. The last of them, an epic,
being the most stylish and classiest of
them all. It stars, of course, our main
Football
IC II—9 (4)
London Hospital—1 (1)
Post carnival hangovers and reluctance to
go to war could not stop IC romping to
victory, despite not playing to full
potential. London Hospital's said missile
was no match for the superior firepower
of IC's patriot, hat-trick heroes S Barry
and M Abdo.
A belated debut goal from IC's midfield
general, S Watson, and two fine salvos
from A Jalan sealed the victory. A fine
debut by D Phillips also gave IC's
commander in chief plenty to be satisfied
with, but stressed caution to his troops
over the battles to come.
man Clint (the good), Lee V a n Cleef (the
bad) and Eli Wallach (the ugly). The story
concerns three outlaws during the period
of the A m e r i c a n civil war and their
search for a large supply of Confederate
gold hidden in a graveyard. Each of them
knows one of the clues to its location,
however, of course there is no trust
between them, and each is intent on
double crossing the others.
The film is a classic, the action is
IC 4 t h s - 4
London Hosptial 2nds—3
In a thrilling game, played in terrible
conditions, the 4ths showed immense
character in fighting back from 3-1 down
for a spectacular win. Halfway through
the first half, Narinder, the 4ths captain,
tried to play his way out of defence, but
was of course dispossessed, leaving their
striker needing only to fart to score: 0-1.
Kev M c C a n n then equalised from ten
yards and it was only a great save from
Martin Atherton that kept the score level
at half-time. After 20 minutes into the
second half they were 3-1 down. The
opposition then decided that they did not
want to win after all. With ten minutes
left Narinda fumbled in a lucky deflection
to make it 3-2, and with the goal of the
game, Damon thomas almost burst the
ball with a stunning half-volley from 20
yards. Finally, with a minute remaining,
Kev was put into the clear and he cooly
beat the keeper for perhaps the most
astonishing comeback of the season.
breathtaking, the atmosphere sumptuous,
the tension unbearable and the music is
simply superb and unforgettable. Next
Thursday, FilmSoc will be shwoing the
film in Mech Eng 220 at the earlier time
of 7pm, in superbig 'Cinemascope'. This is
a treat not to be missed, especially at
SI.50, or better still, why not take up
membership at only £3 and get in free.
Hang Gliding
The Christmas course proved to be a
great success with five people gaining
their F l s and three their EPCs.
Discretionary awards
The Saif Saudi worst packing of canopy
award (5 points)
The Yasmin Saudi longest run without
take off award—30 metres (10 points)
The Nick Barry longest drag back over
top of hill award—20 metres (20 points)
The Steve Dodson downwind landings
award—three on the same day (30 points)
The Dennis Furey worst tangle a w a r d -
extended to another paraglider in process
of taking off (40 points)
The Simon Hall highest encounter with a
tree award—six metres above the gound
(50 points)
The Beam and Kelvin discretion award—
not a single mishap reported (0 points)

