H T o n y B e n n S p e a k s
Tony Benn MP, a leading figure in the
anti-war movement, spoke to a packed
Mech Eng 220 on Wednesday at a
meeting organised by Socialist Workers
Student Society and Imperial College
Union Labour Club. The purpose of the
meeting was to attempt to build an anti-
war society at Imperial College.
Mr Benn, once a producer of the BBC's
North American Service and well known
for his anti-American views, strongly
criticised US motives for intervention in
the Gulf. He claimed 'It is quite clear' that
President Bush is taking advantage of the
present state of Soviet weakness, and
'wants to dominate the world'. He
envisaged a post-war situation in which
the 'superpower of all—America—can
buy, bully and control people into
supporting their policies'.
To attempt to illustrate the incongruity
of the US position, he pointed to the
United States o w n invasion of Grenada,
Panama and Vietnam, and its support of
Iraq's aggression against Iran. He implied
that the US had been manipulating the
United Nations to its own end, and stated
that the Prime Minister, M r Major, had
confirmed on Monday that U N Secretary
General Perez de Cuellar had not been
informed of the United States decision to
commence the air strike against Iraq
before that strike had taken place.
Mr Benn also claimed that there was a
definite link between United Nations
resolution 242, demanding Israel's
withdrawal from the West Bank and
Gaza, and the U N resolution demanding
Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait.
In an interview before the meeting,
when asked about the escalation of the
war, Mr Benn replied that in Northern
Nigeria, President Saddam had been
elected 'Man-of-the-year' in a B B C World
Mend-a-Bike
Fulham, London SW6 ITD
071-371 5867
Service competition. He criticised the
media coverage of the war, and said that
in Britain we were 'actually quite out of
touch'—all we were seeing on British
television was a display of hardware, and
'Kate Adie in a flak-jacket trying to look
as if she's in danger'. According to Mr
Benn, what was actually happening in the
world was a huge surge of opinion
against 'the A m e r i c a n war'. The tabloids,
he claimed, were being used to whip up
hatred against the Arabs.
He said that Turkey had now been
New Hall?
The ex-Libyan embassy on Prince's Gate
may be bought by Imperial College.
Gordon Marshall, Director of Estates, said
that IC was 'looking at it' because it is
within the campus area. He said that the
building was in 'excellent condition' and
has been w o r k e d on for the last two
years. The price is not yet known.
A smashed window was the only
disturbance at the Carnival last Friday.
The window was broken in the early
hours of Sunday morning when a man
punched through one of the thick pains,
shooting glass 15 feet across the Quad.
He was found by Benjamin Turner,
Union Deputy President, wearing a blood
brought into the conflict by the use of the
air base at Inchirlik, and if it were
attacked by Iraq, all N A T O alliance
countries would also be drawn in.
Iraqi students under threat of
deportation or internment were
encouraged by Mr Benn to get in touch
with a Labour M P immediately.
Mr Benn was joined in speaking at the
meeting by Gary McFarlane and Reem
Abdel Hardi, both of the National Union
of Students.
Break-in
A burglary at Willis Jackson Hall was
foiled this week when a resident
challenged one of the two thieves. W h e n
asked if he was a resident, the man ran
downstairs to the flat that had been
burgled.
Both men then fled into the garden and
down the Fulham Road. Giving chase, the
resident caught one of the men.
soaked T-shirt, formerly white. His hand,
badly lacerated, had been crudely
bandaged.
Friends and Union Staff escorted him
out of the Quad, where he was then
involved in a fracas. This was resolved,
peacefully.
Carnival Punch
2

