Editorial
Stuff I forgot
Just a little thing (don't even think it) that
you might find interesting. Last Thursday
College released a statement (it was in
Felix, on page 3) which basically said that
there's nothing to worry about as far as
the Iraqi embassy is concerned, and that
we should all be good little boys and girls
and still turn up to lectures. Fair enough.
The only thing is, when Felix attempted
to contact Angus Fraser (Managing
Director of College) to get a comment
about the statement, he wasn't in college.
Neither was His Rectorness. Neither was
Gordon Marshall, although his secretary
assured Felix that he would be in college
at 3.00pm. At 3.00pm she claimed that he
'...had been in, but was now gone for the
rest of the day...'.
Well, I certainly believed her. And I'm
certain that it was pure coincidence that
on the first day after the 'commencement
of hostilities' (aren't government phrases
great?) none of the three most high
ranking college personnel were nowhere
to be found. And you believe that too,
right? Hmmmm....
Censorship
Last week a letter was published in Felix,
by a person using the pseudonym 'A Real
Man', which contained some rather, well,
dodgy sentiments. This week Alison
Payne, an Elec Eng PG, wrote a letter
protesting my decision to print said letter.
Her letter is in this week's letters page. I
have also been informed by 'El
Presidente' Shan that Angus Fraser has
written to my humble self, expressing a
similar view. (I haven't got it yet, but
Shan has a copy).
Right. Time to make a few things clear,
I think. Reread the first paragraph of Ms
Payne's letter (page 20, in case you're
lazy). Therein is my editorial policy, not
just for letters, but for any submissions to
Felix. After that she's talking about a pet
hate of mine: Censorship. As far as I'm
concerned it sucks. Thumbs down. Should
be banned (subtle joke there?).
I will print any material submitted to
Felix, regardless of my personal feelings
towards its contents (for example, I think
much of what has been said about the
situation in the Gulf is wrong, as I
attempted to make clear last week),
subject to only two constraints:
(i) Space
(ii) Legal matters
As to the first, it's merely a matter of
when the material comes in, and how
much space we have left. I attempt to fit
in as much as possible. If something
won't fit, as a rule it goes in next week.
The only significant exceptions are theme
issues, when we plan to publish an issue
devoted to a certain subject. An example
is the up-coming travel special: For the
last three weeks any articles, etc.,
concerning travel have been horded up
to be printed in that issue.
The second is out of my control. I am
legally responsible for material printed in
Felix. Thus, if printing it means being
sued, and I don't feel strongly enough
about the subject at hand, then it won't
be printed unless the situation changes.
Sorry.
Coming back to the letter in question,
to say that it could not 'enhance or
enliven' Felix 'in any way' is, quite
obviously, wrong. If nothing else it has
prompted Ms Payne's and Mr Fraser's
letters, and given me a chance to rant on
about what I consider to be a bad thing.
Also, as far as this particular letter is
concerned, I had other reasons for
printing it, not just those stated above.
No, not as a joke (sorry Ms Payne), and
not entirely to show 'what a sad case
some of the men at IC are'. In my
opinion the letter was extremely bigoted
and offensive, and yet only two people in
a college of just over seven thousand
(quite a few), only two (not many) people
have written in to complain.
Blackmail. A n d other dirty tricks
I'm beginning to think that College has a
whole department set aside for this kind
of thing. Perhaps there's a director for
them. If so he probably acts as an advisor
to the CIA, in an attempt to make them
more devious and efficient.
Twice this week people have spoken to
me about subjects connected with college,
towards which they have strong feelings.
Things which they feel something should
be done about. Twice this week people
have asked me not to use their names in
Felix, for fear of reprisals. These events
were not unconnected (no prizes if you
guessed that already).
One of these people has written a
letter, which I have attributed to 'An Elec
Eng student'. The other has forbidden me
to even mention the subject, for fear that
it would be obvious as to whom I had
been speaking, whether or not I used the
person's name.
I agree whole-heartedly with the basis
of both person's feelings, and agree that
something should be done about both
subjects. But it is a bit hard when people
are afraid to come out in the open with
their feelings.
So, having (hopefully) set up a suitably
enigmatic opening, you should (hopefully)
be asking 'So what are they afraid of?' (I
live in hope). Basically, in both cases, the
people concerned are worried that if their
identities become known to their
departments their degrees may suffer.
And you thought that your degree
depended on your academic performance.
I'd love to think that these fears are
unfounded. I'd love to think that all
departments are impartial in their
adjudication of people's academic
qualifications, and separate the college
work of students from their extra-
curricular activities, whether or not these
activities bring the student into conflict
with their department. That's what I'd
like to think.
Racism
Another letter. In answer to any claims of
racism in last weeks news article
concerning the removal of a man from
the union building, the termed 'coloured'
was used only in a descriptive sense, in
the same manner as the estimation of his
age and height. No offence was intended.
I don't feel that describing a man's colour
implies any racist statement, and
personally think that until we get over
the barriers surrounding the words 'black'
and 'coloured', etc. we are far from being
truly egalitarian.
Staff meeting Monday Lunch (1.00pm)
Credits
Typesetting & Printing: Rose & Andy
News Editor: Toby
Arts Editor: Adam T
Music Editor: Sarah H
Features Editor: Roland
Cartoonist: Guess!
The Team: Stef, James, Ian,
Benjamin (it's ridiculous!), Bri, Seb, an
Iraqi student, Anna Teeman, Liz Warren,
Richard, Christ!, Undala Alam
Collators: ICSF: Massie, Steven, Stephen,
Tom, Nick, Alex, Bumble. RCS:
Flemming, Alex, Louise. Also: the team,
The Snail and Frank. y
Felix is produced for and on behalf of the imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed at
the Imperial College Union Print Unit. Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: Andrew Butcher. Manager: Chris Stapleton,
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Copyright Felix
1991 ISSN 1040-071 1.
CNKI REPORTERS m g^SCAP...
23

