I I I ! A t f U
Smash Breaking Glass fi||
The East-wing of the Union last weekend.
The door was smashed on the evening
before Sunday's Rag Conference.
Smashed glass rained into Southside on
Tuesday night when a drunk man broke
a large pane of glass above the bar. The
man had been drinking during the day to
celebrate his birthday but was asked to
move away from the area when he was
involved in a ruckus outside Southside.
The accident occurred when he returned
a couple of hours later at 9.20pm.
Allan Larson, Southside Bar Steward,
Pre-exam stress and work anxiety are
being targeted by the Health Centre in an
attempt to enhance performance at
Imperial. In a letter to Felix, Dr. Gillon,
the Director of Imperial's Health Service,
explained that some students get
incapacitated by anxiety. This
significantly impairs their performance.
If stress/anxiety/panic spoils your work
or examination performance, the Centre
said the noise of falling glass was 'like a
bomb going off. Staff, racing upstairs,
found the man unhurt except for cuts to
the face. The shattered w i n d o w was
quickly boarded up by IC Radio and was
re-covered by College w o r k m e n later that
night. It is reported that the man will not
be disciplined if he pays the full cost of
repair, over £270.
may be able to help. Write to Dr. Gillon
at the Health Centre, 14 Prince's Gardens,
London SW7 IN A , saying whether you
would like to either: go to a talk by an
expert on study and exam stress, join a
work shop/group dealing with stress
reduction or make an appointment with
one of the psychotherapists, nurses or
doctors to discuss matters individually. A n
early note would be appreciated.
Stress & Anxiety
Chaos It's the Arts II
'Time, Dynamics and Chaos' is the title of
a lecture to be given by Prof. Ilya
Prigogine, Nobel laureate, of the Free
University of Brussels, and the University
of Texas. Author of numerous books in
fields ranging from statistical mechanics
through the theory of traffic flow to
chaos, Prof Prigogine is a famous and
controversial scientist. The lecture is in
Physics LT1 on Wednesday 30 January at
1.15pm.
Refit
The Union has gained a 'Lounge Bar' due
to the Snack-bar re-fit. Along with it's
new name, the Lounge Bar now has a
dark blue carpet and tasteful pink walls This year's Arts Week, situated in the year and was a success again, showing
adorned with attractive prints. The Union Lounge at lunchtimes, started on the trash behind British Rail
conversion has cost around £7000. Wednesday with a mix of funk rock and announcements and T V weathermen
Next door, the games r o o m has poetry from Fresh Claim and Stuart amongst other topics,
undergone a similar transformation. As Henderson. The rock was loud and angry, Arts Week continues until Wednesday
well as the new carpet, it has sprouted a the poetry thought provoking. with gigs in the Union Lounge at
drinks shelf and a new pool table. Paul Thursday saw Billy Penn's Brother (solo 12.30pm; see posters for details. It's all
Shanley, Union President, said 'I think it's folk singer) and Steve Turner (poet). Steve FREE, so be there or let someone else get
going really well.' was asked back after a great show last one up on you.
3

