Mozart 200
" P P ' P ;
Only the brain-dead or inhabitants
of cultural wastelands such as the
Physics department can have failed
to notice that 1991 is 'Mozartjahr'. We
have been bombarded by marketspeak,
merchandising and hype for the last
twelve months and it's probably not
going to stop even after December 4 (the
200th anniversary of his death). What can
any sensible human being do, apart from
find a remote tropical island without a T V
station, C D player or any possibility of
encountering Nigel Kennedy in any form
whatsoever?
Well, if you must succumb to wall-to-
wall Mozart mania, you could do worse
than the Barbican's Mozart 200 season.
This was put together by Jeffrey Tate,
E C O Principal Conductor, and Dr Hans
Landesmann, Barbican Centre Artistic
Adviser and Salzburg Festival Director,
who mercifully appreciate several things
about Mozart that stop this festival
becoming as sickly as a box of Austrian
chocolates.
First, a Mozart festival should be, above
all, about his music (and I don't just mean
Eine-Kleine-bloody-Nachtmusik). The
concert programme consists of a
chronological series, each concert
concentrating on one or two years of the
composer's life. In this way, well-known
pieces are matched with lesser-known but
equally fine compositions. This is a
refreshing change when compared with
the band-wagon jumping offerings of, for
example, the Mozart Festival Orchestra
(also at the Barbican on February 28th),
who will be playing: the overture from
the Marriage of Figaro; Eine Kleine
Nactmusik; the 23rd Piano Concerto in A;
and Symphony no 41 in C (the Jupiter). It
obviously took them seconds of racking
their brains to come up with that
programme.
Second, Mozart 200 has not aimed at
completeness (in the style of the Phillips
complete Mozart C D collection—a snip at
SI,800). The organisers have recognised
that while Mozart was a brilliant
composer, he also wrote to commission
and wrote a lot of dross. If y o u don't
believe me, just try listening to, for
example, the clarinet, oboe and bassoon
concertos. They are all good pieces of
music individually, but y o u may notice a
passing resemblance of ideas if you play
them consecutively. Also, do you really
want to listen to a piece for two flutes,
five trumpets and timpani (I think that's
the scoring?)? The Barbican series has
shown delightful restraint and aimed for
quality, not quantity.
Third, the accompanying exhibitions
both acknowledge the central role the
Mozart myth has exerted (the exhibition
Mozart in Art 1900-1990, w h i c h explores
artits responses to Mozart's music) and is
doing its level best to debunk it. In the
first part of the festival, A Mozart
Chronology unravels his biography. In the
second part, exhibitions o n Mozart's wife
Constanze (not the flighty, heartless
spendthrift she is often portrayed as) and
Mozart and Freemasonry unravel some of
the mysteries woven about him.
A season of Mozart films in the
Barbican C i n e m a covers varying
interpretations of Mozart's life, including
the acclaimed Noi Tre (We are three) and
Amadeus. There are also free foyer
concerts by Guildhall students.
O n the concert side, I shall certainly
not want to miss the M a r c h 10 concert
which includes the sinfonia concertante
for oboe, clarinet, bassoon and horn and
the concerto in C for flute and harp. I
also have to admit a sneaking desire not
to ignore on principle the concert with
Nigel Kennedy o n February 27, as that's a
smashing programme as well.
Mozart 200 runs at the Barbican Centre
from January 25 to March 27 and from
September 28 to December 5. For most
concerts, tickets cost between £4 and
£15.
Liz Warren.
Speaking Technically
|: What? £4.95 for a book that is only
73 pages long sounded like a bad
deal, and certainly out of the price
range of the average student. A n average
student being one that has no money,
sound familiar?
Dr Sinclair Goodlad, a lecturer at IC,
attempts to solve all the problems that
anyone could possibly have with
'speaking technically'. Y o u could be
forgiven for not knowing if he succeeded,
the apparently easy-to-use book is heavy
going. I tried reading it just about
everywhere (well almost!) and I found
Goodlad's style of highlighting the vital
points as '...boxed-in headlines...'
distracting. They are supposed to provide
a checklist when preparing the 'next
presentation', and they do work fine on
their own, just not in the text.
The text covers just about any possible
eventuality that could face a 'professional
scientist or engineer'. The stress of the
book is aimed more towards the
successful professional (they can afford
the book) than the student. If you find
yourself making the odd after-dinner
speech, or have difficulty with the
telephone this book will help. It will also
be useful for those whose departments
insist on presentations and talks, without
offering any advice on how to do them.
by Sinclair Goodlad
Speaking Technically demonstrates just
how bad some lecturers are—recommend
it to your tutors, they could learn a lot.
Having said this, there really is some
great advice in the booklet that is
relevant. This includes advice on valuable
subjects such as easing nerves, and ideas
on how to prepare your work. But I
really don't think that it justifies the
expense. However, if you find yourself
with some free time, I'd recommend you
give it a try. It might just help. Get it
from the library.
Dick.
6

