Catchfire The View from the Ground
by Martha Gellhom
There have been many love films
made in the history of the movie
industry. H o w many, though, are
between a witness (on the run) and a
mob hitman (on the job)? OK, ten tops.
This latest film is from the steady
directorial hand of the infamous A l a n
Smithee. For those of you who do not
number yourselves among the film
fraternity, this is a pseudonym used
whenever a director declines
responsibility for the final cut of the film.
So what was done to the film after
Dennis Hopper finished shooting?
Well, a little bit of the plot justification
got cut out. A n n e Benton is an Artist,
played by Jodie Foster (developing a nice
line in victim roles), who witnesses a
brutal mob killing. W h e n police
protection proves to be inadequate, she
goes on the run. Milo is a professional
hitman employed to track her down, to
do this he completely absorbs himself in
his target's lifestyle, slowly falling in love
with her. Eventually he catches her and
makes her an offer: Die, or become m y
property...
The studio appeared to have tried to
turn this dark comedy/thriller into a
straight thriller. Luckily, the attempt
seems to have been almost entirely
unsuccessful. It is never made clear w h y
A n n e falls in love with Milo, and what
cameos we do see are suggestive of
others that were lost. The film still retains
its disturbingly funny edge despite this
hacking around, and is worth a visit.
Pendragon
— F i l m
— B o o k
—Season
Martha Gellhom worked as a
journalist for over six decades
reporting in both war and
peacetime. Selected articles, giving the
feel for a decade, have been collected to
give The View from the Ground.
She gives meaning to the statistics
history is full of and conveys the feel of a
people around her, in response to events
both famous and peculiar; or unknown
and regular. B e y o n d mere factual
reporting, she questions w h y things
happen and then postulates reasonably.
She has seen many countries in many
times and in the pages finished so far,
Martha Gellhom has made interesting and
personal, history that had become
mundane.
That, above all else, makes this book a
gem to read. Unfortunately it is
simultaneously relevant to our immediate
troubles.
She has thus given history a face at
which to gaze; and w h i c h n o w gazes
back at us.
Special Offer
Martha Gellhom's The View from the
Ground, was provided by the Pan
Bookshop on Fulham Road. The
proprietors have agreed to give a
discount of 1 0 % on all books, including
any ordered books, for a trial period until
the end of February to all IC students on
the production of their IC union cards
(except for the rare species w h o wish to
pay by credit card). The shop is located
at 158, Fulham Road, London SW10
(071-373 4997).
Undala Alam.
Postcards From the Edge
j Meryl Streep plays the drug
1
addicted actress, Suzanne Vale, in
this witty portrayal of the chaotic
life of an aspiring Hollywood player.
Confronted by a hard headed producer,
Gene H a c k m a n , who tells her what's
what on the film set, she disappears to
the comfort of an overdose.
The story that unfolds tells of her
continuing battle to stay off the drugs and
get her life together, dealing not only
with the stress of fighting her way up the
Hollywood ladder of fame and fortune
but also coping with her mother, played
by Shirley MacLaine. Following
detoxification, the film companies insist
that Suzanne must stay with a
'responsible party' for insurance purposes.
Unfortunately for her this turns out to be
her mother and the pent-up tensions of
childhood soon rear their ugly head.
MacLaine portrays to perfection the
show biz mother who's been through it
all before as a musical comedy star of the
50's and 60's. Her tone, attitude and
expression matches Streep's performance
of the sometimes anxious and 'spoilt as a
child' Suzanne. Their carefree airs turn
sharply to both obvious and vicious comic
moments as one attacks the other about
their addictions—Doris about her
daughter's drug taking and Suzanne about
her mother's alcoholism.
This encompasses the main theme of
the comedy, the difference between
alcohol and other drugs - absolutely
nothing kids, so play with both of them
carefully. The script, photography and
acting (by all), one minute hurls you into
fits and then gags you on an equally
comic, but tragic line. Go see it, enjoy
and laugh, but above all look out for
those visual and verbal gems.
Christ

