A K I R A
Despite the subtitles, Toby Jones goes mad over a Japanese cartoon.
Against the backdrop of Neo-Tokyo, motorcycle gangs battle for supremacy.
mm Neo-Tokyo, 2019. Beneath its
' I apparent face of prosperity, the re-
built T o k y o is sick. Unemployment
and drugs are rife and many young
people have turned to motorcycle gangs
for comradeship and thrills.
During one of the nightly street battles,
Kaneda and Tetsuo, members of one such
gang, duel with a rival group. A r o u n d
them, a riot flares. A s demonstrators and
police clash, a terrorist escapes with a
small child, kidnapped from an army-
controlled laboratory. The child, identified
only as experiment 26, is a freak with
extraordinary mental powers.
Number 26 is recaptured, along with
Tetsuo. To their surprise, the lab's doctors
find that Tetsuo possesses great latent
powers rivalling those of the greatest
experiment of all, A K I R A . W h e n Tetsuo is
released, these powers have been
awakened.
A K I R A , the experiment that had to be
aborted, killed, frozen in a huge complex
to await resurrection. He reaches out
from his concrete grave and calls to
Tetsuo, his saviour, the catalyst for
rebirth.
A K I R A . He must be stopped or Tokyo
will be destroyed in a cataclysm rivaling
that of the third world war. Twenty-six is
joined by the other children, 25 and 27,
to cripple Tetsuo. He must now fight their
combined powers, the army, and the
force that is consuming his identity, in
order to release the greatest power of all,
A K I R A .
A record 1 billion yen were used in the
construction of this feature length
animation. Three times the normal
number of cells were used in order to
create the realistic style and feel
necessary to translate the best-selling
comic series into film. It works
beautifully.
The author/director/producer,
Katsuhiro Otomo, has created a detailed
world with each character endowed with
a full personality. The three aspects of
the future; the rebuilt city, the restless
and dissatisfied masses, and the dark but
exciting underground, are juxtaposed
with frightening authenticity.
This film is highly powerful, with a
realism never before encountered in
animation. The characters are highly
believable, and the situation so
convincing that when fantastic powers
are exposed the viewer suspends disbelief
and concentrates on the massive struggle
for survival that ensues.
Don't be fooled by this film. It is not a
Tom-and-Jerry cartoon nor a Fantasia
extravaganza. It is more in the
Bladerunner mould, set in a cyberpunk
near-future. At just over two hours, it is a
long film, but it will hold your attention
throughout.
The best recommendation I can give
this film is to say that I will definitely be
seeing this again, taking with me most of
the F E L I X staff.
A K I R A opens at the Institute of
Contemporary Arts (ICA) today and runs
until the 7th March. The ICA cinema is
situated on the Mall, near to Admiralty
A r c h (Picadilly tube). Box office 071-930
3647. Shows are M-F 4.15pm, 6.30pm,
9.00pm and w/e 2.00pm. Tickets cost
S3.80 plus SI day-membership except for
the first show each day and all day
Monday w h e n they cost S2.80. Yearly
membership of the ICA costs £9 for
students, but you do get money-off
vouchers.
8

