definitely en route, so we repaired to the
changing rooms to keep warm.
Once the game started IC fought hard to
gain control. Some determined attacks by the
forwards paid off when Caroline scored, and
again when in typically aggressive mood
Mary went straight through the opposition's
defence. (Not 'round' but 'through'!)
Unfortunately a surprisingly fast move by
the Bart's forwards caught the defence out,
and they scored.
The game degenerated rapidly in the
second half though IC continued to play well,
and the final whistle saw us in possession of
our first league points. Well done everyone
who played.
Thanks to Jan (volunteer goalie), Jane-who
has not played for a few years, — and Silly,
who turned up to play for us at the last
minute.
T E A M : Jan Clarke, Cathy Crossley,
Caroline Brown, Shirley Course, Dana
Clarke, Karen Jones, Mary Harrington, Alison
Longstaff, Jane Wilks.
Rugby
IC 1st XV
IC 2nd XV
Football
IC 1st XI
IC 5th XI
IC 6th XI
Results and reports
Saturday, Nov 15
Scorpions
Stallions
SOAS
Charing X Hosp
UCH
19-10
3-13
4-2
6-0
3-1
Rugby Firsts
DUE T O the all blacks flying home early, IC
had to settle for Streatham Scorpions as
opposition. IC suffered an early setback when
their captain went 'on holiday', but responded
magnificently to the challenge. In the first half
IC played with the wind and proceeded to
take the opposition to pieces without actually
scoring any points. In a rare moment when
his concentration lapsed, Chandler went over
for a magnificent try and Morgan, slipping on
the wet grass, put the conversion over.
Further points followed from Morgan (pen)
and some random from their team. 9-4 at half-
time. Manzoni got bored so he scored a try.
Faz, whose attempts at butting the opposition
had been frustrated all afternoon, also went
over a try, leaving IC victors by 19-10.
Football Firsts
HAVING made a good start to the season, 5
points from 3, IC 1sts have continued to make
good progress in the past couple of weeks.
We had a tough home draw in the preliminary
round of the ULU Cup against the notorious
team, B.Y.E. There then followed a poor
league performance against Bedford drawing
0-0. The next match was the crucial away
fixture against LSE. IC raised their game
superbly to dominate the first twenty minutes,
lead 1:0 and missed a few good chances into
the bargain. We lost Elliott early on through
injury, but Walters deputised well. L S E
equalised with a dubious penalty but we
regained the lead by half-time, thanks to
Hartland's second goal. We soaked up
pressure in the second half, but conceded a
goal 2-2. In the closing stages, Bateson
produced a marvellously arrogant run down
the right and crossed for Dean to make it a
deserved 3-2 win.
Our excellent run was continued on
Wednesday when QMC were beaten 2-0, with
Mulhali producing a fine header to break the
deadlock. (His jump did not resemble a
salmon at all.) Elliott scored the second but
made an enemy of Arthur by breaking the net!
This left us firmly on top of the league, a
suitable reward for a fine start to the season.
On Saturday we continued our cup run with
a 4-2 win against SOAS. We began well when
Orgasmikov decided not to stop a forty yard
shot in the first five minutes! We were spurred
into action and Smith equalised. Twenty
minutes from the end IC gave SOAS a penalty
from which they went 2-1 up. IC once again
produced a characteristic surge in the closing
stages to win 4-2. Dick scored the equaliser
without ever having the ball under control!
Hartland and Rowley scored the other two to
put us into the quarter final.
TEAM: Okuniewski (nee Smirnoff, Organ-
ovski, Orgasmikov), Reeve, Smith, Ward,
Mulhall, Bateson, Dick, Elliott, Hartland,
Dean, Rowley.
Thanks to Walters for being sub at LSE and
Curran for deputising for Ward against
QMC.
Football Fifths
KICKING-OFF with the wind behind them the
fifths quickly laid seige to the Charing Cross
goal. Though their goal led a charmed life
early on, Charing Cross's luck was soon
running out and it was no surprise when
Archer thundered in the rebound from a
Morris shot to put the fifths ahead. Soon after
it was 2-0 as Hardy latched onto a Audin
cross and buried his shot in the back of the net.
As half-time approached the fifths went
further ahead when Dhillon was sent racing
clear, the keepr foolishly left his line and the
Dhillon chip did the rest.
After half-time Charing Cross were hopeful
of coming more into the game with the wind
behind them, but someone neglected to tell
the fifths this. The fifths doubling their work
rate and once again started attacking. First
Healy slotted home; then Hardy claimed his
second goal when he placed a well struck
effort into the corner of the net. The sixth goal
came in the dying minutes when Gohil floated
over a cross from the left for Baldwin to volley
home.
Though this was the fifths best win of the
season Charing Cross Hospital were also the
strongest team we have so far faced, and the
match served to show just what uncanny
levels of performance the fifths can reach
when stretched.
T E A M : Brown, Audin, Gohil, Griffiths,
Cable, Morris, Archer, Hardy, Baldwin, Healy,
Dhillon.
MOM: Brown
Football Sixths
THE GAME started ideally for the Sixths
when a long ball into the UCH half was
lobbed into the net by a defender who was
being strongly pressed by Sean Davis. UCH
took full advantage of the wind as they
pressed for an equaliser. The Sixths were
forced to defend in numbers but solid
tackling from Higham, Nagle, Davies and
Bradley prevented U C H creating many
scoring chances while Gartside, Clegg and
Tinkler tried to break UCH's monopoly in
midfield. Midway through the first half UCH
equalised and followed this with a period of
intense pressure. Towards the end of the first
half the Sixths began to break UCH's midfield
dominance.
The second half began with more U C H
pressure and, several times, Hampton raced
off his line to save at the feet of oncoming
forwards. Midway through the second half
the Sixths were reduced to ten men when
John Nagle was taken off with a leg injury and
was replaced eventually by Hall. The Sixths
began to threaten the U C H goal more
frequently and took the lead late in the
second half when a curling corner from Clegg
eluded the goalkeeper allowing Hail to score
from close range. A few minutes later an
identical corner from Cleggy was touched on
by Chamberlain and finished off by Roche.
These two goals completely demoralised
UCH and the Sixths finished the game well on
top to put them in the second round of the
cup.
TEAM: Hampton, Higham, Nagle (Hall).
Bradley, Davies, Tinkler, Clegg, Gartside,
Davis, Roche, Chamberlain.
Snooker
THIS WEEK the B team lost to a lucky A team
in the clash of the season narrowly losing two
frames and winning two. Bennett (Capt) lost
the deciding frame to Walsh. The C team lost
3-2 to L S E . The C team are still in a
commanding position in the league and look
to be main contenders for the title this year.
Tennis
THE TENNIS CLUB will be showing two films
on Tuesday, Decmeber 2. Time and place in
next week's FELIX as they are not finalised.
The films are: Wimbledon 1980, a fifty minute
review of this year's championship with its
classic mens singles finals, and How To Win
Holes By Influencing People by John Cleese,
twenty-five minutes of lunacy in the funniest
ever golf film.
Entry by Tennis Club membership (can join
on the door). Watch out for time and place
next week or on Tennis Board.
Table Tennis
LAST TUESDAY, the second team played
B S C 33 C l u b 1 away, and had won a
wonderful match; winning 7-2.
It is worth mentioning that Eimsiri, playing
only his second ever competitive match,
impressed everyone by playing brilliantly in
both attacking and defending to massacre his
opponents including Vic Russell, the best
player of BSC. Chat won all three sets.
Etheridge and Tye played with patience
after being beaten by Vic Russell and in the
end, they won two sets each. Andy overcame
the handicap of using a brand new bat to
perform with skill.
The last match the first team played,
against International Student House, was not
as smooth as usual, althouqh the score was 5-
4 to IC 1. In this match, Katik missed a lot of
points by testing his new tactics which led
him to a score of 0-3; luckily, Robin and
Kumar endeavoured to win three sets and two
set respectively so as to gain victory.
Over the past few weeks, Imperial College 3
have won three matches out of four, the
results being:
IC 3 vs DOE 7-2
IC 3 vs City University 6-3
IC 3 vs Texaco 5-4
IC 3 vs Crown and Manor 4 ?
Ten Pin Bowling
THE BOWLING Club started a series of six
UCTBA National Championships (Southern
Zone) fixtures with a match against Brunei
University.
Despite good performances from John
Kong, Brian MacGowan, Robert Chong,
Danny Lau and Louisa Lau for the lad es
team, Brunei, who came top of this zone last
year, were too strong and won by twelve
games to four.
As well as these fixtures the club bowls
every Wednesday afternoon at Tolworth —
coach leaves from Aero Dept entrance
opposite Beit Arch, at 2:30. All Welcome.
C Wells
Chem Eng 2
FEUX November 21, 1980 Page 11

