Theatre
Tomfoolery
Not exactly the latest show in London, but well
worth a visit, if you haven't already been, is
Tom Foolery at the Criterion, Piccadilly.
A review rather than a play, the performance
consists of Tom Lehrer's songs, well sung by a
versatile cast with excellent musical backing,
compered by the evergreen Robin Ray.
Tom Lehrer was rather a cult during the
later 50s, when he recorded several albums,
which have sold steadily over the years,
including An Evening Wasted With Tom
Lehrer and That Was The Year That Was.
Since then, however, he has retired from the
limelight back to his original vocation of
teaching maths at various institutions in the
States.
His humour is very black, and, despite its
age, I found it very relevant and up-to-date.
Very much a man ahead of his time. With
C N D in the news again songs like Who's
Next? is a highly relevant song about the
spread of nuclear arms in the Third World. To
treat such weighty matters in such a
lighthearted way may seem irreverent, but his
satire has the ability to penetrate even the
cosiest of convictions. The targets for his
lampoons come in all shapes and sizes, from
sacred cows to secret desires, from Mary
O'Hara to Ronald Reagan (yes, he was around
then as well!), all are exposed to his
remorseless satire.
The production and presentation is polished
with a relentless pace that makes two hilarious
hours fly by,and leave you humming such
favourites as Poisoning Pigeons In The Park
and Vatican Rag. Standby is £2.90, available
most weekdays and a thoroughly good buy.
Lee Paddon
SCAB Night
THIS ANNUAL display of the collective talents of
SCAB took place in the Union Concert Hall last
Saturday.
Andy Cheyne compered, filling in the slots
between acts with renditions of folk songs and
some jokes of questionable content.
The first band, Blue Max, had a mixed
reception. Without the singer they sounded fairly
reasonable, if you like that particular kind of loud
rock; the arrival of the vocalist, however,
signalled a downward plunge in quality. The best
that can be said is that they have potential.
The play by Dramsoc (God, by Woody Allen)
was very clever; if a little pretentious in parts, and
was on the whole well acted. Mark Wilson and
'Eric' Jarvis gave very competent performances in
the central roles, their ability to ad lib relevant
lines provided much of the humour throughout
the performance. It was typical Woody Allen, full
of superficial profundity and human neurosis. All
in all, a well-rounded performance by Dramsoc
and justly applauded.
If the next band, 'And Support', don't sort
themselves out a new name they'll vanish without
trace. They play very competantly, but without a
great deal of imagination. They persue a mid-
seventies "mood rock" sound, but fail to achieve
any individuality, wallowing perpetually in a mish-
mash of keyboard sounds. If they try some more
inventive material, and clamp down on the
keyboards a bit, they should do well.
As for Smokestak, the audience was very good.
The films shown were Cook and Moore's
Hound of Baskervilles; this film was in parts very
good, but it wasted the fine talents of the actors
concerned.
Erotic Inferno was mostly a jaded porno flick.
llunt ©pidre Visits frtends
The blacksmith climbed into bed with his
young wife and fell almost at once into a
deep sleep. It had been a hard day at the
forge: shoeing horses, making gates, and
doing other things that a blacksmith has to
do. His young wife crept stealthily from the
room, a book in her hand and a smile on
her face.
Episode Three
Pounce! and the cat had earned her keep
for another night. Mice were a problem in
the village bakery: Mr Eric (strange name!)
had bought a cat on the strict assurance
that she had been "dealt with". This
unfortunately was demonstrably not the case
and after Mr Eric had given away more
kittens than the entire village could strictly
accommodate, he found that the best
expedient was to drown the poor little
things in the village pond when no one was
looking.
Page 4 FEUX November 21, 1980

