Free Teeth
If you've been putting off going to the dentist
don't delay any longer if you're still under 21.
From April 1981 free NHS dental treatment will
only be available for students aged 18, and under
instead of those under 21. We have had one case
of dentist prematurely putting this new regulation
into effect, so watch out. At the moment if your
treatment is not free you pay for what you need,
up to £8. The maximum cost per tooth for
crowns, inlays, pinlays, and gold fillings is £18
while the total cost for one course of treatment,
irrespective of the number of teeth restored will
not exceed £54. For dentures and bridges the
cost varies between £17 and £50 depending upon
the number of teeth dealt with and the type of
material used.
During the holidays, when the vacation element
of the grant applies you may be able to get a
refund, even if you don't normally qualify for free
treatment. To do this, ask the dentist for form
FID which should be taken or sent to your local
social security office.
Free dental treatment is available at most of the
London dental schools, carried out by students
under the close supervision of the registrars. Ths
facility is especially useful in emergencies while
sometimes it is possible to be taken on as a
regular patient. For more details about the dental
schools and local dentists giving NHS treatment
call in at the Welfare Centre.
Something else to watch out for at the moment
are electric slot meters set above the latest
maximum resale price. The charge consists of
two parts. Firstly, 6.6p for each day that
electricity is available to the person to whom it is
beng resold — a sum which should be included in
the rent. Secondly, the charge for each unit
resold, which is 4.77p. Some landlords appear to
be including the daily charge in the price per unit
and misunderstand the regulations seeing the
6.6p as the unit charge.
Gas charges are fortunately rather more
straight forward since there is a flat rate
maximum. This is now 40p per therm for slot
meters.
Sue Telling
Welfare Centre
On the Rag
Starting next Wednesday for one week only is a
London Rag Mag Competition, further details are
on posters. The aim is to sell Rag Mags around
London Colleges, halls of residence any where
else you choose. There is a prize of a bottle of
whiskey for the greatest sales achieved by one
person during the week. We have duplicated lists
of all the halls of residence in London telling you
how any men and women live in each and where
they are from. This is an excellent chance to get
to know other colleges and student hovels. Rag
Mags and information sheets from CCUs.
WIST
Black South African women are doubly
discriminated against on the grounds of their
colour and sex. Like the men, their lives are
controlled by the influx control and pass laws.
Underemployment is abundant amongst the men
but more so amongst women. The only jobs
available in the townships are as domestic
servants to whites. In these cases they have to
leave their families and live either in the home of
their employer or in single sex hostels in the
townships where they are allowed neither male
visitors or children. Because of these problems
any stable and lasting relationships are destroyed
and impossible under the system. In Durban in
1970s between 59-64 of every 100 African babies
were illegitimate and there were vast numbers of
abandoned children belonging nowhere.
Women working in their traditional roles as
subsistance farmers in the homelands are being
continually moved from one bantustan to
another. The women have no right to land on the
Bantustans and due to over-crowding work is
almost non-existent.
Black men and women have been detained,
imprisoned, tortured and killed for fighting to
have the same rights as the whites and black
women have to fight even for the limited rights
that black men possess.
Women in Science and Technology are
displaying a photographic exhibition on 'Women
Under Apartheid' in the ICWA Lounge (third
floor, Union Building) until Wednesday,
November 26 and anyone is welcome to come
and see it at anytime.
On Wednesday, November 26 we will be
having a discussion on this topic at 12:30pm in the
ICWA Lounge. Please come along.
Gaysoc
MANY OF Y O U reading this share one thing in
common, you're gay. There are perhaps 500 of us
in College and possibly more. Probably most of us
will never meet each other. Although 'coming
out', admitting you are gay, is perhaps easiest in a
college environment, IC is an exception! Due to
its male dominance, the majority of students here
are hostile to the ideas of homosexuality as
witnessed when various anti-gaysocs emerged
coinciding with the formation of IC Gaysoc
three years ago. So IC gays are trapped!
Why come out at all? No one chooses to be
homosexual, but we can choose whether to come
out or not. Meeting other gay people stops the
tremendous feelings of isolation and loneliness
especially when it is discovered that few gay
people conform to the media roles given to us.
Once public about it, we may choose to copy
certain stereotypes, but most of us don't. If you
are gay, you will no doubt be aware of the London
oav 'scene', a vast collection of pubs, clubs, and
discos, catering for almost every taste, but if this
to be your first step into the gay world, it can be
very daunting and depressing asfindinggroups of
like-minded gay people is difficult especially on
your own.
If you are gay and want to talk to someone
about it or find out where to go, phone Nightline
(589-2468, between 6:00pm and 9:00am) to whom
we have provided a list of places we have been to,
or come to ULU Gaysoc in Malet Street every
Thursday at 8:00pm. We will be pleased to see
you there. Tell someone you're from IC. You can
also write to me: Peter Bond c/o Nightline, 10
Princes Gardens.
Coming to terms with being gay can be lonely
and difficult. Let us help make it slightly easier.
SF Sock
WANT T O go to Yorcon? Want to know what it
is? Want to correct my grammar?
Come to the SF Sock meeting on Friday,
November 21 at 1:00pm in Southside Upper
Lounge, and learn wonders. Yes — Yorcon. The
biggest Science Fiction convention in the British
Isles, held in Leeds between April 17 and 20, 1981.
If you want to go, or find out more about it, come
to the meeting I've already mentioned (this guy
would be no good on 'Just a Minute').
Also (as Zarathustra once said) there will be a
meeting of the British Science Fiction Association
on Friday, November 21 (so many important
,things happen on Friday). Meet us at Hammer-
smith tube station at 7:30pm if you want to go.
Don't worry, we'll be conspicuous.
Other things: Steve Higgins (Physics 1) would
appreciate factual material for our magazine
Perihelion: articles, reviews, damn near anything
will be considered (including artwork).
Item: Astrosoc have done nothing this term; an
at least hadn't until we used one of their posters
to advertise Quintet. The very next day, they
announced a meeting. More than coincidence?
(No — John Sladek).
Dashed off in ten minutes by
Harry Seldon
Oneinology 2
Red Cross
THE DETACHMENT are arranging for a social
evening open to all members and friends of the
Detachment to be held on Wednesday
November 26, 1980 at 8:00pm in Topsy's Wine
Bar, 29 Battersea High Street.
To get there cross Battersea Bridge, take the
first turning right (Battersea Church Road) to the
traffic lights, cross the traffic lights and Topsy's is
on your left (approx one and a half miles from
College).
The cost of the evening, including a three-
course dinner, half bottle of wine and entertain-
ment will be £5.50. Please apply to Miss C D M
Collins, Room 714, Elec Eng (int 3096) for tickets.
External Affairs
THE GOVERNMENT has already said it intends
to change the system of student union financing
for next year. A few weeks ago the latest
proposals were leaked (see FELIX, October 24)
from the Department of Education and Science
(DES). They break down into two main parts:
A) Each student's tuition fees will be increased
by £32 to take account of student union
subscriptions, irrespective of whether the Union
needs more or less money (IC Union currently
receives £39 per student). £2.1miIlion will be
available to Colleges from the rate support grant
to local education authorities to 'top up' student
funds, but the effect will be that of a drop in the
ocean.
B) However, this money will be given to
colleges to do with as they see fit; the compulsion
to give any money to student unions will be
removed from the DES guidelines. Effectively,
student unions will be in direct competition with
academic departments, administration and
college facilities for funds; colleges will be able to
give as little as they want to student unions.
If this becomes Government policy, everyone
at IC will be directly affected. If College decides,
or is forced to make cuts (the Government is
currently looking for a Ebillion cut in public
spending) all union facilities will be affected; clubs
and CCUs, services and sports.
The DES is currently finalising the proposals
for publication, and hopefully changing them.
However, hope is never enough, and the
proposals will go ahead if there is little
i protest particularly from students. With this in
' mind, the University of London Union have
organised a demonstration of all students for
Friday, November 28, and IC as a constituent col-
lege will be supporting it. We will leave Beit Arch at
10:30pm on Friday morning. It is important you
give your support; it will be too late to protest
when the Union budget is cut.
Phil Cole
External Affairs Officer
CARNIVAL is tonight at 7:30pm, in the Union
Building. There will be five groups (the Modettes,
the Fix, Park Avenue, the Joy Spring Septet and
a steel band), two films (one in 3D), food, a disco,
and a bar until 4:00am. Tickets are available from
the Guilds Office at £3 each.
Hit Squad closes today at 5:30pm. You have
one last chance to put a contract on someone and
they will not have time to get you back!
Year Rag Collection is on Saturday, November
29. Start thinking about ideas for your Rag stunt,
and see your social rep.
Andy Dixon
C&G Publicity Officer
F E U X November 21, 1980 Page 9

