Canoe Club
CANOE CLUB recently held a very successful
weekend trip to the River Usk in South Wales. A
party of twenty-one took part with abilities
ranging from complete beginners to expert. The
bulk of the time was spent helping new members
to improve their paddling. Most people make very
good progress and by Sunday most were able to
tackle some more difficult water while a few
preferred to stay on the easier stretches. We had
very few swimmers for such a large novice trip.
The trip also saw the clubs C2 in the water,
showing the present interest in Canadian
paddling in the club. It is hoped that the club will
be able to obtain some new Canadian canoes in
the near future, to encourage this interest.
Catering was up to a very high standard over
the weekend with an excellent chicken stew on
Saturday evening and cooked breakfasts ready
by 7:30 on both mornings.
We have two more weekend trips this term.
The first is to the River Dee on November 28 and
29. This is a trip for experienced paddlers, and is
one of very few chances to get on the Dee.
The second is the Bude surfing trip, via Wylye.
Big surf and fine weather are expected, giving
ideal conditions. Also our new surf ski should be
here by then. Surfing is great fun, even for the
inexperienced, so make sure tht you don't miss
this trip.
Finally a reminder about pool sessions: 6:30 to
8:00 on Tuesday evenings, when new members
are always welcome.
ICCAG
Can you spare the occasional Saturday
afternoon? We are currently looking for people to
help at a club for handicapped children and their
friends — no previous experience required, just
enthusiasm! The club, called the Acton Saturday
Venture Club, organises a wide variety of
activities for these youngsters, and so needs
many volutneers. If you would like to go, meet at
Beit Arch this Saturday, November 22, at
11:30am (travel costs refunded), or, if you cannot
go this Saturday but would like to go another
time, contact me, or Sean Coyle, Elec Eng 2, for
more details.
NB: There will be no adventure playground
work this weekend (not that anyone would have
turned up, anyway!), but . . .
Don't forget the Soup Run (taking soup, bread
and biscuits to some of those sleeping rough in
London) every Tuesday and Friday — leave
Falmouth Kitchen at 10:30pm, returning by
1:00am.
Richard Martin
Maths 3
PG Soccer
FOLLOWING a meeting last week of postgrads
from various departments a sufficient number of
teams are available to set up a PG Soccer
League. However, because fairly regular matches
at lunchtimes or weekends would cause problems
for a lot of players, it has been decided to delay
the start until the Spring when it should be
possible to play matches in the early evening
(around 5:00-7:00pm). It is hoped that these
fixtures will take place at Hyde Park and each
team will probably play once a fortnight.
At the moment we have teams from Chemistry,
Geology, Chem Eng, Metallurgy, Biochem,
Management Science, Environmental Technology,
and the Department of Social and Economic
Studies and we would team with other
departments. If anybody is interested in joining in
and would like some more information please
contact me in Chemistry 432, internal 4146, or
Marcus Karoiewski in Chem Eng, internal 3774.
In the meantime the New Gym set up in the
Old Chemistry Buildings (known as the
'Volleyball Court') has been booked for postgrad
five-a-side soccer on Tuesdays from 2:30-4:00pm.
At the moment there are no regular teams; we are
just organising games among those who wish to
turn up. If sufficient numbers were interested,
wke may hold some five-a-side tournaments.
Anybody who would like to play should turn up at
the Volleyball Court on Tuesday afternoons.
Robert Bird
PG Tips
THE POST Graduate Dinner will be held on
December 3. Sherry will be at 7:00pm in the
Union Lower Refectory, dinner at 7:30pm in the
Union Dining Hall and there will be a discc
afterwards. Tickets at £7.00 can be obtained from
the Union Office.
A questionnaire will be circulated soon,
concerning some points arising from a recent
Board of Studies Meeting, ft is important to gauge
the views of all postgraduates, so you are urged to
complete the questionnaire and return it to J
Passmore via the Union Office.
Your comments on the new College security
arrangements, as described in last week's FELIX,
would be helpful. Although entry to buildings is
restricted after 10:00pm you are allowed to stay
later than this.
RSM Rugby
It has been decided this year to hold a rugby
match between the RSM 1st XV and an RSMA
invitation side. We hope that anyone who is
interested will come out and watch what,
should be a very enjoyable game.
It will take place on Sunday, November 30
at Harlington. Kick-off 10:30am.
Royal School of Mines 1st XV will be
playing in black and white hoops. Their team
will be: C Alexander, M Daniels, L Bottomley
(Captain), N Walls, R Parkinson, K Maynard,
J Taylor, G Edmonds, D Mcintosh, R Pascoe,
I Ritchie, P Tracey, S Masterman, J Davy.
With K Douglas, R Linkogel, R Lockerbee, A
Fyfe, and R Hughes as reserves.
The Royal School of Mines Association
Invitation XV will be playing in red and white
hoops. Their team will be: D Forbes, J Norley,
M Pryor, P Evans, B Calver, R Dunn, D
Rhodes, R Walmsley, A Hopkins, R McAlister,
R Grant, K Lipscombe, J Bailey, B Mecklen-
burgh, J G r e g o r y . With C Dawson, D
McDonald, A Lewis, M Levy, B Mitchener, M
Nott, J Stocks as reserves.
The referee will be Bas Sajik.
Gutteridge Cup
Quarter Finals
IC v London Hospital
November 26, Away
All supporters welcome —
coach provided.
. . . and now, the most inconvenient story of
the week . . .
HELP
The Ladies Hockey team are short of shirts. In
fact, they have none. They did have fifteen,
but they were left under the Hockey
Noticeboard near the Union Bar, and they
disappeared.
If you know where fifteen dark blue/light
blue halved shirts are, please contact Cathy
Crossley (Physics 3) or drop the shirts into
the Union or FELIX Office. If you see
someone wearing fifteen shirts tell them
where the Union Office is.
Compiled by Phil Webb
Results and reports
Wednesday, Nov 12
Football
IC 1st XI V QMC 2-0
IC 2nd XI V QMC 1-0
IC 4th XI V QMC 4-2
IC 5th XI V QMC 3-1
Hockey
IC 1st XI V Royal Holloway 5-0
Guilds V QMC 1-0
Ladies V Barts 2-1
Football Seconds
IC STARTED confidently, and were soon
controlling the midfield, although on several
occasions a poor final pass meant a missed
scoring chance. What response QMC offered
was dealt with efficiently by the IC defence in
which Drabble! making his first appearance
for the seconds, played exceptionally well. A
much improved performance by the defence
meant that Steve Veats, who has played
consistently well in goal this season, was
rarely troubled.
QMC's best chance came midway through
the first half when a header from a corner was
cleared from the goal-line by Saunders.
In the second half, IC were again finding it
difficult to get in shooting positions until
Malcolm Carr was upended in the penalty box
by the advancing keeper. Phil Niccolls cooly
stepped forward to blast home the goal that
kept him his goal a game record and gave IC
two valuable points.
TEAM: Veats, Drabble, Beer, Armstrong,
MacDonald, Lakin, Niccolls, Clarke, Veenman,
Saunders (Walters), Carr.
Jim Beer
Football Fourths
IC STARTED the game hoping to retain their
100% league record. After a scrappy opening
IC went cose when Chown was unlucky to
see a fine header cleared off the line.
Fifteen minutes into the match McNicholas
opened the scoring with a well taken goal
after a good through ball from Buckley. IC
dominated the remainder of the half and
should have had a greater lead when the
teams changed ends.
McNicholas scored his second early in the
second half, after a goalmouth scramble. A
third goal followed when Buckley ran forty
yards unchallenged to rifle his shot into the
corner of the net.
A feature of IVth's play this season has
been their ability to squander a comfortable
lead, in this case they allowed QMC to score
twice.
Centre forward, Burns, settled the match
when after a quickly taken free kick he found
space on the edge of the box to turn and
crash a first time shot into the roof of the net.
T E A M : Gilbert, Berns, Maddy, Chown,
Redmayne, Buckley, Graves, Dolwin,
McNicholas, Burns, Williams.
Ladies Hockey
WE ARRIVED at Barts ground, to be met by
the groundsman who did not know that Barts
Ladies were playing at home! We were
informed however that our opposition were
Page 10 FEUX November 21, 1980

