2 F E L I X
tireen (f\ at&es
I X . W . A . PROFILES
N£SS Maureen Hawes, this year's
Jresidant of I.C.W.A. follows last
year's tradition ia tiiat Bhw also
aspires to Chomistgy as a profession.
Educated at Horsham High School (for
girls only, unfortunately) and with a
strong partiality for Sussex as this
year's county championship Tinners,
Maureen is now specialising in In -
organic Chemistry in her third and
final year here. She i s known to the
other inhabitants of her lab. largely
as an empty bench, since the many
Committees on which she servos take
up most of her tine, tha rest being
oocupied in writing letters to
Cambridge.
Whilst s t i l l at school- she began her career in athletics
by representing Sussex in the Inter-Country Schools Athletio
Championships, where she won two medals. She has continued
her successes at College, representing T
.
C
.
W
.
A
. at almost
everything and captaining the University Netball Club from
which she has gained a Purple, her athletics prowess
continues. Both she and Paddy Clarke have gone in for verj
strenuous training oefore the University Championships,
these last two years - by attending the Silwood Park ball
until the small hours'. However, tha only record she claims
to have made is walking from King's X to 3. Kensington at.
3 o'clock in the morning after attending a wedding in iork-
shiret i
The most amusing experience of her year of office was
the arrival Of a letter from U.L.U. requesting her to popula-
rize a U.L.U debate. She was undecided whether this came to
her in her post as President of I.C.W.A,, secretary of the
Catholic Society or Captain of the U.L. Netball Club, since
the subject of the debate was.- Birth Controll
•iuastioned as to her vice3 she confesses to hoarding
empty bottles in the bottom of her wardrobe, reading
"
W
o
m
a
n
" and. being late. At one point she wanted to take up
Heraldry but was disoouraged when the Heraldry Society asked
her to answer, a questionnaire giving details of all the works
she had published on heraldry before she could join.
Maureen's likes are: diamond rings, sweet sherry, rich
men and Geoff.
Dislikes: people who get drank at 2 in the morning,
Wednesday afternoons in the lab, refectory chip3 and poor
H O W ' S Y O U R
LANDLADY?
Champion table-mat thrower of I.C.
1954-56-
rhis raaarkable youns: lady's
chief intra-',1 , s
-
>
t
a
i
»
~
eeries and hen* in that staler (she
soya); He1
* sailing is largely cond-
ucted at sea, where she has acquired
3ome cooking skill, i-his is a nece-
ssity since, with the rest of the
crew seasiok, she is often forced to
consume vast quantities of he conc-
mountaineering
wide the light
ed off rocks.
a rope.
herant,
\itU
After having -t^iree landladies this year, I look back with
a shudder or. that regrettably unforgetable day last T-etober,
when we entered our new digs far the first time. They had be
been described by the Lodgings Bureau as a place where "we
usually have a few students", but after a few days we found
that, "and have a rapid rate of turnover" could be trathfolly
added to this description. Before we left, however, we made
a note of some of our land-ladies Bore cooncn utt«r«n§es,
which are perhaps typical of this type of landlady.
(1) Will you please be <juiet - there's somebody dead next
door.
(2) Noi you oaa't take girls up to your bedroom.
(3) We have a very nice sitting room.
(4} Your room is damp because you brew tea in i t .
I've won £80 on the pools and they've only given m.
1/7.
(6) My dog is very valuable*
(7) I only buy the most expensive seat.
(8) Every time you go into the dining room nobody else
can see the fire.
(9) There was cigarette ash three inches dean all over
the carpet.
(10)Tou're Leaving': that suits tie fine!
action
her function i i a
relief by bein - . . :
while dangling on the
Sat views on men are 1
but she adssits a prefe
strong blond (if any t
southerners.
Having no lack of initiative she easily won a pint from
the past president of Imperial College Union who bet she
could not hitch-hike to Lands End in one day. This initiative
has taken her over most of Europe in the past few years.
Passing though Trieste last year she had to replace her shoes,
with .an indigneoUB species of clogs. 3y a. local • convention,of
whioh she was not to remain long in ignorance, these formed
the insignii . - •
- - •
who announced their trade by a pronounced clatter on the
cobbled streets. Unfortunately Paddy had not been: told of
this convention and anyhow she had not the' acquired skill of
the more respectable natives in the silent manipulation,
of clogs......
One of her more harmless pursuits is the distraction
of susceptible male lecturers in the midst of their perorat-
ions. The details of the technique are a trade secret, but
it is estct" - seat beaoaotaoied iotixrers in high-
speed flow have the' greatest susosptibiliity-faotor.
Likes and Dislikes? ''tell, she dislikes "writing on one
side of the paper only", and pyjamas (what is good aaouBli
for the springtime and the, fall, is good enough for .other
seasons too). And she likes lying on the reporter's bed
being asked intimate questions for her profile.
With all these interests, Paddy has very little spare
time, but what there is she devotes impartially to, i.C.W.A.
(of which she is Hon. Secretary), the R.C.S. (of-which she
is Vice-President) and mathematics (with which she is fed up).
* Applicants for work as Felix Reporters please contact
W. Hudson' in the bar.
H O L I D A Y FACILITIES
_ Soise of tha so; session s > e ! a lotaee on
tours were cheap travel facilities and lodgings on the Contin-
ent. Details of some of these are now available in the Union
The Seandlnaaian Stna,ent Travel Seraioe gives a. frequent ear
service t : racet are:
London to Paris
to Oonenhasen
.23..10/- single.
.
.
. •
;
,
/
- sin aa
Direct J.. J to tea h.S.T.S* at Great
Newport Street,,Ti'.C.2.
The students hostel at Barcelor with
full board for 70 pesetas, about 1d/6d. per day.
REVIEW OF PHOENIX
.-esda has re intones a. the a-iier style
ais way, the
Tha s
u
m
.
-
-
.
e
r ter
of having a larger .Tinted area n each page.In
edit i on contains more material than has been usual for the past
few years. It also contains more photographs than usual.
Two of the articles are records of events to be preserved
for posterity in the archives, but others make interesting
reading. A story from the Henley Segatta might well have been
wrttten by Jerome ".Jerome, and an introduction to scientific
fioti. n is most illvaninating. The latter article explains how
some of the difficulties of space travel have been overcome,
and may get the Exploration Board inundated with projects
O u t N U t

