F E L I X 3
F e l i x
The Imperial College Newspaper
1LS0.VS COIM
C i r c u l a t i o n 1200 Editor: BILL HUBSOH
FELTX is produced by tha Editorial Board, but like
most commercial anterprisas i t has a Board of Direotors.
These oonsist of the I.C. executive, i.e. the President
and Secretary of I.C. Union and the Presidents of the
oostituent Colleges, These five are responsible for
appointing the Editorial staff, but they rely upon the
Editor for guidance. The newspaper would be useless i f
it became the mouthpieoe of any group of Union officers,
so these five take little interest exoept in the fin-
ancial side of the paper, and rely on the Editor not
to involve the Union in libel suits. By remaining
financially solvent, Felix cannot be accused of biting
the hand that feeds i t .
Next Thursday v/hen elections -are^held for the
Council and Entertainments Committee positions i t
would be as well to know the candidates. The constituent
Colleges are not faced with the^diffioulties that con-
front the parent Union when i t comes to selecting
officers. The Mines is small and active enough to know
who i s suitable, while the othartwo Colleges have
briefs of their candidates lives exhibited. Those
that one knows by name may not heoessarily be the best
suited to positions of responsibility. Empty barrels
make most noise. Brian Oggi could easily oollect
votes since he has achieved publicity, yet he would
remain the fictitious scape-goat* oreated last Nov-
ember to be expelled from the University when the
Senate threatened students whose actions were pub-
licised.
The people best suited to I.C. union positions
will be those with independence of thought. They must
owe their allegienoe to the student body as a whole,
and not to a crusade sponsored by an outside organ-
isation, and they should be able to reach decisions
rapidly.
To show the interest displayed in the election of
student officers, several stunts have been carried out
in other universities. By nominating two candidates a
for an executive position at Queens College, a group
of students ensured a ballot. To one they gave a good
oharacter, a person who took an active part in Union
affairs. The other was given the reputation of an
indifferent person who kept mostly to himself and his
books. The surprising feature was that the poorer
candidate polled 40 votes to the others 200. Anootner
election is to be held shortly to eleot a living
person. At British Columbia, the third candidate in a
presidential election got 405 votes. At the declaration
of the results i t was shown to be a poodle,
IT WAS H
0
P
E
L
V
.
I
B
A
T FELIX this week would have taken on a new
form. Teething troubles at our printers have prevented this
innovation. The paper this week has also been produoed under
some duress - we are short-staffed as a result of examination
fever.
T
H
O
S
E PRACTISING for the K
A
R
A
K
O
R
U
M EXPEliITION have been seen on
nocturnal perambulations round Hyde Park. They have bean burd-
ening themselves with eighty pounds of bricks, filched from
the builders and secretly stored on a Hostel balcony.
SCIENTISTS DISCOVER "PERPETUAL MOTION" - C. & (i. Mechanical
Engineers please note. The fire engine, on its way to Mot-
spur Park on Sports Day, prooeeded to accelerate UP nILL
when the driver's foot was not on the accelerator. This
sort of thing can happen to "Clementine" (when she is in
working order) due to the complexity of the thermodynamics
involved, but has not been observed to occur with "Bo".
One feels that the engine of the latter may perhaps be a
little out of date.
EMPLOYMENT, muoh in the rnind3 of the Third Year at the present,
is further spotlighted by the following information: Thomas
Hedley - soap and detergent manufacturers - give all their
graduate applicants an intelligence test. They only take
on those who are in the top 2$ grade.
DIGS IN SOUTH KEN? It is not difficult to find lodgings
close to I.C. i f one is prepared to "go from door to door"
but U.L. Lodgings Bureau appear, from an article in
SENNET, to be contemplating the billeting this year's in-
creased 1.0. intake somewhere west of Ealing - as usual.
IT WAS REPORTED in the Daily Mail recently that a relio, a
Roman Jewel casket inscribed UTERE FELIX, has been unearthed,
at East Stroke in Nottinghamshire. The inscription means
"Use this happily". One wonders what, 2,000 years hence,
aroheologists will make of the FELIX Editor's "pot" kept
in the bar.
EXAMINATION FEVER has oaught Guildsmen who pessimistically
greet each other with military salutes
R.C.S.,WINNERS of the TUG-0'- WAR on Sports Day, had
practised against the shovel-leaning workmen in the Min.
of Works establishment. MINES had practised against the
U.S. MARINES (of motion pioture fame). If the results are
wr/thing to go by, the Marines, who spend most of their
time marching up and down past the Albert Memorial are
unsuitable for tugging parties.
IF YOU CAN AFFORD THEM. The Government will let you have 50&
if you go as a tourist to the U.S.A. through the N.U.S. Cheap
N.U.S. boats: «107 return (Ordinary fare £108 return)
Coat of living in America? 2f 75 per night in a Y.M.C.A., 2»
50 oents minimum on food. Assuming no traveling from port of
arrival, neat of three weeks holiday = £126.
LSLUND3, MANUFACTURERS OF EIBCTROtilO eenripjaent we are told,
only employ people who were born in the iohth of August. It
is interesting to note that astrology s t i l l has a place in
industry.
MBOXtSSS: The staff race is always an interesting attraction
at Sparta Day but a similar event could be staged for the
secretaries, There would then be competition between their
employers to see that theirs was the most fit and brought
back the prise.
ACCIDENT NARROWLY AVOIDED at Cromwell Road was when one of the
Bellas' ladies crossed at the traffic lights. She looked up to
see a Humbar for her. Smoking a cigar in the back was
W. Cburohill, M.P., an aspiring historian.

