F E L I X 5
Inside Story
Recently a survey of opinion m> aaoe m the Hostel*
Residents were asked to indicate whether they had suffered
unreasonable inconvenience aa a result of noise made by other
residents, and whether they thought a recognised disciplinary
system (such as gating or fining) was necessary. Old residents
were asked to state whether they thought the noise was worse
this year than last.
Of the 46 residents in the Old Hostel, whioh is a notor-
iously exuberant community, only 5 considered that they bad
suffered unreasonable inoonvenlenoe, and only 7thought a
system of rules necessary. Fifteen did not return their forms,
but presumably they cannot be unduly troubled by noise or
they would have taken the opportunity of doing something about
i t . Only 2 out of 15 old residents thought the noise this
year was worse than last year. It would therefore seem that
alarmists on the Resident's Committee who advocate a rigid
system of fines have ho grounds for their revolutionary
proposals.
The returns from the New Hostel brought something of a
surprise, for although only 6 felt that they suffered from
unreasonable inconvenience, 14 would like a system of rules.
'Ibis seems inexplicable stupidity, for surely principle
number one in this matter is that a system of rules should
be introduced only under extreme provocation. As many
people pointed out, a system of rules may be fieroely inter-
preted by some future autocratic warden.
I.C.W.A, were almost unanimously against rules, and they
appear to live in total silenoe. They are indulgent about male
residents: as one said "Men will be boys".
Other remarks:-
"I'm not a monk. Otherwise I'd live i n a monastery."
"I have been in the Hostel less than a year and have
found that i t has lived up to my expectations. When I
applied I was prepared to live in a more lively place
than digs, and therefore also more noisy. I think that
residents who want a place that is as quiet as a morgue
shoud Just get out and make way for someone more adapted
to Hostel life."
"The introduction of any regulations in a virtually
regulation-free hostel is undesirable, especially as they
may be differently interpreted by future wardens. Noise
can be trace to a small minority of residents. The
disciplinary committee was eleoted to oontrol discipline,
and there is no excuse for shirking their responsibility
of "ohuoking out" persistently noisy residents. Two
warnings should be sufficient".
The game of warden-baiting was unanimously denounoed 'as
childish and in the worst of taste.
It is to be hoped that this survey will convinoe the
Resident's Committee that the less rules there are the better.
They should abandon their oontemplations of fining and scrap
the tepid compromise of gating.
8
!
(3)
M e t i e r s Ic llie ^ d i i e r
May 24th. 1956.
Dear Sir,
I was disgusted with the lack of support on I.C. Sports
Day. It seems to m
e that a large percentage of people in
this oollege are parasites, willing to gain knowledge by
coming to the College, but completely unwilling toospend
a little time or energy in supporting oollege activities.
Tours truly,
Jean S. Huston
university of London Union
Malet Street.
Dear Sir,
In your artiole on the British inter-University Confer-
ence you said "I.C. Bar is the only union bar in the country
to open on Sundays". As you know our bar in the town is
open every Sunday at 7 p.m. and we would be pleased to see
you here.
lours sinoerely,
U.L.U.
The report of the conference only referred to those
dolleges and Universities whioh were represented. Although
London University waa on the list of those participating
their Vice-President failed to attend the conference. Bo.
Personal Advertisements
CAR FOR SAUB - Higheat offer
1931 M
.
G
. - M-type, Extensively overhauled, in good condition.
Arrangements made to view. Apply to Rosemary Melville, Union
Rack.
DllWflt JACKET FOR SAIZ -£7.
Height 5' 8", Chest 36". Good quality.
Apply to "Box A", Felix, Union Rack.
CONING EVENTS
Saturday June 2nd.
Rifle Club Dance: to Ravenscourt Dance Orchestra
Single 2/- Double 3/6
Touchstone Weekend June 2nd-3rd: Spirit and Soientifio Spirit
Speaker Prof. Philip Leon M
.
A
.
Monday June 4th.
Speoial Lecture: The Ascent of Kanohenjunga, R.C. Evans F.R.C.S.
Main Chemistry Leoture theatre 5.15 p.m.
Thursday June 7th.
UNION MEETING 6ity and Guilds Room 17 1.15 p
.
m
.
F I R S T T E A M F I X T U R E S
TENNIS. First Team
June 2nd. V St Edmund Hall H)
June 3rd. V Old Gowers h)
June 6th. V Kings H)
June 9th. V Barts A
5
June 13th. V C.EiM. A)
ROWING REGATTAS
June 2nd.
June 9th.
June Uth.
CRICKET Ist. XI
June 2nd. v
June 6th. v
June 9th. v
June 13th v
U.L. Allom Cup. Twickenham Regatta.
Walton Regatta.
Reading and Putney Town Regatta.
Keble College
Ealing Dean
U.C.H.
Westminster Hospital
GOIF
June 6th. v U.C.H. (at Dulwioh)
I.C.W.A. TENNIS
June 2nd. v
June 9*th. v
Royal Holloway
Q
.
M
.
C
.
S W I M M I N G G A L A
SWIMMING
In the University Gala held on May 16th and 17th,
I.C. came 3rd with 16 pts. to L.S.E. (24 pts.) and Battersea
(17 pts.)
I.C. plaoings in the events were Obaditch 2nd. in the
diving, Clark 3^d. in the backstroke. The medley team came
3rd. and the Freestyle team were place 2nd.
There is now only one match left this term before the
Tour. A smiraiiing and Polo team will be visiting Weymouth,
Minehead, Ilfracombe, Barnstaple, and Exmouth.
It had been long proven in I.C. that any sort of tour
to the West Country is always a success.
I.C.W.S.C. Swimming.
The I.C.W.A. Swirrming Team has put itself on the map
this year by winning two matches against U.C. 2nd. team and
being placed Second in the University Championships on the
17th. May. There was not very much support from other women's
colleges for the championships (U.C. and'Battersea were the
only other colleges'.So compete as a team), and so there
were no heats. Janet Petersen is to be congratulated on
gaining a 1st. and 2nd. plaoe, and the other ICWArians cont-
ributed other valuable points.
Results:- 100 yds. Breast stroke 1st. Janet Petersen
4th. Rosalind Lathbury
100 yds. Back stroke 4th. Celia Roberts
100 yds. Free style 3rd. Janet Petersen
Diving 2nd. Janet Petersen
Frees yle and medley relays 3rd.
T H O S E W E R E T H E D A Y S • • •
Queen Bodioea's chariot
jlad knives upon each wheel,
Whioh wore guaranteed to frighten
Even men with nerves of steel.
But the thing the Romans hated,
And whioh caused them much more fright
Was the way she'd put her left hand out,
And then turn to the right.

