6 F E L I X
S p o r t s N e w s
IMPERIAL GAMES, 1956
SPORTS DAY
Once again Sports Day was held at Hotspur Perk and the
A.C.C. are to be congratulated on picking one of the hottest
days of the year. The standard of athletics was a little
higher than last year and nine of last years winning perform-
ances were bettered. It seemed to be an unlucky year for the
holders of the various trophies as all but four changed hands.
The day started with the Guilds in the lead by virtue of
their win in the Three Miles, held last term, and throughout
the day they never lost this lead and they won comfortably by
149 points to R'.C.S. I l l and Mines 94* The first race the 120
yards hardies was won by Dlok Bond of R.C.S. with high jumpers
and Riokard in 2nd. and 3rd. positions. The aporta
Interesting from a spectators point of view because
of the number of thrilling finishes to the raoes. In the
880 Les Locke, the oollege record holder, won by inches from
John Conway and in the 220 yard H.C Finaent just managed to
hold off Hbbson and Goodwin to win the most exciting raoe of
the day. The one mile was a win for John Evans in 4 min.
19-6 sees, which is a new "Sports Day hest Performance", and
in this race interest was held by the battle for second place,
between B i l l Fain and Chas Cotter!11 the latter just winning
by 0.1 aeoa.
In the field events i t was Phil Toynbse'a day as he won
the Discus, Shot, and Hammer and was 3rd. in the Javelin and
he ia to be congratulated on soon a fine performance. Mike
Riokard won the High"Jump at 5 ft. 11 ins. and John Hobson
the Long Jump at 20 ft. 8^ ins. R.C.S. provided two surprises
when B. Shenkel, a student from the Swiss Federal Institute
of Technology at Zurich, won the Pole Vault and J.H. Hockey
won the Javelin.
The Tug of War provided the unusual sight of the Guilds
being beaten by both the Mines and the R.C.S. and as..the
R.C.S. beat the Mines in two straight pulls they won the
Inoognitua Cup.
In previous years I.C.W.A.'s main role at Sports Day has
been to sell programmes but this year were determined to
take part and they arranged an invitation relay. Teams from
Kings and B.C. accepted the challenge and the result was a
very good raoe. Maureen Hawea ran the first leg and handed
over to Pat Carr who went flying down the back-straight to
aend Jean Huston away with a two yard lead, Jean held on and
Brenda Walker brought the team home to a comfortable win.
The Miners had been toiling all afternoon in search
of an elusive first place so i t was rather fitting that they
should win the last raoe of the day,]the sprint relay. This
raoe like so many of the others provided a wonderful finish
as Goodwin of Mines passed Mantle of R.C.S. in the very last
stride.
The day ended with the distribution of prises by
Mrs. Lindstead and the only regret one feels on looking back
on a fine afternoon i s that so few students were there to
ahars i t .
WHITSUN SAILING
The I.C. Sailing Club held their annual Helmsman'a Champ-
ionships at the Welsh harp on Wednesday 23rd May. The event
was won by A. Biapham, who in the final raoe, sailed extremely
well and fast. J. Conway-Jones and M. Collyer finished 2nd.
3rd. respectively.
Over the Whitson holiday, J. Conway-Jones took Famulus
down to Lakham to raoe far /the Sir Bowse-Sffits Branny.
Though the wind was fresh, the narrow niVer and the multitude
of trees were a handicap to the visiting helmsmen who did
mat have any local knowledge. J. Conway-Jones was recalled at
the start, he pressed on to take the lead during the
second lap and" win by a substantial margin.
M. Collyer sailing Faust at the Welsh harp in the Willea-
den Begatta was 5th in the trophy for local helmsmen.
CHISWICK REGATTA
Sat. 26th May 1956.
Course: One mile, rowed- from stake boats in the direction
of the tide. Conditions - good.
1st T i l l . Thames Cup Division - Allanoon Memorial Trophy.
Result: First heat. I.C., on the centre station lost to
Thames R.C. by one length, beating University College and
Hospital B.C. by one length. Raoe rowed on the flood tide.
Winners time 3 m. 56 sec
After a slow start in whioh I.C. went down by £ length
to Thames H.C., the crew rewed a straightforward race running
length down from the leaders over most of the course draw-
ing away cofortably from u*.C.H._,but "being unable to m
a
-
.
e any
impression on the 4hames orewe
2nd. VIII. - Junior Senior Division - Goring Cup.
Rflault: 1st heat. I.C,, on the Surrey station,lost to Vesta
R.Ce. by 2 lenths, beating Thames ReC. by over 2 lengths.
Race rowed on the ebb tide. Winner^* time 3m. 55 sec.
Agood start saw I.Cl in the lead by \ length initially
but Vesta R.C., with more solid blade work, were able to
overtake them by -
|
- way and keep the lead.
3rd. VIII - Junior Division - Ronald Studd Gup.
Result: 1st heate I.C.,on the centre station, lost to Thames
Tradesmen R.C. by one length, beating Quintin B.C. by one
length. Race rowed on the flood tide# Winner* s time if m
*
7 sec.
After some anxious moments with a jammed rudder and so
some difficulty in making fast to the stake boat, IeC.
went off to a poor start but leading by a canvas from the
other two crew3 at half way. Finish was lacking, however,
in the I.C. crew, and the Thames Tradesmen were able to pull
away to win by a length.
Sculls - Junior Sonion Division - Coronation Cup.
Result: 1st. heate I.C, won nrmJ, Goulding of Barnes ReC,
and G.C. Justica of Royal Engineers R.C, Winner's time
5 m
e 10 sea.
2nd. Heat (final) I.C. lost to J.E. Elgar of Bedford
Bark R.C.
Martin Gayland is to be cong-atulated on winning his
heat end reaching the finals of this event. The final was
lost to a better tactician, but nevertheless served as ex-
cellent experience for similar events to oome
CRICKET—NO HAT-TRICKS
Hook (Hants) 96 I.C. 95
There could hardly have been a more exoiting finish to
1.0. annual pilgrimage to village orioket, near the great
game's birthplace in Hampshire.
Despite the lure of "Bie Darche3ter Arms", the game began
only 55 minutes late, and, suitably stimulated, I.C. soon took
a firm grip on the game. Wickets fell steadily and lunch was
taken with the Hook score at 55-5. The weather made for great
thirst, and parched throats were damped enthusiastically
throughout the lunoheon interval of one and a half hours.
Wioketa oontinued to fall after lunch, and I.C.'a fielding
was up to standard, Weale taking a catch between his legs.
Hook were all out for 96(Carter 3 for 21, Hearn 3 for 21,
Shepherd 2 for77)
I.C. were given a solid start by Weale, who by scoring
2 in 26 minutes, stayed until the score reached 32-2 (nearn 19).
When the soore reached 88-6 (Kitchener 31)» all seemed over.
But Tillage crioket is unpredictable, and wickets tumbled to
such effect that when R.A. l^rtham, veteran no. 11, strode to
the wioket, two were s t i l l require far victory, Neither of
these was forthcoming from the bat of Dytham, who played an
innings of ludicrous brevity. So the men of nook strode as
worth winners to "The Dorchester", where they proceeded to
demonstrate their equal superiority at darts, during an
evening that will long be remembered for its delightful
singing.
Other results:-
I.C. 165 - 6 deo. (Kitchener 38, Walker 33)
Q
.
M
.
C
. 92- 8 (Shilling 3-16, Shepherd 3-17)
1.0. 173 - 7 dec .(Kitphener 56, Shepherd 41)
Trinity Hall, Camb. 174-3
Chelsea Police 118 - 6 dec. (Shepherd 3 -38)
I.C. 122-3 (Pande 46)
The Sunday Circus XI has at last found beatable opponents
in Gidea Park 2nd. XI. Appropriately enough the highest score
ever made for the Circus (so it is thought) has been put up
by the College's biggest clown, Brian hearn, who showed an
amasing eye In hitting 141 not out in 83 minutes.
It seems he should stick to cricket, and cease his random
ordering of coaches and incurring of losses for Charity.
Id by dm FEUX BOARD.
I br SU. VOL" >IU7U
Impenu UXkea Union, London, S
W
.
7
. » K TaepboM Pines. London. W
.
I
4
.

