F E L I X
S P O R
9-un d MORPHY DAY
N E W S
PSUEDO FLOOR BOMBS KS PUTNEY,
LOOOOOONG TTME! ! I !
THE FUN LASTED A
If you went down to the Morphy Day,
Xou were sure of a big surprise,.
If you went down to the Morphy Day,
Tou should have gone in disguise.
With R.C.S. in a bit of a mess,
And Guilds all covered in water.
( Written by a Miner.)
The various colleges went down to Morphy Day prepared for
SPORT. The Guilds arrived with "Bo" at Putney at about 1.30.
later the R.C.S. appeared led by the Fire Engine, on board
whioh were effigies of the Guilds' and Mines' Presidents.
In spite of the Guildsmens' and Miners' efforts, these were
burnt outside the Boat House. The fight soBtinned sporadically
with squibs and fireworks, until the boats came in sight, when
a truoe was called. Keith Miller, President of the Guilds, in
full regalia was ably defended by his supporters, except on
two occasions when he and the spanner were rushed, nearly
into the water, by miners. Others were not so lucky, and
there were several casualties and duckings.
The Traction Engine hit a car, ran out of water several
times, nearly blew its fusible plug and arrived as everyone
was going home, with no water and no steam. The crowd four
hundred strong, were escorted home by the police, and
finally dispersed at '
.
.
"
'
.
e
n Station.
The. llorphy Race.
Results of the draw gave Mines the Middlesex station,
Guilds the centre and R.C.S. the Surrey shore.The sun had
gone in, the water was choppy on the Middlesex side and the
wind was blowing from the starboard bow.
The crews got off to a good start at Hammersmith
Bridge, but by Harrods, Guilds led R.C.S, by $ 'canvas, with
R.S.M. half a length behind. By Crabtree the distances were
£ a length and -| of a length respectively. Towards the mile,
post the R.C.S. oox wa3 steering a zig-zag course and crowd-
ing the Guilds boat; they were warned several times by the
umpire. The time at the Milepost was 3 mins. 16 sees., and
the positions were: C & 6,- |j.-R.C.S.-1l.- R.S.M.
Between the Milepost and the Football Grounds Mines
spurted, moved into Guilds wash and nearly clashed with R.C.S,
Guilds, however, were increasing their lead (to I3: 1.), with
Mines and R.C.S. level. The poor steering of the R.C.S. cox
was causing further loss of ground. The positions at Craven
Steps were C S-. S . T i f l . - B.S.M.- 1 ft.- R.C.S.; at the
Brook, C & G»- 1yU- R.S.K.- fL- R.C.S.; and at the.boat-
house, C & G»- 21.- R.S.M.- f [ . - BJ.CS. The time at the
Finish was 8 mins. 15 sees., with Guilds winning by two
clear lengths from Mines, who led R.C.S. by 1 ^ lengths.
'Had Mine3 been awarded half a length advantage by the
starter, on account of their station, as the umpire suggest-
ed, Guilds' lead at the Finish would probably have been only
one length clear.
The Lowry Race.
The stations for the race were the same as for the
Morphy. Thirty seconds after the start of the Dowry, Mines
clashed with Guilds, and Mines' bow broke a blade. A new one
was supplied from the launch, and the raoe was restarted.
From the 3tart at the Milepost, Guilds went into the
lead, and at the Football Grounds the positions were: C & &.-
1 j j L . - R.C.S.- - j l . - R.S.M. AT further in the race, positions
were: the Brook, C & G.- 1 j L > - R.C.S.- a canvas - R.S.M.;the
Boathouse, C & S»_ 21.- R.C.S. and R.S.M. equal; London R.C.,
C & <6»- 21*- R.S.M.- 2ft.-.R.C.S., and at the Finish Guilds
led Mine3 by three lengths, with R.C.S. three feet behind
Mines. The time was 4 mins. 38 sees.
FELIX would l i k e to thank the Boat Club f o r t h e i r
kind co-operation i n allowing the Sub-Editore and
a photographer on the launch,
R.F. C. WIN R o u n d o f U . L C u p
During the opening phase of the game, King's kept on
getting the ball but I.C. held out with good defensive work.
Early on Hearni. missed a long penalty kiok at goal, but soon
he had another ohanoe, and this time there was no doubt.(I.C.
3 - 0). After a thrilling serum in front of the King's posts,
Beam dropped a perfect goal. (I.C. 6 - 0). By this time I.C
were playing well together as a team - and then King's had
the misfortune to lose one of their centres with a broken an-
kle. He later went to hospital. Hearn kicked two more good
penalty goals before half-time, when the score waa 12-0.
HhB 1.0. pack had not had enough of the ball during the
firat-hajf; their scrummaging in the set-scrums was not good,
although they were much better in the loose. Early an Don-
caster dropped a magnificent goal to make the soore 15-0,
and this was quiokly followed by another Hearn penalty :
(18 - 0). At last the Hng*s line was crossed, after a ball
came to Balmer on the right wing (via Holman), and he soar-
ed in the corner. The attempted conversion failed (18 - 0).
Shortly afterwards Donoaster kioked ahead, followed up, took
the ball in the loose, and went over for a seoond unconverted
try. This brought the final scare to I.C. 24, King's 0. We
had won -the first round! There was over a score of I.C. supp-
orters watching; Mrs,Robinson enjoyed the game very much.
Of the 1st XV, Toynbee, Hearn , and Dingle at scrum-half were
stalwarts of the team.
KING'S GET THE BALL BACK. EVEN THOUGH I.C. WON,
THE SET SCRUMS ABE WEAK. '
MORPHY
CREWS CELEBRATE
The Boat Club threw t r a i n i n g to the winds
when i t held i t s 36th.Annual Dinner i n the Ayrton
Hall following the day's racing. The usual festive
s p i r i t was undaunted by the prodigous length of
the speeches and presentation of trophies; the Lord
Desborough Memorial Medal beine; awarded to last
year's Captain of Boats,Kim Ash.The proceedings were
brought to a hasty close at 10.30p.m. leaving just
h a l f an hour f o r the e s s e n t i a l exercise of elbow
"and vocal chords i n the bar.
4 j
..r
FELIX PHOTO FROM THE LAUNCH, OSRB BT KIND PERMISS-
ION OF THE BOAT CLUB.
Published by FELIX B O A R D , Imperial College Union, London, S.W. 7.
Printed by S'lL V O U S PLAIT Ltd., 307a, Telephone Place, London. W.I4.

