2 F E L I X
ii ii
ill it all seem worthwhile
5 YEARS FROM NOW?
At Turner & Newall we give a considerable
amount of thought to the question of a man's
future. And our graduate training scheme is
planned to be adaptable to his individual needs
- t o employ and extend his attainments to the
full.
You May Know Our Name But . . . just to
remind you - we are not only the dominant
asbestos group in Britain, we also have a large
and growing stake in plastics, in insulation, in
mineral wool, and in glass fibre . . . all adding
up to a £100,000,000 business with some
40,000 employees. Big enough to give a man
scope. Yet, because each of our nine British
companies largely runs its own affairs, not so
big that the essential 'human touch' is
endangered.
This balance is reflected in our executive
development training which, far from tying a
man down to any one type of career —
production, sales, administration - allows him
time to discover his true potential.
This way, we invariably find that the graduate-
assumes managerial responsibility more con-
fidently - and certainly earlier - than is usual1
in a modern industrial complex.
Ask your Appointments Board for further
details, or write direct to:
Management Appointments Adviser, Turner &.
Newall Ltd., 15 Curzon Street, London, W 1.
TURNER & NEWALL LIMITED
TURNERS ASBESTOS CEMENT CO LTD • TURNER BROTHERS ASBESTOS CO LTD • FERODO LTD ' THE WASHINGTON
CHEMICAL CO LTD • NEW ALLS OVULATION CO LTD • J W ROBERTS LTD • BRITISH INDUSTRIAL PLASTICS LTD
STILLITE PRODUCTS LTD • TURNERS ASBESTOS FD3RES LTD AND 15 OVERSEAS MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
THE F L A T E A R T H
SOCIETY
Following the emergence of the
H. G. Wells Society which is con-
cerned with some less usual as-
pects of scientific knowledge is
Flat Earth Society, which is de-
voted rather to preposterous
scientific theories, or no "Non-
science " as it has been described.
The title is not intended to indi-
cate the beliefs of its members,
but rather the kind of belief it
wishes to investiaate. The society
is also interested in certain fan-
tastic yet none the less genuine
and not infrequent occurrences,
such as the falling of stones and
blocks of ice out of clear empty
skies, and the spontaneous com-
bustion of human beings.
The founders of the society,
Mike Harris and R. Graham
Brown, claim that its purpose is
primarily entertainment though
combined to some extent with a
desire to determine just what
makes an otherwise apparently
intelligent man claim, for ex-
ample, that he has found a cure
for cancer, but cannot reveal it
as Confucious has appeared to
him and forbidden him to do so.
The sc;iety charges no mem-
bership fee, the small expenses
being bourne by the founders,
and attendance at the meetings
has (consequently ?) been large.
Speaking at the first meeting
were members of the Ancient
Order of Atlantians. These ap-
parently fearful of a sub-standard
level of credulity among the audi-
ence, toned down the content of
the talk to some platitudes con-
cerning the amorality of the
scientist, and the imminent self-
destruction of the human race.
More interesting was the talk at
the second meeting given by the
Aetherius Society. This organis-
ation was founded by a Dr.
George King who, in 1952, while
sitting in his Maida Vale flat, was
instructed by a disembodied
voice to become " the Voice of
Interplanetary Parliament." Since
then Dr. King has had numerous
telepathic communications from
the " Space People," which he re-
peats into a tape recorder when
in a deep trance. In case anyone
doesn't know, the Space People
are the highly advanced civilisa-
tions that live on the other
planets, and visit us frequently in
flying saucers. It seems they are
displeased with the way we are
running our planet, and are not
going to permit us to land on the
Moon or anywhere until we have
" put our house in order." The
speakers were well-spoken, ap-
parently intelligent and know-
ledgeable young men, they were
obviously convinced of the truth
of their doctrines.
H.T.D.
S m a l l A d s
U R G E N T L Y NEEDED—Fid-
dler or violinist to play for sword-
dancing team just forming in col-
lege — contact David Vaughan
(int. 2668).

