10
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Carla Mulas critically analyses the landmark research that has
polarised opinion betwen academics and ruffled the media
$600M
The value of the collaboration
between ExxonMobil and Synthetic
Genomics, the company founded by
Craig Venter
‘Artificial cell’ arrives
T
he headline “Craig Venter
creates artificial life” could
be seen in virtually every
newspaper and magazine,
from the tabloid rag of
The Sun through to the esteemed Sci-
ence. Well, you have to give it to them;
the title is catchy and certainly opens
the doors to much media-loved bick-
ering between discerning parties. But
what is this buzz all about?
To explain: Cells are the basic units
of life and DNA is essentially their
software. This fairly simple molecule
contains a code in the form of four
chemical bases that the cell decodes
to synthesise proteins and enzymes,
which in turn regulate cell behaviour.
Easy.
What Venter’s team did was to take
small fragments of this DNA, identical
to ‘natural’ DNA but synthesised by a
machine, and paste them in increasing-
ly big fragments. The final product was
a slightly modified copy of the genome
of a bacterium (the donor), which they
inserted into a close relative bacterium
(the host). The modified host showed
the same characteristics as the donor,
showing that DNA really controls cell
identity (… surprise?).
While some claim that Venter is
playing God, it seems to me that he is
a mere counterfeiter, simply trying to
photocopy an incredible painting. The
true achievement of this work is in the
practical realisation of the task, which
expected. We now have a slightly dif-
ferent picture of how life at its basics
works. It is not a simple chain that
links DNA to protein, and conse-
quently protein to function, but rath-
er, it is a very complex network with
many branching points, loops and
interconnections.
This is a problem at two levels. First
of all, we have not yet mastered the art
of creating new proteins because we
are missing some of the information
around a bit.
This highly laborious technique,
whilst providing an alternative to tra-
ditional methods in which we sim-
ply deleted or added genes, has the
potential to become a valuable tool
for things such as the production of
medicines and the treatment of pol-
lutants, and it has helped develop the
field of ‘Synthetic Biology’. At present
however, we seem to be incredibly far
from being able to “design” a cell from
scratch. This poses the question; why
not use the well-designed and nature-
tested models that we presently have
as a scaffold? “It will eventually come
in useful” appears to be the only pos-
sible answer at present, even though
it is hard to imagine the supporters of
the $40m funding being happy enough
with that...
Whilst some people are concerned
with the risk of this method being
used to manufacture new biochemi-
cal weapons, in light of what has been
described above, it does not appear as
though we are in more danger than we
ever were before. After all, who would
choose a new, more expensive, more
complicated and troublesome tech-
nique when current techniques are
more than sufficient?
Craig Venter’s work is revolutionary
in the sense that now we can play with
even bigger DNA fragments, and that
the synthesised DNA appears to be as
good as the ‘natural’ DNA. The crea-
tion of new methods is always a pre-
requisite for their optimisation and
further developments, thus leading to
lower costs, and so making them more
widely available.
However, in this case it looks like the
progress of the “artificial cell” will not
be limited by the improvement of tech-
niques, but rather by the increased un-
derstanding in the field of biology and
biochemistry which requires much
more effort.
Without an understanding of the
network DNA-protein-function, we
are simply going to keep photocopying
paintings.
E
very now and again there’s a
piece of news that just leaves
you stood wondering in
amazement. Something that
within one fell swoop can lift you to
another realm of conciousness and
totally transform your viewpoint in a
positive manner. Dr Venter would like
his creation of the ‘artificial cell’ to be
one of these moments in time. Howev-
er, it quite simply is not. Just forget it.
The research published in Science
last week titled “Creation of a Bacte-
rial Cell Controlled by a Chemically
Synthesized Genome” is a fine piece
of work. As Carla explains, it is a feat
of technical brilliance to be able to im-
plant chemically synthesised DNA into
an existing ‘shell’ of a cell (i.e. all the
components of the cell including the
organelles and enzymes) that has had
its DNA removed and to then ‘re-boot’
the system using this implanted DNA.
It is a technical breakthrough, but then
so too is a lot of the research coming
out of research institutions every week.
Creating life can surely only be a
claim made legitimately once the en-
tire cell and its components are synthe-
sised from scratch using a man-made
DNA construct? Rather than having a
load of the hard work already done for
you? This idea is a remote possibility
and is something a million miles away
What’s all this
about then?
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
scaremongering, hyperbolic article
alongside an interview with our very
own Lord Robert Winston, who very
gently and calmly put us all back in our
place.
So, in simple terms, the research
itself is nothing to worry about, and
neither are the possibilites and likely
applications that eventually come out
of it. What is more disturbing is some-
thing else slightly more hidden.
This week Prof John Sulston (a Nobel
Prize winner for his work mapping the
human genome, so you might expect
him to know what he’s talking about)
gave a slightly more cynical view on
the issue, claiming that Craig Venter
was seeking to create a monopoly with
genetic engineering techniques. He
made his claims on BBC Radio 4 whilst
dismissing the research as nothing
more than a “pretty little experiment”
stating that “they are using this experi-
ment to claim an enormous range of
possibilities which really would give
them control of all bioengineering in
the future”. He continued: “it seems to
me that this is exactly the sort of thing
that we don’t want the patent system
to do”.
These are worries shared amongst
the wider scientific community, but
it is both easy and difficult to be too
skeptic. On the one hand, we have a
chauvanistic individual who clearly
knows how to play the media, and
who may partake in slightly dubious
collaborations with cloudy motives (a
$600M deal wth ExxonMobil having
recently been announced). But on the
other hand, this is the same individual
who brought us shotgun sequencing
and the completion of the human ge-
nome project.
The motivations of his research
notably include the possibilities that
work could be put towards advanced
biofuels, new vaccines and medicines.
These are wholesome and worthy
aims to have, and so on the surface
given his achievements to date thus far
along with the power at his command,
Craig Venter is clearly an important
individual.
As humans we are, generally speak-
ing, all for innovation and creativity,
especially in the name of discovery.
But so too should we be for regula-
tion and control over the bodies and
individuals that oversee the important
work on some of the most pressing is-
sues society faces today.
“These are worries
shared amongst
the scientific
community, but it
is both easy and
difficult to be too
skeptic”
Scanning electron micrograph of M. mycoides JCVI-syn1
probably took the word “trouble-
shooting” to a whole new level. This
project, started more than 10 years ago
with a reported cost of $40m, has been
termed by some as a “scientific land-
mark”. But is it really? At first sight,
there are already quite a few problems;
to understand why, we need to go back
a few years.
When the race for the Genome Se-
quences started, we had the hope that,
upon its completion, we would liter-
ally unlock the secret to life. While it
became an incredibly useful tool, the
results were not as self-explanatory as
on how the sequence of a protein leads
to a particular function (i.e. from the
sequence of the protein alone we can
deduce very little and we are missing
the sequence-function relationship).
Secondly, we can only try to under-
stand the end product, i.e. a living cell,
by examining the network or the inter-
actions at the protein level, something
which takes time, and which we are
still working towards.
This means that at present we can-
not “write” a new code that will create
a new cell but we can simply play with
what Nature has given us, tweaking
Dr Craig Venter, leader of the team to create the ‘artificial cell’
from the stage we are currently at, and
consequently unthinkable at this mo-
ment in time.
The standard mainstream reaction
towards this research has been driven
by the apparent fear that soon, this line
of enquiry and technical expertise will
make it possible for scientists to create
fully fledged organismal life and com-
mit acts tantamount to the ‘work of
God’.
Now, I’ve already aired my irrita-
tion about the usage of the phrase ‘act
of God’ relating to insurance claims,
and it should come as no suprise that
all this discussion of ‘playing God’ is
equally as unappealing to me. Will
we ever reach a point in time where
tabloids and news outlets can report
on stories without resorting to such
tasteless tactics? Nevermind that the
concept of a ‘God’ is very much open
for debate. Credit where credit is due
though, The Sun ran their standard

