11
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Geomorphometric techniques take us back in time
S
he sits alone. Much like
Hamlet, Dr Williams beholds
a skull - poring over every
detail. Yet this skull does not
belong to the fictional jester.
It is the face of a young child. Her time
with the specimen is not a fleeting la-
ment but a laborious and emotionally
taxing study. But unlike the tragedy’s
protagonist, Dr Williams is not left
with sadness but with hope.
Previously forensic scientists have
encountered difficulty in identifying
the remains of children. It has been
thought that distinct features do not
manifest themselves in the bone until
adulthood. But Dr Williams of the Uni-
versity of Florida believed otherwise.
“The skull, is endlessly fascinating,
as so many features which define the
way in which we are perceived in the
world are etched into its surface. For
instance, clues to a person's sex, and
ancestry are imprinted on bone itself.
With minimal equipment, keen eye-
sight, training, and perseverance many
of these secrets can be uncovered”.
And they were. Using ‘geometric
morphometric’ (GM) techniques, Dr
Williams studied the skulls of 50 chil-
dren and adults. It involved ‘collect-
ing data by applying a probe attached
to the mechanical arm of a piece of
equipment called a digitizer to various
points on the skull.’ Single 3D points
were then mapped and compared
across different age groups. The find-
ings were exciting, as Dr Williams re-
calls. “Our results found no significant
differences in between the teens and
young adults, indicating adulthood is
reached earlier in the skull than com-
monly thought.”
For forensic scientists this means
one thing - techniques used to identify
adult skulls can also be applied to older
children.
The hope extends further. Children
of the past and of past civilisations can
now be analysed whereas before, their
ancestry and sex were not attempted
to be determined. The study’s results
were later applied to a 10 year old boy
who was found to be of Mesoamerican
origin. Ancestral identifications could
help investigators with facial recon-
structions. Perhaps even one day GM
could help bring closure to the families
of missing children.
Dr Williams does not doubt the
power of GM. “I am confident GM will
become more commonplace in foren-
sic analyses. There is no doubt that the
process can be tedious, but the final
outcome makes it well worth it.”
So while Hamlet will forever ponder
the great questions of life and death,
Dr Williams is providing answers and
a glimmer of hope for what are essen-
tially stories of tragedy. And after clo-
sure, I hope that for these children and
their families the rest is silence.
Shupaula Dass reveals a new technique has been developed to allow identification of the remains of children
Is this the dagger I see before me ... oh wait, wrong one
One of the three ‘Southside’ halls of residence
housing around 120 undergraduate students
over 7 floors. The Wardening Team facilitates
a lively social programme and provides
pastoral care to the students.
Applicants should be:
x Friendly
x Resourceful
x Energetic
x Responsible
To fulfil your duties, you are
required to live in hall in rent-
free accommodation
There is now an opportunity to join this
dedicated group of highly motivated staff in
September.
Applications are welcome from all members
of college, although the position is particularly
suited to postgraduate students.
Application forms can be found at
https://halls.imperial.ac.uk/vacancies/
For more information please contact Dr Dominik
Weiss: d.weiss@imperial.ac.uk
APPLICATION DEADLINE:
Friday 18th June 2010
Subwarden Vacancy
At Tizard Hall (Southside)
he Imperial College science magazine
h I i l C ll i i
I, science
New issue
out now

