unionpage
When we last asked for you to give us your
ideas on a new name for da Vinci’s the
voting results were too close to show a clear
favourite, therefore we have decided to ask
you for your ideas once again.
We already have a name for the new
nightclub, Metric, which has proved popular
with everyone. We will be introducing the
new logo for Metric in the next fortnight, but
in the meantime the new bar is our focus.
This time we would like to hear what you
think your new bar should be called and why
you think your suggestions are the best.
You can submit your ideas from today. You
will be able to submit ideas for the next two
weeks, until Friday 11 June. During this time
we would like to hear ideas for names that
you feel would work well with your new
bar, we would also like to hear in a sentence
or two why you feel your name would suit
your new bar – try and convince us and your
fellow students!
You can submit your ideas by tweeting
with the tag #phase3 as well as by
commenting on the post on our blog,
imperialcollegeunion.org/phase3. We will
then look at all your ideas after the closing
date.
The new bar will have a clean, bright and
fresh feel. It will be the place for you to get a
drink, meal or watch sports on the overhead
projectors in a nice relaxed, spacious
atmosphere. To help you visualise your
new bar the latest pictures of our Phase 3
development are on the blog. These include
pictures of your new bar, and will hopefully
inspire you when thinking of suitable names.
The Phase 3 blog is also the place to keep
up-to-date with all the lastest news on our
new nightclub and bar.
Your chance to name your new bar! (Again)
imperialcollegeunion.org
The Bar/Cafe
We need your ideas. Head to the Phase 3 blog: imperialcollegeunion.org/
phase3 and submit your name for the new bar by commenting on the blog post.
Or tweet
Or tweet
#phase3
#phase3
with your
with your
suggestion
suggestion
and reason!
and reason!
Tickets selling fast for the Summer Ball 2010
The Summer Ball 2010 is fast-approaching!
The ball is the largest social event at Imperial
each year and is an unmissable night for both
final-year and returning students. This year
we have a massive outdoor stage with some
of the best live music around. The Noisettes,
Tinie Tempah and Plan B are all performing on
our Metric stage; it’s just like a festival stage,
on the Queen’s Lawn. Plus we have great
dance music in the Great Hall and our indie
disco in the Quad.
If you want to attend the dinner you will
need to buy your tickets quickly! There are a
only a limited number left and your deadline
for purchasing one is next Friday 4 June
at midnight. Entertainments tickets are also
selling well. For only £45 you get access to all
this great live music.
For more information and to buy tickets, go
online to imperialcollegeunion.org/ball. And
don’t forget to round up your friends so that
you can all get a table together for the dinner.
Make sure you do this before next Friday! Still
not convinced? Have a chat to some people
who went last year or the year before; they
will convince you!
Deadline for your ideas
is Friday 11 June.
Submit yours now!

