17
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
Drunken-Mate Photo Of The Week
Arguably the worst part of a night on the lash is coming home and taking it
out on your flat. Thankfully, a bin was provided to spare that...beautiful rug.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken mates
to catnip.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
SOCKS AND SANDALS:
AVANT-GARDE GARB OR FOOTWEAR FAIL?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Overheard At Imperial...
Best Place for a Picnic?
Queen’s Lawn, defo. And don’t worry if we scorch the grass.
They’ll just returf it again anyway.
Second Year Physicist
Prince’s Gardens. It’s like Hyde Park except smaller. And
without the geese.
First Year Medic
The Library. It’s not like it can get any hotter in there.
First Year Biologist
A: Come drinking or we’ll kill you.
B: But then I won’t be able to sit my exam. – A crisis of priorities.
When I was seven, I made a database of my teddies. – Imperial gets ‘em young.
The skin is the largest organ, even though some boys in the room may beg to differ with that statement. – Dermatologists tell it straight.
Don’t you hate when your curly arrows end up straight? – Not just arrows.
A: Are you going to ‘robots’ (Cognitive Robotics)?
B: It’s not ‘robots’.
A: It better fucking well be! It’s got robots in the name! – The man wants robots, dammit!
What’s a medic? – Overheard in the SAF foyer.
Is your life so dull you’re eavesdropping on others?
Post your listenings on the “Overheard at Imperial” facebook group
Gossop Boyo on
Smoking and Silence
I
mperial College is supposed to be full of hand-picked,
creme-de-la-creme, intellectual future Nobel Prize
winners. A few things have led me to question this:
1. Forgive me if I’m mistaken but I am pretty sure that
the sign outside the library reads “No smoking”. Now I would
think that this would be a rather simple undertaking. Indeed
is it the first or the second word that is the stumper? Maybe it
is the collective synergy of the two words that really throw the
spanner into the works? Or maybe there are just a group of
collective ignorami assholes who choose to flaunt this rather
simple instruction. I would rather spend my precious minutes
out of the confines of the library in the pocket of peace that is
the Queen’s Lawn without passively inhaling your fungating
fumes. I urge you to take action - be it mild (give the offender
the evil eye), moderate (point the offender towards the sign),
or severe (scream in incandescent rage at their sheer stupidity,
ignorance and selfishness).
2. The silent study area. Ah, bane of my life, home away
from home. I would have thought that this was a classic case
of Ronseal does what it says on the tin. So why then is it that
people think that it’s a good idea to flagrantly flaunt the rules.
Assholes? My personal favourite is when people choose to
whisper thinking that I will not hear them because they are
sat across from me and that the laws of physics dictate that
sound does not carry that far. Seriously what makes it all the
more fun is when this conversation is carried out in a dialect
that is innately guttural and with a bit of luck I can have flecks
of their spit gracing the pages that I am trying to study from.
How kind of them. I recommend that we adopt a similar
approach to the smokers and give these people a right royal
telling off. That should learn them, num sayin’?
I love Imperial!
Gossip Boyo

