18
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
H
ooray! I never have to
take an exam ever again.
Unfortunately I do have
to complete a disserta-
tion, an oral exam (no
jokes please), poster and a presenta-
tion so I don’t get much time for art or
culture.
So I haven’t edited felix since be-
fore Easter and we’ve suddenly gone
from freezing cold (you may remem-
ber most of my columns grumbling
about the freezing conditions) to being
30 degrees. Luckily the felix office is
down in the depths of the Union build-
ing so it’s escaped the worst of the heat.
If you like your weather on the warm
side then now is a great time to get out
and see some culture! Soon the Re-
gent’s Park open air will be opening up
to perform Stephen Sondheim’s Into
The Woods. If musicals aren’t your
thing, take a wander round Hyde Park
and drop into the Serpentine Gallery.
They are currently showing the work
of Nairy Baghramian and Phyllida
Barlow. They specialise in striking 3D
forms.
What I like best is to sit in the park
with friends giving a brilliant excuse
for some arty excursions. There is
nothing better than a good old sing-
song of dodgy nineties Britpop (or in
my case a fuckload of theatre songs).
Or get some cheap watercolour paints
and have a painting contest in the park.
Best picture wins beer.
I suffer from nasty bouts of hayfever
and hate hot weather so I’ll be taking
my culture indoors thank you very
much. For me this means singing in-
credibly loudly whilst writing my dis-
sertation (apologies to my flatmates!)
and doodling a costume design or two.
Although I’ll never say no to a good old
trip to the theatre. We in the felix Arts
office have been raving about Hair.
Caz saw the press night and I went on
opening night. It was absolutely phe-
nomenal from the show itself to rac-
ing around the entire theatre to get
the opportunity to dance onstage to
refusing to get off said stage. My friend
and I met everyone from James Rado,
writer of Hair (he was pretty stoned
and attempted to pat me on the head)
to Jodie Prenger, soon to be starring as
the Lady of the Lake in Spamalot on
tour.
For those of you still suffering with
examavitis, never fear! I’ve found you
some culture without even leaving the
library. Don’t be scared of the Haldane
Collection it really does hold some
treasures. Rox Middleton hasn’t gone
much further, taking in a new exhibi-
tion at the V&A. Rosie Milton reports
back from the Tate Modern and, in a
triumphant return, Why I Like is back
with a look at Judy Garland.
Ten Years of Tate, yay!
Rosie Milton looks at the Tate Modern’s ‘Festival of Independents’
Too Darn
Hot...
LucyHarrold
LucyHarrold Arts Editor
I
know, I’m supposed to keep an
open mind when it comes to
contemporary art, or ‘happen-
ings’ (whatever the on-trend
term may be nowadays). How-
ever, although the plethora of activity
on view at the Tate this weekend was
supposed to instil a sense of excite-
ment about current art production, it
really didn’t. My peers’ view of Tate
is normally withering and anti-estab-
lishment. I think they mostly disagree
with the curatorial processes in terms
of the displays of the modern art and
the message of the big shows. For ex-
ample, criticism of how the Rothko’s
are hung has often come up in class. I
would be lying if I said I agreed; I ac-
tually like the soft, muted greys of the
Rothko room (when occupied by said
works) and have no idea of their origi-
nal placement in the Seagram building
to compare with.
I approached the mini-festival, ‘No
Soul For Sale – A Festival of Independ-
ents’, with an open mind. As I have just
alluded to, I subscribe to Tate’s method
of putting on events and ‘blockbuster
shows’ and was intrigued by this par-
ticular event. Unfortunately this festi-
val – apparently representative of the
10 years that Tate Modern has exist-
ed – did not, I feel, do justice to that
which it was celebrating.
The back of the main turbine hall
was the site for the festival; areas had
been partitioned off and labelled, by
way of taped margins on the floor. Col-
oured bits of paper, random objects
and stalls of various kinds, not to men-
tion crowds of people milling around
aimlessly, had swallowed up every
square inch. At first we attempted to
investigate every partition, working in
an anti-clockwise movement. Nothing
seemed to be clear – there was the usu-
al unexplained conceptual display: a
seated girl holding the carcass of a blue
chicken, television screens on the floor
playing film, paper everywhere with
nondescript text and an abundance
of other bits and pieces. Strangely
enough this festival calls to mind an-
other event that spans only a couple of
days and needs to be as absent as it is
present in only matter of hours: that
of the Chelsea Flower Show. Know-
ing active participants of the competi-
tion aspect, I understand that you are
given a small concrete space and have
to recreate a ‘moment’ almost, of a gar-
den that should look as if it has always
been there, then dismantle it at the end
of the show. This of course raises the
very issue that I have with the ‘Festival
of Independents’: there is the obvious
facet of financial backing. I appreciate
the fact that this event was free for all
and sundry, but that very fact became
painfully obvious by its general de-
meanour and ‘hippyishness’. The small
exhibits were tired and sad; like a re-
ally bad jumble sale. A car-boot-type
trestle table was set up in one area with
ready-made knick-knacks that had all
been modified in some debilitating
way, making them even more undesir-
able than they would have been before.
Other irksome spectacles: a photocop-
ier churning out pages and pages of the
same bland script on A3 (what is the
point?), a faux shaman playing music
through house plants (yes, even I didn’t
‘get it’) and very expensive boring art
books everywhere (no surprise there).
I enjoyed the energy of the event,
but I have to put my hands up and say
that when it comes down to it, I prefer
a little bit more the gloss of the estab-
lishment. Tate were clearly just trying
to show that they were ‘down with the
kids’. After 10 years of displaying a col-
lection which is equal to such a huge
amount of expenditure (not to men-
tion what we have spent on tickets of
the big shows) it was frankly insulting
to see this rickety fair as the epitome of
this last decade. Send the kids back to
the East End and let’s hope Tate pulls
its socks up.
10 years of the Tate Modern was celebrated by the ‘Festival of Independents’
Above: The floorplan from Festival of
Independents.
Left: Art and music combine as these
plants play dinky little tunes.
THE ARTS

