19
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Why I Like... Judy Garland
Rosannah Elsbury tells us about the studios’ darling, her short-lived career and dark personal life
O
n the tenth of June 1922
in the little town of
Grand Rapids, Minne-
sota, a baby girl named
Francis Ethel Gumm
popped out of a very disgruntled Mrs
Ethel Gumm.
As has been recorded countless
times throughout the late 20th centu-
ary, this little girl grew up to be none
other than Judy Garland.
Little Francis was the youngest of
three girls, thanks to their mother’s
ceaseless pushing and vicarious living
they became known in the vaudeville
world, imaginatively enough, as “The
Gumm Sisters”
Mary Jane “Suzy” Gumm and Doro-
thy Virginia “Jimmie” Gumm made
the larger part of the trio and it soon
became apparent that, whilst the two
older sisters could sing and dance as
well as anybody else, they were no
match for the bizzare gimmick of a
very little girl belting out a song like a
seasoned alto with a megaphone.
At some point it dawned on the
Gumm sisters that their name pro-
voked a certain amount of hilarity in
the audience and so after due consid-
eration they changed the name from
“Gumm” to “Garland” Francis then
changed her name to Judy after a pop-
ular Hoagy Carmichael song.
Judy shot to fame as Dorothy Gale in
“The Wizard of Oz”, she later went on
to star in many popular musicals such
as “Meet Me in St Louis”, where she
met her future husband and father of
her first child, Vincent Minelli.
Despite adoring Judy and fathering
future musical star Liza Minelli, Vin-
cent was a renowned homosexual, a
trend that was to continue in many of
Garland’s marriages.
After her success in “Meet Me in St
Louis”, Judy’s life started to go downhill.
After filming the box office flop “The
Pirate”, Ms Garland suffered a nervous
breakdown and was promptly escorted
to a private mental institution.
After a few weeks she was released
and went back to her hectic film sched-
ule. Unfortunately Judy was still very
unwell and was unable to complete the
filming of “The Berkelys of Broadway”
and was replaced by Ginger Rogers.
Judy suffered with these bouts of de-
pression and nervous anxiety through-
out her life, she was famously troubled,
rarely sober, pumped full of speed to
make her more productive and skinny I love The Wizard of Oz, here is Judy in her most famous role as Dorothy Gale
and bullied to within and inch of her
life by the studio chiefs, Judy, unsur-
prisingly became a very insecure and
irrational person.
Can you imagine what it would have
been like to work with her? Granted
she was reportedly a true luvvy to her
co-stars, but she was very unpredicta-
ble and suffered with her nerves. They
never knew if she would fly off the han-
dle, lose consciousness or even just not
come out of her dressing room.
Undoubtedly this lady is a legend of
both stage and screen, a dazzling siren
with the face of an innocent little girl
and a leather-tough, husky and emo-
tive voice, but an insecure, unpredict-
able mess off camera or stage.
The astonishing thing is that, de-
spite this, everyone she ever worked
with has always said what a wonderful
person she was. There is rarely a bad
word spoken about her in interviews,
perhaps she couldn’t help it and maybe
her good points outshone her bad ones
so much that the bad was forgotten,
but next time you hear her praises be-
ing sung, spare a thought for all those
who had to support her through the
tough times, and watch her soak up the
praise in the good times.
A
s a roving arts corre-
spondent, I took it upon
myself this week to make
the intrepid expedition all
the way to the V&A. Yes,
I realise I’m not going to win any points
for originality, and this is not the cut-
ting edge of contemporary alternative
culture, but it’s very much easier to do
very little work on getting in the good
stuff.
Anyway, this is a proper reason to go
to the V&A, since we’re so generally
oblivious to the everyday breathtaking
glory of its permanent exhibits; there’s
an exhibition (opened 1 May) ‘til 23
June of prints by Dali, Picasso, Matisse
and Warhol. How’s that for an eyeful?
Yes, seventy-five years covering the self
proclaimed “birth of the modern age”
in one easy exhibition. Not only that,
but this exhibition is just two rooms!
For efficiency, it doesn’t get much bet-
ter than this.
The two rooms are each divided into
two sections, half for each artist, and a
good range of prints to display a range
of their respective styles and variation.
These are not the paintings but prints,
which doesn’t really sound so impres-
sive, until you realise the huge impor-
tance of lithography in the oeuvres of
all four great artists.
Lithography is merely a type of
printing but specifically one in which
a smooth stone or metal plate is used
to create the print, rather than wood
block, intaglio or letterpress printing
which is ‘potato-print’ style.
The image is made by drawing the
desired picture onto the plate with a
hydrophobic, oily medium (think wax
crayons). Then hydrophilic gum Ara-
bic in water is poured over so that it
surrounds the picture, forming the re-
lief, turpentine is used to strip off the
excess oiliness from the original pic-
ture and the (oil-based) ink is poured
over the top. Obviously, it sticks only
to the original design and not the rest
of the plate where the hydrophilic gum
is. So then the inked-up plate can be
used to produce multiple copies or ex-
perimentation. I wish I’d known this
about lithography as I was wander-
ing about, mystified as to how exactly
these pictures had come to be, and why
it mattered.
The pictures themselves are certain-
ly varied, there’s no chance of getting
bored of the same style. Dali’s start off
with a series of seriously cool posters
he made to advertise train destinations
in France.
These large and gaudy pictures con-
trast with the next ones in the Dali sec-
tion which are some surreal fine line
drawings of a tree-body cutting off
its own leg and stuff like that. I can’t
decide whether that sort of creepi-
ness is really my type of thing but it’s
quite nice to see. There are also some
totally different sketchy scribbly pieces
by Dali, like the owl which looks like a
massive biro doodle, and there’s a lit-
tle piece of card which boasts that Dali
once made a lithograph using snails
dipped in oily stuff. This, disappoint-
ingly, is not shown. And that’s it! Move
swiftly on to Warhol.
Warhol really was a printmaker, and
while Dali may be more well known for
his paintings, the Warhol wall is reas-
suringly lurid. There are some Marilyn
Monroes and some pictures of him
amongst a couple of others. You’ll have
seen them before, but it’s interesting to
see the full size faces layers of built-up
design.
After the first room, I preferred the
second more. There’s a gamut of Ma-
tisse’s nudes, from the iconic minimal
line drawings which are fantastically
evocative, for all their simplicity, to
plainly drawn studies, and a photo of
Matisse drawing a nude model which I
particularly liked. There are even fun-
ny, curvy women called “Monumental
odalisques” on the little bit of card,
although I didn’t find that descrip-
tion terribly enlightening. It turns out
an odalisque is a particularly Matisse
thing and means an Ottoman slave
woman (part of the Imperial Harem,
haha).
Picasso’s section has a naked woman
picking a flea off her bum (“amusing
yet sensual”?) and some really lovely
ink-flooded portraits which I thought
was printmaking at its finest; black and
white and simply beautiful. Not being
a buff of any of the four great artists,
I really enjoyed it, a nice espresso cup
of great art.
Modern Masters- Dali, Picasso, Warhol and Matisse
Roxanne Middleton nips down the road to the V&A to lift the lid on some misunderstood modern classics
Picasso always regretted installing a window where his door was

