20 felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
If you go down to the library today...
T
his week I haven’t been anywhere fancy schmancy. Instead I’ve been stuck in the dungeon of a computer room writing my dissertation. ‘How are you writing this
article?’ I hear you ask. Well dear reader, let me introduce you to the wonder that is the Haldane Collection. The Haldane used to be awesome, situated in what is now
the Level 1 Computer Room in the library. I’d spend most lunchtimes sat on the comfy chairs reading a newspaper or perusing the DVD collection for something to
watch that night. The Haldane Collection has now moved (minus the comfy chairs and newspapers) to the stifling heat of Level 5. Culture, amongst our very own.
DVDs
If you’re into opera, you’ll love the library’s DVD collection- it’s Verdi
and Puccini heaven. If you don’t like your singing quite so..erm… loud
then it’s a bit less fun.
Rocky Horror
Picture Show
Maybeoneforafterexams
but it is a must see for
anyone who’s ever seen
a guy wandering down
the street in fishnets
and suspenders and
thought WTF? Richard
O’Brien’s seminal
cross dressing cult flick
sees Brad and Janet
(Barry Bostwick and
Susan Sarandon) enter
into the strange world
of Frank N Furter (Tim
Curry) and friends. The
songs are catchy, the story
is absolutely ridiculous.
You may find yourself
developing affections for
men in suspenders...
MacBeth
This
production
starring theatre
legends Ian
McKellen and
Judi Dench is the
definitive version
of ‘The Scottish
Play’. Performed
without costumes
or complex sets the
text is the star of the
show, really getting
back to the purpose
of Shakespeare as an
art form, not a tool to
bore schoolchildren.
CDs
The library has the strangest collection of CDs, I’ve even spotted Louise Redknapp’s
only solo offering. But we’re going to narrow the search to theatre generally
because a) That’s my favourite subject and b) I think I must have taken out most of
the CDs in the eclectic collection.
Company
Amazingly, the library has
a rare rendering of the
1995 Donmar Warehouse
production of Company
starring Hustle’s Adrian
Lester. Company centres
around Bobby on his 35th birthday
as his friends around him grow up and
get married, Bobby is left cynical and
yearning for a relationship of his own. A
curious version of the show featuring a
predominantely black cast and imagining
Bobby as a cocaine addict.
Song highlights include Ladies Who
Lunch: Witty mentions of Mahler, hats
and all those girls we love to hate; and
Being Alive which is the ultimate male
ballad (well maybe except for Jesus
Christ Superstar’s Gethsename). Nuff
said. Listen to it, bitches.
Cabaret
The classic Kander and Ebb
Nazi musical. Based on
Charles Isherwood’s memoirs
of the 1930s in Berlin, Cabaret
isataleofdrugs,bisexualityand
debauchery.Thisisthedefinitive
recording featuring every song
ever used in any production of
the show. The awesome Jonathan
Pryce (Keira Knightley’s dad in Pirates
of the Carribbean) plays the fucking
mental Emcee with Maria Freedman
as Sally. Song highlights include
Wilkommen; it’s just a brilliant way
to open a show. Let’s turn the entire
exposition into a splendid number that
sets the scene perfectly.
Cabaret- A bittersweet ending. Sally
has lost everything – her man, her
livelihood, her baby and possibly
her life. When done properly, it’s
heartbreaking.
Books
Ragtime
I must admit I’ve taken this book out a fair few times but now
have my own copy so you can read it instead. Ragtime is the tale
of three families in turn of the century New York. An upper class
white family in New Rochelle, a black couple from Harlem and an
immigrant family from Latvia. E.L. Doctorow’s American classic
cleverly intertwines these three stories with the real characters
from the time period such as Houdini, Henry Ford and J.P. Morgan.
As we seethelivesof thesefamiliesbecomemore involved,thestory
takes on many twists and turns, addressing the big issues of the time.
Well that’s what a library is for. The Haldane
has possibly the most inexplicably diverse collection
of books, from Hugh Laurie’s only novel to modern classics like
Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings Trilogy. I’ve found some real gems in this
section, but also some rather dull affairs; like all artistic forms, it’s a
definite mixed bag.
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy
You’re at Imperial, how could you not read this book? Science
fiction at its best and its funniest, Douglas Adams’ trilogy of four
charts the adventures of Arthur Dent, a regular shmoe whose
best friend, Ford Prefect, happens to be an alien. Arthur and
Ford bumble about the universe discovering lost planets, new
civilisations run by mice and trying to answer the ultimate
question- what is the meaning of life? (For those of you that
don’t know, it’s 42).
Hitchhikers, despite being completely barmy fiction is
actually a really good introduction to the sort of humour
you’ll find at Imperial and the people you’ll meet.
Although I never did quite get through the fifth book
(yep, there’s actually five).

