23
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
A quick stop at the supermarket
for some, and a quick stop at the pub
for others, was necessary on the way
home, where we settled down to try
out all the whiskey we’d been coaxed
into buying at Royal Lochnagar. Our
local culinary experts once again ex-
celled with a risotto, followed, as
usual, by Beast. Unusually, however,
tonight’s serving of Beast contained
some unpleasant surprises: My slice in
particular seemed to have an unusu-
ally high onion content. The shocking
combined flavour of onion and marsh-
mallow forced me to retreat from the
kitchen, tail between my legs, and not
return for the rest of the night.
Wednesday would bring us the mar-
quee walk of the trip: Cairngorm and
Ben Macdui – the second highest peak
in the UK. Not satisfied with only the
two Munros, Alex had also hatched a
secret plan for the more adventurous
group members to take in another pair
and walk most of the way back to Brae-
mar from Aviemore. However, before
we did any walking, we’d have to nego-
tiate the sixty mile drive to Cairngorm
Ski Centre. With a long walk ahead, we
were taunted all the way up the first
ascent by the sight of skiers the other
side of the fence, enjoying the snow
that was making our lives so difficult.
Twenty minutes in, Anna, Joe, Peter
and I could no longer resist the temp-
tation, and, ignoring the disdainful
glares, we returned to the base station
to rent equipment, buy lift passes and
enjoy the Easter snow.
While we were wasting our day frol-
icking around with gravity, Alex, Jim,
James, Gavin, Jiri and Eva set off on
their marathon hike, heading from Ben
Macdui over to Carn A’mhaim. After
a pitched battle with some wandering
orcs at the summit, they slew three
dragons along the river back to Brae-
mar, and would have hiked all the way
home had Rafal not intercepted them
with the bus.
Although, I wasn’t there, so I can’t be
certain. They might have exaggerated
things a bit.
The next day arrived with a curi-
ous mixture of slackers’ fresh legs
and hikers’ stiff legs, but nothing like
that would deter us from upping our
Munro count. We set off early to Beinn
Bhreac, along a route spied by Alex on
yesterday’s return. After another pro-
longed track trek, we set off into the
wilderness past a house that looked
suspiciously reminiscent of Dog Sol-
diers. This was too much for James
and Dave, who soon after decided that
they’d be much safer in the minibus,
and disappeared back down the track
to hide. Once we’d evaded the were-
wolves, and the Russian spies who
were, for no apparent reason, camped
out in the vicinity, we began to climb
up to the peak of Beinn Bhreac. At
least, we thought it was the peak, but
our celebrations were cut short by
Alex’s announcement that actually
the real peak was further over to the
East, and was a phenomenal four me-
tres higher. So off we tramped through
the wind until we reached the summit,
when we decided that it was too windy,
and that we should all lie down behind
the cairn for a nap.
Refreshed, we began to head home,
taking a detour to take in a gorge that
apparently ‘looked nice from the map’.
We were lured in by the promised of
picturesque scenery to admire while
enjoying our lunch. Along the ridge,
we were blessed with amazing views of
some of the week’s earlier walks, which
wa s good, because the gorge itself was
disappointingly quarrylike. No matter,
morale was high on this bright sunny
day as we made good pace home.
The car park presented us with an
interesting distraction in the form of a
biotoilet, which as far as I could tell, is
simply a toilet with fewer moving parts
and many more instructions: so many,
that quite a queue formed just because
we all took the time to read them.
We arrived back in Braemar rela-
tively early, which offered us an oppor-
tunity to head into town and remind
ourselves that there wasn’t much there.
A local tea room provided a welcome
change of scenery from the bunkhouse,
however, and much entertainment and
discussion of child labour laws when a
six-year-old child came to collect our
dirty crockery at closing time. Another
delicious dinner, this time haggis, was
followed by nervous servings of Beast,
with much poking to find any stray
slices of cheese or onion that may have
sneaked in.
Our final day was scheduled to be
long one: a 28 kilometre circuit taking
in a measly five Munros. Early starts
were required, including some last-
minute packing for the one person
who had to ruin everything by leaving
a night early.
Uncharacteristically, this walk al-
lowed us to get immediately stuck in to
the climb; no flat tracks would eat up
our morning today. We were headed
for Lochnagar, a beautiful lake beneath
beautiful cliffs that gives its name to
the whiskey produced at Tuesday’s
distillery. Up in the snow on a clear
day, we had breathtaking views of the
Cairngorm National Park and of all
our week’s walking, and mid-morning
we hit our first Munro, Cac Carn Beag.
Once we’d arrived at this summit, the
highest of the day, we had also com-
pleted nearly all our ascent, so we took
some time out for photographs and
snacks, interspersed with some final
last-day snowballing for those of us
who still hadn’t tired of it.
Carn a’ Choire Bhoidheach and Carn
a t-Sagairt Mòr soon also fell to our re-
lentless boots, although the third sur-
prised us with a lone aircraft wing rest-
ing near the top. Dave’s aeronautical
engineering training let him down as
he failed to identify it from a sole wing,
but through the wonders of mobile in-
ternet we identified it as a RAF Can-
berra, WJ615, from all the way back
in 1956, which unfortunately collided
with the mountain after overshooting
a night-time landing nearby.
On we hiked, with some of the group
making the most of the last of the
week’s survival bagging opportunities
in the snow (some of us had been is-
sued new bags and were forbidden
from unwrapping them).
We soon reached Cairn Bannoch,
and pressed on to Broad Cairn – with
fewer than a hundred metres of de-
scent and ascent between peaks, the
going was not tough, and at the top we
took some time to survey our day’s im-
pressive accomplishments. That was
the end of our climbing for the week.
It was not the end of our walking,
however: we still had nine kilometres
Our final day was
scheduled to be a
long one: a 28km
circuit of five
mountains.
down to and along the side of Dubh
Loch, along some tight, steep tracks.
As we neared the water, Alex became
increasingly nervous, obviously aware
of Dave’s plans to enact the ‘tradition’
of submerging the trip leader, but for-
tunately for him we never came close
enough to the waterside.
Perhaps much later than some had
expected, we returned to the car park
after an impressive day, and a far more
impressive week’s walking.
The end of that walk also signalled
the end of my time with the Fellwan-
derers. After an undignified change in
the back of the minibus, I was aban-
doned in Ballater to make my own
way home. Not that I had much to
complain about – my own way home
involved the sleeper train down from
Aberdeen, including breakfast served
to my cabin. Followed by Beast, of
course!
Special thanks go out to all the
Fellwanderers committee for a well-
organised and exciting trip, Jim and
Peter for keeping our engines running
on delicious meals, the entire group
for being great trip-mates, and Rafal,
Joe and Jules for all the extra miles
they did in the driving seat of our
minibus.

