3
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Planned number of Uni places halved
Alex Karapetian reports on how the new coalition Government will shelve increased University student plans
The world beyond College walls
By Tom Greany
Iran Jamaica
I
n the first bout of good news in this column for a long
time, an Australian baby survived a near-fatal encounter.
A distracted grandmother in Melbourne was awaiting the
arrival of a train in Melbourne this week. As her distrac-
tion ensued, the pram in which his grandmother was tending
to rolled towards the tracks. The Victorian train company ad-
mitted that its older platforms slope towards the tracks. As is
shown on CCTV footage, the grandmother strove to save the
pram from falling onto the tracks, but failed. The pram rolled
onto the tracks and underneath the body of an oncoming train.
Luckily, the child escaped with minor bruises and scratches.
This is the second such incident to happen in Melbourne in
the past year.
Australia
F
ourty-four people were killed in Jamaica in the hunt
for a drug kingpin. Street battles have occured for
over three days in West Kingston as police sought
to arrest Christopher ‘Dudus’ Coke, a member of
America’s “Most Wanted” list. Jamaican Prime Minister Bruce
Golding has been under increasing pressure from the Obama
administration after it promised to crack down on the drug
trade. As the firefight raged on in Tivoli Gardens, a section
of Kingston, Coke was rumoured to have escaped the security
forces. Local residents complained of grenades being thrown
errantly as well as the burning of bodies in the streets. Coke
is reported to be highly revered by residents in West Kingston
for the services his empire provides them; he is known locally
as the “president”.
I
ran faced the threat of new U.N. economic sanctions this
week. The U.S. announced that it had received the com-
mitments of each veto holder on the U.N. Security Coun-
cil for a draft resolution that would impose economic
sanctions on Iran due to its nuclear programme. Iran early this
month proposed to trade 1,200kg of its low-enriched uranium
for nuclear fuel, a deal which mirrored a proposal by the U.S.
last year. This proposal did not manage to dissuade the Secu-
rity Council from agreeing to sanctions. Russia’s commitment
to the principle of sanctions took Iran off guard; it was com-
monly believed that Russia would delay judgement on the pro-
posal. Russia’s decision to support the draft was surprising due
to the extensive diplomatic and economic dies between the two
countries. Iran’s president said that Russia would be a “historic
enemy” of Iran if it followed out this decision.
L
abour’s promised increase
in University places to
20,000 has been halved by
the new coalition govern-
ment in a bid to cut back on
spending. Although record numbers
of students are applying, there will be
10,000 fewer places this Autumn than
promised by the previous government.
The Department for Business, Inno-
vation and Skills, responsible for Uni-
versities, said the cut in numbers will
save £118 million. The cut, however,
will mainly affect Science, Technology,
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
subjects, due to the previous govern-
ment’s planned increase focusing in this
area.
The promise of increased students
in the Sciences was popular with busi-
ness leaders who frequented the idea
that more science graduates would
help the British industry compete
internationally.
The government has said that spend-
ing on research, innovation, business
and enterprise will be protected. The
total budget for Higher Education
stands at £7.3 billion.
This move to reduce the Labour fund
to provide extra places by £118 million
has been slammed by the Lecturers’
Union, who said ministers had “dashed
the hopes of thousands of people’’. Sally
Hunt, general secretary of the Univer-
sity and College Union, commented
on how “our competitor countries are
increasing the number of graduates
to compete in a high-skill knowledge
economy’’ yet “we are denying thou-
sands a place at university and increas-
ing the burden on our benefits system.’’
By reducing the increase in STEM
places, students who fail to meet their
conditional offers from Universities in
their A level results will have fewer op-
tions when entering the Clearing sys-
tem. Students who meet their offers are
not affected.
another 75,000 applying. This means
that more than 200,000 could miss out.’’
The funding arrangements mentioned
here, however, only relate to England,
while Universities UK represents High-
er Education bodies across the UK.
“What is critical is the need for fund-
ing per student to be maintained. That
is the only way we can hope to main-
tain the world-leading position of the
UK’s higher education system’’, Smith
added. £150 million saved from govern-
ment wide spending cuts will be used to
fund 50,000 new apprenticeship places,
however. The move was praised by Lee
Hopley, chief economist at the EEF En-
gineering Employers’ group, who said
“shifting skills funding in favour of ap-
prenticeships, which provide higher
level qualifications, could provide a big
boost to companies already seeing skills
shortages as orders pick up’’
, but he add-
ed that, “the loss of University spots in
STEM subjects may be the sting in the
tail.’’
The Russell Group warned that “a
succession of cuts could lead to uni-
versities and courses closing and much
higher student ratios, damaging top
universities beyond repair.’’ Overall
spending on Higher Education will,
however, increase compared to last
year, but further savings of £600 mil-
lion across Higher Education, Science
and Research budgets are required over
2011-2013.
Approximately £60 million of the cuts
to be made are still yet to be identified.
Imperial College has commented on
this and said that “the number of new
Imperial undergraduate students start-
ing in 2010 is expected to be much the
same as in 2009’’ and that there is likely
to be no increase. They say “it’s worth
bearing in mind that HEFCE has an-
nounced the overall budget for the
sector but individual universities won’t
know what their own allocation will be
until March.’’
Former Higher Education Minister,
David Lammy said that the fears were
“scaremongering’’
, but Steve Smith,
president of Universities UK, said the
cuts would impact on the quality of
teaching and competition for Univer-
sity places would be increased. He con-
tinued to explain that “last year about
160,000 students who applied didn’t
end up going to University. This year,
we already know that there are about
Imperial College say that the number of students offered places for 2010 entry is similar to previous years

