felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
28.05.10
Pete Swallow Cricket
A
very makeshift 1st team
turned up to the beautiful
Berrylands ground and
were bathed in sunshine
under the guidance of
second and now first team captain Pete
as the pre-match warm-up was imme-
diately scrapped. Fearing the worst
after losing the toss, IC were shocked
to hear that KCL 2s wanted to field in
the 26 degree heat. Looking forward to
a long patch of sun-bathing, Pete sent
superstar Anirudh and Joe O’Gorman
to open.
This proved to be an inspired deci-
sion, leading to a season (and probably
much longer) record opening stand of
136 off just 16 overs. Anirudh’s chance-
less, classy 75 showed the immense
potential that he has when he concen-
trates. Only his ability to hit a reverse
sweep so well as to pick out the only
fielder on the boundary stopped him
from going on to get a huge score: as
he quite elegantly stated back on the
boundary “if there wasn’t a fielder there
that was 6”
. Joe continued to bat well
until fatigue got on top of him and af-
ter being dropped twice in one over he
holed out for an excellent 80. Adam,
coming back from being dropped after
his shocking 21 byes the game before,
hit a quickfire 24; Bernard contributed
a solid 29 to propel IC to what was look-
ing like a huge total. Unfortunately, the
lower order couldn’t quite make the
most of the opportunity and despite
several elegant shots (including a beau-
tifully timed lofted drive from Pete, who
promptly missed the next quicker ball
with an attempt at the infamous Impe-
rial College Late Cut; for some reason,
his team mates thought that he was ig-
noring their calls that a faster ball was
coming), the scoring rate slowed. Im-
perial finished on a decent 259 all out,
but a lot more had been expected by the
captain after such a brilliant opening.
After a decent tea, the team reluc-
tantly took to the field in the swelter-
ing heat and an opening combination
of Daanish and Sridhar plugged away
and were rewarded; Daanish was swept
straight into the hands of an expertly
placed Vinno at shortish midwicket.
Sridhar got the other opener lbw, which
brought the expected 1st team ringer to
the crease. He smashed some incredible
straight drives before playing all around
Taking on London town
Imperial Men’s Cricket 1st XI are victorious over neighbours King’s College 2nds and UCL Medics this week
Imperial College Men’s 1st XI
– 259 all out
Kings College London 2nd XI
– 158 all out
Imperial won by 101 runs
Alex Tinsdale Cricket
Imperial College Union 1st XI
– 248
RUMS (UCL Medics) 2nd XI
– 168 all out
Imperial won by 84 runs
an extremely slow ball from Anrirudh.
Pete chipped in with a wicket, courtesy
of a fortuitous lbw decision. A quick
change then brought on the second
slow bowler, Joe, and the spin twins ran
through the middle order, with Joe tak-
ing 2 wickets in two balls (the hat-trick
ball was dispatched for a one bounce
four much to the amusement of every-
one). To their credit, the last KCL bats-
men hung around, fortunate in one case
where Adam showed why he was “for-
gotten” (or more bluntly dropped) with
a missed stumping. They managed to
hit some big shots before the re-intro-
duction of Daanish lead to the number
10 being caught out. The result though
was never in doubt as Imperial pulled
off a huge 101 run.
After the game, wanting to instil some
proper cricketing traditions into the
team, Pete lead the players to the pub
for a few social drinks and discussion
about the game. On the way back, man-
of-the-match Joe showed that even
charity shopping was too expensive for
him as he picked up a very manly cardi-
gan from the train. Adam, not wanting
to make the journey boring either, spent
his time chatting up drunken married
women at Wimbledon station and re-
lieving his very weak bladder at several
stops on the tube line with his team
mates showing true team spirit by hold-
ing the doors open. Classy to the end.
O
n Wednesday, Imperial
batted first and were
given a rapid start by
our own IPL import An-
irudh, who set off like a
Delhi Daredevil and Deccan charged
his way to 26 from 22 balls, including a
monstrous six over long on. However,
searching for one DLF maximum too
many, he made a Rajasthan Royal mess
of another booming drive and was
caught in the outfield.
However, this setback only brought
Captain Ankit Patel to the crease.
Calling upon his subcontinental an-
cestory, he and Matt Tarr mastered
the conditions and batted their way
to a comfortable 100-run partnership.
However, with Ankit a fan of the quick
single and Matt considerably less so,
a run-out seemed to be the inevitable
end-point of the partnership. It was:
perhaps wanting to put the captain-in-
waiting in his place, Ankit ran out Matt
Tarr for a very well-played 49.
In fact, the run-out seemed to be the
dominant theme for the rest of the In-
nings. Iain “please-put-in-the-report-
that-I-was-the-only-one-to-time-the-
ball-off-the-front-foot-all-day” Stobbs
smashed a very quick 36, even occa-
sionally timing the ball off the front
foot, before a dodgy call from Ankit
sent him on his way. However, oblivi-
ous to the cascade of falling wickets
at the other end, Ankit batted on until
the penultimate ball for an excellent
92, but not before he’d had time to
give Adam Hugill the show-and-go en
route to run-out number three.
A target of 249 in 40 overs was al-
ways going to be tough as the pitch
was, by the half-way point, starting to
resemble the surface of the moon, and
so it proved. Once Hasit and Anirudh
had removed their openers, the rest of
the team offered little resistance. Hasit
picked up 4 wickets and Sridhar 3 (for
zero runs), with Ahsaan Ismail ripping
out both the middle and leg stumps
with one delivery despite the keeper
standing up to the stumps. It was
fortunate that, on this occasion, the
ball hit the stumps after the batsman
missed it; on an astounding 21 other
occasions the ball missed bat, stumps
and keeper, contributing 21 byes to ex-
tras and a huge fine for Adam Hugill at
the end of the season...

