4 felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
T
he vast majority of students at Impe-
rial have had an experience involving
a hall warden. Even the most evasive
of freshers would have at least been
greeted by one as they moved into
their halls of residences on their first day.
College are due to comprehensively review the
wardening systems in halls, which is likely to result
in a downsizing of the pastoral care teams within
first year accommodation.
A small real-term decrease has been made on
College’s Welfare Budget for next year, and hall sen-
iors have suffered the immediate brunt of the cuts.
From as early as next October, the traditional 10%
subsidy on rent that they are provided with in return
for their help to the wardening team during the year
has been abolished.
Professor Denis Wright, the new Dean of Stu-
dents, was appointed at the beginning of this aca-
demic year. He faces his first major decision as he
looks to rebalance College’s budget for welfare serv-
ices with slightly less money.
Talking to felix, Prof. Wright said that they needed
to be “more careful about using money in the fu-
ture” on the services which include the College Tu-
tor system, disability advisory service and College
counsellors, in addition to the cost of hall wardens.
However, some claim it is not the lack of money
that has initiated this review. College are wary the
cost of wardening teams is disproportionate to
number of students it reaches. Wardens are only
immediately available to the around 2,000 first year
students that choose to live in College-organised
accommodation, but takes up 50% of the total wel-
fare budget. Arguments have been put forward that
more money should be invested in disability advi-
sors and full-time counselling services as they are
accessible to every student at Imperial, and not just
freshers.
However, wardens themselves have voiced their
opposition to any impending cuts to their teams.
Dan Read, Warden of Falmouth and Keogh Halls,
said any cuts made to the 86-strong wardening ros-
ter would be “a shame”.
“It is interesting that the College is conducting a
review so soon after the external review of Residenc-
es in 2005 which recognised the invaluable role of
the wardening system in fostering an environment
that enables students to adjust to academic and so-
cial pressures of moving to Imperial. It would be a
shame if College were to retract its commitment to
Halls welfare, which is consistently rated highly in
student satisfaction surveys,” he said to felix.
The Wardening System Review is in its prelimi-
nary stages. The level of wardening for postgraduate
students in College accommodation is to remain the
same at around 65 students to every warden. This
will be factored into the construction of new post-
graduate accommodation at Clapham Junction and
on the newly acquired Wood Lane site. A meeting
next Tuesday will determine the wardening ratio for
undergraduates. This currently varies widely, from
21 students per warden in Parsons House to 39 in
Beit Hall.
Five working groups have been established to fully
assess how the wardening system at Imperial can be
changed for the better. One of the working groups
focuses on pastoral care, in which student’s repre-
sentative John James is part of. As Deputy President
(Welfare) of the Union, he is all but resigned to cuts
made to the wardening roster in halls.
“The current recommendation [from the Union]
is that an Imperial hall of residence must not rise
above more than 30 students per warden,” he stated.
Currently, eight of sixteen Imperial halls have a ra-
tio lower than 30 students to one warden, including
Selkirk, Tizard, and Gabor; three halls in the lucra-
tive, near-campus Prince’s Gardens location.
James describes his role on the Review panel as
minimising any slashes to wardens made by College.
“It doesn’t help to fight any cut,” he stated. James
personally testified that Imperial had the “best war-
dening system in the UK if you consider the support
first year students actually get.”
Despite his proclamations of the wardening sys-
tem, he suggested that the cuts being made were a
typical example of any organisation under financial
pressure.
“When cuts have to be made, it is natural to trim
the services that are doing well. I disagree with the
idea that these cuts mean what the wardens provide
to students are not valued at their current cost,” he
said.
On the contrary however, Paddy Jackman, Head
WARDENS: A
HELPING OR
HINDERING
HAND?
Wardens in halls look to be cut, Hall Senior subsidies
are no more, and rent figures rise yet again. All would
suggest doom and gloom for those living in College
accommodation. Is it barbaric cash-making, necessary
savings, or in the best interests of students? Which ever
way, it’s all a bit complicated. Dan Wan tries to explain...
F
elixsurveyedstudents
living in a variety of
halls, and asked them
what they reckoned
the role of their wardening
team was. Most were inclined
to use their wardens for ad-
vice on problems they’ve nev-
er experienced at university
before. The second most com-
mon answer showed that stu-
dents mainly saw the wardens
as the face of hall-organised
events. People were gener-
ally quite vague when actually
questioned about their war-
dens and few cited personal
examples of what wardens
were there to do.
62% of students revealed
they rarely ever spoke to their
wardens, and 68% said they
would feel comfortable with-
in halls without wardens and
subwardens.
Take what you wish from
these statistics. They report-
edly oppose overwhelmingly
positive feedback from pre-
vious student-led surveys
regarding first year pastoral
care.
Is it a case of unappreciative
students not realising the war-
dens’ work behind the scenes
of their hall, or are live-in war-
dens a dated and underused
pastoral care system?
Are wardens valued?
68%
of students claim
that they would
be comfortable in
halls without sub-
wardens, and just
enhanced security
October 2009: Wilkinson Hall wardens and Seniors help freshers move in

