5
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
of Commercial Services at Imperial stated that this
review was “not cuts-led”. Commercial Services are
a branch of College’s business that are ultimately
responsible for building and running of student
halls. They share the cost of the wardens with Col-
lege’s welfare services, but do not have any say in
how many wardens the College decides freshers
need.
Jackman insisted that although it was too late for
the Review’s results to have effect on wardens in
the next academic year, no cuts would necessarily
be made.
“The point of this Review is to accurately ascer-
tain the value of the wardening system,” he said.
Both Wright and Jackman were open to the idea
that if wardens were found to justify their current
costs, no cuts would be made. Despite this, there
was obvious inclination towards cutting rather
than unlikely further investment.
With the student Union seemingly accepting
College’s cuts to wardening, the onus of justifica-
tion rests on the wardens themselves. Dr. Read has
been a warden for three years, and although he
understands the importance the College needs to
put on disability and counselling services, he also
reckons that the early role wardens play is an es-
sential part of an Imperial student’s experience at
university.
“Central counselling and disability services are
an essential part of the College’s welfare system,
and the wardening system provides complemen-
tary front-line welfare and pastoral care to first
year students who are particularly vulnerable to
the stresses of a new life away from home and in a
challenging academic and social environment.” He
continues, “The experience of first year students
has a significant impact on the ethos of the College
and their enjoyment of life throughout their time as
students at Imperial.”
Next year’s Deputy President (Welfare), Vicki
Masding, has also had plenty of first-hand experi-
ence with wardens at different levels of authority.
After being a fresher in Beit Hall two years ago, she
is currently a hall senior this year. Although she is
not directly involved in the review process, she has
stated her opposition to any warden down-sizing.
Her opposition puts her in a head-on collision with
incumbent Deputy President (Welfare) James. She
stated her appreciation of the vital role wardens
play for the majority of students at Imperial.
“They take down barriers between the College
and the students. This is especially important
in your first year. We’ve got to appreciate that a
number of students rely on the cushion and sup-
port the wardens give, even if they do not actively
use them,” she argued. “Socially, they become your
friends around the clock. Counsellors are only
available on appointment and within office hours.
Unlike a professional College counsellor, you never
feel like a warden is helping you as part of a job. It’s
advice you’d take from an older sibling or an Uncle
who’s already experienced everything you’re going
through.”
Selkirk subwarden, Marcus Shepheard, also
pointed out that wardens are greatly advantageous
for first years going through a crucial transition be-
tween dependent and independent living.
“Wardens are qualified for their positions by vir-
tue of temperament and experience. The majority
of issues we face are ones that all students face over
their time at university and the added value comes
from our first-hand experiences of how to resolve
these situations,” he said. “By living within the hall
and by being integrated into the freshmen com-
munity we are able to actively observe and catch
welfare issues while in their infancy.”
A subwarden for three years, he warned that war-
dening duties inevitably impede on his academic
work, and that with a larger workload in a smaller
team would be severely detrimental.
“Being a subwarden does involve a degree of sac-
rifice. You will never improve your PhD by being a
subwarden. The time commitment is already at the
limit of what is reasonable in a team with four war-
dens. In particular around the end of September
and the start of October we lose a huge amount of
time ensuring that people integrate smoothly and
happily into university life,” he admitted.
Prof. Wright also suggested that he was happy to
see larger modifications to the wardening system
in his new role as Dean of Students. Currently,
wardens receive free accommodation in return for
their pastoral duties. This is considered the cost of
the wardens to College, and Prof. Wright loosely
mentioned other forms of payment possible, such
as warden stipends or honorariums.
felix has received mixed messages regarding the
imminent Wardening System Review. Whilst some
are adamant that this Review is not cuts-led but
for the benefit of pastoral services, others, most
worringly including current Union representa-
tives, have shown clear inclination and resignation
to what they believe will be cuts to the wardening
system. One feels there should be more pressure on
College to carefully consider all factors and angle of
the down-sizing of wardening teams.
W
ardens have highlighted that the
Wardening System Review comes
on the heels of what they describe as
“hasty proposals” to make cuts to the
hall senior system.
An initial plan was made to downsize hall senior
teams, but after some fierce rejection from warden
representatives, Dan Read said that College compro-
mised by abolishing the subsidy hall seniors get on
rental fees in return for their work during the year.
“The College back-tracked on this proposal and in-
stead cut the Hall Senior subsidy, resulting in an extra
cost to Hall Seniors of about £40k,” he said.
Despite advertising hall senior roles for next year
for the first time in years without the discount, usually
around 10%, College have insisted that they have still
recruited a full complement of older undergraduates
to fulfil the roles.
This is especially surprising especially as Head of
Commerical Services, Paddy Jackman, confirmed
that rent prices will go up once again for Imperial’s
halls of residences.
“The 2.86% increase on rent for halls is lowest in
the sector,” he said. In comparison, some of UCL’s
rent prices is set to increase by up to 9% next year. A
ensuite standard single room in Southwell Hall will
cost around £158, and the most expensive room in
the new Eastside Halls will cost around £234 for the
year 2010-11.
This follows a 3.9% average increase on hall rent
from last year. Rent has steadily been increasing over
recent years, with Southside single ensuite rooms
costing £155 in its first year of opening.
“We realise we’re at the top end of rent but the
College is committed to making it affordable for stu-
dents.” With impending increases in tuition fees, this
may not be the case very soon.
Of course, the wardens and amenity budgets are
factored into the cost of renting a room. Jackman
noted that pastoral and community care in student
accommodation at Imperial is largely unrivalled. The
amenity budget for halls comes out of students’ rent,
and allows for social events to be put on to create a
sense of belonging.
Hall Senior discounts abolished from next year as rent prices rise once again
Welfare’s more than just wardening
I
f the Wardening System Review is not
cuts-led, the other argument for it is to
fairly provide other branches of the Col-
lege welfare system with deserved re-
sources that wardening may be taking up.
It is an issue that the Union have pressured
College into doing something about it.
Despite hailing the job the current staff in
these welfare services do as “incredible”, he ad-
mitted Imperial is falling short on a national
scale.
“Whilst the counsellors are doing excellent
work, assessments show they weren’t at the
level other universities are currently providing
to their students,” he said. “The recommended
level of counselling provision is at least one full-
time professional to every 3,000 students. We’re
not quite there yet.”
There are currently five part-time and one
full-time counsellors on campus for the 13,400
students at Imperial and Prof. Wright suggest-
ed some “modest increases” could be made for
“further admin support”. He also noted that the
number of students attending professional help
sessions had steadily increased over the last few
years. Where previously a student would be
guaranteed an appointment with a counsellor
within the week of request, this is no longer the
case.
Prof. Wright also noted that investment was
also needed in the disability advisory service.
6% of the student population are now claiming
disability help on campus, compared to 3% two
years ago. An increased awareness of services
available to students with physical and learn-
Dean of Students
Professor Denis Wright
emphasised the need to
put more investment in the
counselling and disability
advisory services. He says
that Imperial’s welfare
provisions in these areas
are currently lower than
most other universities
ing disabilities has been so successful that the
limited structure of service currently in place is
beginning to feel the strains.
Where the money for these “modest increas-
es” in investment comes from is the issue at
hand. The question is whether there should be
less for wardening and more for counselling.
Where previously
a student would
be guaranteed an
appointment with a
counsellor within the
week of request, this is
no longer the case.
Pastoral care at other unis
Oxford and Cambridge have a very different model
of pastoral care provided to their students. They have
a developed College Tutor system, as well as Head of
House and Porter-style security. They have the fourth
and fifth lowest first year drop-out rates respectively
in the UK.
LSE have a similar structure to that at Imperial’s halls.
Both have hall-assigned teams of academic wardens.
However, LSE’s student : warden ratio is around 75 : 1,
whilst Imperial’s is around 30 : 1.
Despite the shortfall in wardens, LSE have the 24th
lowest first year drop-out rates in the UK, whilst
Imperial only has the 27th. This could suggest LSE
have more effective professional or tutoring welfare
support. - Victoria Brzezinski
College are wary the
cost of wardening teams
is disproportionate to
number of students it
reaches.

