Alex Kendall and Nicolas Massie question :
7
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
F
airness; a word used fre-
quently during the general
election; so much so that
most people will end up
wondering if they are being
dealt with fairly, by the government,
their employer or indeed, their uni-
versity. There are many times during
our degrees when we think we are be-
ing dealt with unfairly by our depart-
ments or Imperial as a whole. There
are also plenty of examples of inter-
university differences which can be
seen as unfair; the argument that a 2.2
from Imperial is as good as a 2.1 from
most other Universities is an example.
One of the greatest issues of fairness
is the way our work is marked. There
are not only differences in marking
between Universities and depart-
ments, but also between individu-
als. Exams are marked anonymously,
the marker not knowing the name of
the student. This is an attempt to ex-
clude bias or prejudice by the exam-
iner, whilst ensuring that the quality
of the work rather than the student
is assessed. If we accept this princi-
ple to be valid, and something to be
upheld, why then do we not use it for
all assessed coursework? I believe this
question must be answered. Blind
marking across Imperial for all pieces
of coursework and all exams should
be our goal, a justified burden on re-
sources, if it even is one.
The implementation of blind mark-
ing would contribute to several
worthwhile university goals: stand-
ardised assessed work across College,
improved trust of students in a system
which evaluates them for three or four
years, and a removal of any conscious
expectation or subconscious bias or
prejudice by markers. It would still
allow students to receive personal
feedback on work as once the mark
has been given, the CID number can
be converted back into a name and the
work made available.
There does not need to be any evi-
dence of foul play by markers to ask
for such a system. I do not believe that
there is a lot of conscious bias and I
prefer to trust our lecturers. But there
is always the threat of unconscious
bias leading to similar marks for all
pieces of a student’s coursework re-
gardless of the quality, simply be-
cause they have been labelled out of
expectation as of a particular grade.
Or, worse, they could be directly dis-
criminated against. A system of blind
marking would cancel out both the
bias and the impression that there
could be bias.
Leeds and Swansea Universities
apply this principle, and mark blind
for all assessed work which counts
towards the final grade. There are ex-
ceptions made, as there would have to
be in our case, for presentations and
vivas.
It is not a new idea; University
standards is a national issue and
anonymous marking used to be an
NUS campaign, so I hope lecturers
and other markers will not take of-
fence. The whole point of an external
examiner, after all, is to make sure our
marking system is sound. If external
examiners are accepted as necessary
for exams and major pieces of course-
work to ensure fair marking, then
surely the logical next step is for an-
other check on all pieces of assessed
work, the blind system. In fact, since
all assessed work should probably be
marked by two people, the double-
blind system.
As long as there is the proviso that
feedback will not be compromised,
anonymous marking will lead to stu-
dents having greater faith in the sys-
tem. With the expectation of changes
in student fees arrangements to come
with the Browne review, we have to
demand more transparency and bet-
ter value for money. This is one way.
It’s only fair.
T
here is a certain aspect
of University life that is
universally reviled by all.
For most, it lasts for a
few unpleasant weeks, af-
ter which it can, with great relief, be
pushed from one’s mind. For some, it
uncomfortably squeezed, as if by some
metaphysical crowbar, into a week,
or less, of excruciating torment. For
a certain few with dangerously maso-
chistic inclinations, it occupies them
for months at a time, consuming them
completely and depositing their bro-
ken husks on the steps of the Union. I
speak, of course, of revision.
Even from the other side of this letter,
I can feel your collective shudder. It is
a cruel trick that no matter how much
one revises, there always appears to be
infinitely more to do. Unwise compar-
isons with one’s peers only reinforce
the vast gulf of ignorance that must be
crossed to achieve that degree. Imag-
ining one’s colleagues on the far side
of this chasm, regardless of their own
true position, drives a wedge in even
the deepest of comradeships.
In efforts to bridge the unfathomable
gap in personal knowledge during this
grossly unpleasant period, students
descend ever deeper into unhealthy
neuroticism. Beverages shift from bot-
tled water to re-caffeinated coke, coke
turns to double espresso, coffee turns
to snorting ProPlus off a librarian’s
back. Taking the stairs instead of the
lift constitutes the whole of a week’s
exercise. Eating moves from half-
healthy meals at semi-regular times
to mysterious quests in the twilight of
4am to find a shop still open, regard-
less of whether or not their stock is
edible or not.
And the only way out of this most
uncomfortable of periods is by exami-
nation, a horror in itself. As if the time
spent falsely imprisoned by ignorance
wasn’t bad enough, our only means of
escape is through a potentially weeks-
long tunnel of mental diarrhoea. We
don’t even have the benefit of Morgan
Freeman narrating our ordeal. (The
Shawshank Redemption – great film,
great metaphor). I’ll refrain from talk-
ing about the exams any further as
that’s another tin of worms ready and
waiting to shank me that I’d rather not
open.
But revision, for most of us, does
end eventually. It is simply a matter
of finding a way to make it, certainly
not easy or interesting, but bearable.
I don’t know how you seek to accom-
plish this but I have stumbled over a
rather novel solution.
As we all know, revision is knowl-
edge and knowledge is power. And if
we don’t try to restrain that power we
tend to lose our eyebrows and other
body parts. A decaying radioactive
isotope, an un-grounded electrical
circuit, a Bunsen burner with a mis-
chievous streak; all sources of power
that will do us a serious injury if we
don’t take action to contain them.
Knowledge is no different – it must be
contained.
Secondly, why is it that, no mat-
ter how much revision we do, there
always seems to be more to do? Ob-
viously, unbeknownst to the lec-
turers that set the exam questions,
knowledge undergoes an exponential
expansion. Or, to put that in more
axiomatic terms, knowledge begets
knowledge. Like rabbits on a council
estate. Due to the openness inherent
in my revision notes (in a vain at-
tempt to learn by sheer diffusion), the
knowledge is free to wander the page
and bed down with whatever it likes.
I have woken on some mornings to
find embryogenesis shacked up with
opioid pharmacology (Oh yeah, like
you wouldn’t!). Since my notes are the
fruit of a greater proportion of my life
than I’m comfortable, hosing them
with cold water would probably give
me a stroke. Therefore, the next best
thing is that all knowledge needs to be
enclosed separately.
This is why, from now on, all my re-
vision notes are meticulously penned
in by biro delineations. This is the
only way I’ve found that can safely
contain the knowledge. It allows me to
step back from the page and breathe a
sigh of relief. No matter how bad it all
looks, or how little (I fear) I know, I
can rest assured that I’m safe because
all the knowledge, in all its abstract
infinities, is bounded by the concrete
confines of red and blue ink.
This way, the revision doesn’t get
to me. I can then slip my arms back
inside my straightjacket as the nurses
tighten the straps for the night and
rest my head against a padded wall
and sleep peacefully.
P.S. I do hope this works and doesn’t
turn out like the raptor paddock in
Jurassic Park. I have been sleeping less
than a metre away from notes on can-
cer and malignancy. Hm, clever girl...
“our only meas of
escape is through a
potentially weeks-
long tunnel of
mental diarrhoea”
RhysDavies contemplates the horror of revision
“...anonymous
marking will lead
to students having
greater faith in the
system.”
Is the marking system at Imperial fair enough?

