POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack and James Lees
James Goldsack and James Lees
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
felix FRIDAY 28 MAY 2010
I
was shocked after reading the
incredibly one-sided article “Do
Brits really want electoral re-
form?” and some of the points
have to be met head on.
This government is arguably the first
to have legitimate authority in over
seven decades. Yes you did read that
right; no party in the last 70 years has
had more than 50% of the popular vote.
Most people voted against Labour’s fa-
mous 1997 ‘landslide’. In light of this
it’s very interesting how the writer ac-
cuses this coalition of having no right
to push for electoral reform especially
when the Liberal Democrats have had
that issue in their manifesto for over 20
years. To anyone accusing the Con-Lib
coalition of lacking a mandate, I say
right back at you. Any voting system
would be put to a referendum anyway.
Numerous polls have found that if
people thought the Liberal Democrats
could win in their area, their share of
the popular vote would rise dramati-
cally. Because of things like this it’s
very difficult and misleading to trans-
late results from this system into an-
other one. Voting systems affect how
people vote.
There is this extremely damaging sug-
gestion that we should castrate our elec-
Jakov Marelic
Jakov Marelic
toral system to keep undesirable parties
out. “PR will give power to the BNP”
cry the critics. If you took this idea to its
logical conclusion, you might as well not
have voting at all. Have the government
be decided by a meritocracy who know
better than the common people. Under
Single Transferable Vote (STV), the sys-
tem that Liberal Democrats proposed, a
candidate still needs 25% of the vote in
their constituency. Nobody is arguing for
Israel-style PR where only 0.5% around
the country is enough to get a seat. Crit-
ics should stop using this strawman.
The childish accusation of “You only
favour PR because you’re a small party”
is easily turned around. You only favour
FPTP because you’re a large party.
The writer brings up the example of
Italy having 60 governments in 60 years,
but forgets to mention that Germany, for
instance, has had mostly coalition gov-
ernments for decades and its economy is
stronger and larger than say, the United
Kingdom. Analysis has shown that out
of the 16 countries enjoying a triple-A
credit rating, 10 currently have coalition
governments and 12 use some form of
proportional representation. Far from
producing weak governments, PR pro-
duces ones with a clear mandate because
the majority of people have voted for
them and fewer votes are wasted.
First Past The Post has created a
class of MPs who totally ignore their
electorate. Yorkshire will always vote
Labour, South Kensington will always
vote Conservative and MPs have ex-
This
week
First ever Con-Lib Queens Speech
Thisweeksawtheofficial
opening of the new Par-
liament with the Queens
Speech. The new coali-
tion government’s plans
were set out in full with
the 22 bills that Cameron
and Clegg hope to pass
in the next year. Several
bills focusing on small
government or big soci-
ety have been proposed
as the Conservative-Liberal alliance seeks to reverse the cen-
tralisation of power and removal of civil liberties brought in
under Labour. Fixed term parliaments have been pledged
along with a bill which should bring about the change to the
alternative vote system. No mention of fox hunting.
Race for the Labour leadership
Conservative back-
benchers known as the
1922 Committee have
beaten back Cameron’s
attempt to allow min-
isters to vote in their
meetings as ministers
will not be voting at
the election for the
chair of the commit-
tee. The 1922 com-
mittee serves as a place for Conservative backbenchers to
express views not handed down from the Party leadership.
This allows them to serve as a vital check to the increasingly
presidential power of the Prime Ministers position. It was re-
sponsible for the vote of no confidence which removed Iain
Duncan-Smith from the Conservative leadership in 2003.
Backbenchers still have power
Following Gordon Brown’s
resignation, the competi-
tion for a new leader of the
Labour party has begun.
Any candidate wishing to
run has to be nominated
by 33 Labour MPs. At the
time of writing Ed Mil-
liband, the former energy
secretary,wasleadingwith
41 nominations, and David
Milliband, the former for-
eign secretary in second
with 37. Other candidates include Ed Balls , the former edu-
cation secretary and Andy Burnham a backbencher. Who the
winner is will determine the direction the Labour party takes
into the next general election which will be in May 2015.
“One of the most
beautiful features of
STV is that candidates
from the same party
have to compete with
each other.”
Some Brits really do want electoral reform
Following ‘Do Brits really want electoral reform?’ in last week’s felix, a polling polemic in favour of change
German governments have often been successful coalitions in recent decades.
ploited their unaccountability to the
hilt, as we’ve seen with the expenses
scandal. One of the most beautiful fea-
tures of STV is that candidates from
the same party have to compete with
each other. If your MP doesn’t reply to
your letters, you can throw them out
at the next election without ditching
his or her party. FPTP forces voters to
choose a candidate at the same time as
they choose a party; it gives power to
politicians instead of people. If the Con-
servatives really believed in free market
forces like they claim, they should jump
at the chance of introducing STV.
I predict that if STV is achieved, we
will end up with much more choice as
new parties are created and older par-
ties split. The Liberal Democrats are
likely to divide into Social Democrats
and Liberals again. The Conservatives
could end up splitting into the more left
Cameroons and the right old Tories.
Many little parties are likely to
solve the Kingmaker problem where
small parties have a disproportionate
amount of power in coalitions. The
small parties would be forced to com-
pete to take on the kingmaker role and
before you know it their power would
be significantly reduced.
Voter turnout has been steadily
dropping. From the 84% high in 1950
to the most recent 64.6%, the elector-
ate is realising their votes are wasted;
they don’t have the power or the
choice. And you know what? They’re
absolutely right.
Anachronism and the state of democracy
I
t is no small wonder that elec-
toral reform sparks such heated
debates. Living in what we are
always told is a democracy and
then watching as a party with
considerably less than half the vote gain-
ing a near majority doesn’t seem fair.
With the most recent election it would
seem the entire country managed to get
screwed- nobody voted for an amalgam
of Tory and liberal policies but that is
what we are now ‘represented’ by.
However, if I had been offered the
chance to vote for the new coailition
I would have done. I think their plans
are better than either party’s manife-
toes were on most issues.
The people who really lost this elec-
tion were dyed in the wool liberals who
spent the election campaign turning the
Conservatives into some kind of boogie
man. Of course on a large number of
issues the Conservatives and Liberals
policies overlapped making the coali-
tion an easy option to take. A fact that
many liberal supporters would have no-
ticed had they spent some time reading
the manifestoes rather than insulting
Tory toffs and learning the word ‘anach-
ronistic’ to describe first past the post.
That truly was one of the more bi-
zarre things about the election for me.
Seemingly at any given opportunity,
televised Liberal supporters would de-
scribe FPTP as anachronistic- I guess it
was in the Guardian.
In the end whether the electoral sys-
tem changes really will be up to us all
when the issue hopefully makes it to a
referendum. I hope the articles in felix
will have made you think about which
way you will vote.
Politics Editor James Lees
ange

