20th February, 1969 FELIX Page 5
S H O U L D T H E C O N C O R D E B E C A N C E L L E D ?
Last week a full-page advertisement suggesting the can-
cellation of the Concorde appeared in the Guardian. It was
signed by some five hundred people from many walks of life,
though predominantly from the Arts and Science side, with
just a few Engineers.
The advertisement raised the question of the validity of
continuing the development of the Concorde assuming that
sonic boom will prove unacceptable overland. It also ques-
tioned the amount of money spent on the project, when there
are still many underdeveloped areas in the world which could
make better use of the finances.
Here we have the case put both for and against the Project.
Attacking the continuation of Concorde is Mr. D. C. Mac-
donald, lecturer in the Elec. Eng. Department, whose name
appeared on the advertisement. In defence we have Mr. F.
G. Irving, Senior Lecturer in the Aeronautics Department.
T h e c a s e f o r
c a n c e l l a t i o n
by
D. C. Macdonald
The Concorde will almost certainly be a financial failure
even if it is a technical success. The Government will do all
it can to minimise the loss and maximise the sales. Most
flights across the Atlantic start on the Continent, and oper-
ators will certainly try to fly supersonically across Britain.
As yet there is no fixed policy, and one can see governments
allowing overland flights in order to sell more aircraft and
minimise the loss.
To permit supersonic flights over populated areas would
be a vicious invasion of every worthwhile human activity:
in the concert hall, in the lecture room, in the lab, in the
park, watching the box, holding up the bar, even lying in
bed — BANG BANG — shattering, destructive of thought
and mind, all pervading (except perhaps on the Picadilly
Line). If you are a light sleeper it will wake you, if the baby
is teething it will wake him, not just once every night, but
six, eight or ten times.
This misery may have to be borne just because a fraction
of a per cent of the population want to get to New York
City Centre in five hours instead of seven; and because when
a technological challenge presents itself our modern society
feels bound to accept it.
. . . a n d t h e
c a s e a g a i n s t
by F. G. Irving
The whole raison d'etre of air transport is speed. Let us
not argue whether it would be nice to return to more leisurely
ways of life: it is a fact that the travelling public wants speed.
So far, the introduction of newer, faster, aircraft has always
generated more demand and, in real terms, has provided
cheaper travel. We have now achieved a situation in which
the cheapest way of taking people (and some sorts of things)
over appreciable distances is to put them in a Boeing 707
or a VC-10, and any packaged holiday operator who can
only offer propeller-aeroplanes might as well invite the
bailiffs in.
There are, of course, incidental advantages: jet travel is
smooth, comfortable and, unless one is totally bored with
life in general, immensely interesting.
There is no sign that any of these trends will be reversed
by providing even more speed, except that it may be neces-
sary to accept some increase in cost. Even this may be a
transient effect, associated with first-generation supersonic
aircraft. To go faster with sufficient efficiency, we have to
go quite a lot faster. So, the first supersonic airliners are
designed for a little over twice the speed of sound.
Let us accept that cutting journey times by over 50 per
cent is likely to be very popular with travellers, and let us not
forget that potential objectors are also travellers on occasions.
The only possible objection to Concorde (or supersonic air-
liners in general) is the social one of noise. In all other re-
There are tremendous opportunities in the modern world,
and we must pursue the worthwhile projects with the utmost
enthusiasm and vigour if we are to remain a wealthy and
progressive nation and make our proper contribution to the
life of mankind. We must learn to distinguish the progressive
developments from those which will make our existence less
rewarding. The drug-industry has given us penicillin, and I
for one might not be about now without the help of strepto-
mycin, but the same industry produced thalidomide babies
and may give us chemical warfare. Concorde may give rise
to a waste of money on the scale of the now-proverbial
ground-nuts scheme, and a social disaster comparable with
the living conditions produced at the beginning of the in-
dustrial revolution.
The argument that Concorde is just a stepping-stone to
quiet supersonic flight is false. There are several military
supersonic aircraft — why cannot they be used to develop
a whispering chariot for the modern plutocrat?
Engineers often pride themselves on being men who give
the best for the least money, but they are often rightly re-
garded as people who do this with little regard for beauty
or social amenity. It is those who are involved in a project
who have the primary responsibility for taking all factors
into account and facing up to the eventual outcome. We
must use our understanding of the physical world and our
vision of the consequences to straggle the monster-projects
spects, in addition to the traveller's viewpoint, it is likely
to be highly advantageous. The potential orders for Concorde
will bring immense wealth to this country, providing a signi-
ficant amount of work and keeping us firmly at the sharp end
of technology.
Considerable research is in hand on reducing both engine
noise and sonic booms, but it is only fair to admit that the
situation is likely to get worse before it gets better. Most of
the anti-Concorde lobby argues that sonic booms will be
intolerable, but this is by no means self-evident. In the middle
of a large land-mass like the USA, they could become an
unacceptable nuisance, but this is rather unlikely in the UK.
Flight in and out of London would generally involve sub-
sonic flight over land, and I suspect that the effects of over-
flying (e.g. USA to Germany) would not be very great.
Whilst admitting that Concorde brings its social problems,
these have to be weighed against the manifest desirability
of the project from all other points of view, not the least
of which is our long-term national prosperity. Objectors may
feel trapped by technology, but what is the alternative? To
my mind, sitting in our huts, of clay and wattle made, listen-
ing to the sonic booms generated by Boeings.
It would be the height of folly to opt out of Concorde at
this stage, and I hope it is only the beginning of a splendid
future for British aviation.
Concorde prototype 001 during the preliminary taxiing trials
at Toulouse. (Photograph courtesy B.A.C.)
at birth. Concorde has gone too far already, but there is
still a chance to persuade the Government to drop it —
especially if the flight trials are not a great success — and
ban overland supersonic flight. You can help by joining the
Anti Concorde Project, c/o Richard Wiggs, 70 Lytton
Avenue, Letchworth, Herts.
Professional
skills in
Management
"Going into management is a meaningless concept
without the acquisition of some specialist skill."
Sunday Times 1 Jan. 1967.
By entering a firm of chartered accountants you can
gain an accounting qualification combined with
experience and know-how in a number of specialist
fields—financial, taxation, consultancy (including com-
puters, production control, operations research), etc.
These skills can be acquired by graduates of any
discipline.
Those of you expecting to graduate with a good degree
next summer and interested in "going into manage-
ment" suitably equipped . . .
are invited to
an informal meeting commencing at 2.00 p.m.
when graduates of Imperial College will talk of
the career prospects and training facilities with
Arthur Andersen & Co.—who offer average
starting salaries of over £1000 for 1969 graduates
in their London, Manchester and Glasgow offices.
(Incidentally, in 1969 the firm will be opening an
office in Dublin)
Venue: Contact Appointments Board ext. 2740
Date: Wednesday, 26th February 1969
Come along and meet us or write to:
David Steele,
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.,
St. Alphage House, 2 Fore Street, London, E.C.2.

