20th February, 1969 FELIX Page 7
L I S T E N H O W I T I S
Jazz Week '69 previewed by Bob Davenport
If Jazz Club means nothing more to you than a noise
emanating from above the ICWA lounge at dinner times or
an evening Of free music in the Lower Lounge on Sunday
nights, then prepare to have your nerves assaulted by IC
Jazz Week '69 from 23rd to 27th February. " Tell it how it
is " I hear you cry.
Well, Jazz Week starts on Sunday 23rd in the Union Lower
Lounge with a free trad and mainstream session featuring
Imperial College's Premier (and only) Traditional Jazz Band
—the Splinter Group—and a very fine outside group who
played at last year's Jazz Week—the Fleet Valley Jazz Men.
Another free session follows on Monday featuring student
modern jazz musicians and, with luck, a collaboration with
Henry for some poetry-and-jazz.
On Tuesday the Union Upper refec—pristine home of the
Plastic Fairytale and many a nonny-no from Folk Club—will
endeavour to contain a quartet led by arguably the best
baritone sax player in jazz (winner of the soloists' prize at
the 1968 Montreux International Jazz Festival)—John Sur-
man. Surman, a former RCM student, is the most gifted of
the group of young musicians from the West Country who,
led by Mike Westbrook, have contributed enormously to the
robust artistic health of contemporary British jazz. He can
be heard playing many musical settings in London, his
musical personality remaining intact in the Humphrey
Lyttleton Band, the calypso-jazz group he leads with pianist
Russ Hunderson, Mike Westbrook's concert band and sextet
as well as the quartet which will be playing here.
In the quartet's co-leader, Mike Osborne, is to be found
the perfect complement to Surman's musical voice. Whereas
Surman tends to play long, almost frenetic, solos, utilising
his incredible command of his instrument to play high above
the normal range of the baritone into that of the alto sax,
building to screaming climaxes but always remaining in full
control of the ebb and flow of tension, Osborne tends towards
introversion, producing almost bland alto lines in which
tension is introduced by subtle shifting of accents. The
During the last few months, several suggestions have been
made concerning the use of refectories by various sections of
the college community; academics, students, and other staff.
Council has always been willing to open the present student
refectories to all other members of college, on the grounds
that we should do everything possible to help the mixing of
staff and students.
However, at present the Senior Common Room does not
appear to be so willing to open up some of its facilities. Per-
haps the thought is that students, outnumbering staff by five
to one, might overload these waitress service refectories. What
no-one seems to have noticed is that if there really is such a
large demand for this kind of meal then a refectory like this
should be opened for students too. In that case, there would
appear to be no argument against de-segregating both
refectories . . . Q.E.D.
Some people have expressed great surprise at the decision
of council to ask for representation on the Development
Committee and so an explanation of the ideas involved may
be useful. In some high level committees, the membership
involves reading several papers before the meeting and only
bringing up at the meeting points you disagree with. These
tend to be committees for approving new ideas, rather than
originating them. If you want to help set up new ideas, you
have to make your contribution at a lower level.
These lower levels often mean just informal contacts, but
they are usually more useful for advice, information and for
working your ideas into the system. At this college we have
built up a large informal structure, with the medical staff, re-
fectory staff, registry, and so on. Sometimes student represen-
tation on full committees is desirable and sometimes it is
unnecessary, creating nothing more than extra meetings to go
to. In the case of the Development Committee, the feeling
was that co-operation was better than representation.
R. J. Lowin
addition of soprano sax to his armoury enabled Surman to
cover the entire range of the four most common members of
the saxophone family with just two instruments and it is on
this instrument that his admiration for the work of the late
John Coltrane is most apparent.
The quartet is completed by Harry Miller and Alan Jack-
son, a drummer who on tunes such as Surman's " The
Twist" and " Mrs. Brown " does things with pop rhythms
that make Ginger Baker sound like Dave Clark.
On Wednesday, two blues groups provide the music for a
party, again in the Upper refec., with lots of jelly and trifle
and lemonade—or something. Clean up jazz's image and all
that crap.
And so as the sun sets slowly in the west and RCS
Carnival stops us using the Union on Friday, Jazz week
comes to an end on Thursday 27th with a film show including
the celebrated " Jazz on a Summer's Day "—a film of the
1956 Newport Jazz Festival featuring Duke Ellington,
Thelonious Monk, Chuck Berry, Mahalia Jackson and others
too numerous to mention. Probably Tom and Jerry or Dudley
Moore cartoons, too, we hope.
So there it is, five evenings of good clean fun with not a
jelly-roll in sight. Come, for Christ's sake. Frenetic John Surman Courtesy Mallard Photographic
As a result of the recent bad weather, this week's sports coverage has been reduced.
First XI smash Kings
Kings 0 I.C. 4
Last Wednesday on a cold
wet afternoon, I.C. 1st X I
visited Kings to play their
first match for over a week.
I.C. attacked fairly strongly
in the opening minutes but
Kings seemed to gain control
in midfield and with the col-
lege defence rather square at
times it took two good saves
from Davies in goal to pre-
vent Kings scoring. In attack,
however, I.C. were playing
fluent football and opened
the scoring when a McCardle
shot was deflected, rather
luckily, into the net.
In the second half I.C.
played a tight uncompromis-
ing game and gradually wore
down the home side's defen-
sive formation. Following a
cross from the left, Horlock
was able to score with a fine
angled drive. After this the
Kings attacks were limited
to breakaways and it was
only a matter of time before
I.C. scored again. The final
two goals came from
Richards, with a fine solo
effort, and Conner who over-
lapped intelligently from his
full back position.
This is the first league
game of the season in which
I.C. have not conceded a
goal and as it is also the first
time in about four years that
I.C. have defeated Kings in
the league it can be consid-
ered quite a good perform-
ance. If the tight approach
in defence had been found
earlier I.C. would have had
a good chance of winning
the league.
Running out of steam
A changeover scene in last Saturday's Hyde Park
Relay in which race the I.C. team failed to start.
The winners were Borough Road college.
Mention was made in the
last issue of the forthcoming
outing to Reading for the
senior half of the boat club
and it is the turn in this
issue of the novice section to
receive attention. These are
the oarsmen who began
learning to row from scratch
at the beginning of the year
and who will soon receive
their initiation into regatta
type racing when crews from
Bedford come for a private
fixture later this month. They
have progressed very well so
far and in the past few
weeks have also begun to
appreciate the subtleties of
training on land as well as on
the water.
On Saturday 8th February
the 3rd crew raced in the
Colleges regatta organised
by London Rowing Club in
which crews from London,
Oxford and Cambridge col-
leges competed. There were
two events, one for college
1st VIIIs and the other for
junior VIIIs, our crew being
in the latter of these. This
was the first regatta experi-
ence for the 3rd crew as it
now stands and their race
against the Middlesex and
London Hospital crews was
hard fought until the last
minute, when they began to
" run out of steam ". London
Hospital won with Imperial
College beating Middlesex
by ^ length. The final of this
event was won by St.
Edmund Hall, Oxford, who
were racing in an I.C. boat!
G. W. Harrison
Popularity of Squash
The popularity of Squash
in the college has grown
enormously since the open-
ing of the squash courts and
this has led to the discovery
of a number of useful
players.
The first team achieved
excellent results in the first
division of the University of
London League by topping
the list with 42 points out of
a possible total of 54 at the
end of last term. This was no
mean achievement in the face
of the high standard of com-
petition in the field.
The second team have
produced very good results
this term. They narrowly
defeated the first team in
their league match last week,
though admittedly the latter
were unable to field their
strongest side on that occa-
sion. Nonetheless, credit must
be given to their fine per-
formance and determination.
The highlight of the match
was the heroic stand of Chris
St. John (second team)
against Stuart Cumming,
which the former won after
a hard 5-game battle, playing
one of the finest and most
consistent games of his
career.
At the present rate of
progress, the club can look
forward to a very successful
season.
M. Ala

