SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
W
e can all name famous
psychopaths, be they the
fictional Hannibal Lecter
or real life Jack the Ripper.
They can cause fear or un-
easiness in even the most hardy of us. But what
really makes a serial killer? Why are psycho-
paths so different from ‘us’?
The Horizon episode, Are you Good or
Evil, examined the search for a so-called
‘moral gene’. At a fundamental level, hu-
mans are animals, so how did we come to
possess morals, something other than instinct
or self-motivation to guide our actions?
Paul Bloom and Karen Wynn designed an
experiment to see if children were naturally
born with a sense of morality or whether it
was something they learned growing up. The
experiment consisted of showing children a
play with one ‘good’ character and one ‘bad’
character. When asked to choose a character,
almost 70% picked the ‘good’ one, as most
people presumably would.
But what about the 30% that were drawn to
the bad character? Would they become bul-
lies or ‘troublemakers’?
Another aspect of the show looked at mili-
tary marines who were trained to fight, de-
fend and, when necessary, kill. At a training
base in the USA, marines are trained to act on
instincts that have been drilled into them by
years of training. This is necessary because
when under pressure, they cannot afford to
waste time reviewing actions; after years of
discipline, the body reacts in the way it needs
to, even if it means taking a life.
But one cannot ignore the idea of right and
wrong. It is the reason why ex-soldiers re-
turning from battle cannot readjust to soci-
ety – they have lost their sense of morality
and hold more than just the opposing army in
contempt; they struggle to have empathy for
anyone. As Captain Jack Hoban, a US Ma-
rine Corp, says “Humans are not natural born
killers.” Psychologically, they cannot handle
the idea of killing with morality, so they lose
this sense all together.
However, not all soldiers are psychopaths.
The Marines soon realised that instead of
turning cadets into killers, they should turn
them into ‘protectors’. Protectors would only
kill when absolutely necessary; rather then
remove their moral compass, they would ‘re-
calibrate’ it.
Both neurobiologists and psychologists
have worked extensively into finding a chem-
ical or gene that gives us our moral traits.
Bob Hare is a psychologist who has looked
particularly far into this field.
On the outside, serial killers look normal
and just like everyone else; no sign of self-
inflicted wounds or grotesque disfigure-
ments. Psychologically however, they seem
to have a profound lack of empathy and an
egocentric mind-set. They are not necessar-
ily unemotional, but while emotions usu-
ally guide us to act, the psychopath feels no
compulsion; they could very easily slaughter
innocent victims, despite understanding the
emotional impact.
In order to test this, Bob Hare brain scanned
known serial killers using MRI while words
were displayed on a screen. Monitoring the
brain’s impulses, Hare noticed that emotional
words trigger certain synapses for most peo-
ple. In the psychopaths’ brains, there was in-
difference in responses to both emotional and
regular words. Hare soon developed a ‘psy-
chopathic checklist’ that tested things like
personality, how you would react to certain
situations and impulsivity.
Professor James Fallon, a psychologist
working in the field of disorders like depres-
sion and schizophrenia, was asked to analyse
a variety of PET scans to deduce the char-
acteristics of the people to whom they per-
tained. One common theme emerged: the ac-
tivity of two areas of the brain seemed to split
the group, the orbital cortex and parts of the
temporal lobe that surrounds the amygdala.
These areas are known to control animal im-
pulses and decision-making. All of the scans
with damage in these areas came from serial
killers. Was this the sole cause of psycho-
paths’ behaviour?
In 1993, one family was tested used ge-
netic analysis. All of the males in this family
had a background in violence and, interest-
ingly, all of them had a mutation of the same
gene sequence. The findings then showed
that a variant of the MAO-A gene promoter
(or ‘warrior gene’ as it became known), could
also lead to psychopathic behaviour later in
life.
Our brain chemistry and genetic mutations
can reveal the traits corroborating with psy-
chopathic behaviour. But will everyone with
Natural born killers?
Pavitar Devgon on what makes some people become psychopaths
the genetic mutation become serial killers?
The idea seems so wrong.
While visiting his family, James Fallon
was asked by his mother to research his fa-
ther’s relatives. He discovered that there was
a lineage of violent killers in the family dat-
ing as far back as 1667. James decided to test
his immediate family using PET scans. Only
one brain showed classic psychopathic be-
haviour – his. Continuing further, he found
that he had also inherited the ‘warrior gene’.
Both characteristics were there and yet he
was not a psychopath. He did have certain
traits such as hot-headedness, lack of pa-
tience and at times, an uncaring attitude, all
common amongst serial killers. This showed
that the mind-set was there, but not at an ex-
treme level.
Interestingly, the traits of psychopaths –
impulsiveness, an uncaring demeanour and
lack of pathos – can be found in professional
jobs, such as CEOs and leaders of big cor-
porations. Many of these people would rank
highly on Hare’s checklist. It’s interesting
how someone with a similar mind to a killer
could work so well in business and society.
Not that all bosses are psychopaths.
Fortunately, there emerged a third factor
that ultimately determines your ‘destiny’:
your childhood. If you have the genes and
brain patterns, a nurturing childhood envi-
ronment can reduce and even remove the
risk of becoming a psychopath. Conversely,
a damaging, dysfunctional, abusive child-
hood could trigger the aggressive genes.
Your genes may lay the foundations, but
your upbringing dominates who you will
become.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
How quickly would you turn to killing your friends in order to live?
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience
Like us on Facebook
Confused by DOIs?
DOI stands for digitial object identifier. A DOI will
help you find the journal article a science news sto-
ry is based on.
Just type http://dx.doi.org/ into the URL bar
and add the DOI to the end. For example: http://
dx.doi.org/doi:10.1038/nature10550 will take you
straight to the Nature letter about the dwarf planet
Eris. Alternatively go to http://dx.doi.org/ and put
the DOI into the search box on that site.
Or, if you’re feeling lazy, Googling the DOI usually
works too...
Pandas’ confusing diet explained
Another excuse for a cute animal picture...
Giant pandas lack enzymes to digest the principle
components of a fibrous plant diet. It has long
been assumed that their famous bamboo regimen
is digested by symbiont bacteria.
Now, researchers from the Chinese Academy of
Sciences have confirmed the symbiont hypothesis
(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1017956108). The authors
analysed RNA sequences from microbes found in
fecal samples of giant pandas, and compared the
results with other mammals. Seven unique strains
of bacteria, closely related to cellulose-digesting
Clostridium taxa, were found only in the pandas’
digestive tracts. The newly discovered symbionts
produce enzymes that cleave cellulose into absorb-
able glucose.
Strong teeth, pseudo-thumbs and copious gut
mucus also help to sustain this unusual bear.
Jennifer Whyntie
FELIX
10 Friday 18 november 2011
On average 10 calories of fossil fuel energy is needed to deliver 1 calorie of food energy to our tables – GREEN WEEK 2011

