SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 18 NOVEMBER 2011
Fisher’s principle is an evolutionary argu-
ment that explains why most sexual spe-
cies tend to have a stable gender ratio that
approximates 1:1. The principle is that,
as one gender increases in abundance,
the marginal value of having offspring
of the other gender increases. So any ge-
netic predisposition to have more of one
gender than the other gets balanced out.
Most species exhibit this property, and
historically the gender ratio of Humans at
birth has been ~105:100. Males having a
slight historical surplus due to our greater
tendency than females to get ourselves
killed; fighting wars, hunting bears, or
similar. The stability innate in Fisher’s
principle is elegant, and easily under-
stood, and this is why it is celebrated as
one of the greatest arguments in evolu-
tionary theory.
In China today there are between 30 and
50 million men who will die single for the
simple reason that they are surplus, there
simply aren’t enough women in China for
them to marry. Historically the Chinese,
as with most cultures, have favoured male
offspring over females; however Fisher’s
principle has seen that the advantage of
having female offspring has never been
weakened.As people have promoted their
sons, any resultant surplus has been met
by greater breeding success for the pool
of girls, maintaining the gender balance.
The one-child policy wreaked havoc with
this. Given the choice many more parents
preferred sons to daughters. Orphanages
began to fill with abandoned daughters,
and by the early eighties the official sex
ratio at birth in China had risen to 108
boys to 100 girls.
In one sense children are an investment
for parents, an investment which comes
to fruition in old age, when the children
become the providers and care-givers for
the elderly parents. In this context males
are seen as preferable; historically they
have been much better equipped to earn
the money needed to support the parents.
Daughters are somewhat of a dead-end,
generally married away into a family
which they would then support, replaced
by wives married in to accompany sons.
This system only works when there is an
adequate supply of women to be wives,
and in China the relative birth rate of
women was falling fast during the 80s
and 90s, dangerously so.
The second blow to gender balance was
the advent of screening for gender using
ultrasound. Although sex-specific abor-
tions are illegal in China that has done
little to close the Pandora’s box combina-
tion of the one-child policy, the possibil-
ity to effectively ‘pick’ your child’s gen-
der, and a social pressure to have sons. By
the turn of the millennium China’s sex ra-
tio at birth had hit 120 boys to 100 girls,
inflating an already wide gender gap.
This situation has posed a series of
problems for both the government, and
society. Within society there is now an
extensive group of effectively unmar-
riageable men. While marriage is not
necessarily the ultimate goal in life, it is
something many people strive for. These
men are not evenly distributed across so-
ciety either. In accordance with Fisher’s
principle, as women have become scarc-
er, their marginal value has increased and
single women have a leverage that is not
present in societies with healthy gender
ratios. In a curiously retrograde way, it
creates a twisted form of social mobil-
ity, as women are able to marry upwards,
should they so chose.The losers in this are
the poor, the rural, the unskilled and the
unfortunate. A surplus of males is never
good for a country, it can lead to unrest,
and you might expect violence against
women, abductions and forced marriages
to become more common. There is also
Marcus Shepheard
China is living proof of Fisher’s principle
Quantum information
Two developing technologies have
been touted to mark the emergence of
new quantum systems. Published in the
journal Science last month, the fields of
plasmonics and nanophotonics promise
to speed up the advent of quantum in-
formation systems, which are capable
of achieving processing powers that are
orders of magnitude larger than classi-
cal computers.
Quantum computers operate by ma-
nipulating photons to represent binary
digits, and can harness quantum me-
chanical effects to provide superior
parallelism during processing. These
systems use Quantum Bits (or qubits)
in order to represent a larger number of
states with fewer bits compared to clas-
sical machines.
Metamaterials, artificial nanostruc-
tured objects with exotic properties,
will be used in combination with optical
emitters to improve transfer rates and
data processing. This hybrid technology
which takes advantage of the emerging
fields of plasmonics and nanophotonics
will allow ‘quantum light’ to be used in
future machines.
Professor Vladimir Shalaev, scientific
director of nanophotonics at Purdue
University’s Birck Nanotechnology
Center, said that the technology, being
a “seamless interface” between the two
fields, “could guarantee the use of light
to overcome limitations in the opera-
tional speed of conventional integrated
circuits”.
Researchers propose the use of plas-
mon-mediated interactions, which are
devices that can manipulate individual
photons and quasiparticles such as plas-
mons, combining electrons and photons
together, in order to increase circuit
throughput.
The individual photons and plasmons
can be coupled by way of a nanowire,
a technique pioneered at Harvard Uni-
versity allowing data to be encoded one
photon at a time, increasing transfer
rates of meaningful output. The use of
hyperbolic metamaterials is another ap-
proach which will allow recording and
reading data with single photons. “We
need a very efficient source of single
photons”, Shalaev said, “the challenge
here is to increase the efficiency of
generation of single photons in a broad
spectrum, and that is where plasmonics
and metamaterials come in”.
One obstacle quantum computers
hope to overcome is the challenge of
preserving entangled quantum informa-
tion long enough to be read and record-
ed. A possible solution involves the use
of diamond with “nitrogen vacancies”.
These are natural defects which occur in
the crystal lattice of diamonds. “The ni-
trogen vacancy in diamond operates in
a very broad spectral range and at room
temperature, which is very important”,
Shalaev commented.
The hybrid technologies will be put to
use along with work from the new re-
search field of diamond photonics. Hy-
perbolic metamaterials integrated with
nitrogen vacant diamonds are expected
to work to produce single photons ef-
ficiently and hasten the onset of stable
quantum information systems.
Alexander Karapetian
An individual nitrogen vacancy centre in diamond can be used as a Qubit
the human cost, with many poor men who
are unable to find a wife facing an old
age without a companion, without chil-
dren to bring them joy or care for them.
Finally there is the issue of competition
between males; older men who have had
more time to accumulate wealth have
an advantage over younger males from
comparable backgrounds, and so there
is a tendency for the age difference be-
tween male and female partners to grow,
as older men outcompete younger, poorer
men for the few available girls. None of
these outcomes are positive, and yet there
are no simple solutions to easily bring the
gender gap down.
Despite this there is evidence that Fish-
er’s principle is in effect; the increased
value of daughters in such an imbalanced
society is starting to be noted, and in the
last few years the ratio at birth has been
falling. It is now down to around 118
males to 100 females, which while still
severely imbalanced, is an improvement.
There are few direct interventions any
government can impose to ameliorate this
sort of situation. Rescinding the one-child
policy offers no guarantee that people
will not continue to pursue a ‘sons first’
policy, and keep abandoning or aborting
daughters. There is a possibility of offer-
ing direct incentives to people producing
girls, but this offers up the worrying con-
cept of placing a value on a child’s life,
when that value should be innate. It also
doesn’t consider the financial burden to
the country. Ultimately, the most pow-
erful changes China could make would
have to be social. Empowering women as
wage earners equal to men would weaken
the concept of men as providers. Offer-
ing better end-of-life care so that parents
are not so dependent on children for sup-
port would have a similar range of social
benefits, albeit at a cost. Fundamentally
there needs to be a change to the historical
patriarchal paradigm so that society sees
women as equal in potential and value to
males, at every level of society, not just
in the educated middle and upper classes.
These changes are not simple, and China
is not the only country that will find it-
self needing to implement them. While
China’s situation is more pronounced,
India and Indonesia are examples of other
countries with a growing surplus of males
that will need to be balanced out in the
future. It is too late for the millions of sur-
plus men in these countries, but hopefully
in time, things can return to a more bal-
anced state, for the benefit of all people
living in the country.
How we can explain China’s gender ratios from an evolutionary standpoint and
what they mean to imbalances in the rest of the world

