TECHNOLOGY
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Robot controls human arm
Stop Online Piracy Act under fire
Free vs. open source: why you should care
I
recently had the opportunity to attend
a talk by Richard Stallman, founder
of the Free Software Foundation, and
a strong Free software advocate. He
spoke on Free software, and the rights
of us all as users of software, and in the process
he brought something to my attention.
A term is being increasingly used in the me-
dia, one which is taken by most to have a posi-
tive connotation. I’m sure you’ve all heard it
before – ‘Open Source’. Open Source means
simply that the code is available for anyone
to view if they so wish, and then compile
themselves if they don’t want to use the pack-
age normally provided to them. Whilst this is
indeed a good thing, it is often taken by the
media to mean much more than it actually is.
What the media often imply it means is
‘Free’, used in a context more akin to ‘free-
dom’, a concept coined by Richard Stallman
in the 80s. A commonly quoted description is
“Free as in speech, not free as in beer”, and
to this extent, it is sometimes instead called
“Libre” (for example, the free office suite Li-
breOffice) to try and avoid the confusion. It is
on this that Stallman spoke.
Making the choice
Free software has an altogether different
meaning, and is much more about morality
than open source is. There are four freedoms
listed by the Free Software Foundation as fun-
damental to free software.
Free software often (nearly always) over-
laps with Open Source but the two are not the
same thing, and this is something that, in my
experience, few people realise. In short, Free
software was created due to moral reason-
ing, it’s about people having power over their
own computing and being able to decide how
to use their own computers, whereas Open
Source is the development technique that
came from this. Open Source software (like
Chromium, amongst others) is not necessarily
free software, as free software insists on the
four fundamental freedoms listed above and
Open Source proponents don’t always agree
with these freedoms. However, all free soft-
ware (such as the GIMP) is by definition also
open source, as this is necessary for freedom.
Why it matters
So why should you care about this? There
are numerous reasons to avoid any non-free
(proprietary) software (including backdoors
allowing the writer to control your comput-
er, large and unwieldy programs using more
memory, and of course, more bugs, to name
just a few), but in practice completely avoid-
ing proprietary software is impossible.
There are two main reasons that it’s impor-
tant for you to know the difference, and why
it’s important to care.
Firstly, individuals should be aware not only
of the dangers of trusting proprietary software,
but also of the fact that Open Source software
does not always remove these dangers to the
same extent that Free software does.
Secondly, there has been a thought process
prevalent in software companies over the past
few years. “If it fails, open source it and claim
that you’re giving back to the community”,
trying to gain good rep by ‘giving’ their failed
projects to the community. Many people fall
for this, believing that Open Source is inher-
ently a good thing, but this is simply not the
case. In actual fact, these programs are often
given very restrictive licenses, and/or rely on
the community to clean it up so that it can be-
come a useful program. Free software licences
force companies who donate software to the
community to actually give the software up
when they donate it, thus allowing it to truly
become community owned.
So, in short, Free software conforms to the
four fundamental freedoms, but Open Source
simply conforms to freedom 1. Free software
gives you, the user, freedom, but Open Source
does not.
Free software everyday?
How much should this matter to you? Finding
truly Free software, for a variety of reasons,
is a lot more difficult than you would hope,
so it might not be wise to depend on it. Yet if
you get the chance, supporting and using Free
software is definitely the way to go.
Human-machine interfaces till now have largely
depended upon humans telling machines how to
behave, to help us achieve our goals. Now, work at
the Montpellier Laboratory of Informatics, Robot-
ics and Microelectronics has shown that things
can work the other way around, with a robot con-
trolling the movements of a human arm using
electrodes attached to the arm. Given the goal of
dropping a ball into the net and a human carrying
a ball, the robot can apply electrical impulses to
the arm that swivel it to the required position. The
robot then generates a short pulse that releases
the muscles in the hand and causes the ball to
drop into the net. While it’s not entirely clear what
the applications of this ability are, it’s hoped that
the robot might assist in hospitals with patient
rehabilitation. When used regularly by a person
with limited limb movements, the system should
re-familiarise the body to regular motion.
A long drawn out legislative battle is looming in
America, with media houses and Senators pushing
forward a draconian new copyright law that redefines
the responsibilities of content providers and users
in adhering to copyright law. In simpler English, this
means that websites such as YouTube and Vimeo
would be reponsible for ensuring that copyrighted
content wasn’t stored on their servers.
The implications of this would be huge, as it would
probably mean the end of content-sharing as we now
know it. Given the volume of data uploaded to You-
Tube (35 hours/minute in late 2010), the cost of ex-
haustively monitoring uploaded content will probably
prove prohibitive for most video hosting providers.
The law has naturally been met with vocal opposi-
tion from a coalition of leading technology firms: in
a rare show of unity, Facebook, Google, Twitter, Aol,
Ebay, LinkedIn and Yahoo have published a public
letter to the Senate expressing concern about the
‘serious risk’ to innovation and job creation within
the industry. Another key provision of the bill would
make unauthorized streaming a felony.
Whatever the final outcome of the American policy
debate, there’s bound to be an impact on British
copyright law in the near future. Preserving our right
to keep our data private and pushing for fairer copy-
right solutions is vital.
Sanchit Sharma on why ‘Free’ is more than you expect
The four freedoms of
Free software
Freedom 0:
The freedom to run the program, for
any purpose
Freedom 1:
The freedom to study how the pro-
gram works, and change it so it does
your computing as you wish. Access
to the source code is a precondition
for this.
Freedom 2:
The freedom to redistribute copies
so you can help your neighbor.
Freedom 3:
The freedom to distribute copies of
your modified versions to others. By
doing this you can give the whole
community a chance to benefit from
your changes. Access to the source
code is a precondition for this.
FELIX
12 Friday 18 november 2011
Burning one gallon of gasoline creates about 19 pounds of CO2
. The average mature tree can absorb 48 pounds of CO2
per year – GREEN WEEK 2011

