FELIX Friday 18 november 2011 13
TECHNOLOGY
Boosting mobile innovation
those willing to take the biggest risks.
The modern smartphone is a platform
which democratises innovation by cut-
ting the cost of development and the
associated financial risk to almost zero.
We can cut out manufacturing, design,
distribution and retail – just write code,
deploy it through an application store,
make money and iterate. With a single
piece of commodity hardware, it is
possible to access realtime informa-
tion from a huge array of local sensors
such as GPS, a camera, microphone, ac-
celerometer, compass and a barometer.
Combine that with the ability for your
smartphone to provide context (through
your social networks and location) and
the ability to pull in data from millions
of sources online, all you need to do is
to combine data from those sources in a
useful way to solve a real problem and
the hardware and APIs do the rest. With
the ease of innovating on the smart-
phone platform, it’s no wonder the pace
of innovation has been so quick.
Improving lives
In the UK, mobile applications have
helped us to communicate with our
peers around the world, to live healthier
lives, saved us time and saved us mon-
ey. ‘Google Translate’ and ‘Word Lens’
have helped us to traverse language
barriers and to communicate with
people regardless of whether or not we
share a common language. ‘Transport
for London’ and ‘Addison Lee’ have
helped us to get home safely after a
night out. Various GPS navigation apps
save us time by routing us around traf-
fic jams – traffic jams reported by other
users of the application. Applications
such as ‘ShopSavvy’ compare prices
against other high-street shops and on-
line stores so we don’t get ripped off.
The ‘Asthmapolis’ application helps
asthma sufferers by tracking their
symptoms over time, looking for a de-
terioration in symptoms and analysing
where those symptoms occur so public
health officials can find the source of
the pollution. And there’s Lewisham
Council who keep their streets clean
with a mobile app for members of the
public to report graffiti, fly-tipping and
other environmental crimes.
Looking to the developing world, the
promise for mobile technology to have
a positive social impact seems to be
even greater. Many developing coun-
tries currently lack the efficient physi-
cal infrastructure we take for granted
(the roads, phone lines, GP surgeries
and banks). Mobile technology can be
deployed incredibly quickly in these
countries as one mast covers a huge
area – instantly giving the population
access to services such as mobile bank-
ing, healthcare and trade. Several short
mobile phone calls will allow a farmer
or a producer to determine the price he
can sell his goods at different markets
and to negotiate the best price without
spending days making successive trips
to different markets.
Mobile banking companies such as
M-Pesa allows people to invest mon-
ey for their future and to pay suppli-
ers without a long journey to the bank
whilst also eliminating the risks and
costs of transporting physical money.
Other apps such as EpiSurveyor help
with disease monitoring: they allow
physicians to monitor the spread of
diseases in real-time without the delay
introduced by sending and collating
paper forms.
Mobile innovation
The potential to change the world and
to make money in the world of mobile
technology is unparalleled. The mobile
application market is already worth
$15bn annually and is only set to con-
tinue growing exponentially. Globally,
the number of people with a mobile
phone is set to pass 4.5 billion by 2012.
Many of the next one billion people to
be connected to a mobile network will
reside in Asia, the Middle East or Africa
– these are people who will be access-
ing the internet for the first time through
their mobile phone.
As the UK struggles through our deep-
est recession to date, we should realise
that long term economic growth only
comes from making things that better
other people’s lives. If I can produce a
product which is worth £10 to you but
only costs me £2 to produce, I could sell
it for £5 and it’s a win-win situation. It’s
only by creating real value that we can
build a sustainable economy: speculat-
ing on the markets in an investment
bank doesn’t provide this long term
value and isn’t a sustainable model for
the UK economy. The mobile industry
is one which has a huge positive social
impact as well as huge potential for new
ideas.
Whether you’re an engineer or a scien-
tist at Imperial, I believe the mobile in-
dustry provides a unique opportunity for
you to develop the new products which
benefit society with almost no cost and
no risk to you. Take a look at the An-
droid Developer website for example:
it’s free to anyone interested and there
are countless tutorials to get you started.
With no investment required apart from
your time, there’s little to lose.
Kin-Hing Lo explores the revolutionary impact of mobile proliferation on our lives
A
s each second ticks away,
there’s a quiet revolution
going on in every town
and every city across the
globe. Mobile technol-
ogy disrupts the way we live our lives,
the way we communicate with others
and the way we function as a society.
In the time it’s taken you to read just
this sentence, over 3,000 mobile appli-
cations have been downloaded to hand-
sets across the world. Many of these
applications may just be pointless bird
throwing, rope cutting and fruit slicing
games but a growing number of innova-
tive new applications are changing the
way in which we communicate, shop
and travel.
Freeing innovation
Just a couple of years ago, creating a
new and innovative product to solve a
problem would require you to design a
bespoke piece of hardware, manufac-
ture it, distribute it and retail it through
a high street store or a mail-order cata-
logue. You’d need to find a designer,
a manufacturer and suppliers for your
components. Then you’ve got to find
a distributor to take your product, a re-
tailer willing to dedicate the shelf space
to it and a marketing firm to promote it.
The route from idea to marketplace was
slow, expensive and risk-ridden: launch-
ing a new product to solve real world
problems was a process accessible only
to those with the deepest pockets and
Mobile applications have intrinsically changed the way we process information and go about our daily lives

