unionpage
Nicolas Massie
Deputy President (Welfare)
dpwelfare@imperial.ac.uk
your
sabbaticals
imperialcollegeunion.org/sabbs
Keep up-to-date with your Sabbaticals at:
So I’m not going to talk about why you
should save energy. I’m not going to
tell you why you have to switch off the
lights or eat less meat. I’ll let the activists
on page 22 do that… I’m here to cover
something far more straightforward and
yet something that even the cleverest of
you lot seem incapable of understanding.
Individual change. Students (and staff) at
Imperial often stare at me blankly when
I suggest making small changes to their
daily lives that are neither especially
inconvenient nor expensive, generally
stating (often vehemently) that ‘it won’t
make a difference’. If you’ll indulge me,
I’ll walk you through exactly what we
could do at Imperial, with minimal effort.
All my figures come from http://www.
dothegreenthing.com/wiki. Feel free to
contact me for clarification.
An Imperial student wakes up in the
morning and takes a shower seven
minutes shorter than her usual fifteen.
BANG, she saved 0.63kg Equivalent
CO2 (CO2e). She then gets dressed and
goes to the kitchen where she grabs the
jam and digs out the dregs stuck at the
bottom of the jar before looking for a new
one. BANG, by not throwing away the
jar before it was really empty (and not
throwing away old vegetables whenever
fresh ones arrive) she has saved an
average of 8.53kg CO2e per week. On
her way to lectures she passes by the
JCR and refills her water bottle. BANG,
0.22kg CO2e by not buying a new water
bottle. She then runs up to her lecture
in Pippard LT saving 0.5KgCO2e each
day by not taking the lift five floors. At
lunch she picks the vegetarian option
and saves 8.65kg CO2e. At home that
evening she has her shopping delivered
(1.64KgCO2e saved). Dinner is seasonal
and organic (1.34 and 0.64KgCO2e
savings respectively). She then does her
washing and dries her clothes on a rack in
her room. (1.90 kg CO2e saved per load).
You get the idea. Through ten simple and
easy steps she has saved 5603Kg* CO2e
in a year. If that were multiplied out by
15000 (the population of Imperial – ish)
it would save 84,000 tonnes of CO2e
emissions. Imperial’s calculated carbon
footprint for 2008/9 was 84,026 tCO2 –
for all campuses. I’m as surprised as you
are. Small actions can make a difference.
Go to http://thedonation.org.uk/doers/
icugreenweek/green-week and pledge to
Something. Anything. Let’s blast through
our 30 tonne target.
Check out http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/
sustainability/stepchange. Become an
ambassador.
*I appreciate that these are estimates and that ‘a
lift that has ten people in it might be more carbon
efficient than ten people exercising up the stairs
respirating’. These are estimates and means valid
for the general case. The points stand.
GreenWeek - all next week! #icugreenweek
Green
Week
imperialcollegeunion.org
Pledge your CO2 savings online now
Monday 21
Meat Free Monday!
All day, Across Campus
Meat consumption has a huge impact on
our environmental impact, having one meat
free day per week reduces our emissions
more than having all of our food grown in our
gardens!
Bike Maintenance workshop
By London Campaign for Cycling and Imperial
Bike Users Group, 18:00 in Union Meeting
Room 6
Bikes are amazing transport, no fossil fuels,
free exercise and time saving in London. The
only downside is that things do break and
wear, come along and learn how to repair and
maintain some basics of your bikes to keep
you rolling.
Veg Soc Cooking meeting
By ICU Veg Soc, Meet at 18:00 in
FiveSixEight.
Look for the carrot hat. Session on cooking
more sustainably, be it using up leftovers or
just handy tips on how to reduce throwing
stuff out.
Tuesday 22
Clothes and book Drop
In FiveSixEight in the evening, during the day
at Union Reception and Sherfield foyer.
When you drop off your clothes for the
clothes swap later in the week, get tokens
that you can use in the clothes swap to get
some lovely (not so) new (but great) clothes.
Green Week Union Quiz
FiveSixEight at 18:00
Come and test your green-grey-matter. Add in
a bit about general quiz blurb but with a green
slant to it.
Wednesday 23
Clothes and book swap
By Women in Science, Engineering and
Technology. All day, Union Meeting Room 7.
Come in with your tokens from earlier on in
the week trade them in for lovely books and
clothes.
Critical Mass - Cycling event!
By Imperial College Bike Users Group, meet
outside of the Faculty Building bike park at
17:00, leaving at 17:15.
More of a celebration of cycling than a cycling
protest. We will head over to the south bank
and join vast numbers of cyclists taking to the
streets. The general idea of critical mass is
that the more people who cycle, the safer it
gets, this is a celebration of cycling but also
pointing out how fragile humans are compared
to cars.
Felting Session
By Environmental Society, 16:00, Union
Meeting Room 7
Do you have any old woolen clothes with
holes in them/beyond repair? You can bring
them new life by turning them into various
felt works. You don’t need to bring your own
wool, but reusing clothes would be ideal.
Thursday 24
Composter visits
Meet at the Green Week Stand in Sherfield,
12:00-14:00.
20 minute tours of 10 people at a time, can
sign up on the day for their session or just
drop in and wait until the next slot. College
is in the process of composting all of their
food waste, this is just shy of 10% of their
entire waste sent to landfil! Come and check
out how you convert raw and cooked food
and wood pellets into lovely compost that is
used around college to keep our green spaces
fertile.
Friday 25
Clothes and book swap
By Women in Science, Engineering and
Technology. All day, Union Meeting Room 7.
Come in with your tokens from earlier on in
the week trade them in for lovely books and
clothes.
Chutney Session
By Waste Watch, 12:00 in Union Meeting
Room 4.
After a discussion on our relationship to food,
we will head up to the Union kitchens and
cook up come delicious chutney that is free for
all to take away.

