POLITICS
FELIX 15
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 18 november 2011
Palestinian students visit Imperial
Exchange students reveal their thoughts on Palestine’s struggle for recognition
Rajat Jain
Haifa Ansari Zacharia Zanoon
On Tuesday, Imperial was visited by a
group of six Palestinian university stu-
dents spending eleven days in London
as part of a cultural exchange. Felix
took the opportunity to speak to them.
In particular, I spoke to HaifaAnsari,
a final year law student and Zacharia
Zanoon, a second year dentistry stu-
dent. Both are from fairly similar back-
grounds, part of the growing young
well-educated Palestinian middle class
and got on well with each other, seem-
ingly holding a similar world view.
Certainly, both have a sincere liking
for the British people, despite seeing
British policy as being partly respon-
sible for the conflict. This reflects my
own experience of the urban parts of
the West Bank, where the locals were
always excited to meet tourists (even if
they had nothing to sell), and had a rath-
er positive reaction to hearing we were
British. It is also hard to find any Pal-
estinians who would trust Israeli’s from
any faction to be true to their word. Is-
rael has long resisted a Palestinian state
out of legitimate concerns that the new
state will need to be guaranteed to not
be a threat to its national security. It is
interesting to see that most Palestinians
feel the same concern about Israel.
However, scratch the surface, and
a clear line still emerges among the
Palestinians. When asked about Is-
rael, neither would recognise a ‘right’
to exist, but while Haifa would accept
their existence, Zacharia would not. He
also believed that force was absolutely
necessary and the main measure by
which Palestinian ‘freedom’ would be
gained. Haifa, however, believed that
diplomacy would be successful given
enough time and peace was of the ut-
most importance. She also appeared
to be rather more sceptical of govern-
ments (whether allies or enemies of Is-
rael), and believed that pressure from
people around the world would have a
greater impact.
Although they are hardly representa-
tive of the whole of Palestinian soci-
ety, the contrasting views of these two
students reflects some of the key prob-
lems that will still face the Palestinian
people, even if a more moderate Israeli
government comes into power. ICU President Scott Heath (third from left) and a few Imperial students posing with the students from Palestine
Z: It was not a waste; at least we tried to improve the situation. We
must try every option available to us.
H: No, I don’t think it was. We were expecting the bid to fail. But it
has led to membership of UNESCO and greater knowledge of the
plight of the Palestinian people.
Z: Of course forceful action will be necessary. If Israel uses violence
against me, I will respond in the same way. What else can we do?
Some of them [Israelis] believe that if you kill an Arab child, you will
enter paradise! We do not: we only use violence because it is used
against us.
H: No, not necessarily. The majority of Palestinians are still peaceful
and want peace. The membership to UNESCO is still a small step in
the right direction. As long as there are small steps, Palestinians will
remain hopeful.
Z: Of course, any country who supports us is our ally and we shall
accept their support.
H: We will take support from any country that gives it to us. But this
does not mean we support their own internal politics. The Palestinian
people will always gladly accept support from anyone who sincerely
offers it. It is, however, people who can help us, not governments.
Z: The British left the Jews here in 1948 and are responsible for the
situation we are in. But now, we have come here and got so much sup-
port. The British are now our friends. They understand our problems
and support us. There are so many organisations in Britain, such as
the one that brought us here, that are helping us.
Z: Let me ask you: If someone comes and takes your land, every-
thing you own, would you offer to share it with them? Israel does not
have any right to this land. All the land is Palestine. There may be no
peaceful solution. Even when the Oslo agreement was being signed,
the Israeli prime minister was lying to us. The Zionists are liars- they
cannot be trusted. The Jews here in London are peaceful. The Zion-
ists are not. Let me tell you a story. A boy complains to his father that
his bedroom is too small. His father tells him to get a cow and put it
in his room. The boy does so and now complains it is even small. His
father tells him to take two sheep and put them in. The boy does so
and continues to complain. The father tells him to put five chickens
in his room. The boy complains he can barely fit. The father says take
the cow out. The boy says it feels bigger. Now the father says take a
sheep out. The boy says the room now feels very large. This is what
the Israelis are trying to convince us of!
H: The British people have shown their support for us. We do not see
the government and the people as the same. There are a large num-
ber of organisations who you can visit to support us. I urge British peo-
ple to come and visit Palestine and see the suffering of our people.
H: I do not accept the right of Israel to exist as they have taken our
land. But, I can see that they view it as their home. If it would bring
peace, I would accept the two states though. But, this would have to
be a final peaceful state. I do not know if the Palestinians can trust
Israel to be peaceful.
Palestine has taken the policy of turning to other countries for rec-
ognition of their state. Given their failure to gain UN membership,
was this policy a waste of time?
Countries such as Iran and Syria claim to support the Palestinian
people but focus more on being anti-Israeli. Do you consider them to
be true allies? Does Palestine have any true allies?
Britain has been a strong ally of Israel and does not recognise Pal-
estine. What is your view of the British and has it changed since you
arrived? Is there anything British people who support the Palestin-
ians can do?
Do you accept Israel’s right to exist? Do you support a two state
solution?
Given the failings of the diplomatic route, are the Palestinians likely
to take more forceful action?
Would you like to report on a political issue
that means something to you?
Email us at: politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rajat Jain
Politics Editors: Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
“Scratch the surface,
and a clear line still
emerges among the
Palestinians.”

