BUSINESS
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you have found time to follow the news in
between episodes of Made in Chelsea and The
X Factor, then you will be aware that Groupon,
considered the fastest growing company ever,
has recently been valued at $12.7bn. The com-
pany’s rapid global expansion and large valua-
tion (the highest since Google was launched in
2004) imply it is a hugely successful business.
However, investors question whether the com-
pany’s business model is sustainable, and sug-
gest that internet giants Google and Facebook
could prevent Groupon from dominating the
social buying industry. So can Groupon main-
tain the position it has propelled itself into, or
are its days in the spotlight over?
The idea behind Groupon is simple: bulk
buying is cost effective. Groupon utilizes this
truth by offering vouchers for services and
products at a fraction of the retail price, pro-
viding that enough people purchase the deal.
This is theoretically beneficial for all parties
as the consumer saves money, the participating
businesses gain new customers and Groupon
generates profit by taking cuts of around 50%.
It sounds ideal, but does it work in reality?
Groupon has 115 million subscribers (August
2011) with 32.5 million vouchers purchased in
the last quarter; the site seems popular with the
public. But for small businesses, such as restau-
rants and beauty salons which Groupon depend
heavily upon, the outcome is not always posi-
tive. Many small businesses have been over-
whelmed by the influx of customers, running
out of stock or not fitting in everybody’s ap-
pointments before the vouchers expired (tragic
for those who absolutely need their fake tan
by Friday!) On top of this, participation is not
always lucrative for businesses as discounts
are so large, many of them suffer loses while
bargain hunters seek the next giveaway ahead
of becoming loyal repeat customers. Groupon
is expected to generate $1.7bn of revenue this
year which, whilst sounding impressive, in fact
equates to little more than breaking even.
There is a major lack of organisation within
the company due to its rapid development in
such a short space of time. Initially based in
Chicago, Groupon now operates in 175 North
American markets and has quickly spanned
the globe entering into 47 countries so far. The
number of employees has soared from 39 to
over 10,000. Although these figures sound im-
pressive, they are accompanied with internal
chaos. Communications within the company
have been criticised and employees have com-
plained that people in managerial roles were
friends of the founder and are now not expe-
rienced enough for their current role. The lack
of organisation is not restricted to employees;
there are numerous reports of vouchers being
sold for a business which had since been closed
down and customers not receiving a promised
refund. Two Imperial students had first-hand
experience of Groupon’s chaotic communica-
tions when they were offered internships in
China, signed a contract and were told a few
days before they were due to fly that the place-
ment was no longer possible.
The most notorious of Groupon’s mistakes
was simultaneously upsetting the Chinese and
Tibetan populations when they released an ad-
vertisement which made a plea for the people
of Tibet – “The people of Tibet are in trouble”
– before jokingly adding “but they still whip
up an amazing fish curry.” Complaints came
in thick and fast over Groupon light heartedly
using the suffering of Tibetans in order to pro-
mote their product.
In fact the story of Groupon’s attempt to
enter the Chinese market is adorned with set-
backs. They stormed into a joint venture with
Gaopeng in February, establishing themselves
within a couple of months. China is notoriously
hostile to international companies and Groupon
is no exception. Now most of the international
managers, oblivious to the Chinese culture,
have since been removed and returned to their
respective home countries. Just last week Grou-
pon hit the rocks again for accidently linking
up with a company selling counterfeit luxury
watches. Many speculate that Groupon are
heading downhill in the direction of other inter-
net giants such as Yahoo and Google who failed
to break into the harsh Chinese market.
In 2010 Groupon famously rejected
Google’s offer to buy the company for $6bn.
Fighting back from its rejection, Google has
launched Google Offers – a site with a star-
tling resemblance to Groupon. Competition is
nothing new for Groupon (there are over 500
similar sites in America alone) but few pose
such a significant threat to the social buy-
ing giant. Facebook has created their version
which when fully established and implement-
ed across the globe could see the end of Grou-
pon’s time at the top. With such an extensive
user base Facebook has the potential to knock
Groupon off of the playing field and dominate
social buying. Google and Facebook also have
the advantage of not being the first to enter the
market meaning they can steal the successful
elements of Groupon whilst avoiding many of
the mistakes.
In order to survive Groupon must be inno-
vative. Launching ‘Groupon Now’ may have
been a step in the right direction. This service
harnesses the smartphone craze and opens an
entirely new revenue stream. The simple inter-
face consists of the two buttons, “I’m hungry”
and “I’m bored” which use GPS to provide the
user with deals for eateries and entertainment
close to their location. This differs from the
classic ‘daily deals’, which can be redeemed
several months later, and provides an attrac-
tive option for businesses as they can increase
sales during usually slow periods. Another
new product, ‘Groupon Rewards,’ imple-
mented in September in an attempt to increase
-customer loyalty. Customers who purchase
multiple vouchers from a business which reg-
ularly offers Groupon deals will ‘unlock’ re-
wards which entitle them to further discounts.
This will allow Groupon to accurately track
how many people are repeat customers, how
much individuals spend on average and should
increase the number of purchases per user.
Groupon, one of the hottest internet start-
ups, has wowed the world with its unprec-
edented rate of growth. Whether it will win
the battle against Google and Facebook is yet
to be determined. Only by addressing its fun-
damental errors, embracing new technologies
and continuing down the innovative road they
will they stand a chance in defying the odds
and emerging as the rightful ruler of the Social
Buying Empire.
www.imperialentrepreneurs.com
By
Annabelle Mayers
Groupon: Is the social
buying giant losing fuel?
Groupon must take on Google and Facebook if it is to triumph
In the Guardian comment cartoon published this
Monday, artist Martin Rowson depicts a repentant
“St. Vince” Cable as a monk, exiled to the desert
where he is camped outside a tent marked OCCU-
PY. It comes in response to an interview conducted
over the BBC’s The Politics Show broadcast this
Sunday in which Cable admitted he shared “sym-
pathy with the emotions behind [the movement]”.
The interview marked a return to the spotlight
for the current Business Secretary, who has been
notably absent in the media (as from a previously
held role in media policy) since last December
when he publicly declared war on the Murdoch em-
pire following their BSkyB takeover bid. However it
seems already that this most recent interview is
cementing the image of Cable as somewhat of a
PR liability. In voicing empathy for the occupiers,
Cable has simultaneously managed to go against
David Cameron’s public line of scepticism – “pro-
testing is something you, on the whole, should do
on two feet, rather than lying down, in some cases
in a fairly comatose state” – and anger those sup-
porters of the movement who view his attempts
to reconnect with public spirit as little short of
hypocrisy following the perceived sell-out to the
Conservatives over issues such as the austerity
measures and raising of tuition fees.
But such political and judicial slip-ups shouldn’t
undermine the reputation of the Business Secre-
tary as economist. Also present in Rowson’s car-
toon is the desert of the economic landscape: flat-
lining growth figures of 0.7% for 2011 and 0.6%
for 2012, and, on the horizon, the tornado that is
the crisis in the eurozone. As the Politics Show
highlighted, Cable has a knack for predicting these
kinds of economic ‘weather systems’. Before step-
ping into office he urged caution over the auster-
ity measures, warning that to cut too far too fast
would impede growth. Now the man responsible
for the UK’s growth strategy, Cable, will soon have
the chance to improve it.
On November 29 the Government will issue its
Autumn Statement. Cable has already stated that
it will not contain any large tax cuts or increases
in public spending, but with Bloomberg reporting
possible legislation to limit executive pay, inclus-
ing options such as giving shareholders a binding
vote on pay, and putting employees on company
renumeration committees, it looks as though he
may just have more to offer the protesters than a
sympathetic ear.
– The Business Editors
Letter from the Editors
Weatherforecasting during an
Economic Climate Change
FELIX
16 Only 1% of China’s 560 million city residents breathe air that is considered safe by the European Union – GREEN WEEK 2011

