BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 18 november 2011 17
It was perhaps due to the imperfect
knowledge or absolute ignorance hu-
mankind had back then that true poly-
maths could still exist; nowadays, in the
age of specialization, it seems almost
impossible. But back in the old days,
the same person, if gifted and lucky
enough, could undertake forefront re-
search in the most diverse areas and
make enormous contributions, large
enough for their names to be remem-
bered. Thomas Young (1773-1890), a
physician by training, was such a poly-
math.
Engineers will always remember his
name through Young’s modulus. Physi-
cists, because he established (or un-
earthed) the wave theory of light. Phy-
sicians, because he explained colour
perception and described astigmatism.
Musicians, due to the Young tempera-
ment. Egyptologists, for his partial (and
truly remarkable) decipherment of hi-
eroglyphics. Capillarity, surface ten-
sion, haemodynamics, comparative phi-
lology, the double-slit experiment, the
measurement of the speed of light, all
of it was due to Thomas Young.
His interests being so wide, it comes
almost to no surprise that Young did not
only endeavour in all that, but became
a successful businessman as well. It all
was triggered by a huge economic cri-
sis: the “Panic of 1825”.
Following the Napoleonic invasion of
the Iberian peninsula, the Kingdom of
Spain, formerly the biggest colonial
power in Europe, lost its grip in South
America: one by one, all the countries
from Mexico down to Chile and Argen-
tina became independent, a process that
finished in 1821 in Peru. The Spanish
Empire had usually taken a protection-
ist stance and, even though a certain
amount of smuggling had existed, trade
between their American colonies and
Europe had been restricted to Spaniards
alone.
Therefore, when the independence
process was complete, British finan-
ciers saw the newly former countries
as a great chance of entering a hitherto
forbidden market. They were the days
following Napoleons defeat, when Brit-
ain had established itself as the domi-
nant power. Little regulation existed
on the banking sector, as little practice
on financial markets existed. Thus, the
initially alluring investments in Latin
America rapidly attracted too many in-
vestors, and speculation followed.
At the height of this speculative pro-
Thomas Young’s
Entrepreneurial
Endeavours
cess, fortunes could be made by in-
vesting in non-existent factories, by
trading incredible amounts of Latin
American public debt, or by buying
and selling land titles in the middle of
the jungle, where colonies where alleg-
edly going to be built out of nowhere.
Adventurers also entered the game:
some Gregor MacGregor (1786-1845),
who had formerly fought in the South
American wars of independence, pub-
licly proclaimed himself ruler of the
fictitious Principality of Poyais, and
successfully drew City investors and
colonists into this fraudulent venture.
Colonists would land in Panama only to
discover Poyais did not exist, and that
MacGregor, safely living in Caracas,
had just taken the money and fled.
The madness of those days is hard to
match, but not perhaps its sophistica-
tion, as the recent and ongoing crisis
has shown. And, as it happened in 2007,
the bubble could only burst. By 1825,
industrial revolution in Europe had
made some other investments rather at-
tractive, too: suddenly, railroads, heavy
machinery, coal mining, steelworks,…
became obvious and more trustworthy
investments. However, most City banks
had their money placed on Latin Ameri-
can ventures; so, in order to finance the
former, they simply decided sell off
the latter. As it became obvious that no
one really wanted the Latin American
assets, panic grew and, inevitably, the
London Stock Exchange crashed.
Banks, the main backers of the specu-
lative investments, were the first and
major victims of the crash. Sixty Eng-
lish banks, including six of the ma-
jor ten, declared bankruptcy as panic
spread; but the main survivor, and un-
doubtedly the biggest culprit, was the
Bank of England, which back then was,
essentially, a chartered yet private busi-
ness that, as such, had heavily fuelled
the bubble. Ironically, the British gov-
ernment had to allow the humiliating
bail-out of the Bank of England by no
other than the Banque de France, which
infused its colleague with enough gold
reserves to prevent its collapse. The
crisis spread to the rest of Europe, and
prompted a general default of Latin
American debt. Governments world-
wide promptly learnt the lesson: banks,
left alone and unregulated, can cause
great trouble. Thus, for the first time in
history, banking policing and regula-
tions were established.
The resulting business environment
was, as it is nowadays, one of uncer-
tainty and distrust. The bubble had
shown quite clearly the need of assess-
ing risk and of prudent expansion. That
was how the Palladium Insurance Com-
pany, which had been founded amidst
the general excitement of this period,
felt in the aftermath. They saw the need
of looking for ways of assessing the risk
of the insurances they offered so that
they could be priced accordingly, and
money made in a certain and prudent
way, rather than through adventurous
games in the Stock Exchange.
However, at that time risk assessment
and pricing were in its teens, and know-
ing of Thomas Young’s fame and exper-
tise, they thought he could be the most
suitable person for a job consisting on,
essentially, re-structuring the insurance
business on scientific grounds. They at-
tracted him in the most generous way; a
big salary of £500 was offered to him,
along with a considerable number of
stock shares. However, Young appar-
ently thought the deal was too good for
him: he refused these liberal terms and,
after some negotiations, accepted the
job for £400 per annum alone.
Young was of an inquisitive and rigor-
ous mind. Sometime earlier in his life
he had proposed an empirical equation
for calculating the value of life and, af-
ter working on the issue, came up with
a formula calculating the joint value of
any number of lives too. This method,
although cold-hearted and rather im-
perfect, outperformed any other current
practice. His analysis, based on statisti-
cal data on the number of yearly deaths
of people of different social positions
in different locations, allowed him for
the first time to estimate individual life
expectancy and, thus, to price life insur-
ances based on the probability someone
had to die in the near future. He kept
adding factors into his formula, (diet,
profession, family antecedents,...), to
the point of making his method too
complicated for anyone but himself.
Nevertheless, being more thorough and
serious in his analyses than anyone else,
Young was quite successful and helped
the Palladium Company make a great
profit.
While working on these issues for the
Palladium Company, he realised that his
scientific approach could be extended
to some other areas of business. For in-
stance, his centred his attention in the
market of “annuities”. For the layman,
an annuity is a contract, usually between
a pension fund holder and an insurance
company, by virtue of which the pen-
sioner hands over his pension fund – or,
equivalently, a great deal of money – to
the insurance company under the agree-
ment that the insurance company will
then pay the pensioner, for the remain-
ing of his life, a certain income –the an-
nuity. Annuity titles could be purchased
and sold in the market, and obviously
the risk was in the subject living too
long for making the business not profit-
able. Young applied his methodology to
this market too, and he was able to cal-
culate annuities on single or joint lives
and minimise the losses of the insurer.
By the time of his death (1829), his
scientific insight into the insurance
business had attracted enough attention
to allow dubbing Young the father of
modern insurancing.
Bernhardt Kreuzweg-Burgheim
Thomas Young – the man, the myth, the polymath

