COMMENT
FELIX Friday 18 NOVEMber 2011 21
I
don’t really know how to start this
article. That’s quite embarrassing.
Then again, I think that’s a recur-
ring theme in my life. I always find
a way to embarrass myself. In a
way I’m like Bob Dylan. Except it’s em-
barrassment’s door that I’m knock knock
knocking on. I then realise that I’ve actu-
ally got the wrong door, just as it’s too late
and the person who lives there is opening
it.
I am a lightning rod for embarrassment.
If there is a name of a person I’ve met too
many times to forget, I’ll forget. If there’s
a step to trip up on, I’ll trip up on it. If
there’s a song that I can mutter when I’m
walking down the street, I’ll mutter away.
I’ll then notice the odd looks and try to
decide if it’s best to stop, or to just pre-
tend I’m on the phone with someone. If I
get in a lift, I’ll end up turning round and
looking at the mirror. Then someone gets
in, sees me, and we have to have a silent
two person lift ride. Of course, this is after
I say ‘which floor?’; only to realise that
they had already pressed the button and
my voice had just broken up an octave as
if I’m 15.
If you ever see me walking into the li-
brary (that’s just the kind of party animal
lifestyle I lead) you will notice the doors
decide to open at the very last moment.
Or sometimes, just not at all. This means
I end up walking very close to the doors,
awkwardly pausing when I lose my nerve
and think it’s not going to open, turning
Jakov Marelic
Tim Arbabzadah
The real benefit cheats
This title doesn’t fit, that’s quite emba...
round, and then trying again. Throughout
this process, I try and fail to look non-
chalant. I could give more examples, but
thinking of them is making me cringe, so
for the rest of this I’ll be a bit vague.
Occasionally,whenI’mtalkingtosome-
one, I’ll say something a bit weird. Then
I have to try to laugh it off and stammer
through the conversation. Unfortunately,
this is not in a charming Hugh Grant “Oh
my gosh I really am rather mortified, erm,
blimey, erm, terribly sorry” way, it’s more
of a “No, wait. I didn’t mean… It was a
joke… Stop walking away” kind of way.
Whenever I go out, especially if alco-
hol is involved, I’ll inevitably wake up
the next morning (more accurately late
afternoon – for anyone that knows me
well) feeling that familiar ‘Oh shit, that
actually happened didn’t it, can I rewind
time?’ sensation. Usually, followed by
a groan and that dreadful feeling that, at
some point soon, I’m going to have to see
the people I was out with the night before.
This feeling is like Silvio Berlusconi to a
woman: it just refuses to leave me alone.
For the rest of the day I have to keep
my mind actively occupied with every
thought except what happened last night.
I like to think that I’m not alone in this
pain. This torment. This mortally embar-
rassing coil. In fact, that’s the point. You
are not alone. Everyone feels this in some
way; some are just better at hiding it than
others. Once you realise that everyone is
too busy worrying about what embarrass-
W
elfare can be a
controversial issue
these days, invok-
ing heated debate.
It is often said
that the hard-working majority are
forced to pay taxes for the idle few
benefit-scroungers who don’t pull their
weight. In these economic times, many
have wondered whether these pay-
ments should be cut.
Trouble is: that’s not the situation
we’re actually in. Far from your tax-
es being spent mostly on the nation’s
poorest, more cash is actually handed
out to the richest 1% through corporate
welfare and tax dodging.
Last winter, the country was rocked
by protests against tax avoidance. In
particular the UK Uncut group were
arguing against the alleged £6 billion
unpaid tax bill of Vodafone, in what
the investigative magazine Private Eye
described as “an unbelievable cave-in”
by Britain’s top tax inspectors. To put
this figure into perspective, the total
cost of Jobseekers Allowance in 2010-
2011 was £4.9 billion.
An excellent graphic representing
the total government expenditure for
2010-2011 can be found on The Guard-
ian newspaper’s website. Using that,
and other sources, we can look at the
numbers and decide whether it’s right
to blame the poor for runaway taxes
on the majority, or whether it’s really
someone else leeching off our nation’s
collective wealth.
Apart from the already mentioned
Jobseekers Allowance (£4.9 billion),
other benefits perceived as unfair are
incapacity benefit (£7.7 billion) which
helps people too ill or disabled to work,
council tax benefit (£4.9 billion), hous-
ing benefit (£21.6 billion) and income
support (£7.8 billion). These figures are
all benefit expenditure, honest or other-
wise. Illegal benefit fraud accounts for
a mere £1.1 billion.
Tax dodging comes in two flavours.
Illegal tax evasion is where companies
simply hide their profits from the au-
thorities. Legal tax avoidance is the art
of finding loopholes, using tax havens,
or otherwise “getting around” obliga-
tions. Like MPs cheating the expenses
system, tax avoiders follow the letter
but not the spirit of the law. As the for-
mer Chancellor Denis Healey wrote:
“The difference between tax avoidance
and tax evasion is the thickness of a
prison wall”.
Offshore tax havens are complicated
and expensive to set up, often requir-
ing entire teams of accountants, so
they are usually used only by multina-
tional corporations and the extremely
wealthy. A prominent example of this
was the retail giant Philip Green get-
ting around his £285 million tax bill by
paying all the profits to his wife who
was registered as living in the Monaco
tax haven.
HM Revenue & Customs own esti-
mates say that £60 billion is lost every
year through a combination of illegal
tax evasion and legal tax avoidance.
The TaxJustice pressure group esti-
mates £120 billion.
The new breed of too-rich-to-pay-
tax freeloaders is hollowing out our
ing thing they did to care about what you
did, you are liberated. It’s all really just
in your head. The trick is just not letting
it get to you. Unfortunately, that trick is
like doing a backflip: you may how to do
it theoretically, but actually pulling it off
practically is the hard part. That was a bit
of a contrived simile. I feel quite emb…
ahhh, damn it, see how hard it is?
Okay, last night, after one too many,
you may have danced like a bit of an idiot.
Sure, at the time you felt like you were
being a sleek suave Imperial version of
James Bond when you were trying to get
with that girl; but what’s the worst that can
really happen? She, and everyone who
noticed, will tell people. With 6 degrees of
separation and all that everyone will know
and sneer.Actually, that is pretty bad; I’ve
forgotten what my point was going to be
as I’m feeling your pain right now. Oh
wait, it COULD have been worse. You
could have done an inebriated Tweet (@
girlthatsitsarowinfrontofme You’re well
fit, seriously, like, I definitely would #up-
forit). Then, the next morning you would
have been confronted with the irrefutable
evidence.
Whenever you feel that dread welling
up inside, spare a thought for me. I legiti-
mately could have written this article at
any point in time over the last four years.
tax base. They take the benefits of a
working society, (police and fire pro-
tection, national security, public roads,
utilities, the internet, publicly funded
research and development, educated
workers, etc.) but don’t want to pay for
them. The burden thus falls ever harder
on the middle-class and the poor.
It should be pretty clear by now that
the money lost to corporate tax dodg-
ing by the rich is even greater than the
money spent on the working and un-
working poor. Yet you’d never guess
that reading most of the mainstream
newspapers. (See my other article “The
media’s inevitable right-wing slant” in
Felix 14.10.11 for why this happens.
Rather than demonising the job-
less, we should be focusing on closing
the tax gap – the difference between
the amount of tax which the law sug-
gests should be paid in the UK and
the amount actually paid. For the rich-
est 1% to lead the criticism of welfare
programmes for the poor is therefore
hypocritical at best, and cynical propa-
ganda at worst.
”
This feeling is like
Silvio Berlusconi
to a woman: it
just refuses to
leave me alone.
“
This fe
This fe
Silvio
Silvio
The new breed of
too-rich-to-pay-
tax freeloaders is
hollowing out our
tax base
“
The new
The ne
too-rich
too-rich
A man who knows how to awkwardly bumble his way through conversations and
still be charming. A true role model, except for the whole prostitute thing
”
ut our
ut our

