Whilst trawling through the latest collection in
Topshop one rarely stops to consider the environ-
mental impact of the fashion industry, but with the
increasing trend of disposable fashion it’s quickly
becoming more of an issue than ever. From the
pesticides used during the farming of cotton and
the large quantity of water needed in the dying pro-
cess to the carbon footprint of the transportation,
every step of the product line causes harm to the
environment. Landfill sites are also feeling the
strain as people throw away bags full of unwanted
pieces.
Of course there has always been some degree
of harm to the environment, but modern day prac-
tices are worsening the problem. Only a couple of
decades ago, the majority of clothes bought in Eng-
land had actually been made in England from start
to finish, but now we see even home favourites like
Marks and Spencer outsourcing to less developed
countries. Whilst this obviously brings up the issue
of sweatshops and poor working conditions, the in-
creased amount of air transportation has also had
a significant impact on carbon pollution.
The introduction of shops like Primark and H&M
have exacerbated the problem with their constantly
evolving collections and cheap prices. Where, in
past years, a girl might buy one new dress a month,
she can now afford to buy five to keep
on top of all of the latest trends.
Rather than buying key investment
pieces that, whilst costing more,
are a better quality and will be
worn for years to come, people
are opting for quantity. The fast
paced nature of the fashion in-
dustry means that what’s ‘in’ is
always changing, and shops like
Primark mean that everyone can
keep up.
But things need to change. Some shops have
started to introduce eco-friendly designs, specifi-
cally made from raw organic materials, or some-
times even from recycling old clothes, but more can
be done to lessen the problem. With vintage de-
signs becoming increasingly popular, it has never
been more in vogue to recycle unwanted clothes,
and through charity shops, vintage stores and auc-
tion sites like eBay, it has never been easier.
Another craze sweeping the nation is clothes
swapping parties. This is where a large group of
(normally) women get together, bringing any un-
wanted clothes with the intention to swap them for
something someone else has brought. Not only
are they great for the environment, they’re really
sociable events and are ideal for the current finan-
cial climate.
For Green Week (Monday 21 November – Friday
25 November), Imperial’s Women in SET are host-
ing a college wide clothes swap. So if you have
any clothes you don’t wear anymore, that don’t
fit, or that you’re simply bored of, then this is the
perfect opportunity to get rid of them and swap
them for new ones. Every day during the start of
Green Week you can drop your clothes off in the
foyer Sherfield for Tokens, and on Tuesday evening
in FiveSixEight (one of the union bars). The swap
will happen on Wednesday (the 23rd) all day in the
Union Meeting Room 7, where you come along and
exchange your tokens for clothes. This is for both
boys and girls so everyone can get involved!
Laura Johnston
GREEN WEEK
FELIX
22 Friday 18 november 2011
The Environmental
Impact of Fashion
Hey, remember that awful band 5ive? I’ve got a
friend in Bristol who loves them. Anyway, they
also did that horrible song ‘When the Lights Go
Out’, something I’m glad I can’t really recall. They
did however hit a good point – that turning off un-
necessary lights is pretty ace. This is what Student
Switch Off is all about.
I should stress that choosing that song was not
mychoice,butenergysavingaspirationswillhope-
fully redeem me. The Student Switch Off is a cam-
paign in halls of residence to save energy (queue
pun about how you should ‘get down’with energy-
savvy actions).
Here’s the deal, the hall that saves the most en-
ergy at the end of the year will get a massive party
funded by Imperial. Last year Eastside dominated
the energy saving boards, so
congrats to them.
To make things even more
fun, there will be towers of
prizes throughout the year for energy-saving ac-
tions. Roughly every two weeks Ben & Jerry’s
ice cream, club tickets, NUS extra cards and more
things than you can paint in a day. To hit it off,
like the Facebook page ‘Imperial College Student
Switch Off’ and while you’re at it, slam yourself
onto the mailing list so you know when you can
win prizes like mad.
The idea behind this is that lots of little actions
collectively make big differences. So you don’t
have to stop using technology or revert to a cave
man diet. Switching things off when not in use,
using a lid when cooking, filling the kettle to just
the amount you need and using clothing in place
of heating is all we ask for. For
added fun, you can check out
the geeky videos on the web-
site
These tiny actions, last year energy consumption
inhallsreducedby3%comparedtopreviousyears.
This prevented 26 tonnes of CO2
from entering the
atmosphere in just 4 months and is equivalent to
theenergyneededtoeitherpoweranenergysaving
light bulb for 373 years, make 1,500,000 cups of
tea, or fly from London to Manchester 588 times!
For more information and to ‘show you what
it’s all about’ please visit the website www.stu-
dentswitchoff.org.
You don’t have to be a 90s pop enthusiast to
take part, but it would be great if you could turn
the lights off (and all the rest of it) when you’re
going out!
Stefan Piatek
Students turned on by switching off
Why the hell would someone want to become a
vegetarian – this is probably the general consensus
for most of the UK population, am I right?You are
destined to a world of tasteless, soya-bean filled
non-existence, and you don’t want to get grouped
in with those dirty hippies.
So why do it?
Stepping away from vegan-freeganism ranting,
even the odd carnivore is bound to be curious why
vegetarianism has seen a rising trend in the last
twenty years. And I’m not just talking about those
bastard east-end hipsters being “trendy”. I’m going
to be honest, I’m a vegetarian – but don’t get me
wrong, meat is F**KING TASTY – I do not feel
sick when someone eats a burger next to me, nor
do I ask them to move. So let’s give a couple rea-
sons why I gave up my Nando’s and BBQ steak.
Here there’s going to be a lot of controversy, no
doubt. We’ve heard about murdering defenseless
ducklings and the cruelty – I know what you’re
thinking – ‘it’s nature, suck it up’. However, al-
though I am inclined to agree with the circle of life,
people need to understand the consequences of
what they are eating.
If it were a chicken and I stuck on a desert island
I would take him out before he tried to become
friends with me, but we live in a society where the
consumption of meat has become unhealthy. Back
in the day when it was us, a spear and the wild, we
worked for our food in a fair fight and we ate as
much as we could catch that would sustain us.
We now live in a society where most animals
that you buy on the high street are raised in an un-
natural manner. Animals are often reared in poor
conditions and treated totally inhumanly, despite
the efforts of organizations such as the RSPCA, to
satisfy our cravings. On average the British con-
sume 1000 calories more than necessary – this and
too much meat has been proven to cause long-term
health problems. A lot of lives are going to waste
over wanting to slap a chicken fillet on the grill
without thinking about where it’s sourced.
You may not think that all animals are sentient,
but if you have a pet who you know full well loves
you, animals with the same level of intelligence
are getting battery farmed into packaged meat.
You want to be sure that they should have a good
standard of life.Anyone out there who claims they
love animals is ultimately hypocritical if they never
take into consideration where their food is sourced-
you can’t pick and choose which animals deserve
welfare.
This is where you find some of the most compel-
ling arguments for vegetarianism, which are sadly
not that well publicized. Hippie or not, for a sus-
tainable future vegetarianism is not just speculative
malarkey.The facts speak for themselves – the way
we consume meat is unsustainable.
I am certainly not saying that vegetarianism is
the way forward for everyone – I will never be one
of those people to call another person wrong in this
respect. However, the way in which we consume is
inarguably flawed.
18% of C02
and 37% of methane emissions are
attributable to livestock; that’s more CO2
than all
transport put together. The resources pumped into
livestock rearing are unbelievable – 70% of agri-
cultural space is used up either in grazing animals
or for growing food to raise them, so this crap
about vegetables taking up more space is bunt.
One of the biggest issues we face is water con-
sumption. It’s been argued that our crops take the
majority percentage of unsustainable global water
use – and to some extent this is true. However, so
much of what we grow goes on to feed our live-
stock that things are put into perspective – one kilo
of meat uses up 6x more water than a kilo of wheat.
Finally, transport. There is the argument that
with globalization we are increasingly getting veg-
etables that have come from the other side of the
world. This is a dilemma – localized sourcing is al-
ways more sustainable, but cutting off trade means
we are neglecting to use it as a way to bring people
out of poverty. However, because of the amount of
resources necessary to rear the amount of livestock
we are consuming, it actually all the air miles from
your vegetables actually add up to a lower envi-
ronmental impact than eating the same amount of
meat.
So you still don’t want to be a vegetarian – what
can you do?
Fair do’s – not everyone can give up meat. I
know how hard it is, I had to wean myself off meat,
and fear meat relapses where I become an animal-
istic murderer. But there is still so much that can
be done.
You can reduce our carbon footprint, become
more ethical and save money by just cutting down.
In the UK, meat makes up about 16% of the av-
erage diet – if everyone cut down to a quarter of
this we would have cut down enough to meet all
food based cuts to be reached by 2020. Also, stop
wasting food at home – 30% of food goes to waste,
which equates to a huge amount of cumulative re-
sources.
Start off small – try cutting down a little bit at
a time. You don’t have to eat as much meat at ev-
ery meal, or every day. Quitting on meat a couple
times a week is not going to break your soul and
willpower now – it’s easy and you probably won’t
notice that much of a different to your lifestyle.
If you want to cut down but aren’t sure how,
wow this sounds like an AA ad, you can always
check out different meal plans with the Part-Time
Carnivore Project. There are so many ways that
you can organize your diet so that it is sustainable
and incorporates your favorite foods: http://www.
parttimecarnivore.org/
If you want to get your geek on, you can double-
check all the horrific facts and figures: http://pubs.
acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/es702969f
Interested in how food consumption effects the
environment and check out what else you can
do: http://www.wwf.org.uk/what_we_do/cam-
paigning/food_campaign/livewell_2020/
Vegetarianism: Only for Hippies?
April Williamson
FUN FACTS! By replacing a manual process that involved copying invoices and sending and receiving approvals by internal mail, 240,000 pieces of paper a year
have been saved New software that enables switching off of computers has reduced energy consumption and will save £25 per annum per PC College uses 100% recycled paper
College has spent over 1.2 million pounds on metering equipment All furniture is FSC certified, i.e. from sustainable forests All food is locally grown – College won a ‘Good
Egg award’ for it! All catering food waste is composted We have on-site combined heat and power generators that save us at least 1000 tonnes of CO2
per year by being more
efficient than the grid
If the entire world lived like the average American, we’d need five planets to provide enough resources – GREEN WEEK 2011

