GREEN WEEK
23
FELIX Friday 18 november 2011
When I was very young, I learnt to ride a
bike at the same time as my big sister. We
lived on the coast, and I still remember
whizzing along the wide promenade with
the grey channel on the left, the stabilisers
digging in alternately as I threaded a wild
S along the Tarmac.As a teenager cycling
became a method of liberation, of visiting
friends at the opposite end of town and in
rural villages, without needing parents,
without needing to drive, without the im-
possible cost of owning a car.
On coming to Imperial, my physical
world shrank as my many options ex-
panded. I always meant to get cycling
again, but due to a combination of dis-
organisation and a dark underlying fear
of the congested roads I lived in London
without a bike for many years. I under-
stood the city as these spheres of existence
around tube stations and bus terminals. Of
course I had an A-Z, and I sometimes set
off on long walks but soon found myself
tramping through the enormous waste-
lands that separate civilisation. The cost of
travel limited how I spent my time, I lived
within walking distance of college and de-
viating far from the corridor I trudged ev-
eryday cost money and time. I lived in the
largest city in Europe, but I may as well as
lived in any large town, except for the lack
of space and high rents.
I finally came back to cycling when I
started living with a friend who seemed to
live on his bike. Getting my own pair of
wheels back was revolutionary. No more
stifling tube in the winter, no more sitting
amongst the grey people peering through
steamed up bus windows at grey London
outside. Instead of frittering away money
on public transport, I started spending on
things that I’d own. My bike became an
extension of myself, something to own
and care about, the clicks and ticks and
mechanical whirls as familiar as the throb
of my heart.
All mechanical things break. And I
have been truly exasperated when wheels
have punctured and bearings seized at the
worst possible time. But a bike is a simple
a wheeled vehicle as it is possible to imag-
ine, and almost anything can be fixed with
a tiny set of tools and a bit of knowledge.
I honestly think it’s been more reliable
commuting on my bike than the tube or
bus. Cyclists help each other, and working
on bikes is really quite fun, understanding
and fixing them is a challenge but one that
anyone is capable of.
The speed, to be honest, was a bit of a
shock. I’m no Lance Armstrong, and it’s
clear that even buses
travel faster than
you do on the
open straights.
But conges-
tion is porous
when you’re
on such a nar-
row vehicle,
and lots of back
roads that are closed
off or ‘one wayed’ to
prevent abuse by cars are
open for cyclists. Some even
have Toucan crossings to whisk you
across the main traffic flows. Racing the
tube on a long journey is more difficult,
but it is surprising how close cut it is.
Cycling around suddenly pooled all the
disparate scraps of bits of London I knew
into a rich tapestry. I slowly learned routes
from place to place that encompassed
the whole of London, a spiders web that
means that no matter where you end up,
point me in the direction of Centre Point
& a few hundreds metres later I’ll recog-
nise where I am and thread my way home.
With no opportunity cost of stopping,
and an infinite number of choices of
routes from place to place, discovering
new shops, bars and cafes became so
much easier. I realised the wastelands that
I’d dreaded trudging through were just a
few short blocks long, a few minutes of
peddling and then suddenly you were in
another, slightly different, vision of Lon-
don.
I used to stumble through the winter
in a fog of drowsiness, getting chilled on
the walks, then roasted in my heavy coat
on public transport. Little light and every-
thing felt submerged in sleep, concentrat-
ing in lectures made me feel like I was
deep sea diving, struggling against an un-
dertow. Now the winter coat stays in the
cupboard, your body
puts out so much
heat cycling that
you only need
a thin layer
for warmth
and something
w i n d p r o o f .
The cold air is
terrifying early
on a winter morn-
ing, you drink fire and
ice as you leave the house
and spin up to speed. But it cer-
tainly wakes you up!
I never meant to exercise. The
thought of sweating in a gym that reeks
of other’s exertions fills me with horror.
I just used my bike to go from place to
place. When I wanted to go faster (I was,
and still am, eternally late for everything)
or get warmer I would push on the pedals
harder. But the more I rode, the faster I’d
have to go before I got out of breath. I was
more hungry than usual, which makes
food taste nicer, yet my body just got
leaner and more toned. Exercise regimes
are hard to keep to. Commuting regimes
much less so, even if you’re blowing off
college for the day, there’s always places
to go and people to see. Without ever re-
ally intending to, I was suddenly doing an
hour of exercise a day, with the inevitable
repercussions. I first noticed that I’d done
something fairly radical when I was lying
idle in bed, listening to my watch tick and
my heart beat. With some horror, I noticed
that the seconds were ticking by faster
than the blood was pumping.
My favourite cycle journey by far is the
late night return from a party. In the sum-
mer, this is often in the first light of dawn,
the city abandoned by its asleep humans
but the buildings bathing the pink glow of
a new sun. The quiet & empty streets are
a joy to ride, a brief and transitory insight
into what our city would be like with few-
er motor vehicles, the air fresh and soot
free before the lorries fire up their filthy
diesels. So much of our built environment
is structured around these inhuman metal
boxes living on borrowed time and energy
from a prehistoric sun.
So please, don’t waste your time like
me. Get a bike. Ride it. Don’t fear the traf-
fic, you will soon gain the confidence to
cycle amongst it. Do it to get fit, do it to
reduce your impact on the environment,
to help construct the city and community
that you want to live in, to enjoy the city,
to be more happy, to meet other people,
to whizz around a Velodrome, to cut wild
swathes across the countryside at the
weekend. It really doesn’t matter. Just get
some wheels.
Fat wheels, thin wheels, single speeds,
hub gears, drop handlebars, dutch bikes,
cargo bikes, mountain bikes, steel frames
to carbon fibre Monocoques. Bikes are
amazingly individual. Just find one that
fits your body, budget and lifestyle and
enjoy it.
Love is for Bicycles...
Jarvist Frost
– Always lock your bike frame with a decent (high quality D-lock)
lock to an immoveable object, lock the wheels up with some-
thing less hardcore.
– Sherfield security sell mega-D-locks for only £28, less than
half price!
– Register for the swipe card access parking – either under the
faculty building or behind Huxley, just google “Imperial Bike
Parking”.
– Learn how to change a flat tyre, you can find this out anywhere
and all bike shops should happily explain how you should do it.
– http://union.ic.ac.uk/presidents/icbug/
A CHECKLIST FOR BIKE USERS
About 1 billion out of the world’s 7 billion
inhabitants do not have access to their ba-
sic nutritional needs. But what exactly is
the problem? Not enough food being pro-
duced? Unfair distribution and waste?And
what can we do about it?
This is what the teams in the
Thought For Food challenge
were keen to answer. After two
months of late-night reading ev-
ery team came up with a solution to
be put in practice at their local level.
A team decided to run around their cam-
pus dressed in chicken costumes to
promote Meatless Monday. We
at Imperial, decided to build an
app, currently being developed,
that will help reduce waste from left-
overs. Best thing is, all the teams filmed the
whole process and presented their solution
in a 5-minute video, which can be seen on
Thought For Food’s YouTube channel.
The challenge will be running again
this year, and rumours say it will be going
global. Maybe you want to participate with
your Thought For Food?
Food for thought on Thought For Food
Rodrigo Pracana
Attheendofthesummer,justas
term was about to start again,
I thought it was about time to
attempt a new challenge. A few
years ago I did the London Mar-
athon for the first time; some
years later I did it again, and,
wanting to raise more money, I
did it alongside the Paris Mara-
thon which was two weeks be-
fore. This time, wanting to carry
on exponentially up the ‘slightly
mental’ ladder, the concept of
doing 5 marathons in 5 weeks
came and wouldn’t go away.
The chance also came to raise
money for The Outward Bound
Trust, one of the best youth
development charities in the
UK, and I couldn’t resist. They
got me the place in the London
Marathon, and it wasn’t hard
to find 4 other marathons sur-
rounding it to complete the set.
It was soon after embark-
ing on training that I was ap-
proached about a totally new
concept in sponsorship, and,
though I also do need to raise
money, I decided to accept the
Do Nation challenge and get
people to sponsor me by cut-
ting their carbon. There’s no
cost involved, merely a pledge
to change something in your
life for a while and lessen your
affect on the environment. The
ways to do this are surprisingly
simple – eat less meat, air dry
your clothes, cycle to work, and
many more – all things we hear
about all the time but some-
times are just too much effort
to bother with. The beauty of
the Do Nation idea is that by
sponsoring someone and say-
ing you are going to do some-
thing, you have a reason, some-
thing to work towards when you
are trying to save carbon. After
all, running several marathons
has got to be harder than air
drying your clothes, right?!
Of course, I hope people will
sponsor me not just in carbon
but in cash, but there’s no
reason not to do both. Even if
you don’t know anyone who is
trying to get sponsorship it’s
worth searching the site and
sponsoring someone you don’t
know. And if you’re already
pretty green and want to show
it, why not show off! I’m hope-
fully going to write something
more about this challenge later
next year when intense training
has begun, but for now please
check out my sponsorship site
at http://bit.ly/tFIybN and my
Do Nation site at http://bit.ly/
sjy2lR
Alex Kendall
Marathon Man
At least 50 million acres of rainforest are lost every year, totaling an area the size of England, Wales and Scotland combined – GREEN WEEK 2011

