ARTS
Arts Editor: Eva Rosenthal
Will Prince
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The lights dimmed, an enigmatic black cube
began to descend from the ceiling, and a voice
whispered unsettlingly, “You know when
you’re in that deep sleep…” At this point, the
production Felix saw suddenly halted – a tech-
nical glitch we were told that would be swiftly
resolved. Whilst the superstitious amongst us
would have us believe that something like this
was inevitable, given the name of the National
Theatre’s new play 13, once restarted the play
rarely faltered, and proved hypnotising through-
out. Playwright Mike Bartlett’s newest endeav-
our is an ambitious one, at once attempting to
interweave social commentary with real human
drama, profound philosophising with block-
buster staging, whilst all the while trying to hold
it together with a narrative that actually makes
sense. And against all the odds, it largely suc-
ceeds.
In a parallel but all too familiar London, peo-
ple from all walks of life have been having the
same nightmare – one with monsters, chaos and
explosions. They can’t sleep. In this atmosphere
of unrest and disquiet director Thea Sharrock in-
troduces us to a slew of characters that paint the
picture of a deeply unhappy London. ‘Britain’s
ugly’ quips an American child as she visits for
the first time, a sentiment echoed by its inhabit-
ants throughout the play. But the discontent isn’t
limited to our four shores – Iran’s the same, and
elements in Westminster and Washington quite
fancy a war there- apparently afraid of the pros-
pect of a nuclear armed Tehran. In the midst of
a public that is largely ‘unemployed and pissed
off,’(not to mention – very sleep deprived) there
comes an unassuming people’s prophet: ‘John
in the Park.’ As the play progresses we watch
to see whether this generation really can affect
a change, or whether they’ll once again resign
themselves to the will of the controlling powers.
Though occasionally teetering on juggling too
many character arcs, the play is by and large
quite engaging – aided by seamless transitions,
short and snappy scenes, and a rather unique set.
Said ‘set’ is really just a massive black box that
rotates according to the setting – bringing new
characters on and off in a silent whirl, and giv-
ing a contextual but sparse backdrop to scenes
that demand it. It is never overbearing nor gim-
micky, but serves to streamline what is actually
quite a long play at two and a half hours. How-
ever the play only rarely drags with fast paced
set pieces like the club-dance number, and the
rather hilarious rendition of Rihanna’s ‘Only
Girl in the World.’ The acting too is universally
good, with perhaps one exception, that of Kirsty
Bushell’s rather pre-emptive ‘Rachel’. Instead
of acting well, she decided to spend her time
onstage experimenting with ‘inTEReSTIng’
intonation. The standout performer however
was Adam James; at once effortlessly convinc-
ing, utterly compelling and genuinely moving –
even without a sympathetic role. This is an actor
at the top of his game.
The play is not flawless though. Since it
serves both as a character-based drama, and a
philosophically-minded social commentator, it
cannot fulfil either role to its utmost. As well as
this there are characters who, whilst well acted
and entertaining don’t really add to the narra-
tive in any meaningful way. But in a sense its
‘weaknesses’ are also its greatest strengths. The
surplus of characters ensure that the play never
becomes humourless, and with disarmingly
frank discussions on God and religion, it is in-
evitably far more thought provoking than the
average drama, whilst giving a human heart to
well reasoned discussions. The real danger lay
in the possibility that it would become preachy
and moralising, especially in the second half,
which was largely a debate between two op-
posing ideologies. But the two viewpoints are
so well represented that one can’t really fault it,
as well as helpfully delivered by characters that
you actually believe in. With a spine chilling
and all too realistic climax, the play ends with
the same excitement that defined its best mo-
ments. Having drawn you into a superbly well
crafted human drama, Mike Bartlett’s 13 leaves
you debating the questions raised for the entire
journey home. Not perfect, but very good, and
highly recommended.
13 runs at the National Theatre until Janu-
ary 8 2012, tickets from £5
13: Unlucky for most?
Fresh from the successes of Earthquakes in London, Mike Bartlett’s new
play takes a new angle of government, protest and personal responsibility
Umar Nasser
“With disarmingly frank
discussions on God and
religion, it’s far more
thought provoking than
your average drama”
The Poet’s Column
Vagabonds
by Michael A. Anderson Burley
We wander long, We vagabonds
in dream begotten tales.
Such trails as weave like filigree upon
this earthly sphere. Trod misty vales,
having slipped free those surly bonds.
Still, under storm-crowned sails
the myriad coursings are begun
before the cloud-veiled summit breach
towards the freshly risen sun.
Message from Marilyn:
“ICSM Drama’s Main
Play returns this March
with an adaptation of
Billy Wilder’s classic film
‘Some Like it Hot’. Ladies,
if you reckon you’re the next me?
Gentleman, do you have an inner
gangster to let out? Come and be
part of the most hilarious,
scandalous and glamorous play in Imperial’s
(venerated) history!
Auditions start next month - keep your eyes peeled
here and around campus in the coming weeks for
more details!”
ARTSOC have the pleasure to present you all with
very special offers of discounted musical tickets!
Dec 1 Million Dollar Quartet £15.00
Dec 6 Wizard of Oz £25.00
Tickets of the shows above will be sold at the
ARTSOC meeting.
Date: 23 November 2011 (Wednesday)
Time: 12:30pm – 1:30pm
Venue: G65 SAF Building
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new
poets. If you want to see your work ap-
pearing here, do get in touch. Addition-
ally, those interested in joining Poetry
Society, contact Osas Omoigiade, at
oo2409@imperial.ac.uk.
The play gets its title from its opening week box office takings
FELIX
26 Friday 18 november 2011
2.5 million plastic bottles are thrown away every hour in the USA alone – GREEN WEEK 2011

