ARTS
FELIX Friday 18 November 2011 27
I imagine all of us know a ‘Yerma’
character – that girl who arrives as
an innocent and pure fresher only to
then link up with a guy in the first few
weeks. He ensnares her despite his in-
ability to satisfy her physical needs and
provide her with children, all the while
using her own naivety to convince her
she is the source of her own problems,
eventually driving her to despair in her
childlessness and visit a crazy voodoo
lady who lives under a tree in search of
a solution. Hmm. Actually, on reflec-
tion, maybe not. But it’s this transfor-
mation from darling bud to withered
flower that forms the spine of Lorca’s
tragic play Yerma and whilst her char-
acter at the end may be pretty far from
anyone you know, the character at the
start is very familiar.
Brought this week to the Gate Theatre
in conjunction with the Hull Truck, a
cast of five present a new stripped down
production of one of Lorca’s most in-
cendiary plays. Yerma tells of a doting
young girl’s desperate efforts to have
children in the face of her uninterested
(presumably arranged) husband Juan.
Married off young with little worldly
wisdom and living in the barren Span-
ish outback, Yerma’s life consists of
little more than wifely duties and banal
conversations with neighbour, Maria.
Even these sour as Maria herself be-
comes a mother and the still childless
Yerma a bad omen according to local
superstition. Torn between her irre-
pressible maternal desires and the need
to socially conform, Yerma is finally
driven to clandestine means of impreg-
nation and, when revelations surface
regarding her husband and an amorous
childhood friendship, she driven to un-
speakable acts.
It says a great deal of our modern
sensibilities that the two main objec-
tions to Lorca’s play on its publishing
seventy years ago – namely its negative
portrayal of Catholicism and discussion
of homosexuality – would today cause
hardly a murmur of discontent. All this
commends the efforts of the produc-
tion to modernize the piece. In reduc-
ing the piece down, a stark intensity is
brought to the mundane conversation
that constitutes the most revealing parts
of the play. Played with a gentle inno-
cence by Ty Glaser, Yerma’s tragedy is
all the more painful and her unworldly
nature emphasized opposite Alison
O’Donnell’s earthy humour in the role
Next time I’ll Sing to You is currently be-
ing staged at the Orange Tree Theatre in
Richmond until the 10 December. Writ-
ten by James Saunders in 1962 it has
recently been revived by the theatre he
had such a close involvement during his
career. It is remembered mostly today
as the play which saw Michael Caine’s
West End debut as Meff when it was first
staged at the Arts Theatre. As a story it, it
is based around five characters planning
a play about the real life story of a hermit
who spent the last 36 years of his life in
isolation before dying in 1942. As well
as loosely telling the story of Alexander
James Mason, the Great Cranfield Her-
mit, it involves the 5 characters bouncing
around various topics covering questions
of death, identity and their own exis-
tence; mostly with irony and humour. In
particular, whether, as the hermit had not
been seen for such a long period of time,
it can be said he really existed at all.
Its plot is deeply absurdist, the flow of
which is not the easiest to follow to begin
with, but it utilises the divergences from
the background storyline to articulate the
major existentialist themes very well. De-
spite its age, the skilfully crafted dialogue
and blend of surreal humour with philo-
sophical crisis stands up well to time.
Only on occasions does it come across as
dated, oddly in the parts where there is
an obvious attempt to update the dialogue
for the modern audience, such as the ref-
erence to Strictly Come Dancing which
didn’t really fit. The delivery of the play
was very good, with all the actors play-
ing their parts impeccably resulting in a
production that captivated the audience
as it progressed. In particular, I liked the
performances Jamie Newall put in as the
actor playing the Hermit and Holly El-
mes as the ditzy Lizzie. As a venue, the
Orange Tree Theatre is small and cosy
with the audience on all four sides of the
stage, a set-up which works well and cre-
ates an absorbing experience.
All in all, it is in parts a challenging,
weird play but one which is ultimately
invigorating, enjoyable and good fun.
Next Time I’ll Sing To You runs at the
Orange Tree Theatre until December
10
of Maria.
The beauty of tragedy lies in the
descent – the slow and inavoidable
downfall of the tragic hero, whether
it be Macbeth or Phaedra or Yerma.
This production crafted theirs well, the
gradual turning of the screws layering
the plot with a polished finesse. Clearly
Yerma-d not to see this!
Alex Roocroft
Putting superglue on his hand was bad, but the fly swat was too far
Tensions come to a head when she confessed to wiping Top Gear off the Sky+ box
Saunders’ absurdist play Next Time I’ll Sing To You gets an airing
at Richmond’s Orange Tree Theatre
Tales of the absurd
Will Prince
the investment in the Jerwood Young
Designers project is paying off – creat-
ing a set that is both visual appealing
and economical is no mean feat and
this production achieves both. Whilst
the play provides intriguing parallels,
most markedly with that of Lorca’s ru-
moured homosexual liaison with Dali,
it lacks the tapestry that distinguishes
more complete works of tragedy. For
this reviewer, that is a tragedy in itself,
as the able cast would be more than up
to the task of something a little meatier.
Yerma runs at the Gate Theatre, Not-
ting Hill, until December 17
“The gradual turning
of the screws layers
the plot with a
polished finesse”

