MUSIC
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
A$AP Rocky
LiveLoveA$AP
Tri Angle
2011
I recently told my friend that I couldn’t understand
the hype surrounding A$AP Rocky. In a complete-
ly unrelated incident, I was called “a fucking cod-
piece” on Twitter by Felix Music Night headliner
Mikill Pane (we’ve since patched things up). He
didn’t think any of my questions in an email in-
terview were any good. In particular, one question
about why he didn’t rap about “guns and bitches”
received this put down: “I’ll pretend you didn’t ask
that…”
I learnt the hard way that rappers who pride
themselves on the intelligence of their lyrical con-
tent get pretty exasperated at constantly being
asked why they don’t rap about “guns and bitch-
es”. By contrast, rappers like A$AP Rocky are rid-
ing on the fact the flow and twists of their raps
sound fucking swag, rather than anyone thinking
they’re saying anything profound.
This is what I didn’t understand. The first
few times I listened to A$AP Rocky’s mixtape
LiveLoveA$AP (partly produced by Clams Casino)
I was constantly put off by the obnoxious predict-
ability of his lyrical content, which can be sum-
marized thus: “I’m high, I’ve got a big dick, I’m
hitting on bitches, nigga yeah I’m the shit”. But,
and this is a pretty big ‘but’, if you stuck those
frankly awful lyrics that I just wrote together with
A$AP’s cheeky intonations and Clams Casino’s
bass-heavy, weed-ready production you might just
find yourself saying, “This shit is fucking real”. (Ok,
maybe not quite, but you get my point).
Ignore what he’s saying and just hear how it
sounds and you’ll understand why some people
are saying that A$AP Rocky is what hip-hop will
sound like in 2012.
If you agree that my mini-rap was god-awful, tweet
me @kadhimshubber and call me a “fucking cod-
piece”. If, on the other hand, you think it was pretty
good, tweet @_ASAProcky and tell him to check out
“this sweet underground rapper from London”.
Kadhim Shubber reports from KABLAAM
Reports from a sick night
in Metric... no, seriously
D
on’t let anyone convince you to
put on a music event. It’ll stress
you out, distract you from your
degree, and worst of all, when
it comes off, the feeling of sat-
isfaction will make you forget all the shit and
make you think about doing it all again.
Last Saturday was KABLAAM, the first Felix
Music Night of the year. The idea of bringing
Felix, Jazz & Rock and Music Tech together
to take advantage of Metric’s uber-expensive
sound system was concocted by Imperial grad-
uate Greg Power, last year. When he left, he
looked in me in the eye and said, “Kadhim, you
must now carry the flame. Bring music to the
people.” (Ok, he may not have used those ex-
act words, but you get the jist). What he didn’t
say, however, is, “Kadhim, you’ll be so worried
about the night being a total flop that your balls
are going to crawl back up inside you and start
punching you in the gut”.
Which brings us to around 7:30 on Saturday
night. lo. batt. / algo ritmico is still sound
checking even though SMB was meant to have
started DJing 30 minutes ago (algo ritmico is
dragging on so much I’m beginning to suspect
that he’s just playing his set. Oh god, he is…)
I’m already three beers and one straight spiced
rum down and only about 30 people have
shown up; I’m going to need another beer.
I head to the door to check ticket sales: 35
people… I walk back into Metric. It’s almost
8pm and SMB has finally got started. He’s
playing chilled out, groovy house music. He’s
obscenely good but people are avoiding the
dance floor like Greeks avoid taxes. This is go-
ing to change: I drag a friend onto the dance-
floor and start chatting to her, casually dancing.
Set an example, I tell myself, everyone else
will follow… This isn’t working, I walk back
out of Metric, I’m just walking around for the
sake of it at this point; I’m going to need an-
other beer.
8:20pm. lo. batt. / algo ritmico is back on
stage for his set. There’s a bit of a crowd now,
ok, cool. Is that his mum filming? … His music
is dreamy and spaced out in a completely sur-
real way. Kind of like listening to alien beeps
coming from outer space. He’s got a laptop, a
guitar, a delay pedal and... an ironing board?
I’m going to need another beer.
About half an hour later, Black Sands are on
stage; we’re back on schedule. I relax a little
bit; well, either I’m relaxing or I’m too drunk
to care any more. Oh shit, I have to go intro-
duce them. I’ve got no idea what to say and end
up doing a boxing announcer-style, “BLACK.
SAAAAAAANDS!” People cheer, ok that
didn’t go too badly. There’s a decent number
of people dancing along to them. They play
pretty straightforward indie music but they do
it bloody well.
I ask the lovely chaps on the door what our
ticket sales are like. We’re edging slowly to-
wards 100. We’re out of disaster territory but
for the whole of his 45 minute set, he’s got the
crowd dancing and bouncing. I ask the chaps at
the door to count the takings and see how many
people have turned up; it’s around 200.
The rest of the night was a bit of a blur.
Monsk and Niceberg DJed out the night until
1am, but I was a bit far gone and forgot to in-
troduce them (sorry guys!) Looking back at the
photos, I realised that Mikill Pane had posed
for photos with a big crowd of people; respect
for that. As everyone filtered out at 1am, and
we sorted out the money and concluded that it
had been a success, lo. batt. /algo ritmico (a.k.a
Íñigo the Felix Music Editor) comes up to me
and says, “Cool, shall we start organizing the
next one?”
I just want to say thanks to all the acts who per-
formed and to Will, Chrissy, Íñigo, Greg, Luke,
and Deepka for their help organising the night.
not quite into success territory yet.
Operation Midnight Climax up next. I clam-
ber on stage again and, in addition to my boxing
announcer-style, “OPERATION MIDNIGHT
CLIMAAAAAAAX”, I also crack a few jokes;
I think I heard a bit of laughter, but it may just be
the beer. They turn up the rock a few notches and
blow a few minds with their cover of t.A.T.u.
‘All the Things She Said’. It’s getting towards
ten and the headliner Mikill Pane should be
arriving soon. Metric is rapidly filling up and
though the guys at the door have lost count, they
reckon there are another 30/40 people now.
When Mikill Pane arrives at the union I go
into full-blown happy butler mode. “Hi there,
how you doing? Yep come this way, certainly,
ok, cool. Yep a couple of drinks, ok, one second
… *sprint to the bar *sprint back with drinks
… here you go.” He’s at least 6ft 4 and towers
over me, and he’s got an entourage – I wish I
had an entourage – including a Pete Doherty
lookalike with little brown hat with a huge
wide brim.
Operation Midnight Climax finish their set.
The equipment is cleared away and for about
40 minutes the plug for the mixer screws with
the sound and I’m running back and forth
apologizing for the delay; several more beers
follow.
But finally, I get on stage to announce Mikill
Pane. I can see people streaming through the
door as I speak and Metric’s looking pretty
packed now. I retreat to the bar and when
Mikill Pane gets on the mic, everyone cheers
and my balls finally stop punching me in the
gut. His DJ is mashing together classic hip-
hop dancefloor tunes to get everyone warmed
up; everyone’s getting down so it seems to be
working. Mikill Pane knows how to work the
crowd. He’s got everyone chanting “FUCK!”
in time with the music every few rhymes and
Music Editors: Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Be sure not to miss...
Never has the analogue synthesizer produced such
soul-rippling and heart-wrenching sounds. OPN’s
deeply personal voice can be uniquely attributed
to Lopatin’s baby, a Roland Juno 60 synth inherited
from his father, with which he channels emotions
from far beyond the uncanny valley. His new record
Replica sees him experimenting with samplers, af-
ter his “echo jam” experiments of slowed down and
looped 80’s pop ballads. The sound of R2D2’s teen-
age heartbreaks. Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto
Oneohtrix Pointer Never
St Giles Church
Thursday 24, November
Do you have a band? Do you DJ?
If you want to play at the next Felix
Music Night in the Spring term, let
us know! We want to give our own
student bands and DJs exposure and
experience on home turf, and most
importantly keep the scene alive and
thriving.
Send us a demo, a link to your
Bandcamp, SoundCloud or whatever
works.
We’re open to anything. Whether
you’re into hypnagogic pop, brutal
death metal or sly techno, email your
interest to music.felix@gmail.com
Read this article on felixonline.co.uk to see a video of the night by Jeremiah Vocaturo
FELIX
28 Friday 18 november 2011
In Mali the desert has taken over around 220 miles in the last 20 years – GREEN WEEK 2011

