MUSIC
Now, not then, JCQ
You can’t go much further than Dunedin, New
Zealand, before you’re on the way back again.
Nearly 20,000 kilometres away, give or take, it’s
probably the remotest city in the world.
Wherever you go, though, it’s usually only the
little things that change. A good friend who moved
to New Zealand was struck most by the habits of
barefoot supermarket shopping and thanking bus
drivers. But as you stand there reflecting on how
everything’s more or less the same on the other
side of the world, you suddenly notice they have a
different sky.
So it is with the Dunedin band High Dependency
Unit (HDU), whose claims to fame include tour-
ing with Shellac and exciting John Peel enough to
call them “one of the 10 best bands in the world
you’ve never heard of”.
Starting off on the Christchurch-based indepen-
dent label Flying Nun Records with Abstinence: Ac-
rimony (1995), HDU have released 6 or 7 records
(depending how you count) and a bunch of EPs of
dirty psychedelic punk. This isn’t punk played with
pace: HDU take their time, the songs building up
to what for most bands would be a starting point.
The vocals are the slow slur of a drunk proclaim-
ing happily to a world hurrying by. Their sound has
become even more drawn out, more ambient as
they’ve aged.
You could argue that the ethereal soundscapes
of their latest release, Metamathics (2008) –
which drummer Dino Karlis pointed out was “the
first album where we’ve used hand-claps, the first
where we’ve used saxophone and the first where
we’ve used piano” – aren’t punk at all, but I’m not
going to. HDU just do things at a distance. Familiar
enough to be uncanny; same bedrock, different
sky.
The local New Zealand scene even has a name
– the “Dunedin sound” - which is helpfully char-
acterised by one well-known Internet source as
“jingly jangly”. Indeed, Flying Nun Records was
also a home to the Californian band Pavement
who made up for not being local by being the jingli-
est jangliest band of the lot. If you wanted a more
upbeat variety of Dunedin punk, check out the
similarly psychedelic but far more bouncy Die Die
Die! who share a split 7” with HDU.
All of HDU’s releases can be streamed by turning
on the tap at highdependencyunit.bandcamp.
com – but don’t rush things. Let it drip drip drip. If
you need a chaser you can stream one song from
Die Die Die!’s latest We Built Our Own Oppressors
(2010) at diediedie.bandcamp.com.
T
his week I’m going back straight
back to the UK post-punk/hard-
core scene by way of a review of
the debut full-length album of The
James Cleaver Quintet (JCQ),
That Was Then, This Is Now. Nearly two years
ago the JCQ released their first and only EP
Ten Stages of a Make Up to massive critical ac-
claim. Fans have been eagerly awaiting another
release and on Halloween this year, they were
given what they wanted.
If you read my review of &U&I’s album Light
Bearer two weeks ago then you will know that I
like my music one way and one way only: men-
tal. That Was Then, This Is Now fits perfectly
into this category. The album opens with a track
titled ‘Golfing Pros, Bitches and Hoes’. This
track starts off with an eerie tune, reminiscent of
something you would hear at a fairground, but
after only 15 seconds, shit gets real.
Their sound is completely unique, if I could
describe it in any way it would be a divine
combination of garage post-punk and hardcore.
Punkcore? Garage post-hunk? No, that’s too
weird. Sounds like a lost member of the Village
People. But listen to the album and you’ll know
what I mean.
The songs are fast-paced, with massive riffs
and breakdowns. In terms of the singing in-
volved, there is certainly an element of signa-
ture hardcore roaring but a lot of the vocals are
melodic and extremely catchy. Every song has
a chorus that I can guarantee will be stuck in
your head at some point, which is uncommon
for a post-punk/hardcore album and definitely
a breath of fresh air. Vocalist Jack Saunders has
show there is always some blood coming from
somewhere (usually the bassist’s face). This
definitely comes across on the album and from
start to finish you feel like you’re in the pres-
ence of this amazing band.
Ten Stages of a Make-Up was an incredible
EP and I wasn’t sure if they would be able to top
it but they have had a bloody good go. They cur-
rently have a free download (available on their
Facebook page) of an awesome track from the
album if you’re interested. If you’re reading this
in a lecture then I have only one thing to say to
you: f**k lectures, go and listen to this album!
a distinctive style, with an almost pop-punk
sound in the less wild sections of the songs.
The tracks themselves are diverse, some of
them being heavily post-punk without much of
a hardcore element, and some of them being
utter skull-crushing noise (in a good way). A
couple of the tracks also have a definite blues
feel with one of them, titled ‘The JCWho?’
being a full on jazz number until a hardcore
breakdown mid-song.
If you have been to one of their shows, you
will know of their unmistakably punk attitude,
indicated by the fact that by the end of each
FELIX Friday 18 november 2011 29
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: High Dependency Unit
Apocalypse at the Union
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto prophesies the End Times with Music Tech
George Jeffery on golfing pros, bitches and hoes
F
ollowing the interlude at the Felix Mu-
sic Night last weekend, Music Tech
Society return to Metric next Saturday
26 November with their first We Are Metric
night of the year. Given the Union’s new
policy on clubs & societies requiring a spe-
cial theme in order to host a night, what
better way to welcome 2012 than naming
it after one of the most widely misinterpret-
ed biblical events of all time A.D.? Perhaps
painting a van with slogans prophesying
the End Times? (With stupid subwoofers in
the boot perhaps?)
The Greek word apokálypsis literally
means “lifting of the veil” or “revelation”,
referring to the disclosure of something
previously hidden in an age of deception.
With the kind of music blaring through the
radio and pummeling dancefloors at stu-
dent nights nationwide, such a revelation
in dance music is long overdue.
The night kicks off in left field with a psy-
chotropic blend of experimental hip hop
courtesy of Not Indigo, followed by SMB’s
deep vibes. A variety of society members
will hone their skills behind the turntables,
with the intent of making you dance like it’s
the end of the world. Livers and ears alike
will teeter the abyss as the clock approach-
es the eleventh hour and the thunderous
duo of Snatch DJs (recently spotted at the
Summer Ball after party) take the floor, fol-
lowed by the chunky swagger of Milkshake-
resident Nick Thorne.Ministry of Sound
veterans DJ Andy & Martin2Smoove crack
the void at midnight and flip the switch.
Entry is a shabby £3 in advance or £4 on
the door, discounted for members of Music
Tech or anybody dressed like it’s the end of
the world. That should be interesting.
That awkward moment when someone takes the last piece of cake... or the cake.
Oh no!

