Feeling under the weather? This’ll make you right as rain
ing or killing people. You would also expect the
characters to show some common sense which
clearly isn’t always the case. Some of them seem
to forget the existence of their mobile phones,
TELEVISION
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
George Barnett
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week on Twitter
Some top tweets from Felix TV’s
followers and followees
@Lowenaffchen
@FelixTelevision you are a
piece of shit
Welcome to Summerhouse, fam. Here, food
(the kind you smoke) is sold on the streets by
10-year olds, snakes (traitors) get stabbed and
adults run farms (not the kind that grow fruit
and veg). In the shadow of the mighty Canary
Wharf, this Hackney estate is the centre of Du-
shane and Sully’s drug dealing business. And
they are expanding. Ra’Nell is a local 13-year
old who has to live alone and fend for himself
whilst his mother is in a mental hospital. With
his friend Gem, they get sucked into the gangs
and violence of the streets.
Written by Ronan Bennet, Top Boy can basi-
cally be described as The Wire meets Weeds
meets Skins. This Channel 4 drama attempts
to give an accurate portrayal of life on the East
London estates. It touches on themes such as
single parenthood, gangs, drugs and violence,
temptation and the desire to make something of
especially in desperate situations. But I guess
that’s mainly for dramatic effect. The show ,
however, does give some insight to outsiders,
with the kids working on the streets and broken
families.
Top Boy, luckily, isn’t all seriousness. By the
end of the four episodes, you will be fluent in
gang slang and understand the ins and outs of
running a drug dealing business. Don’t get too
inspired. Amidst the tragedy, comedy is always
around the corner, for example watching 13-year
olds trying out their flirting skills. The characters
are either endearing or on the brink of psycho-
pathic madness. The camera work is brilliant,
showing stunning views of London and main-
taining an intimate vibe throughout. In addition,
the music is simply incredible. There is no other
way of describing it. The show is worth watch-
ing if only to listen to the soundtrack. So go for
a trip into the dark dealings of East London and
watch Top Boy, it comes highly recommended.
Time to deal, innit bruv
@bbcpress
Victoria Wood, Christopher
Eccleston & @stephenfry star
in The Borrowers on #BBC1
this Xmas
@RadioTimes
Good canapes! If one were,
for instance, to be a non-meat
eater, one would be extremely
impressed by the vegetarian
quail Scotch eggs.
We’re posing on the top floor of a multi-storey car park. No. We don’t know why either
Marie-Laure Hicks
“a large part of the
storyline consists of rude
boys dealing or killing
people”
Watching this week’s BBC Weather, the viewer is
immediately gifted with the presence of the pride
of the meteorological arena:Alex Deakin.Aphys-
ics graduate (thanked, apparently, in S. F. Hels-
don and T. J. Ponman’s paper “The intragroup
medium in loose groups of galaxies”) turned Met
Office employee turned BBC hyperstar-idol-to-
the-masses-weatherman. We’re even treated to
the mandatory abomination of a floral tie.
This particular episode was Tuesday evening’s
national edition (the 10:32 PM broadcast if we’re
getting the facts in). It, as one would hope, de-
tailed the expected weather for the succeeding
day: a cloudy night followed by a dreary grey
start with the possibility of it brightening up in the
South East. Other parts or the United Kingdom
yourself. This depiction is a little too dramatized
and oversold when crime has been reduced mas-
sively in Hackney. The police (the mighty feds)
are mentioned but are mostly absent and no one
gets arrested, slightly unbelievable when a large
part of the storyline consists of rude boys deal-
– Wales and Cornwall – would be subject to rain
whilst there existed a high chance that the North
of the country would be enveloped by gloomi-
ness.
Accuracy, succinctness and presentation are
what the discerning viewer looks for in a weather
forecast. Which would have been the exact ex-
perience befallen upon you had you viewed this
specific episode. Alex Deakin delivered on all
grounds – hand gestures correlated to adjectives
with great fluidity whilst diction was well chosen
and laconic. The greatest question, however, is
should one watch the BBC weather broadcast? It
depends. Can you be bothered to look out of the
window?
In case you haven’t noticed we need writ-
ers. Desperately. Email tv.felix@ic.ac.uk
George Barnett
Yes, I do look insufferably smug here
(Pick of the week’s TV? No? Whatever – Ed)
Jeremy of the week
@FelixTelevision
A review copy of Michael
Portillo’s Great British Railway
Journeys (Series 2) is on its
way! Oh the excitement!
@ProfBrianCox
That’s the first time I’ve seen
@jonculshaw do me. Bloody
good!
FELIX
32 Friday 18 november 2011
Every week 42,000 people die from unsafe drinking water and unhygienic living conditions – GREEN WEEK 2011

