FILM
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The premise: humans are engineered to die at
25, beyond this age you can only live if you
have “time” on your clock. How do you accrue
more time? If you are one of throng of the pro-
letariat, by working for it, if you happen to be
one of the rich, by doing evil capitalist stuff like
exploiting the poor, owning banks etc. In this
dystopian world you pay for everything with
time, from buying a coffee to paying for your
bus fare. Poor people struggling to accrue time
face increases in the cost of living which drains
their clock and potentially brings about their
early death. To separate the haves and the have-
nots, ghettos have sprung up. These are crime
ridden slums where people steal time from each
other. In these districts people will “murder you
for a week .” Contrasting this is New Green-
wich, a bastion for the rich where people are
rendered practically immortal by the thousands
of years they possess.
So In Time is a not-so thinly veiled metaphor
for the inevitable inequality which arises as a
result of unrestrained capitalism. It is a prudent
metaphor then, at a time of economic stagna-
tion and financial uncertainty. A time when, if
the Occupy Wall Street movement is anything
to go by, America seems to be waking up to the
In brief
The new 007 is a go
MGM’s financial woes, be gone! After months of
speculation on whether England’s iconic, bed-
hopping, ass-kicking agent will return or not after
its production company decided to declare bank-
ruptcy, Daniel Craig’s third outing as James Bond
was finally given the green-light last week, along
with its title, a couple of Bond girls for Craig to
no doubt shag, and an official confirmation on the
rest of its cast to put all sorts of internet rumours
to rest.
The title – Skyfall: an improvement from its pre-
decessor Quantum of Solace for sure, but perhaps
not quite as slick and stylish as Casino Royale.
Craig wasn’t allowed to expand too much on what
the title is referring to, but producer Barbara Broc-
coli briefly stated that it may have “some emotion-
al context which will be revealed in the film.” Just
what emotion the word Skyfall may be referring to
is not clear at this point, but it appears we need to
wait a whole another year to find out what is going
on, with the film’s release date set for Friday 26
October 2012 including a London premiere that
will no doubt take over the redecorated Leicester
Square.
More often than not, especially among certain
individuals down here in the Felix office, the cast-
ing of Bond girls generates more interest than any-
thing else, and so the news of Naomie Harris and
French actress Bérénice Marlohe (pictured above)
landing the two crucial roles is a welcome one.
This will be Marlohe’s Hollywood debut, in which
she will play a “glamorous and enigmatic” char-
acter, whereas Harris, who was once rumoured
to be playing Miss Moneypenny, landed the role
of a “field agent.” In addition, Judi Dench will be
reprising her role as M for the seventh time in a
row, with Javier Bardem, who once ferociously por-
trayed an unforgettable villain in the Coen broth-
ers’ No Country for Old Men, will play the film’s
main antagonist. Prominent Brit names are also
appearing in yet-unspecified roles, with Ralph
Fiennes, Albert Finney, Helen McCrory and Ben
Whishaw also on board.
Filming has already begun, with the Academy
Award winning Sam Mendes directing. The official
James Bond twitter reads “8.45am, 07/11/11:
‘Action!’ was called for the first time on the 23rd
James Bond movie, Skyfall. We are officially go!” It
is certainly nice to have you back Bond.
The American producer/director Brett Rat-
ner, known for such films as Rush Hour, Red
Dragon and newly-released Tower Heist, has
stepped down from his prominent position as
producer of the 2012 Oscars.
His resignation follows a string of inappro-
priate comments in a number of recent media
appearances, most notably for using an of-
fensive term in an interview while promoting
his new film Tower Heist, and a very strange
telephone interview on Howard Stern’s radio
show, during which he gave explicit details of
his sex life.
In a letter of resignation, 42-year-old Ratner
said that he had “gotten a well-deserved ear-
ful from many of the people I admire most
in this industry expressing their outrage and
disappointment over the hurtful and stupid
things I said in a number of recent media ap-
pearances. To them, and to everyone I’ve hurt
and offended, I’d like to apologise publicly
and unreservedly.”
Ratner’s first blunder was made during a
promotional interview for his Tower Heist
two weeks ago. A member of the studio audi-
ence asked whether he had found it hard han-
dling rehearsals for a group of such actors as
Eddie Murphy, Ben Stiller, Casey Affleck and
Gabourey Sidibe, to which Ratner’s response
was: “Rehearsal? What’s that? Rehearsals for
fags.” This comment caused outrage, despite
the Academy of Motion Pictures, Arts and
Sciences (who run the Oscars) making an of-
ficial apology condemning Ratner.
The filmmaker then made the decision to
give a telephone interview on the Stern radio
show, which was supposed to be to apologise
for previously implying a sexual relationship
between himself and Iron Man 2 actress Ol-
ivia Munn. Instead of the expected apology,
however, Ratner chose instead to regale the
listeners with tales of his past sexual con-
quests, his oral sex skills, the size of his balls,
his masturbation techniques, his disdain for
condoms…and much more. Needless to say,
this did not go down too well on national
radio, despite the fact that Ratner was being
encouraged to spill the beans by the show’s
host.
Following the resignation last week, the
president of the Academy, Tom Sherak, was
quoted as saying that Ratner had “done the
right thing for the Academy, and for himself.”
He added: “Brett is a good person, but his
comments were unacceptable.”
Ratner has now been replaced by Brian
Grazer, the Oscar-winning producer of A
Beautiful Mind. “Brian Grazer is a renowned
filmmaker who over the past 25 years has
produced a diverse and extraordinary body of
work,” said Sherak. “He will certainly bring
his tremendous talent, creativity and relation-
ships to the Oscars.”
In light of Ratner’s resignation, his friend
Eddie Murphy has also quit his role as the
presenter of the 2012 Oscars show. The come-
dian/actor was hired by Ratner to rejuvenate
the show after its lacklustre ceremony last
year; Murphy’s appointment was an attempt
to return to the programme’s original winning
formula of having a comedian presenting. Af-
ter his resignation, Murphy said: “I was truly
looking forward to being a part of the show
that our production team and writers were just
starting to develop, but I’m sure that the new
production team and host will do an equally
great job.”
Despite an online campaign for the Mup-
pets to take over from Murphy gaining popu-
larity last week, the Academy has announced
that Billy Crystal will be filling the role. The
63-year-old actor has previously hosted the
Oscars nine times, most recently in 2004.
“Some of the best moments of my career have
happened on the Oscar stage,” he said.
The 84th Academy Awards ceremony is due
to take place at the Kodak Theatre in Los An-
geles on Sunday 26 February 2012.
fact that the unfettered dominance of corpora-
tions in its society has a largely negative impact
on the majority its population, or at least if they
were already aware they are no longer willing
to put up with it.
The messages that the film tries to get across
are admirable, but where the film falls down is
that the cast come across largely as caricatures.
The rich spout ideas about social Darwinism
and the necessity of a downtrodden underclass
whilst carelessly gambling away thousands of
years of life. The “timekeepers” (In Time pun-
speak for policemen) wax lyrical about the ne-
cessity of maintaining the status quo and how
too much time in the hands of the poor would
“crash the system.” The film rams home the
points it makes with the subtlety of a sledge-
hammer and as a result, leaves the characters
feeling distinctly one dimensional. Add to that
the fact that the later scenes descend into a se-
ries of action movie clichés and you are ulti-
mately left with the feeling that a potentially
decent premise has been squandered. Justin
Timberlake does an admirable job in the lead
but the the supporting cast are merely service-
able due mainly to the flat characters they are
asked to portray.
Niccol writes and directs a film very similar
to his previous work Gattaca, but one which
doesn’t reach the same heights due to a lack of
well rounded characters and clunking lack of
subtlety in deliverance of its core messages.
Time is money in the new sci-fi In Time
Brett Ratner resigns as Oscar Producer
Tim Davies
Director Andrew Niccol
Screenwriter Andrew Niccol
Cast Justin Timberlake, Amanda Seyfried
In Time
Lucy Wiles
Gimme Gimme Gimme some time (feat. Justin Timberlake)
FELIX
34 Friday 18 november 2011
Worldwide more people have access to mobile phones than a toilet – GREEN WEEK 2011

