GAMES
Brained by a purple dildo
Jonathan Wang talks about Volition Inc.’s latest offering Saints Row: The Third’s
attempts to not just eclipse the GTA franchise, but to beat it into the dust. With a
dildo bat
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Farts in a jar used as gas
grenades”
T
o someone who has never heard of
Saints Row before, there's only one
comparison you can make, so I’ll get
it out of the way: it’s like Grand Theft
Auto. The behemoth that is Rockstar
Studios’ third-person, driving-shooting free-roam
franchise single-handedly created a new genre and
also influenced a whole slew of games over the last
decade. However, whilst rival studios were taking
note and adopting some of the successful elements
of GTA, whether it’s the driving or the shooting or
the open city, Volition was taking notes. Like sci-
entists citing and Kanye sampling, Volition knew
that the better the original source, the more you
should put in.
Of course, Volition didn’t just copy the ingredi-
ents – they also improved the recipe. Saints Row:
The Third is like GTA IV. On acid. This genre re-
quires two important things done right: combat and
vehicles. Saints Row doesn’t just do them right, it
does them fun.
To start, you’re given the standard controls: left
and right shoulder buttons for punches, one but-
ton pulls out your gun menu, and an every but-
ton which ranges from grabbing people to use as
human shields, to commandeering cars by diving
through their windows.
There is already a lot of havoc that can be
wrecked on foot. Running up to people and press-
ing punch pulls off a variety of wince-worthy vio-
lence. The standard bare-fisted attack is a punch or
a kick to the groin. It gets worse (or should that be
better?) from there. Giant fists that make punched
people explode into a fine red mist, farts in a jar
used as gas grenades, and most infamously of all,
the Penetrator: a giant, purple, rubber phallus stuck
over a baseball bat that swings about limply, are all
available to be picked up. Other ridiculous methods
of bringing death to your enemies include calling
in airstrikes and launching them from manapults.
There’s even a rocket launcher that makes enemies
dance like Michael Jackson before they spontane-
ously combust.
Naturally, the designs are just as ludicrous when
it comes to vehicles. Fighter jets with heat seeking
missiles are casually parked in allotments and, at
some point, you can drive a moon buggy through
the streets. However, my favourite has to be the
Specter: flashy, high-speed hover bikes with ma-
chine guns that can barrel roll, a Godsend in such
a large setting. The vehicles are also much sturdier
than their GTA counterparts, encouraging a more
aggressive driving style. Whilst there are occasion-
al traction issues the overall handling is tight and
easy to pick up.
The insane amount of character customisation is
also on show. Enter a plastic surgery parlour and
its possible to change every part of your body and
clothing, with the character models good enough to
make this exercise worthwhile. In addition, choos-
ing to wear outlandish costumes can earn you Re-
spect, the game’s XP equivalent.
After having fun, earning Respect and money is
Looks like someone forgot the safeword
the next priority. The former can be spent on up-
grading your skills, the latter on purchasing prop-
erty, weapons and character modifiers. Both can be
earned through completing various Activities and
Diversions, which number one fewer than Heinz
has varieties, guaranteeing that the chances of get-
ting bored is slim. Respect can also be earned by
doing what you like; yes, running down pedestri-
ans on your hover bike is commended.
The setting this time is Steelport, a fictional city
based on Chicago and Detroit, where the Saints are
top of the food chain: they even having their own
mascots and a line of energy drinks. This fame al-
lows the player to get away with all sorts of hijinks.
In fact, this unconventional initial scenario is an
excuse for making a lot of items and, by implica-
tion, fun, accessible before completing missions.
We also meet our primary antagonists, The Syn-
dicate, a multinational conglomerate of gangs,
when the Saints inadvertently raid a Syndicate
bank in mission one. Cue the first insane set piece.
You're throw out of the back of the plane, and,
whilst falling, fighting off skydiving gangsters and
dodging debris and the plane, you also rescue your
girlfriend. If that doesn't make you want to play the
game I don't know what will.
The GPS system, which directs you along the
shortest route on your mini map, makes a suc-
cessful return, as does the ability to restart failed
missions immediately after failing. The Notoriety
system is also much more forgiving than GTA's
Wanted system, exchanging realism for the free-
dom to do what you want.
“Saints Row: The Third
exchanges realism for the
freedom to do what you
want”
Nevertheless, it’s not all good news. There are
some minor criticisms of the game, one of which is
the dialogue. Voice acting can be occasionally flat
and the humour can at times come across as im-
mature or a little forced. The enemies are also not
particularly smart, forgoing cover and embracing
rush tactics. These are the only foibles I've come
across in the short time I've been playing, but they
don’t detract from my recommendation.
Multiplayer modes from earlier games have also
been dropped in favour of a more polished single
player, but the co-op mode remains: a friend can
drop into any point in your story to help you out.
I don't know many many times I've reiterated
this, but SR:TT is FUN. The sandbox setting
means you choose how, where, and when you have
fun, and who with. In a game world where even the
skyline can be altered, the choices and possibilities
seem endless.
Saints Row: The Third sets itself apart by al-
lowing you to offend your own sensibilities in
every way you can imagine. It’s a game full of
bright colours and Tarantino violence, a world of
Luchadores gangs and dildo bats. It’s immensely
immature, terribly unsubtle, and totally over the
top but, nonetheless, it’s fun in its purest form.
FELIX
36 Friday 18 november 2011
Did you know nuclear power produces no CO2
and is half as expensive and 99% less polluting than coal-burning power? – GREEN WEEK 2011

