FELIX Friday 18 november 2011 37
GAMES
‘Cringe-inducing football
pun goes here’
Simon Carnochan kicks about some of his thoughts on Sports Interactive’s latest
product, Football Manager 2012
F
ootball Manager, undeniably the best
football management game on Earth,
is back again. My addictive relation-
ship with the game began at the tender
age of seven and I’ve been hooked ever
since, even turning up fifteen minutes late to my
GCSE Religious Studies exam due to an FA Cup
semi-final with Hull running into extra-time. Any-
one who claims to be a football fan but has never
owned a copy of this game is clearly lying – the
two are mutually exclusive. Rugby fans (wrong
ball), Americans (can’t even name the sport right)
and girls (computer game plus football equals un-
fortunate sausagefest) have never understood the
joys of playing Football Manager, and although a
full tutorial for novices has been included in the
game for the first time, this article may have little
relevance to those who have never played the se-
ries before.
To those unfamiliar with Football Manager, the
simple premise is to give armchair fans a chance
to become real-life managers in a way no normal
fantasy football game can, with almost every pos-
sible aspect of running a team available for tinker-
ing. The game is seriously addictive; wives and
girlfriends of those that play are commonly known
as ‘Football Manager Widows’ for good reason.
After only a week of playing the new release, I can
confirm that time flies just as quickly as in previ-
ous years, and hours spent fiddling with tactics
and making moves in the transfer market pass by
within the blink of an eye. In fact, every full stop
in this article not only indicates the end of a sen-
tence, but also the immediate minimizing of this
document and another twenty minutes spent taking
the mighty Dagenham & Redbridge back into the
Premier League. Whilst the continuity and quality
of this article may suffer as a result of my poor at-
tention span, with a Carling Cup tie againstArsenal
just round the corner and my team sitting outside
the playoffs, this piece just has no real significance
in comparison.
Each annual release of FM is fundamentally
a slight variation on the previous, yet minor im-
provements in gameplay and an updated database
force thousands of fans to splash the cash on an an-
nual basis. This year is no different, with numerous
new features tempting us addicts like a free beer
festival for alcoholics. Each new database over the
years has offered their own quirks and anomalies,
including various overrated players, but the joy in
finding those hidden wonderkids in the depths of
the Slovakian lower leagues and fielding a team
including the likes of Stefan Kuntz, Yo-Suk Bum,
Argel Fucks and Wan King make up for Jermaine
Pennant bizarrely starting for England. Making
magical transfer moves (my personal favourite
was bringing Roberto Baggio to Watford in 2004)
has become that little bit easier, as you can now
offer loyalty bonuses to players and are able to
‘lock’ certain areas of your contract negotiations,
meaning there are no more frustrating “David
N'Gog demands an increase of £300 to his con-
tract” moments. Another new feature perfect for
those hoping to replicate the wild career paths of
Roy Hodgson and Sven-Göran Eriksson is the abil-
ity to add additional foreign leagues to your save
game at any point. As soon as your season in the
Premier League or La Liga gets a bit frustrating
then the opportunity to pack your bags and head to
the lowly Finnish Third Division has never been so
easy, and the convenience of not having to choose
which nations are playable at the start of your ca-
reer means the game can process at a far quicker
speed (“I know my game is loading slower than
Emile Heskey, but one day I might want to manage
in the Indonesian Premier Division!”)
Up until recently the idea of interacting with
players scared many users (“a distraction from
proper football,” they claimed), yet the feature is
improved upon yet again with the ability to take on
a persona during team talks, and a range of ‘tones’
allows even more customization of your man-
management style. Whether it be a bit of the ol’
Fergie ‘hairdryer’ treatment or playing it cool like
Mourinho, the instant player feedback highlights
the impact of your words, giving a more conver-
sational feel to the dressing room – although there
doesn’t appear to be an ‘offer your team shit ad-
vice in your poorly pronounced Italian-English’
option, à la Fabio Capello. Be careful though –
when the mid-season rut of poor results dampen
your season’s hopes, your players’ moral takes on
even more importance and the way in which you
verbally rape your players after that 0-0 draw with
Swansea can have devastating, and perhaps exag-
gerated, effects.
Whilst the new ‘Intelligent Interface’ may at first
appear a bit crowded and overwhelming, once you
have grown used to the extra information crammed
into your screen you begin to wonder how you ever
used to stay up till 3am playing without it. How-
ever, I have never liked the interactive media con-
ferences and they remain as hopeless as ever with
reactions from your players and the media either
confusing or overdramatic, and although the nov-
elty of storming out of a press conference for no
apparent reason never ceases to amuse, this aspect
of the game remains an unnecessary disruption be-
tween match days. Similarly, whilst the 3D graph-
ics engine during matches has improved some-
“Wives and girlfriends of
those who play are known
as ‘Football Manager
Widows’ for good reason”
what, I’ve never been convinced by it and couldn’t
really care less if I can see Titus Bramble concede
an own goal in improved animation. Call me old-
fashioned, but I remember the days when I got by
with commentary text only and the (epileptic fit in-
ducing) flashing text of “GOAL FOR LAZIO!!!!!”
sent me into howls of excitement. Whist the 2D
match engine was a revolutionary feature in FM05,
the 3D view stills has the quality of a crappy 90’s
PS1 game and needs a bit of attention.
There are those who simply skim through a sea-
son in a day, only ever distracted from match days
with the occasional headline transfer, yet this type
of user does the game a disservice and fails to ex-
perience the microscopic depth of control avail-
able as the most acute details can make or break
a season. It is not until you fully immerse yourself
into the game and begin organising your team’s
training schedule, choreographing your team’s set-
pieces and start buying unknown Brazilian seven-
teen year olds, that you can truly experience FM at
its best. Some say that this sort management sim
is nothing more than dull spreadsheets and num-
bers, but these morons have no imagination and
can fuck off back to playing Mario Kart. Where
Football Manager succeeds is that unlike almost
every other game there are an infinite amount of
career paths and gameplay is not bound by specific
missions or tasks – in FM you are completely free
to roam the football world as you please. Whether
it be showing Mourinho how it is done at Real Ma-
drid; overhauling the likes of Yeovil Town with a
bunch of skinny Romanian under-21s, or emigrat-
ing to Jamaica and bringing the World Cup trophy
to the Caribbean, life as a Football Manager addict
looks set to continue.
I’ll give myself until Christmas before I pack it
in and retire from the world of management, as the
potential impact on my education is so great even
another season of Champions League football with
Tottenham Hotspur wouldn’t make for it.
I was told this guy has something to do with
football

