so thrilled. I watched with glee as you developed
monsters, crafting, day and night cycles, so much
more!
You were quickly becoming what we all want-
GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
Grow beard; Kill dragons
Douglas Heaven on The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and incredible manliness
S
kyrim is a foreign country: they do
things differently there. I’ve been trek-
king its sunny snow-packed hills and
alpine meadows for seven days now,
but apart from an incredible beard I’ve
little to show for it. I know I ought to be more de-
pendable; I know there’s a lot at stake. I know that
dragons have suddenly returned to the world, and
I know that, as one of the Dragonborn, it’ll prob-
ably turn out to be my problem. But with so many
rabbits to chase, flowers to pick and butterflies to
eat I’m finding it hard to concentrate on any of the
many tasks at hand.
It went wrong from the start. I emerged into the
vast open world with a companion who bid me join
him in the next town – there was a main quest to
be played. But this is an Elder Scrolls game, and
there’s side-quest gold to be found in them hills. I
waited until my companion turned a corner in the
road and then I ran in the opposite direction.
I’ve found adventure and moderate riches, but
no glory – not yet anyway. I came upon an aban-
doned fort in the mountains and rid it of skeletons.
But its current owner turned out to be a vampire
master who refused to fall over even after a dozen
reloads – I ran away. I made friends with a were-
wolf, delivered a love letter, stole vegetables from
the shelves of a shop and sold them back to the
shopkeeper. I bought a fat horse who occasionally
disappears when I’m riding it, killed twenty ban-
dits and ran away from a bandit thug.
I met a bard crossing a plain one night and paid
him twenty-five gold pieces to stand and sing for
me; he was still singing when he went out of ear-
shot. I walked alongside a mute giant for a mile
or more, but I’m not sure he knew I was there.
I’ve become pretty good at picking locks but not
at sneaking, which has left me in several embar-
rassing situations in other people’s houses late at
night. I’ve seen mammoths, sabre-toothed tigers
and bears and run away from all of them.
I don’t know what came over me when I finally
arrived at my original companion’s village. I saw
a chicken scratching in the street in front of me,
took out my bow and shot it. As it flopped over
sideways, a woman ran at me, shouting, “That’s
a valuable animal!” She was followed by the en-
tire village, who came at me with axes and sticks.
When I reloaded I gave that chicken a wide berth.
After a while I acquired a servant of sorts – a
house carl, though I’m a long way from having a
house – who diligently carries my heavier items
and picks off mudcrabs I can’t be bothered with.
She’s obedient but violent: she’ll pick up anything
I tell her to and sit where I point, but when it comes
to my horse the only thing she’s willing to do is
attack it.
But you probably want to know about the drag-
ons. Bethesda’s announcement a year ago that The
Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim would feature dragons
set the tone for the marketing hype that followed.
We’re not talking some dragons, either, but unlim-
ited dragons, randomly encountered, flapping out
of the sky with a scream and a shadow. However,
other than during a couple of scripted introductory
encounters, I’ve so far seen only one. It was a long
way off, minding its own business, majestically
circling a cold grey peak; I turned and ran back the
way I’d come.
Running is such a simple joy in this game. The
world in Oblivion, Skyrim’s predecessor, was un-
doubtedly beautiful, but ultimately bland and soul-
less. The astonishing detail is there again – maybe
you’ll only notice that daytime shadows move with
the sun or that the stars edge across the night sky if
you put the controller aside and let the game idle for
a bit – but Skyrim feels more fully realised, more
varied – you get the impression that each vignette
of water-splashed rocks or shade-dappled spinney
have been shaped by artists’ hands and not proce-
dural generation alone. And it’s not just the land-
scape: this time the people have more than three
voices to share between them and background con-
versations are less inane. Everyone’s also a lot less
ugly – except for elves, who for some reason now
all look like angry aliens.
There’s also a lot more to your interactions with
the world: crafting now encompasses tanning,
smithing and cooking, as well as enchanting and
alchemy. Fighting has been made more strategic
with the option to wield what you like in either
hand, be it weapon, shield or spell. And you can
shout at things. Shouts are learned from defeated
dragons – I’ve just learnt my first one and it seems
most effective at mildly stunning my horse. A piece
of loading-screen lore, however, has informed me
that a king of Skyrim was once “shouted to pieces”.
Levelling up appears to work in much the same
way as it did in Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Ve-
gas, with each level giving you a point to spend
on perks. But it’s easy to forget about the level-
ling – none of these Bethesda games are RPGs in
the traditional sense, like Baldur’s Gate, say, or
even Dragon Age. Let’s instead call them action
RPGs, or choose-your-own FPSs, or FPSs-with-
conversations.
Happy birthday, Minecraft, my sweetling. You’ve
been like my own child all these years, but you’re
all grown-up now, your features well formed and
bug-free; yet you’re worth only a modest €20. It
wasn’t always this way, you know. Oh yes – I re-
member before you were born.
Spring, 2009, what a fine season that was. I re-
member playing with Notch, your father, on the
game Infiniminer, with its 3D world made up of
cubes, all of us playing together, mining and build-
ing blocks. Sound familiar? “Oh, it has Infinimin-
er’s look,” we cooed when you were born, and “it’s
like a 3D Dwarf Fortress!” Back then you were a
simple, precious thing: your grass all one colour,
always sunny, so few block types.
You’ve been told this time and time before, I bet,
but you really are quite like Lego. At least, back
then you were: you’ve definitely matured since
then (and are doing so much better for it). When
we first heard about your ‘survival’ mode, we were
ed: creative, yet challenging; stimulating, satisfy-
ing, and sometimes scary. When you grew infinite
worlds, I saw that your father had something to be
truly proud of. That’s when I handed over my mon-
An ode to the beauty of Minecraft
Keir Little ey, to make sure he’d raise you well. Of course,
you were worth only €10 back then.
You grew so quickly over the next year, and I
was with you every step of the way. You flourished,
taunting me over exam time, rewarding me during
boring summer days. You stretched my creativity,
my spirit for adventure, and together we explored
deep, dark caves for their treasures, and made
beautiful creations.
I was so happy for you last year when you got to
your beta stage. You earned so many new friends
then! But you began to grow away from me. So
many new features, and it became hard to keep up:
I felt like an old man bewildered by a computer
when you showed me your redstone, yet your new
pals raced ahead with using it.
I know I’ve not had much time for you recently,
Minecraft, and I’ve not been staying up-to-date
with everything you wanted to show me, but you’ll
always have a place in my heart. Happy birthday,
Minecraft, and here’s to many years of exploring
all that you’ve got to offer.
New research has shown that dragons make everything 110% more badass
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rolling hills and sweeping valleys compose
the pristine landscape A time to forgive and forget
FELIX
38 Friday 18 november 2011
Every day 40,000 children die from preventable diseases – GREEN WEEK 2011

