FOOD food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Campus Food Review
The fast food section of the JCR hasn’t got much in the
way of variety. Sandwiches run out really early (I can’t find
any good ones by 13:00) and the Sushi should have more
choices: they could introduce single options like wasabi.
The pasta section really should have better options and bor-
row some of Pret A Manger’s ideas (such as bacon, cheese,
ham, tomato, and chocolate croissants). The ‘Create-your-
own’ section needs improvement too, like having toasted
sandwiches and more in the meat section (where is bacon
and melted cheese?). The pancakes and panini section –
the best in my opinion – has some good options, though the
biggest problem for me is the fact that the JCR closes way
too early. Everybody knows when the time for a pancake is
– just after finishing your lecture at 4! Overall, the JCR just
can’t compete with a street shop in its category, due to the
medium quality, taste, and the lack of options. 4/10
Kyriakos Ioannou
Variety is queen, and the Queens Tower Restau-
rant appears to be worthy of its royal name. At a
university as international as ours, a mixed plate
is a necessity, and our restaurant seems to pro-
vide just that. The Chinese noodles, for instance,
are a must-try for those who have not yet had the
fortune of tasting culinary masterpieces from the
East. With curries served daily and Italian meals
also regularly in the mix, the restaurant has an
international feel that makes it an indispensable
part of every student’s lunch time. To top it off, the
classic meal deal – a drink, main dish, and soup or
dessert – makes it an affordable lunch.
7/10
During irregular hours, our pseudo around-the-
clock Library Café can be a life saver. Whether it’s
shortly before morning lectures and you just what
to grab a quick coffee, or late in the evening after
long hours in labs, the café gives you just what
you need: quick food. But beware: while service is
swift during off-peak hours, the queues that form
during lunch time or exam season can be a frus-
trating experience. Thankfully the café seems to
have acknowledged this and now has opened a
new third till.
5/10
Fresh Deli. Fried chicken. Burgers. Pancakes. It’s a
complete assortment that you rarely see so close
together anywhere in South Kensington. The Fast
Foods Corner definitely doesn’t offer the healthi-
est of choices, but it’s undeniably tasty. The deli-
cacies produced by our star chef at the fast foods
corner could easily rival those from Burger King or
KFC. My favourite food in the JCR, however is the
freshly made sandwiches at the Deli Bar. Despite
long queues that form at the Deli Bar, when I’m in
no rush to get to a lecture, I try to drop by the bar
to pick and choose the contents of my own cus-
tom sandwich. Subway lovers, this is just better.
7/10
Mario Hayashi
Expert’s View
Junior Common
Room
The quality of food in the JCR is high; I often have the Fish
and Chips for lunch. However, I feel the variety can be im-
proved on: more hot food, such as pasta, could be available.
7/10
Yong Zi Tan
On the one hand, you can find a variety of different foods;
from salads tofresh sandwiches, sushi to crepes. The mem-
bers of staff are polite and they are very quick at the ca-
shiers. It’s also a cozy place with nice, comfortable couch-
es. On the other hand, it gets very crowded and is therefore
noisy at around midday. I think this might happen because
there is not enough space to accommodate everyone. Pric-
es are reasonable and overall I consider the JCR as a place
to grab something that I can eat elsewhere, unless it is not
peak time. 6/10
Ioannis Kourouklides
Frankie says RELAX!
I have had various meals in the JCR, including sandwiches
from the Delhi bar and the other places. I have to say, I’m
rather impressed at the quality of the food as I expected it
to be much worse! For about £5 you have a wide choice of
full meal combinations at the cafeteria, much needed during
the course of the day, and the various sandwiches available
are fresh and prove ideal if you don’t have the time to sit
down and eat. The food should be able to satisfy most of
the students since it ranges from common foods to Italian
and Chinese. 7.5/10
Michalis Michaelides
The JCR is okay. I do really like the sandwiches, especially
the make-your-own counter – I always go with the freshly
made baguette with cheddar cheese, tomato and pesto. The
coffee is fine, the variety of drinks is very good and sofas are
relaxing! 7/10
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Scouring South Kensington for the ultimate in College
cuisine – who will triumph in this war of gastronomy?
FELIX
40 Friday 18 november 2011
Rainforests higher than 3,000ft above sea level are called cloud forests – GREEN WEEK 2011

