FELIX Friday 18 NOVEMber 2011 43
Horoscopes*
Scorpio
This week, you realise that you’re com-
pletely naked and standing in the middle
of Oxford Circus, alternating between
screaming at the top of your lungs and
vomiting up a pale brown caustic liquid.
The cold November air starts to bite and,
shivering,soakedinyourownbile,youdie.
Aries
This week is anti-bullying week. You
still have a completely reprehensible and
pathetic personality and absolutely no
physical presence at all. So your flatmates
treat you like shit when you get home. This
wouldn’t be so bad if it weren’t for the fact
that you live with your parents.
Taurus
This week you post a facebook update
about Skyrim. Notifications start popping
up. 10 people like it! While looking at your
profile you realise that everyone else has
defriended you. The sensation of loss lasts
for approximately 0.6 seconds longer than
it takes Skyrim to load up again.
Gemini
This week, you decide to do a show on IC
Radio. While chatting with your friends
on air you remember an opinion you hold
about the NUPSA. Just as you’re about
to air said opinion, the Union’s Pre-crime
team burst through the door and shoot
you in the head.
Cancer
This week, you think to yourself how
everyone warned you that every flat
at uni would have one dickhead who
no one liked, but now you’re here and
yours doesn’t. When you walk into
the kitchen everyone stops talking and
looks away.
Leo
It’s been three weeks into movember
and all you have to show for it is By-
ron burger sauce stained fluff on your
top lip. One the plus side, mothers of
young families move their kids out of
the way when you walk down the street.
You love a good tease.
Virgo
This week, you are Theresa May. Yes!
For some bizarre and unknown rea-
son you still have a job. Seriously, no
one likes you and you’re not even that
competent at what you do anyway.
Somehow you manage to avoid get-
ting fired. Irritating.
Libra
This week, you are offended by
something you read. Awwww, poor you,
I feel really bad. Hang on, we just got an
email in. It’s a man who is starving and
has a family to provide for. He said he
is really sorry to hear about your plight.
You complain about this horoscope.
Sagittarius
This week, you go to the Union for
a pint of snakebite. It’s only 10 am
but when you’re Felix editor the rules
bend to you. Blind drunk 3 hours later
a wildly contentious diatribe arrives in
your inbox. You put it in the comment
section. Banter ensues.
Capricorn
This week, you start working on a
group project. There are 4 of you and
luckily you’re not the smartest person
in the group, or the dumbest or most
organised. You coast through and are a
good team player and get a good mark.
Everyone else hates you. Fuck them.
Aquarius
You’re eating in the chemistry café with
your friends. When you’re done, you get
upanddon’ttakeyourlitterwithyou.YOU
ARE A TWAT. IF I EVER FIND YOU
I’LL KILL YOU BY RAMMING YOUR
LITTER DOWN YOUR THROATS. The
closest the Horoscopes get to Green Week.
Pisces
This week, despite the best efforts of
your tutor to put you off, you decide
to take an Imperial College Business
School module as part of your degree.
It nearly costs you your 2-1 . Swearing
to never do that shit again, you go into
science academia. WIN!
HANGMAN
*New and improved since going on a pointless training course at the Cartier Polo
The
Illiterate
Book
Club
Felix may no longer have a Books section, but this will
do. Probably. You can find reviews here. Obviously,
we just judge them by their cover, but the only person
that ever hurt was Dominique Strauss-Kahn: “She
looked like she was giving me the eyes, I swear”.
The cover of this book shows what appears to be a potential serial
killer balancing food that he plans to devour after his latest victim is
finished off. Then you realise, it’s actually Heston Blumenthal.
It is a little known fact that he was once banned from cooking outside
of a television environment under the ‘Protection of Animals Act’ after
marinading live chicken by firing peri-peri ammunition from a semi-
automatic paint gun for a Nandos advert that never aired. He was also
once in trouble after using the internet and finding an incorrect defini-
tion of ‘spitroasting’. This was 10 years ago, and he has since sought
psychiatric treatment. Nevertheless, this intimate journal documents
his struggle to come to terms with the ban just as his career was just
taking off. Blumenthal speaks candidly of how he would break down
in tears before his toastie maker, after finding the instruction manual
had been confiscated by the authorities. He attributes his lack of hair
to a desperate attempt to cook with only a chicken fillet, a can of Lynx
Africa and a zippo lighter. Although, in a funny twist of fate, this is now
his recommended method of flame grilling chicken.
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
G'ddafing a laugh? American
PresidentialcandidateHermanCain
tries to recall if Libya is the pizza
with the palm dates topping
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
In the trash like the piece of shit he is.
Harsh? No. Who wears shorts on a night out?
First, you sacrifice your entire life to
some morally bankrupt business
venture to the detriment of your chil-
dren’s happiness, any respect from
the male species, and any form of
femininity (like you had that anyway).
Then your sweaty suit goes for 0.2%
of the value of some shitty Indian
shirt worn by an Irish twot. AND, this
is all for Charity, this is people being
generous. Humiliated? You fucking
should be. No wonder you’re such a
grumpy bitch.
Actual value: at least £2000 Actual value < 10 rupees

