News Reporters
Photographers
5
FELIX Friday 18 november 2011
NEWS
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Trust responds to news reports
Chief Executive. Preliminary investiga-
tions indicate that there were two half-
days in 2008 - more than two years be-
fore Mark joined - where a small group
of senior clinicians and managers from
the Trust attended the equine guided
leadership courses. Approximately 15
people in total attended. The purpose of
the training was to assist in the develop-
ment of leadership skills amongst newly
formed clinical management teams.
“Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust (ICHT) commissioned leadership
and development services from Coales-
cence Consulting in line with normal
processes prior to the appointment of
Mark Davies as interim Chief Executive
in May.
“Prior to his arrival at ICHT, Mark
Davies resigned as a director of the com-
pany. On arrival he declared an interest
in the company and he has not been in-
volved in the decision-making regarding
the continuation of any services. Taking
all relevant factors into account, the Trust
has thought it is still appropriate for the
company to provide services to the Trust.
“Imperial College Healthcare has
made payments to Coalescence Consult-
ing of £39,000 for this financial year.
However, this figure does not relate to
the commissioning of any equine cours-
es and relates to leadership development
training including coaching, facilitation,
strategic planning sessions and team de-
velopment.”
Mark Davies is described as a “Senior
Consultant and Executive Coach” on the
Coalescence website. Karen Johnson is
described as “Managing Director of Co-
alescence, Board Development and Ex-
ecutive Coach”.
In response to the allegations, Mark
Davies wrote an email to all Imperial
Healthcare Staff on November 14 that is
inline with the response from the spokes-
person for Imperial College Healthcare
NHS Trust. He concludes: “I hope this
clears things up and reassures [the staff]
that all the business carried out was
completely above board and in line with
Trust policies.”
Issues still remain regarding the finan-
cial and administrative situation of Impe-
rial College Healthcare, which manages
five London Hospitals including Charing
Cross, Hammersmith and St Mary’s. The
Trust, which the Fulham & Hammer-
smith Chronicle recently reported had
the seventh highest number of “com-
plaints referred to the Health Service
Ombudsman in 2010/2011”, is facing
a budget deficit of over £35m. While it
rejected claims by made by the Indepen-
dent earlier this year that it is consider-
ing closing down St Mary’s as a result
of this shortfall, many will be wondering
whether the cash-strapped organisation
can afford to be paying tens of thousands
of pounds for “ leadership development
training”.
...Continued from Front Page
Chief Executive of the Imperial NHS Trust Mark Davies
Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust
Illustrators
FELIX ...and everything in between.
If you’re interested in getting
involved with Felix in any way,
just send an email to
felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Or swing by the office, we have
a microwave now. Score.
WE (STILL)
NEED YOU
“Taking all relevant
factors into account,
the Trust has thought
it is still appropriate
for the company to
provide its services.”

