FEATURE
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
FELIX
6 Friday 18 november 2011
Why aren’t we protesting?
Matthew Colvin reports on what prevents students from taking to the streets
T
he past year has seen stu-
dent activism reach previ-
ously unmatched levels.
Just over a year since the
first major protest against
the Coalition Government’s policies
on higher education, the past week has
seen another take place on the streets
of London. Organiser for the National
Campaign Against Fees and Cuts Mi-
chael Chessum has announced a further
day of action next week on November
23.
These protests have seen vocal sup-
port from other universities, yet one
constant remains – a perceived lack of
interest from Imperial students. Despite
the close proximity of Imperial to the
heartland of the protests, there has been
no recent concerted effort to gather stu-
dents in an effort to join the protestors.
Felix spoke to students this week
in order to determine their opinions
towards student protests and unravel
the reasons behind what could be per-
ceived as campus-wide apathy. What
emerged from conversations were
varying claims covering a wide area of
Imperial life.
One of the most popular responses
students gave for a lack of political ac-
tivity was a large workload. A first year
EEE student remarked that they had
“too much work to be bothered,” with a
second year biochemistry student refer-
encing “four deadlines last week” as an
example of such assignments.
It may have been one of the most
popular responses from students Felix
asked but could it really be the case
that a perceived higher workload is
responsible for a lack of political mo-
tivation? Other individuals are keen to
make mention of Imperial’s unique po-
sition as a science-based institution – a
second year biochemistry student com-
mented that, “science is in isolation; it’s
not about dealing with relationships.
People do not disagree that something
is wrong but science is not directly
about what happens now.”
Equally, it is a possibility that politi-
cal identity has something to do with
the decision of students not to protest.
It is, of course, wholly irresponsible to
class the majority of Imperial students
under one entire ideology, but does this
university lend itself to one particular
viewpoint? In particular, a viewpoint
that encourages uncapped fees in order
to benefit the university? Rory Fen-
ton’s article (right) attempts to dissect
the issue in greater detail.
Felix contacted Imperial College
Conservative Society in order to gauge
its opinion on the current political cli-
mate amongst students at Imperial,
something the chair describes as “very
different from 10 years ago at Impe-
rial, where nearly everyone I knew was
out en force for the protest against the
invasion of Iraq.” When asked as to
the reason behind Imperial’s compara-
tive political inactivity today, the chair
noted a number of potential reasons,
including an “intense” workload, “apa-
thy along the lines of ‘I can’t make’ a
difference’” and Imperial’s location in
Central London, claiming that “Impe-
rial students would rather be doing
something that is more exciting.”
“There are a whole host of reasons
in my humble opinion, but I believe
raising awareness is fundamental so at
least there is an informed choice to be
active or not.”
Yet Imperial students have stood to-
gether en masse in protest for a joint
cause – not in Central London, but at
last December’s Life Science Protests.
Following the announcement of staff
redundancies and departmental restruc-
ture in the Department of Life Sci-
ences late last year, over 1000 students
signed a petition against the proposed
changes. Alongside this, students took
to protesting outside a Senate meeting.
Felix spoke to one of the organisers
behind the protests, Dan Wan, then a
third year biologist, to determine what
set this protest apart from others in
terms of attracting support from Impe-
rial.
“I think when something as emotion-
al as this hits this close to home, people
start to take a stand. Personally, I just
felt that I owed to it to the lecturers who
had taught and were teaching me at the
time. These lecturers had invested so
much time in teaching, coaching and in-
teracting with students, bringing us up
from freshers to graduates. We all got
to know them not just as teachers, but
as people. The manner in which these
people we respected and admired were
being sacked was completely atrocious.
I guess someone had to stand up and
show the College how badly they were
handing the entire situation.”
Asking whether Imperial would
benefit from a more politically active
and aware student body, Wan believes
that, “as a student body, Imperial likes
to keep themselves to themselves. In
some ways, it can be healthy that Impe-
rial students rather concentrate on the
matters that directly affect themselves,
such as the Life Sciences Protests.”
When asked why it is that national
events do not command the same
amount of attention from Imperial
students, Wan concedes that this “is
something I have always struggle to
understand. I don’t think it is a lack of
opinion, you can see that through just
talking to people around campus. How-
ever, I don’t think it is apathy either.
There is a lack of encouragement to do
so, possibly.
“Maybe the political views are just
too varied, and the Union can’t easily
pinpoint some and support those. May-
be the Union and its involved students
are too wrapped in internal politics to
really notice what’s going on beyond
Beit Quad to an extent where they
would join a protest en-masse. I’m re-
ally not sure. I don’t particularly think
it is the Union’s fault, either. I know
they have done plenty to support and
oppose national political proposals in
the past. Look at the Browne Report,
the President that year was actively
involved in consultation with Lord
Browne himself.”
Unlike other student unions across
the country, Imperial College Union re-
fuses to break ultra vires, or act outside
of its constitution. Actively supporting
the protests, as sabbatical officers from
other UK universities have done, would
be an example of this. Felix spoke to
Union President Scott Heath and Dep-
uty President (Education) Jason Parmar
to discuss their views on the situation.
Heath – supporting the view that being
at a science-focused university lends
itself to students focusing on their de-
grees and future careers – is keen to
stress that the sight of students from
other universities protesting is not in-
dicative of the feelings of Imperial
students: “We may see counterparts at
UCL and LSE leading their students
on protests but that doesn’t mean their
entire student body is more caring than
ours about political issues.”
“Instead of fighting the College about
its stance of the £9k fee, the Union
worked with it to ensure students are
more financially supported when com-
ing to Imperial next year. Student will
have more support than they get under
the current £3k fee system. Instead of
spending hours promoting marches, we
are championing the ideas we raised in
the NSS response that will directly af-
fect our members and will reap greater
benefits for the students of tomorrow.”
Parmar, conversely, supports the
view that “it is the political stance of
the students as a whole,” alongside a
higher workload: “The majority (but of
course not all) of our students tend to
focus on their degrees and involvement
with societies. Our students can often
feel like they’re over-worked and don’t
feel like they have time to campaign on
political issues.”
In terms of actual activism, it is clear
that this university is unique. Ultimate-
ly, the fact that this institution finds it-
self in such a science-focused position
will allow the debate surrounding stu-
dent protests to continue for now – be-
hind closed doors.
Tommy Allieri
Last Wednesday’s protests attracted thousands of students from across the country
When you visit a pharmacist, a quarter of all purchases will have come from a tropical rainforest – GREEN WEEK 2011

