FEATURE
7
FELIX Friday 18 november 2011
Protesting at Imperial
Just how conservative are we?
Rory Fenton on Imperial’s political viewpoint
Kelly Osborne on why she feels the need to protest
What protests have you been to recently?
The last protests I went to were some of
the student cuts protests last year. The
student cuts protests were genuinely in-
timidating so I haven’t attended recently.
Why do you feel the need to protest?
I feel it is another way to express your opin-
ion in a democratic society, where other
mechanisms of getting your voice heard,
such as writing to your local MP, feel like
they are getting nowhere.
Do you think the protests regarding the
changes to the current student finance
system so far have achieved anything?
I think they have allowed people to express
their genuine outrage at an elitist system
that will harm the lower middle classes
opportunities of higher education, which is
important. But I also feel they have been
counterproductive in that they have been
infamous for violence and general idiotic
behaviour by the minority of people.
Do I think the current government will
change their minds about the increas-
ing fees over the protests? Not unless it
proves to be economic for them.
Why do you think that Imperial is politi-
cally inactive compared to other universi-
ties?
I read recently that scientists, and male
scientists in particular, are less likely to
display empathy than the general popula-
tion. (From Matt Ridley’s, Nature via nur-
ture) A lack of empathy could lead to apathy
on issues that do not directly affect you,
and so I think imperial students are often
from privileged backgrounds where cuts on
education or rising food prices due to cli-
mate change won’t affect them.
I also think it has become unfashionable,
other ways of expressing annoyance are pre-
ferred. And of course everyone is very busy
and stressed.
Do you think that Imperial should in fact
be more active and whose responsibility is
that?
I don’t think people should be forced to pro-
test, I think people should care about the
issues at hand and so use their initiative to
go to protests, if they feel the issues would
benefit from that sort of complaint. Maybe
its society’s responsibility to shape future
generations to be less indifferent? Although
I’m not trying to say that not protesting
makes you indifferent.
“They have allowed peo-
ple to express their genu-
ine outrage at an elitist
system that will harm
the lower middle classes
opportunities of higher
education, which is im-
portant.”
The week before I started my first year
here I went to the Fresher’s Fair at Queen’s
University Belfast, my local. Going to Im-
perial’s the week after was a more or
less similar affair – the same hobbies
and sports, the same international soci-
eties and charities. But one thing stood
out as missing – where was the political
Left? Unlike Queen’s with its range of left
wing groups all vying for attention, sing-
ing revolutionary songs and pronouncing
on student fees and corporate greed, this
fledgling physicist saw just two people
quietly manning a Socialist Workers stall,
nestled uncomfortable between stalls
from the various investment banks and oil
companies we all know and love on cam-
pus. The Left, it seemed, had left. The
question is – has it ever been here? Is
Imperial naturally conservative?
“One thing stood out as
missing – where was the
political Left?”
We certainly aren’t socially conserva-
tive. Imperial was ranked by LGBT rights
group Stonewall as the most gay-friend-
ly university in the UK and if anything is
stopping students from availing of the
freely distributed condoms around cam-
pus it’s the infamous “ratio”, not old- fash-
ioned morals.
But while we may be generally apathetic,
when we do get political are we, as a stu-
dent body, quite right-wing? This seemed
to be the case last year when Imperial Col-
lege Union spoke out on the Brown Review
of tuition fees. This made them no differ-
ent to any other students’ union except
for one thing- they spoke out in favour of
the fees. So did Felix. Brown was in favour
of uncapped fees, a move that even the
Conservative-led coalition government op-
posed and yet our union, a lone island in
a sea of student union outrage, backed
them.
But how representative of its students
was ICU’s decision? From the Union’s own
survey at the time of the Brown Report,
while some 90% of students (including
overseas students) supported some kind
of fees, just 13% agreed with a fully un-
capped system, as supported by their
Union. So it seems that the full extent of
the Union’s stance was unrepresentative
of its students. But it remains the case
that 90% of students agree with paying
something for our time here, putting them
significantly at odds with the majority of
students nationwide.
Of course the elephant in the room for
such an issue is class – some would argue
that Imperial students are simply posher
than most and naturally lean towards con-
servatism to protect their vested interests.
It is certainly true that Imperial students
are more privileged than most – some
37% came here from private schools and
just 2.9% qualified for free school meals,
compared to 7% and 5% respectively in the
country. But Oxford and Cambridge with
their famously privileged intake still have
significant left wing groups and student
protest movements. And while, yes, the cur-
rent Conservative leader went to Oxford, so
did the Labour leader. We’re still no further.
“90% of students agree
with paying something
for our time here, put-
ting them significantly at
odds with the majority of
students nationwide.”
So how does this perceived right-wards
shift fit with the idea that Imperial students
are apolitical? The chair of Imperial’s Con-
servative Society points out that “conser-
vatism as a movement and being a member
of the political party are two vastly different
things”. Viewed in this way, things start to
make more sense. Conservatives at Impe-
rial aren’t so much dyed-in-the-wool To-
ries as libertarians, “conservatives with a
small ‘c’” in the words of the Conservative
Society chair. More philosophical than
partisan. In fact it may well be that the
relatively calm political atmosphere here
enables people to have opinions that in
another university would leave them os-
tracized.
“Some would argue that
Imperial students are
simply posher than most
and naturally lean to-
wards conservatism to
protect their vested in-
terests.”
It would seem that IC student opinion
tends to be shifted to the right of most
other universities but there may be many
reasons behind this. It could just be that
more than anything else, the calmer,
more tolerant political atmosphere simply
allows for a wider exploration of different
ideas. A strange irony for such an apoliti-
cal place.

