SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
t’s officially official! The Earth is heat-
ing up. This is the conclusion of the most
up-to-date and comprehensive study into
recent changes in Earth’s land surface
temperatures. The Berkeley Earth Proj-
ect (BEP), based at the University of California,
was developed by a group of climate scientists
and statisticians in response to criticisms by cli-
mate sceptics of existing surface temperature
records. The project combined over 1.6 billion
measurements from the last two hundred years
from over 39,000 weather stations globally, and
utilised new statistical algorithms to integrate
the multiple fragmented data sets available from
the historical record. Their results reveal an 1°C
increase in average global temperature since the
1950’s, a conclusion that is supported by mul-
tiple existing temperature records produced by
the Met Office, NASA, the US National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration and the
Climate Research Unit (CRU) at the University
of East Anglia.
So you may ask why is this news worthy,
if the scientific community already knew the
Earth was heating up? Well, unless you have
had your head stuck in a bucket over the last
few years, you will know that the climate sci-
ence community has had a pretty rough time of
it lately. Death threats, slander and the risk of a
ruined career are all possibilities climate scien-
tists must face today. Despite an overwhelming
consensus held by the vast majority of climate
scientists that the Earth is warming, there is still
a palpable disparity between this agreement and
the views held by a small but very vocal and
influential group of climate change sceptics.
No one is resistant to their often overblown
criticism: the Nobel Prize winning Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change, which
serves as a platform for climate scientists to
communicate their findings in a format di-
rectly accessible to policy makers, politicians,
business leaders and the public, was heavily
criticised last year for accidentally including a
small piece of literature in one of their reports
that had not been subjected to peer review. An-
other example of attack was the ‘Climategate’
‘scandal’ in 2009, when hackers released thou-
sands of personal emails written by scientists
based at the CRU into the public domain. The
emails were forensically analysed by climate
sceptics for evidence of data manipulation and
falsification, causing a huge slew of global
governmental inquires into climate science,
and resulting in untold damage to the public’s
opinion of the field.
Surface temperature records such as those
produced by the hacked CRU scientists have
long been an easy target for climate change
sceptics – criticisms include data falsification,
sample bias, large degrees of errors on temper-
ature estimates, poor spatial coverage and in-
creasing urban development. It is no small co-
incidence that some of the scientists involved
in the BEP are considered as some of the most
vocal climate change sceptics in the academic
world, with the project developed to address
these very concerns. The ultimate irony, there-
fore, lies in the fact that despite the criticisms
of existing records, the attempt to produce a
more ‘robust’temperature record has produced
the exact same results as the previous records.
Another possible issue is the BEP’s decision
to release their findings to the public before
subjecting them to peer review – they argue
that an open access wiki-style forum is better
for the scientific process than independent re-
views by academic peers, an opinion that may
be more damaging to the robustness of their
conclusions than they realise. Another less
publicised concern, though bordering in the
conspiracy realm, are questions being asked
about the motivations behind the funding
Global warming is
happening, say sceptics
Carys Cook on why the Berkley Earth Project is a step in the right direction
sources of the BEP – in particular, the Novim
Group, a charitable NGO who funds the BEP
and only one other research program investi-
gating climate engineering in response to dra-
matic climate change.
Professor Sir Brian Hoskins, director of the
Grantham Institute of Climate Change and a
climate change advisor to the government,
agrees that the findings of the Berkeley Earth
Project are not particularly groundbreaking:
“The overall message – that by using a dif-
ferent technique the same answer is produced
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
I didn’t commision this piece just so I could use a photo of baby polar bears. Honest
Frog trade linked to killer fungus
Scientists have reason to believe that the global
trade in amphibians may have helped create and
spread a deadly fungal disease. Dr Matthew Fisher,
from the School of Public Health at Imperial Col-
lege London, has led an international team of sci-
entists in the inquiry of this issue. Their research
has shown that trade may have allowed non-lethal
strains of the chytrid fungus from different parts of
the world to come into contact with each other. This
interaction has lead to the formation of a new and
lethal strain of chytrid fungus by a process called
recombination, and which may responsible for the
decline of the amphibian population.
Scientists are perplexed by the fact that some
amphibians are able to coexist alongside the chy-
trid fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). In
an attempt to trace the history of Bd, 20 samples
of the skin-infecting fungus were isolated from 11
amphibian species worldwide and subsequently
sequenced and compared. As the researchers had
already suspected, results yielded that there actu-
ally exists more than one type of strain of chytrid
fungus. A total of three were found and the deadly,
global panzootic lineage (GPL) was identified. Evi-
dence of gene exchange was found in the hyperviru-
lent BdGPL, which has made an appearance in at
least five continents so far. The fungus is respon-
sible for the extinction of over 200 species of frogs,
toads, salamanders and newts and has caused
infections in North America, Central America, the
Caribbean, Australia and Europe.
Experts have been able to match the initial dip
in the amphibian population around the 1970s
with the emergence of the amphibian trade. In one
scenario, a captive breeding and reintroduction
program attempting to boost numbers of an endan-
gered Mallorcan midwife toad may have actually
helped spread Bd from captive African clawed frogs
to toads. Despite widespread effort to understand
the emergence of chytrid fungus, many aspects of
its existence still remain largely unknown. Dr Fisher
stresses that to halt further spread of this lethal
disease there is urgent need to increase global bi-
osecurity. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1111915108
Katherine Portilla
”
The basic notion that
we are performing
a very dangerous
experiment with our
planet now seems
difficult to refute
that others have found – is not usually seen
as significant enough for a paper in a major
journal.” As recognised by the BEP group, one
of the complaints held by some non-specialists
critical of how climate science is produced is
the isolated and potentially closed off nature
of the formal peer review process. Without
getting into the philosophy behind the ensur-
ing scientific rigour, there is no doubt that,
by and large, independent review by peers is
an excellent form of improving the quality of
scientific publications. Professor Hoskins ex-
pressed some concern about the BEP’s deci-
sion to hold back on subjecting their findings
and methods to peer review before releasing
them into the public realm. “After all of the
criticism of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, I am really surprised that
they have done this. I am sure that most aca-
demics feel that their papers are improved
through the formal and informal peer review
process and I do not think we should circum-
vent this.” He agreed that whilst it is possible
that the closed-off nature of the peer review
process can damage the public’s perception of
climate change research, the reaction should
not be to get rid of it. “It is healthy for climate
science to be treated in a sceptical manner: like
all science it should be continually probed and
tested. Hopefully this work will help us move
on to discuss the really challenging science of
climate variability and change and the implica-
tions of it. However the basic notion that we are
performing a very dangerous experiment with
our planet now seems very difficult to refute.”
Whilst it seems that sceptics can now finally
agree with the scientific community that the
Earth is indeed warming dangerously, they
still have many questions that they feel remain
unanswered, such as whether rising green-
house gas emissions are in fact causing cli-
mate change. Time is running out to convince
the world that this is the case, and despite its
foibles and motivations, programs like the
BEP are certainly a step in the right direction.
“
The ba
The b
we are
we are
This isn’t what we meant by Green Week...
FELIX
8 Friday 18 november 2011
The energy saved by recycling a single aluminum can is enough to run a TV for three hours – GREEN WEEK 2011

