SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 18 NOVEMBER 2011
It was a truly triumphant success for
Imperial this November at MIT in Bos-
ton, where the iGEM world champion-
ship took place. iGEM, first launched
in 2004, is the most prestigious and
largest undergraduate competition in
synthetic biology worldwide. Impe-
rial has a long history of success in the
competition, but the Imperial iGEM
team managed to break all records this
year.
The group of nine students took
home a series of major prizes from both
the European jamboree in Amsterdam,
where they were declared regional
winner, and the world championship
in Boston. Despite the strong competi-
tion, Imperial was a proud finalist and
1st runner up for the final grand prize,
and won the iGEMers prize as well as
numerous other prizes.
With their project, the iGEM re-
searchers have tackled the problem of
world-wide soil erosion and deserti-
fication of drylands. Lacking a stabi-
lising and anchoring root system, the
nutritious soil is highly vulnerable to
erosive forces, such as rain and wind.
Arable land, on whose cultivation ap-
proximately two billion people de-
pend, is being successively lost. Soil
integrity is crucial to avoid the severe
aggravation of food scarcity, and bio-
diversity loss due to the effects of cli-
mate change.
The first module, ‘Phyto-Route’
aimed at rewiring E.coli chemotaxis
by introducing a malate chemoreceptor
from a soil bacterium. The seeds would
germinate and then secrete L(-)malic
acid (malate), acting as chemoattrac-
tant, E.coli would then move towards
Researchers at the University of Gron-
ingen, Netherlands have announced that
they have succesfully produced a sin-
gle-molecule ‘car’, capable of moving
by use of its four ‘wheels’ when excited
by a scanning tunnelling microscope
(STM). This announcement follows
previous research by the group, led by
Ben Feringa, into light-driven molecu-
lar motors, first reported in 1999.
Molecular motors use light or other
stimulation to rotate a hydrocarbon
group around a double bond. After rota-
tion to form an unstable isomer, an exo-
thermic isomerisation process causes
the groups to rotate into a more stable
position (helix inversion), with the re-
sult of movement. This process can be
repeated to return to the original con-
figuration.
This new research involves a mole-
cule designed with four of these motors
about a central axis. Electrical pulses
produced by the STM excite the mo-
tors, and cause it to move across a cop-
per surface; the direction of the pulses
can be controlled by the operator of the
STM, and so precise control over the
movement is possible.
The group experienced difficulty in
making all the motors work in tandem
– they reported that perfectly straight
movement is not possible. However,
their calculations predicted a maxi-
mum of 7nm of movement per 10 STM
pulses; with 6nm of movement being
experimentally observed, meaning that
the ‘swerving’ of the car is not as a sig-
nificant problem as could have been.
The molecule requires a STM pulse of
500 millivolts or greater, so imaging the
molecule is possible without movement
by use of a lower voltage. In addition,
negative voltages caused no movement.
The direction of motion can be con-
trolled by the configuration of the mol-
ecule. Depending on the orientation
of the groups on each side of the axis,
the correct isomer can both produce
forwards movement and no move-
ment, depending on the ‘landing’ of the
molecule – if the molecule is not cor-
rectly absorbed in the right orientation,
movement is prevented due to the front
‘wheels’ moving in the opposite direc-
tion to those at the back. In addition,
isomers in an incorrect configuration
produce haptic movement, due to the
onside and offside of the ‘car’ moving
in alternative directions.
Conditions for the molecular ‘car’
prohibit commercial use at present (vac-
uum conditions and temperatures of 7K
was necessary), however, lead author
Tibor Kudernak told the BBC that this
was the next problem to resolve.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10587
Philip Kent
Imperial iGEM success
Nanocars with four-wheel drive
Cyborg yeast is out to get you
Scientists have succeeded in creating
an artificial feedback loop between
a computer and yeast. Algorithmic
programs on the computer controlled
flashes of light to start and stop gene
expression, thus regulating how
much protein was produced. This in-
novative technique could possibly be
used in industry to control production
of biofuel by microbes.
The beauty of this technique lies
in its simplicity, in contrast to the
incredibly complicated biochemical
pathways it could potentially control.
Phytochrome, a molecule that de-
tects light, has active and inactive
forms in red and deep red light re-
spectively. Upon becoming active, it
can set off gene expression cascades
to produce a desired protein.
The level of gene expression can
then be measured through the amount
of fluorescence a reporter molecule
emits in the presence of the desired
protein
The computer, with its algorithmic
wizardry, analyses the fluorescence.
Once a threshold level of protein ex-
pression has been reached, deep red
light is fired back to the yeast, the
phytochromes are turned into their
biologically inactive forms and the
circuit is turned off.
Feedback control allows for precise
regulation of these artificial circuits;
it is an important process already
utilised by biochemical pathways in
cells, famously in the krebs cycle and
in engineering. However, in silico
feedback control is the first time sci-
ence has managed to transcend the
communication barrier between com-
puter and cell.
The implications of synthetic cir-
cuitry are wide; in silico feedback
could be used to create biosensors to
regulate the level of by-products gen-
erated from manipulated metabolic
pathways. It could be utilised within
biofuel and small molecule drug pro-
duction to allow for tight control of
yield production.
Whilst it is an exciting step for-
ward, it is just a small part of the
technical breakthroughs that will be
needed to generate complex synthetic
biological circuits.
DOI: 10.1038/nbt.2018
Jula Humphries
xxx
The nanocar in action on a surface of copper... It really is a car. Sort of
Elsa Sotiriadis
Farhan Abdullah
the gradient and be actively taken up
into the roots. Capillary assays have
shown effective malate chemotaxis of
cells containing the construct and the
natural uptake by roots was demon-
strated with confocal stack imaging.
With the second module, “Auxin
Xpress”, the students successfully ex-
pressed the genes for Auxin expres-
sion from Pseudomonas savastanoi in
E.coli. They further determined the
IAA expression level of the module
and the IAA concentration treshold for
optimal root growth, thereby laying the
basis for further fine-tuning of gene
expression levels. In simulations of
soil erosion (watering with hoose) and
application of the optimum concentra-
tion of IAA, the team has demonstrated
improvement to soil stability.
The concerns about releasing GMO
to the environment were addressed by
the third module, “Gene Guard”. This
safety mechanism should prevent the
spread of synthetic DNA to naturally
abundant soil bacteria with a combina-
tion of separately existing toxins and
anti-toxins, rendering the recipient cell
of horizontal gene transfer non-viable
and thereby minimizing the contami-
nation risk of the natural rhizosphere.
In the very short time span of a sum-
mer, the group has paved the way to-
wards a smart and safe solution that
could improve the lifes of billions of
people around the globe.
Certainly, the enhanced engineering
of biological systems with standard-
ized parts, the fostering of synergies
between systems and synthetic biolo-
gy, and the study of ecological, human
and ethical implications will continue
to provide means for optimized, in-
spired and impactful researching-dur-
ing iGEM and happily ever after.
Autofluorescent roots (blue) of Arabidopsis Thaliana and E.coli express-
ing superfolder GFP (green)
“The computer, with
its algorithmic wiz-
ardry, analyses the
fluorescence.”
“It is an important
process already uti-
lised by biochemical
pathways in cells”
Imperial College iGEM 2011

