New milestones reached in
fight against Alzheimer’s
Philip Kent looks at the latest Alzheimer’s research
Binding of proteins to nanobodies causes a change of capacitance
A
lzheimer’s is an as-yet incur-
able disease that accounts for
the majority of cases of de-
mentia. A characteristic symp-
tom of people with Alzheim-
er’s is memory loss, with the person affected
gradually becoming increasingly forgetful;
unable to remember their own identity, and
eventually, complete unresponsiveness in
its later stages. This is amongst many other
symptoms.
A common misconception is that Alzheim-
er’s is a genetic disorder. Whilst there are
many cases where a malformed chromosome
can cause the disease to develop (often in
earlier ages than other sufferers), this only
accounts for very few cases. Scientists are
currently unsure on the exact causes of the
majority of the cases, which generally de-
velop after the age of 65.
This is an incredibly saddening thing to
happen to anyone, but luckily two new pieces
of research may help in the quest to find a
cure for this disease.
Detection
In the minority of cases, Alzheimer’s is
caused by genetics, making it hard to iden-
tify whether a person will suffer in later
life. Current techniques involve a number of
tests (which also ensure that the patient has
Alzheimer’s, and not a different form of de-
mentia); but before these tests are done, de-
terioration to the patient’s mind, as well as a
proactive step of actually going to the doctor,
must already have taken place. Luckily these
tests have up to 90% accuracy.
However, new research from the United
States can help to improve both the time and
accuracy of detection. This works through
use of a biosensor, a device that interfaces
between biological and electrical systems.
When the compound under investigation re-
acts with the biosensor on its catalytic zone,
an electrical signal is generated that can be
investigated.
In this development by a team lead by
Shalini Prasad from the University of Texas,
a biosensor has been developed that can mea-
sure the concentration of a number of pro-
teins which have been linked to diseases such
as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. These pro-
teins bind onto nanobodies (not dissimilar to
antibodies), causing a change in capacitance
in an electrical layer. Prasad’s team found
that the change in capacitance is linked to the
concentration of the antibody under investi-
gation.
These proteins build up in fluid that sur-
rounds the brain, which can be extracted and
analysed. The extracted fluid is applied to the
biosensor, which can detect even very small
concentrations of the problematic proteins.
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
10
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
‘Extinct’ monkey rediscovered in
Borneo
Deep in a forest in Borneo, researchers have found
what they thought was an extinct species of monkey
called Miller’s grizzled langur.
As late as last year, researchers thought that the
elusive monkeys were extinct. But this has changed
now that PhD student Simon Fraser accidentally
caught a group of the langurs on camera, which he
had originally set up on a time lapse to try to get a
glimpse of another rare animal, the Bornean clouded
leopard. The photographs were taken in the Wehea
Forest of East Kalimantan last June.
It was a challenge for the researchers to confirm
the identity of the monkeys once they had spotted
them in the images, because so few photographs of
them exist. In the end, the researchers had to resort
to descriptions from museum specimens.
In recent years, the langurs have had 95% of their
habitat destroyed by logging, agricultural enroach-
ment, coal mining and fire.
Kelly Oakes
Lolcats? Owls? Let me introduce the lolgur
Möbius
by Maria Veiga
This is an improvement over existing meth-
ods – Prasad told the RSC’s Chemistry World
that they aren’t as sensitive. With the old
methods, it isn’t possible to detect whether
a patient is likely to suffer from Alzheimer’s
(or Parkinson’s) from such an early stage.
So far, scientists have only tested samples
of the fluid obtained post-mortem, but thanks
to the high sensitivity of the new technique,
detection in samples obtained during the
early stages of Alzheimer’s looks to be a
possibility. Prasad’s team hopes to take part
in clinical trials, which should give an indi-
cation as to how well it works as an early
indicator.
Prevention
Drugs are available which slow down the
progression of the disease, which means that
people diagnosed with Alzheimer’s can still
enjoy a good quality of life for a longer time
– and this is only aided by early detection
that may be made possible by this research.
However, a drug to stop the development of
the disease does not yet exist.
A new research project undertaken jointly
by the Universidad de Antioquia in Colom-
bia, and the Banner Institute from the United
States may go some way to changing this.
This study involves a group of people who
are likely to develop Alzheimer’s, with drugs
trials seeing if the progression of the disease
can be stopped.
These subjects, of which there are 500, all
originate from the Antioquia region of Co-
lombia, and are all likely to develop the dis-
ease due to a genetic mutation. One of the
researchers, Francisco Lopera, stresses that
“what is useful in treatment and prevention
of neurodegenerative disorders will be useful
to those suffering from sporadic Alzheimer’s
as well”.
The subjects in this study are analysed us-
ing a PET scanner. A tracer is injected into
the subject, where it travels to the brain and
binds to the same protein in Prasad’s work.
Therefore, the image built from the radiation
released gives a very good image of the areas
of the brain containing the protein.
The group has also got a set of drug can-
didates from previous tests in rats. After ob-
taining clinical approval, these drugs can be
injected into the subjects, then retested via
the PET scanner after a couple of years to
see if the drug is effective in preventing the
development of the proteins. This means that
it is relatively quick to obtain a set of candi-
date drugs.
This method can also find drugs for other
diseases, including Parkinson’s and Hun-
tington’s. In addition to this, by analysing
subjects who are in further stages of the dis-
ease, it may be possible to find drugs that
stop or reverse the buildup of proteins. The
group intends to do research in this area, as
the massive trial being undertaken will yield
immense amounts of useful information on
how Alzheimer’s develops, and how drugs
affect it. If a prevention drug is found, it can
be given to subjects who will develop Al-
zheimer’s (by virtue of their genetics), and
they can then be tested via this technique in
their later years to see if the disease has been
prevented.

