Tips & Hacks
Megaupload down, hackers revolt
Thursday last week, the U.S. Justice Department
seized and shut down the websites of Megaupload
Limited, most known for megaupload.com and
megavideo.com. They have also begun criminal
cases against owners and executives of the com-
pany. Attempting to access one of the company’s
websites gets you a lovely FBI notice, listing the
crimes of the company as “conspiracy to commit
racketeering, conspiracy to commit copyright in-
fringement, conspiracy to commit money launder-
ing and criminal copyright infringement”. All serious
allegations, and the FBI have backed this up – or-
ganising for the New Zealand Police to raid a man-
sion where four executives were, seizing assets,
including luxury cars, worth $17m. In response to
this, the activist group Anonymous launched what
they have described as “the single largest Internet
attack in its history”. Many websites were taken
down, including that of the U.S. Department of
Justice, using distributed denial-of-service attacks.
They haven’t stopped either, with many links claim-
ing to be ways to access Megaupload sites using
Javascript to automatically have your computer join
in the attacks. Be careful!
I
was one of the 1.2 million adults in
Britain gifted an Amazon Kindle this
Christmas, and as far as presents go
it’s probably my favourite so far. Us-
ing the device has been a dream, and it
has made the 20 hours I spent stuck flying in
economy class this winter many magnitudes
more enjoyable. There is much to praise about
the Kindle, and most of it has been said al-
ready. The price speaks for itself, the device is
solid and the ability to pick up newspapers and
magazines from publishers across the world
(delivered daily to your bedside table, no less)
makes it a unique pick in a field of lookalikes.
Setting the positive device reviews aside for
a moment, I would like to focus on something
that not many technology reviews have dealt
with. Understandably, most reviewers have
centred their pieces around the device itself
and the software that runs on it. What this ex-
cludes, however, is a discussion on how the
Kindle Store works. It’s where I find the Kin-
dle experience fails miserably. For the uniniti-
ated, the Kindle Store is where all the magic
of buying those books/newspapers/magazines
actually happens. Or where it’s supposed to
happen.
Struggling to spend
What I find is that the Kindle Store (both on-
line and on-device) is really very poor at get-
ting you to books that you want to read. After
having unpacked my Kindle, I set about look-
ing around the store to buy a few books for my
flight the next day. When you reach the home
page of the store you are met with three op-
tions for choosing books: browsing the entire
library, choosing from a featured selection or
picking up a recommended book.
Browsing the entire library, as you would ex-
pect, is a mammoth task. Small as the Kindle
library is at the moment, hundreds of thousands
of books lie in wait, and Amazon does little to
ease the pain of searching through them. Click-
ing on this option leads you to a list of major
genres. Clicking on a genre leads you to a list
of books, ordered by sales (you can also order
by rating, and possibly by price). I don’t know
how many bibliophiles read the Technology
section each week, but if you have any experi-
ence buying books you’ll see why this is really
very poor. Aside from buying science fiction, I
have never gone into a bookshop with a specif-
ic genre in mind (‘Ooh, I’m feeling like some
alternative historical romance this week’), and
I don’t focus very much on bestseller lists.
Sorting books by rating doesn’t help me iden-
tify books I want either: Heston’s Fantastical
Feasts might be well appreciated by cookery
nuts but I’m really not in the market for that
sort of non-fiction. Sorting by price, and we’re
getting just a little bit silly.
“Amazon does little
to ease the pain of
searching through them”
Those who head to the editors’ picks for
good content are better off, but only very
slightly. The recommendations are good, but
are usually fairly major books that you’ll find
recommended by other website and reviews.
There aren’t that many of them either, and if
you’re looking for something better than the
browse feature to dive into Amazon’s library,
this isn’t one of them.
The Recommended Books section fares the
best, but it’s still not a great effort. Buying
some Kurt Vonnegut has crowded my recom-
mendations section with all of his books, along
with a scattering of bestsellers. Assuming that
because I read one book by an author I am
similarly interested in all his books is a charm-
ingly deluded notion. It also introduces me to
precious little in the way of new authors and
books; surely in the age of Google I don’t need
to be pushed into staring at the bibliography of
an author I am already aware of?
Finding solutions
If the store experience is so dire, where can
Amazon improve? I think one good (and ba-
sic) step would be to include plot summaries
of books on the results pages. The status quo,
a list of titles, star ratings and book covers is
almost entirely uninformative. Overall, how-
ever, the browsing experience needs to be re-
vamped. You need to be presented with more
books on every page, books that aren’t surgi-
cally sectioned away into neat categories. A
virtual bookshelf would be nice, where you
could see the spine/front cover of every book
and a small plot summary popup when you
hover over a specific book. Recommendations
need to be completely revamped, in a way that
applies to all of Amazon’s services (on a re-
lated note, I am not enamored of the fact that
buying one USB cable has meant Amazon as-
suming I am in some sort of computer-cabling
mafia).
The problems all stem from one central
theme: Amazon is not Google, but is acting
as if it is. The book with the most number of
‘hits’ doesn’t mean I’m more likely to read it.
Being able to sort by a wide variety of options
doesn’t improve my purchasing experience.
What the Kindle Store is forcing me to do is
look up books in real life and head to Amazon
to buy them when I get home, simply because
browsing on the Kindle is a mess. If the Kindle
Store is meant to be a alternative to your brick-
and-mortar retailer (as the Amazon marketing
shtick would suggest), it’s doing a massive dis-
service to a vast user base.
Kindling dissatisfaction
Feroz Salam finds the Kindle Store massively unintuitive
In a massive boost to London’s internet infrastruc-
ture, O2 have announced they will be providing free
internet to millions in central London with Europe’s
biggest free Wi-Fi zone. Beginning their rollout
soon, the coverage will start off small, but by the
time the Olympic Games are here, the boroughs of
Westminster and Kensington and Chelsea should
be covered. It even comes at no cost whatsoever to
the taxpayer – how lovely of them. The system will
apparently be installed on street furniture through-
out the covered areas, so one would hope they’ve
got a fairly foolproof anti-vandalism/theft system
thought out. Bad news though, if you live in one
of the areas and think this means you can ditch
your home broadband – the service isn’t meant as
a replacement for that purpose. Perhaps many of
us won’t be using it then – we all have internet
at home and at university. Bring on complete Wi-
Fi coverage on the Undergound, that’s something
we’d all like to see.
O2 brings free Wi-Fi to London
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
12
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowsersaurus
Feroz Salami
TECHNOLOGY
A novel approach to reading, to say the least

