POLITICS
By the end of the year, Americans will have
elected a new President. However, with no
clear majority in public opinion for either the
Democrats or the Republicans, who will be-
come the next Leader of the Free World? Who
will answer the call from visiting extra-terres-
trial dignitaries?
The main focus of the country is the Republi-
can Nominee election. So far, having lost such
luminaries as Michelle Bachmann, billionaire
Donald Trump, Jon Huntsman, and former
pizza boss Herman Cain, the list of competitors
has been whittled down to Mitt Romney, Newt
Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul.
The current Republican nominees are being
put through their paces by a number of Prima-
ries and Caucuses, events where Republican
voters in each state can put their vote behind
a nominee of their choosing. Each extra notch
on their belts brings a contender one step closer
to becoming the Republican Presidential can-
didate.
Since the start of 2012 there have been three
primaries in the states of Iowa, New Hampshire
and South Carolina in which the candidates
have frantically jostled for the position of Top
Dog. Starting off the fight the caucus in Iowa
was held on January 3 with a narrow eight-vote
victory going to former Pennsylvania Sena-
tor Rick Santorum, followed by former Mas-
sachusetts governor Mitt Romney after a vote
re-count. The next battle was fought at the New
Hampshire primary, where Mitt Romney took a
double-digit lead in votes, emerging as a clear
leader in the contest. Upon winning, Romney
spread a message of party unity, hoping to end
personal attacks between nominees. At the time
Mitt Romney was seen as the top candidate for
the position of Republican nominee and it was
seen as a foregone conclusion that he would
dominate further Primaries. However, this
changed after the re-count in Iowa and a shock-
ing thirteen-point victory by Newt Gingrich in
the more socially and religiously conservative
state of South Carolina. With three primaries
producing three separate winners, the Repub-
lican Presidential nominee elections have be-
come a free for all.
So, what now? The next primary will be held
in Florida on January 31. This election might
become a turning point in the race, with the
possibility of securing the prominence of the
latest primary winner Newt Gingrich, a former
Speaker of the House of Representatives, or
giving more ground to Mitt Romney who has
recently suffered public embarrassment for be-
ing reluctant to reveal his most recent tax re-
turns to the public. It could also give Rick San-
torum or Congressman Ron Paul a chance to
get a foot in the door.
Rick Santorum is trying to gain momentum.
After being declared the winner of the Iowa
caucus, he has struggled to gain a larger sup-
port base, only receiving 17% of votes in the
recent South Carolina primary. Along with
trying to discredit the electability of the two
most popular candidates, he sells himself as a
conservative who’s heart beats in time with the
Republican party. However, he has neither the
money of his two leading competitors, nor a
prominent organisation in the state to which he
can ally himself. Finally, with Florida lacking
strong conservative or evangelical Christian
bases, his hard approach and conservative anti-
abortion and anti-homosexual agenda may not
gain many additional votes.
Congressman Ron Paul has had a difficult
time in the nominations so far. Despite a sta-
ble and sensible approach, a lack of common
ground with the main line of the Grand Old
Party means that he has had a hard time gain-
ing votes in the Primary elections. In a strategic
move, Paul has decided to skip the Florida pri-
mary and concentrate his attentions elsewhere.
Mitt Romney’s defeat in South Carolina
has shaken some of his support in the party.
Some are shocked that he was unable to suc-
cessfully parry attacks on his business past,
finding it hard to understand how he could not
shield himself from attacks on a history that
epitomises some of the strongest principles in
the capitalist-loving Republican Party. How-
ever Romney has started to fight back, having
released his tax returns for the last few years
on Tuesday and also preaching a new message
of tax reduction for the masses. He also has a
secret weapon; his campaign staff in Florida
have already been running a marathon for the
last fortnight, having already spent $7m on
advertising in the state. They have publicised
his causes so ruthlessly that as the other can-
didates have turned to Florida they have faced
a state where 197,271 early and absentee votes
have been counted with Romney leading in the
polls on Monday. However, there is some dis-
contentment with Romney’s tax returns, after
admitting that he expects to have paid a mean
of 14.6% tax on his income over the last two
years. Some consider him an out of touch mil-
lionaire, who as President would be unable to
understand the needs of the general populace.
There is also some confusion over his position
at private equity firm Bain Capital, both issues
causing some to doubt Romney’s economic
credibility. If Mitt Romney wants to become
his party’s darling, he will have to pull of a stel-
lar performance in the Florida primaries and
show the Republicans that he is a strong leader
and a far superior contender.
Newt Gingrich has shown twice that he can
revive a flagging campaign, most recently
Fighting for Florida
A tough choice for Republicans: behold the diverse range of old, rich white men
snatching victory from the jaws of defeat in
South Carolina. However his most pressing
needs as he looks towards Florida are to assert
his position on a number of subjects as well
as weathering a host of personal attacks. Dis-
crediting opponents is a key part of American
elections, with this being no different. Newt
Gingrich has a strong competitor in Mitt Rom-
ney and has already used a $5m donation to his
“super Political Action Committee” to launch a
slew of advertisements ripping into Romney’s
perceived weaknesses. However after three
marriages (involving two extramarital affairs)
and a Speakership in the House of Representa-
tives ending in resignation and a fine by the eth-
ics committee, Gingrich has many issues that
could be of political benefit to his opponents
and does little to endear him to social and reli-
gious conservatives. While decried as a balloon
full of hot air and a poor team player by his
opponents, Newt Gingrich is trying to reinvent
himself as a reformed, honest man who plans to
de-throne President Obama and heal America.
However Gingrich has some demons to face in
Florida. As a former advisor to the bank Fred-
die Mac, an institution credited with a key part
in the real estate crash in Florida, he will have a
hard time gaining favour from the home crowd.
The race for the Republican Presidential
Nominee promises to be long and arduous, fin-
ishing with the selection of a single candidate at
the Republican National Convention on August
27. However, as we approach February and the
Florida primary the Republican Party is frac-
tured and undecided, with many contemplating
whether to vote for the candidate they prefer
or bite the bullet and vote for a candidate they
despise but whom they feel will have the best
chance of ousting Obama.
And while the Republicans squabble over
who will be team captain, things are much
calmer in the Democrat camp. With many
wary of the credibility of any chosen Republi-
can nominee, the President is having a slightly
less publicised sting campaign. On Tuesday he
gave his State of the Union address where he
promised a blueprint for long term economic
stability in America and pushed for an increase
in taxes for the wealthy as well as measures to
stimulate job growth and education.
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
14
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
Last Friday, gunmen bombed police stations
across the northern city of Kano before taking to
the streets to gun down pedestrians. At least 178
people have been killed by the attacks in Nigeria’s
second largest city. The terror group Boko Haram
(Non-Islamic education is a sin) took full respon-
sibility.
Boko Haram, which has only been active since
2002, said the attacks were in retaliation for the
government imprisoning many of their members.
Their broader raison d’être, however, is to end
secular democracy in Nigeria and replace it with
Shari’ah law. Their growing power has lead to fears
that Nigeria may be heading for a civil war. Many of
the group’s members trained in Somalia – this re-
flects an emerging trend of unity between Islamic
groups across Africa and has African leaders grow-
ing increasingly concerned. If Nigeria cannot con-
trol Islamists, other governments worry, how does
anyone else in Africa stand a chance?
With Africa’s largest population (125m), third
largest economy, and fourth highest growth rate
(8.4%), Nigeria has long been described as the
“Giant of Africa” and is part of Goldman Sachs’
“Next Eleven” high growth countries (after the four
BRIC countries). It has also been a centre of film
and music for much of Africa as well as a regional
peacekeeper and force for stability.
The rise of Boko Haram, however, reflects a
fundamental problem within Nigeria with lessons
for leaders both inside Nigeria and the rest of
Africa, to avoid falling to extremists. The biggest
problem is Nigeria it is not a nation – it is 250
ethnic groups with different religions, languages
and customs placed in a common state by the
British and left to its own devices when it gained
independence in 1960. Rather than encourage
unity around common ideas, successive military
governments tried to hold the country together by
force before respecting the federal system which
tries to gain peace through appeasement. Giving
each of the 37 states a high degree of autonomy
allowed the Muslim-dominated North to introduce
varying degrees of Shari’ah law while the Christian
dominated South remains secular. Further, there
is an unwritten rule that the presidency must al-
ternate between a Muslim and Christian. Far from
bringing long term stability, such moves encour-
age and legitimise divisions. Instead, the country,
like all others, needs a common goal or idea.
The idea long fed to Nigerians was that of being
the “Giant of Africa.” Consistent economic mis-
management by successive governments, howev-
er, has turned the idea into a myth. Much of Nige-
ria’s wealth has come from the fact that they were
lucky enough to strike oil. However, mass corrup-
tion has meant this oil wealth has been poorly
managed – most Nigerians remain desperately
poor while the hairdresser of the previous presi-
dent’s wife is rumoured to have been given an oil
field worth tens (if not hundreds) of millions of dol-
lars as a gift. Boko Haram may not have a specific
economic message, but it has been shown time
and time again that, throughout the world, radi-
cal groups always gain popularity during times of
economic hardship. Other African leaders must
not neglect their people or they too will face the
horrors seen by the people of Nigeria last Friday.
Rajat Jain
Nigeria’s Nightmare
Islamists and the Giant of Africa Joseph Letts

