Letter from the Editors
F
iling for bankruptcy… a Kodak
moment” joked someone in an el-
evator at one of Goldman Sachs
offices, according to the twitter ac-
count @GSElevator. On Thursday
19 January, (ex) photographic giant Eastman
Kodak Co. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Low on cash, unable to effectively sell its as-
sets, the company hopes through this move to
slash its debts and, by forcing larger technol-
ogy companies to pay to use its patents, stay
in business. Kodak is now calling for a $950m
bankruptcy loan, a call which seems to have
been answered by the Citibank lending syndi-
cate.
Eastman Kodak, or ‘Kodak’ as it is most
commonly known, was founded in 1899 by
George Eastman in Rochester, New York. In
1900 it introduced to the American public
the Brownie camera, the first camera to be
produced and sold en masse. Innovation and
mass production were about to put the world
into cars and airplanes, the American Cen-
tury was unfolding, and Kodak was ready
to record it. From that moment onwards, the
company continued to grow: in 1976, Kodak
commanded 90% of film sales and 85% of
camera sales in the US. In 1975, Kodak in-
vented the world’s first digital camera.
So, how did a company with such a glori-
ous history find itself in such a disastrous fi-
nancial condition? According to some, it was
exactly that – their history – which can be
held responsible. Robert Burley, an associate
professor from Toronto’s Ryerson Univer-
sity said of Kodak, “They were a company
stuck in time. Their history was so important
to them, this rich century-old history, when
they made a lot of amazing things and a lot
of money along the way. Now their history
has become a liability”. Kodak actually did
foresee the digital revolution coming to a
certain extent, and made a number of invest-
ments in this field. However, Kodak could
not figure out a business model in the digital
era that produced the same returns that in-
vestors expected based on its film-based in-
dustry history. Its first digital product was a
product called Photo CD, launched in 1992,
which still kept film as the capture media
and then digitized them and saved them on
a CD through the use of specific scanners.
The product was largely unsuccessful and,
more importantly, resulted in Kodak being
distracted by it from the digital photography
revolution occurring in Silicon Valley at the
time.
Signs that Kodak’s monopoly wouldn’t
last forever could however already be seen
through the way it handled its rivalry with
Fujifilm in the eighties and early nineties.
Although Japanese Fuji entered the U.S.
market with lower-priced film and supplies,
Kodak refused to believe that American con-
sumers would betray its sacred brand. This
lack of foresight and excessive trust in the
brand led, often, to ill decision making, such
as when Kodak passed on the opportunity
to become the official film of the 1984 Los
Angeles Olympics. Fuji obtained the spon-
sorship rights and, also thanks to intensive
marketing and price cutting, started taking
Kodak’s market share, which increased from
10% in 1990 to 17% five years later.
Thus, as a result of lack of foresight and a
series of wrong financial calls, Kodak now
finds itself filing for bankruptcy. As Don
Strickland, ex VP of Kodak Digital Imaging
stated last week, “Kodak’s mission state-
ment has always been to be the world leader
in imaging, and as a consequence of the digi-
tal revolution there is no longer a business
in imaging.”
If successful, Kodak’s move will allow it
to emerge as a smaller company, with fewer
employees and a change of focus to some-
thing very different to what the name Kodak
symbolizes to many people. Antonio Perez,
current CEO of Kodak, believes filing for
bankruptcy was a necessary step on the path
towards achieving this, as he stated after the
move was announced: “The board of direc-
tors and the entire senior management team
unanimously believe that this is a necessary
step and the right thing to do for the future
of Kodak.”
Is it, then, the end for Kodak? Probably
not. After it will sell off its intellectual prop-
erty assets and boost its cash position, the
Bankruptcy...
A Kodak Moment?
Paolo Strampelli of the Imperial Entrepreneurs charts the history of a
company that has struggled to keep apace with the times
Rochester-based former giant will mutate
into a smaller company, which will be built
around printers and ink. Since being elected,
Antonio Perez has steered the company away
from its traditional focus on cameras. In-
stead, Perez believes that Kodak’s only hope
is to specialize in these markets, investing in
technologies that would give it an advantage
over competitors in the field and allow it to
get back in the game. Diversification (which
in the past saved Fuji from a situation very
similar to that of Kodak) could also be an
important chapter in Kodak’s new business
plan, with medical imagining markets and
health markets some of its possible targets.
One thing we can however be sure about:
Kodak will not be forgotten. Its yellow box-
es of film and point-and-shoot cameras made
it possible for countless millions to freeze-
frame their memories forever, and allow us
to remember and define what an entire cen-
tury looked like. Nevertheless, even if it suc-
ceeds and another smaller company emerges
from the bankruptcy proceedings, it seems
unlikely there is going to ever be another
‘Kodak moment’.
Sign up for the Imperial Entrepreneurs
mailing list at: imperialentrepreneurs.com
In the Season 1 finale of the critically acclaimed
US drama Mad Men, man’s man Don Draper is as-
signed with reinventing The Wheel, Kodak’s new
‘continuous’ slide projector. The projector is an
apt metaphor for it’s owning company: good qual-
ity, but hardly innovative – as media buyer Harry
Crane puts it, the only benefit of the new device
is that “it sells projectors to people who already
have them”.
Back in the 60s, when the show is set, Kodak were
able to rest on the laurels of a strong brand name,
built over their long history and from a dominant
position in the photographic film market. Their
advertisements from the time were less than
inspiring: dreary, black-and-white affairs, most
bore more resemblance to user manuals than at-
tempts to seduce the buying public. However, in
spite of this, Kodak were able to sell their prod-
ucts, and by the 1970s had managed to build a
90% market share.
When Mad Men premiered in 2007, Kodak was
in a very different shape. Growing numbers of cus-
tomer complaints were a symptom of the wors-
ening health of the company, as quality control
and customer relations took hits in their effort to
find a niche in the digitised environment. Through
Draper, the Mad Men writers were able to reas-
sess Kodak’s relationship with its past. Reframing
‘history’ as ‘nostalgia’, they shifted the emphasis
from the company to the consumer; instead of re-
quiring the buying public to connect with Kodak’s
own brand history, Draper shows how a brand can
connect the buyer to their own past. He is pitch-
perfect “It’s not called the wheel, it’s called the
carousel. It lets us travel the way a child travels –
around and around, and back home again.”
Kodak must now attempt such a change of fo-
cus. They have the benefit of a nostaliga for the
days of red and yellow boxes of film, though for
Kodak to return ‘back home’ to the times of mar-
ket dominance looks unlikely.
– The Business Editors
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
16
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business Editors: Nina Kearsey
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
BUSINESS
Could Kodak have a shot at survival?
“

