Lolcat of teh week
In a comeback for the ages that we’re
quietly confident is bigger than Mike
Tyson’s, we’re extremely proud to be
bringing you the second-ever Felix Sex
Survey!
Following last year’s ‘hard-hitting’ results,
we just couldn’t resist coming back for
more. Answer whatever you’re comfortable
with. The survey is, of course, entirely
anonymous to everyone involved and the
data will be deleted once it’s over. You’ve
got two weeks to take part, just in time for
our Valentine’s Issue. Aw yeah.
Hopefully, this won’t be the only survey
that gets people talking this year – check
back soon.
Head over to www.felixonline.co.uk/
sexsurvey to get started.
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Paul Beaumont Jack Hewitt Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Aemun Reza Features Editors Katy
Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts
Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music
Editors Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence
Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Home & Garden Editors Tim Arbabzadah Charles Betts Navid Nabijou Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Veli Akiner Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan
Peek Deepka Rana Annina Sartor
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on FELIX SEX SURVEY
Here’s hoping you’re as excited
as we are
Why not check out last year’s survey online? Remember the laughs,
remember the tears, remember the restraints and handcuffs
Remember to keep sending us
your classified advertisements!
Got something to sell? Need your
garage painted?
Then let everyone know about it.
It’s as easy as emailing
felix@imperial.ac.uk
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
2
The human genome and
21st century medicine
Professor Timothy Aitman, Head of Molecular Ge-
netics and Rheumatology speaks on the exploita-
tion of gene discovery and resulting new develop-
ment that arise in cell biology.
With an aim to link genetics and genomics to ev-
ery medical speciality at Imperial College, this talk
will shed light on the “coming genetic revolution”.
Open for all, with tickets to be purchased in ad-
vance. £3 for staff and students as part of the
Friends of Imperial College lecture series.
Lecture Theatre G16,
Sir Alexander Fleming Building,
02 February 19:00-20:00
CLASSIFIEDS
Lunchtime Concert
London Tango Quintet
perform as part of Impe-
rial’s lunchtime concert
series. Open to all, first
come first served. Con-
tact a.robins@imperial.
ac.uk for more informa-
tion.
Lecture Theatre 1, Wolfson,
Hammersmith Campus,
07 February 13:00-13:45
Building sustainability
Architect Ken Shuttleworth talks at the 37th An-
nual Paviour’s Lecture about the triumphs and pit-
falls of sustainability in building.
Open to all. Registration required in advance.
Contact cvgenoff@imperial.ac.uk to register.
Lecture Theatre 164,
Skempton Building,
07 February 17:00-18:00

