”
Y
ou cannot censor the In-
ternet. You cannot sub-
poena a hashtag. You
cannot arrest an idea.
You CAN expect us.”
These are the words of decentralised
hacktivist online group Anonymous,
tweeted as they launched a hailstorm of
Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS)
attacks on various websites just hours
after the US Government shut down
Megaupload.com on Thursday 19 Janu-
ary. Their attacks successfully brought
down websites belonging to the RIAA,
MPAA, Universal Music, the Depart-
ment of Justice, the US Copyright Of-
fice, EMI, the FBI and others by flood-
ing them with requests, but a number
of outlets have begun accusing them of
falling head first into a trap.
Thursday’s wave of activity saw the
largest coordinated attack in the his-
tory of Anonymous, with over 9000 par-
ticipants – both willing and oblivious.
Unsurprisingly, their efforts have been
slated as counterproductive, with claims
that the US government had deliber-
ately timed the Megaupload takedown
to occur directly after the SOPA protests
where Wikipedia, Wordpress and vari-
ous websites underwent a blackout to
raise awareness against provisions in
the acts.
If this is true, then it is plausible that
not only did the US Government take
heed of Anonymous’s words, to “expect
us”, but that they also considered such
actions may play in their favour by over-
shadowing the peaceful and lawful pro-
tests from all the websites blacking out
last week. Popular tech website CNET’s
Molly Wood reported that “if the SOPA/
PIPA protests were the web’s moment
of inspiring, non-violent, hand-holding
civil disobedience, [the move by Anon-
ymous] feels like the unsettling wave of
car-burning hooligans that sweep in and
incite the riot portion of the play.’’
It is likely that this would be ripe
ammunition for the US government to
use against freedom on the internet and
I think this will cause them to call for
tighter internet controls to crack down
on what they perceive as cyber-terror-
ism, and at the very least, may provide
emotional motivation for them to do so.
Lord what a mess – A letter to the editor
SOPA: who got the last lulz?
The websites blacked out on Thursday
to protest against provisions in the Stop
Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and Protect
Intellectual Property Act (PIPA) bills,
which threatened the health of the inter-
net. If they went through, the US gov-
ernment would have the ability to order
ISPs to alter their DNS servers from re-
solving the offending websites, to force
search engines like Google to modify
their results to exclude such sites, and
so on. Outright censorship. I’m not an
advocate of piracy, though I believe in
freedom of speech and believe the inter-
net is our safest place to express this.
I’d heard of Megaupload through
MegaVideo. It was notorious for lim-
iting videos to 72 minutes, and I was
firmly aware that it was a site mostly
used to transfer pirated files. It wasn’t
too long before people discovered how
to make their film nights more conve-
nient in first year, circumventing the
MegaVideo limit by simply switching
from the Imperial wireless connection
to a wired one.
While some people did use Megaup-
load to illegally pirate files, it must be
noted a great deal of users had legiti-
mate intent, for instance transferring
files which were too big for E-mail. I
believe the US’s rash decision to take it
down without warning was completely
unjustified, and there has been emphasis
lately on users who wonder what hap-
pened to their files.
This raises another interesting ques-
tion regarding cloud services: why
Megaupload and not, for example, Rap-
idshare? In fact, Rapidshare reportedly
are “not concerned” about the takedown,
emphasising that they don’t provide fea-
tures such as a rewards system for fre-
quently downloaded files. Rapidshare,
Dropbox and Windows Live SkyDrive
all fall into the same category from a
technical perspective, and a fair propor-
tion of us use these services regularly.
What happens to our files if a service is
taken down?
Megaupload’s servers contained
more than 25 petabytes of data (over
25,000,000 gigabytes), personal files,
and I’m appalled at their availability be-
ing so abruptly withdrawn. Your music
library is your personal soundtrack to
Dear Editor,
I would like to protest in the weakest
possible terms against the total disre-
gard Felix shows for the correct style
of address of Peers of the Realm.
References to life peers “Lord
Robert Winston”, “Lady Eliza Man-
ningham-Buller” and others regularly
appear despite being hideously im-
proper. According to Debrett’s – a re-
source I use almost as much as How to
Get Laid, but to more avail – it is only
the younger sons and the daughters of
Dukes and Marquesses are styled in
the format “Lord (or Lady) [forename]
[surname]”, and not actual peers.
Should one insist on including the
first name then it should come before
the peerage title; think “Alfred, Lord
Tennyson”.
your life, a photo is potentially an in-
stance of a treasured memory and your
documents are the fruits of your ongo-
ing creative efforts, work related or not.
Take away access to all my files today
and you’ll be taking away my life. For
this, I think that cloud backup and stor-
age are not real substitutes to their local
equivalents, and while Megaupload had
a lot more problems than piracy (their
employees were accused of money
laundering and trafficking), I’m hesitant
to store mission critical data up there in
case of some kind of amalgamation of
Murphy’s law and freak unavailability.
More to the point, now all those 25
petabytes are in the possession of the
feds, it’s likely they’ll go through as
much of it as possible to secure a con-
viction. It’s also likely that IP address-
es of uploaders were logged too. See
where I’m going with this? Privacy is
completely out the window, and the US
government nonchalantly demonstrated
they didn’t really need SOPA anyway.
Now while I disagree with these vio-
lations, I must also disagree with some
methods used by Anonymous to DDOS
the affected websites after Megaupload
went down. The attacks were conducted
by the aptly named Low Orbit Ion Can-
non program (C&C gamers will get the
reference), a piece of software initially
written by the ‘’good guys’’ to per-
form stress tests and load balancing on
networks. The software was later open
sourced and people began voluntarily
using it to flood websites with connec-
tion requests, causing them to over-
load and go down. It even has a ‘’Hive
Mind’’ mode, where the program acts as
Just because the BBC and others
routinely fuck it up doesn’t mean Fe-
lix has to.
Best wishes,
Christopher Kaye
Junior Treasurer
ICU History Society.
Your music library
is your personal
soundtrack to
your life,a photo
is potentially an
instance of a
treasured memory...
take away access
to all my files today
and you’ll be taking
away my life
a slave and accepts commands originat-
ing online, allowing for increased coor-
dination.
Though use of this tool on other web-
sites equates to criminal activity, it can
be said that everyone who participated
was doing so of their own free will.
This was, unfortunately, not the case
for some unsuspecting users, since the
program was modified to work using
JavaScript and the link was shortened
and distributed throughout Twitter un-
der the Anonymous hashtag. This meant
it could run inside a browser with no
downloads necessary and that the link
could be shortened to trick users into
visiting the page without realising what
they were getting into. It is claimed that
more than 27,000 computers were in-
volved in the DOJ attack with “average
people participating in the DDOS at-
tack from their living rooms”. The stats
were, however, not broken down into
the amount of traffic from the voluntary
program as opposed to the involuntary
JavaScript link.
Some Anonymous spokespersons
responded saying that “preying on un-
suspecting users is despicable”, and that
they “need to fight for the user, not land
them in jail”, though we cannot be sure
who can speak for them and whose word
to trust, due to their decentralised na-
ture. These issues surrounding Anony-
mous give the vigilante group an aura of
recklessness, which the US government
don’t hesitate to exaggerate, and while
SOPA appears to have indeed perished,
we can only ask ourselves: at what cost?
Now excuse me while I mourn Megaup-
load with 72 minutes of silence.
Sorry, we know some of you are so street that the sight of feds is terrifying
“
Your mu
Your mu
is your p
is your p
Alexander
Karapetian
COMMENT
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 21
“
If you wish to write a
letter, email:
felix@imperial.ac.uk

