Herman Hesse, the German novelist and poet,
wandered for some time through the Swiss
countryside – and wrote as a result the aptly
named Wandering. His book is about many
things, one of them being a communion
with nature. Hesse tells his reader “Trees are
sanctuaries. Whoever knows how to speak to
them, whoever knows how to listen to them,
can learn the truth” and these words resound-
ed with especial strength throughout the two
hours spent at David Hockney’s new show at
the Royal Academy of Arts. For the creation
of the new works exhibited in A Bigger Pic-
ture, Hockney has not strayed from his native
Yorkshire, painting the forests and fields near
his home. Nevertheless, the concept of unity
with nature and the natural world in his paint-
ing is readily observed.
A Bigger Picture (a reference to Hockney’s
famous ‘A Bigger Splash’) is an exhibition on
a massive and grand scale. There is a retro-
spective aspect – some early work, such as the
1980s photo-collages of the Grand Canyon, is
included – that succeeds because, despite its
brevity, it chronicles with clarity the develop-
ment of Hockney’s landscapes to their present
state. However its onus is on the landscape
paintings, watercolours and ‘iPad’ drawings
of recent years as well as sketchbooks and
one extraordinary video installation.
Hockney has assimilated and collated the
details of nature to astonishing effect: the
grandiose, whispering trees in ‘Woldgate
Woods 26, 27 and 30 July 2006’ are just
that because of the dark blue colour running
throughout the painting and the tiny leaves
flung against a grey sky, virtually carried
by a breeze. It must surely be that Hockney
experiences a different reality to us; it is one
so concretely understood however, that his
Yorkshire landscapes, almost by obligation,
epitomize nature. Nature, its essence, is con-
fidently expressed such that reality is almost
augmented; the landscapes could even be
viewed as an improvement (at least within the
confines of the RA!) on Yorkshire itself.
The same scenes recur, depicted at different
times in the same season or year. The land-
scape that greets visitors to the exhibition is
shown in spring, summer, autumn and winter.
Hockney’s knowledge of this particular view
is all-encompassing, as is his understanding
of how hawthorn blossoms or of the elements
composing the ‘tree tunnel’ he has studied.
Perhaps greatest in scope is the collective
‘The Arrival of Spring in Woldgate Woods’,
composed of 51 iPad drawings following the
budding Yorkshire spring, the final blooming
of which is culminated by an immense oil
painting.
The naturalism of A Bigger Picture is some-
what countered by the use of new technolo-
gies, placing Hockney’s work definitively in
Hockney’s biggest
splash yet?
the 21st century. The iPad drawings are just
his first forage into technology; the film in-
stallation is a technical feat but also comple-
ments the oil landscapes by taking the ‘aug-
mented’ reality a step further. There are two
phases, the first taking place in a colourful,
bright room in which separate cameras were
used to film the movements of ballet danc-
ers. The images were then collaged, con-
torted, resulting in a different perspective
of reality, reminiscent of the Grand Canyon
collages. The second phase is comprised of
several slow motion films of the Yorkshire
countryside. These were filmed using nine
cameras mounted on a moving van, each
camera capturing a slightly different area
of the landscape. The effect is hypnotic; the
combination of almost imperceptible move-
ment and collaged images results in a novel
countryside, one that could be representative
of nature everywhere.
Hockney’s work seems to advocate a return
to nature and form in art. Although this may
not sound appealing to the lover of minimal-
ism for example, Hockney’s landscapes are of
such quality that one cannot fail to be moved.
For nature-starved Londoners especially,
this may be an opportunity to experience the
countryside, and its (ideally) therapeutic ef-
fects, without ever having to leave the city. If
only for this reason, it is an exhibition which
should not be missed and which surely con-
firms David Hockney as one of the great Brit-
ish contemporary artists.
David Hockney: A Bigger Picture at The
Royal Academy of Arts until April 9
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
22
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Passage of Rhyme
by Pavitar Devgon
A top the world sits a bubbling spring
Where white lilies grow and nightingales sing
Here snow slowly falls; the air is so thin
Whence water outflows and then it begins.
The mountainous creek runs down the slope swift
Waterfalls pouring to crash upon drift
Fleeing fast from the fraught cold of the cliff
Winding its way to the arbourous rift
Between the trees, quenching soil and life
Fulfilling their needs while bearing their strife
Arriving where dwell both sparsely and rife
Whistling on like sweet flute and shrill fife
It flows further fore and happens a lake
Streaming in all it has learned upon wake
Taking all given, it gives all it takes
Soon sliding onward the sinuous snake
The marshland, it wanes and salinates flows
Cordgrass and Juncus breed; nothing else grows
The delta drinks rivers, this we all know
The water here rages; here the wind blows
The blue river’s journey finally ends
Amid ocean torrents, global heat trends
Cascading and tumbling in the sea
The cycle completed, now Avanti!
“Hockney’s work advo-
cates a return to nature
and form in art”
Eva Rosenthal
David Hockney mixes traditional and modern mediums
to recreate Yorkshire landscapes of dazzling colour
The Politician’s Fingernails
by Kadhim Shubber
Are my fingernails too long?
They look ok... head up, stop looking at them
(smile!)
They feel kind of long.
There. When I clench my fist like a man!
I can feel them. Oh. My. God.
Can other people feel them?
When I shake their hands?
Like this lady (smile!) Can she feel them?
I love her eyebrows.
I think she’s noticed my nails.
Why am I still holding her hand? Let go!
Dammit, you let go too quickly! (Smile!)
Why is Cindy staring at me? (Smile!)
I hate her so much; my nails, her face,
The blood and screaming and utter joy.
Is she looking at my hands? ... She knows!
(Smile!) (Shake hands!) Did he notice?
Oh fuck... people know. Where the fuck is Ryan?
Slow down. Keep cool soldier! Think!
Plan B: Hug. Yeh. People fucking love hugs...
Shit.
‘Winter Timber’ 2009 – Blue Wood. Like blue balls but worse

