ARTS
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 23
Enter the Zarina
Emotions run high at film artist and photographer
Zarina Bhimji’s retrospective at Whitechapel
Margot Pikovsky
To coincide with the world premiere of
her latest film installation ‘Yellow Patch’,
the Whitechapel Gallery in East Lon-
don is currently showing the first major
retrospective of the artwork of Zarina
Bhimji. Born in Uganda to Indian par-
ents, Bhimji left for Britain in the early
1970s to escape the brutal regime of Idi
Amin. This complex cultural history can-
not help but heavily influence her work,
and partly explains her passionate focus
on themes of loss, pain, and human dis-
placement.
The exhibition opens with some of
Bhimji’s earlier work, a collection of
photographs from her series, ‘Love’.
Taken on her visits back to Uganda, the
photographs capture with vivid and harsh
intensity the scenes of decay and aban-
donment she finds there. In one, an enor-
mous chandelier lies disused, dominating
the tiny room it now inhabits as the bright
light refracting through its glass hints at
the awe it would have once inspired. In
another, a family home, bathed in warm
sunlight, sits derelict and empty, poignant
due to the obvious, aching absence of the
family who once lived there. This idea, of
places now empty where there once was
such a strong human presence, echoes
throughout the collection, from the
mountain of abandoned paperwork that
fills up one image, each file the ghost of
a person now forgotten, to the mysterious
bag of hypodermic syringes that invades
and taints the image of an otherwise bar-
ren, natural scene. It is with great talent
that Bhimji manages to somehow capture
the intense beauty in such desolate and
emotive moments.
The climax of the exhibition, the great-
ly anticipated ‘Yellow Patch’, results
from Bhimji’s journey further into her
own past, to India, the home of her par-
ents. In my eyes it was far less successful.
Where ‘Love’ was subtle yet expressive,
the film installation seemed simultane-
ously painfully obvious and frustratingly
abstract. Repetitive close up shots of
derelict buildings and abandoned objects
gained little from the disjointed sounds
that accompanied them, and offered none
of the personality and the evidence of hu-
manity that her earlier photographs cap-
tured so well. Brief moments of beauty
or interest, such as the looming wreck of
an unfinished ship, were utterly desen-
sitised by the slow and passive move-
ment of the camera that panned across
them. On some intellectual level, I was
intrigued by some of the more unusual
images, and I appreciated the occasional
contrast between the bustling movement
captured in the audio against the total
stillness of the visual. But I was utterly
unable to connect emotionally with the
installation. I found myself yearning for
some kind of narrative to pull me through
it, a connecting thread that I sensed was
there but could not cling on to as image
after image slid before my eyes. Perhaps
I’m simply not emotionally intelligent
enough to personally respond to such a
restrained piece – but if that’s the case,
then is it really good art?
I found myself similarly unapprecia-
tive of the two other smaller collections
on display, ‘Cleaning the Garden’ and
‘She Loved to Breathe – Pure Silence’.
‘Cleaning the Garden’, one of Bhimji’s
earlier collections, apparently contrast-
ing English and Spanish traditions of for-
mal gardening, seemed to me to have no
strong central theme or message, provid-
ing aesthetically pleasing but ultimately
impersonal photographs. Meanwhile,
‘She Loved to Breathe’ came across as
uncharacteristically unsubtle, with an
arguably unnecessary addition of chilli
and turmeric scattered on the floor be-
neath what on their own were powerful
and cleverly composed images, abstract-
ly referring to the trauma of Asian immi-
grant women in the UK forced to submit
to virginity tests in the 1970s.
Despite these criticisms, I’d still rec-
ommend the exhibition, even if only for
‘Love’. The emotive power and haunt-
ing beauty of some of that collection is
undeniable, and as for the others... Well,
perhaps I just didn’t ‘get’ them.
Zarina Bhimji at the Whitechapel
Gallery until March 9
‘Your Sadness is Drunk’. My drunkness is horny like Newt Gingrich in an open relationship
Take a gawk on
the wild side
If labs and essay deadlines have so far
prevented you from paying a visit to the
Natural History Museum and you’re
looking for an excuse to get out of the
library: forget the dinosaurs, forget the
massive blue whale and forget the Kobe
earthquake room, because if there’s
one exhibition that you actually have
to make it to between now and March
11th this is it: Wildlife Photographer of
the Year.
The NHM and BBC Wildlife have
been organising and collaborating on
the competition every year since 1964,
when a humble 600 submissions were
received for just 3 categories. This
year’s panel of judges were faced with
more than 40,000 entries from all round
the world; proof of just how prestigious
the competition has become over the
last half century.
Anyone coming to this exhibition
expecting cutesy animal snaps is soon
converted: the ensemble is such a vi-
brant celebration of the fusion of man’s
creativity and the glory of nature, tech-
nical prowess, and artistic flair that it’s
hard not to lose yourself and let go of
the outside world for several hours.
The exhibition is more than a col-
lection of pretty pictures though: some
photos will leave you bewildered, oth-
ers shocked, impressed or dumb-struck.
The overwhelming feeling by the end
however is a deep respect for the pho-
tographers and a profound inspiration to
go home and create something magical
of your own. At the very least, the ex-
hibition reminds us of how to marvel at
the beauty of nature: the intricate detail
in a tern’s wings as it prepares to land
on water, the staggering Milky Way
stretching nonchalantly over the horizon
at night or the sheer audacity of a moun-
tain goat, several thousand feet in the air
committing a death-defying feat just to
reach a mineral lick (one of my personal
favourites – ‘Balancing Act’).
With outstanding contributions in
many different categories and by many
different participants (a particular men-
tion goes to the 11-14 Years Old con-
testants, whose work easily equalled
in brilliance those of their more senior
rivals) it is a small wonder that a win-
ner could be picked at all. Still, Daniel
Beltra of Spain proudly takes home the
title this year for his thought-provoking
‘Still Life in Oil’: a portrait of a group of
pelicans drenched in crude oil. Despite
my initial reservations about the win
due to its political nature, I was oddly
touched by the beautifully tragic com-
position and almost palpable fear of the
birds. In the winner’s words and as a
perfect summary of the competition as a
whole: “I wanted to create a set of imag-
es that wouldn’t look out of place in an
art gallery [...] it’s a route to understand-
ing that doesn’t depend on shock. I think
it gets the message to a wider audience,
because if the image is aesthetically ap-
pealing, people are more likely to stop.”
Seriously, don’t take my word for it:
just go see.
Wildlife Photographer of the Year at
the Natural History Museum until
March 11
“Anyone coming to
this exhibition expect-
ing cutesey animal
snaps is converted”
“The emotive power
and haunting beauty
is undeniable”
Aahh, mate, aah, mate, aaaaahh, maaate, I’m bugging out so bad here
Arianna Sorba

