MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
26
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
I actually did that once. For two years I
would listen to, of all metal genres, black
metal. The really deep underground stuff. At
one point I realised that it was just stagnant.
The whole genre is about achieving a point
of perfection in the sound, being cult and
true and whatever. Ironically, it’s about be-
ing as under produced and grim as possible.
Metal has merged with so many genres now,
it’s almost ridiculous to list them… you can
get symphonic metal, jazz fusion…
You can attach the metal tag to anything…
that’s the problem with rap metal haha
Yeah haha and it sounds stupid at first but it
does help to open your ears a lot and you can
end up listening to straight jazz afterwards.
I meant to ask you about dubstep actually.
It just seems to release a lot of… displaced
anger.
I think dubstep is actually electronic ‘djent’.
You can really draw a parallel because dub-
step is really about dropping a thump when
you least expect it. Some of the stuff the Mu-
sic Tech guys do I really enjoy. Breaks and
things.
I don’t really mind… I think the most, I
wouldn’t say irritating, but sad thing, is when
you see people listening to music and they’re
just not really doing anything. I find it very
difficult to not even tap your foot… like you
said, at least with dubstep there is a release.
I guess there are also the more intellectual
styles of music like jazz and IDM.
Yeah, but that’s really for the musicians I
think. At a lot of metal gigs, the audience is
full of... not nerds, but… even the bands say
it would be nice if our music would be more
accessible to people who don’t understand
So you have a steady back beat with some-
thing really funky over the top. You separate
your hands from your feet, sort of. It’s quite
syncopated which is why you could call it
groovy. I suppose Meshuggah pioneered that
style. I really enjoy music which has a lot of
polyrhythms. That’s not really what we play
with Inescapable Fate though, because it
often comes to a stage when it just becomes
wankery. We’re a lot more straight up.
That’s cool. I didn’t know you did solo elec-
tronics.
Yeah. I find myself listening to a lot of sad,
atmospheric music. Just long… long, sad
tracks… I must sound like such a miserable
fuck haha
It’s okey.
I think that’s what drew me into metal.
There’s a lot of attack but there can also be a
lot of really strong melodies.
Yeah. I think what most people don’t seem to
grasp about metal, and why they tend to just
shun it away, is that they don’t see the ca-
thartic side of it. When I was playing metal
I found it to be such a powerful release of
energy that’s pretty hard to find otherwise.
Yeah. I guess my advice to anyone who wants
to get into metal is not to take it too seriously.
When I play or just listen to it I just can’t help
but want to move, it’s kind of bizarre. When
you’ve got a kick drum up at volume and it
resonates and you can feel it in your body…
There’s a lot of fanatics who are really elitist
but you know, if you don’t like that music,
that’s fine, don’t worry about. But I find that
a lot of metal musicians I meet are actually
really open minded. There’s no point putting
yourself in a box and listen to only one kind
of music.
How long has the band been going?
I really should know this… I’ve been playing
with them for a couple of years, but they were
already together for a few years before that.
Wow. So it’s a quite a long standing band
then.
Yeah, but it’s… piss poor, because we’ve
only played about 5 or 6 gigs. Just far too
busy really. We practice every week but we
just don’t play many gigs, though recently
we’ve been heading out more. We played the
Fiddler’s Elbow in Camden last term, with
a couple of other thrash and rock bands. It
was pretty well received. We’ve got a couple
more gigs lined up this term.
Would you say you guys are death metal,
thrash metal, or somewhere in between…?
I heard someone calling you brutal death
metal.
Oh, we’re not brutal by any standards. We
only have about two blast beats in our entire
repertoire. I think Greg (Power, founder of
the Felix Music Nights last year) got it into
his head, but I’d say we’re more thrashy, but
the vocals are death.
Cookie Monster style.
Yeah, well there’s a bit more diction. I’ve
heard worse than Sean’s vocals. You can
make out what he’s saying if you listen close-
ly.
Hold on, my recorder’s running out of
juice… Let me just delete these traffic re-
cordings.
Do you use that to record traffic?
Among other things. Mainly to get source
material for samples.
I’ve recorded some rain sounds before with
one of those.
Oh cool. Do you use them in the band or for
your own solo projects?
It’s for my own stuff. I’ve got a few tracks
on my DoC homepage, of all places, that are
more or less different than what we play in
the band. Sort of like the stuff you played at
KABLAAM, I quite enjoy the sort of atmo-
spheric sounds. At the moment I’m really into
sort of groovy stuff, like polyrhythms, which
I’ve been doing a lot of recently. Synths as
well… I love electronics basically.
Groovy how? Drum based or oscillatory?
The genre I’m in at the moment is called
‘djent’.
I read about that in your interview with
Greg last term. Isn’t that metal though?
It is metal. It’s kinda like Marmite – the sort
of thing you either love or hate. The idea is
you play a very simple 4/4 beat and the bass
drum follows the guitar… it’s not necessarily
the idea but that’s how a lot of people do it.
Inescapable Fate
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto talks death and dubstep with
lead guitarist Will Jones, ahead of the Felix Music Night
Spikey metal logo replaced with baroque oil painting.
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Continued overleaf...
Dizzee Rascal
DirteeTV.com
Skank Recordings
2012
The most irritating thing about Tim Westwood is
this: he’s actually 100% credible. He’s been sup-
porting UK hip-hop since the 80s and, by all fair
metrics, has earned the right to ram obnoxious
horns and gunshot sounds up the backside of
every track he plays on his radio show. I, on the
other hand, have absolutely zero street-cred – un-
less of course you count the Walkway as a street,
and you accept furiously avoiding eye contact as
‘cred’.
Which, you could argue, might make my deci-
sion to choose Dizzee Rascal’s new mixtape as
my Totally Hot Album of the Week slightly strange.
The only UK hip-hop I’ve ever listened to is Foreign
Beggars; whose 2003 album Asylum Speakers is a
must-listen and whose 2008 song ‘Hit that Gash’
is... well, find out for yourself. So, what insights
about grime, a genre of music as far removed from
my expertise as astute political analysis is from
Dizzee, could I offer you? Well to you ‘haters’ –
see, I can totally get into this – I say this: I may
not understand a word of French, but I’d sure as
hell as jizz my pants if Audrey Tautou started talk-
ing to me.
Let’s be clear: this ain’t no pop record. With Cal-
vin Harris off cheating on him with Rihanna (who
would say no?), Dizzee has gone back to the quick-
fire spitting with which he first made his name in
the early 2000s. All that festival-pop nonsense
has gone the way of Sports Direct’s stock and bug-
gered off down the street. Grime-Dizzee is back.
The tracks are bombastic, viciously-tight, full of
swagger, and as energetic as an LHC proton (and
yes, that joke is exactly why I’ll never have street-
cred). But naff jokes aside, there’s something
primally appealing about this mixtape. It makes
you want to bounce off the walls, get pumped up,
and perhaps run about throwing gang signs while
studiously avoiding confrontation with people who
actually understand the lingo...
I’ve genuinely got nothing bad to say about this
tape. Criticism is fairly difficult when you’re busy
concentrating on skanking like a total boss. Impe-
rial, it’s time to leave your comfort zone and get
dirtee this week. Just think of it as gateway grime.
Peace out.
Tweet me @kadhimshubber and let me know wheth-
er it’s acceptable for a guy who went to private
school in Eastbourne to say ‘Peace out’. Alternative-
ly, tweet @CalvinHarris and tell him, “If I ever see
you near Dizzee again, I’ll pop a cap brah!!!”

