how it works. But I guess that’s sort of the
attraction for a lot of people, understand-
ing what’s going on and the satisfaction of
knowing that for example the next three bars
are going to be all messed up but you actu-
ally know all the notes. I don’t really expect
that for a lot of the things I play. But it’s
nice every once in a while when someone
comes up and says, oh “I enjoyed your mu-
sic” even if they don’t have a clue what you
were doing, but that’s fine because part of
the satisfaction is achieving that. You know,
like when you see someone get up on stage
and they’re thinking “oh, I’m going to start
playing in fives now, just to be an ass” and
no one else will notice, right, because it just
gets lost. But if it sounds good, it sounds
good.
That being said, in jam nights I rarely play
metal because metal’s really hard to impro-
vise well on. It often ends in tears. It’s a lot
easier to make interesting improve in jazz or
something.
Either that or it just ends up sort of psy-
chedelic.
Yeah, if you have a looper it can be a lot of
fun but in metal you just end up chugging
along on the same riff.
And noodle a bit.
Yeah, the stereotypical solos as well…
I bumped into an old friend earlier, whose
quite the metalhead and he was telling me
about a bit of controversy surrounding the
upcoming Download festival. Apparently
Chase & Status are playing straight after
Machine Head.
Elvis?
I have no idea.
I thought you were going to ask about more
capital D’s besides dubstep.
Oh yeah, I wanted to talk about death.
haha none of our songs are about death ac-
tually. A lot of them seem to be about the
financial collpase, like ‘Inflate/Deflate’, be-
cause Laurie seems to have a real problem
with that.
Nice. So what’s with the “morbid fascina-
tion of death” to quote a certain Norwegian
band?
That’s like asking why most other music is
obsessed with love? Some people might find
that just as insipid. I personally don’t care.
Lyrics are just noise between solos, right?
I think there are more offensive topics than
death that are commonly dealt with.
I’m somewhat puzzled by what some people
are capable of singing about.
Well there’s a band called Necrophagus,
which refers to the practice of eating dead
people. I think that’s part of the joke though.
It’s not like some guy actually wants to each
your child. Another famous one is a song by
Bloodbath called ‘Eaten’ which is a guy who
wants someone to find someone to eat him.
It’s based on a true story about a German guy
who posted an ad in a newspaper a couple
years ago. That just shows that a lot of these
things are not that far beyond the realm of
what happens in the world.
I guess love and death are the central themes
in our lives.
Love sells more though.
Why do people care? You go to see one, the
other or both.
I have a feeling there are a lot of closet rav-
ers among the metalheads.
Yeah, I don’t get why it’s controversial.
What about The Prodigy playing alongside
Black Sabbath and Metallica?
I would say Black Sabbath are less heavy
than The Prodigy, who use a lot of guitar
samples anyway. I think it’s cool. It means
that they can guarantee enough of an audi-
ence for that sort of thing.
Apparently Lou Reed collaborated with
Metallica.
He played some stuff on their latest album.
I’ve never listened to it but I’ve always
heard great things about Lou Reed’s Metal
Machine Music, which is basically 6 hours
of clanging metal noises and feedback.
MMM has influenced so much later music
that I almost don’t feel the need to listen to
those records. Just the idea of it...
Yeah, I’m sure you can recognise it in a lot
of music.
Why do you think metal music is called
metal anyway?
I don’t know... it’s really stupid but I always
thought it was because rock was called rock.
But then I thought, well why call it rock?
Rock & roll...
Maybe it’s because metal is heavier than
rock?
How does the rock roll? Like the pelvis of
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto on Big Muffs, dingy bars and
classical music with THROB’s jazz-funk outfit
Head down Spank Alley
Who’s in the Spank Alley?
Matt: I’m Matt, first year PhD student and I
play the drums
Jermyn: Jermyn, 3rd year Biochemistry, un-
dergraduate. I play the saxophone.
Faris: I’m Faris. I’m a 3rd year PhD student
and I play the piano.
Jordan: Jordan, also 3rd year PhD. Bass.
Eugene: Eugene. I’m a 3rd year undergrad
Chemist and I play the guitar.
Eugene, I have to ask you about your guitar.
It’s just beautiful.
It’s a 1965 Gibson hollow body. I bought it on
Demark Street downtown, which is the worst
place to buy a guitar because they’ll just rip
you off. Good place to window shop though.
Do you know it’s history?
The shop owner said he bought it off someone
after a gig in the 1970s. That’s what he says
anyway.
Jordan, I noticed you were only using one
guys were all playing from sheet music. Are
you guys classically trained?
Jordan: Don’t look at me.
How long have you been playing your instru-
ments?
Jermyn: 11 years.
Matt: Same for me. Half my life.
Gone…
Matt: Just gone…
…behind the drums. Bashing away at the
past.
Keys?
Faris: About 20 years I think. I only got into
jazz about 6 years ago though. Before that I
was just playing whatever, just by ear. I’m
jealous of people who can actually sight read.
I’m not one of those people.
effect pedal in rehearsal tonight. What’s
wrong? Are you okay?
Jordan: I’m having withdrawal symptoms
already. That’s what the ale’s for.
So do you prefer to go light on the crazy stuff
with the jazz band?
Jordan: It’s not really appropriate is it…
Do you ever go through episodes where the
other guys let you do your thing?
Jordan: Not really…
So do you feel repressed with this band?
Jordan: Haha na, it’s just a bit of a change.
Just walking bass lines.
Jordan and I were going to play at THROB
but we only jammed once.
Jordan: We could have gone for half an hour
of feedback to be honest.
When I came into your rehearsal tonight I
noticed something different right away: you Continued overleaf...
...Continued from Page 26
The point of this column is to give you enough
guidance so that you can go out into the big bad
world of post-hardcore and not end up naked, lying
in filth and eating your own rancid faeces. That was
meant to be symbolic for listening to poor music by
the way. To set you up with a solid foundation, the
first few episodes in this saga consist of the older
but integral champions of this genre and to add an-
other sturdy block to this foundation, this week I
give you Glassjaw.
The majority of you will probably know the lead
singer Daryl Palumbo from pop group Head Auto-
matica but I assure you, Glassjaw could not be
more different. Being from New York themselves,
their style is heavily influenced by the early NY hard-
core scene although Palumbo’s signature vocal
sound adds a great deal of likeability to this niche
style. Their debut album Everything You Ever Want-
ed To Know About Silence is held by their “most
loyal” fans to be their best but those not perched
comfortably on a hipster-high-horse recognise their
second and most recent full-length release Worship
And Tribute to be a work of mastery.
Along with these two full-length albums, Glassjaw
have also released four incredible EPs and various
demos. All of these releases have their share of
savage and softer tracks but the pure essence of
post-hardcore is wired into every second. EYEWT-
KAS is mainly composed of heavy tracks but after
this release the band started showing a less ag-
gressive side, with Palumbo starting to sing more
than just blare pig noises. Their music is hard to
describe but I think the best way would be to say it
has palpable hardcore roots with a chilling edge…
sometimes. The experience can be likened to
someone punching you in the teeth and then whis-
pering in your ear to take your little pants off… or
something less rapey. (Why does rape always come
up in this column?)
Anyway what I’m trying to say is that the music
is very good and has given the band it’s rightful
place in post-hardcore history. Glassjaw have a new
release in the works so keep your eye out for that
and make sure you check out the Recommenda-
tions. Yeah, that’s right there’s two this week, suck
on that bitches!
Writer’s Recommendation
1. For the fans of heavier stuff check out the song
‘You Think You’re (John Fucking Lennon)’.
2. For something a bit more reasonable, check out
the song ‘All Good Junkies Go To Heaven’ (check
out the amazing rehearsal version on YouTube).
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 3: Glassjaw
MUSIC
FELIX Friday 27 January 2012 27

