MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
28
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
part of it. He does a thing called Doing Something
With Jazz.
The ‘Queen of Motown’ Martha Reeves and the
Vandellas sold out 4 nights in a row there.
Jordan: Yeah, it’s a classy sort of vibe. Or it tries
to be.
Not like Spank Alley I suppose!
So other than the London Jazz Festival which is
consistently ridiculously amazing, how do you
find the jazz scene in London?
Matt: There’s the Jazz Café up in Camden.
Eugene: There’s a nice joint in Fulham…
Club 606! I remember going there in 1st year,
because it was just a few streets away from Ori-
ent House where I was. It’s in the middle of this
industrial estate. You just have to find this black
metal door and walk down these dingy stairs…
Jermyn: Yeah, it’s underground right?
Once you get downstairs it’s really chill though.
There’s a really strong free jazz scene, particular-
ly around Dalston. Are any of you guys into that?
Jordan: I quite like some of that.
Eugene: That’s what we call our solos if they
don’t work out! “That was freeform!”
Matt: It’s good because you can never be wrong.
Jermyn: Just walk off the stage to get a beer and
call it ‘expression’.
anyway.
Do you try to work your own thing around the
old classics?
Matt: One of the songs we’re playing, ‘Water-
melon Man’, has turned out to be a different tune
altogether.
Do you ever play any songs in strange tunings?
Eugene: It’s all been standard so far hasn’t it?
Faris: ‘Actual Proof’ is hardly standard.
Eugene: Ohhh I remembered practicing that over
and over and over and over…
So have you played the whole of the Headhunt-
er’s record or what?
Jordan: Nearly!
Matt: It’s so tempting to just stick with Herbie
Hancock!
Have you guys seen him live?
Jordan: I have. He’s like 74 now. He still jams
pretty hard. I saw Roy Haynes recently, who was
rather instrumental in the 50s bebop scene. He’s
86 now and he still plays amazingly well. It’s ri-
diculous.
Jermyn: We saw McCoy Tyner recently. He was
John Coltrane’s pianist
Have you guys been to Ronnie Scott’s?
Matt: Yeah. My cousin actually DJs for the club
When I learned to sight-read I just ended up
memorising the songs and pretending to read
long.
Jordan: That sounds familiar.
I do envy those people though. You can think
about music in a completely different way. You
can see real patterns on the pages and if you’re
trying to write rather than improvise you can play
with those forms.
So what have you been playing lately?
Jermyn: We play a lot of Herbie Hancock cov-
ers.
Matt: It seems to be our preferred thing right now.
Eugene: Not so much jazz any more. More funk,
but it’s a good thing.
Matt: Yeah, we’re playing an Average White
Band song.
Any traditional standards?
Faris: Yeah.
I wouldn’t call Herbie Hancock traditional jazz
though…
Jordan: Traditional jazz-funk! Well we started
playing some more traditional stuff…
Eugene: Miles Davis as well.
Faris: ‘Spain’, ‘Caravan’…
No Kind of Blue?
Matt: ‘So What’!
Don’t you need an upright for that?
Jordan: I’ve got one actually.
Dude! Get it out!
Jordan: Stick a Big Muff on it haha
Matt: Of course our real aim is to become a 70s
disco band.
Jordan: I’m trying to grow an afro right now.
Don’t count on it.
Jordan: Why not? What do you mean?
Well… 3rd year PhD. Anyway...
So how big’s your repertoire?
Faris: We’ve got about 20 songs or so…
Matt: We’ve only been playing together since
November. I came to Imperial the month before.
These guys played before in various incarnations
though. We try to play at least a couple of hours
a week.
Eugene: This is our first proper gig actually, other
than the jam nights.
Is that because you’re playing only standards at
the moment?
Jermyn: In jazz it’s more about the improvisation
Spank Alley at Tuesday’s Jazz & Rock jam night
The anguish. “I need a beer. Leave me alone.”
[dramatic silence for 10 minutes while you get
served]
So, I’m taking that as a no.
Matt: Pretty much.
Do you guys know Sun Ra?
Jordan: Yeah! Did you go see them at Oto?
Not the last time but I caught them during their
3-day residency which prolonged to 5 because the
Icelandic volcano left them stuck in London.
Anyway, for those of you who don’t know him,
he was this free jazz guy in the 60s who took too
many drugs. He had this sort of cosmic jazz take
on things and he believed he was from another
planet.
Jordan: Yeah, he actually started playing bebop
kind of stuff and somehow went…
Backstage.
He thought jazz was channelling the spirit of
the universe or something and I can see what he
meant. Jazz is some of the most exploratory mu-
sic there is and much more free than classical.
Matt: Classical is much more composed. There’s
almost no room for free interpretation.
Faris: Having said that, there’s a lot of baroque
music which has a lot of improvisational harpsi-
chord passages and variations.
I always thought that when a composer is work-
ing on his magnum opus , there must be a lot
of theory behind it but there was probably some
spontaneous moment which sparked it. That’s
what strange about classical music. It seems so
restrained though, it almost seems to lose the hu-
man element. That’s what jazz manages to save.
Matt: you can say what you like about classical
music but you have to admit it’s stood the test of
time.
Some people might beg to differ on that.
Jordan: Some of the modern classical music is re-
ally just modern music which is scored for a full
orchestra and it just seems to come off as forced.
Some of the purposefully dissonant stuff really
tries to say something but a lot of it just fails.
So finally, how did your colourful name come
about?
Matt: ‘Spank-A-Lee’ is a song by Herbie Han-
cock.
Is there no other motivation behind it?
Jordan: It is funk after all so there has to be a bit
of spank.
Eugene: What better place to get down and dirty
than an alley?
...Continued from Page 28
Given to the Wild
The third album from The Maccabees has been
released after much anticipation and to critical
acclaim. Sorry, “much” anticipation? Critically
acclaimed by who now?
Things are expected to change for the Mac-
cabees. Their new single has had airplay on
national daytime radio and the new album has
had plenty of press coverage; but when it comes
down to it, is the music strong enough to turn
The Maccabees into the new Coldplay or Muse?
Coming from one of their biggest fans who
has been following them since before they had
even released a single record, the answer is sim-
ply no.
Judging the LP alone, it is spectacular. Dark
yet warm, sweet without being sickly, it has a
huge sound while maintaining an intimate, per-
sonal feel. Orlando Weeks sings with such ten-
derness that his voice sometimes cannot be dis-
tinguished from the music. This is no bad thing:
it demonstrates the ability of the band to ensure
that their instruments have significance and do
not solely act as a support for his voice.
The overall vibe is one of maturity. Not only
in comparison to their infantile earlier releases
and the fact that it will not be just 15 year olds
listening, but lyrically explores the idea of be-
ing Given to the Wild, having to grow up, and
the temporary nature of the life we grow up for.
The amazing thing is that it matches style of
their music, so much so that when you listen
you feel that unnerving feeling: the one where
you realise that you are maturing every second
of every day, and you finally realise who you
are becoming.
However, albums will never be judged alone,
and the fact is The Maccabees are not under-
rated and have not produced anything to label
them as such. It is a beautiful album and will no
doubt be one of my favourites of 2012, but as I
fan I hope that it is not the album which defines
the Maccabees, because they are a great band
with the potential to do so much more. Plus,
the finale of final song ‘Grew up at Midnight’
sounds exactly like that of ‘Sea Within a Sea’
by The Horrors.
Lily Le

