More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Dawn on the Horizons
Monday 23 January saw the start of
the Horizons program, an experimen-
tal scheme that sees 200 undergradu-
ates from departments across the col-
lege meeting for a series of lectures
and tutorials over the next 8 weeks.
Using the topic of climate change, the
program aims to develop participants’
awareness of how scientific issues and
debates can have wide reaching im-
pacts on an international scale: from
affecting policy making in Govern-
ments to new technology in people’s
homes.
The pilot scheme is using the topic
of climate change as the basis for
the lectures and discussion with the
view that if the scheme is repeated
other topics such as food security and
changings in the global population be-
ing used instead. Supporting the series
of lectures by leading experts in fields
relating to climate change is a number
of tutorial sessions where undergradu-
ate from all the different departments
Jonathan Peek
NEWS
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
of the college can discuss ideas raised,
develop team working skills and ex-
plore the topic from other viewpoints.
The opening lecture was presented
by Professor Sir Brian Hoskins, Direc-
tor of Imperial’s own Grantham insti-
tute for climate change and member
of the UK’s Committee on Climate
Change: the committee tasked with
advising the Government on how it
can meet the 80% cuts in CO2 emis-
sions by 2050 set out in the Climate
Change Bill in November 2008. The
lecture presented an overview of the
topic of Climate changing touching on
early work on the Green House gases
dating back to early 1800’s though to
our current understanding of the driv-
ing principals behind climate change.
Taking in the developments to how
we now study changes in the climate,
what climate models are currently pre-
dicting, and some of the controversies
that surround climate change – the
‘Climate Gate’ scandal based on email
leak from the Climate research Unit
and the ‘errors’ in the 2006 Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) report both of which made
headlines around the world. Conclud-
ing with a thought provoking slide on
why trying to take any action about
climate change runs in to difficulty,
the lecture was a good summary of the
underlying issues of climate change
and was a good opening to the scheme.
The lecture was followed by a tu-
torial that gave the undergraduates a
chance to start exploring what policies
the Government should be bringing
into effect to help stop climate change.
Discussions as to why people were
taking part in the program was more
that people were interested in climate
change than the opportunity to devel-
op their professional skills, with a lot
of emphasis on the actual science be-
hind the headlines in the media.
With the next lecture being present-
ed by leading figures in the media the
program looks set to hit its targets of
giving Undergraduates the chance to
look at climate change from a range of
viewpoints.
Members of the House of Commons
Commission have met to discuss op-
tions to deal with the subsidence prob-
lems that the Palace of Westminster is
experiencing. The palace, which was
constructed in 1870, is slowly sinking
into the ground, and the clock tower,
which houses the infamous Big Ben, is
leaning at an angle of 0.26 degrees.
Conclusions from the discussion were
that repairs should take place, though
these will not be until 2020 at the earli-
est. The committee also stated that the
Palace remains structurally sound.
This collaborates with the view of
Imperial College’s Emeritus Professor
John Burland. In an interview to Radio
4, he made clear his opinion that the
swaying of the tower is not a problem
to worry about. He added that this has
been a problem with the tower for many
years; the lack of cracks in the cladding
suggests it had swayed during its con-
struction.
He also stressed that the construction
of a car park and the Jubilee Line Ex-
tension under the palace has only affect-
ed the angle to the tower very slightly
– these changes were controlled during
construction.
These modern constructions have
also not caused the cracks seen in the
buildings. Regardless, the cracks may
actually be beneficial – natural swaying
in the building will concentrate around
cracks, forming them if none exist. He
is also “not in the least” worried about
the possibility of the palace sliding into
the Thames.
Professor Burland has worked on a
number of projects involving the pal-
ace, the first of which was an under-
ground car park. More recently, he had
a consulting role in the extension of
the Jubilee Line. This included work to
stabilise the tower, which was at risk of
collapsing due to the close proximity of
the new Underground station.
However, he is best known for his
work in stabilising the Leaning Tower
of Pisa, a project that ended in 2001.
In gratitude for the part he played, the
Duke of Castro made him a Knight
Commander. Later, in 2005, he was
made a CBE for his part in reinforcing
the tower.
Sinking Westminster
Philip Kent
Imperial awarded for efforts in
the representation of women
staff. She also highlighted the Imperial
College Early Years Education Cen-
tre (a childcare centre) which benefits
women in academia who are raising a
family.
Going back to 1999, Imperial was
also one of the founding members of
the Athena project, established by sev-
eral bodies including the UK higher
education funding councils, Universi-
ties UK and the Office of Science and
Technology. Its aims are “the advance-
ments and promotion of the careers
of women in science, engineering and
technology (SET) in higher education
and research.”
The 2010 Athena Survey of Science,
Engineering and Technology (ASSET)
of dozens of universities concluded
that “women continue to feel disad-
vantaged and excluded in a number of
ways.” One finding was that “male aca-
demics still predominate in positions of
authority.” The survey also found that
whilst the gender-related differences
tend to be small, they “accumulate
over the course of an individual career
to create differences in opportunity and
experience.”
However, Patricia Hunt said, “I per-
sonally believe that Imperial is doing
much better than the survey might im-
mediately make you think. After read-
ing the ASSET survey I was very hap-
py to be working at Imperial. I won’t
say it is perfect, but definitely better
than some of the information coming
out of the survey. What is needed now
is the Government and funding bodies
getting seriously behind initiatives like
Athena.”
Imperial also has an exceptional
achievement of Athena SWAN awards,
which “recognise and celebrate good
practice on recruiting, retaining and
promoting women in SET in higher
education.” Imperial has obtained a
bronze award, the achievement of
which allows individual departments to
apply for awards. The Natural Sciences
Faculty is leading the way within the
College having obtained a silver award
within the Chemistry department, a sil-
ver award within Physics and a bronze
award within Life Sciences.
The Engineering faculty also boasts
several awards with the Chemical En-
gineering and Materials departments
having obtained silver awards, and
the Earth Science and Engineering
and Computing departments having
obtained bronze awards. Deputy Prin-
cipal of Imperial, Dorothy Griffiths,
described this as a “huge achievement
in traditionally male dominated engi-
neering fields.”
In addition, the Department of Phys-
ics has also gained Juno Champion-
ship Status awarded by the Institute of
Physics. Project Juno was established
by the institute in 2007 and aims to
“recognise and reward departments
that have taken action to address the
under-representation of women in uni-
versity physics.”
Among the range of female staff that
Felix spoke to, none think that dis-
crimination overtly exists within the
College today. Whilst the percentage of
female professors at Imperial is lower
than the national average of 20%, re-
cently reported by the Higher Educa-
tion Statistics Agency (HESA), Impe-
rial is not faring too badly at all since
science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM) subjects have
long been dominated by males. It cer-
tainly seems that with the substantial
efforts taking place within the College
to support women, along with the ris-
ing ambitions of women, Imperial, and
other universities, will continue to see a
rise in the number of females in senior
positions.
...Continued from Front Page
“Imperial has an
exceptional achieve-
ment of Athena
SWAN awards”
Professor Burland has worked
on constructions at Westminster
underground station
Philip Kent

