The contrast with the trenches is astounding.
The war is dark, muddy, loud. The country is
distorted. Everywhere, destruction and death
are present. The trenches rob the men of their
humanity, their life and leave them empty. It
feels like a Sassoon or Rosenberg poem has
been brought to life. Stephen Wraysford is un-
recognisable. The sheer scale of the Great War
is awe-inspiring, especially in the army hos-
pital where corpses are aligned and the ampu-
tees are taken care of. Our hero is right in the
middle of it, as a lieutenant. The only escape
he has left from the daily violence and danger,
from insanity, is his memories from that sum-
mer six years ago, and Isabelle.
Redmayne and Poésy are splendid. The
chemistry between them and their talent car-
ry the drama and give it depth and emotion.
There isn’t much dialogue, but every look
says something. This adaptation may have
taken decades to achieve, the result is stun-
ning. The depiction of the war is a fantastic
reproduction, in my opinion, fair to descrip-
What the editors thought
We had high hopes for this. We really did. The
BBC are good at this sort of thing – period drama,
romance, and some conflict thrown in for good
measure. We can’t argue with the quality of the
cinematography because it was – as is usually the
case with this sort of programme on the BBC – su-
perb. The mood created is described perfectly by
Marie-Laure Hicks in her review of the show.
There was a certain synergy between Poésy and
Redmayne that was believeable and quite endear-
ing.
However, the show is not without fault, the main
issue we had with the first episode was how long
it took for things to get going (we’re talking geo-
logical timescales here); certain levels of tanacity
were required to continue watching after enduring
the first half. Things did start to pick up though,
particularly towards the end where the times be-
tween scenes at war and those set in the summer
which Stephen spent with Isabelle decreased. It
certainly added a heightened sense of drama to
the occasion.
Talking of heigtnened senses; whilst adding a
little interest to the episode, the sex scene was a
tad ridiculous, Isabelle and Stephen had only just
kissed before he went down on her. Maybe that’s
just how he rolls... Besides, we’ll let them off as
Clémence Poésy alone makes for good viewing.
Overall we thought Birdsong was alright. Perhaps
best described as somewhat flaccid. It just sort of
happened; it wasn’t great but it certainly wasn’t
terrible either. Maybe its downfall was the timing
– had it not started a week after the brilliant Sher-
lock ended then perhaps we would have viewed it
in higher esteem.
Will we watch the next episode? Probably. There
were aspects we liked enough to merit giving it
another opportunity to impress us. We’ll let you
know next week.
Following Sherlock and Great Expecta-
tions, another one of Britain’s favourite nov-
els, Birdsong has been adapted for the small
screen by the BBC. The first part was broad-
cast last Sunday. The book, written by Sebas-
tian Faulks, is considered a modern retelling
of the Great War. Set in pre-war Amiens and
the Somme trenches, it chronicles parts of the
life of Stephen Wraysford and his affair with
Isabelle Azaire.
The BBC adaptation opens in the trenches
with Wraysford, portrayed by Eddie Red-
mayne, and moves back and forth between the
war and 1910 as the Englishman recalls his
summer in Northern France. The young man
was then staying with the Azaires, a wealthy
family. He is young, still discovering the joys
and beauties of life. Isabelle Azaire (Clémence
Poésy) is locked in a loveless marriage to an
older man. Together, they discover the passion
of love.
The drama is defined by atmospheres,
glances, not words. A look, a touch is all that
is needed to convey such thoughts and feel-
ings. Better than a million words. The pre-war
setting is almost idyllic. Calm, beautiful, full
of life and nature, it is comparable to being
plunged into a Debussy piece or an Impres-
sionist painting. The light and brightness ren-
der a poetic, dream-like ambiance, ideal for a
love story.
tions of those who lived it. The realities of the
war are there. The wounded and the dead are
omnipresent. The audience is taken into the
muddy trenches, the tunnels. It encounters the
dangers and risks, the constant bombing and
guns firing. This place is impersonal, madden-
ing, so far away from the innocence and bliss
of peaceful times.
Written by Abi Morgan (Brick Lane, The
Iron Lady, Shame), the main discrepancy with
the book is that sections including Wraysford’s
granddaughter in 1970s Britain have been cut
in order to concentrate on the love affair and
the historic events surrounding it. The show
also provides a look into the world of tun-
nellers, a less well-known aspect of this war.
At the time of the story, there would have been
twenty-five thousand men creating a network
of tunnels spanning hundreds of miles.
In the words of Edward Thomas, “Can you
remember?” As fewer and fewer survivors re-
main, the Great War should not be forgotten.
Not only in memory of those who died fight-
ing, but also the horror and destruction. The
drama provides a chance to retell and docu-
ment this period. It brings it to life and reminds
the audience of the dreadful nature of war.
This story of violence, love, friendship, death
and life is quite simply a journey through time,
places and people; a great experience.
Catch the second part of Birdsong on Sun-
day at 9pm on BBC1
I’m rather ravishing, don’t you think?
Marie-Laure Hicks
“The light and brightness
render a poetic, deam-
like ambiance, ideal for
a love story”
TELEVISION
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
30
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
“How sweet and fitting it is to die for one’s country”
Birdsong
We also enjoyed former Television Editor Matt
Allinson’s brief appearance. Although it was
probably just us that saw him
“Dulce Et Decorum Est
Pro Patria Mori”
BBC

