Best Motion Picture of the Year
The Artist
The Descendants
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close
The Help
Hugo
Midnight in Paris
Moneyball
The Tree of Life
War Horse
Best Actor in a Leading Role
Demián Bahir – A Better Life
George Clooney – The Descendants
Jean Dujardin – The Artist
Gary Oldman – Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy
Brad Pitt – Moneyball
Best Actress in a Leading Role
Glenn Close – Albert Nobbs
Viola Davis – The Help
Rooney Mara – The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
Meryl Streep – The Iron Lady
Michelle Williams – My Week with Marilyn
Best Actor in a Supporting Role
Kenneth Branagh – My Week with Marilyn
Jonah Hill – Moneyball
Nick Nolte – Warrior
Christopher Plummer – Beginners
Max von Sydow – Extremely Loud and Incredibly
Close
Best Actress in a Supporting Role
Bérénice Bejo – The Artist
Jessica Chastain – The Help
Melissa McCarthy – Bridesmaids
Janet McTeer – Albert Nobbs
Octavia Spencer – The Help
Best Achievement in Directing
Woody Allen – Midnight in Paris
Michel Hazanavicius – The Artist
Terrence Malick – The Tree of Life
Alexander Payne – The Descendants
Martin Scorsese – Hugo
Best Foreign Language Film
Bullhead (Belgium)
Footnote (Israel)
In Darkness (Poland)
Monsieur Lazhar (Canada)
A Separation (Iran)
Best Animated Film
A Cat in Paris
Chico & Rita
Kung Fu Panda 2
Puss in Boots
Rango
With a title that is as confusing as this one,
it would be a safe bet to assume that Martha
Marcy May Marlene is a film that attempts
to mess with your head. We see a young girl
(Elizabeth Olsen) fleeing from a housing com-
pound in the harmless-looking countryside.
A boy running after her calls her Marcy May.
Not much confusion there. Things get more
complicated when Marcy May’s older sister
Lucy (Sarah Paulson) calls her Martha. An-
other flashback sees the female protagonist
being called Marlene. The audience is further
confused and intrigued for sure. Thus starts
the haunting story of Martha (this appears to
be her real name), a young, innocent girl who
makes the mistake of running away from her
home and joining a violent cult.
The circumstances behind why she ran
away from home in the first place are never
clear, and it’s never important enough for us
to care. It’s what follows after her eventual
escape that grips us from start to finish. Hav-
ing been trapped in her strict, psychosexual
cult for around two years, the normal outside
world is a difficult one to fit back into. It’s the
little things that add up to Martha being por-
trayed as a complete lunatic. When she goes
for a swim, she does so completely naked,
something that is not tolerated in the normal
world. When her sister is having sex with her
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
32
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
her part as someone clearly in the position to
take charge, trying to see her younger sibling
improve, whereas Martha is far too mentally
isolated to be able to accept any kind of ama-
teurish help.
Patrick, the cult leader, is a piece of work,
mastered so brilliantly by the frightening
Hawkes. He is a master manipulator, first wel-
coming his new recruits with a smile. Things
take a dark turn as he expects the women to
sleep with him: they are fooled into thinking
that this is the right thing to do, whilst in fact
they do not actually have a say in the matter.
Hawkes is such an effective villain, so charm-
ing in the beginning to almost woo the young,
clueless Martha, and yet turning into a ruth-
less leader within a matter of seconds, whilst
keeping his appeal intact. It’s a superb perfor-
mance in a crucial role, and we understand
why Martha fears the man so greatly, and it
seems almost too possible for this smart guy
to catch up on Martha’s whereabouts.
So concerned with the film’s atmosphere
relating to the heroine’s never-ending crisis
with the nightmare that terrorises her every
day, it seems as though the director forgot to
give this a proper, satisfying ending. It ends
much too suddenly, so abruptly in fact that
this doesn’t even feel like an artistic flourish
– looking more like a tacky wannabe trying
to mask the fact that this could not come up
with something sensible given all the excellent
psychologically ambiguous build-up. The rest
is fantastic – we are given just enough infor-
mation on both the past and present to do our
on guess-work on just how far Martha’s head
is messing with her. It’s a very silent film, but
not at all a calm or peaceful one.
FILM
Mysterious, magnetic,
monstrous, maddening
Director Sean Durkin
Screenwriter Sean Durkin
Cast Elizabeth Olsen, John Hawkes, Sarah
Paulson, Hugh Dancy
Martha Marcy May Marlene
Don’t worry, it’s not bad being an Olsen – just be glad you’re not one of those Kardashians or Hiltons. You’ve actually got talent
husband Ted (Hugh Dancy), she thinks it is so-
cially acceptable to climb into bed with them.
Ted, who was initially more than happy to
see the return of his sister-in-law, is no longer
pleased to have her around, and wants her out
of his house.
Beautifully edited between the past and
present, we are shown the kind of life Martha
was living before she found the courage to run
away. It seems harmless at first, as the leader
of the camp, the charismatic Patrick (John
Hawkes) seems like a perfectly ordinary guy.
But as he asks his crew to shoot live kittens
point-blank, exploits members to take part
in many group sexual acts, and readily gives
permission for murder, alarm bells start ring-
ing for Martha, which prompts her to turn her
back on the strange cult. But it’s the paranoia
that keeps the poor heroine from having a nor-
mal life: afraid that she has not fully escaped,
and with dreams and constant reminders that
create an unbearable environment for Martha
to live in, no matter where she goes or who
she turns to.
Olsen, the less famous younger sister of the
Olsen twins, puts on an astonishing debut
performance as the damaged young girl, al-
ways so weak and vulnerable, petrified at the
prospect of what might happen to her if she is
not careful. She is distant and withdrawn, and
clearly shows the obvious effects of a trauma-
tised individual with natural restraint. There
isn’t a hint of awkward or forced emotion here
with Olsen, and this is no doubt the breakout
performance of the year. The developing dy-
namic between Martha and her older sister is
an interesting one: on the one hand we have a
concerned, more mature sister wishing to do
2012 Oscar Nominations
John Park
Upsetting omissions from this year’s Academy Awards (and no, we’re not talking about Harry Potter)
Michael Fassbender (Shame) - Best Actor in a Leading Role – “What, women can get naked for some Oscar love but men can’t?”
Leonardo DiCaprio (J. Edgar) - Best Actor in a Leading Role – “Sadly, DiCaprio’s Oscar-less curse continues, even with a heavy biopic”
Tilda Swinton (We Need to Talk About Kevin) - Best Actress in a Leading Role – “Goes to show AMPAS members didn’t feel the need”
Albert Brooks (Drive) - Best Actor in a Supporting Role – “A whole load of critics’ group wins (New York, Chicago, etc) will have to do”
Seth Rogen (50/50) - Best Actor in a Supporting Role – “Jonah Hill shockingly managed to squeeze in, but the superior Rogen didn’t”
Carey Mulligan (Shame) - Best Actress in a Supporting Role – “She bared all, and yet, no nomination. Absolute scandal”

