FILM
Before the world ends, check these out
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
34
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
Silence is golden... so... shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
Lucy Wiles
Director Michel Hazanavicius
Screenwriter Michel Hazanavicius
Cast Jean Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo
The Artist elty has worn off, but The Artist manages
to keep the viewers interested through-
out, mostly due to its lead actor, Dujar-
din. Best of all, The Artist never feels like
a parody – it’s nostalgically corny, fun,
good-looking and respectful. Because of
the silence, you wouldn’t know it’s re-
ally a French film – especially with John
Goodman playing a big-shot producer –
although Hazanavicius gives us a quick
reminder of the film’s provenance in its
final scene, reminding us that so many
of the best silent Hollywood films were
made by Europeans who crossed the
pond.
director-star, bombs on the same day that
Peppy’s debut is hailed as a resounding
success. Will Valentin move into the
‘sound age’ – or will he be forgotten for-
ever as one of the silent era?
This is a very clever film, especially for
an audience who has little or no experi-
ence with soundless films. Hazanavicius
manages the silent cinema beautifully.
The film draws you in, moving seam-
lessly between funny and sad and turning
the dawn of the sound age into a personal
tragedy for Valentin.
Feature-length remakes of past genres
can often be dull and tired after the nov-
py when he’s photographed with an un-
known woman, leading to an appearance
on the cover of a magazine. The woman
is actually the young and very beauti-
ful Peppy Miller (Bérénice Bejo), who
is then spotted as an extra on George’s
next film.
As Peppy and George begin to fall in
love with each other, the ‘sound age’ of
Hollywood begins and Valentin loses his
job, to be promptly replaced by Peppy
as the darling of the film world. George
loses everything: his house, wife and ser-
vant – and to make matters worse, Tears
of Love, his first picture as a producer-
The Artist is shot in the same speechless,
black-and-white style as the old movies
in which the hero, actor George Valentin
(Dujardin), stars in so brilliantly, occa-
sionally breaking out into the odd tap-
dancing routine to please his adoring
audience.
The film is set in 1927, Valentin is a
star, but audio filming is incoming and
threatening to rout him out. Valentin, a
smug glory-lover who laps up the ado-
ration at a premiere, ignores his co-stars
and steals the stage with his reliable and
loyal performing dog, has a shaky do-
mestic life, and his wife is far from hap-
The French dream team of director/pro-
ducer Michel Hazanavicius and actor
Jean Dujardin are famous in France for
their James Bond spoofs, the OSS 117
films. Now they venture into the States,
to 1920s California for a wonderful –
and silent – recreation of Hollywood
before sound movies really kicked in.
Many reasons to rejoice about this one.
Twihards will be getting their closure,
whereas critics who can’t stand Edward
and Bella will no longer have to watch
another Twilight film after this one. Al-
though there are rumours circulating that
Summit, the franchise’s production com-
pany, don’t want to stop at number five.
Christopher Nolan is back with the third
film in the series with Christian Bale re-
prising his lead role. After the massive
success of The Dark Knight, we expect
nothing less than awesomeness from this
one. New evil rises (Tom Hardy’s Bane)
and Anne Hathaway appears as Se-
lina Kyle (a.k.a. Catwoman); definitely
something to look forward to.
From the creators of The Lord Of The
Rings Trilogy, we have the long-awaited
prequel. The Hobbit (novel) portrays the
adventures of Bilbo Baggins, before the
happenings of the LOTR series. Given
the fact that the series turned out to be
one of the best trilogies the world has
ever seen, high expectations ride on this.
2011 saw the deaths of many dictators:
ranging from Gaddafi of Syria, Kim
Jong-Il of North Korea to Osama Bin
Laden. But Sacha Baron Cohen is more
than confident that he will out-do all of
these men. Expect to be utterly outraged
and offended as the man responsible for
Borat and Bruno will no doubt say and
do some unthinkable things.
After a 10-year break since the last film
in the series, we have the third entry,
MIB III. This one has time travelling
involved with creepy aliens and loads
of action. Will Smith and Tommy Lee
Jones slip comfortably back into their
roles, and there will be new faces too:
Emma Thompson, Josh Brolin but most
worryingly, PCD’s Nicole Scherzinger.
Bond, James Bond, is back. MI6 is un-
der attack and Bond must eliminate the
threat. Be prepared to be shaken and
stirred. Under the direction of Academy
Award winning Sam Mendes (American
Beauty), Craig will no doubt be a com-
petently moody British secret agent we
have all come to adore, and Javier Bar-
dem’s stint as the villain will be epic.
Iron Man, Hulk, Thor, Black Widow,
Hawkeye, and Captain America team
up in an organization formed to save the
world. It’s an ambitious film with a 220
million dollar budget. Will it manage to
blow our minds all the while keeping a
sane storyline or will it turn out to be a
convoluted scrambled egg of superhe-
roes? Only time will tell.
Based on the Bourne series, and Robert
Ludlum’s novel of the same name, The
Bourne Legacy brings us a new CIA op-
erative and his experiences. Matt Damon
is no longer with us on the franchise, but
Jeremy Renner is just as talented and
can make a likable hero, as evidenced by
his outstanding turn in The Hurt Locker.
Joan Allen returns as Pamela Landy.
“A slave-turned-bounty hunter sets out
to rescue his wife from a brutal planta-
tion owner.” The hype surrounding ths is
solely due to its director and ensemble
cast. Quentin Tarantino, (Inglorious Bas-
tards, Pulp Fiction) is behind this film
and he has teamed up with DiCaprio, Ja-
mie Foxx, and Samuel L. Jackson. Great
director + great cast = great movie?
Any Pixar film is well worth the wait,
and their latest is setting out to be an
exciting new adventure film with a
strong, quick-witted female protagonist.
As the beautifully animated poster may
suggest, the computer graphics will be
eye-poppingly surreal, the action scenes
exhilarating, and the script sharp, full of
humour aimed for both kids and adults.
Hitesh Shewakramani compiles a list of movies to watch out for this year. Featuring a lineup including super-
heroes, James Bond, sparkly vampires, hobbits and other mythical creatures
The Dark Knight Rises: July 20 Breaking Dawn: Part 2:
November 16
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey:
December 14
The Dictator: May 18 Men in Black III: May 18
Skyfall: October 26 The Avengers: April 27 The Bourne Legacy: August 17 Django Unchained: December 26 Brave: August 17

