For far too long, scientists have been restricted
by funding and being told what they can and
can’t research. I didn’t get to where I am today
by avoiding science that people said wouldn’t
work. Science is about taking rules, bending
them over your knee and beating them till they
learn to stop interrupting your progress. Mon-
ey just gives you a bigger cane.
There are many important aspects of science
that still have vital, unanswered questions. Are
left-handed people really evil? What happens
when we try to replace your whole skeleton
with metal? Magnets — how do they work?
Can we graft wheels onto amputees? How
many giraffes does it take to build a super-
collider? Finally, why is it that I can’t get the
funding for research into portals, but Black
Mesa gets government money for some use-
less inter-dimensional testing? Dimensional
science is boring, expensive and far too safe
for real scientists, like us.
Coincidentally, if you want to take part in
any of the above testing, please contact your
college’s testing associate. Just a few notes: if
you’re right handed, don’t worry — we’ll just
remove your hands and swap them around. If
you’re not an amputee, don’t worry about that
either — Aperture’s butcher is also a board-
Budgeting for real science
Cave Johnson here folks. Stop procrastinating and put
yourself forward for testing. You won’t regret it. Probably
“Science is about taking
rules, bending them over
your knee and beating
them till they learn to
stop interrupting your
progress”
Oopssss... Lookssss like sssssomeone dropped the ssssoap...
H
ello Felix readers, Cave John-
son here.
Since last week’s article, we
have had an amazing number
of questions sent in — one. In
all honesty, I was expecting no-one would read
the piece, let alone send in a question. I think
I’m beginning to like you, test subjects.
Keith asks, “If you had complete control over
Imperial’s budget, what would you change and
why?” Firstly, I’m not sure what the rate is be-
tween your funny British money and the dol-
lar, but I’m guessing that your college’s budget
is large enough to settle most of the civil suits
currently against us, and then there may even
be enough left over to start paying the boys in
the lab. To be honest, they weren’t too happy
when they started being paid in ‘Cave Dol-
lars’, Aperture’s latest internal currency, after
IOUs and the ill-fated spreading of our A.S.S.
(Aperture Science Stock) options between em-
ployees.
On the upside, the bean counters and the
guys over in Legal said it was completely fine
to print our own money, as long as we prom-
ised to actually pay them back with ‘real mon-
ey’ at some point. With the current lab reten-
tion rate there’s not even a need for a pension
plan, so they’re essentially working for free.
Some people have likened Aperture to a dic-
tatorship but I prefer to think of the lab boys
as ‘volunteers for Science’, and I’m Science.
With a capital S. They’re free to leave at any
time. If they can make it out.
Considering that I get paid for every word
that I type for Felix, I’ll try to answer the above
question fully, and I won’t tip-toe around the
subject. In this case, words aren’t cheap and
I’m typing my way to science. I definitely
won’t be padding out sentences with useless
and superfluous words, just to get some quick
bucks, nor will I spend a long length of time
reminiscing about my days making shower
curtains. That reminds me of the time I made
a new waterproof shower curtain coating,
based off human skin. It didn’t sell too well —
something to do with mutated flesh, and com-
pletely unfounded rumours about people being
strangled by their curtains when they weren’t
looking. As a side note, I would advise against
using surviving test subjects of human-snake
hybrid programmes, for tissue donations. I
probably wouldn’t want to use the bodies of
the failed test subjects either.
Ignoring the mountains of debt and the on-
going lawsuits, I would still want to spend all
of the money on the progression of science.
Pixel Purge
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/547623
An old favourite of mine. Pixel Purge is one of those
games that’s devilishly difficult to screenshot – a
second away from the controls and you’re being as-
saulted from all sides.
You man a spaceship, fighting a pixel army of
varied invadors. When they explode you grab their
pixelated remains to earn points and upgrade your
vessel with bigger, badder weapons and improved
health regeneration. The onslaught starts off slow-
ly, put very quickly new enemies filter in, making
survival a challenging task. Make sure you spend
those upgrade points wisely!
Q – compressing the heart
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/588674
I’ll be honest here, I couldn’t make head nor tale of
this game, though as a surreal piece I don’t think
you’re meant to. Q – compressing the heart is a
point and click puzzler that draws heavy influence
from Limbo. The game does have its own miniature
style though and, whilst not being particularly long,
is a fun, if somewhat puzzling game to work your
way through.
Large cash prizes to those offering Felix Games
an explanation.
certified surgeon. And mortician. If you’ve got
no bones, and it’s not due to a previous test-
ing opportunity at Aperture Science involving
our repulsion gels, then good news — we have
many new testing opportunities waiting for
you! However, I’m afraid that if you’re not a
giraffe we can’t let you into that last test. Half-
giraffes are welcome to apply though.
Back to the topic in hand, I would also look
to cull the weakest of the Union’s clubs, to
reduce the expenditure of the college, and to
ensure that only the strongest of the societies
survive. I propose a new series of tests at Ap-
erture whereby we are able to pit clubs and so-
cieties against each other, to see how resilient
you are. There would be a range of tests, from
assault courses and sporting activities (such as
dodging some fast moving bottomless pits) to
puzzle solving and staring competitions. The
victorious societies get to continue existing,
and they may even get a small trophy. We’ll
see how that goes. Trophies are expensive, so
you might have to share.
Hope that answers your question Keith. As
previously, any correspondence (questions, re-
sumes or money) can be sent to felix.games@
imperial.ac.uk with the title “Ask Cave”, and
they’ll forward it on to Caroline.
Watch out for those shower curtains. CJ.
“If you had complete
control over Imperial’s
budget, what would you
change and why?”
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
36
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
I hope you folks are playing these games; people
down at the Felix office are staring to compain
about the massive amounts of time I spend doing
my ‘research’... So here we are, two totally awe-
some web games that you can play right now in
your web browser. In order to enjoy these you’re
going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in, which
can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/
Questions for Cave?
Do you have any questions for Mr
Johnson? If so, email them onto
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk and I’ll
pass them onto him for answers.
Responses will be published in Felix.
So go do as the man says people.
Write in — for science.

