FOOD
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
38
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
also available.
Why not consider tibits for Valentine’s Day?
Gift vouchers are available at the bar in £10
and £20 denominations, as well as a selection
of books, teas and special products such as
tibit’s famous Dried Beans.
www.tibits.co.uk
14-18 Heddon Street, W1B 4DA
020 77584110
and Saturday till 12:00pm at £1.70/100g.
Also included are a wide range of cocktails
and fresh fruit juices, sandwiches and pastries.
So think twice before you choose fast food
because you are in a hurry; if you are near
Regent Street you can enjoy fresh, delicious,
healthy and well-cooked food on the spot at
tibits. You don’t even have to think what to or-
der as you can have a try of everything and pay
by just weighing your plate. Take aways are
Finally, there’s a place in London where veg-
etarians can completely be themselves. As
soon as you enter tibits a warm welcome from
the staff, accompanied with a high-class at-
mosphere and tempting smells coming from
the buffet are enough to set up the scene of
an exceptional breakfast, lunch or dinner.
Once seated, you’re given a tab and help
yourself at the buffet you may choose your fa-
vourite from a wide selection of fresh salads
and vegetables, tasty sauces, falafel, soya cot-
tage pie, pasta and many more.
Once you’ve finished, you visit the bar where
your plate is weighed (bread rolls are on the
house) at £2.00/100g for lunch and £2.20/100g
for dinner. You may visit the buffet as many
times as you wish and enjoy over 40 delicious,
healthy dishes.
At tibits, everything is crafted with careful-
lsourced, seasonal GM-free ingredients, with
the very best of Asian, Indian and Mediterra-
nean influences. We guarrantee that you will
appreciate the quality and variety of the food
boat.
There’s no queue and you need not call the
waiter or wait for your food to be cooked.
Breakfast is also served everyday till 11:30am
Food that loves you back
Exploring tibits, the Regent Street Veggie Paradise
My big fat Greek dish
Chicken gyros with pita and
tzatziki
Gyros is a dish of meat; usually pork or chicken
which is served wrapped inside pita bread usually
with tomatoes, onions and tzatziki sauce.
Ingredients
For the gyro:
- 1kg of chicken (legs and breast)
- 6-8 cloves of garlic
- Juice from 1-2 onions, chopped (required)
- Freshly ground pepper
- Oregano
- Mint xer
- Cinnamon
- Ground allspice
- Sumac (optional)
- Olive oil
For the tzatziki:
- Strained yoghurt
- Cucumbers
- 2-3 gloves of garlic
- some chopped onion
- Parsley
- Mint
Cut the chicken into very small slices. Pour the
olive oil and the juice from the onions. Mix well.
Mix all the dry spices in a bowl and pour all to-
gether over the chicken. Cover and refrigerate for
4-8 hours, stirring occasionally. Grill to a very high
heat for 15-20 minutes, stirring frequently until
golden brown all over.
For the tzatziki just mix all the ingredients together
making sure you dry the cucumbers. Serve in pita
with tzatziki and fries.
George Trigeorgis
Send us your contribution at food.felix@imperial.ac.uk and win free
entrance for two for the Sabor Latin night on Friday 3 February.
Prepare for an intimate, friendly and vibrant night at Firefly!
Learn more: www.danihke.com/sabor.html
Whole Foods Market is well known for or-
ganising great events for food lovers like me.
Last week, I discovered that every Wednes-
day in January they have free cooking ses-
sions. Without thinking it twice, I immedi-
ately sent an email to book a place for the
January 18 class. Lucky me, I found two
places, one for me and one for my friend.
This Wednesday’s theme was “Beans and
Legumes”, so I was very excited to see what
it was about. We went there half an hour ear-
lier so that we wouldn’t miss a minute, but
unfortunately we were pointed in the wrong
direction. This resulted in losing about 10
minutes of the class until finding an em-
ployee who actually knew where it was.
Nevertheless, we finally found the right place
and joined the class. Sarah, the healthy eating
specialist of Whole Foods Kensington, was ex-
plaining why it is important to soak the beans
before cooking and the different soaking times
for various kinds of beans. She gave very use-
ful advice, for example if you add some oil
when they start to boil then they will not cre-
ate the foam they usually have. Also, everybody
Kensington cooking class act
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Yiango Mavroconstanti had the chance to try red kidney beans, black
eyed peas, cannellini beans and a lot more!
I can now cook beans perfectly thanks
to the advice of the lovely Sarah.
At the end of the session, they offered a goody
bag to everyone there, including mung beans, red
curry paste, coconut drink and several recipes.
I recommend you go to the next class but
book places soon to avoid disappointment.
Classes are held every Wednesday 19:15
– 20:00 and they will continue in February
too, but with an extra cost of 5 pounds. And,
please, if the staff tell you to go downstairs,
ignore them and go upstairs and you’ll find it!
www.wholefoodsmarket.com/stores/
kensington
63-97 Kensington High Street, W8 5SE
kensington@wholefoods.com
And it’s healthy to boot, nice
All that’s missing is Gregg Wallace

