BOOKS
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 39
JD Salinger – a troubled genius
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A tribute to a reclusive author...
H
olden Caulfield, Salin-
ger’s most auto-bio-
graphical literary cre-
ation, once said, “What
really knocks me out
is a book that, when you’re all done
reading it, you wish the author was a
terrific friend of yours and you could
call him up on the phone whenever you
felt like it.” Salinger, a man known for
his inaccessibility, was not going to
give his phone number away to his de-
voted readers. Instead, he gave them
a greater gift – the gift of a conversa-
tion with himself through his novels.
Few authors in modern literature
have based their novels inside the
lands of their own personal experience
as much as Salinger. A brief review
of his life story, or the story that can
be pieced together, is one that com-
plies with the contours of his work.
Jerome David Salinger was born in
New York on January 1, 1919. He was
born into a Jewish family, although he
later discovered that he was only half
Jewish, his mother being Catholic. Sa-
linger’s father, a successful food im-
porter, sent his underachieving son to
a Manhattan private school. However,
this was not to last long – Salinger
dropped out within two years of en-
rolling. This was to be the template for
the majority of Salinger’s educational
experiences, including two ill-fated
semesters at New York University,
which he attended after graduating
from the Valley Forge Military School.
Salinger’s discontent with the aca-
demic world was to be translated
onto page in the short story called I’m
Crazy, published in Collier’s Weekly
magazine on December 22, 1945. I’m
Crazy centred on a disaffected youth,
Holden Caulfield, who was going
to be expelled from the prestigious
Pencey Prep school for failing his
exams. This was later developed into
a full novel, The Catcher in the Rye.
This was not the first short story
Salinger had published. In the au-
tumn of 1939, Salinger enrolled in
a writing course that was taught by
Whit Burnett, the founder and editor
of Story magazine. Burnett first pub-
lished The Young Folks, an acidic at-
tack on the superficiality of student
life. Salinger’s success was to be short
lived, his upturn in fortunes coincid-
ing with the attack on Pearl Harbor.
Four months after the attack, Salin-
ger was drafted into the US army.
Salinger was part of the 4th Counter
Intelligence Corps (C.I.C) detachment
that landed on Utah Beach, Normandy.
Salinger was originally meant to be
part of the first wave, at 6:30am; how-
ever, an eyewitness report put him with
the second wave of attack. Whatever
caused Salinger’s delay probably saved
his life – the first wave encountered the
fiercest German defence. Maybe it was
this act of sheer fortune, of escaping
death due to coincidence that gave Sa-
linger’s works such a fascination with
finding reason in a random world. One
of Salinger’s best pieces of unpublished
work, The Magic Foxhole, focused
directly on Salinger’s experience of
Normandy. The Magic Foxhole opens
with the haunting image of a chaplain
frantically searching for his glasses,
which were hidden beneath the corpses
of Normandy beach. You don’t have to
be Freud to understand the significance
of this image – in Salinger’s post war
world, God and Reason were things to
be challenged and analysed, not accept-
ed. It is this conflict with finding rea-
son in chaos that characterises the later
works of Salinger, from the death of
Holden Caulfield’s younger brother in
The Catcher in the Rye to the emotion-
al distress seen in Franny and Zooey.
The effects of the war soon took their
toll on Salinger. The day the German
army surrendered, May 8, 1945, Salin-
ger spent the evening alone, holding a
.45 calibre pistol in his hands. Salinger
was soon admitted into a psychiatric
ward, suffering from clinical depres-
sion. Little is known about this period
of time; however; soon after his re-
lease he resumed writing short stories.
A Perfect Day for Bananafish is
possibly the best insight we have into
Salinger’s post war mental state. The
story revolved around a conversation
between a young honeymooning war
veteran and a child he meets on the
beach; the innocence of their conver-
sation is juxtaposed with the horror
of the veteran’s own wartime experi-
ence. After their conversation, the vet-
eran returns home and ends his life.
Then Salinger completed The Catch-
er in the Rye. Salinger was believed
to be ill-prepared for the amount of
attention the novel would bring him,
and this turned an already traumatised,
private and cynical man into a recluse.
Much has already been written about
Salinger’s reclusive nature, and I shall
not add to it. However, it is interest-
ing to note that the last interview Sa-
linger gave was to a couple of nearby
school children – who then sold the
contents of their interview to a news-
paper. One can only speculate as to the
damage this caused a man who placed
juvenile innocence on a pedestal. Sa-
linger never gave another interview.
JD Salinger died on January 27,
2010.
...and his greatest masterpiece
J. D. Salinger’s only full length novel,
The Catcher in the Rye, has become
one of the 20th century’s defining
novels, dealing powerfully and intel-
ligently with the turbulent feelings of
loneliness, alienation, and sexual con-
fusion felt by so many during their
adolescence. The book is narrated by
Holden Caulfield, a teenage boy con-
valescing in a sunny Californian men-
tal hospital, as he relates the circum-
stances that lead up to an unspecified
mental breakdown he went through.
His story begins on a winter evening
at the prep school he attended in Penn-
sylvania. With the holidays approach-
ing, Holden has learned he has been
expelled, and finds himself alone and
frustrated in his dormitory while his
schoolmates attend a football match.
Holden is a boy that most people who
have experienced teenage years can re-
late to: weak, forgetful, self-obsessed,
unsure of his own attractiveness, and
jealous of the achievements and sup-
posed sexual conquests of his class-
mates. As the evening progresses,
we witness the hostility Holden has
for the world around him, and will be
a constant theme of the book, as he
gets in fights with his roommates for
little reason. Feeling no point in stay-
ing at the school, Holden walks out,
and takes a train to his home of New
York City, where he rents a hotel
room and tries to imitate an adult life.
The book is centered around a meta-
phor that Holden relates to the reader:
he day-dreams of standing in a field of
rye growing on the edge of a cliff, wear-
ing his red hunter’s hat. Young children,
too small to see over the rye, run blind-
ly towards the edge, and Holden is the
only one who can catch them before
they destroy themselves. It is with this
unforgettable, and justly famous, meta-
phor that Salinger reflects Holden’s at-
titude towards life: through Holden’s
narration, couched in the slang of a
forties teenager, he derides the people
and places around him as “phonies”
Joseph Spiking looks back on the life of JD Salinger
“...he gave them a
greater gift – the gift
of a conversation
with himself through
his novels.”
Christopher Reynolds
and “crumby”, believing that every-
one around him is putting on an act.
Only his little sister is exempt from
his criticism, and it is she in particular
“Holden is a boy that
most people who
have experienced
teenage years can
relate to”
The Catcher in the Rye – the archetypical story of teenage disillusionment, confusion and rebellion
that he sees as one of the children run-
ning through the rye, peacefully living
out her halcyon prepubescent years in
the rye before plunging off the cliff into
the tribulations of the adult world that
he himself feels so acutely. Holden’s ac-
tions in the novel show him desperately
trying to find a place for himself in life.
By running away to New York and at-
tempting to find people he can relate to
in some way, he is trying to imitate the
lives of the adults he sees around him,
but experiences only disappointment
when he finds that he lacks the matu-
rity to deal with the situations he puts
himself in. As the book progresses, and
Holden gradually reveals the past ex-
periences that have shaped the way he
views the world, it becomes clear that
Holden is the one who needs saving be-
fore he plunges off a cliff that he him-
self is running towards, through the rye.

