whilst still only being a thirty minute walk (or
stumble) back to halls for many Freshers.
An unexpected visitor for the evening – Fred-
die Flintoff, England Cricket Captain – was
allowed into the venue, and mingled with the
crowd for some time, causing a stir, before tak-
ing a table away from the dance floor with a few
friends.
As one of the organisers of the event, I can
confirm that the RCSU was extremely pleased
with the evening. The time of year – just after
January exams – and lack of monetary incentive
In Brief
RAG mascot finally returned
It’s been a pretty busy week for RAG. Firstly, Chris
the Collecting Tin (the RAG mascot) was finally re-
turned, having been lurking in the depths of the
RSM for a good few years. RAG Chair Jack Hewitt
agreed to ‘buy’ it back in return for showing how not
to do a yard of ale, with more down his shirt than
throat, and also what not to ask for at the barbers.
On Saturday, student-run company Ardour PR ran
the Masquerave for Right To Play, getting over 200
people into Metric, with a mix of Dubstep, House
and masks proving irresistible, and over £400
made for charity.
And then on Tuesday, the RCSU threw its annual
RAG ball, with no kidnapping of the President re-
quired to ensure the profits go to charity.
This is all good preparation for what promises to
be a pretty crazy term for RAG. With Medics RAG
dash set for today and their RAG Week and Jail-
break less than a month away, it promises to be
a cracking month. Watch this space. Jack Hewitt
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Unexpected guest at RCSU Ball
Paul Beaumont
Last Tuesday, the Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU) held its annual Spring Ball in
aid of Raising and Giving (RAG).
The evening – attracting two hundred and
fifty ticket sales – will have raised somewhere
in the region of £450 for RAG, the charity-rais-
ing Management Group of the Central Union,
when combined with the profits from the RCSU
Autumn Ball. These funds will then be split be-
tween the charities the Union decides to support
this year.
Held at Embargo, King’s Road, the venue
was in a geographically unusual location for the
RCSU – who normally book clubs in Central
London. The reasoning behind the choice of
this venue was to try and make the event more
accessible for older students, many of whom
live in neighbouring Fulham and Earls Court –
to buy early (due to the event being for charity)
meant that ticket sales were initially slow. This
was the first event of the academic year that the
RCSU didn’t sell out tickets before the night,
but, due to on-the-door sales, the venue soon
filled.
This event is one of a series of charity events
that the Faculty Union runs throughout the year
– though the only Ball. Hummingbird Charity
Cakes Sales (which took place last term, and
will continue this term) plus a new event for
this year, the Inter-Faculty Challenge (mod-
elled on University Challenge) will complete
the Union’s planned charity agenda. The RCSU
will also be participating further in RAG Chair,
Jack Hewitt’s RAG week events – to be held the
week commencing Monday 5 March.
The Inter-Faculty Challenge – RCSU vs. IC-
SMSU – is being organised for IC RAG week,
on Tuesday 6 March – watch this space!
Cricketer commotion as students raise money for RAG
“Flintoff mingled with
the crowd for some time,
causing a stir”

