Positive social change for Honduras
S
eptember 1, 2011 was the
day that I became a Global
Brigader, and 11 am was
the time that I looked out
onto the beautiful land-
scape of an undiscovered country and
fell in love. I must admit that I joined
Global Brigades because I thought it
would be a fun summer trip and, un-
deniably, it was a fun summer trip!
However, upon landing in Honduras,
I swiftly realised that Global Brigades
would be so much more.
The definition of a brigade is “a
group of passionate volunteers who
mobilise towards positive social
change”. Honduran society is rife with
corruption, human rights abuse and a
despicably huge wealth gap. In other
words, the rich are getting richer and
the poor are getting poorer, neglected
in parts of the country where malnutri-
tion, poor housing and infant diseases
are widespread. This is why in 2004
Global Brigades launched in Hondu-
ras, as a source of hope for these for-
gotten communities.
On the first day of our medical bri-
gade, eleven Imperial student volun-
teers, our brigade leaders, Flaco the
driver, the doctors, the dentist, the
pharmacists, and Chuck the policeman
all travelled to our designated commu-
nity. We were warmly welcomed with
rainbow-coloured balloons and a huge
sign saying “Bienvenida!” Most of the
Re-live Ruby Ramjan’s experience of last year’s Global Brigades
“To say that my ex-
perience was life-
changin, but it is an
understatement”
community have no access to medical
care so, as a team, we brought medi-
cal care to them. Over three days, we
served 600 patients, promoted public
health strategies to the adults of the
community, taught the children how
to brush their teeth (and handed out
toothbrushes and toothpaste!), and dis-
tributed £10,000 worth of drugs that
we, the Imperial brigade, took to Hon-
duras.
Nothing warms my heart more than
a Honduran child. The afternoon we
spent at the Nuevo Paraiso orphan-
age, affiliated with Global Brigades,
was one of my personal favourites.
On walking through the gate, three
adorable little girls ran up to me, one
clutched my skirt, while the other took
one hand each. We played skipping
rope games and swung on the swings
until we were red in the face. Commu-
nicating in a mixture of broken Span-
ish and hand gestures, they introduced
me to their friends, their playground
and their rooms. Another dimension
was added to my passion for Global
Brigades when I learnt that some of
our Honduran brigade leaders had
once been that child at the orphanage
clinging onto the gates of their home,
waving and blowing kisses as the vol-
unteers would very reluctantly drive
back to El Rapaco.
El Rapaco is a magical little condo
in the mountains and our Honduran
home. Every evening we had siestas in
the hammocks, fiestas under the tree,
dinner with Spanish music in the back-
ground, constant inter-mocking of ac-
cents between us and the Americans,
and random bursts of Salsa. There are
a thousand stories to tell, and while
I could happily divulge every detail
of my Global Brigades experience, I
could never convey the feeling of com-
plete peace and undisputed happiness
that I felt in El Rapaco.
I never fully comprehended the
meaning of the words “manual labour”
until we did the Public Health Bri-
gade. The 11 Imperial students, along
with some local community members
and masons, built a latrine, a stove,
a concrete floor and a pila in one of
the houses in the enchanting village
of Zurzular. When I was first told we
were building a latrine (toilet), I as-
sumed the last one was either not hy-
gienic enough or it was falling apart:
the concept of not having a latrine is so
foreign to me that it never even crossed
my naive mind, but that was indeed the
case for this elderly couple. The lady
of the house told me that the old stove
used to get so hot that her grandchil-
dren have been burnt whilst playing in
the kitchen. We built a concrete floor
because the plain earth that previously
made up the floor of their home was a
parasite paradise.
A pila is a water storage tank. Previ-
ously, the 80 year old man of the house
had to walk for hours to get his hands
on some clean water, then bring home
as much as he could carry on his long
journey back. “In just one week, stu-
dents and the people from Global Bri-
gades have helped me give my family
essential things that I’ve never been
able to provide by myself. It was not a
gift. I mixed concrete with you, I dug
holes with you. We all sweated together
and much of my savings has gone into
paying my share for these projects. But
you were the resource that I’ve never
had but have always needed.”
To say that my experience was life-
changing sounds like an exaggeration,
but it is an understatement. The capti-
vating landscape, siestas, nightly fies-
tas, bonfires, the warm and welcoming
Hondurans, our USA friends, discover-
ing an undiscovered country: the list
never exhausts. Was it the gratitude
of the hundreds of patients we saw in
the Honduran villages? Was it the con-
tentment that goes hand in hand with
voluntary work? Was it the satisfaction
of getting my hands dirty? Global Bri-
gades gave me a thirst for more volun-
tary work and reignited in me the call
of duty to humanity, a duty that I think
we forget too easily. As volunteers, I
felt we made a tangible impact to the
rural communities we served: I could
see the happiness in the faces of the
Honduran people around us, I could
feel the satisfaction in their warmth
towards us and I was certain of their
appreciation when I noted their tears as
we said goodbye to them for the last
time.
“Nothing warms my heart more than a Honduran child”
Global Brigaders have so much fun, working together to get the job done...
For more information on how you can get involved in a Global Brigades
project over the coming Summer:
Visit Facebook: facebook.com/ICGMB
Send an email: imperial.medical@globalbrigades.org
Visit the website: globalbrigades.org
TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
40
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson

