family was exiled in 1948 and forced
to leave their homes. Khalil lost his
arm and mother in the same explosion,
when Lebanon was under attack by the
Zionist state in 1982. Khalil did not
give up and decided to help other Pales-
tinians get through their traumatic ex-
periences. Khalil suffered but remains
determined to live.
Dr. Gilbert has always believed that
medicine and politics are inseparable,
and emphasised that it is the duty of
doctors to speak out against genocide.
These views have always been publicly
expressed by Dr. Gilbert, though his ra-
tionale was rarely heard. Doctors have
a duty to help people: it forms the core
of their oath. The people of Gaza suf-
fered due to military attacks, invasions
and bombings. It was manmade guns
and missiles that murdered the chil-
dren, women and men of Gaza. Thus it
was the duty of Dr. Gilbert, and indeed
all doctors, to shout out to the world to
stop the cause of this suffering.
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 41
Loay, a ten year old boy at the time,
returned home to help his dad collect
a few of their belongings after having
had to leave their home in Beit Lahia.
They were hit by a missile which killed
his cousin. Loay survived but lost both
of his eyes. Today, Loay lives with his
family in a house where the kitchen,
living room, bedroom are all the same
room. Though Loay suffered, he re-
mains optimistic and is very supportive
of his younger siblings. Loay is deter-
mined to live.
The talk was very enlightening and
thought provoking for all that attended.
There were far too many matters and
topics for me to discuss in this article,
so I will finish as Dr. Gilbert finished
his talk – there is something we can
all do to help, no matter how small our
contribution. And when there is occu-
pation, there is resistance and deter-
mination, and those who seek justice
never fail. One day there will be a Free
Palestine.
Imperial College Palestinian Society
had the privilege of hosting a talk by
Dr. Mads Gilbert last Friday. Dr. Gil-
bert, a renowned Norwegian doctor,
volunteered in Gaza in 2009; at a time
when Gaza was under a dreadful inva-
sion.
The talk, entitled ‘The misuse of
Health & Medicine in Palestine’,
brought the Gaza massacre vividly
back to our memories. A minute of im-
ages under the sound of bombs and air
attacks set the scene of fear and terror
Palestinians lived through for three
weeks. Dr. Gilbert; through his impres-
sive speaking talent, was able to make
the audience glimpse what living in
Gaza was like at that point in its histo-
ry, and highlighted the determination
of the Palestinian people to survive and
resist.
The story started with Kahlil, a Pal-
estinian refugee in Lebanon, whose
Health, medicine, and Palestine
Palestinian Society report on a talk by Gaza volunteer Dr. Mads Gilbert
Nabih Hanbali
Dr. Gilbert spoke on the relationship between medicine and politics
It’s common knowledge that water is
essential for survival. Lesser known,
perhaps, is the multitude of water-re-
lated problems faced by people in areas
without adequate water supplies such as
Tabora.
The few shallow wells, lakes and riv-
ers that provide the local population
with water are often contaminated with
viruses and bacteria that cause deadly
diseases such as diarrhoea and typhoid
fever. In developing countries such as
Tanzania, the second greatest child kill-
er in rural areas is diarrhoea, causing
over one and half million deaths each
year.
In many cases, families cannot afford
supplies to sterilise their water, whether
they be water purification tablets, water
filtration systems, or stoves and fuel for
boiling water. Just as often, they sim-
ply don’t understand the importance of
sanitation and clean water. This is why
one of the main aims of Raincatcher,
aside from building rainwater harvest-
ing tanks, is to educate the local popula-
tion on effective hygiene and sanitation.
Even when municipal water supplies
are drinkable, they are often extremely
expensive and unaffordable to the ma-
jority of the population. Some of the
poorest people in Tanzania spend 10%
of their income just on buying water at
inflated prices.
Aside from the risk of water supplies
being unsafe to drink, the sheer time
taken to collect water from wells and
ground water supplies, often located
many miles away from villages, leads to
many harmful long-term consequences.
It’s not uncommon for women and
children to have to walk several hours
every day to collect water from distant
supplies. Walk in the day and endure
the searing heat of the African sun;
walk at night and risk being attacked or
sexually assaulted in the darkness.
The hours spent queuing up for water
and carrying it home is time that should
be spent going to school. It’s time that
should be spent taking care of a family.
It’s time that should be spent on work,
earning money to support a home.
Education is a vital step in breaking
the poverty cycle, contributing to the
population’s economic sustainability.
Proper schooling is seen as one of the
most effective methods for combatting
HIV and AIDS, as well as for promot-
ing gender equality. Constructing our
water tanks near schools has the advan-
tage of giving parents an incentive to
send their children to school to receive
a decent education.
In short, free and easy access to clean
water is of paramount importance in al-
leviating the water crisis in Tabora – not
just by providing drinking water for the
local population, but also through the
many opportunities that present them-
selves with the help of an improved wa-
Bringing the rain to those in need
Raincatcher Imperial on the vast importance of water provision
ter supply.
To find out more about Raincatcher
Imperial, or to donate money to us
through Virgin Money Giving, visit
www.raincatcherimperial.org. Any
contribution, however small, will go di-
rectly to our project in Tabora!
Ladies’ Judo
Come to Ethos on Thursday
nights for beginners judo
sessions. Focussing on the
fitness and fun aspect of the
sport, the class normally
costs £3.50 each or £25 for
ten, but vouchers for free
lessons are available if you
attend! For ladies only.
Easy access to water is of huge benefit to developing countries
Matthew Murchie

