NEWS
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 5
•A special offer for I
Imperial students
from D
Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (D
DSA)
Accredited I
Instructor
•Mock Test E
Examiner
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
“Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test.
He is always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London
and his knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons
more than worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer
cheaper lessons to Imperial students and with the backing of other students
I am more than happy to support him”
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
5 Driving Lessons
for £95
Highlights from felixonline.co.uk
Annoyed? Irritated? Bored?
Then why not go to YouTube and
find your drunken mates being in-
terviewed on STOIC cameras over a
typical Union evening?
Or why not comment on the issues
that concern you online, or send a
letter to the editor? That’s by email,
not post... unless you really want to.
Search ‘Metric Moments’ at
youtube.com
Comment at felixonline.co.uk
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk
Please be aware of anyone trying
to sell goods from a vehicle as
the items being offered will either
be stolen or counterfeit and you
could face arrest for receiving
stolen goods if stopped by the
Police.
There has been a recent inci-
dent of a male claiming to be from
Milan selling “Armani suits” buy
one get three free! He was driv-
ing a light blue Vauxhall Astra reg.
FT61 FBA. The student involved
declined to view the goods but in
the past students have got into
vehicles and were driven to an
ATM to get cash where the person
has become aggressive demand-
ing large sums of cash for these
stolen or counterfeit goods.
If anyone is approached by this
or any person offering to sell
goods from a vehicle please ei-
ther call the Police or contact se-
curity as soon as possible.
Please remember “IF IT
SOUNDS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE
THEN IT PROBABLY IS TOO GOOD
TO BE TRUE!”
Terry Branch, Head of Security
Counterfeit scam warning
Following an incident on Prince Consort Road
last Tuesday comes call to stay safe on campus
Concerns over future of
Humanities
Since my start at Imperial I have experienced the passion that people
put into learning languages, both students and staff members show
a big interest in the courses offered my the humanities department.
The humanities departement is a vital part of the transmission of
knowledge at our College. Imperial constantly advertises the inter-
national background of our students and staff members, but a key
part of giving people the opportunity to benefit from this rich envi-
ronnement and exchange cultures are the language classes. If only
the people taking these decision would know
What is
happening?
Clayponds in crisis
It seems to me that this is being done to force PG's into the overpriced
GradPads, combine this with the attack on the PG and Staff bar, the
Holland Club, you have to wonder how much the College values it
Post Grad Students
Anon

