A
n animated and pas-
sionate figure in person,
Dr. Toby Murcott is as
one would imagine the
typical science journalist
– never without an opinion, in posses-
sion of an open (yet critical and witty)
mind and of course, a seemingly unlim-
ited knowledge of everything within the
bounds of science.
The fact that he can educate me on
the human genome, and equally as well
strike up a heated debate regarding the
latest happenings at CERN, is to be
expected given that he includes BBC
Radio 4, The Times, Nature magazine
as well as his own critically acclaimed
book The Whole Story: Alternative
Medicine on Trial? amongst an impres-
sive list of journalism projects in the
past 20 years.
Highlighting the uncertainties that
many science journalists face when em-
barking on their career path, Dr. Mur-
cott begins his life story with more than
just a hint of humour in his voice.
“Like so many people in this industry
it wasn’t a straightforward story. I did
a PhD in Biochemistry at Bristol Uni-
versity and then I moved onto a Postdoc
which is when I began to realise that I
was not the greatest research scientist –
I quite enjoyed it but not as much as I
was hoping to.
At the same time, without really
knowing it, I began to be a lot more in-
volved in talking about science rather
than doing it.”
Thanks to his long love of speech ra-
dio, Dr. Murcott kicked off science jour-
nalism career in the medium, spending
his days working on his postdoc and his
evenings building up his radio CV.
Having entered the world of radio
journalism, Dr. Murcott also spread
his knowledge into written journalism,
eventually leading to the publication of
his book inspired by his weekly column
in The Times discussing the scientific
evidence behind complementary health
treatments. Nevertheless, despite all his
successes in writing science, Dr. Mur-
cott is unhesitant in claiming his prefer-
ence for radio journalism.
“It’s very noticeable that people who
work in a particular field tend to love
that field and really enjoy it, and I love
to listen to radio for pleasure. There are
a number of satisfying things about ra-
dio, one of which is that you hear real
peoples voices and it’s a very intimate
“...I began to talk
more about science
rather than do it.” Chabad of South Kensington invites you to…
Schedule: Friday, 3 Feb 2012
6 pm - Dr Naftali Loewenthal - "The Temple within"
7 pm - Kabalat Shabbat
7.30 pm - Shabbat dinner
Professor Kate Loewenthal - "Mental Health and Religion"
Dr. Naftali Loewenthal - "Metahistory of Judaism"
Location: Imperial College Union, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7
Chabad of South Kensington is an independently funded
branch of Chabad Lubavitch UK charity, number 227638
RSVP: www.SKchabad.com/unity
‫ב"ה‬
FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
6
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
medium and its very satisfying to have
that almost one to one connection with
people, giving them something interest-
ing.”
Currently also a lecturer in Science
Journalism at the City University Lon-
don, Dr. Murcott points out that he nev-
er underwent formal training in science
journalism himself, and asked whether
or not he feels that such courses are es-
sential for success he declares, “I don’t
think there is an obvious answer, every-
one is different.”
“What a masters [in science journal-
ism] does is it condenses and puts into
one place the various elements you need
which are: practice, criticism and work
experience. It’s not essential, but it is
one way of doing it. A good course is
very valuable.
“I don’t think that any journalist needs
to be an expert on any subject other than
journalism. But, the things a science
journalist needs is to know is what ques-
tions to ask; to have an understanding of
the process of the work they’re report-
ing on, as well as how science works so
they’re able to rigorously examine the
science that is laid out in front of them.”
On the topic of science journalism,
I wonder what Dr. Murcott’s views on
‘good’ and ‘bad’ science journalism are.
“You have to ask ‘What is the purpose
of journalism?’ Now there are a lot of
things a journalist would say – to hold
people who have public money to ac-
count and to comment on all sorts of
things. But actually, the point of jour-
nalism is to sell and get an audience,
because unless you do that, you have no
money to do the reporting or research
you want to do.
“I think we need to train journalists to
understand what science research can
and can’t do, but I also think we need
to trust people to know the difference
between gossip and really serious sci-
ence research. I’ve certainly gotten an-
gry reading bad science reports, but the
media is not here to educate – that’s the
job of schools and universities.
“This leads us onto discuss science in
general, to which Dr. Murcott has much
interesting information to impart.
“There’s a very good analogy of sci-
ence: if you imagine all our knowledge
is a sphere, then the edge of the sphere
is where our knowledge of the known
leads the unknown. As you increase the
amount we know, that sphere gets big-
ger and so of course its surface area
gets bigger – the more we know and the
more we uncover, the more we realise
we don’t know.”
As for what particularly interests him
currently in the world of science, Dr.
Murcott answers fluently “firstly, any-
thing to do with the genome and ge-
nomics. It won’t be that long until we
can sequence an entire human genome
in a matter of hours, and the things that
can be done with genetics is just mind-
boggling.
“I think the other thing is particle
and high-energy physics. We’ve got a
standard model that was developed in
the 1920s which has stood up reason-
ably well but is starting to show signs
of weakness at the edge; and while
hunches are never reliable, I wouldn’t
be surprised if there was a major revi-
sion of the standard model of physics in
the relatively near future.
“I also think another area that is very
interesting is the increasing computing
power as it has allowed people to make
much more complicated and elaborate
mathematical models which have al-
lowed us to test our understanding of
what we know. We can test anything
from climate science through to chemi-
cal equations, it can help us understand
environmental issues and improve our
knowledge in reducing energy con-
sumption. Powerful computers are al-
lowing us to do amazing things.”
Naturally, this leads onto a discussion
regarding the recent results from CERN
claiming that the speed of light had been
broken, to which Dr. Murcott is confi-
dent is not the case.
“There is some small error that they
haven’t spotted. But what this story is
is a beautiful story about how science
works. What’s happened is that these
researchers have looked at these neutri-
nos and have tried to find the problem,
which they can’t, and so they’ve put it
out there for other scientists to look at.
It’s not a story about neutrinos going
faster than light, it’s a story about how
science works to get the most reliable
answers to a particular question.”
Before wrapping up I ask him for any
words of wisdom he’s like to offer to
Imperial’s budding science journalists.
“Advice I’d give is to stand still, take
a moment and think ‘What do I really
like doing? When I want information
from the world where do I get it from?’
because you’re going to do better in a
medium you know, like and understand.
The most important thing about be-
ing a science journalist is having done
something that gives you practice and
experience, and finding out whether or
not you can really do it.
What I think is very hard to do and
very often lacking in science journalism
is a deep understanding to how science
works, and recognising why it is that
when you ask a scientist a big question
they can’t give a clear answer.
Deep down it’s a combination of curi-
osity, nosiness and fascination; the abil-
ity to meet a deadline; to be able talk to
and extract information from scientists,
and of course strong communication
skills that makes a good science jour-
nalist.”
How to become a science journalist
Alice Yang talks to Dr. Toby Murcott about his not so straightforward career path
“...take a moment
and think ‘What do I
really like doing?’”
Dr. Murcott’s book is one of many ventures into journalism
“A science journalist
needs to know what
questions to ask”

