On a small farm, nestled deep in Northern Utah,
something extraordinary is happening: creatures
are being bred that are part goat, part spider. Last
week’s episode of the BBC’s epic science series
Horizon followed Adam Rutherford as he jour-
neyed to meet these fascinating hybrids and their
creator to find out more.
In charge of the unusual herd is Randy Lewis,
a professor of genetics at Utah State University.
The farm is a university outpost where they re-
search modern farming techniques, teach ani-
mal husbandry and raise the intriguing “spider-
goats”.
Since the first genetically engineered bacteria
in 1973, we have been able to exploit the uni-
versality of the DNA code by cutting and past-
ing bits of DNA from one species into another.
More recently, this editing technology has pro-
gressed and expanded into the field known as
synthetic biology, and DNA code is effectively
interchangeable between all species.
Using synthetic biology techniques, Randy and
his team have taken the gene that encodes drag-
line silk from an orb-weaver spider and spliced it
into DNA coding for milk production in the goat
udders. This new genetic sequence was then in-
serted into an egg and implanted into a mother
goat.
Now when their beloved spider-goats, Freck-
les, Pudding, Sweetie and the gang, lactate their
milk is full of spider-silk protein – they produce
“silk-milk”.
The milk is then processed to extract the spider
protein and run around a spool to be collected.
This process is considered extremely exciting
because naturally occurring spider silk is widely
recognised as the strongest, toughest fibre known
to man. Its tensile strength is greater than steel yet
it is 25 percent lighter than synthetic, petroleum-
based polymers.
“We’re interested in dragline silk – the silk that
spiders catch themselves with when they fall. It’s
stronger than Kevlar. It really has some amaz-
ing properties for any kind of a fibre,” Randy
explained.
It could be argued that breeding spider-goats is
merely an extension of our 10,000 year old farm-
ing practices. All livestock and arable products
have been genetically selected. They are careful-
ly bred to produce the most desirable character-
istics with each cross being a genetic experiment
of its own.
“The trouble is, you can’t farm spiders,” Randy
mused. “They’re very cannibalistic.”
The impressive and desirable properties of
spider silk means Randy’s apparently bizarre
research is extensively funded. Studies have
shown that the silk is not only incredibly strong
by is also compatible with the human body. So
Look out! Here comes a spider goat
An actual spider goat... Batteries not included
Want to write for Felix Science?
Email us: science.felix@ic.ac.uk
far, no inflammation or negative reaction has
been found when the silk has been inserted
into the body. It’s already known that silk good
enough to be used in ligament repair can be made
and it is hoped that, within a couple of years, tests
to determine the best designs and the best materi-
als that can be produced, will be underway.
This could include creating strong, tough artifi-
cial tendons, ligaments and limbs; repairing other
tissues; healing wounds; or creating super-thin,
biodegradable sutures for eye or neurosurgery.
As amazing as it is, this extraordinary piece
of bioengineering isn’t even on the cutting edge
anymore. The fast moving field of Synthetic Bi-
ology now incorporates an extensive variety of
genetic exploration techniques; and personally, I
can’t wait to see what they come up with next.
Horizon: Playing God presented by Adam
Rutherford is available on BBC iPlayer
Is there something more we can learn from the
sounds emitted by bacteria and viruses? Even
though microbes cannot ‘speak’ in the way that
animals can, scientists believe that there is a lot
to learn from the noises produced when small or-
ganisms move around.
Until now, these vibrations had always been
thought too weak to be picked up by any con-
ventional device. This is why optical physicist J.
Feldmann and the Photonics and Optoelectronics
Group at the University of Munich recently de-
veloped the world’s tiniest ear. The ‘ear’is a par-
ticle of gold, 60 nanometres in diameter, that by
vibrating in response to passing waves can pro-
vide useful information about very faint sounds.
This method exploits some basics principles of
physics: when a wave passes through a medium,
particles in the medium respond by oscillating
with the same frequency of the wave. By study-
ing the response of the gold particles to sound
waves, researchers are able to investigate the na-
ture of the vibration.
One of the gold particles is immersed in water
and held in place by a laser beam that serves as
‘optical tweezers’– a technique invented in 1986
and widely used in modern molecular biology
and genetics. Energetic pulses of light are then
fired at similar particles trapped around it with
the same method. By heating up, they generate
a disturbance in the water, leading to a compres-
sion-decompression process that generates a
sound wave. Scientists are thus able to analyze
the movement of the first particle (the ‘nano-ear’)
and gather information around the nature of the
wave. By varying the frequency and the orien-
tation of the light pulses, the scientists saw that
the particle would match the new frequency and
align its vibration with the new direction.
Dr. Ohlinger, one of the authors of the study,
claims that this nano-microphone “allows us
to get closer than ever to microscopic objects.”
Never had it been possible to have such a great
sensibility before, affirms co-author Dr. Lutich:
results showed that the nano-ear could pick up
sounds down to about minus 60 decibels – an in-
tensity one million times smaller than what the
human ear is able to detect.
This technology could lead to a new and revo-
lutionary way to study the microscopic world.
As well as helping us understand better the way
microorganisms function, it could also be imple-
mented in the study of cells affected by certain
diseases. For example, red blood cells vibrate
less if infected with malaria than healthy ones.
However, there are still some problems scien-
tists will need to solve. One of the major issues
appears to be the capacity to distinguish between
sound waves and other type of vibrations such
as the ones caused by random molecular move-
ments. Biophysicist Dr. Oddershede of the Niels
Bohr Institute in Copenhagen, told the journal
Science that the project still needs to go through
a long process of refinement before acoustic mi-
croscopy can become a reality. She is neverthe-
less quite optimistic about its future: “It’s a re-
ally interesting idea, and […] this paper is very
inspiring. I do believe they can relatively quickly
improve the equipment.”
Despite these initial difficulties, the researchers
are convinced that we are on the right path not
only to see, but also to hear what the world of
microorganisms has to tell us.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.108.018101
Michele Tonutti
A popcorn map, obviously
FELIX
Friday 27 january 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
Nano-ear can hear microorganisms
In brief
Ancient popcorn found in Peru
They may not have had any decent bowls to eat it
from, but new research suggests that, as long ago
as around 4600 BC, ancient Peruvians were eat-
ing popcorn. A research group led by Tom Dillehay
from Vanderbilt University, and Duccio Bonavia, from
Peru’s Academia Nacional de la Histori, have found
South America’s earliest ever examples of corn
‘microfossils’, at two mound sites, Paredones and
Huaca Prieta, on the northern coast of Peru. These
fossils, together with some of the oldest known corn
cobs, husks, stalks, and tassels, discovered at the
site, indicate that the area’s ancient inhabitants
were using corn in a variety of ways, from corn flour
to popcorn – despite it not yet being an important
part of their diet.
What makes this story even more fascinating is
that, with this discovery putting popcorn on the Peru-
vian map around 2,000 years earlier than previously
estimated, such use of corn now predates the first
known examples of ceramic pottery in the region.
In a paper recently published in the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, Dolores Piperno,
of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, ex-
plains how the domestication of corn, originating in
Mexico around 9,000 years ago, spread in only a few
thousand years to South America, and thus “in many
areas corn arrived before pots did.” She goes on to
conclude about the ancient Peruvians that “early ex-
perimentation with corn as a food was not depen-
dent on the presence of pottery”.
The complex history of the hundreds of varieties of
corn now present is still largely unclear, especially for
such early time periods, as any historical evidence of
corn cobs or kernels were hardly well preserved in
the humid tropical rainforests between Central and
South America where the crop is thought to have
been originally dispersed. The wealth of information
provided by this new data is therefore incredibly valu-
able in trying to get a glimpse of how and where corn
became what it is today.
Arianna Sorba
Emma Houghton-Brown
Pamela Belding – STRI

