SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 27 january 2012 9
A
recent flurry of articles
expounding the effects of
the current mild winter on
the natural world serves
to remind us of the conse-
quences of climate change, but do these
examples contain any scientific mean-
ing, or are they merely interesting, if
foreboding, anecdotal tidbits?
Spring flowers such as hazel catkins,
snowdrops, and daffodils, traditionally
expected in late January or early Febru-
ary, have been seen across the UK from
as early as Christmas Day. Hedgehogs
and other hibernating mammals such
as bats have been active in defiance of
their normal winter tactics, whilst red
admiral butterflies have been taking
advantage of the almost balmy climate.
Even the birds and the bees are follow-
ing suit by living up to their eponymous
phrase earlier than in previous years,
with robins singing, wood pigeons rear-
ing young, and buff-tailed bumblebees
managing to emerge uncharacteristi-
cally early.
Keeping records of such phenological
events is entrenched in British tradition.
Records of the first cuckoo of spring or
the first leafing dates of trees have been
kept for hundreds of years. Data such as
this can prove useful in providing evi-
dence for the effects of anthropogenic
climate change on individual species or
groups. For instance, it has been shown
that since 1939 UK birds such as the
wren have been steadily breeding ear-
lier. Countless examples of phenologi-
cal advances such as this can be found
across a diverse range of organisms, but
can they advance our understanding of
the deeper biological implications of
climate change on ecosystems?
When taken in isolation, the answer is
not really. A 2005 paper by Dutch sci-
entists Visser and Both acknowledged
the fact that on its own, evidence of
phenological advances could illustrate
contrasting climate change impacts.
Positive if the advances were evidence
of adaptation to climate change, or neg-
ative if that species was becoming in-
creasingly out of synchronisation with
its environment. The latter cannot be
known unless data also exists for other
important species with which it inter-
acts, for instance we cannot know if an
advance in flowering date is beneficial
or detrimental to a given plant unless
we know whether or not its insect pol-
The phenological fallacy
linator has also advanced. The point is a
‘yardstick’ by which to judge the poten-
tial impact of a phenological shift on a
species is needed.
Whilst this may seem obvious, more
cryptically it has also been shown that
the use of these ‘firsts’ is fundamentally
a poor indicator on which to judge the
effects of climate change on a species.
Granted, the ‘first’ cuckoo of spring has
been getting earlier and earlier, but this
data alone tells us nothing about what
the rest of the population is doing. It
would be much more informative, ac-
cording to Jean-Pierre Moussus and
colleagues, to use the mean date of a
phenological event to analyse and pre-
dict the effects of climate change on a
population.
Unfortunately phenological data for
many individuals in a population is a
rare luxury, let alone equivalent data
for the species with which they inter-
act. Many researchers however, unlike
some species to climate change, are
adapting to this way of thinking and
are designing experimental systems ac-
cordingly, with the aim of painting a
more complete picture of the impacts of
climate change.
Christopher Nichols on why the first cuckoo of spring doesn’t necessarily tell us much
A new genomic sequencing method
has been put into practice by Professor
Franklin Pugh and graduate student Ho
Sung Rhee, after development in Penn
State University. The method, known as
ChIP-exo, gives us an insight into the
proteins that read and regulate chromo-
somes (transcription preinitiation com-
plexes, or PICs) and was detailed in a
paper published online in Nature.
Although it varies in proportion from
species to species, a lot of DNA does
not actually code for anything; around
98% of a human genome is non-coding,
compared to 11% of the genome of bac-
terium E. coli. This means that the cod-
ing portion that makes up genes has to
be identified, and, with the human ge-
nome consisting of 3.2 billion base pairs,
this can prove tricky. Genes themselves
have integral sequences called promoter
regions that allow their identification in
between all the millions of non-coding
base pairs, and ChIP-exo takes advan-
tage of these integral sequences as PICs
bind to them. Furthermore, ChIP-exo
eliminates “transcriptional noise,” un-
wanted levels of transcription to al-
low detection of more PIC binding se-
quences than other sequencing methods
would allow. “The advantage over other
techniques of [ChIP-exo] is its ability
to narrow down any binding location
across millions and billions of nucleo-
tide genomes to a certainty of about one
nucleotide,” said Pugh.
In the new technique, genes are first
transcribed into a more dynamic mol-
ecule called RNA in a process called
transcription, that occurs in the nucleus.
RNA is then translocated to the cyto-
plasm of the cell to provide the instruc-
tions to manufacture the protein. PICs
are different proteins that allow and
control this RNA manufacture, and bind
at the promoter regions of genes in a se-
quential manner to allow transcription
to proceed. A better understanding of
how they position themselves along the
DNAallows a greater insight into where
the genes actually start in the genome,
and how gene expression in cells is
New insight into gene expression
Philippa Skett
He doesn’t look very defiant, does he?
regulated, as not all genes are active all
of the time.
To identify these PICs and the se-
quences they bind to, exonucleases (the
“exo” in ChIP-exo) were used. These
enzymes catalyse the degradation of the
double stranded helix effectively de-
stroying the genome. Multiple exonu-
cleases were applied across the whole
genome, and it degraded the DNA until
a cross-linking point was reached in
DNA where the PICs begin to interact
with the promoter regions. These con-
served regions were then isolated and
sequenced accordingly. Rhee ran ChIP-
exo for various PICS, RNA Polymerase
II, the enzyme that actively synthesises
RNA, and for GTFs, General Transcrip-
tion Factors, and mapped of the precise
location of more than six thousand of
these PICs in yeast. The technique
showed how they interacted specifically
with nucleosomes: DNA bound tightly
to proteins called histones to allow it to
be compacted into the nucleus.
So what does this indicate in the long
run? Studying yeast here allows for
many of the principles to be extrapolated
on to other species, including humans,
to allow a better insight into their gene
regulation and initiation; a small yet
crucial step towards being fully aware
of the genomic capabilities of humans
and how we can manipulate it in the fu-
ture. Genetically modified crops, genetic
diseases, developmental disorders, and
advancing in on the cure for cancer are
all areas that can benefit highly from the
new data this technique can deliver, and,
when used in conjunction with existing
methods, the limits to our grasp of genet-
ics have now been extended.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10799
Is this a sequence binding of proteins or did we print wrong?
B. Franklin Pugh, Penn State University

