Letters
Whoops
/Dear Bill,
I write to apologise for the confusion that seems
to have arisen over SCABNITE this year. In last
Friday's FELIX it was advertised with an incorrect
starting time and subscription. SCABNITE will
take place on Saturday 12th November in the
Union Concert Hall commenceing at 7.30pm. The
subscription will be £2.50 at the door.
This year's performances are as varied as ever
with all the SCAB societies represented —
O P S O C , CHOIR, C H A M B E R MUSIC,
DRAMSOC, FILMSOC and JAZZ & ROCK
CLUB. The program includes Stoppard's '15
minute Hamlet' and a showing of 'Dead Men
Don't Wear Plaid' with Steve Martin.
I hope to see lots of FELIX readers enjoying
what is always an entertaining evening.
Have a happy Rag Week.
Roger Davies,
SCAB Chairman.
UGM
Chair
Dear Bill,
I have always been a believer that you can write
anything you like about me so long as views and
opinions go under an 'Editorial' or 'Opinion'
heading. In this way the readers will realise that
this is your opinion and not a factual report, and
can then make their own minds up as to whether
they agree with it or not. I do however believe
that if you are going to base your editorials on
fact then you should at least get the facts right.
In your editorial, printed in issue 816, you go
on to discuss the position of the U G M chairman.
The whole of the section revolves around the Blue
Book, the book that contains the Union
Constitutions and By-laws. When I questioned
whether you had looked at the Blue Book before
writing your editorial I was not surprised to hear
that you hadn't. Why wasn't I surprised? Because
the facts that you base the whole piece on are
totally incorrect.
The whole saga started when the person
elected to be the U G M Chairman, Paul Shanley,
failed his exams. Paul then decided to enroll as
a part-time student so that he would still be
eligible to undertake the role of U G M Chairman.
When this was brought to my attention I
consulted the Blue Book to see what the position
was. If Paul had registered as a part-time student
then he would have been an Associate Member
of IC Union. According to the Union by-laws,
'Associate members shall have the same rights
as full members except for the right to represent
Imperial College in any team.' I then read what
rights full members have and the last line read,
'only full members of the Union may hold elected
Union posts representing students.' This was
quite clearly a contradiction in the by-laws. On
one hand Paul was entitled to be U G M Chairman
and on the other he wasn't. No where in the by-.
laws does it say who was responsible for the.
interpretation of such by-laws. A decision had to
be made as to who was to make the necessary
interpretation.
The date was now the middle of September and
as the Fresher's U G M was planned for the first
Thursday of term, I realised that the matter was
quite urgent. I again consulted the Blue Book for
the terms of reference for the Executive
Committee. These state 'it shall concern itself
with domestic matters and matters of urgency.'
So, in my capacity as President, I called an Exec
meeting to discuss the matter. When the Exec
met, on 22nd September, there were five
members present, not four as mentioned in you
editorial, another factual mistake. Quorum for
Exec is four and I thought that considering it was
summer vacation, five out of six members was
not a bad achievement. At the meeting we
discussed that Paul was unable to take up his
position. This was a unanimous decision.
In light of the above explanation I'm sure you
will realise that your statements; 'four of the
Union Executive decided that the Blue Book was
incorrect and that Mr Shanley was unable to take
up his post,' and 'the executive had no right to
make such a decision' are totally wrong. The last
statement in that section of the editorial was, 'the
Union President does not have the power to
reinterpret the Blue Book as he sees fit,' which
itself is quite correct, however, in the context of
the rest of the piece it implies that I did reinterpret
the Blue Book as I saw fit, something which I have
shown not to be true. I therefore hope that you
have the strength of character to admit that you
were wrong and print an apology. Next time you
want to have a go at me, please get the facts right.
Nigel D Baker,
ICU President.
Fisher
again
Dear Editor,
As the newly elected committee of Fisher Hall
we would like to inform your readers on the state
of affairs in our Hall and to take a view on the
issues discussed in the two letters which
appeared in the 28/10/88 issue of FELIX.
Fisher Hall is the newest Hall of Imperial
College and is a pleasant place to live, situated
in an excellent area, with new furniture and
decorating, well-equipped common areas and
many active and friendly people who have helped
make several events a success since the beginning
of term
A lot of work is needed during the first term
of full operation to establish procedures and
maximise the use of space and resources for the
benefit of the residents. It would be an
oversimplification to assume that our Hall could
simply copy the procedures of another Hall. One
reason is that Fisher Hall is not situated within
the main complex of Halls near the College. This
means that we cannot have a messenger or
security guard, for example, at a reasonable cost.
Our subwardens have been coping with the
additional burden responsibly and systematically
and have shown considerable enthusiasm and
ability in dealing with their normal duties as well
as special events. They have the full confidence
of the committee and all the members believe that
the views expressed in the anonymous letter do
no represent the views of the majority of the
residents.
On the specific subject of mail distribution, new
ways are being considered and we will hopefully
have a better procedure soon.
Our committee election was not particularly
late—it has in fact taken place earlier than similar
elections in several other Halls or Houses.
We feel that the intention of the authors of the
letters in question was to point out weaknesses
and to be constructive on the issues mentioned
there. However, it is fair to say that there has
been an element of exaggeration (extreme in the
first letter) combined with a level of apprehension
which is not normally expected in the first two
or three weeks after moving in.
The committee is determined to see that a very
happy, social atmosphere dominates and is
backed by many other residents with lots of ideas
and the will to make things happen. It encourages
and welcomes the participation of all the
residents, including the authors of the afore
mentioned letters. We are delighted to add that
we have already obtained a list of
recommendations from the authors of the second
letter, which confirms a constructive attitude on
their part, and we invite them to become more
involved.
Yours sincerely,
Theodore Theodoropoulos,
Hall Convener on behalf of the Committee of Fisher
Hall.
War
Dear Bill,
I refer to the letter from IC Class War Group
(FELIX, Nov 4). According to the members of that
group Mrs Gross was 'murdered' by the police-
in fact she died of a heart attack. PC Blakelock,
on the other hand, was 'killed during a riot'.
May I suggest that Class War have mixed up
the definitions of 'to kill' and 'to murder'. I doubt
it, the real reason is that PC Blakelock was part
of the 'oppressive' class and Mrs Gross was part
of the 'oppressed' class.
Yours faithfully,
S D Cholerton.
Phones
Dear Bill,
I am writing to express my dissatisfaction with
the College switchboard and its operators. On
numerous occasions I have tried phoning either
from externally or internally (to request a phone
number), in the middle of the day, and have
received no reply, despite ringing for 2 or 3
minutes. Even so the telephone is rarely
answered in less than ten rings.
These people are paid to answer the telephones
and they should do so! It must reflect very badly
on IC when outsiders ring in and the telephone
is not answered immediately.
Yours Irritatedly,
Liz Warren.
Page 4 FELIX November 11 1988

