Letters
Mining House will
be unsociable next
year—official
Dear Judith,
Recent events in Mining House have brought to the fore
a lot of ill feeling that has been building up for quite a
while. Miss Brown, the warden, has insisted that choosing
re-apps was entirely her own choice, even though College
offices said that she simply had the power to veto any
applications. Consequently, a committee was chosen to
pick the re-apps, and Miss Brown then proceeded to ignore
their choices, submitting a list of next year's re-apps which
included people that had not even been put forward by
the committee. When asked why she had chosen one of
these people, Miss Brown commented that 'he does what
the warden and sub-wardens tell him to do'. From this,
it is obvious that Miss Brown intends to surround herself
with yes-men for next year, simply in order to make her
job as easy as possible. The re-app forms insisted that 're-
apps will be chosen according to their contributions to their
house', yet Miss Brown seems to have conveniently
adjusted this to suit her own purposes. She has picked the
people she likes, or to be more accurate the people who
aren't going to kick up a fuss about anything.
Miss Brown has never been slow to admit her great
dislike for the Mining House social club of 'The Diggers'.
(Is this because the club has successfully run itself for
eleven years and she has been unable to manipulate or
interfere with its activities?) Diggers is a tradition. It
survived for nine years before Miss Brown, and hopefully
will go on for many years after she has gone. However,
in choosing next year's re-apps, Miss Brown has
conveniendy ommitted Adrian Lewis, who, with great
respect to next year's president, would have undoubtedly
made the best president. The reason given by Miss Brown
was that she doesn't 'like' him. She doesn't even know
him. He is a sociable person, therefore by Miss Brown's
book, he must be trouble. This simply highlights the
attitude of our Warden. On the first day of arriving at the
house, she took a dislike to me because I smoke. This
petty, almost childish, attitude does get tiresome. If I
disliked people for having silly haircuts, I would have very
few friends. However, before all this sound like a case
of sour grapes, I must point out that even though I myself
did reapply to the house, I withdrew my application,
mainly because I didn't want to play any part in this whole
farce.
Throughout the year, Miss Brown has stuck to her
attitudes of treating the whole of the house as school
children. She is afraid to let the house run itself, not
because she is afraid that discipline would be lost, but
because she knows that the house would probably do a
much better job of it. Understandably, the sub-wardens
are behind her thick and thin. They can't be blamed. They
have got cheap accommodation, and a relaxed life. They
are never going to put their head on the line simply because
they have a lot to lose. Miss Brown has now made sure
that next year the once most sociable house in Evelyn
Gardens will become the dullest ever. It suits her perfecdy.
What she forgets is that she is getting free accommodation,
which is being paid for by us. She has to learn that with
a happy house there will always be hiccups, but what she
wants is a house full of bookworms who make things very
easy. Not only does College need a big rethink in how
to handle re-applicants, but also in how they choose their
wardens. Miss Brown may be wonderful at bookwork,
but as far as the atmosphere in Mining House goes,
something certainly stinks. This isn't the first, and most
certainly won't be the last complaint about Miss Brown,
but for how long can College keep aTow profile on the
matter.
Yours sincerely,
Mr B Basma.
Do college Playfair?
On entering the Lyon Playfair Library last night I was
asked to produce identification. I asked the reason why
and was told that monitoring was going on to determine
how many students from other colleges used the library,
with a view to only letting Imperial College students use
the building in future.
I would like to bring the following points to your
attention.
Firstly, it must be noted that Imperial College is part
of London University. One attraction of London
University is the availability of large information resources
throughout London. Furthermore, due to the acute
accommodation crisis in London many students live a long
way from their respective colleges and it may often be
convenient for them to study at a library nearer their
lodgings.
The banning of non-Imperial College students from
Imperial College libraries, as well as being unfair on these
students, could also lead to reciprocal bans being
introduced by other colleges on Imperial College students,
thereby having a bad effect on the students the ban was
trying to protect.
If the library is suffering from lack of books or space
(which one assumes it must be else these measures
wouldn't be considered) it must be noted that banning
people from the library does not create more books, or
more space, but merely cuts back people's access to
education.
Rather than Imperial College libraries withdrawing into
themselves, to protect their own members, it would be
better if the libraries joined with other London University
libraries and institutions in a concerted campaign for more
money for all aspects of education, as well as a better
sharing of their resources.
Although monitoring student usage of the library is not
the same is actually banning certain people, it can only
be. seen as the first step along the way.
I hope students at IC will note these points and protest
accordingly.
Ross Popper (IC student)
Are they related?
Dear Judith,
I think it only fair to thank David Leigh for last week's
kind letter, I found his perception into IC Radio quite
astounding, since he is only a listener. He is right in his
assumption that the station is quite staid in its approach.
However, with the current movement of people the station
will, in the next couple of years, develop into an important
part of the IC community. So stay tuned.
However, I'm sure David was as dismayed as I was to
read the headline 'sycophantic drivel'. I'm sure when
FELIX receives its own appreciation letter for the year,
like IC Radio has, its headline will not be along the same
tactless lines.
Yours sincerely,
Spenser Lane (Mat Sci 1).
Small Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Environmental Week is one its way!
• Quiz machine addicts require details
of machine locations. Please send
details to M Mitchell (Aero 1
1 or C
Gibbons (Physics 1).
• If any clubs or societies would find
two-way communications (up to
distance of 25 miles) useful, could they
contact P Pavelin, Hamsoc Chairman via
the Union pigeonholes.
• Japanese Society—Please contact K
Yokota (Mech Eng PGI for details.
• His Grace The Duke of Plaza-Toro
demands your attendance at the Union
Concert Hall, 7.30pm, Tuesday 16th—
Saturday 20th Feb, to see 'The
Gondoliers'.
• This week dry ski slope lessons
begin again meet Wednesday, 12.45pm
in Southside. Bring thick socks and
gloves.
• Refunds are now available for all
those who have had dry slope lessons
or who did not require equipment on
the holiday. Come to the regular
meetings on Tuesdays or Thursdays. -
LOST & FOUND
• Found: Pewter tankard, engraved:
Walton Regatta 1961, Senior Coxed
Fours. Contact R Howes (MRE 1), RS
Mines.
WANTED & FOR SALE
• Tickets for 'The Gondoliers':
£1.50/£2 (Tues and Weds), £2/£2.50
(Thurs and Fri), £2.50/£3 (Sat).
• Are there any musicians out there
who want to play in a jazz to pop
combo. Contact James Steward (EE1).
Reading and improvisation skills could
be very useful.
• For sale-Fiat Mirafiori 1300cc. S
Reg, mechanically perfect but rust on
body. Absolute bargain £400. Phone:
602 2132.
• Anyone selling a bike contact Rony
Douek (Chem Eng 1) or phone internal
97.315.
ACCOMMODATION
• Male, non-smoker to share quiet,
ground-floor studio flat in S Ken. £33
per week (after rebate) including bills.
Please contact John Hodgen in Chem
UG pigeonholes.
• Room in spacious semi-detached in
Acton for (preferably female) non-
smoker. Large lounge, kitchen, dining
room and central heating, etc. £35 p/w
(excl). Phone 992 3813 or contact
Claire on 6776.
• Single room available in Wimbledon
House. Rent £36 p/w (£12 rebate). Tel:
947 5207.
• For rent: 2 rooms, kitchen, bathroom
in SW14. Newly decorated, central
heating, 30 mins to IC by bus, £460
p/m. Contact Andreas on 6206 or Yuri.
or Agnes on 878 2058.
18 Friday February 12th 1988 FELIX

