^
3 r
PERSONAL
• Wanted—popularity, charm and
general appeal, contact Caitie, Mining
House.
• CYA Sec '85-87 and CYA Sec '88.
Merger not ruled out.
• Drac J, even walls have ears! G the
P.
• 'Everything you ever wanted to
know about Tizard' is now available on
a single cassette, KTEL Soc.
• Could St Mary's medics save our
Steve's toe? (or hack it off), Tizard
Private Surgery.
• Wanted—woman willing to split
magnum of champagne (temporary
engagement may be necessary). See D
Shiu (Maths 1).
• Yes, it's rat race time again!
• What has Andy got about bananas?
P C.
• 2x1 = 1—it's official. As Dr Elgin.
The Penthouse Club.
• Dai, don't become a polymer
technologist. P C.
• Don't miss the Penthouse Club's
curry and Blues Brothers run. Tonight!
Bring hat and shades.
• Congratulations to Prof Stradling on
entering into the spirit of Comic Relief
and wearing his red nose last Friday.
• Afraid of dying? No? Adventurous?
Sensation seeker? Contact Mike
Rummer (Maths 2).
• James, was the floor comfortable
enough for you on Friday night?
• Paul—that black eye is so sexy.
• Sorry about the noise, did it distract
Giz.
• Why are Tizard girls single? Where
are the blokes?
• Neil—do your flies up before
answering the door to Leonie.
• Pissed off by reading your name in
FELIX? For solidarity contact Stuti or
Laura.
• Leonie, Leonie, forgive me my little
peonie.
• Me want Heffie-Heffie Hug too.
• Ian—thanks for the after-Peat
flowers—creepy swarm you!
• Dave Bradley prefers 'thumping'!
• Perhaps Ann isn't so innocent and
naive after all.
• Quiet ones are the worst, eh Nigel!
• Would Adam remember his trainers if
Garfield were painted on them?
• Why does Clare enjoy tying up Peter?
• Come back Simon (nearly) all is
forgiven—the peanut gallery.
• What is long, blond, wears glasses
and has no point?
• Cap'n Simon getting spliced, he'll
buckle no more swashes.
A frightfully awful
rock group letter
from Pete Hartley
Dear Judith,
In reply to the letter featured in the January 21st issue
of FELIX from Andy McMayhem, renowned former skin
basher for the famed five, Stagefright, I must point out
a few gross inexactitudes that occur in his epistle. The
comment that he picked upon, however, just flew out of
my mouth on the spur of the moment, and was not meant
to offend or be misconstrued. But he seems to want to
take it further, so just a few points.
1. While being very grateful for his guest appearance
at the Holland Club, I feel that as we paid him £10 for
his pains, and that he made adequate use of the free
facilities available (ie he got drunk as a lord), he really
came out of it quite well (unlike the rest of us who as usual
ended up out of pocket).
2. We were also very grateful for the loan of his personal
drumkit (which was his) for our auditions, but as we
provided free transport home for himself and his drumkit,
this saving him untold train fares, once again he came out
on top.
3. After extensive consultation with the rest of the band,
we feel that the name 'Baby Delta', which agreeably was
crap, still left after he did. However this cannot be proved!
4.1 feel that if Mr McMayhem left the band as stated,
He could have made us aware of the fact before Father
Jason was on the phone to him, expressing the band's joint
wishes that his days were over. I feel that the fact that
Mr Mayhem thought he had left of his own accord pays
tribute to Jason's tact and compassion in giving him the
boot.
However, I must thank Andy profusely for giving me
a great deal of amusement, and can only suggest that he
uses his hard worked for English A-Level to greater effect
in the future.
Yours sincerely,
Peter A J Hartley,
ex-Union Bar,
ex-Union Snack Bar,
ex-RCS AAO,
ex-cellent bass player.
Tracy-Ann vs
Mr Tyler
Dear Judith,
There was a certain article in the last issue of Guildsheet
that rang untrue. Unlike some people, namely Mr Tyler
and Mr Baker, I make sure I know the facts before I knock
someone's efforts. Whilst I'm on the subject, I might add
that I feel Mr Tyler is the last person worthy of telling
me about my job. Before he does this he should make sure
that his own job is done well.
To set the record straight, myself and Tanya last term
attended five out of six Rag meetings each. I supported
the biggest Rag event of the year (tiddlywinking) by being
in the office at 8.30am to give out cans etc not to mention
selling T-shirts. I was helped by friends who had nothing
to do with Rag and was not joined by Mr Tyler until after
9am. I went tiddlywinking and helped count money. Next
the slave aucton—I collected the bulk of the money and
counted it, helped by Alan Hepper who has nothing to
do with Rag. I was bought by the Rugby Club and gave
. them a good day of work.
I hardly think Mr Tyler or Mr Baker have proper
grounds to say I have not done my job. My job as I see
it, is to look after Guilds Rag money and to support some,
or all, Rag events which I feel I have tried to do. Yet it
is extremely hard to do a job when Mr Tyler insists on
interfering. He happens to be good friends with the IC
Rag Chairman Mr Baker and they have tended to work
with each other instead of going through me. Maybe Mr
Tyler should have been Rag Treasurer instead!
I confess I rarely go to the Guilds Office but I find the
bad atmosphere and the aggressiveness of Mr Tyler very
off putting, as I'm sure many of you will agree. I think
Mr Tyler is not so much concerned that I have not done
my job but that I have not been to every single event. I
get the impression that Tyler thinks anyone who has a post
in Guilds is supposed to attend every event. Like many
I have been to those I could afford and found time for.
I conclude that I believe I have done my job (my
conception, not Tyler's). I fear, though, that a second vote
of no confidence I may well get because of those hacks
(most of those voting) do and think whatever Tyler says
is right.
Tracy-Ann Hall,
C&G Rag Treasurer.
PS. Having done the job I feel that there is really no
need for a Rag Treasurer in Guilds: RCS seem to manage
without one.
PPS. For the record, Mr Tyler and I have not seen eye
to eye ever since I ran for President against him.
More incoherent
muttering
I was shocked to read Julian Moore's—oops!—Dracula
J's letter in last week's FELIX.
Firstly I would like to thank Mr Neil Humphrey for
submitting his letter on our behalf. I find it not in the least
surprising that Mr Moore should have to resort to personal
abuse in order to explain the shortcomings of his
UVR+DDL column (Broadsheet).
I would like to point out that the reason everyone found
Mr Humphrey's letter 'completely incomprehensible' was
that no-one ever reads UVR+DDL anyway. The fact that
even J M himself failed to comprehend the letter does tend
to support the allegation that UVR+DDL is actually
churned out by chimps and not Jooly Wooly at all.
Perhaps Jooly Wooly would also like to extend the label
'illiterate' to all of his readers, since if the 'illiterate' Mr
Humphrey had not brought his 'Chimpsheet' article to our
attention it would have been given its usual role as a piece
of Andrex.
As for calling N H 'grumph and pervert'! Jooly Wooly's
imagination seems to stretch little further than 'three in
bed orgy', 'Radio Bonk', 'teddy bear' and 'pervert'—all
phrases purely of his own invention.
Jooly Wooly is grossly misunderstood. If his favourite
words truly are 'bonk', 'teddy' and 'orgy', he should be
hailed as nothing less than a genius, since most of his
contemporaries are still running around shouting 'would
you like to see some puppies?'.
It is always nice to see the syllabus at Eton moving with
the times.
Walls have ears, so watch it Jooly.
Yours faithfully,
K McC, Tizard Surveillance Society, VP.
FELIX Friday February 12th 1988 1-

