• WHAT IS THE SECRET of the
mysterious building work currently in
progress down in the Linstead
extention basement? The latest
rumour circulating Princes Gardens
is that an extra floor is being built to
accommodate a greenhouse. Not for
academic purposes, we hear, but for
the wife of David Evans, head of
College's Estates Section.
• UNION BAR BOD Adrian Jelly'
Johnson proved that you can crash a
Union van before going into the bar
earlier this week. Jelly was overtaking
a car on Cromwell Road and hit the
car travelling in front in the lane he
was entering. The bonnet is a write-
off. But just why was Jelly driving a
Union van along the Cromwell Road
into work?
•TALKING OF VANS, when the
IC delegation visited the University
of London Union on Tuesday night,
their van was clamped in the ULU car
park. The fact was announced during
the General Union Council, much to
the amusement of all delegates except
those from IC. However, U L U Vice
President (Finance and
Administration) 'Fat' Norm ordered
the clamp to be removed when he
discovered that the IC delegation had
rung up the RCSU 'Bolt-cutter' Squad
and asked them to take the thing off
themselves.
• THERE SEEMS TO BE a private
battle being fought in the FELIX
letters pages recently which nobody
else understands. I decided to
investigate and discovered that
residents of Tizard Hall are making
good use of their proximity to
Linstead in Princes Gardens. Because
Tizard is at right-angles to Linstead
certain rooms can be observed, using
binoculars, by peeping-Tizard-toms.
These Tizard chappies think it's
tremendous fun to ring these women
up and describe in great detail
everything they have done with their
boyfriends in the last hour. They have
also managed to plant 'bugs' in some
rooms, in order to monitor the sound
as well as the vision. They
catagorically deny that they are in any
way related to 'perverts'.
'Number 1: To be the boss. Number
2: To do everything. Number 3: To no
confidence any citizen not doing their
job, and take over what they were
supposed to do. Number 4: To crawl
up the Baron's arsehole on every
issue.'
Ian Whygate had just finished
writing his job description. It would
make him the most powerful citizens'
Leader in the history of Cheapskate.
Now he started on the Deputy Leader:
'1. To be responsible to Ian Whygate. 2. To do what Ian Whygate
tells you. 3. To take all the blame when things go wrong. 4. To spank
Ian Whygate's bottom whenever requested.'
This was jolly good fun. Whygate hadn't had as much fun since
he, since he, err...since he was chased around the citizens' office by
Gillian Cutlet, a very tasty member of the citizens' dormitory
committee.
Whygate was having so much fun that he thought he'd be really
naughty and totally change the Honorary Slave's description:
'1. To organise Ian Whygate's parties. 2. To publicise Ian Whygate's
parties. 3. To return Ian Whygate's friends in every election. 4. To
spank Ian Whygate whenever the Deputy Leader was unavailable.'
Hmmm, though Whygate, Number 3 might be a bit difficult. There
was this little matter of the Cheapskate general election in which all
the citizens were allowed to vote. Whygate would go and see his
chum, John Secretary, about it. He picked up the phone and was about
to call John when he realised that a funny handshake wouldn't work
on the phone.
'Bother, I'll have to go and have lunch with him.'
Over a McNorthey burger and chips, Whygate casually dropped the
subject of elections.
'Tell me John, when you were governor of the Gilbert and Sullivan
Islands, how did you make sure that none of the troublesome locals
won the elections?'
'Oh, that's quite easy', said John, 'come back to my office and
I'll show you something very interesting'.
John took Ian back to his office, unlocked the bottom drawer of
his desk and produced a little green book. He handed it to Whygate.
'How to win elections and influence people', read Whygate, 'by
F Marcos'. Ian turned to John and grovelled most profusely. He then
started to flick through the book.
'Wow, it's a signed copy', gasped Whygate as he turned the front
page, 'it must be worth a lot'.
'About twenty years in office if you play your cards right', replied
John, 'you can borrow it if you want, but guard it carefully'.
Ian set off for the citizens' office armed with this little jewel of a
book. Now all the Cheapskate general elections could be used to put
in Whygate's friends. Whygate didn't want to spoil the fun of the
candidates though so he didn't tell anyone, not even his candidates.
Elsewhere in the citizens' building, candidates were starting to get
their publicity machines rolling.
Chas piano-player had bribed Martyn Prick to propose a silly motion
at the citizens' meeting just so that he, Nige D Butcher and Willhebe
Goodforacolumninch could get a mention. Cwis Media had gone one
better by printing a little piece of paper with his name on it and by
giving a little report.
Meanwhile, in the Phallix office, Judith Largeamounts was preparing
to virtually run the office single-handed for a few weeks. This was
supposed to be so that all candidates could prepare their posters
confidentially, but it was really Largeamounts way of making sure
that her candidates won.
Who will win the General Elections—Whygate's or Largeamounts'
candidates?
How many of you will vote for me?
Find out in the next episode of the Baron of Cheapskate.
• FEW PEOPLE could have
imagined a worse punishment than
having to endure being talked to by
C&GU President David Tyler but this
is what will happen to a kidnapped
University College London Union
sabbatical this week if his Union
doesn't pay a sum to ICU Rag!
•NAUGHTY NIGE WHITFIELD,
the infamous IC Radio News Editor
has been upto his bad old ways again.
At a recent meal out with a few other
ICR hacks, Nigel was seen scribbling
a secret message to the voluptuous
waitress on the bill. He then made a
swift exit to hide his embarrassment.
However, she read the message too
soon and waved at him before he had
got out the door. This completely
disorientated Nige to such an extent
that when he tried to wave back, his
feet collapsed beneath him and he was
left helpless and blushing as the rest
of the party fell about in hysterics.
Rumour has it that all Nige's romantic
gestures to women have had a similar
effect.
Head Tenancy
Open Day
Wednesday, 17 February
Further information from:
Student Accommodation Office
15 Princes Gardens
FELIX Friday February 12th 1988

