UNDERBID THE
M
I
C
R
O
g
^
S
C
O
DC
by Steve Black
Medical bloodsuckers
are back
Back in the days before cure-alls such
as Aspirin and Valium, leeches were
used to treat just about every disease.
A good dose of bleeding was thought
to cure anything.
Our enlightened medical
establishment thought they had done
away with such barbaric treatments.
But the leeches turned out to have
some clever solutions to some modern
medical problems. Indeed a company
called Biopharm (UK) has been set up
in Wales to farm leeches and it sells
range of chemicals that many medics
now want to get their hands on.
Leeches don't like their dinner to
be lumpy, so they have developed
anti-clotting agents which are present
in their saliva. One of the compounds,
called Hirudin, is very good at
stopping clots forming in people, and
it is being investigated as a possible
treatment of certain forms of heart
disease and post-operative trauma.
Hirudin can be extracted from the
leech saliva, which can be extracted
m .
These slimy little bloodsuckers are smarter than the average chemist.
tens of thousands of them around the
world.
When it comes to biochemistry the
leeches are smart little buggers. In the
process of becoming better
bloodsuckers, thgy have developed a
from the leeches by milking them in
special sausage skins (live hosts are
not required).
Leeches have also developed a
chemical that inhibits Elastase, a sort
of waste disposal enzyme. Elastase is
normally produced after injury, when
it attacks the structural proteins in
damaged cells thereby helping to clear
up the useless waste material.
However, sometimes the system goes
wrong and the Elastase attacks healthy
tissue (this happens in the lung disease
emphysema). It may prove useful to
treat such diseases with the leech-
derived inhibitor.
To cap all this, the smart and slimy
little bloodsuckers have developed a
spreading agent to spread all their
other chemicals evenly over the neat
star-shaped wound that they cause.
This compound is called Orgelase. It
works by sticking to hyaluronic acid
(a sort of polymerised sugar) that acts
as a glue to stick cells together.
Orgelase is highly fussy about exactly
what it sticks to and can therefore be
used as a test fo the cellular glue. This
has proved useful in research into
some diseases of connective tissue
(such as rheumatoid arthritis) where
there appears to be an excess of the
glue in the joints.
Biopharm is doing research on
several species of leech to see if they
can find any more useful chemicals.
The research is paid for by milking
the leeches for the chemicals they
already know about.
But they are also selling live leeches
to surgeons. The leeches can be used
to neatly remove blood clots from
underneath skin grafts. They can also
be used to remove excess blood in
microsurgery. At the moment this
practice is popular only in the USA,
but I'm doing my best to stay out of
hospital just in case. (Chemistry in
Britain 26 p l l (Jan 1988), New
Scientist 4th February 1988 p43)
Editorial
If Kenneth Baker ever makes it to Prime Minister, he is going to do it over
the dead bodies of a lot of university academics. His Education reform bill
has some of them foaming at the mouth in fury. It threatens to wash away
the sacred cornerstones of academic independence. University bigwigs are
ganging up to mount a campaign of opposition. But how justified are they
in opposing Baker's reforms?
Baker wants to abolish academic tenure. Tenure prevents universities from
sacking anyone except for gross professional misconduct (for example,
throwing the Rector off the top of Sherfield for not giving their department
enough money). Tenure is supposed to allow people to do unfashionable
research and to prevent political interference in their work. Such freedom
from outside interference is supposedly essential to the pursuit of knowledge.
The second and more important clause in the Baker Bill is about university
independence. Baker wants to be able to impose his direct will on the
universities, who are at present nominally independent (clearly most of their
money comes from the Government, but it is up to the universities to choose
what to do with it). He wants to be able to force universities to close or merge
specific departments and to sack specific staff and so on. He cannot do this
at the moment. Academics find the new clause highly threatening. A future
government could sack people it didn't like. Pure research might be abandoned
for short term gain, leading, ultimately, to the destruction of the whole research
base.
However, academics' protests might be listened to more carefully if the
universities had shown any willingness to put their own house in order.
Tenure can be abused. There are still some people who treat tenure as an
excuse to be bad lecturers or not to do decent research. Many other academics
make poor use of the resources they have: many senior scientists couldn't
administer an aspirin, never mind a department, but they still rise to positions
of responsibility on the basis of their career in research. When money is short,
rationalising decisions are often avoided because of academic infighting and
rivalry. Lecturers often resist proper training in teaching methods because
they want to devote all their time to research. People fail their PhDs because
their supervisors don't know how to manage a research group efficiently. Good
ideas go to waste because academics take so little interest in the outside world
they can't see the applications of their work.
It could be argued that academics, because of their all too common isolation
from the outside world, have failed to appreciate or fulfil their duty to society.
So while Kenneth Baker may well be about to make a terrible mess of the
universities, the academics are unlikely to do much better if their past record
is anything to go by.
/ wrote this when I was in a bad mood after my computer broke down, so
it may sound rather opinionated. However, it is intended to stimulate discussion
on the issues raised by the Baker Bill, so I want to hear what others think, j
Please send articles, comments or abuse to me at the FELIX Office. Indeed,
this goes for anything that appears on this page.
6 Friday February 12th 1988 FELIX

