D
O
N
'
TB
E
L
I
E
V
EAW
O
R
DO
FI
T
!
Election papers for this year's sabbatical elections go up on Monday in the Union
Building Foyer. Any full member of Imperial College Union may stand providing they •
are proposed and fully seconded by papers down on Friday 26th February. There is no I
charge so this year's elections could be great fun with several joke candidates promised
for each post. There might even be a few serious ones. FELIX takes a look at how this
year's sabbaticals lived up to their expectations, what the new Union job descriptions
really mean and how to go about getting elected.
DEPUTY P R E S I D E N T -
A L A N ROSE
Alan had no manifesto because he
was returned unopposed last year.
Does he enjoy being a sabbatical?
'Most of the time, yes. Occasional-
ly, not at all. The occasions can be
of varying duration.' Would he
stand for the same post again if he
could? Wo. / think I'd have stood
for FELIX Editor. It looks like lots more fun.' Would he have chosen a 'real'
job to do this year given hindsight? 'Jfeel like this every time I see a bank
statement or my shoes need repairing. On the whole, though, I've found that
the bad experiences I've experienced have to be counted as 'experience'
nonetheless and for the future, experience has shown that most experiences
are good experience, be they good or bad at the time. Apart from that, I'm
sure that I would have regretted not giving thejob a tryfor a long time. There's
a lot that can be condensed into one year.'
UNION PRESIDENT-IAN HOWGATE
Ian feels that he is following his manifesto'
well. "There is still a lot to be done and half'
the year still to go.' Does he enjoy his job? •
7 have enjoyed it very much, although it-
doesn't leave a lot of time for the rest of my.
life.' Would he stand for the same job again.
if he could? 'At this point I would say very,
definitely but then I still have 5'A months left.
I have learnedfar more in this 6 months than
the whole of my degree sofar and at least I've
got to use my brain.' Does he find the job'
rewarding? 'Yes. I get very little public
recognitionfor the work I do, but then Ididn 7 •
expect it. In myself I feel I'm doing a good.
job and can see things improving greatly in.
thefuture and that's good enough rewardfor _
PRESIDENT
Having worked with four of the last five Union
Presidents I have no reservation in stating that Ian
Howgate is potentially the best person I have yet
met for the position.
lan's pedigree, unlike most other candidates,
hardly needs restating, although his contribution
in so few years bears reiteration.
84—85 Captain of RSM Hockey Club
85—87 Student coordinator of RSM Open
Day
86—87 Geology Departmental Representative
86—87 Student Residence Committee Union
Rep
In my capacity as warden of Southwell House
I have seen Ian's tireless commitment to all matters
residential, with a particular responsibility for
security (hence the Linstead Hall lock changes).
He is a gifted and confident orator, whose ability
to cajole the opposition toward his opinion, yet still
retain the essential element of cooperation never
ceases to amaze me.
As I have already said, a more confident, amiable
and capable candidate I have yet to sec. Therefore,
Ian Howgate, proposed by Kenneth Young
I strongly advise all voters to follow my example
and place a I by Ian Howgate—you won't regret it.
I have many plans for the Union, most of which
would bore the average student silly, but include;
Union reorganisation, pushing for better
accommodation and sports facilities, continued
improvement of College refectories and a drastic
reorganisation of the entertainments machine.
There is far too much of a 'College verses
students' feeling at present and these barriers need
to be broken down so we can all work together foi
the best results. I became involved in the Union
last year, because I and friends were experiencing
little representation in halls and in my department.
The result was that I took up these jobs myself.
I now wish to work for all of you to make this
College a better place for everyone.
FELIX EDITOR J u d i t h H a c k n e y , proposed by Ciaran Hassett
Judith Hackney is one of the best candidates ever
to have stood for the post of FELIX Editor. She
has made a substantial contribution to FEUX under
three different editors, and is best known for editing
the excellent ICU Handbook. As a senior staff
member she has a thorough knowledge of all
production techniques, including writing,
typesetting, laying out and printing. She has held
several important Union posts, including two years
as Publications Board Junior Treasurer and Vice
President of RCSU. But of much more importance
she is reliable, hardworking and enthusiastic. She
is also a strong believer in teamwork and always
encourages other people's input into a project. All
these qualities combine to make for the best possible
FELIX so put a "I' against JUDITH HACKNEY's
name on Monday or Tuesday.
Ciaran Hassett
FELIX is produced to provide information,
entertainment and criticism. It must cater for as
wide a range of students as possible. It is not enough
to be proficient at producing a newspaper. The
Editor must be able to generate a tight and well-
formatted publication with quality news and sports
coverage; encourage articles from both regular and
occasional contributors; inspire and advise the staff;
run the Print Unit efficiently and competently.
As Editor, 1 intend to restructure FELIX with
definite sections for news, features and sports. Each
section will have its own style; a well-ordered, easy
to read news section with background and analysis
of events plus external news of interest to students;
a magazine-type features section including
previews/reviews, cinema and theatre listings,
music and fashion; a more comprehensive sports
section that reports on and previews matches with
a weekly, up-to-date results table.
If you want to see my kind of FELIX next year,
vote HACKNEY 1.
Judith Hackney
IFELIX EDITOR-JUDITH HACKNEY
| Judith admits to being slightly dismayed on
re-reading her manifesto. 7 thought that I was
keeping quite close to it. I wish that we had
been able to give background and analysis to
all our important news stories and that we
could have sustained the preview and sports
results sections. Otherwise, I would like to
think that we're not too far off the path!'
Would she stand for the post again if she
could? 'If I had a year to re-couperate, I
would. It's hard work but very rewarding. It's
the best sabbatical in that respect. The worst
part is having to manage the Union's Print
Unit and cope with all the machinery
breakdowns.'
HON SECRETARY—CHAS JACKSON
Chas feels that he has been true to his;
manifesto in parts but became morose when I
I asked him if he was enjoying being a
sabbatical. 'Occasionally, when I forget
myself.' Would he stand for the same post
again if he could? 'Nof**king way (doctor's
orders?), especially if the post was in such a
mess as when I started.' Would he rather have
done a 'real' job this year, then? 'It wouldi
probably have been much less hassle, but not
really. What a f**king condescending
question!' Has he found the job rewarding?
'Certainly not financially! However, I've'
learnt a lot and it is nice to sort outproblems'
for third parties, which seems to be a large-
part of it.'
HON SECRETARY C h a s J a c k s o n , proposed by H u g h Southey
The Hon Sec needs to be somebody who is going
to work hard for the Union. Chas has shown that
he is prepared to do this. As Union Publicity
Officer, Chas has produced tons of posters, being
one of the people who ensured that the QT boycott
was a success. He has served on working parties
to reorganise the Union and has helped in the office
doing the jobs that nobody else has time to do.
Chas, though, has not just become involved this
year in order to become a sabbatical. He has been
interested in the Union for longer than he and 1 care
to remember. Vote for Chas Jackson for a hard
working Hon Sec.
Hugh Southey
Next year there are a number of important changes
which must be made to the Union Office and
organisation. The Hon Sec and all the sabbaticals
must be closely involved with this. An Hon Sec
must also be a decision maker with proposals for
the good of the Union Amongst my concrete
proposals are;
Duplicating
As the Union Office now has two gestetners and
two electrostatic scanners, I will try to set up a
gestetner with a scanner for the use of clubs and
societies.
Exec News
It is vitally important that students are kept
informed of the actions of Union Officers and
sabbaticals. If elected I would produce this
fortnightly and print it in FELIX. 1 hope that it will
include adverts for discounts in local cinemas and
shops.
Transport
Expansion of the fleet would mean that more non-
RCC clubs could use the vans at weekends.
However I will examine possible alternatives to
buying new vans. Perhaps contract hiring could
provide an answer. At the moment, outside hire
of vans at weekends is very expensive.
Chas Jackson
Friday February 12th 1988 FELIX

