1 I W~ ^ " * * ^ 4r™~*»-
The Union reorganisation: the new need
for self-motivated, imaginative candidates
The twenty fifth of
January saw the the
introduction of sweeping
changes in the structure
of Imperial College
Union. After a
protracted debate
Council decided to
approve a number of
new job descriptions for
sabbaticals and
permanent staff which
would radically change
their role in the Union.
In a nutshell, the changes will shift
the burden of administration onto the
permanent staff leaving the
sabbaticals free to become more
directly involved in student matters.
The pivotal change has been the
introduction of a full-time Union
Manager to take over much of the
work currently carried out by the
Deputy President. Basically this
involves looking after and improving
the Union Building and the Union
transport facilities. There is every
reason to assume that a full time
manager could do much to make the
Union Building more useful and more
attractive to students . The question
remains, however, can the Union
afford to employ another full-time
staff member? There will be a two
year period of grace during which the
College will meet half of the
Manager's salary; beyond this, the
post will have to become self-
financing. Hopefully the manager will
attract enough business to the the
Union Bar, Snack Bar and other
Union facilities to cover his own
wages. If he is unsuccessful then it is
likely that the Union outlets will have
to increase their prices and this
underlines the importance of having
a competent employee in the post. So
where does this leave the Deputy
President? The DP will still remain
responsible for overseeing the
financial estimates of the Unions
clubs, the security of the Union
Building and representing the Union
on disciplinary meetings. The fact that
he or she will no longer be directly
responsible for the upkeep of the
Union Building will mean a
substantial reduction in the DP's work
load. This will be compensated for by
the DP taking responsibility for two
of the following areas; academic
affairs, accommodation and housing,
athletics, overseas students,
postgraduate affairs and welfare. The
Union President will be responsible
for the remaining five areas.
The job of the Honorary Secretary
has been described as a a job which
could easily be performed by a
monkey with a gestetner. It is the Hon
See's job which has undergone the
most complete change-around. In his
or her new role, the Hon Sec will be
in charge of events. The word event
will cover everything from running
campaigns, Freshers Fair,
Commemoration Balls, and
entertainments events. The job will
still retain responsibility for running
elections and organising social
colours awards. To be dispensed with
will be the Hon See's minute taking
role, the responsibility for
maintaining the constitutions of Union
committees, clubs and societies,
reponsibility for insurance, parking
permits and the production of Union
cards. The job of organising
reciprocal membership of other
institutions will be taken over by the
President.
The President's job description has
been tightened up from the previously
vague 'the President shall have
overall responsibility for the effective
organisation of the Union' to a much
more specific breakdown of the job's
requirements. As mentioned earlier
the President will take on five areas
of relevence to students and is
mandated to research and keep up-to-
date information in these areas and to
inform the UGM of developments. In
addition the President is directed to
sit on a number of named committees
including being present as an observer
on Governing Body and the Finance
and Executive Committee, the two top
College committees.
The newly created Constitution and
Policy Officer has generated a good
deal of controversy. Essentially the
holder of this post will take on the job
of UGM and Council Chairman, with
the additional task of ensuring that the
Union officers, including sabbaticals
are performing their jobs correctly.
The Officer will have no powers in
this respect but will be able to report
lazy officers to the UGM. In addition,
the Constitution and Policy Officer
will sit on the Governing Body and
the Finance and Executive
Committees as an observer, where his
or her role will be to ensure that the
Union President is representing the
Union's policy to the Governing Body
or Finance & Executive. Other duties
will include updating the Unions
Constitution and pointing out matters
which may require policy to be
changed to the Union Executive.
Well, the burning question on
everybody's lips is 'what implications
will this have for those people
considering standing as sabbaticals for
next year?' It is clear that these new
job descriptions will require
candidates with different qualities.
The. President and the Deputy
President will no longer be elected on
their ability to administer; their ability
to represent students will become
much more important. There is a
good deal of scope in the job
descriptions for holders these posts to
put a lot of work into affairs of
concern to students and there is
equally a lot of scope for them to sit
back and do nothing. Good candidates
for these posts will need to be very
self-motivated and they must also
have the imagination to take action for
themselves in their areas of
responsibility. They will need the
ability to go out and research areas
such as accomodation problems; they
must be upto date with the latest
government policies, if they affect
students for example.
Prospective Events Hon Sees will
be elected on their ability to organise.
They will need to be able to motivate
people and have a proven ability to
publicise events properly. There is no
question that the post has become
associated with the ICU Ents
consortium and one can forsee Ents
becoming a route for prospective
sabbaticals. In conclusion, for those
of you thinking of standing next week
you should bear in mind that the jobs
have changed completely. There is no
point standing because you think you
can do the job better than this year's
sabbaticals. Do you think you have
the ability to conform with the new
requirements? If you do, then go
ahead and stand for a post and good
luck—you'll need it; election
campaigns are never pleasant.
How towin
Are you an egomaniac? Are you
looking for a year off from academic
life, or a year's grace before braving
the big wide world? Most
importantly, are you a mug? If you
can answer 'yes' to these questions,
you should consider a one-year career
as a sabbatical.
The first problem facing all
prospective sabbaticals is how to get
the job. Usually this involves fighting
an election, unless you can nobble the
opposition beforehand.
First you have to put your name up
on the appropriate paper on the Union
noticeboard. This is situated on the
right of the central staircase entrance
to the Union Building. You will also
need twenty people who think you're
capable of the job, to sign the paper,
and a proposer who is prepared to
stand up in front of an audience of
hundreds (well, at least twenty) and
say nice things about you. It shouldn't
be too hard to find a suitable person
as (a) there are plenty of weirdo
exhibitionists in the College and (b)
everyone thinks you're a really
wonderful person, don't they?
As soon as papers come down, but
not before, you are allowed to start
your publicity campaign: plastering
College bars, walkways, common
rooms and toilets with posters,
'providing enough leaflets to paper a
small ballroom, speaking to lecture
theatres (preferably full of students),
kissing babies...anything you can
think of, as long as it's within the
election publicity rules. Honorary
Secretary Chas Jackson should have
a copy of these, for your inspection.
At Hustings you are given two
minutes for you and your proposer to
convince everybody that you are the
best thing since sliced bread.
Meanwhile the people you and your
opponents have planted, plus a few
randoms, should submit questions
which will be put to the candidates
after the speeches. When you are
preparing your questions, don't forget
they must apply equally to all
candidates. That's the rule.
There are numerous ways to cheat:
bribery is extremely easy and fairly
cheap. You can, of course, put
promises of how you will make life
wonderful in your manifesto, but I'm
talking about straight cash (or beer)
in hard bribery here. Voting is easy
to rig. You can vote in each
department, as long as you have
enough current Union cards (easy to
obtain), and unless someone twigs
and asks for a register check, no one
will know.
May the best person win!
FELIX Friday February 12th 1988 >

