EVERY
FORTNIGHT
No. 47. 6 t h M A R C H 1 9 5 3 .
O L L E G E
A surprise Rag meeting was called in the Union last
Friday lunch-hour. The crowded Gym was told of I.C.'s plat
to kidnap the three French students who were coming over for
the Reading University Rag. These ladies had been invited
by the men students of Reading to lead their Rag Procession.
Reading women students objected, of course, to this slight
on their physical charms. They appealed to the men of
London Colleges (and i n person to the P.M.) to uphold the
name of British womanhood and protest at the arrival of
these French "lovelies". I.C. were certainly glad of an
excuse for a rag, but they had their own ideas about what
should happen to the visitors. The plan was to "coax" them
to come to the Residents Dinner and Ball on Friday night,
and then dispatch them to Reading on Saturday morning.
FELIX arrived early at Victoria and witnessed the
dramatic entrance of I.C. They were heralded by a subter-
ranean rumbling, then with a crescendo of I.C'., I.C! ( s t i l l
no war cry!) they burst from the Tube stairways and in
seconds had enveloped the station. The leading banner
("Le diable a votre derriere Jacques, I.C. est content")
was hoisted to a place of prominence and I.C. were momentar-
i l y hushed as they learnt, from the newspapers, that the
girls were not coming. Then the men of I.C. looked at each
other with a mild surmise: "'tis a Fleet-Street-Reading Con-
spiracy" and spirits soured again. Singing and chanting
stirred Victoria's rusty frame; banners were set alight
only to be trodden down by the police; police reinforce-
ments poured i n . The train arrived; no French girla.
I.C. dashed to cover a l l exits and would allow no one to
leave the platform. Two young things were reported to be
hiding i n the Customs shed and the Police or British Rail-
ways Staff were suspected of i l l intent. Throughout this
whole "business every one kept in good humour. The public
thought i t a great joke; the porters loved every minute of
i t and the police although pelted with flour bags (not thrown
by I.C., FELIX i s pleased to note) wore broad grins. One
irate tejdman who was losing considerable custom, was heard
to remark, however, "B- lot of hooligans, causing a l l these
b- gates to be b- well closed.
Members of the Staff prominent in the crowd during thia
waiting period were a well-known duffle-coated member of the
Physics Dept. and an equally well-known member of the Maths.
Dept. "Hector1
was also, prominent. "Hector" was a fierce-
looking tiger's head, supported on a pole, which was snarling
viciously at every blue-coated gentleman in sight. This
head was found unaccountably over the entrance to Bines on
Friday morning.
Soon I.C. had to admit that the trio were not on the
train and the Police were able to clear a passage for the
passengers to get off the platform.
The College returned to the Union in two forces. One
walked back, taking a railway trolley and the usual booty,
and lost one member to the Police. The other group travel-
led by tube and were grieved to find that Kensington didn't .
want them, or so i t seemed, for S. Ken. Station was heavily
barricaded. The defences were overcome, for only one mili-
tant portress wielding a broom offered any resistance.
U N I O N P L A N S .
Contemplated additions to the Union came i n for a good
leal of discussion at the Refectory Committee Meeting on
23rd February. The Student Presidents expressed the
opinion that current proposals for two extra floors above
the Union are inadequate; and that a l l should be done to
have a site elsewhere.
A working party i3 to investigate the possibility of
Silwood Park supplying us with fruit, vegetables, poultry
and pigs.
The Refectory looks like having a deficit the same size
as last year's, for while prices have risen, ZCff, less meals
are sold. Food supply costs have also risen. Neverthe-
less, the current meal prices are to be retained. Apprecia'
tion was expressed of the fine work done by the chef in
preparing meals for people returning in the late evening
from Canvey.
The suggestions book in Queenies' i s not being used to
the best advantage. Neither i s the buffet service on Sat-
urday dance nights (the fate of this hangs in the balance).
The Refectory w i l l close from April 1st to 9th inclu-
sive.
Offering from Victoria to Albert
So I.C. gathered near the Union and feeling in need of
spiritual comfort after their disappointment at Victoria,
pleaded movingly for "Music!* outside R.C.M. This came i n
the form of a wavering piccolo and a doleful horn. Thus
revitalised the crowd turned to their old friend Prince Albert
Indeed i t was fitting that they should t e l l the Prince a l l
that had been happening to Victoria. At a second attempt a
police helmet was firmly fixed on the Consort's head, and
ror nearly half an hour I.C. reigned on the Memorial steps
with no Officer of the Law in sight. Then three arrived,
on bicycles, through the pa*- to clear the barriers which
had been put up across the Zebra, to ensure a safe crossing
for the few hundred members of I.C. who wished to pay hom-
age to Albert. More police arrived and an unfortunate scuf-
fle over the barriers resulted i n another member of I.C.
leaving i n a Black Maria.
Meanwhile, tired and disappointed, President MacFie
and Co. arrived back from Dover. They had travelled over-
night, and had scrutinised i n vain the unloading of two
boats from the Continent.
An interesting anecdote i s recorded, about the crowd
which surged past a helpless ticket collector at Victoria.
He managed to stop the last two people of the mob, and aeked
for their tickets, smacking his lips i n anticipation of
prosecution. They produced season tickets! The collector
was at least as surprised as the student who later found
himself travelling along Prince Consort Road at 30 m.p.h.
on a car front bumper; and possibly more surprised than the
Union clocks, which stopped i n protest when a porters'trailer
was carried i n , and have been funny ever since.
In recognition of the excellent conduct of the police
on t h i s , our f i r s t Coronation Year clash, FELIX suggests that
the Rag Committee make a collection for the Police Benevolent
iFund-
ffe print the correspondence which led to the affair at
.Victoria.
President, Reading (Women?) to President, I.C.
HOPE YOUR COLLEGE WILL FOR ONCE SHOW C
O
M
M
O
N COURTESY AND
MEET FRENCH GIRLS VICTORIA FRIDAY DRESS OPTIONAL
President, I.C.Union to President, Reading
ALWAYS WILLING HELP BACKWARD PROVINCIALS STOP sHAT TIME
QUESTIONMARK OUR COURTESY IS FAR FROM C01.M0N
President Reading (men) to President I.C.
UNDERSTAND BIFLMJE/ATORY TELEGRAM RECEIVED FROM READING
UNION COMPLETE HOAX REGRETS
D U K E ' S v i s i t .
The Duke of Edinburgh has expressed the wish that his
visit shall be as quiet end as informal as possible.People
are asked to work normally, and to resist the temptation
to form a crowd of followers.Those who wish to see him are
recommendedto be near the corner of Imp.Inst. Road and
Exhibition Road at about four o'clock on Tuesday afternoon
A f u l l account, with photographs, will appear in the next
issue of FELIX. Photographers .private or otherwise, are
asked not to impede the Duke during his tour.
FELIX offers i t s congratulations to U.L. Correspondent
Roger Fisher who has just been awarded the 25 guinea Sir
Arthur Acland Essay Prize, for his entry "The Problem of
Progress".

