FELIX
LETTERS TCMfHE EDITOR
.Dear S i r ,
So vindictive and unjust were your comments on the
Carnival Cabaret fiasco that they cannot be allowed to
go by unchallenged. Your remarks were unjust because
you placed a l l the blame on those who came up from the
Bar without tickets, thus casting suspicion on many
people who i n fact behaved i n exemplary fashion. You
offered no criticism of the Cabaret i t s e l f .
The "Cabaret" began with a haraseed-looking gentle-
man appealing for one of the actors, who was unaccount-
ably and quite unforgiveably missing. The same gentle-
man returned shortly afterwards to apologize for the
late start. Surely no audience could be expected to
sit through this i n sympathetic silence? Matters were
made even worse by the appearance of a frowning John
Harding, looking l i k e a severe Headmaster, who told us
that the Cabaret would not begin until the noise had
stopped. Next there appeared from between the curtains
a disembodied face, sporting a large moustache, whose
owner seemed to be either reprimanding us or issuing a
further apology. It later transpired that he was the
unfortunate victim of circumstances and no-one i n the
audience could be blamed for misinterpreting his func-
tion.
When at last the curtains opened f u l l y , to reveal
John Harding with Joe Lockyer at the piano, the audience
f e l l silent and gave an appreciative hearing to some
good and excellently delivered songs.
Unfortunately the sketch which followed depended
almost entirely on the ears rather than the eyes of the
audience. It consisted largely of two characters chat-
ting amiably to themselves and was quite unsuitable for
the occasion. It contained too many dispirited scenes -
on several occasions when the curtains were closed our
hopes of a merciful deliverence were almost immediately
shattered by the curtains parting again to reveal the
same rather static scene.
It i s absolute nonsense for you to write of "louts
i n f l i c t i n g their coarse and sottish habits on a crowd of
revellers waiting to hear the carefully prepared enter-
tainment of more tasteful a r t i s t s on the stage." Most
of the audience wanted to see people - preferably people
they knew well - performing some act which was funny to
watch - slapstick of some kind, perhaps. This should
have been anticipated by the B.C.S. Entertainments Com-
mittee .
Your idea of chuckers-out i s i n any case ludicrous,
as the "brutes" to whom you referred were not so "spon-
taneously senile" that they could have been chucked out
easily. In fact i t would probably have been a case of
the chuckers chucked.
This i s by no means the f i r s t time that a Cabaret
has been given a noisy reception, and the emphasis i n
your remarks i s out of a l l proportion to the importance
of the incident.
lou wrote that the "louts" seemed unaware of the
hard work which goes into the production of a Carnival,
So does Felix, judging by the unkind comments published
about the decorations, which I thought were worthy of
high praise. Congratulations to the tasteful a r t i s t s
•
w
h
o prepared them.
F i n a l l y , I hope that the brutes and louts who burned!
"Amanda" on the Tennis Courts have apologized to the
Tennis Club for their irresponsible action, which might
well have damaged the court surface more than i t actually
d i d
- Yours f a i t h f u l l y ,
Ed. replies T. Total
If I may respectfully submit a correction co your
chronology, the disembodied face which tried to give a
monologue appeared some time before John Harding. I
was seated near the front, and i t was possible for me
to hear the monologue unsuccessfully begun several times.
You were at the back among the noisy people, and i t was
due entirely to their efforts that you were unaware that
the entertainment had started. It was the behavior of
your colleagues at this time which was particularly
objectionable; for once the cabaret was under way the
barracking was l i t t l e worse than normal.
My idea of chuckers out i s , I agree, ludicrous.
Many of your associates would have been very d i f f i c u l t
to remove. Thank you for reminding me.
My criticism of the decorations was, as I explained,
an essay i n objectivism. I too considered the techni-
cal execution worthy of high praise, but I f e l t that,
viewed as an ensemble there was something missing. My
remarks were on the general friendly level which I wel-
come i n criticism of FELIX.
1 join with you i n deploring the tennis court damsge.
You accuse me of being "vindictive". Yet, before I
wrote the E d i t o r i a l comments on the Carnival I had a l -
ready written praising those who went to Canvey more than
once. Some of these people thus found themselves attac-
ked i n one paragraph and congratulated in the next. It
i s the concern of FELIX to present f a i r comment.
There has been a tendency for a certain amount of
rowdiness at our other dances. It i s my opinion that,
when we invite ladies to our Union, we should behave
properly. I do not withdraw any of my comments, though
I am aware that they have done me harm i n some quarters.
Finally, i f you care to come out from behind your
nom de plume, and your friends with you, (those who feel
they have been unjustly maligned) I am prepared to print
your names under a l e t t e r dissociating yourselves from
the actions which made so many sober people shudder on
Carnival Night.
Dear Sir,
Peter Rowe's letter in the last iasue of FELIX
needs a rejoinder, for i t oontains a special plea for the
independence of I.C. as a degree conferring body.My intim-
ate experience i s only i n one faculty (mathematics) of the
B.Sc.(Eng), but from conversations with colleagues i n othe
other departments I have reason to believe that i t i a not
exceptional.
Aa an examiner for the External degree I would aasure
Mr Rowe that the maths syllabus i s not so inflexible as
he thinks, nor are the teachers of the subject so handi-
capped in the institutions which take this degree. Tha
"External" has a number of defects , as these teachers
(and I) are aware, but weakness in teaching and i n exam-
ination i s not among them.Naturally thoae univeraity
institutions which are s t i l l growing up would much pre-
fer to have their own degrees, instead of being subject
to the London External degree. But the "rub" comes most-
ly in the field of autonomy.
Mr Rowe wishes the external degree to be equivalent to
i t s internal counterpart'. Speaking for the B.Sc. (Eng)
there i s the 'General Internal' degree and the 'Special
Internals" at four Colleges. Moderators appointed by
London University in the various faculties do their best
to ensure that there i s equivalence in the 6 examinations
without any hampering rigidity. Their conscientioua
efforts prove reasonably successful: Moreover, a 'Co-
ordinating Board' i n mathematics, (consisting of exam-
iners in the 6 examinations together with the moderator)
meetB annually to examine problems of examination pro-
cedure. In fact, the dire results Mr. Rowe decries do
not exist. Admittedly there i s room for improvement but
this will be achieved through informal methods which have
characterised London University for so long.
The latter part of Mr. Rowejs letter i s more pertinent
"Imperial College i s large enough and sufficiently well
established to stand alone". This has the familiar ring
of nearly 30 years ago which saw an earlier drive for a
technological university of South Kensington awarding i t a
own degrees". Whether this would "attract more academic
individualista" and whether such an influx l a desirable are
mattera of opinion. The teaching staff under tha "respon-
sible Professor" have considerable latitude in teaching
even now and the moderational system above referred^ to goea
a long way to ensuring that standards are safeguarded.
It i s when this plea for independence i s linked with
expansion of the College that there are signs of danger.
The great gain in tha Government pronouncement of last
January was the announcement of the deciaion to expand sons
existing technological department a of Universities instead
of building a new technological univer8ity or tha institu-
tion of a purely degree (or diploma) conferring body.
Imperial College i a not the only college due for expansion;
nor i s i t the only college of London University doing tha
B.Sc. (Eng.) degree.
The work of expanding the College w i l l be a test of state
jmanship for many years to come, taxing resources of patience,
'jgoodwill and negotiation - from the Governing Body to those
thought of as lowest in I.C. hierarchy. In my opinion i t
would be folly to rupture the good relations between the
Senate House and Imperial College ao splendidly built up in
recent years by pressing for independence. London Univer-
s i t y through i t s Court and in other ways, endeavours to deal
Jfairly with i t s constituent Colleges and our College i s
xortunate in benefiting from the personal touch. The
strife engendered by such a move for independence would not
be worth the candle. The work of the 3 colleges forming
I . C / i s well-known, the qualifications they confer are
[honoured 'labels' end there would be no gain, either to stu-
dents or to the College, in a 'new fangled' degree. London
University has a long and fine tradition and its degrees have
a h a l l mark' the world over.
As one who has been a member of the teaching staff for
(over 30 years and remembers the days before 1926 when the
College had, perhaps, a better claim to press for a separate
University status I would urge Mr. Rowe to think again.
Yours sincerely,
A. J. Hatley
Daar Sir,
Our President, Fred Spriggs has bean invited to
represent London on a delegation which the Student Labour
Federation i s sending^to the U.S.S.R. for a fortnight in
the Easter vacation. There are seven people in the party,
and I understand that four, apart from Mr. Spriggs, are not
in the Party.
This i s an excellent opportunity for aoquiaition of
some first hand knowledge of Russia; and we hope to obtain
the support of a l l students in I.C. A meeting i s to be
held soon to disouss aspects on which our man should oonce
entrate (assuming he has any choice in tha matter), and we
extend a cordial invitation to anyone who wishes to attend
Details w i l l appear on the Pol. Soc. ncticeboard.
Yours etc.,
A.S.J.Farrow
Hon. Sec. I.C. Socialist Group.
The extent to which research in guided missiles nas
progressed was demonstrated in a most unexpected quarter on
Tuesday the 24th - in the Geology Dept.' A veteran pram,
but complete in a l l i t s essentials, suddenly appeard there
in the afternoon, marked "To Dr. Gwyn Thomas, in anticipa-
tion - this year? Next year? Sometime?" On dismantling,
no trs.ce could be found of any radio apparatus. It remains
an unsolved mystery, as not only did the pram propel itself
to the second floor, but perched most precariously on a
cubic rock which has been there for a long time. The aid
of Callaghan Investigations i s being sougnt, Holmes having
declined to investigate.

