10
SCIENCE
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
Long-awaited results from the LHC
Kelly Oakes Science Reporter
ChengyuanZhang ScienceReporter
Today, the main religions of the
world hold the belief that God creates
through evolution. What if evolution
created our belief in God?
The claim is not as absurd as it
sounds. After all, religious belief itself
is a massive conundrum. Religious
ideas are common to all cultures of
the world despite the fact that we can
never hope to verify these beliefs. To
use an analogy akin to Russell’s teapot,
if I told you that there was an invisible
pink flying elephant called Percy orbit-
ing my head, then the chances are you
would not believe me and most people
would either ask for proof or attempt
to verify my claim.
However, we are persuaded to be-
lieve when it comes to stories of su-
pernatural beings walking on water,
miracle healings and the power of
foresight, which all seem to contradict
the laws of science. It has been shown
that in times of hardship such as in the
aftermath of the Wall Street Crash of
1929, humans are more inclined to-
wards religious belief. So why do we
believe?
This is a question which has largely
evaded scientific enquiry up until now.
Right from the beginning, even Darwin
himself skirted around the question in
his consideration of natural selection.
The fact is that subjecting religious be-
lief to scientific enquiry is very much
taboo and always has been. Religious
belief has always been a puzzle to
scientists.
When Dawkins’ reductionist view
on genetics is considered, then some
of the values which religion embraces
such as altruism and charity would
offer no benefit to the individual
through the course of evolution. If we
are indeed, only vehicles for our self-
ish genes, then why would our genetic
make-up favour acts of one-way altru-
ism. It is seemingly nonsensical.
Many scientists have put forward
hypotheses about religious belief. Al-
though, as Stephen Pinker highlights,
very few scientists would point to the
existence of a ‘God gene’ or a ‘God
module’ in our brain, many evolution-
ary biologists are now beginning to
view religion in the context of evolu-
tion. The idea is that religious belief
provides a functional advantage to
the individual who believes and thus
increases that individual’s chances of
surviving and passing on their genes
to the next generation. This idea does
not appear too far-fetched when you
consider the placebo effect in medi-
cine. Studies have suggested that some
drugs such as the pre-operative anxi-
ety-relieving drug diazepam do not
function unless the patient knows that
they are being given it.
Karl Marx has described religion
as the ‘opiate of the masses’. Indeed,
one idea is that religion makes us
feel better about our lives and also
gives us purpose in life. Religious be-
lief might also allow us to feel as if
we have some control over different
aspects of the world – after all, this
might be where beliefs such as mira-
cle healings stem from. In fact, it has
been shown that belief does indeed
have physiological effects on the
The LHC has been subject to much
media coverage and criticism since it
was started up last September only to
break down little more than a week lat-
er, but the first results from the record-
breaking particle accelerator are finally
in. Admittedly, nothing earth-shatter-
ing has been discovered yet, but the
turnaround speed of the paper alone
must be a record.
The first collisions took place
on Monday 23rd November and
since then the twin proton beams
have reached an energy of 1.18TeV,
smashing the previous record of
0.98TeV. Researchers working on
ALICE, one of the six experiments
within the LHC, however, took data
from some of the very first collisions
when the protons were circulating
at only 450GeV per beam. They had
their paper accepted by the European
Journal of Physics just 8 days after
the collisions took place. Presumably,
most of the paper was already writ-
ten before the LHC was even fired
up, with gaps left to fill the results in
when they came.
Before being accepted by the Euro-
pean Journal of Physics, the paper was
published online at arXiv.org, an open-
access repository for scientific papers
not yet published elsewhere. Anyone
interested in the paper can read it on-
line, but be warned, you’ll have to skip
to page 6 to even get to the abstract
due to the list of authors (over two
pages worth) and involved institutes
(more than 100 in total).
In the paper, Aamodt and col-
leagues describe how some 284 events
recorded in the first collisions were
used to measure something called the
pseudorapidity density of the charged
particles. Pseudorapidity is used in
particle physics to describe the angle
of the particle beam relative to the
axis. This may not sound very excit-
ing, but the ALICE collaboration are
pleased as the results agree with the-
ory and previous experiments, mean-
ing that the LHC is working well and
should provide high quality data to
work with when they get to the really
interesting stuff.
The first super high energy colli-
sions at the LHC are on track to start
in early 2010, and will reach energies
of 3.5TeV per beam.
body, particularly whilst engaging in
ritualistic dance, such as the release
of cortisone and endorphins by the
body, natural painkillers.
This point is reinforced by recent
research conducted by EXREL (Ex-
plaining Religion) - a research group
set up to scientifically investigate the
phenomena of religious belief. This
group has taken a big step in break-
ing down the barrier which had for so
long made the scientific enquiry of re-
ligious belief taboo. As Dr Steve Jones
explained in a lecture given on ‘Nature
vs. Nurture’, EXREL uses a term called
‘religiosity’ to classify a person’s will-
ingness to believe. EXREL also utilises
fMRI (functional magnetic resonance
imaging) and PET (positron emission
tomography) scans to see which parts
of the brain illuminate in religious and
non-religious people. An interesting
finding is that the levels of dopamine
in the brain affect religiosity and peo-
ple with Parkinson’s disease are less
inclined towards religious belief.
Furthermore, as the philosopher and
sociologist Emile Durkheim argues, re-
ligion acts as ‘social glue’. It keeps peo-
ple together and gives people a sense
of community and belonging. This
would have been particularly useful in
the early hunter-gatherer environment
or even as primates where sticking to-
gether in a tight-knit cohesive group
would have conferred an advantage to
each individual in the group in terms
of survival. When considering evolu-
tionary game theory and the famous
prisoner’s dilemma, there will be fewer
Can science explain religious belief? Apparently so...
individuals who defect.
Ludwig Feuerbach may have been
right when he argued that “God is a
projection of the human mind”, but
not all scientists agree that religion
is an adaption. Many scientists view
religion as a by-product of the evolu-
tion of the human brain. Indeed, it is
possible to map the different ‘phases’
of religious belief i.e. the development
of religious belief, alongside the devel-
opment of the human brain through
the course of human evolution. Es-
sentially, our brains evolved to fulfil
an entirely different function and as
a result, religious belief emerged as a
by-product. Some scientists feel that
it could be linked to our propensity to
believe in things we are told as a child.
As an example, take red blood cells.
The fact that red blood cells are red
is a by-product of the evolution of the
cells themselves. Red blood cells are
red as a result of haemoglobin which is
required to carry oxygen in the blood
– evolution creating the haemoglobin
molecule gave us red blood.
Whilst religion may have been used
to subjugate the masses throughout
history or as an excuse for a politically-
motivated war, such that many people
including Dawkins would question the
benefits of religion in a modern-day
society. Whilst the ‘God Delusion’ may
be the case, belief can be rationally and
scientifically explained and it raises
the question of whether religious be-
lief is ‘the path of least resistance’ and
whether it is atheism that requires ac-
tive thought and effort.
Over a year since the first ‘switch-on’ and several setbacks later, CERN finally delivers first results from LHC
Result: After just eight days, the ALICE team had the data needed to sumbit a paper to the European Journal of Physics
A chicken and egg situation: Is science the cause of our beliefs?

