12
POLITICS
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
Copenhagen
Conference
O
n December 7th be-
gan the 11-day 15th
United Nations Cli-
mate Change Confer-
ence, held in the Danish
capital, Copenhagen. Although, if that
comes as news to you, where have you
been for the last few months!
This has been in the press since
March, when the UN Climate Science
Conference was held for current glo-
bal research into climate change to be
shared and presented to the decision
makers.
Since then, news of the ‘run up’ to
Copenhagen has grown, and in the last
few weeks there has been a torrent of
stories, with many, unfortunately, not
looking at the climate issues at all, but
on rumour and slander, which will only
make those undecided upon whether
climate change is happening more
sceptical.
The media has a duty to educate the
public into the matters that will affect
their lives.
This is possibly going to be the most
vital decision to our future ever made,
and the public need to know what’s
going on, with accuracy, to be able to
pressure their government into mak-
ing the right decisions. The media has
failed in this respect.
Trying to find a news story explain-
ing exactly what is being debated is like
trying to find a needle in a haystack.
Instead are ‘Climategate’ stories – spin
on hacking at East Anglia Climatic Re-
search Unit, and the like.
I guess here at Imperial, we are open-
minded enough to listen and think
through media bullshit to believe that
climate change is happening, whether
it be due to Nature, Man or a mix-
ture of both. But whatever the cause,
we’re in trouble and we have to sort
this out. Lets hope so anyway. Al-
though at times I do wonder… Outside
these walls is a wide world, where that
doesn’t always happen.
On Tuesday 8th, I attended a lec-
ture / debate at the Royal Society of
Chemistry titled ‘Chemistry, Energy
& Climate Change’. I won’t go into the
presentation as I’m sure you can guess
its contents, but what sticks in my
mind is that during the debate after the
lecture, someone asked, and I quote,
“There was a time, before oil was laid
down millions of years ago, that all that
carbon was in the atmosphere. What’s
wrong with putting it back there?”
Fail.
Now, this being the RSC, he was
laughed at, but in the general public,
this kind of thing is quite common,
with something like half of the pub-
lic still unsure about whether climate
change is happening and whether we
need to be worrying about it. Scary
that, isn’t it…
This conference is the political fol-
low-up to the science conference back
in March. We scientists have armed the
politicians with the information neces-
sary to save the world; now we need to
see if they actually will. The decisions
they need to make will be hard and un-
popular, but taking the popular, easy
way out will be catastrophic.
The main aim of the conference is to
agree to a global cut in greenhouse gas
emissions, chief among which is CO2
.
By how much, is the key issue. There is
a lot of optimism going into the confer-
ence, with big pledges from countries
on their intended cuts. The EU pledg-
es to cut greenhouse gas emissions by
20%, by 2020, the emissions of 1990
levels. Japan by 25%. Australia by 25%,
from 2000 emissions levels.
Interestingly, the United States of
America has put forward some of the
biggest pledges of all. The US did not
sign up to the Kyoto Protocol back in
1997 at the 5th UN Climate Change
Conference, the agreement to cut
emissions by 5.2% by 2012, those of
1990 levels. Without the US, who in
1990 were responsible for 36% of glo-
bal CO2
emissions, the Kyoto Protocol
was a bit pointless, even though the re-
sults are promising.
Now, the US is pledging a 17% reduc-
tion by 2020, a 42% reduction by 2030
& an 83% reduction by 2050! That
is truly incredible. Let’s be honest,
Obama is a dude!
One of the main stumbling blocks
has been that developing countries
argue that development is a very en-
ergy-intensive, and therefore emissive,
process.
Developed countries have been al-
lowed to say ‘to hell with emissions’
in the face of development in the past,
why now, when it is our turn, are we
not allowed to? That’s a fair com-
ment I think, but those leaders have
to be mature enough to realise that
the world has changed, and that is no
longer possible.
But there is promise in this field too,
as India & China both pledge 20% &
40% cuts respectively in greenhouse
gas emissions by 2020, from 2005
levels.
The conference finishes on Decem-
ber 18th. Keep a keen eye on the press
that day. Wade through all the crap
and find out what has been decided.
Because that decision will affect your
life, your children’s lives, and every fol-
lowing generation.
We know now that, whatever is de-
cided in the next week, we will be cut-
ting emissions, and we will have to
change the way we live. Realise that we
have no other choice. How much we
change, we find out then. How much
we need to change, I am guessing, is
more that what is going to be changed.
But then these are politicians we are
talking about…
Anyway, all that is left to be said in
this final issue of the year is Happy
Christmas, and a Wonderful New Year.
For those of you with exams next term,
and, being Imperial, that’s most of us,
the very best of luck.
PhilMurray Politics Editor
James Goldsack
Think Tanks should think more
James Lees
Political Christmas
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond,
Leader of the SNP, has been accused
of politicising Christmas.
He has revealed his Christmas card
for 2009 which features a picture enti-
tled “A New Journey” by Scottish art-
ist Gerard Burns, portraying a young
girl carrying a Saltire (Scottish) flag,
looking over a winter scene.
Mr Salmond described the image
as “an enchanting and evocative im-
age by a talented artist” and added
that “the proceeds from the sale of the
canvas will be shared equally between
four extremely worthwhile charities,
CLIC Sargent, Glasgow the Caring
City, J-A-C-K Foundation and Mary’s
Meals.”
Opposition MSPs have accused Mr
Salmond of politicising Christmas by
using the Saltire in his card.
Scottish Conservative chief whip
DavidMcLetchieaccusedMrSalmond
of being “blind” to reality and having
an obsession with independence.
“For the overwhelming major-
ity of Scots, Alex Salmond’s so-called
‘journey to independence’ is a road to
nowhere.”
The Scottish Liberal Democrats
have also criticised the card with the
party’s chief whip, Mike Rumbles,
The think tank Demos has called on
the government to bring into action a
‘civic service’. The idea is that people
would be obliged to perform work oth-
erwise thought of as voluntary work
such as being a community support
officer.
The scheme would be aimed at
young people, 18-24 year olds, both
those at university and at work or un-
employed with the aim of making us all
more employable and building a sense
of national altruism.
Demos estimated the scheme would
cost £450m and could be payed for by
increasing the interest rate on student
loans. So not only does this ‘think tank’
believe we should be forced to do vol-
untary work, we should also be paying
for the privilege.
Not only is this outrageous on princi-
ple, it also makes no sense whatsoever
financially. The justification for pass-
ing the cost of the scheme onto gradu-
ates is that Demos have randomly
decided that graduates earn £600,000
more over their lifetime than someone
with 2 A-levels.
This is just wrong. Until recently
the government believed that a gradu-
ate could expect to earn in the region
of £400,000 more over the course of
a lifetime. This figure has since been
revised following a report from Lord
Browne to a figure much closer to
£100,000, this report having been com-
missioned as part of an investigation
into the state of higher education since
the instigation of tuition fees.
Another ‘highlight’ of the think tank’s
report was the idea that young people
who have not gone to university should
be able to take on loans at the favour-
able rates we recieve, though of course
they are also required to perform the
100 hours of community service.
In the report, Demos have also sug-
gested that companies would be forced
to allow workers a week off to perform
the same kind of voluntary work. The
report sounds as if it is set on ruining
our economy, filling us all with nation-
alist pride and making everyone feel
equal. I suspect a Marxist plot.
Politics Editor
Politics Editor adding: ““I’m sure people would be
more impressed if the first minister had
thought about the message of Christ-
mas rather than spent time picking out
the most nationalistic Christmas card
he could find”.
A spokesman for the First Minister
dismissed the attacks on the Christ-
mas card from “party poopers”, say-
ing: “Messrs McLetchie and Rumbles
should lighten up and get with the
Christmas spirit. They are obviously
badly in need of a festive break”.
The Christmas card in question
Forced labour camps may become part and parcel of being a student in the United Kingdom if these plans go ahead

