14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
Last arts of the
decade
RosieMilton Arts Editor
D
ear Merrymakers, as I
am sure you are all ea-
gerly aware, the end of
term is fast approaching
and the jolly holidays are
on their way! Of course I am upbeat
for you all, even though I also know
this time of year is exhausting! First
term nearly out the way, we have all
been working hard, and perhaps would
benefit from a little bit of festive fun.
Something that I think is worth doing:
taking a trip around the city Christmas
tree spotting! There is a plethora of lit-
up and baubled beauties around pub-
lic squares and in buildings. I would
recommend going to the unveiling of
Tacita Dean’s tree at Tate Britain this
Thursday, the design of which as yet
has not been disclosed! The tradition
at Tate (for the last 22 years) to provide
a Christmas tree has seen a variety of
interpretations of the tannenbaum,
and hopefully this year will not dis-
appoint! In the meantime, for me ‘tis
the season for plays and evening trips
to the theatre (well at least to the odd
musical as well) and my co-editor Caz
Knight has seen plenty to share with
you this week in her reviews, including
a treat of a play to kick off the season’s
festivities.
This week also features her review
of the illustrious Anish Kapoor exhi-
bition at the Royal Academy and also
a recital-cum-exhibition at the Queen
Elizabeth Hall. And now, from all of
us at felix Arts, ‘we wish you a Merry
Christmas, and a Happy New Year’!
See you next term!
...and it was all yellow
Caz Knight takes in vortexes and colour at the Royal Academy
A
cloud of reflective, silver
spheres ascends from the
courtyard of the Royal
Academy and marks the
beginning of Anish Ka-
poor’s takeover of the Academy’s main
galleries. For the artist − one of the
most influential of the last thirty years
− has most definitely made his mark
through this self-titled exhibition in
which the sculptures themselves are as
much implemented in their own crea-
tion as the artist is.
Kapoor wants to give us both a phys-
ical and psychological experience, ex-
ploring the concepts of form, space and
colour. The pigment works from the
1970s have the dusty, delicate texture
of velvet and challenge the notion that
colour is merely an object’s outer layer.
Kapoor demonstrates that colour can
hypnotise and take one into a reverie,
intoxicating us. Yellow takes up an en-
tire wall and makes it seem as if we are
staring into a yellow vortex as the wall
of the gallery seems to be sucked into
a vacuum, at the same time subverting
form as all we can see is the hazy out-
line of where the wall might be.
His works in the adjacent room also
escape form and make the notion of
space obsolete. Non-objects, a collec-
tion of concave, convex and curved
mirrors, bend us, stretch us and
squeeze us making us feel like we are at
a fun fair in the hall of mirrors. We see
ourselves reflected on their surfaces
yet we appear two dimensional and as
if in a parallel universe (not dissimilar
to ketamine intoxication).
Anish Kapoor is captured by art that
is ‘self-generating’ and contributes to
its creation. From the ephemeral Non-
objects, we progress onto the violence
in Shooting into the Corner, where a
canon blasts a twenty pound red wax
shell onto the walls every twenty min-
utes creating a powerful bang and a
splattering of red wax. This process
continues for the duration of the ex-
hibition and now, after almost three
months the effect is wonderfully remi-
niscent of the wave of blood emanat-
ing from the elevator in Kubrik’s The
Shining. Even more impressive is the
work entitled Svayambh (Sanskrit for
Merry f**king Xmas
The Christmas feeling is a drug... Caz Knight reviews hidden gem
The Night Before Christmas at the Hen and Chicken’s Theatre
U
p the Victoria Line to
Highbury and Islington,
then out the tube and
down the road and you
arrive at a small and cosy
pub, with Christmas stockings hanging
above the fireplace and lights decorat-
ing the festive interior. This is the Hen
and Chicken’s theatre bar. The theatre
itself is tucked up a narrow set of stairs
in an even smaller studio space, the
setting for the Signal Theatre Compa-
ny’s production of Anthony Neilson’s
‘The Night Before Christmas’.
Pulled from his bed on Christmas
Eve, Simon is dragged to his friend
Gary’s warehouse to see what he has
found among the boxes of stolen toys
and merchandise: an Elf! Rather, an
“employee in an international present
distribution agency”. Trying to con-
vince them that he is, indeed, an Elf
and not a burglar, Simon and Gary
learn more and more about the true
Christmas spirit (it’s a drug sprinkled
in the homes of children and only felt
by virgins) with things becoming more
complicated and more comical upon
the arrival of Gary’s “scrubber”, Cher-
ry, played by producer and co-creator
of the Signal Theatre company, Kellie
Batchelor.
This short little play is packed full
of quick paced dialogue, superb jokes
and just the right amount of smutty
humour without relying on any of the
cheesy slapstick that abounds in most
modern comedies. The cast makes a
brilliant team with all four perform-
ers adding their own spark to the play,
acting with energy and quite clearly
enjoying every minute of it. Watching
the play is so delightful and easy; this is
how theatre should be and how it defi-
nitely would have been for audiences
watching Shakespeare’s plays back in
his day.
Such an intimate and unassuming
setting makes for a much more unique
and special experience and The Night
Before Christmas with its enthusias-
tic and warm cast fitted the location
perfectly. An ideal way to spend an
evening away from the throngs of tour-
ists and tides of the usual theatre-goers
in Theatreland. If only more theatre
was like this. I urge anyone and every-
one to spare an hour and go to this hid-
den gem of a production regardless of
how much of a Grinch you are!
The Night Before Christmas is on
Tues-Sat 9.30pm until 19th December
at the Hen & Chicken’s theatre.
Tube: Highbury & Islington
Students £10
‘self-generating’) which sees a colos-
sal wax block shuttled at a snail’s pace
(it takes one hour and a half from one
end to the other) up and down through
three of the gallery’s rooms, leaving
in its wake a smearing of red wax and
bringing to our minds all our own as-
sociations with the colour red.
Other rooms house sculptures which
range from the massive, twisting mar-
ble Slug to the ‘scatlogical’ Greyman
Cries, Shaman Dies, Billowing Smoke,
Beauty Evoked where Kapoor has used
a three-dimensional printer that ejects
cement to create these piles by input-
ting a design into the machine. All his
works dominate the classical white in-
terior of the Royal Academy, with their
monochrome colour of reds, yellows
and bronzes contrasting magnificently
with the stark white walls. Anish Ka-
poor’s exhibition leaves you with the
feeling you have fully engaged with his
sculptures and experienced something
quite different from any exhibition you
have seen before.
Ends today Friday 11th December
I
n 1870 composer Modest Mus-
sorgsky and artist Viktor Hart-
mann became friends, sharing a
devotion to the cause of Russian
art. But four years later Hart-
mann died of an aneurysm leaving his
good friend distraught. In his memory,
Mussorgsky commissioned an exhibi-
tion in St Petersburg of over 400 of the
artist’s watercolours, many depicting
locales from his travels around Europe.
Inspired by such a vast collection Mus-
sorgsky composed the suite Pictures at
an Exhibition − a soundtrack to these
images; an imaginary tour of the ex-
hibition with the movements named
after ten of the paintings and flowing
in a way as a viewer might through the
exhibition.
Joined by their fascination for Pic-
tures at an Exhibition, internationally
acclaimed pianist Leif Ove Andsnes
and artist Robin Rhode have collabo-
rated to bring us Pictures Reframed,
combining the skill of Andsnes’ piano
playing with the ingenuity of Rhode’s
drawing, performance and video. Such
multi-media collaborations may seem
modern and, some may say, preten-
tious, but it is clear that such an idea
of art inspiring music and then the two
being combined dates back well over
one hundred years!
The Queen Elizabeth Hall pro-
vides an ideally comfortable setting in
which to enjoy such sumptuous play-
ing teamed with the playful black and
white sequence of Rhode’s sketches
and video, themselves projected onto
large screens behind the stage on
which sits the majestic grand piano.
Eighty minutes without hearing or see-
ing a word, in either their vocal or writ-
ten form, only added to the powerful
impact of both artists’ work.
Disappointingly, Robin Rhode was
not present for the introductory talk
but perhaps this only reinforces the
mystery about him; his face is never
revealed in his sketches or his videos.
As well as music from Pictures at an
Exhibition, Andsnes astounds us with
his sheer technical genius as he also
plays a suitably childish ‘Kinderszenen’
by Schumann, fitting in with the chil-
dren present in Rhode’s work. Lighting
designer, David Weiner, lit the stage
perfectly, revealing only the pianist’s
face and hands and the keys on which
they played - highly reminiscent of a
work of Rhode’s Keys, which was on
show this time last year at the Hay-
ward Gallery in his exhibition ‘Who
Saw Who’.
What a treat it was to hear the velvet
sounds of the piano and at the same
time look upon Rhode’s work which
became ever more comical with a vid-
eo of a chicken being chased and final-
ly ending as we watched a grand piano
being slowly engulfed by water as the
tide comes in; a wonderful evening out
on London’s South Bank.
For an example of Robin Rhode’s
work, go to:
http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk/
minisite/robin-rhode/
A lovely piano soiree

