15
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
FOOD
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Holly Cumbers explores the origins of our favourite Christmas meal, and recommends a winter-warming drink
How our Christmas feast came to fruition
O
ne of the main things
about Christmas is get-
ting together with fam-
ily and friends to have
a Christmas dinner. I
thought it would be a nice idea to ex-
plore the origins of the Christmas feast.
The Christmas feast has been around
since the Middle Ages. However it
was during the Victorian period that
the Christmas feast that we are all so
familiar with was developed- as part of
the general transformation of Christ-
mas. For the Victorians, the Christmas
feast was the highlight of the day- peo-
ple weren’t concerned about presents
but were really keen to celebrate with
friends and family over a large feast.
At the end of the nineteenth century
turkey became a popular Christmas
dish. Previously, people would opt for
goose and beef (just imagine Boxing
Day without turkey sandwiches!). Ap-
parently people in the North were likely
to eat beef, whereas people in the South
tended to eat goose. The main reason
why turkey became so popular was that
it was a good size so would feed every-
one in the family.
The plum pudding also has its origins
in the Victorian period. This was one
of the greatest rituals of the Christmas
period. It would have been home-made
- the whole family might have been in-
volved in the great joy of making it - and
then hung in a sack for several weeks.
It was served by the head of the house-
hold who put a sprig of holly on it and
set it alight - this is really fun and some-
thing I suggest you all try at least once
in your lives. The Victorians even put
rings, thimbles and coins in the pud-
ding - if you bit into the portion with
the ring this meant you would be get-
ting married in the near future, if you
found yourself eating a coin it meant
wealth and if you were lucky enough to
get the thimble it meant you would re-
main single. It is a shame that nowadays
most Christmas puddings are bought
from a supermarket and just shoved on
the table. In addition to the Christmas
pudding there was also a Christmas
cake and mince pies.
So this Christmas when you are tuck-
ing into your Christmas feast be sure to
think of the many generations who have
sat around to eat their Christmas din-
ner. Long live the Spirit of Christmas!
One of my favourite parts of Christmas is drinking mulled wine
either at home or at a Christmas market. The drink is full of gor-
geous Christmas spices and as it is served hot, it really warms
you up on a cold winters evening. The drink is also fun to make
and can make you feel extremely Christmassy.
1. Into a saucepan mix together 115g sugar, 2 wine glasses of
water, 5 cinnamon sticks, a few cloves, ginger and one orange
zest. Bring to a boil, then simmer for 15-20 minutes (stir regu-
larly) until it becomes a thick syrup.
2. Add 1.5l port wine to the mixture and stir. Increase the
temperature until the mixture is piping hot but make sure that
it does not boil.
3. Then it is ready to be served - how easy is that! Enjoy with
friends!
Mulled Wine - enough to make all a tad jolly
Start here.
Get there faster.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy
An equal opportunity employer
Visit us at oliverwyman.com
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy. We combine deep industry
knowledge with specialised expertise in strategy, risk management, organisational
transformation, and leadership development.
You can apply to either or both of our distinctive career tracks with one application:
Financial Services Management Consulting

General Management Consulting

Please apply online at www.oliverwyman.com/careers
Application deadlines
Full time:
Internships:
20 December 2009 for January 2010 offers
28 January 2010 for February 2010 offers

