20
FILM
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
Lies abound in the excellent Mascarades
JadeHoffman
There’s a kind of dread that surrounds
adaptations of classics, especially
when it comes to childhood treasures
like Maurice Sendak’s widely-loved
book, Where The Wild Things Are.
How can a group of Hollywood film-
makers possibly do justice to these
fragile relics from your childhood?
And what if they can’t?
These must have been thoughts
close to Sendak’s heart. Published
in 1963, it has taken more than forty
years for him to pick director Spike
Jonze for the much-contested op-
portunity to craft a feature film from
this book. When he did, however,
he did so with an unusual amount of
trust and abandonment, encouraging
Jonze to reinvent it as he saw fit, and
to morph it into his own unique style.
The result is this: a visually stunning
world that is unexpectedly raw and
emotionally-charged.
After the film had finished playing,
Spike Jonze fidgeted in his swivel chair
and pulled up his bright red socks when
they slipped down. Of course, the Being
John Malkovich director would be able
to pull off a film like this but surpris-
ingly, Sendak actually had to convince
him to take the project on board as
Jonze, who had himself loved the book
as a child, did not feel he could. When
he did though, it was with a vision of
making it less about the Wild Things as
monsters, but embodiments of those
wild and strong emotions you grow
up struggling to understand. After an
argument with his sister and mother,
Max (portrayed magnificently by Max
Records) runs away and encounters the
Wild Things who are neurotic and par-
anoid, scared and confused. Like a foil
for Max’s own frustration and fears,
they magnify everything he’s feeling;
bouncing between elation and despair
in seconds. And that’s the thing that’s
so striking about this film, it’s personal
and intense and thus described as not
so much a film for children, but about
childhood .
Not just from Jonze’s interpretation,
either, but from co-writer Dave Eggers’,
too. Eggers’ debut book charted the
years of his life following his parents’
death which left him to raise his 8-year
old brother at the age of 21. He was
not a screenwriter when he worked on
this project with Jonze but his input is
clearly felt in the precise and powerful
dialogue (although this does, disap-
pointingly, sometimes verge on expo-
sitional). On the subject of the film’s
five-year production, Jonze says, “A
lot of the people who worked on the
movie hadn’t done things like this be-
fore.” And it shows. Not in a technical
sense, the film itself is extremely well-
cast and comes with a superb sound-
track from Yeah Yeah Yeahs’ very own
Wild Thing, Karen O, but in the un-
fettered earnestness that colours this
carefully shaped film. It does not cut
corners: before getting his voice cast
together to record, Jonze took them
– James Gandolfini, Forest Whitaker,
Catherine O’Hara et al. to have a real
dirt clod fight in a nearby park so to
give Max Records something to react
to when filming without the puppets.
Jonze would perform spontaneous
stunts like “shooting the sound direc-
tor with a fire extinguisher”. Didn’t he
also learn to eat fire? Jonze smiles and
nods, “Badly.”
But maybe this passion is also where
the film falls down. It is so burdened
with the personal contributions of the
whole cast and crew that it sometimes
struggles to hold itself together. As the
film progresses, you get the sense of
its direction being pushed around by
all these different intentions. It causes
the focus to slip occasionally, and can
sometimes be quite overwhelming;
a sort of too-many-cooks situation.
However it’s rather difficult to blame
them for this though. The adaptation
has been one of the most anticipated
films of its kind, and it’s the attention
to detail that makes it so impressive.
From the Wild Things’ puppets (as
built by Jim Henson’s workshop) to the
spectacular cinematography featuring
truly beautiful sets against the back-
drop of the Australian landscape, Jonze
has created something here which is
touching, enthralling and really quite
powerful.
French-Algerian production Mas-
carades is an independent film cur-
rently undergoing a limited release at
the ciné lumiére in South Kensington,
and if you get chance to see it, I highly
recommend that you do.
Lyes Salem writes, directs and
stars in this tale of Mounir, an Al-
gerian man stuck in mediocrity and
mocked by his friends. However one
drunken night he fabricates a lie
that his narcoleptic sister is to be
married to a wealthy gentleman
and finds himself trapped
in a masquerade that he
finds increasingly dif-
ficult to end. His sis-
ter also happens to
have other ideas; she
plans to marry the
local laughing stock
Khliffa, but this
doesn’t go down
too well with
Mounir. Mounir
finds his lie gives
him a power
and a sense of
worth which he
is reluctant to
relinquish. But despite his flaws, un-
derneath it’s obvious he is a devoted
family man.
Salem’s first feature length film is
funny and charming. The whole thing
oozes a character driven warmth
which will make you connect with
the small town Algerian setting in a
way that will have you pining for the
simple life. The performances are not
only believable but highly relatable
and demonstrate that however dif-
ferent our backgrounds may be, we
all struggle with the same prob-
lems. Be it needing validation
from our peers, being stuck in
a lie that has grown out of
control, or being in a
TimDavies relationship that others disprove of.
Mascarades has already garnered a
positive response from critics, having
won ‘best Arab film’ at the Cairo film
festival and ‘best film’ at the Dubai
film festival. Lyes Salem has shown
with his first feature film that he is
one to watch out for, and if you find
yourself hankering for a bit of World
cinema during the Oscar season I’d
advise you to head on down to the
Ciné lumiére and check this one out.
Competition winners
Congratulations to James Juillard-Maniece
and Coranda Berry who won last week’s
competiton. James Cameron is the director
of the upcoming Avatar
In next term’s issues:
More features including: ‘A guide to
London’s best cinemas’, ‘A guide to the
Oscars’ and ‘How to blag being a film
geek’
A news column for all the juicy film gossip
Regular listings for film releases
Plus we will review Avatar and its
implications for the future of 3D and CGI
Step inside the wild imagination of Spike Jonze

