21
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
The top fifty films of the decade
10. District 9 (2009) Neill Blomkamp
A controversial choice perhaps to be considered as one the ten best films of the decade. The highly enjoyable plot is an
analogy to the real life treatment of Zimbabwean refugees in South Africa, only replacing the refugees with 7” tall prawns.
The frantic plot is maintained by well choreographed action and the ultimately selfish protagonist Wikus is one of the
most realistic anti-heroes ever committed to celluloid. Entertaining and thought-provoking, a balance hard to get.
9. City of God (2002) Fernando Meirelles
8. Gladiator (2000) Ridley Scott
7. Children of Men (2006) Alfonso Cuarón
6. No Country for Old Men (2007) Coen Bros.
5. The Proposition (2005) John Hillcoat
4. Oldboy (2005) Chan-wook Park
3. Brokeback Mountain (2005) Ang Lee
2. There Will be Blood (2007) Paul Anderson
1. Memento (2000) Christopher Nolan
50 - 11
Film Editor Ed Knock presents his choices, if you disagree, then tell him at film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Set in a violent slum of Rio de Janeiro known as the ‘City of God’, this film does not rely on the plenty of uncompromising
violence that inhabits it. Instead the personal relationships between characters shines through including nice touches
such as the banana dildo conversation and the leaving party in which every clique of society is introduced. The film blew
away critics and made Brian de Palma’s Scarface look silly in its gritty depictions of gang warfare with a touch of style.
How Ridley Scott reinvented the ‘Sword and Sandal’ epic is no mystery. Combining a great script and breath-taking com-
bat scenes with incredible special effects, Gladiator thrust Russell Crowe into the ‘A’ list of actors. It took several viewings
until I noticed the intricate plot and full appreciation of the supporting talent of Oliver Reed and Djimon Hounsou. Let’s
not forget the magnificent reproduction of Colosseum and the immortal lines “On my command, unleash Hell!”
Released to little fanfare but then slowly gaining critical acclaim and some commercial success, Children of Men has to
be one of the best made films ever. The dystopian future is vividly imagined, more creative than the shiny skyscrapers of
Minority Report and more believable than the perpetual darkness of Blade Runner. The plot slowly builds momentum
resulting in the greatest tracking shot of all time presenting over 5 minutes of pure cinema gold.
Based on the Pulitzer Prize winning novel by Cormac McCarthy, No Country for Old Men is most memorable for one
man - Javier Bardem. His portrayal of sociopath who goes beyond any rational thinking gripped audiences across the
world and he deservedly one an Oscar for it. Let’s not forget the perfect pacing of the film by the greatest two directors to
have emerged in the last twenty years, Joel and Ethan Coen , and combined with stunning cinematography - film ecstasy
A relatively unknown film placed so far up my list? Hollywood was so impressed by John Hillcoat savage Australian pio-
neer drama they gave the new Cormac McCarthy adaption of The Road for him to direct. The Proposition contains a stellar
cast of Guy Pierce, Ray Winston, Danny Huston, John Hurt and Emily Watson. The film is daring and adventurous but
masterfully directed with loving attention to detail of the violent landscape of 19th Century Australia.
50. Anchorman
49. Downfall
48. The Wind that Shakes the Barley
47. Amelie
46. Borat
45. Being John Malkovitch
44. Lost in Translation
43. Into the Wild
42. Love Exposure
41. Hotel Rwanda
40. Wall-e
39. Traffic
38. 28 Days Later
37. The Lives of Others
36. Billy Elliot
35. The Curious Case of Benjamin Button
34. Casino Royale
33. Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon
32. Crash
31. Inglourious Basterds
30. Thank you for Smoking
29. The Fellowship of the Ring
28. The Pianist
27. Control
26. This is England
25. Finding Nemo
24. The Bourne Identity
23. In Bruges
22. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
21. Battle Royale
20. Waltz with Bashir
19. Donnie Darko
18. The Constant Gardener
17. Pan’s Labyrinth
16. Slumdog Millionaire
15. The Dark Knight
14. Dead Man’s Shoes
13. Spirited Away
12. The Departed
11. Requiem for a Dream
The best film out of the Lady Vengeance trilogy, Oldboy gave Chan-wook Park an international reputation and intro-
duced Korean cinema to Western audiences. An intricate plot with so many mind-blowing twists and turns revolving
around the theme of vengeance and an ending so shocking that you finish the film wondering if you should have enjoyed
it. Well yes you should have, the immortal image of Dae-su holding an hammer will be ingrained in your memory for ever.
It’s so wrong to brand this film as ‘Gay cinema’ and therefore only good because of its brave portrayal of a homosexual
relationship. The film is masterfully directed and contains delicate performances by Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal.
The story of a secret and forbidden love is hauntingly tragic as the decades span and the two lovers realise that their an-
nual finishing trips are simply not enough to be happy. Outrageously, its Oscar was given to Crash.
‘I drink your milkshake!’ has now entered the common pop culture vocabulary and it’s easy to see why. The theme is
greed, be it money or religious exploitation. Daniel Day Lewis’ Oscar winning John Huston impersonation is the driving
force of the film and his performance rivals Robert de Niro’s in Taxi Driver. People complained of the lack of plot but this
film is a character study into the dark heart of capitalism leading to a crescendo of immorality in the explosive finale.
Two films with Guy Pierce in my top five, some might say I have a man-crush on him. However Memento has to be top
film of the decade. The backwards plot is beautifully constructed and it requires repeat viewings to fully appreciate the
intricate plot and the twist at the end will leave you dazed for weeks. Joe Pantoliano soon finds himself out of his depth
as he exploits the severely amnesiac Pierce who can’t make new memories and so tattoos the ‘facts’ on his body. Genius.

