22
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
Gadget gifts to make
your Christmas break
A couple of great gadget gift ideas for the tech-crazed in all of us
Turkey, booze
and gadgets
W
hat does Google hate
more than adblockers?
Slow web browsing of
course, and that’s what
Google has been targeting with its
recent round of services. Google’s as-
sault on the slow web kicked off with
the now ubiquitous Chrome, which
this week made its way in beta form to
OSX and Linux, joining Windows.
Next up in the onslaught was the
announcement of SPDY, a replace-
ment for HTTP that is meant to speed
up webpage delivery by two-fold. For
those not in the know, HTTP is the
standard that allows webservers and
your browser to talk to each other.
It’s an interesting development for
sure, everyone likes more speed and
Google’s proposing an implementation
where HTTP and SPDY work side-by-
side. Will this be a Google Chrome-
only enhancement? I don’t know but
one day you might just be typing spdy:
instead of http: into your address bar.
Google wasn’t done however with
just the computer server interconnect;
its next target was the DNS. Google
unveiled its public DNS service which
it claims can speed up your browsing
experience by using Google’s index-
ing power. A DNS acts like an address
book by matching the alphabetic char-
acters you type into your address bar
as a URL to the IP address of the web-
server you’re trying to reach. Normally,
this service is provided by your ISP or
company servers and operates totally
transparently meaning you’ll probably
never notice it. Sometimes, your ISP
will change the ‘page not found’ mes-
sage to something they provide; Virgin
Media for instance does this as another
way to serve you ads.
Google reckons that due to its expan-
sive knowledge of the world’s websites
thanks to its indexing and crawling
of every website on the planet for the
last decade, its DNS service is not only
much more comprehensive, but also
faster than your ISPs. Sounds great in
theory; after all, the faster you can turn
your URL into an IP address the faster
you can pull down a webpage - but is it
any use in the real world?
Recent offhand testing by myself as
well as others around the web have
shown that Google’s public DNS is at
least as fast as your ISPs. Whether it’s
actually any faster is pretty difficult
to determine, thanks to all the vari-
ance produced by differing connection
speeds, pings and traffic loads. You
might find Google will resolve that
URL for you faster than your ISP at
peak times, so perhaps it’s worth try-
ing out on a case-by-case basis.
You might ask why Google is do-
ing all this just to speed up your web
browsing experience; what’s in it for
them? Well, Google being the world’s
largest online advertising service
makes its money by getting eyeballs
on ads. It’s done this through qual-
ity search and all the other services it
provides such as Gmail and Gdocs.
By speeding up the web experience of
your general internet user, you can get
them more and more hooked onto the
internet. You can serve them more ad-
verts faster and keep your advertisers
paying more by providing better and
better targeting of their adverts. It’s all
about ads and money, not some higher
purpose.
This term saw the felix technology
section brought to you by myself, Sam-
uel Gibbs, along with Feroz Salam
and Simon Worthington, Technology
Reporters with guest articles from Ben
Smith, felix Photographer. If you think
you’ve got what it takes to write arti-
cles for the felix Technology section
and want to join a growing team, then
send me an email to:
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Weekly Wrap-up: A quick guide to the best of the rest you might have missed
It’s almost Christmas and everyone is
waiting with baited breath to see what
the Christmas gadget of choice is going
to be. My money is on the iPod Touch
or the iPhone, but I wish it was the
Printer Toaster.
Yes, you read that right; the Printer
Toaster toasts your bread, one slice at
a time, using a bread feeder mimicking
an ink jet printer. Genius.
Technology at large is predominant-
ly built around visual interaction, but
what happens if you’re blind? Braille
isn’t exactly easy to create dynamically
but the Squibble pocketable Braille
interface aims to change that. Using
779 ultrasonic motors to push illu-
minated caps against a silicon over-
lay, the Squibble allows phones and
other Bluetooth-enabled devices to
be controlled using Braille letters and
other easy-to-understand icons. The
pocket-friendly device even has audio
feedback and a grip that allows you
to read the Braille without having to
put it down, unlike some other Braille
readers.
OK, so hybrid cars like the Prius are
pretty dull. They might help you save
the environment - even that’s debat-
able - but why can’t you have a car that
doesn’t look like a box on wheels whilst
you’re at it? Well, Capstone might just
answer your prayers with the CMT-
380 hybrid supercar.
Looking like a cross between a Cor-
vett and the Batmobile, the 380 boasts
impressive specs. How does 0-60MPH
in 3.9 seconds grab you? That’s not
all either, as it’s got a top speed of
150MPH and an 80 mile cruise range
on just battery power. The most un-
conventional aspect of the Capstone
has to be the diesel microturbine in the
back, rather than a conventional inter-
nal combustion engine. So what’s the
catch? How about a $200,000 asking
price? Not exactly student-friendly, but
if anyone has a rich parent with money
to burn and the Earth to save, maybe
suggest they buy you one to cruise
about London in.
Fusion Garage, the manufactur-
ing partner of Michael Arrington’s
CrunchPad has unveiled what they’re
I
t’s that time of year again, yes it’s
Christmas! The time for family
gatherings, gorging on rich food,
sloshing it down with lots of drink
and passing out in front of the telly.
OK, so not everyone loves a Christ-
mas like the Royal Family, but I can
guarantee that pretty much everyone
loves presents and what makes a better
present than a gadget?
It’s not even just the tech-enthused
that love a good gadget at Christmas
either. Your sister, your Mother or even
your Dad probably got something like
an iPod for Christmas at one stage or
another and while they might not see
it, that’s a gadget!
So to mark the occasion, we here in
the tech section thought we’d put our
heads together and come up with our
favourite gadgets for Christmas.
OK, so Simon’s not the biggest of
Apple fanboys on the whole, but even
he can recognise a top-quality piece of
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor calling the Joojoo. Yeah, it’s a stupid
name, but the device itself has some
real potential. According to Fusion
Garage, the device which is essentially
a web browser tablet was already un-
derway before Arrington stuck his oar
in. Whether that’s the case is anyone’s
guess, but the Joojoo runs a UNIX-
based custom OS, weighs just over
1kg and wields a 12.1” capacitive touch
screen. With a 9 seconds boot time,
4GB SSD, WiFi, an accelerometer and
about 5 hours surfing time per charge,
it all sounds good until you hit the
price: $499. Ouch. Pre-orders are be-
ing taken from December 11th, but at
roughly £308, I can’t see it being as big
a hit as the Arrington-promised price
of about $300. I’ll stick with my Dell
Mini 10 hackintosh, thanks.
vironment bespoke to the mini-mar-
vel, but can be programmed from your
choice of Windows, Linux or Mac.
The Arduino comes in several shapes
and sizes down to the smallest of the
bunch, the Nano. Each board can be
programmed to operate on its own, or
in communication with another com-
puter. The little board can also be kit-
ted out with a whole host of sensors
and can react with lights, motors and
actuators giving scope for all sorts of
nifty home-made gadgetry.
If you fancy your hand at a bit of sol-
dering, you can build the board your-
self, or if you’re more of an instant grat-
ification type, buy it pre-assembled.
You’re only limited by your imagi-
nation, but here’s a few examples to
show you just what can be done with
the Arduino. How about Guitar Hero
with giant sensors that you have to hit
with footballs? Or a trippy laser harp
for the ultimate show? Or even a self-
balancing Segway-like robot?
If you need more inspiration, check
out the top 40 best Arduino projects
here from HacknMod: http://bit.ly/
felixtech.
OK, so you may not want to pull your
finger out and have to make something
out of your presents so how about Si-
mon’s suggestion of an iPhone 3GS?
First up we’ve got Feroz’s sugges-
tion of the Arduino. The little beauty
pictured above is an open-source elec-
tronics platform and while it may not
look like much, is the perfect tinker’s
toy. Bursting with potential, the plat-
form couples easy-to-use hardware
and software to enable you to create
things you otherwise wouldn’t have the
skill or the time to do. The microcon-
troller on the Arduino is programmed
using a language and development en-
As for me, well, my perfect Christ-
mas gadget has to be the Philips 21:9.
I don’t know about you, but I love films
and there’s simply nothing on the mar-
ket that can beat the in-home cinema
experience of the Philips 21:9, the only
Full HD TV that matches the ratio of
the big screen. No more black bars top
and bottom and 56” to boot; the per-
fect accompaniment to that fancy Blu-
ray player you’ve got. The only quibble
has to be the £3000 asking price, but
it’s Christmas, right?
technology when he sees it. Sure, the
iPhone may not be the market leader
from a hardware perspective and many
phones now have better touch screens
and better reliability ratings, but the
killer which still makes others jealous
is the App Store.
The quantity and variety of apps
available really blows everything else
away. The apps help transform the
iPhone from a flashy phone and mu-
sic player combo into an indispensable
tool kit. Where else can you instant
message a friend and then flip over to
the complete works of Shakespeare?
Where else can you identify any song
just by a few beats and then solve some
truly solid integration calculations?
And where else can you do it with a
well-built and glossy interface that
ties the whole experience together?
Nowhere else, and that’s why it’s the
number one this Christmas.

