25
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
I
t’s clear now that casual gaming
has started to make a crack in
hardcore gaming. While Face-
book has now grown its gaming
to the point where people are
calling it a ‘platform’, casual gaming
continues to extend in the opposite di-
rection with titles like Plants Vs. Zom-
bies from Popcap games, released this
year to great applause and chuckles
from the specialist media. While this
brand of gaming was originally reviled
by the hardcore, it’s now becoming
clear that it’s a compliment, rather than
competition, for the games industry.
Games like Plants Vs. Zombies and
the superb Musaic Box which took the
“Excellence In Design” award at this
year’s Independant Games Festival
awards are showing that casual gaming
defines the mood of the player, not the
weight of the game. Musaic Box’s laid-
back attitude to itself hid an innova-
tive and engaging puzzle game where
musical compositions were broken
into jigsaws and had to be rearranged
by placing pieces and listening to what
you had put down. No boss battles,
and no levelling system, but still great
design.
Similarly, Plants Vs. Zombies was de-
signed to have strategic depth despite
being a game where sessions could last
for a few minutes if desired. The ‘tower
defence’-style gameplay, now familiar
to gamers thanks to a slew of the games
Popcap have got two complete PvZ sur-
vival kits to give away.
Each includes a copy of the game, a PvZ
mousemat, a “Your Grass Is Mine” t-
shirt and a small gardening kit, to make
sure those pea-shooters stay in tip-top
fashion.
To win, send an email to games.fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk with the subject line
“Alan Titchmarsh Wants My Brain”,
and tell us which plant you’d use to
defend against zombie apocalypse, and
why. The two entries that we deem fun-
niest win!
The closing date for this, and all compe-
titions from this issue is Tuesday Decem-
ber 15th at 6pm.
Win! Plants Vs Zombies Complete Survival Kits
over the last two years, was remixed with
a friendlier face and a kooky humour
that people immediately latched onto.
I’m also hoping that indie developers
might make the jump to casual-style de-
signs in 2010 as a result. We’ve already
seen some very slick and accessible indie
efforts this year. Perhaps next year will
see some crossover.
2009 was a good year for casual games.
More of this sort of thing in 2010, and
the stigma people associate with Farm-
Ville may vanish altogether.
2009 in casual gaming
Bejeweled has sucked away the hours of many gamers, hardcore or otherwise
T
he Internet is a means of
exchanging data over a
large international net-
work of computers. You
may have heard of it. It
turns out is has a great many uses,
including – but not limited to – the
transfer of financial and economic
data, the distribution of gentleman’s
reading material, and the consumption
of electronic videogames material.
Too far? Well, you might think it’s a
stupid way of talking about the inter-
net, but 2009 has had a string of events
that make you wonder if we know what
we’re doing with it any more. It’s like
everyone woke up on January 1st and
looked at all the wires coming out of
the back of the machine and had an
epiphany.
It’s fair to say that digital distribu-
tion is the platform for distributing PC
games nowadays, thanks to an enor-
mously strong showing from Steam,
Direct2Drive, GoodOldGames and
other digital retails in 2009. With the
consoles now catching up, providing
older games for release in their own
dedicated stores, and some limited
new releases too, it won’t be long be-
fore we finally embrace the idea that
storing games digitally is the way to go.
But there have been some bizarre at-
tempts to take the idea too far this year,
the most noticeable of which was the
OnLive kerfuffle that kicked off earlier
in the year, when journalists worldwide
became convinced that we would end
the year by playing Crysis on our mobile
phones at full tilt.
Whoops! OnLive’s idea – that gam-
ing data could be computed off-site and
streamed into your living room – isn’t a
bad one. But the infrastructure for such
a service is so far off as to make it a fairy-
tale right now.
For now, we’d benefit more from uni-
fying the way we store digital purchas-
es. The Steam Cloud fiasco that very
nearly got off the ground a few weeks
ago was all based around the idea that
Valve are putting too much of their
Steam platform into digital releases,
meaning that other digital retailers are
shut out from the process.
It might be boring, but digital retail
has got to the point now where it needs
standards and shared protocols. I don’t
need to buy a special bookshelf for my
Penguin books. There’s no reason to
change things online.
2009 in digital WTFs
OnLive looks set to come back with huge funding in 2010. But will it work?
For the last couple of days I’ve woken
up at 6.45 to get an hour of MW2 in
before uni. I need help. Mario’s prin-
cess is redecorating her castle, Border-
lands is still in the CD case, and Ezio is
skulking in the shadows of Kensington
Game waiting to be bought.
Why the hell am I racking up hours
of MW2 gameplay when I could be
alseep before work? It’s because Infinity
Ward are evil. I’m weak, I like collecting
things, and if you are going to give me lit-
tle badges and keep giving me them, for
just killing people, or even when I don’t,
Shadow Complex is not the Game of
the Year. But being released in a year
that included Left 4 Dead 2, the zom-
bies were going to overpower anything
else. Shadow Complex will just have to
settle with being absolutely brilliant.
I should have hated it. It contains a
felix Games Of The Year
well, I’m going to keep playing until I get
them all. I found all of Twilight Princess’
golden bugs; I can burn as much time
getting a ton of pictures I’ll never use.
Having said that, my favour-
ite game of the
year was re-
ally Flock.
There’s
something
hilarious
about aliens
squashing
cows, pinball
pigs and loved up
sheep...
litany of conventions seen time and time
again in contemporary games: collecta-
bles to lengthen the gameplay, percent-
age completion to lengthen the game-
play, and of course, achievements! To,
uh, compensate for the shortness of the
game. Surely I should have saved my MS
points for virtual hookers instead?
But no: gloriously high production
values, a fluid control scheme, wonder-
ful 2D platforming, fantastic graphics
and a more-addictive-than-crack me-
lee button. The last game I completed
twice was Super Mario 64. I’ve finished
Shadow Complex four times. Shadow
Complex is the most polished, unorigi-
nal game I’ve ever played, and even more
compelling than a vial of Boomer bile.
If I say the latest installment in the
ever-expanding Grand Theft Auto se-
ries, I bet the first title that comes to
mind is simply GTA IV. You are wrong,
I’m afraid. My number one this year is
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars,
which stands out this year for many
reasons. For me, the DS has really
been struggling recently for interest-
ing games, and this Rockstar title was
a massive breath of fresh air. It makes
use of pretty cel-shading-style graphics
and a nice 3D engine to display from a
bird’s eye view, which is very nostalgic
for players of earlier GTAs.
For once, it’s GTA done right! With
interesting and varied missions, sur-
prisingly entertaining mini-games and
none of that ‘going out with friends’
garbage, the series was really taken
back to its roots and is simply more
fun. By the end, I was left with one
striking conclusion which cemented it
as my title of the year: this is the game
GTA IV should have been.
TristanAllwood Wise Man
ThomasRoberts Chief Elf
SimonWorthington Cracker
It’s been a good year for gaming. It’s
clear to see that whatever you game
on, 2009 delivered something superb
for you. Among the many, many games
this year spewed out, one in particular
struck a chord with me.
Torchlight is the cover version Dia-
blo 2 was waiting for. We don’t get
many truly great games that rework an
old concept so successfully, but with
Torchlight we see every aspect that
makes a hack-and-slash RPG so great
reflected upon, refined and remade in
a better, simpler or more engaging way.
The inventory system is improved.
Spells work more fluidly in combat.
The drip-fed weapon upgrades edge
closer to that sweet spot of gaming ad-
diction. It’s visually clean, it’s simple
to control, it’s everything a game of its
genre should be, and more.
It’s the most exciting game I’ve
played all year. Go get it.
MichaelCook Mince Pie
Runic Games has Torchlight: to give
away to you guys. Email: games.fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk telling us why
caves are awesome. Make us smile
and win a copy of the game!
The closing date for this, and all com-
petitions from this issue is Tuesday De-
cember 15th at 6pm.
Win Torchlight!

