26
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
x
Climate and tubes conspire against Polo
...but the show goes on for the sport of kings, says Carlotta Ridolfi, as the club offers a free session.
T
he event had been planned
for weeks. The entire Rid-
ing and Polo Club com-
mittee combined in a
massive effort to give a
FREE polo trial to ANYONE that fan-
cied a go, even those who had never
ridden a horse, and they say polo is an
elitist sport…
The list was made, the food was
waiting at the club (vegetarian op-
tion included) and the horses (and
our kindly manager and coach Ollie
Browne) were up and ready to go by
sunrise. As we made our way to meet
at the Union I’m sure I wasn’t alone
in casting an apprehensive look at the
sky – DROP. Drop, drop, drop, drop.
Perfect – it started raining. I thought
to myself “It’s OK, the people will have
left their houses by now, there’d be no
point turning back for a few drops of
rain”. Luckily I got to the Union just
in time to avoid the torrential show-
ers that seemed to be engulfing South
Ken, and the rest of London including
Belmont Polo Club, our venue in Mill
Hill at the end of Northern line.
Surprisingly enough about 2/3 of the
people that had signed up arrived! As
we waited, the waters calmed and the
rain settled in time for us to head for
the tube. I should have known that
we’d lose recruits – the rain and the
idea of muddy fields could have put
them off a tad, who knows. Seemingly,
apart from a couple of fallen pawns,
the battle was not lost and we appeared
to be doing fairly well. Had I believed
in destiny, I would have known that
what was about to happen could only
have been fate. The driver makes an
announcement: “This train has been
diverted due to signal failure: it will
not be going to Mill Hill East anymore”.
UGH! Alright change train, quick. We
do, but our powers, and those of TfL,
were nothing to those of the weather –
all we could do was take a bus. All take
out their iPhones, Blackberries, Nokia
E71s, ANYTHING to look for an alter-
native route on the dreaded buses. We
found one – it added an hour and a half
to the expected journey time, with two
buses – the second we JUST missed.
Injured and scarred we arrived vic-
torious at our final destination – Bel-
mont Polo Club. The lucky few that
had left before us or made their own
way via alternative routes were casual-
ly riding on their ponies, happily hold-
ing a mallet and swinging it in the air
as Ollie, Jon Matthews and Alex Savell
painstakingly explained the art of the
game. Jon Matthews, one of the club’s
top polo fanatics comments, “The are-
na was quite a sight with six people on
horses and sixteen people being taught
the basics of the polo swing on foot.”
The much-needed BBQ courtesy of
Belmont was up and running and the
Argentine beer was proving a great
success. Even though we got there so
late, everyone got a go on a horse, eve-
ryone (or a good part) loved it and to
add the cherry on the cake, the sun even
started shining.
Polo is one of the most dangerous,
high-adrenaline sports in the world.
The rush you get from playing and the
pure excitement of the game outweigh
the risks, which in the end add to the
experience, leaving you with a semi-
permanent natural high many hours af-
ter you’ve played. Am I claiming polo is
like a drug? Yes indeed. It’s addictive, it’s
fast, it’s fun and it promotes a beautiful
bond between two species: humans and
horses. These join forces to outcompete
their opponenents in the game. The
horse in fact, counts for 70% of the skill
of the game. Polo ponies are amongst
the most beautiful and well-kept horses
in the world. They’re powerful, slender,
agile, and exhibit impressive displays of
acceleration and manoeuvrability. They
can stop , turn and go with such rapid-
ity and grace the human is left looking
rather demeaned. Their responsiveness
to commands leaves you in awe of them,
and it doesn’t take long to tune in with
their mind – they want to play as much
as you do, and enjoy it as much as you
do. It takes a bit of time, but after the
horse and the player share a common
objective – there is no power that will
stop them. To tell the truth, most of the
time the pony plays a lot better than I
do (amusing really). But once you try
it, you don’t want to stop, and though it
takes a lot patience and practice to mas-
ter a sport (in polo’s case also quite a bit
of money) I am prepared to sacrifice it
all just so I can play. Fortunately for me,
polo at Imperial isn’t that expensive:
probably one of the best deals in town.
Interested in joining? Email: polo@
W
e are the newly cre-
ated Ukrainian So-
ciety of Imperial.
Our aim is to pro-
mote a positive im-
age of our country abroad, especially
in the UK. We plan to organise social
and cultural events, such as exhibitions
of contemporary Ukrainian artists, at-
tending concerts of Ukrainian and
other Slavic singers and bands as well
as to celebrate traditional holidays. We
will also attend talks/invite speakers
talking about topical issues of inter-
est related to Ukraine, and encour-
age discussions between our society’s
members.
We are composed of Ukrainians,
those with Ukrainian roots and other
Slavic and non-Slavic people interested
in our culture. We are open to anyone
wishing to learn more about Ukraine,
its history, politics, economical issues,
language and traditions, and anything
else related to it. We will consider any
suggestions of possible events to or-
ganize, and as long as there are enough
enthusiasts, it should be possible to ar-
range them. We will also try to provide
support to our members in terms of
UK visa information and job applica-
tions. Furthermore, we would assist
those wishing to apply to Imperial
College, as representatives of it in our
home country.
We are going to work together with
other UK university Ukrainian Socie-
ties and the Association of Ukrainians
in the UK to organize joint themed
events. Also we are planning to inter-
act with various businesses, and po-
litical and cultural institutions to gain
support, find interesting speakers and
build a network of Ukraine-related
organizations.
Our first event being organised is the
introductory Christmas dinner, when
the members and the committee will
all get a chance to meet each other in
an informal setting, and come up with
ideas about what sort of events the
majority of people would be interested
in. Following on, the committee will
work on putting those thoughts into
practice, which would be implemented
next term. One project we are already
working on is inviting a contemporary
Ukrainian painter to have an exhibi-
tion at Imperial. Our official website
is also being completed and will be up
An introduction to the Ukranian Society with Olga Sotulenko
and running soon. There you’ll be able
to view our events and contact us to
drop some ideas.
Overall, we hope that all the current
members of the society will enjoy taking
part in it. Also that with time we will at-
tractmoremembers,whowillbegintoap-
preciate that Ukraine is not just some cold
country in Eastern Europe where people
drink vodka, and that Ukrainians are not
simply people who stick together, but that
it is actually a great place with interesting
people!
Already thrilled?! To discover more,
please join our friendly Ukrainian Society,
andwewillmakesureyouwillnotregretit!
Interested? join on the union website
for only £2!
imperial.ac.uk

