27
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
IC Symphony Orchestra excel at their Winter Concert
Elgar would be proud that music and science are not as different as you might think, with William Cowley
A
fter winning the title of
‘Orchestra of the Year
2008’ in the inaugural
SymphUni national com-
petition, ICSO might
have been expected to rest on its lau-
rels. On this occasion the orchestra
surpassed itself in a performance of
much subtlety and great joy that was
very well attended.
Edward Elgar lived in Kensington for
a while after his wedding at Bromp-
ton Oratory in 1889 and would have
been familiar with the buildings of the
Royal College of Science. The Queen’s
Tower was completed just before the
composition of Cockaigne, and Elgar
would have been delighted to know
that a young orchestra would give such
a confident, but sensitive, perform-
ance of his music a century later in a
concert hall just a few yards away from
the tower. He would have been even
more delighted to find that the orches-
tra contained several chemists - he was
an enthusiastic amateur chemist, with
a patent for a device producing a rea-
gent required for qualitative analysis.
(When he lived in Hereford he had his
own laboratory where he produced at
least one large inadvertent explosion.
Fortunately, when he moved to Lon-
don, he confined his experimental sci-
entific interests to microscopy). The
Cockaigne overture, describing the
parks, the pageantry and general good
fellowship of London (features that,
fortunately, are still discernible) de-
mands excellence from all the sections
of the orchestra, but the brass section
had the best opportunity and took it,
giving a bravura performance.
Many composers (and Mozart in
particular) are reputed to have enjoyed
playing the viola rather than the violin,
possibly because of the satisfaction felt
at contributing more expressively to
the harmony, but Haydn, Mozart and
Beethoven did not compose concertos
for solo viola. Both Benjamin Britten
and his teacher, Frank Bridge, were
violists, but neither wrote a concerto
for the solo instrument. Only very
recently has the repertoire expanded
appreciably under the influence of Yuri
Bashmet. So we are grateful to Franz
Hoffmeister, Mozart’s Viennese con-
temporary and very talented friend,
who wrote two (now neglected) con-
certos for viola. Congratulations are
due to whoever put it into the pro-
gramme. The soloist for this perform-
ance, Duncan Anderson (Viola Section
Principal for ICSO), gave an impecca-
ble account with sufficient power never
to have been submerged by the orches-
tra. As Hoffmeister intended, we were
shown the mellow tones of the viola
and, particularly in the closing rondo,
its great agility. The two intricate and
demanding cadenzas in the concerto
were composed by Franco Gulli (1926-
2001), an Italian-American violin vir-
tuoso. The soloist negotiated them,
apparently effortlessly, with great skill.
On the basis of this performance, the
D major concerto is unjustly neglected
and your reviewer will be looking for a
recording.
I thought I knew the Rachmaninov
second symphony pretty well, but the
orchestra, under the deeply informed
direction of Richard Dickins, showed
several felicitous features of the or-
chestration that I hadn’t noticed before
and he drew some beautifully turned
phrases from the strings. From the
beginning, it was clear that we would
be treated to the passionate kind of
performance that the music needs and
that a young orchestra can provide.
The precision of the playing came
out very well in the whirling fugato of
the second movement. The beautiful
main theme of the third movement
(Adagio), on the clarinet of the section
principal, could not have been better
played. It was sensitively done, with-
out too much rubato, and the wood-
wind section as a whole subsequently
produced lovely decoration. The last
movement (Allegro vivace) is a mag-
nificent edifice with a glorious theme
for the strings and is also a great joy for
the brass section. At the conclusion,
the large audience was drawn into wild
applause. The symphony, without the
traditional cuts, took about an hour.
With a performance of this quality, one
is left regretting that it all had to end.
The new style of the programme
booklet, with several high definition
colour photographs of the orches-
tra, soloist and conductor and text
that is easy on the eye, is very much
appreciated.
The audience at the Johannesburg
International Mozart Festival is in for
a great treat when ICSO gives a few
concerts, including Cockaigne and the
Rachmaninov symphony, over a long
weekend at the end of January. ICSO
is a great ambassador and not just for
IC. The England Cricket Team will
just have concluded their tour of South
Africa and their results will depend on
the pitches - but the ICSO pitch is al-
ways perfect!
Email: icso@imperial.ac.uk
T
here are two kinds of peo-
ple in the world, parti-
tioned by how they react
when facing adversity.
Those of the first kind ac-
cept that life is not always easy, react
with good cheer and a can-do spirit,
and ultimately overcome. Those of the
other sort moan, grumble, and ulti-
mately buckle.
There was no shortage of adversity
on the recent trip to Cadair Idris. The
mountain is 893m high and lies at the
southern end of Snowdonia national
park. It is notable both in Welsh his-
tory and mythology: Dafydd, the last
Welsh Prince of Wales, was captured at
its foot in 1283, while those who sleep
on its slopes are supposed to wake up
either madmen or poets. Frankly, giv-
en the weather we faced, you’d have to
be a madman to ascend it in the first
place.
The trip started well. The club de-
parted the metropolis on the Friday
evening for the long drive to Wales. As
we approached the border, the weather
started to turn; by the time we arrived
at the cabin, it was raining quite heav-
ily, and the unloading of the van was
hurried so that we could take shelter.
As we settled into the cabin, the radio
informed us that we had arrived during
the worst storm of the year. Excellent!
We love a challenge.
During a brief break in the rain,
Mireia and I took the chance to go out-
side and admire the sky; with few lights
around, you can see thousands of stars.
The night sky is one of the things I miss
about living in the city, and so becomes
one of the best reasons for leaving it.
During the night, my snoozing was
interrupted by thunder and lightning:
just the sort of thing you want to hear
when you’re going hiking the next day!
The wake-up call was exceedingly
gentle: no great hurry, porridge cooked
for you, plenty of time for faff. The
rain was pelting down, but we eagerly
donned our waterproofs and set out in
good cheer. As there were thirty of us,
the group soon divided in two; I stayed
with Alex, while the other half took a
different route under the trusty stew-
ardship of Jim.
One of the things I found odd about
the English when I moved here was
how much less chatty they are, com-
pared to my fellow Irishmen. It has
taken me a few years to understand
that it isn’t that the English are trying
to be rude; it’s just that they are a bit
more reserved, and once you get past
that they are as friendly as anyone
else. By contrast to the usual stand-
ard in London, the Fellwanderers are
the friendliest bunch of people I have
found at Imperial. I am not a sociolo-
gist, but if I were to hazard a guess, I
would hypothesise that it is because
when you are going out in a storm for
half a day, it is much more pleasant to
converse with your companions than
glumly march in the rain. When you
know that you will be talking for sever-
al hours, you are much more willing to
partake in tales, yarns, digressions and
tangents. It really does work: the time
always flies, regardless of the weather.
The weather was indeed atrocious.
The rain lashed down unforgivingly on
the slopes, soaking everyone. In those
kinds of conditions, waterproofs are at
best approximations, and within some
hours everyone was wet. We walked to
the rhythmic squelch of soggy socks.
The approach to the summit is cov-
ered in scree, a haphazard accumula-
tion of broken rock fragments that
make for a treacherous path underfoot.
The rocks jut at odd angles, shift and
rotate as you put your weight on them,
and generally make themselves a nui-
sance. Most of us tiptoed tentatively,
testing the next rock before commit-
ting, but Valdas sauntered along, un-
concerned about the ground under-
foot, as though he were on his way to
a ball.
The best part of the trip was un-
doubtedly the scramble to the top. The
rainfall had engorged a stream running
down from the summit, so it mean-
dered aside and through the route up
we were to take. At times, the moun-
tain presented an angle of sixty degrees
to the horizontal, and we regularly had
to use our hands to maintain balance
while we sought the next toehold. For-
tunately, the wind was to our backs,
and halfway up the approach the rain
lessened, then stopped. By that point,
the drum of the rain had passed into
white noise, and it took several min-
utes for me to even realise that the rain
had waned. Near the top we even saw
blue sky, for the whole of ten seconds!
We finally ascended the mountain,
to find that the winds on top were in-
credibly strong. While Mathieu took
the photo of me at the trig point on the
top, I held on out of genuine fear that I
would be knocked over. If your camera
were held in the palm of your hand, it
actually would have been blown away.
Fortunately, some clever fellow had de-
cided to build a hut on the top: it might
have had five centimetres of water on
the ground, but at least it gave shelter
from the wind. We huddled and shiv-
ered and ate our sandwiches.
The way down wasn’t much easier.
On the descent, the wind was so strong
that you had to compensate for it when
you were planning your next step; when
it would gust or weaken for a moment,
your planning went awry. With the
wind came a lashing spray, which stung
the side of your face. Everyone walked
with their hand to their eye.
On the lower slopes, the weather
eased, and we got some beautiful views
of the Welsh coastline from the side of
the mountain. By the time we got back
to the cabin, everyone was drenched
but smiling. I braved a cold shower in
the cabin and sat around the fire to
dry myself out as I waited for dinner.
There is a wonderfully satisfying feel-
ing that comes from being warm and
dry after braving such conditions: not
only do you feel glad that you achieved
what you set out to do, but the contrast
between the fresh memories of dis-
comfort and your current situation en-
hances the whole experience. Between
the roaring fire and the good company,
the time until dinner passed quickly.
Jim cooked an exquisite chicken and
leek stew, followed by apple pie and
custard. I went to sleep happy.
We also walked on the Sunday, but I
am confident that you have gotten the
idea by now.
Despite the weather, or actually be-
cause of it, I had an awesome time. The
most striking part? No one moaned for
the whole weekend. If you are inter-
ested in adventure, the outdoors, and
good company, then the Fellwanderers
appears to be the club to join.
Patrick Farrell joins the Fellwanderers in a Welsh storm

