4 felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS FEATURE
U
niversity chiefs, namely
the Rector of Imperial
College (Sir Roy Ander-
son) and the Vice-Chan-
cellor of Cambridge (Ali-
son Richard, who former IC Deputy
Rector Sir Leszek Borysiewicz is due
to replace, reported on last week), have
come under criticism for living rent-
free in multi-million pound homes
while many other academic staff face
job cuts.
The current Rector lives in a £6 mil-
lion flat on the South Kensington cam-
pus while Alison Richard of Cambridge
lives in a luxury £3 million seven bed-
room suburban lodging. Chiefs have
come under fire from critics who ask
whether the six figure salaries in addi-
tion to the accommodation awarded
to the top University positions are
justified.
The response given by Universities
is that chiefs are often required to en-
tertain guests and prospective donors
using their homes, so they are consid-
ered work premises. Sally Hunt, general
secretary of the University and College
Union argues ‘’staff faced with losing
their job being asked to accept a real-
terms pay cut and teaching more and
more students will, understandably, be
less than impressed at vice-chancellors’
lavish lifestyles.’’
She continued, ‘’they do not inhabit
anything like the same world as their
staff. Thanks to inflation-busting pay
rises in recent years, an incredible 71
of them now earn more than the Prime
Minister.’’
As critics call for end to luxury for University chiefs,
Alex Karapetian investigates the Rector’s standing in all of this
The academic pay in Universities
rose faster than the national average in
2007-2008, with turnovers matching
those of major businesses. According to
the Higher Education Statistics Agency
(HESA), average UK academics earned
salaries of around £43,486, while the
average professor earned £69,870. Im-
perial has applied about 150 job cuts
in medicine and languages. The vice-
chancellor of Sheffield University earns
£219,000 and is required to live in a four
bedroom villa called the Croft, worth
£950,000. Sheffield also plans cuts of
340 jobs.
A report on University standards was
issued by Phil Willis MP, whose com-
mittee said ‘’I do not believe that, given
the remuneration of vice-chancellors,
there is a need to have expensive pri-
vate accommodation, although it may
be different if the building is historically
attached to the University.’’ Imperial’s
response is that ‘’leading a global Uni-
versity is not a nine-to-five job. The flat
is part of a larger residence used for a
wide range of academic and commer-
Sir Roy
Anderson’s
flat on Queen’s
Gate is said to
be worth £6
million, and he
is the second
highest paid
University chief
in the UK.
“The world can only be
grasped by action, not
by contemplation.”
MPhil (Masters) in Management
Open Day
January 19th 2010, 9:30 - 13:00
Judge Business School, University of Cambridge
Jacob Bronowski, University of Cambridge 1927-1933
This innovative one-year programme is designed for those
who have not previously studied business or management,
but have the desire to become future business leaders.
In one of the world’s foremost centres of academic
excellence, you will have every opportunity to enhance
your knowledge and career prospects, while establishing
an impressive network of international contacts.
If you are a high achiever holding, or expected to gain, a first
class honours degree, we invite you to register for attendance
to our next Open Day on January 19th 2010. Here you will
have the opportunity to learn about the programme from
Course Director Dr Helen Haugh, take a tour of the
prestigious Judge Business School, interact with
current students, experience a sample lecture and
participate in a Q&A session with faculty members.
For programme information, go to
cambridgemphil.co.uk/management
To register for the Open Day, go to
cambridgemphil.co.uk/openday
cial purposes and includes flats for vis-
iting academics.’’
Imperial has undertaken major re-
forms of their academic pay scales,
beginning in 2001 under the Rector
at the time, Sir Richard Sykes, where
the minimum salary for lecturers rose
from £20,267 to £28,319 and the mini-
to recruiting, retaining and properly
rewarding our high calibre academic
staff.’’ The pay reforms continued in
2002 where the minimum for senior
lecturers and readers was increased
to £35,249, as was the maximum to
£43,000. Director of Human Resources
at the time, Chris Gosling, said that
‘’these changes continue the roll out of
our policy to improve the recruitment
and retention of high quality academic
staff’’
.
The question which remains to be
answered is whether maintaining these
six-figure salaries is justified enough
to make job cuts elsewhere, and if not,
how the job cuts can be justified.
Although critics condemn such high
figures for University chiefs, one must
consider the competition for recruiting
high quality academic staff and the po-
tential deterrence pay cuts may cause.
Furthermore, one ought to consider
the effect such a deterrence may have
on the internal structure of the Univer-
sity, should the top positions no longer
be occupied by the best staff.
mum for professors rose from £39,004
to £45,000. This, he said, was to ‘’retain
our position as one of the top research
and teaching institutions in the world’’
by ‘’removing the barriers which exist
£193,970: The average
University Chief’s salary
£373,000: Sir Roy Anderson’s
salary
£600,000,000: Annual
turnover of Imperial College
IS THIS LUXURY RIGHT?

