6
COMMENT
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
I
t may have come to your at-
tention that in the last month
something rather unique hap-
pened. I am not referring to the
rather wonderful weather but
the appointment of two ‘unknowns’
as the president and high representa-
tive of the EU. Appointment rather
than election as no votes were cast? I
always thought voting was the positive
control for polling. What has struck
me though in the last few weeks and
indeed the run up to this whole event
has been the media interest in it all.
The need to whirl up some news and
fill the never ending comment pages of
the internet blogs and opinion pages
has lead many to musing on the pos-
sible candidates for these positions.
Once again it is interesting that any-
time there is anything to do with any-
one being chosen the media seem to
designate a favourites list and give us
a 5 line biography for each one of the
supposed chosen ones. Of course even
from the start of such articles it is nev-
er left to your own thoughts who might
be the current favourite. Journalists
tend to give us halfwits a rather clear
tip as to who the favourite is. Usually
it is something along the lines of ‘The
frontrunner’ or score system. Gold
stars are my preferred rating system.
You always seem to know where you
are with a gold star. The fact that none
of you or me had any influence on the
whole selection process just adds to
the need to rate them in the first place.
It is a warm and safe feeling knowing
that the guy with 5 gold stars who was
‘The frontrunner’ got the job. It keeps
order in the world, whichever one you
may currently reside in.
The true interest this time round
however lies not in telling you who
might actually be getting the post
but rather the fact that we, otherwise
known as the Great British People,
have a good chance of getting one of
our own in on the job. Some guy called
Tony apparently. Not sure if you have
heard of him but the rest of Europe
seem to. In any case Tony did not get
to be president which is probably what
he wanted from the start. What is sur-
prising is the fact that a large number
of people in this country seem to feel
that despite being more Eurosceptic
than the average Russian ultranation-
alist, we should have one of our own
in one of the new posts created by the
Lisbon Treaty. The same country that
seems to revile the thought of the evil
Brussels bureaucratic monster that
straightens our cucumbers and hides
our Victorian light bulbs is all too
ready to assume right and claim the
most senior post created by a treaty
most of us have not actually read or
understood beyond the words United
States of Europe. This expectancy is
both intriguing and quite frankly ut-
terly strange. Why chase the position
that your people do not seem to appre-
ciate, be interested in or even properly
understand?
In the end Armageddon, or in Euro-
pean terms, having to waste a perfectly
good dinner deciding who should get
which job, was averted by as it now
seems a decision making process that
involved eliminating the obvious can-
didates and plumping for the ones
that would have the least impact in
the job. Most people have never heard
of the new president and high repre-
sentative. That is most British people.
I would like to assume most Belgians
have heard of their soon to be ex prime
minister. Maybe not, after all politi-
cians do seem to be both expendable
and infinite. But we still got one of the
positions. Except it seems because our
winner, I mean, appointee, is not some
kind of political celebrity it was a bit of
a waste. Shame, I am sure we were all
looking forward to some Euro glitz. It
will have to wait I guess.
As the week has gone on though it
seems that the esteemed forces that
govern us, astrology aside, have al-
ready decided that the presidents job
specification is vacant. and therefore
he will be a simple ornament and the
high representative is the true one with
all the power. Time for a quick change
of tact. Lets all swing behind the High
Representative (I have even heard she
is British!) Oh but it seems she cannot
cope with the job. Something about
not having a clue about what the job is
or how to actually do it apparently is
not attractive.
In this way it comes to bear that the
final and most lasting piece of this
whole affair has been the choice of
two people who are capable of many
things but will get license to do none.
A fine dinner here, a great conference
there but at the end of the day the peo-
ple calling the shots, making the cars
stop and having the real say are not the
two appointed ones but the 27 elected
ones. So it is back to square one, only
this time there are some people in this
far away magic land called Brussels,
which can be blamed for even more
of our own elected politicians failures
and misdemeanours. I sense some Eu-
roscepticism coming on…
Andreas Hadjivasiliou odds were good
“Most people
have never
heard of the new
president... That
is most British
people”
Honeymoon period?
There wasn’t one
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
A
ll I bloody hear is the
clock ticking. We all
know what that sounds
like, and we all know
what the stabbing sounds
of each second, ‘tick’ or ‘tock’, means.
Time is slipping away, and there’s just
about nothing we can do to stop it
(short from building a DeLorean and
taking a joyride with Marty McFly).
A third of my time as Editor has me-
andered by and well, the realisation has
upset me. When the first issue of the
year came out, I was happily wearing
a wife-beater outside and complaining
to the Union that the air conditioning
down in the felix office was on the blink.
This week I wore five different layers to
keep warm, and now I’m complaining
that the heating’s on the blink. Winter
makes me moody, and since I’m unduly
missing even more daylight (well, tech-
nically not because there’s actually less
of it in winter months, but we’ll let that
slip), I have every reason to be.
Don’t fret though, everything in be-
tween those wife-beater-wearing days
and now have been wonderful. We’ve
released and published 11 issues, each
of which struck a new chord of delight
in my brain, and hopefully yours too.
I’ve managed to turn unwelcoming
panic, circa. early October, into a stress-
ful confidence that allows the paper to
go to print on time each week.
Aside from a Fresher being mugged
straight after the Mingle (the poor lit-
tle thing), our first big story was that
the Faculty Unions had lost an unfunny
ball-sack load of money on their formal
first term events. On the backdrop of
this, we exposed the first cracks in the
City and Guilds College Union; internal
squabbling ensued in public, and even
more so in private I’d assume.
Their committee got themselves into
a bit of a jumble, and a united front
was the last thing anyone saw. Even in
Council meetings, their senior commit-
tee members were arguing with each
other across the room. I tried to stifle
my bad case of I-told-you-so coughs,
but I just couldn’t.
With the news this week that their
President, Kirsty Patterson, is stepping
down at the end of term due to aca-
demic and registration reasons, it is safe
to say there is relief within the Guilds
camp. Not explicitly because she is leav-
ing, but because of the fiascos that her
time in office has seen. A new leader
is on the horizon, and my bets are on
Rikki Norris. He’s settled nicely in the
Union this term, and I feel he’ll jump
at the chance to put Kirsty’s debatable
wrongs right.
However, as a proud Scientist, I am
glad to see the return of mascotry,
even if it did involve the solid blame
laid upon me for losing about a third
of Theta, the Royal College of Science’s
86kg metal mascot.
Talking of exiting leaders, Sir Roy An-
derson, The Rector, announcing his res-
ignation really sent the office into over-
drive. The sudden announcement and
surrounding hearsay gave the impres-
sion there was something more than
what the College and Sir Roy presented
to us. Something is certainly rotten in
the state of Imperial College.
They may think we’re foolish enough
to believe their reasons at face-value,
but I believe that the staff and students
deserve the full story. Hopefully, by the
end of the year, we shall have exactly
that. No promises though; College are
understandably tight-lipped about the
issue.
Onto less suspicious happenings;
felix celebrated its 60th anniversary.
The team compiled a special celebra-
tory issue and special thanks must go
to Carlos Karingal, our Layout Editor
for producing the spectacular wrap
that was a modified reproduction of
the very first issue of felix. We also had
a (rather drunken) dinner where we
united thirteen past editors in the Un-
ion Dining Hall. Ex-felix Editor Pallab
Ghosh entertained us with an after-
dinner speech alongside ex-felix writer
Simon Singh.
It was a lovely end to this term, and
I’ve got Christmas and New Year’s
to look forward to. I will be leaving
London for the first time in about
six months and will be rocking up
the pubs of Dublin, Eastbourne, and
Leeds. Desperation sets in when your
only escape from Central London is
the mouldy M25-shouldered town of
Watford.
My three ‘holiday’ destinations are
hardly exotic either, but you try cruis-
ing the Carribean on a salary you’ve ef-
fectively pumped entirely back behind
the Union bar.
“I believe that the staff
and students deserve the
full story. Hopefully, by
the end of the year, we
shall have exactly that.”

