7
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
love Christmas! It’s hard to say
what exactly I love about is but
I’ll give it a shot.
Christmas shopping is an ex-
perience in itself. I was on Ox-
ford Street on the weekend – it was
like another world. Even though they
had closed the roads for the shoppers,
there were still people steadfastly using
the crossings, even going so far as to
wait for the green man. And inside the
shops, it got even worse/better! With
the population of a small country on
each floor, we moved not as a group of
people but as one large amorphous be-
ing, with shop assistants gently herd-
ing us towards the shinier and more
expensive products. When pressed
intimately between an eight-year-old
screaming for the latest lego set and a
grandmother from Essex searching for
the perfectly stitched teddy bear, my-
self laden with toys, gifts, clothes and
a cornucopia of chocolate, I really felt
one with humanity. The connection
was as much spiritual as it was physi-
cal. One caveat to this; never ever go
to Hamleys.
However, shopping was my second-
ary objective on Oxford Street; I really
went to see the Christmas lights. Upon
leaving the Underground station, my
eyes turned heavenwards to the glit-
tering displays of light and decoration
suspended above the masses. They
were magical, simply magical, and yet
they serve the same purpose as the
simple tinsel and fairy lights that adorn
houses across the country. Maybe it’s
because I (like many an Imperial stu-
dent) have a mental age measured in
single digits but just the sight of those
twinkling lights and displays is enough
to lift even the most moribund of
spirits.
Adverts confuse me though. Long
ago, a primordial ad-agency made the
twin discoveries that people buy things
that they like, and that a lot of people
like naked women. Thus the strategy
developed that if you have a product to
sell, you must drape it over a scantily-
clad vixen (or vice-versa). But this has
gone on for so long now that I find
myself largely desensitised to it all. A
friend had to point out to me that I was
sitting inches away from Keira Knight-
ley dressed in naught but a bowler hat
– I honestly hadn’t noticed. Converse-
ly, it only takes a few seconds of those
M&S food adverts to set me all aflame.
I don’t know if it’s the decadently thick
chocolate sauce or the seductive tone
of the voice-over but those adverts ef-
fortlessly get my salivary (among oth-
ers) glands going. As a result, I tend to
look for women based not on the con-
tents of their bra but their cookbook...
which can get a bit awkward after a few
bottles of mulled wine and a DVD of
Love Actually.
And after the shopping comes the
wrapping! The joy I get out of meticu-
lously measuring out lengths of gaudy
yet diaphanous paper and enfolding
it in the strangest of shapes is only
eclipsed by that which I feel on Christ-
mas morn when I can, with primal
abandon, rip it to shreds in a youthful
effort to free the presents from their
ephemeral prisons. I’m right in saying
that the wrapping is half the present.
I’ve known many a child who, when
presented with the latest Nintendo-
box-station-360, has ignored it for a
good hour or more whilst held enrap-
tured by the 99p wrapping paper it
came in. And don’t get me started on
all the ribbons and accessories!
Christmas is coming and the goose
is getting fat – but it’s not the only
one! Christmas has a fine selection of
foods particular to the season. Sump-
tuous mince pies, warm from the oven,
heartily washed down with a glass or
two of mulled wine, all to warm the
belly...and the heart. And then there’s
the Christmas Dinner. It doesn’t mat-
ter how lean a family lives for the rest
of year, or how many relatives come to
visit, it is a fact of life that there will
be so much food prepared that there’ll
be turkey sandwiches for all well into
January.
But what I really like about Christ-
mas is that for a small portion of the
year, people go out of their way to
think about others and do something
nice for them. And I like to think this
is what the guy who started the whole
thing off was trying to get at, some two
thousand years ago.
So, may I wish you all a Merry Christ-
mas (or a Happy Winter Solstice, if you
prefer) and a Happy New Year!
Rhys Davies wishes you a merry Christmas
“A friend had to
point out to me
that I was sitting
inches away from
Keira Knightley
dressed in naught
but a bowler

