COMMENT
8 felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
like to think of myself as a rea-
sonable man. I like to think that
I can be depended on to make
the responsible choice when
it comes down to it, and that I
speak my truth qui-oh wait. No, sorry,
let me start again.
I like to think of myself as an inher-
ently unreasonable bastard. I like to
think that I largely cannot be relied
on at all, and that anyone who’s stu-
pid enough to do so will end up dis-
appointed and possibly barred from
entering the US and its protectorates.
I just want to establish that before we
go any further, in case there’s any ac-
cusations of holier-than-thouness. I’m
a bitter, sociopathic twat.
But, you see, I’m not in a position
of responsibility. I’m a student, and
an anonymous commenter on a small
student paper. I don’t get asked for
interviews with G2, I don’t get letters
from ten year-olds saying they want
to be like me when they grow up, and
above all else, I’m not being paid to
do anything in particular. I can basi-
cally do whatever I like and not feel all
that bad about it, because no-one takes
much notice.
So I take a pretty dim view of student
politics. In all my many/few years at
Imperial the only sabbaticals I’ve ever
had any respect for have been the felix
editors; other than that, the other po-
litical positions at Imperial are like fly-
paper for morons. Flypaper made out
of large salary cheques, coincidentally.
The problem with student politics is
that whilst the argument for its exist-
ence is so strong - you need students
deciding certain things, like what goes
into felix or what we do in Freshers’
Week - the actual usefulness of the po-
sitions rarely extends beyond the few
tiny examples that are used to justify
their existence.
So it boils down to two flavours of
people - the backbiting incompetents,
and the dullards. In the dullard corner,
we’ve got the sort of people who elect
themselves to look after finances, or
‘welfare’. These are the people who run
informal team-building exercises like
they’re the entrance exam for the fuck-
ing Delta Force. And in the incompe-
tent corner, we’ve got... well, you know
the sort. Like a bucket full of vomit
perched on a unicycle; clumsy and un-
stable, and every time there’s a slip up
you get bile spraying everywhere.
Best not to think too hard about
that one. The point is that a lot of the
work these people do does not need to
be done by a student. When you put
these tasks into a job description, it at-
tracts the kind of person who wants to
do that sort of job. And unfortunately,
that class of person is a tosspot.
Here’s a neat example for you. On
November 16th, the Student Council
convened and received reports from
the Sabbatical officers. These reports
contained several ‘joke’ passages
which the Sabbs claim were to test if
anyone reads their reports. You may
not remember this story - this is be-
cause it is entirely useless and devoid
of any interesting content whatsoever.
It made the news pages of CGCU site
Live!, though, and there was the usual
muted bitching in the comment thread
for it. But no-one took any notice, and
no-one’s complained about it. Why?
Because it’s about as interesting as a
dinner date with a marine biologist.
Let’s take another one. Not that I’m
singling anyone out here, but when
certain CGCU officers royally fucked
up the situation regarding their ball
earlier this term, there were clear ex-
amples of atrocious leadership and de-
cision-making, as well as a neat round
of pass-the-buck with everyone for the
event. But the stupidity came to a peak
when Kirsty Patterson responded to
a page full of criticism in felix with a
fucking poem. It’s a good poem, don’t
get me wrong. I like poetry, and I like
that one. But you can’t pay for bail with
an impromptu session of interpretive
dance, and you can’t dismiss allega-
tions of fuckwittery with a poem.
But the really great bit is that every-
one let her get away with it. You know
why? Because we were too busy read-
ing Hangman that week in felix. No-
one gives a toss, whether these people
succeed or fail.
I’m not saying that’s a good thing.
I’m saying it’s a sign that the current
system doesn’t work. And so we come
back to the only branch of the Union
worth bothering with - this fine organ
you hold in your hands right now. Next
term, I’ll be holding the Angry Geek
Idol once again, where I encourage
you all to write a comment piece on
week to win cash money. If you want
to make a contribution to the student
body, then write here. Because this is
where it happens, this is where peo-
ple communicate ideas and talk about
what needs to be done.
And that’s all I’ve got to say on that.
Expecting a big festive themed com-
ment piece for the final issue of term?
Go submit a complaint to the Student
Council about it. Merry fucking hum-
bug, everyone.
Angry Geek asks the Sabbs what the f*ck they do
“Like a bucket full
of vomit perched
on a unicycle...
bile spraying
everywhere”
F
reshers, I am very sorry to
inform you that if you came
to Imperial looking for pro-
miscuity and an abundance
of girls you have come to the
wrong place. As for you girls looking
for the right man or just 30 minutes of
fun (most of us men like to brag, but
in reality we can’t really even last that
amount of time) the odds are good, but
the good are odd.
Now I’ve scared you and got your at-
tention. I am happy to inform all you
students reading the felix, thinking this
paper needs to be sexed up, that I am
here to do exactly this. Some of you
may call it a sex and the city column,
I call it a column that gets you ready
for the weekend ahead (you know what
I mean). But for this I need your help,
I need you to write to me with all your
problems, that doesn’t mean work
related or soppy stuff about missing
home. I mean gritty stuff, page turning
stories or even a little need for advice.
But don’t worry, I mention no names.
Anyway back to you freshers, and
where better to start than Medics. Yes
that elusive group of people that stick
together and you rarely see in halls.
They have stories of “tapes” on the in-
ternet, activities in the back of lecture
theaters and at all of the medic bops.
Medicine along with Biology are the
two subjects here that have a pretty
even split in the sexes, and if you are
ever so lucky to be at a medic bop then
you may notice how many are gor-
geous. I can hear you all thinking, yes a
solution to my unforced celibacy, an in-
telligent, good looking girl to get with.
Well if you are thinking this STOP. As I
have mentioned medics stick together
and gossip like nothing else, after a first
date the entire of ICM would know,
your size down there, favorite position
and all your hidden little secrets. Trust
me I know. Plus they are workaholics
and you know “their course is sooo
hard” (bullshit, try EEE or JMC), so
you would be the second most impor-
tant thing after their course. Vent over.
So what to do? If you’re a boy, then
the odds are against you. I can see
it now, 10 boys running in panic to
crowd around the nearest good look-
ing girl, all trying to get her number.
Don’t, you’ll only scare her away, as
my girlfriend says don’t be clingy (I
just call myself a romantic). If you’re
a girl then it is very good or very bad,
all depending upon your personal
standards. Don’t let those standards
fall, there are a few of us charming,
good looking, single men. John Mansir
perhaps, or Mr Smith (he knows who
he is). They’re gonna get me for that
mention.
One piece of advice tho boys, a first
date, first kiss and first time tell a girl
everything she needs to know. So you
better push the boat out.
I bet you’re all thinking, who am I
and why am I telling you these horri-
ble truths? The answer is, do you re-
ally think I’m going to tell you all? I’d
invoke a world of embarrassment on
myself. I will tell you though, I’ve been
here long enough and dated enough to
know a little. Plus I may be the only boy
to have watched every episode of sex
and the city; and no, that doesn’t mean
I’m gay, I just know what you lot need
to do. Think of me as a friendly, advice
giving hitch like character.
Imperial Hitch thinks you’re undersexed
“Looking for the
right man or just
30 minutes of
fun? The odds
are good, but the
good are odd”
Can you rant, bitch or moan for 850 words? email: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

