9
felix FRIDAY 11 DECEMBER 2009
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Christmas hopes for future goodwill
W
e are some of the
luckiest people
on this planet.
We really do have
it all; education,
healthcare, security, democracy and,
in the case of the author, astound-
ing good looks. Never is this clearer
than at Christmas; each year I get crap
presents. I’m sure we all do. Gadgets
that break, games that get boring and
iPods that are capable of playing James
bloody Blunt (it’s the mere fact that at
some stage they could go all whiney
and high pitched that leaves one view-
ing them with suspicion). The problem
is this; there’s always so little we really
need.
Yet there are so many on this earth
who really go without, for whom
Christmas Day means very little in-
deed. 26,000 children will die on the
25th of December this year of entirely
preventable diseases. Nothing special
about that, of course; the same number
will die today, tomorrow and on Box-
Rory Fenton on his recent teaching experience with some of Kenya’s poorest children on a Catholic mission
Although Kenya is not amongst the poorest countries, poverty still exists
now, was I as excited as those children
when they got their one pencil each,
on loan, from mwalim (teacher). They
would literally shake with excitement.
This was cute, moving perhaps. But it
was also wrong.
Children shouldn’t be excited by pen-
cils or by paper. They shouldn’t walk na-
ked or half naked around a desert, pull-
ing thorns out of their little feet. They
shouldn’t die of cholera and diarrhoea
(1.8 million each and every year). So
let’s sort it out. Flood them with pencils
and paper, wells and vaccinations. Spoil
them!
This Christmas, consider something
like an Oxfam Unwrapped gift, which
you can find on Google. Ask for them,
give them. Anything from a ‘School
Books’ present for £8 to a whole ‘School
Library’ for £400. There’s a really huge
range and it makes a real difference.
Who knows, perhaps next year I’ll be
writing an article on how spoilt these
kids are in Kenya. Super Nanny mightn’t
approve, but that’s the dream.
ing Day. Half of the world’s population
lives on about one pound fifty a day.
That certainly doesn’t go far in South
Kensington, and with a family to feed,
house to keep and schools to pay, this
doesn’t go all that far in say, Africa
either.
I had the privilege of spending a
month last summer with some of the
world’s forgotten poor in the north of
Kenya. I couldn’t tell you the average
income there, as goats were the main
currency, but what I do know is that if
it weren’t for the World Food Fund’s
packages of maize, the people would
starve and, even with it, the children
have large, malnutrition-induced
bellies.
But even here, some days were spe-
cial for the children. I carried with
me a whole tree worth of pencils, as I
was to teach at the nursery, and every
so often the children were allowed to
use them (they had to return them, of
course). I doubt in any Christmas that
I’ve experienced, from as a child up to
Ali is a car mechanic in Lebanon,
Shamsaddin raises cattle on his farm
in Azerbaijan and Judith owns a cater-
ing business in Peru where she cooks
for weddings. All three are examples of
entrepreneurs in a developing country.
www.Kiva.org is a website that allows
you to support Ali, Shamsaddin, Judith
and others like them not by donating,
but by lending them money.
The concept, known as micro-loans,
is not new ever since Muhammad Yu-
nus set up the Grameen bank in 1983
to help alleviate poverty in Bangladesh.
What is new and unique about Kiva.
org is the P2P (person-to-person) con-
nection between the charitable-feeling
web surfer and the loan-seeking en-
trepreneur. Micro-loans can provide
huge economic benefits to a develop-
ing or third-world country. This is be-
cause they allow local entrepreneurs to
start or expand their small businesses,
which in turn may create new jobs or
new trading opportunities.
Entrepreneurs would not otherwise
have this utility because ‘proper’ loans
from a bank demand collateral and a
bank account, and are only available
for far bigger sums. The average loan
size entrepreneurs seek through Kiva
is about $400 (£240). Sustainability is
embedded into the concept of micro-
loans, as once their business has grown
and they have repaid the money, the
individual entrepreneur has a greater
capacity to support themselves and
their family. Relying less on charity like
food aid and hand-outs is undoubtedly
empowering, and there is more satis-
faction and dignity in a community
that can stand on its own feet.
Kiva.org works directly in the field by
partnering with local Micro-Finance
Institutions (MFIs), organisations that
operate on the ground, physically dis-
bursing the cash to the entrepreneur,
and collecting payments according
to an agreed schedule. Kiva.org care-
fully selects these field partners to en-
sure they are trustworthy and reliable.
Moreover micro-loans have a benevo-
lent nature. Most MFIs are non-profit
organisations whose raison d’etre is
usually community development or
creating employment opportunities,
unlike banks which lend money with
the primary purpose of making a prof-
it. Every month Kiva.org posts up the
profiles of new entrepreneurs seeking
loans using information they receive
from the MFIs. Web surfers can se-
lect entrepreneurs they wish to sup-
port and lend them $25 (roughly £16
at current exchange rates) or higher.
Thus several lenders from Kiva.org’s
online community of over half-a-mil-
lion users will contribute to a loan. Of
course the risk associated with lending
money, that the borrower cannot re-
pay fully, can never be eliminated, but
the repayment rate of all loans made
through Kiva.org is roughly 98%.
The MFI already agrees a repay-
ment schedule beforehand with the
entrepreneur, which usually consists of
monthly payments over a period of a
year or longer. However one criticism
levelled on Kiva.org is the high interest
rates entrepreneurs that are charged by
the field partners, often 30% or 35% on
the original loan sum. Kiva.org justi-
fies this by explaining that the nature
of micro-lending is expensive. A high-
Kiva.org co-founder Jessica Flannery with one of many entrepreneur recipients of the website’s microfinancing support
street bank in Britain can simply proc-
ess forms and transfer sums between
bank accounts for say a £10,000 busi-
ness loan, while an MFI must have
staff walking on foot to disburse and
collect a £200 loan for a farmer in a
remote village. Another criticism of
Kiva.org is its decision in June 2009 to
provide loans to US-based entrepre-
neurs, as the credit crunch has made
times tough for American small busi-
ness owners.
Many in Kiva.org’s online commu-
nity have not welcomed this, arguing
that a poor loan-seeking individual in
the USA is still significantly better off
than one in a developing country. Oth-
ers argue that if a micro-loan can assist
someone in their life, it shouldn’t mat-
ter whether the beneficiary is in the
USA or any other country.
As the entrepreneur makes their re-
payments, the web surfer will receive
their money back; this of course is
the difference between Kiva.org and
normal charities. The generous web
surfer has the option of re-lending to
another entrepreneur. This begs the
question: Which is more effective at
alleviating poverty?
Making a £100 one-off donation, or
constantly re-lending a £100 sum to
several entrepreneurs? While any eco-
nomic analysis of this question would
be a statistical nightmare, it can at least
be said that each form of generosity
has its place. Either way you are mak-
ing a sacrifice out of your own good
will, namely losing the ability to spend
your £100.
Since its launch in 2005 Kiva.org has
fast gained popularity in true Web 2.0
fashion by tapping into the masses. Its
co-founders Matt & Jessica Flannery
established the website as a U.S.501(c)3
non-profit organization, the US equiv-
alent of being a registered charity,
but their online community extends
far beyond just the US. They’ve man-
aged to gain the support of several
organisations including PayPal, which
has agreed not to charge a fee when
processing payments to and from Kiva.
org, making it the first organisation to
benefit from this exemption.
One definition of philanthropy is the
“active effort to promote human wel-
fare”, and it comes from the two Greek
words that make it up -philos (loving)
and anthropos (humankind). There is
no one size fits all when it comes to
human beings committing charitable
or selfless acts, and for many generous
web surfers who have joined the Kiva.
org online community, lending is the
new giving.
An alternative to cash aid-loans to spark enterprise
Hassan Joudi
Hassan Joudi

