THE j . ... iR OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Exams in
jeopardy
The Association of University Teachers have voted to boycott University
examinations and course work in a move designed to highlight the AUT's
claim for higher wages. From January 9, AUT members will refuse to set,
mark or invigilate examinations and will decline to mark course work,
although academics will be free to offer advice on improving items of
coursework.
According to the results of a ballot
released on Wednesday, 64% of the
AUT's members are in favour of the
move which has been described as
'the strongest form of action ever
considered by the association.'
The AUT say that they have been
persuing the pay claim for the past
eleven months and they are
unhappy that the Committee of Vice
Chancellors and Principals (CVCP)
have refused to discuss the matter.
They claim that University teachers
are underpaid compared to their
counterparts in Industry and the
Civil Service, but the CVCP argue
that money for wage rises is not
available.
AUT General Secretary, Diana
Warwick commented 'The decline
in academic pay is critical for
academic staff, for universities, and
for the nation which needs high
calibre graduates. This vote
demonstrates that our members are
prepared to L?ke damaging action
because they have no option'
The move has received a mixed
reaction within Imperial College and
a number of academics are
reportedly considering resigning
their membership in the AUT in
protest to taking action which would
affect the education of students.
The President of Imperial College
AUT, Sue Parry said that the AUT
considered a number of other forms
of action including strikes, mass
resignation and withdrawal from
Government research projects. She
told FELIX that the only effective
form of action was an examination
boycott and pointed out that this
would be less damaging to students
than striking or mass resignation.
'We hope that it will not reach the
stage where students would have to
leave College without degrees' she
said.
Following a mandate at the Union
General meeting on Nov 29,
Imperial College Union President,
Nigel Baker has written to the
academics at Imperial highlighting
the Union's concern at the AUT
action. In the letter, due to be
delivered today, Mr Baker urges the
academics not to follow the AUT
examination boycott and points out
that the action could result in
students having to leave the
University without a degree, or if
examinations were delayed, with
lower grades than they deserve. The
letter also points out that although
64% of the AUT members who filled
in a ballot paper voted in favour of
examination boycotts, this
represents only 37% of the AUT's
membership.
Union President Nigel Baker told
FELIX that he was worried that the
CVCP would 'call the AUT bluff
severly affecting the position of final
year students.
Jackson slides
deeper
Following the narrowly defeated motion of 'no confidence' brought up
at the University of London's General Union Council (GUC) on December
5, Stuart Jackson, President of the University of London Union (ULU) looks
set to face a second 'no-confidence' motion at the first GUC of next term.
At least six major students unions
within the University of London,
including King's College, the
London School of Econcomics
(LSE), and University College have
passed 'no-confidence' votes
against Mr Jackson at emergency
executive meetings.
Imperial College is the only large
union which has not yet formed a
policy on the motion since the last
GUC, reported in Wednesday's
FELIX and ICU President, Nigel
Baker told FELIX that there are no
plans to discuss the issue at an ICU
executive meeting.
The GUC's no confidencing of Mr
Jackson is in part based on his
frequent support of the
Governments attitude towards the
National Union of Students (NUS).
Mr Jackson stressed that in the
past he had been 'standing out'
against the Government, which he
claims wants the power to destroy
student unions.
'Now I think the Government are
right; the NUS is a waste of time
and rate payers money' he said.
The ULU executive and leading
members of many student unions
within ULU remain displeased with
Mr Jackson's conduct. His handling
of the student loans issue, in
particular, has angered them.
cont'd on back page
I S S U E 8 2 2 1 6 D E C 1 9 8 8

