11
felix
Friday 2 February 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
’m a firm believer that add-
ing the word ‘internet’ to the
beginning of a phrase makes
the concept infinitely scarier.
Think about it – shopping is
a pleasant experience to be taken
weekly with friends and money.
Internet shopping is hunting down
lost copies of the Mortal Kombat
movie at 3am and accidentally or-
dering four copies on your debit
card.
Community, then. Community is
that word that people use to black-
mail us into picking up litter. But an
Internet community is generally a
terrible, twisted, Geiger-esque mu-
tation, with spikes and Americans
poking out in all the wrong places.
DeviantART is one such internet
community. And if you surf onto its
homepage, you’d probably think it
was a regular enough site – clean
lines, soothing colours, and a col-
lection of digital art, photography
and painting to a very high quality.
There’s a sense of sharing, of crea-
tive development, of normality. It’s
like walking into an arts college.
But something much more hard-
core is lurking just below the sur-
face, because deviantART plays
host to one of the internet’s most
prolific fanart and fanfiction com-
munities. And a little digging
around unearths some pretty inter-
esting things.
Fan work’s not our field here at
Felix Games, but you won’t need to
go far into any internet community
to find those who take their love of
games one step further. Some write
fiction that continues where one
story left off, some take their games
to paper and create pictures, por-
traits, comics, what-ifs – it’s all
about using your other skills and
bringing gaming into them.
Lydia Hartley is better known as
Da-Phase-Meister on deviantART,
and even better known for her
strong fanart work on all manner of
gaming, film and anime topics.
“My first games console was a
SNES which a student left us. That
Putting the ‘fan’ in ‘fanaticism’
Hardcore gaming isn’t always about a high score. Michael Cook discovers the other side of dedication
was back in 1996 or so – my old
house was a guest house. Having
students around was so cool, and
they’d often bring us random gifts.
“Once I got my Gameboy Color,
my new found love was Pokemon.
I began drawing much more due to
my love for Pokemon – it was inspir-
ing. I’ve been gaming and drawing
ever since.”
Lydia’s artwork on deviantART
isn’t exclusively fanart – she has
an account dedicated to original
works, and studies art here in the
UK. But fanart is still something
she feels worth doing.
“I find drawing fanart quite inspir-
ing. I love the idea of being able to
take an existing character and be-
ing able to experiment with differ-
ent poses and scenarios for them.”
Type a game’s name into the
search bar at deviantART, and
you’ll get a pretty good idea at how
‘experimentation’ works in some
fanart circles. The pencilled sketch
of Cloud, below, is a fairly normal
piece of fanart. The legions of semi-
(and not so semi-) naked Tifa pic-
tures aren’t quite as canon.
For some companies, fanart is
a contentious issue. deviantART
supports a Prints program to allow
artists to sell their work online, but
to submit an image as a print, their
Terms and Conditions state that,
“You may only submit Artwork if
you ... hold all intellectual property
rights in the Artwork.” Legal clash-
es in the past have made this a key
inclusion.
But some games companies see
it as a healthy expression of gam-
ing love. Blizzard’s website plays
host to a gallery, now fourty pages
strong, of submitted fanart that’s
most impressed them. The gallery
– which you can find online at www.
blizzard.com/inblizz/fanart/ – con-
tains some incredibly detailed and
well-created drawings of charac-
ters which, in most cases, weren’t
so detailed in their original games.
Perhaps the reason fan work has
such a strange reputation, then, is
because of the weirder, obscurely
sexual side to some of it. Games
aren’t exactly the most sexed up
media on the market, but a flick
through the reams of fanfiction
available on sites such as FanFic-
tion.net – and we do mean reams,
there are over sixteen thousand
entries for Final Fantasy VII alone
– will turn up as many bizarre love
pairings as it does normal stories.
“I love twisting characters – mak-
ing [them] do something slightly
out of the ordinary. And it’s great
practice for anatomy and such.”
Lydia explains. “There’s always
a limit. I mean, I have quite high
limits – I draw characters being
seductive and weird – but the limit
is probably when you reach a point
where the game or fandom domi-
nates your life.”
Lydia says that she thinks games
provide a special kind of source ma-
terial. “Video games are more in-
teractive – they come from a more
interactive world. People can ‘re-
late’ more to them.”
And certainly, there was a lot of
relating going on in much of the
fanart we uncovered. But it’s mostly
tasteful, and there’s a real sense of
community and creation going on,
so the smuttier stereotypes tends
to get shaken off quickly.
It’s a huge, often unexplored,
section of the gaming culture. Fan-
dom is one of the most fascinating
things on the web, being something
like watching unicorns having sex.
Unusual, a little disturbing, but un-
deniably interesting. And, let’s face
it, a little arousing.
Hmm.
“I’m not sure why I drew this.” Lydia explains. We’re not entirely either. The most interesting fanart, however, tends to be the most unusual
This sketch piece from Final Fantasy VII is by Antti Jussila whose work includes Silent Hill and Devil May Cry. http://amrrr.deviantart.com
Lydia’s work can be found online at
http://tinyurl.com/ynrzsf and http://
tinyurl.com/2fjzga

