Flashback: When war became hell
My Grandson asked me, “Granpa, were you a hero in the war?” And I tell him, “No. But I pwned some.”
B
OOM! The first time you
joined a Battlefield 1942
server, this was very like-
ly the first thing that hap-
pened. Whether it was a
tank, an airplane or a destroyer re-
ally didn’t matter, it was still bigger
than anything anyone had seen be-
fore. From the get-go, it was clear
that Battlefield was something dif-
ferent. It wasn’t a claustrophobic
space-shooter like Quake or Un-
real, it wasn’t a slow sneak’n’peek
shooter like Counter-Strike. This
was war.
Within hours of the demo being re-
leased, teams were popping up eve-
rywhere. Everyone knew that this
was going to be different, a game
where teamplay mattered, where
strategy mattered and twitch gam-
ing wasn’t king. The team size alone
was indicative of this – the commu-
nity settled for 10 on 10, twice as
large as anything gaming had seen
before. The teams that wanted to
remain competitive spent hours
every week trying to find the most
outlandish strategies imaginable.
It started off innocently enough,
someone throwing a few sticks of
dynamite onto a jeep and driving
off with it, only to find that the dyna-
mite stayed in the jeep. Then, it was
an extra person. Next, five people.
Jeeps quickly became rapid deploy-
ment vehicles for entire teams, as
well as being tank-busters when
loaded with dynamite.
No one knows quite how the next
development came about, but after
a while wingwalking was discov-
ered. Wingwalking is, as the name
implies, having people walk on the
wings of an airplane while it is in
flight. This alone was revolutionary,
and maps with planes became a lot
more unpredictable defensively.
The enemy could drop 6-8 players
anywhere on the map at any time,
and frontlines became irrelevant
for the defender. It was sneaky, it
was hilarious, it was brilliant fun.
Other developments followed, like
tank-diving (driving a tank through
water before it “drowned”), gre-
nade-jumping (like Quake’s rock-
etjumps) and repair engineers (en-
gineers who stayed behind a tank
repairing it constantly – essentially
giving it double the durability).
Some were fixed, others weren’t,
but it didn’t matter because it was
all FUN. There was nothing that
gave either side an unfair advan-
tage, they were all just new aspects
to be taken into consideration.
Everyone had differing tactics on
every map – some choosing to go
for a sneaky assault from behind,
others just sticking to a massive
coordinated push.It was after about
a year of this that some people be-
came too clever for their own good.
The first of these events was gre-
nade-spamming, which meant that
a person standing next to a supply
box had infinitely many grenades,
and could spend a full round doing
nothing but pelting an area with ex-
plosives. City maps changed from
dynamic, unpredictable games to
slow, meticulously planned assaults
to get one extra flag; and then fall
back and defend it for the rest of the
round. After that, it all went down-
hill.Pixel-shootingmeantthattanks
and fixed gun placements could fire
to the other end of the map and ac-
curately hit the enemy’s airplanes
and tanks – without the opposition
being able to touch them. As a slew
of minor exploits were found, more
and more maps became unplayable
in matches, and the competitive
map list fell from 16 to 8 maps in a
matter of months.
In a strange way, the reason for
Battlefield 1942’s demise was the
same reason for its success – the
developers didn’t try to limit their
players. The game engine allowed
teams to come up with new ways to
“Look, I’m not saying it’s too quiet, I’m just saying I expected it to be louder.”
think of the maps, and unbounded
creativity took its toll. As every
team raced to find that edge over
the others, the limits of what was
acceptable were tested and slowly
buckled under the pressure. Ulti-
mately, however, the game holds a
place in history for embodying the
concept of synergy – a team is bet-
ter than the sum of the individuals.
In a game that allowed such bizarre
and madcap tactics, it’s still come
closer to defining true teamplay
than any game before or any game
since.
Sebastian Nordgren
Altogether! Wrrrrrrrroowwwwwwwwwwww... Dugga! Dugga! Dugga! Wrrrrrrrrrrrrrooooooooooowwwwwwwwwwwwwwww!
13
felix
Friday 2 February 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

