4 felix Friday 2 February 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Canidae–homo sapien bonding
Are dogs intelligent enough to recognise their owners’ or is it just that pungent body odour you secrete?
Dog owners, in particular the celeb-
rity kind, are notorious for anthro-
pomorphising their canine com-
panions. Dog grooming centres,
doggy diets, dog ‘hotels’ (not to
mention the ‘bling’ that you can buy
for your pampered pooch) are just
the start of it. But maybe they are
not so far wrong in imagining the
special ‘bond’ between themselves
and their pets. Cognitive Scientists
at Kyoto University in Japan have
discovered that dogs have the ca-
pacity to associate their owner’s
voice with a mental image of their
face.
In the experiment, dogs were
placed in view of a computer moni-
tor, hidden by a screen, and subject-
ed to a sound recording of either
their owner or a stranger repeating
the dog’s name. The screen was
then removed to reveal an image of
the owner, or a stranger.
Dogs who heard the voice of their
owner and then a corresponding
image (or the same for the voice
and image of a stranger) looked at
the monitor displaying the image
for an average of 6 seconds. How-
ever, where the voice and image did
not correspond, the dogs examined
the monitor for longer, suggesting
some form of confusion.
Ikuma Adachi, the lead research-
er in the team, has concluded that
the dogs build up a mental image of
their owner on hearing their voice,
and are confounded when the im-
age they see does not match up
with that in their head. These find-
ings are yet another example of
the adaptations to humans that ca-
nines have undergone during their
domestication. Dogs are already
known for their superiority over
apes in interpreting human gesture
– now it seems that it is not a dog
owner’s fantasy that little Rover
can ‘recognise his mummy’ after
all.
Krystyna Larkham
Science Editor
To many men around the world,
it may seem that their girlfriends
lose all their brain cells altogether
when they go shopping. Floating
on a seemingly non existent breeze
from shoe shop to shoe shop, to
perfumery and then the latest third
world crippling department store
and finally back to the initial shoe
shop to return the pair of ugg boots
that she’s gone off in the space of
four hours, it can be a mind bog-
gling world inside the head of your
fairer side.
However, Brian Knutson, a neuro-
scientist at Stanford, has managed
to identify the areas of the brain as-
sociated with decision making when
Retail psychology testing
shopping. And the results have in-
teresting implications for those suf-
fering from a shopping addiction.
NB: according to a female friend
of mine, 100 pairs of shoes is not an
addiction. Felix will leave that to
you to decide.
Knutson and his team, made up
of researchers from MIT and Carn-
egie Mellon in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania, set up a ‘mock shop’ in their
lab, containing a range of ‘desir-
able’ items, including Sex And The
City DVDs (hmm), MP3 players,
Godiva chocolates, and a Stanford
T-shirt (?!!).
Subjects were then issued with
‘store credit’ to enable them to
make purchases, and placed with
their heads inside an MRI scanner,
to locate the areas of the brain in-
volved with making decisions.
It appeared that when on viewing
a desirable object, a region of the
subjects’ brain, known as the nu-
cleus accumbens, was activated.
This region is linked to the antici-
pation of gain. However, when con-
fronted with the price of the object,
and judged it too much, the insula
and the mesial prefrontal cortex,
both regions of the brain associated
with anticipation of loss and pain,
were activated.
Interestingly for those with a high-
er than average shoe fetish (girls)
or an unhealthy relationship with
GAME, the nucleus accumbens is
an area of the brain also linked to
addiction, opening the door for fur-
ther experiments.
But for now, these results show
only one thing. It is not just you who
feels the pain on handing over your
credit card, your brain feels it too.
(And your bank manager. But that’s
another story).
Krystyna Larkham
Apologies for a mistake last week. Colin Barras was author of the ar-
ticle, Chemical warfare – biobricking it, rather than Krystyna Larkham.
However, the awful title was made up by Tomo. Double apologies.
One young lady took the research into dog recognition skills at Kyoto University very seriously indeed
On your marks. Get set. Shop! Dale Winton
would be proud of this enthusiastic consumer

