Following discussion with the Union, the College
Management Board last week made a commitment
that all home and EU PhD students will receive a
minimum stipend of £14,300 from August 2007.
Currently, many students funded by the Engineering
and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC)
receive only £12,300, despite the recommended
London weighting being £14,300. This commitment
not only applies to new students, but also those
students currently registered on a PhD at Imperial.
The issue was ﬁrst raised by PhD students in the
Department of Mathematics at the end of last term.
Following consultation with student representatives
in both meetings and an academic forum it was
resolved that the Union should campaign for all
students, regardless of their funding source, to
receive the London weighting. Working with Ben
Harris, ICU Deputy President (Education and Welfare),
research student representatives Eirini Spencer and
Daniel Sauder compiled a dossier revealing that the
majority of departments within Engineering and
Physical Sciences failed to pay all their students the
London weighting.
This research was used to produce a presentation
given to the Strategic Education Committee (which
has no regular student presence) by Ben Harris
and John Collins, ICU President. The committee
unanimously endorsed the proposal put forward by
Prof. Borysiewicz, Imperial College Deputy Rector,
that the issue should be taken to the management
board with the recommendation that all PhD
students should be paid the London weighting.
What does this mean for students? With the ever
increasing cost of living in London, this commitment
will help ensure that all PhD students are able to
fully fund their studies.
This is a great example of what Sabbaticals can do
to help improve College life for all students and also
conﬁrms the positive attitude of College towards
issues like this being raised and quickly dealt with.
unionpage
Union Secures PhD Pay Rise
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
The Union kicked of the Centenary celebrations
on Tuesday with a series of events in the Beit
Quadrangle. The Centenary Balloon Race began at
1pm, at the same time that the ﬁrst of Collegeʼs 32
Centenary cakes was cut.
The Centenary Balloon Race saw 500 balloons being
released in the Quad whilst hundreds looked on. The
Balloon Race, which costs £1 to enter, has many big
prizes on oﬀer to the owners of the balloons that
travel the greatest distance.
The Big Band and the “Hermaphrodites” choir
were on hand to perform both before and after
the balloon launch and cake cutting, also available
was hotpot and winter Pimms from Union catering,
with 10% of revenues being donated to the Union
Building Fund.
Also made available at the same time as the balloon
launch are tickets to the Imperial College Centenary
Ball. This unmissable event takes place on Saturday
16th June 2007 on campus. Tickets are available
to students, alumni and staﬀ of Imperial online at
imperialcollegeunion.org and for a limited time only
are oﬀered at an “early bird” discounted rate!
Balloon Race Begins as the Union Celebrates 100 Years
Jan Chlebik

