Mooney for
the chop?
Dear Sir
The other day I was in dire need of some
victuals and being in the vicinity of
Southside Refectory I steeled myself to the
task of eating amongst hordes of nubile
American female students.
Upon entering the refectory I saw writ
large on the board " L a m b . . . w i t h
courgettes", so I decided to avail myself of
this wonderous dish.
Imagine my surprise when the lamb upon
entering my mouth tasted suspiciously of
beef
Feeling a little cheated I attempted to
contact the manager but was told he was not
around, nor has he been since!
I recall an incident in 1982 in which lamb
pasties turned out to be beef. M r Mooney
promised it would never happen again. It
strikes me that refectories could not care
what they serve to their customers just so
long as they get the cash with which they may
change the decor every six months.
Yours on an empty stomach
Dave Parry
Trouble
at mill
Dear Editor
During Monday and Tuesday (August 13
and 14) student cleaners and their
representatives met with College heirarchy
of the S A C scheme, namely Gill Davies and
another member of personnel.
The main proposals put forward by the
c l e a n e r s o n M o n d a y w e r e : free
accommodation for the student cleaners, as
in the Summer Letting Scheme run by
Michael Arthur; higher hourly rates for next
year (rates which have remained static at
£ 1.70 per hour for the past three years); and
some type of remuneration for the breakfast
vouchers unused and left as tips for the
cleaners by the guests. It should be noted
here that all breakfasts are paid for by the
S A C at £2.30 each regardless of whether or
not they are used.
During the first meeting the "college"
spent most of their time listening to the
student cleaners' requests and trying to
2
convey how they had no control over the
breakfasts they had paid for.
The second meeting, on Tuesday, was
even more fruitless in that the first sentence
uttered by Gill Davies was essentially "After
careful consideration we are unable to offer
any concessions." This came as no surprise
to the representatives of the student cleaners
who have become accustomed to the College
doing nothing for anyone but themselves.
Much time was spent by the College in
trying to express how their hands were tied
by predetermined budgets, and that the
College and ultimately the students would
benefit from the profit of over £'/4 million
made by the S A C Scheme, but that it was
impossible to aid the student cleaners by
providing free accommodation; that £8 per
week already deducted would make a great
difference to the £36.04 take-home pay
which the cleaners receive to survive on. The
difference between watching every penny
and living.
College tried to insist that the S A C
cleaning employment open to students is
primarily a part time job—not intended to be
'self-sufficient', a point not even touched
upon in the advertisements and interview for
the job.
The general feeling of the cleaners in the
S A C Scheme is that the College
administration is once again proceeding in
its typical manner of total disregard for
students, students without whom the College
would not exist.
Yours
Student Cleaners of the SAC Scheme
A sort of
patriotism
Dear Sir
Once again the season for international
competitions is upon us and I expect most of
your readers (being true patriots) have been
glued to their television sets eagerly lapping
up the triumphs (and disasters) of their
respective national teams.
However, I feel that the time has come to
point out that, whilst a little friendly rivalry
is no bad thing, such blatant setting of nation
against nation can only serve to bolster the
average citizen's latent jingoistic instincts
leading inevitably to an increased level of
nationalism and possible insularity in the
competing nations.
Obviously were such attitudes to become
prevalent in the world, they could only serve
to heighten the political tensions between
countries and ideologies and so lead us ever
nearer to the nuclear precipice.
Thus I ask all true patriots, if they truely
love their countries and wish to keep them
from the Holocaust to join the Soviet Union
and her satellites in boycotting the Olympics
in order that world peace may be
maintained.
Yours ever so sincerely
Hugh Stiles
Chem Eng PG
Friday 17 August 1984
FELIX
Breakfast
The reason behind the summer letting of
Southside and Linstead rooms to tourists is to
raise money to subsidise student rents during
term time. It is an economically sensible policy.
The fact remains, though, that over the last
three years the rent charged to tourists has risen
and the student term time rents have risen, but the
wages paid to SA C cleaners have dropped in real
terms.
The College reasoning behind this is complex.
They have to maintain a relatively large cleaner
workforce all through the summer, even during
slack periods, so that they can cope with the
occasional arrival and departure of large parties
of tourists. At the same time they have to
maintain 'differentials' between wages paid to
permanent cleaners and those paid to student
cleaners. The College authorities are also,
doubtless, aware that there is never any shortage
of applicants for posts as summer cleaners.
Butfor the College to claim that they keep the
wages low so as to keep student rents low is
patently absurd when one bears in mind the way
that the SAC wastes money on breakfasts.
The SA Cfinances are arranged thus:for each
room let to a tourist, SAC pays a certain amount
to the residence account. This benefits students
during term time. But for each tourist the SAC
also gives the Refectory £2.30 for breakfasts.
Most of these breakfasts remain uneaten and so
Mooney makes a massive profit for the
refectories by "under catering".
If the College authorities were really
determined to keep student rents down they
would discontinue this absurd policy at once.
Dinner
It is the conviction of Hindus that me cow is a
sacred animal. Once again, Mr Mooney's staff
are wrongly describing beef as lamb (see letters),
and so Hindus eating in Southside are likely to
have committed what they would regard as a
grave sin.
It is intolerable that refectory staff should
make such crass errors. The sincerely held
religious beliefs of others are worthy of more
respect.
Maz
Today Maz Fellows, the FELIX phototypesetter
operator, leaves Union employment.
During her five years at College, Maz has
given unstinting service to the Union, above and
beyond the call of duty.
I join with my five immediate predecessors in
thanking her from the bottom of our hearts, and
wishing her all the best for the future.
Thanks also to Hugh Stiles, J Martin Taylor,
Diane Love, Peter Rodgers, Pallab Ghosh, Mark
Smith, Pete Dawson, R S Scorer, PeterBurridge,
Len Moulder, Chris Hendy and Pete Coleman.
Felix is published by the Editor for, and on behalf of,
Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is
printed by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College,
Prince Consort Road, London SW7. Telephone 01-
589 5111 Ext 1048. Editor: David Rowe. Business
Manager: J Martin Taylor. Advertising Manager:
Paul Belford. Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN —10140
— 0711.
FELIX

