CFEATURE: FEATURED
Imperial College is to have a new electronic telephone system to
replace both the present internal and external systems. The new
exchange is presently being installed and should become opera-
tional on Saturday 1 September. The new system will offer a wide
range of facilities, many of which will be available to users by
means of special codes.
At present the College has two entirely separate
telephone systems for internal and external calls.
The former uses an automatic exchange with
extension-to-extension dialling for 2600 exten-
sions, whilst the latter requires that one of the 1400
extensions is manually connected to an external
line by the operator each time a call is made.
This situation requires that each user has two
telephones, each with a different number. This
means twice as many instruments and connecting
lines to be maintained. The totally manual nature
of the external exchange means that a large number
of operators (up to ten) are required for busy
periods, whilst it is not possible to make external
calls at all when the switchboard is unmanned.
In addition both systems are old and increasingly
prone to breakdowns. The internal system was
installed 25 years ago and is obsolete so spare parts
are very difficult to obtain. The external exchange
was bought second-hand 15 years ago—it is
believed the Science Museum are interested in
having it (as an exhibit!) when the College has
finished with it.
The new exchange will utilize the existing wiring
of the present internal exchange, reconnected to the
new equipment. The system, a Northern Telecoms
SL1 exchange, is all-electronic. This means that the
network is controlled by a computer, rather than
circuit wiring as in a conventional exchange. The
system's software controls the switching of calls
and the various facilities which are available. The
range of facilities can be modified simply by
changing the software.
The Changeover
All the 2600 extensions on the existing internal
system will be on the new system, unless the
department concerned has not asked for an
extension to be retained. On the changeover day, 1
September, all telephones will have new numbers,
which will be arranged in departmental groups.
This means that of the four figure number, the first
two indicate the department whilst the last two will
usually be consecutive with others in the same sub-
group or section of the department. A new tele-
phone directory will, of course, be issued before the
change of numbers takes place, as will new card-
board number discs for dial centres.
After its introduction the new system will
operate in parallel with the present external
exchange for about two weeks. During this time it
will only be able to make internal calls. On the 15
September the old external switchboard will shut-
down as the new system will become able to make
external calls. This will complete the changeover to
a single-instrument system with extension-to-
extension dialling and automatic access to external
lines. Operators will only be required to answer and
direct incoming calls since external lines will be
available to authorized extensions by dialling a
two-figure code.
Initially the present internal instruments will still
be in place, but of the 1400 extensions which will be
able to make external calls 1000 will soon be
equipped with modern push-button Statesman
instruments. As a preparation for this some offices
have already had British Telecom plugs fitted so the
new instruments will simply be delivered and
plugged in after the changeover. These will replace
some of the very old instruments on the present
internal system, and in due course the remaining
museum-pieces will be replaced with newer dial
phones.
Restrictions on External Calls
There will be no restrictions on internal calls—any
extension can dial any other at any time. External
calls will, however, be strictly controlled. There will
be five categories of instrument (see table 1) each
with different access to external lines. In addition
an extension may have time restrictions on the
making of external calls on College business. The
different categories of extension do not indicate a
physical difference—the software controlling the
system contains instructions about the type of call
each extension can make, and the times it can make
them. The category of each extension is decided by
the department concerned, and can be changed if
required simply by re-programming the system.
One other restriction will be on certain barred
numbers which it will not possible to dial on the
public exchange. These numbers are programmed
into the system and cover such things as recorded
information services. Nor will it be possible to dial
100 for the operator on the public exchange, since
this would allow calls not permitted by the Col-
lege's restrictions to be placed through the ope-
rator. Directory enquiries will still be available,
however.
Personal calls can be made by the user of any
extension able to make external calls. A different
two-figure code will be dialled, and each month a
bill for every such extension will be produced by
the system and sent to the extension user. The
restrictions on calls will not apply to personal calls,
since the College will not be paying for them.
Incoming Calls
These will be routed through the operator as at
present. Since the new switchboard will have only
incoming calls to handle it will have only half as
many operator positions as the old one.
Incoming external calls will be indicated by a
different ringing tone to internal calls, so it will be
possible to tell if your caller is in College or not. If
the extension requested by the incoming caller is
busy with an internal call a tone will sound to
inform the user that an incoming call is waiting. He
can then speak to this call whilst holding the
existing call, and then switch between the two, by
the recall button. (Not all phones will befitted with
a recall button initially.)
Nearly all phones will be able to receive incoming
external calls, even if they cannot make outgoing
ones. The only exceptions will be phones in 'public'
places such as corridors, lecture theatres, etc.
Safeguards against abuse
The new exchange, being a computer, offers
extensive safeguards to prevent abuse of the
system. Each month the head of each department
or administrative section will be sent a statement
with the total amount spent on external calls by
each extension in that department. Academic
departments will be responsible for their own
phone bills to encourage them to keep a close watch
for any abuse.
If the head of department suspects abuse of any
extension he can ask the exchange supervisor for
full information on all calls dialled from it,
including all numbers dialled, duration and cost.
This information is all stored by the exchange every
time a call is made but is not normally used, partly
because of the enormous volume of such data. It is
only available to heads of department on request.
TELEPHONES
- t h e n e w s y s t e m -
Pictured above: the new
Statesman instrument.
Above right: one of the oldest
phones still in use in the
College.
Special Deal
Until recently it was thought the College would
have to manage with its present telephone systems
for several more years due to financial stringency.
This was despite the urgency of the situation, with
increased unreliability as the struggle to keep the
old equipment working intensified. A special deal
was negotiated with British Telecom, however, to
supply one of the latest state-of-the-art exchanges
on very favourable terms, at a cost of less than £ 1 m.
This has been possible because of the prestige
that BT attach to supplying the College's new
system. It is expected that they will use the College
as a showpiece to promote the system throughout
the world. This should have the additional benefit
from the College's point of view in that BT should
be especially anxious to get it working properly. As
Peter Burridge, the College's Telephone Engineer,
admits the system will be well tested at 1C—no
doubt numerous bright-sparks will soon be
attempting all sorts of new tricks with what is after
all a computer with 2600 terminals. If it can survive
and work well here it must surely be a world-beater!
Class Restrictions
Unrestricted—can make local,
trunk and international calls.
Semi-restricted—-can make
local and trunk calls only.
Semi-restricted—can make
local calls only.
Restricted—cannot make any
outgoing calls, but can receive
incoming calls.
E Fully restricted—cannot make
outgoing or receive incoming
incoming calls—for internal use
only.
All extensions except class E can receive
any type of incoming calls, during the hours
when the switchboard is manned.
In addition to the above restrictions there
may be time restrictions, eg calls may be
barred between 9:00am and 1:00pm, at the
discretion of the department.
Table 1
Special Numbers
Emergency 999
(Fire, Police, Ambulance)
Health Service 3333
General College Information 4444
Telephone Faults 5555
Maintenance 6666
(Normal Hours)
Maintenance 7777
(Outside normal hours)
Telephone Information 3430
Nightline 6789
Facilities available
The facilities available are of two types: those
requiring pre-arrangement with the telephone
exchange; and those accessed by dialling special
codes. The codes for the latter type are listed in
Table 2. Each facility available is described below.
Note that the availability of some facilities will be
restricted.
Features Requiring Pre-Arrangement
1. Group Call Pick-Up—This allows any user
within a pre-arranged group of extensions to
answer a call to any other extension within the
group, by dialling a code. This will be useful if
several extensions are together in one large office.
2. Call Pick-Up—Certain authorized extensions
will be able to answer a call directed to any other
extension which is ringing, by dialling a code fol-
lowed by the extension number.
3. Hunting—If an extension within a pre-arranged
group is engaged, any call to that extension is
automatically routed to the next free extension in
the group. Can be used to route calls to a deputy or
a secretary when the head of a section is busy.
4. Call Forward—No Answer—Similar to hunting,
but operates if an extension is not answered within
a fixed time, when the call is transferred to a second
pre-arranged extension.
5. Do Not Disturb—The switchboard operator can
make an extension appear busy to incoming calls,
whilst calls can still be made from the extension.
Will not be widely available!
6. Intrusion—Use of this code by specially
authorized extensions will enable them to intrude
on an established call. The system sounds a 'warn
tone' to the parties in the established call. Use of
this facility will be very restricted!
Features Accessed by Use of Codes
1. Access to Other Systems—Direct dialling to the
Silwood Park and Southside/Linstead systems will
still be available, but different codes will be used.
Access will also be available to the College Travel
Agents, but the direct line to Senate House will no
longer be available.
2. Ring Back—If a number rung is busy the caller
can, by dialling a code, request the system to com-
plete the connection as soon as it becomes free,
when both phones will ring simultaneously. This
can also be used if there is no reply to a call—the
system completes the connection as soon as the
called extension is used and subsequently becomes
free (which indicates the user has returned to his
office). Such requests can be cancelled by use of a
second code, and automatically lapse after eight
hours.
3. Short Codes—These are lists of frequently
dialled external numbers which are represented by
three figure codes published in the College tele-
phone directory. To use one dial the facility code,
followed by the short code. Users with secretarial
feature phones can have their own list of short
codes.
4. Call Forward—If a user will be away from their
office they can forward all calls to any other
extension by dialling a code and the extension
number. The request can be cancelled by a code
dialled at the user's extension, or by a different code
at the remote extension.
5. Transfer, Enquiry, or Conference—Whilst
speaking to a caller, on an internal or external call,
a user can by operating the recall button hold the
call and dial a third extension to transfer the call, to
make an enquiry or to set up a conference. It is
possible to set up a conference between up to six
people, one of whom can be an external caller.
6. Broker's Call—Similar to Transfer, etc., but
after operating the recall button a code is dialled
which prevents the call on hold hearing the conver-
sation between the broker and the third extension.
The held call can be internal or external.
7. Save—Use of the Save code stores the last
number dialled if an extension or external number
is busy, or not answered (external calls only). The
number is re-dialled by dialling the code again.
8. Alarm Call—By entering a code followed by a
time in 24 hour clock a user will receive an alarm
call at the time specified.
Notes:
1. During the early part of next term demonstra-
tions of the new system will be held. For students,
these will be at 12:00noon and 2:00pm on Monday
15 to Wednesday 17 October in the Great Hall. A
video describing the new system will be shown in
the Sherfield foyer after the changeover.
2. If problems are experienced then the operator
can be contacted by dialling 0, or recalled during a
call by using the recall button and 0. There will be a
special number for enquiries about use of the tele-
phone system, 3430.
Recall buttons will already be fitted to all new
instruments issued and they will be fitted to existing
instruments in due course. Until one is fitted faci-
lities requiring its use will not be available to that
extension.
Facility Code
Operator 0
Recall Operator RO
Exchange line(personal calls) 91 (or # where fitted)
Exchange line (College calls) 92 (or * where fitted)
Access to College Travel Agent's switchboard 93
Access to Southside/Linstead system 94 followed by staircase no.
Access to Silwood Park system 96 followed by Silwood ext no
Transfer call, Enquiry call or Conference R. followed by ext. no.
Ring Back R11
Cancel Ring Back 21
Individual Short Code (feature phones only) 12, followed by code
Common Short Code 23, followed by code
Call Pick-Up 13. followed by ext. no.
Group Call Pick-Up (in pre-arranged groups only).... 27
Call Forward 14, followed by ext. no.
Cancel Call Forward R24
Cancel Call Forward from remote extension R25, followed by ext. no.
Broker's Call R17, followed by ext. no
Save Number R18
Alarm Call 26, followed by time in 24hr
clock
R - Recall Button
Note: Where R appears, the facility shown will be available only to those phones witha
Recall button fitted.
Table 2
Friday 17 August 1964

