C O P 1 N I O N
Resources - where
the market fails
The miners are on strike, and it is said that pits are uneconomic.
There is a glut of oil, and the world population increases by a million
every four days. These are some of the problems that R S Scorer
considers here, together with a stern warning for the future.
From growth into recession.
In the last ten years we have seen a com-
plete turnabout in the economic scene. The
average world citizen has become percep-
tibly poorer whereas for a thousand years
before, it had been (incorrectly) thought that
everyone would become more affluent.
Many environmentalists foresaw this
change, the final indicator being that only
since 1973 have we failed to find new
reserves of oil faster than we are using it up.
We don't blame governments for the
recession, nor for failing to prevent it; but we
do blame them for not expecting it, for not
preparing for more of it, for not recognising
it, and for having the wrong remedies now
that it has begun.
Long before 1973 many environmentalists
and some economists said that economic
growth could not go on for ever, and that
message was inherent in the writings of
Malthas even before economic growth got
going in earnest. Some economists have
asserted, and still continue to assert, that
growth can go on indefinitely, and they have
tried to redefine their terms to that end. But
we can't eat computers or produce materials'
out of serving each other; and, as if in answer
to all problems, some economists have dec-
lared it to be a reliable law of nature that a
material scarcity causes a substitute to be
discovered.
The cost of population increase.
An increase in the number of people
means an increase in material consumption;
on top of that more affluence means more
material consumption per person. The world
population increase was roughly 60 million a
year in the 1960s, 70 million in the '70s, 80
million in the '80s, and promises to be 90
million a year in the 1990s. Merely to
maintain the present average level of
affluence, extra resource consumption
would have to be enough to provide for a new
city of a million people every four days.
Imagine the rescue effort that would be
required if the fabric of 90 cities each housing
a million people, their schools, public ser-
vices, roads, etc had to be provided anew
each year. That is a measure of the material
requirement for the affluence level of the
world to be kept where it is today: imagine
how it would detract from all the other things
we wish to do. Then realise that it is hap-
pening today and we are failing to provide for
the next generation.
How growth happened.
The era 1945-1973 was one of unprece-
dented growth. We used up the worlds stock
of raw materials much more rapidly than
during the destructive periods of each of the
two wars. Middle East oil became available in
plenty, and its exploitation was based in the
already industrialised countries. Their idea of
the price of oil was the cost of getting it and
refining it plus a 'generous' royalty of, say,
50% to the 'owners'. That resulted in oil
costing about a dollar a barrel in the 1960s.
We saw the 'economic miracle', exem-
plified particularly by the recovery of
Germany. But in reality it was no miracle at
all, for who but a fool could fail to make a
fortune on oil at a dollar a barrel when having
the technology to convert it into products
worth a hundred dollars? If the price were
now a hundred dollars, there would be plenty
of people able to make a profit out of it, and
by the standards of history we would be very
well off, for the products of oil would still be
cheap in terms of a day's wage.
Coal in trouble through overproduction.
It is difficult to sell all the coal produced in
Britain because oil is too cheap, and that is
because people continue to act as if oil will
flow for ever.
Oil is cheap, in the sense that it is easy to
get, almost like picking up money lying in the
street. But it ought to be priced at its value,
not at the cost of getting it. Then coal could
also be sold at its value, and no coal pit in
Britain would be called uneconomic.
It is ironic that we have a butter mountain,
and vast milk, grain, and wine surpluses in
the E E C because the Community practices
gross interference in the market, although
the E E C was created in order to let the
market operate freely. The marketplace
remedies of lowering the price (within the
Community) or closing the least economic
farms are not used: some of the surpluses are
sold to Russia at a knock-down price.
The correct remedy when it comes to a
valuable mineral resource, which can only be
mined once, would be to work out all mines
at whatever cost because, once closed, a pit
becomes unsafe to re-open, and so any
residual coal would be lost for ever. But the
dictates of the marketplace are now followed
and some pits are declared 'uneconomic'.
We should remind ourselves that had not
O P E C forced up the price of oil in the 1970s,
Friday 17 August 1984
our North Sea oil would not now be ecu
nomic. Until we learn to price fuels according
to their value instead of the cost of getting
them, the marketplace is the wrong judge of
fuel policies. Actually the nonsensical
argument has gone one stage further: discus-
sions have been started about opening an
open-cast mine, under private management,
in the Forest of Dean, although it has been
declared a conservation area and is one of
our few remaining forests. The object would
be to obtain cheaper coal which could
compete in the market with oil as an energy
source. This would make the coal mountain
an even more ridiculous aspect of our
civilisation.
The people mountain.
There comes a moment in the history of
the fossil fuel civilisation when it must
concern itself about posterity. For the last
200 years industry and technology have
visibly and significantly improved the welfare
of people, and it has depended absolutely on
the use of fossil fuel. We have behaved as if
the source of fuel were infinite; but it is very
finite, even in terms of human history which
in turn is only a tiny bit of biological evolution.
We are now at the turning point, and the past
is no longer the best guide to the future.
The excess of people has come about
because all the constraints on increase have
been removed as if they were bad because
they reduced the amount of human life. The
first battle, for life, has been won; but the
second, to control the amount of it so that it
may be fully enjoyed, is being lost.
The growth of population has reached a
point at which we cannot care properly for
the children. Several countries have
populations half of which are under the age of
sixteen. There is no hope for them of
participating in the material and intellectual
life which we enjoy. Although the battle to
control the population explosion seems
desperate - without hope, it must be pursued
because we must preserve pockets of human
culture which can outlast the terrible
vengeance of nature against our species. If
we save all the children we heighten the
predicament. We do not know what future
events will do to them, but the cool
extrapolation of numbers to 8 billion in 2025
and 10 billion in 2050 is a condemnation to
indescribable squalor and deprivation.
Before then social upheavals of a kind as
yet unknown will result from the contrasts of
poverty and wealth. The misery has already
begun; make no mistake!
Whatever else we do, we should not
determine our policy for the most basic
resource of our civilization - fuel - on the basis
of 'profit now', but that is what the govern-
ments of several wealthy countries are
engaged in.
R S Scorer is Emeritus Professor of
Theoretical Mechanics in the Department of
Mathematics, Imperial College.
FELIX

