P O S T G R A D S H
Some Aspects of Postgraduate Life at IC
Hendy, C.H. Postgraduate Group Chairman 1984/5
Abstract
Alcohol and sex in relation to the activities of a postgraduate are discussed in intimate detail. Supervisors and
Tutors from all departments are named and all their faults exposed The words work and thesis are carefully
avoided.
Key-words
Bitter-Lager-Bushmills-Guinness-Daley Thompson
Introduction
The Postgraduate Group (PGG) is the biggest individual group at
Imperial College. It also has the distinction of being independent in its
affairs and actions (similar to the CCUs). To run properly, it is
necessary for all PGs to become involved in its activities and those of
the students union. In this report a review of last years activities is
given and events and opportunities for the future discussed.
Method
The original methods, as employed in October 1983, were to get as
much involvement in the P G G as possible. After the initial success of
the Ploughman's lunch, apathy set in until February, when a flurry of
activity resulted in the organisation of a joint Silwood/South
Kensington party.
In April it was discovered that the P G G had no constitution. This
was quickly remedied and a new constitution was passed at Joint
Council in June.
As for the future of the P G G , an excellent committee has been
formed for next year (see appendix), and it is hoped that the
experienced gained this year will be used to good effect.
The most important piece of equipment used in this year's work
however was alcohol. This simple yet highly effective liquid was used
time after time to induce favourable results and will be used extensively
in all forthcoming work.
Results
Both social events held were successful especially the Silwood party,
where I am sure all 70 plus people who went from South Ken enjoyed
themselves. (Apologies to those two or three people we left behind,
hope the walk home wasn't too bad!!!)
Discussion
Overall the year has been reasonably successful. I hope that those who
attended the social events have enjoyed themselves and not suffered
too much the next day!! I feel next year could be the most important
for PGs at IC with the College Governing Body recommending a
change in student percentages from 25% PGs to 40% PGs it is
important that all Postgrads start to make their presence felt. The
Student Union is run by undergraduates for undergraduates.
Events lined up for next year include a freshers P G party in the
Holland Club on 2 October, preceded by a general meeting of the
group. Numbers will be limited so watch the freshers Felix for details
about tickets. There is also a cricket/sports day against Silwood on 9
September. Anybody interested in participating or spectating, please
see a member of the committee.
I must apologise to all those PGs who have applied for membership
of the Holland Club but have yet to receive your membership cards. I
am afraid I can only blame this on the incompetence of the
membership secretary and you may assume your membership has been
accepted.
Finally, if you are in the process of writing your thesis or your first
year transfer report may I wish you luck. I hope you have as successful
a 1984/5 as I am sure the P G G will.
Conclusion
Too much beer makes you fall over.
Acknowledgements
I should like to thank Jim Brannigan for being my main support on
last year's Committee, John Passmore and Doug Armstrong (past
Chairman) for their help and support, last year's sabbaticals for their
interest, Jenny Rudd and Andy Hamilton from Silwood Park and,
finally, all the barmen in college for their ever attentive service.
You may have noticed that the abstract has nothing whatsoever to
do with the content of this report. It was the only way I could think of
inducing readership.
Appendix
Chairman Chris Hendy Zoology
Secretary John Passmore Mines
Treasurer Jim Brannigan Biochemistry
Undergraduate Liason Sean Davi s Physics
Ordinary Members Paul Monsan Mines
Diane Love Physics
U l U Itavel
is now on campus
FELIX Friday 17 August 1984 7

