It's no secret - working at Salomon Brothers demands a lot from you. We attract
the best that the world's top universities and business schools have to offer,
because the most talented people have a deep-seated desire to discover exactly
how much they can really achieve. In an organisation of Salomon Brothers'
calibre they can develop themselves and their potential to the limit.
The scope of our operations is impressive, with around 6,500 employees
located in offices spanning the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia. We
make markets in securities and provide a broad range of underwriting, financial
advisory and research services to governments, corporations and institutional
investors worldwide.
We recruit into four main areas: Investment Banking, Sales & Trading,
Research and IT. Salomon's reputation as one of the world's pre-eminent finance
and securities firms draws men and women from many different cultures and
backgrounds. We cherish such diversity in our people, but also require certain
essential prerequisites: academic excellence (2:1 minimum in your first degree);
a flair for languages; creativity and innovation; numeracy and interpersonal
skills; and a willingness to give commitment - day in, day out.
It's asking a lot, and you'd be entitled to ask what we offer in return. The
rewards package is one of the best, if not the best around. You'll also be given
significant responsibility from a very early stage and will be supported by an
exceptional range of personal training and development programmes. But most
important of all, you'll have the chance to work in a team alongside some of the
brightest and most original minds of your generation. And to discover the truth
about yourself.
If you're prepared to make the best possible commitment to your career,
please complete an application form which can be obtained from your Careers
Service. This should be returned to the Graduate Recruitment Officer, Salomon
Brothers International Limited, Victoria Plaza, 111 Buckingham Palace Road,
London SW1W OSB. To be considered for our Swift Track scheme it should
arrive before 31 st October 1996.
An application form is also available via our Internet Home Page:
http://www.sbil.co.uk
S a l o m o n Brothers

