12 NOTICES FELIX FRIDAY 1 1TH OCTOBER
I C U E N T E R T A I N M E N T S
L
M
P
E
R
I
A
I
. C
O
L
L
E
G
E U
N
I
O
N
AS FROM TONIGHT, 11TH
OCTOBER, AND ALL SUBSEQUENT
FRIDAYS, UNION CARDS WILL BE
NEEDED FOR ACCESS TO
ENTERTAINMENTS IN THE UNION
LEVERHULME TRUST INDIVIDUAL AWARDS 1997
A V A I L A B L E A W A R D S :
R E S E A R C H FELLOWSHIPS A N D G R A N T S
EMERITUS FELLOWSHIPS
S T U D Y A B R O A D STUDENTSHIPS
The Leverhulme Trust is offering three different individual awards: Study
Abroad Studentships, Emeritus Fellowships and Research Fellowships and
Grants. Applications are welcome from all subject areas.
There are approximately 20 Study Abroad Studentships available for all
areas except the UK and the USA. The award consists of £11,410 per annum
and return air fares. (Form SAS2)
There are approximately 35 Emeritus Fellowships available. The maxi-
mum award available is £15,500. (Form F6)
There are approximately 75 Fellowships and Grants available to individu-
als in aid of original research. These awards are not available simply as
replacement for past support from other sources. The maximum award avail-
able is £15,500. (Form F2)
Further details and application forms can be obtained from The Secretary,
Research Awards Advisory Committee, The Leverhulme Trust, 15-19 New
Fetter lane, London EC4A1NR.
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Final year undergraduates and postgraduates should receive, in thefirstweek
of term, a personal copy of the Careers Choice programme which includes
details of Event, Careers Talks, Interactive Workshops, Employer presenta-
tions and the Milkround. Spare copies are available in the Careers Service.
C A R E E R S T A L K S
There are two Careers Talks this week in the Clore Lecture Theatre - LT
213 Huxley at lpm to 1.50pm. No booking is necessary, just turn up.
Tuesday 8th October. "Introducing the Careers SErvice" by John simp-
son, Director, IC Careers Service.
Thursday 10th October. "Graduate Study int he USA" by Dr David
Stuckey, a former US Scholar and now in Chemical Engineering.
Warning - Although there may be more vacancies in 1997, the com-
petition will still be severe.
Advice - Apply early, visit the Careers Service and use the Milkround. For
further information come to the Careers Service, Room 310 Sherfield - phone
extension 48024 - open from 10 am to 5.15 pm Monday to Friday.
Internet - View the Careers Service Homepage on:
http://www.ad.ic.ac.uk/registry/careers/index.htm.
ICU COUNCIL MEETING
The first Council meeting of the year will be on tue 15th October at 1800 in
the Union dining hall, it is extremely important that all ICU Officers and rep-
resentatives attend. During this meeting there will also be elections for the
following position Transport Officer, Welfare Officer, Women's Officer, 8
ordinary members to council (2firstyear and 2 PG), 4 ordinary members to
the Executive, 2 ordinary members to the Union Finance Committee, 4 ordi-
nary members to the Refectory Services Committee and 3 ordinary members
to the House Committee. All members of the Union are entitled, and invited,
to attend.
LUNCHTIME CONCERTS IN THE
READ THEATRE THURSDAYS 1PM
Now is the time to enter into your
calendar the concerts which will be
given in term time between 17
October and 13 March.
Alternatively, contact Ainslee
Rutledge (e-mail a.rutledge) who
will then stimulate you electronical-
ly before each performance.
Last year we heard music written
during the past 400 years, up to the
present, by more than 50 composers.
The range will be similarly wide this
season. The IC concerts, which were
launched in 1950 by Harold Allan of
Physics and David Tombs of
Electrical Engineering, have 'talent-
spotted' several now world-famous
artists, some of whom still visit us
after 20 years and more. Bernard
Roberts, who gave the 700th concert
in 1981 will be with us on 28
November try his recent pair of CDs
on the Nimbus label of all of
Hindemith's piano music.
Apart from the sufficient condi-
tion of enjoying it, there are many
other benefits from regularly listen-
ing to music in this tradition. The
value of musical therapy is well-
established and recent studies,
reported in Nature and elsewhere,
show that musical experience and
training of young children cross-fer-
tilise other mental skills. This has yet
to be established objectively at uni-
versity level (and surely the musical
IC community would be ideal for
such a study) but is a pretty good bet.
It seems likely that verbal commu-
nication can be improved through
effects on stresses and pitches in
speech patterns. It certainly also
helps to increase attention span,
counteracting the unfortunate influ-
ence of modern media.
The standards of dedication and
intellectual intensity set by profes-
sional musicians, particularly as
soloists or in small groups, are exem-
plary even for those who work in
disciplines as demanding as science
and technology.
Thus music appeals to a much
wider social spectrum than most
other art forms; it is the most univer-
sal of the arts and provides a view-
point of social, political and techni-
cal history in the West over the last
four centuries (since, say, the birth of
Galileo in 1564).
Most classical music is strongly
structured in rhythm and melody, a
feature which new listeners can find
daunting. Sometimes the structures
are quite complicated and sometimes
even intentionally concealed (most
notoriously in some works of Alban
Berg which took fifty years to deci-
pher fully). It is important to know
that it is not necessary to recognise
the structures explicitly; the subcon-
scious can recognise them sublimi-
nally. If you wish to explore further
the structure of a particular piece,
you could try the Haldane Library's
excellent music collection of com-
pact discs, tapes, books and scores.
It does take time.
The choice between Classic FM
and Radio 3 is often settled in the
minds of individual listeners by the
wish to hear live performances. Live
televised performances give the
opportunity for enhanced immedia-
cy, but there is actually no substitute
for being there, to witness creation in
the raw.
Be there for the Miihlfeld Trio
playing the Brahms Clarinet Trio on
17 October and give the other hemi-
sphere of your brain a break! Contact
Ainslee Rutledge NOW.

