FELIX FRIDAY 1 5TH OCTOBER SPORT 15
continued from backpage
ing international honours. Sixty eight
of these came from one university,
Loughborough, which is famous for
its sporting scholars. Rugby itself
came second with a massive 86 stu-
dents achieving international fame,
which equates to nearly 6 interna-
tional sides. Football came way
down on the list with only nine stu-
dents representing their country at
international level. This demon-
strates the lowly position of football.
Now that rugby has gone profes-
sional, the future of sport inuniversi-
ties at elite level looks less secure.
The helping hand attitude from so
many institutions could well change
in the medium term, with the empha-
sis shifting attention to the financial
rewards away from students' studies.
Imperial College itself is one of the
few higher education institutions that
do not offer sports scholarships to
students. However, this doesn't seem
to have an affect on the success of
some college sports, most notably the
boat club, but then the College's tra-
dition of excellence has led them to
build on this success with financial
backing and world class facilities for
the club. This has had the result,
though, of producing a shortfall of
funding for the other college sports.
This year, for the first time, sports
teams may benefit from money put
aside for coaching, thus allowing
them to compete more effectively in
interuniversity sport. But an inability
to attract young sportsmen and
women may well make these efforts
in vain.
Written with the help of Charles
Randall of the Daily Telegraph.
Sports Crossword
Felix has teamed up with the Daily Telegraph to bring you the opportunity to
test your knowledge of summer sport and win yourselves a £25 Sports vouch-
er and three runners-up prizes ol a Daily Telegraph T-shirt.
All you have to do is rack your brains over the crossword on the left, get
your solutions to Felix by Monday 2Kt October, and the winner will be
announced in the following issue. The first correct entry drawn ou' of a luu oi
other similar receptacle will win a snorts voucher lor £25. Thefirstthree run-
ners up will receive an exclusive Daily Telegraph T-shirt. We might be able
to find some other stuff for the next couple of runners up.
Rules of entry:
Competition open to all members of Imperial College except those involved
in Felix. Entries to be marked 'Telegraph Sports Crossword". Entries to arrive
no later than 2.00 pm Monday 21st October, entries after this time will not be
accepted, except at the editor's discretion. Winners will be notified through
Felix, so if you enter, don't forget to read the next issue.
A C R O S S
1. , Weir an Olympic discus thrower or Holness, presenter of 1.
Blockbusters (3)
2. Abbreviation for the country which boasts Greg Norman, Shane 2.
Warne and Mark Bosnich (3)
7. Women's 100m Olympic Champion (6) 3.
9. Scottish mum and former World Champion, 16th in the Olympic 4.
women's marathon. (8) 5.
10. Patrik at football, Gerhard in motor racing (6)
11. Where Alan Shearer went for £15 million (9) 6.
12. Marathon stars run on them, Tour de France cyclists ride on them 8.
(5)
15. The governing body of Tennis (1,1,1) 13.
17. Fromula One cars driven by Rubens Barichello and Martin Brundle 14.
this season (7) 15.
19. Delivery perfected by Anil Kumble and Mushtaq Ahmed or film
starring Paul Hogan and a dolphin (7) 16.
20. This sport's governing body held its Olympic trials in Birmingham 17.
in June(l,l,l) 18.
22. Golf shot out of a bunker (5)
25. 1996 Formula One champion? (5,4) 21.
27. Yachting class in which Britian's Shirley Robertson finished fourth
in Atlanta; what premier league clubs strive to qualify for each sea 23.
son (6) 24.
28. Spurs and England Euro 96 star (8) 26.
29. Double winners Manchester United are know as the Red (6)
30. Nickname for basketball star Michael Jordan; completely missed
the ball in golf (3)
31. South African who was runner-up in the Open Championship at
Royal Lytham (3)
D O W N
German tennis star who had to retire from Wimbledon with a wrist
injury (6)
Martin Offiah became one when he moved to London from Wigan
in July (6)
Fraser; Middlesex and England cricketer (5)
Sleeveless vest worn by athletes (7)
Man who cheered up gliding Sunderland to promotion form
Division One in May (5,4)
Arsenal and Holland striker (8)
Prefix for Alf Ramsey, Stanley Matthews, and Richard Hadlee but
not Geoff Boycott (3)
Abbreviation for Surrey or Surinam (3)
Olympic sport played in the pool (5,4)
National body whose Olympic trials were held at Ponds Forge,
Sheffield (1,1,1)
Football authority who threatened strike action this summer (1,1,1)
Gazza fractured this once and had to were a protective mask (3)
Rower who entered the Olympic record books in Atlanta witha
fourth successive gold (8)
Birmingham, site of Olympic football action this summer, is in this
US state (7)
Surrey and England batsman (6)
Collective name for some of the Olympic yachts at Atlanta (6)
What England's Gary Neville is to his brother Phillip (5)

