8 NEWS FEATURE F E L I X FRIDAY 10TH O C T O B E R
IC construction projects:
Robin Riley decides to follow up a few strange telephone calls...
This Monday, the Felix office
received a telephone call from a
'College health and safety represen-
tative.' If that sounds a rather hazy
description, it's because he asked us
not to name him. We'll call him Mr
A. Mr A. had called to comment
upon the article in Felix last week
concerning the roof collapse outside
the library... not to deny it, but to
praise it. He also had a few things
he'd like me to jot down, and put me
onto a friend of his, whom for sim-
plicity's sake we'll call Mr B. I called
Mr B. on Wednesday, and discov-
ered he was part of the College's
finance division. He had some things
he wanted to get off his chest, and
also wished to remain anonymous.
Sensing my intrigue, Mr B. suggest-
ed that for more specific details I
contact a certain Mr C from the
College's Estates division. He [that
is, Mr B.] also suggested that I
shouldn't tell him [that is, Mr C] that
it was he [that is, Mr B.] that had
given me his [that is, Mr C's] exten-
sion number, or that I had spoken to
anyone else [Mr A, that is.]
Messrs. A and B had called to
express concern at the level of safety
among the tangled web of construc-
tion sites around College. They had
also called to express concern at the
level of concern among the tangled
web of staff around College at the
level of safety among the tangled
web of construction sites around
College.
Confused? So was I. Was this
some bizarre bureaucratic fantasy,
the product of one of the many dis-
eased minds lurking within the
Sherfield building? No... All three
are real people. Mr A. and Mr B. will
remain anonymous, and those aren't
their initials. Mr C, meanwhile, is
our dear friend, Ian Caldwell, much
maligned director of Estates and
broadly responsible for the develop-
ment, refurbishing and maintenance
of buildings on campus...
I'm not entirely sure whether to
treat the testimonies of Mr A and Mr
B as brave moral crusades on behalf
of their colleagues, unsubstantiated
gossip or rants against no-one in par-
ticular, but between them they
described no less than five (yes, five)
serious breaches of safety having
occurred on College sites in the last
six months. So here they are for you
all to peruse. Admittedly, there's a
small difference between a straight
'list' of five incidents and a 'top five
countdown' of incidents, so I'm
summer it turned the wrong way and
crashed into the Chemistry building.
Mr A. actually tried to play this one
down, claiming the crane only
"brushed against the side of the
building." I wasn't particularly con-
vinced that cranes and buildings can
merely 'brush' against each other,
and so was protected from the shock-
by a healthy shell of cynicism when
Mr B. added this was no isolated
incident, but in fact "quite common."
lowed. An investigation revealed that
the beams of the roof were timber
and not concrete as first thought, and
that the driver would have to dye the
rest of the seat brown to match. The
incident was officially recorded as
'dangerous' but library staff were
assured that there would be no fur-
ther problems with any part of the
roof. Oops.
Straight in at number three... My
sources were slightly at odds over the
specifics, but to cut a long story short
the small pins which hold the large
pins which hold the block and tackle
on one of the cranes were left off.
This caused the block and tackle to
fall. Neither Mr A. nor Mr B. would
hazard a guess as to how far it fell,
but both agreed it was far enough to
snap the steel cables and leave a con-
siderable dent in Franklin Road,
behind the science museum.
According to Mr B, the accident
occurred during maintenance when
the block and tackle should have
been on the ground. Mr A. remarked
how anyone standing below would
have been 'lucky' enough to be hit by
a block and tackle weighing only 1
tonne... had it happened slightly ear-
lier they would also have been hit by
a concrete load weighing around 4
tonnes. Both of my sources grew
very excited when they spoke of this
accident, how it was extremely sig-
nificant and had led to a high-level
Health and Safety Executive investi-
gation, which may result in design
changes in cranes of this type.
The fourth incident is rapidly
becoming an IC legend. Due to a
breakdown of hand signals between
engineers directing operations from
the ground, a crane carrying several
tonnes of steel reinforcing rods acci-
dentally put them through the win-
dow of a computer room in the
Chemistry building. Both Mr A. and
Mr B. told me with glee that there
were four people in the room at the
time, but I prefer Mr B's version
where a student left his chair just a
sorry if I slip into that sort of writing
at any point. If that's what you'd pre- Secondly, anyone watching the top
fer, however, then try humming the of the main library over the summer
old 'Top of the pops' theme as you will have seen two mini-dozers,
read the next section... being used for clearing the roof in
preparation for the two new 'green-
Firstly, some facts about the house' glass-clad storeys. Not to be
largest of the two cranes on the BMS outdone by the cranes, one of the
building construction site... It's 61 dozers was moving debris when the
meters tall, it's stabilised by blocks roof beneath it partially gave way,
of concrete weighing a total of 100 dropping large chunks of concrete
tonnes, it's provided by a company into the library below. According to
called Hewden Stuart, and over the Mr A, the dozer itself very nearly fol-
F E L I X FRIDAY K I T H O C T O B E R NEWS FEATURE 9
more than ABC.
few seconds before the space above it
was filled with steel. Did I mention
who provided the cranes? Oh yes... It
was Hewden Stuart.
The final blunder you should
already be familiar with; namely the
deciduous concrete above the walk-
way outside the library. This gets top
billing because it was the nearest we
got to actually killing anybody. After
last week's somewhat hurried report,
I can now confirm that no-one was
injured, everyone involved has
calmed down and that the collapse
was probably caused by the wrong
gauge of steel reinforcement having
been used in the roof. According to
Ian Gillet, the Health and Safety
Executive have been informed, but
don't appear to be planning an inves-
tigation.
Both conspirators admitted that
this was the incident that had spurred
them into speaking out. Mr A. com-
mented: "The odds are stacking up
against them... I know they're work-
ing in a crowded environment but if
incidents and accidents continue at
this rate, somebody's going to get
seriously hurt."
Mr B. added "I think that a lot of
people in the college are very wor-
ried... there are serious accidents
waiting to happen."
That's as far as they would go,
leaving me with only one option...
My notes prepared and ready for a
fight, I nervously dialled the number
I had been given for the mysterious
Mr C. Ian Caldwell's secretary
answered;
"He's on site at the moment. Why
don't you call back tomorrow?"
Call back I did. Several times in
fact. Charming and patient though
she was, the director of Estates' sec-
retary was unable to bring him to the
phone. Her responses to my frequent
calls included:
"He's in a meeting."
"He's still in a meeting; his meet-
ings are stacking up." [presumably
like planes at Heathrow.]
"He's just disappeared into Suite
Five." [the rector's offices.]
"I don't know where he is... I sup-
pose that's not a very good thing for
a secretary to say, really." And final-
ly, with genuine concern:
chance to reply... maybe he really is
that busy. The point of this article is
not to make College's director of
The proposed library extension will be permanently
concealed by the cunning use of trees.
"Sorry... I'm beginning to think
he's hiding from me."
True, I ought to have persisted, and
it isn't fair to criticise the elusive Mr
Caldwell without giving him a
Estates the scapegoat for student
gripes, as has been a trend for Felix
in the recent past. In fact, Both Mr A.
and Mr B. expressed fullest confi-
dence in the College administration.
This isn't particularly that surprising
'The fourth incident is
rapidly becoming an IC
legend.'
People that build greenhouses shouldn't throw stones.
considering they're both part of it,
but remember; the information they
gave was freely volunteered.
Mr A. refused to be drawn as to
who was responsible for the prob-
lems, But Mr B. had no hesitation in
laying the blamefirmlyat the feet of
the contractors:
"Schal [the main contractors for
the works] are charging IC the top
rate, and they are a top company, but
the site helmets I've seen are a dead
give-away that cheaper firms are
being used for much of the labour."
He explained that Schal Construction
Management use different sub-con-
tractors for the different aspects of
the work... These sub-contractors
then use a variety of smaller firms,
which in turn employ agencies who
actually hire the site workers. By the
time the agencies, smallerfirms,sub-
contractors and Schal have creamed
off their profit, the College is not get-
ting value for money. In addition,
although College's Finance division
performs credit checks to protect IC
in the case of a contractor going out
of business, some of these smaller
firms may be extremely prone to
bankruptcy, especially over the dura-
tion of large projects such as the
Campus Renaissance. Mr B. also
warned that, as a result of this hierar-
chy, there were breakdowns of com-
munication and "...a prevalence of
lower-end labour." Thus, no matter
how hard College (or indeed Schal)
try to maintain safety standards, acci-
dents will continue to happen...
I called Schal Construction
Management twice on two different
numbers, pretending to be two differ-
ent people, but was twice referred
back to Estates division. As a result,
I have no reply from them to the
comments made by Messrs. A and B.
Nor do I have any real confirmation
of the incidents they describe. So
who do we believe? And who has the
power to improve the safety of our
campus?
Mr Caldwell is 41, but his secre-
tary was unable to confirm this.

