10 COLUMNS FELIX FRIDAY 1 1TH O C T O B E R
Simon Baker - Voice of Reason
Now that Imperial is firing on at least
three cylinders, it is inevitable that
the old causes celebres should come
to the fore. For those new to South
Ken, the biggest of these is Campus
Renaissance, the master plan to turn
IC into Europe's largest building site,
now that the Channel Tunnel is fin-
ished. It is a little known fact
Anderson Consulting rally their new
recruits in Chicago to the strains of
'Simply the Best.' Presumably Schal
International will fire up their con-
tractors' spirits with Lulu's 1969
Eurovision entry 'Boom Bang-A-
Bang', following last week's little
incident. When I first heard about
'something falling from the library',
I though it was a bit serious. Having
read that the falling chunk weighed
four tonnes and almost hit someone,
I am staggered at the seemingly bla-
tant negligence of persons involved
in this project. The possible conse-
quences of such an accident had it
happened this week are obvious.
Without wishing to pre-empt the
inquiry, the College or Schal must be
expecting to be moved several fath-
oms down the Christmas card list of
the Health and Safety Executive. For
my dear friend Ian Caldwell, this is
probably not how he wanted the year
to start.
However, having managed to avoid
the C word last week to the surprise
of regular readers, I must genuinely
congratulate him on his letter in that
thunderer of the press IC Reporter,
proving that his reticence in replying
to attacks in the media are only limit-
ed to this esteemed publication. In
Distorter, he said, of the Sherfield
Committee rooms (there must be
thousands of them, given the way
they 'work' in that building) that
'their condition has been subject to
criticism and they were, frankly a
disgrace to the College...the condi-
tion of such facilities is noted by vis-
itors to the College and it is therefore
essential that they should be of a rea-
sonable standard.' I have never seen
this key facility, but I'll take his word
for it. He is, of course, right about
public perception. In view of this I
have invited our Chancellor, the
Princess Royal, to have a BLT with
me in the JCR, safe in the knowledge
that she walks in the footsteps of
architects, builders and decorators.
The JCR is, by virtue of its proximi-
ty to the walkway, seen by a lot of
important people. It is 'frankly a dis-
grace to the College.' I know that stu-
dents are no more than a necessary
evil, but since most open days
include a visit to this tatty dump, it
could prove highly counter-produc-
tive in recruiting more affluent stu-
dents should fees become the norm
(ooh, bit of politics, ladies and gen-
tlemen).
No time to mention the Conservative
shenanigans. I seem to have got as
much stick about Lord McAlpine and
Neil Hamilton as the party chairman.
I shall end on a lighter note. Ever
keen to give you, dear reader, value
for money, may I suggest you slip on
your dancing shoes and head on
down to Voyager at The Complex
this or any Friday. One of me all time
favourite techno clubs of all time,
mate. Not 'arf.
P E R S O N A L A D D I C T I O N S :
" I ' M O N L Y W A T C H I N G IT BECAUSE IT'S O N "
If you are anything like me then
you may well have experienced day
time television. You know the feel-
ing, sitting in your dressing gown
with a cup of tea and a fag, lazing
around your flat watching Richard
and Judy. Why? What purpose does
daytime television serve? Take, for
example, Rikki Lake. You may or
may not have seen Rikki's show
but, in a nutshell, average
Americans go on the show to share
their problems with the entire
nation in an attempt to make them-
selves feel better. Obviously when I
say average American I mean an
overweight twenty year old girl,
with twelve children who has just
overcome her drug addiction with
the help of her counsellor. What
makes these people want to tell sev-
eral million people, that they have
never met, their entire life story on
a low quality daytime show? Who
knows, but with show themes like
"Overweight lesbian couples who
have been abducted by aliens and
forced into weight loss pro-
grammes", it makes you wonder
where they come from.
I only happen to occasionally stum-
ble across these daytime oddities,
but what about the audiences?
From what I have seen they are all
old women who have just stepped
in from the cold and been roped
into it by a studio executive, with a
couple of people from racial
minorities thrown in for good mea-
sure. Even with a bizarre audience
and an even more bizarre choice of
topics these programmes seem to
get more popular by the minute,
with a new version springing up
every thirty seconds, ranging from
serious discussion about today's
cutting social issues, including sev-
eral on-camera fights between
feuding second cousins, to twenty
year old college drop-outs who
wanted to say thanks to their mums,
with appropriate tears streaming
from Rikki/Oprah/Vanessa's face
(Delete as appropriate). Then, just
when I thought that these pro-
grammes were only made in
America and bought up by the BBC
to fill space, up pops Esther, and
another hour of off-peak viewing
has bitten the dust, which I will, of
course, watch to the bitter end.
T H E WEEKLY POEM
supplied by PoetIC
Invaders
They arrived unheard.
A few words were spoken;
a token glance.
They danced on a Sunday,
when all were asleep;
danced in the deep of a 2D screen.
The scene? Afternoon.
A distant tune slept on the breeze:
A key turn a lock,
the clock ticked to three.
The cartoon on TV
came to an end.
They pretended to play,
with sound circuits dead:
Just a dying day;
no more was said.
Waiting for a coin, maybe two,
they gave no clues, no inspiration;
just cheap imitations of a dead desire.
A ship caught fire near a neutron star.
A game of pool, a barren bar
with deserted stools.
A halffinishedhalf... distant laughter.
Insistent in the 40 watt shadows,
they squatted low, watching the room,
through the gloom flashing over and over
PLAYER 1 INSERT COIN GAME OVER
This poem taken from A Selection of Member's Poetry, published by
PoetIC, the society for creative writing at Imperial College.
PoetIC welcomes new members. If you would like more details about
PoetIC, please contact the publicity officer Keith McNulty on k.mcnul-
ty@ic.ac.uk or the chairman Ed Sexton on e.sexton@ic.ac.uk

