6 FELIX February 11th, 1971
Strikes and
Ford Strikes, G K N Strikes, Dustmen Strikes, Dock
Strikes, Power Strikes, B E A Strikes, Jumbo Jet pilots'
Strike, more Ford Strikes, and most recently, the Post Office
Union Strike.
The time lost in strikes last year was double that for the
previous 6 months and all indications are that this year will
be the worst ever since the General Strike in 1926. But
what are the root causes of these strikes. The militant left
wingers, who from the shop-floor spread their propaganda
amongst the workers, must take the main blame. What they
do not explain is that if they get their pay rise then either
the share holders have to take a drop in their dividends (in
which case they are quite right in withdrawing their capital)
or the consumer will have to pay more, in which case every-
one's money buys less and the pay claims start all over again.
These strikes will have to be stopped to beat the ever
rising inflation and one of the ways of doing this is the
Industrial Relations Bill which is at present being slowly
introduced by Parliament. This will give the government the
right to fine Unions who break the laws concerning strikes
and the new compulsory 40 day cooling off period. A simi-
lar Bill was passed in the States two years ago and although
this bill was not as streamlined as ours, it has still been
quite effective e.g. one of the large railway unions was fined
at $300,000 a day until the union executive was financially
forced to send its workers back to work where consequently
a reasonable pay claim was negotiated.
Our Bill is far more sophisticated than the American one,
having over a hundred different clauses and this should give
the government far more control over all pay claims.
Ford Motors (Britain) together with the dockers have one
of the worst records for striking (i.e. they have more mili-
tant agitators). Their present claim is for £15 on their basic
wage (which is very generous) and follows two similar
claims over the last three years. This is slowly producing a
stranglehold on the Ford management and already much of
the work previously undertaken in Britain has been trans-
ferred to the continent. The present dispute could possibly
be the final factor in the decision as to the future of Fords
of Britain Ltd. and result in large redundancies. For why ?
MILITANT campaigners — probably just a few in every
union — but they are there. At a smaller level we can see
this sort of person in our student unions around the country.
There may be only one or two in an entire union but these
people represent political dynamite as can be seen only too
easily in the present bomb attacks on leading ministers and
officials by an organisation who call themselves the Angry
Brigade — these people are just the guerilla form of the
T H E U N I V E R S I T Y O F W A R W I C K
B u s i n e s s G r a d u a t e ?
Increasingly this question will be asked. When planning
your own career you will want to consider the possibilities
yourself.
The School of Industrial and Business Studies offers twelve
month programmes leading to Masters degrees in Manage-
ment and Business Studies, Management Science and
Operational Research or Industrial Relations.
About 90 places will be available in these programmes this
year. Applicants, normally in their twenties, should have an
honours degree or equivalent professional qualification; two
or more years business experience is also an advantage.
Grants are available from the Social Science Research
Council and other sources. Some companies also sponsor
promising young managers.
Write for details to:
THE REGISTRAR,
UNIVERSITY OF WARWICK, >
COVENTRY CV4 7AL.
stating area of interest and quoting reference M/71/35.
M E D I T A T I O N
The way to the realization of the Higher Self
W e d n e s d a y s a t 7 p . m .
Guided sessions with practice and discussion at
T h e T h e o s o p h i c a l S o c i e t y
50 Gloucester Place, London WIH 3HJ
Meditation leads to greater physical relaxation and emotional
control, more harmony in personal relationships and a step
forward in spiritual progress.
Other courses at the Society include Studies in Mysticism,
a Study of the Mystical Kabbalah and studies of The Great
Scriptures of the World.
For further information write or telephone the Society.
the militant
militant shop-floor students who incite the strikes. All these
instances are a very premature stage of a revolution at pre-
sent largely uncoordinated but there is great potential that all
these people can form an organisation capable of creating
great harm to the average citizen — I say harm because can
it possibly be imagined how chaotic this country would be
run under any other system but capitalism. Freedom of the
individual's rights is probably one's greatest asset and is also
the one thing that would not survive if a people's party came
to (or took) power. If it is possible to ever stay at the same
standard of living then the only way is to have a wage
restraint policy now. It is fair to have a minimum wage for
a forty hour week say £16 (which incidentally the post office
workers have had for some time) and after that no pay
claims should be considered for above 5%. I wonder how the
dockers would feel if the management decided to reduce their
wages by 5%, say, because the docks were not breaking
even ?
As a final thought: if all the Capital in this country,
which at present is mainly lying with 15% of the people, was
divided evenly amongst every man, woman and child then
the amount would be approx. say £6. Within 6 months the
same 15% would have gathered almost all its capital back.
Capitalism works.
Steve Cooke
To hell with exams! B
- <
Judith Walker's article about exams is to be welcomed.
It contains many telling criticisms of the conventional exam-
ination system. Here are a few more.
Examinations were evolved to provide incentive and to
enable selection to be made. Incentive was needed because
many courses did not (and still do not) by themselves create
the urge to learn: scholasticism had to be forced on to the
student, it was part of the brainwashing process whereby
the best brains were put into the service of the system. The
students were willing conscripts because they knew they were
privileged, and had gained their privilege through winning
the examination competition for the few places; and some
sort of assessment system was needed to conduct this com-
petition for privilege.
We have moved into a new era now, in which we are try-
ing to educate as many people as possible. There isn't really
a place any more for the competition, and so exams are not
really needed for that purpose. In all discussions about what
to do instead there seems to be an assumption that a "method
of assessment" is required. That is a hangover from the
competition days. What we need, as teachers, is some sort of
assurance that students can actually do something as a result
of the teaching process. We ought to be far more con-
cerned with whether the teaching process is successful or not,
than with assessment of students and establishing an order of
merit. Actually, if exam answers were used as a criterion
they would show that most students are pretty poor at doing
what they have been taught — and who wouldn't be under
exam conditions!
The whole purpose of education needs to be questioned
nowadays. It is absolutely right to resist the intrusion of
sponsorship into universities where it tends to turn the
university into a training ground for future employees of the
sponsor, or where it tends to get the staff and research stu-
dents doing rather special research for the sponsor on the
cheap. But we also have to remember that university teachers
who have little involvement in what is going on in the
outside world may have a very queer idea of what is worth
while studying. Too much 'academic freedom' may lead to
the studies becoming irrelevant.
One way of making it easy for studies to become irrele-
vant is to base courses on a syllabus and examination. It
means that the exam, and the marks that are got by it, be-
come the incentive, and some students who are used to the
system are very content to work on that basis. After all, if
their prospective employer asks for 'a degree' the relevance
of the topic studied for the degree doesn't seem to matter.
We mustn't forget that there is plenty of maths, physics,
engineering and so on that is utterly useless and will not be
studied in ten years time: therefore It is the enlightened
colleges that will give it up now.
Having got a job, what matters then is what you can do:
your qualifications have much less influence on promotion.
Ability to do is only acquired by doing, and it is the doing
of things in preparatiton for exams that is the useful part of
the work done in an exam dominated system. Some people
do an enormous amount of practice before an exam, and
such work is much more valuable to them in the long run
than any revising they may do, and the exam doesn't measure
it at all efficiently.
We are all brought up to believe that what we are depends
partly on nature and partly on nurture. In teaching we can't
affect nature, but we can nurture. It is usually thought that
the subject matter taught constitutes the nurture, and it is
the syllabus content that equips the student to make his
way in life. This is true to a small extent: what matters far
more in practice is using it. If we had narrower syllabuses
but applied their content more widely in a practical way
students would be much better equipped to make their way
in the world, and we should spend much more time practis-
ing the arts and skills and techniques that are taught — not
in a tedious way, repetitively, but by looking at the real
world and spending quite a lot of time working up situa-
tions to which the skills can be applied.
Suppose we knew how to nurture people, what should we
nurture them for? This is a very real problem, long recog-
nised by educationists, which is becoming more important
every year because we cannot see more than a few years
ahead what sorts of science and technology will be re-
quired. The technologies that present day students will be
using in 15 years time will be largely ones that have not yet
been invented or are not yet in undergraduate courses, and so
equipping people for life by their education takes on a new
look. Perhaps you'll all want to come back to college in 15
years time; why not? But more important is to develop an
outlook and a confidence which will enable students to cope
with life for the next 40 years without becoming useless back
numbers.
People have talked about 'equipment for life' ever since
education was analysed at all, but it has become much more
important nowadays. The business of working through exams
does not equip people for life, but for an occupation in which
all the decisions are made by other people. It may produce
very good employees for production industries and efficient
civil servants who operate rules made by others, but is that
what people want to be?
We are exhorted that we need growth of the economy more
than anything, but however valid that might have been in
the past it obviously can't go on much longer because the
world is getting very full of 'industrial revolution man.' So
we have to think about new ways of living and new priori-
ties very urgently or we should foul our own rest and make
living unpleasant for everyone. The people who are going to
see the need for new priorities and work them out are not
going to be those who acquiesce in the exam system: you
have to stifle your rebelliousness too much to be a good
examinee! (To be continued)
E Y E B A L L
T O E Y E B A L L
There is a current vogue in the recruitment of graduates
into industry to make the initial decisions on the basis of
documentary evidence without actually meeting the candi-
dates.
We commiserate with our competitors who are taking this
drastic step, but we are sticking to our olde-worlde approach
of actually dealing with people as people.
ITT is an interesting mixture of these sorts of old-fashioned
principles with very open-minded attitudes to new tech-
nologies.
If you are considering a career in the telecommunications,
electronics, electrical engineering, computer work — or
in any of the specialist functions — industrial engineering,
marketing, accountancy, personnel work, operations research,
patent agency, or whatnot — it's well worth finding out
about what we have to offer.
Our booklet "Information for Graduates" is available from
your Appointments Board, and we will be visiting 48 Univer-
sities and Colleges between 15th lanuary and 10th March,
1971.
We will be visiting IMPERIAL COLLEGE, LONDON, on 18th
FEBRUARY.
If you miss our visit we would still like to hear from you—
you can get our booklet and an application form from:
Central Personnel
Department (Graduates),
International Telephone &
Telegraph Corporation, ' 1 1 1 II11
^ % 1 \ m Standard Telephones &
• w
Cables Limited,
190, Strand,
London WC2R 1DU.

