Features
OPINION
A Q
u
e
s
t
i
o
n o
f Faith
It can hardly have escaped your
notice, on reading the last few issues
of FELIX, that the Christian Union
(CU) has been having a 'spot of
bother". But why, after over sixty
years, have the Union decided not to
recognise the CU.
The Union by-laws state that full
ICU members 'shall be entitled to the
use of all facilities and amenities
provided by the Union'. This has been
interpreted to mean that any student
may join any club or society. The CU
asks members to sign a statement of
faith, and committee members to sign
a doctrinal basis (the belief on which
the CU is founded) thus the CU's
constitution is seen as unconstitutional
and the CU was expelled from the
Union. (The ambiguous clause
regarding speakers (FELIX 798) will
be changed at the forthcoming EGM.)
Perhaps the CU is badly named. It
appears to give the impression that we
believe we represent all Christians.
However we are fully aware of the
diversities within the Christian faith.
We encourage those who do not fit
comfortably into our society to find
a society in which they feel more at
home. Our own individuality from
other Christian societies is protected
by our doctrinal basis. This ensures
that there is always a society in which
individuals can find a group of
Christians with whom they feel
comfortable. For some this will be the
CU, for others the Chaplaincy, for
others Cathsoc or Methsoc. And we
do not presume to judge those who
do not feel their place is with us.
There are a number of reasons why
I feel that an exception to the by-laws
should have been made in the case of
the CU (or the by-laws changed).
Firstly, the CU is not a 'closed
society'. Everyone is welcome to
come and listen to and discuss what
has been said (hence the 50 posters
distributed around College to
advertise each event). So, in this
sense, the C U is open to all ICU
members. I made many friends, and
had an active part in the CU Physics
Bible Study Group for nearly a year
before becoming a CU member. This
year membership cards weren't
distributed until nearly three weeks
into the Autumn term, by which time
students had seen what we were
about, and could decide whether or
not they wanted to join. Interaction
with other Christian societies in
College is high, many members of the
CU are members of other groups and
the CU president meets once a term
with the student leaders of the other
Christian societies.
So why the membership clause? It
ensures continuity, thus preserving
the character of the C U ; and is
necessary for affiliation to our
Clause 4. THE DOCTRINAL BASIS
The doctrinal basis of the Union shall be the fundamental
truths of Christianity as revealed in Holy Scripture, including:
a) The unity of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit in
the Godhead.
b) The sovereignty of God in creation, revelation,
redemption and final judgement.
c) The divine inspiration and infallibility of Holy Scripture
as originally given, and its supreme authority in all
matters of faith and conduct.
d) The universal sinfulness and guilt of human nature since
the fall, rendering mankind subject to God's wrath and
condemnation.
e) The full deity of the Lord Jesus Christ, the incarnate
Son of God, his virgin birth and his real and sinless
humanity; his death on the cross, his bodily resurrection
and his present reign in heaven and earth.
f) Redemption from the guilt, penalty and power of sin
only through the sacrificial death once and for all time
of our representative and substitute, Jesus Chris, the
only mediator between God and man.
g) Justification as God's act of undeserved mercy, in which
the sinner is pardoned all his sins, and accepted as
righteous in God's sight, only because of the
righteousness of Christ imputed to him, this justification
being received by faith alone.
STATEMENT OF FAITH
I believe in:
1. The unity of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit in
the Godhead.
2. Jesus Christ as my Saviour, my Lord and my God.
3. The divine inspiration of Holy Scripture as originally
given, and its supreme authority in all matters of faith
and conduct.
maternal body, the Universities and
Colleges Christian Fellowship
(UCCF), which provides us with
many (non-financial) resources,1
without which (or whom) we could
not function effectively.
Each year new students join, and
a new committee is elected—without
a membership clause or a doctrinal
basis, it is easy to see how the CU
could move away from the aims on
which it is based. So in this sense, the
doctrinal basis provides continuity
through the years in the same way as
the Chaplains do within the
chaplaincies. Also, without them, in
extreme (but admittedly unlikely)
circumstances, students opposed to
the Christian Union could swamp
membership and radically change or
disband the society. I believe this has
happened in the past to Gay Soc, with
committee members being elected
who are unsympathetic to gay rights.
A further analogy can be drawn
between the CU and the orchestra.
Anyone can join the orchestra; in the
same way anyone can come to CU
meetings. However, only those who
can play an instrument to the required
standard will be allowed to perform,
thus retaining the characteristically
high standard of the orchestra's
performances. Likewise by restricting
the voting membership and those
eligible for the Committee the
character of the C U is retained.
Voting rights are the only difference
between a member and a non-
member, all meetings and social
activities, as previously stated, remain
open to everyone.
Our affiliation to UCCF is very
important. It provides support for our
student leaders, with advice, training
and practical help etc, in the same
way as the student leaders of
Methsoc, Cathsoc and the WLC are
assisted by their chaplains.
I suppose that leaves the question
'Does IC need a CU?'. I'd say yes-
there has been a CU at Imperial since
at least 1922; the CU has always had
a large membership (this year 50,
with many non-members also actively
involved; mainly through
departmental Bible study groups). So
there is a call for it.
But the Union fears an exception in
the case of the CU would give clubs,
with their self-elected membership, a
'carte blanche' to become part of ICU
(FELIX 796). However, drawing
parallels between religious societies
and clubs is hardly plausible, even on
the grounds of membership clauses.
But maybe the relevant ICU by-laws
could be changed so that at least
committee members of religious
societies could be required to state
their belief in the views the society
aims to promote.
Whatever happens to the CU in the
long run, the Union will have to
review its position or the C&G Motor
Club will also be out as it excludes
those potential members who belong
to any motoring organisation other
than the RAC. This is to retain their
affiliation to their national body. An
affiliation which presumably is as
necessary to the Motor Club, as
affiliation to UCCF is for the CU.
Finally, could the CU survive on
its own? I think yes, although it will
be much more difficult. One third of
CU's nationally do not belong to their
students' unions. It doesn't seem to
affect their size, just the students'
pockets (at the University of Sussex
each CU member gives £10 a term to
CU funds. At Imperial with our
membership, this would have to be
£15).
Within the objects of ICU is 'the
encouragement of interest by students
in matters outside the College
curriculum, especially cultural and
athletic interests'. If there is a need
for a CU, which I believe there is,
then surely the Union should support
it.
If you would like to discuss any of
the issues raised in this article with
me, then don't hesitate to get in
contact.
Sam Lee, Physics 3.
14 Wednesday 23rd March 1988 FELIX

