ers
Challenging the
intolerance
Dear FELIX,
I am writing to correct some of the inaccuracies I read
in a recent letter by Matthew Huntbach in last week's
FELIX (no 798).
I share Matthew's reservations about the UCCF
statement of belief and I would not join the Christian Union
at my last university for this reason. The reason for my
reservations was that the statement effectively barred my
Roman Catholic Christian friends from membership. My
church allowed any one who claimed to love the Lord to
take Communion and I saw no reason why the UCCF
should be so dogmatic. St Paul argued long and hard with
certain influential Jewish Christians, who insisted on
circumcision of Gentile believers, and I feel that similar
arguments apply here.
Having said this, I feel that Matthew displays a poor
understanding and peculiar intolerance of evangelical
Christianity, which must be challenged.
As an evangelical Christian myself I accept the Bible
as the sole source of authority, but before I am condemned
as a fundamentalist loony I must admit that in common
with many other Christians, I have problems with the
interpretation of biblical truth. There is plenty of scope
for abuse here and many people (Matthew mentions three)
have used the Bible to promote their own dubious and
sometimes immoral views. It is in the search for a true
understanding that the support and teaching of the Church
(the whole Church) is necessary, although there is no
substitute for sincere reflective study and prayer.
Matthew accuses the C U (and I presume evangelicals
in general) of selectivity in their approach to the Bible,
but he does not develop this argument. I must admit that
I am surprised by his view of the CU as the British wing
of the American 'televangelists' but again this argument
is not developed.
The most inaccurate part of Matthew's letter is the bit
on 'justification by faith'. This is not the place for
discussion of this very old argument, and most Christians
have to hold St Paul's teaching 'So the law was put in
charge to lead us to Christ that we might be justified by
faith'—Galations 3:24; and James's teaching 'You see that
a person is justified by what he does and not by faith
alone'—James 2:24 in tension. A better understanding can
be gained by reading the entire-chapters from which these
verses are taken and also Ephesians 2:8-10.
I doubt if anybody in the CU or even Matthew has inside
information on Mother Theresa's destiny in the afterlife
but I think it is safe to assume that she will go to heaven—
not because she is a 'good person' but because of her
relationship with God, and her salvation through the death
of Christ.
Perhaps the heart of the Gospel is that we don't have
to be like Mother Theresa to be saved (which is good news
for most of us) but that we do need God's forgiveness
and to be 'born again'.
On the matter of Christ's social teaching, this was not
humanitarian advice about how to be a 'good person', but
a command to love others as He loves us. It is not true
that the Protestant Church has rejected Christ's radical
social teaching—consider Lord Shaftesbury or Archbishop
Tutu, but please don't judge the CU on the performance
of a few right-wing charlatans from the US.
Finally Matthew, if you're reading this, if you really
want to stop the spread of sinister religions join me in
condemning the Moonies whose letter was printed after
yours in last week's FELIX.
Yours sincerely,
Richard Greenough (Robotics Centre).
Careful
handling
The Editor of FELIX,
Under the terms of the constitution it is understandable
that the Union has decided to expel the Christian Union.
The membership clause is presumably unconstitutional.
The Union must now face the fact that some societies,
by their very nature, require special status. It is necessary
for instance that the Orchestra restricts who plays in their
concerts. Societies which are affiliated to outside
organisations (eg RAC) may be required to comply with
the regulations of that organisation. I would suggest that
the emotive nature of religions also requires careful
handling.
Setting aside these considerations the letter, published
last week (FELIX 798) by Matthew Huntbach deserves
comment. It is not only bigotted but also grossly
inaccurate.
I am not a member of the CU. I will not sign the doctrine
of faith. I have never been made to feel unwelcome at
any of the CU activities which I have attended.
To answer Mr Huntbach's first theological sortie, Christ
sent his disciples to all men and left his spirit working
in the whole world. Christianity is a product of his life.
The CU does not claim it to be a product of the Bible.
For Mr Hunthach to suggest that a society which has
a restriction on its membership claims to represent all
Christians is patently rubbish. His later comment about
the Gnostic gospels is, frankly, foolish beyond permission.
The cases are entirely unconnected.
Equally sensible is the suggestion that all members of
the CU must accept the Bible as 'The sole source of
authority'. Surely that is God! The C U belief is that the
Bible was written by people inspired by God and as such
is the most authoritative text that we have. This belief can
and does encompass an enormous range of opinions on
the infallibility of the content.
Mr Huntbach then goes on to attack Protestantism in
general. At this point the letter becomes incoherent,
disconnected and mostly drivel. His claim about the
connection between the C U and TV evangelists is rubbish.
His point about Mother Theresa is untrue and irrelevant.
He manifestly has no understanding of the concept of
'justification by faith'.
I would suggest that the major message of 'Christ's
radical social teaching' is that to preserve slavishly the
status quo is not sufficient, no matter how infallible one
believes the tradition to be. Such things should be
questioned and followed only if the individual's conscience
finds them to be correct in all things. Some of Christ's
strongest conflicts were with the traditions of established
religion.
In his last paragraph Mr Hunthach exhorts all Christians
not to tolerate the C U . I would suggest that such a
blinkered attitude is far more sinister than anything the
CU might produce.
Yours faithfully,
S J Lockerbie, Physics 2.
S
m
a
l
l Ads
• Shoobedoobee doobeedoo ahh (clap
clap) (repeat if necessary). Penthouse
Club jive squad.
• Wiggle dive crash spin—breakdancing
by PK.
• Pead-Eye PK can shoot a coat-
hanger falling backwards over a wall
downing a pint of whisky in one. Ask
the Indian waiter! Penthouse Club.
• Having provided the RCS Office with
its own all-weather independent multi-
targetable nuclear deterrent, the
Penthouse Club is considering
proliferation.
• Lost: Gold bracelet in Southside on
Wednesday evening. If found please,
please contact Deda Ibikunle (Chem
Eng 2). A lot of sentimental value-
please get in touch if you know of its
whereabouts.
• LOST: 22.3.88, Sports Centre,
about 12.30pm. 1 gold ring with
large bloodstone. Reward offere'd, any
information please contact Russ Dark,
Chem Eng 3.
Should
Imperial join
the NUS?
T h u r s d a y 2 4 t h
1 . 0 0 p m
Union Lounge
All welcome
AT
6
3
6 Wednesday 23rd March 1988 FELIX

