\EcLdcrrr
^ 7
- 3 ^ B -
ers
Small Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Friends of Enoch Powell Society will
be holding its first dinner at the South
African Embassy next week. We
welcome applications for
membership—contact G Kennedy
(Chem 31.
• Tignes '88—Anyone wanting a copy
of the Christmas tour group come along
to Southside one lunchtime next
week—Skisoc.
• Don't miss Dark Star at the Jazz &
Rock Club Hop, tonight.
• Dark Star wish to thank SFSoc for
the free publicity!
• Many thanks to all the ICSO
Committee for a wonderful concert on
Friday.
• For all those members of the
Chamber Music Society who have not
yet received a letter about the AGM it
will be held on March 23. Election
papers are up on the noticeboard along
the walkway.
ACCOMMODATION
• A double room flat in Heme Hill, ring
Jaz on int 4033.
• Urgently required to share large
modern house in Hounslow—all
facilities—own large single room. £188
per month and bills. References
required. Contact Kathy Tait on int
3500 or 570 2549 after 6pm.
LOST & FOUND
• Who gave me a calculator at Camera
7 last Wed (March 9)? Claim it back at
the Union Bar at lunchtime. Steve
Killmurray.
• Lost: One box of ten Macintosh 3V*
disks with 'keep music live' sticker on
back. If found please return to Chas
Brereton, c/o Union. Reward £5.
• Lost: One brown leather shoe, size
10. Lost between Linstead Hall and
Holbein House, Friday (March 11).
Please return to Rodger Houghton
(Maths 3) for mega reward.
PERSONAL
• The Linstead Hall Flashers—flashing
to the world (and Tizard).
• Overheard on a recent Diving Club
trip: M: 'W, where are my underpants?'
• Come in No 37, your time is up!
• 5th Airborne Brigade (wine boxes)
are now fully kamikaze trained. The
Penthouse Club.
• A Poem: Why use a nom de plume?
Cowardly hiding behind a mask of
anonimity, you pour forth verse as bitter
as bile You are nothing but the scum
of the earth. I preach no emnity, but
with you I must be terse-Be you a
faggot, Be you a maiden, You can
forget my bum, you little scum, you
little maggot.—Yishu.
• The spirit of Rayleigh House will
never die! Watch out Linstead and
Fisher.
Not misleading
Dear FELLX,
With reference to Matthew Huntbach's letter (FELIX
798) concerning his views on the Christian Union, I would
like to make a few points which, I feel, might remove
some misunderstanding:
1. The name 'Christian Union' is in no way misleading
as it implies a group of Christians united in their belief
and active in their relationship with God.
2. Christianity, as practiced by the C U , is based truly
and firmly on a belief in Jesus Christ. The Bible, not as
'some obscure jumble' but as the inspired word of God,
is of immense importance in understanding Christ and
following Him more effectively.
3. The most important protestant belief is not exclusive
and that is that salvation is available to all who
acknowledge Christ as their Lord and Saviour and that,
through Christ, we may enjoy a fulfilled relationship with
God and Father.
4. 'Justification of faith alone' is not a protestant belief.
Justification by faith, however, is a widely held Christian
view (Romans 5:1). This by no means does away with
Christ's teaching on the poor, on morality etc. Indeed St
Paul says: 'Do we then nullify the Law through faith? On
the contrary, we establish the Law.' (Romans 3:31).
5. No one I know would ever suggest Mother Theresa
was destined for Hell—the suggestion is quite
preposterous.
I make these points, not to attack personally views or
beliefs held by Mr Huntbach, but merely to correct what
I felt was a misrepresentation of the conduct of our
Christian Union. I hope, and indeed pray, that Imperial
College will see the value of this society and therefore treat
them in a respectful way in the future.
Yours sincerely,
Love and God Bless,
Roger Morris (President of Methodist Society).
Oh so vicious
Dear Judith,
I would like to ask you for an explanation for your
unwarranted and vicious attack on Bill Goodwin (Editorial,
FELIX 797). I congratulate you on your subtleness (for
example, not even mentioning his name), but the fact
remains that it was an unjustified and callous slur on Bill.
As it is no secret that Bill was not your preferred candidate,
this looks like yet another episode in the long-running saga
of 'Judith-Hackney-using-her-editorial-to-slag-off-
people-she-doesn't-like'.
For the benefit of those who don't know what I'm
referring to, I am objecting first of all to the fact that Bill
was not mentioned in your editorial as having been elected
FELIX Editor. I know that you have told us all a million
times that what you put in FELIX, and especially in your
editorial, is completely up to you; however, it seems
wrong to me to list all the winners except for the one you
didn't like. More importantly, however, I'm objecting to
the scurrilous accusations in the right-hand column of your
editorial, under the subheading of FELIX. In it, you accuse
Bill of standing for the post of FELIX Editor solely to
further his own journalistic career. As if that wasn't
enough, you then proclaim that, under his leadership, your
so-called 'FELIX spirit' will be gone. To top it all off,
you then announce that FELIX is dead. That may well
be so. However, you've still got one full term to resucitate
it, Judith, and even if you don't manage it I have every
confidence that Bill Goodwin will.
Yours sincerely,
Alastair Seymour, Assiduous FELLX reader.
You seem to have read into my editorial all the things
which I didn't say. You merely assume that your
conclusions are what I intended to imply. As I said,
unless you have worked on FELIX for several years,
not just my year, you will not understand the spirit.
I must say, though, that I am looking forward to
reading FELIX next year. It will be an amazing paper
if Bill manages to carry out all his election promises.
Guilds' agony
Dear Judith 'Deidre' Hackney,
I really am very sorry to bother you with my problems,
but there really is no one else I feel I can turn to. Over
the last few months, I have become very close to this guy,
and on a recent night out, we went a little too far, and
before I knew what was happening, he took advantage
of me. It was my first time, and I found it understandably
difficult to walk the next day. Since that night, he has
chosen to ignore me, and I feel so cheap and used.
However, I still love him, but I imagined that sooner or
later my feelings for him would fade. Unfortunately, we
have now both been chosen as editors for Guildsheet, and
I am afraid that my feelings will get in the way of my
doing my job well. (After all, I know how hard Mr Tyler
found it to work with Mr Baker.) What do you think I
should do Judith? I am at my wits end and cry myself to
sleep every night. Do you think that I should face him
and tell him my feelings? Please, please help.
Yours faithfully,
CP.
Well, luvvy. I can understand what an unfortunate
situation you have found yourself in. Men are callous,
heartless b*st*rds, aren't they? I think you ought to
confront you feelings and your man. Tell him
everything and if he tells you where to go, castrate him.
'UV2Z & :rdck C1TJB
PRESENTS THE
H
O
P n
23 M A R C H UNION LOWER L O U N G E
WITH
xh:e G
E
N
T
S
SCECROIZDIHGXP/S C&3t
M
O
C
K OTCIKS
& S U P P O R T
50 O N T H E D O O R : DOORS OPEN 7:30
FELIX Wednesday 23rd March 1988 37

