Policy warning
Dear Judith,
I have read with interest the brief article on page 16
of FELIX 798 regarding the two 'con-women' operating
in the Evelyn Gardens residences. It has since come to
our notice that some of those approached are Mining
House residents and so I've carried out certain
investigations of my own.
The service being promoted is a life assurance policy
with Premium Assurance Company and the company
involved is Royston Financial Services (in association with
Genn Financial Services Ltd.). This company has its
headquarters in London and another office in Manchester.
The women operating in Evelyn Gardens are apparently
from the Manchester office.
After enquiries from students. contacted the
headquarters and spoke to one Ms Rosemary Genn. She
outlined salient points of the agreement, but there seems
to be a difference on two key issues. Firstly, contrary to
what seems to have been advised to IC students, the policy
is designed to run for ten plus years and not five plus
years. Secondly, access to the investment is not possible
after three years (as said by these women) but only after
much longer. Ms Genn could only attribute this apparent
disparity to some misunderstanding on the part of the
Manchester office and has promised to check up on it.
Also, when Royston Financial Services does notify clients
from Evelyn Gardens about the receipt of their
applications, Ms Genn has volunteered to include an
additonal note stating the actual conditions.
From further enquiries of another investment consultant,
I gather that such an approach to selling insurance policies
is not unique. However, it is difficult to say whether these
policies are authentic or fakes. I can only suggest that all
those who have applied consider seriously the implications
of the investment being much more long term than was
put to them. Ms Genn is expecting enquiries from Imperial
College students on this topic and I recommend that anyone
with doubts in their minds should contact her at the
following address: Ms Rosemary Genn, Royston Financial
Services, c/o GFS Ltd, Equity House, 65 Trinity Road,
London N22 4XX (Tel: 01-889 9451); do remember to
state that you are from IC.
Sincerely yours,
Bharat I Chaudhary, Subwarden, Mining House.
Misrepresent-
ing the facts?
Dear Judith,
Mr Nelkon's letter 'Answering the opinion' was, to say
the least, interesting. Not only did the letter lack
objectivity, logic and sensitivity to the plight of the
Palestinians, but it contained a great deal of
misrepresentation of facts.
Firstly, it is clear to any detached observer that Israel
occupied, not entered as Mr Belkon wishes us to believe,
the West Bank and Gaza strip in 1967. This 'benevolent'
occupation has resulted in the imprisonment of tens of
thousands of inhabitants, most of these being detained
without trial, the deportation of over 2,000 Palestinians
from their own land as a punishment for opposing Israel's
continued occupation, the destruction of, at least, 20,000
homes belonging to Palestinians and standing on land
which is rightfully theirs, the illegal expropriation of
thousands of acres of Arab land for the purpose of
establishing illegal Jewish settlements. One must
acknowledge however, that Israel has given a number of
Palestinian families plots of land with 99 year leases, with
no electricity, no roads, no mosques and certainly no
schools.
Secondly, it is clear that Mr Nelkon ignores the Ribat,
1974, and the Fass, 1982, summits where the PLO
chairman Arafat stated that he, as spokesman for the
Palestinian people, will declare the right of the state of
Israel to exist and will support the existence of a two state
settlement, living in peace, provided Israel accepts the
PLO as the sole representative of the Palestinian people,
the right of the Palestinians to a state of their own in the
occupied territories. This was categorically rejected by
Israel. This policy of rejection has been most recently
demonstrated by Mr Shamir's rebuffal of the Shultz 'land
for peace' initiative.
Thirdly, Mr Nelkon's figure of '8,000 acts of terror'
which he claims to have been carried out by the PLO seems
a bit ludicrous. As Mr Nelkon surely knows the PLO was
established in 1965 (ie 23 years ago) and for this
organisation to carry out such a number of acts, this would
entail at least six acts of terror every week. Mr Nelkon
who are you kidding? No one could or would condone
acts of terror were they carried out in the Middle East
or elsewhere in the world. However would any person
consider the massacre of 5000 civilians, including women,
children and elderly people, an act of terror? The answer
would surely be yes. As you well know, the Israeli army
knowingly allowed such an abominable act to take place
in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps (Lebanon 1982).
Would you consider the bombing of civilians in several
Lebanese cities, by the Israeli air force, resulting in the
death of some 1,000 people and the injury of over 5,000
others an act of terror? Surely the answer would be yes
again. These unrequited, unmitigated and unjustifiable acts
were carried out over the period 1976-1982 and preceding
Israel's invasion of the Lebanon, which resulted in the
further deaths of thousands of innocent civilians. Or would
one not consider the Deir Yassin massacre and the King
David hotel bombing acts of terror? Thus Mr Nelkon I
do not think your argument that the PLO is a terrorist
organisation holds ground when faced with today's reality
of, Israeli politics, where members of past terrorist
organisations, such as the Irgun Zwei Leumi, currently
hold the highest positions in the Israeli-political structure.
Finally, Mr Nelkon's claim that the 'distressing cases
of brutality by Israeli soldiers are breaches of and represent
the antithesis of Israeli government policy' seems a bit
odd in the face of Mr Rabin's declared policy of 'might,
power and beatings', a policy which replaced an earlier,
but not less brutal, 'shoot to kill' policy administered in
the occupied territories.
Yours sincerely,
M Bulbul, Mech Eng 2.
Shocked
Dear Judith,
You can imagine my surprise when some of Mr
Shanley's tips actually won this week, that is all except
the one I backed which lost by a 'short neck'. Luckily,
I saw the funny side of it!
Cheers,
Not Paul Shanley.
• Deaths: Rayleigh House on Sat
March 26. Will be greatly missed by
everyone.
• KM & AR? Nearly?
• Ann's blue dressing gown is very
revealing.
• Q: Which of next year's sabbaticals
a) got arrested by the diplomatic police,
b) woke up Southside with heavy rock
until 1am, c) got pissed?
• A: 1, 2, all of them!
• Amin you letcherous b*****d! No,
only joking!
• Penthouse—watch out your cards
are marked—Bill.
• Mark Shillito is innocent!
• Bum been bitten by Albino Aligator?
Call Albino Aligator Busters. Wer're here
to save the world and your bum.
• Matt are you sure you want to have
babies?
• Congratulations Kevin from all your
fans in NH1.
• How do you pronounce dickhead in
Greek? Yiannis Seglias-3Y Mad
Gardeners.
• The P D Williams Guide to Suicide.
Get yourself drunk and locked out on
the balcony...34 MGs.
• Look for The 3Y MGs strike again'.
Coming soon to a residence hall near
you!!
• Babies saved, old ladies rescued,
contact M Jones.
• Guess again—it's a menage a trois.
• R—I've got a long way to catch up
with you—W.
• SK—cute a cuddly—maybe, sweet
and innocent—never.
• To her of the many men, do as
you're told and take your trousers
off-C.
• What is subtlety? On a postcard
please to she of the many men and he
who grovels at her feet (?).
• Rayleigh House is dead, long live the
RHINO Club!
• W&M lovers tiff?
• Rachel, Rachel, we must have
Rachel!-RH.
• It's 12.30am. Can Mark go to bed
now?
• We love Rayleigh House.
• Who will it be Wendy, a gnome or
an elf?
• Attractive chemist (female) with
spacious Putney flat, good knowledge
of organic reaction mechanisms and
chocolate fetish seeks Thomas D12 for
meaningful but short-term relationship.
• How many times can you do it in
two days?
• XXXXX—Breath, you make me so
jealous when you fool around with
Guys. Come tonight, wearing those
figure-hugging swimming trunks, and I
might forgive you.
• Basil, make sure the hamster is
careful when he plays with the mouse.
• Salad Run DCO-next sortie a
sundae run. The Penthouse Club.
38 Wednesday 23rd March 1988 FELIX

