• N-you're my hero. I'd paddle away
with you any day! Love A.
• Fiona's looking backwards to another
meal Simon.
• Why was it snowing in Savi's room?
• Simon and Savi—I know what a
fork's for now—Emma.
• Fiona and Claire—you can't sua The
evidence has been destroyed.
• What's the 2nd loudest thing in
College? 2nd floor 18 Ongar Road.
• Emma—shouldn't you invest in some
more knicker elastic? (Beit Hall cocktail
party!.
• Tim and Dave and coffee
machine=physical night of passion.
• Yishu-stop molesting Chem Eng 1.
• Q: Who wanted a certain nubile
young American body?
• A: Nigel the frustrated Welshman of
Physics 1.
• Stutti. Laura and Menage (a troisl?
• T Bag—the time of the great brew
approaches.
• Get Otto; it's cheaper than toilet
paper.
• Book your jelly and ice-cream party
now! Free silly cake, silly banners and
panda pop Contact Cliquey Caterers
Linstead—the specialists.
• Tizard Hall—the place to go for one
can of beer and one ugly girl between
twenty parties—B Bros Inc.
• Desperate, lonely or just downright
ugly? Join the Tizard boys—B Bros Inc.
• Underwear throwing service: Apply
Own and Ndo.
• Owen: You can have the whips back
if you promise to show me how to use
them properly—Giggles.
• 14, 23'/2 , 21, 7, 13, 67 and now 101!
• Q: Is it possible for the 2nd Century
to be better than the 1st?
• A: Yes!!
• To our bored housewife: Many
thanks—may your milk bottles never be
empty—The Dairy.
• Did you get the message Linstead?
B Soc.
• Wanted: for sincere and loving
relationship—bulldozer. Must be willing
to share room. Apply D Tyler, Guilds
Office.
• IG loves Vlad xxx.
• How many calories are there in
sperm?
• For sale: squeaky bed (due to
complaints from neighbours) or will
exchange for non-squeaky model. Apply
Showersoc, 216 HG.
• What's small, red-haired and doesn't
live at 127 HG? Don't know, but it's
noisy! Luv Chopper xxx.
• Is it an avalanche? Is it an
earthquake? No, it's a Showersoc
meeting.
• Message to Tony from showersoc:
No we didn't use the soap
• The Penthouse Club has annexed
Westfield.
Permit problem
Dear Judith,
Re. The Parking Situation at Imperial College
It has come to my attention that the parking situation
in IC grounds, at present very far from ideal, could be
improved by three simple methods:
1. Removing all burnt-'out shells of cars in College
wasting spaces, ie one white Hillman Imp to name but one.
2. Limit parking permits to students who live outside
the Westminster and Kensington/Chelsea boroughs.
3. Have a more democratic allocation procedure
whereby ordinary students ie non-Union hacks, have an
equal chance to obtain a permit.
It is hoped that IC will meet the demand for parking
permits because they cannot provide adequate
accommodation services. Due to the lack of appropriate
accommodation in Central London many people are forced
to live further away, thus requiring transport to travel to
and from College.
The present situation whereby several residents of
Southside/Tizard etc, have permits, is ridiculous.
Residents' parking permits can easily be obtained from
the appropriate London borough and the few permits
allocated to the Union could be distributed to those living
further away.
Yours sincerely,
Names withheld by request.
College inferno
Dear Judith,
It is not only the Lyon-Playfair Library which is
overheated and poorly ventilated (Letters, FELIX, March
11). Coming from Exhibition Road into the Mechanical
Engineering Building every morning is like walking into
a hothouse, regardless of the outside temperature. The lab
in which I work, on the 4th floor of Mech Eng, is only
bearable in shirtsleeves with the windows wide open.
Last winter I suffered this in silence, but a couple of
weeks ago decided to contact the Energy Management
Section to ask if they could turn down the heating.
Admittedly they did send someone round to check the
room temperature, but whoever had briefed him had said
that I wanted the heating turned up! Having sorted out
this misunderstanding I was hopeful of some improvement,
but the heating still has not been noticeably turned down.
Apart from this profligate waste of energy, stuffy,
overheated surroundings are more conducive to sleep than
research work and are particularly uncomfortable for
anyone suffering from one of the numerous cold viruses
which stalk institutions during the winter months. As Julian
Henson said, something must be done about it.
Yours sincerely,
K Taylor, R/A, CFDU.
Jaws 1
(the early bird and all that!), then continue right through
the weekend, without even coming up for air.
Don't forget boys, small-fry get eaten alive.
'May the Jaws be with you!'
SharkSoc.
Jaws 2
Dear Judith,
We nearly had a collective heart attack (v serious) when
we read the letter from The Gauntlet Club last FELIX.
Who are these amateurs?
We, at SharkSoc, began our prowl on Thursday night
Dear Gauntlet Club,
With regard to your challenge of Friday 11th March
1988, we should be delighted to take part in a competition
in accordance with the following rules:
1. The contest to take place between 8pm and 8am on
a weekday night to be nominated during next term.
2. Photographic evidence, including evidence of date,
eg, that day's newspaper, to be taken during attack phase.
3. Points to be awarded per target with bonuses for
multiple targetting, unusual objection, etc.
4. Teams to consist of two hand-picked sharks.
5. Fins optional.
6. No substitutes or support teams to be allowed—you're
on your own!
7. Venue at discretion of individual teams.
We look forward to hearing from you next term.
Yours sincerely,
The Penthouse Club.
Another Vodka
and tonic
Dear Judith Darling,
A funny thing happened to me the other day. Half way
through a bottle of Smirnoff it suddenly struck me that
the reason you had so many letters at the end of the term
was because it was the perfect opportunity to slag someone
off without giving them a chance to reply. Obviously I
wished to grab such a rare opportunity with both hands,
but unfortunately I couldn't think of anyone, so I threw
up on my bed instead. Luckily, my duvet saw the funny
side.
Yours,
Miss Kate McHughie.
SLAGging off
Dear Judith,
I am so pleased and happy that James Papa is at Imperial
College.
I have for some time been contemplating coming out
of the closet (where I am hiding with nearly four hundred
of my close friends), and it is entirely due to him that I
have decided:
1. Not to come out.
2. Not to attend any SLAGS meetings.
3. Not to be gay.
Nice try James.
Yours sincerely,
Ex-gay IC student
FELIX Wednesday 23rd March 1988 39

