U n i o n
Rag Fete
On Saturday April 30 the annual Rag
Fete will take place on and around
Queen's Lawn. This regular mega-
event is the final major fling for Rag
before exams take their toll, and is an
ideal opportunity to enjoy yourself.
As usual, trips up the Queen's Tower
will be taking place offering superb
views of London and there's a bar
extension until 5pm. with a regular
bar. real ale bar and a Pimms stall.
Jez and Bo will be out offering rides
for all: there will be stocks, allowing
you to get your revenge on major
Union figures of this year and next;
there will be a large raffle, top prize
being a trip for two to Paris; lots of
stalls with food, prizes and silly
games: and Michael Bentine will be
giving a guest lecture. There will also
be all the regular stunts and tricks like
fire eating and some new ones as well.
The Fete will be opened by Matilda
Ziegler (Donna) and Lucy Bayler
(Elizabeth) of Eastenders at 2pm and
will end with the traditional wrestling
match—though whether it will be in
mud or jelly this year is as yet unsure.
The day doesn't end then though,
since there will be a massive party in
the Union Building that night to round
off both the Ents and Rag years.
So come along to Queens Lawn on
April 30 for a really good time, and
if you've got a good idea for more
stalls contact me via ICU before the
end of term.
See you there!
Dave Clements.
ENTZ
Possibly the last article I will have the
pleasure to write for FELIX, but no
doubt both I and the paper will
survive. So what's going on down this
week, well on Friday March 18 two
new young bands will be playing in
the Union Lounge. The first band on
stage will be No Mans Band who
some of you may have seen
supporting the Lemon Drops at the
Astoria a few weeks ago. The
headline band go by the name of Blue
Ox Babes who's major claim to fame
is the presence of half of Dexy's
Midnight Runners including the one
who wrote the songs for Kevin
Rowland. Both bands are well worth
a watch especially at £1.50 on the
door or £1 in advance. So why not
come along, tickets are on sale in
Norman's and the doors open at 9pm.
Mascotry Rules
This term new rules were set down by the Imperial College Union and
its three Constituent College Unions based on mascotry. These new rules
were called for after several unpleasant incidents took place last term.
The following clauses have been agreed by the Constituent College
Unions of the Imperial College of Science and Technology:
1. For the purposes of this agreement a mascot shall refer to such an
object as is defined by a Constituent College Union as the 'Violate
Mascot' of that Union. At the time of this agreement these are as
follows:
a) Royal School of Mines Union—'Davy'
b) Royal College of Science Union—'Theta*
c) City & Guilds College Union—'Spanner & Bolt'
2. The CCU's do not condone:
a) Any violence in mascotry raids (you are reminded that injury
to any person may result in disciplinary and/or legal
proceedings).
b) The breakage of locks, chairs, or any structures which are not
specifically and solely securing a mascot in place, or the last
remaining obstacle to the mascot (eg cupboard).
3. Mascotry is no excuse to break the law. People breaking the law
will have no recourse to College or Union authorities.
4. All vehicles must abide by College regulations and speed limits.
5. In the event of any breakage of College property or any injury being
sustained by a member of the mascotry team or any member of
the public, the President of the respective CCU and the President
of ICU should be informed immediately.
6. There will be no attempted raid or other interference for the durations
of any formal e"vent. For the purposes of masctory a formal event
will be deemed to have started once the mascot is placed in the room
for that event, and has ended when the mascot is' removed from
that room.
7. If the 'offensive' team has a number of members greater than four
times the number of the 'defensive' team then a peaceful handover
of the mascot must take place.
8. The use of ex-students shall be strictly limited to the person driving
the vehicle actually carrying the mascot. Ex-students must not take
part in any other aspect of the raid.
9. A copy of these rules should be prominently displayed in each CCU
Office.
10. Any alleged infringement of the above regulations shall be referred
to the ICU Executive Committee, who will rule on the complaint
and decide on a course of action as necessary. ICU Executive
Committee have the power to ban a person from mascotry activity.
11. ICU Sabbaticals must take and must be seen to be taking a neutral
part in mascotry.
Signed on this 25th day of January 1988 for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union, Alan Rose, Deputy President.
Royal College of Science Union, Clare McErlane, President.
City & Guilds College Union, Dave Tyler, President.
Royal School of Mines Union, Geoff Parsons, President.
Letter from
St Mary's
My absence last week was due to the
success of our Rag Week. Unlike IC,
the students at St Mary's like the idea
of compacting the whole Rag
activities into one hectic week. This
allows the participating individuals to
completely forget extra course work
outside the lectures etc, and devote
their energies entirely to the persuit
of having a good time.
One can argue the merits of the
different approaches, and I suppose
being a student here I am
automatically biased, but the
concentration achieved benefits the
whole exercise as there is an identity,
people do not tire of fund-raising, and
anyone can try hard for a single week.
This Rag Week had the innovative
(for us) Paris Dash, which by all
accounts was thoroughly enjoyed by
the participants and also raised lots of
money. Still out on its own in terms
of capital generated, is the Breakfast
Party on Paddington Station. The
students dress in Pyjamas etc and sell
Rag Mags (or attempt to!) amongst
the morning crush of commuters.
This even raised £4559, which set the
tone for the rest of the week.
A live steel band entertained the
troops on the Wednesday evening at
the Beach Party. Along with wicked
cocktails and a limbo competition the
fun passed far into the night.
The Slave Auction on Friday night
was unprecedented. A record £1600
was pledged in return for the use of
a 'slave for a day'.
I have described balls at Mary's
before this so I shall just mention the
fact that we had a Rag 'Oriental' Ball
on the Saturday. A good recovery
service was offered in the form of The
Jungle Book Show on Sunday evening
with cocoa and doughnuts.
Tuesday saw, in my opinion, the
best event of the week—The Bands
Night. Five bands (all in house)
provided three hours of live
entertainment with excellent sound
and the best lighting I've seen here
yet. A l l the people who attended
thoroughly enjoyed the event—the
best way of evaluating the success of
an event.
On Wednesday the UH Rugby Cup
Final passed with an excellent flour,
fish, guts and entrail fight after which
our team thrashed the Royal Free
32-0.
It also looks as if we have raised
in excess of £10,000.
6 Wednesday 23rd March 1988 FELIX

