THE LAST
EVER BARON
-the runner up
Largeamounts, the Phallix Editor, switched
off her VCR and phoned the Caped
Avenger, the new head of the Super
Heroism Department, who was in
conference with Matt Chunder, the Caped
Crusader.
'Caped, come quickly, I've just received
a video tape from your arch-enemy, Mad
Dan. He's threatening to kill all the
characters in the Baron.'
Okay, Largeamounts, I'll be right over.'
Meanwhile at the Cheapskate Head
Citizens' Council, Sidney Spanker, Miss
Greviousbodilyharm, Claire McUseless,
Dave Braincell and Jumping Jehosophat
were trying to teach some of the new head
citizens—Dai Rocking, Heavy Smell 4id
Coral Lustsome—how to appear to be very
good at a job they were very bad at. Next
on the agenda was a mysterious
video-tape.
'Do you think he means it?' quailed
Sidney, hoping he would be spanked to
' death in his new dress.
'No,' said Heavy, glaring menacingly at Braincell. 'It's probably just a flag
stunt by the Lumpsofmetalworshipers' Tit Squad.'
'Yes I do and no it isn't,' said Mad Dan as he axed through the door and
sliced them into very small pieces.
Largeamounts was very worried. All her staff were on sick leave suffering
from exhaustion, the citizens were convinced she could produce Phallix on
her own, the printing press had blown up, someone was threatening to axe
her favourite column, and she'd sworn at and hit the photocopier in desperation.
It had printed it would only work under a new editor.
Just as she thought
things couldn't possibly
get any worse, Geordie
Dogleash and Mr
Spindivecrashburn of the
Mayfair Club dropped by
in their car to pester her.
This is it,' she thought,
'the lowest'. The the
lights went out and in
burst Mad Dan.
'I'm gonna axe you for
not revealing the true
identity of the Caped
Avenger!' he screamed.
Fortunately he thought she was alone and was taken completely by surprise
when Mr Spindivecrashburn started breakdancing, enabling Geordie Dogleash
to empty a bucket of photocopier fluid over him.
'Quick!' yelled Spindivecrashburn, 'You can escape to the Bahamas and be
our page one girl!'
'Wheyaye,' rejoiced Geordie Dogleash as they all jumped into the flame-red
Aston Martin Vantage Volante and accelerated from 0 to 60 in under four
seconds into the sunset, never to be seen again, except on postcards from
the West Indies.
In the Quite Tasty Burger Bar, McNorthey was a worried man. He'd promised
to open a kebab joint in the lounge above the McNorthside bar, but he was
running out of meat for the Quite Tasty outlet, never mind a new 'catering'
venture. How he wished he ran Normal's-they didn't use meat at all! And
the Baron wanted some sample kebabs now!
Suddenly, in burst Mad Dan and cut off his arms, legs and head.
'That's it!' thought McNorthey. Til cut up random drunks from the bar!'
Unfortunately, he was unable to utilise this brilliant new supply idea because
he was dead and being sliced up to provide the kebabs for the Baron and his
entourage.
John Secretary, Michael Arthur and Mad Dash were also worried men. They'd
just seen the Baron's copy of the dreaded video. Only the Baron was happy.
'We won't have to deal with those peskey head citizens wanting the money
from the quarries,' he explained as they all tucked into their kebabs.
'But he wants to kill us too,' protested John Secretary.
'No he doesn't,' insisted the Baron.
'Yes I have!' yelled Mad Dan, axing his way through a wall as they all dropped
dead of hemlock poisoning.
'Knew we should only have eaten the polystyrene boxes,' muttered Arthur
Michael as he breathed his last.
Caped Avenger was not
, having a good day. First he'd
. been interrupted at a vital
stage in his negotiation for a
TV series and block-buster
movie, then he'd been
unable to stop Mad Dan
iterally axing the cast of the
Baron. He stood in the
Baron's throne room
wondering where Mad Dan
had gone.
Suddenly he saw vapour
emerging from the basement
of the Baron's Tower, and
watched in horror as the roof opened.
'Oh no! Not the Victorian ICBM/MIRV targetted on the Crimea, the Bars,
Paris, Berlin and Moscow!'
He sprinted to the control centre on top of the Stargazing Department, but
Mad Dan was already gone. A screen displayed the message, 'LAUNCH
IMMINENT'.
'ABORT LAUNCH' he typed in desperation.
IMPOSSIBLE, THE ABORTION DEADLINE HAS BEEN REDUCED FROM 28
SECONDS TO 18 SECONDS SINCE INITIATION. LAUNCH TEN SECONDS.'
'ABORT TARGET.'
'PLEASE ENTER NEW TARGET OR ALL HEADS WILL RETURN TO LAUNCH
SITE.'
'Ah, well,' he thought, 'might as well kill three birds and a pet with one stone.'
• 'NEW TARGET: KENNY & MAGGIE'S PLACE, UPPING LANE, LONDON.'
'Should see off that Gerbill!' he continued to think.
At that instant the telescreen sprang to life. It was a nuisance, they were
all in public places and never showed anything interesting, but you couldn't
turn them off. Then he realised what it was saying:
'Mad Dan, the new Dictator of Cheapskate, will address his slaves in two
minutes.' To STODGE at once!
Mad Dan grinned at the camera evilly. 'Bad day, slaves. First I must reveal
the true identity of that megawimp, the Cloaked Marina. He is ugh!' he said
as the Caped Avenger suffocated him by throwing a self-sealing cape across
his face.
Caped took the stage. 'Citizens of Cheapskate, you may go about your legal
business. But beware random laundry-users! I will get you.'
There only remained to
discover the identity of Mad
Dan. Removing his mask,
Caped gasped. It was his
flat-mate, Mike
Insaneaxewielding maniac!
Is this really the end of the
Baron?
Will McNorthey's ghost
open the kebab joint?
Will it be safe to get drunk
in the bar?
PS. The Caped Avenger is
better known as...(edited
due to lack of space).
FELIX Wednesday 23rd March 1988 7

