Libel
THE LAST EVER BARON
A -the winner
'And Lo!' cried Sindy Silly-Suit, 'I command you,
the Sinister Union, to be cast out from Cheapskate
and into the wilderness, so you can find your own
dosh for a change. And may the UCCCCF kick the
sh*t out of you as well.'
'You can't do this to us!', yelled the Sinister Sec
Jackie Jock. 'We haven't taken over the whole
college yet. And we'll have nowhere to hold our
rallies. Where are we going to advertise?'
'Spread the word of God by mouth,' suggested
an ailing Baron from his wheelchair.
Pathos Ritzpenis gagged the old man with a
copy of Cairo. 'Shut up non-believer or I'll show
you the college's overdraft.'
The Baron nodded wildly then slumped further
back into the cushions.
Silly-Suit was about to continue his tirade when
a dreadful noise arose from Southside. 'Whassat?'
he asked.
'Methinks,' answered Nigel Halfbaked as he
climbed off Fiona No-elastic, 'Tis Bob MacSnorty
building his new Dog-on-a-stick house. Word has
it that it'll have ten strains of salmonella on the take-away menu alone.'
'It is the policy of Cheapskate that any citizen has the right to join any society without
fear for his life, academic record, or consumer rights,' stated Sindy in his best
crusading voice. (He omitted 'Bank Balance' for obvious reasons) 'We can't have
Sinisters flaunting the rules just because their divine ruler tells them to, can we?'
'But the UCCCCF is all knowing, all seeing and all doing,' protested Jackie. 'We
appease it by obedience, and it showers us with the odd cheque.'
'And just what is in your coffers at the moment?' asked Sindy. Ritzpenis, scratched
his head; then his armpit, then his head again. 'Ah...Well...Hmm...Dunno actually.
Being a religious sect, we don't have much care for mon '
At that moment, a large hobnailed boot attached to Jock's foot met with Pathos'
rear and sent him sailing out of the
union mausoleum and onto the Bite I J JFr^^^rft**- '
Rectangle below.
Halfbaked let out an audible groan and
got off No-elastic again. 'Hey guys,'
(being the next President he had to
learn to communicate) 'Don't you
think we'd better listen to the budget?'
Jock and Silly-Suit grabbed the
nearest tranny and switched it on
'....grants, covenant tax relief, housing
benefit, nurses and filofaxes are to be
abolished...'
They switched it off.
'Right,' declared Silly-Suit, 'I'm
bored, I'm still the President, and what
I say goes. So Sinisters out of here
now, someone wheel the Baron back
to Surefield, and everyone else to the
bar.'
'We'll be back you slimy ball of pigs
syphilis Silly-Suit' ranted Jock as she
was dragged by her hair out of the
office 'We'll get you for this '
Back in Surefield, the Baron was put to bed. He rested a while then called his ally
John Secretary to his side.
'I've got to know...Stonyride...?' he spluttered.
'Everything's going fine,' assured Secretary.
'Will it be ready on time?'
'Don't worry, that place will certainly be your tomb.'
'And my staff?'
'We shall all be there, in the single rooms. Have no fear, there will be no one to
disturb your peace.'
'Not even the new editor?'
'Badloser? Don't worry, we've fixed him...'
Largeamounts shone the arclight into Badloser's face.
'For the last time creep, do you know what a gestetner is?'
Badloser tried to hide inside his hat. He was beginning to wish his posters hadn't
been so streetwise after all.
'Er...some sort of veneral disease?
A formula one car?'
'It's a printer, weasel face!' she
yelled and headbutted him to illustrate
her point.
'Oh God, this is the best day of my
Phallix career,' she suddenly beamed,
'The spirit lives!!!' and she kicked
Badloser in the groin to make herself
feel even happier.
'Please don't' groaned Badloser, 'I'll
resign my post, I'll leave and join the
Carpies. Just stop torturing me. I can't
stand it any longer.'
'And what about Silly-Suit?' asked a
coughing Baron of Secretary.
I'm going to deal with him
myself...' was the reply.
Silly-Suit was busy restructuring the whole of Cheapskate admin when Secretary
walked in.
'I think there's something you should know, Sindy...' he said gravely.
Sindy was all ears (and he looked a real pillock with it). 'Tell me the worse John.'
'I've heard there's this little university union in outer Guatamala that's having
trouble with its rulers. They need someone with dedication, devotion to duty, a strong
will and lousy dress sense. They need YOU, Sindy. Whaddayasay?'
Sindy stood up and pushed his chest out. Eyes glaring with a burning intensity
he began...
'Wherever there is injustice in this world. I shall be there. Whenever students need
someone, I shall go to them. I....AM....SUPER-SJNDY!'
And with that he ripped off his pink Chino trousers to reveal some bright red boxers
with S-S inscribed. Then sniffing his armpit as he punched the air, he rushed out
of the office and was never heard of again. The only clue to his whereabouts came
from a dodgy report about him being eaten alive by an insane female Sinister
missionary in the Phillipines, but this was never substantiated.
'I think it's time,' said the Baron 'Call
in the priest for the last writings.'
John Secretary did so solemnly. It
was a sad moment. Outside, the
citizens of Cheapskate were going
about their pillage and rape with the
usual apathy. They would never
understand how great the Baron had
been, never be able to understand the
true wit involved.
'Right, I'll be off then' said the old
man. 'See you at Stonyride.' And with
that he coughed once and died.
'Not bloody likely, pal,' said
Secretary standing up. Christ, all that
sympathy had been hard work. But
now HE was in charge. A new dictator
had arrived. The Baron was dead. Long
live the Dragon
Will the Dragon ever breathe fire?
Will Jackie Jock ever return?
Will I ever get my sweatshirt?
FELIX Wednesday 23rd March 1988 9

