10 FRIDAY 02 MAY
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
While you we
...Jack Steadman was probably not
Phase 2 continues apace. The third
Iron Man started things off in a typi-
cally Shane Black fashion of quips and
action, the second Thor trod a darker
path while beginning to introduce the
elements that will come together in an
inevitably glorious fashion for Guard-
ians of the Galaxy and Age of Ultron,
and now it’s the turn of the second
Captain America film to grace the
screen. The first outing for everyone’s
favourite star-spangled superhero was
an exercise in making an adequate
action film elevated by incredible
performances and pitch-perfect char-
acterisation, all of which made the ap-
pointment of the Russo brothers as di-
rectors an interesting choice. Famous
for their TV work on comedies such as
Arrested Development (which, if you
haven’t already, you should definitely
binge-watch on Netflix), but new to
the field of action does not instantly
scream ‘classic film in the making’ for
a superhero flick.
But, as with almost everything in
the realm of superhero films (with a
few notable *cough* Green Lantern
*cough* exceptions), any naysayers
have been silenced in spectacular
fashion. Because the Russo brothers –
for want of a neater, more polite term
– absolutely nailed it. All of it. Al-
though having said that, the title could
perhaps be considered somewhat of
a misnomer – the original storyline
of the Winter Soldier (part of Ed Bru-
baker’s fantastic run in the comics) is
mostly passed over here for the sake
of convenience, and the eponymous
soldier of a seasonal variety barely
makes an appearance (although when
he does, it’s fantastic).
It’s not really a criticism as such,
more a vague sense that Marvel re-
ally, really wanted to use that title
despite the film being so much more.
It’s equal parts 70s-style conspiracy
thriller (helped greatly by a neat turn
from Robert Redford as S.H.I.E.L.D.
Secretary Alexander Pierce), buddy
comedy starring Chris Evans’ Cap-
tain America and Scarlett Johansson’s
Black Widow (the call for a solo film
for Black Widow, strong as it was, just
got completely impossible to ignore),
and a balls-to-the-wall action film.
Genre-hopping as it pleases, Markus
and McFeely’s screenplay combined
with the Russo’s fantastic direction
(and wonderfully snappy editing that
keeps up the pace) creates what might
Subtitled Berandal in the US (much
like the original was subtitled Re-
demption), The Raid 2 picks up
(chronologically-speaking) exactly
where the original left off, with rookie
cop Rama having survived the bru-
tal tower block that claimed the lives
of (almost) all of his squad. There’s a
few, brief moments of calm exposition
(which are still punctuated by even
briefer outbursts of violence, sum-
ming up The Raid 2 in microcosm),
and then the expansive, multi-year
plot explodes into being.
This is a far trickier, far larger, far
more complex beast than the straight-
forward (in a good way) original.
Spanning multiple years and (in con-
trast to that single tower block) mul-
tiple environments, this feels like the
story director Gareth Evans has been
waiting to tell, and the incredible (and
deserved) success of the first film has
just given him the platform he needs.
Riddled with faction rivalries and dou-
ble-crossings, exploring the brutalities
and complexities of power inside pris-
on and outside of it, it’s a true epic that
makes maximum use of its two-and-a-
half hour running time.
Obviously, such dedication to story
requires more dialogue-heavy scenes
than the original premise of ‘get to the
top of this tower’, but it’s testament to
Evans’ skill with his own script (and
with editing) that these moments nev-
er slow the film down. Always laced
with myriad undertones, often with
the threat of sudden violence simmer-
ing gently beneath every line, there’s
tension in every scene, and the whole
shebang hurtles along at a break-neck
(sometimes literally) pace.
While this dedication to the story
(and the rapidity of the plot’s pro-
gression) is ultimately what makes
The Raid 2 so compelling, it’s prob-
ably not the reason why so many fans
Captain America:
The Winter Soldier
Directors: Anthony Russo, Joe Russo
Writers: Christopher Markus,
Stephen McFeely, Ed Brubaker
Starring: Chris Evans, Scarlett
Johansson, Samuel L. Jackson, Robert
Redford, Sebastian Stan, Anthony
Mackie, Cobie Smulders, Frank
Grillo, Emily VanCamp
Runtime: 136 minutes
Certification: 12A
be the best single-character (in the
loosest sense) Marvel film to date.
It’s certainly the most important
– events here have major impacts in
the Marvel Cinematic Universe for
a whole host of reasons I won’t spoil
here, with the TV show Agents of
S.H.I.E.L.D. already pulling off a dra-
matic turn of events in response to
what happens here. Age of Ultron just
got even more exciting.
But stepping aside from the superb
plot and the brilliant, vast-improve-
ment-over-the-original action, once
again it’s the characters that make
this Captain America film brilliant.
Cap’s status as a man-out-of-time is
brought to the fore again, as he at-
tempts to make sense of all the years
he’s lost since crashing that plane (al-
though his experience with Stark et
al on the Helicarrier seems to have
imbued him with a new capacity for
quips), all while juggling the fact that
the modern world isn’t quite as black-
and-white morally as the one he left,
embodied to differing degrees by Nick
Fury and Black Widow. Throw in fel-
low vet Sam Wilson (Anthony Mack-
ie) and his eventual appearance as the
Falcon and Sebastian Stan’s Winter
Soldier (plus a few cameos from the
MCU/the previous film in particular),
and it’s a bundle of well-written, well-
handled characters that feel fantasti-
cally real. They are the ones that make
this the best solo film in the MCU so
far. And they might be the ones who
make it the best solo film in the MCU
ever.
The Raid 2
Director: Gareth Evans
Writer: Gareth Evans
Starring: Iko Uwais, Yayan Ruhian,
Arifin Putra, Julie Estelle
Runtime: 150 minutes
Certification: 18
of the original will want to watch
it. The ultra-violence is back, and if
anything it’s even more extreme this
time around. Provoking groans from
the audience, and more frequently
expletive-laden outbursts of shock,
The Raid 2 earns every inch of its 18
certificate, and then some. It’s gor-
geously filmed – a veritably beautiful,
bloody ballet of death and pain that
comprises what might just be some of
the best action scenes to ever appear
on a cinema screen. It is, quite frankly,
phenomenal.
What could be fairly by-the-num-
bers action scenes (there’s plenty of
the traditional beats of the genre, in-
cluding a pulse-pounding car chase)
are elevated to something more, both
by the sheer quantity of unflinching
gore (the camera almost never cuts
away from breaking bones and bleed-
ing wounds, displaying every injury as
it happens regardless of how horrific)
and by the impeccable choreography
and camerawork. Credit must go to
everyone involved – the actors, the
stuntmen, the choreographers, the
director, the cameramen, absolutely
everyone.
It’s not perfect – not quite (the run-
time is on the borderline of outstaying
its welcome, and some of the char-
acterisation is a little lacking beyond
the required stereotypes) – this really
is something special. Faultless acting,
peerless action, stunning choreog-
raphy – it all blurs together to make
what might just be the greatest action
film of all time. It’s certainly one of the
greats.

