11
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 02 MAY
FILM
ere studying...
The quest to find the next Hunger
Games finds it next entrant in Ve-
ronica Roth’s series of YA novels, and
this time (after a few misfires that will
go un-named, and an excellent second
Hunger Games film) it looks like the
studios might just have found what
they’re looking for. Packed with neat
socio-political commentary in a dys-
topian landscape that also manages to
address teenage issues of fitting in and
finding where you belong in life – on
paper it’s perfect. Add in star names
such as Shailene Woodley (who is rap-
idly promising to steal Jennifer Law-
rence’s crown as the hottest young
actress in Hollywood, if her break-out
performance in The Descendants and
future appearance as the star of The
Fault in Our Stars is anything to go by)
as the heroine, and the likes of Miles
Teller, Kate Winslet and Ansel Elgort
(starring opposite Woodley in The
Fault in Our Stars) as support, and on
Muppets Most Wanted’s opening
song, “We’re Doing a Sequel” success-
fully nails almost every criticism that
could be thrown at it from a “ugh, the
sequel’s not as good as the original”
point of view (even if – as it points out
– the “original” in question isn’t even
the actual “original” Muppet movie)
which makes reviewing it slightly dif-
ficult. Not impossible, mind. It’s just
that the Muppets have – in their tra-
ditionally self-aware (and gloriously
charming) way – managed to success-
fully knock out most of the bad points
of the film. It’s not as heart-warming
as the original (at times it gets the
closest to being borderline nasty that
the Muppets have been, before quick-
ly finding its feet again), the songs
aren’t as memorable (“We’re Doing a
Sequel” is easily the best), and the plot
is inherently more contrived to justify
making the sequel bigger and better.
And almost none of that matters.
The absurdities of the plot are ripped
apart with grace within the open-
ing number alone (yeah, a lot seems
to hinge on that song, including this
review), and while the songs aren’t
as good they remain one of the best
things about the film, helping to drive
the whole thing forwards when the
plot threatens to sag (which it does –
Divergent
Director: Neil Burger
Writers: Evan Daugherty, Vanessa
Taylor, Veronica Roth (novel)
Starring: Shailene Woodley, Theo
James, Kate Winslet
Runtime: 139 minutes
Certification: 12A
Muppets Most
Wanted
Director: James Bobin
Writers: James Bobin, Nicholas
Stoller
Starring: Ricky Gervais, Tina Fey,
Ty Burrell, Steven Whitmire, Eric
Jacobson, Dave Goelz, Bill Barretta,
David Rudman
Runtime: 107 minutes
Certification: U
disappointingly often).
There are a few issues unrelated to
the nature of sequel-itis, most nota-
bly the increased number of times the
Muppets are seen full-bodied, with
no strings or puppeteers in sight. The
Muppets are technically puppets, but
they’re so full of life that it’s almost
impossible not to treat them as real.
Which should, in theory, validate
the idea of seeing them move inde-
pendently via the medium of CGI,
but it just doesn’t. If anything, seeing
Constantine the frog leap and jump
around (in multiple scenes) threatens
to kill the illusion. It probably doesn’t
help that the CGI is a bit iffy and obvi-
ously fake.
The idea of the Muppets being ‘real’
brings us neatly on to the question
of the cast, and the standard Muppet
trend of celebrity cameos, often in
the weirdest of places. The main non-
Muppet cast are all sound – Ty Burrell
probably wins here, having a whale of
a time lampooning European (mostly
French) stereotypes, while Tina Fey
manages to imbue her admittedly
weaker material and sub-plot with
heart and comedy. The cameos range
from hilarious to shoe-horned in, but
even then it’s forgivable as part of the
general Muppets heritage.
Ultimately, it might be fair to say
that Muppets Most Wanted relies
heavily on the goodwill of the fact this
is another Muppet movie to help you
overlook its flaws. But to just dismiss
it like that would be unfair – this is a
deserving entry into the series, and
it’s a lot better than some of the pre-
vious entries, as well as other family-
friendly fare currently floating around
in cinemas (Escape from Planet Earth,
I’m looking at you). Throw in the fan-
tastic Monsters Uni short that plays
before the film (one of the advantages
of Disney owning the Muppets, I sup-
pose), and it’s worthy of the price of
admission, not just the Muppet name.
screen it’s pretty promising too.
So, perhaps inevitably, Divergent
doesn’t quite live up to that promise.
To use that as a reason to completely
slam the film is a touch unfair – after
all, The Hunger Games is an incredibly
high standard to try and reach, and
just because the cast is good doesn’t
mean their characters are (examples
ad nauseam). And in its defence, Di-
vergent is a completely serviceable
film. It just never really rises above
that “serviceable”, and in a post-Catch-
ing Fire world, anything beyond ‘great’
is going to look disappointing.
First: the good. Woodley (as you’d
expect) completely owns her role as
Tris, the eponymously ‘Divergent’
heroine (there’s some helpfully clunky
voice-over at the opening of the film
to explain how the city is split up into
various factions and how said factions
determine your role in life and so on
and so forth), making the most of a
role that gives her the most emotional
range allowed to anyone in the film.
The plot machinations are reason-
ably simplistic – this is revolution-by-
numbers – but the story works on a
fundamental level, continually driving
forwards with the occasional revela-
tion or (decent) action scene. The ma-
jority of the cast are at least functional
in their roles, although their counter-
parts in The Hunger Games series still
win out in elevating their characters
above their writing (Donald Suther-
land’s President Snow compared to
Kate Winslet’s Jeanine Matthews is
perhaps the most notable example
of this – Winslet does good evil ma-
nipulator, but Sutherland is downright
scary), and the aesthetics (while pre-
dominantly the classic browns, greys
and blacks – hardly an entry for ‘most
inventive colour scheme’) mostly
work, with a few flashes of inspiration.
Unfortunately for Divergent, though,
there’s not a huge amount of positivity
left to throw at it. It was always going
to suffer from comparisons to a film
series it can’t help but feel like it’s try-
ing to emulate, and although their her-
oines can go toe-to-toe in the acting
stakes, and both have important mes-
sages to share, Tris inescapably feels
like Katniss mark two. The dialogue is
often painfully on-the-nose (although
points must be given for not adopt-
ing the classic tactic of forgetting
about the voiceover come the film’s
end), and the occasional dips into CGI
sometimes feel a little too glossy – Di-
vergent’s dystopia feels like it could
use some more grit at times, even in-
side its intended 12A bracket (proof if
you want it – The Hunger Games was
going to be a 15 until Lionsgate opted
to censor a few shots).
In the end, Divergent never really
feels like it elevates itself above ‘okay’.
It’s an entertaining ride, with a decent
message about not being tied down
by the system, but it doesn’t really lin-
ger. However, on a more upbeat note:
there’s a lot of promise for future in-
stalments. I’m almost looking forward
to it.

