12 FRIDAY 02 MAY
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
While you were st
The sweeping, captioned opening of
Darren Aronofsky’s Noah is reminis-
cent of its cinematic heritage, the Bib-
lical epics of years past, all elegantly
flowing cursive script and delicately
composed shots, until it promptly
Noah
Director: Darren Aronofsky
Writers: Darren Aronofsky, Ari
Handel
Starring: Russell Crowe, Jennifer
Connelly, Emma Watson, Ray
Winstone, Douglas Booth, Logan
Lerman, Anthony Hopkins
Runtime: 138 minutes
Certification: 12A
swoops down to the dark brutality of
humanity. It’s a fantastic opening that
sets the tone wonderfully, leaving a
sense of ominous foreboding of eve-
rything that follows, while also mak-
ing the statement that this is a Biblical
epic, yes, but it’s Aronofsky’s Biblical
epic. It’s his vision.
And what a vision it is – from Noah’s
(suitably terrifying) vision of the Earth
underwater to the Watchers, the fallen
angels who lost their wings for simply
trying to help, to the breath-taking
expanses that make up this world, it’s
never anything less than eye-catching.
The influences of Paradise Lost can be
felt, here and there, (no bad thing, of
course), and the changes in scenery
are more dramatic than most globe-
trotting films – barren wastelands,
lush green forests, misty mountains, a
globe-spanning flood (obviously) and
desert islands, they’re all here and all
fully realised. Every single element of
the art design, the environments, all of
it, lives up to that ‘epic’ tag.
The imagery is striking, the assault
on the Ark at the mid-point of the
film is break-taking (and I mean that
literally – I only realised I’d been hold-
ing my breath for almost the entire
sequence when I let it all out explo-
sively at the end, and the person sit-
ting next to me gave me a healthy dose
of a disapproving glare), and the eco-
logical message (which is roughly as
subtle as, say, sending a massive flood
to show how pissed off you are with
everyone) is a strong one, blended in
with a healthy dose of philosophy (this
is an inherently religious film – it can’t
be anything else, really – but it still
manages to insert some big questions
about faith, particularly in the latter
half).
It’s fortunate, really, that all this ep-
ic-ness is more than matched by the
acting. If anything, I might go so far as
to say the acting is the best thing about
Noah. Crowe is nothing less than per-
fect as the eponymous Biblical action
hero, deftly handling the enormous
variety of emotions and roles Noah
goes through (from said action hero,
to tyrant, to a broken man, and multi-
ple more besides), while Jennifer Con-
nelly more than matches him, bringing
the tears with her impassioned plea
for him to spare their future grand-
children. Anthony Hopkins continues
to enjoy himself, taking a role that al-
lows him relatively little screen-time
but also all of the (admittedly few)
laughs of the film, while Emma Wat-
son and Logan Lerman continue their
streak of quality films they’ve both
worked on (the last being Perks of Be-
ing a Wallflower), putting in solid per-
formances. The rest of the supporting
cast is equally strong – Ray Winstone
is appropriately hammy as the leader
of the rest of the human race – but in
the end it really is Crowe’s show. And
he absolutely owns it.
Of course, even the best of acting
can out-stay its welcome, and Noah
does just that, rocking in at 138 min-
utes. From the earliest scenes there’s
an inescapable sense of bloat, as the
film follows a slightly jerky rhythm,
accelerating rapidly towards key mo-
ments, slowing down to a sluggish
crawl, suddenly picking up again, and
then repeating. The ending is power-
ful, nailing all the themes of the film,
but it comes somewhat too late. If
you’re prepared to forgive the bloat,
and enjoy the story (and at moments,
it holds you so tightly in its grip you
barely even notice the drop in pace),
it’s an incredibly compelling one. It’s
even better than the original.
Rio 2
Director: Carlos Saldanha
Writers: Jenny Bicks, Carlos
Saldanha, Yoni Brenner, Carlos
Kotkin, Don Rhymer
Starring: (voices) Jesse Eisenberg,
Anne Hathaway, Jamie Foxx, Bruno
Mars
Runtime: 101 minutes
Certification: U
The original Rio (I’ve noticed the fact
I seem to be using ‘the original’ or
variations on that theme a lot of late
– probably says something about just
how many sequels have been coming
out this year) was an entertaining-
enough blast of colour and samba,
propped up by decent vocal perfor-
mances and a show stealing turn from
Flight of the Conchords’ Jemaine Clem-
ent as evil cockatoo Nigel. The sequel
seems to fairly quickly acknowledge
its predecessor’s limitations, opting to
completely ignore its title and aban-
don the city for the wilds of the Ama-
zon (cue a cutesy imitation of the ol’
Indy-style ‘travel by map’ (thanks for
that one, The Muppets)). A dramatic
uprooting for the last remaining fam-
ily of blue macaws on earth, which has
the dramatic effect of simply mov-
ing the same old by-the-numbers
family-friendly plotting to a different
environment.
Yeah, Rio 2 doesn’t really add any-
thing to the series. It’s not worse than
the first one, by any means, but it
doesn’t exactly offer many convinc-
ing reasons for its existence beyond
financially-motivated studio decisions
(much like the Ice Age films, I sup-
pose). Most of the comedy is squarely
aimed at children – not a bad thing, I
hasten to point out, it’s just most big-
bucks kids films these days tend to be
fun for all the family (I mean, just look
at Toy Story and How to Train Your
Dragon and tell me they’re not fan-
tastic films in their own right) – and
while cast-wise there’s plenty of big
names from the world of cinema and
music (Bruno Mars joins the cast as
a pretty-boy macaw and yes that was
meant to be a parrot joke okay), the
story doesn’t really allow any of them
to actually let loose on their roles. It’s
all very rote stuff, cramming an obvi-
ous eco-warrior message into the plot
and then completely ignoring it in
the finale (and besides, Noah did this
environmentally-friendly stuff far, far
better), mixed in with the occasional
wacky hi-jinks.
It’s the hi-jinks that save the film,
though, mostly thanks (yet again) to
Nigel the cockatoo. Easily the funniest
character, his scenes are consistently
the highlight of the film (with his audi-
tion ‘sequence’ the stand-out, and the
only scene to actually provoke audible
laughter from anyone over the age of
six in the cinema), and his drive for re-
venge providing some much-needed
momentum to the plot.
The visuals are on a par with before
(pretty, but nothing mind-blowing),
although the change of background
does allow for even more colour than
before, and the music is still ultimate-
ly the heart of the film (albeit not its
best point by miles), but the lacklustre
script lets it all down. With the sheer
number of writers attached to the
project (two for story and characters,
three more for the screenplay), it’s not
hard to see why. Rio 2 tries to hit the
right beats, and mostly succeeds in a
mundane sort of way. Throw in some
utterly pointless 3D, and there’s a
strong whiff of studio cynicism in the
air. Good enough for the kids to enjoy,
and therefore armed with the strong
possibility of making some money, it’s
a sound calculation. If it does produce
the almost inevitable sequel, I only
hope it doesn’t go the route of the Ice
Age series. Although I can’t see it go-
ing anywhere else.

