13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 02 MAY
FILM
tudying: part 2
The obvious point to be made here is
that not only is this yet another sequel,
it’s also a sequel to a reboot to a film
series that was barely a decade old the
first time around. And so it is again,
with this reboot sequel coming ten
years after the best film in the origi-
nal trilogy. The Empire Strikes Back
of Spider-Man, if you will (you don’t
have to, it’s okay).
The opening instantly goes back to
the big unresolved mystery of the first
film: the sudden disappearance of Pe-
ter’s parents. There’s a few repeated
shots, and then a hefty dose of extra
explanation (and even some action),
but it’s all still very confusing. Which
is kind of good. It’s an interesting mys-
tery, but it was never the strong point
of the first film and it’s not the strong
point again here.
No, that honour once again goes
to the chemistry between Andrew
Garfield and Emma Stone as Peter
Parker and Gwen Stacy (respectively,
obviously). Their scenes are, if not the
best in the film, certainly among the
strongest performance and direction-
wise, as Webb’s rom-com roots con-
tinue to shine through. The film in-
vests a hefty chunk of its running time
in their relationship, although at an al-
ready extensive 142 minutes’ worth of
screen time you can’t help but feel like
maybe one or two of the slower scenes
could have been dropped (or at the
very least, trimmed down) in favour of
pushing the plot forwards.
Actually pushing the plot forwards
(and threatening to steal the show into
the bargain) is left mostly to the trio
of villains that face off against Spidey
this time around. Avoiding the trap of
Spider-Man 3, which ended up jug-
gling too many problems and collaps-
ing under its own weight, The Amaz-
ing Spider-Man 2 manages to allow
each villain space to breathe, giving
them organic origin stories that even-
tually tie together nicely. Paul Gia-
matti seems to be having the most fun
enjoying the taste of scenery as Alex-
The Amazing Spider-
Man 2
Director: Marc Webb
Writers: Alex Kurtzman, Roberto
Orci, Jeff Pinker, James Vanderbilt
Starring: Andrew Garfield, Emma
Stone, Dane DeHaan, Jamie Foxx,
Sally Field, Paul Giamatti
Runtime: 142 minutes
Certification: 12A sei Sytsevich, future Rhino, but the
main enemies here are Jamie Foxx’s
Electro and Dane DeHaan’s Green
Goblin. Pre-transformation, Foxx is
endearingly bumbling as the socially
awkward Max Dillon (even if some of
his motivations do feel a little shoe-
horned in to give him a strong enough
reason to fight Spider-Man, Foxx plays
it just right), while DeHaan’s Harry
Osborn is in stark contrast to the
newly confident, swaggering Peter – a
bundle of twitchy, nervous energy just
waiting to explode.
And explode he does, and all in
slightly useless 3D. The action scenes
are bigger (and arguably) better than
before, Webb seemingly feeling a lit-
tle more confident this time, but with
Electro’s bolts firing off left, right
and centre and a lot usually going on,
sometimes the screen can get a little
too busy, making some of the action
beats a little harder to follow. Nothing
particularly major, just a minor quirk
that will almost certainly get ironed
out come the third (and fourth, that’s
a thing too) film.
Plot-wise, The Amazing Spider-Man
2 is somewhat hit-and-miss, with the
mystery of the parents being resolved
in a decidedly rapid and anticlimactic
fashion (a consequence, no doubt, of
some brutal editing to cut the run-
time, or perhaps a side-effect of the
alterations made in the first film that
removed whole swathes of material on
the same subject), although there are
some events with resounding impli-
cations for the future films. It’s worth
noting that Shailene Woodley’s scenes
as Mary Jane were cut from the film
(probably a good thing, on reflec-
tion, it was already long enough), but
there’s a clear direction for the series
to go from here, a clarity aided by the
introduction of the Sinister Six come
the film’s close. There’s still some is-
sues with pacing, and with character
development, but it’s an improvement
over the first film’s issues. It’s a blast to
watch, albeit one which fails to stick
in the memory. The only way is up for
the reboot, and if the third film can
keep up the pace this series could soon
exceed the originals (although Spider-
Man 2 remains, I think, the best entry
so far).
Calvary
Director: Marc Webb
Writer: John Michael McDonaugh
Starring: Brendan Gleeson, Chris
O’Dowd, Kelly Reilly, Aidan Gillen
Runtime: 100 minutes
Certification: 15
Following on from their previous ef-
fort The Guard, director John Michael
McDonagh (brother of Marty) have
teamed up again for Calvary, the tale
of a well-meaning, innocent priest
told in the confessional that he has
only a week left to live. Where Marty
managed to make an instant classic in
In Bruges (also starring Gleeson, inter-
estingly enough), before following it
up with Seven Psychopaths, an enjoy-
ably Tarantino-esque romp that was
perhaps too smart for its own good,
John appears to have trodden the in-
verse path. Where The Guard was
pretty damn good, Calvary is down-
right incredible.
It shares the very (very, very, very,
very) dark sense of humour of The
Guard, albeit now mixed in with a
strong sense of melancholy and emo-
tion, as Gleeson’s Father James at-
tempts to come to terms with his im-
pending death. There’s a whole net of
supporting characters, all with their
own quirks, all deftly sketched out by
McDonagh, with a ‘who’ll-do-it’ air (a
who-dunnit would be a total misno-
mer, what with them not having done
it yet) hanging over it all. Kelly Reilly is
heart-wrenching as Father James’ self-
harming daughter, while Aiden Gillen
(Littlefinger from Game of Thrones,
for the few of you who might watch
that small show)’s atheist doctor has
quite possibly the most unnerving an-
ecdote you’ll hear in a film. It’s shiver-
inducing even recalling it. The rest of
the cast are impeccable, from Dylan
Moran to Chris O’Dowd (nice to see
him in something a little bit smaller
than his new-found Hollywood fame),
but really the entire gig hinges on
Gleeson, and he pulls it off. He more
than pulls it off, to be honest. It’s an
utterly compelling performance that
deserves far more recognition that it
will likely get.
If I’m totally honest, that’s pretty
much all there is to Calvary. It’s very
much the story of Father James, and
everything revolves around his im-
pending murder – or at least, how we
view it does. The inhabitants of his
village all live their own lives, with a
whole casket load of problems apiece,
but it is through the lens of Father
James, so desperately trying to be a
good man, to support them all only
to find a vicious backlash against the
institution he represents, that we en-
counter them.
To diminish Calvary to just that in
the praise stakes would be unfair, and
it should here be said that it is quite
possibly the most heart-wrenching,
deeply personal and painfully involv-
ing film to come out so far this year.
The visuals are stark, making use of
the Irish landscape, and the music
sombre. The whole thing is never less
than gripping, and its final moments
will leave you in a state of shock. I
daren’t say any more for fear of spoil-
ing it, and I’m not sure I can add any-
thing else anyway. Calvary demands
to be experienced. The raw, tumultu-
ous emotion it contains demands to
be felt.
Imperial College Cinema
Robocop
Director: José Padilha
Writer: Joshua Zetumer
Starring: Joel Kinnaman, Gary
Oldman, Michael Keaton, Abbie
Cornish, Jackie Earle Haley, Michael
K. Williams, Jennifer Ehle, Jay
Baruchel, Marianne Jean-Baptiste,
Samuel L. Jackson
Runtime: 117 minutes
Certification: 12A
I
mperial Cinema is back to
give you some well-needed
relaxation time away from
central library! This week we’re
showing the new remake of the
80s classic RoboCop. Set in crime-
ridden Detroit in 2028, military
defense company OmniCorp
wants to use an injured policeman
as a human guinea pig for a ‘robot
soldier’ prototype for use in civilian
law enforcement which has proved
unpopular with the general public.
Coincidentally, police detective
Alex Murphy (Joel Kinnaman) is
severely injured in an attempted
mafia arrest after it turns out that
corrupt cops are working for the
crime boss. Alex is selected for the
task and is fitted into the cybernetic
suit. After minor teething problems
involving altered brain chemistry
which makes him emotionless,
the new, programmed Alex is let
loose in the city and dramatically
reduces crime. However, as Alex
becomes more conscious of
his transformation against his
consent, he struggles to override
his programming and exert his free
will by seeking revenge.
RoboCop
Tuesday 06/05/14
Thursday 08/05/14
£3 Members/£4 Non-Member

