14 FRIDAY 02 MAY
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
Gig Review: Seahaven
Stuart Masson reviews the Californian band’s recent Birthday’s gig
B
irthday’s in Dalston is
about as hipster as venues
come. It’s in Dalston for
a start. Upstairs there’s a
burger joint that serves
food on trays, but to be fair, does
do a mean sweet potato burger and
some extraodinary cheesy chips, oh,
those cheesy chips… The stage is
in the basement, and it’s a fair size
considering its location. Most venues
east of Liverpool Street fit about 100
patrons, but Birthday’s has a capacity
of around 250. That means they also
get slightly bigger bands than I’m used
to travelling to Dalston for, including
the not that hipster Seahaven a few
weeks ago. Supported by Battle
Lines, who seem to have not decided
on a coherent sound yet, and Nai
Harvest, who are one of my favourite
British bands at the moment.
After those cheesy chips I really
didn’t think my night could get any
better, but the bands did their best.
Nai Harvest are at the forefront of
the UK emo scene. A garagey two-
piece with intelligent guitar work
and catchy tunes galore, they aren’t
far off being able to headline venues
like Birthday’s themselves. The tunes
started early, with Whatever and
I Don’t Even Know straight off the
bat. Nai Harvest always bring all
the energy of their music to the live
setting, but not all of the crunch. It’s
hard to provide all the range with only
two of you and no studio magic, and
Nai Harvest sometimes to struggle in
the bass region. This certainly wasn’t
the worst I’ve seen them, but it still
wasn’t quite right. Ending with the
brilliant Sitcom Fade-In and Hold
Open My Head did a little to assuage
my problems though. It was a very
short set, cut shorter by Ben breaking
a string during the intro to their first
attempt at Whatever. Of course, that
is to be expected with a support slot,
but I certainly could have done with a
bit more.
Seahaven operate in the niche
between alternative rock and post-
hardcore, sounding like a slightly more
mature Taking Back Sunday or the
band that Placebo could have been.
Debut EP Ghost and album Winter
Forever were both pretty catchy
listens, if perhaps not having the
musical depth to hold the attention
for too long. Their sophomore effort,
Reverie Music: Music for Escapism
Only, came out earlier this year, and
its focus on a much more mellow
sound produced a very interesting, if
perhaps less exciting listen. Live they
go for a fairly even mix between tracks
off both albums, making for a pretty
varied and interesting live show.
Opening with Goodnight is a solid
move. It’s Seahaven at their absolute
catchiest, and with some great
shoutalong but highly introspective
lyrics, it’s one of their most popular.
Following this up with standout track
off Reverie Music, Andreas, is also a
good idea. It’s indie rock with an edge,
and it’s really good. It sounds a bit like
Devil and God era Brand New, except
with Kyle Soto’s nasal mumbling (it’s
not that bad). Seahaven’s albums
all seem to have a fairly even mix of
good and bad tracks, but luckily, they
seem to have a fairly similar opinion
on which are the good ones as me.
Love to Burn, Flesh and Wild West
Selfishness are probably my other
favourite cuts off the new album,
and dropping Black and White off of
Winter Forever also goes down really
well. The one curveball off the new
album is Highway Blues, a, well, blues
song. It’s just Kyle and his guitar and
it’s surprisingly beautiful. Live it’s
just as touching, although the general
chatter makes me think that perhaps
others didn’t appreciate it as much as I
did. The crowd certainly did enjoy the
closing track: It’s Over. Fitting both in
style and in name, it’s a great end to
the set, with the whole room having
one last singalong.
Overall, I really enjoyed Seahaven.
They produced a really nice mix of
heavy, catchy and mellow, and the
variety led to the set keeping my
interest throughout. They’re certainly
not going to move mountains any
time soon, but they’re good at what
they do, and they’re worth checking
out if you like your alt-rock with a
touch of heavy thrown in.
AMS albums you may have missed!
St. Vincent - St. Vincent
St. Vincent released her first
album, Marry Me, back in
2007. It was pretty good.
2009 saw Actor released, and
that was really good. 2011’s
Strange Mercy was absolutely
spectacular. A stunningly
well crafted art pop record,
it reamins one of the best
things released this decade.
Then came an album with
David Byrne of Talking
Heads fame, which was, not surprisingly, a little too weird for
its own good. I’m a big Talking Heads fan, but to my mind, David
Byrne’s experimental approach to things didn’t set particularly
well with Annie Clark’s extremely tight sound. Her fourth album
is self-titled, but it’s not particularly St. Vincent-esque. She
seems to have taken a lot of tips from David Byrne. There’s a
variety of sounds all over this record with fairly mixed success.
The dissonant guitar riff in Birth in Reverse is superb, while the
psychedelic dream pop of Severed Crossed Fingers is a sound I’d
love to see her expand on further. There’s also the slightly less
difficult Psychopath and the synth filled yet surprisingly heavy
Huey Newton to enjoy. It’s taken me a few listens, but there is a lot
to enjoy here. The glitchy opener Rattlesnake sounded like a huge
misstep on first listen, but I’ve come round in time. This certainly
isn’t as good as Strange Mercy, and I don’t think any number of
listens will change that, but this is definitely worth your time,
especially if you’re willing to invest in it.
Human Hands - Human Hands
Human Hands released their
self-titled debut album back
in January, but I’ve only just
gotten round to listening to it.
I should not have waited, this
issuperb.Itisreallyrefreshing
hearing an emo band who
have no interest in sounding
like a Kinsella project. Forget
Cap’n Jazz and American
Football, Human Hands
sound is mix of bands like
Christie Front Drive, Indian Summer and Rites of Spring.
It’s heavy, but it’s dripping with emotion. The shouted vocals
interwined and often underlaid with muted singing, the pounding
drums and swirling dissonant riffs are all brought together with
really well written songs. Remain is an early highlight. It ebbs
and flows and it’s just absolutely gripping. Everything seems to be
barely restrained, until the last minute, where it’s all released in a
cacophony of anger. The structure of the tracks on this album is
very close to post-rock in a lot of ways, but unlike acts like Foxing
and Prawn, Human Hands have no interest in making it pretty.
They don’t want this to be easy listening, and it makes for a very
rewarding listen. The run from Remain through to penultimate
track Dust is just so good. It’s a shame that the final track is 10
minutes long and all a bit much. That doesn’t stop it being a great
album though, because it is top dollar.
This album is also available for name your price with no
minimum so head over to humanhands.bandcamp.com to listen!
We Came Out Like Tigers - Ever-Crushed at Pecket’s Well
This one only came out in
mid-April, but it’s already
become one of my absolute
favourite albums of this year.
We Came Out Like Tigers
are a politically charged black
metal influenced screamo
band from Liverpool. They
are one of my absolute
favourite bands to see live.
With the furious screams,
pounding blast beats and
rants about Fascism, it’s about as intense as live music can
get, and it just blows me away every time. Their first album,
Agelessness and Lack, was released back in 2012, and whilst it was
really good, it failed to catch the intensity of the live show with a
slightly too thin mix. There are no such issues this time around.
The songs are at least as good, but the production is just so much
better. To Ruin a Fine Tenor Voice is some of the most emotionally
charged screamo you’ll find, and the mournful violin towards the
end is just perfect (I may have forgotten to mention they have a
violin). The violin is probably what really separates this out from
the rest. It adds sorrow and beauty to otherwise furious music.
One negative is that the whole album is only 25 minutes long, but
when it’s this intense, that might be best for my emotional state...
This really is as good an album as I’ve heard this year, so if you’ve
any interest in heavy music, check this out!
This album is available for name your price, starting at free,
from wecameoutliketigers.bandcamp.com, so you’ve no excuse!
Stuart Masson reviews some of this year’s highlights that we didn’t cover at the time (sorry)

