16 17
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 02 MAY FRIDAY 02 MAY
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
MUSIC
The Expert’s Guide to Europe’s Ultimate Competition
Jamie Thomas explains which countries you need to look out for at the 59th edition of Eurovision in Copenhagen
This year Austria is sending Tom
Neuwirth, better known as his long-
haired, bearded drag persona Conch-
ita Wurst, to Copenhagen. One of the
more polarising ﬁgures taking part in
this year’s competition, Conchita has
been the subject of social media cam-
paigns in Austria calling for her to be
replaced. There was even a petition in
Belarus asking for her to be removed
from the national broadcast on the
grounds that she would turn the event
into a ‘hotbed of sodomy’. Austria has
only been in the grand ﬁnal once since
2005, but Conchita Wurst stands a
very good chance of getting there this
year. Her song, Rise Like A Phoenix,
mirrors the style of the great James
Bond themes. With Conchita’s strong
voice, plenty of strings and the occa-
sional screaming trumpet, this entry is
one of my personal favourites.
Austria
A picture paints a thousand words, in
this case, all of them bearded.
Going back to 1956, with one to six hundred million viewers annually, the
Eurovision Song Contest is one of the largest-scale and longest-running
television events in the world. This year thirty-seven countries will battle it out
in Copenhagen for victory and the opportunity to host the competition in 2015.
Here is my list of the top ten hottest songs to look out for this year!
Azerbaijan
Not to be confused with Aston Villa extraordinaire Bosco Balaban.
Norway holds both the record for the
most notorious ‘nul points’ scored
and the record for the highest scoring
song in Eurovision history (‘Fairytale’
by Alexander Rybak, 2009). Norway is
hoping for a win this year with ‘Silent
Storm’ by Carl Espen. A slow but
moving song, Norway is likely to place
highly this year.
Denmark’s Basim will be performing
to his home crowd this year with
his Cliché Love Song, so expect a
deafeningly euphoric response from
the arena for him. With its upbeat
melody and delightfully cheesy lyrics,
Denmark has entered a song that is
simple, quintessential Eurovision.
Being the host country, this song
automatically qualiﬁes for the grand
ﬁnal. Denmark is hoping for a second
win after Emmelie De Forest took
ﬁrst place in Malmö last year, and
Basim just might do it for them.
Often a subject of Great British moaning, the UK has not done brilliantly in the
contest recently, coming last three times since 2003. However this year could see
the UK perform very well indeed. They are sending up and coming singer/song-
writer Molly with her own song Children Of The Universe, an exciting, powerful
song that’s sure to get the crowd going. Being a member of the ‘Big Five’, the UK
automatically qualiﬁes for the grand ﬁnal and although I don’t expect the UK to
win, I think Molly could get pretty close this year.
Azerbaijan debuted at Eurovision in
2008 and has since taken the compe-
tition by storm, ﬁnishing in the top
ﬁve each year since 2009 and winning
in 2011. This year they are hoping for
victory with operatically trained Di-
lara Kazimova and her song Start A
Fire. Slow and contemplative, it ech-
oes Azerbaijan’s 2012 entry When The
Music Dies, with downbeat but hope-
ful lyrics and extensive use of the bala-
ban, the Azerbaijani national musical
instrument. I predict another top ﬁve
ﬁnish for Azerbaijan. Starting a ﬁre in the hearts of millions.
United
Kingdom
My money is on Molly looking a little less cheery come results night.
The contest this year will be held in the larger of these really big sheds. Looks pretty glamorous!
Norway
Denmark
Last yearʼs winner, Emmelie de Forest. Sheʼll be performing during the interval this year.
A somewhat less surprising beard.
Basim shows that age is just a number.
A really small number.
Sweden is sending Sanna Nielsen
across the iconic Öresund Bridge to
Denmark to perform the song Undo.
With a slow start, this song eventually
turns into a punchy dance anthem.
Sanna is a star who has topped the
Swedish charts multiple times and
she’s no stranger to the stage. Does
she have what it takes to steal the
Eurovision title back from Denmark?
Since the introduction of semi-ﬁnals
in 2004, Ukraine is one of the few
non-‘Big Five’ countries to have never
failed to qualify for the grand ﬁnal.
There’s no doubt they’ll maintain that
this year with Tick – Tock by Mariya
Yaremchuk. 2014 marks the ten-year
anniversary of Ukraine’s ﬁrst and only
Eurovision victory. This energetic, fun
song is likely to do very well.
András Kállay-Saunders will repre-
sent Hungary with his song Running
that he wrote himself about domestic
violence and child abuse, a topic he
wants to raise awareness of. Running
has the originality and strength to do
very well this year. Hungary has never
placed in the top 3, could this be their
chance?
One of this year’s favourites to win,
Armenia has entered the song Not
Alone by Aram MP3, the host of Ar-
menian X-Factor and Armenian Idol.
With a quiet and dark start, it quickly
takes a sharp turn into a powerful,
dubstep-esque number that will surely
please the crowds both in Copenhagen
and at home. Don’t be surprised to see
Eurovision 2015 take place in the Ar-
menian capital, Yerevan.
Paula Serling and OVI won third
place for Romania in 2010 and this
year they’re back. Just like their fantas-
tic 2010 entry Playing With Fire, Mira-
cle is a catchy, toe-tappingly rhythmic
dance track with a superb keyboard
part, owing to Paula’s classical piano
training. Romania has never won the
contest, but I have a feeling Paula and
OVI could better their 2010 perfor-
mance and place second or ﬁrst this
year.
Sweden
Armenia
Ukraine
Romania
Hungary
This yearʼs trio of hosts. Probably the ﬁrst time theyʼve ever been in a shipyard...
To be fair, he does host Armenian Idol.
She doesnʼt look like a thief...
Tick, tock, tick, tock, nope, no caption...
Will Paula get her miracle?
Paula and Ovi have had a go before, and if it got this intense ﬁrst time around...
András does not host Hungarian Idol.
And why wouldnʼt you? (Please do not contact the music editors to answer this)
But that’s not all! These are just ten of thirty-seven songs in this year’s competi-
tion. In the ﬁrst semi-ﬁnal on May 6th we’ll hear Iceland’s cheesy but fun, funky
and rainbow-ﬁlled No Prejudice’ by Pollapönk and see Valentina Monetta rep-
resent San Marino for the fourth year in a row! On May 8th we’ll hear Georgia’s
eccentric and folky Three Minutes To Earth by The Shin and Mariko in the sec-
ond semi-ﬁnal, along with many others.
Of the thirty-seven countries, twenty-six will qualify for the grand ﬁnal on
May the 10th, and judging by the entries it’s going to be a crazy, fun and eclectic
whirlwind of a night. Don’t miss it!
You can watch the semi-ﬁnals on BBC Three on Tuesday 6th and Thursday 8th.
The ﬁnal will be broadcast on BBC One on Saturday 10th.

