18 FRIDAY 02 MAY
Editors: Joe Letts,
Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NIGHTLIFE
Bez is running for an MP in the Salford
constituency. If there ever was a time
when taking too many pills might
have adverse effects, Bez is mounting
a pretty strong case. I’m no hot-shot
lawyer, barrister, barista or what you’ll
have it, but being a 50 year old, albeit
an accomplished punk dancer, very
much of their face on BBC does not
look good. It’s shabby at best. And his
platform is abjectly deploring: anti-
fracking and then nothing. Not even
shouting for legalizing ‘pills’. He must
have taken a few too many and forgot
about them, he was shouting for the
two back then, wearing a tank top to
match, back when he was in Happy
Mondays.
If I have learned anything as a non-
conformist medical student, is that
people, the public in general, are
pretty forgiving. I recall when last year
I wanted to get out of a stupid Clinical
Communications exam, I lied about
getting a girl pregnant. She was a great
sport – she even came to the meeting
with me and lied with style and grace.
Reputation’s so 90s and overrated.
Maybe there is still a chance for Bez
to grace Westminster with his manic
dance aerobics. Reputation does
proceed him. I hope it will reach the
voters.
The reason I am bringing up Bez is
because that was the news I woke up to
when I finished a fantastically fabulous
night at Brixton Academy fuelled by
the said ‘pills’. Unequivocally, it was
the Four Tet all-nighter. An all-night
delight.
Ever since Despacio, I have regained
the modus operandi of a cool raver. I
behaved like a buzzing ‘absztyfikant’,
amplifying everything and anything.
Factory Records says that when
you are presented with a fact and a
legend, always print the legend. So
the night started when I and Principal
Goodvibes made our journey down
to Earl’s Court tube station, to pick a
group of budding ravers…
The group consisted of Rishi, who
surpassed and solidified the legendary
statusofhisshirt,andOli,whodecided
to defy Willow Smith, and rock her
hair into a crafted bun, as opposed
to ‘rocking it back and forth’. But this
group was an ensemble, a la Siouxie
and the Banshees (Yes, Oli, you can be
Siouxie amongst these Banshees. And
that is not because you were the only
gal. Yes, it is because you were the only
gal): we were joined by Rishi’s friends,
local Greenwich-ians, who in the
past hailed from an all-boys grammar
school, something I know a thing or
two about. Thank Krishna, my parents
aligned their whole lives and careers
to be in the ‘right’ catchment area.
After all, you are always right if you
are in the ‘right’ catchment area. Or
Conservative – ha…ha...
The initial sighting was awkwardly
pleasant, and that was squarely down
to me and Principal. For the lack of
better words, we looked like Class-A
pricks. Principal was flaunting,
spinning around in a gold night-
coat akin to an inside joke by Mr
Goldfinger, with the Communards red
shirt, Ray Bans and boat shoes. I chose
to woo the crowd with the infamous
orange shorts, coupled by blue shirt
and grey blazer combo (no elbow
pads, I ain’t a prick) and orange-blue
New Balance sneakers, just to take the
‘edge’ of it all. Let’s just say, to people
who did not know us, we did look
like Class-A pricks. But hey, we are
mavericks and we relish in surprising
people and breaking class boundaries.
We are revolutionaries from within,
putting up a brave fight in the name
of all that is meritocratic and bisexual.
Blur those gender lines, blur them
Robin Thicke!
And we did pull a ‘maverick’ on
everyone. Maybe not John McCain-
style – he is a self-affirmed maverick,
but it was close. One day we do plan
to stage our Operation Desert Storm
2.0 in Afghanistan or some other
Allah-forsaken place, because we
ARE mavericks. All about that later.
Because for now, we have to replenish
the raver’s kit: orange American Spirit
cigarettes (they are so choice; if you
have the means, I highly recommend
picking one up, Ferris Bueller told me
so), Coronas on lock and load, chilled
Chablis, and of course, the gear that
awaited us in our abode. So we made
our way down to the basement flat for
the pre-drinking sesh.
It was a large one: 15 people in
attendance, and with the forecast
implying an imminent arrival of
20-odd people from Kait’s halls
(unfortunately and fortunately, that
did not precipitate); we were in for a
banger. After courteous woos from
the guests on the topic of our house,
we coalesced around the ‘grotto’,
starting to mingle. Brewskis a-poppin’,
cigarattes a-littin’ - we socialised. In
fact, it was surprisingly spontaneous.
You see, there were some boundaries
to break. If the logical mind prevails,
think about it: Rishi and Oli only know
me from Despacio, that’s it. And then
this group of unacquainted 15-odd
Banshees descends into someone’s
Earl’s Court basement, in the presence
of two promoters/friendly dealers
from Cardiff (special import, thanks
to mutual friendship with Mr Charles
Rotknap).
Principal was manning the decks,
spinning large ones after big ones, to a
keen aplomb of the guests. MacBook
Air was his weapon of choice – not
because he is a laptop DJ, never,
it was just simpler on a Saturday
night. Playing the role of a grand
host ain’t easy but his collection of
records was perused by the guests
and appropriately complemented. I
rekindled the social fire with Rishi
and Oli – they were great to chat to,
providing a fluid exchange of ideas,
hypothesium, tractorum (Latin,
plural for hypothesis and tractus,
both genitive. Grammar school, eh?)
etc. Pray tell us, what happened next?
Well, Oli decided to take a selfie of
us and send it to her Swedish friend,
who said I was hot. Thanks lady, but
I am damaged goods. Take me to the
store and get a refund, better store
credit – Christmas presents sorted,
I do bring the cheer, don’t I? I am
an apprehensive opponent of the
whole selfie-culture. Any reasons?
Only healthy fish go against the flow,
according to a famous Communist
Party leader. Since I am a healthy fish,
go figure. But in this case, it was a
well-timed selfie because it fulfilled its
design brief: boost my self-esteem in
an egotistical manner.
11pm struck, and we struck the
streets. The tube. I felt like I was in
the midst of Enoch Powell’s ‘Rivers of
Blood’ speech: I was basically lashed
and receptive to fascist/non-fascist
propaganda. My mind was coming
up with the most amusing stories,
being reacquainted with the concept
of Willy Brandt’s ‘Kneefall’ thanks
to Oli was an epiphany, a revelation.
Something on par with the Three
Secrets of Fatima. Little did we know,
we would have our ‘Kneefall’ to the
gods of techno when Four Tet dropped
it. And oh, he dropped it.
We were waiting in the massive
queue. The clock struck ‘Mandy
o’clock’. We dropped the bombs: we
are talking some premium, pristine
stuff. 1/6th gram of Sassafras will get
you fucked, but very gallantly and
ever so mellow. It is sassy from the
bottom up, unbelievable in its every
conceivable reincarnation. Nirvana,
baby, Nirvana. Shame Kurt Cobain
never had tried it, I am sure he would
be still around us today, had it not
been for that (or Courtney Love,
you murderous-NWO-SOPA-KGB-
operational-conspiracy-aparatchik!).
In the said line, all queued in a
very British manner, very anti-LCD
Soundystem-esque. It was swift,
manned by friendly ‘safety officers’
and an adorkable sniffer Cocker
Spaniel (I just wanted to put you on
the notice, that I notice, that you did
not notice that we fooled you dawg.
X-Zibit, nwot nwot, we out). We were
joined by Kait’s pack: I had certain
reservations about them, and it proved
at the first sighting: they were rocking
bindis, lack of decorum to say the least
(I feel the same about people who rock
H&M Native American motifs – basic
lack of decorum). It also turned out
that the reason these peeps did not
make it to our pre-drinks was because
they were too lazy, despite Earl’s Court
being kinda on the way to Brixton for
them. And worst, Kait really wanted
to come, but her friends denied the
request - she cried because of that. It
was her birthday. Happy Birthday!
Finally, we made the grand entry.
Front middle stage, we danced like
maniacs, we behaved like maniacs,
conforming and not conforming.
I formed a dancing quartet with
Rishi, Oli and Principal – this was
not a square formation, but circular
and primal. Then, the loving lady
called Mandy bequeathed us with
happiness and she rocked our world.
I felt ecstatic, in heaven, as if I have
ruptured my spleen. It was a Joy
Rapture. Words can’t contain them
feels, the wavy orchestra of the
depleted serotonin, defying Principal’s
alter nickname of Mr Dopamine-less.
We hugged, we kissed, we connected.
Try this once and you will thank me:
actually, having shared the goods with
all the Banshees, all of them were star-
struck, in awe – that’s how I proved
my status of a maverick. You buds
were awesome, I hope to rave with
you one day.
Of course, the associated dangers
are well-known: it is neurotoxic so
do it very sporadically and one can
become a sexual ‘animaux’. Some
people were getting ever so too frisky,
Matt. Respect the lady or Charles
(it’s the new gtfo, the polite version –
that’s Mr Charles Rotknap for ya. He
knows how to stick it to ya, but he is
a gentle man about it). Water under
bridge though, boys will be boys,
love is a battlefield, [put in commonly
generic clichés, I am making this piece
interactive – enjoy]. Top tip of the
day – thanks to Kim Wilde and Nik
Kershaw – at the post-load, take some
supplements to reduce neurotoxicity:
namely Vitamin C, 5-HTP (serotonin
precursor), Vitamin E and others. Do
your own research. Nobody does the
ree-search as Tom Cruise does his
ree-search.
Music was spectacular, timed and
rave-y. Four Tet is the man of his own
genre, Ben UFO and Daphne delivered
the goodie goodies. Our dance moves
were contemporary, unabashed, and
spiritually on the ball – Oli was the
best raver, she moves oh, she moves.
Rishi was a close second, mainly props
for him being the last at getting his
five second with Mandy, yet he was
with us. Till the end.
It was a perfect night. But
premonition being premonition –
the Ch’i gets fucked by the yuppies
in Brixton; let us raise the barricades
and squat! Oli lost her wallet. The
gods of Olympus were smiling upon
us because promptly, she found it
at the Lost and Found Department.
The benefits don’t stop there (like Ian
Duncan Smith would want to, that 53
quid mark can be bitching) – she had a
spare bomb in the wallet that coasted
us to the very end of the night.
6am, we left – the dawn was upon
us, sprinkling the kind rays of Suns,
as if we were some premium Krispy
Kremes, getting decorated. But
the coldness of the morning dew
left us struggling, especially this
obstructionist in shorts. But friends
came to the rescue: Rishi and Oli
gave me a heartfelt leg-warming sesh
– it was extra warm because it was
heartfelt. Oh, pull yourself together,
don’t sound like a GQ writer!
We said the not ambivalent hollers,
and the dynamic quartet got into
a taxi ‘nach zu’ house. I’ve let the
dynamic duo crash in my bed, whilst
I took up the temporary residence,
technically a squat, in Principal’s bed.
I lend a t-shirt to Oli to substitute the
non-existent PJs, first time I did so for
a girl. This comedic moment was only
topped by the choice of the T: an ironic
American Apparel gear, engraved with
a phrase ‘dirty minds think alike’ and
a graphic of cerebral hemispheres. All
is well that ends well, it felt like the
Chevy Chase-esque antics. We hit the
snooze.
Time to sum it up, confess the
not confessable, admit the non-
admitting, draw an end to it all: this
was one of the best nights. Everyone
was blasting, music intense, lighting
reminiscent of a starry night, just
like in Countryfile, company sweeter
than a dab of ambrosia, dancing sans-
inhibitions, chemistry befitting a PhD
thesis, fashion on the latter part of an
exponential curve (is that a decent
maths reference, Rishi? Would it get
into a Simpsons gag?). What could
we want? We were young. We are
young. Last night it felt like forever,
that fleeting moment in the busy
lives of yuppies-to-be. ‘Only meek get
pinched. The bold survive’. Despacio
was better musically, Brixton better
socially. I pledge all that is holy and
unholy, this combination would be,
could be and is revolutionary.
It is an all-night delight.
Felix in does not condone drug use.
- Ed
All Night Delight
That’s the prize, multiply it by 3.33
(recurring). Disclaimer: The set of steak
knives not included. That goes for rose-
mary, lemon, sea salt, chopping board
AND sushi mat.
aquabestnyc.com
Obstructionist
Fry
Anonymous

