24 FRIDAY 02 MAY
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How good is The Good Wife?
The Good Wife
Primetime television shows (i.e. the
ones that are not on cable channels
and therefore lack sex, nudity, violence
and swearing) are often unfairly over-
looked when it comes to providing an
answer for that question “what’s your
favourite tv show”? Game of Thrones,
Breaking Bad, The Wire, The Sopra-
nos, Six Feet Under, Mad Men, even
Battlestar Galactica are all very wor-
thy mentions, but an equally strong
case can be argued for The Good Wife,
an excellent legal drama currently
in its fifth season, that is watched by
plenty of people, but not by those in
the “right” key demographic of ages
18-49, which is a shame.
It is not uncommon for serious
shows to lose its steam and dramatic
momentum when it has been carry-
ing on for as long as this show has, but
The Good Wife is a completely differ-
ent beast of a compelling drama, in
that it consistently manages to outdo
the extraordinarily high bar set by its
previous season.
Everything kicks off in its first sea-
son with an all-too-familiar backdrop
of a seedy sex scandal. Alicia Florrick’s
(Julianna Margulies) life is turned into
a media frenzy as her husband Peter,
the state’s attorney of Cook County,
Illinois, is faced with accusations of
multiple accounts of indecent conduct
involving prostitutes, drugs and suspi-
cious financial dealings. With her hus-
band, the previous sole breadwinner,
behind bars, it’s time for Alicia to dust
off her law degree and jump back into
the courtroom, something she hasn’t
done in at least fifteen years.
There are challenges ahead: she
is having to start from all the way at
the bottom as a first-year associate,
she faces competition to keep on to
her position in the form of Cary Agos
(Matt Czuchry), the fresh-out-of-law-
school, keen, eager type, she has two
children of her own to raise, and of
course, there is that scandal every-
one keeps talking about. But thanks
to her old friend Will Gardner (Josh
Charles), her role at Stern, Lockhart
& Gardner provides a way for her to
make ends meet.
Each episode deals with a differ-
ent legal case, just like any other legal
dramas out there. But there are rea-
sons why this familiar formula works.
Firstly, the cases are all fascinating.
Without exception. Even the ones that
may seem straightforward to begin
with are deliberately designed that
way, to make room for complications
that arise. The cases are up to date
and relevant, with writers clearly get-
ting direct inspiration from current
events, often adapting cases that are
dominating the headlines. The Good
Wife is also known for being an in-
credibly tech-savvy show, constantly
showing how the rapid advancement
of technology can both help and hurt
the practising of law. They have their
own version of Google (called Chum-
hum here) in its universe, an impor-
tant client that frequently gets into
trouble. With irreplaceable assistance
from Kalinda Sharma, the law firm’s
best investigator, our team of skilled
lawyers have to deal with some of the
toughest, most nail-bitingly tense cas-
es that are neatly packed in for each
40-minute episode.
Individual cases aren’t the only as-
pect that makes the show unique.
There are also the equally important
season-long story arcs that take place.
Whether it’s petty office politics that
ends up exploding to an all-out civil
war, or important political campaigns
that need legal attention, or even a
simple love triangle that toys with
our heroine’s emotions, these added
juicy plot lines all weave together to
give one gripping overall season that
covers so many aspects of the show’s
characters.
No important individual is dis-
carded. Of course, the show revolves
around Alicia, hence the title, but
equally crucial are those around her.
When it comes to the performances,
it would difficult to find an ensemble
that matches the finely tuned, incred-
ibly well gelled cast of The Good Wife.
At the show’s centre is Margulies, in
her Golden Globe, Emmy and SAG-
winning role. She is as effective show-
ing weaknesses and vulnerability as
she is when she’s on top legal form,
relentlessly arguing for her clients’ tri-
umph, when she is, in her own words,
“kicking butt”. Her development is
a fascinating one, from a betrayed
wife and mother, rising to an assured
lawyer status in the over-subscribed,
competitive and morally ambiguous
legal world.
Alicia is never keen to bend or break
the rules. But her friend/boss Will
Gardner and his firm partner Diane
Lockhart (Christine Baranski) think a
little differently. Will and Diane make
an extraordinary team, fighting for
their clients and firm with ambition
and a little more cynical view of the
world, since they’ve been at this a lot
longer than Alicia has. Even during
one of their bitter feuds, usually stem-
ming from one of them trying to push
the other one out, the two are a marvel
to watch.
Sexual tension makes up a signifi-
cant portion of the many season-long
story arcs, as things get steamy for
pretty much everyone involved. Kick-
ass investigator Kalinda Sharma’s
bicurious tendencies are what stand
out the most, but despite this she’s
not someone defined solely by her
sexuality. She’s incredible at her job,
and she doesn’t take any abuse from
anyone. Panjabi’s Emmy-winning per-
formance has many scene-stealing
moments, and even in the show’s fifth
season, she is still a bit of a mystery,
as she keeps a lot of herself closed off
from the rest of the world. There’s a
will-they-won’t-they romantic flame
brewing between Kalinda and Cary,
who is quite relentless but ultimately
chilidishly adorable in his pursuit, al-
though what will happen of them re-
mains to be seen.
Of course, aside from the challenges
at the office, Alicia has the difficult
task of taking care of her two teen-
age children Zach (Graham Phillips)
and Grace (Makenzie Vega), as well as
often having to deal with her mother-
in-law Jackie (Mary Beth Peil) who
can be quite a handful to say the least.
Speaking of family, the show’s mood
is always brightened up when Alicia’s
relatives show up: including her gay
brother Owen (Dallas Roberts), and
her mother Veronica (Stockard Chan-
ning), both of whom not only act as
comic relief, but also in crucial plot
developments, those that affect Alicia
significantly.
That delicate balance between se-
rious drama and smart humour is
something that shows the writers
working behind the scenes are doing
an admirable job. There are no des-
perate, completely forced attempts to
turn this into a comedy show, but the
laughs that are generated are through
completely natural, believable acts of
characters’ actions and subsequent
reactions, some outrageous develop-
ments akin to what we see in the real
world, realistic scenarios are cleverly
manipulated to give us the deliberate,
well-placed laughs.
There are no clear-cut good and bad
characters; the writing is too smart
for that. The firm defends drug deal-
ers, suspected killers, pharmaceutical
companies etc, and with each case
brings with it a sensitive, delicate mat-
ter. And because the lawyers’ number
one priority is to their paying clients,
this means sometimes, having a con-
science is a hindrance to the job.
Even Peter Florrick (Chris Noth),
who puts Alicia in jeopardy due to his
inability to keep his trousers zipped,
has several moments of redemption,
and is a classic example of how some-
one who you should not really like,
begins to grow on you. Eli Gold (Alan
Cumming), a political strategist and
crisis manager, working closely with
the Florrick family, probably gets the
most laughs, thanks to his very seri-
ous approach to his work even though
those around him sometimes struggle
to keep up. David Lee (Zach Grenier)
Stern, Lockhart & Gardner’s family
lawyer, is a mighty conniving creature,
who will do anything to get his client a
bigger settlement from his/her soon-
to-be-ex-spouse. Grenier is always a
delight to watch, and his entertaining
antics are downright hilarious.
Another way the show scores points
is through its use of excellent guest
stars, and the way everyone keeps
coming back for more. So many tal-
ented individuals drop by to play cli-
ents, opposing counsel, political ene-
mies, judges, among many other roles
necessary to be filled. Michael J. Fox,
Rita Wilson, Mamie Gummer, Ameri-
ca Ferrera, Kurt Fuller, Denis O’Hare,
F. Murray Abraham, Matthew Perry,
Jane Alexander, Martha Plimpton,
Carrie Preston, Dylan Baker, Anika
Noni Rose, Scott Porter, Gary Cole,
Melissa George, Anna Camp, Parker
Posey, Maura Tierney are all a part of
this amazing guest-starring ensemble
who have left an unforgettable mark,
and there are plenty more who have
not been named, but without whom
the show would have been the same.
There are shocks and surprises
along the way, the biggest one argu-
ably seen in the show’s incredibly bold
fifth season, a gamble that is currently
paying off given the new sides to every
character the show is exploring, plus
introducing Finn Polmar (Matthew
Goode), a prosecutor who should be
sticking around for a while.
The Good Wife is a show difficult to
fault, and thank god this was renewed
for a sixth season. Keep going Mrs
Florrick, we’re all rooting for you.

