25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 02 MAY
TELEVISION
Game of Thrones returns
Emily Fulham reviews the highlights and lowlights of the series so far
The Good
As Game of Thrones enters its fourth
series, it’s easy to imagine that the
show’s writers and producers would
be pretty pleased with themselves: the
huge success of the show, unforeseen
at its inception three years ago, and a
vast fanbase that stretches far beyond
the usual fans of genre TV means that
viewings figures are predicted to stay
high for the foreseeable future. After
such success, there’s always a risk that
the creators might sit back and rest
on their laurels, confident that people
will watch either way. Thankfully, that
shows no sign of being the case for the
series so far.
Another consequence of this could
be that the writers decide to take
more risks, and evidence of that might
be found in the increasingly frequent
departures from the source material
we’ve seen. A lot of the choices of the
writers to add and rearrange events
from the books make sense, but for
others the motivation is less clear. We
examine what the series has got right
and got wrong so far.
Warning: contains spoilers for all
aired episodes!
For anyone who’d read the books,
there was only one event early in the
series to get truly excited for, and that
was the moment we’d been waiting
for since series one: Joffrey finally
getting what was coming to him. From
all of the build-up to his wedding to
Margaery Tyrell, it seemed inevitable
that something big was going to
happen, even to those who didn’t know
what was coming. As the wedding got
underway, it was clear that this wasn’t
going to a joyous occasion for all
concerned. After managing to insult
just about every high-born guest at
the wedding with an ill-conceived
performance by a troupe of dwarfs,
then further humiliating his uncle
Tyrion, the climax came after what felt
like hours of tension: Joffrey, purple-
faced and choking to death.
Although a victory of sorts to all
those who hated Joffrey, his death
immediately led to some pretty big
problems for Sansa and Tyrion, both
The stand-out new character of the
series is Oberyn Martell, brilliantly
played by Chilean actor Pedro Pascal.
Martell is a Dornish prince who goes
by the nickname of ‘Red Viper’ and
was invited to the capital for the King’s
wedding, but has other priorities for
his visit: getting revenge for the death
of his sister, Elia, brutually murdered
by Ser Gregor Clane, presumably
following orders from Tywin
Lannister. On his quest for revenge,
however, he still spends plenty of time
hanging out in brothels, where he’s
an easy customer to please, provided
nobody starts singing the Lannister’s
theme tune, ‘The Rains of Castamere’.
His steamy brothel scenes are also the
nearest we’ve got to correcting the
hugely unfair imbalance between the
amount of male and female nudity
in the series so far (I hear there’s an
online petition, just in case you’re
interested).
The Bad
Daenarys’ journey to conquer
Westeros only after paying a visit to
every city, town and large-ish hamlet
on the way continues, with very few
glimpses of the dragon babies (now
dragon teenagers, one presumes) to
sustain the viewers’ interest. To be fair,
the endless scenes of slave liberation
are infinitely more exciting than those
in the book, but it still seems as if the
Mother of Dragons hasn’t really gone
anywhere except from one desert to
another since series two. Also, Daario
Naharis, the flirtatious sellsword
who’s been piquing Dany’s interest,
has been recast, and yet still doesn’t
have the blue-dyed mustachios and
three-pronged beard he’s described as
having in the books.
Another place where things seem to
be going nowhere is the Wall, where
Jon Snow has returned to his own
fair share of troubles: namely, being
accused of betraying the Night’s
Watch by killing Qhorin Halfhand
and having inappropriate amounts
of fun with a wilding lady. In spite
of being accused of treason, no one
seems to actually want to lock him up,
so instead he just reverts back to the
classic Jon Snow pasttimes of pouting
and showing off his swordfighting
skills.
Also being annoying at the wall is
Sam, who, in spite of all his fretting
about Gilly, has yet to make a move.
You’d reckon her naming her son after
him would be enough to convince him
he was in with a shot, but instead he
decides to send her away from the
Wall to a dubious-looking inn-cum-
brothel for her safety, then spends the
next two episodes whining about it.
Finally, Aiden Gillen seems to be
attempting yet another questionable
accent, with little to no improvement
at making anyone actully take
Littlefinger seriously.
The Ugly
Game of Thrones has taken its fair
share of criticism for its frequent and
often unnecessary scenes of sexual
violence, but the third episode of the
series, in which Jaime Lannister raped
his sister Cersei, was particularly
reprehensible. It was also a complete
departure from the scene in the
books, in which Jaime and Cersei have
sex which is, if distasteful (given that
is happens over their son’s corpse), at
least consensual. The series, however,
saw fit to change the scene to one in
which Jaime calls Cersei a ‘hateful
woman’ then rapes her as she pleads
with him to stop.
Not only was the scene
uncomfortable to watch, it also
completely reduced three series of
character development on Jaime’s part
to nothing. After seeing him push a
child out of a window at the end of
the first series, the slow redemption
of Jaime Lannister has been one of
the better-done plotlines of the show,
follwing his capture and release by
Catelyn Stark and his acquaintance of
Brienne. All of that was undone by the
rape scene: in particular, the following
episodes’s scene where Jaime gives
Brienne his sword and a coat of
armour in order for her to fulfil her
vow to Catelyn fell flat, following his
brutal treatment of his sister.
The creators of the show appeared
to have differing interpretations of
the scene as well, with the director
claiming that the scene ‘became
consensual at the end’ and Nikolaj
Coster-Waldau, who plays Jaime,
replying ‘Yes, and no,’ when asked
if he thought the scene was rape. If
there was any ambiguity intended in
the scene, it didn’t come across in the
filming.
The threat of rape and sexual
violence is fundamental to the setting
of the book: Westeros is emphasised
time and time again to be a pretty
horrendous place to live, especially
for women. That doesn’t explain or
justify the insertion of a rape scene
that served no plot or character
development purposes.
Jaime Lannister: now a rapist, apparently
Irish? Welsh? Who knows anymore
Not bad facial hair, but not the right colour
at the top of the list of people who
had reason to kill him (admittedly, a
very long list). While Sansa managed
to escape from King’s Landing before
being apprehended, Tyrion wasn’t so
lucky, and now faces being executed
for treason unless he can convince his
father and sister of his innocence.
Away from King’s Landing there
is a bunch of wildlings South of the
Wall causing all sorts of trouble.
Tormund, Ygritte and their new pal
Styr have been pillaging their way
around the North and, in the case of
Styr and the other Thenns, indulging
in a little cannibalism. Since Styr’s
arrival in the first episode, there’s
been an obvious tension between him
and Tormund. Watching how this
plays out should add an extra layer of
intrigue to what is already going to be
a very interesting plot. If they do end
up attacking Castle Black, it should
be a pretty exciting showdown. From
the inevitably tearful reunion of Jon
and Ygritte to watching Tormund and
his wildlings with their particularly
vicious combat techniques, it will be
one hell of a scene. If we’re lucky, Styr
might eat Alliser Thorne...
Oberyn Martell in a rare fully-clothed scene

