26 FRIDAY 02 MAY
GAMES
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Calum Skene,
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Final Fantasy XIV: A Social MMORPG
I can’t talk about Final Fantasy
XIV without first talking about its
predecessor: Final Fantasy XI, Square
Enix’s first MMORPG. Released way
back in 2002, FFXI was an amazing
and beautifully flawed game. I have
a bit of a love-hate relationship when
it comes to MMOs. Of the several
I’ve played they all seem to forget
about the second “M” in their name:
the one that stands for multiplayer.
Sure the ‘World’ in World of Warcraft
was massive and yes I was online
but overall it felt like quite a lonely
experience. There was some promise
of multiplayer content in the distant
endgame but for the most part it was
me, alone in the woods, hitting boars
over the head with an axe.
On the other hand, the group
content in FFXI was compulsory from
incredibly early on. After only 10
levels hitting boars on the head with
my axe I was dragged to the Vulkrum
a dunes, a vast desert areas full of
enemies that would kill me in seconds
if I engaged them on my own. Here
I would stand, waiting and shouting
trying to find five other players to
fight with me. It was the holy trinity
of MMOs at its most basic. A tank
(usually me) would get the enemies’
attention and take all the hits, a healer
would keep his distance making
sure I stay alive whilst everyone else
pummelled the poor goblin into
oblivion. After ten or so levels there I’d
make the long journey to somewhere
stronger, and then a few short levels
later we’d move on to somewhere else.
paladin who drags you to the Vulkrum
dunes for the first time to show you
the ropes had most likely been there
many times before. Most players
were extraordinarily friendly because,
at some point in the game they’d
been given help too. However, the
incredibly social aspect of the game
was, at times, its worst feature. Each
time you went out in search of a party,
it felt like applying for a job. With so
much competition and no other way
to level you were screwed unless you
had the best gear. And boy gear was
expensive. Before long the game itself
felt more of a chore than it was worth.
So enter FFXIV. Released in 2010,
pulled off the internet for being
utter shite and then re-released last
September as Square’s second foray
into MMOs. This new re-imagined
What was interesting about all of this
was that none of it was driven by the
game and instead completely by the
players. Sure, the game had quests like
a normal MMO but no one bothered
with them because the rewards were
rubbish. Instead everything you did
in this game was engineered by the
players above you. It meant for an
incredibly social experience albeit
quite a restrictive one.
The whole thing was held together
by the game’s ‘Job’ system. Unlike
most MMOs where you levelled one
class in FFXI you levelled all of them.
At any point you could return home
and switch from a burly warrior to a
squishy white mage beginning again
at level 1. The game forced you to do
this, levelling multiple jobs over the
course of the game. So the level 10
Michael Barclay
Games Writer
version of FFXIV manages to
maintain the social, group-focussed
aspect of FFXI whilst improving it in
almost every other way. As before you
can switch from one job to another
but now, this can be done at almost
any time by simply swapping your
main weapon rather than making the
arduous journey home. Fighting in a
group is still required to progress but
now this is controlled by the game
rather than the players. Dungeons or
‘instances’ are nothing new to MMOs
but in FFIXV there are tonnes of
the things and they are introduced
to the player very early on. Each
one introduces something new to
worry about, creating one of the best
learning curves, not just in a MMO
but any game I’ve ever played. Each
dungeon sits just on the right side of
challenging.
Despite all of this, the game is
unashamedly old fashioned. To
counter the dominance of WOW
other MMOs have tried the best to be
different. Age of Conan replaced the
hotbarstyleoffightingwithsomething
more action oriented. Guild Wars 2,
DC universe and many others replaced
the holy trinity of tank, healer and
damage dealer with... something else,
and Star Wars: The Old Republic tries
to tell a more personal story rather
than just repeating the same quest
that millions had performed before.
Yet FFXIV doesn’t bother with any of
this fancy stuff. At a glance this really
is a bog standard MMO but it’s just
done so well! It’s a bit ridiculous after
getting told how special you are and
how you’re the best adventurer to
grace this land, you realise that the
other 50 players in the room just saw
the exact same cutscene. Generally
though, the game is fun enough, and
the story line is good enough that I
don’t care about this stuff and I just
get on with it. The game is absolutely
littered with content. As well as the
aforementioned dungeons, there are
primal fights, against Final Fantasy
staples such as Ifrit and Odin, the
oddly named ‘Levequests’, Guildleves
providing daily solo and group
challenges when you want something
else to do and the server destroying
fates where hundreds of players gang
up together in sporadic event quests
that pop up randomly over the world.
So, if you’re looking for a new
MMO to distract you from your all-
important degree, and like the idea
of a more social game then seriously,
give FFXIV a try.
Updated Faster than Light
Maximilian Eggl
Games Editor
This game is one of the indie scene’s
big success stories. Back in 2012 it was
one of the most successful kickstarter
campaigns, achieving over 20 times the
goal that the developers had asked for.
It went on to win numerous awards,
has been reviewed in these very papers,
regularly tops the steam charts and be-
come a staple of most gamers world-
wide. Furthermore, in a bid to keep
the game fresh, the developers have
released an update, with loads of new
content for free! This in itself is quite
a pleasant surprise, given that we live
in the world of paid DLCs and micro-
transactions. In addition, the creators,
Subset Studios, have now released an
iPad version so you can be a space cap-
tain even when you are on the move!
Quick recap: FTL is a roguelike space
adventure, where you are the captain
of a ship who must save the federation
from the rebellion. You travel through
the galaxy and encounter all different
types of enemies as well as several mor-
ally difficult decisions. Oh also, when
you die its over. You have to start all
over again.
The update itself doesn’t feel like it
should be free, that’s how good it is.
The base game was incredibly deep,
and even though I had more than 25
hours on this game I never felt like I
could ever get every weapon or en-
counter every event. Therefore the
addition of all this new content is just
amazing! An entirely new race, the
Lanus, who actually clear a room of
oxygen (making it impossible for other
non-Lanus crew members to be in the
same room) adds something complete-
ly different. Also, they look incred-
ibly badass when they are one of your
crew members. The new systems that
have been added, like the cloning bay
(which I liked at first, but now despise)
and hacking drones (which are pretty
cool!), change the game dynamics and
allow for completely different builds
that suit your play style! The developers
have also written new events that you
can encounter, further expanding on
the replay value of this already addic-
tive game.
All in all, I would say that I would
have paid an extra 5 pounds for this
update, that’s how much I liked it.
However, it was free, and for that I will
eternally be grateful to Subset Studios.
Hey, Dice, Blizzard, EA: take a leaf out
of this indie studio’s book, this is how
games should be made!

