28 FRIDAY 02 MAY
HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Stalking The Sabbs
President
This week the President was found smiling proudly over his magnum
opus, the Consultation Framework. But after reading the brightly
coloured document, although encouraged by its contents, several
students complained to the Union, asking why they weren’t consult-
ed about the colour scheme. Oh well, back to the drawing board...
DP - Finance & Services
This week we saw the DPFS taking a quick yoyo break outside the
bar as he took a breather from trying to make Metric popular. Franti-
cally reassuring passing students that the Summer Ball won’t be
making a loss this year, he was later seen poring over the A-Z while
rubbing a rabbits foot with the phone in hand.
DP - Clubs & Societies
DP - Education
DP - Welfare
This week the DPCS was caught at T.G.I. Friday’s eating lashings
of bacon coated in BBQ sauce, while skipping the Union Council
meeting. Using the excuse of road-testing the minibuses, she tried to
escape further questioning, which almost worked until we nicked her
crutches and threw them onto a passing bus...
This week found the DPE removing her cast, after recovering from
personally signing hundreds of green envelopes to College dignitaries
invited to the Union’s annual absinthe party. Our eager photographers
managed to snap a picture of her blowing up over Govey’s latest ploy
before calling a wetworks company...
This week Felix found the DPW cavorting around in a room full of
small dogs. Lamenting the inability of the pet suppliers who appar-
ently couldn’t tell the difference between small dogs and puppies, she
set about trying to get students to “stress less”. Unfortunately, the
students in the library café only began to stress more when it turned
out that the dogs had diarrhoea and liberally coated the entire room
with HP sauce. Regent’s Park always had a shit-zoo...
This week we we’re bored, so very bored. So fine, there was sunlight
and wonderful weather, but that only made things worse, everyone
was so needlessly happy! So, to sate our boredom, we spent the
week stalking the Sabbs, which only made matters worse. Won’t be
doing that again in a hurry...
ICSMSU President
We managed to send a reporter over to Reynolds, to see what the
Medics’ President was up to. Aside from saving countless lives by
supplying cuddly bacterial plushies and keeping the Daily Mail out of
the bar we later saw him packaging up sticks of celery and replacing
chocolate bars in the vending machines on the South Kensington
campus. Fooled me twice, bastard!
Felix Still Making Mistakes 50
Years Later – Issue 208, Nov. 1964
Sabbs
Caught
Stat-
wanking
Union
HOSTS BALL
AT IBIZA
F
elix can exclusively reveal
online footage of the Union’s
Sabbatical Officers taking
part in a group statwank
session earlier this week.
If you watch the video, one Sabb
can clearly be heard blissfully crying
out “exactly 2000 students attended
the Summer Ball last year!”. Another
Sabb was heard huskily whispering
“86% of students were pleased with
the Summer Ball last year! I’m so
happy we were able to take on all
their feedback!”. One low voice, trying
to maintain the feeling of elation
coarsing through their veins added
“and 36 people have liked our Alice in
Wonderland Pinterest page! Uhh, uh,
student engagement!”.
Unfortunately what happens next
is unclear since the meeting room
windows steamed up too much, but
we do believe that “100% of last year’s
#helloicu crew volunteers said they’d
recommend the role to a friend.” The
Union has 652 products available for
purchase online, Clubs and Societies
spent a total of £6318 this week, and
the Union has 7,828 fans on facebook
at the time of going to print.
Ifyou’vebeentotheUnionrecentlyyou
might have seen the latest in Summer
Ball marketing, a fully-underwritten
promotional video promising days of
endless entertainment and partying at
the beach, underwater and on a boat
(don’t you ever forget).
Felix can confidently confirm that
the video, including the lovely ladies
flirting with the camera while wearing
minimal clothing, and a distinct
minority of males in view, will be
fully representative of the experiences
to be had at the Summer Ball if you
purchase a ticket now before it sells
out, or loses tens of thousands again.
Don’tbelateforthisveryimportant...
Timothy McSweeny
Temporary Editor-In-Chief
Timothy McSweeny
Temporary Editor-In-Chief
REVISION
BY OSMOSIS
PROVEN
RETURN of
Marquees
foiled by
suffragents According to the television, Imperial
academics claim to have proven
that students can revise by osmosis.
According to the expert witness
quizzed in the live interview, all you
have to do is lay your head down on
an open textbook and close your eyes.
This technique has been backed by
science, and has also been proven to
work in reverse, that is if a student
places their head on an examination
booklet and closes their eyes, at the
end of the exam, their answers will
have imprinted themselves onto the
paper. N.B. Techniques must be
used in tandem.
Making light of the trials of brave
women many years ago, several plucky
students have handcuffed themselves
to the Queen’s Tower in order to
prevent the cultivation of marquees
on the Queen’s Lawn.
“We just want to see a little bit of
pretty green this year” one of the
students told our reporter, while
another said “without space for a solar
panel, the voice of the Queen’s Tower
will be silenced on twitter. This cannot
be allowed to happen.” Marquee
preparation will shortly take place
around the students.
SUNNY
WEATHER AT
INCONVEN-
IENT TIMES
According to the expert forecaster
Michael Poisson you should expect
sunny weather, whenever you are
revising or in an exam.
According to Mr. Poisson, who
prophetically read the tea leaves
planted by the Met Office, students
can be guaranteed perfect weather,
just only when they’re not supposed
to be enjoying it.
“This phenomenon only affects
students”, Mr. Poisson said, “with all
other walks of life only getting the
best of the day’s rays and a warm
glowing tan. Students are advised
that they are in fact alone in this and
should hesitate to tell others, who will
only laugh at their misfortune while
putting on their Ray-Bans.

