4 FRIDAY 02 MAY
WELLBEING Editor: Marissa Lewis
felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
n the last Wellbeing section, I
wrote about my experience with
recovering from depression.
Maybe it’s because I don’t make a
habit of talking about my mental
illness but I was genuinely surprised
at the positive reception it received
from friends, acquaintances and even
complete strangers. As a follow-up, I
wanted to give some advice around
how to help a friend with depression
as, especially at such a stressful time
of year, I hope this will prove useful.
I actually found this article more
difficult to write than my last one and
I think it’s because life doesn’t neatly
split into ‘depressed people’ and
‘friends of depressed people’. At times
you may be one or the other or both
together and they are both difficult
roles to navigate. In terms of my own
experience, I was depressed at the
same time I was trying to care for a
mentally ill parent and that inevitably
tainted how I saw and experienced my
own illness. Equally, writing down a
list of stuff that helped me when I was
sick highlighted pretty starkly when I
failed to follow my own advice for my
depressed friends and relatives. It is
really easy to get defensive, but please
don’t – the past is the past.
On that note, I’ll start off by saying
it is not easy caring about someone
who is depressed and I am speaking
as someone who’s been on both sides
of the fence. When you’re ill, it’s
really difficult to communicate what
is happening to you and if you’ve
always been well, it’s very difficult to
understand. When my mother first
started getting sick, I took this lack of
understanding to be due to a lack of
knowledge and diligently researched
everything I could about bipolar
disorder: living with bipolar disorder,
treatments for bipolar disorder and
so on. Although this was fascinating
research, and I say that non-ironically,
ultimately it was useless as it didn’t
help me understand what I was really
struggling to cope with – namely being
unable to help someone I loved who
was in pain and the effect the illness
was having on our relationship. My
first piece of advice is that it is okay
to acknowledge this stuff is hard on
you. It is normal to feel upset, afraid,
frustrated or anything else by a friend
being mentally ill. You are in no way
weak or selfish for feeling how you do.
In a similar vein, you have to
recognise you are entitled to protect
your own mental health. Although
it may not be appropriate to talk to
your friend about your feelings, it is
appropriate to talk to someone. I took
the rather bold step in the course of
writing this article to ask my friends
what it was like to hang out with me
during that time of my life, and this
cropped up fairly often. In retrospect,
I said and did a lot of scary stuff when
I was unwell and I don’t think I truly
appreciated how it had affected them.
Not because I didn’t care about them
but because I didn’t understand how
they could possibly care about me.
It is more than okay to drop in and
visit a counsellor if you are finding it
difficult to cope and College has its
own free counselling service if you are
so inclined. Don’t fall into the trap of
playing the suffering Olympics, where
only the friend who is suffering the
most deserves help – do what you
need to do to stay healthy.
My next piece of advice comes
directly from one of my friends and it
is simply to accept what you cannot
change. Depression can last for a
long time and, even on an effective
treatment program, it can take weeks
to see signs of recovery. This can be
frustrating when you are putting effort
into helping and caring about your
friend, but as you don’t cause their
depression, it isn’t something you can
fix. One of the things I was acutely
aware of was how frustrating and
frankly boring my illness was to my
friends. I know they wanted to help me
and they wanted me to get better, but
my twisted thought patterns morphed
that concern into a feeling of failure
that I couldn’t get better for them.
It’s easy for well-meaning comments
like ‘How can you be depressed when
so many people care about you?’ to
slightly more obviously inappropriate
comments like ‘Oh my God, Marissa,
pull yourself together!’ to feed into
these feelings of failure. Instead, just
reassure your friend you are there for
them and accept however long they
need to recover.
Despite saying you can’t cure
someone with depression by caring,
you can make someone’s life a hell
of a lot easier so focus on practical
solutions to practical problems.
Have you ever checked your phone
and realised you received a text from
someone weeks ago but kept putting
off replying so now it would be too
awkward to respond? Depression
is like this on a colossal scale - it is
really, really easy to drop off the radar
and you can adopt that mentality
towards everything. I felt if I hadn’t
seen my friends for a couple of weeks,
they wouldn’t want to hear from me
anymore. If I missed loads of classes,
that entire module or subject was lost.
If I already spent the week not eating
or sleeping or any other unhealthy
habit, there was no point trying to
rectify those habits. As a friend, this is
probably the easiest way to step in and
offer help. If someone isn’t attending
classes, offer to pick up course
materials for them or give them your
notes. If someone is withdrawing from
the world, try and set up a regular time
to do something together, like have a
cup of tea or go for a walk and make
it clear you don’t mind if they cancel,
you’ll keep the time open for them
regardless. These are all little things
but they helped me find the world
a little less impossible and, when I
was recovering, it helped me realise I
hadn’t burned all of my bridges.
If your friend hasn’t done so
already, encourage them to seek
help and also recognise their first
reaction may not be the end of the
conversation. I get that it can be
awkward or uncomfortable to drop
words like ‘doctor’ or ‘counsellor’ into
conversations with friends and you can
worry that it will upset them further.
You can get fixated on choosing the
right words or the right time to bring
this up to avoid a negative reaction. If
it’s any comfort, from my experience
a person’s reaction to these requests
isn’t dependent on how kindly they
are encouraged to seek help but
instead is dependent on their attitudes
to their own condition. Some people
may react abruptly or rudely to the
assertion they need help if they are in
denial about their illness. Conversely
and more commonly, some people are
in dire need of that type of validation
and need to hear that it wouldn’t
be wasting anyone’s time to get it
checked out. It is so easy to put off
or avoid the rather mundane task of
booking appointments if you’re left to
your own devices so gentle nudges to
do so are important. For me, it took
a good year of increasingly unsubtle
prompts to seek help and a friend
accompanying me to the GP with the
promise of a hot chocolate debrief to
get me to sit before a doctor. Basically,
be persistent but not overbearing
and offer to accompany them if it’s
appropriate.
Throughout everything, make sure
you go at their pace. Listening non-
judgementally to a person talk about
their depression is probably the most
supportive thing a friend can do. I felt
talking about depression was venting
an incredibly dark and scary part of my
life – having friends willing to listen
and not run in the other direction was
a really powerful and subtle way of
showing support. On the other hand,
sometimes talking about your illness
is the absolute last thing you want
to do. ‘Depression’ can sometimes
feel like an identity over a diagnosis
and one of the things I was keen to
avoid was being the dependent, needy
friend. I went to great lengths to act
normally and I was reluctant to talk
about what I was going through and,
although that must have been pretty
weird for my friends to witness, my
advice is to go with it. When I was
sick, I absolutely wanted to hear about
my friend’s boyfriend drama or to talk
about the OC (this show was pretty
big at my school) – I promise my
friends bringing this stuff up did not
come across as insensitive or trivial, it
helped me feel normal. Also, friends
coming to me with their problems
made me feel our relationships were
less one-sided when I went to them
with mine.
My last piece of advice while I still
have your attention is to talk to your
friend. I get it: if mental illness was
easy to talk about there probably
wouldn’t be a national campaign
about it. It is way too easy to get hung
up about saying the wrong thing or
coming across as insensitive and you
might be tempted to give your friend
some space as a way of protecting
them. Please don’t do this. It’s worth
saying that we know you are human
and you are probably going to make
mistakes or say the wrong thing. You
definitely won’t have all the answers
and you won’t be perfect, but that isn’t
what we need when we’re depressed.
We need friends and, last I checked,
my friends are all human.
One of the best things you can do is
to say to a friend that you are there for
them and they can call/text/message/
whatever if they need to talk and this
isn’t a hassle for you. It is rare this
offer will get taken up, speaking from
experience, but it is appreciated. If
you’re not good at deep, emotional
talks, that’s fine too, we can work
with that. If you don’t see your friend
for a few days, maybe you could send
them a text to check in and ask about
something you know you both enjoy.
For me, that could be ‘Hi Marissa,
haven’t seen you in a while! Did you
see the OC last night?’ (yes, I’m trying
to make the OC happen). Because,
seriously, I was rubbish at deep,
emotional talks too. I would make
really poor jokes about my situation
or use deliberately poor analogies or
do pretty much anything to make an
awkward conversation more awkward.
Being depressed doesn’t make you
some kind of tragic poet or prone to
eloquent monologues about how dire
your situation is – I was much better
at talking about inconsequential
stuff and felt better for just talking to
someone a lot of the time.
That being said, although you
shouldn’t cease contact with a
depressed friend because they are
depressed, it is okay to say you can’t
handle their problems at times if you
are having a stressful time yourself. I
know this is a tricky line to tread and
in these relationships you can end up
feeling you are the only thing keeping
your friend afloat. This is why it is
really important to encourage them to
have a network of support, with a mix
of friends and professionals, that they
can turn to when they need it, rather
than just one person. Trust me, this is
a toxic situation and will only end up
hurting both you and your friend.
After reading this through, I realise
my advice about how to help your
depressed friend essentially boils
down to a lot of listening and talking
and the odd home-cooked meal. It
doesn’t seem like much and I can
see how it would be really tempting
to want to gallop in on a white horse
and rescue your friend from the jaws
of depression or something equally
as dramatic. In this case, I reckon my
friend explains it better than me: “It
takes a while before you understand
that actually just being there is
enough.”
Marissa Lewis
Wellbeing Editor
Helping friends with depression
Myself (centre), my friend (right of centre) and some travelling companions at the
Grand Canyon, showcasing my variable hair styles.
Hyperbole and a half (2013)
A demonstration of how not to help a friend who is suffering with depression.

