8 FRIDAY 02 MAY
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
O
ver the last few
months Felix has
broken two stories
about Union Club,
Society and Project
election mismanagement. Most
recently we wrote about the rules
broken during the elections held by
the Chinese Students and Scholars
Association which contravened
Union election rules, especially when
considering the prioritisation of
committee votes. One thing that this
has shown us is that maybe it’s time
to rethink how voting is managed at
the Union, if clubs regularly fall foul
of the rules. As Stephen suggested, we
may even see a widening adoption of
the Union’s e-voting by clubs, whether
willing or not.
This week we also found out about
the government’s plan to “modernise”
the Disabled Students Allowances
system to reflect the modern age of the
internet and developing technologies.
It seems, when reading the statement
signed by David Willetts MP, that the
government intends to shift more
responsibility for aiding students
with disabilities to higher education
institutions as opposed to shouldering
it themselves.
While universities should, and do
provide assistance and support to
students with disabilities, when push
comestoshovecanwereallyguarantee
that an institution will be able to give
as much financial support as the
government currently does? Especially
considering the intense competition
for resources a university experiences,
between spending on education,
academia, staffing, infrastructure,
accommodation and other costs, can
we really be sure that every university
will be able to support their students
equally, whether endowed with a large
or small income?
Additionally the government
is trying to guide HEIs towards
providing more implicit support, i.e.
changing the way courses are taught
rather than providing direct support
to students who need it. But where is
their evidence and reasoning for these
actions?
Finally, on a cheerier note, we hope
everybody had an enjoyable Easter
vacation, well as much as it can be with
revision, or staying in the research
office while the sun is occasionally
shining. The Summer term is short
but tough, so as patronising as it
may sound, do take care not to get to
stressed or burned out, the end is in
sight (at least if you’re an undergrad).
If you have any tips on how to de-
stress send us an email and you may
end up in print!
T
his week saw another
session of Union Council,
the body of elected
representatives that create
and approve policies that
shape the views and the functionality
of the Union. The week saw another
inquorate session of Council, during
which the body was unable to vote
effectively on papers due to poor
attendance.
While absences at Council are
often due to the stress of examination
periods, during which (completely
understandably) members are more
occupied with their degrees than
Union democracy, during other times
of the year Council often struggles
to attract the required number of
members to make 'legally-binding'
decisions.
As highlighted during this week's
Council meeting, which continued
to discuss papers despite a lack of
quoracy, Council has several problems
which potentially hinder both its
effectiveness and ability to represent
the students.
First of all, the fact that Council
is often attended by the minimum
number of elected representatives
required for decisionmaking is
worrying. Admittedly, some Council
members (many of whom were voted
in during last year's Big Elections)
probably didn't expect to attend
Council as part of their role, and
may see it as unnecesary, however
these people are seen as "the Voice
of Students" at the Union, and make
decisions on your behalf and you
certainly can't be represented if they
don't show up!
As a body, the Union Council is
responsible for passing policies that
either affect or represent your views as
a student body, whether it's the "Union
Stance on the Immigration Bill",
changes to the Union Constitution
& Bye-Laws, the Union's stance on
unpaid internships or even changes to
the remits of the Sabbatical Officers
who run the Union. Additionally,
while votes are only cast by Council
members, any member of the Union
(i.e. every student at College) has
the ability to attend, speak at or
propose a paper at Council meetings,
which gives the student body a great
opportunity to effect the changes to
the Union that they feel need to be
addressed.
But one question to ask is, how well
do the Council members represent the
population? At Imperial, unlike many
of our neighbours at the University
of London, our Union is relatively
apolitical. Rather than running with
left or right-wing values candidates
often run with a set of (often generic)
manifesto points. While this tends to
fit our (often self-described) apparent
secular, scientific outlook as a student
body, aside from the agreed manifesto
points, when in a position of influence
can you really expect them to vote in a
manner aligned to your views?
Last term, a paper was proposed at
Council that suggested that members’
votes were recorded and avaialble for
public consumption, which would be
interesting from a political analysis
point of view if one were to try to
categorise voters across the political
spectrum.
Another issue that was pointed out
during the meeting was the lack of
student engagement with Council, or
democracy at the Union in general.
Honestly, how many of you know
what Council actually does or who
represents you on Council? While
one member of staff pointed out that
the Union was currently undergoing
a democracy review, will the student
population ever hear about the
results?
Admittedly, engaging a community
in democracy is no mean feat,
especially at universities, where most
students would hardly think twice
about Union politics, however simple
steps can be taken to make the general
populace more aware about the
“goings on” in the Union.
These include creating more articles
about Union committee activities on
the front page of the Union website,
similar to the regular news articles
currently displayed, which is probably
a better use of time than finding
another picture to post to the Union
instagram feed.
Not to say that Council members are
not doing a good job, having observed
a large number of Council sessions
it is obvious that members can often
be passionate about topics, with
meetings occasionally lasting two or
three hours.
This article was triggered by a recent
discussion in Council about renewing
the Imperial College Union’s stance on
Higher Education.
During the course of the meeting
Council was informed about several
types of education funding models
and the impact they potentially may
have on students in terms of access
to higher education, competition
between higher education institutions
and the number of student places
institutions would have to offer.
While this was the first of several
discussions on the topic, one member
of Council raised the idea that more
students should be involved in the
discussion of the Union’s approach to
Higher Education, rather than just the
Council members, something Felix
fundamentally agrees with.
Rather than leaving such an
important decision, Felix is keen to
host discussion from the unelected
student population, in particular
with views about free education, a
perpetual tax on graduates or the
current education funding system. All
articles are welcome and debate will
be encouraged. Don’t leave important
decisions up to the chosen few, your
views matter too!
The preterm baby as a young adult / Advertisement / REC 12/LO/1053 / Appendix 1 / Version 2 / 260712
Fat or muscle?
We are inviting healthy volunteers to take part in a research study comparing body
fat and metabolism in young adults. It will involve a single visit to Chelsea &
Westminster Hospital for 3-4 hours. You will have a full body Magnetic Resonance
scan, which is safe, and does not involve x-rays. You will also be asked for a blood,
and urine sample and a buccal swab taken from the inside of the mouth. This study
is open to people aged 19-27 years; we would particularly welcome interest if you
were born prematurely.
For	   more	   information	   please	   email	   James	   Parkinson,	   Research	   Associate,	  
jrcp@imperial.ac.uk	  or	  text	  07814	  296596	  
Does Union Council need a fresh coat of paint?
Of Elections and Allowances and original titles
Felix
Felix
Sponsored Editorial

