imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Exams? It’s time to stress less!
Summer Stress Less is back with a whole host of events designed to help you de-stress
during the exam period. Exams and coursework deadlines can be overwhelming but it’s
important to remember to give yourself regular breaks and to look after yourself mentally
and physically. Stress Less events are open to all Imperial students and are completely
free.
Coming up:
Tuesday 6 May - Introducing Mindfulness Session, 15:30 - 17:30, South Kensington
Campus. Book online.
Wednesday 7 May - Building self-esteem workshop (UG only), 14:00 – 16:00, South
Kensington Campus. Book online.
For a full list of events, relaxation tips, our cute animal of the day and more please visit
the Stress Less website.
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
Do you remember what it was like to be starting at Imperial? Moving to London
and starting university can be a daunting prospect. So who better to welcome
new students to Imperial than existing students who have lived through the
same nerve-wracking experience?
The #helloicu crew had their first outing in 2013 and was a huge success:
79% #helloicu crew members said the experience boosted their confidence
85% #helloicu crew members said they learnt and developed new skills
95% #helloicu crew members said they made new friends; and
100% #helloicu crew members said they would recommend the experience
to a friend
If you volunteer as a #helloicu crew member, you’ll receive a free t-shirt, have
your travel within London reimbursed and be given free refreshments on the
days you volunteer.
You’ll be provided with a days training to prepare you for your role, given
volunteer shifts based around your commitments in activities that interest you
If you’d like to register your interest in becoming a #helloicu crew member, visit
the web address below.
imperialcollegeunion.org/helloicucrew
Your chance to win an iPad mini
We want to know
what you think
about
The Union Survey is your chance to let us know what you think about the
many services that we run and provide. The survey doesn’t take long to
complete and helps us understand how to make your Union better for you.
Changes we have made over the last few years have helped us become one
of the most improved Students’ Unions in the UK. In the recent Times Higher
Education Student Experience Survey we became the fourth most improved
Union over the last two years.
FOR JUST A FEW MINUTES OF YOUR TIME, YOU COULD WIN ONE OF THE
FOLLOWING PRIZES:
• 2 x iPad Minis with Retina Display
• 2 x £20 Union Shop vouchers
• 2 pairs of Summer Ball 2014 tickets
• 10 x Nando’s Combo Meal vouchers
This is the fourth Union Survey we have run and already we have made
big changes as a result of your feedback. Our ‘You said, we did’ campaign
highlights the changes we have made.
This really does help us to improve everything we do, so help us keep
improving for you. We will be selecting winners at random for the prize draw
and announcing them online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/unionsurvey
#helloicu crew recruitment open

