Proof that Imperial College engineers can build a car that can
reach Kenya overland and rally with the best in Egypt...
T h e A d v e n t u r e s of Boris
This is a story of everyday mechanical
engineering graduates w h o decided to do
something different. They wanted
adventure, and one of them, Mark Sealy,
wanted to build a car. A plan was
hatched to attempt the drive from
Birmingham to London and on across the
Sahara in just three months.
The team of eight included graduates
from Imperial College such as Martin
Baker and Trevor Power w h o apparently
gained a reputation in City & Guilds
Motor Club, but had never before
designed or built a vehicle for such a
demanding journey. Mark used mainly
Lada mechanicals in a custom tubular
steel chassis but incorporated a Jaguar
rear-axle and a novel cross-linked
suspension system to help ride the dunes.
The four-wheel-drive vehicle, christened
'Boris', was completed and set off on its
first journey through France without
proper trial, along with two production
Ladas.
Birmingham to Nairobi
Crossing into Morocco via Gibraltar, the
lure of the Sahara became real. In Algeria
they stocked up with 156 gallons of
petrol and 37 gallons of water. After a
final bath and game of cricket, they set
off, navigating by dead reckoning using
1:1 million maps. This technique is
neither accurate in distance nor direction,
but following the tracks of other Saharan
traffic led them to a French Foreign
Legion fort where the local gendarme "
claimed he was the one w h o had found
Mark Thatcher!
At Tamanrasset, in the lunar landscape
of the Hoggar Mountains, they camped
with a guard by the vehicles. Thorn trees
provided shade on the w a y to Agadez but
also caused m a n y punctures. Reaching
Niger offered the chance to replenish
supplies and witness a camel race. F r o m
Niger they headed through war-torn
Chad, crossing fast across the powdery
crust of Lake Chad to the capital
Ndjamena. Here there is a crossing to the
Central African Republic and a 'road' to
its capital Bangui. Crime is rife and the
Catholic Mission offered a haven to camp
and enjoy a Christmas meal. Meat is
generally avoided by travellers but a feast
was prepared with some very fresh
chickens. The trans-African highway
through Zaire is impassable during the
rainy season and many roads are only
open six to seven months of the year.
They suffer badly through heavy truck
traffic—some pot-holes are reputedly deep
enough to swallow a truck w h e n they fill
up with rain. Through this terrain the
team often had to drive 12 to 14 hours a
day to keep on schedule and sleep out in
Mosquito nets in makeshift camps.
Despite losing a number of teeth in the
rear differential, Boris provided a match
for the most demanding roads and the
Ladas disproved their m a n y critics.
The prize at the end of this stretch is
the beautiful Ruwenzori Mountains and
from Rwanda it is literally downhill all
the way to Tanzania and the Masai M a r a
plains on the floor of the Rift valley in
Kenya. The final goal of m a n y
overlanders is to climb Mt Kilimanjaro. At
5,895m it is one of the highest peaks that
can be climbed without oxygen.
However, y o u do need guides and to pay
about $100 to enter the surrounding
game park—the team having to auction
some of their equipment. In five days
they completed the climb and then
headed for the coast where Boris was
shipped back in a container to be
overhauled after the 8,000 miles for the
next adventure.
Rally of the Pharoes
Not content w i t h proving the design,
Mark set about fitting inboard disks,
hybrid suspension and a 230 bhp 4.3 litre
V 8 into Boris and getting him ready for a
more competitive test of endurance, the
Pharoes Rally—3,500 miles through the
Egyptian desert in ten days. They were
the only British entry, the only soft-top
and the only special, others possibly
dissuaded by the S6,500 entry fee. The
race proved eventful, Boris crashing on
the second day and the chase vehicle
later hitting a donkey, but a brave finish
on the tenth day proved that the team
could compete with the best.
The Boris team will be presenting their
adventures at future meetings of the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Check the Engineer's News for details.
FELIX HEALTH WARNING:
CROSSING THE SAHARA USING THIS METHOD M A Y
SERIOUSLY DAMAGE YOUR HEALTH.

