Richard Lyle writes about the delights of
Intriguing Indonesia
Stone relief of Ramayana, Borobuder
I can distinctly remember it was not until
the aeroplane touched down at the
Sukarno-Hatta International Airport,
Jakarta, that I thought 'this is it—the
point of no return!' As I took a deep
breath, m y heart was definitely pounding
faster than usual—partly due to fear of
the u n k n o w n and partly w i t h excitement
as to what lay ahead of me in the next
seven weeks. A s it turned out I had the
time of m y life!
The charm of travelling anywhere on a
budget is the contact you have with the
indigenous people. Nowhere is a better
place than Indonesia in this respect for
the people are extremely friendly and
courteous—they also love the sight of a
traveller. In some of the more remote
places that I visited I became an instant
sensation w i t h the local children as they
all chanted their 'hello misters' and
energetically waved at me. Some of the
more mature people, that I encountered
were eager to practice their coarse
broken English on me. O n one bus
journey the first few words of a young
man who had placed himself by m y side
were, 'Gary Lineker, W o r l d Cup, England
team very good!' I had a very
enlightening conversation with him on
the W o r l d Cup m u c h to the amusement
of a captive audience of onlookers.
Whilst travelling in Indonesia on a
shoestring, the primary mode of transport
available to the traveller is the bus and
this is an excellent place to view and
come in contact with some of the native
people. The bus may come in many
shapes and sizes from modern air-
conditioned coaches down to beaten up
three-wheeler bemos that are found in
cities.
After just a few short rides on the bus
network I got the distinct impression that
whenever I chose to take the bus so did
the rest of Indonesia as well! These
crowded vehicles carry hordes of people,
of all ages, complete with their shopping
and produce as well as m a n y of their
animals. 1 clearly remember being rudely
awoken, in the early hours of the
morning, by an extremely vivacious
cockerel hailing the start of a glorious
new day—just one of the m a n y perils of
travelling on an overnight bus! Y o u also
need nerves of steel too! A l l Indonesian
bus drivers seem to be equipped with
lead-lined boots to ensure that they can
press the accelerator fully to the floor as
they take part in the G r a n d Prix that
daily adorns Indonesia's network of roads.
As their buses hack at full speed through
the countryside they pay very little
regard to pedestrians and even less
regard for other traffic on the road.
Countless are the number of times that I
glanced out of the front w i n d o w only to
be transfixed by the sight of an equally
fast and large bus streaming towards us
on the same carriageway only to pull in
front of the vehicle it was overtaking
right at the last moment—and when I say
last I mean last!
Java happened to be m y first
introduction to the Indonesian way of life,
the cheap, diverse and very tasty food
and fruits and, as with most Southeast
Asian countries, the system of bartering
for many items, such as souvenirs and
travel. I also saw many spectacular
ancient stone temples, such as the one at
Borobudur w h i c h has been acclaimed as
the eighth wonder of the world. It also
contains some of the most beautiful
scenery in the archipelago.
Gazing out of the bus window, as I did
on numerous occasions, I w o u l d be
confronted w i t h a sea of green terraced
rice paddies bordered by tall majestic
coconut palms. Every n o w and again a
smoking volcano, its tall towering cone
reaching for the sky, w o u l d loom into
view providing something else for me to
stare at.
Having manically rushed through Java
trying to see everything a n d anything ti
was time to spend a few relaxing days in
Ubud, central Bali. I especially wanted to
sample some of the renowned Balinese
culture and m y first introduction came in
the form of a Temple ceremony. O n
arrival at the ornately decorated temple I
could clearly see where the other tourists
had gathered, all wearing their batik
sorongs and temple scarves (as a mark of
respect to the Balinese people). I settled
myself down in amongst them and
feasted m y eyes on what lay before me.
Decorations hung from every available
space and Balinese w o m a n , immaculately
turned out were to-ing and fro-ing,
carrying on their heads tall stacks of
beautifully arranged fruits and flowers.
After a short while, the festivities kicked
off with a dance k n o w n as the Topeng
(literally mask dance). The musical
accompaniment was in the form of a
Bali
Gamelan, the instrument of w h i c h consist
mainly of drums and cymbals, w h i c h give
the music a distinctly crashing sound. As
the night progressed I wandered to
different corners of the temple to witness
other events such as offerings being laid
out to the gods. A l l in all it was wholly
unlike any other religious cerefnony 1 had
ever seen anywhere in Europe, but it was
a most interesting occasion. M y evening
was rounded off by a brief encounter
with one of those much-loved and ever-
ubiquitous tropical creatures—the
cockroach. O n the bemo home I was
sitting in m y seat minding m y own
business w h e n I felt a tickling sensation
on m y leg. A s I looked d o w n to
investigate m y worst horror was
realised—peering up at me, seemingly
grinning was an enormous orange and
black cockroach. F r o m that point on the
journey was marked by sudden jolts of
m y body and subdued screams every
time I felt a tickling around m y legs,
much to the amusement of some
Australian girls who were seated behind
me!
Penelokan, situated in the Northern
mountains of Bali, has to be the place
where I have witnessed one of the most
awe-inspiring sunrises in m y life.
I had met this English bloke whilst
travelling on the bemo up to Penelokan.
W h e n we arrived at the village, situated
on the crater r i m of an ancient extinct
volcano, the view was breathtaking.
Looking d o w n into the valley from our
cliff-top terrace, the crater floor spread
out before us marked by two distinct
features—a serene volcanic lake and
adjacent to it Mount Batur. W e were
approached b y some local boys, w h o
wanted to guide us to the summit of
Mount Batur the following morning,
assuring us that the sunrise was not a
sight to be missed. W e decided that we
would see it but did not need to pay for
the services of a guide to find out way to
the top—how w r o n g we were!
By evening time we had managed to
recruit a couple of Dutch girls to join us
on our expedition the following morning,
explaining to them that w e would have
no problems climbing Mount Batur.
At 3.30am, m y mind and body still not
sure what was going on, 1 found myself
sitting in the back of an open-top V W
jeep, the cold night air rushing through
m y hair, speeding d o w n into the crater
valley. Whilst preparing to set off for the
two hour uphill hike in the dark, it
materialised that I was the only one to
have brought a torch—to find our way in
the pitch darkness. A s we began the
climb we soon realised h o w disabled we
were with 'one eye' to see where we
were going. Not surprisingly we soon lost
the right path and ended up clambering
up a very steep valley of loose volcanic
rock.
12
W h e n the sky began to lighten the
peak was definitely out of the question as
we were only a third of the way up. A s
we perched our weary bodies oh the
steep scree we settled down to a
magnificent light show hosted by nature:
out of the darkness came a faint orange
glow w h i c h gradually became stronger
and more intense. Suddenly the sun
inched out from behind a rocky slope to
our left. A s it did so, a bank of thick
white mist flooded in front of us, only to
be brilliantly illuminated a fluorescent
orange-red by the sun. Further cloud
enshrouded the sun until it took on the
appearance of a moon-like disc. A l l too
soon this light fantastic show was over
and it was time to head back down to the
hot springs in the valley. What bliss it
was to soak away our aches and pains in
the hot clear water, as the fresh morning
breeze washed across our faces.
Once I had explored the beaches,
mountains and temples of Bali it was time
to seek rest and solitude, thus ten days of
m y trip were spent on the tiny secluded
desert island of Gili Meno. Situated about
5km off the, north-west coast of Lombok,
it is the middle of three tiny coral fringed
islands (each no bigger than 3.5 square
kilometres) and can only be described as
paradise.
If good weather, empty golden beaches,
gin-clear water and exotic coral reefs
with a m y r i a d of marine life are what
you seek it can certainly be found here.
I had met up with four other travellers
and we had decided on Gili Meno
because through the traveller's grapevine
we had heard that it was the quietest and
most unspoilt of the three islands. O n
arrival we were not disappointed as the
place had a most enduring charm. W e
checked into our bamboo beach hut at
the aptly named Blue Coral, and at 7,500
Rupiahs (£2.50) per night including three
meals a day, we were set to have a great
time.
Balinese statue
TRAVEL
Stone Temple,, Java
W e soon slipped into a routine—after a
day of sunbathing, slumbering and
snorkelling, the perfect way to round off
the day was to head off to the bar (a
bamboo shack) at the western end of the
island. A s we sat around chatting and
sipping the cool Indonesian-brewed
Bintang beer, the sun w o u l d lazily sink to
a watery grave, silhouetting the palms on
the adjacent beach as it did so. O n the
horizon, the distinctive cone shape of
Mount Agung, on Bali some 50km away,
would provide the backdrop to a
magnificently lit sky of m a n y different
pastel-shaded colours.
Unfortunately all good things must
come to an end. For me that meant
heading back to Bali to catch m y flight
home. O n m y flight out of Bali I was
presented w i t h a most wonderful
spectacle. A s the aeroplane rapidly
gathered height, moments after leaving
Denpasar airport, we flew above the
volcano, M o u n g Agung. A s I peered out
of the tiny window, below me lay a
gigantic cone rising up to a pin-like
opening w h i c h was the crater of the
volcano. There was a definite feeling of
melancholy in m y heart as m y mind went
through the events of the last seven
weeks. After flying by this enthralling
feature we headed out to the Java sea
and back to England.
Whatever it is you seek, be it the rich
and diverse culture, the spectacular sea-
and land-scapes or the exotic food and
fruits somewhere in Indonesia it is likely
to be on offer.
13

