What is it like to travel on the Trans Siberian Railway? Whai
Bottom Bunk to
Has the 'openness' of glasnost opened up
the USSR to the independent traveller or
are the trials a n d tribulations of making a
journey on the Trans-Siberian Railway
still as great than those of living in the
country?
The Trans-Siberian railway proper runs
from Moscow to Vladivostock in the
Soviet Far East. Travellers crossing
Siberia have a choice of three trains. The
first follows a route due east to K a k h o d k a
on the Pacific coast, for ferry crossings to
Japan. The second and third routes both
run to Peking, one via Mongolia and the
other taking the longer route through
Manchuria.
Accounts of the trip range from the
classic work by A.I. Dmitriev-Mamanov
Guide to the Great Siberian Railway 1900
to a few pages in Bob Geldoff's
autobiography Is that it? More informative
guides on routes, costs, bookings and
things to take include Bryan Thomas'
Trans-Siberian Handbook (£8.95) to
Robert Strauss' Trans-Siberian Rail Guide
(£6.95). Watch for the out-of-date
information on Intourist in both books.
Travel prices range widely from
country to country, depending on where
y o u are prepared to embark. Intourist,
the sole Russian travel agent, sell one
way tickets from Moscow to Peking for
reported for as little as US$10, less than
the cost of two London day travel cards.
Intourist operate a telephone booking
service from their London offices in the
Isle of Dogs (General Enquiries on
081-538 8600). However the 50 years
experience of arranging travel in the
Soviet Union that they boast on their
booking forms has taught them little
about customer relations. T h e y really
k n o w how to put the hassle into travel.
Their suspicious, unhelpful attitude to
independent travellers was perhaps suited
to the Brezhnev/Andropov Russia of the
70s and 80s, but not Gorbachev's glasnost
of today. The 'have a nice day' approach
practised inthe newly opened Moscow
MacDonalds is not necessary. However a
little encouragement and advice about the
daunting bureaucracy and paper work,
w h i c h such a trip still demands,would be
appreciated.
The attitude of the Intourist staff in
Glasgow and Manchester is apparently
more conducive to booking, but they still
prefer to handle group travel. For the
independent traveller the packages and
service offered by the Finland based
Scandinavian Student Travel Service
(SSTS) are more appropriate. They can be
arranged through British travel agents
like S T A travel. Don't be put off by the
to make the booking through Intourist,
but they eliminate the frustrations
experienced by booking direct. A l l this
help comes at a price. Their Helsinki-
Moscow-Irkutsk-Peking tour taking 11
days and 10 nights costs US$1045 to
share a 4-berth 'hard' class compartment.
The price includes all meals between
Moscow and the Chinese border, a one
day tour of Moscow with a compulsory
night in an expensive Intourist Hotel and
a two day tour round Irkutsk and Lake
Baikal.
Before embarking it certainly seemed
that despite the widespread reforms of
the Gorbachev era, the paranoid fear and
suspicion of the independent traveller still
existed. W h o would be controlling the
USSR, Intourist or perestroika?
It was a stiflingly hot afternoon at the
end of June w h e n the Rossiya slipped
silently from its siding at Yaroslavl station
on the east side of Moscow. The Intourist
guide assigned to escort us to Irkutsk was
Peter, a meek, slender, bearded man with
worn out mournful eyes. He had endured
the Trans-Siberian Railway ten times in as
many years.
'Nothing has changed...' he sighed.
'The train is the same.... the service is the
same....and the food....no the food is
worse....our economy is bad.'
around £325 sharing a four berth
compartment in 'hard' class. Intourist
does not arrange travel from the U K to
Moscow. Y o u can fly for £185 or take the
53-hour train journey for £167. If you are
prepared to spend two weeks in Hungary
a ticket can cost as little as £27! The trick
is to purchase a legitimate ticket in
Budapest for about £70 in order to get
your USSR travel documents. Y o u then
get a refund on this ticket, (loosing only
about £15) and buy one of the numerous
black market tickets for £12.
Travelling from east to west still
remains the cheapest direction. Tickets
bought in Beijing and Hong K o n g are
US$180 and US$100 in Japan. Winter
black market prices in Beijing have been
'Student' name. It is designed to
encourage students rather than
discourage non-students.
SSTS specialise in Russian and Chinese
travel. Through any British agent their
faxed response to enquiries is
instantaneous. The customer has a choice
of three packages consisting of various
combinations of stop-overs in Moscow
and Siberia. A l l trains depart from
Helsinki. A one way flight from London
to Helsinki is about £100. The fifty hour
train journey is about the same price.
Unlike Intourist, SSTS offer advice on
money, time zones, dining o n the train,
border formalities, stop-over itineraries
and assistance w i t h Russian a n d Chinese
visa applications. Ironically SSTS still have
The food was bad. Each meal
commenced with a stainless steel dish of
watery congealing soup sloshing up the
high sides. Y o u always had to ask what
flavour it was. The main course was
theusual shrivelled square of boiled meat,
splodge of mash potato and scoop of
sauer-kraut. D r y biscuits to dunk in your
coffee completed each masochistic menu.
W e were running on 'Peter time'. W h e n
he grew bored, once or twice a day he
told us all to put our watches forward.
Travelling this way avoided any jet lag.
W e reached Lake Galichskoye, 501
kilometres from Moscow as the mid-night
sun glowed low i n the sky. I woke 690
kilometres further on to heavy rain in
Balezino. Wet figures fought tractors
14
can be found on the way? Chris Riley found out last year.
Beijing
along deeply rutted tracks, wooden huts
steamed in damp forests a n d Jail House
Rock warbled through the speakers.
Outside the clattering train for the first
three days was a repetitive wallpaper of
undulating silver birch trees. Where the
train crosses the Urals in the south, they
are barely 500 metres high and pass like
a bad join in the pattern. The entire
history of Russian architecture is spread
along the line; from concrete
condominiums and filthy factories of
Perm and Novosibirsk, to neglected
weather-blackened houses made of planks
and split-log huts with ground-scraping
w i n d o w ledges.
Air on a G string echoed d o w n the
corridor as w e crossed the mighty K a m e
River and passed through Perm. A t 1777
kilometres from Moscow w e rattled past
the unobtrusive obelisk and entered Asia.
W h e n I woke on the third day the air
was thick w i t h dandelion seeds. The train
had stopped at Omsk (2716km) with its
strawberry sellers and water melon stalls
and 'gift shops' selling wedding
invitations.
It was going to be a hard day. Peter
said so. W e were crossing the Siberian
Steppes, an area larger than France and
resembling the Fens. It was over 30°C
and the thick black soils of the steppes
turned to a fine soot, sucked up by the
passing train and injected in through
closed doors and windows. It was drawn
magnetically to clammy skin. Faces,
hands and legs turned black.
Clumps of dead white 'ghost' trees
stood alone i n the swamps and small
herds of dairy cattle grazed the plains.
Webs of criss-crossing taut telegraph
cables framed the shanty towns along the
track. W e were running three hours late,
Peter said it would be seven hours by
Vladivostock, (not bad for 10,000km). The
long Ob river on its 4 0 0 0 k m journey
north to the Arctic Sea signalled a
welcome end to the Steppes. O n the
platform in Novosibirsk w e jostled with
the locals to buy over-ripe, deep red
plums.
Irkutsk loomed large a n d damp on a
dark drizzly Siberian Summer evening
5191 k m from Moscow. The Rossiya
slipped into the drizzle and on to
Vladivostock four more days d o w n the
track. A broken bus splashed through the
floods and took us away.
A damp day in Irkutsk allowed a sailing
trip on the mistywaters and a tramp
through a valley village on the shores.
Lake Baikal w i t h its thick fir-tree forests
washed in cool mists resembled a large
Scottish loch (larger than Scotland). The
lake is the world's oldest a n d deepest,
accounting for one fifth of the world's
fresh water. Back in town and for just
over 15p that night we had front row
seats for a Siberian performance of Swa n
Lake.
The Moscow-Peking train, number 19,
scooped us up the next day as it trundled
through Irkutsk and round the southern
end of Lake Baikal. A s twilight came we
headed east and into the Khrebet
K h a m a n Daban foot hills of the
Mongolian frontier. The Chinese border
drew ever nearer on the second day out
of Irkutsk. The silver birch were gone
and the 'Canadian Rockies' appeared,
sporting Swiss style Chalets, and wobbling
over the imperfections in the m u d
spattered glass.
Vast grasslands of the 'South Downs'
rolled d o w n to the border town A
Manzhouli and a welcome t h r f hour
break whilst the wheels were hanged.
Until last year, p h o t o g r a p h i c this
operation tempted indefinite sentences in
the hard labour camps to t',? north.
Today Glasnost had reached Manzhouli,
we watched, photographed, made notes
and swapped coins with the railway m e n
quite freely.
Once across the border we stepped
onto a wall to wall Chinese carpet of
cultivation animated by match-stick men
with lampshade hats. A n entirely man-
made landscape met our eyes; flooded
golf-green rice fields coating vast open
plains and terraced on impossible slopes.
F r o m Manzhouli, Beijing w i t h its prickly
heat, seven million bicycles and ten
million bustling people is a day and a half
away. Suddenly the predictable security
of the ten day Russian tour is at an end.
Turfed out of m y cosy bunk and into an
alien world of chopsticks and noodles,
mandarin money changers, spitting and
staring, brand new old fashioned steam
trains and singing bicycle bells.
This article first appeared in TNT
Magazine issue 839, 11 February 1991
15

