Gary Clail
- Human Nature 12"
This record follows in the w a k e of Clail's
last effort, the veggie anthem Beef, this
time propounding love and unity for
mankind.
Human Nature kicks off with what
appears to be a Martin Luther K i n g
sample (always good for a few Brownie
points in m y book) and goes off in a
vaguely trancey tangent until it suddenly
collides with the theme music from 'Snub
T V and takes on a loopy swaying quality.
King interrupts a little further over a
tinkling piano riff and the whole track
coasts along pleasantly to an end.
The B-side, Rumours Of War draws
deep into reggae and dub to bring a
semi-spoken word message about the Gulf
War; not shy of controversy, it names
names and carries off its intent well.
Superior dance music.
Stone
Spaceman 3
—Recurring LP
Sonic Boom and Jason have finally gone
their separate ways, but as a lasting
reminder have left us with Recurring, a
swirling masterpiece of almost epic
proportions. It's hard to imagine that
anything so downright beautiful was
produced in an atmoshere of loathing and
mistrust. Such is the animosity between
the two that each contribution was made
separately, Sonic recording side one and
Jason the other—although there's only a
very subtle difference between the two,
both weld so well together.
Side one starts with the dance
orientated Big City (Everybody I Know
Can Be Found Here) a well paced, trippy
anthem. Bringing some clarity to the
haze, / Love You steals more heavily
from the sixties and the lush Set M e Free
ends side one with Sonic B o o m
whispering 'I think it's gonna end now',
and as it trails into nothing he laughs,
k n o w i n g full well he leaves you empty
and dying for more.
Side two, in all its tainted glory, takes
us through the irrepressible Hypnotized
and Feelin' Just Fine (Head Full Of Shit).
It just makes me want to clear some floor
space, lie d o w n and stare at the ceiling
all day.
If ever I.C. needed to listen to a record,
this is it. 'Let the good times roll.'
Harry.
Carter USM
Charity Gig
•ULU 14.2.91
What a treat—a Valentine's Day musical
feast featuring the one and only Carter
the Unstoppable Sex Machine, with
support from Th' Faith Healers, The
Family Cat, Bleach and a 'surprise' act.
A n d all this for only £6, w i t h the
proceeds of the evening going to the
MacMillan F u n d for Cancer Relief. So
imagine the scene—several hundred jolly
people have gathered outside U L U and
have just discovered the identity of the
surprise act...
'Oh m y God—not EMF!'. O h m y God,
yes—the rumour was true. To say EMF's
reception was hostile w o u l d be a n ' - •-•
understatement. There was a constant
shower of plastic pint pots onto the stage
and screams of 'you're shit, you're shit' (it
was a bit sad really). Poor James, the
band's unfortunate singer got so pissed-
off— that he did—halfway through the
first song. He did come back (bad move)
for a few more songs, but gave up
completely following the abduction of one
of their microphone stands.
Th' Faith Healers were only discovered
by chance while on the w a y to the bar.
The bar was undoubtedly more
interesting as they were really pretty
uninspiring...erm...yes—see what we
mean. Back at the main stage the
evening suddenly got a lot better with the
appearance of The Family Cat. They
played a brilliant set, finishing with a
wickedly wonderful cover of
Unbelievable. It must have really rubbed
the proverbial salt into the wounds EMF
who were no doubt nursing backstage.
Back once again to the bar and the
other stage where Bleach were playing.
Their lead singer (female) generated as
much interest as their music.
Unfortunately for them a whisper began
that Carter were about to appear on the
main stage, and so they suddenly lost
most of their audience. The m a i n hall was
by n o w closely resembling the inside of a
recently boiled kettle. Jon Beast, the Fat
Bastard kept the c r o w d well entertained
as they waited for Jimbob and Fruit-bat
to appear, (mind you we could have done
without the brief display of his backside).
Whether they performed very well or
very badly was totally irrelevant as by
now most of the crowd was in a
complete frenzy. The stagediving became
a new kind of Bloodsport for All as you
will appreciate if you were within a few
feet of the stage. To finish they played a
stonkingly good version of the Pet Shop
Boys', Rent. (Neil Tennant himself had
been spotted lurking around earlier in the
evening.) A n y w a y what more can we
say—a good time was had by all!
Egor and Hedgehog.
17

