Adam Harrington visited Czechoslovakia.
Prague
Prague has been referred to as the Paris
of the East, ft has one or two benefits
over Paris, one being that Prague's
architecture is mostly the same now as it
was over a hundred years ago. The
second is that it is m u c h cheaper.
Czechoslovakia capitulated in the
1930's, and so its cities were not bombed
senseless like other European cities, and
since the war there has not been enough
money in the country for any
development.
Its town centre is almost entirely
pedestrianised, because the mediaeval
streets are not wide enough even to
accommodate the minute Trabant. It has
miles of meandering lanes weaving
between beautiful houses and churches.
The view across the V l t a v a river to
Hradcany, the presidential palace on top
of a hill, is breathtaking, especially w h e n
it is floodlit at night.
A pedestrian bridge, the Charles'
bridge, connects the base of Hradcany
with the centre of the city. A l l along its
length there are musicians, generally
playing traditional jazz on a variety of
battered instruments. G i v e n the
surroundings, hours can be spent sitting
here, wasting time in a very pleasant
manner. O n several evenings there were
a duo performing what I took to be
Czech folk songs. One played bitter-sweet
oboe accompaniment to the other man's
nasal singing. In all it was highly
effective, a n d these two are one of my
most enduring memories.
A n entire afternoon can be spent
watching a greengrocer's store, where
Prague citizens wander past, notice a
pineapple, or a grapefruit or something
similar and amidst excited chatter, crowd
around the w i n d o w pointing at it and join
a queue already 20 people long. The
shops are like something out of the 30's.
Grocers stores are packed with cans of
salted fish, millimetre thickness strips of
dry curled up cheese and lumps of stone
masquerading as bread. A l l these are
behind counters and have to be asked
for, they can't be picked up and bought
at the exit. This means that y o u have to
speak Czech, w h i c h nobody except the
Czechs can do. So give up buying your
o w n food and go to a restaurant. There is
one called ' U Prince' in a corner of the
old town square (Staromestske namesti)
which belongs to the state, as did all
restaurants w h e n I was there, though
things are m o v i n g so fast politically that
things may change soon. After a
reasonable but not stunning three course
meal for three people, we were charged
the equivalent of five pounds. W e
assumed that this was for each, but no, it
was between all of us.
The language barrier is a problem,
Czechs only speak Russian as well as
A step back in time.
their o w n language. English and German
come a poor third. Czechs are not by
nature very helpful; when we were there,
a certain amount of m o n e y had to be
changed every day and entered on the
visa (no visa or money change is required
now - Mrs Thatcher visited President
Havel a few days before w e visited
Prague. G o d knows what she did, but he
reneged on visas). A t every (state owned)
bureau de change a different story was
given as to what should be entered on
the visa, and in theory, if the information
is wrong, exit from the country can be
barred until large amounts of money
change hands. There are a lot of shady
characters around these bureaux
muttering 'Wechsel, cambio, bureau'.
These are illegal money changers, giving
a better rate of exchange. Since things
are so cheap in Prague, a n d there is so
little to buy, it is damn difficult to get rid
of the money before you leave. Czech
Koruny cannot be legally taken out of the
country, and cannot be changed back
into real money once bought. The last
day in Prague was spent buzzing around
the city trying to get rid of the money.
This is a very unusual feeling, as I a m
more used to stringent economy drives.
Prague loves its ice cream - and it's
bloody good despite there being no
choice of flavours - and most of the
excess k o r u n y went on this.
A w o r d of warning. Czechoslovak
railways make British Rail look helpful
and efficient. Quite definitively the worst
rail journey I've ever had was between
Hlavni nadrazi - Prague's terminal station
- and Nurnberg in Germany. W e were
forcibly evicted from the spartan
compartment into the even more spartan
and very breezy corridor by a collection
of overweight and copiously smoking East
Europeans w h o then continued to smoke
in the corridor and drop fag ash on us.
They were in cahoots with a w o m a n
guard built like a Russian shotputter w h o
looked like she would brook no
complaint. I emerged at four in the
morning at Nurnberg looking like
something from ' V . A rucksack is a
general notice of two things:
1. Y o u don't have m u c h money and are
probably inter-railing and so can be
treated like turd, as no more money can
be squeezed out of you if you were
treated nicely and
2. A s there are too many rucksackers
anyway, the more difficult your life can
be made, the fewer there will be next
year.
Conclusion - fly to Prague and fly out,
but for heaven's sake see it before it
becomes too touristy. It is a beautiful city,
and is worth seeing just because it is so
utterly peculiar due to its communist past.
Flights cost from around S I 7 0 return, and
cheap accommodation can be booked
from Hlavni station hostel offices w h i c h
only open w h e n trains from abroad pull
in. It would be a good idea to contact the
Czechoslovak Embassy to check details
beforehand.
18

