Mark Richardson toured Europe by
Inter-Railing
Last summer I travelled around Greece
and Italy with an inter-rail card. The free
ferry crossing offered between Patras on
the Peleponese and Brindisi in southern
Italy makes this an attractive option for a
route through southern Europe.
Our first stop in Greece was the small
town of Litochoro at the foot of Mount
Olympus. Most of the thousands of inter-
railers who visit Greece go for the sun
and historical beauty, fewer realise
Greece is also a very mountainous
country with some spectacular natural
scenery. W e stayed at the small and
friendly youth hostel in Litochoro w h i c h
is used as a base by hikers who come to
climb Mount Olympus. If y o u want to
attempt the climb, you can hire boots and
maps and also leave your rucksack at the
hostel. We went to Litochoro intending to
climb the mountain but decided against it
at the last minute. However, it's an
experience in itself to lie o n a beach with
the home of the gods towering nearly
3000 metres above you with its feet in
the sea!
After visiting the ancient historical
sights in Delphi and Athens, we headed
for the island of Santorini in the Cyclades.
The night ferry crossing from Athens
costs only about £8 if you sleep on deck.
Santorini was formed about 4,000 years
ago by a massive volcanic explosion in
the Aegean sea. The volcano still
smoulders on a nearby island. W e went
out to see it on a boat trip. Our party
climbed the m o u n d of black rock and ash
to the sulphur-caked sumit, then, after
returning to the boat, we dived into the
sea to swim in the hot springs where
water heated inside the volcano wells up
to mix with the sea.
O n Santorini, we spent one night on the
roof of Kontohori youth hostel in the
town of T h i r a , and three nights sleeping
on the black sand beach at Perissa. It's
not clear whether y o u are actually
allowed to sleep on the beaches but
plenty of people do it.
To cross free to Italy you have to sleep
on deck but this is no hardship in the
Adriatic during the summer. F r o m the
harbour town of Brindisi we travelled
across Italy to Naples where we stayed in
the excellent modern youth hostel. F r o m
Naples it's a short train and bus ride to
mount Vesuvius and Pompeii. We
unfortunately didn't have time in our
schedule to visit Pompeii, but managed to
climb to the huge crater at the top of
Vesuvius. The walk is fairly easy as a bus
takes you most of the way. Naples itself is
a busy port w h i c h is rather overcrowded
and chaotic, but the national museum
(which houses many of the relics found at
Pompeii as w e l l as a fascinating collection
of ancient Egyptian artifacts) is well
worth a visit, a n d the pizzas are fantastic.
Our next stop was Rome where we
spent two days admiring the sights of
ancient Rome, especially the Coloseum
and the Palatine Hill, and those in the
Vatican City—St Peter's basilica, the
Vatican museum and the Sistine Chapel.
Rome has an excellent purpose-built
youth hostel, the largest w e stayed in on
our travels.
F r o m Rome we travelled on to Tuscany
and the Renaissance splendour of
Florence and Pisa. Florence is very
relaxing, and it is interesting to walk
between the painted houses near the
D u o m o cathedral and the Puento Vecchio
bridge. There's a restaurant in Florence
w h i c h is reputed to make the best ice-
cream in all Italy (and therefore the
A church on Santorini
world). W e also found a site in the
countryside just outside the city where
you can sleep for free on roofed wooden
platforms.
After a brief stop in Bologna to try the
spaghetti bolognaise in its town of origin,
we went on to Venice. Venice is a good
place to wander in, with m a n y winding
alleys, hump-back bridges and small
squares as well as the famous sights of St
Mark's square and basilica and the Doges'
Palace (home of the old Venetian
government). The town consists of 117
islets and to reach Venice's youth hostel,
another of the excellent modern Italian
type, y o u need to take a water bus.
Passes available for 24-hour travel on
water buses are a good way of seeing
Venice.
A route through Greece and Italy such
as this one, could be made in either
direction and there is also great scope for
ideas in your route between home and
southern Europe. O n the w a y there, we
passed through the G e r m a n city of
Cologne with its excellent cathedral, saw
the magnificent imperial buildings in
Vienna, from where half of Europe was
ruled for m o r e than six centuries, and
took a glimpse at life in Eastern Europe
in our visit to Budapest. Here we were
amazed at the sights and activity
alongside the Danube at night. The
journey d o w n to Greece—the infamous
Belorade-Athens run—was not pleasant
but nothing like as bad as any of the
horror stories we had heard. The journey
from Budapest took 24 hours, but we had
seats for most of the time and when we
had to stand at least the scenery was
interesting!
O n the return journey, w e passed
through the Swiss Alps, stopping in
Zermatt at the foot of the Matterhorn,
before returning home through France
and Ireland (there are free ferries to and
from Ireland).
T o use the free ferry crossing as well as
train services, y o u need an 'Inter-Rail and
Boat' card w h i c h costs £180. A n ordinary
Inter-Rail card costs £155. I ended up
spending nearly £500 on the whole
month's holiday but have no doubt that it
could have been done for less.
Our travels through Greece and Italy
were very enjoyable and our activities
varied enormously in the time we were
there. One day we were exploring the
tiny cliff-top villages on Santorini on hired
mopeds and only days later admiring the
magnificent Renaissance architecture of
Tuscany.
If you want a holiday w h i c h combines
so many natural and historical sights with
days lying on a beach and loads of pizza
and ice-cream, an inter-rail trip through
Greece and Italy is excellent value for
money.
19

