p i Kill the Rooster to
Frighten the Monkey
FELIX
T w o hunched, sullen figures were pushed
roughly through a curtain hanging across
the corridor. T h e y were holding h a n d s -
no, their thumbs were clamped together
between the knuckles. They were beaten
repeatedly until they lay o n the floor
below m y bunk. One thumb-clamp was
loosened and their arms were fed through
the bunk legs to unite w i t h the clamp the
other side. It looked very painful and
both prisoners winced when their arms
were twisted and their thumbs were bent.
The digits were badly swollen and the
skin was bloated around their dirty nails.
They lay there with staring, guilty
expressions.
I established that they had been caught
stealing money. Justice in China seems to
be dispensed entirely by the police, w h o
also decide the penalty. The ultimate
penalty is execution.
The policeman who kicked them w h e n
he passed, grinned and seemed pleased
with his arrest. They would not be here
tomorrow, he said. 1 asked what their fate
was. He replied by miming a gunshot in
the head, the standard mannerism for
execution. Both figures twisted and
contorted their bodies to escape from the
kicks beneath m y bunk. They lay in the
cigarette stubs, melon skins and chewed
chicken bones, the whites of their eyes
large and bright in the dusk.
Frequently executions are carried out at
mass gatherings. The purpose of this is to
maximise the deterrence potential, the
official reason being that 'it is good to
have some people executed so as to
educate others'.
It was a hot, uncomfortable night. I
slept in starts, waking to brush
cockroaches from m y face. W h e n dawn
came, the convicts were gone, their lives
terminated to 'educate others'.
Mass execution.
If you can't make it to the stadium then
you can always catch up with the
month's killings at the exhibition. In
almost all the large cities there are
permanent deterrent boards dedicated to
gruesome, stomach-churning pictures of
the latest executions. The pictures here
were part of an exhibition in Kunming ,
Y u n n a n province, in southern China.
Other subjects covered included
particularly gory, fatal road accidents,
and decaying genitals—the victims of V D .
It is hard to say how China's crime rate
compares w i t h those in other countries.
Juvenile crime is a growing problem in
the cities. The types of crime committed
include murder, rape, and theft of large
sums of money. Criminal groups of
youngsters are common. The official
blame is placed on influence from foreign
criminal cliques portrayed in the mass
media. Perhaps it is simply that they are
A candidate for death.
following the example of their 'glorious
leaders'.
But the death penalty is part of Chinese
culture, an accepted way of life. The
general opinion in China is of support for
the death penalty and most agree that it
is necessary today to maintain the low
crime rate. Chinese argue that life
imprisonment, favoured b y Europe is an
expensive alternative w h i c h cannot be
adopted by China at present. The
irrevocable deaths of the wrongly
convicted are simply a 'pity'.
Although execution is usually reserved
for murder a n d rape, during the
numerous clamp-downs that take place
'execution quotas' have to be met by
each province. If the quota isn't reached,
the pettiness of crimes w h i c h warrant
death increase.
In 1984 a village party secretary in
Shaanxi Province put 72 villagers into
custody for suspicion of stealing part of
his bicycle bell. Seventeen were tortured
and the another 28 were held for eight
days and forced to pay fines to cover the
cost of the guards.
Back in Y u n n a n Province a group of
policemen detained 201 people in 1986
for 'law-study class' w h i c h lasted as long
as eighty days. M a n y were fined and
tortured until they confessed to crimes
they had not committed. A s a result two
people committed suicide, one person
died and m a n y were wounded.
Before June 1989 China's last round-up
of criminals started in 1983 when 100,000
were arrested. In the last eighteen
months the same number have lost their
lives in the name of 'education', for
crimes no greater than writing this
article.
Christopher Riley.
This is an extract from part of an
Amnesty Group exhibition on H u m a n
Rights, to be held in the J C R next week,
between the 5th and 7th March.

