TRAVEL
You don't have to go abroad for variety
Staffa, Mull & Iona
The island of Mull lies just off the west
coast of Scotland, and forms part of the
Inner Hebrides. It is one of the largest
islands in the U K , and is relatively
undiscovered by tourists, w h o usually
come on one-day coach trips. Lying to
the west of Mull are a whole series of
islands. Two are mentioned in this
feature, Iona and Staffa.
Staffa is a small island off Mull, and is
stark and uninhabited. Yet this island is
famous for two things: its rock structure,
and Fingal's Cave. The rock is volcanic
basalt, and has formed into tall vertical
'crystals' with a regular hexagonal cross-
section. The same rock structure is found
at Giant's Causeway, in Northern
Ireland.and, as legend has it, the two
places are said to be the ends of a
causeway built by the Irish giant, Finn
Mac Cool. He decided that he was going
to fight his Scots contemporary, Fin Gall,
and to do this,he had to have a means of
getting there. After driving each column
into place, he went back to Ireland to
rest before he attacked.
Meanwhile, Finn Gall crossed to Ireland
to spy out the land, and, so terrified by
the sleeping giant, fled back to Scotland
destroying the causeway behind him.
Fingal's Cave is named after that same
giant. It is a large sea cave, stretching
back more than 60 metres into the cliff
face. The walls and roof are all part of
the hexagonal rock formation, giving it as
light cathedral-like look. In good weather,
boats can go right inside the cave, but
normally, access to it requires a climb
d o w n the cliff-side. Boats run to Staffa
from Mull and Iona, and the routes used
go past many uninhabited islets w h i c h are
populated by a whole variety of birds.
Quite often, seals can be spotted, sunning
themselves along the shore.
Although m a n y people decide to 'do'
Mull and Iona on a single coach c u m
ferry trip from Oban, it is well worth
spending several days on Mull itself. In
the north part of the island is the capital,
Tobermory, said to be the most beautiful
harbour in the world. The island is
mountainous, and a lot of the land
belongs to the Forestry Commission, and
is rented to farmers. Fences are few, and,
providing you do no damage, you are
allowed to go nearly everywhere. If you
want a hill-walking holiday, k n o w i n g that
few people will have been where you can
go, this is a place to visit. There are
several large lochs w h i c h can be fished,
and the whole place abounds with
wildlife.
The road system in Mull is slightly
different to the rest of the U K : all but
about 12 miles are single track road (with
passing places). Despite this, getting about
on Mull is not difficult, because if you
come up behind a slower-moving vehicle,
they are expected to move into let you
past. W i t h experience, roads on Mull can
often be traversed faster than their single
carriageway mainland equivalents: you
are rarely blocked. Traffic and population
is light; this is one of the few inhabited
places i n Britain where y o u can go out at
night and not see a single artificial light
source, even over an extended period of
time.
If you are a historical Britain fanatic,
then Mull boasts two castles open to the
public, Duart, seat of MacLean, and
Torosay. However, Iona will probably
have more interest for you since it was
the seat of the Columban church, from
where missionaries weresent to convert
the pagan Picts of early Scotland. Iona
was the place where Columba, the Irish
prince and abbot, came, in the sixth
century, and founded an abbey from
where the spiritual affairs of Scotland
were governed. The abbey itself (which is
not the 6th century original) is too
subservient to the tourist trade, but the
rest of the island is visually stunning
(when the sun shines).
It is worth leaving the abbey to the
tourists, and going out to explore the rest
of the island. One of the reasons C o l u m b a
decided to settle on Iona was its beauty,
and this remains, largely unspoiled, even
to this day.
Ferries run to Mull from Oban in
Strathclyde region, and from Lochaline,
Highland region. Oban is about 100 miles
from Glasgow, and about 500 miles from
London. Costs are, what you make of
them: bed & breakfast with evening meal
on Mull is well under £20 per night.
Taking a car over to Mull is not cheap,
but it is w o r t h it in terms of flexibility.
T r a v e l E d i t o r i a l
Fed up with exams and the stress of
college life? G o on holiday. Much can be
done on a limited budget, and if you are
devoid of ideas, one of our features
should provide y o u with some inspiration.
W h e n I came to edit the travel features,
I was impressed with the range and
variety of places students visit, and things
students do, whilst on holiday. No
transport? Build your o w n car and take it
to Africa (but do take better maps than
the pilots of Boris, page 11). Like trains
and value-for-money travel? Try inter-
railing, page 19. No money? Go and stay
with a friend somewhere in the U K -
there's plenty to see without having to
pay to get out of the country. Think
Sherfield's bureaucracy is bad? T r y the
genuine version in China or the Soviet
Union (pages 8 and 9). W h e n things go
wrong? See the account of surgery in the
field on page 10. Want to see what
Europe was like a century ago? Visit
places like Prague (page 18).
Whatever your holiday plans, it is well
worth going to see people like S T A to
bounce ideas around, and get them
costed. If you are going to another part
of the world, it may be w o r t h trying
schemes such as World Travellers Club.
There will be a travel supplement to
Felix later on this year, where we hope
to print all the features that we had to
miss out this time; thanks to everyone
who submitted articles. Photographs
should be collected before they disappear
into the aether.
R o l a n d F l o w e r d e w
Nend-a-Bike
P E T E R T H O M A S
BICYCLE
REPAIRS
SALES
A N D
ACCESSORIES
4-6 Effie Road
Fulham, London SW6 ITD
071-371 $867

