Mr & Mrs Bridges
I This film follows the course of an
A m e r i c a n upper middle class
marriage during the 1930s and
1940s. Paul N e w m a n plays the part of the
old fashioned, 'set in his ways', and
sometimes pompous father just brilliantly
and is sometimes very funny, purely
because he is so stubborn.
His wife, both on and off screen, is
Joanne W o o d w a r d , who is the typical
over-caring and proud mother, plays this
part brilliantly.
The film is basically concerned w i t h
how their three children, two girls and
one boy, grow up.
The son, played by Robert Sean
Leonard, (the one w h o killed himself in
Dead Poets Society) goes from being the
nervous y o u n g Eagle Scout through to
being in the army air corps due to
wartime excitement, and finally ending
up taking over his father's law firm.
The two daughters Harriet and Ruth,
played by Saundra McClain and K y r a
Sedgwick, have their o w n troubles.
Harriet meets Glen at University, marries
in haste and finds out later that she can't
stand her husband. Ruth, a high-spirited,
sexually charged girl, departs for the
artistic bohemia of New Y o r k .
Other noticable performances were by
Dr A l e x Saver (Simon Callow: Amadeus,
A Room with a View) and also by Blythe
Danner as Grace Barron the best friend
of Mrs Bridge.
A l l in all the film was enjoyable, but
not something I would deliberately go
and see—my parents w o u l d love i t -
enough said?
Hix.
Meet the Applegates
F
Dick, Jane, Johnny a n d Sally are a
blue-eyed, blond haired ail-
A m e r i c a n nuclear family. Johnny
(15) loves baseball and science. Sally (17)
is fond of C h i c k e n McNuggets and kisses
on the second date. Dick and Jane are
the perfect couple, and keep a
wonderfully average house. They even
live in Median, Ohio.
A l l is smiley faces until decadence takes
its toll; Dick begins to practise with his
namesake on his secretary and Jane finds
out about the joys of plastic. Not to be
outdone, Sally and Johnny get a bun in
the oven and turn into a dope-crazed
metal freak (respectively, of course).
While this may sound like small
potatoes (as opposed to the gargantuan
rooters of Die Kroppe) compared to an
average episode of Neighbours the above
scenario takes on a happy turn for the
worse/better w h e n y o u discover that the
Applegates are in fact amiable six foot
cockroaches bent on cracking the cooler
of the local nuke plant.
Thereafter m u c h chaos ensues; Sally's
one-night stand is alarmed to discover
that not only is she unprotected but also
invertebrate. Johnny's dope suppliers are
equally alarmed to find just how high y o u
can go and bodies start to pile up like
extras in a Charles Bronson pic. A s for
dear little Spot the dog..
To add new joy to the concoction the
moustachioed Queen Bea (bad pun) shows
up in the unlikely guise of Dabney
Coleman (what is it with him all of a
sudden ?) and proceeds with an all-out
entomological assault on the nuke plant
in the hope that all the humans make
way for the more resistant bug
population.
Hooray ! Japanese monster, movie
m a y h e m ! Cooling towers glowing green !
Banks of coloured switches exploding !
Giant subtitled insects wading through the
debris in a desperate struggle for the
future of the h u m a n race ! Etc !
Meet The Applegates is a nice little
ecological satire from the director of
Heathers (if you haven't seen it you ought
to), offering the rarely seen insect
perspective o n the human way of life.
Have you ever stopped to consider the
diffficulty of obtaining insect pornography
in a small A m e r i c a n town? Or of the
problems involved in concealing a
mummified secretary in a drinks cabinet?
O n the vicarious side it's nice to see
innocents succumb to every one of the
major categories of vice (donkey buggery
excepted) and the insects are very cute.
Especially Sally.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
QBurkina Faso's Idrissa Ouedraogo
first came to the attention of the
British cinemagoers in 1989 with
the highly acclaimed Yaaba. He has
followed it up with Tilai, w h i c h w o n last
year's Grand Jury Prize at Cannes.
The story centres around Saga, who
upon his return to his village after a long
period finds that his fiancee has been
married to his ageing father. Saga feels
betrayed by his father, his fiancee, his
brother and, in fact, the whole village. He
then sets up his hut close to, but separate
from, the rest of the village. However,
Saga and his former fiancee later meet
again and make love. The villagers soon
discover the 'incestuous' relationship,
ultimately leading to tragic results.
Tilai actually means 'the law'.
Ouedraogo is interested in the codes
under w h i c h society must live in order to
survive and the consequences for an
individual when he or she breaks those
rules. Saga's brotrier for example
recognises that Saga must accept their
father's decision and continue life as best
he can under the new circumstances.
Both father and son will allow no r o o m
for compromise—their egoism in fact
threatens any order that has been created
by the notion of 'village' or society. The
ties of honour w h i c h hold the characters
together are also very strong in the film.
This is of course classic material for
tragedy (one m a y consider the similarities
with the Oedipus story). Nevertheless this
is a very African film—as Ouedraogo
says, 'Perhaps the great Greek tragedies
are not the only ones in the world...But
we have not had the chance to put ours
in writing.'
But don't worry, the film isn't half as
dry as I make out. The film is very funny
in places, and extremely beautiful. The
film makers persuaded the brilliant South
African jazz musician, A b d u l l a h Ibrahim,
to compose a highly evocative soundtrack
for the film. Ouedraogo himself
communicates superbly through the
medium w h i c h he operates. Image and
sound combine wonderfully, always it
seems with the m i n i m u m of effort or fuss.
It all seems so simple, yet has been
brilliantly fabricated to produce a visually
stunning w i n d o w on a very rich world.
I.H.
— F i l m
6

