The Slow Moving Snail presents more thoughts...
Tonics for the Tube
Twenty-one floors up creates a wonderful
view of sunrise over L o n d o n . Yet there is
a sense of being boxed. Caged above
London one and a quarter hours from
college gives me a sense of nausea as I
start each new day. To spark-up m y m i n d
from this doldrum I resort to the book.
The first book leans against the wall of
the toilet. As m y yesterday's meal
plummets twenty-one floors - does it
behave as Galileo suggests? Well, I
suppose it is a far cry from balls off Pisa -
1 read a light tonic. A dog that flies a
Sopwith, is terrified of the local cat, goes
into 'rejection' state as his first novel
cannot find a publisher. There is only one
cartoonist w h o can create such a
psychotic character, Charles Schultz. I re-
read these cartoons every day,
empathising with Charlie B r o w n . No one
else could persuade themselves that they
are needed by arguing with a tree that
eats kites, or be so bored w i t h life and so
unable to talk to the girl he fancies.
Charlie expresses m y feelings in a world
of pool-playing beagles a n d ice-hockey-
playing little yellow birds, a fantastic
world in w h i c h the sad and frustrated
become a cause to smile. I have a book
that psychoanalyses the characters in
Alice in Wonderland, has anyone done it
to Charlie Brown?
James Thurber was in m a n y ways a
again leaving only a girl, a boy and the
last flower. The flower becomes a symbol
of love that is needed to create hope.
Thurber - Volumes 1 and 2 are great
books for the morning throne. Sadly they
are too heavy for the tube.
For the long tunnel of the underground
I recommend a John Steinbeck book, or
some poetry.
Steinbeck has recently been
republished, a good thing as some of his
novels were becoming scarce. Cannery
Row is a place in w h i c h 'whores, pimps,
tragic figure, blind in one eye due to a
childhood accident, and slowly going
blind in the other, always worried about
being run-over while wearing dirty
underpants. His cartoons, short stories
and fables are coloured w i t h sharp irony
and an everyday sense of the absurd. His
Red Riding H o o d blows the head off the
wolf. A seal lies on the headboard of the
bed as the husband dismisses his wife's
claim to have heard a bark.
A s a writer for the New Yorker he
doodled cartoons at unbelievable speed,
these jokes eventually got printed and
made his reputation. His favourite cartoon
was a story he drew while depressed
during the second world war. It is called
The Last Flower, the w o r l d being
destroyed by politicians a n d religious
fanatics, being rebuilt and destroyed
gamblers, and sons of bitches,' become
'Saints and angels and martyrs and holy
men', at least through the meticulously
detailed images that celebrate life and
express a love of his characters.
Steinbeck's w o r l d is powerful enough to
lose your sense of reality whilst hanging
onto those back handles as you w i n d
through the tunnels. A must for those of
us that otherwise close our eyes to
escape from the inhuman w o r l d of
London Underground.
Gavin Ewart can now be read on the
tube. He is one of several poets
celebrated by the national Poetry Society
using posters of their work. This m o n t h
Gavin is launching a new collection, of
his poems over the past decade. He will
be reading and talking about his w o r k at
the Poetry Society, 21 Earls Court Square
(just by Earls Court tube) on 14th M a r c h
at 7:30pm. G a v i n has been writing poetry
for many years giving his w o r k great
breadth and interesting historical
developments. His w a r poems contrast,
and thereby confuse, the fantasy of the
cardboard cut-out target with the
breathing human. His short funny poems
are medicinal tablets against feeling too
serious. Take these books and don't let
the world get you down.
AMNESTY!
on display in
the JCR
5- 7 March
Your chance to find out about
Amnesty International, its work
and what you can do to deop.
Plus letter writing stall and sale
of Amnesty goods on Tuesday
and Thursday lunchtimes.
Organised by Imperial College
Group.

