Escape from China along the Karakoram Highway
A Passage to Pakistan
It was a better bus than I'd hoped for.
M e n with rugged macho faces, wild but
shapely beards and well established
moustaches mooched amidst acres of
luggage. Their heads were crowned with
weather-beaten turbans and they were
dressed in baggy cotton suits and long
woollen waistcoats. V a c u u m tea sets, pots
and pans, sacks of tinsel and other
Christmas decorations burst from cloth
bags. It took almost three hours to
balance it all on the roof and fight out
the seating plan. There were three
Japanese, two Swiss, one Nepalese, two
British and twelve Pakistani passengers.
Everyone wanted a w i n d o w seat. D u r i n g
the two day journey we were to cross the
highest pass in the world. At 16,540 ft the
Khunjerab pass traverses the highest
concentration of lofty peaks anywhere in
the world. The Karakoram, the Parmirs,
the Himalayas and the H i n d u Kush all
meet in a uniquely chaotic jumbled
splendour.
One hour into the ride, and as we
approached the outskirts of the oasis, the
driver stopped, abandoned the bus and
took up residence on a solitary wooden
framed bed at the road side. A s he dozed
we all ate cold noodles nearby.
Three hours out of Kashgar we hit the
Ghez valley. A n undersized stream
trickled through an oversized wide basin
of glacial moraines and convoluted
sandstone layers. Under precipitous
overhangs we sped, on r o u n d lumpy
corners suffering from rock fall debris.
'Wooden' knots and grains spiralled
through the rock. The cliffs rose up at
such an angle that even b y craning m y
neck as far as possible the sky was not in
sight. The first check-point and grumpy
official came an hour or so later and from
here the road grew gradually worse; in
fact it seemed a miracle that any road
could exist at all.
Snow-covered, shattered peaks replaced
blue skies and distances could no longer
be judged. Everything seemed so close,
whether one or fifty kilometres away.
The road climbed steeply and the engine
adopted that whining monotone drone of
mechanical strain. Periodically the track
disappeared and the bus swayed off into
the desert careering over rocks and
boulders and through streams to rejoin
the 'road' a little further on.
It descended the roller-coaster stretches
of corrugated kidney- bashing channels at
breakneck speed, seemingly out of
control. The Pakistani passengers sat
huddled on their seats like Antarctic
penguins, feet and limbs tucked into
layers of blubberous clothes and scarfs,
blinking eyes squeezed between turbans
and veils.
W e passed road side workers camps
and tiny collections of flat roofed single-
storey square mud dwellings, sporting
waving kids cocooned in multiple layers.
At 196 kilometres from Kashgar and at
an altitude of 3,900 metres we passed
Karakuli Lake, with horses, yaks and
camels in scattered dots, grazing the
fertile plains. The horizon was dominated
by the massive Muztagata Mountain, its
5,000 m vastness overwhelming and its
glaciers slowly spilling forth.
W e stopped for a brief toilet stop at the
cold, numbing height of 12,000 feet. A s
who acted as if this was the first bus they
had seen, it probably was! In ruffled,
baggy uniforms, brains n u m b e d with cold
and boredom, they gave a cursory glance
at the paper w o r k and ushered us on.
At ten p"m Beijing time, we reached the
little frontier outpost of Tashkurgan 260
k m and ten hours drive from Kashgar.
W e stopped here for the night. The
rooms were clean and cold for 10 yuan
the sun sank, prematurely extinguished
by the rugged scenery, the Pakistanis
threw off their robes and squatted in
rubble-filled drainage ditches. A staring,
contorted camel train of Kirghiz nomads
passed us by.
At dusk we reached the Tashkurgan
checkpoint with its two bemused guards
(£1). The Japanese cloclP i n reception
chimed ten a n d played a little tune,
which the Japanese sang along and
giggled to. The hotel was run by bad-
tempered H a n Chinese w h o hated
everything and everyone, including
themselves. There was no hot water for
tea in the dining room, a n d beer (our last
for a while) was twice the normal price.
The rice, vegetable and egg dishes that
we ordered took forever. It didn't help
their mood that we were keen to get rid
of our change and paid in one, two and
five fen notes, (O.lp). I filled m y metal
drinking bottle w i t h hot water from a
boiler and put it in m y bed for an hour
or so, praying for it not to leak. The
duvet was thick and m y sleep was deep.
It was hard to get out of bed at 8.30am.
The restaurant was closed so we stocked
up on little hard flower-shaped frozen
biscuits from a man with a boxful on the
road outside. The bus pulled out at
9.00am and w e sat shivering. I peeled an
apple out of the window a n d lost the
sensation in m y hands. W e sat and bit on
the hard biscuits and I stamped m y
numbed feet on the floor.
After half an hour we broke down. The
driver opened the doors and fiddled with
the engine. W e sat and shivered. He
didn't bother to fix it - we drove on all
the same. T h e mountains were more
spread out as we crossed the wide
grasslands, spliced by a v i v i d blue river.
W e chewed biscuits and hurt our teeth on
those that w e r e still frozen.
At mid-day w e reached the Chinese
border post of Pirali, a ten building,
nowhere place, about 200m long, with a
bank, a customs check point and a
passport-stamping room. A k a r k y tent
boasted 'Foreign Friends Rest Place'. H o w
Chinese, how meaningless, how final. I
was weary of this country and of m y
three month continuous struggle w i t h
baffling and pointless bureaucracy.
Theend was now in sight.
The effort to unload the bus was hardly
w o r t h the hassle. Customs was a joke,
and we went in search of food. In the
passport-stamping r o o m they sold bottles
of Coca-cola, duck- shaped biscuits, tinned
fruit and tea sets for 'Foreign Friends'.
W e squatted in the middle of the road
and wolfed d o w n some tinned cherries
before they froze! T w o hours after
arriving, we were waving the Chinese
soldiers and China bye bye.
No-mans-land was bleak and Scottish.
The road climbed higher from the river
bed and across a bog-land. Lakes and
brooks lay frozen and white in the
tundra. Yaks and buffalo grazed and
stared and people looked up from their
toil with shell-shocked expressions. By
mid-afternoon w e had reached point zero
at 16,000 feet. Pakistani a n d Chinese
soldiers stood and chatted at the
monument and the bus whizzed past.
A steep, nerve-fraying descent followed,
fraught with double hair-pin bends. Tall
narrow gorges like huge doors ajar
revealed tantalizing glimpses of other
kingdoms, shining bright snowfields and
jagged, carnivorous, toothed peaks. It was
like being lowered into a deep well,
straining ever more to see sky. Huge
hang-glider-sized eagles swooped and
spiralled below, and big black rooks
flapped by in formation. Yurts (a sort of
tent) lay sprinkled around the river
valleys and streaky cold waters gushed
by.
Late in the afternoon w e reached Dih,
the Pakistan check-point, a little 'garden'
nurtured painstakingly to life, a little oasis
germinated in the rubble. The barrier was
raised by the invisible gardener. Someone
got on and the door refused to close. A
passenger kicked it and wedged it fast.
The Chinese driver tried in vain to repair
it. The screwdriver had no effect on the
door and was instead turned on the
passenger.
'Foreign Friends Welcome
Resting Here'
W e pressed on under over-hanging
gorges w h i c h turned the road into a
tunnel. The driver dodged fresh landslide
material and the bus pitched and yawed
like an overloaded camel. T h e snowy
grey peaks rose up as far as you could
imagine and then twice as high again.
The Kunjerab River flowed into the
Hunza River, shining white and dazzling.
In the afternoon sun the canyon walls
swirled immiscibly in different browns
like an oil-painter's pallet, below the
awesome, steely-grey, dog-tooth
tombstone peaks. The sky was a vivid
unnatural blue. A r o u n d each corner, as I
marvelled at the overpowering enormity
of each spiky peak another even greater,
more rugged, soaring spotlit summit came
into view.
Below if was Sust, the Pakistan border
and immigration post. The t o w n itself is
just a jumbled collection of single storey
shacks, with names beyond their status;
'The Khunjerab Hotel', 'The Sust
International Hotel'. Customs and
immigration are some equally shabby
wooden huts i n a courtyard o n the left,
fenced off by a dry stone wall and a
barbed wire topping.
I had only eaten frozen biscuits and
tinned cherries all day. The restaurant
signs protruding over the w a l l were too
much. After queuing to wait for passport
formalities I could wait no longer. Out of
the compound Sust had the atmosphere
of a large airy Alpine camping site. I
enquired where the toilets were.
'This is an open area...you crap in the
desert'
The 'desert' was a stony glacial moraine
affair with a gurgling meltwater stream
gushing southwards. A real toilet with a
view. The bags were being unloaded
when I returned. Just out of the 'town
centre' was the Mountain Rescue Inn. It
was a small collection of holiday camp
terraced chalets. It was clean and
pleasant and the people were friendly,
quite a novelty - a curious blend of
British colonialism, Islamic hospitality,
and Muslim fundamentalism; of cricket
pitches on pristine lawns a n d jostling
horizons of village church spires a n d
mosques, crescent moons and w i n d
vanes.
W i t h a pot of sweet m i l k y tea I settled
down to read the visitors book. There
were Belgian writers, Polish geologists, a
convention of milk-men from all over the
world, British thieves, vagabonds,
astronauts, space travellers, Australian
miik maids, Afghan warlords, grave-
diggers and martians. I never read such
frivolities in Chinese visitors books.
It was only after leaving China that I
realised what was missing, h o w backward
and abnormally stifled it was; how
artificial and synthetic the public
friendship was, and how oppressed and
frantic the people were beneath their
lampshade hats. W e had slipped through
the K a r a k o r a m curtain and escaped from
the China's suffocating suppression. I was
glad to be free.

