Page 11
IC A Team
Kingston Poly.
3 C R I C K E T
_ 111 all out
57 for 9
Match drawn
IC 2nds were short o f players for this fixture and found it
necessary to call o n 3 or 4 4th team players such as Toplis to
make up their 8 m a n team.
Pitt's first mistake was to assume that enough cars would be
available for transport to Harlington. A s 3 players then made
their way by public transport, his next mistake was to ignore
advice and miss the correct b u s stop.
O n eventual arrival Furnish elected to bat, having won the toss, as it
appeared that the weather may allow one innings only. As always, later
results showed this to be a n inspired decision despite the immediate
opinions of the rest of the team.
T h e I C batting began badly, though opener Davis, who scored more
in one shot than Pitts has made in 3 innings, made a brisk 30, but it was
a 5th wicket stand of vigorous mishits from Toplis and Ellacott that
eventually saw I C through to a respectable 111.
At tea the captaincy was passed Toplis and the ageing Ellacott,
to stand-in wicketkeeper and 5th
X I captain Pitts to give h i m the
chance to do something properly.
Toplis a n d Ellacott removed
the first 5 wickets for 11 with slow-
leg breaks, but the Kingston
victims were unable to help their
team mates by telling them
anything about the bowling, as
they had failed to see it. This
particularly applies to the 5th
wicket who was caught at first slip
by the agile Furnish, the ball
having passed Pitts without
the 'keeper noticing.
The advent of C h a d b a n d into
the attack saw Pitts stand u p to
the stumps, but realising that his
nose was close to the batsman's
who was now suffering with his
arthritic hip, lack of sawdust, and
a double groin strain which
occured immediately after the
passage across the field at the lady
in black boots, were brought back
to mop up the rabbits with the last
14 overs. This they narrowly
failed to achieve, Kingston
finishing with 57 for 9.
Toplis returned the creditable
figures of 5 for 14, but failed to
buy a jug, a n d Ellacott may take
comfort i n the thought that
although injuries may force h i m
to retire from cricket next week,
he could still make a comeback in
about 25 years for South
Stanmore.
feet he retired again.
Team: Pills, Furnish, Toplis, Ellacott, Davis, Maguire, Clothier, Chadband.
T e n n i s
On Wednesday we played our
first mixed doubles match,
against Gardens LTC. This was
due to be played at Harlington,
but the courts were unfit for play,
so we all jumped into Tony's car
and trundled off in the general
direction of Wimbledon. However,
while we were touring round the
suburban back streets (Barry was
map reading), two weary tennis
players were sitting in a traffic jam
somewhere in the vicinity of the
airport. Consequently, on arriving
at Gardens L T C we were
confronted with vast opposition of
two, their first couple.
Bravely, Sara and Tony took to
the tennis court, and with hard
hitting and some good shots,
which surprised everyone (both of
us), beat them convincingly 6-1,
6-1. The second couple had not
turned up, so Barry and Julia went
to play the first couple, they
zoomed to a 3-1 lead and then
proceded to lose 3-6, 1-6.
Meanwhile, the second couple
arrived, and played Tony a n d
Sara. Having been sitting around
for a while we had become bored
of tennis, so we had a little
competition instead. We decided
to see which of us could hit the
ball furthest away from the tennis
court. I can't say w h o w o n
because it was pretty close, but
we lost the ten nis 5-7,2-6. We then
retired to the bar, somewhat
annoyed, while Barry and Julia
took o n the second pair. They
then started their tennis match.
They lost the first set 1-6, and did
not finish the second, as we had
lost overall.
Barry and Julia joined us in the
bar, where, not content with
losing a tennis match. Tony fed as
much money as he could to the
fruit machine. Barry suggested
that we should play a friendly
match against them sometime,
although I thought we'd been
quite nice this time.
The Team: Barry Witts and Julia
Towns, and Tony Tsoukkas and
Sara McGuinness
G R O S S C O U N T R Y
All Stars Make Final Appearence
On Wednesday 23rd May the Cross Country Club's stalwarts grouped
together for their final race for the college. They were joined on this
auspicious occasion by some 'past' members of the Club.
The venue for the race was the National Westminster Bank Sports
Ground at Norbury. The race, the National Westminster Bank Relays - a
much smaller version of our own world-famous Hyde Park Road Relay.
The College team suffered slightly form lack of speed due to a clash
with the U L games - that annual sporting disorganisation perpetrated at
Mostpur Park. However, Mark 'long distance' Pickard got his priorities
right and after competing in the walk at the games travelled to Norbury
for the main event of the day.
The race was won by a team
from G E C , with the organisers Nat
West second. Third were Barclays
and we crept in 4th.
Individually the performances
went something like this. The first
team was led off at a blistering
pace by Stu Littlewood w h o
returned in third place. BRyan
Acford took over and was soon
overcome by the occasion and
people zipped past him. Mark'
Pickard slowed the rot and
returned at the end of the third leg
in 7th. Steve Webb on the final
fourth leg pulled the team into
fourth place, but saw nothing of
the first three runners who had
finished some minutes before.
So much for the first team. The
second team comprised a mixture
of past and present and the third
team allowed the more fit their
second run of the evening. T h e
second team of ;lan Isherwood,
Micky Fuller, Stu 'The Ox' Graham
and Maurice Wilson, finished in
8th place. O n their way to this
position they showed remarkable
consistency and even gave the
first team a nasty moment when at
the end of the third leg they had
edged ahead of them. This only
lasted for 440 yards (400m for
those who have gone metric).
The third team saw the return to
jogging of Ian Alvey and Mark
Sykes. Mark Pickard and Stu
Littlewood finished the team off
with their second laps of the
evening.
Well that's all folks, same place
next year!
Ian Alvey
Sara McGuinness
64th London University
Athletic Championships
Last Wednesday eight magnificent specimens of IC manhood
(Joined later by one Gary Longhurst and a certain Chris Rider -
more of whom later) rattled along to Motspur Park in a bid to
emulate the win by IC last year in the UL Athletic
Championships.
On arrival, Pete Barry began to allocate half-a-dozen or so
extra events to each athlete to ensure that we gave the
impression of having a full team (and to alleviate boredom).
This was achieved mostly on the toss of a coin! Then the team
began their ellaborate psyching out routine, consisting of
actually warming up before the events, and occasionally
running, jumping and throwing large metal objects.
Eventually, after the mandatory hour's delay, the games
began with IC immediately making their mark due to 2nd places
from Ian Morton (2km steeple chase) and Longhurst (800m).
But this was only the first course, as Mike Weiner demolished
the rest of the hammer field with a 40m throw, 17m further than
Ian Roberts (also IC) who was 2nd.
With Barry, Dave Rosen and Dave Jones giving everything
(with little reward) in numerous events, but still accumulating
valuable points, IC were not disgraced on the track, but it was in
the field events where the ppints were really mounting up. Chris
Rider won a fine discus competition, with A Kruszewski 3rd,
Roberts was runner-up in the pole vault and 3rd in the javelin,
and Hewkin was 3rd in the shot putt; this gave IC a good lead in
the men's competition.
The championship was put beyond doubt when Longhurst
won a marvellous 400m hurdles and Morton came second in the
1500m, and IC duly proceded to the officials enclosure only to
be told that there was no cup.
- It had disappeared some years earlier! Oh, well you win
some
Signed,
The Shot Putter

