Day ByDay
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Page 5
Wednesday 23rd
Canada takes right turn
Canada elected Joseph Clark Prime
Minister of the 282 seat House of C o m m o n s in
Ottawa. T h e Tories under Mr Clark hold 136
seats. Pierre Trudeau conceded defeat in an
emotional speech to his Liberal party
workers.
The Conservatives will need the support of
the small Social Credit party in order to have a
majority.
House of Commons to move?
Mr St John-Stevas is to study the
advisability of moving the C o m m o n s away
from London, possibly to the Midlands.
Accommodation problems force M P s to
dictate letters in the corridors or cafeteria.
Nearly half of the 130 new members are
without desks, telephone or filing cabinets.
They have formed a '79 All-Party Group' to
push for better conditions.
College Plans 'Meet British Day'
The Royal Naval College, Dartmouth, is
appealing to residents in its area for help in
giving its foreign officer trainees a more
representative view of British life than they
can get from discotheques and night clubs.
Thursday 24th
Just not cricket
Brian Rose, Somerset's captain, was
criticised after declaring his side's innings
after just one over to guarantee a place in the
quarter-finals of the Benson and Hedges
Cup.
Worcestershire went into bat and won the
match. However, because Worcestershire
needed not only to win but to improve their
overall wicket rate, Brian Rose's action
e f f e c t i v e l y g u a r a n t e e d S o m e r s e t ' s
qualification into a profitable quarter-final
stage.
His ungentlemanly tactics effectively
hampered Glamorgan w h o just failed to
qualify. M r Rose exploited a loophole that
nowhere in the rules is the condition stating
that both sides should do their best to win the
game. The very essence of cricket is that a
rule such as that should never have to be
written down.
Lay by Day
Journalists writing forthe Royal College of
Science magazine, Broadsheet, began a rival
review of the week's news at Imperial College.
T h i s f o l l o w s t h e e n l a r g e m e n t o f
Peterborough's 'London Day by Day' column
in The Daily Telegraph.
The President of the 'Ban out of date news
campaign', Mr J Allenbury, was interviewed
during a Radio London publicity campaign.
(206 metres MW. 1458 K H Z , 94.9 V H F . f r e e
Stickers available from IC Radio). He said,
T h e worrying spread of news reviews could
lead to the end of newspapers as we know
them. The current trend of students reading
world news, once a week, in one quick burst is
a sign of their unwillingness to read printed
material prefering to iisten to local radio over
a pint of Sams'.
Friday 25th
America's worst air disaster
A n American Airline DC10 J u m b o jet
crashed close to a caravan park as it was
taking off from O'Hare Airport, Chicago. All
279 people aboard died in the worst air
disaster in America. T w o residents of the
caravan park died after being hit by the
blazing wreckage.
The D C 1 0 lost an engine shortly after take-
off. The pilot had been trained to cope with
such an emergency but just after take-off
there was not enough height for him to take
avoiding action.
The plane lost power at 2,000 feet and
turned upside down and took a swan dive into
an abandoned airfield next to the camp.
NUS worried
Three Appeal Court judges ruled today that
the tenancy of a house, which is sub-let to
students for multiple occupation, does not
fall under the protection of the 1974 Rent Act.
'There is now no need for colleges to worry
that accommodation, either privately owned
or owned by themselves, could be log-
jammed by students refusing to move out at
the end of their course. The benefit is that
landlords will continue to lease
accommodation for them under the
exceptions from Rent Act protection'.
The N U S were wrried that, if today's
decision had gone the other way, their
members might be least-favoured tenants.
Saturday 26th
National Sponsored Cockroach Hunt
Anyone who has had to sleep in the FELIX
Office during an all night paste-up session
will know that it's a good hunting ground for
cockroaches. During the current national
cockroach hunt FELIX staff have been
instructed not to squash them, before
bedding down for the night, but to catch the
pests in jam jars. Each insect delivered alive
for research will earn a 5p donation for
charities supporting the International Year of
the Child.
The suggested "hunting" technique is to
make traps from jam jars wrapped in brown
paper, rough side out, to enable cockroaches
to climb the sides. The jars should be baited
with a little flour or mashed banana.
"Catch-a-cockroach" month is sponsored
by Rentokil.They want more specimens for
testing in the search for better ways of
extermination. A spokesman said today:
"With any luck, hunters may find the larger
chestnut-coloured cockroach or the rare
brown banded cockroach.
England beat Scotland 3-1
England retained the British football
championship today. T h f match was a game
of two contrasting halves. A revitalised
Scotland took control of the first half with
Wark scoring an early goal. However, a
romping, dancing, tartan, skinhead intruder
who spent three minutes eluding the clutches
of five panting policemen, not to mention a
finger-wagging, Portuguese referee wearing
a shocking pink uniform, did the Wembley
International no favours at all. In the time
added on for the intruder's presence, Peter
Barnes, with a slow, wriggling shot, put
England back in the game.
England took control of the second half
with goals from Coppell and Keegan.
Sunday 27th
Fish market moves down river
For more than 1,000 years Billingsgate has
been the home of London's fish trade. The
market is to move from the City of London to a
site down river.
A £7.2 million development will be built at
the West India Dock in Tower Hamlets.
At present, about 90 firms employing more
than 800 people are engaged in the wholesale
fish trade at the market. But the traders say
that the market has become too small.
Monday 28th
Britain to let in more Vietnamese Boat People
982 Vietnamese "Boat People" rescued
from the South China S e a by the British
freighter Sibonga are to be admitted to
Britain.
Mrs Thatcher took the decision to allow
them in them in for humanitarian reasons but
the Government is worried about the other
million refugees who will be encouraged to
try to reach our shores.
Petrol Shortage
Bank Holiday traffic was kept to a minimum
by the threat of rain and the warnings of fuel
shortages. However, the A A a n d R A C
reported a flood of calls from motorists
stranded without petrol.
Tuesday 29th
The British and American DC 10's Grounded
Potentially dangerous deficiencies in the
engine-wing assembly of many D C 10's has
forced the American Government to ground
all its D C 10 s. The Civil Aviation Authority
sent a directive to British operators to ground
their airliners.
The precise cause of the loss of the D C 10
in Chicago last Friday is still not clear and
officials have been careful to say that the
broken bolt found near the runway after the
crash may not necessarily have been the sole
cause.
Girls rush to meet sailors
F o l o w i n g W e d n e s d a y ' s a p p e a l t o
residents living near the Dartmoor Naval
College to help foreign trainees meet British
people, the College has been swamped with
hundreds of girls wanting to "meet a foreign
midshipman." Shame that the same reaction
didn't occur during 'Meet IC Day". •

