WarCraft : Defence of the Ancients
The girl next to you plays it. Your lecturer plays it. Chooi Yew Vern plays it, and here’s how to play it
D
efense of the Ancients
(DotA) depicts the epic
battle between the
noble Sentinel and the
nefarious Scourge as
they attempt to destroy each other
on the field of battle. Spells fly and
blades flash as heroes both good
and evil fight for the supremacy of
their respective allegiances. Exag-
gerated comments aside, DotA is a
team game between two sides – the
Sentinel and the Scourge. Up to five
players can play on a team, mean-
ing 10 players maximum in a game.
Using a range of heroes unique to
the side they are playing on, play-
ers do battle in order to destroy
their opponent’s base and ultimate-
ly their opponent’s “Ancient” while
defending their own “Ancient”,
hence the name.
DotA sports an immense amount
of heroes, currently numbered at
84. Each hero has 4 unique skills
to use throughout the game. These
abilities determine the role a hero
is most likely to play in a game. He-
roes with skills that allow them to
sustain more damage from enemy
attacks usually play the “Tank” role
while those that are weak in combat
but cast powerful spells are usually
the supporting casters for the team.
This not only requires players to be
skilled at the game but requires
teams to have strong teamwork,
to be able to forge strategies and
tactics on the fly, as well as adapt
to changing situations in the game.
Heroes in DotA even have the privi-
lege of having their own histories
which adds depth to the game, not
to mention being fun to read.
The items in the game, such as
potions and weapons, are vital to
players to enhance their heroes.
Items have their own uses such
as for healing, adding to a hero’s
damage and casting spells such
as cyclones and lightning bolts. A
combination of these basic items
can then be mixed together to form
better items with enhanced abili-
ties. A large total number of item
combinations combined with a
large number of heroes to choose
from promises to make each game
unique and interesting.
What really makes the game in-
teresting is the fact that it is always
evolving. New heroes, items and ge-
ographical changes are constantly
added to make the game interesting
for beginners and exciting to those
that are already fans of the game.
With DotA being the most popular
custom map on the Blizzard online
Battle.net server and fast becom-
ing a competitive game internation-
ally, tinkering of heroes and items
are constantly underway in order
to make the game more balanced.
With the game constantly chang-
ing and improving, players have to
regularly rethink their game strate-
gies and hero builds in order to best
their opponents.
So how do you start playing DotA?
First, get yourself a copy of Warcraft
3 and its expansion, The Frozen
Throne. Download the map and the
AI information from www.getdota.
com. With this you’re set to play!
You should refrain from jumping
straight into an actual game online
or with friends as you’ll probably
not do too well on your first try (this
is speaking from personal experi-
ence). Play a few practice games
by yourself or with the computer
on the AI map, just to get famil-
iar with the game. Practice with a
few heroes to start and move on to
other heroes once you get the hang
of them. Once you’re confident with
your skill, its time to move on to the
actual thing.
You can log on to Battle.net – Bliz-
zard’s internet matchmaking serv-
ice – to play DotA online or get to-
gether a few friends and play over
the Local Area Network. A word of
advice: playing with the computer
is nothing compared to playing with
real players. However, if you intend
to get better at the game, nothing
beats real experience. Guides and
tips are available online for players
who seek to improve their game and
take it to the next level. For more
information and announcements
on the game, visit the DotA main
website at www.dota-allstars.com
or come join ICGC’s sessions.
The key things to remember in
DotA tend to be common across all
games – first, it’s important to know
how you play. Once you’ve found
some heroes that you enjoy playing
with, stick to them and get better at
playing them. It’s all very well being
an all-rounder, but you need sharp
skills in some areas to get by.
You also need to get to know Do-
tA’s large repertoire of skills and
items. If you don’t know that your
opponent can stun your hero, then
he won’t be the only one stunned
when you come to pull off your final
push.Know what you’re up against,
or get beaten.
Speed is also of the essence, so
look for items (and heroes) that can
help with movement. A slow hero
is a dead one, so don’t get caught
napping.
Finally, remember that your hero
lives and dies based on the experi-
ence he can gain – and that means
killing blows. Taking the final hit on
an enemy not only nabs you more
experience, but denies enemies
the experiences themselves. Watch
health levels of the units around
you and focus attacks carefully.
Defence of the Ancients is one of
the Computer Games Society’s
networked games. If you want
to get involved in some matches,
email nb604@imperial.ac.uk to
subscribe to the CGC Mailing List.
Majestic. Shiny. Prone to posing for dramatic pictures. It’s like the Felix centrefold, but with more clothes and less controversy afterwards
18 felix Friday 2 March 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

