ICURFC who is Sylvia? Who is Sylvia, what is she?
She’ a rag bag, shag bag automatic whore with a fanny as wide as a
big barn door she can hop she can jump shove a barrel up her cunt,
she’s the girl for me.
Ooh baby, give it to me harder, “fuck me with your finger, fuck me
with your cock”, she cried. “Arghhhh!”
Varsity 2007 – The revenge of IC
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editor
24 felix Friday 2 March 2007
SPORT sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you turn up to varsity this year (which you should) chances are you’ll hear quite a few
chants coming from both the medic and IC supporters. So that we are all singing from the
same hymn sheet we thought it would be a good idea to print some of the more popular (and
confusing) chants. This first song is something of an anthem for Imperial rugby, traditionally
sung when the team win and to lift spirits when things go bad:
This Wednesday will see the annual
competition between IC and ICSM,
also known as the “medics”, to do
battle once more on the sports field.
Varsity in Imperial’s centenary year
should be a bigger and more fierce-
ly fought event than ever before
The day includes outdoor sports
at Harlington Sports Ground in-
cluding football, rugby, lacrosse
and hockey, indoor sports at Ethos
including water polo, badminton,
netball, basketball and squash; fin-
ishing the day with the spectacular
ICU RFC and ICSM RFC clash in
the JPR Williams Rugby Varsity
Match at Richmond Athletic Asso-
ciation Ground.
Events kick off (or push back)
from 12.00 at Harlington with Im-
perial and Imperial Medics teams
battling it out in football, rugby, la-
crosse and hockey matches.
Last year there was some fierce
competition between the 2nd and
3rd XV, in the rugby, with the medics
winning both games but not without
a fight from the Imperial boys. The
football club showed their flair by
comprehensively beating the med-
ics at Harlington, in some cases ut-
terly embarrassing the medics and
leaving the supporters wondering
whether; rather than face IC them-
selves they had each brought along
their favourite great aunt to play
instead.
The hockey club did not disap-
point either, with all the mens and
womens hockey teams dominating
the field, providing great entertain-
ment for the supporters who were
there.
At Ethos, the water polo, badmin-
ton, basketball and netball sides are
back for some more competition
and this year, squash has also been
added to the program, however
due to the lack of viewing areas in
Ethos, we will not be selling tickets
to the Ethos matches.
The JPR Williams Cup is now in
its fifth year, last year the medics
edged away towards the end of the
game, winning 22 – 12; 2007 prom-
ises stronger competition from IC,
excellent rugby, and a very vocal
and enthusiastic crowd. The match
kicks off at 19.30 at Richmond Ath-
letic Association Ground, and tick-
ets must be bought for this event.
The JPR Williams Rugby Varsity
matchistheCollege’slargestsports
spectator event, and a must see for
all sport enthusiasts and anyone
looking for a good night out.
Tickets for the event, may be
bought on line at www.imperial-
collegeunion.org/sports-partner-
ship-322/category
The annual Varsity event takes place this Wednesday. Here’s a picture from last year’s “Spot the Borrower” contest
When I was just a little boy, my mother asked me what will I be.
Will I be IC? Will I be medic?
Here’s what she said to me:
Go and get your fathers gun, and shoot all the medic scum, and shoot
all the medic scum, shoot the medic scum!
Who can take Shipman, give him to a gran,
tell her how to abuse, the fucking medic man?
The S&M Man, The S&M Man,
‘cause he mixes it with love
and makes the hurt feel good...
The hurt feel good...
A selection of Varsity match chants in F minor
Here’s one that tells the medics exactly what we think of them:
This song is not for the faint hearted and the easily offended should look away now, appar-
ently some of the boys picked up this song, along with a few other things, while on tour this
summer. The tune if the same as the Candy Man song from the start of the first Charlie and
the Chocolate Factory film, the good thing about this chant is that some rather large, slightly
lairy, drunken bloke will start and all you have to do is repeat what he says:
Who can take just two bricks, hold one in each hand,
bang them on a medic, like the cymbals in the band?
The S&M Man, The S&M Man,
‘cause he mixes it with love
and makes the hurt feel good...
The hurt feel good...
Who can take a feminist, punch her in the face.
Throw the bitch in the kitchen and yell, “Know your fucking place!”
Who can go to an abortion clinic, sneak around the back,
Rummage through the dumpster and grab a tasty snack?
Who can go to an abortion clinic, fuck sneaking round the back,
Enter through the front door and take one off the rack?
Who can take two ice picks, shove ‘em in her ears,
ride her like a Harley while he fucks her in the rear?
There are also some ever-popular one-liners including:
Shipman is your idol, Shipman is your idol, la la la la, la la la la
Medics take it up the arse, do-dah, do-dah!
Who owns you, who owns you
And my housemate’s personal favourite:
(No I don’t live with very nice (or intelligent) people, if you have a spare room please email:
felix.sport@imperial.ac.uk)
If all else fails then just copy what the person next to you is yelling, or simply yell something
incoherent involving medics and some unsightly part of your anatomy! If you are, by some
unfortunate coincidence, a medic simply insert ‘IC’ where we say ‘medic’ as the rest of your
supporters will be doing!
cunt,
Shipman Shipman

