March is always a weird period for myself and the
blonde as it is one of those months that just creep
uponyouwhenyouleastexpectit.Onethoughtthat
she has on the month is that it follows February, the
time for love, romance and RAG. A hub of activity
surrounds the students at the College as most plan
their event in the shortest month of the year. Now
this confuses me, (as well as the misses, but this
was to be expected as she is non-Imperial) why
would the top students in the country, if not the
world plan events; a) in February and b) all at the
same time? There must be something magical or
mysterious about the month! The same hypnotic
type drug that gets people to spend hundreds on
their loved ones for a day invented by Clinton cards
is infecting our students and getting us to pile a
whole host of events together.
When speaking to some of the students who lie on
the sofas outside my oﬃce, they had a few ideas
on why February was so unique. A few suggestions
were “itʼs hard to spell the month”, (she was a non
medic) another student was more philosophical and
tried to use some historical fact to his argument…
“February is probably named after a Greek God and
that God must have been pretty crap or something
and so they decided it should be the shortest
month of the year”. Both are very sound arguments
to my question but taking the ﬁrst studentʼs idea on
names being a factor when deeming the importance
of a month…why not May? Surely, it is the most
extreme of the twelve? For starters it does not even
end with “ary”, it possesses the least letters of them
all and itʼs named after the Imperial God of Rock
and hair products, Brian May!
So before we close the book on the wonder that is
February and present it with its month of the year
sash, I wanted to notify the jury on a little gem called
March. March to me is special as it welcomes in the
smell of Varsity. A period in the Collegeʼs year,
where friends become enemies and lovers become
haters, for just a few days. For those who have been
a sleep for a few years or are new to IC, varsity is
the chance for the medical school to exhibit why
we are the crème de la crème of Imperial. The day
allows for the medical school clubs to compete
against the rest of Imperial in a whole host of
sports from waterpolo to lacrosse and of course
the big J.P.R. Williams rugby trophy in the evening.
Varsity carries with it the underlying message that
the medical school is a unique entity and that itʼs
individuality needs to be respected. It is more than
just a sports competition. This year varsity comes
with a few delightful little twists, one being that it
is Imperialʼs big 100 and the Faculty of Medicineʼs
10th birthday this summer and two, that we have a
new competition added to the pot…athletics (Which
you will read about in my next exciting instalment).
So below, is a little highlight of the fun packed day
next week.
2007 welcomes another exciting Varsity
programme with an array of spectator sports on
oﬀer. The day entails outdoor sports at Harlington
Sports Ground including football, rugby, lacrosse
and hockey, indoor sports at Ethos including water
polo, badminton, netball, basketball and squash;
ﬁnishing the day with the spectacular ICU RFC and
ICSM RFC clash in the JPR Williams Rugby Varsity
Match at Richmond Athletic Association Ground.
Harlington Sports Ground
Events kick oﬀ from 12.00 at Harlington with
Imperial and Imperial Medics teams battling it out
in football, rugby, lacrosse and hockey matches.
Tickets are required for the matches at Harlington.
Ethos
The water polo, badminton, basketball and
netball sides are back for some more competition
this year and squash has also been added to the
programme.
Due to the lack of viewing areas in Ethos, we will not
be selling tickets to the Ethos matches.
JPR Williams Rugby Varsity Match
The ﬁfth year in the eventʼs history, 2007 promises
even stronger competition, excellent rugby, and
a very vocal and enthusiastic crowd. An oﬃcial
Centenary event, the JPR Williams Rugby Varsity
match is the Collegeʼs largest sports spectator
event. The match kicks oﬀ at 19.30 at Richmond
Athletic Association Ground.
Tickets are required for this match. For a map and
directions to the ground please goto the Richmond
Athletic Association Ground website,
www.londonscottish.com.
Tickets
£6.50
Advanced ticket for entry to evening JPR Williams
Rugby match only.
£7.50
On the gate ticket for JPR Williams Rugby match
only.
£8.00
Travel from South Kensington/Charing Cross to
Richmond for the evening JPR Williams Rugby
match only.
£10.00
Travel from South Kensington/Charing Cross to
Harlington, entry to Harlington matches, travel to
Richmond, entry to JPR Williams rugby match and
travel back to South Kensington/Charing Cross.
Ticketscanbe
purchased:
Online from the
Imperial College
Union website.
Upon purchase,
you will receive
a conﬁrmation
email which you
will need to print
oﬀ and exchange
for a ticket
on the gate at
Richmond Athletic
Association Ground
For any further information, please contact
Imperialʼs Sports Development Oﬃcer, Nick Gore,
n.gore@imperial.ac.uk.
Right to Play, a registered charity, is the oﬃcial
charity for the JPR Williams Rugby Varsity Match.
Right to Play is an athlete-driven international
humanitarian organisation that uses sport and play
as a tool for development of children and youth in
the most disadvantaged areas of the world.
www.righttoplay.org.uk
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Centenary Update
Shiv Chopra
Medic President
medic.president@
imperial.ac.uk
Council Elections 2007
for more info: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Nominations for Council Elections 2007 are now open.
You can stand at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote for the following
positions:
• Council Chair
• Equal Opportunities Oﬃcer
• Welfare Campaigns Oﬃcer
• RAG Chair
• CAG Chair

