PAGE 27
felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 23rd
OCTOBER 2015
felix@imperial.ac.uk
BUSINESS
I
n the UK back in 2006 the
majority of pubs served mostly
identical lagers on keg; variety
was achieved by a changing
assortment of warm cask ales that
often left younger drinkers wanting.
In the US, the situation was similar;
bars served a narrow range of
indistinguishable beers: Bud Light,
Coors Light, Budweiser and the
like. Any variety found came in the
form of expensive import beers like
Guinness.
By 2015 it might appear that
nothing has changed: Bud Light
is still the USA’s most drunk beer,
beating its equally bland rival Miller
Light by over $3 billion in sales. Yet
the experience of going out for a
beer has unquestionably changed.
Drinkers are now met with a
smorgasbord of choice thanks to the
rise of craft beer. These are highly
flavourful beers made by small,
independent companies. From
dedicated brewpubs like The Craft
Beer Co. to curmudgeonly chains
like Wetherspoons, almost every
pub sells some amount of craft beer.
This visible change in pubs and
bars on both sides of the pond is
reflected in the numbers: in the US,
craft beer volumes were around 5
million barrels through the early
noughties before rapidly growing
to 22 million today. This double
digit growth in production goes
against the negligible change in beer
consumption over that time: craft
breweries are stealing market share
from the big players.
2018, and has sold off investments
in other assets not essential to
brewing. These easy profit-boosting
moves have undercut the potential
impact AB InBev may have had.
Areas where they might have
hoped to cut costs, in the arguably
bloated South African operations
of SABMiller, will meet strong
governmental opposition as local
politicians seek to safeguard jobs.
If AB InBev will struggle to
make radical improvements via
cost-cutting then perhaps synergies
will justify the acquisition. In the
jargon of mergers and acquisitions,
synergies refer to the sharing
of resources by two firms, thus
reducing overheads and increasing
profits. A challenge to this is that
the two firms operate in different
regions; it is difficult to realise
efficiency gains when breweries are
on different continents.
Where the two firms do share
territory such gains might not be
allowed: national antitrust agencies
(bodies that watch out for the
growth of monopolies) will demand
the selling off of assets to prevent
the dominance of the new company.
The most obvious goal of AB
InBev is, surely, geographical.
SABMiller has a foothold in Africa,
with a near 90% market share in
South Africa and a small presence
in the important Nigerian market.
AB InBev’s CEO, Carlos Brito,
claims that the acquisition will
allow his firm’s brands to be sold in
the rapidly growing African market.
Yet this is not as simple as it
sounds. Importing brands such
as Budweiser would make them
prohibitively expensive. Even
brewing the beers locally may be
tricky; barley is expensive in Africa
and local brewers have responded
by developing alternatives based
on cassava and sorghum. It remains
to be seen whether AB InBev’s
offerings can gain traction in the
The Apprentice did beer once, remember? This is not the same at all. Photo Credit: BBC / Boundless
Alastair Heffernan
Writer
It is difficult
to realise
efficiency
gains when
breweries are
on different
continents
Last orders as craft beer steals market share
Will a mega-merger in the brewing industry save big beer?
The biggest of all, AB InBev
(producer of Bud Light and
Brazilian favourite Skol) is
responding to the encroachment
of the craft brewers by buying
its rival, second largest brewing
conglomerate SABMiller (maker
of Miller, Peroni and Grolsch).
The acquisition, provisionally
announced last week, will cost AB
InBev some $104 billion and will
produce a global superpower in
brewing, responsible for around one
in three pints consumed worldwide.
Yet, even this industry titan might
not be able to save big beer.
That’s not to say that AB InBev
doesn’t have form in the field of
billion dollar acquisitions. The
company was born out of a deal
that saw Belgian based InBev buy
US brewer Anheuser-Busch. InBev
took a firm with flat lining shares
and ruthlessly trimmed the fat,
cutting back on everything from
free baseball tickets to corporate
jets. The new company, AB InBev,
saw its share price increase tenfold
from its acquisition in 2008 to
today, justifying the premium InBev
paid for AB. The firm would seem
well placed to repeat this story of
success with SABMiller.
The problem is that SABMiller
is not Anheuser-Busch. SABMiller
has seen solid share price growth
since 2004, rising from £5 to over
£35 a share in recent weeks. In
addition, it has undergone its own
cost-cutting programme, projecting
savings of $500 million a year by
As most companies don’t sit around with over $100 billion in the bank (Apple being a glaring exception to
this rule) AB InBev are looking to finance their deal using debt.They will achieve this by selling a rumoured
$60 billion of bonds. This cash will be used to buy out around 59% of the shareholders of SABMiller for
£44 a share (the price is in sterling as SABMiller is listed in London). The remaining 41% of the shares,
belonging to two of the major shareholders, are being offered a partial share swap. Instead of buying the
remaining shares, AB InBev will offer in the region of half an AB InBev share for every SABMiller one, in
addition to a small amount of cash. Based on the current share prices, this amounts to a significant discount
to the shareholders getting all cash.The reason the two big shareholders would accept getting a worse offer
is that receiving shares instead of a cash windfall will prevent them receiving a massive tax bill.
A $104 billion dollar whip-round
region.
Instead of a potentially value-
destroying mega-deal, the firms
owner’s might have been better
served by the company improving
its prospects at home.
One way it could do this is
by dealing with the elephant in
the room: craft beer. Instead of
reverting to its more monopolistic
tendencies of the past decade,
such as attempting to limit craft
breweries’ access to the market by
throttling distribution lines, the
big brewers could diversify their
offering. They could set up beer
incubators in the manner of tech
start-ups,bankrolling small brewers,
advertising their products and
helping them to market.
In this way AB InBev would
undercut its current products with
its own brands.To those that would
rather the big beer companies stay
out of the craft beer market, the
reality is that if AB InBev promotes
a California pale ale or sour beer
in the future as it does Bud Light
today, it would encourage more
people to drink better beer, and in
doing so, grow the market for better
quality brews. A bigger market for
craft beer benefits all producers and
will ensure that even more pubs
are supplied with the good stuff. A
world with declining sales of dire
lager must be a better one.
As it is, AB InBev has bought a
company with an almost identical
portfolio of beers as itself. While
African growth might sustain it
for a while, the new company will
continue to face declining sales
under the pressure from craft beers.
If other markets such as Latin
America and Africa ultimately make
the move to craft, then perhaps AB
InBev will end up wishing it had
gambled on quality not quantity.

