10 MUSIC 5 May 1998
A L B U M S
v j THE JESUS AND MARY CHAIN
Munki * *
Cheer up, lads.
T
he Jesus A n d M a r y Chain
used to be very, very famous.
From the beautiful beginnings
of S o m e Candy Talking, one of the
most unforgettable songs of the
eighties, the JfkMC looked set to
take over from the Smiths as the
staple student band. Surprisingly
they failed, and the band soon fell
away f r o m the public eye.
However, as if by magic in 1994
they reappeared with one of the
best and most controversial songs
of that year, Reverence. Suddenly
the phrase 'I wanna die just like
Jesus Christ, I wanna die on a bed
of spikes' was being sung by all
comers at every respectable stu-
dent disco across the land. Then,
as if fifteen minutes of fame was all
the J&JV1C were allowed at any one
time, they slipped into oblivion.
But hey, they're back again with
a new line up, including bassist Phil
King, formerly of Lush, and this
time they say they're back for
g o o d . But the question is; are they
in any position to challenge current
kings of student-pop The Verve and
Radiohead? Sadly no; and even
more sadly, they are absolutely
miles behind. The sound of Munki
rarely exceeds the limits of aver-
age, and although there are a few
moments of brilliance, the album
by no means lives up to the expec-
tation that one might have of it.
The recent single Cracking Up
wasn't so bad, but no so bad is not
what I want from the J&JV1C and
Munki is therefore a massive disap-
pointment. However a couple of
the tracks are very g o o d and one
named Never Understood, with the
super lyric 'everybody hates a pres-
ident, everybody loves a queen',
may just be g o o d enough to pro-
vide the JfkMC with another short
and sweet fifteen minutes of fame.
H James
SILVERBULLIT
Silverbullit • *
I
think s o m e o n e out there is hav-
ing a laugh. Not since the terri-
fyingly coiffeured Rocket from
the Crypt have a band tried to d o
something like this. That they're
d o o m e d to fail seems to be the
only reason they've gotten this far
as I can't believe anyone would
have paid for this band to record if
they thought this was anything but
an April Fool's joke.
It actually isn't as bad as I've
made out as there are instances
when it all sounds very Hendrix-
e s q u e (but fuzzier) as o n the
stand-out track Boots. If nothing
else these boys have at least put a
lot of energy into the songs;
though they sound as if they might
have d o n e everything in one ses-
sion and are fairly knackered by the
end of the album, about to col-
lapse due to pure exhaustion.
Erm, I really can't say much
else as I haven't really got anything
else left to talk about. Your dad
might like this. CI
Martin
S I N G L E S
Therapy? - Lonely, Cryin'
Starts off with an answering machine message
that is on the unwelcoming side, 'Leave a mes-
sage, or leave me alone'. The song crashes
along with frantic punk-poppiness only lasting a
typically brief 2"2 minutes. It is catchy but in the
end pretty dull.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N 1
Manbreak - Round and Round
O h yes, this is fantastic. The simple but superior
bass line lifts the semi-shout-along lyrics that has
the lead singer sounding uncannily similar to ex-
Stuffie Miles Hunt. There were a frightening ten
mixes of this track on the C D and although they
admittedly sound very similar, the best of the lot
has to be the Brown and Sloppy Bassadelik mix.
Jepp - Parsons Green
This does not appeal. Her voice is nasal and the
song just drifts straight in, carried along by bland
acoustic strumming, and straight out without a
flicker of memorability.
Shed Seven - Heroes
It has got the swaying gait that will probably
make it a g o o d old sing-along at their gigs and
you can imagine the lighters appearing aloft in
the air now. Sounds scary. You have to ask your-
self what has happened since the hooligan bril-
liance of She Left Me on a Friday. The forth-
coming album does not hold m u c h hope if this
is the second best track from it.
Lionrock - Scatter and Swing
This is the follow up to the intensely catchy Rude
Boy Rock, though you won't find it o n City
Delirious their excellent second long player. This
is up there on the same danceable level as Rude
Boy... though it not quite as catchy. Definite
summer vibes.
Evil Superstars - It's a Sad Sad Planet
Very similar to Ben Folds Five minus the piano
and exuding a summery excuberance despite
the morbid title. Calling this song annoying is an
understatement and it gets worse as the backing
harmonies echo 'sad sad', totally destroying the
chorus.
The |esus and Mary Chain - iloverockandroll
After the detour from their trademark sound
with Cracking Up they've released a very typi-
cally thrashed out grinding guitar song. But hang
on, did I hear some trumpets in there? I'm afraid
even adding trumpets does not help to lift this
track up very far.
Jason
Garbage - Push It
There's no way you haven't heard this one yet if
you listen to the radio. Great beat and bass, with
Shirley M a n s o n giving another outstanding per-
formance.
Mover - Classic No.9
This is a 50s sounding indie guitar band, if their
can be such a thing, and it works well. The lead
singer needs a bit of work but the song's already
there.
Darren Day - How Can I Be Sure
This blew me away. I was expecting Cliff Richard
but the guitars kicked in and I realised this was
heavy rock. Day then rages through the song.
This song is Metallica but better.
Agnes - Hole In My Head
The first decent female lead indie band for quite
some a while. Even though this song sounds
typical, it is strong in all parts and might be a
band to watch for in the future.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N 2
Headswim - Better Made
The passion the singer puts into the chorus has
not been seen since the Longpigs. Even better
than their last single Tourniquet and all about
feeling bad for what you've done after a drunk-
en night. Hits the nail on the head.
Simple Minds - War Babies
I almost thought this was U 2 from its start, but
of course without the class. The song then just
goes downhill to the limp chorus. Simple Minds
fans will find this a disappointing return.
Symposium - Bury You
A return for the boys based on the theory that
singing a weak melody and then going schitz
makes g o o d music. Sadly it doesn't. CI
Disco Stu

