12 MUSIC 5 May 1998
C O L I N D A L E I N T E R V I E W
the M^ctrhc /c$fie
A
nyone w h o follows the more under-
ground strains of electronic music will at
least have heard or read the name Colin
Dale. M o s t should be quite familiar with this
personality. They will have danced to his skillful
blending of techno and house in s o m e of the
world's most exciting dance clubs, they will have
listened to his revolutionary and ground-break-
ing radio show called the Abstrakt Dance which
appears every week o n Kiss F M , or they will
have possibly bought one of the releases on
his o w n record label, also called Abstrakt
Dance.
1 must confess that Colin Dale is one of
the main reasons that I a m DJing today; both
on the radio and in clubs. His ability to c o m -
municate very avant-garde and, for want of a
better w o r d , unpopular (in the sense that the
electronica he played was never mainstream)
music as something that was creative, individ-
ual and fresh certainly broke d o w n my fears of
listening to music that W A S N ' T made to be
marketed and that W A S p r o d u c e d with the
passion of sound and music in mind . O f
course my musical taste has developed sepa-
rately since 1 started my o w n radio projects,
but I definitely got the courage to go out and
search for the music I wanted to listen to from
Colin.
After his problems with new central-heat-
ing systems and food poisoning and many
frayed nerves on my part (even big-name DJs
can have mundane problems like the rest of us!!)
I finally got my chance to meet the man himself.
I would describe Colin as no different to how I
find him on the radio; laid-back, down-to-earth.
Don't be deceived though! This gentle and soft-
spoken ambassador of techno can rock the
house when he wants to!
In this age of mass categorization and I was
curious to know how Colin would describe his
musical style. "I describe the music I play essen-
tially as techno music. In saying techno 1 don't
mean it's just thump-thump-thump all night,
because unfortunately that's the type of name
that a lot of people put to techno. I like to play
more subtle techno and music that's crossed with
house and maybe even funk and bits of jazz
thrown in there as well. That's clubwise. O n the
radio it's more broad and open. I play everything
from ambient right through to quite hard techno."
Colin is quite modest and down-to-earth
when asked about h o w he initially started in
dance music. He claims that many of the oppor-
tunities that came his way passed by luck. There
are no tall stories about his natural talent and all
the DJs and stars he hung out with. O n e of his
most endearing qualities is that he seems c o n -
stantly surprised that people respect him so,
and that he has got to where he is today. "I was
working for a bank actually, which gave me loads
of money to go clubbing. I started going to Tim
W e s t w o o d ' s club and I'd say I was a dancer ini-
tially. That's h o w I got into clubs. It was Tim that
gave me my first break and it just sort of went
from there. I was very very lucky. I fell into Kiss
F M when they were pirates and were actually
iooking for DJs to d o shows. So I guess I've been
very lucky with the whole thing."
The Abstrakt Dance radio show has helped
Colin make a name for himself in the London
scene, and has earned him enormous interna-
tional respect from the "electronic community"
w o r l d w i d e . Despite playing four-four dance
music, Colin justifies the use of the Abstrakt tag.
" What I wanted to d o with the whole thing was
run just left or right of what was happening cur-
rently in the clubs. It was a slight alternative,
maybe a twist, on what was happening in
London. W h e n I listen to electronic music I can
hear funk in there. I can hear jazz; all types of
influences that other people wouldn't hear.
That's why it's called Abstrakt Dance."
However he does insist on keeping up with
the pace of electronic music that is created sim-
ply to push forward barriers and keep music
progressive, experimental and off the wall.. This
portion of the Abstrakt Dance is called the Outer
Limits. Colin describes the style as "sounds that
people wouldn't hear on the radio usually. I
could have taken an easier route where 1 would
have done a commercial show on Kiss." he con-
tinues, "But I didn't want to d o that, and I'm
lucky that people respected me for that."
1 ask Colin where he gets his inspiration from
in terms of mixing and choosing music. Is it from
his busy international agenda, or his home-
based radio shows? "Clubwise it's really g o o d
because I've been really lucky to travel the whole
world and play in different clubs and see differ-
ent cultures. I find that the most inspiring aspect
of club DJing. To be totally honest I don't really
get m u c h inspiration from outside radio-wise.
What I normally d o is play tunes to people that
I w o u l d like to hear on the radio myself. I get my
feedback mostly from the producer at Kiss, and
also from speaking to people like yourself.
Things that you are doing in your radio show I
find very interesting and inspiring as well."
Alongside playing music, Colin has also
started promoting and spreading it with his o w n
label, Abstrakt Dance. Our conversation moves
onto the state of the dance music scene.
Anyone w h o goes out and buys records, from a
bedroom enthusiast to a top international DJ,
will know that the market is currently saturated
with new labels and genres of music. "You have
to d i g really deep to find decent tracks in record
shops now, which 1 must admit is the fun of it.
But I still think that there are way too many
labels around." So what led Colin to start off his
own label? "Nowadays DJs are expected to start
their o w n labels. They are expected to make
music. That's why I d i d it! But also the label is
_ very m u c h tied in with the radio show. I was
hearing all these great tapes of unreleased
material from people and I thought that
s o m e o n e ' s got to get this stuff out."
You can check out past releases from
Colin's brother, Trevor Dale, the Advent and
a collective from South L o n d o n called Devo.
Future releases will be from Ian O'Brien,
M a r k Bell (one half of LFO), Colin himself
and Civil Attack.
As someone w h o has traveled the globe
as a musical ambassador, Colin feels that
the " L o n d o n musical vibe" is very important
in an international sense. " People abroad
looks to London as being the number one in
terms of fashion, music and new ideas. W e
^] were the first to get into house music, we
had drum'n'bass and punk before that; it
goes way back. L o n d o n has had some very
fresh ideas. People abroad still look towards
us for inspiration, but then they'll d o their
own take on what London's doing. You can
see it now in that y o u can go to any big city
in the world and find a d'n'b club. They take
ideas that are formed in L o n d o n and just add
their o w n flavour to it."
The criticisms that are often aimed at music
made on computers and DJing don't seem to
bother Colin in what he does. "The hardest thing
to d o is to give those machines some sort of
soul; to make that computer-generated music
sound like it's got a tiny bit of human input and
emotion in it. That's where the talent lies." As
for DJing being an overpaid hobby? "I myself can
feel w h e n a DJ is trying to d o something more
than put two records together. I essentially think
a DJ is there to create s o m e sort of atmosphere
in a club. It can be dark, light, happy, sad or
whatever. S o m e can d o it well, others can't. To
me it is an art form. You can give two people the
same records and get them up there and one
will fail and the other will be perfect; even if they
play them in the same order. So it is very much
an art."
You can hear the whole Colin Dale interview
and a one hour mix if y o u listen to the Electric
Cafe this Sunday night from midnight - 2am on
IC Radio.
al;ck.

