14 MUSIC 15 May 1998
C L U B S C E N E - L A B E L P R O F I L E
Just Flexing In Marvel City
Marvel City Records (MCR) is a new dance label coming out of South London that looks set for big things. MCR is made up of three people :
Dexter (a well established DJ on the underground scene), Pypee, A&R and promotion and Redz, who balances the books. These three guys are
also known as the Flex Kru with their first single Watch The Flex (reviewed issue 1108) doing big things on the underground scene. Also shar-
ing the office with the boys are DEA, a more out and out underground Garage label that has had its first few releases over the last month
(reviewed issue 1112) with some wicked new tunes on the way. D) Dexter also recently compiled and mixed Bullion's Sub Level UK compila-
tion: you can catch him live and direct as part of the Hit-squad on Upfront 99.3 FM (London's leading pirate station) Saturdays 2-4 pm where,
you can hear future releases first, and on the underground party circuit (La Costa Nosta, The Aquarium etc.)
Why was Watch the Flex released on
Bullion records not MCR ?
Pypee: Because we're a start up label
we want to associate ourselves with the
likes of Sony, being part of an establish-
ments see, it gives us s o m e status. W e
know all these underground small distrib-
ution companies that w e know w e can
get our stuff out on but w e didn't know
whether w e could get our stuff out
through the majors. So we've got the
back up of a major distribution c o m p a n y
behind our independent label, so n o w
when we release stuff o n M C R people
will be saying. Hey there, the Flex Kru,
they had a tune out with Sony we'll check
their new one out etc. Instead of " W h o are they
then?"
What's the philosophy behind the label
and your music ?
Pypee: You know the kids round here in
South L o n d o n ain't got nothing to look forward
to. Working at Tescos ain't gonna get very far
you know, so we're trying to help all those bed-
r o o m p r o d u c e r s and s h o w t h e m h o w to
approach distribution companies, labels, how to
get copyrights, all that sort of shit that they
don't have a clue about. If you're not careful you
get screwed - especially the younger ones. You
could make the best tune ever and not make a
penny from it, as a few people I know found
out: they started y o u n g at making tunes and got
signed up o n a contract that paid them a few
grand, but that was it: the record c o m p a n y kept
the rights etc. Basically they got ripped off,
we're about trying to change that.
W e want M C R to be a flagship label bring
innovative beats and vocals. Being an outlet for
all the people round here in (South London)
making quality tunes in their bedrooms. They sit
in their r o o m and make all this quality music but
they have no outlet for it; h o w are these people
going to talk with the likes of Sony and all that,
they ain't.
Redz: S o m e people make a record and sell
say 5,000 copies and think "Right that sold
5,000 copies, we'll make everything else sound
similar. It worked once, it'll work again." W e
aren't like that, that's not what it's all about, it's
got to be from the heart.
Pypee: Because there's three of us and we
all produce together, our sound is always chang-
ing. W e all argue over what w e want and this
also helps to get a higher standard of produc-
tion because we'll only use something w e are all
happy with. W e have Reggae dubby influences
because it's our culture, as well as the whole
breakbeat, hip-hop and R n' B things as well.
Dexter, Pypee & Redz: A lot of people get
the studio production side of things all locked
d o w n but they don't have all the business, the
finance, promotion side of things locked d o w n .
In general, people seem to have one or the
other. What we're doing here is trying to bring
the two together, show people how to deal with
the business side of it all. W e are trying to help
as many people as possible because w e know
what they're going through people have written
them off and just try and sting them. W e teach
people about not just selling their tunes off for a
quick buck, but how to get a copyright done;
how to register their tracks; how to get a
license, so that when your tunes get played on
the radio or what ever you get paid etc. etc. All
these big companies want to d o is sting the lit-
tle guys like us.
Pypee: A n d the artists on our label will
always c o m e back, it's the boomerang effect, if
they get signed to the big labels they'll always
c o m e back because w e treated them right."
Redz: W e look out for people, especially the
younger ones that don't know what it's all
about. They go head first into it and get in shit,
drugs, whatever, we stop them dead in their
tracks and stop them before they make those
mistakes because we've seen it all before. W e
don't go round saying to people "Don't d o this,
don't d o that, w e know everything, don't d o
drugs", whatever, but what w e d o say is moder-
ation: do everything in moderation - especially
drugs - then if, or when, you want to stop, you
can because in this business there's a lot of
drugs and that around.
Pypee: Here's a little story for ya, we know
this guy, yeah, w h o wants to be an M C and he
c o m e s into the office saying "I want to be a
M C " , so what I did was go to the dictionary and
picked a word out and said "What does that
mean?" he goes "1 don't know." So I say, "Look,
every time you c o m e in here, I want you to pick
up five words and write them d o w n and what
they mean yeah and before you go to bed I want
you to d o another five and so o n . " He's going,
" N a , you're taking the piss, m a n " and all that,
" N o " I say, "There's a million and one
wannabe M C s out there. If y o u really want
to make it, y o u got to be doing something
about it, something different, be intelli-
gent." Then t w o days later, his m u m
phones us up thanking us and all this, you
know it's nice.
Is it out of hand the way every tune
that is released gets a garage mix,
house, R n' B etc, etc?
Pypee: Where I c o m e from we didn't
know what was R'n'B or jungle rap .what-
ever. If I liked it, I liked it. That was it.
Speaking with Pypee made me realise
that maybe 1 was being over critical with
the whole remix thing. As he rightly point-
ed out, with all these remixes of old hardcore
tunes 90-93, a lot of people into the scene now
had never heard the originals - especially the
younger crowds - so in a way it's paying respect
to the originals by getting them heard again by
more people.
Pypee also pointed out, w h e n I was talking
about how the music seeming to go in one
direction eg speed garage, that it's not the peo-
ple making the records that are all "Let's make
a tune that sounds like that", it's the distribution
companies that only buy the one style because
that's what's selling. There could be some c o m -
pletely different styles out there but y o u never
get to hear them until the distributors feel there
is a market.
Pypee: W e don't want our music to be
pigeonholed as this type of music or that type,
it's just g o o d dance music. W h e n you hear a
hip-hop or a salsa track on the radio they don't
say if it was a speed salsa track or whatever,
they just tell you the name of it. W h y can't they
do that with H o u s e 'n' Garage music?
The thing that impressed me about these
boys is the amount of work they have done in
all aspects; from decorating the offices (you
wouldn't believe the transformation and I've
seen the photos to prove it) to getting the
business side well and truly locked down.
They have certainly done their homework.
Pypee explained that when they decided to do
this, they were going to do it properly, no cut-
ting corners and the Understanding Tax video
on the shelf bore testament to this. From
what I have witnessed myself over the past
few weeks, these guys are genuinely trying to
help the people in and around their commu-
nity, not just looking out for themselves. So if
you're a bedroom producer wondering what
step to take next, contact one of the boys on
0181 771 7911, and look out for the future
release on MCR and DEA and the whole
Upfront 99.3 FM crew.
fo Public

