October 24, 1972 FELIX 1
concerts
Lunch hour recitals at Imperial College have a
high reputation both among the audiences who
attend and among the performers themselves who
appreciate the obviously attentive listeners.
The recitals are held in the library of the Mathe-
matics Department at 53 Prince's Gate, somewhat
removed from the central hub of the other General
Studies activities. On Thursday, October 19,
Gwenneth Pryor, who has performed at these con-
certs before, played a beautiful programme of
Debussy and Schubert.
'Suite pour le piano' is one of Debussy's earlier
works and it displays the new possibilities that he
revealed for the pianoforte. The interpretation by
Gwenneth Pryor was much liked by the audience
of over 60 people who packed the library. It was
interesting to compare the styles of the two com-
posers in the programme—the genius of Schubert
with his sudden contrasts and the originality of
Debussy with his summing up of the pianistic dis-
coveries of the nineteenth century.
The second piece of the two in the programme
was the Piano Sonata in B flat (D960) by Schubert.
His sonatas need a performance of great strength
of purpose, determination and uncommon inspira-
tion to really succeed and Gwenneth Pryor cer-
tainly succeeded. Her playing showed the true lyri-
cal beauty of the piece and there can be no doubt
that her recital in the Purcell Room in the near
future willbe a succss.
Those present at the maths library that afternoon
look forward to a return visit by Gwenneth Pryor.
The next recital in this series Will be on the 2nd
of November.
ANDREW MAFELD
records
LUMPY GRAVY: FRANK ZAPPA AND THE
ABNUCEALS EMUUKHA ELECTRIC SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS
'I worked in a cheesy newspaper company for a
while but that was terrible. I wasn't making enough
money to build anything. Then I worked in a print-
ing company, and a couple of gas stations. Oh, at
the gas station where I was working, my brother
had just gotten married, and he'd bought a
new car, and his wife was having a kid, and all this
miserable stuff, and he needed a job so I gave him
my job at the gas station from which I was fired
because you know he was going to work there. And
he had his car on the rack and he got fired because
he was goofing out man, and he just kept taking
parts and working on his car day and night . . .
and I went to work in an aircraft company and I
was building these planes, I worked on the XB70 I
was the last welder on that, but it was pretty good
bread because I was making 2-71 an hour and
100i a week . . . so I got an Oldsmobile, a groovy
Olds . . .' etc.
The most explicit stimulating and beautiful piece
of prose in the English Language? Well, perhaps
not. Actually I doubt if Euclid James 'Motorhead'
Sherwood so named, as you may have guessed,
because of his preoccupation with cars, thought
that either, but he probably didn't know that Frank
Zappa was going to immortalize his mechanical
achievements on record.
'Lumpy Gravy' was recorded originally in the
Spring of 1967; although release was delayed until
May 1968 to make way for 'We're Only In It for
the Money' and basically features various members
of the Mothers of Invention and their entourage,
notably Motorhead, Bunk Gardner and Pamela
Zarubica discussing pigs, ponies round things and
other items of total non-interest interspersed with
some original and occasionally totally beautiful
music, particularly the opening four or five minutes.
In fact most of the melodies have since been used
for better known Zappa songs; I picked out 'Bwana
Dik' from 'Mothers Live', 'Oh No' from 'Weasels
Ripped my Flesh', 'Mother People' and 'Take your
clothes off when you dance' from 'Only Money',
'King Kong' from 'Uncle Meat' and 'Magdalena'
from 'Just another Band from L.A.'
I would heartily recommend this music but it
has to be admitted that it amounts to less than half
of the album and unless you like avant-garde chat
shows you probably won't feel this is worth the
money. And much as I applaud Polydor for making
this and all the early Mothers albums available
once more in this country I'm sure that the world
wasn't ready for 'Lumpy Gravy' when it first came
out and I doubt if it's ready now.
SID A M O R
lou reed
It was a night of true Western Decadence in
the Great Hall on Saturday. Aside from the hypo-
dermics, methadone capsules and bloodstains that
were found in the gents after the concert Lou Reed
was singing songs about Berlin and butch ladies
of the Thirties, and teaching us (well, me at least)
about himself, the Velvet Underground in which
he became a legend in his own lifetime, and indeed
about popular music itself. Whether everyone of
the capacity audience analysed the concert in as
totally inartistic a fashion as I did I don't know;
I hope not, but fhey certainly went away satisfied
and he wasn't even wearing any make-up!
For the uninitiated, Lou Reed left the Velvet
Underground in August 1970, and shortly after-
wards had a nervous breakdown. He next appeared
on the scene early this year when he came to Lon-
don to record a "solo" album backed up by some
of the most accomplished session men in Britain
and returned midsummer for a series of concert
dates. Since then he has done two tours and his
appearance at I.C. may well be his last in London
before he returns to the States. Since his arrival he
has been backed by a group who I believe are called
"The Tots", although he did not mention them at
all during the act. Despite the bass-player's at-
tempts to overshadow his boss completely by his
poncing around, the Tots are a very competent
bunch of musicians and this is what interested me
particularly — their superslick togetherness when
applied to songs like "White Light/White Heat"
and "I'm Waiting for My Man" completely
changed the impression left by the songs, by re-
moving the spontaneity and crude enthusiasm which
paperbacks
"The Mating Game" by June Johns (Pan, 30p)
Sex, love and courtship in the zoo? Fascinating
disclosures on the savage lovemaking of tigers, the
moral rectitude of Emperor Penguins, the frantic
sexual demands made on sea lions in the mating
season, the courting rituals of flamingoes, snakes
and elephants . . . and not a piece of human geni-
talia to be seen anywhere.
Well, it may be all very interesting, however
what use is it? It is not for instance the sort of
material you could let fly at a dinner party. Could
you imagine this: "I say, did you know that the
male hippo has a backward-pointing penis?" That
should stop any hostess in her tracks.
June Johns has come out with a veritable animal
equivalent of Tom Jones. Her book is well written,
and I must admit at times fascinating. It must be
a difficult subject to write about in layman's terms,
and from any point of view it is easy to criticise a
non-scientific approach as cashing in on the sex-
erama.
While it may be true that man has a lot to learn
from animals, and in particular their courtship and
mating behaviour, I found Miss Johns had really
only skipped around the animal kingdom, taking
examples from where it suited her theme best.
The photographs add very little to the text in
what to my mind is an unnecessary and pointless
book. Perhaps the mediocrity of the whole thing is
shown up best by the captions on the cover—from
the Western Mail, the Evening News and the Man-
chester Evening News. Couldn't they do better
than that?
My advice is to forget it and stick to Penthouse.
DAVE H O B M A N
characterised the original versions. To people who
have heard the originals so many times, like the
writer who described their version of "Heroin" as
a travesty ("F him", said Lou), this may
have been disappointing but I did get the impres-
sion that as much care and musical thought has
gone into these arrangements, although I did miss
the screeching violin and feedback on "Heroin".
And of course the crowd loved it anyway.
All of Mr. Reed's repertoire consisted of "well-
worn winners", and every song except one was re-
ceived with wild applause. That one was "The only
pop song I ever wrote,", "Who Lover the Sun",
from the "Loaded" album — the heavy brigade
were obviously out in force. The songs from the
last two Velvet albums and Lou Reed's solo album
seemed to go down much better than the early
stuff; perhaps that's because this is more of a
studio group. "Sweet Jane", the latterday Reed
classic, and "Rock and Roll" were particularly ef-
fective.
"We can play all night, can't we?" drawled Lou
in a voice as New Yorky as a mugger in Central
Park. "Yes!" called the audience. "No", said the
Ents Chairman. So, as midnight drew closer, "First
we'll play my choice and then we'll play yours".
His choice proved to be "Head Held High" and the
audience's was, predictably "Sister Ray". It began
as an ethereal jam reminiscent of the Allman
Brothers. "In Memory of Elizabeth Reed", with
Lou playing lines rather than chords for the first
group number of the evening. Pity they didn't have
all night really.
SID A M O R
what's on
OCTOBER
Mon. 23 - Fri. 27: Lunchtimes. Poster and infor-
mation display in J.C.R. Come browse through
or even buy some of the literature or any of
the posters.
Tuesday 24: 12.45 Press Room, FELIX meeting.
13.00 ICWA Lounge. Mr. ICWA elections. Please
bring your candidate to expose his knees to
the ladies of ICWA. Queries (sic) to 98 New
Biet.
13.00 J.C.R. and Southside STOIC "London Sur-
vival" — Entertainment including an inter-
view with Tony Elliott, Editor of "Time Out".
19.00 Carnival Office, Rag Meeting. Third World
First Group providing information for students
about all underdeveloped countries. Chair-
man Peter O'Kane, Physics 111.
Wed. 25: Exhibition in Lyon Playfair "History of
Science and Technology in South Kensing-
ton."
14.00 Huxley Building, Lecture, "The History of
. . . ." Yes, you've guessed it.
19.30 I.C.C.A.G. Meeting with speakers from
everywhere and a discussion on formation of
USK group.
Thur. 26, 12.45: Press Room. FELIX Meeting. I
19.00: Maria Assumpta Common Room, USK Rag
Meeting.
Fri. 27, 1300 & 1800: J.C.R. and Southside TO-
PIC Magazine Prog, featuring news and views
around I.C.
Sat. 28, 20.00- Union Concert Hall, Roy Young
Band plus Disco T. Tickets 50p on door only.
NOVEMBER
Fri. 3 - Sun 5: Y.H.A. Programme Correction..
DERBYSHIRE. Ham Hall. Easy access to
the Dovedale and Manifold valleys, and some
rock climbing for those with prehensile tails.
Sat. 4: Great Hall 20.00. Status Quo plus Capa-
bility Brown. Tickets 50p in advance from I.C.
I Bookshop, 70p on door.

