www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 26 May 2005
4
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
No need for branding
clampdown
I
mperial College’s rebranding exercises have been widely
criticised in this newspaper and elsewhere. Some students
take offence at the fact that the College crest, a symbol of
quality and tradition, has been replaced by three very simple
blue words on a white background. “It looks like something a
five-year-old could have designed,” one student memorably
commented at the time. “It makes us look like a polytechnic,”
said another.
Now it seems that the College is going one step further, rais-
ing objections about items of clothing that display the words
‘Imperial’, ‘Imperial College’ or ‘IC’ in a different, unsatisfac-
tory manner. The Union shop could limit its sales to clothing
that only bears the new brand, but how many students would
buy it? The shop should be allowed to offer a range of clothing
designed to students’ tastes, some with the new brand, some
without. As the President says, “students are going to want fun
things,” so the Union – and others – should be encouraged to
use the Imperial name in imaginative ways.
Cleverly designed items of clothing, such as those featured
on the front page, are walking advertisements for Imperial
College, which will be seen by students’ friends, families and
passers-by. The vast majority of these items promote Imperial
in a positive way to people of a similar age bracket, which,
surely, is exactly what the College wants.
The joy of... the Graduate
Students’ Association
Mine’s a pint
You’ve just finished that tough last
exam, all your classmates are going out
for a few drinks, so you decide to go with
them. Slowly the whole celebration is
turning into a bit of session. On you go
to a nightclub until 4am, then you grab
a nice juicy kebab on the way home and
finally get to bed around 5am.
OK, so you’ve woken up and slowly the
memories of the night before drift back...
you had ten pints too many, you were
loud, you couldn’t walk, you couldn’t see,
you insulted your mates who insulted
you back, and you snogged that bloke or
woman you swore blind you’d never go
anywhere near in a million years.
Now you’ve got a headache from hell,
your stomach’s about to explode and
you’re still wearing clothes covered in
last night’s kebab and vomit (but whose
vomit is it?) Whatever – you still feel like
throwing up some more...
And chances are you’ll go through
exactly the same thing again tonight or
at the weekend.
So why do we drink?
People drink for different reasons.
Alcohol changes your mood, and some
people say it helps them to cope with
stress. In the short term it makes you
feel happy (although, in fact, alcohol is a
depressant) and at the end of a long hot
day, nothing hits the spot better than a
cool beer or a glass of wine.
Drinking can be fun – alcohol is not
called ‘the nation’s favourite drug’ for
nothing. Some people use a drink to
become more sociable and confident,
but too much can:
• make you ill
• give you a hangover
• cost you a lot of money
• cloud your judgement
• encourage you to do things that are
stupid or dangerous.
• act as a depressant
• make you fat
• lead to serious health problems and, in
extreme cases, even death.
How does alcohol get you drunk?
Alcohol quickly enters the bloodstream
and spreads all over the body. It partially
removes water from the parts of the
brain that deal with the way we think.
It makes you relax and lose inhibitions
– a few drinks can make it easy to meet
and talk to people. And if you’re out with
your mates you become chattier, more
confident and convinced you are the fun-
niest person on the planet.
Alcohol also affects the central nerv-
ous system, which controls many of
your body’s other functions – senses,
speech and sense of pain. So the more
you drink, the more your speech will be
slurred and the more your sight will go
fuzzy.
When you drink alcohol, your body
gets rid of more liquid than it takes in, so
you’ll be dehydrated. This lack of water
is what causes you to wake up with a
throbbing head.
So it’s not all good news
Losing your inhibitions and lacking co-
ordination can be a tricky combination.
When you’re really tanked up and think
you’re invincible, you’re actually really
vulnerable. It’s easy to end up in situa-
tions where you could be in real danger,
and not realise it.
And we’re not just talking about falling
into the road as you stagger home from
the pub. On a typical Saturday night, you
can be pretty sure that the A&E depart-
ment of your local hospital will be full of
people affected by alcohol in some way.
Drink makes you feel more confident
and up for trying anything while your
mates egg you on – things you’d never
do normally if you hadn’t had a drink
beforehand.
A recent survey of 1000 women aged 16
to 34 found that half the respondents had
got so drunk they didn’t know how they
got had home, and a third had ended up
having unprotected sex, putting them at
risk of HIV and other STIs.
And though you’d definitely, never,
ever, drink and drive, are you absolutely
sure that your mate driving you home
shares your view? The more you’ve
drunk, the less likely you’ll be to check...
or care.
Even if you don’t decide to walk home
on your own (which a lot of people do
with a few pints inside them, convinced
nothing will happen) and get a cab, how
do you know you’re getting into a safe
car if you’re too drunk to check?
If you would like further information
on the effects of alcohol or if you feel
that your drinking habits are starting to
affect your academic life, please don’t
hesitate to contact the Information and
Advice Centre for further help and infor-
mation.
Don’t let your concern turn into a
crisis. Make the Information and Advice
Centre your one stop shop for all your
welfare issues.
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
Graduates: get involved
T
he Union’s new Graduate Students’ Association will be
launched next Wednesday, before it officially exists. The
bizarre situation caused by non-attendance at Monday’s
Council meeting will also lead to elections for posts that have
not yet been created. We believe the vast majority of the Council
would be behind these proposals and the Association will form
as planned, but the whole thing still looks a bit of a mess.
Regardless, Felix would like to encourage all graduate stu-
dents to get involved – it is essential that this large, significant
group has better representation and support within the Union.
Read Sam Rorke’s column, above, for details.
Finding a way to ‘Save Our
Southside’
S
outhside Bar will be sorely missed by hundreds of stu-
dents, staff and visitors to Imperial College, not least the
1600 who have already signed a petition supporting the
campaign for a replacement bar to be created.
While they are to be commended for their efforts during the
busy exam period, the ‘Save Our Southside’ campaigners need
to come up with some viable proposals – and fast. It is all very
well to protest against something, but you will be taken much
more seriously if you can come up with a realistic alternative
option. A classic example is top-up fees – the ‘no to fees’ mes-
sage was heard loud and clear, but campaigners should have
placed equal emphasis on how else they would have solved the
massive financial problems faced by universities.
The Southside building itself is in desperate need of refur-
bishment and there is huge demand for space elsewhere on
the South Kensington campus, so it will be difficult to find a
suitable location for a new bar. Difficult, but not impossible.
The future looks bleak for Southside Bar in any form, but
the Union is beginning to take students’ concerns seriously on
this matter following their antagonistic reaction to recent Felix
articles and the 1600 signatures obtained so far. The College
may well follow.
All graduate students are warmly invit-
ed to join us for the historic launch event
of the Graduate Students’ Association
next Wednesday, 1 June, from 6pm in the
Union Concert Hall (second floor, Union
building, Beit Quad).
The event will hopefully be informal,
sociable and fun, so to make the evening
go smoothly, there will be a free bar,
buffet and four-piece jazz band! You
can also expect to be told more
about the Association and how to get
involved. We have a great keynote
speaker in Annie Thomas, Warden at
Goodenough College, a 600-strong mul-
tinational residential community of
postgraduate students based in central
London.
The establishment of the Graduate
Students’ Association (GSA) at the heart
of the students’ union has resulted from
lengthy discussions between the grad-
uate schools, Union officers and your
student representatives on how to bet-
ter represent and improve the lives of
Imperial postgrads.
The GSA will be headed by the Deputy
President (Graduate Students), which
will be a full-time sabbatical position.
Everyone who is currently a postgradu-
ate student will be able to stand for
election to this post, and they will be
elected by cross-campus ballot at the
end of June.
The GSA will also enable postgrads
to determine what needs to be done to
improve their time at College, and give
them the resources to achieve it; this is
likely to include establishing student-run
societies that will receive funding from
the graduate schools and the Union, and
committees to organise student events
as they see fit.
We hope that you are able to join us
in welcoming in a new era for Imperial
postgrads.
● State of the Union will return
next week
SAM RORKE
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(EDUCATION & WELFARE)
UNCLE SAM
The Information and Advice Centre
can be found in the east wing
basement of Beit Quad.
Telephone 020 7594 8067
or email advice@ic.ac.uk

