6 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 26 May 2005
Clubs & Societies felix@ic.ac.uk
By Chris Rowlands
I feel I should confess a sin before I fin-
ish this run of articles. I may have inad-
vertently caused people to believe that I
was the world’s foremost authority on all
things juggling, and for this I apologise.
I realise that some people may have
observed the easy-going yet well-informed
nature of these articles and taken them to
be a source of condensed juggling knowl-
edge passed down secretly for millennia
by only the most talented artists, but this
is not the case.
So why the sudden urge to confess eve-
rything in the pages of Felix? Well, let’s
just say that, during the production of
this particular piece, not only did we find
someone who could do the same tricks, he
did them rather better than we did.
We at Juggling Soc decided that the
final episode should be dedicated to the
most visual (if not that difficult) art we
know – the fire staff.
The principle is simple: take a stick
about 1.5m long and spin it around your
body. Regular readers will probably antic-
ipate how we will make this more inter-
esting – yes, we’re going to set it on fire.
All the usual disclaimers apply here
– if you aren’t certain that you can do this
safely, don’t pick up the staff. Keep a fire
extinguisher, a fire blanket and a friend
on standby in case something goes wrong,
and don’t wear artificial fibres since they
are quite flammable and will melt all over
you, which isn’t much fun.
The most fun to be had with a fire staff
actually occurs within the first few sec-
onds. Normally the wicks of a fire-toy are
dipped in paraffin, shaken off, and then
set on fire. Not so the fire staff – the wicks
are left saturated and the staff spun into
the air. This propels paraffin in all direc-
tions and creates two very large sheets
of flame [see picture 1], which impresses
the opposite sex if nothing else.
Once the staff comes down again, spin
it backwards on one arm. You will quickly
discover that your arm doesn’t go that
far, and the staff carries quite a lot of
momentum, so you’re going to have to
pass it to the other hand. Place your other
hand under the one holding the staff and
catch it [see picture 2]. While maintaining
the momentum of the staff, pass it across
your body so that it is now spinning in the
same direction, but on the other side of
your body. With a long-exposure shot, this
looks quite pretty [see picture 3].
While this looks impressive, it’s actu-
ally quite basic, so at this point we’ll show
you what happens if you give the staff
to someone who is quite good at it [see
picture 4].
If you’d like to see quite how to make
this ludicrously difficult pattern hap-
pen, you can come along to juggling on
Tuesdays from 6pm in the union – contact
juggling@ic.ac.uk for more information
(including where to get cheap paraffin).
Finally, I should thank all the people
who have helped make these articles
– Chris, Nez, Steve and Tom for showing
off in front of the camera, John for taking
the photos, and of course me. I would
thank people for reading, but I’m pretty
sure more people use these articles for
lining the cat’s litter tray.
JUGGLING CLUB
Ten things I can do that you can’t
EPISODE TEN: The fire staff
1 2
3 4

