www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 26 May 2005
8 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 26 May 2005 9
“We give a very good all-round education”
As Imperial’s Pro Rector for Educational Quality, Professor Rees Rawlings must ensure that standards of teaching remain high.
Dave Edwards took a trip to the top floor of the new Faculty Building to meet him
Professor Rees Rawlings joined Imperial
College as an undergraduate student and
never left. Now responsible for educa-
tional quality, he is the man to talk to
about SOLE, lecturer training, high hall
rents and those humanities timetabling
problems.
“We give a very good all-round educa-
tion,” he tells me. “We take in top qual-
ity people, we push them and give them
the opportunity to develop and show
some innovation. At the same time, we’ve
brought on possibilities of doing things
such as humanities... there are around
2000 students engaged in humanities
every year.”
Two thousand students is certainly a
number to be proud of at an institu-
tion focused around science, technology
and medicine. But squeezing humani-
ties classes into busy timetables has
proved a major problem for Rawlings. In
November, we reported that students in
a number of College departments were
having to attend lectures and tutorials at
times supposedly reserved for humani-
ties classes and lunch breaks.
Rawlings accepts that the problem
still exists, and tells me that depart-
ments should be capable of arranging
their activities around the ‘no-go’ areas of
lunchtimes and Wednesday afternoons.
“I think it’s essential that we have
the rules and everyone keeps to them.
I have reported a few times over the
last six years to Senate [the College’s
main academic committee] to say how
important this is. When examples are
brought to me, they will be followed up,
but students do need to bring the exam-
ples to the union so they can be brought
to me.”
He mentions two recent incidents
that were brought to his attention by
the Deputy President (Education and
Welfare) and have now been resolved. If
you have a similar problem, contact the
Deputy President at dpew@ic.ac.uk.
SOLE
It is surely essential that a university has
an effective, large scale method of get-
ting students’ feedback on their lecturers
and courses. SOLE, the Student OnLine
Evaluation questionnaire, has been run-
ning for four years, and Rawlings is con-
fident that after some teething troubles,
the system is working well.
“We need to know the students’ opinion
of the education provision we supply,” he
says, “and that’s basically the purpose of
SOLE. When we get that information, we
then need to act on it.
“SOLE had a very bad start. When we
did our first online survey [four years
ago], the system just wasn’t up to it. It
wasn’t robust enough, and it was possi-
ble to actually break into it. But the last
couple of years it’s been running consist-
ently with no problems. As you know, the
results go straight to the students’ union
as well, so there’s great transparency.”
Recent levels of participation in SOLE
have been just under 50% – far higher
than Union election turnouts, and surely
to be applauded with such a notoriously
apathetic student body. “I think a turnout
of 50% is OK,” says Rawlings, “but I’d like
it to be more. Staff have got to remind
students when SOLE is on, and students
have to realise that it’ll help a lot of new
students coming in... so I think the argu-
ment that ‘I won’t do it because it takes up
an hour of my time’ is pretty poor.”
I put it to Rawlings that perhaps more
students would take part in SOLE if they
had evidence that things would change.
In my department – maths – we knew
for a fact that certain lecturers were
consistently given poor ratings, yet still
turned up year after year to teach the
same courses.
“Students have all the information,”
he argues, “and it’s discussed at staff-
student committees. It’s up to student
representatives to make sure there’s full
discussion of SOLE results. But I can
assure you that actions are made of SOLE
results. We’re going to try to release some
actions that have been taken.”
But what if the department doesn’t lis-
ten? “Well, students need to bring it to
me through the Union. That’s what the
Union’s for, that’s why we have represent-
atives. People would have to give me evi-
dence over, say, three years when a par-
ticular course has been badly taught...”
He goes on to say that staff have to give
their SOLE results when they are being
considered for promotion – certainly a
step in the right direction, but perhaps
not far enough.
Lecturer training
In an ideal world, there would be little
need for lecturer evaluation systems such
as SOLE, as the ratings would be high
across the board. So how does the College
move towards that goal and ensure that
its lecturers can teach well and commu-
nicate clearly? I was interested to find out
more about the training they receive.
“For many years, all our lecturers have
had to attend ten days of compulsory
workshops within their first three years
while they’re on probation. But we’re
tightening it up now – there is a certificate
course run by the College’s Centre for
Educational Development and accredited
by the Higher Education Academy, and as
of this year all new lecturers have to go on
that [one year, part time course].”
Rawlings believes that, in general,
standards of teaching and communica-
tion are high. “The Centre for Educational
Development was set up about five years
ago, and since it’s come here it really has
pushed that aspect of educational devel-
opment tremendously, giving staff train-
ing in all areas of learning and teaching.”
Personal tutors
Rawlings is in charge of Imperial’s sub-
mission to the Quality Assurance Agency
(QAA), which will provide a thorough
assessment of the College later this year.
“We’ve had a good look at things we
thought we were a bit short on,” he says.
He is reluctant to divulge what those
things might be, but eventually admits:
“The students brought up personal tutor-
ing. We have put out some more detailed
guidelines on what we expect from per-
sonal tutors...”
Although many students only see their
personal tutor once or twice per year,
and a considerable number have raised
the issue as a problem with the Union,
Rawlings believes that “we have a good
system in place.”
He continues: “If the personal tutoring
breaks down, the students can go and see
the senior tutor, and if the relationship
with the department breaks down, they
go to the College tutors and that’s what
happens... On the other hand it would be
nice to think that the relationship doesn’t
break down at personal tutor level. That
could be the student’s fault or it could
be the staff member’s fault. To get the
relationship to work, both sides have got
to work at it.”
Hall rents
Rawlings is chair of the Rector’s
Committee on Student Residences, which
makes an annual recommendation of hall
rents to the College. I put it to him that
our hall fees are particularly high and ask
him where the money is going.
“We compare the rents at Imperial
with those at other universities and other
London colleges such as King’s, UCL and
LSE,” he replies. “This data shows that
the rents at Imperial are comparable to
those at other institutions.”
Hall rents are due to rise by an aver-
age of 6% for 2005-6, but Rawlings tells
me that “the money from the rents is not
being used to subsidise other projects.
A simple calculation based on the rents
that are likely to be charged for a room in
the new Southside and the cost of build-
ing Southside would show that the rents
won’t even pay back the capital cost of
that particular project, let alone subsidise
other projects.”
Apparently, the above-inflation rise is
necessary due to increasing costs in sec-
tors such as construction, maintenance
and cleaning.
To compensate for the temporary loss
of all beds in Southside next year, around
300 students will be housed in accommo-
dation run by UNITE Housing. Hundreds
of students in Liverpool experienced
problems with UNITE Housing in 2003,
but Rawlings is confident that the College
has made the right choice.
Libraries... again
Good library provision and adequate
private study space are essential to a
high quality education, but departmen-
tal libraries are being closed down and
the central library has been labelled “a
dump” by its own staff.
Predictably, Rawlings tows the party
line. “I think libraries are changing very
dramatically, due to new journals, books
and the ways students and researchers
actually require information. For exam-
ple, I think by 2008 over 80% of journals
will be e-journals. Libraries supply a lot
more advice than they used to, not just
advice on where to find a book on a partic-
ular topic, but advice on plagiarism, and
searching for literature. A small library
hasn’t got the skills to do all those things.
The best interest of the students is that
we have a good, up-to-date, well-serviced
library.”
He insists that the levels of service will
remain high when collections are trans-
ferred to the central library, as “we still
have librarians associated with certain
disciplines”.
Putting a question from a disgruntled
Union officer, I ask what the QAA would
think of departmental libraries being
shut down and having their books thrown
away. Rawlings laughs. “I’m sure some
books that haven’t been used for 15 years
have been thrown away! I mean, any
library will throw some books out, [but] I
can’t believe a book that’s regularly used
will be thrown out. You’ve put the ques-
tion, you’ve got the laughter.”
Striking a balance
Rawlings is obviously fond of Imperial
College and proud of the standards it
has set. He believes that an Imperial
education “was hard work then [in his
student days] as it’s hard work now.” He
tells me that the courses are difficult,
but “not so difficult that someone can’t
be organised enough to play some sport
or belong to a club and still get a good
degree. It’s just a case of managing your
time properly. It’s about striking the right
balance, and the vast majority of students
strike it.”
● Next week: what’s happening
to Wye? We talk to Sir Leszek
Borysiewicz, the Deputy Rector
THE FELIX INTERVIEW felix@ic.ac.uk
A laughing matter: Professor Rees Rawlings (left), finds humour in a discussion about libraries with Dave Edwards in the Faculty Building. For the uninitiated, it’s the shiny new building that looks like it’s
made from lego bricks and makes a low whistling sound in strong winds
“SOLE had a very bad
start, but the last couple
of years it’s been running
consistently with no
problems”
PHOTO: WILLIAM TURNER
“We’ve had a good look
at things we thought we
were a bit short on... the
students brought up
personal tutoring”
“Imperial isn’t so difficult
that you can’t play some
sport or belong to a club
and still get a good
degree”
The Legendary
Wye Commemoration Ball
24th June – make a date!
The Wye Commem Ball falls this year on Friday 24th June, and promises
to be bigger and better than ever. The evening starts with a champagne
reception and 3 course dinner, accompanied by a string quartet and a
magician, all in a marquee on Withersdane Lawn. After dinner there will be
a band and firework display, and the fairground (dodgems, waltzers etc.) will
be open until 4am. This year also sees the introduction of the Shisha Tent
(variety of flavours). Music will vary throughout the night (string quartet with
dinner, band playing classic covers, Kiss FM’s the Firin' Squad, other DJs
to be confirmed - hip hop, dance, cheese, chart, rock - the lot). Between 6
and 7am, breakfast will be served and the Survivors’ photo taken.
This year it would be good to see some of the other Imperial College
campuses down at Wye, as this may be the last Commem Ball. Also next
year Wye converts completely into Imperial’s business campus, so if you’ve
been wondering whether there really are sheep and inbreds everywhere
then now’s your last chance! We’ll look after you and we can guarantee that
you will have a fantastic time. If enough London students want to attend, we
are prepared to lay on a return coach or two, so get your mates together…
Tickets for entertainment only are £40, or £65 to include dinner, champagne
and Red Bull. Shisha is included for both tickets. For further info or tickets
contact wye2005@hotmail.co.uk

