ELETTERS
Letters
Thanks
Dear Sir,
On behalf of the other members of the
'University Challenge' team and myself I
would like to express our thanks and
appreciation to the large contingent of
supporters who journeyed to Manchester for
the contests.
We were easily the best supported team in
the series and the atmosphere created a
tremendous boost particuarly in the game
against Belfast.
I am sure that when our successors play in
the next 'University Challlenge' to which
Imperial is invited those of you who are still
here will give them as good support and spur
them on to achieve what we just failed to do
Dick Langstaff
A pedant
writes
Dear Sir,
I wonder if any of your readers have noticed
an extraordinary resemblance between the
actor Peter 'Grand MofT Tarkin' Cushing
and Christopher Lee, another actor, well
known for such films as Dracula, The Return
of Dracula, Old Red-Eyes is Back, It's him
again, (that's enough films-Ed).
No? Well, I must confess that they aren't very
much alike, which is why I was rather
suprised to see Peter Cushing billed as the
star of The Return of Captain Invincible in
your review in issue 702!
May I suggest that your reviewer requires
the services of an optician?
Yours etc,
Richard Monkhouse
Elec Eng 3
Ronald
Duck
Dear Sir,
I'm a f r a i d that R o n n i e 'great
communicator' Reagan has lost me, a bit.
How can it be all right to inflict trade
sanctions on Nasty oV Nicaragua, but not all
right to inflict them on Dear oP South Africa?
Does the man's 'humanitarianism' know
no bounds? Maybe we should lead the way
and give 'humanitarian' aid to the ANC? Do
you think Ronnie would follow our example?
E M Ugoala
Physics RA
A Frenchman
writes
Route de I'Aeroclub,
83400 Pierrefeu du Var,
FRANCE
Dear Sir,
I have had a confectionery in the south of
France since 1979. In summer, I take on
students to sell my products (peanuts, nuts
and sugar-coated almonds) on the beaches.
I don't know to which organism to write so
I address myself to you.
Would you kindly attain the annexed
circular to the person or the organism who
attends to finding jobs for the students of
your University. Would it be possible to stick
up the circular in yours rooms and so give
general information to the students, who
might be interested.
Hopefully my proposition will hold your
attention.
Yours faithfully,
D M 'chouchou' Jacomo
Note: The annexed circular can be seen in the
Union Office-well worth it just for a laugh
FELIX
'The Union faces it gravest financial crisis
ever,' we are told. The subvention paid to the
Union next year will be about £28,000 less
than what has been claimed.
But the problem is completely artificial.
All that has happened is that a ridiculously
large claim has been reduced to a reasonable
level. It was optimistic for the Union to
expect a massive percentage increase in
funding based on virtually no increase in
activities.
But unfortunately the more outrageous
claims were not cut when they should have
been; as soon as they were presented.
Now that clubs have had their claims
accepted by major sub-committee, D P and
U F C , it will come as rather a bitter blow to
find that they are to be cut, after all. It makes
forward planning impossible.
The Exec knew exactly what sort of
subvention the Union would get next year. It
is somewhat to their shame that they didn't
use that information when the first round of
claims were being considered. To have left it
this late was folly, indeed.
Where should the money come from?
Every year the Union spends many
thousands of pounds paying for students to
have foreign holidays. This comes under the
euphemistic heading of'tour grants' for clubs
and societies. This expenditure cannot be
justified (except for certain competitive
sports). The Union should provide
equipment and training for clubs—it should
not pay for students to travel abroad when
they can just as easily do the same thing at
home. This is a gross misuse of Crown funds.
Another good area for saving is C C U beer
money. One of the CCUs spends £3000 per
year on beer which is given away to is
members.
As long as these activities continue there is
no financial crisis in the Union. There is fat to
be lost, and if it is lost properly, it will make
the Union a more efficient organisation,
giving value for money.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Debbie,
John, Jon, Grenville, Ajay, Chris, Pete,
Richard, Patrick, Christopher, Alan, Hugh,
Luke, Tinker, Steve, Nigel, Rosemary, Tony
and all the collators.
Fehx is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit. Imperial College. Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE CHOIR
Friday 17th May At 8 pm
Monteverdi Vespers
In Holy Trinity Church
Prince Consort Road SW7
Tickets trom choir members
or the Haldane Library
2 Friday 10 May 1985 FEUX

