ELETTERS
Letters
Letters to the editor should be
typed, or neatly written on one
side of the paper.
Anonymous letters will not be
considered for publication, but
names need not be published, if
requested.
Parking
permit plea
Dear Sir,
It has come to the attention of the Security
Division (Traffic Wardens) that over the last
few m o n t h s u n d e r g r a d u a t e s a n d
postgraduates of Imperial College are
disobeying rules regarding parking.
Although it is a small percentage, they are
nonetheless causing problems within the
environs of the College campus. The rule is
quite simple: no cars are allowed to park
without a permit, that is without a temporary
or permanent parking permit.
Also, on the exits at Exhibition Road and
Imperial College Road, motorcyclists are
requested to drive to the left of the barrier
(there is a sign!) otherwise the crash barrier
will not work properly. One motorcyclist
nearly received injuries through not doing
this.
Yours faithfully,
Traffic wardens
The last
Dear Sir,
Last week Mr Aharoni said that the Israelis
'tried not to hurt civilians'. I was in Lebanon
during the invasion and I myself saw that the
planes attacked the shelters rather than the
military installations.
I can't help comparing Hitler exerting the
right of Germany to self-defence and to live
within secure and easily defensible
boundaries by occupying France, and Israel's
occupation of most of Lebanon.
I would just like to add that I consider
every inch of my land very dear to my heart.
Yours sincerely,
T Shaker
Dear Sir,
Far be it from me to bore anyone any more
about the continuing saga of the infamous
slogan 'Down with Israel', but we feel it to be
our duty to clear up some anomalies and
misunderstandings.
We think it is about time that all those
concerned in the Middle Eastern conflict sit
together in an attempt to reach a peaceful and
just solution, what we do not agree to is the
method adopted by the Israelis towards that
just and rightful settlement. Furthermore,
Israel's iron fist policy that was clearly visible
in the Lebanon goes on to show their lack of
willingness towards that long-spoken-of
'peaceful settlement'.
Thirty seven years have gone by and we are
still trying to overcome the roots of the whole
problem namely, the clash between
Palestinian nationalism and Zionist
ideology.
Finally, it is important to emphasise that as
long as the Palestinian rights to self-
determination and the establishment of their
own independent states are ignored, there
will never be a lasting and durable peace in
the whole region. Israel can not simply
enforce their own peace settlement and call it
a just solution.
Yours faithfully,
Friends of Palestine Cttee
word...
Dear Sir,
It is the 'realistic attitude' adopted by people
such as T Sheriff and T Ishaq which leads to
countless people being killed daily in the
Middle East. How do they dare call the civil
war that has raged in Lebanon before, during
and now, after Israel's campaign, freedom?
Israel has often tried to extend a peaceful
hand to its neighbours: when one responds,
as President Sadat of Egypt did, you know
only too well how his own brethren rewarded
him. No wonder the open hand of friendship
clenches into a firm fist.
Is it not more realistic to face up to
problems, like Israel does, and admit that one
can make mistakes and then hold an inquest
into what went wrong, rather than just say 'it
is Israel's fault'? Blaming everything on us
Jews is perhaps the only comparison to the
Second World War.
To compare the Jewish victims of WW2,
who were innocent scapegoats of the
Germans, to the Arab victims of today, who
themselves proclaimed the Jihad against
Israel, is totally ludicrous. As such, I feel that
us Jews have learnt very well from our past.
Never again will we stand by defenceless
while another nation tries to take away our
right to live, but will take up arms to defend
ourselves against anyone threatening to do
so.
Yours faithfully,
Michael van Messel
Physics 1
The editor will accept no more
letters on the subject of the conflict
between Israel and the Lebanon.
The correspondence on the subject
of the slogan 'Down with Israel' is
closed.
PARODY
ShMv<f/v_j/Y/l6c i s
4 Friday 10 May 1985 FEUX

