Tinker
A nice easy one this week, so as not to give any extra
brainstrain, before the quizzes.
What is the next element in this series:-
23 11, 6, 3, 5, 4,
G R A D E 2
Solutions to me in the FELIX office by Friday 17.
Still no solutions to the Golf puzzle of last fortnight, so I will
run that on until someone solves it.
Here are the solutions to the Easter puzzles, in brief.
To solve the spider fly problem, simply 'unfold' the sides of
the room and draw a straight line from spider to fly. This gives
an answer of 40'.
The answer to the grade five puzzle was found in a similar
way, but by considering the three different routes that are
possible, the dimensions of the room were given as 260,240 and
-190.
The two sentences were:-
'The number of occurences of the number 1 is 3, of 2 is 2, of 3
is 3, of 4 is 1, and of 5 is 1'.
'The number of occurences of the number 0 is 1, of 1 is 4, of 2
is 3, of 4 is 2, of 5 is 1, and of 6 is 1.'
The geometrical puzzle could be solved as shown.
The missing angle must, by similar triangles, b e B . T h u s A + B
= C.
Since there was only one correct entry per puzzle, no solution
was left unrewarded.
Correct answers to all the puzzles, except the grade five one,
from S Errington Min Tech P G who wins himself £15.
The grade five puzzle was won by YUJI M A T S U M O T O from
Computing, who may collect his £5 cheque after Wednesday.
Km\N\< To M(iHK/Kib
. ^^^^^^y^^^^ horizontal optically corect base.
^kr SUlllli//^ ^ ^ ^ ^ After being filled with water it
The story goes like this:
When you pull the plug out after a
bath you'll have noticed the water
swirls round. If you are in the
northern hemisphere it swirls one
way, if in the southern hemisphere
it goes another, if on the equator it
goes straight down. This is because
of the earth's rotation.
Sparing no expense F E L I X
sent two of Imperial's top
scientific brains to do a carefully
controlled experiment in the Beit
Hall washrooms. A bath was
filled with water, the plug pullled
and the water went clockwise.
Another bath was filled with
water, the plug pulled and Voila!
it went anti-clockwise.
Dr Bignell of the Atmospheric
Physics Department explained
why our carefully controlled
experiment went wrong. For the
earth's spin to have any effect the
bath would need to be 10m in
diameter, with a perfectly
horizontal optically corect base.
After being filled with water it
would need to be left in the dark
(to prevent radiation heating) for
three days. The plug would need
to be carefully drawn down the
drain hole and out, to prevent
any eddy currents developing.
Apparently someone actually has
carried a bath like this round the
world and the effect can be seen.
But a 'normal' bath?
No way.
FEUX Friday 10 May 1985

