The general robot lab, Imperial College
a s
By the early eighties robotics work was well established at Imperial College,
with several teams working in a number of different departments. However, as
a wide range of technical expertise are used for the development and
understanding of robots and automated systems, a focal point was needed to
co-ordinate the existing activities and to stimulate new interdepartmental
research and teaching. So in 1981 the Centre for Robotics and Automated
Systems (CROBAS) was set up with Professor Tom Husband as Director. The
Centre has adminstrative offices and a main robotics laboratory in the
Mechanical Engineering Department, but also has access to many facilities
throughout College. The work of the Centre covers the managerial, social, and
economic issues involved with automation, as well as the technological
aspects. So the Departments of Social and Economic Studies, and
Management Science, play an important role in the activities of the Centre
along with Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Computing.
There are also a number of other groups throughout College, such as
Astronomy and Metallurgy whose work is linked with the Centre.
In all its activities the Centre aims to meet the needs of industry as well as
the academic community. The main way this is achieved is through the joint
academic/industrial Steering Committee. The committee consists of academic
staff and representatives from industry, and meets twice a year to discuss the
direction that teaching and research should take.
British industry has an urgent need for well-qualified graduates with a good
understanding of the potential of automated systems. To add to this many
people in mid-career find that they need educating about the new
technologies. So the Centre runs an MSc course in Industrial Robotics and
Manufacturing Automation, and is keen to take on graduates with a few years'
industrial experience, as well as fresh graduates. Along with this short courses
of two to four days are run, giving practising engineers and managers an
introduction to robotics and related activities, with the opportunity to see
robots in action.
The Centre is also a robotics consultant approved by the Department of
Trade and Industry. In this capacity it can carry out specific studies to try and
solve problems and make systems more efficient, or it can give advice on the
introduction of automation into a factory.
IT COULD BE said that we are
in the midst of a robotics
revolution, which has the
potential to touch all of our lives.
The speed of technological
advancement over the last few
years has been spectacular with
many industrial processes now
being largely automated. It
seems likely that fully automated
and unmanned factories may be
with us in only a few decades.
In the sixties industrial robots
were first introduced, carrying
out such tasks as spray painting
and spot welding. These first
generation robots are limited in
their potential application
because although they can be
programmed to carry out a given
task, they are unable to react to
changing conditions. Now second
generation robots are being
developed that receive sensory
information, typically visual and
tactile, from their environment,
and so have a limited capability
to adapt to changing conditions.
The next stage on from these will
be the third generation robots
that will receive every type of
sensory input and will have
'artificial intelligence' that will be
used to solve problems. There
will be a vast range of potential
applications for these robots
including assembly, inspection
and many other activities which
have long been associated with
human skills of manual and
mental dexterity. There will also
be many non-industrial uses such
as security work, space
exploration, farming, helping the
disabled, and many more.
Research activities at the
Centre cover many aspects of
automated systems including
robotics. The work is mainly
carried out in the departments,
with a substantial amount of the
work being interdepartmental.
Over fifty per cent of the funding
for research is coming from
industry, with there being a
number of 'teaching company'
projects where students are
supervised jointly by College staff
and companies such as Lucas,
Philips, and Rolls Royce. As a
result of one such project with
Lucas, a vision system has been
developed to be used in a flexible
assembly systems. It allows
headlamps on an input conveyor
to be individually identified so
that the robot can them perform
appropriate operations on them.
The development of vision
systems opens up a wide range of
applications, and some of the
8
The Omnigripper
current research is aimed at
producing more advanced vision
systems. Other current research
projects are looking at areas like,
robotic assembly, safety and
reliability, laser machining, use of
robots in hazardous
environments, use of robots in
the meat processing industry, and
many others.
Robotic Assembly has been
singled out as one of the most
important applications for second
generation robots, and it is
predicted that it will become a
major robot application within a
decade. The underlying principles
that govern robotics assembly are
being studied by a team from
Mechanical Engineering. The
major interests are cost
effectiveness and the ability of
systems to react to changes in
products and processes. A major
development to come from this
work is a form of 'Universal
Gripper'. At present the grippers
used in assembly work can only
handle a few shapes and so have
limited adaptability to any change
in the process, with both time
and money being lost when a
gripper has to be changed. The
new 'Omnigripper' shown is a
largely universal gripper and may
help to solve this problem. It
consists of two parallel slightly
separate 'fingers' each consisting
of an array of eight by sixteen
closely spaced pins, which can
ride vertically up and down
independently of one another. As
the gripper is lowered over an
object, some pins will be pushed
out of the way, so creating
'customised' fingers which mould
to fit the part. For grasping
objects either the two fingers can
be brought together to grip the
object externally, or else they can
be moved slightly apart for an
internal grip. There is feed back
from each pin of the
Omnigripper, providing tactile
information about the object,
including height details. So there
is the potential for recognition of
objects.
In the meat processing industry
de-boning is a major task. The
work is very monotonous, but
requires great concentration, and
hand and eye co-ordination, and
is at present carried out by
skilled butchers. A team from the
Departments of Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering are
collaborating with a meat
processing company to develop a
prototype robot system for de-
boning bacon backs prior to
slicing and packaging. The
system is required to extract up
to fifteen ribs and some other
bones from the cured bacon.
Work on this systems is near to
completion, and the robot system
is shown in the photograph. First
the bone layout is registered by
plunging needles into the bacon,
these penetrate the meat but not
the bone, and send back tactile
information. Then a special tool
cuts round each bone tip, and a
moving loop placed over the
bone tip pulls back and strips the
bone cleanly from the meat.
One of the most attractive
potential uses for robots is in the
assistance of disabled people with
tasks like eating and page
turning. This possibility is
currently being studied and it is
hoped that in the future further
non-industrial uses, including the
developmet of artificial limbs, can
be studied.
Lasers provide one of the most
easily automated forms of enerc
available to industry, and as a
consequence they are being usee
to cut and process metal. The
use of robot mounted lasers for
these processes is being studied
by a team from Metallury and
Materials Science.
Safety and reliability of robots
in the working environment is of
the utmost importance, and
forms the basis for a major
research project at the Centre.
This project is being carried out
in collaboration with the National
Centre for Systems Reliability
and the Health and Safety
Executive. Part of the work is
covering the impact that the
introduction of robots has upon
health and safety in the working
environment. Although robots
can be fenced off there will still
be occassions when humans
come into close proximity with
them, and this presents a
potential safety hazard. For
instance at pick-up points or
where the robots maximum reach
overlaps perimeter fencing, it is
possible that someone could be
trapped or crushed. The team
from Management Science and
Mechanical Engineering are
looking at the effect of robot
design on electronic and
mechanical malfunction. Using
information about the failure rate
of individual components that
make up the robot systems, it is
possible to quantify the overall
reliability of the robot and a
typical cell in which it is used.
The work at the Centre shows
clearly how academics and
industrialists can work together
to satisfy both their needs.
Although at present the
capabilities of robots are still very
limited, in the future they have a
vast potential.
Bacon de-boning - by robot
10 May 1985 9

