L A S T WEEK'S FELIX contained the Rag Week
Calendar, what follows is further information on
the events.
Friday 14th (TODAY)
If you've nothing to do at lunchtime go to your
C C U and help build a float for the Rag
Procession. In the evening is the Rag and Drag
Disco, tickets are 50p from CCUs and ICU, the
Rag and Drag queens are chosen in a competition
before the disco, anyone who wishes to enter see
Annie in the ICU bar till 2:00am.
Saturday 15th
Rag Procession, see CCUs refloat. Procession
starts 12:30pm Imperial Institute Road, see map
for route. S C A B (Social, Cultural and
Amusements Board) night. This is a very
enjoyable social evening, see posters for details,
light-hearted 'cultural' entertainment, e.g. last
year the complete works of Shakespeare in half
an hour. Very cheap at the price and mind
blowing.
Sunday 16th
Raft Race across the Serpentine, see your C C U .
IC Barnight, say no more.
Idiosynchratic event, your chance to wander
round London after the Barnight doing
idiosyncrats. The event is a closely guarded
secret, starts after the barnight i.e. 10:30pm
Union Bar. Two alcoholic prizes.
Monday 17th
Pram Race, anything with wheels, a baby, and a
team of pushers can enter. Sponsor forms from
ICU. Prize for best team and greatest amount of
money raised. The Folk Concert is Bob Pegg, a
lad from Yorkshire, everyone is welcome,
admission on the door.
Tuesday 18th
Meanwhile down on the ground is the Monster
Inter-CCU Boat Race, with teams of 50 from
each C C U . Come along for a free pint (at speed).
In the evening is rbe Mines Surprise which is as
you all know a discO, etc. in the JCR.
Wednesday 19th
For Morphy Day, CCUs have all the details,
followed by a relaxed boozing evening, ie Drink
U L U Dry, meet either at ULU or 7:00pm Union
Bar from where we can proceed to Malet Street.
Thursday 20th
Dwile Flonking in Beit Quad, an ancient English
custom, has to be seen to be believed. In the
evening Love at First Bite, the Rag film in ME
220 at 6:30pm.
Friday 21st
Disgusting Games in Beit Quad, any ideas to
Jud Cole, C C D 2 or Guilds Office, participants
welcome or come and watch. In the evening to
round it all up is Guilds Carnival, this monster
entertainment lasting well into Saturday features
the Modettes (and other bands), two films (TTie
Creature from the Black Lagoon in 3D and Take
the Money and Run). Bar till 4:00am and tickets
are only £3 from C&GU.
All week Rag Mags will be on sale and if you
survive the fun, we have more exciting events
planned for the future. Hope you enjoy
yourselves.
Ian Hodgson
Rag Chairman
The Annual Aerosoc Paper Darts Competi-
tion takes place on Tuesday, November 18. In
the Beit Quad at 12:30. The object of this exercise
is to launch a paper dart from the roof of the
Union Building and seeing how far across the
Quad it flies and/or how long it stavs airborne.
The person whose plane stays aloft the longest,
and the one whosefliesfurthest (net distance) will
win a proportion of the takings. The rules are as
follows:
1) Darts/planes must be made only of paper
(including computer cards), sellotape and glue.
2) Max. Wingspan 2ft, Max length 2ft.
3) Cost: First two launches lOp; subsequent
launches 5p.
4) Aircraft must touch down in Beit Quad.
5) Judges' decision is final, and competitors
are to comply with the directions of the marshals.
NB: Only a limited number of people are
allowed on the particular section of the roof at
any one time.
route
I.C. rag procession
Compiled by Phil Webb
Results and reports
Wednesday, Nov 5
Rugby
IC 2nd XV
Football
IC 3rd XI
IC 4th XI
IC 5th XI
H o c k e y
IC 1st XI
Ladies
v St Thomas Hosp
Royal Holloway
Royal Holloway
Mines 2nd
Guilds
Goldsmiths
0-14
44
7-2
5-2
1-2
1-2
Football Thirds
IC started confidently, pushing forward and
forcing Royal Holloway into a totally
offensive game. After persistant attacks, we
finally scored. A move down the right which
was finally hammered in from the edge of the
box by Flanagan. Shortly afterward, Royal
Holloway had their first attack which ended in
a hotly disputed panalty; after this goal
we pushed forward again. A sparkling run by
Rimmer and a thundering shot left Royal
Holloway trailing. After more pressure from
IC, we forced a corner and Hendy turned in a
flash and forced the ball home.
After the change and against the wind IC
fought courageously, but the wind aided
Royal Holloway to a second goal, the ball
ballooning over our unlucky keeper into the
net.
From the kick-off we forced RHC back and
eventually after several near misses Rimmer
scored his second. From then on the football
flowed end to end. With four minutes to go,
RHC scored two quick goals and scraped a
point. A good team performance by us,
Rugby Seconds
IC SECONDS started well thanks to another
fine warm up session from Mr Hall. However,
it soon became apparent that St Thomas's
were using the game to test out a previously
untried referee. Offside laws, and indeed most
other laws were disregarded, but fortunately
the match was still played in good (if illegal)
spirit.
St Thomas's opened the account after
twenty minutes. A long kick through was
touched down by fullback John Symes,
although the referee deciding otherwise,
awarded St Thomas's a try. An emminently
charitable fellow.
The try was converted and followed by
another quick score to make IC 0-10 down at
half-time. The second half was a dour
struggle amongst the forwards. Any attempt
by either side to spin the ball was foiled by
blatantly offside defences. St Thomas's
finally scored a third try ten minutes from the
end following a maul on IC's try-line.
A frustrating game, with sound perform-
ances put in by the aforementioned fullback
and the whole of the pack. A big hot bath and
a good meal afterwards soon warmed away
the diappointment of what should have been
an enjoyable game.
TEAM: Symes, Chan, Pike, Wall, Nkandu,
Hughes-Narborough, Bishop, Davies, Toole,
Hall, Verity, Hodgson, Bell, Ball, Kirby.
Page 10 FELIX, November 14, 1980

