Southside Security Survey
Just to be tiresome, I conducted another
T W O security surveys of Southside this week,
on both occasions, the Falmouth/Tizard doors
were unlocked. Here, students can help by
making sure they close the doors properly
after them. Mind you, if an efficient door-closer
(like Week's Hall, for instance) were installed,
the human element could be eliminated.
Apparently, while I was out of the office this
week, the chap from Estates who is charge of
the fire doors popped in. He was annoyed, he
obviously feels FELIX is interfering with his
job. I personally don't feel we could have
annoyed him enough as absolutely nothing
has been done since last week. You can still
gain entry by opening the bolt from the
outside.
Once you have gained access to the gallery
(outside) level there are all the staircase doors
and the main fire escape stairwell doors by
w!,.ch to gain access to the halls. If any one of
these doors is unlocked, an intruder can gain
access to A L L of the four halls.
Early Monday morning, I attempted to get
into Falmouth (home) without a key. The bolt
presented little problem as I was then on the
outside gallery. I was then surprised
to find all the Falmouth doors, and fire escape
doors actually locked. Just one door, to
Keogh, was open. One might initially think it
impossible to get into Falmouth from Keogh
due to locked interconnecting doors. No
problem! Complete absence of any locks on
the penthouse level (where the Wardens live)
allow access to both sides ol Southside. Simply
whizz up the lift on one side and zoom down
on the other. There's always access via the
basement as well, but a potential intruder
would risk meeting night security.
I have no wish to pull College security to
pieces as that itself would constitute a security
risk, but I do feel that the problem with
Southside could be so easily remedied. I shall
continue to utilise Editorial space in this
manner until something is done. If I can still qet
into Southside without a key by next
Wednesday, I shall start naming names —
watch this space!
Exec Torture
Not being a member of the Exec, I was
somewhat surprised when I was manhandled
into the Quad from the office to have bulls'
blood and putrid ducks' bodies poured over
me. I wasn't too pleased that I was wearing
my usual clothes at the time. More people
Puzzle Corner
By Scaramouche
At Primelia, the pure mathematicians speak
nothing but honest, rigorous truth. The
applied mathematicians, on the other hand,
invariably tell lies (which they call 'approxi-
mations') whereas the statisticians (who never
like to be definite about anything) alternate
true and false, or false and true.
Recently, a certain amount of gossip has
been going around concerning the activities of
three maths lecherers, each of whom is having
an affair with a different one of the young ladies
mentioned below. When questioned about his
unchastity, each made three statements.
Rumble said: '1 started my affair the week
before Flirt started hers. None of the girls has
blue eyes. Fluff's affair hasn't lasted as long as
Quirk's.
Prong said 'Rumble is not an applied
mathematician. If Fluff is his lover, then Fling is
mine. His three remarks include the same
number of false statements as my three'.
Quirk said 'My affair started before Fluff's.
Prong's started before Rumble's. Rumble is
not a statistician.'
So how are the pairings arranged?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me
c/o FELIX Office. There is a prize of £4 for the
first correct solution opened at noon on
Tuesday.
Last Week's Solution
All except Bumble.
Writing e.g. 'AB' to mean 'A gave it to B'.
here is the outline of the solution.
1. If FB then B received it more often than
he lent it. So B has it.
2. If not FB, then BF. So F received it three
times but can only have lent it out twice
(including once to E). So F has it, and FE. But
in this case, since D gave it or received it an
odd number of times (5) it started with D. So B
gave it or received it an even number of times.
So EB, so not FE, contradiction.
Apologies to any who felt the wording was
slightly ambiguous. If anyone wants a fuller
solution, write to me.
And talking of correspondence, why is it
that the only feedback I get is to tell me the
puzzles are too easy? All the information I get
about the trouble people have comes to me as
vague rumblings heard distantly along the
grapevine. I need to know how many teeth
were gnashed, how many man-hours wasted
over a tough puzzle like last week's before I
can set problems of the appropriate standard
of difficulty.
In any event, no one submitted anything last
week, so this week's puzzle is rather easier,
and the prize is doubled.
seem to have paid to have me shat upon
than any of the Exec. Should I take it
personally? Still, it swelled the Rag funds and
it was worth it to see just how quickly the
crowd dispersed when I emerged with a
tightly clasped handful of shit. Naturally, I
shall be sending a dry-cleaning bill to the Rag
chairman.
Ta very much
Thanks to Caroline, Mark, Patrick, Paul,
Steve, Phil, Colin, Shanne, Dave, Tim, Andy,
Sean, Ian and Maz, and anyone else who
helped. My brain is tired...zzzzzz
W h a t ' s o n
Friday, November 14
•Bookstall, lunchtime, JCR.
•Christian Union Meeting: I Am The Way, Truth And
Life by Dr June Martin from All Souls, 6:30pm, 53 Princes
Gate.
•Free Disco, 7:30pm, Lower Lounge.
Saturday, November IS
•Pot Luck Doubles Tournament, 10:00am, Snooker
Lounge, third floor, Beit.
• S C A B Night, 7:30pm, Concert Hall.
Sunday, November 16
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
•Caravan Concert, 7:30pm, Great Hall, £3.00 (adv) and
£3.50 (door).
Monday, November 17
• E x t e r n a l A f f a i r s C o m M e e t i n g , 12:45pm,
Upper Lounge.
•Christmas Card Workshop, 1:00pm, Graffitti Room,
West Staircase of Union Building. Print your own unique
Christmas card!
•Vegsoc Meeting, 1:00pm, IF Union. Yes, we really
mean at IF!
•Volleyball Club Ice-skating Trip, meet 6:30pm for
7:00pm, Union Lower Lounge.
•Folk Club Rag Concert, with Bob Pegg, 8:00pm,
Lower Refec. Tickets 80p (members 40p).
Tuesday, November 18
•Film: Nuclear Countdown and meeting addressed by
Mike Cowcher, 12:30, Senior Common Room. This wiD
be an inaugural meeting to set up a new United Nations
Association Group at IC.
•STOIC Transmission, 1:00pm, JCR and Hals.
•Photographic Display Women Under Apartheid, be
tween 12:30 and 2:30, JCR.
•Dept of Humanities presents:
1. WW2: the War Beyond the Fighting, part four, Psycho-
logical Warfare with Charles Cruickshank, Read Thea-
tre, Sherfield Building, 1:30pm.
2. Christianity Today with Mary Whitehouse speaking on
Twentieth-Century Morals, Fippard Theatre, 1:30pm.
• J Soc Debate: This House BeHeuesthat the Kibbutzisa
Communist Institution, 1:30pm, Upper Lounge.
•Rail Soc Meeting, 5:40pm, Maths 340.
•Met and Mat Sci Soc Lecture, 6:00pm, Mines G20.
With Mr J A Frost talking on This Is Glass.
•Photosoc Lecture, 7:30pm, Metallurgy (RSM) room
303. With Mr J Phipps talking on Available light Photo-
graphy.
• M O P S O C Lecture: Cambridge rang, 1:15pm, Physics
LT 2.
Wednesday, November 19
•Ski Club Trip to Uxbridge Dry Slope, depart Beit
Archway, 12:30pm.
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
•WIST Trip to see Slow Motion, meet 5;45pm, Union
Lower Lounge.
•Exploration Society Finn, The Kola Peninsula, 6:00
Biochem 302.
•Harry Magnay Trio and friends and aquaintances and
enemies, 8:30pm, Stan's Bar. Free!
Thursday, November 20
•Socialist Society U.T.O.M. on British Repression in
Ireland, 1:00pm, Maths 340. AD welcome.
•Dept of Humanities presents:
1. Life on Earth: part 6 The Invasion of Land, the Great
Hall, 1:15pm.
2. Lunch-hour Concert with the Anon Piano Trio, the
Music Room, 53 Princes Gate.
•Hang Gliding Club Meeting, 12:30pm, above Stan's
Bar.
•STOIC Transmission, 1:00pm and 6:00pm, JCR and
Halls.
•IC Gliding Club Meeting, 5:30pm, Aero 254.
•ENTS Film: Foul Play. 6:30pm, Mech Eng 220, 40p.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rood, London,
SW7 2BB. (589 5111 ext. 1048/int. 2881) Copyright FELIX 1980. Editor: S . J . Marshall, Advertising Manager: MA. Smith. Registered _ n t _ r i w _ G P O _ M _ o j ^ ^ a p e r .

