Old
Preversions
Student Union Financing
What has already been written in FELIX still
stands as the latest information. This has been
reaffirmed by the Committee of Vice-Chancellors
and Principals and I await a reply from the DES.
In an address given by the Chairman of the U G C
to the CVCP it is stated that the U G C do not
propose to earmark sums for students unions but
for the first year will 'indicate' the sums included
in the grant for that purpose. Colleges can then
decide to give more or less as they see fit.
Security
The security services have now beenfinalisedand
will come into operation on November 17. All
departments shall close at 10:00pm every night
including weekends. Those in departments before
10:00pm will still be able to leave after 10:00pm,
but access after 10:00pm will be restricted; those
who wish to gain access after 10:00pm any night
should see their department. Southside main
entrance will be manned throughout each night
and other security guards will patrol the area.
Overseas Students
Overseas student numbers have dropped by
about 2 5 % overall. Undergraduates are down
about 10%. MScs are down about 4 0 % as are
research numbers. The full reduction in
undergraduate numbers will only really be known
in 1982/3 when the full cost fees have been fully
implemented.
Suggestions and Complaints
We had a very productive meeting on Monday,
November 10, where we discussed Southside
Refectory and the Shop. The Southside Refectory
has had several complaints about the food being
cold and small portions being given. Mr Mooney
took the complaints to show to the staff in
Southside. (To have a good laugh, or to improve
the situation? - Ed.) The Shop is running a
Christmas raffle with first prize of a Christmas
hamper worth £15.20. Tickets are given free for
every £1 worth of groceries. The raffle will be held
at the Christmas Dinner-in-Hall for which tickets
are now on sale.
If suggestions and complaints are to have any
effect they should have the date, the suggestion
or complaint and the person's name and address
so that replies can be sent out. However, if your
food is cold or has something wrong with it the
best method is to take it back immediately and
ask for it to be changed. (Mr Mooney has said
refunds will be given if you are not satisfied. - Ed.)
Have a good Rag Week.
J Passmore
The Harry Magnay Trio
& Friends
Stans Bar, Weds, 8.30.
flunt ©0dr£ Visits Friends
Episode two
"Have you seen this evening's paper?" asked
the conspicuous party. Aunt Deidre did not
really believe in holding conversation with
complete strangers and held forth at some
length upon the subject.
The platform was cold and drear, but the
porters continued to weed the flowerbed by
the light of a storm lantern.
The sleepy village lay at some distance
from the railway station and prepared for
slumber in an orderly manner. The pillows
were straightened, the sheets ironed, the
curtains closed, the windows shut, doors
locked and pyjamas, naturally, put on.
DON'T MISS NEXT WEEK'S EXCITING EPISODE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
FELIX, November 14, 1980 Page 7

