Science
Fiction Soc
IMPERIAL COLLEGE Science Fiction Society
are proud to present one of the neglected
masterpieces of fantastic cinema. Killed by the
distributors on first release, Quintet is one of the
five best science-fiction films ever made (decided
by the society committee by a three to two
majority).
Set some years after the onset of the next ice-
age, it stars Paul Newman as a hunter, who
returns to the city (a refuge built when the ice
started to move) when his wife becomes
pregnant. An object of curiosity in the city, where
the birth-rate has dropped to practically zero, she
is killed in a bomb-blast which also kills Newman's
brother and his family. His subsequent hunt for
the murderer embroils him in a sinister game of
death, refereed by the manager of the city gaming
house (a remarkable performance from Fernando
Rey).
The realistic style of the director, Robert
Altman (whose previous credits include MASH,
Nashville, McCabe and Mrs Miller and California
Split gives this film a conviction that most films set
in the future lack. The recurring images of
desolation and the veiled suggestion that the film
depicts the last days of the human race, make this
a film you will remember.
On a lighter note, it was made in 1978, and is
therefore in colour with plenty of violence, so if
you liked Rollerball, which was basically violence
with a redeeming 'message' as an excuse, you'll
enjoy Quintet as well.
This is a much longer ad than usual because it's
not a famous film, but I'm sure that after seeing it,
you'll wonder why it isn't.
Quintet, Mech Eng 20, November 18, 6:30pm
50p for non-members. 20p for members.
ICYHA
LAST WEEKEND we stayed at Youlgreve youth
hostel in the Peak District, a trip enjoyed by all
those who came. The highlight of the weekend
was probably the walk on Sunday, which included
Kinder Scout and Kinder Downfall, and of course,
the peat bog, whose victims were eagerly
photographed!
The list is now up for the weekend to Brecon
Beacons in one week's time (November 21-23)
and our last trip this term will be to Snowdon in
North Wales (December 5-7). New members are
welcome; we meet regularly every Thursday in
Southside Upper Lounge at 12:30pm.
C&G
Motor Club
THIS WEEKEND there is the annual Prod
uction Car Trial; it is composed of a number ot
autotests and 'hills'.
The autotests consist of driving set courses
around bollards laid out on flat ground, and ate
against the clock - although speeds are unlikely
to exceed 15mph, due to the tight manoeuvring
required.
The other tests involve driving slalom routes
up slippery hills, scoring is by the distance up
the hill, which is measured before the undriven
wheels stop turning, or before a marker cone is
touched.
The event will be held on Sunday November
16, and starts at 9:30am, about 40 miles from
London (in Kent), and all that is needed is a car
(yours or a friend's) and a club membership
card - you can join on the day at a cost of 75p.
Further details, and entry forms, from the City
and Guilds Union office in Mech Eng.
Different categories separate the more
competative e.g. rear-engine rear wheel drive,
from the less competitive e.g. front-engine front
wheel drive cars, and are further divided
between novices and experts. Entry costs £3.00,
and if you cannot find a car or cannot afford
this, then why not come along and watch?
Mark Turner
Captain
India
Society
O N S A T U R D A Y , November 1, India Soc
organised a function for the Indian festival of
"Diwali", or Festival of Light. Diwali celebrates the
triumph of (Jood over Evil and the start of the
Indian Year. Traditionally it is celebrated by
exchanging gifts, renewing old friendships
(season of goodwill and joy; where did I hear this
before?), lighting candles /lamps around the
house (hence the name Festival of Light) and with
fireworks.
However, having failed to obtain permission to
set fire to the JCR, we had to be content with the
audio-visual entertainment provided by a live
band 'Kala Preet' and a Bhangra (Punjabi folk
dance) group, 'The Great Indian Dancers'. Indian
food was on sale during the evening: 'samosas'
and 'pakomas' from Southall (where else?) and
real, mouth-searing, home-made 'charas'
(prepared by a sadist or somebody with a death
wish). The live entertainment was followed by a
disco till 2:00am.
The event was attended by 300 people:
students (Indian and European) from all over
London and a few from the Midlands. The result
was a very successful and enjoyable evening
(trouble free more due to the size of the
President's fists than any lack of the rowdier
elements). Everything was organised perfectly
and the evening went without any hitch. For the
first time in umpteen years an India Soc function
made a profit: all of £6!
I would like to take this opportunity to thank
everyone who helped organise it, worked on the
evening and all those who attended and helped
make it so successful.
The next India Soc funciton is a Republic Day
celebration on Saturday, January 24, 1981.
ASG
Ham Radio
Society
LAST TIME 1 penned a Hamsoc article for FELIX
I said we would help you pass the RAE. However I
neglected to say what RAE stood for and may
have misled you into thinking that we intended to
visit Farnborough. Let me put the record straight.
RAE, in this instance, stands for Radio Amateur's
Exam which is what you need to pass to obtain an
amateur licence. The exam is set by the City and
Guilds of London Institute and is held twice-
yearly. Once you have passed you become
eligible to apply to the Home Office for a Class B
licence. This entitles you to transmit in the
amateur bands above 144MHz. If you have also
passed the Post Office Morse Test you will have a
Class A licence and may operate below 144MHz.
It is important to note that you do not need to
understand morse to be a radio amateur. Also a
class B licence holder may operate a hf station
under the supervision of a class A operator.
The purpose of sitting the RAE is to show that
the operator has sufficient technical knowledge to
keep his transmissions totally within the
permitted frequency bands and to the correct
power levels, i.e. if he does cause interference he
should know how to stop it. But what is the exam
like? There are two papers; the first on licensing
conditions and transmitter interference and the
second on operating practices, procedures and
theory. The questions are all multiple choice and
vary from the "Ohm's Law is . . . " type to less
straightforward sorts on techniques specialised to
radio.
The next RAE is in May. Hamsoc will be
running a series of preparatory lectures, as we did
last year, starting at the beginning of next term.
However if you want to be sure of sitting the
exam in May,, and without having to travel to
some remote corner of Britain, it is necessary to
send for an application form now. We will do this
for you (even if you are not yet a member of
Hamsoc), just send your name and department to
David Legg, Physics PG. If you would like to
know more about the RAE or amateur radio in
general come along to the temporary shack (top
floor of the Union) any Wednesday afternoon.
WIST
Women Under Apartheid
W O M E N IN SCIENCE and Technology are
displaying a photographic exhibition on
"Women Under Apartheid" in the JCR on
Tuesday November 18 during lunchtime. It will
then be displayed in the ICWA lounge for the
following week, (which is on the 3rd Floor
Union Building, and is open to anyone at all
times) and there will be a discussion on this
topic at the WIST meeting on Wednesday
November 26 at 12:30pm in the ICWA lounge.
.Anyone is welcome to come along.
I should also like to mention here that we are
going to see "Slow Motion" on November 19 at
Camden Plaza and anyone is welcome to come
along. Meet at 5:45pm in the Union Lower
Lounge.
Jill Hanson
WIST
Amnesty
International
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (A.I.) is a non-
political world-wide organisation which
campaigns for the release of those people who
are imprisoned for thier beliefs, race, or colour,
and who have never advocated or used
violence. The A.l. group at IC is an adopted
group, and as such, has a prisoner of con-
science assigned to it, and it is the group's
responsibility to campaign for the release of the
prisoner by writing to the prison authorities
concerned, and any other persons who it is
thought may be of assistance.
As part of a fund-raising scheme, the group is
organising a 24-hour sponsored fast, to take
place from 9:00am Friday December 5 until
9:00am Saturday December 6. The fast will be
held in the JCR until 6:00pm on the Friday, and
in the ICWA lounge afterwards. If anyone is
interested in taking part, or would like to
sponsor a participant, will they please contact
Bob Sloss, Botany PG, or come along to the
group's meetings, every Tuesday, 5:30pm in the
Green Committee Room, top floor of the Union
Building. (P.S. For those who are slimming, I
am told it's a very good way of loosing weight.)
A.I. Christmas cards are also on sale in the
bookshop, price 6 for 50p.
Page 9
)

