F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
no. m. FRIDAY, 27TH OCTOBER P R I C E 4D.
S P O R T Y UNION M E E T I N G S
The first Guilds Union Meeting of the ses-
sion was held in Room 04 in Guilds. M r .
Vice-President lost his trousers very quickly,
and the meeting was off to a good start.
The words "Chem. Eng.'" were seen in-
scribed on the blackboard and the House rose
in protest, cries of "Off\ Off I" filling the
room. Urfofficialy water was used in an at-
tempt to achieve this aim. The President,
Laurie Austin, showing great diplomacy, re-
moved the- lower half of the offending in-
scription.
When a state of order (?) had been achieved,
the year reps, were elected, amid scenes <
>
f
friendly rivalry.
After this the House got down to the ser-
ious business of electing a Union Secretary.
This turned out to be Max Finney. Morphy
Day was the next subject for discussion (?).
The President made adverse comments on last
year's fight, complaining that only a draw had
been achieved. He called for something more
this year and was just missed by a ripe tom-
ato!
Support was requested for Bo. on the 5th
November, the day of the Brighton Run. As
regards the Lord Mayor's Show, fifteen hefty
blokes are required t otake part in a rugger
match against Kings.
The fate of Regent Street Poly, was dis-
cussed and the Vice-President "Loverboy"
Liberman, promised to look into the matter.
The meeting was closed in the usual manner,
"Able-bodied" Austin holding the Spanner
above his head amid cheers of adulation.
The first R.C.S. Union Meeting of this ses-
sion was held in the Huxley building on
Thursday at 1.15 p.m. After a few prelimin-
ary arguements on the method of electing
year reps., which Wie President, Finlay D .
MacPherson, dealt with effectively, the meet-
ing moved on to the serious business of elect-
ing the Queen of Jez. While the ladies were
prepared, the Entertainments Committee
Chairman, Eddie Thornber, attempted to
justify his existence and appealed for
helpers. T o desultory tootlings on a trumpet
by the Secretary, the Queen of Jez. candidates
paraded to thunderous applause. The most
favoured candidate at this stage was Bluebell
Smith, who also arouse the House to a frenzy
by His/her cavortings, but in Mie election
he/she turned out to be a he and was dis-
qualified. This left Doreen Rouse of the Zoo-
logy Department with a healthy majority, and
she was crowned by the President who how-
ever, omitted to kiss her in the traditional
manner, until reminded.
Pete Young, Vice-President, then outlined
the charms of Morphy Day and showed •
•
>
.
short film of last year's event with suitable
cheer-leading by the Executive. Having ex-
plained the transport arrangements he went
on to urge a good turnout bv R.C.S., and
tried to discourage the wearing of lounge
suits on the day.
The crowning of the Queen of Jez, Doreen
Rouse, by Finlay MacPherson
The Swimmine Gala at U . L . U . was an-
nounced, but did not seem to interest the
Union very much; a pitv, because this could
be quite a sportine occasion. The Captain
of the R.C.S. Rugbv Club expressed his
doubts about the security arrangements for
the Queen lof Jep.. but the President as-
sured him that these were adequate and the
meeting closed with Kangella whioh had been
written up on the blackboard for the benefit
of the Freshers.
A Message
to Guildsmen
My dear Guildsmen,
Are you sitting comfortably? — then I'll
begin. We of R.CS. would welcome seeing
you on the towpath at Putney, and will only
be too glad to throw1
you in the river, which,
I might add, will be beautifully codl at this
time of the year. We are all agreed that Guilds
smells a little too strongly for our delicate
tastes and needs a wash. ,
So do come down to Putney next Wednes-
day and reap the inevitable results of your
dilatory attitude to personal hygiene. (Thinks:
all this thanks to "Thames".)
With lots of love.
Your Favorite Uncle,
Theta
P.S. R.C.S listen carefully to your President's
briefing on Wednesday ,a co-ordinated policy
will make the whole outing infinitely more
jolly.
NOVEMBER l s t .
FOR ONE D A Y ONLY!
A V A I L A B L E TO A L L
GUILDSMEN
The location
The offer -
- Putney towpath
R . C . S . !
Watch for further details on notice boards
CODE WORD — MORPHY DAY
This is a Liberman Promotion.

