U
J U 2 C0IIIIVG EVENTS
ICWA leads the wan
A Fresher ICWArian, Miss Thelma West,
was one of a party of five members of Im-
perial College who, with a post-graduate from
King's College, completed the 40 mile Lyke
Wake Walk in just under 16 hours.
This was the first weekend of the term org-
anised (by the Imperial College Y . H . A .
Group, in this case specially for a handful
of enthusiasts (whom many regarded as slight-
ly eccentric) who wished to try the Lyke Wake
Walk. This is a cross-country hill walk over
the North York Moors from west to east,
crossing the fells at their highest and wildest
within a 24 hour time limit.
The party of twelve set off from College
on the evening of Friday the 13th. Fog de-
layed the journey north by hired dormobile
but at 4.40 a.m. we arrived at the triangul-
ation point near Osmotherley which marks
the start of the walk, and the hiking party
set out in earnest. T w o hours' fumbling a
round in the dark produced relatively little
progress but, with the coming of daylight, con-
ditions improved and in four hours we met
the dormobile party for a hurried hot soup
breakfast. O n again, with mist now spoiling
the views but progress' easier along a disused
railway which here forms a convenient path.
A quick, fcnack at Rosedale Head and the
party, now reduced from seven to six, pushed
on along the dead straight path marked by
a line of white boundary stones. Soon we were
crossing Wheeldale Moor and then dropping
down into the valley for more welcome re-
freshment near Wheeldale Youth Hostel, a-
gain kindly provided by our efficient team
of cooks in the dormobile.
Tired now, and beginning to feel the strain
of eleven bom*' walking over very rough
moorland deep in heather, the party made its
way past Eller Beck and so on over Fyling-
dales Moor, the whole country now bathed
in an autumnal glow from the sun setting in
the west at the close of what had been a glor-
ious day.
However, we had not finished yet and al-
though we- succeeded in getting off the moors
before dark, there were still four miles to go.
We all chose a slightly longer and easier
route, but two Yorkshire-men, as if drawn
by a magnet to the bar at the end of the walk
at Ravenscar, suddenly shot ahead and were
there to welcome the party when the other
four limped in some sixteen hours after set-
ting out.
We had done it! Well inside the allowed
time of twenty-four hours, but a good deal
of the credit must go to the support party
in the dormobile who drove 150 miles over
narrow lanes to give the walkers hot food
and drink whenever the route crossed a road.
A restful night in Boggle Hole Youth Hostel,
a brief visit to Robin Hood's Bay and a
leisurely drive back to London completed
what was for all of us a memorable and enjoy-
able weekend.
The walking party consisted of: —
Ian Gibson {leader), Thelma West, Ted
Herbert* Mike SlaW< Alan Banes (King's
College), and Roger Henson.
The support party was: —
Ken Vrw)'n (driver), John Spiller (exhl.C.
and co-driver), Mollie Howard, Sue Living-
stone, Angela Cowgill (Bedford Collegg) not
forgetting Chas (native guidel).
I.L.G.
It is with the greatest pleasure that 'Felix'
introduces its 'Coming Events' column. We
hope that this will help students to fill their
diaries long in advance of events and so be
able to draw up a timetable for themselves.
Such events as take place on the same day
and at the same place every week will not
be included in this column due to limitations
of space; but we shall include all other major
activities.
FRIDAY 27TH OCTOBER:
1. R.C.S Freshers' Dinner — U.D.H.
6.00 — 10.00 p.m.
2. U . L . U . Conservative Association Dance - -
Ayrton Hall, 8.00 — 11.30 p.m.
SATURDAY 28TH & SUNDAY 29TH NOVEMBER:
1. Dram. Soc. Rehearsal — Concert Hall
10.00 a.m. — 7.00 p.m.
MONDAY 30TH OCTOBER:
1. C. & G . Freshers' Dinner — U.D.H.
6.00 — 10.00 p.m.
2. Pakistan Freshers' Tea — Snack Bar,
5.30 - 8.00 p.m.
WEbNESDAY lST NOVEMBER:
1. Morphy Day (Half-holiday).
THURSDAY 2ND NOVEMBER:
1. Council Meeting — Snack Bar, 5.15 p.m.
FRIDAY 3RD NOVEMBER:
1. Chaps' Club Dinner — U.D.H., 7.30 —
10.00 p.m.
2. Punjabi Society Dinner — Ayrton Hall,
7.00 — 10.30 p.m.
SATURDAY 4TH NOVEMBER:
1. Dram. Sod. Rehearsal *
10.00 a.m. — 7.00 p.m.
Concert Hall,
SUNDAY 5TH NOVEMBER:
1. Brighton Rim for Bo.
2. Harlington Ball.
3. Felix Make-Up — Press Room, 2.00 —-
8.00 p.m.
WEDNESDAY 8TH NOVEMBER:
1. U . L . Hockey Match. I.C. v. Kings (Cup
Match).
FRIDAY 10TH NOVEMBER:
l . R.F.C. Supper.
SATURDAY l l T H NOVEMBER:
1. Lord Mayor's Show.
R E G F I S H E R A T I M P E R I A L
The President of U L U completed his tour
of the forty-two colleges that make up the Uni-
versity when he dined with the Executive on
Thursday October 19th. With umbrella at the
ready the formidable figure of Reg Fisher
strode into the Union Office at lunch time,
and after being introduced to the President
and Secretary of I.C. the Presidents of the
constituent colleges, Dave Wilbraham and the
Editor of Felix, Reg. consented to pose for
our photographer in a variety ot attitudes.
During lunch in the Dining Hall Reg. dis-
played his wit and humour to good advantage
and generally kept the party going. T o our
suprise he complimented the Union on the
standard of cooking, so some of the other
forty-one other College refectories must be
pretty terrible.
When the party retired to the bar, Reg.
bought a round of pints, balanced himself on
a stool and proceeded to hold forth on a var-
iety of topics, including, naturally enough,
dentistry, for he is a student at the Royal
Dental Hospital. Reg. completed the visit with
a short discussion at a more serious level in
the Union Office.
Obviously, Reg. Fisher could not hope to
achieve much more than t o remind us of our
very tenuous connection with U.L.U., and to
put over a good impression generally, but it
is good to see that someone is interested in
breaking the barrier of mutual indifference be-
tween this College and the rest of he Uni-
versity.

