F E L I X
by COLCUTT
It seems that my comments about the
freshers showing their true worth at freshers'
dinners has been justified, providing that we
assume that some freshers have been con-
cerned in the recent happenings. The President
of the R.C.S U. was invited to a Guild's
freshers dinner, quite the usual practice. This
sort of invitation usually secures your person-
al safety, after all, you are then a guest of
the host Union, but the President of the
R.C.S.U. lost his trousers. Precisely what he
did to arouse the wrath of the militant Guilds-
men cannot be determined, but this embar-
assment was rapidly followed at succeeding
dinners by the removal of the trousers of
the Secretary of the I.C. Union and the Pre-
sident of the R.S.M. Union. One can apprec-
iate the humour of debagging the President
of R.C.S. and the Secretary of I.C., especially
if the President of R.C.S. was his visual viv-
acious self, these sights being funny any time
and particularly when one is slightly inebri-
ated, but the debagging of the President f
R.S.M. is a considerable feat, even if he has to
be first rendered insensible. The imagination,
however, boggles at the act of a party of Mines
freshers. Perhaps, we can be generous and say
that the breaking of the small yard was the
main cause, after all, drinking 2\ (??) pints
at a swallow is an awful lot, but to go into
the cloakroom, remove all the coats from the
hangers, tear off all the hanger-number tags,
and then to pile the hangers in a heap on the
floor indicates a mentality unworthy of five-
year-old children.
The signature of G . Thomas (Phys. 1.) ap-
pended to the letter advocating temperance at
I.C. provoked considerable speculation. It has
been suggested that he is the brother of Dennis
Thomas (D.T.'s) that renowned ex-captain of
I.C. and the Saracens.
Rumours have been heard that the President
of R.C.S and some of his hierarchy wish to
remove the Silwood Ball from the College soc-
ial calendar and substitute for it yet another
"Grand Ball" to join the ranks of the Comment.
Ball and the May Ball. The main reasons for
this seem to be the difficulty of organisation
involved in the Silwood Ball and the fact that
there are nearly 1,000 students in R.C.S. and
only 100 can be accommodated at Silwood.
One shudders at the thought of Hammersmith
Palais or the Carlton Rooms, Maida Vale (both
proposed venues) being substituted for the re-
laxed formality and "difference" of the Sil-
wood Ball — judged bv many > be the most
enjoyable function of the year.
I read that L.S.E. are very keen to form a
Press Council for the control of all student
publications, to correspond to the National
Press Council. This seems to be yet another
national Student body for which there is little
purpose and no demand; and if it does cor-
respond to the National Press Council, to judge
by the Spectator's comments ("an entirely com-
ic body") it will be one more source of mirth.
Flagging freshers who feel that after three
weeks of term their ambitions in the academ-
ic field are fading, should take a stroll along
Bond Street. There, displayed in all their glory,
in the window of a photographer, are the like-
nesses of some distinguished Fellows of the
Royal Society. The largest and most promin-
ently displayed is of our own Prof. P.M.S.B.
looking his usual handsome self; in fact a lady
acquaintance of mine finds it difficult to de-
cide which attracts her most, the Prof, or the
P.R.S. himself — "they are both so sauve".
Perhaps, the James-Bond-type looks of the
Prof, give him a slight advantage but the
overwhelming scholarship of the P.R.S.
(Read 'War and Peace' in Russian 'n' times)
cannot be ignored — second opinion wel-
come in this beau de Royal Society compet-
ition.
Ben Hindley's sport X I (the Soccer Club's
ex-seventh team) were somewhat amazed last
week to find that when they crawled onto the
field to play a B.B.C. sport X I (supposedly
the B.B.C. fifth XI) there was a very offic-
ious looking London Association rteferce
waiting' for them. This resulted in the last
year's chairman of the A.C.p. having the
singular experience of being sent off the field
before the game started.
REMEMBER REMEMBER
IOVEMBER 5th
Dancing: 7.00 p.m. — 10.00 p.m.
Bonefire: 8.15 p.m.
Fireworks: 8.45 p.m.
TICKETS 2s.6d. including transport.
Hotdogs and Bar all evening.
-
Coaches leave the Union: 6.00-6.30 p.m.
Return from: 9.30 p.m.
TICKETS ON SALE IN UNION OFFICE TUESDAY 12.45 LIMITED TO T W O SINGLE TICKETS
PER APPLICANT.
CAROLINE RUSSELL
Miss Carolyn Russell, the recently elected
President of ICWA, first came to Imperial
College two years ago to study Metallurgy.
Carolyn comes from Poyton in Cheshire and
was edcatued at Macclesfield County High
School for Girls. Having become innured to
the peculiar position of women at this Col-
lege (she was the only girl in her department
in her first year), she appeared in two Dram-
atic Society plays and went on tour with the
Society. She has also swum for I.C.W.S.C.
and performed creditably in the Shrove Tues-
day I C W A v.Exec. pancake race.
Of 1CWA itself, Carolyn thinks'that it is
essential to the College, mainly because it can
make the women feel at home here and pre-
vent them from being completely isolated. As
for the perennial question of women in the
bar, she shrewdly points out that no woman
should c e r have to buy herself a drink, and
having nad it bought for her she prefers to
drink it in the* lounge.
Carolyn agrees that from the social point
of view the number of girls in the College is
far from ideal, but adds that often members
of ICWA are not invited out by the men be-
cause they automatically assume that some-
one else will have invited them first.
Hobbies? The theatre mainly and not much
time for anything else, what with work and
ICWA and the high life generally — and of
course there is a well-known Guildsman in
her life. T o sum up, Carolyn is tharming
and vivacious, very feminine, and with views
of her own. She should make a great success
of being President of ICWA this year.
A P O L O G I E S
We must apologise for an error in the news
item headed "Bookstall Changes" in the last
issue of Felix. The Chairman of the Book-
stall Committee is M r . R . H . Harris of the
Metallurgy Department and Dr. J.L. Knill
of the Geology Department has been recently
appointed to the Committee.

