- 4 F E L I X
Sir,
We note with surprise and dismay that the
Guy Fawkes' Dance will be held on Sunday,
November 5th. This is one of the best social
events in the calendar of the Union and we
would have liked very much to have attended
once again, but, as Christians, we will be in
•Church at the time.
We cannot but express our deepest disap-
pointment that it was not found expedient
to hold this celebration a day ealier, just as
in other parts of the country, fireworks dis-
plays will be held on the Saturday evening.
This event, therefore, cannot be said to
be open to all members of the Union because
it will be lacking in the support of many I.C
Christians who yvill be meeting with other
like minded people to worship the Lord and
Giver of all true Happiness, who set this day
apart as a hallowed day.
Yours sincerely,
Owen Davies, John Vernon, John Hulbert,
Michael Averill, R.H. Sargeant, Segun
Sowunmi, A.J. Martin, F.C. Brown, C
Wetter, D.L. Barlett, J.Ff. Evans, Samuel
Tewungwa, S.W. Aaron.
Dear Sir,
In a recent issue of your excelent period-
ical you published a non-committal article on
the Union refectories. Whilst respecting your
neutralistic politics. I feel that a strong prot-
est must be made through your columns with
regard to the evening meal facilities. Every-
one who, on economic grounds or otherwise,
has had the misfortune to eat in the lower
refectory after six o'clock knows that it is im-
possible to obtain a meal without a fifteen or
twenty minute wait if he wishes to have the
full range of dishes on,the menu from which
to select. There is only one answer, namely
the upper refectory must be opened in the
evening. The fact that Ayrton Hall, where the
meals are cold anyway due to lack of a hot-
plate, is open, is of little importance as no
civilised person wants his evening meal at five
o'clock, and on Tuesdays and Thursdays all
conscientious students are working until five-
thirty.
Yours faithfully,
DUNCAN DOUGLASS, M E C H . ENG. .2
Dear Sir,
I had intended writing an idiot-type letter
about the number of noms de plume in last
week's letter page. Two obviously, who are
cowards and a third signed incorrectly. This
was until I saw on the Union notice board
a request for the actual names of two more
noms de plume, one obviously offensive since
it is referred to ai a nom de guerre.
Has no-one in this College the strength of
mind to write an unpopular letter and act-
ually to claim ownership"} Surely, if one has
a different point of view and takes the trouble
to put it down on paper, then one should
expect to be able to be argued with "face
to face" as it were, instead of through a for-
est of noms de piume, noms de guerre, and
noms de cowardice. I was going to sign this
letter, "Disgusted, Weeks Hall", but now in
rebellion I sign it,
Yours, ashamed of the spirit of this College,
JOHN WHITE
Dear Sir,
There are several points arising from
Felix No. 165 which I feel I must comment
on. Although agreeing with your general
comments on refectories I feel I must point
out that Ayrton Hall has been used to more
than capacity over the last fortnight and I
cannot see it easing the load on the Union
facilities to any great extent.
Secondly, spelling. I have noticed some
appalling mistakes on notices about the place
and I was ready to comment on this when
Felix himself let me down on the front page\
Thirdly, the letters page. I agree with Mr.
Thomas to the point of disliking "filthy"
songs, but I feel that he should reserve his
judgement: some folk overburdened with work
require to let of steam and the bar is as good
a place as any. And what is wrong with the
top chop-house bar which is usually available
on hop nights!
Now what is Irate Guildsman on about!
Why doesn't he try to arouse enthusiasm in
his own department instead of getting at
Chem. Eng. Cave ursa Yogi\
R.A. STOCK, Chem. Eng. 2
Dear Sir.
It has recently come to my notice that the
Refectory Committee has raised the price of
Freshers' Teas from ls.6d. per head to 2s.
This was done without notifying any of the
clubs or societies of the Union, and consequ-
ently the majority of the socie ties ordered
\the$r Freshers' Teas on the understanding
that they would cost ls.6d. each. Now the
bills have come in, and Mn. Mooney has
presented all the societies with bills 33%
more than what they had estimated for.
Why were the societies told that the
Freshers' Teas had not changed in price, and
why it is that only now, after all the teas
have been eaten, are Mr. Mooney's staff told
of the increase!
Yours querying,
P.C. Y O U N G
EDITOR'S NOTES.
Mr. Mooney informs us that the matter
was brought up at a Refectory Committee
meeting last June at which the constituent
College Presidents were present. He feels that
the onus was upon them to inform their soc-
ieties and the societies to inquire first about
the prices.
Dear Sir,
Rarely am I moved to express feelings of
indignation in the columns of the Press, but
an item in the last issue of Felix has aroused
my ire.
I refer to the words attributed to a well-
known ICWArian in Comments of the Week,
namely, "The Freshers' look like a weedy lot
this year." I read this item one morning as I
was dressing, and I can only say that I was
so overcome as to be completely unable to do
up the buttons of my liberty boftice.
Yours faithfully,
G.L.E. L O C K E , AERO 1.
\Sir,
Some serious allegations have been made
in the last week's edition of Sennet about the
conduct of the I.C. Council. The suggestion
is made that the disbanding, of the I.C. Camp-
aign for Nuclear Disarmament was achieved
in a thoroughly suspicious and reprehensible
manner — indeed perhaps from political mot-
ives.
Reports such as these, whether true or false,
do no good at all to the name of our College.
What is more, they are very likely to be be-
lieved if the present Council insits on being
dilatory and evasive about the whole affair.
The course of action necessary is quite clear;
if an injustice, intentional or not, was done to
the I.C.C.N.D. then they should be reinstated
immediately and apoligies made: if, on the
other hand, there was good cause for this act-
ion, then the facts should be made public with-
out delay.
The matter is one which is quite independ-
ent of any likes or dislikes which may be left
for the C.N.D.; if the allegations in Sennet are
correct, then a precedent has been created for
the interference by Council in the affairs of
any of those I.C. societies which it happens
to dislike. Such conduct is clearly intolerable.
The seriousness of Sennet's claims war-
rants,! think, a personal statement from the
Union President.
Yours faithfully,
DONALD PEARSON
EDITOR'S N O T E :
Far from being dilatory and evasive, Counc-
il can say nothing until the minutes of the last
Council meeting have been passed as a true
and correct record. The next Council meeting
is next Thursday, after which the minutes of
the meeting in question will be published on
the notice board.
Dear Sir,
I note with concern Mr. A. Wellwisher's
concern over the influx of a large number
of young ladies into the College. His remark
about yellow women is particularly offensive,
and he displays generally a most unchival-
rous attitude to our filles nouvelles. The tone
of this letter leads me to believe that he is
embittered towards the fair sex; why, I just
cannot fathom.
Yours faithfully,
45-39-46
P.S. What happened to Felix No. 164?
EDITOR: It suffered the misfortune of being
numbered 16$. A n d we apologise for the
spelling mistakes we actually beat the
Guardian.
Dear Sir,
My congratultaions to Mr. "A. Wellwisher"
for his forthright letter concerning the selection
of women students, which appeared in the last
issue of Felix; his feelings are shared by many
amongst us.
Shame, however, that no name and address
supplied appeared at the bottom of the page
for I would'very much like to meet him per-
sonally.
Yours faithfully,
H.D. RICHARDSON, E.E.I.

