F E L I X
j i b
Felix Pub
NO. 2.
T H E E N N I S M O R E A R M S
The Ennismore is the newest pub near
I.C. and on its reopening three years ago,
rapidly became popular. Its single close-
carpeted bar has a sophisticated atmosphere
and is definitely a place to take the girl-
friend. The new landlord is more tolerant
by KEG
of students than the last one, with whom re-
lations were somewhat strained last year.
Watney's Red Barrel and Special bitter are
served, but food is not usually available in
the evenings. The most conveinent route
from the Union is along Prince's Gardens,
past Weeks' Hall and into Ennismore Mews,
on turning right past an illuminated bust of
some long-dead Roman, the pub is 100 yds.
down the mews.
Dear Sir,
Well, it didn't take the Guilds Executive
long to show their true colours. A truly glor-
ious episode — invite the R.C.S. President
to a Freshers' Dinner and then remove his
trousers afterwards with the help of fifty
other Guildsmen.
True Guilds hospitality at its best.
Yours chicken,
AN ONLOOKER
INCA HIGHWAYS
EXPEDITION
R E Q U I R E S
A PHOTOGRAPHER
If you would like a trip to Northern Peru
next Summer please contact J.E. Selman
(P.G., Civil Engineering Department) via
the Union Letter Rack.
A n interest in the Incas is not essential.
I.C. O R C H E S T R A
I.C. Orchestra are giving a concert on Nov.
27th in the Concert Hall. A l l musio-lbvers
are encouraged to attend. There is also the
customary bun-fight in the Council Room in
178, Queensgjate afterwards. If you don't
know what a bun-fight is come along to this
one and bring some music if you want to
contribute to the evening's entertainment.
S.C.C. M E E T I N G
The first S.C.C. meeting of this session was
held on the auspicious evening of Friday the
13th of October. M r . Elstein of the Jewish
Society was elected to the vacancy on the
Executive Committe. The Chairman, M r .
Bond, outlined the basis of the financial
management of the committee and explained
the estimates for this session. The affiliation
of the I.C. Islamic Society to the University
of London Islamic Group was approved.
The Committee were concerned at the
manner in which an S.C.C society had been
disbanded without consultation with or dis-
cussion by the S.C.C. Suggestions from the
Chair on the treatment of clubs which
broke Union rules, including that clubs should
only be disbanded after serious and repeated
rule-breaking or when defunct were approved
by the meeting. A proposal that Council be
asked to reinstate the College C.N.D. Group
was passed with only one vote against it.
W A N T E D
BRIDESMAIDS A N D J U R Y M E N
I.C. Gilbert and Sullivan Society
require cast for
TRIAL BY JURY
Contact J. Boston through Union Rack.

