— 6 F E L I X
O P E R A A N D B A L L E T
I X . GIBSON
With the "hustle and bustle" of College
activities to occupy the fresher and return-
ing student, it is some time before he acclim-
atizes himself and begins to look outside for
his entertainment. London is one of the major
centres of the arts in Western Europe and
it is a great pity if the University student
doesn't avail himself of this fine opportunity
to see something of the London theatre,
music, opera and ballet. The latter two may
be new to anyone from the provinces, but it
is worth making the effort to accustom one-
self to the new medium and accept its con-
ventions.
Sadler's Wells provide an almost ideal in-
troduction to the world of opera with a series
of performances of Rigoletto on Nov. 4th.
8th, 16th and 24th. This early Verdi opera,
sung, like the vast majority of opera at Sadler's
Wells, in English, is full of action and lively
music; and the ending with the heroine dying
slowly, bravely, and in fine voice is in the
true operatic tradition. In a lighter vein, a-
nother opera which nearly always seems to
fare well at Sadler's Wells is Rossini's com-
edy "The Barber of Seville" (Nov. 3rd, 23rd,
28th), while those for whom Stravinsky holds
no terrors would enjoy the very fine double
bill "Oedipus Rex" and "The Nightingale"
(Nov. 2nd).
A t Covent Garden, the Christmas period
includes a new production of "The Magic
Flute" by Mozart, conducted and produced
by Otto Klemperer, and a revival of one of
Verdi's finest operas "Don Carlos". Advance
booking for these performances, which are not
sung in translation, is almost essential and
opens on Nov. 9th.
Arnold Haskell, the celebrated authority on
ballet, visiting the College for General Studies
some years ago, when asked what he would
take a newcomer to ballet to see, suggested
a full length classical ballet. The Royal Ballet
at Covent Garden regularly provides an oppor-
tunity for following M r . Haskell's advice and
performances of "Sleeping Beauty" on
Nov. 8th, 9th, 17th and 27th will allow
"balletomanes" to compare the performances
of three of London's leading ballerinas in the
leading role. Margot Fonteyn will be dancing
the part of Princess Aurora in the first and
last of the four performances listed above.
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.
" T H E K I T C H E N "
by ARNOLD W E S K E K
O n Thursday, Oct. 12th, a disorderly crowd
of some twenty-two members of the I.C.
Dram. Soc. descended upon the stalls of the
Royal Court theatre; the large number pre-
sumably due to the staggering price reduc-
tion offered, the details of which appear to
be exclusive to the organiser of the trip, one
David Cain, better known perhaps for his
partiality for a large stringed musical instru-
ment.
"The Kitchen", which was Wesker's first
play, would seem to be something of a pro-
ducer's nightmare, involving a cast of thirty
all of whom appear at times to be talking
at once. The action takes place in the kit-
chen of a large West E n d restaurant during
one working day and is concerned mainly
with the reaction of a very assorted crew of
cooks and waitresses fo one another, and
to the fact that they are all somewhat over-
worked. The main character in this strange
situation is a German 'exchange' cook, a quick
tempered .rather light-hearted individual —
very well portrayed by Jeremy Brett, whom
some may remember for his interesting
"Hamlet" earlier this year. A notable feat-
ure of this cast was the constructive use of
accents, easing the problem of indetification
amongst so many, and particularly well done
by the two Germans, James Bolan as a Geor-
die, a dab hand at sour onion soup, and
Harry Landis, a down-to-earth number one
pastry cook.
fThe set, using no drapes, flats, backloth
or masking, gave the appearance of a large
draughty basement; this was, in fact, the stage
itself, bare and uncluttered, but for ovens
and tables, and some most effective lighting.
Sound was also immaginative — though the
occasional rumbling of the Inner Circle just
under the stage was little disturbing.
Over a pint next door, it was generally
agreed that the evening had been a great suc-
cess, and further similar outings would be
welcomed. Visits are therefore planned to the
Aldwych and "Luther" in the near future,
and, of course, "Tiger at the Gates".
T H E S E V E N T H S E A L
Bergman's films have achieved great
praise and popularity and there is no doubt
that he is one of the world's outstand-
ing directors. Recently critics have sug-
gested Bergman has gone into .decline
— "The Face" was received with (little
enthusiasm and "The Virgin Spring"
even sharply criticised, but in "The Seven
Seal" he demonstrated the originality and
sureness of touch which has made him a force
in the cinema. The best film in 1957 at the
Cannes and Edinburgh Film Festivals and his
best film to date (along with "Wild Sraw-
berries" it symbolises the current problems of
doubt and faith. Set in the middle ages the
main player is a knight returning from a Crus-
ade. He meets Death and challenges him to a
game of chess. Although he must lose he has
time to consider his beliefs and meet people,
amongst whom are a family of strolling players.
Here, Bergman presents his opposites: the
knight who cannot believe without proof is
conquered by Death (although the extent of
defeat is reduced) whilst the family, full of
love and faith escape Death's clutches. Berg-
man considers love should conquer death and
this 'infinite love' is his God. The film is
complex but stimulating: mediaeval yet con-
temporary. The acting and photography are
superb.
T H E F I V E L E V E L S O F B E I N G
Many students of science, used to follow-
ing logical processes of deduction, and wary
of accepting any hypothesis until it has been
experimentally tested, must be feeling rather
disturbed by the series of lectures given every
Tuesday by Mr. E.F. Schumacher. The tone
of these lectures is largely philosophical, and
the lecturer feels that in this subject the non-
scientific questions are the basic ones. In con-
trast to Descartes, who felt himself obliged
to reject everything and accept nothing but
the fact that he himself existed, M r .
Schumacher asserts that as a starting-point
to philosophy one should "accept everything
and reject nothing", regardless of the fact
that in so doing one accept many contridict-
ory assumptions.
A t the time of writing, two lectures have
been given, and their main theme so far is
the classification of objects into four main
levels of existence: stone, plant, animal and
man. A stone, or any other inanimate object,
cannot think, feel, act, evolve, reproduce, or
have much effect on its surroundings. It con-
sists of matter alone. A plant, possesses not
only matter but life. In addition to these an
animal — a higher at any rate — possesses
intelligence. M a n manages to crown matter,
life, and intelligence with the possession of
consciousness, which means awareness of one-
self; the ability to think abstractly, to reason.
Is there a fifth level, an even higher plane
of being? Throughout the ages men have said
"Yes"; the only significant exceptions have
been the materialists of modern times. M r .
Schumarcher feels that by denying the exist-
ence of God, the materialists are living in
"a sort of meaningless waste-land." The nat-
ure of G o d can be guessed at by extrapol-
ating the characteristics of the four lower
levels of being. For example, a Stone has
very little influence on its surroundings.
Plants, animals and men have successively
more power in this respect. One may imag-
ine that on the fifth level this attribute tends
to infinity. God is therefore omnipotent.
Mr. Schumacher feel that it i simpossible
to make much sense of Evolution without
coming to the conclusion that there is some
sort of guiding force, aiming at ever-increas-
ing biological complexity, intelligence^ and
consciousness. It is therefore quite natural
that the universe should not be completely
describable by the laws of physics as they
stand today, but should be in part non-phys-
ical or supernatural.
M y own feeling is that the study of this
aspect of nature, and the investigation of
the precise relationship between the physical
and the non-physical, is a subject for
scientific research rather than philosophy, i
hope that in M r . Schumacher's later lectures
we shall hear something of the startling
modern discoveries in this field.
1.C C H O I R
The I.C. Choir meets on Tuesday at 5.30
p.rn in Room 342 E . l . Block. It is rehearsing
works by Bach and John Blow, and will be
performing Beethoven's Mass in C at Easter.
There is'still room 'or singers in all voices;
there is no audition and everyone is welcome
to come and sing for an hour and a half on
Tuesday evenings.

