M O T O R C L U B B E N NEVIS R A C E (1961) B A D M I N T O N
To Guildsmen this year November 5th
has more significance than just being Guy
Fawkes' night. For early on that Sunday
morning, Boanerges, the President's official
carriage will be leaving Hyde Park on the
run organised by the Veteran Car Club.
Boanerges is our five-seater James and
Browne phaeton, first seen on the road in
1902, and with more unusual characteristics
than we can enumerate here. He has made
the Run .almost every year since the war
and undoubtedly one of the most memorable
was two years ago. Bo was running on one
cylinder instead of the intended two, and it
was only by sheer force of numbers and
strength of Guildsmen that he arrived in
Brighton in time to collect his pennant from
the V.C.C. for successfully completing the
57 mile run. The radiator consumed 40
gallons of water and the Guildsmen an equal
quantity of beer.
This year we anticipate a less energetic
trip and hope to arrive at Clarges' Hotel in
time for the traditional dinner organised bv
the C. & G . Motor Club. T o this R.C.S.
also bring Jez, for whom the journey is
rather more hazardous as she does not enjoy
the same privileges as the veteran cars. A l l
members and guests are welcome to the din-
ner and details may be obtained from the
Club notice board, or from any member of
the committee.
We hope that more than the usual num-
ber of Guildsmen (and women) will get up
early to cheer Bo and the President out of
the Park, and that those with transport will
welcome him at the parade at Brighton.
The Motor Club seems set for a record
year. A t their first meeting of this session
Room 542 in the E . l block was filled to
capacity for the films "1955 Belgian Grand
Prix" and "B.R.M. 1960", and over one
hundred members have paid their subscrip-
tions.
D E B A T I N G SOCIETY
The Debating Society opened its pro-
gramme a week last Tuesday when the
motion before the house was 'That this
house considers drink a necessary evil'. The
house numbered only 80 which was very dis-
appointing especially considering the standard
of speaking both from the platform and the
floor.
The main speakers, Messrs. Sullivan, Carter,
Hills and White, dealt with the motion in
a humorous vein, the topic of sex being
brought in more than the motion under deb-
ate, Siough this can be said of most debates.
Nevertheless the speeches were good and very
funny. I am sure that those who spent their
lunch time in an over crowded lounge wait-
ing for the next lecture would have found
the walk to the Concert Hall well Iworth
while.
The speeches from the floor were on the
whole in a much more serious mood, and
many speakers brought out the evils of mis-
use of alcohol very convincingly, but the
common mistake was not to stick directly
to the motion. Both the number and standard
of the speeches were suprisingly good and one
hopes that more people will come along to
debates and turn their tongues to debating.
The Society will compete in the first round
of the U L U Debating Competition next week.
The debate will be at home and our visitors
will be the 'School of Slavonic and East
European Studies', while the motion before
the house will be "Rule Britannia*. The time
and place will be announced later. Your sup-
port would be greatly appreciated.
IC Cross County Club have at last proved
themselves mad enough bv entering a team
for the Ben Nevis Race. Of the five men in
the IC team who faced the starter on Sept-
ember 2nd, Mike Heck, Jim Smith (both
LSE) and Ian Linklater hailed from the Lake
District after success in the 40 mile 'Big-J
run; {Ted Wilkins was fresh from London;
and John Cleator not so fresh from Skye.
The race is variously reported as 10 or 14
miles. But the horizontal distance is mean-
ingless when there are 4406 agonising vert-
ical feet to climb and descend. The ,race
starts in Fort William and there is a 2 mile
stretch of road before the mountain "bridle-
path" is reached. The route to the summit is
optional; and as a direct result, the local run-
ners always do better than is expected of
them. It is a highly specialised type of rac-
ing' demanding exceptional Sitamina on the
ascent, and great technique on the race-win-
nine descent.
About 140 started the race, including manv
of the biggest names in long distance and
mountain running. The winner's time was
1hr.48mins. Mike Heck was 32nd in 2 hours
7 minutes, while Ian Linklater and Jim Smith
raced in together in tvpical fashion in 2hrs.
20 mins. Ted Wilkins, however, missed the
short cut in the thick mist and violent thund-
erstorm of the descent. Although only 3 people
passed him on the wav down, he dropped
from 50th to 80th and to a time of 2hrs 27
mins. John Cleator had a similar misfortune.
Five hundred feet below the summit, his run-
nig shoes gave out and after throwing them
down the hillside, he completed the descent
in bare feet.
C
r
o
s
s
w
o
r
d
by REGUS
C L U E S :
ACROSS.
1. Rather rare animal, who goes bang!,
while giving an account of events at I.C.
(5,8).
8. Loud and sometimes public, in convers-
ation (7).
9. Communist from neck upwards (7).
11. Old fashioned father, when using two
tees, tends to speak a lot (6).
13. Look to the heavens! (8).
15. Even more so than 4 down (5).
18. A woman and her claws (3,4).
16. Don't be rash when making one (7).
19. Can you imagine Utopia without you?
(5).
21. They are as close as you can gather, from
what they say (8).
23. A chopped up oak tree without a knee
25. I've not heard these three before (3, 4).
produces an alternatSve wood \(2,4).
26. A n ancestor who isn't against a grizzly
now and then (7)..
27. What a hedge4rimmer does (6,7).
D O W N .
2. He has to be twenty-one or more before
he's one! (7).
3. Comes between pen and paper (3).
4. Scarce on infrequent (4).
5. They're usually up in the air about some-
thing, but they come down eventually (10).
The fixltures began bellatediy and rather
inauspiciously on Thursday 18th October
when the mixed team suffered a convincing
8-1 defeat at the hands of the 'auld enemy',
U.C. The 2nd team also started badly, los-
ing 9-0 to Battersea I, and they will obvious-
ly have a hard struggle if they are to remain
in the first division along with the first team.
The first team, as yet very rusty, chalked up
their first win of the season with a very close
(5-4) win over Cambridge II. This was a very
closely fought affair, and plaudits must go
to S. Ahmad and J. Richardson for pulling
off the match with a fine win over the Cam-
bridge pair. D FORSTER
F E L I X S M A L L A D S
W A N T E D a convertible car in good
condition. Must have passed the 10 year test.
Prices in the two figure range considered.
G.G.F. Ward, Mech. Eng.2, via C & G .
Rack.
W A N T E D female for frustrated fresher.
Experience essential. P. Beadle, Elec. Eng.l.
F O R S A L E assorted drawing instruments
and Hughes' Fundamentals of Electrical
Engineering (good, basic and dead simple,
ideal for non-electrical engineers). Give away
prices. Write Box No. 997.
L I V E I N A F L A T 3rd year engineer
and motor-cycle enthusiast seeks other to form
flat-sharing syndicate. Conservatives need not
apply. Those interested contact L.T.G. Lait
via the C. & G . rack.
A D V E R T I S E here. Only 3d. per line to con-
tact students by the thousand. Drop a note
in the Union Rack for the Advertising Man-
ager.
6. You'll not find this cup on the tee! (5).
7. K you get to the top you'll have this
to yourself (7).
8. This cleared up interference on T.V. sets
when applied to cars f"ll).
10. Sherlock Holmes had one for hunting
(11).
12. Summon the courage up to touch a sen-
sitive point (5).
14. Ops! (10).
17. Bury this Latin prefix in between (5).
18. Eiffel's thoughts when he looked up at
it (2, 5).
20. You give this now? (7).
22. A complete nitwit (5).
24. Not a-near (4).
27h A type of (abbreviated counter operat-
ing at sp«sd (3).

