S P O R T
R U G B Y C L U B
The Rugby Club has started the season in
fine form the lst X V winning 3 out of their
4 first games, scoring 58 points to 28 pts, but
the Ex. lst have lost one out of 2 games and
the A . X V have lost their only game. But t.>
far none of the B.XV's have lost a game.
The B - l , Lydon's mob, have won 24 pts. ro
3 and 32 pts. to 6, the second win being
spoilt only by the fact the B-2"s. "Ex-Jim's
Team" won the first game against Camber-
ley A . by 33 pts. to 3, the team including
a "useful newcomer", T. Wright' Btit the
best record to date belongs to Chris Head's
B-3 who in 2 matches have scored 70 pts.
without reply.
Last Friday, a team from Delft University
was entertained by R.C.S. who fielded a
istrong slide, including guests from {both
Guilds and Mines. This side proved much
too experienced for their visitors and won by
54 pts. to 6. The Delft side played hard and
never gave up trying, showing they would
make a very useful side when they have had
more practice, and it is hoped that this game
helped them to that end. Delft were a very
friendly side and many of those playing on
Friday are looking forward to Easter when
a team from R C . S and Guilds will visit
Delft.
There are 2 dates worthy of notice by those
interested in Rugby. On Nov. 4th the club
has one of its hardest fixtures against Rich-
mond Vikings at Harlington, when a strong
I.C. team will be fielded. Turn out and sup-
port the team if you are not playing, as they
will appreciate it very much. On the evening
of Nov. 6th, the club will have a social even-
ing when beer and sausage rolls will be
served. There will also be a film show, so
please take this opportunity of meeting the
rest of the club.
It would be a great help to the officials if
players ticked off as early as possible in the
week at least before Thursday. Also
please look at the board on Friday after-
noon to check whether you have moved up
and if you have, tick off again.
S O C C E R C L U B
The season has got off to the usual mod-
erate start, and after four playing days the
3rd X I have an unbeaten record, however,
the 4th have yet to win.
The last X I beat a weak Barclays Bank
X I (5-2) in the lst game of the season. Max
Finney scoring all 5, but this result flattered
only to deceive as the next 2 games were lost.
While the potential of the team is obvious-
ly good, the vital spark is missing which, it
is hoped will appear for the first league game
next Wednesday. The 2nd X I have lost only
once to Southampton University. With 5 liv-
ely freshers in the team, this augprs well for
the future both on and off the field. The
Glorious Thirds may prove to be the outstand-
ing team at I.C. this season if their present
form continues. The 4,th X I have not yet
found a good formation, although they did
achieve a draw against L S E III, a week after
being beaten 7-1 by L S E IV. The 5th X I have
lost only once in their four friendly games.
Perhaps, 4th X I permitting, they will get pro-
motion this season. The 6th, starting off with
almost the same team as last season, are ach-
ieving similar results, i.e. they have won one
game out of four so far. The 7th team have
started off fairly well on the field (if that's
important). Their forte seems to have become
post-match activity on a scale competing with
that Extra VII's. The Extra Vlth's consump-
tion has now reached 8 pints per match, as
compared to 0.5 goals per men per match
conceeded. Carry on Ben's M e n ! The gener-
al club spirit seems to be more in evidence
than in previous years. This may be due to
the good set of 'sports' freshers who have
joined our ranks. It is hoped that this spirit
will continue throughout the season.
H O C K E Y C L U B
The first event on the hockey calendar,
the trials, were blessed with exceptionally
good weather, and uncovered a good pro-
portion of fine talent among the new mem-
bers. A t the start of the term things looked
black for the lst X I , with only four of last
year's team available. But with the return of
three members, Ron King, Sean Galbally and
Sham and some very promising freshers, we
have the making of a good team. After a
rather shaky start against Vickers-Armstrong,
whom we beat by an own goal, the team
played better to beat St. Barts Hospital, 4-0
and to maintain their unbeaten record with
a 1-1 draw against Burnt Ash.
The second X I , under the vivacious capt-
aincy of Cas Anolick, narrowly lost to North-
ampton College lst X I , 2-3, but came back
with a resounidingf 6-3 win over the Institute
of Education, Anolick collecting a hat-trick.
London Bible College were the 3rd XI's
first fixture, played in Regent's Park. The re-
sult was a 2-2 drawi, wiith guest member
Keith Murden giving an impressive display
in goal. In the second match, however, the
team was beaten 6-2 by Hounslow IV. The
4th X I suffered our greatest defeat against
Imperial House 0-9, but gained a draw with
Meadhurst, 1-1. Obviously Ged Birough at
full-back is beginning to find his feet in the
game.
Last Friday we had our traditional saus-
age-and-mash beer up, which, unfortunately,
was not well attended by the freshers. How-
ever, those who did attend showed that the
club has a solid core of 'sportsmen' who will
be able to entertain our friends from Gron-
ingen at Lowestoft next Easter in the trad-
itional manner.
The most depressing aspect of the season
so far has been the poor ticking off habits
of the new members. Of the 30 who turned
up to the trials, only half make regular vis-
its to the club board — which has now been
moved to the Cricket board, next to the bar.
If this state of affairs does not improve, we
will have difficulty in fielding four teams in
coming weeks.
D. PHILLIPS
C R O S S - C O U N T R Y C L U B
In preparation for their first big match of
the season, the U C invitation relay, the club
turned out on Wednesday 11th with Borough
Road Teachers Training College, and St.
Barts. teams for a 1 lap jog followed by 1
lap at speed (?). The IC first team (49) out-
pointed Borough Road (79) and S|t. Barts
(85), while IC second team got 101.
The 6x1.8 U C relay took place on Sat.
14th under perfect weather and ground con-
ditions. IC had a fine turn out, entering four
teams. With strong), competition from Birm-
ingham, Sheffield and Loughborough to con-
tend with, IC lst team handed over after the
first leg in 8th position, and a fine run by
Dave Hammonds in the second leg brought
I.C. up to fourth. Jim Bernard ended in
third place to Birmingham and Lougnborougfi,
with L S E and Borough Road fourth and
fifth. The next leg, however, saw Miles of
Borough Road take the fastest lap of the
day and move up to third. Not even the com-
bined efforts of Ted Wilkins and John Cleator
(who turned in the fourth fastest time) could
change the situation and the final result was:
1. Birmingham — 50.38
2. Loughborough — 51.20
3. Borough Road — 51.53
4. I.C. I — 51.56
15. I.C. II — 55.50
21. I.C. I l l — 58.14
31. I.C. TV — 60.58
On Wed. 18th the IC lst at home to R A F ,
Hatton, had a resounding victory (23-35).
John Collins took the honours with 25.02 in
very windy conditions. However, the 2nd
team, away to Kings 2nd (?) at Mitcham,
were beaten into the dust by the full Kings
lst team, four members being lost somewhere
between the railway lines and cabbage patches
which surround the Mitcham course.
The Annual Mob Match, U L v. Poly, in-
corporating the U L trials, was held over 2
large laps at Hampstead Heath on Saturday
21st. There is little doubt that IC lst team
walked away with League I having 5 in the
lst 15 U L runners. The fate of the 2nd.
3rd and 4th in League II is as vet unknown,
though some fine improvements from Peter
Moss and Graham Locke indicated the grow-
ing strength of the lower teams. However,
from results, our own road relay organiser
must have forgotten that one runs as well
as organizes races.
B A S K E T B A L L
The club started the season with a win
over U . C . at the U . L . U . court. However, it
was a hollow victory as U . C . arrived with
a deplete team. We lent them one man and
then proceeded to thrash them soundly to the
score of 68-26 (the man lent them scoring
14 of their points). On Friday, 20th, the club
played its first game of the London League
against a supposedly strong team from East-
ham. The match was fast and exciting with
the I.C. team (known as the IMPS) holding
their own throughout. Astute team chang-
ing broujrht the tallest line-up IC has ever
fielded with an average height of about 6'4".
The IMPS piled on the pressure and made
sure of success, winning score being 55-36. John
Rupf, one of the wings, played an outstand-
ing game totalling 17 points and leading the
attack brilliantly.
Published by F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

