10 felix Friday 15 February 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
W
e are using electric-
ity like it's some
kind of magic. Take
these powered
projector screens.
Next time you see one being deployed
at the start of a lecture quietly hum the
Thunderbirds theme tune to yourself
for an easy giggle. Can't the man just
wind it down? Are we really that lazy?
Apparently so. We are a generation
(see what I did there?) who want elec-
tricity more than ever before so that we
can power-up our PDAs and be as cool
as Jack saying things like 'upload it to
my PDA' and so that we can spend so
long playing computer games we end
up strafing down the street and duck-
ing behind cars. Who wants real life
when in virtual reality you get to blow
people up, drive fast cars against the
traffic, and conquer the world?
We want electric toothbrushes, elec-
tric shavers, electric can-openers, elec-
tric doors, electric windows, and elec-
Plugging the energy/creativity gap
tric music. We want our mobiles to be
able to take video footage, our vehicles
to park themselves, our kitchens to or-
der our food for us, our toasters to give
us the weather forecast, our curtains
to draw themselves, and our lighting
to know what we are feeling. I mean,
there are some people who even find
it necessary to install lights and touch-
screen DVD players under their cars
just because they can. At least we aren't
still making very, very small calcula-
tions on our digital watches. We want
every conceivable function crammed
into everything we own because, well,
you know, why not?.
So, given that we are doomed to ex-
treme laziness wherever possible, un-
der the excuse of an 'increasing pace
of life', and an obsession with anything
vaguely electric, especially if it has blue
LEDs on (blue LEDs can make any-
thing cool), we must be creative in our
generation of electricity in the future.
So lets think about some highly practi-
cal and yet for some reason unexplored
territory, shall we? How about the pi-
ezoelectric crystal? Squeeze it and you
get electron juice. Now that is magic.
Why are the roads not paved with
them? Why aren't the soles of my shoes
made of them? Who knows, I mean,
look at her: she has diamonds.
How many times do you flush the loo
in a day? Let's install some poo-pow-
ered hydro plants in the sewer. How
about lemmings? According to stere-
otypes, a highly reliable source accord-
ing to Felix, they regularly jump off
cliffs, sometimes several times before
breakfast. Think of the waste of poten-
tial energy there. Phenomenal.
All that breathing you are doing?
Let's have wind turbines installed in
our teeth. So you'll sound like one of
those people that paint themselves
silver, stand on a box and move like a
robot for the entertainment of all that
pass by, but at least you will be able to
increase the charge in your mobile by
an extra bar after a long run. Then you
can take half a picture of that funny
thing that you saw with the 5 mega
pixel camera that was absolutely so
cool last week.
Maybe you would even dare to au-
rally communicate with another hu-
man being on that contraption, but it
would be much more amusing to make
it predict precisely which seat you are
sitting in in lectures using the power of
satellites.
There are solutions all around us
and both the NIPL (National Institute
for the Protection of Lemmings, who
are doing good work running Grav-
ity Awareness Schemes and installing
trampolines at the base of cliffs the
world over) and myself fear it will come
to using them unless we start doing
things manually. Any self-respecting
bloke will tell you that manual is better
than automatic, we just need to per-
suade people that this is true for stuff
other than cars.
Jellybean
A
. Geek gave me a men-
tion in his column last
week! Don’t scoff; it’s a
pretty big deal. Along
with the Queen’s Tower
and Mike the micrometer (Imperial’s
185-gram mascot, who knew?). A.
Geek is a true Imperial institution. As
I’m sure he knows, he’s not the only
one who turns to his column first thing
after picking up a copy of Felix. That
particular ritual is one common to all
the departments and serves, in fact, as
one of the few points on which a geolo-
gist will agree with a civil engineer.
Week after week this mysterious geek
keeps several hundred scientists and
biologists simultaneously entertained
and enraged. No mean feat, consider-
ing this is a public that <insert suitably
offensive stereotype here> on a regular
basis. Despite our differences, how-
ever, what is the question that serves
David Stewart
My comment is directed at
David Stewart and his rant
against Charlie Brooker [Issue
1395]. I have a simple mes-
sage: lighten up, David. What
Mr Brooker is doing is called
"satire". It is an amusing form
of comedy that makes us look
at ourselves and society. I
suggest a good dose of it for
Mr Stewart as it might result in
him becoming a more likable
person. Oh, one last point,
celebrity obsession is rather
unhealthy, and Mr Brooker
is only addressing the mod-
ern love of television and
celebrity.
Yours sincerely,
Paul Burke
W
ith HELP! from
magistrates, it has
been pointed out to
me that my now in-
famous CHARLIE
BROOKER article of Friday, Febru-
ary 9, was, if not a direct incitement
to murder, an ill-advised piece which
HAS led to some small instances of
civil unrest.
It seems that my championing of the
plight of the celebrity has resonated
with a large proportion of the populace
who have, it seems, taken to the streets
with pitchforks, burning effigies and so
forth in pursuit of the hapless Brooker
and his cronies.
Brooker, pursued by the implac-
able mob, was forced to take refuge
in an abandoned leisure centre. As
this leisure centre possessed a shoot-
ing range, Brooker GOT HOLD OF a
large cache of weaponry and managed
to stave off the siege whose motivation
by all accounts rested directly in com-
ments made by ME. While the death
count has yet to be computed, initial
estimates are that two of Brooker's
cronies, David Starkey the historian
and actor Matt Le Blanc, have suffered
third-degree burns. The mob, on the
other hand, ill-equipped to defend it-
self against the firearms that BROOK-
ER acquired, suffered some thirty
thousand fatalities.
In light of these events it IS necessary
for me to clarify some of my THREAT-
ENING remarks. It has been explained
to ME in some detail that Brooker, see-
ing himself as a celebrity, would never
wish to pour scorn on the institution
WITH which he is himself associated.
In his own words, 'I would rather have
ELECTRODES ON MY BALLS than
poke fun at Britney Spears'.
Further, I wish to rescind some
unfortunate remarks I made about
Brooker personally. Firstly, I claimed
that HE was a 'rancid pus-flow'; this
MAKES the case somewhat more ve-
hemently than I intended: if he is any
sort of a flow, he is one of beauty and
softness, like one from a bottle of com-
fort fabric conditioner. Secondly, when
it was said by ME that he has 'fat stupid
lips', I meant instead that he WEARs
a modestly-proportioned intelligent
grin. Lastly, I wish to apologise for all
remarks I may have made about his
Y-FRONTS.
Obviously this sort of inflammatory
journalism must stop AND writing
which is frankly BARKing mad LIKE
that of my last article will not occur for
A very long time. I apologise for all my
DOGmatic statements.
Brooker bashing: an apology A typical
response …
The $64,000 question…
as a constant irritant for us all and, in
extreme cases, keeps people awake at
night? Who the next rector will be?
What will the results of the upcom-
ing Sabbatical Elections be? When will
we be able to walk across the Queen’s
Lawn? No. The question that is on eve-
rybody’s lips is: Who is A. Geek?
Much as Bernstein, Woodward, and
Bradlee were the only people to know
the identity of the elusive Washington
whistleblower Deep Throat, Felix Edi-
tor Tom Roberts has his own secret.
And as we all know, he’s not about to
share.
The extent to which Mr. Geek’s iden-
tity is a part of student life is truly re-
markable. I’ve only been here for five
months, and yet almost everybody
I know has, at some time or another,
been asked if they were A. Geek. Sab-
batical Officers, Presidents of Socie-
ties, Felix contributors – anyone who
has the apparent ability to string a co-
herent sentence together comes under
the microscope.
I think this is fantastic. Every com-
munity has to have things they can
rally around; authority figures they
can hate, heroes they can admire and
mysteries they can wonder at together.
Luckily, A. Geek’s column has the abil-
ity to arouse all three emotions in even
the most disinterested breast.
We each have our own image of this
eloquent if hostile persona. Is he a dis-
illusioned scientist, dosing out gener-
ous portions of bile and spleen to an
undernourished public? A member of
staff with a sense of humour? Do the
mysterious books that clutter his mys-
terious desk deal with mathematics?
Will all this built-up rage eventually
expend itself in telescopes and high-
energy particle colliders? Don’t tell
me he’s a chemist or a medic – I don’t
think I could handle the shock.
One thing that perplexes me, though,
is the truth about Mr. Geek’s first ini-
tial. Where did the Angry come from?
True, Angered Geek is a registered
blog, but Alphonse Géek’s Facebook
profile is worth a second glance. Maybe
he’s not Angry? Maybe he prefers to be
known as Apathetic? Anxious? Alone?
Afraid? On second thoughts, Angry
probably suits him best; even though
Antagonistic, Alert, and Amusing are
equally fitting appellations.
All I know for sure is that He’s out
there. Somewhere. Reading this, al-
most certainly. Hello, A. Geek. Hello
and thanks, from all of us who have no
other way of telling you how much we
appreciate you, and no other way of ex-
pressing our deepest sympathies.
In an ironic twist of which I’m sure A.
Geek would approve, I read the piece
opposite where he says he read mine.
Gilead Amit

