comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Comment
Our right to decide on abortion
O
n 6th February Ann
Widdecombe spoke
in London as part of a
“passion for life” speak-
ing tour, reopening the
debate about what the time limit for
abortion should be.
Right now, women in Britain can re-
quest an abortion any time during the
first 24 weeks of pregnancy as long as it
is approved by two doctors. A minor-
ity of women also get an abortion after
this time due to very extreme circum-
stances such as risk to the mother’s life,
accounting for less than 1% of the total
abortions carried out.
The human fertilisation and embry-
ology bill soon to go through parlia-
ment is being used by anti-abortion
campaigners in an attempt to lower the
time limit to 20 or even 13 weeks. They
also seek to introduce more measures
such as a “cooling-off period” of two
weeks after a woman asks for an abor-
tion. Pro-choice MPs are arguing to
increase the availability of abortions,
cutting restrictions (such as the need
for two doctor’s signatures) and giv-
ing nurses qualifications to carry out
the simpler and less-traumatising early
abortions.
Studies in countries where abortion
is outlawed (reported in New Scien-
tist in October 2007) have shown no
difference in the number of abortions
carried out. Instead, the richest women
from those countries can always hop
on a plane and go somewhere where
it is allowed. However, the majority
of women are driven to get backstreet
abortions or attempt the procedure
themselves. This was the case in Brit-
ain before the 1967 abortion act; prior
to this around 100,000 illegal abortions
were carried out per year and an esti-
mated 35,000 of them resulted in hos-
pitalization. Some women even died as
a result of their injuries.
Unsurprisingly, people going in to
Widdecombe’s meeting were met by
hundreds of angry protestors. It is fun-
damentally about the rights of women
to make their own decisions. If some-
one doesn’t want to have an abortion
for religious or moral reasons that’s
fine, but why should they try to force
their views on everyone else? Anti-
abortionists have argued that as a foe-
tus can survive outside a woman’s body
after a certain point it should be given
some of the same rights as an adult. Of
course, adults have the right not to be
murdered but no adult has the right to
use a woman’s body against that wom-
an’s will in order to sustain their own
life. If someone needed a kidney trans-
plant, for example, a relative could vol-
untarily donate a kidney but no one is
arguing that they should be forced to
by law.
There are a couple of other argu-
ments against the anti-abortion lobby.
Firstly, if a foetus becomes a person at
a certain point during pregnancy, laws
intended to prevent some abortions
such as the “cooling-off period” will
merely introduce more bureaucracy
making it more likely that an abortion
will occur after this point. Women do
not take the decision to have an abor-
tion lightly; a woman going to the clin-
ic and asking for one will have already
spent hours deliberating, so it seems
unlikely that they will change their
mind in a further two weeks. It just
makes the abortion that little bit later.
Secondly, judging by the reactions of
people at Widdecombe’s meeting it is
a joke that they refer to themselves as
pro-life. I got called a “Nazi”; they even
shouted “you should have been abort-
ed” at one pro-choice campaigner! The
tactics used by some of these groups
show no respect for the lives of some of
the most vulnerable people in society,
including the teenage girls and victims
of rape that often feel that they need an
abortion. Often they are also the same
people that argue against contracep-
tion, despite the fact that decent sex
education and availability of contra-
ception reduces the number of abor-
tions carried out as well as protecting
against deadly diseases.
Students are well placed to fight
against anti-abortion amendments.
We not only have the youth and en-
thusiasm needed but will be uniquely
affected if the time limits are reduced.
We are the least able, both financially
and in terms of commitments to edu-
cation and careers, to have children
and the most able to bring rational ar-
guments based on scientific fact to the
argument. For more information, head
to: www.abortionrights.org.uk
A. Geek
“
As they say,
“Any idiot can
survive a crisis.
It is day-to-day
living that wears
you out.”
Warning: Contains emotion
Camilla Royle
A
close family member was
diagnosed with cancer
last week. That will be
the second diagnosis
I’ve seen in my family in
eighteen months. Sympathies aside,
it’s become pretty mundane now. It’s
surprising how quickly such things
become trivial. Tears. Fear of the tel-
ephone. Hospital wards. Unassuming
smiles. I travelled home, as all good
family members do. A couple of hours
on the train, and you’re on holiday
again.
The train ride I take back is impor-
tant to every journey home. The route
I take melts London slowly out, like a
boiled sweet, instead of amputating
it with a thick swathe of countryside.
Slowly, the greenery that I’m more ac-
customed to blends through like an
Air Wick made of grass. But once you
near the urban centres dotted around
my hometown, that feeling of bland
emotional deadness sets in. It’s that
scene in every independent film where
the protagonist returns to the site of
their childhood. It is grey. That’s the
problem with illness. It’s just so bloody
depressing.
The journey home is never nearly as
bad as home itself, of course. Eighteen
months of cancer has the same effect
on the house as it does on the sufferer.
Things become greyer, the signs of life
under the surface begin to fade and go
cold. You look for successes on a daily
basis, rather than measuring things in
“ten-kays” or percentages. Things be-
come more real.
We were feeling lucky, in fact. Our
first sufferer in the family is doing well,
allowing that taste of happiness to re-
turn to food, television and shopping.
Even though there were still gloomy
conversations to be had, fewer and
fewer people bore witness to them over
the four months past. A second case in
the family, though, was something of a
mood breaker.
The man in question is my mother’s
father, an eighty-four year-old chap
who worked three days a week full
time at a metalworker’s, cooked roast
beef every Sunday, and last Thursday
collapsed at his home and was rushed
to hospital. He was found to have a tu-
mour the size of a tennis ball attached
to his kidney. They had no idea what
to do.
Statistically, something like one in
three people have their lives affected
by cancer, either directly or indirectly.
As we all know, though, statistics rare-
ly work out. I’ve been affected three
times, and given that both sides of my
family are now sporting tumours, I
may face an even more direct experi-
ence of the illness in the future.
And so the weekend left some in-
teresting questions cluttering up my
travel bag on the journey home. Will
my wife have to watch me die? Will
my children carry the same chance
with them, too? Yet, there’s the mun-
dane feel I mentioned. Just as the lush
greenery began to repeat itself after
a few identical fields, so too do these
questions and ideas.
I’m sure we all feel the same. It’s Feb-
ruary at Imperial – and, indeed, eve-
rywhere else. The sun is unusual and
all too strong, making the days feel
extremely long. Added to that, course-
work has become so dull and predict-
able that it begins to feel like a Nike
production line, shuffling linear sys-
tems problems past lines of low-paid
children who are just looking to sur-
vive to the next term.
The trick is to do the clichéd thing,
and keep that head above water, those
eyes on the horizon, and so on. As I’ve
been told by so many family members,
in their situation it is only possible to
live one day at a time. But that’s gener-
ally the best way to be anyway. Wheth-
er you’re battling a terminal illness or
fighting to scrape a third-class degree.
Today is all you can live at the moment.
Sod the interviews for that City job.
Forget planning your entrepreneurial
summer of innovation. It’s the worst
time of the year, right now, and there’s
only one way through it.
Much like my secret love of Avril
Lavigne, and the fact that I have a pseu-
donym in Felix, few people at Imperial
know that my family has such trouble.
Those that do, say that we are “strong”
to go through it, but there aren’t really
many other options open. What can be
harder is to keep going to four years of
exams and study, with debts piling up
and no certainty of what you want to
spend the future doing anyway.
As they say: “Any idiot can survive a
crisis. It is day-to-day living that wears
you out.” Chin up this February, and
March will seem that much sweeter
for it.
Felix stalwart Gilead Amit tells me
he is writing about me this week. I read
the piece (sorry, Gilead) ahead of time
thanks to my contacts. What he wrote
initially made me think twice about
putting this out to you. But then, after
some thought, made me even more
sure that it is the right thing to do. Not
because I want you to see a vulnerable
side of me – you’re still all jackasses,
don’t worry – but because I want you
to know that even the coldest bastard
holds a burden somewhere in their
pack. If any of you out there are af-
fected by cancer, and fancy chatting to
someone in confidence; indeed, if any
of you have anything to say about my
columns at all, I have an email address
that was until now reserved for send-
ing things to the Editor. I would like to
open it to you all: anangrygeek@goog-
lemail.com.
Thomas Lofthouse died in the early
hours of the 12th February 2008. He
was a Second World War veteran, a
taxi driver, a metalworker, and an in-
spiration. He will not be forgotten.
You have been warned... ;_:

