12 felix Friday 15 February 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
The PPS, A. Geek, Imperial, and myself
W
hen I came to Im-
perial for an inter-
view, I remember
getting off at South
Ken and ambling
down the subway, passing museums
and whatnot. There was a jazz flautist
busking, my interview was a few hours
away and the morning air was crisp. I
instantly fell in love with the place and
with London, and I knew that this is
where I was going to be if I did not get
into Oxford.
When Medicine Year 1 finally start-
ed, I had just finished two gap years of
travel, business, and jobs where I had
done much and caught up fully with
my other life-enriching hobbies such
as books, politics, guitar, drums, art,
etc. But coming from an erratic, al-
most lonely education in a state school
where no-one understood me, coupled
with the detached gap years, I arrived
at university expecting something
larger than life itself. I made it a goal
to utilise every opportunity and pursue
all my interests with a will to progress
on all fronts from journalism to clubs/
societies, from photography to sport,
and from culture to current affairs! I
was ready to take London on.
Yet, a bit into my first year, and al-
though I started to achieve many
things, I could not help but feel a little
disappointed. Firstly, being an Asian, I
had never encountered the rude-boy
culture either back home or anywhere
else, so instantly felt sidelined from
vast swathes of people of my own race
and culture at Imperial. I really had
nothing to say to them or anything
in common with them to talk about.
Secondly, I felt completely alienated
from another majority on my course,
the public school boys, for whom I felt
the concept of friendship meant some-
thing different to mine.
Moreover, medicine itself was a real
bore in the initial years, grinding me
down with pointless lectures and facts
that needed to be swallowed and regur-
gitated solely to pass exams. The icing
on this bitter cake was the unnecessar-
ily competitive nature of fellow medics
which I found unbearably annoying.
All of these feelings slowly turned
into contempt for Imperial and the
people around me. However, it was not
all doom and gloom as in good time I
also found some people who were very
much like me. People who did not
care about what others thought about
them and had enough self respect and
guts to see beyond the obvious and say
or do what they felt was right. These
have become my amazing friends and
ones that I enjoy making compromises
for, but still I could not shake the dis-
like that I had for the majority and the
institution.
You should know that this was not all
in bitter response to an Oxford rejec-
tion as I actually had managed to get
in to study PPE there and rejected it to
pursue medicine, and I now also much
preferred the less scientific medical
course at IC. So why this disdain for
Imperial? I did not know. I just knew
that it existed.
Things slowly changed, though, in
third year. I met a person or two that
got me thinking with my heart and I
also got to enjoy my first year as the
leader of an organisation, The Pakistan
Society, going on to win the President’s
Award from the Union. Furthermore,
medicine finally became clinical and
a golden opportunity presented itself
for me to follow that year with a trip to
Kenya to practice medicine there, ce-
menting my love for medicine proper.
But none of these were responsible
for changing my attitude towards Im-
perial. It was, in fact, the gradual re-
alisation that no matter where you go
and what you do, ultimately it does not
matter.
This is a bit weighty, be warned, but
after much thought I felt that if life
is to eventually come to an end, then
what does anything matter? Existence
seemed suddenly very short and all
things temporary, and I pinpointed my
dislike for my situation stemming from
an inability to accept the temporary
nature of life as you and I know it.
I realised then that no matter where
I went or what I did, I would not find
peace and happiness, unless I can
learn to be thankful for whatever God
has given me. And then when I took a
good look at myself, I had so much to
be thankful for.
So I think I was not actually unhappy
with Imperial but with life itself, and I
came to realise that if I was looking for
permanence, I would find it nowhere
but with God, the one who is infinitely
wise, most merciful, and above every-
thing else the one who we come from
and everything comes from and the
one to whom we must return. This re-
alisation happened in early June and I
don’t care how cheesy that sounds!
So, after such heavy-duty philoso-
phy, I come to the crunch of this arti-
cle. Over time, I have realised that I am
very happy to be at Imperial and very
grateful for all the opportunities I have
been able to pursue here. I have real-
ised that actually there are a lot of like-
minded people here but we are just not
the majority, being dispersed across
various concentrations and years. And
I have realised that no other university
would have provided the same feeling
of belonging as Imperial or such an ex-
cellent city to live in.
Nevertheless, I have recently made
some mistakes in the way I have han-
dled my privileged responsibilities here
and I have learnt a lot from them, and
now I want to make some statements
regarding them.
Being the chair of the Political Philos-
ophy Society as one of the most buzz-
ing societies on campus is a real hon-
our and I have the following to say. Mr.
Samuel Black, the reason I felt that the
Jerusalem Post was trying to malign us,
our university, and our speakers is be-
cause it reported inaccurate facts. Over
a day before it went to print, we had
changed the speakers and Prof. New-
man had never pulled out. They used
an old private email that Prof. New-
man sent to us to go to print, without
consulting the Prof. or ourselves first
and he was as angry as we were. Fur-
thermore, they did not want to print a
follow-up with the correct facts as they
were happy to try and portray us as
having invited Tamimi just because of
his views. In hindsight, the right thing
to have done would have been to say
goodbye to Newman since he was the
one not willing to share the platform;
but we acted to save the event. Maybe
we did so at the expense of principle.,
but in any case the PPS sincerely apolo-
gises to Mr. Tamimi.
Also, regarding our study on Kashmir
on Thursday, I would like to apologise
to those who attended expecting the
same quality discussion as the Israel/
Palestine and Somalia/Ethiopia events.
I thought that inviting a Kashmiri
speaker to address both sides would
suffice, but did not expect that it would
be a one-sided rally-like address. It is
not the speaker’s fault but ours as we
did not do sufficient research when in-
viting him. Trust me, a lot of important
lessons have been learnt here!
Next, I want to thank the good folks
at Felix for their help with managing the
furore and inadvertently giving the PPS
some excellent publicity through their
balanced reporting. And I also want to
thank Union President Stephen Brown
for understanding our situation, the
mistakes we made as a newbie soc, and
supporting us (also sorry that the one
PPS event you came to sample was not
of the same quality as the rest).
Finally, a warm thanks to Mr. A. Geek
for his kind words. I am really glad
that you enjoyed my work so much,
sir! Reading your comment piece last
week was quite an experience! When I
came to the Felix office to lay that issue
out, I remember reading it and think-
ing that it was utter trash, similarly to
you, but your compliments have given
me renewed initiative as I continue to
tackle other themes in my two-month
trip. When you put a lot of hard work
into your writing and find it buried at
the back of the issue, it can be a bit dis-
heartening to think that people may
not even get to it.
Anyway, please find an article on the
Congo in the travel section soon and
for anyone looking for the piece Mr.
Geek refers to, I have put it up on my
Facebook profile with a corresponding
photo album.
Ammar Waraich
“
medicine
itself was a real
bore in the initial
years, grinding
me down
with pointless
lectures and
facts
”
“
Over time,
I have realised
that I am very
happy to be at
Imperial and very
grateful for all
the opportunities
I have Anyone else sick of pictures of Ammar yet? No? Oh ok, here’s another
The speakers at Political Philosophy Society’s controversial Israel/Palestine Conflict Case Study last week

