politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 15 February 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Sharia law controversy
Archbishop Dr. Rowan Williams faces calls to resign after commenting on sharia law
The Archbishop of Canterbury came
under attack this week in response to
his claim that the introduction of Shar-
ia law in the UK is “unavoidable”. Dr.
Rowan Williams spoke out to encour-
age the introduction of some aspects
of sharia law into England’s judiciary
system, provoking much debate from
Muslim, Christian, and other parties.
In a BBC Radio 4 interview, the Arch-
bishop disclosed his ideas on “how the
law and religious community, religious
principles are best accommodated”,
including how it is “unavoidable” that
various elements of the Muslim sharia
law be introduced into English law.
The Archbishop believes this would
help maintain social cohesion in this
country, which is a very important part
of maintaining our impressive degree
of multiculturalism. Dr. Williams’s ide-
as for integration of sharia law would
only extend as far as allowing courts
to be held in cases to do with marital
disputes or financial matters. The re-
ligious should not have to choose be-
tween “the stark alternatives of cultural
loyalty or state loyalty”, he added.
Sharia law is a social and legal code
developed over many years by Islamic
scholars, designed to guide Muslims
in their life. The European Court of
Human Rights regards sharia law as
incompatible with democracy, largely
based upon some of the penalties re-
quired including public executions
and stoning. However, even within the
Muslim community there is debate;
one of the most influential Muslim
thinkers in Europe, Tariq Ramadan,
has called for a moratorium on these
penalties as they are almost impossi-
ble to re-introduce in today’s society.
Dr. Williams stressed he was not call-
James Goldsack ing for a parallel judiciary for Muslims
but to allow Muslims, and those of all
faiths, to be able to act in a lawful man-
ner according to their own religious
conscience. The Archbishop added
that it relies upon sharia law being
better-understood by the general pub-
lic and there is no way he is advocating
the inhumanity commonly associated
with it.
Many members of both the Anglican
Church and the law have condemned
such ideas, as one “important pillar” of
English law is the system of one law for
everyone. There are exceptions to this,
such as the Orthodox Jewish Beth Din
courts. These courts are legally rec-
ognised in English law as a means for
warring parties to agree to arbitration.
No one can be forced into these courts
as English law still governs above all.
An equivalent system to the Beth Din
already exists to implement sharia law
to a limited extent in this country and
both can only deal with civil matters.
Any introduction of parallel law for
criminal matters will be disastrous
for the legal system of England. Many
scholars and members of the general
public agree. There are reservations
amongst women and other “vulner-
able” groups that allowing expansion
of sharia law would infringe their hu-
man or legal rights. Many women have
already found that despite getting a di-
vorce legally in English law, their hus-
bands or communities do not accept
this unless it is done according to Mus-
lim law. This evidently shows how in
many areas of the English community
English law is not considered highly;
this cannot be allowed to slip away any
further. There are cases springing up
of cultural “courts” being set up, such
as an unofficial Somali court in south-
east London. These act as courts for
those who believe that the laws of their
place of birth or cultural identity are
more relevant and more important
than those of the country they live in.
In the case of sharia law, a survey of
500 British Muslims in February 2006
showed that only 40% would welcome
the introduction of sharia law into the
legal system of those areas of England
that are predominantly Muslim.
The Archbishop’s comments were
unhelpful not only because there are
already arbitration laws and religious
courts in this country, but also be-
cause the word “sharia” is emotive as
it is most commonly associated with
the brutal penalties required. When
religious arbitration was introduced in
Canada as late as 2005 there were ri-
ots, showing how unpopular even this
initial step was. The Muslim Council
of Britain opposes the idea of a par-
allel legal system for Muslims or any
person, though thanked Dr. Williams
for attempting to bridge the gap be-
tween Christians and Muslims in Brit-
ain and his “thoughtful intervention”.
Though no stranger to controversy –
one need only look to the appointing
of homosexual priests as one example
“He was not
calling for a
parallel judiciary”
The Archbishop, Dr. Rowan Williams, has faced calls to resign
Kadhim Shubber
Politics Editor
Greetings, my minions! Uh, sorry,
wrong document, I mean, hello read-
ers, welcome to my first and hopefully
not last editorial column. All I have to
do is avoid skewing the elections and I
should manage to get to the end of Fri-
day with my head attached.
Last week’s politics section contained
an error. I’m really, really sorry, and
hopefully if you forgive me then we can
continue together learning about the
political world. The article about Su-
per Tuesday implied that Mitt Romney
was still in the race for the Republican
presidential nomination. However,
when Felix was published on Friday
morning this was no longer true.
Let me explain why this isn’t my fault
and is in fact the result of the evil mach-
inations of the Republican party. Felix
is sent to print on Thursday at 5 p.m.
The news was true on Wedneday when
I wrote it, and before Felix was sent to
print. After it was sent to print, Mitt
Romney, hereby renamed That Prick
Who Had To Pull Out Of The Race Af-
ter Felix Was Sent To Print... oh sorry,
I kind of ruined that sentence, didn’t I?
Last week’s politics section would have
been a celebratory page congratulating
John McCain on his victory and thank-
ing him for being not less crazy than
Mike Huckabee.
So thats all cleared up, ok? Well, I’m
going to stop talking about it even if
it does leave you emotionally scarred
and unable to interact socially for
the rest of your life. On to important
things: Sabbatical, NUS, and Student
Trustee elections! No doubt you will
soon be inundated with invitations to
Facebook groups, have posters stuck
to your face and have uber-keen candi-
dates trying to convince you that they
are less crazy than the other guy. One
might be sympathetic if you become a
little fed up with the elections, and the
freedom from criticism that it grants
its candidates.
I, however, will not be sympathetic.
Student elections are important be-
cause the people who are elected will be
making decisions on your behalf, and
these decisions will directly affect you.
For example, Stephen Brown favours
a ‘realistic’ policy on student fees, but
a different student president might be
in the streets protesting against them
instead. By getting involved in the
elections, campaigning for the candi-
date you prefer, and most importantly
VOTING, you make it significantly
less likely that your Sabbatical team for
next year will offend you so greatly that
you leave Imperial and eke out a living
on the Serengeti.
On a secondary (and desperate) note,
I’d like to make an appeal to the readers
of the politics section (who obviously
number in the millions). Please read
all the content that’s out there about
world issues, then write about them,
then email them to me! To summarise,
apologies about Mitt Romney, get out
there and find out about the elections
and VOTE, and write for the politics
section. If you’ve gotten this far, con-
gratulations and please email in so that
I know at least one person other than
Teck and myself cares about politics.
Islam Awareness
Week 2008
Although this Sharia law hullaba-
loo could have bad consequences
for the poor Imam/Archbishop
of Canterbury, ICU Islamic Soci-
ety is glad about the timing. Next
week it will host the annual Islam
Awareness Week at Imperial. It is
the age-old opportunity for those
among us whose thirst for knowl-
edge isn’t quite quenched by The
Sun and GCSE RE. Students can
come along to lunchtime exhibi-
tions on arguably ‘the most cultur-
ally rich era of human civilisation’,
or enjoy misconception-busting
talks on things like the oppression/
liberation of women by Islam.
So, no matter what your reli-
gious preference, come and see
for yourself why Islam is the fast-
est growing ‘religion’ in the world
– with the majority of new mus-
lims being western women.
Ignorance is sometimes not
bliss.

