politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Politics
– the Archbishop was “shocked” by
the “hostility of the response” and the
way his comments were represented in
our sensationalist, tabloid press. Fear-
ing the Anglican Church may be put
through more trouble and internal
strife, Dr. Williams clarified his com-
ments by stating that he “certainly did
not call for [sharia law’s] introduction
as some kind of parallel jurisdiction
to the civil law”. Many have rallied to
support Dr. Williams; Bishop Lowe
claimed him to be “probably one of the
greatest and the brightest Archbishops
of Canterbury”.
However, calls for Dr. William’s res-
ignation have been coming from all
sides, including many from within the
Anglican Church. Branded a “disaster”
by one synod member and with 150
traditionalist members of the General
Synod ready to sign an open letter
distancing themselves from the com-
ments of Dr. Williams, the Archbishop
was under some pressure when he ad-
dressed the General Synod on Mon-
day. In this address he apologised for
causing confusion but stood behind
the original comments, adding: “I be-
lieve quite strongly that it is not inap-
propriate for a pastor of the Church
of England to address issues about the
perceived concerns of other religious
communities, and to try and bring
them into better public focus”. This
statement should be praised as it can
only help keep all faiths and cultures
included in society. Part of the “burden
and the privilege of being the Church”
in the UK meant, Dr Williams said, the
Church needed “some coherent voice
on behalf of all the faith communities
living here”. Without this it is possible
that social integration will break down
and there will be no-go areas for peo-
ple of differing faiths, as the Bishop
of Rochester, the Right Reverend Dr.
Michael Nazir-Ali, has already sug-
gested exist. Dr. Williams stressed the
importance of different faiths work-
ing together so that all can live in this
country peacefully and legally, sharing
common ideals. These sentiments are
echoed amongst many groups and the
general public, but unfortunately not
in the traditionalist camp within the
Anglican Church. Despite two synod
members calling for Dr. Williams’
resignation, the Archbishop still has a
majority of support within the coun-
cil and the support of some revered
figures – Lord Carey, Dr. Williams’s
predecessor, being one; it is unlikely at
time of writing that Dr. Williams will
be forced to resign.
Some politicians, who have been
riled before by Dr. Williams’s calls for
the religious to get involved in politi-
cal debate, have spoken out against the
Archbishop getting involved; Geoff
“There are
already religious
courts in this
country”
“40% of British
Muslims
welcome Sharia
Law”
Hoon, chief whip for the government,
suggesting he should not comment on
such “complicated legal matters”. How-
ever, the Prime Minister has called Dr.
Williams a man of “great integrity”
and believes religious law should be
subservient to UK law. This can be the
only way any inclusion of religious law
can work in the British legal system as,
despite the links between the Church
and State, any persons who wish to im-
pose their own laws into this country
have to do so through the progressively
secularised parliament, including the
introduction of any type of religious
law. Without this safeguard, parallel
judiciaries will be created, removing
the one body of law with possible dis-
astrous consequences
In a Church divided by other issues,
the damage has already been done,
forcing the Anglican Church into more
turmoil. The debate will no doubt con-
tinueandwhilesomeclaimtheonlyway
to preserve a multicultural Britain is to
bow to the pressure of religious groups
for integration of their laws, many see
this route as dangerous for the legal
rights of the UK’s citizens. Lord Carey
added, “There can be no exceptions to
the laws of our land which have been
so painfully honed by the struggle for
democracy and human rights”.
I don’t want to have to choose!
Could Hillary and Obama put aside their differences and join together in a bid for the White House?
Kadhim Shubber
Felix readers, since the last publication,
for some, much has changed, while for
others things remain as they were. The
Republican race is over in all but name,
with John McCain the clear winner. Al-
though Mike Huckabee remains in the
race as a credible conservative, there is
simply no question of him winning the
nomination. This isn’t to say that the
race has become dull and uninterest-
ing, quite the opposite.
As bizarre and strange as it might
sound, John McCain is not actually
liked by many Republicans. Conserva-
tives within the Republican Party, re-
membering that the Republican Party
is a conservative party, are either sus-
picious of him or even despise John
McCain.
Whether or not the party can force
themselves to unite, and be seen as
convincing to the U.S. electorate, in
time for the presidential elections is
uncertain and will create controversy
in the near future. However, discussing
the Republican Party is not the object
of this article: it is to chew over a much
more interesting question. Given the
evenly matched success of Barack
Obama and Hillary Clinton, and their
complimentary attributes, can’t we
have them both?
Allow me to clarify what this ques-
tion means. Imagine Hillary Clinton
winning the nomination and then
choosing Barack Obama as her run-
ning mate, her vice president. Or of
course, vice-versa; somebody’s got to
win, but in this terribly close race to se-
cure the democratic nomination, does
there necessarily have to be a loser?
The idea of these Democrat heavy-
weights joining in political matrimony
has been floating almost sinfully in
the minds of Democratic activists and
members for some time now, but has
not been formally aired as a possibil-
Senator Barack Obama has a large base of support amongst students.
ity. Neither side wants to appear as if
they are settling for vice president and
give their opponent an inch in this
fierce battle. However, it does appear
to be a great idea. Each leader needs
the other: Hillary has much experience
but is rarely seen as inspiring; Obama,
often accused of inexperience, has ral-
lied crowds of young people and ban-
ished apathy amongst a Bush-weary
generation. They fit together perfectly,
together appealing to almost all demo-
graphic groups in the U.S, the dazzling
‘rock star’ to inspire his people and the
tough mechanic to deliver change to
America. A poll conducted by TIME
magazine showed that 62% thought
that Hillary should choose Obama as
her running mate while 51% believed
Obama should do the same.
While it would be unintelligent to
rule out such an engagement in the fu-
ture, presently there are a multitude of
problems and barriers that would pre-
A woman in Banda Aceh, Sumatra, is caned for spending the time with her boyfriend

