16 felix Friday 15 February 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
Dry Wit & Tonic
vent any agreement between the two
titans.
The job of vice president would al-
most be humiliating to Hillary Clinton,
not to mention the problem of where
her entourage would fit into the White
House. The role of vice president
doesn’t allow enough space for Hil-
lary’s political hangers-on, specifically
her husband Bill.
A greater issue lies with Obama’s
support base. The bottom would fall
out almost immediately. By accepting
Hillary into the fold, Obama would
instantly betray his supporters and
his campaign angle. He is the candi-
date of change, a convincing candidate
of change. He excites young people
about politics, brings the voters out in
droves, and convinces them that there
is hope for America’s political system,
that he is going to breathe fresh air into
Capitol Hill. A Clinton vice presidency
would essentially be a large amount of
old baggage that is completely at odds
with Obama’s message of change. He
has attacked Hillary’s record on Iraq,
while boasting of his clean one. Invit-
ing Hillary as his running mate would
only stain his record on Iraq and would
be seen by his idealistic support as a
betrayal of his principles.
To be more simplistic, many of
Obama’s supporters do not like Hillary.
There are a large number of young vot-
ers, who Obama has inspired, who sim-
ply despise Hillary. One anti-Hillary
group on Facebook has over 800,000
members. For these voters, a Hillary
vice presidency will poison them into
apathy and deny Obama the support
of young people that he needs to fight
John McCain.
Switching the roles does not offer
any reason to be optimistic. There is
no question of Obama entertaining
the thought of submitting to be Hil-
lary’s vice president for a number of
very good reasons. He is not out of
the race; in fact, since Super Tuesday
Obama has been doing very well for
himself. Last weekend he had a clean
sweep, winning Washington state, Ne-
braska, Louisiana, Maine, and the US
Virgin Islands. The Clinton campaign
was clearly rattled by Obama’s ability
to regain momentum so quickly after
Super Tuesday, so much in fact that
her campaign manager has resigned
and been replaced by Maggie Wil-
liams, known as the ultimate loyalist,
unwavering in her devotion to Hillary
for nearly a quarter of a century. The
Clinton campaign is obviously rattled
enough to bring out the big guns. Any
indication that Obama is considering
a deal with Hillary will see his support
go out the door; they will believe that
by voting for Hillary they’ll get all the
stuff they liked in Obama too. A large
proportion will probably jump out the
window at the thought that their man
of change was selling himself to the
Clinton establishment. The Obama
campaign is very clear on this issue.
“We’re not running for vice president,”
said Obama spokesman Robert Gibbs.
But even if Obama were to essen-
tially admit defeat and begin to con-
sider being vice president, he would
find only that the wool had been pulled
over his eyes and that the reality of
being vice president to Hillary hardly
allowed him to push his solutions and
ideas. Whoever finds him or herself as
vice president to Hillary will quickly
find that the White House is Clinton
territory. There is little doubt that Bill
intends to play a major role during
his wife’s presidency. The No. 2, the
vice president, will really be the No. 3
to husband Bill, who has said, “I’ll be
there, talking her through everything;
like she did with me”.
Amongst Hillary Clinton’s support-
ers and campaigners also, there isn’t
very much desire for an Obama vice
presidency. The Clinton campaign is
institutional; it draws its support from
political veterans stretching deep into
the 80s and 90s. Their contact book
has over 25 years of political allies,
administrators, and campaign loyal-
ists. Senator Obama is certainly not on
their contact list; he is a relative new-
comer and not part of the Democratic
establishment, and many of Clinton’s
supporters question Obama’s loyalty.
The Clinton’s define loyalty in terms of
staying power; if you’re fired you sim-
ply wait for your next opportunity to
help the Clintons. The very fact that
Obama ran against Hillary is counter
to this interpretation of loyalty, and
some zealots in the Clinton campaign
even consider the existence of his cam-
paign offensive.
Things are looking pretty grim, I
think you’ll agree. However, these pre-
“The job of vice-
President would
be humiliating
for Hillary”
“Since Super-
Tuesday Obama
has been doing
very well”
“There isn’t
much desire for
an Obama vice-
Presidency”
dictions and arguments are only valid
in the present, at a time when these
two candidates are toe-to-toe, neck
and neck, both with a real chance of
winning. Come the Democratic Party
National Convention a winner will
be chosen. It will be a close and nail-
biting event, and a huge proportion of
the party will have to swallow a candi-
date that they didn’t even vote for. It
is in these conditions that we can see
an agreement being made. The Demo-
cratic Party must be unified in support
of its candidate in order to prevent
John McCain stealing independents
and moderates away from them. By
reconciling Hillary and Obama, in a
formidable team, the Democratic par-
ty could sincerely say that they were
100% behind their candidate. Hillary
might accept a vice president position
as a springboard for future presidential
elections. Of course the same applies
for Obama, although he is guaranteed
a dazzling political future regardless of
the outcome. A successful Democratic
presidency with both Obama and Hil-
lary onboard could set the stage for the
domination of U.S. politics by the dem-
ocrats for years to come. By the end of
2008, we could see posters of Hillary
and Obama side-by-side, saying, “Get
on board!” The Democratic Party will
be, touch wood, unstoppable.
Hillary Clinton is certain to keep this look on her face throughout her hypothetical vice-presidency

