20 felix Friday 15 February 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
David Paw
Arts Editor
S
o first off, I’d like to thank
my fantastic colleagues here
at Felix Arts for covering
while I was away. It was an
interesting story.
I had originally intended to take
a week out of the Christmas break
to see our relatives out in Southern
California. The week before I had just
won a doodlebug contest and was feel-
ing pretty high, and so off I went with
nothing but a suitcase and a smile,
bound for warmer climes and an end-
less supply of Pink’s hot dogs. When I
arrived a lady called Coco introduced
herself as the landlady.
Everyone out in Los Angeles is
tanned and beautiful; they say that
half of the city works in the entertain-
ment industry, and the other half is
trying to break into it. While I saw
plenty of rotund Latino gentlemen and
Asian gangsters who did not look as if
they cared about making movies, I can
see the writer’s original point. After
being awestruck in this most dream-
laden of towns, I have decided to leave
the world of university to pursue my
love of acting. Fuck, if Felix Guzman
can get regular work, why can’t I?
Anyhow the first day of auditions
went well. I think I impressed a lot of
the people – we played out a scene
that was probably written for Sunset
Beach, but I turned it into something
that could have been touched by the
hand of Alejandro Iñárritu.
So I did good the first day and I
went back to the apartment to have a
shower and read over some lines for
the next day’s auditions. When I got
back, I found an odd woman under-
neath the table who looked just like
Laura Elena Harring. She said her
name was Rita, but I figured that was
just because there was a Rita Hay-
worth poster on the wall and that she
had amnesia as a result of a traumatic
car accident last night in the hills.
We went about trying to figure out
who she was and what had happened.
One night she had a premonition we
should visit a club called Silencio out
in Los Feliz. When we got there, the
host was a fat little man with intense
eyes and a stubbly beard; the inside
blew hot and cold and though the
chairs and walls were red, the stream-
ing blue light lent the auditorium an
ethereal, frozen quality. “Nothing is
as it seems”, he said. A singer came on
stage in a cherry-red cocktail dress.
She was old and fading and pathetic,
but she sang her heart out. Laura
Elena Harring wept in her seat.
We drove back to the apartment and
she had another premonition that in a
bag hidden away at the back of a cup-
board would be a blue box that would
unlock the mystery of her sudden
appearance. When she unlocked it,
the world was inverted as we hurtled
into a parallel universe where I was a
student at Imperial again. Suddenly
the world seemed more sober. But fear
not. The colour in this reality returns
every Friday when I turn excitedly to
the centre pages of the college papers
to read the arts section. Yes. It really is
that good.
T
he Vietnam War ran from
1959 to 1975, between
America (supporting
South Vietnam) and North
Vietnam- the Democratic
Republic of Vietnam. This war was one
of the first that everyday Americans
actually believed was avoidable; this
image was not helped by extensive tel-
evision coverage on the subject. To get
enough troops to sustain the war the
government had to introduce conscrip-
tion, whereby every young man could
be forced to join the army, navy or air
force unless they could provide a good
reason why not. Most of those trying
to escape the “draft” went to Canada or
claimed they were homosexuals. Many
draft-dodgers were hippies – a counter
culture that evolved out of the Beat-
niks – think poets Allen Ginsberg and
Jack Kerouac. The Hippies believed in
free love, non-violence and generally
hanging around taking drugs.
Hair was conceived by two such hip-
pies – James Rado and Gerry Ragni –
who also happened to be actors. It took
a while for Hair to get up and running
,generally due to most producers being
old and stuffy and not liking change
(theatres at the time were still enjoying
very traditional shows like Oliver! and
Fiddler on the Roof). When Hair did
get to the stage, it quickly became very
popular as it was a show that younger
people could use as a way to show their
parents how and why they lived as they
did. Hair came to London featuring fa-
mous faces like Richard O’ Brien (Bald
guy from Crystal Maze and writer of
The Rocky Horror Show), Tim Curry
(Star of The Rocky Horror Show and
the bad guy in most films since Home
Alone 2) and Floella Benjamin (I know
I was surprised too, I always used to
find her really scary as a child). The
last production of Hair in London was
in 1993 and featured none other than
John Barrowman (yes, Captain Jack
from Torchwood!!)
The plot of the film is totally dif-
ferent to that of the show; the show
is more of a collection of songs about
being a hippy, getting chucked out of
school, getting high and then going to
war. So I’m going to focus more on the
plot of the film as it’s a bit more struc-
tured and you’re more likely to see it
than the show.
The film Hair focuses on Claude, a
“good middle-class young man” from
a rather conservative background who
is supposed to be on his way to enlist
into the US Army at the time of the
Vietnam War. He is befriended by a
group of hippies in Central Park and,
not for the last time in the film, they
smoke some pot. The next morning
they go chasing after Sheila, a posh girl
that Claude fancies and end up crash-
ing her parent’s dinner and, eventually,
in prison. As everyone does when in
jail, they sing a big production number
about how their hair is so great; which
somehow enables them to get out of
prison. They take some LSD and end
up hallucinating around Central Park
until the hippies realise Claude has to
go to Boot Camp the next day.
Claude reluctantly goes to Boot
Camp and his friends follow him to say
a final goodbye before he goes to war.
Unfortunately this doesn’t really go ac-
cording to plan. I won’t say how, as that
would ruin the story, but it is really sad
and provides one of the most atmos-
pheric moments of the show and really
helps to brings the message home.
Main Characters:
Claude: The all-American conserva-
tive ready to join the army; he fancies
Sheila
Berger: The “free spirit of the group”,
he also fancies Sheila (are there any
musicals that don’t contain love
triangles?)
Sheila: The “pretty one” who also
happens to be rather rich
Hud, Woof, Jeanie, Crissy, Dionne:
Various hippy friends of Sheila and
Berger.
Songs to look out for:
Flesh Failures (Let the Sunshine In):
Without ruining the plot, I can tell you
that this is a really tragic song with so
much emotion; especially if you watch
it in the film.
Going Down: Not the greatest mel-
ody, but the YouTube clip I found had
a guy just wearing his trousers and a
bunch of ties…
I Got Life: It’s a classic song that’s
been covered by the likes of Nina Si-
mone and can now be found in the
Muller yogurt adverts.
Where can I can get it?
The DVD’s still hanging around, but
don’t watch it when you’re ill; I did that
and it felt like I was on a 2 hour trip.
If not, there are usually clips of some
sort on YouTube.
If you liked this, try:
Rent – Same Bohemian ideals cen-
tred around the 1980s and the AIDs
crisis instead.
Miss Saigon – if Hair is the musical
about not going to war, Miss Saigon is
the flipside of what happened to those
who did fight in the Vietnam War.
There’s a copy of the original cast re-
cordings of both these musicals in the
library which I now expect to be com-
pletely unobtainable because all you
lovely people have got them out.
Love, peace and all that jazz
So basically no photos of this musical exist on the internet. So here
are some hippie-ish pictures. We like reinforcing stereotypes!
Lucy Harrold takes a look at that most iconic Vietnam musical: Hair

