arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Arts
How to get out of your hole: Part 2
What to take with you: There are zil-
lions of cafes, noodley-type establish-
ments and the usual suspects to keep
your belly full so you needn’t take food.
Take your A-Z just in case you end up
outside the Greenwich bubble – other
parts of South West London aren’t
as accommodating. Picture-taking is
compulsory when you are straddling
the Greenwich Mean Time line. Vio-
lence with tourists may be necessary if
you do not have a good spot.
One website to check out before you
gallivant off is www.greenwichwhs.org.
uk. This is a good site detailing all the
things to do.
So, without further ado, here are The
Things One is Expected to do when
One finds Oneself in the tranquil sur-
I
f you’ve had enough of central
London, I have the solution.
Wandering along the river in
an easterly direction you will
eventually stumble across the
village of Greenwich on the south side
of the Thames. It is a funny place, be-
ing green and quiet yet still urban and
quirky. If you start to miss the cor-
porate whoreage of Central London,
you can quite clearly see the Great
Grey Towers of Canary Wharf directly
across the river which will make you
feel better again.
Greenwich is an area of great histori-
cal and scientific significance. It is best
known for its naval history, and for be-
ing the site of a Royal Palace. The Pal-
ace of Placentia, as it was named, was
ironically the birthplace of many fa-
mous royals including Henry VIII and
Elizabeth the 1st.
The palace was then neglected for
several years as the Cavaliers and
Roundheads battled it out, before be-
ing adopted by Sir Christopher Wren
and turned into a naval college for
young sea-loving types. Nowadays, the
palace houses the National Maritime
Museum, Trinity College of Music and
Greenwich University… a long way
from its Royal Placenta days.
The town itself has grown up around
the central nucleus of the palace and
its splendid observatory. As naval of-
ficers moved in circa 1830, lots of
grand houses popped up around the
Royal Park. These are now populated
with Canary Wharf’s CEOs who work
across the water. How convenient.
How to get there: A stopping train
from Waterloo to Greenwich is the
most convenient way to get there, I
reckon. And it only costs £2 return and
trains are quite frequent too! Check
times before you go on www.national-
rail.co.uk. When you arrive at Green-
wich station follow the nice black
touristy signs to Greenwich Village. It’s
about a 10 minute walk.
roundings of Greenwich:
1. National Maritime Museum
This museum is lovely. It is new and
spangley, set inside part of the Royal
Palace. It mostly showcases our Naval
history and the past, present and fu-
ture of our oceans. I approve. (www.
nmm.ac.uk, admission free)
2. Royal Observatory
This historic building is actually part
of the NMM. Places like this make me
smile. The buildings of the Observato-
ry have splendid classical architecture
made with warming red bricks and
elegant domes. It is the site of great
scientific advancement, so obviously
they have put lots of hands-on exhibi-
tions up there to advance your 12-year
old knowledge of space, time and the
universe.
3. The Planetarium
The Planetarium is terribly dramatic.
It is well worth paying £3 to see one
of the shows there, although if you are
doing a Physics degree you may not
appreciate the basic science of Black
Holes thrown at you. Even so, it’s pret-
ty cool having a 3D red giant coming
out of the screen towards you, or see-
ing the entire Milky Way above your
head. Seats are reclining, of course, so
you can relax under the stars!
On another note, the hill that spirals
up to the Observatory is very steep and
carries a health warning.
4. Greenwich Royal Park
What’s big, green and has lots of hills?
(Insert Shrek gag here.) With wonder-
ful views over London from the park it
is definitely worth the climbs!
5. The Old Naval College
On the site of the Tudor palace where
Henry VIII and Elizabeth I were born,
these buildings form the centrepiece of
one of this country's finest examples of
Baroque landscape. They were planned
and designed by some of the greatest
architects of the day. The magnificent
Painted Hall is where Nelson's body lay
in state after his death at the Battle of
Trafalgar. Admission is free (yippee!).
6. Cutty Sark
The fastest sailing ship of her day, the
Cutty Sark was launched in Scotland
in 1869 and initially sailed on the tea
route to China. Later, she brought back
wool from Australia. She has been in
dry dock in Greenwich since 1954.
However, some chavs burnt this
beautiful tea clipper down last year.
The Cutty Sark Foundation is des-
perately trying to put the pieces back
together. You cannot access the ship
anymore. Despair not: there is a small
visitor centre next to it on Greenwich
marina where they tell us about the
restoration effort. (www.cuttysark.org.
uk)
7. Greenwich Village
The usual suspects line the high street
but there are still plenty of independ-
ent shops down the quaint alleyways
that scurry around the old town.
Greenwich market is the largest of the
markets in Greenwich and is definitely
worth poking around for a while.
With the weather we’ve been hav-
ing recently, Greenwich should really
be at the top of your agenda. It has a
real buzz and it is hard to believe how
close you are to Central London when
you see all the green. It’s a real breath
of fresh air.
Rosie Grayburn takes you away from the chaotic city to the calm and tranquillity of Greenwich
The Old Naval College; offering the finest degrees in belly-button studies this side of the GMT divide
The Cutty Sark back in its hay-day The National Maritime Museum sprouting an onion bulb

