22 felix Friday 15 February 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
S
ince 2001, China’s consump-
tion of steel has increased
by 30 million tons annually
to reach 250 million tons in
2003, keeping the No. 1 po-
sition in the world and surpassing the
combined sum of those in the United
States and Japan.
Unsurprisingly, most of this has been
ploughed into its voraciously-expand-
ing cities and dizzying skylines – thir-
teen of the twenty tallest buildings in
the world are now found in East Asia
and of those, eleven are located in the
People’s Republic (including Hong
Kong and Taipei). With the impending
public and political display of the Bei-
jing Olympics looming, that most ob-
vious of symbols – the building – is set
to make an overt statement of intent.
New China is determined to show
the world at large its progressive and
modernised facets and increasing
share of the global marketplace, as well
as its increasing creative clout – and
what better way than with a series of
slick, progressive and cutting-edge
projects helmed by the most superstar
of superstar architects? Here are eight
of the most important, controversial
and unavoidable you will be seeing in
the coming months.
Beijing National Stadium
The stadium will host the main track
and field competitions for the 2008
Summer Olympics, as well as the open-
ing and closing ceremonies. Boasting a
100,000 spectator capacity and a state
of the art Solar PV system, the Herzog
& de Meuron-designed stadium has
been nicknamed the “Bird’s Nest” due
to the web of twisting steel sections
that form the roof. As well as creating
a modern stadium, the team was chal-
lenged with creating a venue that was
part of the culture of China and that
would put Beijing on the map.
Already heavily criticised for its
haemorrhage-like budget of £280 mil-
lion, it has drawn not a few glares for its
bold and polarising design. According
to the Beijing Municipal Development
and Reform Commission, the city will
spend 1.5 trillion Yuan (180 billion US
dollars) to upgrade itself in various
fields in the lead-up to the 2008 Olym-
pic, while investment associated with
the games will exceed 280 billion Yuan
(33.7 billion US dollars) – clearly, the
focus is on a successful games that will
bring more focus and investment to
the country - not a frugal one.
Guangzhou Opera House
Probably the most rapidly modernising
city on the mainland after its siblings
Beijing and Shanghai, Guangzhou
has unveiled a number of ambitious
projects, none of which are more ex-
citing than the prospect of this Zaha
Hadid-designed palace of brooding,
organic forms crisscrossed with steel
and glass panels. With an estimated
investment of 1 billion Yuan (US$120
million), the project is expected to be-
come the biggest performing centre in
South China and to be one of the three
biggest theatres in the nation, taking
bronze after the aforementioned’s Paul
Andreu-designed structures.
Lacking the creative heritage of Bei-
jing, Guangzhou has traditionally been
more business-oriented while display-
ing less interest in cultural activities
with other major Chinese cities. How-
ever, with ever-improving living stand-
ards and a greater level of affluence
amongst its denizens, the need for a
cultural life has been underlined. The
Opera House is an important mile-
stone in the progression of the city.
Shanghai World Financial Center,
Shanghai
Located in the starkly cold Lujiazhui
business district east of the Huangpu
river,theWorldFinancialCenterwillbe
the tallest building in the world when it
is completed (inevitably to be eclipsed
by the enigmatic and all-conquering
Burj Dubai). In a district known for
its imposing skyline, this soon-to-be
completed work-in-progress still tow-
ers imposingly over the neighbouring
Jin Mao tower. You can see the sparks
streaming off its side as dusk set-
tles into night, while sensing the po-
tent symbolism of China’s economic
groove.
A Kohn Pedersen Fox design, one of
the biggest challenges of a building this
tall is creating and maintaining a struc-
ture that could withstand high winds.
The solution? An innovative rectangu-
lar cut-out at the building’s apex which
will also double as the world’s highest
outdoor observation deck – a 100th
floor view that will make your trip up
the Empire State Building seem like
climbing a tree. Prepare to gawp.
Donghai Bridge, Shanghai
While not as pretty as the drive over
the famous seven-mile bridge in the
Florida Keys, the completion of the
Donghai Bridge in Shanghai deserves
wonder in its own right. We’re talking
big, big figures. The longest cross-sea
bridge on the planet and the longest
bridge in Asia, it has a total length of
over 20.2 miles and connects Shang-
hai with the offshore Yangshan deep-
water port.
Most of the bridge is a low viaduct,
with six lanes designed for vehicle
speeds up to 80 kilometres per hour.
Its serpentine route (read: S-shaped)
lessens the fatigue that drivers encoun-
ter when travelling in a straight line for
long periods. Four cable-stayed arches
allow ships to pass underneath; the
main arch is formed by two 500-foot
towers and has a span of 1,400 feet.
CCTV Building, Beijing
When conceptualising new ideas to
push the envelope of design and pos-
New rays from an ancient sun
Some of the most exciting new architecture on the planet is emerging in China – David Paw takes a look
Shanghai International Finance Center (adjacent to the Jin Mao tower)
Rem Koolhaas’s CCTV Headquarters
Shanghai’s massive Donghai bridge
A warmly-lit “bird’s nest” Beijing National Stadium

