arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Arts
sibility, most architects draw and don’t
do much else. There must be count-
less ideas for expanding the traditional
notion of a high-rise – from phalluses
and intertwining twin-towers to re-
verse “underground skyscrapers” – but
the CCTV Building has actually gone
ahead.
Designed by Rem Koolhaas – the
master himself – and the Office of
Metropolitan Architecture (OMA),
the new headquarters will combine ad-
ministration with news, broadcasting,
studios and program production in a
sequence of interconnected activities,
forming an integrated site for the en-
tire process of production. Although
the building is 230 metres tall, it is not
a traditional tower but a continuous
loop of horizontal and vertical sections
that establish a site rather than a typi-
cal leap for the stars.
Beijing International Airport
The venerable Sir Norman Foster con-
tinues his legacy with this, possibly his
most jaw-dropping project to date, at
least in terms of scale. The figures: US
$2 billion. 60 million passengers. One
single terminal, yet larger than all the
terminals in Heathrow. Combined.
Working with structural engineer-
ing firm Arup, the terminal will be
built to accommodate the massive in-
flux of traffic from China’s joining of
A more muted shade of spectacular – the Beijing National Stadium
No, it’s not the world’s largest electric guitar, it’s Foster & Partners’ new Beijing International Airport
the World Trade Organisation (WTO)
and the Olympics.
Besides looking supremely menac-
ing, the terminal will be the world’s
most sustainable, incorporating design
concepts such as skylights orientated
to maximise heat in the early morn-
ing sun and integrated environmental
control systems minimising energy
consumption and carbon emissions.
If that sounds a bit airy fairy – con-
sidering the massive amount of re-
sources and capital being poured into
the project – at least take solace in
the prospect that such technology will
trickle down to an equivalent domestic
setting eventually, even if we’re all un-
der water by then…
National Theatre, Beijing
The Beiijing National Theatre was
conceptualised by the French architect
Paul Andreu as a huge dome of glass
and titanium rising imposingly from
the still of an artificial lake. In a cen-
tral part of town with a high density of
landmarks, the clash of the modernised
with the traditional can feel incongru-
ous at times, but there is no doubting
Andreu’s ambition in rivalling nearby
Tiananmen Square and the Forbidden
City.
The project has been criticised as be-
ing about as Chinese as rarebit and ex-
cessively costly. In his defence, Andreu
likened the situation to the initial out-
rage at I.M.Pei’s glass pyramid at the
Louvre, which is now celebrated and
internationally recognised – it is only
a matter of time and familiarity, he ar-
gues. Communist leaders wanted the
theatre to symbolise China’s arrival as
a modern, advanced nation, and they
have something to that effect.
But both sides of the argument have
huge weight. Though it is no doubt
daring and innovative, perhaps it is too
daring for a part of the city that has
always wielded the power of the en-
tire nation. As with many of the other
designs, it has brought up questions of
identity - how much can you sacrifice
to move forward? What does it truly
means to be Chinese? Time will tell.

