film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 15 February 2008
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Blood, sweat, tears and oil
During the London Film Festival in
October, whilst promoting his latest
film Into The Wild, Sean Penn was
asked how it felt to be greatest actor of
his generation. His response? “Well, I
think we all know that’s not true, you’ve
just got to look at Daniel Day Lewis to
see that.” As endorsements go, this one
isn’t to be taken lightly.
From the point of view of Paul Tho-
mas Anderson however, the coup of
getting the notoriously work-shy Lewis
onto the screen at all must have been
slightly tainted by the fact that the film
has been snatched right out from un-
der the director’s nose. That is at least
what the hype would have you believe,
but the good news for Anderson is
that Blood is far more than a one-trick
pony.
Blood is a 21st century Citizen Kane,
made for a new generation who don’t
understand the appeal of the original.
Charting the rise of Lewis’ oil baron,
Daniel Plainview, it seems to draw nu-
merous parallels with Welles’ Kane but
with a modern-day edge. A new angle
of religious opposition is present, with
opposition to Plainview’s takeover of
a small Texas community built on an
Film Felix takes a look at the latest from Paul Thomas Anderson to gauge the Daniel
Day Lewis hype, but finds much more – There Will Be Blood strikes cinematic
Alex Casey
N
ever in recent memo-
ry, has public opinion
caused me to lose faith
in the nature of taste so
much as it has this week.
Last Sunday’s BAFTA awards provided
the perfect talking point for the week,
an opportunity that was seized upon to
gripe and open the age-old questions
of British bias, Keira’s inadequacies
and Jonathan Ross’ pay-cheque, whilst
congratulations for the great Tilda
Swinton and Marion Cotillard faded
into the background.
Starting with the nature of bias –
who cares? I don’t remember the Span-
ish Goyas showering awards on The
English Patient, nor the Oscars intro-
ducing Almodovar’s pictures to a Best
Picture award. The best award of the
night is always Best British Film, yet
this again got overlooked as people
scratched their heads and said “But if
This Is England won the British one,
how did Atonement win Best Film?”. If
anything, it just shows how arbitrary
this load of toss is. Also, if you think
Marion Cotillard is somehow more
British than Julie Christie and Knight-
ley then you’re not keeping up.
As for Keira, it’s time to lay off. Not
fire her, but stop criticising the poor
girl. Yeah, she’s no Dame Dench, but
she’s 22 and it’s not her fault peo-
ple keep on offering her great roles.
Would you have turned down Pride
and Prejudice or Atonement? Didn’t
think so. She was nice enough on the
red carpet as well, heaping praise on
Marion Cotillard (before she won) and
being very self-deprecating, so I doubt
she went home crying into her gown. It
was more a result of press hype mak-
ing it seem like she was going to win
any of these awards which caused the
backlash, poor girl.
I’m not going to waste valuable col-
umn space discussing Wossie’s pay-
cheque, but you get the picture. The
other big surprise was the way people
have completely railed on Atonement. I
will by no means fight its corner, but its
not as hideously self-aware as people
seem to be criticising it for. It would
certainly have been my second choice
behind Blood, although that says more
about the competition really.
The biggest surprise of the night –
even bigger than a French lady scoop-
ing Best Actress – has to have been
the pretty poor turnout though. Given
all the buzz about the biggest BAF-
TAs yet, there’s trouble on the hori-
zon when Kate Hudson is called on
to present and Kevin Spacey and Jeff
Goldblum get to award Best Picture
despite clearly having seen zero of the
films for competition. If only the writ-
ers’ strike could have held out for a
couple more days...
It hasn’t been a poor year for film at
all, despite my initial leanings to that
kind of judgement in the run up to
awards season. Juno, The Diving Bell
and the Butterfly and There Will Be
Blood were all released on the same
day last week (albeit only a London
release for Blood) which makes for a
pretty interesting weekend. If you re-
ally want a rundown of the best of the
year though, wait for Felix Film’s own
awards. Coming soon.
oilfield coming from Eli Sunday (Paul
Dano), a preacher intent on using the
money generated from the village
oil to develop his parish, leading to a
simmering dynamic that underscores
Plainview’s otherwise unstoppable
success.
As Lewis has been commended from
all corners for his outstanding lead per-
formance, it would make more sense to
highlight the otherwise excellent talent
on show from Anderson and Dano,
who bring just as much to the table.
Anderson fantastically evokes the feel,
smell and intrinsic wealth of oil, not to
mention his superb creation of a figure
infinitely more terrifying in his resem-
blance to reality than Javier Bardem’s
killer in No Country for Old Men. Dano
seems to have grown up a lot since Lit-
tle Miss Sunshine but his youth is still
his greatest foil in his struggle here,
leading to a pretty unfair battle against
the might of Lewis.
The film itself is nothing short of
epic. It’s old Hollywood with new life
and has been criminally overlooked by
critics simply falling over themselves to
praise Lewis. A beautifully brutal story,
many will see this remembered as a
great injustice if it walks away without
a Best Picture Oscar. It may not be the
most interesting film of the year, but
it’s certainly the best constructed of
those in the running. At least it would
have won 50 years ago.
Alex Casey
Film Editor
Jumper ★★★★✫
Director: Doug Liman
Writer: Doug Liman
Cast: Hayden Christiansen
Samuel L. Jackson
Jamie Bell
Given the ability that Doug Liman had
for transforming Mr. and Mrs. Smith
from the crap-sounding story it was,
into a pretty decent tongue-in-cheek
action flick that seemed to win over
most people apart from Jennifer Ani-
ston, it should come as little surprise
that he has managed to perform simi-
lar miracles with this teleportation ad-
venture, Jumper.
The tendency for films about su-
perpowers would generally seem to
involve thinking up something cool
that the writer wished he could do at
age 8 and then concocting ridiculous
coincidences in which that power can
be used. Jumper, however, surpasses
these expectations to provide a globe-
trotting, supraliminal paced adventure
that proves much more exciting than
recently over-hyped releases such as I
Am Legend and Cloverfield.
The story that sees Hayden Chris-
tensen’s David learn he has the abil-
ity to teleport around the world, away
from his typically strained home life,
soon heats up as he finds he is one of
a number of ‘Jumpers’ who are sadly
hunted by a team of Paladins. Why
is there always a downside to these
things?
The cast here are all very likeable but
the main draw is the action that main-
tains a level of excitement normally
only trailers can incite. Especially
impressive is the way that Liman has
managed to conceive and execute the
final continent-hopping battle-royale
as well as persuade the Italians to let
him film inside the Colosseum.
Above all Jumper proves to be a great
advert for round-the-world trips. Sadly
the long-haul journey will do little to
recreate the exhilaration seen here.
Daniel Day Lewis toking on a bifta
There Will Be Blood ★★★★✫
Director: Paul Thomas
Anderson
Writer: Paul Thomas
Anderson
Cast: Daniel Day Lewis
Paul Dano
Butterfly soars above the rest Liman makes Jumper a Joy
The Diving Bell ★★★★✫
and the Butterfly
Director: Julian Schnabel
Writer: Ronald Harwood
Cast: Mathieu Amalric
Emmanuelle Seigner
A memoir about quadriplegia isn’t
exactly light subject matter, so Diving
Bell isn’t a story for everyone. Howev-
er, Julian Schnabel’s vision of a true-life
writer coming to terms with paralysis
is much more than just another lachry-
mose weepy, successfully managing to
blend the simple pleasures of life with
the horror of having them taken away.
Former Elle editor, Jean-Dominique
Bauby, suffered a crippling stroke in
1996, writing his book of the same
name by communicating his words to
a scribe via blinks. A tragic story, but
not one that transfers easily to screen.
It is only because of the beautiful di-
rection here that the film works at all,
and Schnabel’s inclusion of random
but beautiful imagery – a collapsing
ice-sheet, an insect on a flower – to
capture the breadth of Bauby’s imagi-
nation is a refreshing reminder of the
beauty of life juxtaposed against the
horror of illness.
What makes Diving Bell stand out
most against other “sick flicks” is its
humour. Bauby’s internal monologue
is full of sharp wit that shows extreme
resilience in the face of adversity, and
Mathieu Amalric conveys great pathos
through his singular expression. In one
scene, a group of workmen fitting his
phone mock his condition and cause
his nurse to retaliate while he imply
thinks to himself “Henriette, you have
no sense of humour”. Bliss.
As though to console a petrified au-
dience from the thought of paralysis,
the emphasis is put on the rarity of
the condition. No matter how rare it is
though, it would be harder to find an-
other film as respectful, touching and
life-affirming. That is Schnabel’s tal-
ent, and a testament to Bauby’s book.

