film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Film
Memories of Tomorrow, today
Valerio Chang
What would you do if your mind was slowly decaying? One day, it’s simply a business lunch you forgot to go
to. The next day, it’s the people you’ve known for years. Memories of Tomorrow will break your heart
“What’s wrong, is everything alright?”
Who thought those words can be the
most heartbreaking line of a movie?
And what kind of plot would make
such a friendly concern the trigger for
a flood of tears and emotions from
the audience? Allow me to introduce
Memories of Tomorrow.
Most people will not have heard of
Memories of Tomorrow, despite it be-
ing released two years ago. Filmed in
Japanese and lacking in western dis-
tributors, sadly saw people’s ability to
discover this gem of the portrayal of
human emotions hampered.
The movie follows the reaction of
a middle-aged couple to the onset
of Alzheimer’s disease. Medics who
aware of the disease would know that
this movie will not have a happy end-
ing as Alzheimer’s cannot be cured,
only delayed, and it drastically affects
one’s memory and ability to lead a nor-
mal life.
The protagonist, played by Ken Wa-
tanabe (The Last Samurai), is a suc-
cessful director of a major advertising
agency, who notices early on that he is
forgetting business meetings. However
it is only his wife who wonders why he
buys the same mouthwash each day for
a week.
His reaction to the doctor’s diagnosis
is a poignant reminder of how sensitive
it is for practising doctors to tell ter-
minal patients about their conditions.
As conditions worsen, we see the for-
getfulness and self-pity consume the
character.
External pressure mounts from his
employer to retire due to the condi-
tion, while the internal struggle of be-
ing the provider of the family and his
headstrong machismo which prevents
him relying on others, take their toll.
The movie progresses as he is forced
to retire and stay at home while his
wife goes to work in a pottery gallery,
leaving the tone of the film altered to
become one that celebrates the love
that caring partners sacrifice for their
loved ones, loved in the past tense now
that they don’t behave as they used to.
The detailed notes that she leaves him
everyday before she goes to work, the
pretence of happiness, the commit-
ment to taking care of a husband who
no longer remembers to drink water,
the tears dropped in solitude and the
refusal to let a care home take him all
go to show the strength of either her
love for him, or perhaps the social ex-
pectation of this behaviour. Either way,
the unconditional commitment moves
the heart and pokes those tear glands.
The twist in the otherwise rather
predictable story takes the guy alone to
a forest as his wife tries to search for
him frantically. As day dawns, his wife
finds him and walks up to him, looking
relieved. The man walks towards her,
and after a night without her presence
makes the heart wrenching statement
quoted. The scenery in the latter part
of the movie features green landscapes
No hidden costs
promotional code IMP/0208
At UNITE, we wrap up all your bills and Internet
access* within the price of your rent. So you’ll
have just one bill to pay. Simple.
*U-Want Lite service only. In buildings where available. Images and photography are indicative of accommodation only.
www.unite-students.com/london
Muji decided to diversify its catalogue by introducing shades of red to complement its stone/beige pallet
and views of nature that sharply con-
trast with the former part of the busy
city centres. The joy of rediscovering
small rivers, snow, and the time to
spend with children and grandchildren
greatly emphasise the sacrifices a man
has made to live the urban Japanese
salary-driven life.
The helplessness of facing the inevi-
table, the resignation, the appreciation
of the simplest things, the realisation
of hurting someone you love, the un-
derstanding of being betrayed. This is
definitely a noteworthy film for those
nights that you want to let out some
emotions, or are wanting to feel how
precious it is to simply be able to know
and be who you are.

