Sons And Daughters
This Gift
(Domino)
★★★★✩
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 15 February 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
Gaelic Rockers have this...
...perfect Gift. Hot Chip certainly likes dwelling in the dark... don’t we all?
One night only at the Metro vs. Goldfrapp
This month, romantic, raucous, Gaelic
rockers, Sons and Daughters release
their third long player, This Gift. The
Bernard Butler (Suede, The Tears,
McAlmont & Butler) produced album
is a welcome return to their roaring,
bluesy guitars and Adele Bethel’s cut-
ting Highland tongue.
By their singer’s own admission, the
band wanted to create an album em-
bracing their love for Blondie and The
Smiths and it doesn’t fall short of giv-
ing those bands a respectful nod. They
even bring in the old Gibson guitar
which Johnny Marr used to record
Strangeways, Here We Come. Bernard
Butler is enticed away from arguing
with Brett Anderson and is able to add
sparkle to the bands’ own hand-crafted
sound that has been developed over
the past five years. This is not with-
out numerous artistic clashes between
producer and band, only resolved by a
mutual love for Fleetwood Mac .
The lead single, Gilt Complex, is a
scathing attack on the hollow celeb-
rity culture of the 2000s. Its malevo-
lent guitar riff cuts as sharp as Bethel’s
lyrics with her vitriol spitting out in a
ghostly harmony. “He’s not sure of all
he has but avarice is all that he’s made
of. Everybody knows.” As soon as her
tirade dies down you’re thrown into an
ill-fated story of loss backed by the vio-
lin of Cajun Dance Party.
Butler’s influence seems most prom-
inent on Rebel With A Ghost where
Sons and Daughters find a lost pop
hook that only serves to widen their
folk-punk starts. At times the album is
Susan Yu
Music Editor
H
ey, I’m Susan, one of
the new music editors,
as Peter would have
mentioned last week.
My mugshot is very
bad. Don’t laugh. Back to business,
MUSIC is what makes my life worth
living, what makes me tick. I’m sure
many of you intelligent people would
agree. Music gets me through thick
and thin, through times of trouble,
grief, anger, you name it. I have to say,
it’s one of those rare perennial sources
of comfort that is a must when every-
thing seems to go to pot. Who needs
ecstasy or heroin when you can inher-
ently get high from music without
obtaining a mutilated nose and having
your brains messed up big time.
Musicwise, the Grammys this year,
we have to give it up for Amy Wine-
house. The troubled singer, currently
in rehab, has been showered with five
gongs. Her awards encompass the
‘Song of the Year’ and ‘Record of the
Year,’ both for her signature hit ‘Rehab,’
and as best new artist. Other nota-
ble winners were Kanye West who
scooped four Grammys while Bruce
Springsteen won three. The White
Stripes, Justin Timberlake, Carrie
Underwood and Mary J Blige were
further among the artists who picked
up two awards.
Look forward to an interview with
a young Scottish lady. No telling, you
just have to wait. Tough. This week
we’ve been flooded with reviews, hope
this continues, guys. Music is truly
back on form. I digress.
If you fancy reviewing some
music or gigs, send us an email
at music.felix@imperial.ac.uk and
get yourself on the mailing list.
Free music giveaway soon, stay
tuned!
reminiscent of fellow Scots, Idlewild,
during their 100 Broken Windows de-
velopment, which is no bad thing at
all.
This Gift dances on and continues
to delight the listener with references
to iconic British cinema and literature.
From Ken Loach to Billy Liar to Julie
Christie, Adele’s love for her home na-
tions shines through. Their trademark
Celtic oohing and aahing also finds a
comfortable place to reside here; most
notably on the title track, which begins
with a duel between our feisty singer
and the imposing guitarist Scott Pat-
terson, with his burly yet wounded
moans. The only winner is our aural
pleasure while the lyrics delve into
the stories of Ted Hughes’ tragic lov-
ers. The sparring vocals continue
with second single Darling, a product
of the bands’ love for 60s girl groups
and shines through with its lustrous
pop glory, made ever more prominent
with Bernard Butler’s smoothed-out
production.
The album marches forward until
closing with a lament of an ending rela-
tionship; Goodbye Service wails “Said
that you’d call / Scream when you’re
leaving / At least I’m heartless so you
sparked some feeling,” and leaves you
contemplating your recent auditory
invasion of the melded cacophony of
stomping guitars, haunting vocals and
cultured lyrics that have comprised the
past 40 minutes.
Soumen Sen
Just For Tonight is the second single
from Yorkshire-based urchins One
Night Only, and is likely to make them
big; or at least modestly large judging
by the amount of airplay it’s getting
on Radio 1. The lead singer, George
Craig, has mild notoriety as being the
brother of the drummer from the ter-
ribly-named but promising, shiny, new
NME darlings, Joe Lean And The Jing
Jang Jong. Unfortunately, they don’t
seem to borrow from The Jing Jang
Jong’s jing-jangly guitars or artistic
flair. Instead, One Night Only seem
to have stolen Keane’s piano and Em-
brace’s way with words. This is, by no
means, a good thing. This is middle-
of-the-road, coffee-table rock with no
desire to be diverse or intriguing. The
lyrics are mind-numbingly dull: “Way
across the plains the lights spill out of
code/No one knows where they take us
but we’ll search till we grow old” and
the tune is so bland that it makes James
Blunt seem cutting-edge.
One Night Only will probably get
a top twenty hit with this. They will
probably sell out a medium-sized Lon-
don venue. They will probably even
get a number one debut album. Chris
Martin may even give them a B-side to
record. The only thing that’s certain is
that Jo Whiley will love them. That’s
guaranteed.
Soumen Sen
acoustic strum and simple piano riffs
tie in well with the synthesisers, giving
it a rich texture, greatly complement-
ing the singing.The melody meanders
slowly whilst Goldfrapp conveys ten-
der longing with her beguiling purring
lush vocals-‘I’m in a backless dress on
a pastel ward that’s shining. Think I
want you still.’
‘And I was feeling lonely, feeling blue
Feeling like I needed you’
It’sValentine’sDaythisFriday.There-
lease of this melodic, ambient number
coincidentally will appeal to many sin-
gletons yearning for love. (Damn those
smug, have-it-all couples smooching in
the corner). With a memorable melody,
quaint intonations and beautiful syn-
thesisers holding everything together,
‘A&E’ works wonders. Just about.
Susan Yu
fourth album ‘Seventh Tree’ comes as
a pleasant surprise. Highly different
from their previous upbeat glam-disco
hits such as ‘Oh La La,’ ‘Strict Machine’
and ‘Ride A White Horse.’ ‘Seventh
Tree’ offers a new change of scene
from the dancefloor belters prevalent
in their last two albums ‘Supernature’
and ‘Black Cherry. Instead, it sees
Goldfrapp diverging in another direc-
tion, a new sound for the band, having
toned down the electronics in favour of
a more organic, acoustic sound, maybe
reverting back to nature. Who knows.
First impressions of this track: con-
siderably mellow and somewhat folky,
takes a while to get used to, but trust
me, this number is indeed one of those
tracks that takes time to grow on you.
Boy, the more you play this, the better
it gets. The fresh soundscape produced
evokes a surreal dreaminess. What is
more, this new arrangement certainly
allows Alison Goldfrapp to show off
more of her gorgeous voice. Both the
Following the relatively huge success
of ‘The Warning’, anticipation was
let a 5-year old go insane with an 808.
It all sounds deliciously lush (‘Don’t
Dance’) and crunchy (‘Ready For The
Floor’), but they sometimes get ahead
of themselves. For example, there’s so
much going on in ‘Touch Too Much’,
that the cacophony of live drum ma-
chines and programmed beats renders
the track virtually un-danceable.
That’s one nitpick among a handful.
An album ultimately reliant on its arse-
nal of digitised bloops and clicks may
give the impression of a record that is,
on initial listens, rather cold and su-
perficial. However, unlike their mildly
distracting but clinically joyless second
album, ‘Made In The Dark’ grows to
show a rather warm centre underneath
all of the mechanical sequencing. Un-
fortunately, the album remains rather
shallow which cuts away any chances
of this being 2008’s ‘Sound Of Sil-
ver’. But perhaps you’re not supposed
to think too much about it and as it
stands, there are enough head-bang-
ing, bouncy tunes to distract you away
from any lack of depth.
Jorge Costa
Education Pt.2 is the debut single from
Peckham band The Metros.
The song generates a strong sense of
deja vu from a variety of guitar bands
– comparisons with ‘Ian Dury and the
Blockheads’ are particularly striking
(the record is even produced by Baxter
Dury , the son of the aforementioned).
Whilst the track isn’t going to change
the musical world, it boasts an inter-
estingly loose structure. This is backed
up by solid guitar and drum sections,
and sprawled with a self-styled ‘lippy
upstarts’ take on education, making an
entertaining, if forgettable, three min-
utes and thirty seconds of music.
Nat
A little different from Nick Cave’s
previous material. One tends to be
cautious and concerned with such
comebacks but it is unnecessary in
this case. This first whiff of the new
album is refreshing, oozing with en-
ergy and a catchy tune. The sound is
still signature of Nick Cave & the Bad
Seeds, with almost sermonising vocals
over a sharp guitar riff. Lyrics are both
interesting and troubling. The chorus,
however, is not as good as the verses.
All in all, though, excellent material.
Kate
Hot Chip
Made In The Dark
(EMI)
★★★★✩
Album Reviews high for Hot Chip’s third long player.
Promising to be rockier than their pre-
vious albums (though that’s like saying
‘Blackout’ was slightly more avant-
garde than ‘Oops! ...I Did It Again’),
‘Made In The Dark’ instead builds on
Hot Chip’s reputation of creating ludi-
crously intricate indie-dance grooves
via bolder, brasher sounds. To para-
phrase Daft Punk, this album is harder,
better, faster and stronger than any-
thing they have previously released.
Was that a rather cheesy sentence?
Maybe, but the comparison is warrant-
ed considering that Hot Chip takes the
French duo’s brand of driving synths,
and then beats them at their own
game. Nowhere is this more apparent
than the nuclear blow-out of ‘Shake A
Fist’. As the album’s first single, ‘Fist’
starts off with what sounds like some
trippy, spaced-out tablas gurgling un-
der buzz-saw synths before a Todd
Rundgren sample informs us that a
pair of headphones “are really gonna
help you”. It’s sage advice because what
follows sounds like a recording studio
erupting into the stratosphere with the
most shit-crazy, galvanising sound ef-
fects I’ve heard since I saw Justice live.
This is a boldness that is refreshing
for a band with such a geeky-cool dis-
position and when Taylor’s monotone
announces “Sir, I have a good mind to
take you outside” on the funky and me-
thodical ‘Hold On’, he actually sounds
like he means it. The lyrics of ‘The
Warning’s title track just sound like
empty threats in comparison.
‘Made In The Dark’, however, re-
tains the band’s sense of humour. From
equating love to getting beaten up by
chair-bashing wrestlers in the cleverly
titled ‘Wrestlers’, to name-checking the
Macarena in ‘One Pure Thought’ and
Goddard’s tongue-in-cheek delivery
of “Time-delay! Bend-away!” in ‘Bend-
able Poseable’, there’s a gleefully manic
approach to the album which extends
down to the anything-goes arrange-
ments. Time-signatures are messed
around with, elements bounce in and
are dropped again, melodies wobble
and implode, and it’s almost like they
Single Review
Single released on 18th February
The lead single ‘A&E’ taken from their
Single Reviews
Look for ‘Seventh Tree’ to hit
stores February 25th, ‘A&E’
released 11th February
Nick Cave
Dig Lazarus Dig
★★★★✩
The Metros
Education Pt. 2
★★★✩✩
One Night Only
Just For Tonight
★✩✩✩✩
Goldfrapp
A&E
★★★✩✩

