music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
Music
one by one the strangely nonchalant
band members appear on stage – their
clothes and facial expressions just as
we saw them an hour ago at a local
pub. Front man James – who, inciden-
tally, hasn’t even bothered to remove
his coat and hat – was clearly not lying
when he told us he doesn’t get nervous
– and it shows! and it shows!
Drums blast away (accompanied by
some impressive keyboards) opening
their best-known single 'So Hard', in-
stantly recognised by a few keen fans. It
isn't long before the freshly-galvanised
gathering finally breaks into a sweat.
The technical crew's incompetence
unfortunately means the vocals are al-
most inaudible for the first few tracks,
but nobody seems overly phased. In-
deed, the first impression we get is how
much better these guys sound live than
on their studio-produced album.
Each of the band members has his
chance to shine. The bassist is strong
and consistent and good fun to watch
– constantly moving to the rhythm of
his sound. The keyboardist is steady,
concentrated and absorbed in his play-
ing, which can be said to almost form
Art Brut actually makes sense. The
definition of “Art Brut” is, accord-
ing to a very reliable Internet source,
“Raw art, ‘raw’ in that it has not been
through the ‘cooking’ process: the art
world of art schools, galleries, muse-
ums. Originally art by psychotic indi-
viduals who existed almost completely
outside culture and society.” This seems
a fitting description for a band that in-
dubitably deserve the indie descriptor,
whose lyrics and demeanour embody a
band that will inevitably never achieve
mainstream success.
Of course, this is what indie is all
about: being unpopular with the main-
stream, going against convention.
There is, of course, nothing wrong
with this, but I had yet to hear an indie-
branded band that I actually liked. The
lyrics were nonsensical, the guitars
were practically insane and unstruc-
tured, and everything had to move at
an incomprehensibly fast pace for no
justifiable reason.
The most I had heard from Art Brut
prior to the gig was at places like Koko,
wherein the opening riffs to “Bad
Weekend” was enough to send the in-
die boys and girls into a euphoric orbit.
Perhaps it wasn’t the best place to dis-
cover an indie band that went against
the indie convention, as at the time I
didn’t really understand why the line
“Popular Culture no longer applies to
me” was so absolutely essential to a
night out in London.
So zip forwards to a cold night at
ULU, with me was queuing up to
see the band in person. Who’d have
thought it possible that a Muse fan
would want to see something that
many people would designate as indie?
I may have been one of three people
there that knew barely any of the lyrics,
but to be honest, I don’t think it really
mattered. What I presumed to be a gig
rapidly transformed into an excitable
band and a jumpy frontman regaling
us with tales of how he embarrassed
himself time and time again, and how
he made up for it in later life, all set to
a thundering, memorable instrumental
backdrop.
I was in shock. Where were the silly
fast-paced guitars? What about the ri-
diculous lyrics? Why couldn’t I see the
frontman blaring complete and utter
rubbish into his microphone? Well, it
turns out that Art Brut are not what I
thought they might be.
Eddie Argos, the frontman, was posi-
tively magnanimous. He was hyperac-
tive and overexcited, and he doesn’t so
much sing as he reads aloud. His lyrics
are honest, precise, and simply genius.
They tell simple stories of past rela-
tionships in such a down-to-Earth, re-
alistic and believable way that everyone
on this tiny little planet can relate to
them. There are no unnecessary soar-
ing vocals nor are there any slippery,
saccharine-sweet ballads – Art Brut
are all about the here and now, and it
makes so much sense it’s ridiculous.
There is something quite endear-
ing about everything he says. Past
childhood sweethearts are dedicated
to and immortalised in songs such as
“Emily Kane”, (I hope this song finds
you fame/I want school kids on buses
singing your name). Traditional Rock
and Roll is thrown to the side in “Bang
Bang Rock and Roll”, (No more songs
about sex, drugs, and rock and roll/It’s
boring!), and contemporary artwork
is given an enthusiastic thumbs-up in
“Modern Art”, (Modern Art makes me
want to rock out!).
Interlaced throughout all the songs
are random inserts from other bands,
all of which are given a pleasing belit-
tling. This is indie and how it should
be done – whereas Alternative Rock
was left alone (indeed, We Are Scien-
tists are known to be big fans of Art
Brut), power pop and pop in general
was destroyed by Art Brut’s undeniable
energy. Finally, a band that is willing to
remind the world that a song inform-
ing the listener how to spell “Bananas”
over and over again is not a song – it’s
rubbish.
Halfway through songs, Mr. Argos
began to skip using the microphone
leads, watched as his two guitarists
knighted each other, and changed some
of the lyrics to include what he got up
to last night after too much alcohol.
All the while, his four band members
uplifted even the most nostalgic, mel-
ancholy lyric into the stratosphere of
and sax-a-ma-phones could be heard,
and it added more to an already pleas-
ingly-overloaded gig.
We were all reminded – or educated
– on their performance overseas, with
the song “Good Weekend” achieving
chart-topping success in practically
every country that didn’t have Top of
the Pops. Still, that didn’t stop them
or the crowd chanting “Art Brut – Top
of the Pops!” which was soon replaced
with a similar dedication to their Big
Band backing group.
By the time they had left the stage I
euphoria. No matter how sad the songs
could be, Art Brut’s rising, ecstatic na-
ture meant they were, and always will
be, about having fun remembering the
past and looking to the future. A band
you could relate to in both imagination
and reality is a rare thing.
Let us not forget that on this particu-
lar night, the five indie rockers had as-
sembled a Brass Section – the Big Band
– who provided a noticeable, welcome
layer to the gig. Somehow, above the
absorbing lyrics and the searing-hot
guitar play, the trumpets, trombones
Levy let loose at the Islington Bar Academy
Art Brut art-rocking out at ULU
For a five-piece group from New York
that had only just replenished several
band members to return so promptly
with such a solid album, “Glorious”, is
quite a feat. The undersold gathering
at the Islington Bar Academy, London
may feel a bit like make-or-break time
for a band that has consistently gar-
nered more acclaim here for their al-
ternative rock style and borderline de-
pressing lyrics than in their homeland.
Levy are the third of three acts to
play, but apparently the previous two
have done little to thaw the January
chill from the frigid crowd, which is
staring, completely expressionless, at
the empty stage. Lights go dark, and
may have been almost completely deaf
(that will teach me to stand inches away
from the speakers) but their lyrics were
echoing through my mind long after
the trombones had fallen silent and
were replaced with the murmurs of the
satisfied and the inebriated.
And so you have it: an indie band that
actually makes sense. They will always
remain outsider artists, and as such, to
the initiated, will always remain a hid-
den joy in the deep, dark ocean of the
music industry.
Robin Andrews
Live Review
Live Review
the backbone of most tracks. Oddly
enough, James is probably the least
expressive, compared to his mates.
The only hint to his emotion is his fa-
cial expressions – but what he deliv-
ers sounds great. Finally, both guitar
and drums amaze – giving life to each
song. It's unfortunate that they're less
noticeable on the CD, because they
sound incredible – every note they
play appears to echo off their body.
The award for most electrifying goes
to the guitarist, though, and during his
extended solo on the closing track, 'On
the Dancefloor', he goes insane, ending
the evening on a definite high.
Once the last song finishes, there is
much well-deserved cheering, but no
'encore', which is a shame. The band
graciously bows and leaves.
It is no wonder that their fans are
mainly those who have seen them play
live. The show makes a pleasant change
from the admittedly less interesting
studio music. If you enjoy their mate-
rial, do not miss out on an opportunity
to see them live!
Chris Birkett & Kate Agathos
Art Brut doing their thing, rock and roll all the way!
Levy strutting their stuff
Art Brut
ULU
★★★★✩
Levy
Islington Bar Academy
★★★★✩

