34 felix Friday 15 February 2008
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Call the engines, Camden’s burning
Well, not anymore, but the smell of singed Goths is still in the air. Daniel Wan loves their smelly ways
A
s news broke of the blaze
that adorned Camden
High Street, a very stark
sense of disbelief came
over me. Described as a
“severe fire” that spanned over a large
area, from the Canal Market to just
east of Chalk Farm Road, this wasn’t a
case of just one or two buildingsbeing
set alight but a good 300-metre stretch
of one of the busiest marketplaces in
London.
Anyone who has visited Camden can
admitthemarketstallswereonebigfire
hazard, but the locals and visitors had
bigger problems to think about. How-
ever, now it has actually happened, the
future of Camden market holds an ele-
ment of uncertainty about it; and this
is where the real worries lie.
Camden Market is not only a major
hotspot for tourism in London, but
also an icon of subculture and all fash-
ion that falls beneath the definition
of ‘alternative’. Since its birth in 1974,
Camden Market has grown to attract
over 300,000 visitors each weekend
from every part of the world. London-
ers and tourists alike flock to the five
different markets in Camden to shop
for that special one-off item; some-
thing they weren’t really looking for
when they arrived but merely stum-
bled upon during ferocious furrowing
into the eclectic mass of second-hand
clothing.
It is exactly in this that Camden ex-
hibits its very own magic; inspiring
creativity and originality in millions
across the globe. Thrift, army-surplus,
and handmade stalls littered Camden
Market, providing no guarantee of a
good find on any day, but anyone that
loves the Market loves it because they
have found something special there.
That something that no one else has.
Despite such self-built success, in
2006 Camden Council decided to cash
in on the already money-spinning
tourism trade. The Stables market was
redeveloped into a more commercial
and modern setting for stalls. Despite
strong opposition from local residents,
who argued it would tarnish Camden’s
quaint character, plans went ahead and
the death of Camden Market began
with an upscale restaurant placed slap-
bang in the middle of The Stables.
However, the spirit of Camden
prevailed and for the past two years
Camden has managed to retain its
ever-popular grotty-but-you-love-it
atmosphere. On closer inspection,
stalls have become almost identical;
the same sunglasses and bags for sale
and only a different bloke desperately
yelling “I give you good price”.
Things are now doubling in price,
and stall owners have become more
like shopkeepers. Long gone are the
days when a rather questionable fellow
would run through the market with
the shirt you had a quick poke at in his
stall, trying to endear you further into
buying it.
On Saturday the 9th of February, the
fires hit Camden Town at around 7pm.
At the time of writing, the cause is still
unknown and there have been no casu-
alties. This is starting to sound like a
world-changing atrocity, and in your
eyes it may not seem anywhere near
as serious, but for the 300-odd mar-
ket and shop traders, their livelihood
has been taken away for an indefinite
amount of time.
Will Camden Council use the recent
events as a good excuse to regener-
ate the affected area, if not the whole
market, into a fresh and contemporary
high street? If these suspicions are
true, Fashion has lost its rebel son.
Some are already speculating wild
but almost-believable conspiracy the-
ories. Looking at what has occurred
objectively, there were further plans
to regenerate the whole of Camden
High Street and its markets despite
extremely strong local disapproval. A
widespread fire causes damage to a
large portion of the market area, but
evades the recently Council-renovated
Stables Market, as well as avoiding a
single casualty. Put the facts together
and you can see why some people are
peeved.
Despite living a one and a half hour
tube journey away from Camden, I still
spent my weekends growing up there.
My teenage years have been set upon
thegrimystreetsofCamden,andifIdid
not have those wonderful hours wast-
ing away on the Lock watching Punks,
Metalheads and others go by, I reckon
I would be dressing like any other Tom,
Dick and Harry on the streets. There
were no Topshops or River Islands,
and that was the best thing about it all.
Camden inspired a sense of rebellious
imagination in me, and if the Council
has its savage way with Camden, I will
be of the last generation to be inspired
by the true Camden Market.
London Fashion Week
Sarah’s the envy of everyone
and wangled her way into the
London Fashion Week’s exhi-
bitions this week. Free cham-
pagne appaprently. Hmph.
Boots No.7 Men’s Range
Skin and face creams for the
more metrosexual of men.
Anti Fatigue Eye Stick? I strug-
gle to see the excitement, but
thats probably because I’m
tired.
Fashion ‘Rock’ Tees
Elvis has been dead for
decades now. So has Kurt
Cobain. The Sex Pistols are all
on zimmer frames, whilst the
Ramones are collecting their
pensions. This is no reason
to have their faces plastered
across your chest, especially if
their name is written below in
sparkly font. Eurgh.
COOL
LAME
A smoke cloud over the Lock Market. What’s new?
Camden High Street on a better day at the office Whore skirts anyone?

