Update: Yahoo! rejects M$
Felix brings readers up to speed on this gigantic corporate game of ping pong
W
hat breaking news
has come out of the
Tech companies
that span the sur-
face of the world
this week?
Well, to add to Microsoft’s hobby of
buying other companies, they placed
a bid for Danger Inc, a company that
designs mobile phones and produces
software for them. Looks a bit like MS
might be going down the phone mar-
ket after Apple, but will they release
anything that can compete with the
iPhone in terms of pure popularity?
Conversely, Apple have updated their
trademark to cover the Apple brand
in the video game sector so they may
be going after the Xbox, trying to plug
the hole that will be produced when no
PS4 is released.
The government has changed its reg-
ulations on who is to blame for illegal
downloads. They have decided to place
the blame in the hands of ISPs unless
they block the users responsible. This
is intended to force the providers to
take action instead of various copy-
right infringement bodies.
Intel is in more trouble as it has been
accused of abusing its monopoly on
the processor market. Great news for
AMD fans as these claims, if founded,
can lead to the EU confiscating 10% of
Intel’s turnover: which is an even big-
ger chunk of their final profit.
The European space program’s Co-
lumbus ISS module was successfully
attached this week after years of delays
to its original launch and a a few minor
delays to the actual attachment. One of
the crew members was taken ill, mean-
ing the new guy on the shuttle team
had to take over.
The kid who cracked the iPhone
firmware first time round has done it
again with the newest “most secure”
version. Keeping in line with his previ-
ous work the recent hack is not exactly
user-friendly, requiring a lot of talent
to actually take advantage of it. A sim-
pler version will probably appear in the
next few weeks, prompting Apple to
kick out yet another update. When this
game of back and forth is complete,
the iPhone will probably be the most
secure device on the planet.
There has been public debate about
the use of high-pitched sirens audible
only to youth. The intended use is to
annoy kids so that they stay away from
places they are not wanted. Some of
you may be familiar with the siren that
is installed outside one of the hotels
between Kensington High Street and
Imperial College. The sides of the ar-
gument are that this is a breach of hu-
man rights, but there are plenty of peo-
ple who feel this is acceptable.
The first Google Android-enabled
phones have been displayed by their
manufacturers. To those unfamiliar
with Android it is Google’s attempt at
a operating system for phones to di-
rectly compete with Windows Mobile
and Symbian products. The platform
allows developers full access to the
source code as it uses standard Linux
components. This is in stark contrast
with competitors and is a million miles
away from Apple’s infamously closed
architecture.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
35
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
They think they are onto a winner with all the investment interests but are they pricing themselves out of the market?
W
ell, to follow up on
the big article last
week, the two part-
ners in this shotgun
marriage have been
having a bit of a lover's tiff. First, Yahoo
rejected Microsoft's very generous of-
fer due to it “not being good enough”
and now Microsoft's Steve Ballmer has
outdone himself with the statement
that he rejects Yahoo's rejection. A
very creative way to dodge the bullet
that will be fired from the hip of Mi-
crosoft's very loyal shareholders.
Microsoft's £22 billion offer topped
Yahoo's share price by 60% so it is pos-
sible for M$ to go down the hostile
takeover route as this would also save
them a substantial amount of cash but
reduce the potency of the resultant
company due to resentment between
the corporate bodies. Yahoo have said
they won't accept less than $40 bil-
lion on the share which would require
an offer in the £25-30 billion region;
highly unlikely as Microsoft's share
price has fallen since the original bid,
reducing the original offer to around
£20 billion. It's been a long time since
Yahoo has been worth the money it's
asking for and it may never be worth
it; maybe Yahoo's management are
grabbing at pennies in an attempt to
cut their losses before Yahoo lose any
more of the market.
Analysts feel the only reason Yahoo
have rejected the initial offer is in a
poor attempt to drive up the price Mi-
crosoft is offering. Another possibility
is the fact that since the announcement
of the bid last week, Yahoo's share price
has been on the up as people want to
get in on the action that will be Micro-
Hoo. This is likely to go down again
though people are unlikely to want
anything to do with Yahoo if it decides
to continue as a lone entity.
To add more fuel to the fire of Ya-
hoo's money-grabbing (admittedly this
is business) it has emerged that they
are planning to begin talks with AOL
over a possible merger. Now it appears
that Yahoo thinks they are a bit of a
goldmine due to MS's advances; but as
we all know, this move is out of neces-
sity so Yahoo going after other people
seems a little bit off the mark. On the
other hand, it would be quite inter-
esting if something actually came of
this. The thing is that AOL's subscrib-
ers have been dropping like flies so a
merge would correspond to two stones
clinging together for life in the online
advertisement ocean.
This merger needs to happen fast,
though, as Google currently holds a
60% stake in the online advertisement
business and even if MS and Y join they
will only hold 30% between; meaning
they're still going to have to play catch-
up.Microsoftislikelytoupthepressure
constantly until Yahoo submit because
they know as well as everyone else it's
one of their best chances of regaining
control of the market. The ridiculous
rumours of Google taking on Yahoo
are still being fuelled from somewhere
as well. Monopoly, anyone?
Well I'm sure you'll get to hear more
about this from me next week when
some other weird news develops from
this but hopefully they can just resolve
this quickly as they are only minimiz-
ing the actual effect of the merger.
Nokia has a new flagship
Felix covers Nokia’s follow up to its successful N95 model – will it be good enough?
Superphone – Nokia N96
N
okia have announced
another follow-up to
the widely popular N95
and N95 8Gb phones.
Typical business plan we
have here. Wait till everyone buys your
top-range phone and then release one
to take its place. At least it's got some
cool new features, but it really doesn't
offer enough to justify the bother of an
upgrade. Right. That’s my opinion out
of the way. Let’s cover the handset with
a tad more objectivity, just for fun.
The N96 contains everything its pred-
ecessors had to offer and a handful
more. It has a whopping 16Gb built-in
storage as well as a MicroSD card read-
er. The N95 only had the card reader
and the N95 8Gb had, you guessed it,
8Gb built-in and no card reader. So
with this potent combination when
the SDHC standard is maxed out, this
phone will be able to store 48Gb of data
on flash. I will let you do the math on
how many hours of media that equates
to.
The 5 Megapixel camera has nothing
new but sees a slight tweak in the ad-
dition of a dual LED flash instead of
a single. It will satisfy those who hold
that the N95's flash was a little bit of a
weakling.
The big step is that this phone is going
to be the first to come with a TV tuner
built in. Amazing. If we didn't already
have enough ways to procrastinate,
then daytime TV’s offering of Jeremy
Kyle and Judge July are sure to top us
up.
The handset also contains what has
been dubbed ‘Assisted GPS’. What was
wrong with regular GPS, dare I hear
you say? Well, it was plagued with poor
“find” times but once it knew where
you were it could track you pretty well.
So how have they fixed this flaw? Basi-
cally a server figures out roughly where
you are in the world using the mobile
phone masts through which you are
connected. This info is used to help the
satellite find you faster.
The N96 is also confirmed to contain
Nokia's now slightly aged N-Gage plat-
form. With some tweaks and updates
this could provide a very promising
selling point if the Nintendo DS' record
sales are anything to go by. So with a
games console, internet , GPS , TV and
all the other endless feature sets avail-
able across the broad market of hand-
sets, I wonder if and when we will say
the creatives get stuck for ideas.
A nifty little feature that goes hand
in hand with the ever growing video-
playing nature of phones is a small
kickstand located on the back allowing
you to place it on any flat surface, sit
back and enjoy your film. Similar to the
little stands provided with Apple iPod's
and iTouch's but with the practicality
of being attached to the device.
A small flaw that some sources have
mentioned is that this device may not
support full-on 3G, reducing the speed
of its mobile Internet and removing
video calls. A bit of a downer for the
UK market; for the people over the
pond 3G won't work anyway so it won't
make a difference. Nokia also released
the N96's sister device in the same an-
nouncement. The N78 contains a very
similar feature set to its sibling but is a
more traditional soap-bar style hand-
set rather than a slide model. This guy
has some cool but slightly gimmicky
features as well. Using its A-GPS it can
geo-tag any photos you take; in other
words it remembers where you took all
your photos and allows you to view a
map with photos marked out as loca-
tions. Also it contains an FM transmit-
ter allowing you to play your music
through your car radio without wires,
nothing new to media players but new
to phones.
So, in conclusion, this doesn't really ap-
pear to be a true flagship successor but
it is pushing the envelope forward to-
wards a device that will be as popular.

