I
reach 146 Queen Victoria Street at a few minutes past the 11am start
billed all over the internet, already late since I had intended to get
there before it all officially kicked off. As I round the corner of the
building I am handed a flyer entitled “Who Is Xenu?” which I don’t
have time to read before being deafened by a 500-strong chant of “We
Are Anonymous. We Are Legion,” followed immediately by a dreadful Rick
Astley song [Editor – how dare you blaspheme against the 80’s King!] blasted
from a portable hi-fi. At this point I realised that this would be a protest un-
like any I have ever witnessed.
After penning an article covering the initiation and announcement of the
globally infamous “Anonymous” protests a few weeks ago, my curiosity was
aroused enough to ensure that my Sunday would be spent outside the two
major scientology buildings in London. Primarily to cover it for Felix, but
also because I was personally intrigued by the bile-filled debate and rhetoric
from both sides that abounds on the internet, and by the potential that the
protest had to demonstrate “the power of the internet.”
For those who have managed to avoid the controversy, it can be summed
up in a single, simple statement: “The internet has declared war on the
‘Church of Scientology;’” exaggerated, but not inaccurate (see box for full
explanation).
I had no idea what to expect from February 10th. It was an event that could
signify the beginning of a global movement, a popular movement that began
and was sustained virtually, pouring out into the real world in a manner that
has never been seen before; without a leader, without a clear plan. The head-
less body politic, ejecting a parasite. Or it could be three geeks and a sign ex-
hibiting ignorance and irrationality, showing that virtual momentum still has
no real bearing on the outside, another failed movement of hate. I expected
the latter. I expected it to be about 20 people (maximum) standing outside a
building, embarrassing themselves.
I’m confronted with 500 protesters: clad in masks to protect their iden-
tity from the perceived threat, handing out flyers, holding signs, acting as a
single, outraged entity. Yet there is an inherent humour in the event. Anony-
mous don’t take themselves very seriously, breaking into bad dancing every
so often as someone plays a song that they all know from various ‘memes’
that constantly circulate (such as the “Fresh Prince of Bel Air” theme song
that was played throughout the day). Their protest signs contain in-jokes and
shamelessly geeky comedy, but also carry the message of the day. “Love Sci-
entology, Hate the CoS [‘Church of Scientology’]” says one sign. “Scientology
makes me a sad panda,” says another, “Knowledge is Free, Scientology’s not.”
M
ost of the protestors are lined up on the pavement and
raised walkway, wearing their masks (mostly V For Ven-
detta Guy Fawkes masks) on the opposite side of the road
from the headquarters of the CoS’ UK organisation near
Blackfriars tube station.
At this early stage of the day, there are 2 police officers mounted on horse-
back, approximately 7 foot-patrol police, and 1 squad van – all City of London
Police – guarding the main doors of the building and surrounding the main
body of protestors. This number increases steadily throughout the morn-
ing, finally peaking at approximately 20 officers, 4 mounted police, 2 police
vans, and a dog unit. They seem to be there mainly to make the Scientology
staff feel safe, and keep the protestors from blocking Queen Victoria Street.
“We’re just policing the event,” said one police officer as he asked protestors
to move away from the entrance,” It’s fairly quiet… simply a peaceful protest.”
The police don’t seem worried, even though they have had little information
about the planned protest and no leadership to meet with.
The ‘Church of Scientology of London’ was opened in 2006 in the very
building where L. Ron Hubbard ran the embryonic Church of Scientology in
the 1950s. At the gala opening, the fourth most senior City of London Police
officer, Chief Superintendent Kevin Hurley, gave a speech in praise of the or-
ganisation – the largest in a series of interactions between the City of London
Police force and the CoS in London that was investigated by the Guardian
and other major newspapers at the time (which a man with a megaphone
reminded the assembled protestors).
The building itself sits between the Anglican church of Saint Andrew by-
the-Wardrobe and the BT Wholesale headquarters. Its proximity to an An-
glican church is an irony not lost on Anonymous, who took relish in the
chant of: “That’s a church, that’s a cult,” as they point respectively at the spire
and the CoS. My fellow reporters and I visit the rector of the church, the Rev-
erend Alan Griffin, to ask him his opinion of the protestors and of his neigh-
bours themselves. He said that the protestors “all seemed quite young, similar
in age to most of the Scientologists that they are protesting.” On Scientology,
his philosophy was relaxed: “It’s a free world, isn’t it?” He’d been invited into
the building, and some of the members had come to speak to him, but he
was certain that “they shouldn’t call themselves a church.” I ask him whether
he thought Scientology was a religion, and he responded without hesitation:
“No, it’s a cult. And it’s definitely not Christian. They shouldn’t use the cross
in their logo.” I look again at the symbol on the front of the building. It has a
crucifix in the centre of it; what that signifies, I’m not sure.
4 felix Friday 15 February 2008
An Anonymous Protest
On 16th January global newspapers and media reported on the internet leak of a video showing Tom
Cruise talking about his Scientology beliefs, coinciding with the publishing of an unauthorised biography
of Mr Cruise by renowned biographer Andrew Morton. The embarrassing video, set to the “Mission:
Impossible” theme tune and full of controversial quotes, was posted on many news sites, but rapidly
removed from most after threats from the feared Scientology legal team.
These events and legal threats were seen as the ‘final straw’ for a community on 711Chan, one of the
internet’s most notorious social forums, which interpreted the move as an attempt at censorship, and the
most recent in a series of alleged “unethical practices” practised by the Church. They launched a massive
underground campaign “declaring war” on Scientology under the moniker of “Anonymous,” (“We are
Anonymous, e are Legion”), issuing several Youtube messages to the world news services. Many Scien-
tology websites have subsequently come under attack, either with Denial of Service attacks, or having the
pages themselves defaced with mocking images and sound files. One hacker even managed to replace
the Scientology Headquarters answerphone message to play the “Fresh Prince of Bel Air” theme song in
reference to Will Smith’s apparent conversion to the Church of Scientology.
Originally intended as a news piece,
Andrew Somerville gives a full account
of what he saw on the day the Felix team
spent sandwiched between Anonymous
and the Church of Scientology
Outside the Church of Scientology on Queen Victoria Street, 11 minutes past 11am on 11th February
History of the Anonymous Protests
Anonymous’ anti-scientology stance is based on widespread allegations that the CoS is an exploitive,
profiteering enterprise that destroys lives and harms society. It references well-publish incidents of es-
pionage in the U.S; brainwashing accusations; harassment of critics; allegations of murder; conspiracy;
abuse of the legal system; threats against dissenters; unscientific propaganda labelling pschology and
psychiatry as harmful, evil and responsible for atrocities; infiltration of governmental organistations, po-
lice forces, and other entities; bribery; manslaughter; theft; human rights abuses; curtailment of free
speech and that the basic tennets of the CoS are harmful and despicable.
The Church of Scientology states that these allegations are made by bigots, hate-mongerers, “supres-
sive persons,” terrorists, and people dedicated to evil.
Anonymous’ allegations about the Church of Scientology

