42 felix Friday 15 February 2008
East Meets West: Mesmerizing
E
ast Meets West is an annual
charity show, organised and
performed by the Indian So-
ciety. It is the largest show
at Imperial and celebrates
the vibrant diversity of both Imperial
College and London. The theme of the
evening is to raise money by enjoying a
show highlighting a fusion of Eastern
and Western cultures, by music, dance
and performance. This year’s perform-
ance was billed as “a passionate em-
brace of culture”, the seamless fusion
of fierce hip-hop, Hindi and orient tra-
ditions. All profits from the show are
donated to charities and similar worth-
while causes.
East Meets West started 16 years
ago as a simple idea to demonstrate
classical Eastern acts alongside more
contemporary Western performances.
From performances in the Great Hall
in front of 400 people, it has grown
into a very diverse production. Previ-
ous venues have included the Shaftes-
bury Theatre, Hammersmith Carling
Apollo, Barbican Hall and the Shep-
herd’s Bush Empire. To accommodate
the show’s immense growth, it has
moved in the past years to the prestig-
ious London Palladium, which has a
capacity of 2200.
On Sunday 10th February, East
Meets West 2008 took place. The thea-
tre buzzed with the excitement of over
1800 friends and families of the per-
formers and students of IC. The lights
were gradually dimmed and a count-
down appeared, projected onto the
stage. It got larger and larger, vibrating
with the beat of the music, until every-
one counted down to the start of the
show. As I was sitting there I was so
Indian Society’s East Meets West 2008 was a spectacular blaze of sultry sounds, dazzling dress, fiery beats
and a mosaic of colour. Sally Longstaff attended and reports on this passionate embrace of world cultures
excited: a brilliant, inspired start!
The show started with Lacrimosa,
an unexpected, emotional, powerful
and intense fusion of modern and tra-
ditional dance, including break danc-
ing. After this, the comedy duo hosts
bounded onstage, exuding energy.
They were Eddie Nestor, who featured
in Trainspotting, and Robbie Gee from
Snatch and Pirates of the Caribbean.
Reminisce and Remember was the
next act, a musical journey through
song encompassing the “lyrical melo-
dies of Western musical/operatic styles
with the ethereal sounds of days by-
gone in the Byzantine East”. The two
singers were spectacular, and the whole
act displayed a high level of talent. The
songs and voices were both haunting
and melodic.
A real highlight for me was the Ele-
ments of Fashion act, a very well-staged
fashion extravaganza. Air, Earth, Water
and Fire, the elements of fashion, were
displayed in an explosive fusion of
Western and Eastern dress. The work
on display was from such prestigious
institutions as the London College of
Fashion. The hair and make-up was
spectacular, complementing the outfits
completely. The models were amazing
and moved like true professionals.
Next was a medley of songs from
Destiny’s Child, performed by four
girls with incredible voices: Ishan
Mehta, Shifa Peeran, Ramyah Rajaku-
lasingam and Khushboo Sinha. They
were followed by The Freestylin’ Bols
of Bollywood, an eclectic mix of table
bols (beats) and Kathak with some Bol-
lywood craziness set to modern dance
and pop tracks, such as Amy Wine-
house’s Valerie. Kathak is a classical
dance form from North India, and it
is a narrative dance characterized by
fast footwork and spins. Ghunghru or
small bells were tied around the danc-
ers’ ankles, tinkling and ringing as they
moved.
My personal favourite of the night
was The Good, the Bad and Funkol-
ogy, an epic adventure to the days of
bandits and lawless gun-fighting on
the untamed frontier of the Wild, Wild
West. A truly impressive routine of
acting and dance in which the chore-
ography was fast-paced, intricate and
funny!! I loved it, especially the shoot-
out scene! It was performed by the
Funkology Team and members of the
Urban Dance Company.
Bollywood Blossom was next, with
four singers performing a light-heart-
ed, delightful song from the popular
Hindi movie, Parineeta. The sweet-
sounding melodies of the four voices in
Hindi soared into the theatre, beauti-
fully captivating in their elegance and.
even though I didn’t understand the
words, the sentiment was translated
perfectly.
Definitely a great hit with the audi-
ence was the Jewels of Arabia, from the
Belly Dancing Club. The girls shim-
mied, shook and swirled their way
around stage, memorising the male au-
dience and making the girls jealous of
their flat stomachs and gyrating hips!!
Fusion Fever! was a unique all-girl fu-
sion of pop and bharatnatyam dancing,
which was fun, feisty and full of energy.
Bharatnatyam is a classical dance form
originating from Tamil Nadu, a state in
Southern India. It is traditionally per-
formed by women and the hand shapes
are meaningful gestures, with each
meaning something different. Some
of these can be seen in the photos of
the event, performed by the dancers
in blue. The combination of modern
and traditional dance and costumes
was really breathtaking, and the con-
trasting pink and blue costumes were
spectacular.
“seamless fusion
of fierce hip-hop,
Hindi and orient
traditions”
C/w from top left: Elements of Fashion, Freestylin’ Bols of Bollywood, The Good, the Bad & Funkology, Groundshaker Bhangra, Madhuri ki Masti, Elements of Fashion, Eastside Story

