and radio. His performance consisted
of playing songs from his album “Along
the Dusty Road”, with an acoustic gui-
tar, keyboard and singer.
The grand finale, The Time Has
Come, started with the well known
singing of the Circle of Life, and told
the story of a journey from the Savan-
nah to the Street through a variety of
dance and music styles, including Fat
Boy Slim. It ended with the entire cast
on stage, including the committee and
artistic team. A great end to an abso-
lutely spectacular show. It was a truly
mesmerizing show, and I couldn’t be-
lieve the level of talent that I had seen.
Not only was the evening an ex-
tremely successful showcase of talent,
but it raised over £11,000 to be split
equally between the three charities
supported by the Indian Society. The
theme of the East Meets West 2008
charities was supporting youth and
children around the world. The chosen
three causes look to aid not only those
in India and UK, but the whole world,
and are: Plan India, Save the Children
and Friends of Michael Sobell House.
The Indian Society have collaborated
with the IC Save the Children Society
and the Raising and Giving (RAG) pro-
gram to raise even more money across
the campus.
Plan India was set up in 1996 as a
program-driven, independent, child-
centred Indian organisation. Its main
objective is to ensure the basic rights
of children living in difficult circum-
stances through various programs, and
to enable all children to realize their
full potential. Plan India believe that
through working together, everyone in-
volved in the development process can
contribute to building a better world.
This includes involving children and
providing them with opportunities to
have their say on issues affecting their
lives, as well as education, workshops
and medical attention.
Save the Children are leaders in
transforming attitudes toward chil-
dren. They aspire to producing break-
throughs for children through their
policies, focussed on campaigning,
programmatic and emergency re-
sponse work. They work to eradicate
child exploitation, neglect and suffer-
ing, demanding justice for the world’s
poorest and most vulnerable children.
They aim to achieve dramatic change
for children through their work.
Michael Sobell House, situated in
Northwood, Middlesex, opened in
1977, focussing on improving quality
of life for patients by providing relief
from pain and distressing symptoms
and illnesses such as cancer. Patients
may be admitted to the 16 bed in-pa-
tient unit to help with symptom man-
agement, rehabilitation, respite care,
or care in the last few days of their life.
The Friends of Michael Sobell House
support the House in providing a cen-
tre of excellence for specialist palliative
care services enhancing the care of pa-
tients with life limiting illness and sup-
port for their families and carers.
The three Vice-Presidents who run
the Indian Society, Parvandeep Kaur,
Shifa Perran and Khushboo Sinha wish
to thank the whole committee, the per-
formers, backstage crew, DramSoc, the
London Palladium, the Union, Pho-
toSoc, Will Turner and all the other
societies involved in the show. Sachin
Dhuggal from the main sponsor, Nivio.
com, summed up the evening well:
“unbelievable is the only world that
comes to mind”.
The Indian Society is the largest
Society at IC, with a membership
of over 1000 people. The Society’s
main aim is to encourage aware-
ness of diverse aspects of Indian
culture. IS takes part in the Inter-
national Night Show and organ-
ises trips, social events and sport-
ing activities. For more info go to:
www.union.ic.ac.uk/osc/india/
two singers performed admirably.
Madhuri ki Masti was a performance
to honour the diva of Bollywood, Mad-
huri Dixit. Her signature moves from
her films were recreated by the girls
with style and grace. Jusqu’a Fatigue
was next on stage, performed by the
Afro-Caribbean Society, a fusion of Af-
rican flavours with some Indian beats.
A hip-shaking, foot-stamping, hand-
clapping lively performance!
The Punjabi Society presented the
electrifying Groundshaker Bhangra.
The Punjabi Society recently won third
place in “The Bhangra Showdown”, the
first National Bhangra competition in
the UK, and presented new choreog-
raphy and a new electric blue-themed
costumes. Groundshaker Bhangra is
renowned for its passion, enthusiasm
and spirit, which were definitely re-
flected in the performance. It was full
of energy, enthusiasm and bounce,
which left me breathless just from
watching!
The next act was a performance by
Nirag Chag, an up and coming produc-
er. He was awarded “Best Underground
Act” at the Asian Music Awards in No-
vember 2006. He is a performer, artist
and composer, having been spotted
whilst working for the Outcaste label.
He mixes modern production with
western and eastern classical styles,
thus very much in keeping with the
spirit of the evening. He has also writ-
ten songs and soundtracks for both TV
lar acrobatics and gymnastics. The
display left me breathless as the blades
glittered just inches from the perform-
ers, all perfectly set to music. The
performers were obviously incredibly
talented!
Eastside Story was the story of grow-
ing up with Eastern roots, whilst liv-
ing with Western influences and the
problems with finding one’s place.
The dancers were split into two, half
with modern clothes and dance styles,
and half traditional. Each danced as if
showing off to the other, whilst a girl
from the traditional dancers fell for a
modern boy. It ended explosively, in a
Romeo-and-Juliet tragedy with the boy
being shot and the girl appealing to her
daddy. It was well-choreographed and
portrayed the narrative well.
Accoustic Awaazein... RnB Style was
an acoustic collection of RnB songs
and Urdu poetry complemented by ta-
ble beats and classical guitar. Although
the beginning was slightly marred by
some members of the audience yelling
encouragement to the performers, the
43
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
“...an absolutely
spectacular
show... truly
mesmerizing”
C/w from top left: Wushu, Bollywood Blossom, Madhuri ki Masti and A Woman’s Worth
The performance that closed Act
One was Rhythmic Raas. Garba and
Dandiya Raas are traditional folk danc-
es from the Indian state of Gujerat.
They involve dancing with Dandiya
sticks, striking them together, to mark
Navratri, one of the great Hindi festi-
vals. The dances were modernised by
the inclusion of dance music, an excit-
ing and exhilarating update of a reli-
gious festival of music and dance.
After a short break for the interval,
Act Two was started by Glorious Gos-
pel, performed by the Gospel Choir.
This is a recently-started venture at
IC, and they performed a piece called
Glorious, which was originally sung
by Martha Munizzi, the famous gospel
singer. The Gospel Choir arranged the
song with a Latin American salsa twist,
and it sounded, well, glorious!
Next up was an act called A Woman’s
Worth which told the story of women
empowered to battle their inner emo-
tions and rise up. The dancers called
upon those ahead of them to triumph
above all and break down these barri-
ers. This dance was very modern and
well-choreographed, well-suited to the
music.
The IC Chinese Wushu Society then
presented The Weapons of Wushu.
Another highlight of the evening was
this display of the fighting prowess of
Chinese Martial Artists. It was incred-
ible: with swirling swords and blades,
hand-to-hand fighting, and spectacu-
Far left: Fusion Fever! From above: Freestylin’ Bols of Bollywood, Rythmic Raas, Eastside Story, Jewels of
Arabia, Groundshaker Bhangra, Jewels of Arabia and Drummer from Jusqu’a Fatigue.

