sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
44 Friday 15 February 2008
felix
Sport
It has been another amazing couple
of matches for the Imperial Women’s
Volleyball team. The team confidently
dominated their league, remaining un-
beaten. This means promotion to the
firstdivisionnextyearandqualification
to the Trophy knockouts held in mid-
February. Making the most of train-
ings and with strong determination all
the girls have succeeded in becoming,
from a bunch of strangers, a tight team
enjoying their performances on court
while also having a blast.
The second term started with a vic-
tory against LSE on 23/01, who ended
up Second in the League. The match
allowed excellent practice against a
tough team. The final league game was
that against ULU’s second team which
took place on Wednesday 30th Janu-
ary. The first two sets went by smooth-
ly with no difficulty in securing the
required 25 points with some amazing
hits. Notwithstanding ULU’s efforts
to come back up and some amazing
reception and digs on their side, our
attack proved superior in a tight 3rd
set – which went all the way up to 28-
26 for IC! Players match report cards
follow:
Alana: Silver service. Pivotal in open-
ing up ULU’s defences through middle
attacks. One of her hits is so fast that 3
different opposition players near-miss
it. She gets blocked once, shrugs it off,
gets the next ball faster from setter and
hits it in. She appears somewhat over-
heated at the end of match – possibly
as a way of trying to be comforted by
Tim.
Ashly: Lazy but deadly. Asked by the
coach to set closer to the net, imme-
diately adjusts and keeps on feeding
great sets to the whole team. She then
proceeds to strike fear of God into the
other team with nifty unexpected tips.
And all of this without even running or
talking that much...
Cecile: Strong debut on the outside.
Ready to serve the first ball of the
match and from then on it’s a set of
bombs – very valuable in gaining leads
over the opposition. She settles in nice
with the rotations and hits with preci-
sion and power.
Emily: The hand of god. Reliable left-
handed hits from middle and very con-
fident passes. When back-court she
leads the defence and makes sure the
setter does not have to run much (see
above).
Karin: Flying girl. She delivers the
first mighty hit spot on the line. And
several more – contributing to crush-
ing ULU’s hopes. Then makes way
for others in team and supports team
from the bench, while enjoying a well-
deserved rest. One to watch.
Kat: Captain courageous. Good per-
formance throughout. I think I even
saw her dive. She supplies plenty of
smooth passes and exudes the usual
confidence to the team. In the third set
she is returned to family& friends.
Nadia: Most elegant player. Sweet at-
tacks from the outside. You can tell by
the way she warms up jumping while
waiting on the sidelines it’s going to be
a blast. Comes in for the second set,
immediately ready to hit.
Rebecca: Found in translation. She
plays in two different positions in the
last two sets – very tricky task – and
delivers well. She starts as outside hit-
ter and leaves a mark. Then moved to
opposite, where she works well cover-
ing the setter. Great dives throughout
Ladies Volleyball finish the season on a high
Katerina Tsangaris
Volleyball
BUSA
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
LSE Women’s 1st 0
Volleyball
BUSA
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
ULU Women’s 2nd 0
the final heated exchanges.
Valentina: Safe pair of hands. Patient-
ly snoozing on the sidelines for a while.
Then she is in and off to serve. A series
of masterly accurate short serves digs
a hole in ULU’s reception and sweeps
away any hopes of catching up. And I
think I saw her dive too…
IC setting up another point
Having been gifted a Bye in the first
round, a win in this match would see
IC safely through to the semi-finals in
a fortnight’s time. With a number of
players out through injury and other
commitments, it was a somewhat re-
shuffled team which took the field,
but that didn’t stop us from playing
our usual style of expansive, attack-
ing hockey. Shipman suffered a sus-
pected broken thumb playing for UL
on Sunday but he manned up for the
team and despite not really being able
to hold a stick properly offered to play
goal-hanger role. This was seen by all
other players as a ploy to force Captain
Crusty to play him up front, it worked.
It soon became apparent that IC were
by far the better team and Holloway
were continually being reprimanded
for stick-tackles, dangerous play and
no-end of foot-fouls. Eventually the
Holloway number 10 saw yellow after
attempting to mount Date Rape from
behind. DR seemed to make himself a
magnet for swinging Holloway sticks
and before long more cards had to be
shown the dirty-tricks Holloway mid-
field. Not happy with petty fouls, the
opposition went one step too far. Skull
F**k, having a top game in midfield
was impaled from close range by an at-
tempted aerial and had to be patched
up and sent off for a couple of hours
wait in A&E. IC played on with just
10 men, but refused to let the deficit
Hockey men scrape through
to semi-finals on penalties
Hockey
ULU Cup
Imperial Men’s 1st 2
Royal Holloway Men’s 1st 1
Qwen Connick
show with every man working hard for
each other. At half time the score was
still locked at 0-0 and we knew that we
should have been 3 or 4 and comfort-
ably away but there was a lot of work
still to do.
Holloway started positively and pro-
duced some of their best counter-at-
tacking play as IC (still outnumbered)
pushed forward in search of a goal
and became increasingly frustrated
with their inability to finish an attack
off. And then they scored. Now a goal
down and a man down, IC had to find
something special to get back into the
game- and that something special is
Dr. Harold Shipman. IC broke from
defence with Mountie bringing the ball
out wide on the right and firing a long
pass to Shipman who’d made good
space for himself on the left of the Op-
position 25. With some silky magic he
waltzed past his marker, into the D and
hit an absolute rocket reverse stick
shot into the top right corner, leaving
the Holloway keeper for dead.
That levelled the score at 1-1 but IC
continued to push forward in search
of the winner, leaving inevitable gaps
at the back. Plug pulled off some top-
drawer saves in the IC goal, helped by
Mountie with a goal-line clearance and
first-class work rate from every mem-
ber of the team. After 70 minutes, the
teams were still even and it had to be
decided by penalty flicks.
After five flicks from each side the
scores were still even and it went to
sudden death. Blondie from Holloway
bottled it and so, cometh the hour,
cometh the man, Diana stepped up to
the spot. Calmly, casually collecting
the ball placing it carefully on the spot
and then fiercely firing it past the flail-
ing keeper, Diana sealed the match for
IC and secured our place in the Semi
finals.
Diana with the winning P-flick
Hockey girls easily
through to semi’s
Despite the IC Ladies’ impressive
record in the ULU Cup, it proved dif-
ficult to get a team together for what
would be a windy and exciting day at
Fortress Harlington - Myra was una-
vailable, having joined the DeIViants
on tour in Amsterdam, and Preying
Mantis was occupied with family busi-
ness. Kebab was dragged back from a
dirty weekend in Bristol to play and
Leper had to play, despite having a
younger sister visiting from across the
Irish Sea – what does she mean there
are better things to see in London than
IC Ladies 1s play hockey?! Meanwhile,
Dominator helped out the defence for
the second time in a week.
It was already a nerve-wracking day
before the match even started – the
Men’s 1st XI were also playing Royal
Holloway in their quarter final at Har-
lington, so there was lots of shouting,
e.g. “ Give me an I! Give me a C! What
does it spell? IC!” JD attempted to start
a team talk during the last few minutes
of what was already a tense game – this
was a mistake, as nobody listened, but
the adrenalin and support were good
preparation.
IC were the stronger team from the
beginning and were soon 1-0 up. The
Ladies showed their class, and contin-
ued to dominate the game, although,
despite their form, seemed to have dif-
ficulty converting chances into goals.
Half-time was upbeat, and the second
half started off with the same intensity
as the first. Unluckily, Royal Holloway
equalised, but this was short-lived, as
IC put another two in the back of the
net – a hat-trick for T*tw*nk.
With five minutes to go, MJ’s shoul-
der became dislocated and she had to
go off – IC were left without a goalie!
The remaining few minutes were
played with 11 outfield and IC man-
aged to hold the scoreline despite some
threats. Their form in the ULU Cup
continues and they are ready for UCL
in the Semis next week!
Siobhan Kohli-lynch
Hockey
ULU Cup
Imperial Women’s 1st 3
Royal Holloway Women’s 1st 1
More ass! P
.S. Deborah has a great ass (She told me to say that!)

