45
felix
Friday 15 February 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Injury can be a painful experience for
anyone, both physically and emotion-
ally, but for a competitive athlete it can
open up a whole other can of worms.
This is because you are a competitor
not only against others but with your-
self and to suddenly be stopped in your
tracks is very unnerving, it can disrupt
your season in terms of being ready to
compete, and you may even have to
miss out on some competitions. This is
all very difficult to digest and on top of
this you hurt, some times a little, some
times a lot. This doesn’t always stop
you from participating, but the major-
ity of the time by doing this you end
up putting yourself at greater risk of a
more serious injury or perhaps even
worse- in team sports you could put
others’ safety at risk.
As boring as it may sound, an in-
jured athlete needs to act responsibly.
This is difficult when you have a mix-
ture of emotions battling against each
other but can be made easier by writ-
ing down how you feel or chatting to
a friend. Bruised self esteem, anger,
denial, helplessness, disbelief, uncer-
tainty, and sadness are just some of the
feelings an injured athlete will encoun-
ter on the road to recovery so having
an outlet can be really beneficial dur-
ing this time.
From the following extracts taken
from the diary of one of my injured
clients - a competitive runner - you
can gain an insight into the obstacles
she has had to overcome, and is still
dealing with. I hope this will act as a
way for other injured persons to realise
that they are not alone, help is at hand,
but also that you will make progress
and can take some positives from the
experience.
Extracts from an injured athlete’s
diary:
Any serious athlete has goals. Usu-
ally the goal is to improve their body
through lifestyle changes to accom-
plish a task. These aims are present
constantly: the details of the training
program, the purpose of each workout,
reflecting on previous training to find
ways to improve, what type of food and
how much one consumes, when and
how much one sleeps, and researching
ways to become better. Sport is my an-
chor: it gets me out of bed, it makes me
tired so I can fall asleep, I eat healthy
after a hard workout, I love seeing my
body’s limits. And when everything
else in life is falling apart (i.e. academ-
ics, relationships, other activities),
sport gets me through the day. When I
injured my foot three months ago, I re-
alised how addicted and high I am after
a good and satisfying training session.
It’s been three months - 12 weeks.
Two of them I couldn’t walk, four of
them I was ill with flu/head colds,
six of them I couldn’t go on any type
of cardio machines. Nearly all twelve
have robbed me of the athlete high. In-
jury is a domino effect. If life is split up
into academics, work, athletics, non-
athletic activities, eating, and sleeping:
athletics affects it all. My studies have
suffered, my sleep is restless, eating is
not as enjoyable and often the sugary
delights are more tempting.
Everyday I go to the gym to do
my “exercises” which is just a list of
stretches (ie squats, lunges, foot exer-
cises, abdominal crunches and other
core stability holds). I can see the im-
provements on a week-to-week basis
and this positive attitude is what gets
me to the gym to do the Physio’s rec-
ommended routine. It is frustrating
most days; I often cannot complete a
certain exercise since I’ll have pain or
cramping which cripples me mentally.
I log all my workouts- maybe it’s a bit
OCD, but I don’t know anyone that
doesn’t enjoy seeing progress or not
seeing progress and addressing why.
My emotional state also suffers.
Other than work, I had nothing to look
forward to in the week- I couldn’t go
on the long Sunday run or the certain
workout class. I don’t have anything in
the diary at present that I’m training
for, just to recover. This is motivation
enough for me to continue because
three months later- I am walking and
slowly reintroducing exercises into my
new training schedule.
So until I can run again, I’ll keep up
the sport massages, physio, “weight-
less” training sessions and a training
log to track progress. I can’t give up on
myself. This type of drive made me a
successful athlete so now I just need to
keep my mind on the goal to recover
and gently fight through the tough
times so that in the future I can attain
the runner’s high again. Eventually I’ll
be back to my old self- happy to have
a training goal rather than the present
one: maintaining baseline fitness and
nurturing myself back to health.
If you are suffering from an injury
which prevents you from taking part
in your chosen activity, please do come
and see us in Energia.
Coping with injury
Hannah Barr
Energia Fitness Instructor
The curse of the Valentine’s Day match
Imperial secure promotion!
Rugby
BUSA
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 69
Middlesex Men’s 1st XV 5
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
Injury can always be an emotional struggle for athletes
It must have been a rather daunting
thought for bottom of the table Mid-
dlesex as they arrived at Fortress Har-
lington this Wednesday. Middlesex
had only won one game so far and were
definitely getting relegated, Imperial on
the other hand were top, raring to im-
prove their performance and gunning
for promotion into the Premiership.
The line-up for the match was a bold
move by the coaches, resting up to 9
regular 1st XV starters. Although there
was a fear that the team may struggle
as a consequence, the fear quickly dis-
appeared within the first 5 minutes.
Imperial showed great strength, run-
ning some very attacking lines. The
first points didn’t come from a try
however, but from a penalty kicked by
centre Dan Godfrey. This was just the
beginning of the tidal wave of scores
that Imperial were going to unleash on
Middlesex, and the newly formed batch
of 1st XV players began to work like a
finely tuned, well oiled juggernaut.
The back three of Rob Phillipps,
Max Joachim and Michael Okoigun
opened up their legs and were flying
down the wing, making several dart-
ing runs. Imperials’ opening try came
from a scrum in Middlesex’s 22, with
scrum-half Remi Williams off loading
the ball to Rob Phillipps who simply
sailed over the line in the corner. Dan
Godfrey easily converted to get the ex-
tra two points.
With the forwards dominating in the
scrum and giving very clean ball, the
backs were able to sparkle and simply
dance around the Middlesex backs,
who were bemused by centre Joe Har-
ris’ run straight through them to get
the second try again in the corner. Dan
Godfrey, not phased by the fact he was
all the way out on the touchline, sailed
the ball over the posts to the dismay of
Alexander Johnstone on the sideline.
The back three again showed their
utter domination with winger Mike
Okoigun breaking a couple tackles and
powered his way over the try-line. This
time the kick was in the opposite cor-
ner to the previous two, yet this was no
problem for Godfrey as he just kept tal-
lying up the points. Phillipps finished
off an astounding first half scoring a
try from what can only be attributed to
shear pace, leaving the half-time score
at 29 - 0 to Imperial.
The half-time talk was very straight
forward - more of the same. The Im-
perial pack were by far the superior
one, turning over scrums and rucks,
leaving the fly-half James Fletcher with
plenty of time to set up attacks and al-
lowed Okougun to get his second try.
Kicking duties had now passed onto
Man of the Match Joachim who con-
verted. Support play was the key to the
victory with every player doing their
part, even prop forward Joseph Sand-
ers who was ready and waiting in sup-
port to Fletcher, thus scoring his first
try of the season.
Some changes were made during
the half, yet even these changes didn’t
diminish the performance of the side.
Replacement winger James Aulford
showed great power and awareness
as he broke through the line and off
loaded the ball Sanders. Having made
a good 30 meters, the pack set up the
ball and then simple hands down the
line allowed Joachim to score his first
try, which he converted. The flood
gates were well and truly open now,
and Imperial were ever vigilant to how
they were going to score their next try.
The backs were on fire, and only
supposed errors denied Phillips three
more tries. Yet this didn’t stop him
getting his hat-trick of tries, nor did
it stop Joachim getting his second try.
The excitement of tries and dazzling
performance was too much for fly-half
James Fletcher, who at one point de-
cided to have a fight with the posts and
lost, thus earning himself the Twat of
the Match title.
But it was the last try of the game
that summed up the entire day. The
Imperial forwards managed to turn
over a Middlesex scrum inside the Im-
perial half, and with a quick re-adjust-
ment and simple scissor, replacement
centre John Goulding waltzed through
the Middlesex defenders to score a 50
metre try.
With the game ending after that try,
the score stood at 69 - 5 to Imperial
(Imperial gave away a consolation try!)
, their biggest win of the season. Big
hits were going on all over the pitch,
non more so than the one from flanker
Flannan O’Mahony. Captain Andrew
Jasudasen was at his peak, as was James
Petit, both of who worked hard.
Overall, despite the large number of
changes, Imperial performed superbly,
have secured the league win and what
is sure to be promotion to the Premier-
ship next year.
Flannan O’Mahony putting in a bit hit, with the pack ready to support
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
With many of Imperials’ clubs having
finished their league seasons, BUSA
cup and shield matches could get un-
derway. Wednesday was no exception,
with 8 teams playing this week, and
a further 5 to start their first round
games next week.
As a quick round up, Imperial did
fairly well with 4 of the teams win-
ning and 4 losing. Men’s Hockey got
up extremely early to travel all the way
to Plymouth to play the College of St.
Mark & St. John. Thankfully the epic
journey was not worth it in the end
with Imperial winning 4 - 1 and now
face either Gloucestershire or Chiches-
ter in the quarter-finals.
Women’s Volleyball played Team
Bath winning 3 - 1, and now they face
the epic journey to Plymouth to play
the College of St. Mark & St. John.
Men’s Squash have been the dominant
force this season, beating every team 5
- 0. Exeter were no exception as Impe-
rial brushed them aside with another
5 - 0 win.
And now we come to the main point
of the headline. This Thursday, Impe-
rials netball team, who have also been
undefeated this season, were scheduled
to play Westminster in the BUSA Cup
game. Unfortunately the game had to
be cancelled because the Westminster
girls all had dates organised for Thurs-
day, and as such they were unable to
put a team out. There are several prob-
lems with this, firstly there was the
initial confusion of who Imperial were
meant to be playing, and after this was
sorted out, both side agreed on Thurs-
day to play the match since Wednes-
day was too short notice. Westminster
then turn round and said that the girls
didn’t really want to play because it was
Valentine’s Day and so BUSA handed
Imperial the walkover.
Just goes to show the determina-
tion of Imperial teams, whether it be a
5 hour journey down to Plymouth or
re-arranging your plans for Valentine’s
Day, to play a cup game so that the club
can improve.
Generic Valentine’s Day crap

