felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
IC Hockey Ladies’ adventure to Zone 8
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
T
his week, I’m going to car-
ry on with a roundup of
the week’s sports news as I
did last week, just because
I’ve got this space to fill.
So the RBS Six Nations is in its second
week, with Saturday’s game between
Wales and Scotland providing a thrill-
ing encounter. Scotland, yet again, re-
lied on the boot to get their points, and
for some reason haven’t really realised
that tries get them more points. Wales
were very lucky to get Shane Williams’
try allowed since his left foot was clear-
ly in-touch, but it did prove to be the
catalyst for Wales and they pulled away
with the win.
Later on in the day, hot favourites
France had an amazing start against
Ireland, with Vincent Clerc getting
a hat-trick within the first half that
seemed to leave Ireland stunned. After
last week’s poor performance, Ireland
had to show signs of improvement and
this was evident with their second-
half performance where they were ex-
tremely unlucky not to win the game. It
just went to show that if France are put
under pressure, they will crumble.
The last of the Six Nations matches
was between Italy and England. Eng-
land were expected to win this game
and dramatically improve their sec-
ond -half performance against Wales
last week. The game got off to a great
start with some glamorous play be-
tween Wilkinson and Sackey for the
opening try, and then again with Flood
where Wilkinson got his 1,000th point.
Yet the second-half was the let down
once more for England, and Italy
were allowed to get within 4 points of
England.
The Football Association are consid-
ering the thought of having Premier-
ship games played overseas, in order to
bring the ‘Beautiful Game’ to a wider
audience. For now, it seems that the
Middle East, Far East and America
have shown the most amount of inter-
est in hosting some games. This week
also saw the commemoration of the
Munich Air Crash where 23 lives were
claimed in 1958, when Manchester
United were returning from a Euro-
pean Cup match against Red Star Bel-
grade. To add to the United fan’s hor-
ror this week, the team went on to lose
the Manchester Derby, blaming their
loss on ‘fatigue’. Man up!
Problems have already begun with
the Olympics with athletes having to
sign a contract preventing them from
making any political statements whilst
in Beijing. The British Olympic Asso-
ciation has said that they would look
into the wording of the contract, since
they believe this to be against the na-
ture of the Olympic Games. Sticking
with athletics, Dwain Chambers the
Great Britain selectors have received a
lot of criticism for selecting Chambers
for the Indoor Championships. Cham-
bers was convicted of doping in 2003
and has served his two-year ban. How-
ever the athletics community is still
unhappy with allowing him back since
it goes against the ethics of the sport.
Imperial’s cl-ass
The Hockey Club work their way through to the ULU Semi-finals.
See page 44
Hockey
BUSA
Bucks Women’s 1st 0
Imperial Women’s 2nd 2
One cold Wednesday, a team of in-
trepid hockey players set out along the
Metropolitan line on the long, arduous
journey to Zone C, otherwise known
as No Man’s Land. Upon arrival at the
tiny train station of Chalfont and Lat-
imer, we all walked positively out of the
station towards a likely place for a bus
stop… except there wasn’t one. Slowly
the team began to disperse in search of
the elusive stopping point, very much
aware our game was due to start in
under half an hour. This led to Easyjet
remarking, ‘I’ve seen that film…. They
all die.’ After much searching and Ho
Ha offering her services to an old lady
in the station, the bus stop was discov-
ered and a bus arrived.
Sadly it only had space for eight peo-
ple and three courageous individuals
remained behind to wait for the bus to
come back, namely Spandex, Easyjet
and FreeWheeler. Their dedication to
their sport became evident when they
elected to change into their hockey kit
at the bus stop on a busy road! Mean-
Arabella Walker
while, the rest of the team arrived at
the pitch and got the bus driver very
excited with talk of a pitch-side clothes
change. The other three arrived just in
time for the game to start.
The first half saw us settling into the
game with a few stretched passes and
a general lack of enthusiasm on both
sides. A more defensive tact taken by
each team meant there were a lot of
near misses, mainly by us, with no re-
sult. The half time score showed this
by remaining at a rather pathetic goal-
less draw.
A rousing half time chat saw aggres-
sion mount and the game began to get
interesting. Passes were more accurate
and there was more action in the D.
Finally, a well-aimed hit from the right
by Unicycle was finished with style by
FreeWheeler into the goal. This was
followed a few minutes later with an-
other free hit on the left aimed at AA
on the right post who deflected it deft-
ly to give us a two- nil lead. Through-
out the game, the defence consisting of
Thombelina, Three Times a Lady and
Spandex kept the number attempts on
our goal to a minimum. Defence was
so good, goalie Spanner got very excit-
ed when the ball came remotely near
her feet and decided it would be great
fun to lie on the ground in front of an
attacking player and give the other
team a short corner. Hilarity continued
off the pitch with a naughty comment
about Thombelina’s shampoo mess in
the changing room by Three Times a
Lady.
Fines were carried out on the long
journey back into the Big Smoke.
‘Twat of the Match’ was awarded to
FreeWheeler for trying to be clever in
changing out of her skorts into trou-
sers and forgetting about the whole
shorts part.
‘Man of the Match’ was awarded to
Unicycle for God-knows what reason
and Ducky was put into her care for the
night. Probably a bad idea considering
the amount the ‘Man of the Match’ had
to drink!
Two of the hockey ladies after getting changed at the bus stop

