5
Friday 15 February 2008 felix
I
wander around to the rear of the CoS bulding. It’s deserted, but on my
way up the alley staircase that runs between the church and the CoS,
I’m noticed by two large men in dark blue suits and coats. The build-
ing is large, and I’m trying to work out how many rooms it must have,
and looking at the windows, most of which are coated on the inside
with an opaque material, even on the top floors. One of the two men has
followed me round, and slowly approaches me as I stand at the mouth of an
open (wide enough to fit a truck) dead-end that houses the rear entrance to
the CoS behind a row of tidy bins. He asks me what I’m doing.
“I’m looking at the building,” I reply, “I’m covering the protest for student
press.”
“Where’s your I.D?” he asks.
“We don’t issue student press I.D, all I have is my college I.D.”
“Can I see it?” he says, staring at me in a none-too friendly manner. At
this point I lie and tell him that I don’t carry it with me if I’m not going to
college. It’s in my wallet, but I’m worried. The protestors at the front have
masks because they’re frightened of the Church of Scientology’s reputation
in the U.S., and over here to some extent. Accusations abound that they hire
detectives to investigate people that protest their events. That they follow
people home, photograph them to identify and intimidate them, picket them,
harass them, stalk them and file frivolous litigation to silence dissent and in-
vestigation. I’ve seen the John Sweeney investigation, some XenuTV footage,
and enough documentation to worry me, but today I have come without a
mask. Journalists don’t wear masks. My intention is to cover this event in an
unbiased manner because it’s newsworthy. I’m not attacking them, so why
should I hide? I have nothing to hide. There is a woman in front of the build-
ing filming the protestors and taking their pictures. My picture has already
been taken. Still I refuse to show my I.D. I stand my ground, holding onto my
notebook and pen, and ask this man if he’s a member of the CoS.
“No, I’m not a member,” he replies.
“Are you part of the security team?” I ask.
“I’m not security.”
So I ask him why he wants to see my I.D.
“I’ve been monitoring you,” he says. At this point in the conversation, my
adrenaline kicks in. This is a dialogue that is both sinister and sounds like a
bad novel.
“You’ve been monitoring me? Why?” I ask. He does not answer. I press
further: “Who asks random people in the street for their I.D?”
He shrugs. “I do,” he says with a smile.
A
woman in her late fifties passes us and breaks some of the
tension. She walks down to the back door and tries the
handle. Finding it locked, she starts looking into the win-
dows. The man who is not security walks towards her. “I’m
a parishioner,” she calls to him in an American accent. I
suspect that he nods at her, but I can’t be sure. I spot my editor rounding
the corner about 20 metres away. Someone opens the door from the in-
side and lets the woman into the building, and the security guard is back
by my side. Tom reaches us just as we resume our conversation.
“Are you sure you’re not security? That woman seemed to think you
were.”
“I’m not security,” he repeats. I ask him for his I.D. but he refuses. He
evades my questions for a while, during which I ask him a few more times
whether he’s a member of security, or in any way affiliated with the CoS.
He denies everything, remains silent, says ‘No Comment’, or changes the
subject.
I ask why he is here, monitoring me.
“We’re here for peace,” he says.
I introduce him to the Felix editor, and ask Tom to verify that we don’t
issue press identification. He does, but the man who is not security does
not seem impressed. I apologise if we’ve caused him offence, but that I
understand if he has a job to guard the building that he has to be watch-
ful, but that we’re on a public right of way. He doubts whether we have a
right to be there. I take a few steps towards the alley that leads to the back
door. He stands beside me, and tells me that the alley is not public prop-
erty. He slowly takes a few steps towards me, standing to his full height
(a few inches more than mine and about twice as wide), and stares at me.
Intimidation is clearly his intent. I meet his gaze for a number of seconds.
Again, the tension is broken by the approach of a neatly-presented man
in a black suit, white shirt, and red tie. He rounds the corner and ap-
proaches us. At the same time, a few people exit the rear door. The man
who is not security walks towards them and begins talking to another
large man in a dark blue suit and coat.
“Can I help you?” asks the man in the red tie. I explain that I’m cover-
ing the protest for student press and ask if he’s a member of the church.
He nods. I say that I’d like to talk to a member of the CoS about their
thoughts on the protests, both here and around the world. He gives me
a phone number and tells me to call back later in the week. I ask for his
name so that I can tell the person that answers the phone who gave me
the number. “Mark,” he replies, “Just ask for Mark.” I later find out that
Mark is the head of Scientology PR in the UK. Before he goes to meet the
people who have exited the building I pose a last question:
“Is that man a member of your security team?” I quickly ask, indicating
the man who is not security.
Mark looks confused, but replies: “Yes.”
Tom and I walk back around to the front of the building, the chanting
and chatter breaking the quiet of the back alley. A few minutes later, as we
stand next to the police, the man who is not security walks swiftly around
to the front of the CoS. He extracts an I.D. card from his pocket, shows
it to the guarding police officer, then walks through the door and stands
there, hands behind his back, behind a layer of plexiglass as a woman
points a camera at the nearest protesters, recording their every action.

