6 felix Friday 15 February 2008
I
n Tottenham Court Road the barrier enclosure that has now been
erected for the protesters is already full. Some of the masks I recog-
nise from Blackfriars, some I do not. Outside the Scientology building
there stand two tables stacked with “Dianetics” books (the “scientific”
basis for Scientology that L. Ron Hubbard published in 1950 on “The
Modern Science of Mental Health”. A book which rejects psychology and ac-
cepted science) and offering the infamous “free stress tests.”
One of our reporters quickly asks for a stress test. He is asked some ques-
tions by another man in a black suit/red tie combination, who wears a per-
ma-smile and strangely glazed eyes, whilst he grips the “E-meter” probes. He
is then taken inside the building for a chat, after which he buys the “Dianet-
ics” book. Our reporter is curious as to what is really contained in this ‘bible’
of Scientology.
Another member of our reporting team asks for a stress test. The nice man
with the glazed eyes welcomes her, but immediately after she is taken into
the building, she is stopped by a woman who appears to be in charge of the
“Life Improvement Centre”. The woman labels her a “troublemaker,” and tells
the man with glazed eyes to keep her at the front of the shop. He duly gives
her the stress test, but after some hushed words between him and the wom-
an in charge, she is asked to leave by the woman. “I can tell you for certain
that these people are criminals and terrorists and are here to incite violence
against Scientology,” she tells our reporter.
The “Life Improvement Centre” is next door to a casino and KFC (Leading
to chants of “Chicken, Cult, Chicken, Cult” with comic pointing) on one side,
and a Ryman’s on the other. The police are here in force, this time from the
Metropolitan Police. I count at least 25-30 officers and 3 police vans. They
herd the protesters into the barrier enclosure to prevent blocking the street,
keeping them all on the opposite side of the street. We stand near the other
press: Sky News, BBC London, ARTE (a French television company), and
various freelance photographers. An older man with red hair issues a press
release to the media. “We are working with police to minimise the negative
impact of the terrorist activity,” he says. This is the second time that mem-
bers of the church have referred to the protesters as terrorists in under ten
minutes.
Two scientologists stand opposite the protesters, handing out pro-Dian-
etics and anti-psychiatry leaflets to passers-by. Leaflets that they call a “free
newspaper.” The building is now locked down. Only members are allowed
in, the public are barred after a few protesters were accidentally allowed in-
side. Mark has arrived, and stands on the outskirts, watching. He seems less
cheerful than in our previous encounter.
The scientologists glance at the protesters with carefully unconcerned
disdain. The protesters continue their chanting. They wave and dance and
shout. They hold signs that say “Honk if you hate the Church of Scientology
(sorry if we made you late!)” and cheer loudly when motorists beep, which
they frequently do. They do not look like terrorists. The protestors chant
“Rip it up!” to the passers-by who are handed leaflets. There are loud cheers
when, as several pedestrians follow the request, the leaflets are torn up.
Before I leave, over five hours after the protest started, I speak to the man
with the glazed eyes and explain that I’m student press covering the protests,
and would like a tour inside the building. He asks for my name and phone
number so that someone can call me later in the week to arrange it. As I go
over to Tom to get a piece of paper, the man with glazed eyes is called over
by the woman in charge, who speaks quietly to him. I go back and hand him
the paper with my first name and the Felix office phone number. He tells me
his name is Felix, I tell him that that’s the name of the student paper that I
work for.
“That’s funny,” he said, with a still glazed and smiling expression, “I googled
my name recently and read something that Felix published on Scientology a
few weeks ago.”
B
y now it’s about 12:30pm and the protest in Queen Victoria
Street is at its peak. At least 500 people (both by police count
and my own approximations) stand in a wall of masks and
signs, chattering and cracking jokes at Scientology’s expense.
A small conflict breaks out between two protesters and the po-
lice who are trying to move them away from the main entrance. The police
push them, and they push back. The crowd sides with the police, shouting
as one peaceful entity for the rogue members to fall back into the Anony-
mous crowd. “Fall Back!” they cry, “No loss of hit points!” “Calm down!
Stay calm, stay cool!” and my personal favourite: “Let’s all have a nice cup
of tea!” This was the resolute character of the protests: peaceful, with the
smiling knife of humour as their weapon.
The two men return to the protest side of the road. They talked to me
briefly about an encounter that they had at the rear of the building. They
spoke of walking to the door of the rear entrance and protesting by that.
Of security guards telling them that the alley was private property, then
changing their minds when challenged, of being threatened until the po-
lice arrived, and then being filmed by police.
The protesters continue for the next half an hour, until someone makes
an announcement that the protest will reconvene at 2pm outside the Tot-
tenham Court Road branch of the CoS, its “Life Improvement Centre.”
As I leave to follow the rapidly dispersing crowd to the final stop, I see
protesters wandering around, picking up dropped flyers. “We don’t want
to get done for littering,” they say. The last thing I see in Queen Victoria
Street is a police officer taking down the flyers stuck to the windows of the
building as he said that they were here to “protect a commercial business.”
A statement of fact after the failure of Scientology to gain ‘charity’ status
here in the UK.
A scientology spokesman speaks to Franco-German television station ARTE about the “terrorist activity”
The Dianetics & Scientology Life Improvement Centre on Tottenham Court Road, next door to a casino

