FELIX WEDNESDAY 18TH JUNE
then I left and was never seen again/I com-
pletely neglected my degree bumming
around writing for the student newspaper.
Correct answer: I ran the society/was cap-
tain of the team since before freshers' fair.
4.2 What do you think was your major con-
tribution to this society or team?
Wrong answer: I always got the pizzas in
on a Friday night.
Correct answer: I've organised everything
they've ever done/Single-handedly won
every match, right up to international level.
Tell me about your involvement with a stu-
dent society/sports team.
Section 5 : Work experience
5.1 What were your main responsibilities at
this organisation?
W r o n g answer: Getting the pizzas in on a
Friday night. If I was good they'd let me
make the tea.
Correct answer: I took over from the boss
when he went on holiday.
5.2 Give an example of a difficult situation
you have had to deal with.
W r o n g answer: A customer came in and
wanted to buy something without a bar
code.
Correct answer: A masked gunman came
in to company headquarters and took every-
body hostage.
5.3 How did you resolve it?
Wrong answer: I turned round and yelled
"Tracy! Price check on till three!"
Correct answer: I negotiated with the gun-
man and persuaded him not only to let
everyone go, but also to pay the company
£3 million in cash and spend the rest of his
life doing volunteer work for charity.
Section 6 : The job
6.1 Why do you want this job ?
W r o n g answer: It'll earn me money, and
money will help me pull.
Correct answer: This job has always been
my lifelong dream/it will help me fulfil my
awesome potential/I want to see the
world/broaden my horizons, etc, etc. This
applies even i f the job is sweeping the
streets, cleaning toilets, or even cleaning
toilets in McDonalds.
6.2 How have you found out about this type
of work?
W r o n g answer: A friend of a friend said it
would be a doss.
Correct answer: It's been my lifelong
ambition since I was born, no, before I was
born.
6.3 In your view, what are the major prob-
lems/opportunities facing this
company/industry ?
W r o n g answer: I haven't a clue. I've never
heard of your company/industry. I ' m only
applying for the interview practice.
Correct answer: List the last 50 years of
company history from memory.
6.4 What other jobs have you appliedfor?
W r o n g answer: Sweeping streets, selling
dope, M I 5 , rounding up supermarket trol-
leys, strippogram, games teacher,
McDonalds.
Correct answer: None. This is the job of
my dreams and I will be satisfied with no
other. Give me the job! Please! I'll do any-
thing! (foam at mouth)...
Section 7 : The future
7.1 Where do you see yourself in 5 years
time ?
W r o n g answer: Lying on a mattress stuffed
with used tenners and surrounded by at
least 15 beautiful women.
Correct answer: Anything that implies
you're still working for the company who
are interviewing you and loving every
minute of it.
7.2 What support/training do you think you
will need to do this job?
W r o n g answer: None. I have a degree in
soil mechanics. What more do you want?
Correct answer: None. I completed all the
relevant training courses years ago in my
spare time, along with learning Mandarin
Chinese, playing the bassoon, teaching
evening classes in macrame and taking
British ten-pin bowling to an international
level.
7.3 How do you see this job developing?
W r o n g answer: The longer I stay with this
company, the less work I do for more
money.
Correct answer: Challenges...rapid
changes.. .organisation...increasing profit-
related pay.. .committees.. .millenium.. .fore-
front of information technology...company
expansion.. .multi-national.. .decision-mak-
ing process...foreseeable future.. .conglom-
erates. ..world domination.
Section 8 : Last question
INTERVIEW TECHNIQUE 11
Where do you see yourself in five years
time ?
8.1 Do you have any questions to ask us?
Having done well on the rest of the inter-
view (assuming you have) don't suddenly
panic and get it all wrong now. "Getting it
wrong" includes any of the following
replies...
Do I get a company car?
How many female employees does this
company have between the ages of 18 and
25?
When do I get my first pay increase?
Do I get an expense account?
How closely will you be looking at my
expense account?
Will I have to actually justify my expense
account?
Correct answers include anything that
implies you're taking any interest in the
company and how it's run. It is important to
always ask them something at this point.
They think you're desperate to leave early
if you don't. Finally, good luck!
What made you decide to study at Imperial
College ?

