12 INTERVIEW WITH A RECTOR F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 8 T H I U N E
Completing our ' senior
administrative pei und off
•• ':
• •
Oxburgh.
You have been here lor three and a hall years.
When you came here, how long did
that you might stay?
1 was appointed for seven years.
So, you are halfway through \o
this point, do you think, looking to tl
about things you have still yet to achieve?
Absolutely, we've scarcely started.
Could you tell me what you're biggest achieve-
ment to date has been, in your time at Imperial
College?
1 would not really take credit myself for most of
the things that have happened in the College. Most
of the things that are beneficial have happened
through the action of others. They probably would
have happened anyway, whether I had been here or
not. But, it you look at the major changes that we
have had, I suppose the biggest change is the
development of the medical school and not only
the joining of the new institutions, but the rebuild-
ing of the site and the development of a new acad-
emic emphasis for the College during the next mil-
lennium. That is the largest single change that has
happened while I have been here.
Do you feel that you have contributed signifi-
cantly to that?
I have done quite a lot of work. In other respects,
and I'm not sure to what extent it has been suc-
cessful, it has been to build bridges between the
different parts of the college, both between the dif-
ferent departments, and between the departments
and the centre. When I arrived, relations between
Sherfield and the departments were not bad, but
left something to be desired. Certainly, depart-
ments tended to perhaps be run in a rather tradi-
tional mould, each an island unto itself. It is clear
that a first class institution cannot function if it
believes that the academic divisions that were rele-
vant 30 years ago are the only ones within which it
can operate and plans to operate for the next centu-
ry-
Clearly these sorts of developments, from both a
research and teaching point of view are happening
on the interfaces between the British divisions of
knowledge, and I think it is fair to say that if a sen-
tient being landed on Earth from outer space today
and looked at the sum of human knowledge, even
looked at the sum of scientific knowledge, he
would not come up with chemistry, or physics, or
biochemistry or the divisions that we use. That
does not mean that they are not useful divisions,
but there is nothing permanent about them and I
am entirely happy that we have to have for admin-
istration purposes, major divisions of the informa-
tion that we work on and the figures that we study,
but we have to recognise that there is nothing rigid
about these and that we have to facilitate work
between them and collaborate.
You are a great exponent of interdisciplinary
research centres. Are there any of those that
have grown up in the past three years, while you
have been at the helm, which you would be par-
ticularly proud of as a great leap forwards?
Well, when you say proud, if that involves my
taking credit, none is due at all, but probably the
outstanding IRC in the country is Process Systems
Engineering in Chemical Engineering. I mean, that
is the best in the count!'- " >
,
' which
has realised the objeci>
and the Engineering ai - mncil
shared to work together intei (is and
work with Industry to produio M>mclliiii" that
amounted to much more that the sum of the parts
and could then be self sustaining and \u-
achieved that.
Could you perhaps elaborate on what wiu w:inl
to do i aining half of your i .
Well, this embryonic medical school has to
nuke the transition as rapidly a^ possible lo Iv one
\nd it*
can be. It will be one of the largest in the UK, will
• p \cry research-intensive and it has got sorncvery
same time,,,wciwaiit to couple that with an under-
grade H..o (he best in
agencies because we have agreements with other
institutions, and all of these things may be able to
be made machine-based and I hope that we will be
able to reduce our administrative costs. Here, we
will change the nature of administrative jobs, and I
hope it will provide people with a better and more
efficient service. So, that all is going to be impor-
tant over the next few years, and the medical
school is a pilot of that.
It is also true that coming from outside, I was
very impressed by the rather run-down nature of
much of the College estate. Many of the labs that
people work in here are not state-of-the-art. We
have good staff, we have good students, in many
cases working in third-rate conditions. When we
move outside the labs, we come out to buildings
which in many cases need painting or mainte-
nance. You come out into what could be a rather
marvellous Iicrc's a car park. The facili-
I N T E R V I E W
W I T H A
R E C T O R
the country. Now, we are going to have a really
good start with a splendid new bio-medical science
building, which I think will be both architecturally
stimulating and good to use. The new course that is
being designed there will be one of the most for-
ward-looking in the country, we are using that
development as a pilot project for the avocation of
the sensible, practical application of IT to teaching
and communication throughout the College. All
the undergraduates will have laptops which will
plug in all over the place. That is how they will get
a substantial amount of handouts from lectures.
That is how they will get timetable information.
Of course, medics lead a more complicated life
than many of us, particularly in the future when
they will be doing clinical attachments from a very
early stage; these things actually have to be tied
into the hospitals and the patients that they are see-
ing. There are actually important time-tabling and
communication issues for which this is an ideal
medium. So, we are putting a lot of effort into this,
and I will expect over the next three years to see the
campus, which could never become paperless,
actually see a reduction in the amount of paper that
goes round. For example, we ought to be able to go
to a substantially machine-based purchasing sys-
tem. Now, you can't stop people sending you paper
invoices, but a lot of the transactions that involve
shuffling paper are admissions and we are obvi-
ously dependent to some extent upon external
ties foi when people .
for recreation are ni
deuces are in some «
torn of what is accept
the way that we shout
first century.
It must be difficult 1
once.
Wc can't achieve i
ing is that the Colleg
(it's not as good as it'
get some of these oth
never be able to make
not working, the facilities
very good. Student resi-
;, I think, close to the bot-
e. I don"i think that that is
>
e moving into the twenty-
:ry lo achieve all that at
I •; •-'"••• 'hat I am say-
s very good academically
ilcss we
things rip; il, we'll
at last jump. We are going
to be dependent on the continued application of
outstanding students both in the UK and abroad
and people do not want to come and be taught in
what looks like a tip. They don't want to live ih
conditions that aren't very good and the trouble is
that our competitors for those same students are
now putting more effort into that and offering
attractive conditions. So we have got to do some-
thing about that. The other reason that we have to
clean the place up and make it look better and
make it a continuing programme after wc finish the
BMS, is that big money sponsors are not prepared
to have their names associated with places that
don't look reasonable. We're going to improve the
environment as well.
A more corporate and more beautiful IC?
Absolutely.

