F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 8 T H J U N E INTERVIEW WITH A RECTOR 13
You mentioned our competitors in the academ-
ic market. The recent publication of The Times
good universities league tables put us still at
number three and we have been for the past five
or six years. Is it your ambition to try to per-
haps get to number two or maybe even number
one over the next ten years?
Of course.
But isn't our accommodation going to continue
bringing us down?
First of all let me say that the Times league tables
are ludicrous. There are ways of comparing our
educational institutions, but that is not the way. All
that says is that if someone is going to publish a
league table it's better to be at the top than the bot-
tom, so one is not unhappy to be there. When peo-
ple say how good it is, I say, "well yes", but in fact
it is a ludicrous table and it is put together in a silly
way.
Could you demonstrate this?
If one looks at the performance on the research
assessment, that is a more serious comparison.
There I think yes, we can do better. Our engineer-
ing is, across the board, I would say, better than
any in the country. If you want to compare us with
any institution, you could. But our science is not
scoring as well as it should be at the moment.
The research rating is very good, but what
about the teaching rating?
Teaching ratings in the College, as you are
aware, have been uniformly rated as good to out-
standing. Again, there is a question as to the valid-
ity of that assessment. I personally believe that the
external assessment of teaching has been a good
thing. Mostly because it has caused departments to
pay attention and to look at themselves and look at
the way that they do things across the College as a
.whole. That has been good. I don't necessarily
believe that a department in the College that has
lour out of twenty four is actually
; > than one that has scored twenty
/ four. I don't think that that sort
j ison is possible. By and large I am
ic teaching assessments
have;' • • n that I am actual-
1) satisfied with our teaching and with our treat-
ment ' '."...ular areas leave
something tojbe desired.
You were an undergraduate at Oxford. How
does the teaching you received there compare to
the teaching that a similar undergraduate
would receive here?
It's very hard to say. I probably don't know. I
did my first degree in classics and then switched
and did my Geology honours in two years. You got
a lot more personal attention, at least in my time.
On the other hand, I think that people here,work an
awful lot harder. But I suspect that^people in
Oxford these days work an awful lot harder too.
It's not all that different. Fundamentally, in Oxford
and Cambridge, the system is still based on the
tutorial system where alone or in a group optwo
' you would spend an hour a week with one of the
i senior members of the department and in prepara-
Itign for that meeting you will have done a fait
I amount of work on a particular topic, and in my
day it used to be twenty hours work, we'd study a
topic in great detail and then discuss it in depth. We
can't operate that way, we have a tutorial system
here (hat operates in different ways in different
departments; Let me say that although 1 enjoyed
that system, it wasn't good tor everyone.
My first teaching job was at Oxford, and I found
that there were students admitted to Oxford that
did not like that system. I found that I had very
good students who at the end of the first year I
helped to transfer to other universities where they
would be taught in a different way because they
did not like the one-to-one, possibly confrontation-
al, relationship you had where you would be inter-
rogated, challenged and so on. They much pre-
ferred to sit in a large audience in a lecture theatre
or to do prescribed practicals labs and things of that
kind. It is not uniquely good. It is a good system
but there are other good systems too, and I'm sat-
isfied that we've got a good system as well.
When you were an undergraduate or in your
later teaching jobs, when was the first time that
you heard of Imperial College?
I must of simply heard of it as a student, you
know, as one of great London science and engi-
neering colleges.
So there is no particular event that triggered
your knowledge?
No.
What do you think the public's impression of
the College is at the moment?
I think its a question of whether you ask our
more immediate neighbours in South Kensington
or those that are more remote and I suspect that you
would get rather different answers. I take you are
more concerned with people who are more remote.
I think we are seen as a leading science and engi-
neering university, and I use that word advisedly.
Does it perhaps make you angry if you are
watching the news or reading the paper and you
see an expert who has been called in and it's
always Professor Whatever from Oxford or Dr
Whomever from Cambridge. Don't you think
"No, we've got a better centre for that, you
should be talking to us"?
Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. It depends
on what the topic is. We have good press exposure,
and are pretty good for providing names for the
media at short notice than either Oxford or
Cambridge. We have the tremendous advantage of
being in London, and it is an awful lot easier for
various news companies to come here rather than
Oxford or Cambridge. Occasionally, the media get
the wrong person, occasionally, they are right to go
somewhere else.
Right, on to the Dearing Committee.
Yes
Soon to publish,
Yes, seventeenth of July.
Can you perhaps reveal a few of your conclu-
sions?
A scoop for Felix'. "Felix says...."
Well, you must be nearing the final consulta-
Yesterday I spent from 8.30 until 6 at the penul-
timate meeting. What can I say? The Dcaring
Committee has had an enormous amount to do in
far too short a time. It was told by the govcrncmcnt
that the report was needed now, and if wasn't pro-
vided now then important opportunities would be
lost. We're also constrained, I think very unfortu-
natcly. by the public assertions by both the previ-
ous government and the present government that
they do not sec their way to putting more resources
into higher education. So the bottom line is that
when the report comes out, it will be long, a great
deal will have been done, but a great many matters
that required thorough and deeper investigation
have simply been touched upon and not really
explored to the depth that a detailed solution need-
ed. But some of the problems are almost insoluble
given the boundary imposed by the politicians. But
given that, we've done what we can and I don't
think that it's giving away any secrets at all to say
that the circumstances at the setting up of the
Dearing Committee were precipitated by a finan-
cial crisis within universities. If the government is
not going to contribute significant more money,
although it has indicated as it has done in its elec-
tion manifesto that more burden should be put on
students, it would not be surprising if the commit-
tee did not come out with recommendations which
from a student's point of view would seem to be
very unwelcome. It has been a priority for the com-
mittee to try to explore what I might describe as
unwelcome solutions which would have the least
deterrent effect on students participating in higher
education and least discriminatory effect on those
from poor backgrounds or deprived backgrounds
of any kind. Now, ultimately a decision on this is
going to be made by government because we shall
be putting forward various alternatives, but the
areas we would be talking about would be a stu-
dent-fee contribution and something to do with
maintenance. These can be juggled in various
ways, and clearly one is looking at income contin-
gent loans, learning banks and a whole range of
things of this kind.
What is your preferred option?
I don't think that there is a single preferred
option. It is such a complicated issue, that my pre-
ferred option would be to raise taxation, I mean, if
you really want a quick answer, because you don't
actually have to raise taxation by very much to
solve the problem but from a governmental point
of view, that would be a way of tackling a whole
range of problems. I'm not really dodging the
question but simply saying that student finances
become very technical and you could say that, yes,
this element would be right here, but its only right
if it's that, and that, and that, in other parts of the
system. It also comes down to political philosophy.
I suppose broadly I am the least unhappy with a
system in which if higher education is not to be
free, there has to be some division or conceptual
separation between maintenance and tuition costs.
Maintenance is something that is required here and
now while students are actually learning, and per-
sonally I am quite happy to see that supported by a
means-tested grant of some kind relating that to the
family circumstances of the individual concerned.
If one then takes the cost of tuition that seems to be
something that you be relate to earnings for life
then everyone regardless of their background could
be treated the same. Now, if you make that income
contingent so that those who go into the least well
paid professions, particularly public service, may
not end up paying anything, or at least only a small
amount, whereas those who go in to industry or
commerce would pay a more substantial amount.
That sort of division between maintenance depend-
ing on family circumstances, tuition paid off by
graduates in employment. At that level no-one's
background is taken into account because hopeful-
ly being graduates everyone starts on a level play-
ing field. I'm not saying that that is what the com-
mittee will come out with, but those are the kind of
ideas that we have been talking about.
Sir Ronald Oxburgh, thankyou.
Words and pictures: Alex

