14 ALTERNATIVE REVIEW OF THE YEAR F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 1 8 T H TUNE
OCTOBER
The last night of the Proms. O K - this didn't
actually happen in October, it was over the sum-
mer, but who's counting? The B B C proms are
raging; myself and a select band of colleagues go
onto the roof of the Beit Building to listen to the
music coming from the Albert Hall. Obviously
we've been drinking fairly heavily. We can't hear
a thing, so we go and watch it on T V in Beit Hall.
Just before the final number, the B B C proms
head-honcho comes up and makes a speech thank-
ing all the musicians, etc... and we notice that on
his lectern is a sign reading 'Do Not Sit On This
Wall - Danger Of Falling, Imperial College
Union.' Obviously stolen from the rear wall of our
own beloved building. Collectively, we think
'Right, we'll have them for that.' And set out on a
mission to defend the Union's honour. Across the
roof of Beit we go, past the various jars containing
biological samples (I poured a little Glenfiddich
into one; sorry if I ruined anyone's PhD) and the
vents that smell of gerbils.
We soon tire of throwing beer bottles onto the
Albert Hall steps and watching them smash, So
one of my associates, whom I
shall refer to only as Mr
Green, fetches a
middle-class pretensions, but had unwittingly
stumbled into an alien world of depravity.
Eventually we grow bored of our new-found
toy and, through some Herculian alcohol-assisted
effort, leave it atop the bus shelter on Prince
Consort Road. We return to steal a huge 'BBC
Proms' banner from under the noses of the crews
loading equipment into lorries; this banner
remains in our possession. The photographs in the
camera have since been developed but cannot be
reproduced here without identifying both our-
selves and its previous owners.
NOVEMBER
Involved with some flighty girl from the
Dramatic Society; We make hurried, graceless
love on the table in the Society's room, where they
go to rehearse, store things, shag or whatever it is
they do. It turns out the table isn't a table, it's a
coffin. Not a proper coffin, mind; it's a prop. Later
in the year I see the Union hacks carrying a coffin
across the
different hats, and initiate a rapid series of ques-
tions. I have to breathe in the inspector's face and
walk in a straight line; thankfully neither of us
have ingested anything we shouldn't have and are
quickly on our way. We drive off, cool as cucum-
bers. There is not quite enough cannabis in the car
to be arrested for dealing, probably. A minute later
we are a very tense, and lost. Five minutes later I
am so nervous I almost write the car off against
the side of Westminster Bridge.
J A N U A R Y
New Year's Eve, to be precise. I eschew the
crowds of Trafalgar square for a better-than-aver-
age party at the flat of a few friends. I get talking
to this strawberry blonde from Edison, Canada.
She flies back tomorrow; perfect. There's a huge
plastic barrel of punch which contains alcohol in
just about every form you can imagine, plus fruit,
jellybabies and female underwear. As is always
the case, she gets more attractive with every help-
ing from the barrel. About fifteen minutes before
Big Ben chimes, we stumble together into an
unfamiliar darkened bedroom and fall over in a
wardrobe. Oral sex ensues, which may or not have
been great -1 am in no fit
state to
large water pistol. We take turns to
bring light rain upon the heads of the exiting
prom-goers before a lady walking her dog spots
us. It's time to get a little more pro-active, we
feel, and quickly take a trip down to the statue
in front of the Albert Hall. We find it decorat-
ed, presumably by the prom organisers or similar
upper-class louts, with road cones, B B C banners
and a large cylindrical display pillar about the size
of a phone box. We also find a camera with half
the film unused, and begin to take a few snaps.
After some procrastination, Messrs. Green and
White, somewhat over-assisted by Mr Blonde,
dislodge the pillar and send it crashing onto the
steps, smashing an attached perspex box to pow-
der. They then attempt to roll it down into the
street.
Distancing myself from their activities, I realise
that I am sobering up. A quick rummage through
the nearby bins, where affluent prom-goers have
been queuing all day, yields half a bottle of red
and a half of white. A group of tipsy, penguin-
suited twits have been watching us and hesitantly
decide to join in with the rolling; obviously think-
ing we are of similar ilk. They are very wrong. I
offer them the red and they pass it round, each one
taking small gulps. One of them compliments me
on the wine; it's probably quite expensive. "It's
not mine." I reply nonchalantly, gesturing; "I just
found it in that bin over there." Their horrified
expressions fill me with indescribable joy; they
must have thought they were safe in the company
of like-minded twenty-somethings with similar
nine sordid tales
of ^
Queen's Lawn, protesting against
Waterstone's. It looks like the same one - how
many can they have?
I have to go away and laugh really rather hard.
DECEMBER
My mother's car, a Vauxhall Astra 1.3L estate,
will do 117mph downhill on the M i l . Above this
speed the steering starts to shake uncontrollably.
It's 3am, myself and a friend are bored of our par-
ents and the whole Christmas thing. We drive to
South Kensington with no clear idea of how to get
there; I just don't know central London by car.
Passing through the city, the road ahead is nar-
rowed artificially by red and white plastic blocks
and a WPC stand by the side of the road. She
waves at us, we wave back. I know it sounds stu-
pid now, but I honestly didn't realise that consti-
tutes a roadblock.
After a short and unexciting chase, in which we
are unwittingly the pursued, we are flagged down
by no less than three patrol cars. One stops in front
of us, one behind and one to the side; these guys
don't mess around. Officers emerge, all in their
decide. She loses an ear-
ring, her mother's, at
some point in the act,
so we grope around in
the dark for it before
\_ frn/cr*fc»_. • turning on the
miSSpent. light There is
another couple
in the room, cowering under the bedcovers.
- they've been there the whole time.
We hastily abandon our search and retreat to the
living room in time for everyone to dance around
like a bunch of loonies at the stroke of midnight.
Later, blondie and I retire to a different bedroom
which we have to share with three other couples.
As soon as the lights are turned off, a hideous
cacophony of squelching and muted grunting
begins. I'm sharing a sleeping bag with the
Canadian girl; when in Rome... She starts to make
an embarrassing amount of noise, probably for my
benefit I'll admit, but I have to clamp my hand
over her mouth before, as it were, finishing her
off. Confronted with a room of eight people all
obviously with the same interests at heart, I'm
tempted to throw off the covers, turn on the lights
and shout "Half time! Change partners!" - thank-
fully by this stage I am feeling a little ill.
I can't face talking to her in the morning; luck-
ily before she wakes up a friend drags me, hun-
gover, to a greasy-spoon cafe. By the time we
return she's gone, back to Canada. Like I said,
perfect. Well, certainly better than last New

