F E L I X W E D N E S D A Y 18TH TUNE ALTERNATIVE REVIEW OF THE YEAR 15
Year's Eve, when some random girl I'd just met true - a pint is no problem if you're willing to
tried to masturbate me in Trafalgar Square before
running off to jump in the fountains. The police
stopped her in time, (jumping, not masturbating.)
FEBRUARY
Sunday 15, 1:32am. When the phone rings at
this time of night, you know it's your friends ring-
ing you up off their heads. I am not disappointed;
two friends whom I shall refer to as X and Y .
X: "Hi. It's me, X . "
Me "Oh. How are you?"
X: "I'm fine. Absolutely fucking fantastic, in
fact."
Me: "You sound very... confident."
X: "I had a finger of speed before I dialled the
number, and now I don't..xconfusion at the other
end> ...We've just come back from the Q M W
Valentines' Ball."
Me: "Er... yeah? I've been trying your mobile, but
it just keeps hanging up on me."
X: "Maybe that's because I changed net-
works."
He hangs up. Inevitably, it rings again
after about thirty seconds. There is fur-
ther confusion and shouting in the back-
ground, presumably as Y grapples the
handset from X .
Me: "Hello, Y . "
Y: <jabbering> "You're not you.
You're an imposter."
Me: "No I'm not. I am me,
honest."
Y: <interrupting> "Oh yeah?
Well what's my name then?
What was your mother's maid-
en name?"
Me: "But you don't know my
mother's maiden name...."
Y tries to convince me to come
over, straight away. I say it's impos-
sible. He says get a cab. I say no. X has a go;
Me: "Why should I come over? You've got no
booze..."
X: "But we've got drugs."
Me: "But they'll all be gone by the time I get
there!"
X: "No they won't. If we took them all before you
got here, we'd be dead. And there'd still be loads
left for you."
Me: "Oh, I see."
X: "Am I sounding weird? I'm just asking for
research purposes you understand; I'll be testing
you on this conversation later... The scales of my
eyes filling up. <banging noises> Ow! Get that out
of my ear!"
<Click. Brrrr....>
M A R C H
It's Friday night and Mr Blonde and I are at the
Union. It's the week of the Sabbatical election
campaigns. We've just learned that this year's
ICU President had to down a pint of human urine
as some sort of test to see if he was good enough
to be elected, and we're wondering how many
people you'd need to make a full pint. A friend
assures us that the average male can piss a pint at
a single pass if he's been drinking, and, in the
name of science, we feel compelled to investigate.
Entering the gents' with plastic skiffs empty and
emerging with them full, we can confirm that it's
make a little effort. Unsure of how best to employ
our discovery, we start depositing pints of second-
hand beer, of varying hue and shade, around the
bar and disco. Placing them carefully amidst other
abandoned drinks, we are stunned to find them
disappearing and, in a number of cases, the levels
of liquid in each glass dropping considerably.
Who's drinking them? Serves them right for steal-
ing drinks. With vigilante fervour, we continue on
our mission.
Returning from the cubicles with a warm, fresh
and particularly pale and milky sample I am nob-
bled by a friend from hall. I am desperate to get
shot of my glass but he won't go away, and there
are no opportunities for me to make my excuses. I
can see him wondering why I'm standing here
talking to him for so long without taking a sip.
Salvation arrives in the form of some drunkard
who staggers into me, knocking my arm and
sloshing a good third of the pint over the front of
my friend. "I'm sorry; I've split my, er, cider all
over you."
Exit stage right, at speed.
APRIL
A flatmate comes back from a
festival with two paper squares,
purportedly soaked in LSD. We
swallow them and four hours
later start laughing
a like madmen. For
some insane rea-
son we're watch-
ing long-jumping
on TV; the slow-motion replays slow down to a
stop, the judge takes an eternity to raise his little
flag to indicate whether each jump is legal. All the
timepieces in the flat are out of sync; a minute
seems to last forever then you blink and miss a
whole hour. I hear 'Tattva' by Kula Shaker for the
first time and nearly go out of my mind trying to
work out the lyrics before I realise the pretentious
bastards are singing in Sanskrit.
The next morning the effects linger on. We
decide to go to Portobello Road market, a pretty
damn stupid idea given our twisted state; the place
is weird enough as it is. It's hot and sunny, and
everybody looks as if they're from another planet;
ludicrous clothes, multicoloured hair. It slowly
dawns on me that some people are wearing their
sunglasses on top of their heads, over their hair.
Soon everyone is wearing them on their heads.
Just what is the fucking point of wearing your sun-
glasses on the top of your head?
I am seriously failing to deal with it all; I see an
old lady pushing one of those two-wheeled tartan
shopping trolleys and suddenly there are trolleys
everywhere - we're surrounded. We walk back to
the tube station alongside a woman in leather
trousers; the squeak she makes as she walks grows
louder and louder until it fills my whole world. I
want to go home. I want it to end. That afternoon,
it does.
M A Y
Exams and project deadlines wheel around;
May is the month of sleeplessness.
Notes on insomnia: Always remember that a
strong cup of coffee contains up to 150mg of caf-
feine; a Pro-Plus tablet is only 50mg, and doesn't
distract you from your work enough to constitute
a break. Alternating nicotine and caffeine is your
best bet to see you through a night. Amphetamines
are neither big nor clever; you'll take in about one
word in every thousand and anything you write
will be complete garbage; take enough and sooner
or later you'll start wondering about ways of
killing yourself. You cannot do without sleep, no
matter what: allocate yourself a minimum of four
hours from every twenty-four. Forcing yourself to
sleep at certain times is difficult, but attainable if
you use herbal sleeping tablets. Don't swallow
them; crush them up in hot water four or eight at a
time; use the weakest tablets you can find for the
best natural sleep without the risk of an OD. In an
absolute emergency mix a 'flawed emerald'
(Night-Nurse and vodka) and have a bed within
staggering distance - be sensible; liver failure is no
joke.
Symptoms of sleep deprivation: shivering, nau-
sea, depression. The nausea is often due to the cof-
fee; this can be countered to up to a point by drink-
ing water and force-feeding but ultimate-
ly you just have to get used to it. With
longer-term deprivation things start to
get pretty weird: random outbursts of
activity, hearing things and hallucina-
tion. Yes, hallucination; stay in bright-
ly-lit places; if someone suddenly turns
the lights off you'll start tripping like a
bastard. If you're writing a report,
always go back and check what you've
written every 12 hours or so, otherwise
you'll start including daydreams and
stuff you heard on the radio in your
text without even knowing it. Drinking tea or cof-
fee for long periods to the exclusion of everything
else produces yellow eyeballs, loose teeth and
symptoms imitating (so I'm led to believe) dia-
betes. You can tell when high-sugar foods start
sending you to sleep instead of perking you up and
feel like you want to pee all the time but can't go.
I have, at various times, experienced all of
these. Foolhardy? I maintain that the best way to
stop worrying about your revision is to do the revi-
sion.
J U N E
This is the end... A degree is finished and my
rehabilitation as a useful member of society
begins. Sick? Depraved? If you're graduating this
year and have spent three or four years at univer-
sity without doing anything similar, I'd say there
was something wrong with you; now you'll never
get the chance. It's better to regret something you
have done than something you haven't; I regret
very little. Except that it's over.
See you at the graduation ball.

