2 NEWS FELIX WEDNESDAY 1 8 T H TUNE
Bookstore battle rages on
N E W S T E A M
Imperial College Union's battle for
compensation from the College for
the loss of the bookstore trading rev-
enue continued last week with with a
meeting between representatives of
the Union and the College. The
Union is lobbying for an increase in
its annual subvention from the
College to make good the loss of the
retail outlet's profits.
The Rector has commited the
College to "ensure that the Union
finances would be no less healthy
than if the existing ICU bookshop
had continued to trade." However, a
casual remark about the recompense
by the College's Director of Finance,
Mike Hansen, triggered alarm bells
in the Union administration that they
are likely to be given too little. Mr
Hansen later confirmed his comment,
an offer of an additional £20,000 per
annum for the Union, in an e-mail to
the Deputy President for Finance and
Services, Piers Williams.
It is the method of calculation of
this sum that has brought the matter
into dispute. Under the Union's own
reimbursment model, the bookstore
would have acheived profits of
around £30,000 per annum, but
would want an additional £10,000 in
the first year to cover incidental costs
like restructuring and the loss on sell-
ing stock to Waterstone's, the new
booksellers on campus.
In reply, a letter from Alan
Swanson, the Pro-Rector for
Educational Quality, reiterated the
College's belief that £20,000 was an
adequate sum to cover the loss of the
bookstore. Professor Swanson point-
ed out that this deal may even result
in over compensation if the influx of
students on to the campus post-1998
DON T WORRN!
HER-E'S ^toug.
CottPENSfcTiGN.
meant that there would be greater sta-
tionary sales in the shop.
The Union's financial model
assumes that stationary sales increase
considerably and that if they had
been retained, the bookselling opera-
tions would have not have increased.
In contrast, the College Finance
Division's model is based on a flat
rate boosted by a one-off payment.
Speaking to Felix, the Rector com-
mented that the Union were "trying
to have their cake and eat it." He said
that the tendering operation had been
conducted on a professional basis,
and that the Union could not expect
to behave like a company and yet be
cossetted as part of the College.
Mr Williams said that the Union its case but that now "the ball's in
had tried to persuade the College of their court."
£1 curries set for a rise
V A S K O R B A S A K
The price of one pound curries at Da
Vinci's Cafe is to be raised to £1.10
from the start of next term in order to
keep up with inflation. It had previ-
ously remained fixed at a pound for
the last two years.
The prices of many other products
are also likely to be raised by 5p. Ian
Richards, Imperial College Union's
Catering Manager, pointed out that
many prices had in fact been reduced
the previous year and that a price rise
was inevitable. However, to meet de-
mand and to let curry addicts get
their fix all the faster, the curries will
be sold from dB's rather than Da
Vinci's next term to help relieve long
queues that are currently the norm.
Yvonne Woods, the Assistant
Catering Manager, thinks that this
will not deter students from buying
the curries. Da Vinci's currently sells
between about 400 and 700 curries
daily.
When asked about their reactions
to the price change, most students
said they did not mind the increase,
as the curries were already excellent
value for money. However, some
replied that the pound-in-the-pocket
was their favoured price, and that the
extra ten pence was "just too much of
an inconvenience."
CLAYPONDS
ASSISTANT WARDEN
The College invites applications for the position
of Assistant Warden at Clayponds which is
available from September 1997. Clayponds is
a residential development of houses and flats
in Ealing. It houses 2nd, 3rd and 4th year
undergraduates and postgraduates. Assistant
Wardens receive rent free accommodation in
return for pastoral duties within this "student
village". The post is open to all non-under-
graduate members of the College, but experi-
ence of pastoral care would be an advantage.
For further information and an application
form contact Janet Jones, Office Services
Manager, extension 45536, Room 512
Sherfield Building, e-mail Janet.Jones@icac.uk
Closing date for applications: Friday 20 June
1997.

