14 November 1997
SRN - THE STUDENT RADIO NETWORK
FEATURE 11
The Student Radio Network
This year a new Student Radio station has been taking the airwaves by storm. Our man
Ed Sexton finds out more...
In a small road called Windmill Street, off the Tottenham Court Road, lies the Student Radio
Network's studio. The SRN is a national sustaining service, providing many student radio stations
with a 24hour music and news service (provided by Independent Radio News - IRN) for when their
own stations are off-air. This is especially useful for stations with a restricted service licence, as it
allows them to broadcast when they would otherwise be quiet. Our own IC Radio uses the SRN at
night and for hourly news bulletins, and Kenny Green, IC Radio's station manager, is assistant sta-
tion controller for SRN.
I
The Student Radio Network was started about a year and half ago by
Chris Gregg and other former student radio controllers. Its aim was,
and is, to unite student radio stations throughout the country.
However the project failed after 3 months, due to lack of financing.
Unperturbed, the founders teamed up with private to provide a work-
able business plan. SRN is now entirely financed through advertising
and sponsorship.
Its controller is Roger Hall, formerly head of B1000, Brunei's student radio station. Although much of the pro-
gramming is managed by computer (the CD player at the studio holds some 600 CDs), some live shows are pro-
vided; for example, Fraser Thompson from Fresh FM (Edinburgh's station) provides a music show every evening
from 11 pm to 2am. Session guests on SRN have included Rolf Harris and Space. The majority of shows, how-
ever, are prerecorded and sent to SRN on minidisc. SRN hopes to provide more live programs in the future, by
ISDN links.
I
Any student radio station involved with SRN can, in principle, provide a show for the service - either the show is sent
to SRN's studio via ISDN, or SRN pays for the show's presenters to come to London. The signal is sent to Winchester
via ISDN, and from there to Luxembourg, where it is transmitted to the Astra ID satellite: The station can be picked
up over most of Northern Europe. No stations outside the UK, however are as yet involved in SRN. The station's
controllers hopes to involve more of Europe through IASTAR, the International Association of Student TV and Radio
(similar to Britain's Student Radio Association). At present, 30 stations receive SRN, providing it with an audience
of about 500,000.
SRN is principally a music station (Alistair Walker, from Fresh FM, is head
of music) - it plays a music chart every night, compiled from playlists from
all the subscribing stations. Subscription for stations is free, and SRN
hopes to provide each station with some money back at the end of each
year, although many stations choose to receive new equipment instead.
In the future, SRN hopes to help unions that do not have radio stations
subscribe to the service by providing the necessary equipment.
To get involved with SRN you need to be involved with your
own university's station first, but they do need people to help
with administration. - the station coordinator is Dave
Rollinson (from B1000).
Any queries? See Kenny Green @ IC Radio

