14th November 1997 MUSIC 13
ALBUMS
E C H O B E L L Y
Lustra * * * *
THE JAM
The Very Best Of The Jam * • * •
W may as well get the formalities
I out of the way first. This album
H is an absolute stormer! - and I
really wasn't expecting it to be.
Lustra doesn't have any energy
veined tracks that a Brit-Pop fan
may want to request at a nightclub,
but it will be happily playing in my
room for quite some time.
Immediately, 1 was pleasantly
surprised by the freshness of this
album. Maybe the long break since
the last release from Echobelly has
allowed them to come back sound-
ing considerably less tired than
what they may have been expected
to in these Indie-band governed
days of British music. And when
exactly did Echobelly adopt such a
varied slant within this genre? - a
trait that is sadly lacking in so many
second rate bands flooding the
local HMV with their second rate
tunes.
Pretty soon into Lustra - in fact
track two, I'm Not A Saint - the
memories of Echobelly come
flooding back. Strong guitars, syn-
thetically warped vocals, and their
uncanny ability to sound just like
Sleeper.
There are a couple of tracks
that you could pick out as future
chart toppers - well, maybe not
toppers, but definitely top-tenners.
Bleed is a brilliant acoustic, and
Everyone Knows Better is definitive
foot-tappin' music. In fact it's like-
ly to induce foot-tapping in the
most hardened of anti-foot-tap-
pers.
Every now and again you do
have to keep reminding yourself
that you aren't listening to Sleeper,
and whether this is a good or a bad
thing is subject to opinion. Why no
fifth star? Unfortunately the title
track started to remind me of Bis.
And I'd love to tell that sugar sugar
candy pop exactly where she could
push it down and pull it up. H
Derek
T
his album begins with the
fierce debut cry of In The City
- the template for the singles
that would immediately follow.
Straight away we are given an
insight into Weller's anti-authoritar-
ian lyrics and the driving rhythm
section from Bruce Foxton and Rick
Buckler. Songs such as The Modern
World, David Watts, A Bomb In
Wardour Street and Down In The
Tube Station At Midnight show
great diversity yet are all contained
within the classic sound of pound-
ing bass and drums, and detached,
melodic guitar playing.
Interestingly, none of these
songs reached the top 10 in the
UK. However, lack of singles chart
success did not stop them from
being the best band, according to
NME readers, as they entered the
80's. This is where we are given the
real gems.
Going Underground sounds as
contemporary today as it did when
it gave them their first number one.
Start! is a great musical leap
despite shamelessly nicking its riff
from The Beatles. And That's
Entertainment is just sheer class.
However, their singles soon
took a jump the wrong way. Even
though still capable of number
ones, The jam's singles became
more inspired by the dance side of
rock so favoured by the growing
numbers of New Romantics,
paving the way for Weller's ill-fated
outfit The Style Council. Combining
this sound with their Motown influ-
ences their last few singles sound
eerily similar to Phil Collins' songs
of the time.
There are still magical moments
to be found on their last two sin-
gles (and hence the last two singles
on the album). The Bitterest Pill (I
Ever Had To Swallow) is a ballad as
moving as The Style Council's
You're The Best Thing. And Beat
Surrender is probably the best song
with which to end a career of such
dynamism and versatility.
Fans of Weller's recent solo
work will be surprised by how dif-
ferent his work is to that of The
jam. Give it a few listens, though,
and I'm sure you will be pleased
with the result. H
Ed
SOUL, HIP-HOP AND NO STOP
What up to all IC!! I got much love for all of
y'all, its that time again where I break it all
down for y'all. Straight of the bat, Mary ] is
playing at Wembley arena tomorrow tonight,
support from Chico DeBarge and the original
ladies man joe. All three are dropping new
joints to coincide with the concert dates,
Chico's new album has just been released
Long Time No See, while joe will drop his new
single Good Girls soon in the future. Mary is
releasing the fourth cut from her album, the
tracks' called Missing You and for once the
record company has decided that they will
include more than just the album version of
the track, in this case the So So Def and
Rodney Jenkins mixes both included. With
Mary's last offering Everything the single just
contained the album version (with instrumen-
tal), then two weeks later out comes the
remixes with the awesome So So Def mix
blowing up all over, so a message to record
companies - sort it out. If your thinkin' about
the Mary j concert and you don't have tickets
then forget 'bout it; the news is that almost
all the tickets are sold and those remaining
are so far back you'll see more by going to see
a flea circus; my advice is you save your
money and get tickets for En Vogue. The three
funky divas will be playing Wembley arena on
Thursday 4th December and they should be
just as good, personally I rated their album
EV3 better than Mary's LP.
Puffy this and Puffy tat - The Puff daddy is
everywhere, this is a long running saga prob-
ably doesn't deserve any coverage but with
the lack of any real news I am going to
attempt to relate my judgement on the Puff
Daddy. Personally I'm a West Coast boy; I
love the laid back g-funk driven tracks that
come out of the west, so my view of the situ-
ation might have been a little biased, except
that I think Puffy is one of the dopest produc-
ers on the block at that the minute. Now Puffy
ain't just a very talent producer but also a
very clever businessman (please note I left
out any mention of his rapping ability 'cause
it just don't exist), have you noticed that
since the death of Biggie (may his soul rest in
peace) the Bay Boy Family ain't been out of
the charts. Puffy may have been sorry to see
his boy go out, but he used it to his advan-
tage, to launch an assault on the charts
releasing tune after tune. Even now the Mase
album be blowin' up all over tha fucking uni-
verse, it isn't in the same class as Biggie, but
hey its party tunes that will party so acquire.
Major tracks off the LP which are definitely
worth a listen include What You Want with
Total, Will They Die 4 You a fast little number
with Puffy & Li' Kim and Love U So featuring
wicked vocals from Billy Lawerence (dis girl is
goin" blow up!!). A quick note on the new
Puffy single Been Around the World a cover of
our very own Lisa, you know this is going to
be having some serious playtime - a hit ? no
fucking doubt.
I know y'all all want to hear what phat lit-
tle singles are out at the minute, but for this
week I've got a guest reviewer in, she's just
back form the US and is here to tell us what's
goin' be hot over here soon. IC radio's queen
of tha mic GLORIA:
'"Sup y'all! just a footnote giving you the
41 1 on what's hot. A joint worth checkin' out:
the Face-produced Soul Food soundtrack, more
satisfying than mama's fried chicken and sweet-
er than any home-made peach cobbler. Two rea!
gems : Atlanta's finest Jagged Edge (of the So So
Def camp, big props to my man, Jermaine
Dupri) hit you with The Way That You Talk and if
you though Up Jumps Da Boogie was da' bomb,
then check out Magoo &. Timalands Welcome
To Our World which is sure to give Puffy a run
for his money. For those into slow jams, 'Butta
Love' by Next be your track, four bruthas
croonin' their way into every ladies heart, hold
up isn't that a bit like Dm Hill, Jodeci, 1 12
Dats the DL for the mo' Keepin' it tight and
a'light, til next week." Gloria.
Seem that she picked up more than just
some phat tracks, anyway that's' nuff from
her and enough of me, I'll be seeing ya round.
Peace and love,
Milen

