14 MUSIC 14th November 1997
SINGLES
m Prodigy - Smack My Bitch Up IP
The opening track off The Fat of the Land
doesn't fail to impress. The radio edit version
isn't quite as good as the album track, but the
drum and bass mix at the end makes up for any
evils.
Kill Laura - We Are Modern
The opener is quite a nice keyboard laced indie
number, followed by a fast song called Fast
Song and a slower one called Slow song. All very
nice, melodic and obvious but pretty good.
Wildhearts - Endless/Nameless
After an unimpressive/badly recorded, crackly
opening track, this sampler grovels to the low-
est depths of keyboard driven, overdubbed crap
that I've heard for a while.
Ultraliving - Sweetest Pleasure
Hmmm. An acid jazz line backed by a drum bass
beat. With a piano. And a woman singing. We
decide on jazz and bass or drum and acid, or
something along those lines. Quite good though
anyway. Strange at least.
Sleeper - Romeo Me
Thank god for that, this single so far outshines
the last, that it's impressive. In other words, this
is an alright rehash of Sleeper's more successful
songs. Lacklustre, girly fronted, britpop bore-
dom.
Moke - Desire
A surprising song, as it jumps from a quiet intro,
into a loud thumping chrous. And it's got a
slidey guitary sound. And its got backing singers
singing a melody. It's really rather good.
Rare - Killer
This sounds a bit like Portishead, actually a lot
like them, but doesn't pull it off quite as well.
They have all the trademarks, from bongy noise
in a metal room, to whiney violin, but all in all its
just a fairly boring copy.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Lambchop - Your Sucking Funny Day
It's bands like this that keep sixty's cop shows in
business. This sounds as if it could be the theme
to Columbo without breaking into a sweat. Then
they had to change it all by singing over it,
changing it into background music during a
Baywatch running sequence. Anyway, it's still a
damn good song.
Cast - I'm So Lonely
I'm so lonely - I'm so bored more like. The title
track just mumbles along, saying 'I've got to let
you know for a bit' and that's about it. The B-
sides, are just trashy offcuts, that the would
never get away with playing anywhere. All in all,
no change since their last single.
Dust Junkys - Nonstopoperation
Quite a funky little number this. A good beat in
the background, along with some good jazzy
guitar, make this a bit of a 'kicking' song. It's not
quite Reef, but it's not quite Corduroy, if that
makes any sense. However, it is very good.
Teenage Fanclub - Start Again
A song with guitars in it. And unfortunately
that's the most interesting thing about it. It goes
on in a 'dum dee dum dee dum' fashion, for all
3 minutes of its length. They should stop right
now, as they most definitely do not have
'enough time to start again', in my opinion.
High Coin - Sun Set Eyes/Orange Clow (double
a side)
Sunset eyes is a laid back lo-fi number, perfect
for going to sleep to, apart from when the synth
horns kick in. Orange glow glows a bit more
than its predecessor, with some impressive
slide guitar on the intro, but falls down from the
moment the monotonic singers start.
Portishead - Over
A rather long and dull intro leads into an over
the top affected bassy thing, and some totally
unnecessary and fairly arhythmic scratching,
which quite ruins a nice song. Not the best off
the new album, and not a good choice for a
single.
Tony Hadley - First of May
Any song which starts with 'When I was small
and Christmas trees were tall' can't be all that
bad in my Opinion, but this time I have to give
in. The sleeve gives the address of the European
fan club, probably containing all of two people,
both of whom are obsessed by his grimacing
expressions are as he pouts about a stage.
Unadulterated rubbish. ES
Billy
CLUBSCENE - THE UNDERGROUND MUSIC GUIDE
ooo
S
peed garage, typically 130
beats per minute, has
evolved from US garage, with
a notable crossover also from Old
Skool (1990 - 92 era) and a larger
than life drum 'n' bass influence.
It has emerged in the past two
years or so, when US garage was
being played out to various crowds
in the London area. The US style
was seen not too have enough
"oomph" for the British, with Djs
often pitching up to +8 before pro-
ducers started to make it faster.
However, it is really only in the last
nine months that speed, or under-
ground, garage has "gone mental".
The clubbers in London have
been seemingly growing apart from
other forms of dance music, which
may be why this new 'underground'
formed. It has led to those in the
Midlands and Bristol also changing
their tastes, wanting something
new, hence the spread of speed
garage around the country.
Promoters in London putting on
Speed Garage
events in places such as the Leisure
Lounge, Power house, Bagleys and
Camden Palace have finally realised
that the clubbers' tastes have
changed, and the nights being held
in such places are diversifying from
hard house to speed garage.
The crowd itself have come
from both the hard house and
drum 'n' bass scenes. Those listen-
ing to and attending the occasional
drum 'n' bass events had noticed a
moody atmosphere beginning to
emerge into the scene - speed
garage seems to offer both safe
clubbing and a new style of music.
Those into hard house were tired of
the ever increasing commerciality,
and wanted something new.
The clubbers are renowned for
their smart appearance, and this
particular music does not suffer
from the pill problems that others
do - indeed, champagne drinking is
more commonplace!! The most
common misconception with
speed garage is that of it being
"Gangster" garage. While I would
not choose to mess with anyone at
these events, there is no sign of
threatening behaviour what so
ever.
There are two main sides to
underground garage. There is a
soulful part - Gabrielle's Roy Davis
Jnr is a good example - and a mas-
sive bassline influence.
The biggest worry at the
moment within the scene is that of
commerciality. With major labels
categorising too much, splits within
the different genres is inevitable.
Nowadays, music is seen as a lot
more rigid - and those wanting a
slice of the action on labels are able
to react a lot quicker to new
scenes. Already, XL, Perfecto and
Deconstruction are in the process
of setting up speed garage sec-
tions. This commercial side helps
to make the music more accessi-
ble, but there is more to worry
about. People are latching onto
remixes, and these become domi-
nant, leading to the possibility of
people getting bored of the sound
earlier than is usually the case.
With the scene becoming more
popular, DJs are also able to
demand more money for sets, and
this maybe a factor for future splits,
as many of those who are in it for
the music begrudge those report-
edly getting as much as £6000 for
a set on new year's eve.
All in all, the speed garage
scene is still a relatively new one,
and while commerciality can help,
it is hoped that it grows construc-
tively as opposed to fragmenting
and splitting up into many other
new forms like other underground
scenes have done before.
Next week, there will be
reviews from a speed garage club,
along with a compilation, 101%
speed garage. 13 Chris

