10 Music 16 November 1998
Albums
OASIS
Masterplan J
All around the Heathrow Baggage Reclaim Depatment.
W
hat can be said about Oasis
that hasn't already been said
before? Washed up has-
beens. The last representatives of rock
n' roll before we're washed away in a
wave of new millenium music. Tossers,
geniuses, intelligent, dumb, etc. It
would be easy to just rehash these old
media gems. In fact, much like the big
O have done here by cleverly repackag-
ing over a dozen 'classic' B-sides in an
effort to deviously disguise the fact that
they haven't actually written any new
songs since the Oimean war. OK, so
that's an exaggeration but you know
what I mean.
But wait, isn't this what people have
been crying out for? A chance to get their
grubby little paws on fourteen of the best
Oasis B-sides without buying nigh-on
fifty quids worth of what can only be
described as good singles. Despite cries
from the irrational Oasis haters, this is a
fine crop of songs - all the way from the
sublime Talk Tonight to the sloppiness of
Noel's guitar on a boozed-up, live / Am
The Walrus. It's the usual Oasis fare of
jangly Beatles-esque pop tock with the
odd whiney vocal thrown in for good
measure, and if this is your bag, the
album as a whole Is hard to fault. There's
something for every Oasis junkie: for
the aspiring rock star we've got Going
Nowhere; for the moody 'dark clouds on
the horizon, the glass is half empty' type
there's (It's Good) To Be Free and then
there's Stay Young for your dad. [Hey,
I like that!-Music Ed]
If you're less than impressed with
the contents of the album, the contents
of the case are wonderful. The booklet
that you get when you had over your
cash is superb - it's a real bonus for any
true fan. Included are lyrics for each
song and a veritable cornucopia of facts
for the Stattos amongst you, comprising
(among others), what the A-side was, the
release date, where it was recorded and,
well, you get the idea.
Some of you buffs out there may
know (and some of you may not) how
this album actually came to pass. If you
don't I'll tell you, and if you do, tough,
I'm going to tell you anyway, fhe story
goes like this: it was decreed by the
brothers Gallagher that a mighty poll
was to be held over the medium of the
internet, where followers of the band
could, if they so wished, place a vote for
what they thought was the best B-side.
Upon reading these heart-pourings of
their most die-hard fans. Oasis released
Masterplan for their delectation. And the
world did rejoice, for it was good.
Yes folks, you heard it here first
(nearly). Just don't tell anyone that it was
Felix who told you that this is a com-
mendable album. Granted there are no
new tracks and it's the same Oasis for-
mula but for sheer listenability, to have
all these rarities in one place and such
treasures as Stay Young and the title
track, it's bloody hard to beat. H
Christian
PORTISHEAD^FN
[* * I
Roseland NYC Live
BALLROOM
Day After Day
ft
Portlshead - some people
say they're atmospheric.
P
ortishead stalk the darker recess-
es of life, aurally sculpting I larry
time's Vienna and Philip
Marlowe's Mean Streets into rich
orchestrated textures imbued with edgy
sound effects. Beth Gibbons' vocals
chronicling unremitting yearnings, sto-
ries of loss and portents of doom that
Ashcroft would kill for and Drake died
for. The eleven tracks are culled from
the genre-defining Dummy and the
low-key but equally impressive epony-
mous follow up, the emotive weight of
the songs enhanced through the pres-
ence of a 30-piece orchestra.
Pretentious? No, just bloody gorgeous
and somewhat fresh considering some
of the songs have been doing the
rounds for a few years now.
I lumming sounds like an imminent
Martian invasion, the soundtrack to Wells'
War of the Worlds, until metamorphosis
heralds a lesson in soul-bearing allusion
to a state of painful confusion. All Mine
is John Barry by way of Bristol, epic strings
gliding like Ali, horns jabbing like fore-
man, the great lost song of a James
Bond film. / lalf Day Closing is Pink floyd
playing Echoes underwater, washed-out
vocals and reverberating guitat. Glory
Boxprovides perfect evidence for the rip-
ping-off of another's work, the Isaac
I layes-pilfered-strings sounding born-
and-bred in Avon. The actual Roseland
Ballroom recordings climax with a truly
sublime Sour limes, coming over all Ry
Cooder, Paris, lexas style, before a bass-
driven rock-out coda.
What follows are Roads and
Strangers, recorded elsewhere and duly
suffering from the change of locale with
a crowd recruited from Luddites 'R' Us.
However, inane hand-clapping aside
(and I bet some of them had lighters
aloft) the inherent beauty of Roads is
enhanced in the live arena gaining a
whole new touching aura outside the
confines of the studio. This is essential
listening. H
Chris
T
here's an inherent problem
with Ballroom. On the one
hand, they have an ability to be
fuckin' good. Take the single, Don'f
Stop as an example. Majestic, emotion-
ally overloaded, soaring, searing. In
short, effortlessly inspiring and uplift-
ing. On the other hand, they have the
knack of sounding crap as well. Take
the track, Believe, appropriately placed
at the end of the album. Dull as shit.
So, the only point of debate for this
album is what the proportion of sexy
sonlcs to arse rhythms is.
Thankfully, it swings the right
way. Opener, Take It is fantastic. A jan-
gly undertow of rhythm guitars are the
veins that the optimistic lyrics are
pushed through resulting in a gorgeous
rush of us versus them pop. Through
The Day continues to please. Vulnerable
and touching, it shows how they can do
slow songs without sounding as dull as
student dishwater.
All in all .though, they're a
band that won't be stepping up in the
charts just yet. I lowever, the potential to
waltz to the top is there. Ballroom are a
band to be watched. Don't say you
weren't told. CI Dennis

