16 November 1998 Music
l i v e
AIR
Shepherd's Bush Empire
Air - Sexy Noise!
A
t the start of '98 when Air
released their most recent
album, A/toon Safari, a delightful
trip through synthesized lounge core
grooves with a Gaelic twist, a brand
new musical sound had descended
upon us and without a doubt we were
hooked. Air have decided to wait for
nearly a whole year before allowing us
the pleasure of sampling the mellow
Moon Safari live, which if you had to be
honest does not contain a strong live
feel. Did it work on the open stage?
Read on....
Three blokes dressed in uni-
form white entered the stage and
arranged themselves amongst the four
sets of keyboards, drums and guitars.
Without warning the two on the key-
boards started to produce bizarre ethe-
real sounds in unison and the notes
cascaded throughout the hall signaling
the arrival of the two immense talents
who ARE the Air sound. The first track of
the night washed over the hall with syn-
thesized glory proving that on hearing Air
live, the music sounds more powerful
and majestic yet at the same time laid-
back, aided by the stunning lighting
effects. Air had the right approach to
their live set, instead of just plodding
through the album (which would have
been the same as listening to it at home
minus the lighting display), they decided
to experiment with some songs, mutat-
ing Kelly Watch The Stars into a manic
punk guitar rollercoaster ride while stick-
ing with the vocals fed through a
vocoder effect. Sexy Boy was given sim-
ilar treatment but this time Air moved for-
ward a few years into a Gary
Numan-esque early '80s style with the
bass guitarist imitating the slow motion
robotic movements much loved by
Kraftwerk.
The. first time Air ventured to
speak to us with their thick french
accents, an aspiring comedian burst out,
'It's inspector Clouseau', so from then on
small talk was kept to minimum. The
absolute highlight of the night and the
most highly anticipated event was the
arrival of Beth I lirsch, who guested on
Moon Safari. As soon as the opening sec-
onds of All I Need began we were all a
few steps closer to heaven, with her
incredibly beautiful voice lifting us higher
with every passing second. Air led us by
the hand and took us on a safari to the
moon, and under their spell we would be
powerless to resist even if it was only a
trip to Windsor. H
Jason
IDLEWILD
Hope Is Important • * * y 2
Idlewild looking clean-cut.
1 guess soap Is Important.
I
dlewild, possibly the only British
punk band of any note around at
the moment, unleashed a brand of
rock that's been rare around these parts
lately on the unsuspecting public with
the Captain EP a while back. I lope is
Important is their eagerly awaited
debut album. Opening with You've lost
your way, a few discordant notes, the
threat of feedback and a predictable
start to the album. Like many of the
tracks on the record it's all a bit too
short by half.
Uncooked, unpretentious, natural,
passionate, uplifting, enraged, I lope is
Important demands to be heard with
the volume cranked up to a nose bleed
inducing level. Ostensibly this record
takes the skewed meandering sounds of
the (godlike) Pavement and sporadically
buries it under a filthy, heavy barrage of
noise last seen sometime in the 1980s (in
case you are wondering this is a good
thing). Particularly Low light and I'm a
Message all demand the highest respect.
Yet even the obligatory slow ones on the
album stand out, particularly the acoustic
and poignant I'm Happy to be I lore
Tonight and Safe and Sound. The use of
more subdued melodic verses followed
by raw, unleashed choruses is an idea
patented and used to exceptional effect
by The Pixies and is not the only Ameri-
can influence on the record. (We've
already mentioned Pavement haven't
we?) It would be unreasonable to expect
the poetic greatness of Yorke, Cobain or
Malkmus when the best things about this
record all stem from its simplicity and lack
of consideration.
On the down side / lope is Important
is the not the strongest album lyrically.
Idlewild seem content to punctuate sta-
ple rock lyrics (soul selling anyone?) with
the odd memorably abstract phrase.
Impressive sounding track titles and an
undeniable grasp of all things of a
rock/punk persuasion can't completely
cover the gaping holes. The ultimate
comparison comes when you listen to
Captain and / lope is Important consec-
utively. The over-riding impression you
get is that I lope is Important just does-
n't live up to the promise of the excel-
lent lyrics like Song is a Beautiful Lie and
Self Healer from Captain. The rough
edges that made Captain a masterpiece
have been filed off allowing a more pol-
ished, more melodic pop sensibility to
emerge. Those expecting a band and an
album ready to take the lead towards a
punk revival and ultimate revolution in
British music will have to wait for the new
Oasis album (ha).
Ignoring the frankly awful Close the
Door, I lope is important is a gratifyingly
noisy, unfashionable, anachronistic,
coherent beast of an album. H Craig
/
~>^j^ 11
Singles
Unkle - Rabbit In Your Headlights
Calm mellow tune from Mo Wax with an
alternative jazz flow. Pretty cool.
Stereophonies - Bartender And The Thief
I his Is an OK effort from the 'Phonics but
I have heard belter from them, lune still
kicking but a little too repetetive.
Lo-Fldellty Alistars - Battleflag
Bit of a catchy alternative pop tune with
some interesting lyrics and b!
g bark
beats.
Freestylersfeaturing Navigator- Warning
those Freestyllng boys are back with
their new banging single Warning It
comes after their recent success in win-
ning the Best Band Award at the Muzik
Awards. Look out for the mellower Jay-
Rocks Remix
Monk and Cantella- Son
This is a weird wacky kind of alternative
indie track which sounds a little too uno-
riginal and lacks any real sort of tune. Just
not my bag of chips, really.
T H E E S S E N T I A L
C H O O N
Jungle Brothers - Because I Cot It Like
That
The boyz have come out another top
tune delivering the wicked verses that
just make you want to get up and dance.
It's got a bit of an oriental flavour with
the big beats that lead the tune on.
Rae & Christian feat. Veba - Spell Bound
This a cool crisp rune with a D-lnfiuence
kind of flavour, featuring some excellent
female vocals and wicked flute back-
ground. Bit of a tune!
Waste - Hang on
lune starts off well with lots of enthusi-
asm but this brt-pop tune gets too
repetive. There some other tracks on this
promo that have more potential but this
tune is a bit too deflated.
FuzzTownshend - Get Yerself
I his track comes out and gets your atten-
tion and has a catchy back beat but the
ihe lyrics and the chorus then start get-
ting on your nerves. Apart from that the
track is OK.
Dope Smugglers - The Word
this is an annoylngly catchy pop tune
which has a bit of bounce to It but it just
goes on and on too much, they are sim-
ilar to Daft Punk in their style but Just lack
the delivery H
Nim

