12
Tha Bomb!
Music 16 November 1998
The Pecfch an B 0
^ Nine Xards Hit The irlace f h ilo Faith £lovrs ¥a Avray
What up people! This week I'm bringing ya the low-
down on the most recent single releases.
Let's get straight to it, we start off with Incredible
from Mr Mostbeautifulest Keith Murray and featuring
LL Cool J. This is the first track to be taken off his - soon
to come - third album, but if you're expecting the boy
to come over for promotion chores, think again, he's
been banged up and we probably won't see him till well
into the next century. As for Incredible it's good, not
quite incredible, but definitely worth a check if you
haven't heard it yet. LL and Keith combine well over
some steady beats.
Next up we look at the least talented of The Fugees
- Pras - and his new single Blue Angels coming off his
solo album Ghetto Superstar. After the huge success of
Ghetto Superstar featuring Mya, this is bound to get into
the charts first week out, it's already been getting
heaw airplay on the pop radio stations. Only thing is
that it's shit, besides a pretty catchy chorus its got
nothing going for it, Ptas fills thc spaces with his usual
rambling over a sample from Grease, but it all ends up
as shit. Pras could only get worse if he was to sample
ABBA guess what? Rumour has it he's done a lit-
tle number around ABBA's Dancing Queen fuck-
ing hell!!!
Moving swiftly on to something else we got the UK
release of the tune of the year, you gotta know what
I'm talking about, I mention it every week Love
Like This from Faith Evans. This is a dancefloor monster
that has been blowing up since the start of thc year and
at last gets a UK release, you know the score Buy
it.
The Darkchild (Rodneyjerkins) brings us a banging
remix of Brandy's last offering Top of the World, with
Fat Joe and Big Pun on rap duty. This one is perfect for
the car, rolling down the road with a light funked up
beat pumping out the back, beautiful.
British is back, Sista Sista from Beverly Knight, this
young lady has been blazing a way with her second set
Prodigal Sista and this is the third track to be lifted from
it following on the wicked Made It Back and classy
Rewind. The album mix is laid back with some really
impressive vocals laid over the top, although not up to
the standard of thc first two it's still good.
Still with thc British skills we got Another Level
with Guess I Was a Fool, this is more than an adequate
follow up to the excellent Freak Me. Guess I Was., is a
dreamy slow jam that has confirmed these guys as the
top boy band. Watch out for their latest number fea-
turing Shola Ama (tune) and their album still to drop.
But those guys better get ready for my boys - Nine
Yards, these boys hail from Peckham (so you know I
gotta represent for them). They were signed up to Vir-
gin in a second because Daze, Step and Flake (their
names fucked up? ....yep) look the part and most
certainly sound the part. They've just dropped their first
single Loneliness Is Gone, a chunky debut that should
do well and will follow it up with their album Where Do
We Go From Here?, should go straight to the top.
The shiny headed one, R Kelly, comes at us with the
second bomb from his long play set, the single Home
Alone featuring Keith 'banged up in jail (and gonna be
banged up in jail)' Murray. This a wickedly infectious
tune that has got to be a hit, it's funky, it's uptempo,
got a badass beat and it's gonna be a monster. The long
player R. has been acclaimed as the best album to come
from the man, it holds the hits / Believe I Can Fly, Half
On A Baby, Home Alone and Gotham City as well as
new shit featuring Foxy, Kelly Price, Nas, Jay Z and
many more. A double album that's definitely worth a
check.
Some two years after his death Tupac is still releas-
ing tracks and this week sees the release of Happy
I K
Home, this was recorded while at Death Row and is sur-
prisingly good. The single is apparently acting as a
taster for the new forthcoming album You Never Heard.
Death Row are said to still have numerous tracks under
lock and key in the vaults, but I'm hoping they put the
best ones out now, although they're probably gonna
hoard 'em.
Maxwell released his sophomore set just before the
summer break up and I rushed out to spend my cash,
only to be disappointed, I was expecting something that
could at least sit on the same rack as Urban Hang Suite
instead I found Fmbrya. Now don't get me wrong
Embrya is good, but its not on the same level as his
debut set and apparently many agreed with me
because its sales were well down on the projections.
Staying with Maxwell, he recently cancelled his concert
dates In the States, thc official line is cos of personal
problems, initially people said this was a front and it was
actually because of the poor sales. Now though rumour
has it thc soul man has suffered a mental break-
down because of sales? Hope not.
See ya.
Milen
Nine yards coming at ya, all the way from Peckham hair done at Desmonds? I think so!
Phat Selection
Devils Pie - D'Angelo
RAW, DJ Premier lays clown the
beats for soul maestro D'Angelo to
do his stuff to devastating effect.
Keep The Faith - Faith Evans
Tune of the year came first, now
we have album for the year. God
damn!
Loneliness Is Gone - Nine Yards
The new boyz on the block kick it
off with a stunning debut single.
Sweetheart-JD feat. Mariah
Mariah looking fine.

