14 The Electric Cafe 16 November 1998 16 November 1998 The Electric Cafe 15
In the last eight
4 years Richie Havvtin
jj has produced some of
the most intriguing
techno from the
Detroit area. He uses a variety of guises
to release his music Fuse, Concept and
most famously Plastikman. As a DJ, his
status is world-renound. With the release
of the third in the trilogy of Plastikman
albums (Artifakts), the Electric Cafe
caught up with the man behind the
music.
Who are you? What do you?
I look at myself as being some sort
of electronic musician, also a DJ. I've
been creating electronic music since
1990 and doing a lot of travelling and
DJing. But really what I'm doing is Just
producing and playing music that really
grabbed me in the late 1980's.
So you're making a continuation of
that music?
Sort of a continuation. I'm not
someone who sat down and decided to
be a musician or an entertainer or any-
thing like that. I was just going along,
going to school studying film and video.
Nothing to do with music. Then along
came electronic music,- Detroit techno,
Chicago acid house music and like a
truck hit me over the head and the next
thing kind of engulfed my life, and nine
years later here I am talking about it still.
Tell us about how you would play In
a club, normally. What are you looking to
achieve when you are DJing?
A lot of DJs think their main goal is
to make people dance. That's something
that is important to me but I think I'm
more interested in giving people some-
thing a little bit different. Of course I keep
that in the back of my head, 'yes I'm here
in a club atmosphere to make these
people dance', but I don't want to give
people exactly what they want or make
it easy for them. I want to give them
some twists and turns. If the crowd is into
harder-edge techno I want to give them
some of that but something else that
maybe they think they don't like or
maybe it's just that they never really
heard it played well or heard the right
music before. So everytime I play,-
whether it's a mix for home, or in a club
or for a big festival It's more an experi-
ment and exploration in front of people,
and hopefully there's some type of reac-
tion between you and them and you go
somewhere with it.
So it's a form of communication?
Yes. I think any good DJ is someone
who communicates and with all com-
munication it must go there and back. It
can't be one-way flow. I guess when
you're DJing you could just get up there
and hammer your point down to people.
But to make your point, whether as a DJ,
or a verbal communicator or a writer
you have to take into considerations the
feedback and use that feedback to
understand how to get your point across.
So what feedback do you get back
and use to read the crowd?
It's the people, the atmosphere,
even the space you're in. Certain things
seem to work better in confining areas
rather than big areas. You can see peo-
ple really start to get into things and you
know that you can continue on with
that. If sometimes people stop dancing
that also can be good feedback, because
maybe you've gone too far one way but
maybe also people are thinking 'this is
different'. And if they start to react again
Windsor, Canada. From my house to
downtown Detroit is five minutes, just
crossing a river. It's like north and south
London. So a lot of the radio airwaves we
get are from Detroit. In the late 1980's
there were a number of key players in
the area. There was a guy called the
Electrifying Mojo. There was also a guy
who everyone knows now in the techno
"People are trying to
create a much more
purer form of music
one person can
get his message
directly across to a lot
of people."
or walk away, you have to take all these
things into consideration. With anything
you want to take people through differ-
ent experiences. You don't want to give
them 4/4 techno all night. You don't
want to give them house music all night.
You want to take them to different places
and sometimes to the brink of exhaus-
tion or boredom, and then take them
somewhere else. It's always about using
the reaction back from them but keep-
ing one step ahead of them.
How did you get Into this music?
The main reason was radio. I live in
arena whose name is Jeff Mills. I le used
to go under the name the Wizard. On
these shows each of these guys was
playing a crazy mixture of new music.
Everything from a Chicago acid house
track to a German industrial track to a
B52's track, then to some hip-hop, then
to some Detroit techno music. Just new
music. I remember tuning into it and it
was exciting. You were always hearing
new things, things you hadn't heard
before, things twisting. To mc it was the
first time that I really got into music. It was
as if this was what I had been waiting for
and it grabbed me and pulled me right
in.
You talk as if all your musical history
started at this point. Do you think that
things from before came Into It?
It wasn't as sudden as it sounded.
Also in the early 1980's I was getting
into other things. I was into other music
like New Order, some early electro
music. A lot of my friends were into
music at early grade school, but music
never really interested mc, and then as
I started to get exposure to some of this
electronic stuff, even in a pop format like
Erasure or Yazz, then I started to think
'this is really cool'. That's when I really
started to like music. But it wasn't until
Jeff's show when I heard these stripped-
down acidic techno tracks especially a lot
of them from Detroit that I was really
grabbed. That was when it all made
sense and get serious. In the sense that
everything got even more exciting.
What do you think it Is about this
music that grabbed you? Was it because
it was electronic and new? Or what the
early artists were saying with their work?
Partly it was what they weren't say-
ing. I liked the fact that it was stripped
down to the bare minimum, not in a min-
imalistic way, but that it was very pure. I
liked the idea that there wasn't the typ-
ical verbal communication as in vocals.
So each person could take something
out of it, personally. There was still a
feeling there, but it wasn't preaching to
you and that was something that I did-
n't find attractive in other music. Also the
futuristic part of it. The part that when you
turn the radio on or put the needle down
on the record , you were basically getting
into this world where you had never
been before. It was always a new sound.
It's basically the only sound that can be
a futuristic music This is music that even
if you don't like or understand it, is cre-
ated by technology. There is a human
element in there of course, but anything
that is created with technology moves
along with technology. And technology
is one of the fastest moving things on
this planet. Something that you can only
imagine today will be created tomorrow,
and along with that the sound you can
imagine in your head today that you
can't create today will probably be pos-
sible tomorrow.
Do you think this music actually is
technology or is it a way of conveying
technology?
Maybe it's more of a mish-mash of
technology! Technology has always rep-
resented the future to man. It represents
a better tomorrow, to make our lives
better, to make us happier, to improve
the planet we live on. Maybe in that
way, it is apparent in the music. People
are trying to create a much more purer
form of music than has ever been cre-
ated. Classically there were always bands
or symphonies. There were always mul-
tiple players. This is the first type of music
that you can really do intricate melodies
and layouts and scores, but by one per-
son. So even in that way it's become very
pure, that one person can get his mes-
sage directly across to a lot of people.
You talk in terms of technology. Lots
of people talk of music In terms of this
irrational artform that doesn't make log-
ical sense. How do you see this dual
thing?
Well, if the machines were making
the music themselves then it would be
more of a black and white thing; a zero
and one digital nonsense! But man is cre-
ating this technology so there is part of
him in it already, no matter how mechan-
ical it gets. The technology still needs
some type of human intervention to get
something out of it. It's not automatic.
You don't press a button and something
comes out. And so that's the unknown
factor. Each person is different, each per-
son uses a piece of equipment differ-
ently, each person has different ideas in
their heads. So when you sit all these
people down with the same piece of
technology they're all going to pull some-
thing completely different out of those
boxes. That is where the extra colours in
the palette come from.
In your Introduction to the music,
you said you were listening to radio
shows. What happened from there?
After listening to these DJs on the
radio I started to heavily collect a lot of
these records, just for my personal col-
lection. I liked to play them at home.
Because a lot of this music was dance
music I had a lot of friends who started
to get into it, and we came to a problem.
There was a lot of clubs in Detroit that
you could go to to hear the music. But
in Windsor, where I was from there really
wasn't anything. Basically my friends and
I got together to throw some sort of
party. We didn't really know what we
were doing. We just wanted to play the
music loud so we could have some sort
of dance. The only problem with that was
a disused club, in the sense that there
was no one going there, so it was a fail-
ing club. Instead of giving us a one night
party pass and letting us do whatever we
wanted, the deal was that they wanted
us to DJ every Friday night. I'd never
been a DJ before. I didn't even know if
I wanted to DJ every weekend, but I
thought 'Let's go for it and see what
happens!' So it was really something I just
fell into, probably similar to you. You
love this music, and you really want to
get other people into it. And you want to
make sure that play the right things so
that people have the right conditions to
say, 'yes I like it' or 'no I don't like it'. You
obviously don't want people saying, 'I
hate techno!' when they've never really
heard the right kind of track. So that was
why we wanted to do it. We wanted to
dance. We wanted to open up new peo-
ple to this.
So when you started, could you mix?
I was trying, but it wasn't very good.
It was a mish-mash of everything. I did-
n't become a DJ to play crazy under-
ground techno tracks that no one knew.
It was all over the board, but all very elec-
tronic.
After that we started to go to more
clubs. We got fake ID to get inside clubs
in Detroit. Again, I met the right people
and ended up getting a DJ job at the
Shelter in downtown Detroit. That's really
where it all started to happen for mc. It's
where I met the other Detroit producers.
I finally met Jeff who I'd been listening
to on the radio. I met Derrick May and
people like that. It's where there was
more of a creative atmosphere. In 1987
in Detroit there was a lot of producers
making a lot of stuff. These were the
years where it really picked up in England
and all these producers were starting to
travel and get recognition and record
deals. So that affected a lot of people.
Everyone saw that and got more inter-
ested in DJing and maybe even taking a
step up from DJing, in terms of making
their own records. And that's what we
thought of next.
So everything for you was just a shot
in the dark. You didn't know whether it
would work but you just tried it.
Yeah. Isn't that what most people
do? If you put money into school you
don't know if you'll succeed or pass.
You've travelled the globe as a DJ.
When you were talking earlier about
interaction and communication, is that
universal in every country or does the
'language' change as you travel?
There are slight variations from coun-
try to country, especially from the East to
West. There are differences in the crowd,
but only slight cultural differences. The
one thing that you have to remember
about this music is that because there are
no vocals and it is very pure and instru-
mental, it can speak to many people at
the same time across many cultural dif-
ferences. It doesn't matter about your
colour or what language you speak. It's
really about the sounds and the feeling
it gives you. As you travel, people might
dance differently, they may line up a lit-
"A lot of DJs think their
main goal is to make
people dance -that's
important to me but
it's more an experi-
ment and exploration
in front of people."
tie more concisely, but when it comes
down to it, the music is really hitting
these people, and you don't have to
really change it at all. If a certain track
works in one place, the feeling is usually
picked up everywhere. In any other
music, it doesn't really happen. Espe-
cially the typical pop format or music
with vocals. That's where everything
breaks down in communication. Even
people who understand different lan-
guages don't understand the nuances.
You can say different things in different
ways and reverse the words. With elec-
tronic music I really do find that most
places do pick up on what's coming
through on the track.
Why do you use so many different
pseudonyms to record your music?
When I started out recording, the
pseudonyms gave a sense of being
behind the scenes a bit more. When we
talk about the purity of electronic music,
another part of the purity, especially at
the beginning, is that there wasn't really
names or faces out there. It wasn't so
much about the personalities, and it still
isn't. It's more about concepts and ideas,
than with a lot of other forms of music.
The pseudonyms enabled me to release
a lot of records in a short space of time,
with slightly different ideas. Each music
coloured things differently, and enabled
mc to step back and let the records do
the talking. It's nearly like a sonic form of
communication, and enabled mc to
move faster.
Artists who use pseudonyms release
different types of music under each sep-
arate identity. Do you do that too?
Yeah. The Plastikman definitely has
a certain sense about it. A certain atmos-
phere. That's something I try to stick to
when I do that. I recorded under some
other names, Fuse which I did some
years ago, Circuit Breaker. They all had
their purpose I guess.
Are they all different parts of your
psyche?
Everyone has so many different
pieces to themselves. We're all like these
jigsaw puzzles, and really only your clos-
est friends know a bigger portion of
those. But I don't think anybody truly
knows what makes you up except for
yourself. And so with electronic music I
think people are able to show a lot of dif-
ferent versions of those pieces. As those
pieces start to come up through the
equipment and the moods of the pro-
ducer they start to get different sounds
and perhaps different ideas. So I think it
is an interesting idea to have different
sounds or different tags on those differ-
ent moods. It's nearly like you're pre-sort-
ing what you're doing.
When I see photos of you as the Plas-
tikman, it's always a very strange atmos-
phere. The eyes and the glasses are
central. It's quite serious, but in a way
whacky. Do you feel with each pseudo-
nym like an actor slipping into a part?
(continued in Clubscene)

