18 Film 16 November 1998
Reviews
Starring : Nick Nolte, James Coburn, Sissy Spacek, Willem Dafoe
Director: Paul Schrader
A
ffliction is a deep, dark, heavy-
going drama about the impact of
childhood family violence on a
man's life, and the aftershock which
this produces in his adulthood. What
the director is trying to show is that fam-
ily violence and abuse is a hereditary
disease - hence the title Affliction.
Much like previous movies from the
same writer/director (such as Taxi Driver
and Hardcore) the plot focuses on the
pressures of a man's life; the death of his
mother, the paranoia which he feels
about his friends and the loss of his job.
tie has to come to terms with bad rela-
tions with his ex-wife and the fact that he
is not perfect in the eyes of his daugh-
ter. Being set in a snowy, frigid small
town in New Hampshire USA adds to the
bleak hopelessness that the film tries to
portray.
James Coburn (as the father) and
Nick Nolte (as his son) make for a good
on-screen pairing. Noite plays his part
well, after recovering from a shaky, some
would say wooden, start. Sissy Spacek
also acts well, although her role is a very
typecast portrayal of a tormented
woman. In fact, the overall standard of
Stop faking It. Just because you've got games this morning...
acting was convincing, but this unfortu-
nately cannot detract from the medioc-
rity of the movie.
The script leaves a lot to be desired,
and thanks to several seemingly unnec-
essary sub-plots the film feels far too
long. Whilst these add to the overall
mood of the film they do nothing to
contribute to the overall direction of the
film. Affliction tries too hard to make an
impact, and all it suceeds in doing is
puting its audience to sleep.
None of the characters provoke an
empathy, and although the film tries to
achieve some sympathy for Nolte's char-
acter, towards the end you simply don't
care whether he lives or dies. It becomes
increasingly obvious how the film is
going to conclude, and eventually you're
left praying for the film to come to an
end.
For its genre, Affliction is not a
ground-breaking movie. Instead, save
some money and rent out Paul
Shcrader's classic Taxi Driver. Affliction is
simply a made for TV movie with a bet-
ter-than-average cast.Q
Jon & Alex
South Park Volumes 4 - 6 * * *
A
lmost everyone I know loves The
Simpsons. But there are pre-
tenders to the throne of the
"adult cartoon" genre. Beavis and
Butthead, King of the Hill and now
South Park. To compete with the cham-
pion, any series must offer something a
little different. South Park offers us foul-
mouthed, irritating little kids.
For the benefit of those who haven't
yet been victims of the hype, South Park
features four elementary school kids.
Cartman is the token fat kid from a sin-
gle parent family, kyle is a misunder-
stood Jewish kid. Kenny (of "Oh my God!
They killed fame) and his family are
poor because his father is an alcoholic
and Stan is physically sick whenever any
girl he is attracted to speaks to him.
If you've ever been to school, you'll
find something to relate to here. Maybe
you weren't quite as foul mouthed as
these kids, but I'll bet there was one or
two kids at your school who got picked
on or a common obsession with a par-
ticular TV show. No stone is left unturned
in South Park: everyone gets the piss
taken out of them at some point. It's not
a show for the easily offended. Take a
look at the saintly public access show run
from South Park: "Jesus and Pais".
The other supplementary characters
are great too. There's Chef, who's like a
cross between B A Barracus and Barry
White. If you've got a problem and no-
one else can help, Chef's bound to have
a spirit raising song on offer, probably
involving laying someone down and
making sweet lurve. Mr Garrison is the
kids teacher. I lis glove puppet friend, Mr
Head, accompanies him everywhere and
his 'persuasion' is a little dubious to say
the least. My favourite is the old man
who lives up in the hills on the South Park
Genetic Engineering Range, breeding
new species for the common good as
well as monkeys with four butts.
Volumes 5 & 6 cover two episodes
each. Volume S includes Starvin' Marvin
and MechaStreisand. In the former, the
kids accidentally get delivered an 'Eth-
ernopian' (sic) child instead of their
Tako™ sports watch. Cartman gets
returned to Africa in his place and uncov-
ers the truth behind the relief campaign.
In MechaStreisand, Cartman discovers
an ancient triangle at an excavation site.
Once Barbara Streisand discovers that it
is in fact the Triangle of Zendar, she
desparately tries to get her hands on it
so she can complete the Diamond of
Pantheos and become the most destruc-
tive force in the world.
Volume 6 begins with A South Park
Christmas. The Jews are offended by the
inclusion of the nativity in the school
Christmas play and boycott it. Enter Mr
Flankey, the Christmas Poo, who comes
out of the toilet every year to give pre-
sents to those who have a lot of fibre in
their diets. Finally, Jesus vs Satan fea-
tures the final battle between good and
evil, only on pay per view at the cut price
of $49.95.
The problem with South Park is that
once you've got over the initial shock of
just how offensive it is, there's not much
left. To be fair, I've watched MechaS-
treisand about five times and still enjoy
it. But the rest just don't do it for me any-
more: they're not really re-watchable,
which kind of defeats the point of buy-
ing the videos. And with only two
episodes per tape, it's difficult to rec-
ommend them. Q
Andy

