2 News 16 November 1998
Activists Picket Tunisian Embassy
By Ed Sexton
On Saturday 7 November a protest by
human rights demonstrators was held
outside the Tunisian embassy in Kens-
ington.
The protest was intended to coincide
with the l l l h anniversary of Tunisian
President Ben Lai's Coup. Since he seized
power there have been many arrests of
political activists and various human
rights violations. Amnesty International
have reported that "detainees are tor-
tured by being suspended in contorted
positions, having their heads plunged
into buckets of water and chemicals
while being suspended on a pulley; elec-
tric shocks, beatings especially on the
head and genitals, and sleep deprivation
for up to seven days".
Two thousand so-called 'prisoners
of conscience' have gone on hunger
strike to mark the anniversary, and the
protest outside the embassy was
intended as a show of support for their
action.
I
Tunisian protesters campaigning outside the embassy Photo: Ed
issue 1126
16 November 1998
Editor: Ed Sexton
News Editor: Andy Ofori
Photographic Editor: William forenz
Music Edilors: Jason Ramanathan and
Dennis Patrickson
film Editor: David Roberts
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Layout & Photo Editing: Joel Lewis
Between fifty and one hundred peo-
ple stood on the pavement by Hyde Park
holding banners demanding Ben Lai's
removal from power and an end to the
regime in Tunisia. Several police officers
were present outside the embassy, but
the afternoon passed peacefully and
without major incident.
Oppression of religion in Tunisia has
also been common, with women being
dismissed from education and work for
wearing the Islamic veil, which is
regarded as a criminal offence. The
demonstrators feel that thc international
community has not done enough to
help the Tunisian people, while in Europe
and America Tunisia is often seen as lit-
tle more than a tourist destination.
Thc situation seems unlikely to
improve in the foreseeable future, with
the last report from the Committee for
the Protection of Journalists including
Tunisia as one of its top ten enemies of
the press.
BBC Play Big Brother over
Mandy's Outing
By Ed Lanyon
The past two weeks have seen a massive
row blow up over Peter Mandelson's
'outing' as a homosexual, live on the
BBC's NewsniQht programme. The ensu-
ing media circus illustrated the BBC's
seemingly intrusive stance on censor-
ship. Following Ron Davies' Clapham
Common escapades, Jeremy Paxman
was interviewing Matthew Parris, Thc
Times' political columnist, discussing
homosexuality in the Labour cabinet.
During this discussion Parris announced
that Mandelson was "certainly gay".
Parris, who later said that Mr Man-
delson's sexuality was "a matter of pub-
lic record" was accused of "attention
seeking" by Tony Blair's official
spokesman. Further claims of hypocrisy
were made by others, as Mr Paris chose
to keep his own homosexuality private
throughout his parliamentary career as a
Tory MP. Mandelson himself complained
to the BBC and to the Press Complaints
Commission. Paxman was seen hand-
delivering an apology to Mandelson's
house, while Mandelson wrote to Pax-
man accusing him of maliciously orches-
trating the incident.
Thc following day thc BBC issued an
internal memo saying "under no cir-
cumstances whatsoever should allega-
tions about the private life of Peter
Mandelson be repeated or referred to in
any broadcast". This internal censorship
annoyed many within the BBC and was
flagrantly ignored by the Have I Got
News for You team who, amongst oth-
ers, implied that Mandelson's friendship
with BBC director general, Sir John Birt,
might be earning him favourable treat-
ment.
The BBC was quick to deny any
favouritism, claiming that the memo sim-
ply reinforced their existing policy to
"not report speculation about the private
lives of public figures unless there is a
wider issue of public concern". Thc very
same day the memo was issued, how-
ever, the BBC questioned Ron Davies
about his private life, asking him directly
if he was gay. When questioned about
these apparent double standards BBC
sources said that Ron Davies sexuality
was a matter of "national signifi-
cance"but Mandelson's was not.
So who decides what is significant?
This is a crucial question as the judge-
ment of this individual will be used to jus-
tify both wholesale censorship and future
intrusions into private lives.
Space Age Mirror Makes Light
Work
By Sanjay Sikdar
On 1 November a cargo ship docked
with the Russian space station Mir in
order to deliver a nine pound piece of
equipment. However, come February
this plastic object coated with aluminium
will be unfolded to form a 30 metre
wide mirror. Thc same cargo ship will be
used to align thc mirror by remote con-
trol so that it will beam sun light to sev-
eral areas between 30 and 40 degrees
latitude.
II is planned to complete around 16
orbits before falling into the atmos-
phere and burning up. In the sky it will
resemble a shooting star but on the
ground it will illuminate an area a mile
and a half wide. Unfortunately, at this
stage the Russian scientists may not be
able to precisely control where this light
beam will fall between these two lati-
tudes.
The idea behind this grandiose
plan, in light of the economic minefield
afflicting the country in its transition to
capitalism, is to illuminate the perpetual
darkness of northern Russian cities. For
instance in Siberia, a lack of sunlight
through long winter nights can lead to
full blown depression.
The experiment was tried before
in 1 993, but thc mirror was not visible
from the Earth. However, if this test
proves successful and if the poverty
stricken Russian space agency can
afford it, it may be just a prelude to a
'necklace' of mirrors orbiting the entire
globe. This could lead to other avenues
such as using the night sky for adver-
tising.
Like most things launched into
space, the plan has its detractors, for
years, astronomers have implored city
authorities to use lighting that docs not
brighten the cities because it Is hard to
look at the stars unless it is really dark.
Problems with light pollution have wors-
ened as cities expand towards sites
occupied by observatories. As a result
astronomical enthusiasts are often
forced into thc depths of the country-
side in the quest for a reasonable view
of celestial bodies. Instruments
designed for low light levels could be
destroyed by thc mirror's brilliance.
If more such mirrors are employed,
other possible future calamities may
include an increase in the current rate
of global warming or a disturbance of
the hibernation patterns of various ani-
mal species.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/relix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16- 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040-0711
felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

