22 Arts 16 November 1998
WORLD PRESS PHOTO
Royal Festival Hall, Main Foyer
T
he World Press Photo exhibition
finally reached London a few days
ago. It shows the best of world-
wide photography from 1997. The event
covers an amazing variety of subjects: sci-
entific ptogress, tragedies, funny situa-
tions, sport exploits and many others.
However, the most striking picture
remains the one advertised ail over the
world: the power image of an Algerian
woman in pain crying outside a hospital.
In fact, emotions appear throughout the
exhibition: a picture of a woman from
Afghanistan shying away from the cam-
era, children in Africa being taught about
AIDS, Kurds fighting for their lives,
tragedies in Albania or Israel. There are
also lots of laughs to be had: priests get-
ting changed to play a football match,
gay rodeos, Gilbert and George standing
on Brighton beach.
Lach photo had a particular effect on
me. The exhibition includes only about
200 pictures, narrowed down from the
36000 original competition entries, so
the work presented here is bound to be
the most striking and influential. Thc
photos address major issues in the world
and are often more descriptive than any
Dafoe or the touching picture of Tai-
wanese newly-weds sleeping in the back
of their limousine, their heads pointing
written text. They touch a very profound
part in us without going over the top like
television so often does. Some are also
just artistic works without any particular
message like thc Russian Bolshoi
dancers, the portraits of the actor Willem
in opposite directions. Progress in the
field of science is illustrated too; a series
of pictures about "plastination" (pre-
serving human bodies or parts) and a
hilarious shot of Dolly the sheep, finally,
the sports section offers some fascinat-
ing photos: Evander Hollyfield's bitten off
ear after his match against Mike Tyson,
Craig Golding's series of sumos in action
and, most touching of all, a young base-
ball team's life on the road travelling
from game to game.
You might have seen a few of these
pictures in papers or magazines, but it's
brilliant to be able to view them all
together in one room. They're a good
reminder of the events which occurred
during 1997 as well as an indication as to
why photography is so important to us.
Which other medium can boast being an
art, an entertainment and a way of touch-
ing human conscience in such a natural
way?
D.
Until 29th November
Nearest tube: Waterloo/Embankment
Opening hours: daily 10am - 10.30pm
Admission: f REE
THE INVENTION OF LOVE
Theatre Royal Haymarket
T
he critically acclaimed
playwright Tom Stop-
pard (Rosencrantz
and Cuilderstern are Dead,
Arcadia, Indian Ink) is
renowned for his meticulous
research when embarking
on projects. His plots are
generally inspired by histor-
ical events or real-life char-
acters,- this latest piece, a dramatised
biography of thc poet A.E. Housman
(1859 - 1936), is no exception.
Stoppard explores the social and cul-
tural climate at the end of thc nine-
teenth century, in particular with respect
to homosexuality. Indeed, "boy worship
and buggery" were then rife in the male
dominated universities. The trial of Oscar
Wilde serves as a background, illustrating
the enforcement of thc 1885 amend-
ment to the Sexual Offences Bill, which
criminalised homosexual acts until 1967.
The play, directed by the esteemed
Richard Eyre, opens in a ripple of dry ice.
Charon, a Grim Reaper type ferryman in
Greek mythology, glides on stage in a
punt to collect the recently deceased
Housman. Our hero is transported back
to his youth, from which point the audi-
ence witnesses his life in flashback. As he
revisits his student days at Oxford, the
unexpected encounter between cynical
senior and idealistic junior (intelligently
performed by John Wood and Ben
Porter) occurs. The spectators arc sym-
pathetic to Housman's personal turmoil
- his unrequited, gay affec-
tion for his best friend. He
suffers through repressed
passion, disguised behind
camaraderie, and heart-
breaking rejection by find-
ing solace in professional
achievements. Housman
is a dedicated textual critic
(correcting faulty transla-
tions and unfaithful copies of antique lit-
erary manuscripts) and an accomplished
scholar in the field of Classics (his
attempts to identify the first ever love
poem explain the title of the play).
Sadly, the moments of sparkle and
sensitive humour are clouded by a long-
winded script. Although delivered with
gusto, the dialogue, which contains
extensive passages in Latin, is often
tedious and overly intellectual. The sub-
ject is genuinely interesting, not only in
terms of the poet himself, but also in
view of the turbulent historical period. It
therefore seems a great shame to some-
what drown this potential in pedantic
details.
/ lelena
Until 24th April
Nearest tube: Piccadilly Circus
Tickets: half-price standby places for con-
cessions available 1 hour before the per-
formance
ONE WOMAN (part 2)
Battersea Arts Centre
c One :j£* °<i
T
his week is the
second arti
about th
Woman festival of <JT
he.;'!' and inu' •
Again, I saw two n : (
shows and both were
very enjoyable. The first one, Bondage,
described a night in the life of a London
prostitute performed by Sarah Brignall.
The play's script was very powerful; Liz
talks about her clients as they stop along
side her. One man in particular returns
continually asking to do it "without a
rubber". And every time she refuses
although he offers her a lot of money.
She then starts telling us about the dif-
ferent types of men she has business
with; some are very violent, others have
their particular perversions, most of them
are old, for some it's their first experi-
ence. Liz gradually becomes more per-
sonal and shares deep feelings about her
job and her sacrifices. She left her son
with foster parents somewhere in the
countryside and it's obviously really hurt
her. The text and situations are very strik-
ing. The only thing that doesn't really fit
in properly is thc actress. Brignall does-
n't have the right tone or manner at all.
So the best way to enjoy this production
is to ignore her performance and con-
centrate instead on what is being said
and done.
The second performance of the
night was Greetings from Hollywood
played by Cyndi Freeman. Here on thc
other hand, the
actress is amazing.
She does the most
brilliant imperson-
.... ations of all her
| friends as well as of
j j g some famous peo-
ple, frequently making the audience
laugh out loud. Her story begins with
"when I first moved to LA", followed by
the most crazy and hilarious anecdotes
imaginable - the day that she decided
she was going to act in a TV soft-porn
movie for example. She goes through all
the rehearsals, detailing how ugly and
nasty her co-star is, how pretty and dumb
the other girls are. She then proceeds to
tell us about her Monday night group
therapy - she is apparently a regular vis-
itor to such sessions! She always realises
too late that all they do is steal her
money. I enjoyed this play tremendously
thanks to Freeman who really comes
across as a natural comedienne.
I can only urge you to go and see
some of these One Woman shows at the
BAG They all have an interesting edge to
them, often making them more exciting
that any West End production.
D.
Until 22nd November
Nearest tube: Clapham Common
Tickets: concessions £5.50 (Tuesday 17th
November "Pay what you can night")

