26 Sport 16 November 1998
Hockey Football
4th XI Women's Football
1st XI
IC 2 - 0 LSE
Having got the wrong bus and arriving
30 minutes late, we knew LSE would be
one of those annoying public boy
squads. We dominated the intia!
moments, winning short corner after
shor corner.
After setting up camp in LSE's D,
cross after cross was fired with little joy.
This pattern of play continued leaving the
game scoreless at half time.
After an inspired talk from the
injured Mr. T, we came out Guns-a-BIaz-
ing. Our second successive short corner
led to the first goal when 11 + sweeped
2nd XI
IC 3 - 0 Barts
This game was a classic - majestic skill,
pinpoint passing and enough creativity
to make Gazza cry. Or get drunk.
Carlos, the one named wonder,
finally made his mark on a game. His first
Fencing
ICMFC 17-10 UCL
ICWFC 9 - 9 UCL
The mens fencing team arrived at South-
side almost complete: mens foil - Dave
"Taff" Davidge, Henry "Jock" McMorton,
Eddie "Crazy Legs" Rysdale; mens sabre
- M o "Mr Animal" Mansooni, Dave
"Cap'n Phil" Hughes and Henry again;
mens epee - Robert "Big Pappa" Num-
berg, Nigel "Even Older Geezer" Davies
and Eddie.
Foil first and our men's team started
out well with all our fencers winning
their first fights with case (except for
Eddie who was a bit shit today (or as he
said "utter wank"). He blammed it on
fancying the UCL women's team captain,
we realised he was lying - she was too
ugly even for Ed). Our other slight diss-
apointment was Henry losing our last foil
fight - I suppose he can be allowed to
be a little cocky. Foil score: IC 6 - 3 UCL.
Sabre next and with the men's team
lacking the expertise of Thorsten "Never
Here" Meyer (again!) we weren't expect-
ing to do well. But with an amazingly
good set of wins by Dave (all fights) and
an OK performance by Henry (for a
foilist), but a bit crap from Mo, having lost
a fight as the resident sabre-wicldcr -
being the only one that turns up. Unfor-
it across the goal with Spag Bol finishing
nonchalently. The previous pattern of
play continued but LSE started being
more dangerous as IC tired and became
more and more frustrated with the score
line. IC were obviously better but we
first couldn't score to make the game
more secure.
Then LSE had a dangerous attack
with Red Helmet saving well, followed
quickly by the second goal that IC so
badly needed. Pink Gash sent Blue
Underpants sent on a run down the
wing by Pink Gash, put in a great cross,
which was finished superbly by Jambo
Bwana, our newly discovered goal
machine!
The result, was undisputed 2-0 to
the IC boys.
hat-trick for IC almost made up for the
fact that he was wearing a poncy ban-
dana.
Barts' defence seemed to have been
training with Liverpool FC and only IC's
generous finishing kept the score down.
Mentions go to Captain Chunder for
some amazing misses and Fluke for
squaring up to a fight. Come on you wee
dancers!
tunately M o couldn't use the same
excuse as Ed as he has better taste - he
admitted he was crap. Sabre score: IC 6
- 3 UCL.
tpee followed and with such a lead
the team relaxed and Rob won all his
fights, Nige won two of his (good for his
first match of the season) and Eddie lost
all his fights - at least he won one foil
fight! Epee score: IC 5 - 4 UCL.
Overall very good - signs are good
for another BUSA team win.
Women's team: Foil: Katherine "Jailbait"
Sissons, Candy "Sweetshop" Tang,
Lcucha "Arising" Venger; Epec: Viviene
"Barbie" Ting, Katherine and Leucha.
Due to a strong UCL women's foil
team the birds didn't do too well. Only
Katherine managed to win her fights. Foil
score: IC 3 - 6 UCL.
The epee went a lot better as our
women dominated it. All of the team lost
one fight each that meant scoring went
on hits during fights. Unfortunately the
slightly poor performance in the foil
meant our women's team did not win as
we received 8 hits more. It was a very
good epee performance by the women.
The only bd thing is that the UCL women
were offended when we suggested they
were cheating by getting their men's
captain to give them tips between points
in a fight.
IC 3 - 2 Goldsmiths
After a disapolnting draw against St
Georges on Saturday from a last minute
equaliser, the "notorious motley crew"
were expecting a better outcome from
today's game against a team a couple
of divisions below us.
Missing a key player (deep heat) fol-
lowing his "detainment" last night we
were clearly all suffering from our visit
to Hombres. Wishart hadn't slept and
Ricki was so rough he had to be substi-
tuted after 20 minutes for Chris. Too
many shandy's eh!
The game was a little unsettled at
the start, with Taylor quoted as saying "I
don't know which ball we're playing
with as I can see double." John D
notched up his second of the season
with a clinical free kick, but then Goldies
took advantage of our dazed state scor-
ing two goals in quick sucession.
At half time heads were low, but a
stern "kick up the arse" team talk by the
captain Elliot, who dominated the game
in the air, led lo a "Gary Lineker" goal
from Gurm (the teams top scorer). After
this the mighty fourths played like the
team they actually are, commanding
the game until the third goal finally
came, and what a goal it was. Aidan
picked up the balls about 35 yards out,
dribbled through their defence like a
wizard and finshed with a superb strike.
The fourths really had to dig deep
today and although the fire in our bel-
lies was only ignited at half time, how
it burned. All together now I rom the
pubs of South Kensington
Volleyball
IC Ladies' 11 -15 UCL
This might have been a defeat but we
are not at all discouraged by it! The
ladies' volleyball team lost against UCL
last Wednesday 4th November in what
was an exciting and enjoyable match.
The first set started out well but then silly
mistakes and careless serving made us
lose the advantage we got during the
first few minutes and ended 9-15.
Set 2 saw a great revival and we
played with enthusiasm and determi-
nation winning the set by 15-13. Finally,
we lost morale and our opponents took
advantage of our increasing careless-
ness. Towards the end though we were
slowly gathering up strength again...
but then it was too late. We look forward
to playing good matches like this in the
near future... hopefully we will change
the score to our favour!
IC 3 -1 Royal Free
Despite not being accustomed to play-
ing on pitches wider than they are long
and on a 30 degree incline, IC settled
into the game well and Ginger put us a
goal up before long. Jazz scored after a
goal mouth scramble resulting from a
Hacker cross. It was all too clear who the
better team were. Hedge, Froud and
Wannabe Yank had little to do in
defence until Free put a Wimbeldon
style ball through to pull one back.
Elhosh put one in after skipping past the
butch Free defenders to make it 3-1. And
that's how it stayed.
IC 3 - 2 St Georges
A daunting task faced us with SG having
a full team and subs but after a prep talk
from Hacker and the decision to play
without a midfield, we were assured
that the midgets couldn't dent us if they
tried. And we were right. Boris put IC a
goal up within 10 minutes, but SG
caught us off-guard and stuck one in
past Melody (despite the attempts by
Baldrich to hack their players down) to
level the score and it remained 1
-
1 at
half-time. Some nice passing between
Hacker and Chesire Cat resulted in
Boris's second goal of the game, which
tricked over the line just past the SG
keepers reach. SG equalised againand
just when we thought it was all over
some superb individual skill from Boris
in the last S minutes made the scotc 3-
2 to IC and a well deserved win!
Marie 'Hacker' Nicholaou
Women's rugby
IC Virgins 37 - Kings 10
WE WON!! (1st win in 2 years!)
Despite this handicap of having only 12
players, we were 12-0 up after 5 minutes,
due to a try from big Claire and a con-
verted try from little Clare. KCL couldn't
cope with the sheer power of our for-
wards and quickly changed to uncon-
tested scrums. Two more tries followed
by little Clare and Cecile and we went
into half time 22-5.
The seond half went just as well,
wilh Wendy weaving past 5 players for
her first try in 3 years, and another try
each for Cecile and little Clare. The only
dissappointment being a lack of con-
centration which let them in for an easy
try. Well done to everyone concerned,
especially the outnumbered backs.
PS - boys watch out for the perv and
the flasher.

