16 November 1998 Sport 27
ICU Rugby
SPONSORED BY UniLever
2nd XV
IC 67 - 0 QMW
Across the windswept plains of Harling-
ton, the IC Warriors strode. Sinews
strained, muscles taut. After the battle
horn sounded for kick-off. Ally "Bully" Jef-
frey chipped a sweet ball up for Dune
"The Spunk" Raincy to notch up his first.
8 minutes into the conflict UUUgood
sidestepepd through to score. After IS
minutes "Flying" Flo, having sprinted
from the halfway line planted a momen-
tus try between the posts. Moments
later the Spunk struck again with a
beaut', sidestepping and handing off
at least 9 people to put his second past
the Queen's defence. With 22 minutes
on the clock a gorgeous back-line move
saw Simon blast his way through to
touch his first down. Flo's blistering
acceleration baffled the opposition leav-
ing the way clear for a score under the
posts. On the stroke of halftime Simon
G. bosched through the opposition
defence with a war-cry to hammer home
his second making the score at the
break 45-0.
The second half started off slowly,
with a try by Spunk disallowed. After 55
minutes the tide swung our way again,
with "Jolly" Oily Conga tearing through
the Queen's defence, sending IC's
moral soaring. Seconds later No 8 Dun-
can Brett skipped over the line to dis-
hearten the opposition further.
Ihe opposition were caught napping
when the Spunk attempted an acrobat-
ical dive, but was sent sprawling, knock-
ing the ball on, thus failing miserably to
score an easy try. With full-lime rapidly
approaching, Joe the No 5 smashed
through to score. Final play saw Rich the
flanker pace over the line after a fan-
tastic forwards move. In the harsh con-
ditions Bully's pukka boot rung true,
converting 6 tries.
ISt XV
IC 64 - 0 QMW
A total thrashing of the ponces from
Epping Forest, Dave "God" got twat of
the day award for having two left hands
and a mother who comes from Delhi.
Daa "Pharoah" Higazi got Man of the
Match for dancing with Lloydy's sister -
the diffrencc today is he scored. Dave
"Annabel" Hogg led by example and
was crap. He will be substitued by Vir-
gins' fly-half Clare "Cockayne" next week.
The pack were rampant and the backs
penetrating and also showed superb
rear-guard action, especially Chris "Dick-
in-son" who missed all his kicks but
munched the poncy wingers.
(Errmm...Can whoever was previously
writing the 1st XV results please come
back - the above was the best I could
extract from their match "report" - Gus).
ICSM Rugby
IMPERIAL MEDICALS GO TOP!
ICSM 32-17 Brunei
This Wednesday Imperial Medicals went
top of the BLJSA rugby premiership with
a convincing win over University Col-
lege Brunei, the winners of the compe-
tition three years ago. The match, played
at Teddington, where IMRFC remain
unbeaten for 18 months, is guaranteed
to send Shockwaves through student
rugby in this country, as Brunei were
unbeaten up until this point.
The match started well with a try for
the Medics by James Piatt, the student
international left wing, which was con-
verted right from the touchlinc by Oliver
Kayes. Brunei only managed a penalty in
reply before half time, where they made
three changes.
However, after half time Brunei
scored a converted try to take the lead
10-7, putting immense pressure on the
Medics. Roused on by excellent support,
the pack quickly re-established it's author-
ity on the game and two tries, one by the
number eight Simon Neequaye, and the
other by the blindside flanker Mark
Grant, following a complicated back row
move, plus another Kayes penalty saw
the lead stretched to 22-10. At this point
the Brunei team started to resort to
stamping and kicking as they saw the
game ebb away. The best response to
this tactic was two more tries, one by
Fielding, and a well deserved try for
Kayes, which saw the game dead and
buried.
Brunei scored a converted try with
the last play of the match, but nothing
could wipe away the smile on the Impe-
rial Medicals faces as the final whistle
blew, knowing that they had gone top.
Both teams will now know that there is
no team that cannot be beaten on the
way to the very top of this championship.
Astonishing Comeback!
ICSM 2nd XV 22 - 20 Brunei
A more closely fought match than the
firsts, saw IMRFC 2nd XV beat Brunei
after coming back from 0 -20 down, an
astonishing comeback. The win included
two tries by the second team hooker
Justin Hughes, reminding the selectors of
his presence and a great all round per-
formance by the young Imperial Medic
Fresher Rob Jeff at open-side flanker.
The team captain, Mr William Tuff com-
mented " All the boys were brilliant today
but we couldn't have won it without
Rob, he had a blinder!"
The team in total contained four
freshers, one of whom was taken to
hospital after disclocatlng his shoulder,
something that only acted as a further
spur to his team mates, who held on at
the death under immense pressure to
make this one of the most succcsful
days in this young clubs history.
Oliver Warren
Diversions
Around IC
Mon 16 Tues 17 Wed 18 Thurs 19 Fri 20 Sat 21 Sun 22
ConSoe - Oliver Letwin LabSoc- Ben Bradshaw, Careers Fair, Union Din- Cocktail Night Abandon - dB's8-10pmTha Bomb - dB's Standing Room Only -
MP; Huxley 213 1pm Pippard Lecture Theatre
1pm
ing Hall 10am4pm DaVinci's Bar 5-11pm
Common People - ICU
8pm-12am DaVinci's Bar 4pm
CAG Tools for Self ConSoc - Cheryl Gillan ICU COUNCIL 6pm 9pm-2am
Reliance - Basement of Quiz Night - DaVinci's MP 1pm
Beit Quad 6pm Bar 8pm
ClubXS ICU 9pm-1am
CAG Soup Run 8pm
Basement, Weeks Hall
Standing Room Only - CAG Soup Run 8pm
DaVinci's Bar 7pm Basement, Weeks I lall
Caving Ciub Meeting -
Southside Lounge 9pm
CLAYPONDS CINEMA
TRIPTO EALING BROAD-
WAY contact
ian.doyle@ic.ac.uk

