16 November 1998 News 3
In brief...
Southside Arrest
Last week Security "detained a person in
connection with criminal damage to the
Southside barrier", according to the secu-
rity chief, Ken Weir. Three individuals
were escorted to the security lodge,
where they refused to identify them-
selves. Their obstinacy left security with
no choice but to call the police. One of
the individuals unwisely became abusive
and was arrested for public order
offences. The reveller suspected of
breaking the barrier also earned a free
trip to the station for criminal damage.
All three were later identified as stu-
dents, but it is not yet known whether
charges will be pressed.
Mr Weir stated "alcohol was
involved" and was keen to emphasise
the futility of withholding identity from
College staff and officials. He explained
that if the students involved in last
week's incident had disclosed the infor-
mation when asked the entire matter
could have remained within the Col-
ege.
Wilson Update
Security chief Ken Weir recently met with
the police's crime prevention unit as a
result of last month's burglaries on the
ground floor of Wilson Hall (Fe//x1125).
Subsequent recommendations have
been referred to the College Residences
Committee. It has been confirmed
ground floor CCTV coverage has been
ruled out due to the potential invasion
of privacy. Instead more physical mea-
sures, such as fencing, have been
agreed upon.
Weeks Break-In
Weeks Hall has been subject to intruders
on "a couple of occasions recently"
explained Chief Security Officer Ken Weir.
The unfortunate victim was a pool table
from which a "very small amount of cash"
was stolen. The hall staff and security
are, however, taking the matter seriously,
and intend to analyse video evidence in
an attempt to identify the culprit.
Cash for Questions
Bill Cash MP attended a ConSoc meeting
last week.He is rcnouncd and offer
shunned for his views on Europe, and his
stance is best described by his phrase:
"European Trade: Yes, European Gov-
ernment: No". One of his major con-
cerns is that of the possible domination
by Germany that would in his eyes, occur
if we were governed centrally.
An interesting issue raised was that
of subsidies to German and other Euro-
pean companies which, in his opinion,
compete unfairly with our markets to
their advantage. The talk was all the
more salient for the questions asked by
Germans in the audience. Cash
described a single harmonised tax pol-
icy as heading for the rocks and
expressed his doubts over European
Monetary Union. In addition to the talk,
Cash signed a number of copies of The]
European Journal.
The next speaker will be Cheryl
Gillian MP in room 342 Mechanical Engi-
neering 1-2pm.
RCSU Dinner Rocks On
Last Tuesday, the Royal College of Sci-
ence Union held its annual departmen-
tal dinners. Due to a lack of first year
response, however, a Constituent Col-
lege Union wide dinner was formed,
encompassing all of the science depart-
ments: Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry,
Maths and Physics.
The evening started off well with a
sherry reception, generously sponsored
by the RCSA (RCS graduate association
After the arrival of the RCSU mascot
Theta and the recently aquired Mike
(ICU's mascot), the dinner could begin
in earnest. Since formal dinners require
participants to remain in the room and
not remove their coats or smoke until
the Queen has been toasted, the RCSU
adopts the same rules, and several pint
penalties were paid by transgressors.
After the food, there were two
bands for those who resisted the temp-
tations of Le Scandaie. First up were
Hors D'Uvet, who played a pleasant
selection of rock, ancient and modern.
Finishing off with a blinding grungified
rendition of Postman Pat, they had a
small crowd bouncing enthusiastically
Next up were The Men On The Grassy
Knoll, who played another diverse selec-
tion, from Jamiroquai to Rage Against
The Machine. The bar stayed open until
1am, though, so the night was a great
success.
Bike Branding
Many students took precautions against
bike theft and brought their bikes along
to the ground floor of the Sherfield build-
ing to get them stamped, for those who
missed out 'on the security campaign
last Wednesday, Thursday and Friday,
and who want their bike stamped secu
rity can be contacted on ext 58900.
A Steamy Affair
By Andrew Ofori
An eerie mist would have greeted those
strolling past the BMS building on Thurs-
day 5 October. Further investigation
would have highlighted the bowels of
the Queens Lawn as the source.
All college buildings arc linked via
underground tunnels, which hold the
local area's central services. Joints in a
concrete section of a tunnel were leak-
ing water. The level rose above that of
the heating pipes which run from the Sci-
ence Museum and water was boiled off.
The particularly cold conditions on Thurs-
day compounded the situation as the
resulting steam billowed out from an
access hole in the Queen's Lawn.
Initial reports of steam emanating
from a closed man-hole were ignored on
the Wednesday night as steam is often
produced in the tunnels; but the gravity
of the situation was clear by the follow-
ing morning. Areas beneath the BMS
building, amongst others, were flooded
with 4ft of water and have warranted an
extensive clean-up operation involving a
number of days of pumping. The main-
tenance manager explained the sub-
mersible, portable pumps currently
installed in the tunnels were simply
unable to cope with the sheer volume of
water caused by the recent downpours,
as well as building work, which alters the
natural route of the water. Maintenance
have experienced problems finding extra
pumps that are powerful enough to raise
the water the 30ft necessary to reach
ground level.
The incident is the latest addition to
the rapidly growing catalogue of inci-
dents surrounding the unfortunate BMS
building." [here arc so many things with
the Fleming building. I lose track of
them" was the Director of tstates esti-
mation of the worrying trend.
• * ? e l
... . .... .......
A mist forms
i-„<! •.. : a n d N L !:> Ill-
Proudly Presents,...
wJy I Met 11 W r l I ivMh
Incarnations of Light
of It
: comedy and an
e \'tii ts nr fi LS h iii | s him >
T i c } h < ' . ; M m y p:
• > . : t j u ! S;. i i c a c u k )
Proceeds go to Britisbifc it-delion
and The West Middlesex Pulse Appeal
Monday 23 ' November 1998
S p o n s o r e d b y :
\ I h i o -
SOU C i T o 11.
V i N t f O M
SI
'/.

