4
Letters 16 November 1998
A Final Word on Medics?
Mr Editor,
I am writing both to clarify a couple of
inaccuracies in your editorial of 9th
November, and make an additional
point, or two.
Firstly, as regards the content of my
earlier letter, in the build up to my writ-
ing it, I stood in front of the whole year
group and stated that I was going to
write a letter to Felix expressing my dis-
pleasure at recent Felix articles, and the
following day, I again stood up and
addressed the year group, specifically
stating that no one should feel under any
pressure to sign it and that they should
only do so if they wanted to; in addition,
multiple copies were available in the lec-
ture theatre for people to read, but unfor-
tunately as these were hogged and
defaced by one of your journalists, Claire
Ashwin, and her associates, it is of no sur-
prise that not as many people got to read
them as should have.
Secondly, I was pleasantly surprised
by the attitude taken by many of the stu-
dents, who after reading the letter in
Felix expressed their support, but their
knowledge of the exact details was
impeded by reasons stated earlier, so
please bear in mind the fact that over
60% of the 2nd at Charing Cross signed
this, we are not to be ignored.
Thirdly, my initial letter was handed
in with about 110 signatures so could you
please find out what happened to the
others. [I have no idea-we typed In all
those we had at the time, but a page
may have gone missing. Sorry. - Ed]
Finally, there is nothing in my letter
that insinuated an active intention to
stop integration, and this can be safely
assumed to be the case with at least 60%
of medical students as my letter's sup-
porters show. My last paragraph stated
that it is In everyone's interest that we get
along, and as such, I will try in anyway to
ensure a harmonious existence between
medics and non medics regardless of
what you or anyone else may think.
Mr Osa Emohare
Dear Felix,
I am a first year medic and I have to side
with the editor on this one. You have to
feel sorry for the first year as we seem to
be rejected by all of IC. It's no wonder
that medics form a tight community if
only for defence.
The real problem that we face is the
rivalry between Mary's and CX students
as we belong to neither. Medics nights
out usually turn into a "who can shout the
name of their medical school loudest
competion!" We are just left stood about
looking bewildered as to where to put
ourselves.
IC need to think that if all they are
going to do is give medics abuse then
medics aren't going to want to Integrate
with them and the older medics need to
realise that they are part of IC too and all
a merger does is to broaden the traditons
of the medical schools and not to take
them away.
Can we stop the torrents of abuse
going in both directions now?
Joe
Dear Felix
I must come clean. Your editorial in
issue 1125 was right - certainly with
regard to me. The first time I read the
letter from Osa Emohare which I had
'signed' was in the pages of Felix a week
later. Obviously this only reflects badly
on me and not at all on Osa.
The first year medics have the oppor-
tunity to enjoy belonging at IC, and to
their credit they do so. For second year
medics who live and work mainly in
Hammersmith, it was never practical for
us to make Southside or the Union our
home when the Reynolds Bar at CX is so
much closer (and cheaper).
We said goodbye to Charing Cross
last year at our now infamous ball and
our future lies with Imperial - what I
wanted to say by signing Osa's letter
was: We're not here very often so when
we do come, please be nice to us!
Yours
Tom Evens (2nd Year Charing Cross)
Dear Felix,
I seek what is best for the students who
elected me, but also try to make sure that
we integrate with IC. Thc latter is a dif-
ficult process, as the old guard see what
were vibrant and friendly campuses,
slowly loosing their immense history to
a building that they never use. Therefore
some animosity sometimes is miss-
directed at IC, but at no time whatsoever
has this become a public display.
As for the accusation of arrogance
form the medics; this is mistaken jubila-
tion at achieving a life's ambition. Thc
difference between medicine and many
courses is that you become part of a pro-
fession from the day you start.
No medic would honestly say to a
fresher not to socialise with non-medics.
They are living together and so should
learn form one another, and at the same
time keep the passion alive in the medical
school, so that we can once again raise
over £40,000 for charity, put on amazing
productions, and achieve the highest
sporting accolades. I hope that people will
forgive the medics for such passion and
not mistake it for arrogance, maybe we
can instil such passion in IC one day?????
Mr.Karan Kapoor
Social Secretary ICSM
Dear Felix,
I wish to apologise for the factual inac-
curacies of my article in Felix 1122. What
I wrote was true to thc best of my knowl-
edge at the time -
1 thank Nick Carter for
the correction of my errors.
I have nothing against medics.
Indeed, I have several friends who study
medicine and I have a great deal of
respect for the profession.
The only campaign that seems to
have taken place is Mr Emohare's quest
to find every article published in Felix with
any reference to IC medics and to blindly
pick fault with it.
In addition, I find his accusations of
racism against my colleague completely
unfounded and, quite frankly, libelous (if
you ask me).
I hope that this is the end of the mat-
ter.
Andrew Brown
Felix news team
Beware of Culls
Dear Felix,
I am writing to draw your readers' atten-
tion to a big problem faced by universi-
ties: Cults. There is no strict definition in
law of a cult, but it is helpful to think of
a cult as any organisation that attempts
to practice some form of mind control
over their members or extort money
from them. They don't all match the
stereotype of grinning madmen in flow-
ing robes some can be very organised,
effective and above all subtle.
We have information that several
groups are active in fondon, targeting
universities, specifically freshers. We can-
not name any specific groups (for legal
reasons), but if anyone has been
approached by someone they think is
suspicious, then we urge them to check
it out before signing up to anything - in
the first instance they can contact the
Union Welfare officer, Rene Frank
(rene.frank@ic.ac.uk), or myself
(slmon.lewis@Ic.ac.uk) with their con-
cerns. There is also a National Cult Hot-
line (01 689-833800) and a website which
can offer advice. Remember: If in doubt,
just don't get involved.
Yours truly,
Simon Lewis
ICU Equal Opportunities Officer
Comic Comeback
Dear Felix,
Concerning the centrefold cartoons that
you have published in the past weeks:
These two master pieces of ugliness and
vulgarity have greatly offended our sen-
sibilities. I low anybody could find this
amusing is beyond human understand-
ing. We therefore request a public apol-
ogy from thc cartoonist, and their
immediate expulsion from Felix.
Yours sincerely.
Flat 2B, Pembridge Gardens.
Dear Ed,
Having read thc contentious cartoon in
Felix 1122,1 would like to add my support
to the undoubtedly taiented cartoonist. As
a woman, I can see nothing offensive in
the cartoon, except towards men. The
humour is fairly puerile, but the main char-
acter is a sad Individual who fortunately
won't get the chance to reproduce.
It's important not to confuse some-
thing you find offensive with something
you find boring, and despite the evident
skill, the cartoon is unfunny. I can only
hope that the subsequent cartoons will
be funnier and equally well drawn.
Yours sincerely,
Ms Julia Harries
Former Arts Editor & now School Teacher
Erroneous Editing
Dear Felix,
I would like to complain about your pol-
icy of letter editing. Apparently, letters
are edited for length but 'not... in any
other way'. It seems to me to be most
unfair to leave obvious grammatical and
spelling mistakes uncorrected, as this
policy can only discriminate against those
for whom English is not a first language
(and against those who can't type..!)
On several occasions, both this year
and last, a writer's point has been
obscured by what are obviously acci-
dental typographicals. When left uncor-
rected these annoy readers and
undermine the intellectual position of the
writer by showing his/her writing skills to
be inferior to those of the editor; who,
after all, is a full-time journalist working
with all the benefits of spellchecks and
proof-reading.
I find this particularly relevant in
cases where the writer is opposed to a
position held by the editor; eg. last
week's letter from the medics that was
critical of Felix.
Yours
Mark, Physics IV
Letters deadline is noon Wed
Letters may be edited for length, but
will not be altered in any other way.
Letters need not be signed, but a
swipe card must be shown when sub-
mitting anonymous letters.

