16 November 1998
Superfluous Elections?
W
hen it comes to elections, Impe-
rial makes Italy look like rank
amateurs. The last time the
whole election process ran smoothly, I
was wearing short trousers. Still, we had
a nice twist this year. Stuart Cook, stalwart
of IC Football, pulled out at the last
moment, as it were, because of ICU
Exec's rejection of his request to have
Wednesday afternoons off. On the face
of it, this seems a reasonable decision.
It would set a precedent and before you
know where you are, you have sabbati-
cals asking for unacceptable things like
sleep and a loosening of the ball and
chain. However, the upshot of this is
that once again we have no DP (C&S).
This is becoming the rule rather than
the exception, which raises several ques-
tions. Since my career as an Olympic
middle-distance runner finished some
years ago, I have little contact with the
sports clubs, so I do not know how they
have coped in the past with such situa-
tions. Things do not seem to have
ground to a complete halt, with people
screaming blue murder, and I doubt that
it will happen this time. The rea! question
is not whether Stuart should have done
the job -1 am sure he would have taken
care of things admirably - but should
anyone be in that post? Downsizing
senior management at Imperial is a truly
revolutionary idea, the very mention of
which will lead to cardiac arrests in Suite
Five. It would do the Union enormous
credit if this unfortunate hiccup was used
as an opportunity to look at the deploy-
ment of its sabbaticals. So often ICU has,
quite rightly, attacked the mismanage-
ment of the College, but these assaults
have lost some of their impact because
of the charge of hypocrisy. Now, of
course, if the Union was as badly run as
the rest of IC, it would have closed down
shortly before the War, but the innu-
merable committees, borne of a mis-
guided desire to be 'democratic' and
inclusive, do not help the case. As I have
said from time to time, the fact that com-
mittee members are not paid is an irrel-
evance when considering their situation.
Sabbs earn a fortune (only joking, chaps),
as you know, and their deployment is
vital to the smooth running of ICU. For
instance, we could end the DP (Clubs &
Societies) and create the post of DP
(Common Sense). A minor alteration for
those enamoured of acronyms, thc
incumbent could ensure that daft ideas
such as the Union approval of posters
never saw the light of day. Could one
person assume such a big job? Ooh,
you are awful.
A Point on Petitions
Apathy, being what it is at Imperial,
means that petitions arc rarer than hens'
teeth in this parish, so it is always nice to
see one gracing the pages of Felix, even
when it is as badly written as the effort
from Osa Emohare and co. I was fully
aware that doctors, like me, have
Simon Baker
appallingly
bad handwrit-
ing, but I
never realised
that standards of
literacy had fallen
so sharply in med-
ical schools. To be
fair, I suppose the
spelling can be
attributed to the
difficulties that text
recognition soft-
ware has with let-
ters written in
crayon, but the
rest is inexcusable.
It's not easy to
extract thc point
they are attempt-
ing to make, but it
seems that they
are having a *"
and the way Voice of
that the old
College treats our new medical brethren.
While I have in the past had cause to
make comments about the medics that,
while justified, may have seemed a trifle
brusque, the article to which they refer
was completely inoffensive. The idea
that I have a deep-seated prejudice
against medics is cobblers, as offensive
as the suggestion that Felix is racist. By
the way, the majority of students arc
not from ethnic minorities, though IC
benefits from enormous diversity. In
1996/97,19.2% of IC students were from
outside the EU, representing 107 nation-
alities. You don't get much more diverse
than that. As for ethnicity statistics, I sus-
pect the percentage is nearer 25%. You
would do well to remember that playing
the race card in a situation like this is the
surest way to undermine fatally what
was already a paper-thin argument. I
don't wish to go on and on about this -
it's very familiar territory - but it does
raise an important point. My esteemed
colleague, Nick Newton, unwittingly
made thc same mistake last week as
was made in thc ill-conceived petition. A
number of medics seem to think that
they are very different from the rest of us.
Not superior, just different. This view
stems from
the nature and
length of their
course. Yes,
the medical
degree is longer
than most degrees,
but this does not
LL place medics in a
li'iljll: ; ) O V : i | 0 | l
I laving done a BSi,
1 I stayed on for a
PhD, a fairly com-
L mon arrangement.
%> This means that I
jpf will spend over six
! years here -1 don't
know exactly how
long, but if you
> wander into Shcr-
lield VI II ' ( .111 M l
them crossing
Reason
them off.
Someone is
bound to
write in saying
that I'm talking rubbish, but while they
are clear differences between 'them and
us', they are smaller than some would
have us believe. This self-ghettoisation is
very unhelpful and, I suspect, unrepre-
sentative of ICSM as a whole. It is high
time that people just got down to thc
serious business of drinking in South-
side Bar, irrespective of their academic
department. Some medics seem a little
too sensitive about the inevitable digs
from thc South Ken indigenous popula-
tion, but this has been going for years;
it has been suggested by certain ele-
ments that the RSM is full of Nean-
derthals, C&G is little more than an
apprentice school for mechanics and
the RCS is full of geeks and gardeners. Of
course, I would not agree with any of
that, but that's the way it is, and nobody
really minds. So, Mr Emohare, chin up,
buy a dictionary and stop being so silly.
Go and talk to those nice biologists in
your new building. They won't bite.
Financial Technicalities
I am troubled. Things seem to be afoot,
which is not good. The Catering Depart-
ment, of which I have said much, is now
having to pay for its electricity and other
services. Not an unusual state of affairs
I hear you cry, but for a department that
is as unprofitable as this, it will cause
them considetable problems. Perhaps il
seems like a good time to overhaul the
department, now that costs have just
increased sharply? Don't be daft. Penalise
non-profit-making organisations like the
Holland Club? Ah, now you're talking. If
the College thinks that subsidising its
non-academic staff social club by waiving
the recharging of electricity is wrong, it
is another example of the misguided
priorities that so bedevil this place at the
moment. While Catering is also a non-
profit-making operation (for less accept-
able reasons), it is stupid to treat the
two similarly. It is the latest example of
petty sniping by this department - South-
side Bar, the jewel in the crown, was told
lhat 'College Financial Regulations' pre-
vent the acceptance of guaranteed £10
cheques, so that ended over the sum-
mer. Last year, the Holland Club was
again in thc firing line when John Foster
made suggestions that Catering should
take it over. That silly idea was soon
quashed, and I'm sure we can do the
same this time. Just remember, John,
that I eat my lunch in the Holland Club,
and if the price of my jacket potato rises,
I shall not be a happy man...
QAS Systems Ltd is a highly successful computer software
company. Founded in 1990, QAS now employs over 140 people
in four locations developing, marketing, selling and supporting the
Quick Address range of address management software products
- from £100 off-the-shelf PC programs to £100K mainframe client
server systems. Our success depends on recruiting highly
intelligent, self motivated people who enjoy challenges and rewards associated with profitable,
rapid growth.
Come and talk to us about our opportunities on:
24 November 1998 at 6.30pm in the
Civil Engineering Lecture Theatre 207

