g Feature 16 November 1998
Fighting Poverty in the Third Millennium
Ihere is no greater power on earth than an idea whose time has come" - Victor Hugo
Unless you never watch television at all
you cannot have failed to see the often
disturbing news reports from Africa and
various other places around thc world of
diseased, malnourished children being
clutched by their emaciated parents. It
seems to be somewhere new every
week. Probably most of you have felt that
something should be done about it. So
sometimes we part with a chunk of cash
when asked for it by one of the many
charities trying to alleviate such poverty.
But if you are anything like me you will
sometimes despair; the problems seem
to get worse and more frequent, the
appeals for money more desperate, and
you imagine your small donation being
swallowed by a black hole of poverty
that never grows smaller however much
you throw at it. The charities involved are
of course admirable, and indeed very
necessary, but it is true that the huge
poverty problems will never be solved
simply by their aid and development pro-
jects. Something else must be done, and
many people are now coming to realise
that something else can be done.
In recent years a campaign has been
gathering strength in 40 countries around
the world, initiated by groups such as
Oxfam, Christian Aid, The Guardian and
Third World First. The name of the cam-
paign is Jubilee 2000 and its aim is the
one-off cancellation by thc year 2000 of
the backlog of unpayable debt owed by
the world's poorest countries. If you
missed the link there between dying
children and debt please let me explain.
In Ethiopia, 100000 children die
annually from easily preventable dis-
eases. Ethiopia spends four times more
on debt repayments than on health care.
It spends scarcely one pound per head
every year on education.
In Tanzania over half the population
live in absolute poverty (i.e. earn less
than 60p a day) and 40% of people die
before the age of 35. Tanzania spends six
times more on debt repayment than on
healthcare. They give about $100 million
of their precious foreign currency to pay
back debts every year. Unfortunately
they should be paying more than twice
this, so the debt is actually growing,
crushing the hope that future genera-
tions will be able escape the burden.
These kinds of trends are repeated
again and again around the world in
dozens of other countries. I or every £1
of aid given by the high-income countries
to thc Third World £9 is taken back in
debt repayment. In 1997 the UN esti-
mated that debts would cost thc lives of
21 million children by-the year 2000 in
Africa alone. I could make comparisons
to deaths in the Second World War, or
thc number of people killed by Stalin, but
it would be pointless. Our minds refuse
to try and comprehend how much suf-
fering there is involved in that one state-
ment of statistics.
So to whom are they repaying these
debts then? Well, you and me really. The
vast majority of the debts are owed to
governments of wealthy countries,
notably thc G8 countries; Britain, Canada,
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and
the USA. Some of thc debts ate directly
owed to the governments, some to mul-
tilateral groups such as the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). The total of ail
such debts is measured in the trillions,
but it is estimated that only about £100
billion will have to be cancelled in order
for real development to occur in the 52
poorest countries.
So how much will this cost us in
Britain then? The total debt owed to
Britain by the poorest countries is about
£8.8 billion pounds. Of this the Jubilee
2000 campaign is suggesting that around
£2.5 billion needs to be cancelled
urgently. To you that may look a lot, but
we live in a wealthy country; it is less than
thc £3.1 billion spent on National Lottery
Instants since their launch, about one
fifth of thc annua! spending on ciga-
rettes, as a fraction of the annual gov-
ernment budget it is almost insignificant.
In fact a lot of the money to cancel the
debts is already at hand. 95% of the
debts are owed to the Export Credit Guar-
antee Department (ECGD), which
realised some time ago that a lot of the
debts were unpayable and has been
stockpiling cash in order to soften the
blow. But the debts have not been can-
celled. In case anyone thought the ECGD
was being altruistic when it lent the
money, around half of it was given out
for contracts with the British defence
industry.
Given the above statistics Western
Governments have been unable to
ignore the debt problem. They have set
up the Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) initiative, under the authority of
the IMF. The initiative will lead to very lim-
ited and inadequate debt cancellation for
a few qualifying countries. To qualify it is
necessary for the country to follow a six-
year 'austerity' programme under the
IMF. It will be too little, too late. Let us
also think carefully about the meaning of
that word 'austerity'; to you or me it
means going without our daily packet of
Minstrels or some other luxury; to some-
one who has no luxuries it means cutting
back on necessities. To someone already
on the verge of starvation that just means
one thing. As one Peruvian economist
said: "I don't like western solutions to the
debt crisis - they kill too many people."
The fundamental flaw in the HIPC ini-
tiative is that it is not designed to relieve
poverty; its aim is to reach sustainable lev-
els of debt repayment. The Jubilee 2000
Coalition is calling for unconditional can-
cellation of debt, to a level where the
countries will become capable of devel-
opment and will be able to lift people
above the poverty line. The idea of
imposing economic reforms on the
countries needs to be dropped immedi-
ately before more people die of it.
A small aside now, for the cynics. It
has been suggested by some that the
cancellation of debt will be of no help in
some countries because their govern-
ments are corrupt and will pocket the
money for themselves. No-one is deny-
ing that there are corrupt governments
in the world but a few points need to be
made. Firstly, poverty itself is one of the
worst causes of corruption - a man
brought up on a handful of grain a day
will feel a strong temptation to steal. To
withhold cancellation because of cor-
ruption would simply make the corrup-
tion worse. Secondly, as anyone clued-up
in world affairs will tell you, many of the
infamously corrupt governments have
in recent years either been toppled or are
pursuing new open-government poli-
cies. Thirdly, in cases where the govern-
ment is still corrupt the loans were given
in the knowledge that the governments
were corrupt, why can they not be can-
celled in the knowledge that they are cor-
rupt? After all, it is always the poverty
stricken populations who pay for non-
cancellation, not their leaders.
Clearly, there is something that will
make a difference - so what can you do
about it? The Jubilee 2000 Coalition is
gathering a petition. They are aiming to
get 21 million signatures, to make it the
worlds largest ever petition. If you are not
among the millions who have already
signed then feel free to come to the
Third World First desk in the JCR 12-2pm
today to do so. There will be a chain-link
petition to sign which will hopefully be
displayed somewhere in College at a
later date and there will be more infor-
mation on what you can do. We live in
a democracy so take advantage of it and
write to your MP, to Gordon Brown, to
Tony Blair or to anyone who represents
you and tell them what you think.
Jacob Stringer
ffi imperial College Union j^X
JEWISH SOCIETY
presents the world famous
Rabbi
Shmuely Boteach
THE DATING SECRETS
OF THE
TEN COMMANDMENTS
'He's 27. He drinks Smirnoff. He's written the 'Jewish
Guide to Adultery'. He's unstoppable.' - The Independent
Wednesday 18th November, 2pm
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley Building
All Welcome

