AROUND NOVEMBER 2020
11
Felixonline.co.uk
After 20 years of careful counting, the Florida
electoral commission
announced this week that
the Democratic candidate Al
Gore has secured the state’s 29
crucial electoral college votes
in the 2000 election.
This will come as a huge
blow to Republican candidate
George Bush’s chances of be-
ing the next leader of the free
world. However, some pundits were quick to point out
Votes finally in: Gore declared winner in Florida
Credits: wikimedia
HANGMAN
that Bush Jr, having already served 8 years of the 4-year
term may not be too perturbed by the result.
The Florida electoral committee, who operate out of
a Tampa trailer park, explained the
unusual tardiness by describing in
breathless terms that “a damn gator
just up and ate all the damn ballots.
Then we straight up just lost them
down the back of a sofa in Cletus’s
front yard.”
As a result of this turn of events,
It is expected that Mr Gore’s envi-
ronmental platform will bring huge
change to the North American energy sector. When
Al Gore (middle), with iPhone legend Bono
approached for comment, an Enron Mobil represent-
ative stated “Fuuuuuuck.” When pressed for further
clarification he went on to ask “If Gore won the elec-
tion, by what mandate did we invade Iraq? Now we just
look like idiots.”
The campaign manager for the president-elect an-
nounced the line up for the inauguration party will
remain largely as planned at the time of the vote, with
appearances from Ja Rule and Destiny’s Child, and a
special stand up set from beloved comedian and con-
victed sex offender Bill Cosby.
However, it is not all rosy for the Gore administra-
tion, which has already faced harsh criticism for its
inaction over the 9/11 attacks, the subsequent wars in
Iraq and Afghanistan, and the collapse of the global fi-
nancial system in 2008. When pressed for comment, a
spokesperson for the Democratic candidate said “Fair
play, it did look a lot like they had WMDs.” It was at
this point that the representative turned violent, and
the interview came to a swift end. An additional stick-
ing point has come from Gore’s involvement in the
2006 film ‘An Inconvenient Truth‘, which critics say
betrays a conflict of interest with regard to the presi-
dent-elect’s environmental policies. As one Republican
pundit put it to Hangman, “climate change has clearly
been invented by Mr. Gore to sell more DVDs“. The
administration declined our request for comment on
the matter.
It is expected that vote counting in Nevada for the
2020 presidential election may take a similar length of
time. Pundits predict that by the time a winner is an-
nounced, the victor will be retroactively held responsi-
ble for a Latin American coup, several baseless middle
eastern wars, and the collapse of the global financial
system.
Credits: wikimedia / Robert Scobel
“
A DAMN GATOR JUST
UP AND ATE ALL THE
DAMN BALLOTS...
Beve Stannon Election Correspondent

