FRIDAY 6TH NOVEMBER 2020
13
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
So often, when people talk about
Classical music, many will either zone
out, or groan. It’s somewhat alien, elitist,
and many can find it boring. Elitist- yes,
classical music has a problem, though
this is starting to change over the sum-
mer, with some fantastic underrated
composers being discussed in a recent
BBC4 documentary (along with the
rest of the arts programmes that
no longer feature on BBC1
and 2). Much progress is
needed though, as the Vienna
Philharmonic rejected what
would have been their first
female principle flautist just this
year. Alien- that’s what I hope
to address in this column. The
people who teach classical mu-
sic have it wrong. They start with
Mozart and Beethoven- the largest two
names, but often with what can seem to
young people as ancient and,well, bor-
ing. I was forcefed classical music from
a young age by a very musical family,
however when it was my turn to listen to
music it was (60s) pop, until the age of
16. What happened? I listened to more
20th century classical music, which is
what most young classical musicians pre-
fer anyway (I read about an orchestra
in Norway, I think, that plays only
20th century composers and enjoys
a large audience with an average
age in the 20s).
My goal in this column, as a con-
ductor of my own student orchestra,
will be to piggyback on the small
rise in popularity that classi-
cal music has had in the recent
months and recommend pieces
that people without much expo-
sure to classical can actually enjoy. I’ll
also spotlight an underrated composer
each week with one of their works. I’ll
try to keep the pieces I recommend quite
short, at least to begin with). I may also
get some friends (and anyone interested)
to discuss some of their favourite works
here too!
When did you first hear this song?
I was at my first festival and Jamie XX was headlining.
There was a couple making out in front of me, one
pushed me, apologised, and offered to take me on his
back for the next song. We were close to the stage and
there was a light drizzle which only added
to the insane visuals of rainbow led
lights.
How old were you when you first
heard this song?
17
In a sentence, describe the song
Pure happiness, it switches off everything else
Is there a specific lyric you connect with?
“I go to loud places to search for someone to be quiet
with”
What initially drew you to the song?
The lyrics were very relevant to a reconnection hap-
pening in my life at the time.
Is there a killer moment?
3:05 – after the second chorus, when many elements
are stripped back, and the song becomes less crowded
Is there another sense you associate strongly with
this song?
Rain, soft rain, like a drizzle
How often do you listen to this song?
Nearly every day, I do take breaks, but I listen
to it especially during the summer
Do certain situations give you the urge to listen to
this song?
I have moments when I have the urge to be by myself,
to take a moment outside. I try to only ever listen to it
when I’m already happy/not sad, it’s the perfect thing
to accompany cherishing a moment.
Are there specific activities you do to this song?
I drive a lot of people around. This is a perfect song for
driving someone home from a party.
Is this song one that you share with other people?
To me this song is about capturing the best moments,
when I share this song it means that I want to save a
very positive memory. Listening to it now reminds me
of my “collection of moments”.
Final comments?
If someone knows Jamie XX’s phone number could
you hit me up pls
Bringing Classical Back To The Masses
Passing the Aux to Gabriela Zibikowska
Feature
Feature
I may as well start with my favourite
piece of music- and it’s one I played
to a friend who never liked classical
music, but fell in love with this piece.
Stravinsky’s Rite of Spring, originally
a ballet, tells the story of ancient Rus-
sian Pagan tribes in their rituals, sev-
eral dances that culminate in a young
girl dancing herself to the death. The
raw power of this piece has inspired
many composers, and indeed many
rock groups, and legendarily was so
groundbreaking for 1913 France that
it provoked a riot outside the concert
hall.
Nothing quite comes close to Stravin-
sky’s own recording in terms of the
energy that comes from this piece, so
check out that. I said I’d keep it short
so listen to part 1, starting with the
Augurs of spring (about 2 minutes
in) if you can’t wait for the action to
start!
And now for something completely
different: The early 20th century
French composer Lili Boulanger is
not quite as well-known as her sister
Nadia, but is (in my opinion) the
better composer, winning the Prix
de Rome for her cantata “Faust et
Helene”. Unfortunately, an early death
aged 24 due to tuberculosis meant
her works are very limited, but check
out her psalm 24, which mixes a large
orchestra with medieval chords for
something quite different to the nor-
mal “canon” of Western Classical mu-
sic, or her Vielle priere bouddhique,
which is similar to Stravinsky’s style.
Michael Kohn Music Writer Stravinski - Rite of Spring Lili Boulanger - Psalm 24
Interview by Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
Jamie XX - Loud Places
Gabi - 3rd year medicine, Bobby - tree with swag

