Calm With Horses came out earlier this year,
but it has now made its way on to Netf-
lix. Set in Ireland, it tells the story of Douglas
‘Arm’ Armstrong: a father to an autistic child
in a broken home and the loyal enforcer for the
Devers crime family. As the Dever’s requests of
Arm become more violent, he must pick be-
tween his loyalties and decide how to play his
rotten hand. Cosmo Jarvis brilliantly reflects the
two halves of Arm’s life. While he is constantly
struggling to prove himself to the Devers and
to meet their needs, the people he really tries to
impress are his ex-partner and his son. Around
them he is thoughtful, witty, delicate, and vul-
nerable—a stark contrast to his brutishness when
he is around Dymphna (one of the young leaders
of the crime family, played by Barry Keoghan).
Calm With Horses is both immensely exciting and
hilariously funny; however, what sticks out most
is the bond between a father and a son. Arm is
not the man his son deserves, and while he knows
this all too well, he struggles to break the cycles
of error that trickle down the generations. In
his son’s happiness, and in his isolation, he sees
himself and Arm discovers that being a father is
not about giving, it is about sacrificing. It is this
transformation of personality that makes this
movie a great little watch.The depth of the cast
and the skill of the filmmaking do not let on that
it is in fact Nick Rowland’s first feature-length
movie.
Calm With Horses is a fabulous 90 minute movie,
and it’s streaming on Netflix now.
On Fatherhood and Family
New Movie From An Imperial Filmmaker
Reviews
My suspense-
ful short film
“Degenerate (RenJian-
JiE)” tells the story of
the butterfly effect—
which links a pyramid
selling gang leader, a
film director, and a di-
rector of a mental hos-
pital. It took around 4
months to create, and
comes out at around 34
minutes. It is available
via the QR code, I hope that you enjoy it!
My name is Yanlin Chen—although people nor-
mally call me Philip—and I am a 4th student at Im-
perial on the Msci Physics course. Directing short
films, as well as screenwriting them, is a major hob-
by of mine. Although I do not get to film regularly,
I have kept up the tradition of returning to China
each year to make my yearly film. This year, be-
cause of the COVID-19 situation, I returned home
earlier than in previous years. The inspiration for
this film came to me just after my final exam on
Plasma Physics in late May. The idea was to com-
bine the ‘film within a film’ technique with a two-
line plot—this technique is novel as far as I know,
although these techniques have been used sepa-
rately in mov-
ies like Me-
mento. The
main line of
the movie is
the positive
order, fol-
lowing the
positive time
axis, and the
s e c o n d a r y
line is the
f l a s h b a c k .
These two
lines inter-
sect at the
end of the plot. To make a plot one must first have
a structural frame, then one can fill in the con-
tent and double-check the story’s logic and char-
acter’s motivations. It took about half a month to
conceive, as well as write a finalized 10,000 word
script, for Degenerate. However, all of that was
only preliminary work. We encountered many hur-
dles while filming, from venue coordination to the
deployment of temporary personnel. This film is
longer than any of my previous works; as such, the
difficulties encountered in the filmmaking process
increased exponentially, confirming the old saying
that “film is the art of execution”.
Fortunately, we were able to release this film just
before the start of term. It is a suspenseful story
with an almost perfect murder plan (except for
Wen Jiang, the mental patient with a cross-mask).
What I am most proud of is the storyline and the
fact that the behaviours and motives of the char-
acters have no bugs as far as I’m aware. The film
received some negative feedback at first, but most
feedback was based on the audience’s perception
of the film as a regular-length film rather than a
micro-movie—this made me pleased in a way as
it showed they were still drawn into the story. As
you can imagine, making a movie is costly. In my
first few works, except from advertising fees and
bonuses for award wins, I
have not thoroughly con-
sidered the issue of fund
flow. Thus, our focus for
the next film is to consid-
er profitability and to in-
clude a professional pro-
duction stage.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
By Philip Chen
Directedby: Nick Rowland
YearofRelease: 2019
Starring: CosmoJarvis;BarryKeoghan;Niamh
Algar;NedDennehy;DavidWilmot;SimoneKirby
Calm with Horses
KEEP THE CAT FREE
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
14
Degenerate (RenJianJiE)
THE IDEA WAS
TO COMBINE
THE ‘FILM
WITHIN A FILM’
TECHNIQUE
WITH A TWO-
LINE PLOT
“
Scan to watch!
Credit: DMC Film/Film4 Production/Element Pictures

