My brief
defence of
abstract movies and
surrealism is predi-
cated on them gen-
uinely seeking to
capture a feeling or
convey some truth.
While this generally holds for surreal movies,
there are of course exceptions. Perhaps the most
famous of these exceptions is Un Chien Andalou. It
was a film intended to deliberately steer away from
rational interpretations and actively resist the pro-
cess of seeking to capture truth on screen. Buñuel
said that he and Dalí had only the following
principles in mind when writing the film: “Do not
dwell on what required purely rational, psycholog-
ical or cultural explanations. Open the way to the
irrational. It was accepted only that which struck
us, regardless of the meaning”. I will not ruin the
surprises by listing all the shocking scenes, but suf-
fice it to say that Buñuel and Dalí succeed at both
confusing you, shocking you, and at mocking the
‘avantgarde cine’ of the time. I hold up Eraserhead
as an example of convincing you that there is truth
in surrealist cinema, as a defence of the genre. But
Un Chien Andalou serves as a criticism of the “in-
ane herd”, as Buñuel called them, who see truth in
anything. It takes aim at those who pass off their
lack of vision as abstraction, and in that sense is an
attack on the genre. For those interested in getting
into classics, Un Chien Andalou is a great place to
start. [Versions of this short exist on Youtube and
on the Archive.]
Free Film of the Week: Un Chien Andalou
A Short Defence of Surrealism
Editor Recommends
Praises for Eraserhead are often concluded by
a catalogue of asterisks. These clarifications
often say something to the effect of ‘good...for an
experimental movie’, or ‘good...for a surrealist piece’,
or ‘good...for an abstract work’. They act as though
surreal movies ought to be judged by a different cri-
teria than ‘normal movies’. I heartily disagree. Surre-
alism is not some disconnected, modern invention.
Producer Steven Kovács said “Surrealism was the
first literary and artistic movement to become seri-
ously associated with cinema”; it precedes Disney,
the zombie genre, the Wilhelm scream, the Cannes
Film Festival, and the Academy Awards themselves.
Surrealism seems more modern than it is partly be-
cause it refuses to offer easy explanations. It has tak-
en on a recalcitrant quality, never being shackled by
convention or cliche, for those are the very things
it so effectively dispenses of (though that is often
not its primary aim). I think this is, in part, the rea-
son for its enduring liveliness compared to all other
genres, some of which are going stale. Contrary to
popular opinion, surrealism is a simple extension of
the artistic tradition, not something at odds with
it. As T. S. Eliot said “The progress of an artist is
a continual self-sacrifice, a continual extinction of
personality”—is it so surprising that when the artist
is finished with himself, that he should then turn on
reality ?
All this is to say that the correct approach when
going into a surreal movie is not to hold your nose.
The mindset most conducive to the enjoyment of
surreal cinema is that of understanding what it aims
to do. Film—being only images in sequence—is but
a means to approach truth tangentially. By present-
ing some sort of objective correlative—be it a story,
a shot, or a symbol—some truth is evoked by expe-
rience, without any recourse to logic or analysis. For
more obscure truths, feelings, and emotions, more
obscure modes of transit are required. Do you think
a movie that attempts to capture the essence of the
subconscious is going to turn out like Titanic? Of
course not. The best surreal movies will be as strange
as the truths they seek to uncover, and no stranger.
When one ignores the context, the route up
Mount Everest seems unnatural and absurd, far-re-
moved from what we normally get up to. And yet,
after years of normalisation, that route is now the
obvious method for obtaining the unique exhilara-
tion one feels at the top; it has become less absurd,
and is now simply thought of as ‘the way you go to
get to that place’. So stands surrealism in cinema,
and the dismissal of it as strange and far-flung is true
only when one neglects its context. While it doubt-
less aims at uncommon ends, its uncommon means
are no less valid than the tactics of other genres.
David Lynch is intimately aware of these facts. He
justified his casting of Jack Nance as Henry Spen-
cer in Eraserhead by saying: “If you’re going into the
netherworld, you don’t wanna go in with Chuck
Heston”. In that choice there is a clear understand-
ing of aim. Conversely, Lynch’s meticulously crafted
soundtrack of clanging and crying, knocking and
whistling, and his dreamlike aesthetic of shadows
broken by spotlights, is not jarring just to be jar-
ring—it is due to a clear understanding of an aim.
In terms of filmmaking only, these constructions are
those of a master, not an eccentric. What does one
expect when the movie’s tagline reveals its aim: “A
dream of dark and troubling things”? No, Lynch,
like Buñuel or Jodorowsky, is as conventional as they
come; he is simply an extension of a now century old
tradition of using unfamiliar, but apposite, methods
to capture strange and distant truths.
It may take some time to see the utility in a direc-
tor’s choice. On first viewing, Eraserhead is a hand-
ful. But, on all subsequent viewings, a deeply emo-
tional and deliberately crafted film takes shape on
screen. Lynch didn’t call it his “most spiritual film”
for nothing. Eraserhead, like many great surreal pic-
tures that get neglected, is a repository for some of
the most delicate themes ever depicted on screen. In
order to see them, one need only find the rationale
behind the madness. When that rationale is under-
stood for what it truly is, all abstractions fall away,
and what remains are those elusive truths which lie
unperturbed by conventional form, only ever be-
coming detectable in the unreality of a dream.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Un Chien Andalou
FRIDAY 6TH NOVEMBER 2020
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com 15
Directedby: David Lynch
Yearof Release: 1977
Starring: Jack Nance; Charlotte Stewart
Directedby: Luis
Buñuel;
Salvador Dalí
Yearof Release: 1929
Eraserhead
The most shocking scene in all of cinema according to
many
Henry surrounded, not by dust, but rather by bits of his own
skull
Credits: Konstantin Lopushansky
“Eraserhead” by rulenumberone2 is licensed with CC BY 2.0

