KEEP THE CAT FREE
Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
16
BOOKS
Idon’t know about you, but the only bit of innovation
I’ve been seeing in recent years are the questionable
software updates and Instagram icons that constantly
shell my phone, which I try to ignore; until of course
the notifications become physically unbearable – and
don’t get me started on TikToks. It’s pathetic. This then
led me to ponder on Huebner’s famous quote – “inno-
vation is a finite resource.”
So, is this it for mankind? Will our sci-fi fantasies
of travelling space with fellow aliens only be just that,
a fantasy; or is there someone out there, crazy enough
to make this a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, meet Elon
Reeve Musk.
Elon Musk is well known for his quixotic business
ventures, which include but are not limited to: Tesla,
SpaceX and SolarCi-
ty. Vance’s portrayal of
Musk has been accused
of being
Borderline hagiog-
raphic, which is true in
some respects; howev-
er, that comment alone
significantly discredits
how well put togeth-
er the book is, and the
challenge of writing about a character such as Musk.
Some also may argue that the book is more a biogra-
phy of Tesla and SpaceX, which is also true; however,
one can view these intentions differently. We see that
Tesla and SpaceX, as companies, describe Elon Musk’s
character and ideals almost entirely. They embody him.
They represent forward thinking, innovation, risk,
technology and the future. Thus, based on Vance’s de-
piction, and to suit the occasion, I thought I’d give in-
novation and forward thinking a go and list four ways
in which you can be like Elon Reeve Musk in this qua-
si-book review.
Play against the odds
Musk entered two industries that were once imprac-
tical and very high risk – electric cars and rockets. At
a time where you were better off walking than driv-
ing an electric powered car, it seemed as though this
technology hit a dead end in its application in vehi-
cles. However, Musk played against the odds and soon
won big. Tesla didn’t invent the electric car but unde-
niably reinvented it. The same goes for his ventures in
SpaceX, where a start-up rocket company was unheard
of. Musk’s tenacity and belief that space travel could
becomemuchcheaperresultedinhimonceagain,rein-
venting a once static industry dominated by large com-
panies. Although this sounds awe-inspiring, Vance’s
vivid descriptions of Elon’s mental state, failures and
near bankruptcy just makes it clear that play against
the odds will require one to handle the large potential
failures. Musk proved that. “He is just different than
the rest of us.”
Work like hell (expect everyone to do the same)
Musk spends every working hour of his time work-
ing between his two main companies, and he expects
everyone to do the same. With the great task of making
humans multiplanetary species, it is understandable to
see why Musk is always thinking at 100mph, going as
far as to spending his visits to the bathroom like for-
mula 1 pitstops. He’s restless, hungry and expects his
employees to share the same mentality. Vance often
depicts Elon as ruthless and quite comical, includ-
ing a time where Musk let one loose on an employee
who missed a company event to witness his baby being
born. Musk was in genuine rage that the fellow em-
ployee didn’t have his ‘priorities in check.’ As absurd as
it sounds, Vance tries to
grasp and empathise with
Musk’s personality. The
case that, ‘…he does not
dislike them as people…’
they’re just ‘getting in the
way’ and do not see the
urgency of Musk’s vision.
Vision
Musk’s ridiculous
work ethic can be ex-
plained by his vision and his approach to make this
vision come to fruition; be it replacing petrol cars,
making space travel cheaper or moving to Mars.
These ideas may seem quixotic, however Vance’s
depiction of Musk’s outlandish obsession with these
technologies from a very young age make sense of,
and makes you believe that maybe Musk’s plan for
Mars will actually work, no matter how absurd they
may sound.
An appetite for knowledge
Running a rocket company and an electric car
company on the side requires an amazing mind,
and Musk’s appetite and ability to absorb informa-
tion has often been described as being amazing to
witness by mere mortals. An example Vance uses
is Musk being engrossed by an old, tattered Soviet
rocket manual when he was starting out at SpaceX.
The fact that he had no underlying knowledge of
rockets didn’t stop Musk. Musk truly believes that
any problem, no matter how complicated, can be
brought down to the pure fundamentals, and that’s
exactly what he did when thinking of what it takes
to build a rocket. He started with the raw material
costs of building a rocket and realised that rockets
were just too overpriced and needlessly superfluous.
He saw a new market. It also subtly highlights the
fact that Musk takes the initiative. The information
“Genius, Billionaire, Playboy, Philanthropist.”
Elon Musk
Reviewed by Hari Kumarakuruparan Books Editor
1. Steve Jobs (upcoming review)
2. Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers,
Strategies
3. The hitchhiker’s Guide to the
Galaxy
4. Benjamin Frankiling: An
American Life
5. The lord of the Rings
6. Einstein:His Life and Universe
7. Howard Hughes: His Life and
Madness
8. Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or
How to Build the Future
ByAshlee Vance
Book Review
Musk’s reading list
“THE CEO IS SHOOTING
AT US WITH ROCKETS
AND PLASMA GUNS!”
“
is out there; you just need to have the appetite and
hunger for it.

