Felix is the newspaper of Imperial College Student
Union. We provide entertainment, information
and news while also being a space that members of
the Imperial College community can use to pub-
lish their views and respond to the views of others.
WHAT IS FELIX?
CANIWRITEFORFELIX?
Yes. We welcome all submissions and aim to pub-
lish everything we are sent. An editor will work
with you to make sure your article is in the best
condition it can be for publication. We also pro-
duce video and audio content if that interests you
more.
HOW DO I SUBMIT AN
ARTICLE TO FELIX?
• If you already have an
article in mind or have
written one already then
send it to the section
editors via email. These
email addresses can be
found at the top of each
page in a section.
• If you want to write
but don’t have a topic
in mind, check out or
section specific writers
Facebook groups that we
update every week with
topics we would like
articles about or email
the section editors
Send your article to us by 8 o’clock on Tuesday and
we can then have it ready for publication that Fri-
day!
We are also always recruiting editors,
copy editors, photographers, artists
and more. If you would like to get
invovled in Felix in a regular capacity,
email Felix@ic.ac.uk
ICSMSUPresleadspressureon
Collegetomakepubliclyfunded
medicinesmoreaffordable
KEEP THE CAT FREE
NEWS
Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
2
On Wednesday 3rd November, the
Imperial College Union council met
for the first full meeting of the academic
year. For those that aren’t aware, the Union
Council is one of the main policy-making
bodies of the Union with student repre-
sentatives from across constituent Union
leadership, the officer trustees themselves,
and elected representatives from within
each faculty. It’s there to set the policy of
the Union, vote on public stances and ac-
tions that the Union should take, as well
as to provide a platform of scrutiny and ac-
countability.
This year’s council meetings are ably
chaired by Alex Auyung. The agenda it-
self was relatively sparse, and after a few
ice-breakers in breakout rooms, matters for
decision included ratification of the pro-
posed timetable for next year’s leadership
elections and a change in the name of the
LGBT officer to the LGBTQ+ officer.
One of the papers proposed by a group
of students within the Imperial College
School of Medicine was a public stance
on Access to Medicines. Universities Al-
lied for Essential Medicines (UAEM) is
an international organisation who simply
believe that University-developed medi-
cine and healthcare technologies whose
research is publicly funded should be made
affordableandaccessibletothepublic.This
is particularly pertinent for the preventable
‘neglected tropical diseases’ where publicly
funded research commonly leads to drugs
that cost little to make, but due to exclusive
transfer of patents to often single pharma-
ceutical agencies, thus costs thousands of
pounds to buy and heavily limits equitable
global access.
The move of the Union to recognise this
cause means we are now in a position to ac-
tively campaign for Imperial College Lon-
don to sign onto the equitable technology
access framework, a charter aimed at li-
censing transparency that has already been
signed by many other Universities across
the globe including Oxford, Harvard and
Yale. The Imperial-specific UAEM chapter
have already been hard at work engaging
with a range of important stakeholders
including the Technology Transfer Office,
and even promising early discussions with
Professor Shattock; the leading figure be-
hind Imperial’s initiative to develop a vac-
cine for COVID-19. As ICSMSU Presi-
dent, and more widely as a Union, we look
forward to helping further these conversa-
tions and lobbying for change in line with
our new stance.
Another major part of these meetings
is accountability. The Officer Trustees of
the Union (both President and the respec-
tive deputies), as well as all the Constitu-
ent Union presidents and our Felix editor,
were expected to write up and present a
report on their activities and field ques-
tions from the board. Perhaps the most
controversial moment of the meeting came
from a renewed move for members to seek
ratification of reports via a vote, and specif-
ically whether this should apply to all re-
ports including those by part-time student
volunteers or as was originally suggested,
only those of full-time sabbatical officers
– a conversation set to be picked up at the
next meeting on 1st December.
Arguably the best part of council is its
open, transparent nature. Any member of
ICU (in other words pretty much every
student at Imperial) is welcome to come
along to Council and propose a paper. It is
ultimately a place where the voice of all stu-
dents, and the issues you care about most,
are genuinely empowered, a forum where
voices can be heard, and where changes can
be made.
All papers, reports and minutes from
Council meetings are publicly available on
the Union’s website for all to read if you
wish to see what was discussed in more de-
tail.
The next Union Council meeting is on
the 1st
December and is open to any Union
member. More information on the activi-
ties of Council and how it operates can be
found on the Union website.
Follow the Felix twitter for live tweeting of
the meetings.
Muntaha Naeem ICSMSU President

