“Hey Dad look! I spent five grand on
this game just within this first minute
and look! I packed Ronaldo, Messi and
Ben Yedder! Wow! So much skill! I love
FIFA!”, say an increasing proportion of
unwitting, uninformed and admittedly
guiltless video gamers in the age bracket of
10-15.
I love football, and I love video
gaming. The only game I’ve ever known
of which collides the two realms
together to enjoy them simultaneously
in one sitting is FIFA. EA, however,
don’t seem to feel the same.
Right, I should admit at this point
that someone reading this paper will
think “EA? FIFA? Wait, I know about
a team in red and white called Arsenal
but apart from that, what on earth is he
talking about here? And what are loot
boxes? Where is this going?!”
So, to sort this all out, I’ll briefly
explain who EA are and what FIFA is.
EA (or “Electronic Arts” to spell
out in its entirety) is a Canadian game
developer based in Vancouver, and they
publish some of the gaming world’s
most prominent titles — Battlefield,
Need For Speed, Plants vs Zombies and
even Simcity.
FIFA is its biggest seller. When you
think FIFA, think of the big daddy i.e.
the McDonalds to your local Chinese
takeaway — it is huge! Just for one of its
titles, FIFA 18, 24 million copies were
distributed within a 12 month period.
The game itself is a football simulator,
designed to replicate all aspects of a
90 minute football game alongside
curated modes for the hardcore gamer
in Ultimate Team and the casual gamer
who wishes to play with his friends for a
laugh in Pro Clubs.
Now comes the crux of the problem,
or the heart of the matter: EA have
changed FIFA. Ultimate Team is its
greatest asset when it comes to revenue
streams. Players buy specific iterations
of player items (often referred to as
“cards”) with in-game currency that
they can access using real sterling, euros
or dollars. Before April 2015, this wasn’t
necessary. It was possible to make a
living on the video game if you had an
incredibly poor team but if they were all
able to run at the speed of Usain Bolt,
you could beat anyone, anywhere no
matter the team in question. However,
EA changed this after 2015 so that the
game became increasingly dependent on
the quality of your team, which in turn
is proportional to the size of the bank...
account one writes off to fund their
extraordinarily short-term virtual asset.
FIFA rewards players specific player
and club related items using “packs”.
When you think of packs, think of a
slot machine. When you put in a pound
coin and pull the lever, you’ll see some
result, whether good or bad it belongs
to you. Legally in the gaming world it’s
known as “loot boxes”, and this is where
the problems begin. Kids love gambling.
“Ooh I want to put in a pound coin and
get the best outcome for my money!”,
and we can all attest to some moment of
our lives where this felt true. The sense
of euphoria when you receive more than
what you paid for is the feeling we crave
for as human beings as it lets us indulge
in a sense of achievement and improved
position in the world... [CONTINUED]
GAMES
23
Games.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
FIFA International
Soccer
Released: December 15, 1993
The first of its illustrious history. The game was well
received at the time, being described as “the complete
simulation of the sport” by Computer Gaming World.
Of course, this was 1993 so its retro aesthetic is of
no match to the current iteration in FIFA 21, but it
marked the first big step for EA into the football
simulator world.
Big titles in FIFA’s history
WHAT MY EYE’S ON...
Black Ops Cold War - Nov 13
Activision(Xbox,PS,PC)
Zombies are back, and for the first time
Modern Warfare and Black Ops exist
in the same world. The beta seemed like
a rough diamond, but will Cold War
deliver on the hype? Only time will tell,
although it looks promising so far.
It’s game over for FIFA loot boxes, EA.
Ahmad Danesh Games Editor
FIFA 06
Released: September 30, 2005
Yes, the game for 2006 was released in 2005.
However, that’s not really the point. FIFA 06 offered
a complete rewrite of the base game engine, yet more
importantly, the ball physics felt smoother at the time
compared to its previous counterparts - no surprise
really that it was awarded a ‘double platinum’ award
for sales.
FIFA 17
Released: 29 September 2016.
The last great FIFA. Low driven shots were
ridiculously overpowered and it was the first title
with the new Frostbite game engine, which previously
supported EA’s Battlefield series. However, the
gorgeous appeal of the stadiums and the balance of
the players made it worthwhile to play (for most of the
time).
Spider-Man Miles Morales - Nov 12
InsomniacGames(PS4,PS5)
One of the true PS5 reveal gems - the
graphics look stunning, the storyline
appears engaging and the fight scenes
look well choreographed. Insomniac
games might have delivered the game of
the year.
Assassin’s Creed Valhalla - Nov 10
Ubisoft(Xbox,PS,PC)
One of Ubisoft’s greatest titles. The
nostalgia is what brings me back to the
series, but it seems recently with new
footage that the game engine renders the
graphics from the 2004 era - what on
earth were they thinking?!
Forza Horizon 4 - Nov 10
Turn10Studios(Xbox,PC)
Very few driving simulators match the
authenticity and the range that Forza
offers. One often argues about the
duel between it and its Playstation
alternative: Gran Turismo. Turn 10,
however, pulled out the stops this time.
It appears Electronic Arts (EA) are feeling the heat in recent times, but how have they got to this point?
Our gaming editor, Ahmad Danesh discusses.
Credits: JESHOOTS.com // unsplash.com @JESHOOTS

