KEEP THE CAT FREE
26 Sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
SPORT
Exercise in Lockdown 2.0
Herewegoagain.Thenextfourweeks
will be tough for all, many hoped that
thefirstlockdownwouldbetheonlyone
that we would have to go through. Many
of us, including myself, found it very dif-
ficult to keep up with any sort of normal
exercise that we did before. This greatly
affected many people’s mental health
and lifestyle. It is a great shame that all
of the university sports teams had to
shut down, especially as we are expect-
ed to continue on with studies as we did
before, but it is understandable that as
people’s lives outside of universities are
being affected so greatly by the current
situation we cannot expect to keep on
as we did. We all know that exercise can
helpwithmentalhealth,thatiswhyweas
a sports editing team are going to try our
besttowritehalfanarticleeveryweekon
suggestions and tips to help people keep
going through this lockdown. Our first
recommendation is to set up a routine
and try your best to stick to it; remem-
ber variation is the spice of life and this
is especially true in sports. Motivation
will be severely lacking at points, I know
this is especially true for me, which is
why doing exercise shouldn’t be seen as
something to do when you’re motivated,
it should be thought of as daily medicine
to do as part of your routine. Obvious-
ly, you must always listen to your body,
if you are too tired and simply cannot
face the idea of doing anything then you
must of course rest and prioritise recov-
ery. A good trick to get over the lack of
motivation is to promise yourself that
five minutes into that run/cycle/what-
ever, if you still feel bad and don’t want
to keep going, you can turn around and
come home. Often, since you’re already
outside or have setup stuff at home and
changed into sports kit, motivation will
kick in and keep you going. However,
if you really do feel rough and you still
want to come home, you can do so with-
out feeling any guilt; you’ll know that
you tried your best. There are plenty of
social media influences who continu-
ously post exercise ideas, and these can
be helpful, however it should definite-
ly be noted that during lockdown you
should not be comparing yourself to
these people who are only posting a glo-
rified version of themselves and what
they do; remember, sport is individual
andyouhavetocompareyourselftowho
you were yesterday rather than someone
else today. This could be an ideal time to
try that first 5K or 10k that you’ve been
thinking about for a very long time; ob-
viously only do so if you can stay with-
in the regulations of the lockdown and
feel safe to do so. I for one struggled for
most of my life with running and cardio
in general but once I came to university
andstartedrowingIrealisedhowbenefi-
cial a quick run with my headphones on,
blaring out my favourite music, can help
me at the most stressful and anxious pe-
riods in the year. When starting to run,
you should be focusing on the length
of time you are running rather than the
speedordistanceyouaredoing.I’dhigh-
ly recommend if you’re starting off to try
and keep your heart rate as low as possi-
ble and treat those initial few kilometres
of your first proper run as a marathon:
focus on pacing. There is no point going
out at what you think is a “normal pace”
but still feels like agony, blowing up in
five minutes, and never doing it again. If
you have a heart rate monitor it would
be a great idea to try and do this run at
roughly 70% to 80% of your max heart
rate (a rough rule of thumb is 220 mi-
nus your age to find your max heart rate)
which should come out to roughly 140-
160BPM. At this heart rate, no matter
who you are, you should be able to run
for thirty to forty-five minutes straight;
I can’t guarantee that it will be fun or
that it won’t be one of the most boring
things you have ever done in your life,
but I promise you it is possible. How-
ever, it would probably be best to start
with a 20-minute run. Remember to in-
crease your length of time gradually and
consistently. With running the payback
and real fun only comes after you have
put in the time but making sure you stay
in those heart rate ranges will make it far
easier and enjoyable to do that time. Of
course, there are many different types
of exercises to try and we will hopefully
go through a few more; running is quite
a nice one to start with, but going into
winter and lockdown, we fully under-
stand the hesitation of going outside. If
you have any recommendations for exer-
cises that can easily be done in a room,
with limited equipment and is not too
complicated then please do get into
touch with us and send us an email.
Konrad Hohendorf Sport Editor
Felix cryptic Crossword No. 6
Across
Down
1 Courier delivers end of goalpost to
bloke (7)
2 Record unsteady dive after falling ring
(5)
3 Soft rock music sound after mixing
slime (9)
4 Odd trio reel, dangerously worn-out (5)
5 Jumbled menu I’m reading is disease
proof (6)
6 Tardis rupture! Emerging theme is
industry shake-up (7)
7 Peer at kind chap (9)
8 Anarchists convert bald red blimp (7)
9 Loudly set off towards rising sun for
banquet (5)
10 Size is alternative to article (4)
11 Corroded girder trusty no longer (5)
13 Music in Georgia is furious (6)
2 Getting over distressing gestating art is
the first hurdle (8,4)
3 Blander lemon and herb sauce with the
queen (6)
4 Identify the goal of Vietman experi-
ence tour please (4)
5 Cow is imitated in bad impression (10)
6 I am referring to myself (3)
7 Sister hears pastry (3)
8 That looks like the town centre (2)
9 Divorcee has impudent manner. Prac-
ticed? (8)
10 Friend overtakes in the other direction
(3)
11 Light can mean USB needs turning
over (7)
12 Morter shakes (6)
13 To release passion (4)
14 Sear mirror’s behind (4)
15 Silver lining of cage (2)
Think our clues are too easy? Too hard? Write crosswords for Felix
puzzles. See page 17 for more information on our clue writing
competition
Horatio
1 Writer of verse see uneven characters in
protest (4)

