and accumulation of waste because
cleaning services has not collected ac-
cumulated rubbish.
The key demands of the campaign
are for no-penalty contract releases
and deposit refunds for students who
no longer want to stay in halls, and a
30% rent reduction for student choos-
ing to remain - which reflects the lack
of cleaning services and blocked access
to communal facilities. Crucially, they
also demand that no student partici-
pating in the strike should suffer from
any disciplinary or legal repercussion.
Students were initially promised
by the university that they would re-
ceive mixed-mode teaching, with both
in-person and remote methods to de-
liver course material, and thus would
need to be on campus. Since then, in-
creasingly students have been under
lockdown and unable to attend any
in-person sessions, and the University
reportedly has been slowly eliminating
in-person learning. However, accom-
modation contracts bound students to
pay the full year’s rent even if they no
longer have in-person sessions.
Organisers of the strike say this
means that students are “paying for
FRIDAY 6TH NOVEMBER 2020
NEWS
3
Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
Bristol students on biggest
ever British uni rent strike
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
In addition to this, students will no
longer be allowed to meet up in doors
with any inside with anyone not in their
household and will only be allowed to
see one person not in their household
outside.
Students also face more restrictions on
returning home for Christmas holidays
with ministers proposing solutions
including two weeks of quarrantine be-
fore students may return to their fama-
lies. Student social activities and society
events have also seen a retightening of
resttrictions. From 5th November, the
Union has closed the 568 and Union
bar as well as all Move Imperial facilities
in accordance with government rules
as well as informing students that they
must move all society events online. The
College has stressed that it fully sup-
ports the government’s position.
However, Imperial libraries will remain
open, albeit with social distancing
requirements.
Provost Ian Walmsley highlighted the
uncertainty of the situation saying “We
will not always get our approach right
the first time, but we learn from feed-
back every day, and adapt to make sure
our community’s needs are met. As we
prepare for a second national lockdown,
and continue our discussions with gov-
ernment regarding plans for the winter
break, it is important we take a flexible
approach.”
Students who are struggling either emo-
tionally, physically or finacially are ad-
vised to talk to the Sudent Hub which
will assiste students in accessing the
resources and support that they need.
The College has also introduced new
measures to proactively identify aerosol
Covid-19 particles in order to minimise
transmission.
More information about measures the
College is taking to reduce Covid-19
transmission as well as infection rates
can be found on the Imperial College
Covid-19 pages
Lockdown 2 forces major changes to all student lives
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Credits: Epigram
CONTINUED ON PAGE 4

