The 2020 US Presidential Election was
too close to call on the night, and will
be confirmed in the coming days as the
final mail-in votes are counted and final-
ised. It has been a strange four years for
science in the U.S, and many scientists
would rejoice at a win for Biden, but
would that really be a win for science?
At the start of October, the prominent
U.S. journal Scientific American released
an article from “the editors”, endors-
ing Joe Biden for president. This was a
jaw-dropping thing for an independent
scientific journal to do, and Scientific
American had never in their 175-year
history endorsed a presidential candi-
date. The article set out several reasons
why Biden is “guided by the science”,
citing his policies on climate change
and public health, and accused Trump
of “rejecting evidence and science”.
Similarly, The New England Journal of
Medicine broke with 208 years of tra-
dition and condemned Trump and his
response to the global pandemic.
It certainly appears true that Trump’s
approach to the pandemic has not been
led by scientific advisers. On the same
day that the WHO declared coronavirus
to be a global health emergency, Trump
told a crowd in Michigan that it was
“under control”. At a rally in February,
he referred to the virus as the Dem-
ocrats’ “new hoax”. And he regularly
spread misinformation about untested
treatments for the virus, including dis-
infectant and hydroxychloroquine. His
consistent refusal to wear a mask, and
mocking of those who do, suggested a
complete disregard for the many scien-
tists who support their use as a preventa-
tive measure.
So is Biden’s track record any better?
His policies and general rhetoric do
seem to favour a scientific approach to
dealing with the virus. He has publicly
named the leading scientists who are
advising him, all of whom are respected
in their fields (such as the epidemiolo-
gist, paediatrician and FDA chief David
Kessler), while Trump prefers to appoint
experts in industry and business as his
advisers. Biden has promised that he will
hold daily briefings that “put scientists
and public health leaders front and
center” and has pledged to rejoin the
WHO.
But it is easy to present an optimistic
recovery plan when you are running
for president. It is less easy to put it
into action once you get to the White
House. Biden would be inheriting a
chaotic pandemic response from the
incumbent president, which he would
have to rapidly turn around if he wants
to bring the fast-moving pandemic un-
der control. He would also be inheriting
a lot of public mistrust of national and
international health authorities, such
as the FDA and the WHO, as well as a
politicisation of the pandemic that will
be hard to undo.
Environmental and climate change
policy will be similarly difficult to deal
with. In his first few months as presi-
dent, Trump signed an order directing
the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to repeal limits on carbon emis-
sions from power plants that had been
set under the Obama administration. A
few months later, he withdrew the U.S.
from the 2015 Paris climate accord. He
later removed key scientists from adviso-
ry committees in the EPA and replaced
them with industry representatives.
Biden has a lot of work to do to re-es-
tablish the U.S. international position in
tackling climate change, and to undo the
heavily pro-fossil fuel policies that have
been pushed by Trump. He has pledged
$2 trillion to tackle climate change – the
most ever pledged by a presidential can-
didate on this issue. He aims to develop
the renewable energy industry and in
doing so, create millions of new jobs.
These plans are, however, incredibly
ambitious. Biden will need to get this
amount of spending approved by Con-
gress, which could prove very difficult
given the closeness of the election.
It is clear that Biden has run on a plat-
form that is backed by science and scien-
tists, and Trump has opted for economy
and industry led politics. If Biden does
get into the White House in January, he
has a lot to do to rebuild relationships
with scientists and restore public faith in
science. The next four years could tell us
whether he is the man to do that.
What the US Election Result Means for Science
Lily Shepherd Science Editor
In order to put an end to the glob-
al coronavirus pandemic, researchers
around the world are working tire-
lessly to develop a vaccine to protect
against COVID-19. While vaccine
production usually takes multiple
years, a coronavirus vaccine is hoped
tobedevelopedwithin12-18months.
Vaccine testing can be split into 5
stages:
Pre-clinical – animal testing to see
whether the vaccine elicits an immune
response.
Phase I – healthy human volunteers
to determine safety and evaluate im-
mune response.
Phase II – hundreds of volunteers to
identify correct dosage.
Phase III – thousands of volunteers
toconfirmsafetyandefficacyvs.apla-
cebo.
Phase IV – studies on adverse effects,
long-termmmunityandvaccineusage
following the approval and licensing
of the vaccine.
The WHO is currently tracking the
progress of over 170 candidate vac-
cines; at Felix, we’ve chosen 5 of the
most promising candidates to follow,
so watch this space!
New Update: This week, while there
are no certain announcements, the
NHS has instructed GPs to prepare
for the beginning of a vaccine rollout
in December - should one be available
- to front-line workers and over-80s.
COVID-19 VACCINE TRACKER: Felix Edition
Julia Dabrowska Science Editor
BIDEN WOULD
BE INHERITING
A CHAOTIC
PANDEMIC
RESPONSE
“
FRIDAY 6TH NOVEMBER 2020
SCIENCE
7
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk

