While many of us were trying to enjoy Halloween
under the constraints of regional restrictions,
the news of a second lockdown unexpectedly entered
the celebrations. For me, it was if the party had been
gatecrashed by an unwanted guest. If that guest was
almost three-hours late, and they were called Boris
Johnson of course. Because on Saturday 31st October,
he officially announced new lockdown measures for
England.
From Thursday 5th of October, England will be in
lockdown until Wednesday 2nd December, but there
could be extensions of the lockdown come 2nd De-
cember. Overall, the new restrictions will mean that
people will need to stay at home unless they; have med-
ical concerns, are shopping for basic necessities, cannot
work from home, need childcare or education and oth-
er specific scenarios. People will not be allowed to mix
indoors with friends or family from separate house-
holds, except for support bubbles. A support bubble
can only be formed between a single-adult household
and another household of any size, as defined by the
Department of Health and Social Care. However, it
is possible to meet with one person from outside your
household when in outdoor public places. Also, cer-
tain businesses will be closed, or face restrictions on
the services they can provide. Universities, colleges and
schools will remain open.
Giventhethreatofadeathtollthatexceedstheworst
case scenarios, I can see how the decision was inevita-
ble. In fact, I wasn’t particularly surprised when I heard
the announcement; for the past few weeks I have been
anticipating a spark, something that would remind us
that we are still living through a pandemic. While oth-
er students around me seemed to be trying to build a
bubble of normalcy around them, I was waiting for the
bubble to pop.
Pressure had been mounting for stricter actions for a
while, but last week in Felix it was argued by Imperial
student Marwan Riach that further lockdowns are not
the best approach. Admittedly, at the start of the pan-
demic, I was confused at the hesitation to enter a lock-
down. However, as the lockdown continued, I became
moreawareofthedifficultiescausedbytherestrictions.
In the article, Riach addressed issues with vaccine pro-
duction, mental health, furlough and unemployment.
Concerns I think are valid and widely shared, so I can
understand the reluctance. The new lockdown restric-
tions aim to save lives, but this approach will not be a
strictly positive change for all members of our society.
I personally support the lockdown, but I also under-
stand that it is not the perfect solution. This lockdown
will impact different sections of society differently.
Even though it aims to protect everyone from COV-
ID-19, it seems the blanket lockdown approach will
not accommodate everyone.
Clearly, there are other Imperial students who did
not want a second lockdown. By now, this should be
apparent to anyone who follows Imperial Secrets. So,
I was curious to know what other students thought
about the decision. Therefore, I created a survey, to
which 47 people responded. I asked 9 questions, and
the results have been compiled below. The sample size
is clearly too small to be representative of all Imperial
students, but I found that the honest written responses
presented a valuable awareness into the consequences
the lockdown will have for some students.
Q1. DO YOU AGREE WITH THE DECISION
TO IMPOSE A SECOND NATIONAL LOCK-
DOWN?
The majority of respondents agreed with the deci-
sion, but just over a quarter did not. Despite the divi-
sion presented, in later questions it became apparent
that most respondents shared the same feelings of
frustration.
Q2. DO YOU THINK THE SECOND LOCK-
DOWN WILL BE EFFECTIVE?
The spike for ‘probably yes’ is clear, but so is the
fact that 23.4% of respondents were uncertain about
the effectiveness. Followed by the 21.28% who select-
ed ‘probably not’. These responses pointed to a lack
of optimism that was present across all the following
questions.
Q3. DID YOU EXPECT A SECOND NA-
TIONAL LOCKDOWN IN ENGLAND OVER
WINTERTIME?
It seems that the news didn’t catch too many by sur-
prise.
Q4. SHOULD UNIVERSITIES STAY OPEN
DURING THIS LOCKDOWN?
Over half of respondents agreed with the current
decision by the government to keep universities open.
Just over a quarter disagreed, with the rest stating they
‘had no opinion’. Maybe the desire to remain open is
out of concern for the potential disruption to educa-
tion, or maybe some want to cling onto the little social
life they still have.
Q5. HOW DID THE NEWS OF A SECOND
LOCKDOWN MAKE YOU FEEL?
StudentopinionsonLockdown2.0
Perhaps an expected and inevitable move, but the decision to enforce another lockdown is not being welcomed with open arms
KhamaGunde
CommentEditor
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
8
COMMENT

