This question gave students the opportunity to se-
lect their feeling on a slider scale from ‘very angry’ to
‘very happy’. Only 1 person said they were ‘very happy’,
followed by only 3 for ‘happy’. Although this reflects
what I had observed among friends and family, I was
still surprised at how negative the response was. At the
same time, I do struggle to imagine that there would
be overwhelming elation. University is expected to be
a social experience, as well as an educational one of
course, but COVID-19 has restricted a lot of freedoms
since March.
Q6. IF YOU ARE CURRENTLY LIVING
AWAY FROM HOME (HALLS OR PRIVATE
ACCOMMODATION), DO YOU INTEND TO
MOVE BACK HOME, OR WILL YOU STAY
PUT?
It seems that despite the uncertainty around the ex-
odus of students around the Christmas holiday, most
respondents, except one, do not intend to willingly re-
turn home right now.
Q7. HOW WILL THE COMING LOCK-
DOWN AFFECT PARTS OF YOUR LIFE? (E.G.
DAILY ROUTINE, RELATIONSHIPS, WELL-
BEING)
These responses provided explanations for why there
was a common feeling of discontent. Across the sam-
ple, students seemed to share concerns around the ef-
fects of the lockdown on wellbeing, mental health, re-
lationships and work.
On the topic of wellbeing, many felt that the lock-
downwouldcauseadipintheirmentalhealthandwell-
being. It became apparent to me that the restrictions,
coupled with the current state of remote learning, will
leave some students feeling isolated. One student said
that they expect to “feel lonely”, citing the fact they al-
ready have little social interactions, and they thought
their mental health would take a decline. Some felt
their work-life balance would become a struggle to
manage, which is already a challenge for most Imperial
students.
It was apparent that the likelihood of increased
screen time and reduced face-to-face interactions have
most reeling in anger. Suprisingly, there were a small
number of respondents who were impartial or saw a
silver lining in the dark cloud. One student said they
have been living in a “personal lockdown” under the
belief that most people should have been venturing
outside for essentials only. Another saw this lockdown
as an opportunity to spend more time to “work and
concentrate on studies”. Of course, students have been
living under restrictions since the start of term so it is
no surprise that one student claimed that they would
see little change as they “barely leave the house most
days anyways”. With another student responding with
“not very much” since their course is online anyway.
Concerns around maintaining romantic relation-
ships were also abundant. One student in a long-dis-
tance relationship that spans “several countries” said
that they felt little motivation to endure this month.
The financial consequences of a second lockdown
were also a concern for some of the 47 respondents.
One student recognised that they personally weren’t
affected by the news, but since it is not good for their
family’s financial situation it will negatively impact
them regardless. Another student shared they expect-
ed a reduced income, stating that “furlough only covers
80% of an average”.
Fitness was another popular topic, it was clear for
those who regularly work out, the lockdown poses a
hindrance to their fitness. Someone said that the clo-
sure of gyms would “destroy their daily routine”, anoth-
er held out hope that sports will stay on but they also
expressedahopelessnessattheremovalofthefreedoms
thatmaketheir“lifeworthliving”.Ithinkthelatterem-
phasies the role physical activity plays in the wellbing
for quite a large faction of our student population. Al-
though I cannot relate to the sports culture, I can see
how the news will be a big blow to those who already
had to go months without the gym in the first lock-
down. That being said, there was an ambigous respone
of “no more gym!!!”, which I still cannot decipher as a
positive or negative reaction.
The impact of a second lockdown on daily routines
for most students ranged quite a bit. It is important to
keep in mind that not all students live in student ac-
commodation and for respondents who fitted into this
category, some expressed a frustration at the quality of
their work environment. One person said that they ex-
pect their home environment to become “more hectic”
if family members end up staying home instead of go-
ing to work or school. For one respondent it seems to
be the restriction on simple, everyday things, like buy-
ing paper, that they will miss. They also expressed slight
despair at the confinement of a world that only exists
“inside the four walls of your flat”.
“Pret” also came up as a major concern for two re-
spondents, but I think Pret is a bit overrated anyway so
I will not delve into that.
Q8. AS A STUDENT, DO YOU THINK THE
STRICTER MEASURES WILL NEGATIVELY
OR POSITIVELY IMPACT YOUR STUDIES?
The majority felt that the lockdown would have
a negative impact. For most of these students, it
seems that the removal of their social interactions
or daily routines will destabilise their general well-
being to the point where they will struggle to focus
on studies. I think this is pretty understandable, as a
mechanical engineering student, I know how easy it
can be to fall into the trap of spending every minute
of every day on work. I try very hard to avoid that
trap, as do many people I know. However, soon the
opportunities to take time away with friends or fam-
ily will be very limited.
I can also imagine that for 1st year students, the
news couldn’t be more anti-climatic for a cohort
who so far have not experienced the true fresher ex-
perience.
There were a few who felt the positive however,
and those that elaborated on their stance shared a
hope that lockdown would improve productivity.
One student said they will have more time to sleep
which may in turn benefit their progress, at the same
time they reckoned that they may end up being less
productive than they hope.
There were a few who were neutral, stating that
lockdown would make little difference to their cur-
rent remote learning.
Q9.IFYOUDISAGREEWITHTHEUKGOV-
ERNMENT’S DECISION, WHAT ACTION(S)
WOULD YOU HAVE PREFERRED?
I was honestly slightly surpised at the volume of sug-
gestions in response to this question. I think I expected
more people to think lockdown was the only way to go
given the projections. For these respondents though,
they seem to be aware of the severity of the situation
facing us, its just that they would rather other rigorous
actions were taken.
Some of the respondents clarified that they agree
with the lockdown, but expressed that there could be
more thought given to other solutions. For example,
one person said that they agree with the move but think
long-term measures such as “regular, targeted testing”
should be employed to avoid the possibility of multiple
lockdowns.Anotherstudentexpressedmorediscontent
with the management of the COVID-19 response, stat-
ing that the government is incompetent for letting cases
rise to the stage they are “without ‘real’ interventions”.
There were a few other students who agreed with
the lockdown but disagreed with the conditions under
which it was placed. Three students reckoned that the
lockdown decision came too late, with one elaborat-
ing on their stance by saying that university students
should not have returned to campus. This respondent
also echoed the thoughts of another who argued that
a circuit breaker lockdown should have been enforced
when SAGE recommended so in September.
Although universities and schools will remain open,
which is a move most of the respondents supported,
one argued that the move is unjustified since transmis-
sion rates are “too high to be ignored”.
Some respondents pointed to the approaches taken
in other countries; Sweden, China and Slovakia specif-
ically.
Most respondents pointed to stricter enforcement of
shielding, social distancing and regional restrictions as
opposed to a national lockdown.
In summary, I believe most understand why the sec-
ond lockdown is happening, but the exasperation and
anger are tangible. So, I think that this month will be
one of intense anticipation.
FRIDAY 6TH NOVEMBER 2020
9
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
COMMENT

