Being confronted in a theatre by
three eccentric Americans may not
be your very British cup of tea, espe-
cially when they will presume to
cram all 37 of William Shakespeare’s
works into a mere 97 minutes. For
these three eccentric Americans, I
suggest you make an exception.
The Complete Works of William
Shakespeare – Abridged may sound
daunting, even if you have read,
studied or seen a fair proportion of
his works. One of the major achieve-
ments of the performance is to
present Shakespeare in an accessi-
ble manner. Provided, of course, you
can keep up.
To manage to fit all 37 of
Shakespeare’s plays into such a
short production would appear dif-
ficult, yet the performers are able
to do it with some extensive editing,
as well as expansive imaginations.
Fitting all 16 of the comedies into
one two minute sketch is a remark-
able feat indeed. The idea promoted
is that Shakespeare basically only
had four storylines – all of which
he plagiarised – allows this to be
achieved.
The aim is, as ever, to make
Shakespeare understandable for a
modern audience. The decision to
rap Othello, in spite of the fact that
the actors were, by their own admis-
sion, “racially challenged”, is one
attempt at this. Furthermore, the
opening sketch, Romeo and Juliet,
is one of the highlights of the pro-
duction. A very masculine Juliet and
very camp Romeo frolic in a way that
would have made Shakespeare him-
self turn in his grave. Similarly, the
Macbeth sketch is worth the ticket
price alone. 30 seconds (and that’s
it) of appalling Scottish accents and
even worse costumes will have you
crying with laughter.
Yet, within the mirth and the laugh-
ter, undertones emanate whereby
the true genius of Shakespeare is
portrayed. The last 45 of the 97 min-
utes are devoted entirely to Hamlet,
described as probably “the greatest
play ever written in the English lan-
guage”; performed four times, once
at some length, twice quicker and
quicker and once backwards. The
audience becomes involved in a way
that is simultaneously educational
and amusing. To demonstrate the
inner conflict being felt by Ophelia,
the audience is split into three, each
part representing one of the id, the
ego and the alter-ego that make
up her psyche. Beware not to sit in
the imaginatively titled Group C. I
found myself shouting “Cut the crap
Hamlet: my biological clock is tick-
ing and I want babies now!” when
instructed to do so.
The most incredible part of the
performance, though (with the
possible exception of the Macbeth
scene), came when one of the three
recited one of the famous lamenta-
tion speeches of Hamlet. Beginning
quickly, the speaker gradually
slowed down and dropped the vol-
ume of his voice as the power of the
words he was speaking began to
become apparent, both to him and
the audience. When the recitation
was over, there was a silent awe.
I cannot even remember how that
silence was broken.
It was unsurprising that US elec-
tion opinions were incorporated into
the play, and these may well have
detracted slightly from the overall
momentum of the performance, oth-
erwise it may be said that the fact
that there were only two referenc-
es made them ease better into the
Shakespearean context. However,
the initial aim of the production, to
perform all Shakespeare’s plays in
97 minutes, was achieved with such
hilarity and subtle mysticism that
little else that is derogatory can be
said about it. A production that has
intelligence beneath the mirth, The
Reduced Shakespeare Company is
one that really should be enjoyed
by all.
Arts
The Criterion Theatre on Piccadilly – it’s next to Lillywhites
“Cut the crap Hamlet:
my biological clock
is ticking and I want
babies now!”
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 11 November 2004 13
Reduced Shakespeare
Company
Criterion Theatre, W1
Lots of Shakespeare really fast
Tickets: £10–£32
The bluffer’s guide: Shakespeare
Can Hamlet truly be done backwards? William Gates has seen it
Thinking of working for us?
See if we work for you.
Outstanding people fit in at CSFB. If you think you could be one of them, an internship could be the next step.
Our Easter program runs for four days in London. It offers first year students the chance to sample life at CSFB and gives a valuable
insight into our firm and what we do.
Our Summer Internship runs for eight to ten weeks. It’s your chance to get a more in-depth introduction to the company, and ideal for
penultimate year students who are thinking of joining us.
Easter Program – online application deadline 3 December 2004.
Summer Program – online application deadline 28 January 2005.
For full details of these programs and to apply, please see our website.
www.csfb.com/standout
© 2004 Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and/or its affiliate companies. All rights reserved.

