fC4i
T H E N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No 131 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2 7 , 1959 4d
E D I T O R I S D I S M I S S E D
The President, H. H. T. Qarnett an-
nounced to the Union Meeting on
Tuesday last that David Irving had
been dismissed from the post of Editor
of PHOENIX due to his unwillingness to
co-operate with the Board of Directors.
This i s the final and inevitable
step in the controversy that has swept
I.C. during the past few months. In-
evitable because of the truly unique
psychology of Mr. Irving" who "accepts
no middle path or in his own words:-'is
the only one in step'" - I quote Dave
Clark.
A lengthy debate ensued on the
whole question of PHOENIX, and geheral
Editorial polioy. John Cox summed up
the the widespread feeling by saying
that the magazine w i l l only be success-
ful i f there i s mutual trust between
the Editor, Editorial Board and the
Board of Directors, and that the Editor
should indeed accept any recommendations
made by the Board. No such trust has
existed recently, leading to perfidy on
a l l sides.
But this was not the only topic of
interest at the meeting; there were
also two motions before the House:-
(1 ) That the Union should commit the
mascots of the three constituent
oolleges to a place of reverence
and safety, and that they should
be left there as a symbol of the
hooliganism of the past.
This was proposed by Messrs. Chad-
wick and Bramley. The motion was
proposed "as a stimulus for introspect-
ive analysis" Chad said that the
constituent college Presidents were
somewhat peeved, and slightly embarras-
sed by their mascots. Do they, in
fact serve any useful purpose? Why i s
i t necessary to follow the example of
lesser London College?
Mike Amos, i n reply, described
Chad (ex-I.C. President) as one who had
given a l l his usefulness and vitality
to the college. Accordingly he prop-
osed an ammendment to the motion to the
sffect that past Presidents as well as
the mascots should be committed hence.
This was further ammended to include
Mr. Bramley, who then seconded the
motion and urged us to throw away "those
s i l l y l i t t l e toys"
Peter Kassler declared that in re-
lieving their mental constipation,
C. & B. had completely missed the point.
Dave Clark agreed, and considered that
the mascots had a maturing influence on
a new President, while Graham King con-
tended that they did not use their
mascot as a rallying point as Miners
had sufficient spirit there already. The
motion was rejected.
A. J. PRITCHARD SCORING THE FIRST GOAL FOR L, u. AGAINST BBJGS
ESSAY PRIZE
The winners of the Sir Artnur Ac-
land Essay Prize for 1959 have just been
announced. The Prize has been divided
between Fred Wheeler, who receives 15 gns
and Alan Logan, who receives 10 gns. The
Titles of the winning essays are, resp-
ectively : -
"The aesthetio and the ethical"
and
"The drama or T. S. Eliot"
CONTINUED ON PAGE Z.
MAY BALL
The I.C. Union is to uold a May
Ball which will commence around 9 or
10 o'clock on the 22nd and will con-
tinue until breakfast, a running buffet
being served for several hours during
the night.
The Entertainments Committee fully
expect an attendance of over 600, and
for this reason the whole of the Union
Building will be used, including the
quad, where a beer-garden will be i n -
stalled.
Since i t is the last function of
any importance in the Union before the
final examinations in the summer, there
is l i t t l e need for me to stress the fact
that it.feill be well worth attending.
R.H.T. GARNET!,
President I.C. Union.
Team: J.G. Moss, S.J.B. Pick, R.A.
Dytham, B.D. Joyce, B.R. James, A.J.
Pritchard, C. Casemore, M.M. Crawley,
D.A. Coups, H.R. Finney, G.J. Wenk.
AT Motspur Park on Saturday 21st.
February, I.C's soccer team
finally realised their ambitions
when they won the London University Cup
by soundly beating Kings College 3 - 0 .
This i t the greatest prize available to
London colleges and I.C. have only won
the trophy once before. In this year's
final I.C. were opposed by a team which
had been successful in the previous
three seasons, and was hoping to equal
L.S.E. 's record performance of holding
the Cup from 1929-1932
However only one player who had
received Cup winners medals for the last
three seasons ran out on to the beau-
t i f u l Motspur turf last Saturday.
This was Tony Pritchard who is now
playing in I.C. colours, and i t was h«
who put I.C. firmly onto the victory
path against his old team mates by
scoring a brilliant goal. Kings
defence was undergoing considerable
pressure after about twenty minutes of
the second half, when a clearance from
the goalmouth sent the ball to Pritchard
outside the penalty area. He quickly
controlled the ball and hit a tremendous
shot into the top corner of the net
giving the goal keeper no chance whatso-
ever*
CONTINUED ON BACK PAGE

