BAR FTSE
Rugby World Cup Final at the Union
Those of you who were hear last Saturday to watch England
triumph over France might have been a bit annoyed at just how
busy it was. As a result of your feedback we have hired an outdoor
television screen to put in Beit Quad this Saturday so that you can
enjoy the game in more spacious surroundings. The Rugby Club
are also hosting an event in DB’s where the match will be shown
so you will be able to watch the match on one of 3 large screens,
one of which will be outside. Due to this special occasion we will
be open late until at least 1am and we will be having a BBQ in
Beit Quad from 6pm onwards. Kick off is at 8pm so I am looking
forward to seeing as many of you there as possible.
Court Nominations
I know a lot of you will be suffering elections fatigue but I would like to advertise that fact that
nominations are now open for the Union Court. The Union Court is responsible for making
sure that every other committee in the Union complies with the rules and is called upon to
resolve disciplinary matters, election complaints and media disputes. This committee has
a fairly sober but important role and we are looking for students from all 3 faculties to
serve on it so if you have an eye for detail I’d encourage you to volunteer. For more
information check out the “Democracy” section on the Union website or email me
at president@imperial.ac.uk.
Bar FTSE
Bar FTSE comes to Imperial and it is not to be missed. This Friday it’s time
to speculate on the most important market of all, a Friday night out! Our new
Bar FTSE system will be changing the prices of our drinks all night in response
to what you are drinking most or least of. So, if you and all your mates are
buying loads of Carlsberg, the price will go up. Meanwhile Carlsberg Export
hasn’t been selling as well so the price of that goes down - time to buy! You
can also expect sudden market crashes where a selection of drinks will be
ludicrously cheap, so stock up while the market is at rock bottom. It is just like
the real stock market but with the added worry of a hangover!
Stephen Brown
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
President’s Update
1.67
£ $ 2.02
Entertainments Card 2007/08
imperialcollegeunion.org/ents
Entertainments Card
forename
surname
CID
This card entitles the bearer to 20% of all Union
Entertainments for the period marked below.
valid until
• Fast-track entry for cardholder plus one guest.
• 20% discount on ents, notably end of term
carnivals and Summer Ball.
• Free entry on Wednesdays.
• Nightly drinks offers for the
year include:
Carlsberg/Tetleys £1.60
Snakebite £1.40
Blackcurrant add 20p
Blackthorn £1.30
Blackcurrant add 20p
Pepsi/Diet Pepsi/Lemonade 75p
plus alcopops & ale of the week.
Fast-track entry only guaranteed until the venue is filled. Drinks offer
limited to card holder and 4 drinks per round. Carnival and Summer
Ball discounts only available on paper tickets.
buy now from imperialcollegeunion.org
bigger!better!
£35
only

