Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
H
ello there budding, or
indeed seasoned, arty
people. Welcome to the
fourth instalment from
the fourth, the last,
but by no means the least arts editor.
First, big thanks to our other lovely
arty editor Rosie for doing tube map/
culture crawl layout for me whilst I
lay in bed, body fighting an army of
cold viruses, having used the last of
my reserves on theatrical content for
said tube map.
Flick over the page for this week’s
Culture Crawl courtesy of my co-edi-
tor Mike Cook- a must read for those
bookworms among you, followed by a
must-do as you trawl our nation’s cap-
ital to leaf through the virgin pages of
newly printed books, and not-so-vir-
gin, well-thumbed pages of antiquar-
ian books.
More literary cunning comes in the
form of poetic respite for the scientif-
ic mind- John Keats’ “La Belle Dame
Sans Merci”, our poem of the week.
After reading, cut it out and stick it in
your copy of Darwin’s “Origin of Spe-
cies” or what you will, then come back
and visit us again next week for an-
other lyrical gem. If Romantic sensual
imagery isn’t your volition then take
solace in the life and genius of Oscar
Wilde, an amazing article I dreamed
up, a few inches to your right. Alter-
natively be engulfed by the review
of a Red Plague from one of our new
writers.
Outside the confines of our beloved
Felix, the erudite Imperialist might
like to pop down to “Pop Art” at the
National Portrait Gallery. (Pun ab-
solutely fully intended). Popular Art
really does seem to be flavour of the
week with the Gagosian and Hayward
galleries showing “Pop Art Is…” and
“The Painting of Modern Life” re-
spectively. The Barbican’s “Seduced
Art” promises to shock some, disgust
some and delight some, rather like
this week’s centrefold. It explores
sex through the medium of art from
antiquity to now, spanning many dif-
ferent cultures and artists including
Warhol. ‘Is it art or is it porn?’ asks
The Telegraph. Who cares! It sounds
brilliant so go along and if you do, be
a dear and send us your review- we
would all love to hear about it.
Apparently I was remiss in omit-
ting The Royal Court from my Cul-
ture Crawl last week. I do apologise.
Located just a stop away at Sloane
Square, I have yet to visit but as soon
as I do I will tell you all about it in
these here pages.
Lastly, this week’s Student Art in
Focus comes from a student giving us
his artistic impression of Felix editor,
Tom. You may be interested in know-
ing that yours truly is attending Ave-
nue Q at the Noel Coward theatre this
week and so come back next week to
hear all about muppet puppet sex and
political incorrect-ness! You stay sexy
Imperial College.
Wilde Things and Jude Law
Caz Knight delves into the dynamic genius of Oscar Wilde and his lover Jude Law
M
y long and carefully
schemed plan is to
enlighten, to inter-
est (hopefully) and to
bring a bit of artistic
light into the lives of my fellow Impe-
rial Science geeks. I thought I would
make your Friday, or indeed which-
ever day you happen to chance upon
the Arts section, a little bit special by
providing you with some nuggets of
knowledge on some of our most iconic
playwrights. Unlike many instances in
science, in art everyone can be right
and so my opinion on who qualifies as
the most superior purveyor of plays is
subject to debate. As much as I would
like to write reams and reams on every
playwright I can fathom, I have to stick
to some sort of word limit so I have
hand selected one for now which I hold
close to my own heart.
In prime position- the man who
should be ranked above William
Shakespeare himself, Oscar Wilde.
Firstly, let us wish the literary genius
a belated happy birthday for October
16th. Hailed as the greatest wits of our
time, Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills
Wilde was born in Dublin in 1854 to a
doctor, William, and a writer, Jane. He
had two other siblings one of which,
Emily, he had a special fondness for.
Her sudden death deeply affected him
and so he proceeded to carry with him
a locket of her hair in a decorated enve-
lope. He excelled at school gaining sec-
ond prize for drawing in his last years,
before receiving a scholarship to Trin-
ity College, Dublin; a jack of all trades
it seems. After graduating in Classics,
Oscar obtained yet another scholar-
ship to study “Mods” and “Greats” at
Magdalen College, Oxford- where he
would graduate with a First Class de-
gree. Not only a playwright, he pro-
duced poems and also one novel- The
Picture of Dorian Gray (1891), as well
as touring America as a lecturer. De-
spite having a penchant for sexy men,
Oscar married Constance Lloyd in
1884 and fathered two children in the
following two years. Later on, in 1891
he met lover Lord Alfred ‘Bosie’ Doug-
las, an undergraduate at Oxford. Those
of you familiar with the outstanding
cinematic portrayal of his life, Wilde,
will remember Jude Law’s characteri-
sation of Bosie, complete with teddy
bear Aloysius. (Orlando Bloom also
has a walk on role.) Sadly, Wilde’s ar-
tistic flame was cruelly extinguished as
a result of two years hard labour fol-
lowing his arrest in 1895 for sodomy.
Needless to say Constance fled to Swit-
zerland with the children. I can say this
now because homosexuality is no long-
er a crime or looked upon in the same
way, but had I been Constance I would
have remained with Oscar if only to be
surrounded by such a superb mind! He
lived the remainder of his years in Paris
until November 1900 where he died.
He is now buried in La Père Lachaise
cemetery (where Jim Morrison, of The
Doors fame, would be buried seventy-
one years later.) I don’t think there is
a single quotation of Oscar Wilde’s
which does not demonstrate his insight
and perception which made his work
such a rich and dramatic portrayal of
the human condition as it was in the
Victorian era. “The world is a stage but
the play is badly cast” and “Only dull
people are brilliant at breakfast”. No
doubt his influence is indelible and
will continue to be so. Although it may
be a whimsical conclusion to come to,
I like to think that Stephen Fry (who
takes on the role of Wilde in the film)
possesses some of the intellect which
Wilde evidently had- the kind that
makes you want to read every book
ever written and know everything. It is
sad that had Wilde lived in today’s in-
finitely more accepting world he might
have gone on to produce more sublime
work. Fry came in as 3rd greatest wit
as voted by the British public. Not
only was Fry’s performance magical as
always, but the striking resemblance
when Fry sports Wilde’s flowing locks
is uncanny. Many of you might recall
being read The Happy Prince (1888) as
a child. My personal favourites include
Lady Windemere’s fan (1892), An Ideal
Husband (1895) and The Importance
of being Earnest (1895), all of which
have been made into rather brilliant
films. One of my favourite books is The
Wicked Wit of Oscar Wilde- hundreds
of Wilde’s quotes to bask in- and of-
fers all sorts of wisdom and everything
matter of importance: money, women,
men, love and life! Those of you burst-
ing to see one of his plays in the next
week should head down to the Rich-
mond Theatre where The Importance
of Earnest is being put on.
I would love to stay and write lots
more on the great Irish playwright
but I feel I have left out so many other
brilliant men. I’m sorry to betray my
sex but I can’t, off the top of my head,
think of any female playwrights of sig-
nificance- please enlighten me. Just
to whet your appetite for a later date-
Bertolt Brecht, Arthur Miller, Henrik
Ibsen, Anton Pavlovich Chekov, Noel
Coward, Alan Bennett, R.C. Sherriff,
George Bernard Shaw, Garcia Lorca
and Thomas Hardy. I know Hardy
wrote books but he is amazing too so
deserves a small mention.
What’s the point, you might ask.
Understanding of literature in all its
guises, in my opinion, enriches our
understanding of language and the
world around us (apologies, that was
not meant to read as hideously cliché
and cheese-laden as it came out!) And
if nothing else it makes you sound well
read and enviously cultured. Should we
ever be short on space for the Arts sec-
tion, I will lavish more literary, artistic
and possibly even musical wisdom on
you again.
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
Jude casts a furtive glance out the window before returning to bed with the nanny, or was it the cleaner?
“I have nothing to declare but my genius”, something I’m sure all at IC can idetify with

