14 felix Friday 19 October 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts
Red Death plaguing Battersea now
Emily Steels reviews the Production of the spine-chilling and enthralling tale by Edgar Allan Poe
W
hen you arrive at
the Battersea Arts
Centre for Punch-
drunk’s latest
production, ‘The
Masque of the Red Death’, you are sent
round to the back of the building. You
are given a white full-face mask and a
coin like an old fashioned penny. You
are sent up some steps and through a
door, into darkness. After that, any-
thing can happen.
This is the nature of Punchdrunk’s
work: that the show will be different for
each person who sees it. It is theatre as
total immersion. There’s no stage, and
strictly speaking there’s no play. You
are free to wander through the set as
you please, which in this case means
most of the BAC, from basement to
attic. There’s a crypt, with walls lined
with skulls, there’s a forest, a wine
room stocked floor to ceiling with old
As a world leading pharmaceutical company, with
one of the industry’s most envied drug pipelines, it
should come as no surprise that we’re always
looking for scientists to join us.
But, it might surprise you to discover that there are
critical and challenging opportunities for people
with no background in science but with some
interest in the pharmaceutical industry. In
fact, our continued dominance of the
global pharmaceutical market depends
upon identifying the very best talent, in
both the scientific and non science arenas.
And that means that there are all kinds of
opportunities for talented individuals in a variety of
disciplines to join us and build a global career.
You’ll be playing a vital role in driving the discovery
and development of our successes, and helping
people around the world live longer, happier,
healthier lives.
To apply now and find out more
about how you can build a truly global
career, please visit our website
www.gsk.com/uk-students
NO SCIENCE?
NO PROBLEM.
GSK is proud to promote an open culture, encouraging people to be themselves and giving their ideas a chance to flourish. GSK is an equal
opportunity employer.
gsk.com/uk-students
dusty bottles, and a cabaret bar with
live music. You might stumble across a
séance, a fight, a seduction, a man’s de-
scent into madness. You can choose to
follow characters through the building,
or you can stay in a room and wait for
the action to arrive.
It is, unquestionably, an extraor-
dinary experience. The extent of the
set is mind-boggling. Open a drawer
in a sideboard – it is full of old docu-
ments and letters. Run your hands over
the fabric of the chairs, the beds, the
drapes. Take your old penny and ex-
change it for a velvet cape you can wear
for the rest of the evening. The most
memorable moments are likely to be
unique to you. At one point, I sat down
in a chair in a dark room, felt some-
thing lumpy, and found that I’d sat on a
sleeping black cat. The cat looked un-
perturbed. I apologised to it profusely.
Some time later, the man in the wine
room told me how he hated the black
cat, and fed me one of its eyes (a green
olive) on a cocktail stick.
There’s a reason, though, that I
haven’t yet mentioned what the show is
about. ‘The Masque of the Red Death’
is an Edgar Allan Poe story in which
a country is hit by a plague, and the
prince of the land invites a thousand
of his friends to live in luxury inside
his abbey where, they believe, the Red
Death cannot reach them. But if you
didn’t know the story already, there’s
no way you would guess it from seeing
this show. The same goes for the other
Poe stories that are featured. There are
snippets of ‘The Cask of Amontillado’,
‘The Fall of the House of Usher’, and,
naturally, ‘The Black Cat’, but they don’t
go anywhere. It’s like nothing so much
as a Poe themed haunted house – there
are atmospheres, characters, places,
but not much of more substance than
that. It’s a little disappointing.
And the show being what it is, much
of your experience will depend on the
behaviour of the rest of the audience.
The night I went, there were a gaggle
of teenage girls whose screaming and
giggling was enough to send a deep
crack through this imaginary world for
me. I might have avoided them better
if there hadn’t seemed to be too many
people in the space. Sometimes there
were so many watchers crammed into
a room, you couldn’t see the action.
Sometimes you couldn’t get in through
the door. With tickets starting at £20
for concessions, I can’t help wondering
if the company has got a bit greedy.
At the end of the night, I spoke to
one of the stewards. He asked what I
thought of the show. It wasn’t as good
as ‘Faust’, I told him. He said that that’s
been the general consensus. ‘Faust’,
Punchdrunk’s production last year,
took over five floors of a warehouse in
Wapping. It used essentially the same
form, but there was more story and
more space. It was more haunting and
more surprising. So if you saw ‘Faust’,
‘Red Death’ is more of the same, only
not as good. If you didn’t see ‘Faust’, the
whole thing will be novel, but this isn’t
the company at the top of its game.
Go. By all means go. It’s extraordi-
nary. But you’ve been warned.
Watcha ya lookin at?

