16 felix Friday 19 October 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Borders Books, Oxford Circus
Borders might feel tacky to anyone who’s seen You’ve Got Mail, but even if Tom
Hanks dislikes big book chains, you can’t help but love something so complete. Not
just books, but everything that might relate to it, the Borders off Leicester Square
holds music, film, coffee, television shows, bags, as well as a massive selection of
books spread across all manner of areas.
Best Bit – It’s all in one place, so when you’re planning your Christmas shopping in
a month’s time, you could do a lot worse than spend a day in there wandering, sipping
coffee and taking in every single floor of money pits.
www.bordersstores.co.uk
The Science Museum Library
Yes, we had to do it. You’re registered there for free, and it has an extensive collection of scientific
texts on a massive range of topics. It’s not exactly bursting with fiction or books about gardening
but what the library does have, it has in droves. Textbooks, popular science, papers and a well-
maintained catalogue system. It’s also quite underused, so whatever you’re looking for is likely to
be in stock once you find it.
Best Bit – If the SML has a best bit, it’s probably the location. It’s a ten minute walk from most
departments on the Kensington campus, and even if you’re not local it’s central London which
means it’s not a wasted journey to get there.
www.imperial.ac.uk/library
Daunt Books, Marylebone
Located on Marylebone’s main high street, Daunt Books has the feel of a true book shop. Soft light
pours in through skylights, the shelves are mostly panelled in a beautiful oak, and of course – it’s
quiet. Most interestingly, Daunt Books arranges its wares by country, rather than genre or author,
meaning that its travel-orientation is arranged for simple and unusual browsing.
Best Bit – You might be surprised to learn that despite its relative independence, Daunt Books
holds some fairly interesting talks. John O’Farrell will be talking about his latest humour book later
this month, and the setting really makes meeting authors quite special.
www.dauntbooks.co.uk
Chapter Four – Bookshops and Libraries

