arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
Arts
The British Library, St. Pancras
Remember – you don’t need to buy books to read them. Although you do need to tell people you’re taking
them. The British Library holds a copy of every single book ever published in the United Kingdom, mean-
ing that if you can’t find it anywhere else, it will be on their shelves if it ever touched these shores. You’ll also
find extremely well-kept copies of Shakespeare and Chaucer, and many ancient religious texts.
Best Bit – It’s a toss-up, but we’d probably opt for the Gutenberg Bible – one of the first books printed in
Europe. You can also hunt down the desk where Marx enjoyed to sit and socialise, and the Magna Carta.
You won’t find that in Waterstone’s.
www.bl.uk
Gosh! Comics, Russell Square
Comics are a funny past-time, in that many of us wonder where it still goes on nowadays, and
the rest of us are too busy reading comics to tell them. If you’re completely new to the idea,
you could do a lot worse than visit Gosh! Comics, crammed with a huge variety of books from
all over the world, covering not only the latest releases, but also compilations of older ones, as
well as originals of some real classics.
The medium has changed a lot since the stereotype days of Marvel and co. You can now find
philosophical reflection, religious and political comment, and far more serious storylines,
alongside the crazier likes of superheroes and adventures.
The Best Bit – The staff at Gosh! are brilliant. Experienced and friendly, they’ll set you up
with something whether you’re a first-time reader or you own half of the store already.
www.goshlondon.co.uk
Foyles, Tottenham Court Road
You can’t look at London’s unique bookshops without mentioning Foyles, whose history is as
bizarre and varied as the books they stock. Originally started by two brothers selling their old
university textbooks (if only it worked so well nowadays) the business was soon booming, sell-
ing a huge range of books in a magnificent store in central London (as well as elsewhere).
Famed for its strange habits such as making customers queue up twice to purchase books
(once to get a receipt), the store recently changed hands and has since then undergone a mas-
sive refit. The old ways are out and the new ways are in – while that might mean you miss out
on some of the charming oddities, it’s still worth a visit, being as it is a monolith of reading
goodness.
The Best Bit – The architecture is strangely alluring. From the outside, it could be mistaken
for a glamourous department store. Of course, that’s not too far off.
www.foyles.co.uk
Waterstone’s, Piccadilly
The Death Star of book stores, the Waterstone’s in Piccadilly is the largest book shop
in Europe, meaning that if this towering city of books doesn’t have what you’re looking
for, you might need to check that it’s actually been published. The scale of the place is
overwhelming, and it’s very easy to get lost amongst shelf after shelf of books you’ve
never heard of.
Best Bit – Saying you’ve been, really. Waterstone’s doesn’t have anything particular
about it, but there’s so much of it at Piccadilly that you can’t help but feel impressed.
Take a good long stroll around, be overwhelmed, and then go and check out our other
suggestions!
www.waterstones.co.uk
Written by Mike Cook, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Next Week...
Our initial four-part culture crawl of London’s bustling Zone One is winding to a close, but
we’ve got plans to cover other aspects of the City this year. Is there a particular guide you’d
like? An area of London you’d like covered? Get in touch with us and tell us what you want
to read – arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

