film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
21
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
A selection of what’s on offer at this year’s London Film Festival
London calling: The Festival Lands
It’s that time of year again: film fes-
tival season is coming to an end. But
thankfully, they save our great city till
near the end so we’ve had a chance to
sift through the successes of Venice,
Cannes, Toronto, Berlin, etc. and this
is the result.
London may not have the glamour
of Cannes and even the biggest Brit
flick of the year, Atonement, decamped
to Venice last month, but London dif-
ferentiates itself from the competition
in its ability to bring the festival to the
public. If you love film, this is the place
to find it.
The events in London this year look
fantastic and so now is the best time to
really explore the biggest range of cine-
ma you’re likely to find in one city. The
festival runs from October 17th until
November 1st, so by the time this goes
to print you’ll be able to rush round
to Leicester Square and check out the
first releases. And you won’t be alone,
as the creme de la creme of world cin-
ema descend onto the square.
The Gala Screenings this year show
an impressive line up of Hollywood
talent: Halle Berry, Sam Mendes, Tom
Cruise, Meryl Streep, Robert Red-
ford, Sienna Miller, Michael Moore,
Brian De Palma, Colin Firth and Sean
Penn are all on the bill to launch new
films whilst the likes of David Lynch,
Naomi Watts and Steve Buscemi all
have screen talks of one form or an-
other lined up to entertain the baying
crowds.
But if you’re reading this then it won’t
be the Vanity Fair alumni who you care
about, but the films themselves, and
the collection seems to showcase a
“Best Of” from the festivals of the year
so far. David Cronenberg’s Eastern
Promises kicked off the opening night
on Wednesday, fresh from winning the
top prize at Toronto, the festival most
noted for being the first place to exhib-
it a film you want to win a shed-load
of Oscars. Ang Lee brings Lust, Cau-
tion to our shores, fresh from Venice
victory and will be looking to follow
up the international (inexplicable?) ac-
claim he received for previous feature,
Brokeback Mountain. Apparently Lust
has more plot to it though, so the signs
are good. The Cannes champion, Ro-
manian film 4 Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days
will also be shown alongside a discus-
sion on Romanian cinema and its re-
cent emergence into the international
scene.
But this is far from just a ‘cut and
As the epicentre of world cinema shifts to Leicester Square for 16 days, why is it that London still captures
as much interest months after Cannes kicks off the festival season? Because London isn’t capable of boring
paste’ of more prestigious festivals.
London will have seven world pre-
mieres over the 16 days of festival, as
well as 128 UK premieres. It has an ex-
traodinary wealth of international films
from 43 countries that would normally
have great trouble finding distribution
in the developed world where budget
trumps merit. We’ve even already
seen the first good thing come out of
the Madeleine McCann furore as Ben
Affleck’s new directorial effort, Gone,
Baby, Gone, has been pulled from the
schedule due to similarities to reality
that I imagine the title of the film will
Alex Casey
Film Editor
Communism through the eyes of a child makes Mickey Mouse a fascist
Children don’t like change. This is ex-
emplified by Blame It on Fidel, the lat-
est offering showing at the Institute
of Contemporary Arts which tells the
story of Anna (Nina Kervel), a young
girl whose parents brutally uproot her
life by deciding to become liberals in
the 1970’s. Based on a novel by Dom-
itilla Calamai, the film is a bleak foray
into a childish mind punctuated with
bright moments of humour, the cam-
era following Anna’s every movement
as she is introduced to a totally differ-
ent way of life.
Anna, a natural capitalist, puts up
a tough fight against the changes, de-
spite being dragged to marches and
bombarded with the meetings and
rows which seem to accompany her
new way of life. Nina Kervel’s portrayal
of Anna was very well rounded, captur-
ing the stubborn childishness of Anna’s
earlier protests which evolve into more
thoughtful arguments throughout the
film.
There were some good ‘chuckle out
loud’ moments, brought about by the
childish viewpoint of the treatment
of Communist militants in Spain and
France in the 1970s. There is also a fo-
cus on women’s liberation, with Anna’s
Fran Buckland
Blame It On Fidel ★★★★✫
Director: Julie Gavras
Writers: Tony Gilroy
Cast: Julie Depardieu,
Stefano Accorsi,
Nina Kervel
mother Marie (Julie Depardieu) speak-
ing out about the pro-choice move-
ment, which at the time was illegal in
France. These issues, when tinted with
the naivety of a child, take on a surreal
quality which is bought into focus by
the overheard rows between Anna’s
parents over their various political
standpoints. Blame It on Fidel manag-
es to capture the political mood of the
age with surprising accuracy despite its
youthful narrator.
Visually, the film is eye-opening,
with the clear contrast of Anna’s old
and neutral conservative life and new,
colourful flat with the walls painted
red (a rather blatant proof of her par-
ent’s Communist credentials), al-
though I was left wondering whether
it was totally necessary to have quite
so many headshots of a frowning and
thoughtful child. The style of filming
was very focussed on the expression of
each individual and I felt Kervel rose to
the challenge of having such unwaver-
ing attention. The soundtrack was apt
and complimented the mood of the
film with long periods of silence inter-
rupted by tinkling piano and strings.
Just over halfway through the film,
Gavras seemed to get a bit carried away
and overdid the artistic shots thus los-
ing the pace of the story, although this
did help develop Anna’s character to
develop and made her eventual com-
prehension of the events surrounding
her far more believable.
“These issues,
when tinted with
the naivety of a
child, take on a
surreal quality.”
If you like foreign films, artistically
focused shots or just a quiet sit in a
dark corner, then you’ll love Blame It
on Fidel. Overall, the atmosphere of
the film was reflective and quite bleak,
which I loved. In short, this coming-of-
age story is, despite losing pace around
the middle scenes, a good watch, with
an honest portrayal of a vital part of
becoming an adult: accepting change.
“I’ll just sit here until this whole Communist malarky passes”
explain if you haven’t already heard.
Better luck next time, Ben.
If you’re interested in seeing some-
thing that won’t be in your local Odeon
in a couple of weeks or months, your
best bet is to pick up a programme and
really dig deep to find the most inter-
esting offerings. Or you could try and
find the most sought-after tickets for
screen talks but, by now, you’ll have
to be personal friends with a good PR
contact or be Julia Roberts to get a
place.
The big names do come out in force
for London though, and you can catch
the “respectable” side of Hollywood
as well. Brad Pitt and Casey Affleck
ride into town in The Assassination of
Jesse James By The Coward Robert Ford
whilst Robert Redford directs himself,
Tom Cruise and the ever reliable Mer-
yl Streep in political drama, Lions For
Lambs. Halle Berry is doing her best to
put her dreadful post-Oscar years be-
hind her, with what appears from the
previews to be a very respectable turn
opposite Benicio del Toro in Things We
Lost In The Fire, Michael Moore will be
trying to twist the knife in George Du-
bya’s side even further with his exposé
of the American health service in Sicko
and just on the other side of the square
there will be an eager audience waiting
to see Cate Blanchett, Christian Bale,
Richard Gere and various others trans-
form into Bob Dylan for Todd Haynes’s
I’m Not There.
Not until the closing-night gala
screening of Wes Anderson’s The Dar-
jeeling Limited with Adrien Brody and
Owen Wilson will cinephiles be able
to relax and go about their lives again.
Whether sat in one of the Leicester
Square multiplexes, enjoying an event
at one of the many other cinemas
across the city participating in the fes-
tival or taking in the free screenings
slated to happen in Trafalgar Square
(the last one is Friday 19th, 18:30),
London offers a film festival that strips
away the elitism of most. It revels in re-
spectability and reputation rather than
style over substance, but don’t think
that there’s any lack of style about.
And perhaps that is why Joe Wright
chose to take Atonement to Venice. It’s
glorious cinematography can distract
from the slightly muddled chronologi-
cal issues that resulted from its liter-
ary roots, but Venice will accept that.
London is smarter than that. Last year
they opened with the best British film
of the decade, the other James McAvoy
outing, The Last King of Scotland. Fin-
gers crossed that this year they’ve done
it again.

