music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 19 October 2007
Music
Music Editors – Jenny Gibson and Matty Hoban
A pick’n’mix of reviews
Most music fans from the hardcore/
punk circles in the UK will remember
Thrice from their 2002 opus ‘Illusion
of Safety’ and the more sonically am-
bitious ‘Artist in the Ambulance’ from
2003. Hailing from a scene with bands
such as Brand New and Glassjaw, what
set this California four-piece apart
from the pack was their fervent lyrical
honesty, versatile technical abilities and
venerable eschewal from marketing
their haircuts over their music. They
have since released a DVD of live per-
formances in 2004 and an unabashedly
experimental record inspired by the
Thomas Pynchon novel called ‘Vheis-
su’ in 2005, which marked a significant
departure from the earlier punk sound
for the band and showcased their love
of such genre-defying outfits as Radio-
head and Deftones.
Now they plan on releasing a four-
part concept record titled ‘Earth, Air,
Water and Fire’ (Collectively titled
‘The Alchemy Index’) over the course
of 2007-08. As of now, the ‘Fire’ and
‘Water’ EPs are set for release on
15/10/07. From the starting track ‘Fire-
breather’ of the ‘Fire’ installment it
is clear that their music is now so far
away from their humble post-hardcore
beginnings that the only recogniz-
able element are the vocals. This track
combines crunchy Tool-esque guitars,
melodic vocals and a lush atmospheric
underbelly to create an overall epic
sound. Songs such as ‘The Arsonist’
and ‘The Flame Deluge’ go from intri-
cately soft to bludgeoning heaviness in
the space of a second and drift through
so many genres that it makes one re-
alise that classifying artists in terms of
single styles really misses the point of
music. Perhaps the most ambitious of-
ferings of the series are on the ‘Water’
disc, where the band exhibit the true
breadth of their music tastes by fus-
ing everything from electronic beats
to haunting Rhodes piano sounds. One
such standout song is ‘Digital Sea’, mix-
ing an industrial drum feel with sweetly
melodic vocal harmonies which slowly
morph into a robotic hush at the end.
‘Lost continent’ and ‘Night Diving’ are
two more ‘Water’ tracks which incor-
porate beautiful layers of atmospheric
sounds to go alongside blurbs of guitar
and elysian vocals, much in the vein
of Sigur Ros. After hearing the avail-
able songs, it becomes apparent that
whereas ‘Fire’ contains more incendi-
ary and heavy tracks which lyrically
address flames and other fire-y themes,
‘Water’ delves on maritime and aquatic
themed grounds and delivers more in-
tricately structured and sonically lush
sound-scapes.
With their latest offering, Thrice
have managed to make an album-se-
ries more compelling than a thousand
top-ten discs and have been successful
in touching on more genres of music
than that in the most eclectic listener’s
library. Judging by the musicianship
on display on the first two EPs, one
can expect the next two to be equally
progressive and hugely experimental.
Listening to this four-EP musical jug-
gernaut is like reading a quality book-
if you give it the time and patience you
will become enlightened, otherwise
you will remain an afflicted soul who
missed out on one of modern-music’s
most overlooked hallmarks.
Ushnish Banerjee
We have a couple of reviews that were picked out of the depths of our grips including
a lovely mixture of Post-Hardcore, Indie and Ragga-Hop’n’Bass or something
This is a quirky little debut album for
yet another indie band from the grand
old city of Leeds. “Buen Chico”; Span-
ish for “Good Bloke’, are waiting to have
‘Right To Rearrange’ released on CD
on the 22nd of October (or for those of
you who can’t wait, it is on download
from the 15th).
This album is the perfect thing to
fill that hole now that the Kooks, Su-
per Furry Animals and the Feeling
have been done to death and we’re all
searching through our CD collection
for something a little new. Lyrically the
songs are about as mentally stimulat-
ing as the opening theme tune of Tel-
etubbies, but hey, they got to Number
One didn’t they?
‘Choosing My Religion’ has a funky
little rhythm that will have emos na-
tionwide dancing on their bed in their
skinny jeans. Just as the song feels like
it’s getting a bit too repetitive it takes
a turn and the tempo goes up some-
hey, that’s a bit unusual for this genre
of music, a song with a climax to it!
And that seems to be the style of Buen
Chico, just as soon as you start to get
too comfortable with a piece, they do
something a little unusual to grab your
attention again.
‘Laying Down the Law’ looks set
to be another crowd-pleaser with a
steady guitar base and somewhat pre-
dictable chord changes (don’t you just
love them). The tune remains bouncy
and largely pleasing with some cute
little guitar riffs thrown in for good
measure. Horrah.
The introduction to ‘Don’t Lose Your
Faith In Goodwill’ sounds a bit like a
Beatles track- if you’re anything like
me, that’s never bad but that’s not all
that this song has to offer, as about one
and a half minutes in the song takes off
into a personality of its own leaving us
with a varied and more unusual piece
than what the rest of the album seems
to offer.
The album is rounded off beautifully
with ‘Things’, a slightly chilled out re-
prise however this track is not for lis-
tening to on a bad day (think Counting
Matty Hoban
Music Editor
I
t was once sung, “Just ‘cause she
dances loco, that don’t make
her a ‘ho no.” If you can get in
touch with me and say which
song this is from and the artist’s
name, then you could win the chance
to write a column for this here music
section- An opportunity not to be
missed, you’ve got to be in it to win
it, etc.
Anyway, how you doing? What’s
going down? What are the new, cool
jams? Well, I’ve been busy presiding
over the CDs within Felix’s treasure
chest of music and hideous artwork.
This week I decided to root through
and found an affront on humanity
in the form of Neurosonic’s “Drama
Queen”; which not only instills a ha-
tred reminiscent of that at the Nurem-
burg Rally in me, but also manages to
usurp common sense and have Rush
as a key influence. The latter is such a
faux-pas, I equate it to meeting your
girlfriend’s parents for the first time,
doing doggy-doggy with her mother
and then at breakfast the next day say
to the father, “Has your wife ever con-
sidered vaginal rejuvenation surgery
as her munch is like a french-kissing
cocker spaniel?” Anyway, enough of
the small pleasantries, I shall move on.
We have had an enthusiastic new
influx into the Music Felix community
and thus we have three album reviews
for your delectation. We always want
as many contributors as possible and
don’t let the styles of music currently
in the pages put you off, we want
people with all tastes to write for us -
that way it’ll be interesting. I, myself,
would love to hear about things I’ve
never heard of before and find it more
interesting than reading about a band
I’ve heard of.
In case you’re interested in how this
section works, I’ll explain: you get in
touch either through e-mail (see at the
top) or from signing up to our mailing
list and we will let you know when we
have our meetings. At these meetings
there will be free CDs for you to pick
up and take away to review (you can
keep them but if you feel that some-
one else should review them then
bring them back). Through our mail-
ing list we will also inform you of gigs
that you can get into for free (usually
with a ‘plus one’) if you would want to
go and review them. Do not feel guilty
about taking things for free, the pro-
motional companies offer them and
in the future I will talk about these
elements of the music business.
For now, I will have a quick chat
about the Radiohead album as the
mainstream media was overtaken by
their ‘revolutionary’ approach to their
new album. You may well know that
they made their album available online
with an honesty box where you choose
what you want to pay for the album.
This approach, in my mind, does not
seem revolutionary but necessary. You
can draw an analogy with museums,
such that Radiohead are like the Natu-
ral History Museum; established and
never without an audience, yet you
may donate depending on your guilt.
Let us hope this continues.
Crows- ‘Colourblind’).
If you’re open minded and like to
dabble in a bit of indie, this album
could well be what your CD collection
has been waiting for. Die hard rock
and R&B fans should stand well back,
without even touching the bunny clad
album cover I can tell you that this al-
bum, for you at least, is not going to be
a pleaser.
Ruth Patchett
Thrice
The Alchemy Index (Vagrant)
★★★★✩
Album Review
Buen Chico
Right to Re-Arrange
(Faith&Hope)
★★★★✩
Album Review
I’ve never heard of them, you’ve never
heard of them, they probably won’t be
particularly famous, but this Double
A-side single by The Ragga Twins &
Crew, ‘Maximum Bass and R.T.C’, is
propa eavy ting. Even from the name
Ragga Twins you know what to ex-
pect, and your expectations are not
disappointed.
On the A-side we have ‘Maximum
Bass’, a late night mindless drum’n’
bass mash-up, featuring all you can
ask for from a track designed for play
in grotty clubs and, according to the
press release, the modified car circuit.
Starting off with an ominously treble
heavy beat and some electro bleeps,
the scene is set for the introduction of
the Ragga Twins in classic ragga style –
“Ragga Twins them ‘bout! Woooaaahh!
People! Buy my track![sic]”. And then
comes the drop. Up until it came, it is
The Ragga Twins & Crew
Maximum Bass and R.T.C
★★★★★
Single Review
safe to say that I had only experienced,
at best, medium bass. There was some-
thing missing, a void which no amount
of treble could fill. The Ragga Twins
changed all of this when they turned
the bass to ‘maximum’.
It’s really got everything this one.
The drums are fast, the base is wobbly
and repetitive, and the Ragga Twins are
pissed off. I would love to quote some
lyrics as I’m sure they are hilarious, but
I can’t understand a word of what is
being said. Honestly though, it doesn’t
matter – the hoarse, raspy flows and
Jamaican intonation fit in perfectly
with the style of the tune, so even if it
was crystal clear, no one would listen.
The train of thought is continued on
the AA-side with ‘R.T.C. (Ragga Twins
Crew)’, except this time the original
twins (Deman Rocker and Flinty Bad-
man) have some company, with four
other guest MCs. As with the A-side
though, the lyrics are unintelligible,
and the effect of all the guests is mini-
mal. Maybe they all have their own dis-
tinctive styles, I don’t know, it’s not re-
ally important anyway. ‘R.T.C.’ could be
described as an anti-tune, designed to
be as harsh to the ear as possible. More
emphasis is put on bewildering sound
effects (both telephone and ambulance
are utilised) than any kind of melody,
but rather than being messy and con-
fusing to listen to, it’s structure comes
from it’s chaotic lack of structure.
As I said, there is nothing unexpect-
ed about these two tracks, but that is
exactly what makes them so excellent –
they conform to the idea that everyone
has in their head when they think of
what bass-heavy drum’n’bass is. From
songs like this, I don’t want innovation
or inspiration, I don’t want deep lyrics
which offer me advice about love or
life, I just want to turn up the volume
and have my eardrums fucked up. Job
done.
Peter Sinclair
Top: Buen Chico, bottom: Thrice

