23
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
Gregory Mead
Nightlife Editor
B
efore I say anything, I have
to apologise to you all for
not creating a nightlife page
last week, I know you must
have all been deeply disap-
pointed by it’s absence, and it’s the only
page you all read but the truth is, I was
much too busy bedding all your moth-
ers to make one. What I’m trying to say
is I need help, help I tell you! We need
a new nightlife editor for Felix, you
don’t need to have any past experience
or even be able to write in English, all
we need is someone to help make the
pages, if you’re interested then I sug-
gest you send me an email at nightlife.
felix@imperial.ac.uk and we’ll start
training you up!
Now I’ve got that out the way, we can
start on something relevant. I went out
last night to a club called Panic! Just off
Oxford street, it’s recently become a
favoured club of scenester teenagers in
London so I thought I’d hate it, but for
the first time in my life, I was wrong!
I’ve been regularly visiting Panic for
the past four years, and when it first
started, I must say it was total shit, but
it’s improved so much recently I’ve de-
cided to actually write a review on it,
which you can read by rotating your
eyes or head slightly to the right. Un-
less you’re reading this paper upside
down in which case, rotate to the left.
As for other content, we’re a bit thin
on the reviews front, by that I mean
nobody has actually written any for us.
This may be partly my fault for not or-
ganising the reviewers, but I’m going
to blame George Bush instead. If you
fancy going to the most awesomea-
saurus-rexical clubs in London then
email in! It’s all free don’t you know.
Of course, you can also visit the worst
clubs in London if you like that sort of
thing, but I generally reserve them for
myself because I like to punish myself,
and I’m also too much of an arsehole
to be able to write a nice review, the
words just don’t fit together.
Finally, I’ve got to mention the com-
petitions. Enter the fucking things al-
ready you bunch of ungrateful bastards
or I’ll never, ever EVER get you prizes
again.
Next time you find yourself queueing
up in the rain to pay £15 to get into a
club, remember reading this column.
13 Years of Bugged Out-ness
Simian Mobile Disco, Boys Noize, D.I.M and Jojo De Freq are sure to deliver an
awesome thirteenth birthday party for the legendary Bugged Out clubnight
Gregory Mead
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Greg Mead
Thirteen years of Bugged out is nearly
upon us, the legendary clubnight, orig-
inally based at Sankeys in Manchester
will be celebrating their birthday at The
End on Saturday 20th October! Unfor-
tunately that’s the day after this issue of
Felix is printed, but that’s just the way
the universe works at the moment, but
if you do manage to catch it, you’re in
for a real treat, every single Bugged
Out I’ve been to has been awesome.
One reason they are so successful is
they run monthly, meaning they nev-
er have a dry night like other similar
clubs such as Our Disco and DURRR,
the monthly format allows them to
constantly offer big name acts in the
electro scene at their current home,
The End.
This is a perfect venue for such an
event, the DJ booth and stage are
open, and not elevated, making for
much more of a friendly atmosphere
and more interaction between the
people dancing and the DJ’s or bands
performing. No super-DJ’s in a booth
twenty feet off the ground here.
Occasional one off large events such
as the Bugged Out Warehouse par-
ties at Canvas and various locations
in East London are also a real treat. Ir-
regularly organised they offer really big
name acts in a larger (usually 2000+)
venue, making for an almost festival
experience.
The birthday party will be headlined
by Simian Mobile Disco, riding on the
wave of popularity from recent ‘nu-
rave’ bands and a sudden increase of
electronic music in indie circles, they
are now regularly playing high up on
the line up for massive events and fes-
tivals around the UK, so catching them
here will be a real treat.
My personal highlight of the night is
Boys Noize, I first heard a few tracks by
this German electro producer a year or
so ago and instantly loved them. I was
Competitions
It’s still not too late to win some
prizes. We have:
Two Fabric double passes for
24th, 25th and 26th October.
Three double passes for Turn-
mills at their Halloween special
on 27th October.
Email:
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
also lucky enough to catch him play a
crazy set at Pukkelpop festival in Bel-
gium this summer. The 5000 capacity
tent was totally rammed and the at-
mosphere was truly amazing. He’ll also
be releasing his debut album “Oi Oi
Oi” on the night, featuring hits such as
“Don’t Believe the Hype” and “Down”
Also playing in the main room is
vintage house artist JoJo De Freq, who
is unveiling some new material from,
amongst others, Miss Kittin. D.I.M.
will also play live, following the success
of the brilliant “Airbus Baby”.
The warm up is Matt Walsh, who was
impressive at the Bugged Out night at
the T Bar in May. In the lounge Herve
will be joined by Hannah Holland,
from Trailer Trash and Bastard Batty
Bass. Klaxons and Simian tour (and
Our Disco resident DJ) Nadia Ksaiba
will be joined by a competition winner,
chosen by BuggedOut, to warm up the
lounge.
Completing this spectacular line up
in AKA is Wet Yourself, who enjoyed
success at Shoreditch Sunday, with res-
ident DJ’s Cormac, Peter Pixzel, Husley
and Gunz.
Basically, it’s going to be one hell of a
night, so I suggest you get to The End
early on Saturday night. You’d better
not all turn up too early and fill the
place out though, because I’ll be ex-
tremely annoyed if I get there and I
can’t get in.
ZOMG-OMFG I’m going to Panic!
Entirely populated by 18 year old students, this is the perfect place for freshers (or
creepy guys who like 18 year old girls). Panic! is fast becoming ‘super Indie cool’
The fact that this club is populated
almost entirely by teenage students
(and a few weird old guys who look
like they’d like to do bad things to said
Female teenage students) and the fact
that bottles of Kronenberg cost £1.50
and double vodka and mixer £2.50,
this club night was always destined to
be a complete mash up, and it almost
always ends that way.
When I first started going to this
club, back in the old days before I was
even a fresher, it was a little lame and
unpopular (just like I was) and to be
honest the music they played was not
at all to my taste, not that it mattered
since I usually got through an obscene
amount of cheap booze in the first few
hours.
Now, four years later it’s so packed
there’s a 30 minute queue just to get in,
and it’s fast becoming almost as popu-
lar as DURRR to the indie scenester
kids.
They play a great selection of current
alternative music, as well as old Indie
and new electro, and it’s so popular
the dancefloor is rammed from about
10pm till closing time at 3am.
The main problem for me though is I
don’t particularly like hanging around
wasted sixth formers and freshers,
they can get extremely irritating and
have also resulted in the place ID-ing
every single person who enters and
refusing entry to anybody who doesn’t
have any. Including myself and a friend
(25 years old) on one occasion who had
no ID, which was totally ridiculous.
The fact that everyone is trashed also
means spilled drinks, smashed bot-
tles and passed out people all over the
dancefloor, making for a rather sticky,
crunchy and sometimes soft surface to
walk on.
The toilets are an offence to every
single one of my senses and enter-
ing them borders suicidal, last week
a bunch kids decided to overflow the
sink, whilst wrapping their entire bod-
ies with toilet paper, along with some
guy who was standing in the corner
with no trousers on pissing all over the
wall, who promptly walked back out
into the club with no trousers on. Se-
curity were not impressed, and neither
was I.
So, you’re probably reading this now
and thinking something along the lines
of ‘Why the fuck would I ever want to
go to this place, it sounds awful’. Well,
if you’re thinking that, then probably
you’re wrong, despite the few points
I mentioned in this review, I can’t say
this place is all that bad, in fact I went
there last night and it was a really great
night out, plus I barely spent any mon-
ey at all.
The fact that they now play music I
actually like means I don’t have to get
totally off my face on booze to enjoy
myself, and the nice seated areas mean
you can sit down and actually talk to
people.
So, if you’re feeling bored on a Tues-
day night, and like most people have
the day off on Wednesday, then per-
haps you should give this place a visit.
In fact, you probably do anyway, since
the place is full of Imperial College stu-
dents every single week. Just don’t go
in the mens toilets.
Gregory Mead
Boys Noize and Simian Mobile Disco, meet them on Saturday and say hello

