games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
Games
Gairalgo Episode 2 – SMT: Persona 3
Azfarul Islam
I’ve probably broken some sort of xen-
ophobic or atleast esoterism boundary
here with Shin Megami Tensei: Perso-
na 3 which just so happens to be this
week’s musing for Gairalgo.
While not reinventing the wheel in
any particular way, Persona 3 is an im-
pressively creative title whose holistic
approach in melding awkward styles
demands respect. It’s an oxymoron in
that it gladly deviates from the strictly
linear structure of the quintessential
J-RPG yet is firmly entrenched with
strong Japanese idiosyncrasies at all
levels of design. In many ways, it’s the
truest playable form of a complicated
albeit entertaining anime series.
The titular personas form the crux
of rather ensnaring, macabre tale of a
25th hour out of time, one where dae-
mons roam free. It’s only by channel-
ling your own psyche into a physical,
combatant manifestation are you able
to stay these denizens. Besides the ad-
dicting Pokémonesque management of
these personas (who can be levelled
up and fused), the battles are standard
fare with some nice little touches that
enhance the pacing. The other half of
the gameplay is the most unusual: the
school simulation, if you will. Your day-
time activities cleverly mimic those of
a student sans the harsher sides. You
can choose to join sporting societies,
play videogames, hang out with certain
cliques, watch films, et al. Whether you
actually decide to study for a test as
opposed to saving the world inevitably
depends on what you yourself think is
the right decision as opposed what you
think is best for the game; it’s decep-
tively postmodern and quite remark-
able in hindsight.
Here, all your interactions and ac-
tivities manifest in the form of Social
Links that ebb and flow with the ways
you deal with them. These bestow
many unique bonuses to your persona,
oft allowing them to realise greater
and unusual abilities. This fascinating
connection between your night-time
trysts with the Shadows within the
Dark Hour and your current social
status stands as a cogent argument for
giving careful thought to crafting your-
self a true persona (pun intended).
Of course, all this is interesting
mostly if you’re into the sort of thing:
the game is so strongly and stylistically
abstruse that the supreme majority of
you will be alienated at the word Shin.
For those willing to brave it, there’s
something special to be found here.
Persona 3 is not currently
available in the UK. Import it as
you see fit. Alternatively, wait.
Yeah, go ahead and shoot yourself, emo kid
Flamebait: Total SnoreBoreChore
Michael Cook is sending you all into no-man’s land. Tabletop strategists first. Mind the gap
O
h boy. I bet you played
the Total War series,
right? Right? I bet you
thought it was per-ret-
ty fun. All those little
men, moving around on <insert period
transport here> and clashing <insert
period-appropriate weapon here> on
the <period terrain>. Gripping stuff.
Like Ben Hur, but with the frame rate
turned way down, directed by Al Gore
and shot from fifteen hundred feet
away.
Look, I like strategy games, okay? I
like them because I get to think and
then act. Think. Then act. The action
comes after the thinking, which Total
War manages to get from its first itera-
tion – the Japanoriffic Shogun: Total
War – but what it fails to grasp is that
when I ask for things to happen, I ex-
pect to still be alive when they occur. I
don’t expect to have to raise an heir on
this side of the monitor in order to take
the game on when I die of old age wait-
ing for my cavalry to get into a flanking
position.
How many strategies do I need ex-
actly? Even Sun Tzu would think it
was going a little over the top – there’s
only two ways to go through a valley,
the right way and the wrong way. The
wrong way gets everyone killed, and
on that basis 90% of Total War strate-
gies are ‘the wrong way’. And no, I don’t
accept that I’m merely rubbish at the
game, as I was raised by hardened vet-
erans, and most multiplayer training
sessions involved swearing over Team-
speak and the AI laying the smack
down on just about everyone in sight.
Of course, maybe that’s the beauty.
Maybe that elusive 10% is what the
game is all about, the meaty strategy
hiding away in the massive pile of gris-
tle, teeth-gnashing and completely un-
necessary historical pomposity. Maybe
it’s significant that there are four dif-
ferent kind of pikemen. Maybe I need
to understand the tactical nuances of
men on elephants and not just accept
that, hey, they’re walking grey brick
shithouses.
Because that’s what gets me most
about Total War – the entire idea, from
start to finish, is fun-sounding. Com-
mand huge armies! Fire flaming pigs at
cities! Starve people! Fling people! Ele-
phant people! The game series invents
the verb to elephant for god’s sake. And
yet, despite all of this, it’s really, really
not very fun at all.
It’s got fucking elephants. How can it
not be fun?
Miraculously, it manages it. It man-
ages it through a clever combination
of statistics, randomness and horrible,
crippling slowness. Even with a speed
control, this game moves on at a snail’s
pace. Cavalry units sweep majesti-
cally across massive tracts of grassy-
browny-grass and then collide for five
seconds with a group of another col-
our. Random numbers are generated.
You lose.
Yeah, alright, I forgot that South Ro-
man Purple Spearmen get a 19% pre-
tax bonus against Men On Horses
With Hats On. And yes, I foolishly
bought the Level 3 Hats upgrade which
adds go-faster stripes to the horses but
also makse them weak versus water
Pokémon. Yes. There were bad tactical
decisions made. But with an infinite
amount of them to make, it’s quite hard
to make the better ones.
It’s that awful combination of slow
build-up and very fast failure that not
only makes it a polar opposite to the
dizzying quality heights of Team For-
tress 2 and Command And Conquer,
but also trips up on so many Bad De-
sign Rules that it’s a wonder any of you
ever played it at all. You do realise that
games are supposed to be fun?
Fun? Yes?
That means that when elephants are
told to attack something they trumpet
My followers prepare the welcome wagon for Suffragette : Total War’s PR department announcement
As Benjamin’s tie began to gorge on his genitalia, his only solace was
that he’d never have to play another game of Total War ever again
the theme tune from The A-Team and
throw men around as they shout racial
slurs and dismember themselves. And
when I tell troops to siege a city they
put up banners with catchy insulting
slogans and amusing political car-
toons. And maybe ferrets. I don’t know,
something FUN. Not horrific historical
accuracy to the point of HORRIBLE,
HORRIBLE BOREDOM.
GUYS... history is boring. It’s taught
by people with goatees and using
textbooks that have their own postal
codes. It doesn’t need a game conver-
sion, guys. It doesn’t need four of them,
that’s for damn sure.
Now get back to tank rushes and
shotguns, and if I see a single elephant
in a game that isn’t wearing a cape, I’m
getting out the trebuchets and laying
siege to Creative Assembly.
‘round we go
Azfarul Islam
“Escape the Room” puzzles can be
rather unweildy beasts. Sometimes
they’re so darn erudite that it takes a
deranged mind to solve them. And
sometimes they just apply logic and
commonsense beautifully.
Sphere is great example of the lat-
ter school of design. The graphics are
clinical, Spartan and clearly designed
to enhance the isolation. The solving
process itself is quite entertaining as
you search for items to put into your
inventory and then find ways to apply
them. It’s mostly straightforward but
lateral thinking is required in some.
Sphere is locked inside http://
www.jigsaw.x0.com/sphere_e/
index.html
Not V For Vendetta: The Game

