felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 19 October 2007
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahranyan Arnold and Nadine Richards
Egypt: Not what you might Sphinx
There is nothing more you can demand from a country with over 5000 years of history, the only Ancient
Wonder of the World remaining and with the longest river. Not to mention some of the best diving sites,
and a capital city dotted with mosques, markets and absolute madness amongst all its magnificence...
Nadine Richards
Travel Editor
Madness. As I have mentioned before
and will mention again, because it is so
absolutely fitting for a country where
you try and pay to use the Internet
and instead end up being given sweets.
This is typical of the Egyptian people,
whom I found to be the friendliest and
most generous I’ve ever encountered.
So how did it all begin?
Facing the 40-plus degree heat, we
decided to head for the town centre the
cheap, local way – by bus. Not quite as
easy as imagined. By the time we’d de-
ciphered the number of each bus from
Arabic, we found that it had already
rolled past us. We weren’t quite as
adept as the locals at sprinting after the
bus down the street, then getting “on”
to it, which appeared to involve half the
passengers standing outside of it, cling-
ing onto the roof and standing on one
of the tyres as the bus veered down the
road at breakneck speed. Never mind,
just accept that we’re tourists and take
a cab. After haggling, we eventually
hit lucky with a taxi driver high on…
happiness? “How much?” we ask, as he
replies “Whatever you want, whatever
you want!” Well alright then… “How
about 27 Egyptian?” “Ok, ok, whatever
you want”. Yes, ok. We want.
Or did want, until I discovered that
driving laws do not exist in Cairo – ap-
parently the main theory behind the
driving test is that the roads of Cairo
are a Formula One racing ground; the
only rule is that you honk your horn as
loudly as you can and the prize is that
you damage your car in the most spec-
tacular way possible, preferably with-
out dying.
Cairo is overwhelming. It is absolute-
ly beautiful and totally breathtaking. In
Arabic, Cairo means “The Vanquisher”
or “The Triumphant”, and even to this
day, it is difficult to imagine another
city that it cannot vanquish with its
magnificence. If a city’s greatness can
be measured by how much it appeals
to one’s senses, then Cairo is certainly
one of the greatest. My first night of
the city is unforgettable: As we wan-
der round at midnight, the people have
poured out of their houses and onto the
streets, which are as busy and bustling
(and as difficult to manage) as Oxford
Street during the New Year’s sales. We
pass by the market stalls where the lo-
cals do their shopping and are greeted
by the sights of herbs and spices be-
yond any range I ever knew existed,
and an assortment of clothes, shoes,
tools, and every electronic device pos-
sible. The air is an odd mixture of car
fumes from the road and aromatic fla-
vours from the street. People who are
not too busy haggling shout at us as we
walk by; “Japanese! Konichiwa!”– due
to our (sort of) Oriental looks. And
wedged in between all this chaos lies
the shisha cafes, where old men can
catch their breath to watch this hectic
city-life idly go by. We finish our day
at the more famous, tourist-orientated
market of Khan-el-Khalili, a haven for
souvenir shopping and where being
ripped off is the norm – having said
that, being ripped off in Egypt will still
land you a meal for £1.
Of course, it is impossible to talk
about Egypt without mentioning the
Pyramids of Giza. However, I will only
mention them and say that this is one
place you must visit in your lifetime.
Words cannot justify how it feels to
see one of the symbols of the ancient
world, it is suffice to say that there is
nothing anti-climactic about it. As I
sat on the lower steps of the Pyramid
of Khufu and leant my back against it,
the Egyptian man next to me pointed
to his spliff and offered me ‘Hashish?
Hashish?’ Accepting would have re-
sulted in an experience too surreal for
me to handle.
Cairo has no end of tourist attrac-
tions to see. It is divided into two main
cultural areas: Islamic Cairo and Old
Cairo. Islamic Cairo is overlooked by
the majestic Cairo Citadel, and was
one of the former centres of the Is-
lamic world. This is of little surprise
considering that the district offers
over one hundred and fifty mosques,
as well as madrasas, hammams, and
fountains for the sightseer. Similarly,
Old Cairo offers Roman ruins amongst
ancient churches. In addition, there is
the Egyptian Museum with Tutankha-
mun’s treasures, and an endless array
of remaining antiques which have not
yet been stolen by the British Museum,
and, need I say, mummies? Appar-
ently looking at every artefact within
the museum for one minute would
land you with a nine-month stay. All
I can say is that one afternoon in the
museum landed me with very sore feet
and eyes. Not that I didn’t appreciate
it – the mummified cats are a cute
highlight.
Moving further south is the city
of Luxor; once known as the capital
Thebes in the time of the New King-
dom of Egypt. It is home to the Valley
of the Kings, which is now most fa-
mous for the discovery of Tutankha-
mun’s tomb. Sadly, the tomb itself is
mostly stripped bare, with all of the
artefacts having been moved to the
Egyptian Museum but fantastic col-
ourful hieroglyphics and atmospheri-
cally illuminated corridors descending
to the Tombs of Horemheb and Ram-
esses VI more than make up for this
disappointment.
Next is a brief stop to Aswan, for the
sole purpose of visiting the awe-inspir-
ing temple, Abu Simbel. The temple
is a 3 hour drive from Aswan and the
heat during the day makes it difficult to
appreciate it in all its splendour unless
seen in the early hours. Make that the
very early hours. We wake up at 3am to
join a coach of noisy, jolly, Australian
tourists (Why are they always happy?
Why are there so many Australians
everywhere? Are there actually any
Australians left in Australia?) and my
friend does her very best not to throw
up during the 3 hour drive. It’s the ear-
liest I’ve ever woken during a holiday
Want to dive?
Imperial College
Underwater Club
has spaces for the
Red Sea Diving trip.
13th-20th January,
5 days diving on a
live-aboard yacht,
everything includ-
ed. Total cost £705.
New members
should be a Sports
diver or PADI Open
water and have
done around 50
dives (although this
can be flexible).
Check out the web-
site at http://www.
imperialcollegeun-
ion.org/icuc or for
more information
email andrew.nor-
folk02@imperial.
ac.uk
Floating on a felucca on the Nile

