news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
News
Following a theft incident in Aero, Felix decided to carry out an investigation into the department’s security
Computer parts were stolen from the
Department of Aeronautics late last
week, throwing doubt upon the effica-
cy of College’s newly installed security
measures.
The components of a computer in
an Aero lecture theatre were prob-
ably taken on Thursday afternoon.
The computer was part of the lecture
theatre control suite and was encased
in a secure cabinet, to which the thief
managed to gain access. Reports are
conflicting over precisely when the in-
cident occurred, and what parts were
stolen, with the Aeronautics Depart-
ment stating that the CPU and mem-
ory were missing, whereas the College
Head of Security is quoted as saying
that only the hard drive was taken.
The incident is the latest in a string
of, allegedly linked, thefts from all over
campus during the summer closure
period. After working with police, the
College Security department say that
a suspect has been charged over the
Aero incident, and that they are “very
confident” that they will also be linked
to the other thefts over the summer.
These incidents come after College
has spent most of the summer install-
ing new security systems in the many
entrances around campus, replacing
the old system of manning the doors
with staff that College Security claims
were: “receptionists, not security of-
ficers,” even though many of the desks
were emblazoned with the title “Secu-
rity Reception” above them. Replace-
ment “Reception” signs are due to be
fitted in the coming weeks.
The new system of RFID, Swipe ac-
cessible doors and turnstiles have
caused controversy across the College,
with many students and staff believing
that money is being wasted on ineffec-
tive and pointless systems, preferring
the old system based around depart-
mental “porters.”
To investigate these claims, Felix
carried out an experiment into access-
ing the Aeronautics Department from
the entrance on Prince Consort Road,
which requires the defeat of several se-
curity systems: the external doors, the
internal turnstile/gate, and the security
camera that monitors both of these.
Our reporter and photographer en-
countered no difficulty in “tailgating”
a legitimate student through the first
set of automatic doors, and then again
through the internal gate, which is
designed for wheelchair use although
most students seem to use is instead of
the turnstiles to the side. According to
previously quoted security sources, an
alarm is supposed to alert the Security
Office in Sherfield when more than
one person walks through this gate.
Unsatisfied by this challenge, our
reporter then attempted to breach
the turnstiles and gate in a number of
ways, in direct view of the CCTV cam-
era, until confronted by the inevitable
response from Security (see front page
montage). After waiting for 10 minutes
without being accosted, our reporter
proceeded to climb two floors up to
a lecture theatre adjacent to the room
that was the recent victim of theft, and
return to the ground floor with a prop
to alert the CCTV camera that he was
definitely up to no good. After bor-
rowing a laptop from a willing student
(to avoid actually being prosecuted for
stealing equipment that was actually
College Property, although there was
much equipment ripe for such theft,
such as plasma screens and a set of
room keys left lying on a trolley), he
then returned to the entrance and,
straddling the gate, held his ‘ill-gotten’
laptop aloft.
It was at this point that he noticed
that the external doors had not closed
after the last student swiped, and had
been stuck open for over half an hour.
Escape from the scene of the crime was
assured.
In perfect timing, at this point a
delivery-person walked through the
open entrance, and after examining the
now-empty “reception desk,” asked our
reporter for directions to an address in
Huxley: completely unaware that he
had inadvertently broken through the
first line of security.
An hour after first breaking in to
Aero entrance, and after 45 minutes
of the external security door being ap-
parently stuck open, our investigative
team tired of waiting and returned,
without hinderance, to the Felix offic-
es. The only Aeronautics student that
was even slightly curious about our ac-
tivities simply commented on the se-
curity systems, saying: “They’re crap.
I haven’t had my swipe card for weeks
and I have no trouble getting in.”
After being contacted by Felix for
Andrew Somerville
& Tom Roberts
Top: the sign currently above the receptionist’s booth in the Blackett
Laboratory. Bottom: A “criminal” shows off his newly obtained wares
comment on this story, Ceri Davies,
the Head of Security in College stated
that the new security measures were
meant as a “deterrent.”
“They’re not designed to be Fort
Knox or a ‘Ring of Steel’,” he said. “It’s
about trying to get the balance right
between security and freedom of ac-
cess. No alarm is supposed to sound
when the turnstiles are hopped-over
[although he was quoted by Live! (live.
cgcu.net) in August 2006 as saying that
there is – Editor], criminals aren’t go-
ing to jump over, they try to blend in.”
Whether secure or not, the leading
opinion, amongst both students and
staff, appears to be against the new
measures. Many feel that replacing the
old, multi-functional, “receptionists”
with expensive steel deterrents is a
waste of money, and find the new sys-
tems “annoying,” and a waste of time
for staff, causing headaches for deliv-
eries and visitors.
The scene of the crime: the innards of a PC in the Aeronautical department were stolen, possibly, last week
A delivery man unknowingly breaks into Aero. Luckily, Felix is at hand to point him in the right direction
Soaring through the Aero turnstiles

