32 felix Friday 19 October 2007
GPS sends Jez down the wrong road
GPS sends Jez down the wrong road
Q
: What do you get
when you cross a 90
year old fire engine,
lots of students and
a free ferry ticket?
A: Covered in grease, oil and water
(in my case at least).
Sounds fun, doesn’t it? For the last
20 years or so RCS Motor Club has
taken a small village of tents, a mot-
ley bunch of students and enough
petrol and gas to raze a small village
to the Isle of Wight, all for a five-day
camping extravaganza. Thankfully
we don’t need to rely on the Union’s
minibus fleet for the 200-mile round
trip, as our method of transport is
much more reliable: Jezebel, Impe-
rial’s 1916 Dennis ‘N’ Type Fire En-
gine. She may be 91 years old, but is
one of the few vehicles not to have
been rolled or crashed into trees,
mountains or supermarkets by the
Outdoor or Mountaineering Clubs.
Over the summer RCSMC took Jez
hundreds of miles around the south
of England for fire shows, historic ve-
hicle rallies and anything else which
took our fancy. We always drive Jez
to these events, so in between there’s
a lot of maintenance work to be done
to keep her in running order – oil,
grease and students are consumed
with every trip and need replenish-
ing. By the end of August the crew
were exhausted but Jez was still up for
a bit more travelling, so we took her to
play with steam engines for the bank
holiday weekend. The Island Steam
Show brings together large traction
engines, a steam fair, historic vehicles
and the steam railway for the August
bank holiday weekend.
Just before 7am on the 23rd August
our support vehicle raced out of Lon-
don to beat the congestion charge,
while we loaded the last of our belong-
ings and prepared the scarlet lady for
her trip. We followed in short order,
“racing” away at 20mph for a ninety
mile journey to Portsmouth (via the
scenic route – the A3 is a bit … scary).
We were racing the rain out of London
too –it poured down all day, but we’d
got out early. “Deluge” is not the word
you want to hear on the weather fore-
cast before going out on a vehicle with
no roof or windscreen.
Our journey was mostly uneventful
– no bits falling off, no drivers trying to
kill us and only one instance of smoke
pouring off the brakes as we tried to
stop 5 tons of fire engine charging
down a very steep hill. A quick trip
to Tesco to grab supplies and we were
able to erect our canvas village, park
up for the night and head to the high-
light of the trip: the beer tent! The beer
festival accompanying the steam show
provided over 40 real ales from around
the UK and a variety of ciders for those
with less well refined taste buds.
The highlight of the trip for new
drivers has always been the time trial:
an obstacle course consisting of a sla-
lom and three parking boxes, requir-
ing slick gear changes and no stalling!
The aim is to get the fastest time of
the weekend, racing against traction
engines, steam cars, military vehicles
and quad bikes. Jez is always at some-
what of a disadvantage – weighing five
tons with solid slick tyres on wet grass
doesn’t give good traction, often lead-
ing to a whining sound and mud being
flung at spectators as the rear wheels
spin hopelessly. After a shocking time
of 1m 01s on the first day we decided
to try out the new clutch bearing we’d
manufactured six weeks previously.
With Jez squealing away in second gear
we achieved our fastest time of 47s, but
realised perhaps we shouldn’t do that
again – at least until we’d adjusted it to
“sports mode”.
The Sunday evening saw some 40
historic commercial vehicles head out
for a forty mile road run, thrashing
their vehicles on the steep gradients
around the island. Having been told
“please don’t criticise my English” by
the person who wrote the directions
before we left, we ended up 4 miles
inland from where we should have
been, utterly lost with nothing but
our wits and our GPS units to save us.
GPS units which subsequently sent us
down roads barely wide enough for
Jez, let alone the poor unsuspecting
traffic coming the other way.
We finally arrived at the halfway
point 30 minutes after everyone else,
just as they were about to leave. Af-
ter a brief pause to add extra layers
clothing – the sun was going down
fast and the temperature with it –
we set off again, miraculously end-
ing up in the middle of the convoy.
It had nothing to do with taking a
shortcut and knocking 10 miles off
the journey, honest…
With good weather all weekend
we were in high spirits on Mon-
Ashley Brown reports on the Royal College of Science Motor Club’s recent trip
to the Isle of Wight, featuring oil, a moronic granny and beer
day evening when it came to pack away
and prepare for an early start on the
Tuesday. Our journey back turned into
a pub crawl as we tried to stall until
the end of congestion charging, finally
crossing dreaded red circles at 6:06pm.
Only a moronic old granny determined
to write off her car on the front of Jez
marred the journey back, resulting in a
radiator leak after we pulled up a kerb
to get out of her way: who would have
thought 65 year olds would get road
rage because they couldn’t drive at
70mph?
You’ll see Jez out and about for
most of the year, for the first
couple months with the radiator
leak! Whether you’re interested
in the mechanical, the social, or
the weekend trips away, stop us
and have a chat or drop an email
to jez@imperial.ac.uk. To find out
more about Jez and her history,
head over to http://union.ic.ac.
uk/jez/
Ooooh, ghostly!
John ‘I ate all the pies’ James
consumes another one
Where do all these bolts go?

