33
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
Bo’s bumpy journey south
Bo’s bumpy journey south
E
very year, on the first Sun-
day in November, nearly
500 cars built before 1905
are driven from Hyde Park
Corner to Madeira Drive in
Brighton, a journey of 60 miles. This
is the annual London to Brighton Vet-
eran Car Run, which takes place every
year to commemorate the 1896 ‘Eman-
cipation Run’, when cars no longer had
to have a man carrying a red flag walk-
ing in front. Last year, as usual, C&G
Motor Club’s 1902 James and Browne
Boanerges (or Bo’ for short) was en-
tered, driven by Simon Hamlin.
Early in the morning of Sunday 5th
November 2006, we made the final
checks before setting off. Equipment: 1
toolbox of random crap for any road-
side repairs; 1 socket set for similar;
1 CGCU President, Mr. James Fok, to
slow us down and get in the way. That
done, we set off for Hyde Park, with
Henry Weaver co-driving.
“Electric cars
are nothing new
having been
around longer
than petrol-
driven ones”
The cars all line up on the bridleway
that runs along the North side of the
Serpentine. Here, we met a guy who
drove Bo’ back in the 1960s, and re-
membered when Col. Browne, one of
Bo’s builders, used to come and see
them on the run. Then at 07.33 (not
a minute later!) we drove through the
start line and towards Marble Arch.
However, we had not gone more a
hundred yards before the driver’s side
headlamp swung open, and we had to
stop to shut it. Why was it still wob-
bling? We’d deliberately glued up the
screws to stop it doing that. This would
later come back to haunt us…
Attempt 2: leaving Hyde Park, past
Marble Arch, and down towards Buck-
ingham Palace, we noticed an alarming
number of participants had already
stopped at the roadside; were we really
expecting to succeed in travelling 60
miles in a centenarian car?
Since the days of the original run,
Croydon town centre has been pedes-
trianised. However, the town Council
fenced off a route through the town,
and all the cars drove down this nar-
row channel, weaving past trees, litter
bins, crossing the tram tracks, and out
the other side. As we turned into Purley
Way, we saw a cloud of thick smoke up
ahead; was one of the cars in trouble?
As we got closer, we saw that it was the
1896 Salvesen steam carriage: a vehicle
that looks not unlike an old-fashioned
horse cart, with the driver sitting right
up front and a vertical boiler at the
back, into which the fireman was furi-
ously shovelling coal.
Shortly after this, we spotted our
support crew hiding in a bus stop, so we
pulled in to change co-driver, to David
Hankin. The next part of the run was rel-
atively straightforward, as we left Lon-
don and headed South. At times, I had to
shade my eyes from the sun; some of the
spectators who line the route thought
I was saluting and saluted back! As we
entered Redhill we recived a phonecall
from the team, telling us they were wait-
ing for us at a petrol station. We watched
out for it. We passed it. Realising our
mistake, we pulled in at the next petrol
station (well, we got it half right) and in-
formed the others where we were. They
were already on their way. Swapping co-
drivers to Dave Horton, we set off again.
The Halfway point on the run is at
Crawley, where the town centre is closed
off for all the drivers to stop for a cof-
fee break! We were greeted by the great-
grandson of Francis Leigh Martineau,
Bo’s designer. One of the ex-Bo’ drivers,
who was following us to Brighton by
bike, arrived and started the engine for
us. The cars on the Brighton run all date
from before the advent of starter-motors
(although some heretics have retro-fit-
ted them), so they have to be started by
starting-handle. Bo’s engine is mounted
transversely and so has to be started
from the side of the car, thus eliminat-
ing the risk of being run over by your
own car!
As we left Crawley we passed one
of the few electric cars to take part in
the run. Electric cars are nothing new,
having been around longer than petrol
driven cars.
Our next stop was at the infamous
Peas Pottage service station, where
we picked up Matt Harris, the co-
driver for the final section into
Brighton. This section is the tough-
est part of the run, as it requires
the cars to cross the South Downs,
including the notorious Burgess
Hill and Clayton Hill. Between
them, these hills frequently see the
downfall of many of the veterans.
Some people opt to be towed up
by a modern car, but Bo’ is easily
capable of climbing hills in first
gear, albeit very slowly (walking
actually is quicker). However,
on Burgess Hill the driver’s side
headlamp got its revenge on us
when the bracket snapped and
it fell off. Fortunately, the rubber
hose from the acetylene gen-
erator saved it from falling onto
the tarmac, and one of the marshals
came over and removed it for us. It
spent the rest of the journey in the
back, keeping Mr. Fok company, while
Bo’ acquired a one-eyed pirate-like ap-
pearance. [note to Henry: I WILL re-
pair the lamp bracket, honest!]
Once over the top of the hill, we then
went down the other side at a terrify-
ing speed, which made Bo’ rattle alarm-
ingly. This was very nearly our downfall,
as on the approach to Clayton Hill, we
noticed smoke coming from the engine.
Pulling into the forecourt of a car dealer,
we found that the vibration had shaken
a water pipe loose, causing the radiators
to drain themselves. With no cooling,
the smoke was coming from the paint
on the cylinders starting to burn. Hast-
Simon Hamlin writes about the City and Guilds Motor Club’s 60 mile journey across
undulating terrain from London’s Hyde Park Corner to Madeira Drive in Brighton
ily, we removed the spark plugs and
squirted oil into the cylinders, whilst
turning the engine over to prevent it
from seizing. Two more of the ex-Bo’
drivers appeared in a VW camper van,
and went to get us some water to refill
the engine, while we re-sealed the leak.
While we were doing this, we were
passed by a certain student-festooned,
garish pink fire engine.
With the leak fixed, we headed on-
wards for the assault on Clayton Hill.
Nearthetopweencounteredanintrigu-
ing veteran traffic jam, headed by one
of the larger cars that was overcoming
the steepness of the hill by meandering
its way up very slowly. It’s then more-
or-less downhill into Brighton. Just on
the outskirts of Brighton is a section of
three lane road that is the nearest the
Run gets to a motorway. Very few of
the cars on the run are capable of any-
where near the
40 m.p.h. required for motorway driving,
so the entire run is still done on A roads, as
close as possible to the original 1896 route.
However, the A23 at Brighton feels worry-
ingly like a motorway, with the modern traf-
fic zooming past at 70 m.p.h. (honestly, the
youth of today, etc.).
We finally arrived at the finish line on Ma-
deira Drive in Brighton at 3.55 pm having
travelled for nearly seven and a half hours.
The 2007 London to Brighton Veteran
Car Run is on Sunday 4th November.
Bo’ is maintained by Team Bo’, which
is made up from current students at
Imperial. They meet on Wednesday
afternoons, when they maintain Bo’,
then either going to the Pub, or driving
across Hyde Park to the Fish and
Chip shop. Anyone can get involved
(not just engineers!) and there is no
membership fee. Anyone interested
should contact the Bo’ Driver, Henry
Weaver (henry.weaver06@imperial.
ac.uk)
s
?!
‘Look out folks!’
Bo’ Extre
Designed by Jemil Salami

