felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Outdoor club reach peaks
Imperial College Outdoor Clubs summer trip to France, see page 34
Freddie Chalke sending the ball out to the backs
1st XV struggle to get going
After last weeks performance against
King’s Medics, the 1st XV had a much
tougher task ahead of them against
Brunel, who were relegated from the
league above last year.
The game was always going to be an
up front account, with the Imperial
forwards having something to prove
from last weeks less than adequate per-
formance in the scrums and line-outs.
This was definitely shown in the match
where Imperial consistently overpow-
ered the Brunel pack and were able to
give good balls to their backs.
However, it was the style of play that
Imperial adopted for most of the game
that let them down, too often trying a
kicking style that failed, which led to
many players getting frustrated. Brunel
pounced on this opening and scored a
penalty and a try in the first half, leav-
ing the score 10 - 0 at half time to
Brunel.
Imperial were not ready to give up,
especially when it was clear that the
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
forwards were capable of disrupting
scrums and even stealing line-outs. It
was Brunel that were starting to lose
their temper in this half, with the fly-
half hitting Joe Brown with a late tackle
that led to a sin-bin. With Brunel down
to 14 men, the forwards increased the
pressure from the line-out with roll-
ing mauls, scoring two tries, one from
Alex Johnstone and the other from
Jovan Nedic. With the sin-bin coming
back on, the Brunel prop then decided
to punch both the prop and the second
row, before finally being sent off. This
only fired up Brunel who then scored
a try that eventually won them the
game.
Although a loss, the side can take a
lot of positives to the next game. Man
of the Match went to Ed Labinski for
his hard work in the line-outs, and Twat
of the Match went to Kieran Burge for
getting so wound up that the referee
told the captain to calm him down.
Rugby
Brunel Men’s 1st XV 15
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 10
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
OK, so there have been two rugby re-
ports in two weeks, and yes I do play
for the 1st XV so they’re always go-
ing to get a report in mainly because
I write them. But please don’t start
thinking that I’ll ignore all the other
teams that exist out there, I do want to
get as much sports coverage as possi-
ble in Felix. Whether it is a match re-
port from the previous week’s fixtures,
or even if they’re from the weekend or
Monday nights, they will all have room
in the sports section.
There have been a lot of fixtures in
the last two weeks, and most of them
winning fixtures, so why not write
about them? Why not let the whole
college, or just the other sports teams,
know how well your side did at their
last game? For example, on Saturday
the 4th XI and the 5th XI football teams
played each other in the University of
London Union (ULU) league, a match
that the 5ths won (see fixtures and
results section for a full list of results
from the previous week). And next
weekend, the 6th XI will play the 7th
XI football team as will the 1st and 2nd
XI in their respective ULU leagues.
Similarly, there have been some ex-
traordinary results this week; results
that I for one would be very interested
in finding out how they happened. The
ladies rugby teams beat Writtle 50 - 5
in their opening match of the season,
and the netball girls beat Greenwich 63
- 19 ... 63 goals in 60 minutes ... a net
a minute, a great achievement! So lets
hear about it girls! Then we have the
teams that are hardly heard of because,
lets face it, the majority of reports in
the past have been from rugby, foot-
ball and hockey, and I really want to
encompass all the teams that exist out
there. So please don’t feel like I won’t
put your reports in!
For those of you who want to get
ahead of the game and publish their
reports from the Wednesday games,
then this is what I would like you to do.
Could you all please let me know on the
Monday if you definitely intend to send
a match report in on Wednesday, and
wether or not you will have a picture
with it. A decent sized report would
be about 400 words long. If the reports
could then be sent to the sports email
(sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk) as soon as
possible on the Wednesday, I will try
my best to get them into the paper.
Hopefully we’ll have more of a vari-
ety with match reports next week for
all of you to read, as well as more in-
teresting reports from the summer and
competitions.

