4 felix Friday 19 October 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
A slighty more irreverant view
S
omething funny happened
last week – I went to sleep in
my silk jammies and awak-
ened to find myself naked on
a pedestal in front of several
politicians and the entire British elec-
torate. Someone was prodding me with
a stick and saying things like “Mickey
Mouse” and “damn silly”, which turned
out not to be summaries of my bodily
bits, but something to do with my edu-
cation. And then a man turned up and
smiled and said that everything was
okay because they were going to make
it harder for me to have a nice life, and
then everyone went away murmuring.
Well, who’d have thought it – it
turns out that Oxbridge aren’t tak-
ing in that many students from poor
backgrounds. Could be because gener-
alisations work, and a lot of people in
low social demographics tend to have
bad education and motivation. Or, far
more sensibly if you’re a politician, it’s
because the whole damn system needs
reforming. Of course. Brilliant. Thus
the can of shit-covered worms was
opened, and thrown into a fan.
So there it was, all over Felix last
week. The Rector, being the massive,
red rector that he is, brought out the
broken five thousand pound grama-
phone out and started winding it up
while the head of our student union
announced that the idea of taxes pay-
ing for education was a horrifically
‘unrealistic’ idea and that we should
probably ask the students just to make
sure they don’t want to pay through the
nose to be overworked, under appreci-
ated and probably unemployed at the
end of it all. And then to top it all off,
the Government suggest that people
who don’t want to go to university are
actually just using reverse psychology,
and what they really want is for us to
bully them into oblivion until they have
no choice but to sign up to the dullest
course they can find.
Congratulations, everyone! Your
bandwagons look lovely and I’m sure
you took a long time setting them up.
First of all – given that the Rec-
tor is the head of one of Britain’s best
Universities (I don’t say it very often,
but Imperial deserves its position in
league tables) that consistently attracts
genuinely enthused people to further
education, it seems a little unfair for
him to prop up the notion of ‘degree
A. Geek
equals job lol’ and then rant about how
we don’t pay enough for the privilege
of being ushered into a job at Canary
Wharf. The man wants five thousand
pounds a year from each and every one
of us, when most of us are hard-work-
ing students looking to reach the edges
of our chosen field. Then, on the other
side of town, we’re paying kids £30 a
week to take subjects that they really
don’t want to take, when they’d prob-
ably get much more satisfaction from
starting apprenticeships and training
for something that they genuinely en-
joy. Doesn’t that system seem a little
wrong to you?
Moreworryingly,thePresidentofIm-
perial’s Student Union seems to agree
that our education should somehow
be entirely self-funded. Sorry, ‘pending
a consultation with the student body’
is the official line, although ‘consulta-
tion’ is probably the last thing it would
be possible to do with this particular
student body, so I can only assume it’s
code for ‘Guys, I’m not really a fan of
our policy right now, so I’m going to
change it. All in favour, be me.’ Change
it to what, exactly? Are you honestly
suggesting that students are going to
voluntarily ask to be wrung dry? Even
if we didn’t genuinely want to learn,
we’d hardly be standing up and saying,
‘You know what? I do have thirty thou-
sand pounds I’m not using.’
The fact is this – taxes go to fund
things that can’t pay for themselves
in order to keep the country working.
Ultimately, the government we vote in
decides what that means. I’d suggest
the following – young people today are
going to get older and run the country.
Encouraging them to do it well might
not be such a bad idea.
And that, of course, neatly brings us
to the third link in this chain of inge-
nuity – John Denham and the Govern-
mental Hallows.
‘Raising aspirations’ means not tell-
ing people to sod off when they ask for
Further Maths to be offered at their
secondary schools. What it doesn’t
mean is mentally brutalising sixth-
formers more than they already are,
and convincing anyone still wearing a
school uniform that the only way into
adulthood is via UCAS.
Aspiration means desire to learn.
Simple as. It’s not something you can
charge for.
“
Thus the can
of shit-covered
worms was
opened, and
thrown into the
fan
The Union’s view
H
aving spent a consider-
able part of my summer
attending conferences
on the subject, the
phrase “free education”
really has become tiresome. Since the
introduction of means tested tuition
fees in 1997 a significant number of
sabbatical officers and their comrades
in the National Union of Students
(NUS – it is currently costing you
£44,000 per annum) have been grati-
fying themselves with a never end-
ing cycle of self-congratulatory pep
talks where they extol the virtues of a
higher education (HE) system which is
funded entirely by the taxpayer. This is
the funding model that was used when
only a fraction of school leavers went
on to University but it is now widely
acknowledged to be unaffordable. For
illustrative purposes, with the current
level of undergraduates the cost to the
taxpayer of returning to the system of
universal grants would be equivalent
to 153 hospitals. Last Monday Union
Council scrapped our policy in favour
of free education and acknowledged
that the debate has moved on and it is
no longer a realistic stance to take.
The initial opposition of students to
the concept of a graduate contribution
was understandable as after all, it is
human nature to prefer something free
over something you have to now pay
for. What has not helped students is
the irresponsible scaremongering that
students’ unions and the NUS have
indulged in with regards to the issue
of HE funding. If anything, the NUS
have done far more than top-up fees to
put students off going to University by
sticking to their childish line that “fees
are terrible” and failing to publicise the
enhanced bursary packages that are
now available. Exactly how many po-
tential students have been deterred by
their sub-Marxist dogma will never be
known but their hysterical response to
graduate contributions certainly hasn’t
helped. Opposing fees, top-up fees,
lifting the cap on fees are all valid posi-
tions to take but your credibility suffers
if you continue to argue (as students
did) that any of these actions would
have a disastrous impact on admissions
(they didn’t) and the end of the world
that you predicted never comes. I don’t
think Imperial students would benefit
if my fellow sabbaticals and I joined in
this permanent revolution against the
whole concept of graduate contribu-
tion. What exactly is to be gained from
spending my year in office indulging in
the debate of yesteryear?
So what now? EU undergraduates
studying at Imperial College now pay
£3000 up front in tuition fees. This is
paid for by a subsidised student loan
that you begin to pay back after your
graduate earnings reach a certain level.
I don’t particularly like getting a letter
Imperial
College
Union
from the student loan company once
a year detailing that I now owe them
over £20,000 but what are the alterna-
tives? Increased rates of personal taxa-
tion? Fewer university places? A tax
that is levied only on graduates? These
are some of the suggestions currently
in circulation. The aim of this piece
is to start a bit of a debate about what
the student body thinks about how our
Universities should be funded.
A common view held by Imperial
undergraduates is that it is unfair that
students studying the difficult, work
intensive courses get the same level of
support as people studying the quirkier
courses that the Rector was referring
to. The argument in favour of expand-
ing the HE sector was an economic
one as the government argued that we
need more people with graduate level
skills in order for the UK to remain
economically competitive. Does it not
follow that market mechanisms should
be in place to ensure that such a sys-
tem is funded in a way that provides an
incentive for marginal users of educa-
tion to embark on courses where the
graduates holding those degrees are in
the greatest demand? The Confedera-
tion of British Industry (CBI) have re-
cently come out in favour of additional
bursaries for students embarking on
science and engineering courses as a
means to address the fact that industry
is faced with a dire shortage of these
skills yet at the same time is presented
with a massive oversupply of humani-
ties graduates. What exactly would the
benefit be to the UK if the government
reached its somewhat arbitrary target
of sending 50% of young people to Uni-
versity if half of these decided to study
English, Politics or Psychology when
there is such a limited demand for peo-
ple with those skills?
The term “free education” is a com-
plete misnomer. Education isn’t free,
especially the expensive lab-based
courses that are on offer at Imperial.
Someone, somewhere has to pay for it
and anyone who pretends otherwise is
being less than honest. I look forward
to hearing your views (either in Fe-
lix, via email or at one of the forums
the Union will be hosting) on top-up
fees, as the Union Council would like
to consult as widely as possible whilst
pulling together students ideas on
this topic. At a later date I will write
a slightly more colourful account of
some of the exchanges I have had with
the “free education” brigade but that
would quickly turn in to a bit of a rant.
I am sure you can imagine how frus-
trating it is trying to engage someone
in an adult conversation only to find
them giving you a 40 minute lecture on
why the UK should be more like Ven-
ezuela and what students would gain
from demonstrating “solidarity” with
Greek Trotskyites! It’s over to you.
Steve Brown
President
An Educational Debate Special
Last week the Union announced it will be revising its stance on university education funding, the Rector
went off on one about “Mickey Mouse courses” and an MP called for school-university “partnerships”
. This
week Felix hears from the Union President, the Pugwash society, a physicist and, oh, of course A. Geek
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

