comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
Comment
Comment
A letter from a physicist
K
udos to Sir Richard Sykes
for saying what needs to
be said. If there is one
thing that mother-state
governments have lost, it
is a pragmatic connection with real-
ity. Fuelled by a desire to sit in the hal-
lowed halls of Parliament, their front of
an idealistic crusade to make the world
perfect has done well to rob the popu-
lace of this connection as well. It’s high
time that everyone got realistic about
a few things.
For a complex collection of reasons,
the University experience has been
quite indefensibly hoisted upon a gran-
diose pedestal in the eyes of too many
people. Like a revered monastery of
spiritual pursuit, one would think that
here and here alone can one embark
upon a path of self-exploration and
the cultivation of greatness. Nothing
could be further from the truth. It is
argued that the benefits of scholarly
knowledge should be available to all, a
position I would fervently support. But
it all breaks down when the assump-
tion is made that a University is the
only place one can access these fruits
of academia.
I am not an astronomer, I am an
engineer and materials scientist. The
only stellar body my work requires
me to understand is our sun – spe-
cifically, the quantity and nature of
energy it provides us. But does this
mundane and minimal engagement of
the cosmos, as it relates to my schol-
arly pursuit, leave me floundering in
ignorance of the magnificence of our
universe? Of course not. But while as-
tronomy holds great interest for me,
I don’t feel the need to explore it to a
level of professional competence. In
fact, I need not do so to appreciate the
wealth of information that professional
astronomers have given to the world.
Just the same can be said of an interest
in economics, psychology, or philoso-
phy. The works of Voltaire, Friedman,
and Freud are available in any library
or bookstore for the world to indulge
themselves in. Why it should require
tens of thousands of pounds of tax-
payer money (or, rather, inflation tax,
I should say) to motivate young people
to pursue their interests is beyond ra-
tional comprehension.
And thus we get to the point; namely,
what the purpose of a University edu-
cation actually ought to be. For most
students, it seems that Sir Richard is
exactly correct in calling it “a nice four
years off”. Four years of expending
great effort to master a discipline they
have little, if any, intention of pursuing
at any level which justifies the effort of
mastering it so. Four years of accumu-
lating debt and four years of expend-
ing effort which could be better spent
cultivating expertise in a field which
actually would benefit them in the job
market. I would be considered a fool if
I spent four years mastering the trade
of cutting-edge tooling and machining,
accumulating great financial debt, only
to pursue a career in family counsel-
ling, so why is it considered acceptable,
even heavily encouraged, to do the op-
posite? I would offer as conjecture that
one egregious stereotype is responsi-
ble, and that is that those who attend
University are “smart” and those who
don’t are not. Balderdash! We’re just
experts at different things (I know
plenty of academics who couldn’t lay
flooring if their life depended on it!).
What’s worse is that the world of
employers seems to have bought this
myth as well, and have structured their
financial compensations likewise – or
at least they did for a time. Anyone
who has looked at the job market re-
cently, however, will come to the con-
clusion that a University degree isn’t
worth what it used to be. Employers
have come to quickly realise that it is
experience which is by far preferable
in an employee, and pushing kids into
a University degree which they’ll have
no use for puts them in double jeop-
ardy in this respect. Not only do they
gain a burdensome debt, but they
lose four years of useful, employable,
experience.
The saturation of undergraduate pro-
grammes with half-serious students –
those who know from the get-go that
they’ll have no use for their degree
– compounds the problem further.
Those who are serious are held behind
with pressure to ensure the success of
all students, and those graduating are
entering the job market with a flood
of other candidates who, in failing to
maximise the opportunities they had
at University, lower the expected value
of a new graduand to employers. It’s
a lose-lose situation and government
meddling is at the root of it. Cutting
subsidies to higher education would
make students think twice before tak-
ing on the very serious commitment of
specialising in an academic discipline.
As Milton Friedman once said : “We
are always more responsible when we
spend our own money than when we
spend someone else’s.” Anyone genu-
inely seeking a career in academia or
academically demanding profession
should have no reason to fear a student
debt.
So, here’s a radical idea: do away
with economically crippling minimum
wage laws for young people and allow
businesses to employ them directly
from secondary school at lower wages
– bring back the tried-and-tested ap-
prenticeship but keep the government
out of it. A seventeen year-old enter-
ing the job market may not have the
skills or productive capacity to justify
the current minimum-wage, particu-
larly in a skilled-work job, and since
employers are not generally engaged
in the business of charity, this pro-
vides a strong disincentive to employ-
ing them. An apprenticeship system,
however, would allow young people to
actually make money while learning,
rather than accumulating debt, and to
leave that apprenticeship period with
real skills of actual, employable value.
Disentangling employers from the bu-
reaucracy of contracts and reporting
involved in the current apprenticeship
schemes would allow them the free-
dom to discover the natural talents of
their young employees and direct their
learning in an area of the business to
which they are best suited.
Without the burden of a University
homework load, they would also have
ample free time to explore any academ-
ic interests they fancied, and without
the stress of needing to make grades
or the burden of being required to im-
merse themselves into the topic at an
advanced and technical level. “A Brief
History of Time” can teach most peo-
ple more than they ever need to know
about physics and “The Selfish Gene”
I
wish to respond to the com-
ment made by our Union
President last week. He said:
“Our current policy in favour of
free education funded entirely
by the taxpayer is unrealistic. Imperial
College Union revokes all previous
policy on higher education fund-
ing, pending a consultation with the
student body.”
There are two points to address here:
firstly, whether free education is actu-
ally unrealistic. Secondly, even if this
were the case, our Union has a respon-
sibility to protect its student members
against the marketisation of our educa-
tion. If a students’ union is not going to
defend the interests of students, then
who will?
If the President believes that the
only way to fund Higher Education is
through increased top-up fees, we are
basically giving people such as Sir Ri-
chard Sykes a free pass to increase top-
up fees from £3000 to £5000 in 2009
as he would like to – and he wouldn’t
stop there as he has made very clear in
the past.
The President seems to have reached
this conclusion through various confer-
ences held during the summer, includ-
ing the NUS Campaigns Convention.
An important point to note is that the
NUS considered many ways in which
the costs of education could be met by
taxpayers, and did not reach a definite
conclusion – so I do not believe that
our President can so confidently state
that free education is unrealistic.
The reason for thinking that free
education is unrealistic is perhaps in-
fluenced by the opinion of the govern-
ment. However, things the government
thinks are unrealistic are not necessar-
ily so. For them, a blank cheque is writ-
ten when money is needed for war or
weapons of mass destruction but not
for education.
There are plenty of ways to fund
Higher Education that do not involve
increasing the tax burden on ordinary
citizens. For example, the renewal of
Trident, the UK’s nuclear deterrent, is
going to cost the taxpayer between £13
billion and £25 billion. Instead of main-
taining a stockpile of nuclear weapons
that can never be ethically used and do
not make us more secure, we could use
this money to abolish tuition fees.
The President is tapping into a gen-
eral feeling of apathy and disempow-
erment – we can’t do anything about
it so there’s no point trying. But the
primary duty of our Union is to repre-
sent students – and if both our Union
and the College are for increased top-
up fees then we, as students, will have
absolutely no representation. It is the
duty of our Union to take a principled
stand on the issue of top-up fees.
Having read the previous Union
Top-Up Fees Policy I can see no rea-
son for revoking it. The points passed
by Council a year ago are just as valid
today, for example: “Top-up fees have
created a market in Higher Educa-
tion which hinders the involvement of
those students who come from back-
grounds with historically low partici-
pation rates.”
Also, notably, the Union believed
that “any ‘review’ by the Government is
likely to be a sham, designed to smooth
the passage of unrestricted top-up
fees.” I would suggest that any review
of this policy by our Union would itself
be a sham.
I would also like to ask whether this
decision is being influenced by the
College at all. The handover of the Un-
ion’s finances to the College’s finance
division over the summer, followed
by a decision in Council to revoke all
policy on Higher Education funding
raises questions in my mind, especially
when the College’s stance towards top-
up fees is considered. The fact that the
Union President’s comment comes at
the same time as the Rector calling for
increased top-up fees and increased
interest on student loans is indicative
of a students’ union that is not entirely
independent.
I would like to suggest that a deci-
sion of this magnitude, revoking all
previous policy on Higher Education
funding, should be decided by a refer-
endum, and propose this as a course
of action for further decisions on this
matter. The Higher Education Policy
of our Union should be decided by its
students.
Caroline Clark
Pugwash Chair
A letter from the Pugwash society
does a great job with biology and ge-
netics – these aren’t topics which most
people need to delve into any deeper
than that, but which remain accessible
to those who do not require functional
expertise.
Attitudes must change. We need to
start showing more collective appre-
ciation for the challenging and mani-
festly essential work done by non-ac-
ademics in the running of the society
we all enjoy. Only when non-academic
pursuits gain the respect they deserve
will young people (and their parents)
feel confident in pursuing them with-
out a nagging sense of having some-
how debased themselves by following
a career path which truly engages their
talents and not merely the interest of
their pocketbooks. And so long as gov-
ernments feel the need to flood us with
distorted propaganda, disingenuously
and counter-productively inflating the
virtues of higher education and para-
lysing socialist policy, this simply can’t
happen.
Justin Dane (Research Assistant)
Physics Department
A Trident missile: a waste of
money that instead could be used
to pay for higher education?
After graduation day, will it all have been a waste of time for you? Just “a nice four years off”?

