6 felix Friday 19 October 2007
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Comment
Comment
Imperial is killing my sense of humour
I
don’t know about you, but I’m
slightly worried that my humour
is being taken over by sad pecu-
liarities possibly only funny be-
cause my degree has taught me
better; Geek-dom is creeping in and
there ain’t nothing I can do. In order to
verify this, I thought I would tell you all
about two things which are currently
cracking me up. You can tell me just
how unfunny they truly are and then I
can go and cry.
Firstly fastenings. Yes, fastenings.
This is one I truly believe to be in-
trinsically funny. Take for example
the humble pop rivet. It almost does
it by itself, doesn’t it? Hilarious. Now
use your pop rivet to attach two things
you might want to attach, preferably
(of course) things which you can’t pop
rivet in reality. Anything. Go on. For
example, I want to pop rivet this desk
to my fridge, or this anchovy pizza to
your face, or that lecturer to a lamp-
post. Ok, Ok, clam down, clam down
(although off-topic seafood is generally
also quite amusing, in fact using fish
puns just for the halibut (hell of it?…
oh never mind) is nigh-on hysteri-
cal). Anyway, I can see you going wild
with ideas, but I want to just introduce
you to another coma-inducing fasten-
ing. The staple. Try the same exercise
again. Teaching the dog to stay? Staple.
Need an excuse to stay in bed longer?
Staple. Flat-mate annoying you? Staple.
Need I go on?
Secondly units. Take a sentence in-
volving units and just put the wrong
ones in there. “I’m sorry sir, but you
were speeding, my meter clearly in-
dicates you are travelling at over 45
candela”. My walk to college is approxi-
mately 12ml. I have been writing this
article for nearly 50Nm. etc. It gets
me every time to say that the angles
in a triangle add up to 180 degrees C.
I mean that’s like 453 Kelvin! One hot
triangle. If you just aren’t getting this
then try making your own units up.
My favourite is the unit of boredom
which we have named after a certain
lecturer...
We all know that Imperial has had
dire effects on us, but I think actually,
if we are honest, there is something
inside us all, some inner person for
which we can’t blame Imperial entirely,
something which the admissions proc-
ess seems to fall for every time.
I saw two prime examples in my first
year here, both seen in moments of
weakness: one when the guy was drunk
and one when he was enjoying himself
too much. Only an Imperial student
would try to blame aerodynamics
when playing beer-pong. Only an Im-
perial student would say “talk about
Brownian motion” when referring to
inflatable balls on a bouncy castle.
Still, it makes us happy to blame
them anyway... stupid Imperial...
Jellybean
This week in England... Issue 001
W
ell, hello there...
Greetings and wel-
come to my little
corner of Felix. For
those not acquaint-
ed with powerful entities, I am the
Ringmaster, Bringer of the world and
Keeper of wisdom – and despite ru-
mours, nobody calls me God in bed. It
has recently come to my attention that
students at your prestigious institution
know next to nothing about the world
outside of coursework, alcohol, and
World of Warcraft, and so I am here
to bring you the facts and nothing but
the facts in an enlightening and British
media-esque form.
I will happily accept all thank-you
e-mails from newly-learned souls
through our esteemed Felix editor.
The Bullshitometer
Politicians around England were left
in shock today as a new invention by
Ringmaster Technologies Limited has
finally brought a “Bullshitometer” into
being, soon to be sold to such agen-
cies as MI5 and America’s infamous
CIA for the purposes of questioning
suspected terrorists. Doctors, lawyers,
nurses
nurses, teachers and kebab shop own-
ers across the country are likely to be
detained in the not-too-distant future.
In other news, unemployed dodgy
looking blokes in baseball caps with
wires sticking out of their backpacks
appear to be exempt from screening as
long as they stay on public transport,
or if they aren’t Brazilian.
Crime and Missing Children
Despite the ground-breaking trial
scheme currently in force since the
third of May, which was entirely ef-
fective at surpressing criminal activity
throughout the entire country, min-
isters in Portugal have hinted today
exclusively to Felix that the decree re-
cently passed banning all crime is to be
lifted shortly.
“Despite the huge success of the
scheme and that there is clearly no
crime in Portugal, the National Police
value diversity in training activities,
especially for young recruits who must
build up the experience and confidence
to further themselves as officers,”
Marco de Pollo, minister of Nando’s,
was quoted as saying. “We will soon
be abolishing the scheme in favour of
re-allowing crime in the nation of Por-
tugal on a limited basis”. In the west-
ern European country, the media have
been searching but been unable to re-
port on a single instance of crime since
the 4th of May.
It is also rumoured that this is to co-
incide with a lift on a hard-line media
policy in England that only one child is
allowed to be missing at any one time.
And In Sport...
England have proudly destroyed
the French with another astounding
display by the team that gloriously won
the 2003 World Cup, crushing the sorry
Frogs in the process... hold up, England
inched out France with a good show
by Jonny Wilkinson, who also kicked
the winning points in the 2003 World
Cup final... actually, Jonny Wilkinson
kicked his way to an England-scraper
against bitter rivals France, who have
drubbed England in previous meet-
ings...well, Wilkinson singlehandedly
played good football to once again beat
rugby, in a game that proves we have
no bloody hope of winning the Cup
again unless South Africa also opt to
play with only one player (oops – they
have Montgomery)!
Oh, and please forget about what
happened in the Cricket World Cup,
because we managed to beat Sri Lanka.
Once.
The
Ringmaster
Lessons learnt from the weather
O
ver the past few years,
a motley assortment of
Americans have swept
across the Atlantic and
forced their way into
our homes. Misanthropic-but-strange-
ly-loveable doctors, unflappable Los
Angeles police officers, brilliant-yet-
overly-sexed East Coast lawyers and
hopeless castaways are now to be found
in almost every European lounge.
As entertaining as Dr. House and his
prime-time colleagues may be, they
are hardly the most refined nor the
most uplifting visitors we could hope
to welcome.
It is certainly understandable with
such a wide and varied choice, for one
to switch viewing loyalties on an al-
most weekly basis. Nevertheless, I pre-
fer to reserve the one-room apartment
in the small black box in my own home
to one regular and trusted visitor. For I
watch the same show today that I have
watched for years; the BBC Weather
Forecast.
Indeed, I am a very regular viewer –
a characteristic I obviously share with
a large proportion of the British public,
as the Forecast has recently begun its
58th season, and there is no sign of it
being discontinued in the near future.
What really draws me to it however,
other than its marvellously original
and flowing plotline, is its ability to
delve into almost any given genre with
a rare facility.
Who can forget the great heights
of human drama reached during the
reports of the Great Storm of 1987?
I regrettably missed those specific
episodes, but the reruns, though very
tricky to get hold of, are certainly
worth it. Those particular broadcasts
are especially memorable in the con-
troversy that they stirred up. I urge
all my readers to learn for themselves
how Michael Fish’s report has been
outrageously misquoted, and to really
immerse themselves in the passionate
debate that surrounded that notorious
and divisive season.
I would hate for you to have the mis-
conception that the Forecast is merely
a heavy, dramatic show with too much
excitement for the average viewer. Rest
assured, that could not be further from
the truth.
Although the show has never been
passed off as a comedy, the fast-paced
repartee and international setting pro-
vide ample opportunities for merri-
ment and mirth.
What really sets it apart from the
other shows on television today how-
ever, is the accuracy with which it
highlights the human condition. All
the poignancy of our sorry existence
can be reflected in the speed with
which a 32-degree-high announced
for the coming Sunday can transform
into a snow-filled weekend. The series
serves, above all, as a lesson; we can
never be certain about what the future
holds – all we can do is laugh at what’s
happening today. And so I welcome
our American gatecrashers, for though
they may be inappropriately dressed,
they are certainly entering into the
spirit of the party.
Gilead Amit
Mike Fish in 1987
Football Rugby star, Johnny Wilkinson

