science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
7
Friday 19 October 2007 felix
“Magnetic
vortices could
be used to store
information”
“Shake it like you’re ovulating baby” lacks a little something, no?
Walk like a stripper?
So, it seems that strippers make more
money when they’re ovulating. A pa-
per by Geoffrey Miller et al. from the
University of New Mexico in the jour-
nal Evolution and Human Behaviour,
shows that strippers working while in
the most fertile phase of the menstrual
cycle, the oestrus phase, made an im-
pressive $70 an hour. In the less fertile
luteal phase they made $50 and when
they were menstruating, they made
$35. Those on the pill made on average
less because there was no peak in their
earnings at the oestrus phase.
Oestrus is a state of obvious fertility
that attracts potential mates. Accepted
wisdom is that it was lost as humans
evolved. Women developed “concealed
ovulation” along with month-long
sexual receptivity to keep men in the
dark. This study, however, shows that a
women’s fertile state may not be so se-
cret after all – at least according to the
results from the eighteen strippers who
took part. The authors think that men
can tell a woman’s fertility by subcon-
scious behavioural signals, after having
ruled out factors like types of dance
moves or conversational content.
Karl Grammer of the Ludwig Boltz-
man Institute for Urban Ethology in
Vienna agrees. He thinks that oestro-
gen modulates motion abilities and so
it is body motion, not pheromones,
which tells men what is going on. So,
women may have developed stealthy
oestrus, but their sexy walk still gives
them away. Definitely useful if you’re
on the pull on a night out.
However, this paper raises a few
questions. Firstly, in my limited (read:
nonexistent) experience of strip clubs,
I can’t imagine much ‘conversation’ go-
ing on, over and above the basics such
as “how much, love?” Secondly, how
on earth did this project get funding?
I personally would love to read the re-
search proposal, just to giggle and read
between the lines. And thirdly, the pa-
per was written by three men. I wonder
why…
Intrepid researchers discover lap-dancers earn more when
they’re ovulating. One could say they’re golden eggs then...
Catherine Charter
Debate on science
and the media
Anyone interested in the occasion-
ally rocky relationship between scien-
tists and the media should pencil in
a Thursday a couple of weeks hence,
as it heralds a debate, part of the se-
ries of events celebrating Imperial’s
Centenary.
Entitled “A marriage made in heav-
en or hell? Do scientists and the
media make good bedfellows?”, this
debate assembles a number of Imperial
academics and journalists to discuss
whether the media help or hinder sci-
entists, looking at their role in issues
of concern, including the hyping of
findings, pandering to “mad scientist”
stereotypes and whether important
discoveries are being overlooked in a
quest for sexy or controversial science.
[Maybe, but given our own track record
(eyes left), we certainly won’t cast any
stones on the latter point – Ed.]
In the scientist corner are Professors
Steve Bloom and Richard Templer,
both battle-hardened veterans of the
fray, thanks to experience represent-
ing their fields (obesity and biofuels re-
spectively) under the spotlight. Mean-
while, the media are represented by a
number of Imperial alumni (many of
whom cut their teeth here at Felix and
IC Radio) including Pallab Ghosh, the
Science Correspondent for BBC News
and erstwhile Felix Editor (1983-84).
Given all this, it should be a lively
discussion, and Felix Science recom-
mends you go – we certainly will be.
Magnetic storage past and future: Nobel Prizes and ferrotoroidicity
This year’s Nobel Prize in Physics went
to a pair of scientists whose discovery
could be argued to have had the largest
impact on society, exceeding last year’s
award for the discovery of the Cosmic
Microwave Background radiation (the
signature of the Big Bang) say.
Because after all, we’re a bunch of
philistines really. Addressing where we
came from is all very well, but what we
really care about is our choons. “I want
my MTV” runs far deeper in the hu-
man psyche than “Why are we here?”
Albert Fert and Peter Grünberg may
not have set out to revolutionise the
music industry (and indeed the wider
market of consumer electronics); in
fact, as pointed out in last week’s Na-
ture, it was Stuart Parkin at IBM who
performed the work crucial to the
commercialisation of their discovery
and the ensuing sea-change in the way
we listen to our music.
But it was the continental scientists’
discovery of giant magnetoresistance,
a phenomenon which lies at the heart
of modern magnetic storage devices
(such as an iPod’s hard-drive). which
was recognised by the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences on the 9th of this
month.
In essence, their discovery relies on
electron spin, a property which can be
oriented in one of two senses (“up” or
“down”), and which leads to an intrinsic
magnetic field and an interaction of the
electron with external fields. If an elec-
tron passing through a material has a
spin aligned with those of the electrons
within the material, it will encounter a
far lesser resistance than if its spin is
oriented in the opposite sense.
By using multiple layers of very thin
magnetic and non-magnetic materi-
als, Fert and Grünberg independently
managed to scale this effect up, to lead
to a very large change in resistance.
One consequence of this increase in
sensitivity to small magnetic fields is
that it allowed hard disc drive heads to
be made far smaller. It also opened the
door to what is widely hailed as the fu-
Edmund Henley
The editor cannot recommend
tracking down the original paper
highly enough – the background
section “because academics
may be unfamiliar with the
gentlemen’s club subculture” is
most interesting. Ahem. Hardly
dry academia in any case.
ture of electronics, spintronics, which
will make use of electrons’ spin, as well
as their charge. Amongst other effects,
improvements in spintronics could
lead to great advances in computing.
However, other technologies could
potentially also lead to similarly far-
reaching effects. Ferrotoroidicity is
one such claimant to the throne. In a
letter to Nature last week, scientists
from the University of Bonn reported
that they were able to use laser-optics
to measure the sense of “magnetic vor-
tices” in a substance known as lithium
cobalt phosphate.
These vortices, which are composed
of magnetised atoms, are arranged in
a ring-like configuration, the atoms all
aligning themselves in one direction
along the ring. As this orientation is bi-
nary (it can take on one of two senses),
a vortex can also potentially be used
to store information, probably faster
and more reliably than on today’s hard
discs, as it neatly avoids using mag-
netic fields to read the stored magnetic
data – a slow and delicate task.
Much work is still required, but it
could be that the ring-like signature
ClickWheel on the iPod is rather pre-
scient. Yet it needs to be spun: maybe
Apple are hedging their bets?
Email events@imperial.ac.uk to
register to attend the debate,
which takes place at 18.30 on
Thursday the 1st of November in
lecture theatre G16, Sir Alexander
Fleming Building
Is the journalist’s pen mightier
than the scientist’s test tube?
Theo de Leight
Just look at it. There really should be an automatic chant of Aaah
whenever you say iPod: as in “My friend just bought an iPod (Aaah)”

