politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 19 October 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
A modern Russian monarch
Fear is growing that Russia is slipping back into Soviet style autocratic politics
Kadhim Shubber
The current President of Russia
Vladimir Putin, is likely to become
Prime Minister when he steps down
next year. How is it that this statement,
that would appear to be nonsensical,
will soon become reality? The answer
is linked to the actions of this man; it is
the deterioration of democracy in Rus-
sia. It would be too alarmist for me to
try and imply that Soviet tanks are go-
ing to be rolling across Eastern Europe
next Summer but certainly there is
cause for concern about the increasing
disregard for human rights in Russia
and the growing authoritarian nature
of its government.
NGO’s in Russia have faced tighter
and tighter restrictions that hamper
their ability to promote democracy and
freedom within civil society as well as
carry out the charitable work that is so
necessary in Russia. Recent changes to
the law ‘On Public Associations’ allow
the federal government the power to
severely disrupt the activities and re-
duce the independence of civil society
from government. This is only part of
the authoritative nature of government
that President Putin has reintroduced
into Russia. He has consistently rolled
back democratic reforms and tight-
ened state control. The Russian Parlia-
ment, the Duma, is filled with Putin’s
supporters and has become little more
than a rubber stamp, while the media
has been intimidated and put under
government control. This April, Rus-
sian police raided the Educated Media
Foundation, a NGO sponsored by US
and European donors. The police car-
ried away documents and computers
that were used as servers for the Web
sites of similar groups. That brought
down a Web site run by the Glasnost
Defense Foundation, a media rights
group, which published bulletins on
violations of press freedoms. “Russia is
dropping off the list of countries that
respect press freedoms,” said Boris
Timoshenko, a spokesman for the
foundation. “We have propaganda, not
information.”
However it is not only within Russia
that the Kremlin has used undemo-
cratic and oppressive tactics to en-
sure its preeminence. The conflict in
Chechnya was the Russian equivalent
of the Iraq war but without the media
attention due to the monopoly on in-
formation that the Russian Army im-
posed on the area. Unfortunately one
of the people to report independently
on the conflict Anna Politkovskaya was
killed last year. While the steady drum-
beat of daily atrocities has ceased, hu-
man rights abuses continue unabated.
A sign of the times is that the current
Kremlin appointed President, Ram-
zan Kadyrov or “King Ramzan”, counts
amongst his acquaintances Mike Ty-
son and keeps a pet lion. More worry-
ingly Russian control in Chechnya has
resulted in systematic torture of de-
tainees. “If you are detained in Chech-
nya, you face a real and immediate risk
of torture,” said Holly Cartner, Europe
and Central Asia director at Human
Rights Watch.
On the international stage Russia’s
actions have become increasingly bel-
ligerent and irresponsible. The promi-
nent poisonings of Viktor Yushchenko,
the President of Ukraine and Alexan-
der Litvinenko in London were linked
back to Moscow, some would say quite
credibly. While these actions remain
for the mean time at least, in the land
of speculation, in other areas Russia
has been throwing its weight around
very publicly. It has used its economic
power i.e. its gas reserves, to bully and
force neighbouring countries to suc-
cumb to its will. When the Ukranian
Presidential elections failed to elect a
pro-Russian leader, the state run gas
company Gazprom decided to dramat-
ically raise gas prices. President Putin,
emboldened by the perceived weak-
ness of Britain and the US as well as
economic strength at home, has begun
to reassert Russia’s influence on the
world stage. One gets the feeling that
Putin is attempting to regain Russia’s
“rightful place amongst the nations of
the world”. However this “rightful place
among nations” mentality has been
shown to be dangerous in the past and
will only create trouble in the future.
Certainly I have painted a grim pic-
ture of the Russian Federation but it
would seem at the moment that it will
not improve in the near future. Presi-
dent Putin seems in no mood to relin-
quish power, and it is unlikely that he
will reverse any of the authoritarian
measures that was introduced over the
last 10 years. In addition the UK and
indeed the US have little credibility to
advise Russia on human rights or de-
mocracy. Due to our dependance on
natural gas and oil, and our involve-
ment in Afghanistan and Iraq we cer-
tainly lack the military, political and
economicclouttoinfluencePutin.Civil
independence is being rapidly eroded
as the Russian Government or at least
parts of it act with impunity, for exam-
ple in the killing of Anna Politkovskaya
and as long as the Kremlin sponsors
dictatorial regimes such as in Myan-
mar it is likely that the efforts of other
people around the world to gain civil
independence will fail. One might have
hoped that with the ending of Putin’s
Presidential term, there may have been
a change in Russian policies, however
with Vladimir Putin and his cronies
firmly entrenched in the Kremlin and
the continuing impotence of the West
to convincingly stand up as Leader of
the Free World, there is unlikely to be a
light at the end of the tunnel.
Vladirmir Putin, president of the Russian Federation, will see his term end later this year
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
It may be the least read section in Fe-
lix, but the politics page returns! The
students aren’t to blame for Imperial
being full of social hermits, rather the
government. So peel yourselves away
from your Warhammer figurine paint-
ing and immerse yourself in current
affairs, if not for the betterment of so-
ciety, then to become a more rounded
and therefore more beautiful person.
The holidays have been an active one.
There were angry monks in Myanmar,
a change of Prime Minister in the UK
and a credit crunch all over the world.
In the meantime, a US Navy shake-up
in the Pacific will position the fleet to
strike at Iran more effectively, Russian
President Vladimir Putin’s support-
ers harangued the British embassy for
portraying their benevolent leader un-
satisfactorily, Israel still refuses to ac-
knowledge the democratically elected
Hamas party but has agreed to talks
for a two state solution, Dafur violence
has leaked into neighbouring Chad, Ja-
pan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe lost
the lower house and then checked into
hospital, Oxfam has estimated that aid
to Africa over the past decade roughly
equals that spent on wars in that, the
world’s poorest, continent and more
recently, ex US president Jimmy Carter
called Dick Cheney a ‘disaster’.
Elections are springing up all over the
world like a democratic rash. Australia
is heading for a poll in mid November
which is likely to see conservative in-
cumbent John Howard replaced in of-
fice after 11 years by Labour’s Kevin
Rudd. Despite a lead of over 10 points,
our Ozzy friends have an historic dis-
like of governmental change, so a last
minute swing remains a possibility.
Russia would theoretically have a new
leader come Christmas due to consti-
tutional restrictions on the number of
terms the president can hold, but is be-
coming increasingly unlikely as Mr Pu-
tin manoeuvres to increase the powers
of Prime Minister and move into that
office after elections. The highly popu-
lar leader will most probably not actu-
ally physically move office though.
And of course, Hillary Clinton con-
tinues her unrelenting quest for the
American presidency which will be
decided in late 2008. She has been
raising more money than any other
candidate, including most poignantly,
Barrack Obama who was until last
month, leading in said field. Many in
the US, however, just can’t get past her
un-Catholic behaviour, ‘win whatever
the costs’ attitude and distinctly sterile
personality.
More locally, Gordon Brown decided
against any prospect of an election un-
til 2009, prompting Sir Ming Campbell
of the Liberal Democrats to resign this
week. The LibDems have slumped as
low as single figures in some polls due
to resurgent support for the two domi-
nant parties in UK politics.
Finally, the UN Security Council will
welcome a change of guard in 2008
when 5 non permanent seats are re-
newed at the end of this year. The new
member states, who were confirmed
earlier in the week, are Libya, Vietnam,
Burkina Faso, Croatia and Costa Rica.
They, though. have no power of veto.
A shelled out building in Grozny, capital of the troubled Russain state of Chechnya

