3
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
N o . 76 I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E 6 t h M a y 1955
T H E T O U R I S T S A R E B A C K !
HOCKEY CLUB TOUR NETHERLANDS during EASTER
WIN S - D R A W 2 • LOSE - I
The party of sixteen left the Union on Saturday March
26th feeling rather depressed at the prospeot of not being
present at the "Ceremonial Closing of the Bar* but such
thoughts soon vanished and Rotterdam was reached on Sunday
morning without loss of l i f e . The day was spent in gene-
ral sightseeing and liqueur tasting and i n the late after-
noon we travelled to Delft where our hosts were waiting to
guide us to the "Sooietet Phoenix". Here, the serious bus-
iness of drinking (Jenever) began but dinner interrupted
before long to the aocompaniment of beer only. Two short
and reasonably coherent speeches were made during the Din-
ner after which coffee and more Jenever were taken. The
team then departed with their hosts homeward and after sev-
eral beers in the favourite "locals", retired to bed.
After some sightseeing the following morning we tra-
velled by tram to the Sportsgrouad, the other side of the
Hague where I.C. A 3a beet Delft 2nd XI by 5-0. After
the match we saw something of tha Hague including some ex-
otic night olubs and finally we returned to the'Phoenix
for a last drink,
FUN IN DELFT
More wanderings round Delft on Tuesday morning and
then by ooaoh to the ground where I.C. 1st XI lost 3-4 to
Delft tat XI in a very dose and exciting game. This was
a very good result as Delft run seven regular Hockey sides
and are considered one of the beat clubs in Holland. The
coming evening was to provide tha most spectacular events
during our stay i n Delft. Serious drinking began at 5.30
p.m. and was taken so seriously by some members of I.C,B.C.
that they did not last beyond 7.00 p.m. and thus sdssad
tha Dinner. At the Dinner, the Captain of I.C.H.C. ia
alleged to have delivered two semi-intelligible speeches:
the only certain thing however was that Mr. J.W.C. Sher-
wood was duly congratulated on the attainment of bis Nth
birthday and he replied (although somewhat reluctantly).
After the dinner, complete chaos set i n and the details
of what occurred thenceforth are clear to no-one.
Tha true magnitude of the event could only be Judged
from the sordid aftermath, visible the following morning.
It was with very sad hearts and very many Alka-Seltsers
that wa departed from Delft the next day for Utrecht.
WIN IN UTRECHT
We played our match against Utrecht en arrival and
considering the general physical condition of ear players,
we played with some spirit to win 1-0. After the game
we returned to the Utrecht Student Society where a very
large number of us drank Lemonade. At this stage of tha
tour, at least two members of the Party had sworn never
to drink Jenever again neither did they for the rest of
the tour. At the dinner, besides tha usual speeches, the
Utrecht President called upon Edwin Owen to explain how
ha had come to be the only goalsoorer of the day; from
the reply one could only oonolude that i t was a matter of
pare ohanoe that he had not scored at least five mora goals]
Because of the International Trade Fair then In progress
In Utrecht, the night-life was somewhat brighter than usual.
W H O D O N E I T ?
I? YOU LISTENED TO PROFESSOR A. E. RICHARDSON MACTKt
BIS PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS AT TIB ROYAL ACADEMY DINNER JEM
DAT3 AGO, YOU WOULD REMEMBER THAT HE DTD HOT RATS "MODERN
ART* VERY HIGHLY. Perhaps tha paepla who chose tha col-
our son—n i n the new Bar had some vague notion of "modern
art".
Te rate i t even lower than Professor Richardson.
On entering the Bar, wa are now confronted with tha
oillious contrast °f
roee-pink doors and lemon-yellow walla.
Who chose the oolour-sohema? The patrons disapprove vehe-
mently and surely i t i s the patrons who matter.
Is i t too muoh to ask for an attractive Bar? l a i t
too muoh to want to quaff our noggin i n genial, not austere,
surroundings?
The answer would seem to be i52_
MUTUA FIDES IN GRON/NGEN
The next day we moved on to Groningen where we had
a comparatively quiet evening in MUTUA FIDES, their Stu-
dent Society. We drank some beer and talked a-while
with our hosts. The following morning we toured the
city of Groningen and saw the University and other build-
ings. After lunching with our hosts we made towards the
Sportsfield where I.C. A XI played extremely well to beat
Forward 2nd XI 6-1. There followed i n the evening ano-
ther general orgy of drinking and eating with I.C. per-
haps a trifle more restrained than on Tuesday in Delft.
So enjoyable was the entertainment that a l l were oblivi-
ous of the fact that on the morrow, we were to have our
most arduous day's hookey. The oelebrations continued
well into the morning and the I.C. Captain left lutua
Fides i n disgust at 3.33 a.m. having been so intent on
talking that he had missed a round of ohampagne: Jim
Taylor did not have this misfortune. The following mor-
ning was taken up with shopping and general wanderings
through the town. John Taylor tried very hard to make
intelligent conversation with the Assistant Professor of
Physios on the topic of Theoretical Metal-Physios and
with some suooess considering the hour.of the morning.
contd. on page 2. col 2.
A n E . N E M Y H A T H D O N E T H I S i H I N G
BY V£R£ ATKINSON
There would, appear to.have 'been a oertaln amount
of weeping and gnssWng, of teeth among the union of late.
"Who.has perpetrated this outrage?" they cry, slavering
visibly for blood. They refer, of course, to the tempor-
ary Bar.
Bow did this calamity occur? The original odour
scheme waa yellow walla and tan woodwork- bright, but
reasonable. Unfortunately, while the woodwork was being
painted, various dignitaries of the oollege strode onto .
the aeons of tha crime and, after an initial period of
spaaehlaaansaa, expounded at great length on tha nasty
things of whioh they were put in sand by the odour of
the paint.Th* painters, all very sensitive men, could
not help overhearing and ware shortly reduced to a state
ef nervous twitch. This culminated in them bounding away'
fata their paint pots and pouring lota of red and blue
pigment into their tan paint. The result was the horrid
dash we new have between puoe-pink doors and lemon walla.
•Why*,growl the affronted drinkers, unmoved by'this
tale of human perfidy, "why oodd we not have had a tem-
porary with soothing dull oream walla and a murky brown
dado like our d d one?"
Tho cataclysm originated In the thought that as a new
union i a in construction some guidanoe as to ita internal
colouring would be required. Hitherto the Union had been
clad uniformly in a drab brown and oream. Was this inst-
itutional odouring really the students' idea of pleasant
colouring? Or was i t merely the result of a wartime
shortage whan only these colours ware available ? To
ascertain the current student's taste we ventured to
order brighter colours "for those temporary rooms being
repainted. They are the Registry Lounge and Games Hall i n
tha Bait n " ^ <
" a and the Notioeboard Room and Bar i n the
Union. People interested in odour should consider a l l
four (with not loo muoh emphasis on the Bar whioh i s an
horrible mistake ^ssnsalommt by the upsetting of the
painters' artlstio toijpexemejtt )•
So far none of the odours employed has eaoaped
criticism although the grey has been let down fairly
lightly. There would seem to be some truth in the
notion of a atadent preference for dull odours. However
the main thing i a that the Union has become vocal on
tha natter of colour and we shall not lack advioe in
the future.Whatevsr happens the painting of the new Union
will not go by default.
It 1 itiiasWMlMliMf M MsM *i1iWi1dh1iMititrtrti1i1lrtftlTiTiTi,
i*i*i *i*rTr*-
MBDIOATfil) WITH I«Z»L SERMICIDE

