2 F E L I X
UNION FINALE
DEMOLITION SPIRIT PREVAILS IN BAR
At 11.45 p.m. on Saturday, Maroh 26th, the old
Union Bar was closed for the very last time. On
its final evening the Bar and Union were filled with
exuberant revellers, who refused to let their spirits
be damaged by the shadow of sadness which hung over
them. As closing time approached the company linked
hands for "Auld Lang Syne" and, after giving three rous-
ing cheers each for Ted and Tom , moved slowly from
the Bar. Appropriately enough, last man to leave was
Ted Smith, who has served behind that historic oounter
for twenty-eight years, and who has made hundreds of
lasting friends among the many students he has met.
The "Bar Cooling Party" was preceeded by a combined
'22, Links and Chaps Glubs Dinner, at whioh Ted's health
was proposed by one of his oldest customers and closest
friends, Charles Bristow. The Dinner.was illuminated
by candle-light, and one of the diners discovered only
Just i n time that someone had placed one of the candles
directly beneath his seat during the meal.
Dr. K. E. Weale in an impromptu masterpiece, ex-
pressed everyone's sentiments when he pointed out that
this was merely a discontinuity i n the l i f e of the Bar
and our cry should be not a lament but, thinking of the
future, "The Bar is dead. Long live the Bar."
After Dinner, the Union was the scene of some ener-
getic sport, of which the most boisterous consisted of
tobogganning down the staircase on upturned tables.
There was also some disorganised sorurarnaging i n the Lower
Dining Hall, where, at Mr. Mooney's suggestion, a condemned
wall was destroyed with battering rams in order to save
the contractors some time.
The Upper Dining Hall was busy throughout its last
week, and its real climax was reached on Wednesday, March
23rd, on the occasion of the Rugger Club Dinner. This
was notable for the tremendous spirit and enthusiasm
which permeated the entire proceedings. Even aged vet-
erans of the club could not recall a more successful eve-
ning. Biggest cheer of the night went to the club's fav-
ourite Barman and guest - Ted Smith.
It i s good to report that the two best-loved rooms
in the old Union should have enjoyed suoh successful con-
clusions to their memorable history.
NORTHERN HOSPITALITY
ENQ SOC VISITS BILL INGHAM
Tuesday, 29th March, saw 18 Meohanioal Engineers
fighting for seats on the "Northiimbrian" Express at Kings
Cross bound for Billingham-on-Tees near Middleshorough. Thi«
visit to end a l l visits was certainly the finest excursion
ever organised by the Guilds Engineering Sooiety.
Surprisingly enough everybody did get seats, and the
journey to York soon passed to the aooompaniement of wine,-,
song, and the usual pack of cards. The party changed
trains at York, shepherded by Maloolm Deere, and at tea
time we were greeted by our hosts, the I.C.I, at Stockton,
who took us to one of the best hotels in the distriot.
Memories are rather dim about the magnifioent dinner
and subsequent film show; some can't even remember going
to bed. The next morning saw 18 highly polished engineers
arriving for breakfast, which was followed by a day of
works touring. The early evening saw us downing cock-
tails at a local country olub, when many tunes well known
in South Ken. were introduced to Northumbria.
On returning to our hotels, we had another good din-
ner and then set out to paint the town red and silver.
Some of U3 went to the pictures while some went dancing,
or so they said. At eleven-o'olook the fun started. Mr.
Deere found his bed quite unusable and his night attire
likewise, while Ian Bell found his shoes had sprouted
high heels. Tea was ordered through the early hours, and
a Boomelaka rendered on the stairs. Most of the party
did sleep a bit, although one group played cards until
3-o'clock and then turned Ian Bell and Derek Gotham out
of bed. To crown i t a l l , Messrs. Deere and Gotham found
themselves well and truly screwed into their room, as a
result of which Howard Panton and Mike Amsden went shoe-
less for some time.
The last day was spent touring the I,CI. 's Wilton
Works,followed by a splendid lunch. Then we were driven
to Darlington Station to oatoh the homeward train. Here
we made the acquaintance of two young ladies of Newcastle
University who did not seem to mind playing poker at a l l .
At Kings Cross again, this memorable visit oame to a
close. But not quite. One of the afore-mentioned young
ladies was escorted home - well done Mike. Trust a
Guildsman .....
M.T.D.
EASTER CONCERT IS A SUCCESS
I.C. Musical Society, ably supported by the
Jacques Orchestra, conducted by Doctor Brown,
celebrated Baster with an ambitious programme
of music at Q.A.H. on March 17th., which was,
on the whole, successful. Two short pieces led
to the main work; these were an Adagio and Glgue
by Oaluppi and "The Pharisee and the Publican"
by SchOtz. Tone and diction were very good i n
a l l the choral items but the choir i s "bottom
heavy" and so the tenors are almost drowned and
the whole choir i s pulled down. The main work
was "Acis and Galatea" by Handel, i n which the
soloists were Norma Morgan, soprano, Maurice
fearmouth, tenor, and Ranken Bushby, bass - three
lovely voices which were a pleasure to l i s t e n to.
Good soloists have a considerable affect on the
presentation of any work; the choir were most
fortunate i n their choice of soloists.
From Handel to parry i s a Jump which made
"Blest Pair of Sirens" even more exciting and
exhilarating. I t was very well sung indeed. I
think the choir enjoyed i t as much as we did.
The musical society are to be commended for
trying to peesent something different but surely
i t i s better to include the more unusual pieces
i n a programme of well known music. People who
attend amateur concerts are not usually so much
music lovers as friends of the performers and
would enjoy the concert so much more i f the music
were familiar.
We look forward to another concert by the soc-
-iety i n the near future.
S.R.G.
contd. from page I.
MIXED DRINKS-MIXED HOCKEY
The afternoon saw the whole I.C. party congregated
at the Groningen H.C. ground where a tournament (with
two pool3 of three Teams) was to take place. The games
were to be of 40 minutes duration each. In the first
game we drew with Forward 0-0 and in the 3econd we beat
G.B.H. S. by 3-0. Then we again played Forward. this time
playing muoh better and we won 3-1. In the final, against
* Groningen H.C., we played the best Hockey seen from an I.C.
Team for years, to draw 2-2; the strength of the Gronin-
gen team can be judged from the fact that they are this
year the Champions of the North Netherlands Premier League.
After a l l this exertion, we were confronted with a dance
arranged for us i n the evening: those with sufficient
energy dancedj while the majority could not do much more
than raise glass to mouth. Sunday was to be our last
day i n the Netherlands and most people did not rise until
noon or later. We had foolishly arranged to play a game
of Mixed Hockey in the afternoon with the help of some of
the local talent but when i t came to the point of actually
running about we were completely lost: all energy seemed
to have left us. The game ended i n a draw.
Having said our farewells we departed from Groningen
and returned by the night-boat, arriving baok i n England
much too early on Monday morning.
SOCIAL a ATHLETIC SUCCESS
To summarise the results of our Hockey Matches; i n
eight days we played eight games of Hockey of which we
W
O
N 5, D
R
E
W 2 and LOST 1. W
e 3cored 23 goals and conce-
ded 9. These results exclude the mixed game played on
Sunday. Of the playing members of the party, none played
in less than 3 games while the Oaptain sacrificed himself
to the extent of playing in all 9. The Hon. Sec. of 1.0.0.
who came at the last moment to replace John Newell (who
broke his collar bone) acquitted himself nobly and actually
played in two of the games.
Both from the Soolal and Athletic point of view, this
was a very fine Tour and there is no doubt that i t will
lire very long i n the minds of a l l those who participated.
T H E P R O F M A K E S T H E M L A U G H
Dr. Willis Jackson made both members and guests
of the Radio Sooiety rook with laughter at his anec-
dotes * i n one of the wittiest speeches heard for some
time at the annual dinner i n the Ayrton Hall. He es-
pecially warned the assembled company of the dangers of
mixing two lumps of Plutonium in Christmas stockings,
reciting an amusing l i t t l e verse on the subject.
Mr. Urquhart-Pullen, the Honorary Secretary of the
Society, thanked the doctor, and gave a short history
of the Society during the past year. Other speakers
were Dr. Lamb, F. Adorian Esq., S.G. Reece, and M.F.
Beddoes. Apart from the anecdotes, jthe occasion was
marked as one of Miss Bowling's last Dinners in the .ayr-
ton Hall. _ ,
— *See Nelson'a Column.

