6
RUGGER CLUB TOUR OF C O R N W A L L
I.C. LOSE THREE HARD-FOUGHT MATCHES
As a conclusion to the season the Rugger clue vis-
ited the West Country for three fixtures against oppon-
ents that promised to he the roost formidable the college
has yet encountered. It was therefore with some fore-
boding that the party left the orumbled union by coach
but short sojourns at hostelries en route previously well
tried by members of other touring parties, fortified a l l
for the following days match.
Brilliant sunshine greeted us in Cornwall and an i n -
spection of the Falmouth ground found i t to be bone hard
in spite of the valiant attempts of the groundsmen with
hose and water. I.C. had to make a number of changes in
the team advertised on the programme, due to absence ow-
ing to injury of our more outstanding backs. From the
whistle play was fast and open, with the I.C. forwards
holding their own against the sturdy Falmouth pack. Our
opponents fielded two guest players, with county oap Roy
Harris behind the scrum, and international trialist Rosen
at stand-off, the latter making many fine breaks for the
home side. Heam at stand-off half for I.C. played well
both in attack and defence and made muoh ground with some
fine kicking. The three quarters played well in attack
but were unable to stop a Falmouth try in the corner after
a cross kick. Later bad tackling allowed Hosen to put
his centres over for another try in the middle but I.C.
were now playing with only 14 men, look forward Toynbee
having departed with a dislocated thumb. In the seoond
half, I.C. retalliated with a try from full baok Thomson
who was alvrays ready to come into the attack and Hearn .
kicked a penalty goal from far out.' Time was against us
however, and the final whistle saw us down by 11 pts. to
FREE FOR ALL ...
Saturday afternoon one change was made i n the side
to meet Peiiryn the match being played before a moderate
crowd on equally hard 'ground. Fenryn have a record sec-
ond only to that of Redruth in Cornwall and many a great
touring side has fallen at their hands. In the first
half I.C. maintained a territorial advantage throughout
but failed to snap "xg two simple scoring ohances. A
break away attack from Penryn with a defensive mistake
allowed"the home side to put on five points before the
interval. Later Heam kicked a penalty goal for I.C.
but the game now became scrappy with each side siezing
on the other's mistakes. The Penryn backs scored again
but their pack tired towards the end and I.C. were press-
ing hard when to cries of "Sport" from oollege supporters
in the stand, a pitched battle developed on the field.
This, a very nervous referee failed to quell completely,
and the whistle for no side went short of time.
A T H L E T I C C L U B
The tourists* PHOTO BT L.E. PAI
Eli the "Fifteen Balls",thw headquarters of the Penryn olnb
amioaKLe relations were restored after the matoh with winkles
and oornish pasties.
A survey of the number of f i t men left to talks the field
against the Camborne team was made and the shortage of good
reserves caused the side to be weakened ,but i t was pleasing
to see Peaooeke playing in his first game since before Christ-'
mas,wherehe made a sensational appearance as wing three-
quarter. Ten thousand gallons of water on the pitch in the
morning had made i t a l i t t l e softer ,but the ground s t i l l
remained hard and i t was perhaps this that aooouted for the
poor I.C tackling.For the first time on the tour our pack
failed to hold the opposing forwards and Camborne soared,
four times i n the first half.After the interval I.C, retal-
iated with a dropped goal by Hearn and a try from Barnes,but
weak tackling allowed Camborne to cross our line again.
Considering the strengh of the opposition and the
conditions ,the results in the first two matohes especially
reflected credit on the club ,and i t i s hoped that the) tour
will become a regular- feature in the Rugby aaXsnder
The Athletics season opened on the last Wednesday
of last term when the I.C. 3 miles Championship was held
in the Wimbledon Park track. Guilds had the first four
men home to soore an easy victory in the team race from
R.C.S. and Mines. The individual winner was John Evans
who beat the holder, T. Bailey, by half a lap in a time
of 14-41.
Four members of the Club attended the University
Training Week at Motspur Park during the last week of the
vao. The energy expended on the track and in front of
the dart board resulted, in at least two oases of complete
exhaustion and one pulled muscle.
Tha I.C. trials were held at Harlington on April 27th
in the expected gale foroe wind which assisted the sprin-
ters but greatly hampered the middle distance men. In
the sprints, freshers Mantle and Regan both showed great
promise and should strengthen the relay team. Of the
other freshers, Colraan has providentially arrived to re-
place John Davies in the pole vault and Hyslop should f i l l
a long felt need in the hurdles and also take Mike Rickard's
place in the high jump. Several field events man have
yet to be seen in action and a further trial for them and
the sprinters i s being held.
As a result of the U.L. trials on Saturday, two I.C.
runners will travel to Paris with the U.L. team next week-
end. The outstanding performance oame from John Evans
who won the 880 yds. in the new I.C. reoord time of 1-56-8
and will run the 800 m. in Paris. In the 2 miles, Trevor
Bailey was well below his last season's form in taking 3rd
plaoe, but will travel to Paris as 2nd string for the 3000
m. Of the othar.I.C. representatives, Gordon Stewart was
6th in the 880 yds. in a personal be3t time and Buiny Snel-
look cleared 5'4" in the high jump and was 6th in the t r i -
ple jump.
On the same day a rather inexperienced I.C. team took
part in a 4 X 3, miles road relay at Potters Bar and finished:
14th. ' RoyMaular recorded a promising time of 15-13 on the
last leg.' '
•
»
CROSS COUNTRY CLUB JOIN THE BEAGLES
On the Saturday before the term started a small
band of I.C. oross country members, donned in tweeds
and armed with shooting sticks, travelled down into the
county of Sussex to partake in the open event at the an-
nual Point to Point held by the Brighton and Storrington
Foot Beagles. The cattle of Stuocles Farm had kindly
vacated their stables, for the afternoon, providing roomy
but somewhat odiferous changing accommodation.
The afternoon started with the local Point to Point
clubs going twice round a 1 mile specially prepared oir-
ouit, over obstacles and across a rather infuriating
water jump with a steep landing bank. Rather more i n -
terest was aroused by the installation of a 1 lap ladies
raoe, the ladies receiving encouraging support from the
I.C. members.
The open event (of whioh I.C. were the holders) had
been increased to four laps, and i t was this plus a lack
Of fitness after the Easter recess that took heavy toll
on the I.C. team. Many were the tales told afterwards
of the water jump and of the spectators who assembled
there. One country gentry was reported to have laughed
so muoh at D. Inman's effort to extricate himself from
the mud that he fell off his shooting stick into the
stream.
Apart from I.C.'s rather poor showing, D.J.Pain run-
ning as an individual won the open event, with a fine run,
and mention must be-made of Oldfield who completed the
last two miles barefooted having lost his shoes in the
water jump.
Published by the FELIX BOARD, Imperial College Union, London, S
.
W
.
7
.
Printed by S'lL VQUS PLAIT Ltd., 307a, Telephone Place, London, W.14.

