tf nion meeting TO D A Y Union meeting
N E W S P A P E R O F I H P E R 1 AT, C O L L E G E U N I O N
NO. 162 FRIDAY, 19 th MAY, 1961 Price 4d.
CARNIVAL IN RETROSPECT
by a member of the Carnival Committee, who prefers to remain anonymous. This Is true story. The names have been changed to protect the others.
Friday, 5th May. — D-Day, and the
Ball was set rolling. And what a Ball, the
• May Ball of course, whose merits must
have been anticipated, since there was al-
most a complete sell-out of tickets. Apart
from the fact that the weather was good,
that Chris Adams produced a most ex-
cellent cabaret, and that the Jazz Bands
were able to play on unflaggingly into the
early hours of the morning, congratulat-
ions must go to Tony Miller and the En-
tertainments Committee, whose work in
produoing the May Ball was surely apprec-
iated b yeveryone. One slight criticism
that might be made is that the lower re-
fectory was expeoted to hold twice as many
people as there were, seats for the buffet
supper, but besides this, the evening went
without any serious mishaps. During the
course of the evening the Carnival Organ-
iser, Si Lyle, introduced the Carnival
Queen, Krystina Bragiel, and presented
her with a orown and a bouquet of roses.
The Carnival Queen,
Krystina Bragiel
Then on to Monday, when the Carnival
Committee took over, presenting a Bar-
beque dance in Prince's Gardens. As during
the rest of the week, they were favoured
by good weather. The Carnival Grand Bal-
loon Bace, sponsored by Guinness, made
its debut while owing to a last minute
technical hitch in the Jazz Band, dancing
was done to gramophone records under
floodlight. Food was provided on entry and
was cooked on a fire on one of the paths.
Tuesday night was Quad Nite. The
Quad was turned into a minature fair-
ground for the evening, and Beit Hall
, residents were treated amongs, other
things to the fairly unusual sight of a tor-
! toise raoe by several comatose tortoises.
Various other attractions such as skittles,
darts and ball-throwing all brought the
infallible, unbreakable coconut as a prize.
The Jazz Band were again playing, while
in a corner of the Quad, a new record
was being set up. Yes, believe it or not,
and most of the College must have won-
dered what was going on if they didn't
already know, Tony Biggins was putting
on a Twenty-Four Hour Domino Marathon,
in the form of a non-stop game of dominos.
starting at 11.30 a.m. on Tuesday, and
ending at the same time on the next day.
Congratulations Tony I
On Wednesday, there was the Gala Film
Night. Many thanks to the Film Society
for showing 'Lavender Hill Mob' and
'Gunfight at the O.K. Corral.'
Thursday evening saw the production
bv the Dramatic Society of The Black
Stirks Light', and of a small concert by
The Dominoes Marathon In progress
the Musical society, xms was unfortun-
ately very poorly attended, which can
only prove that culture", even in the very
worthwhile form of this particular present-
ation, is not appreciated by Imperial Col-
lege.
Another dance on Friday, the Carnival
Dance, with music from the Les Layton's
Band, and the I.C. Jazz band. About 120
couples were present, and Finlay McPher-
son oompered a 'Jive for a Prize' contest.
Unfortunately the winning couple must
remain anonymous, since he forgot to ask
them their names.
'And finally Saturday, when a very weary
Carnival Committee presented the Carni-
val Fete, preceded by a procession of
floats, and followed by a Jazz Hop. Stalls
started to appear in Prince's Gardens fair-
ly early in the morning, and by the time
the procession set off at 1.30 p.m. prepar-
ations were almost completed.
The procession was headed by the Fete
Organiser, Jon Bareford, in his 'car' with
a hunting-horn-blower. Then came the
Carnival Queen standing on a Landrover,
followed by the three Constituent College
Vehicle Moscots. The Mines lorry made it
to the end of Prince Consort Road,. but
was not able to complete the route. How-
ever, Bo and Jez were in fine form and
made up for this. These were followed by
nine or ten departmental floats, including
one on which the Jazz Band were again
playing. The procession was only marred
by the fact that one of the floats fell onto
a car, but no one was hurt. The route,
to the great delight of the police, covered
Kensington, Fulham, and Chelsea as com-
prehensively as possible, and most people
who took part seem to enjoy themselves
except the Public (especially those stand-
ing in bus queues).
At about 2.45 the procession arrived back
at Prince's Gardens, now with the addit-
ion of a Black Maria (picked up, it is
thought, somewhere in Fulham), and short-
ly after this a second procession arrived
consisting of the Carnival Organiser and
Seoretary with the Rector and his wife,
Sir Patrick and Lady Linstead; the Mayor
and Mayoress of Kensington, Councillor
and Mrs J.G. Bawle; the Mayor and
Mayoress of Westminster; Councillor and
Mrs, R.L. Everest, and Miss Vanessa Red-
grave, who at the last moment, when the
Committee were in despair, kindly agreed
to open the Carnival Fete. Miss Mary Ure,
with her husband John Osborne, was or-
iginally to open the Fete, but is now un-
fortunately in hospital.
Then, just after 3.00 p.m. Miss Redgrave
opened the Fete by letting off a cluster of
gas-lfilled balloons, and then she, Lady
Linstead, and the two Mayoresses were
each presented with a bouquet of flowers
by the Carnival Queen. The Fete then went
into full swing, to the music of the band
of the Coldstreams Guards, with help from
the Musical Society while they weren't
playing. Altogether, there were about 50
side shows, and a refreshment marquee.
A particularly popular attraction was
"Ducking the President'-' which in fact
included most of the College officials.
In the evening, when ^he Fete had died
a natural death, the Jazz Hop started,
again in Prince's Gardens. Large numbers
turned up, and thanks go again to the
Jazz Band for providing the music. The
Carnival Committee then went to bed.
(Onlv one is so far reported to have re-
covered just for long enough to write this
article.)
Finally, the Carnival Committee would
like to sincerely thank all these in the
College, staff and students alike who
worked to make thle Carnival possible.
They would like to thank especially the
Jazz Club, who gave up a large amount of
time to play during Carnival Week, and
also the International Relations Club, who
were able to raise a considerable amount
of money by running a number of Carnival
Lunches last term and this, and who were
extremely active in the preparations for
uarnivai Week. They would like to thank
Viscount Hailsham, the Bector, and the
Mayors of Kensington and Westminster
for kindly acting as patrons, and Miss
Vanessa Redgrave for giving up her time
to open the Fete. Lastly, they would like
to thank the American School in Exhibit-
ion Boad for suppliying power for the
Fete; the numerous firms who contributed
to the Carnival; the landlord of the Queen's
who provided the bar licenoe and the
drink to go with it; and finally the long-
suffering Police, who, besides being most
helpful to the Committee, exercised their
usual calm and patience in particularly
trying circumstances.
At the time of going to Press, it was
not possible to estimate the total profit
made by the CamivaL but, I, speaking
as a member of the Carnival Executive,
am sure that no donation can be too small
for the Oxford Committee for Famine
Relief.
T H A N K Y O U E V E R Y O N F
in Immaculate Bo at the start of the
procession.
UNION
A* G* M«
TODAY
Friday, May 19th, In the Concert Hall,
at 1.15 p.m.
A G E N D A
1. Minutes.
2 Matters arising.
3. Correspondence.
4. Elections:
al Council Representatives.
b) Entertainments Committee.
5. Annual reports.
6. Anv other business.
Mascot and Rocket

