z FELIX
THE CARNIVAL
MAGAZINE
The very high standard of recent issues
of "Phoenix" led one to expect that the
Carnival issue would be something really
special. This, and the amount of pains-
taking work which has been put into
the magazine, make it all the more un-
fortunate that the standard is a little dis-
appointing.
Obviously the oontent of a Carnival
Magazine must be of a light nature, but
the Carnival has its serious side too —
the work of OXFAM is hardly a laughing
matter — and a little more emphasis on
this would have resulted in a better bal-
anced magazine. An article surveying, in
a general way, the work of the Oxford
Committee would have been well worth
including. No doubt the inclusion of two
reprints was necessitated by a shortage
of new material, for which the student
body as a whole must take the blame
(this includes the present writer). In any
case, both items were worth reprinting.
It is in the presentation that the usual
Phoenix excellence seems most lacking
The cover is a mess, and the hideous "old-
fashioned print" on the title page height-
ens the bad impression. More of these
rather tasteless things appear in the centre
pages — one of them can only be des-
cribed as revolting. The James Bond skit
would have been better all together rather
than split up by advertisements. These are
small points, but the impression they give
is cumulative.
On the credit side there are some very
witty articles and a few really good car-
toons. John Reason comes up with some
very sound advice to those w|io find Lon-
don a difficult place in which to move a-
round. John Galvaston comments on our
slotmachineocracy and Tony Musgrave
warns us all that gambling and women
don't mix. Despite its shortcomings, this
Phoenix is worth buying. All the proceeds
remember, go towards our OXFAM effort.
A.L.B.
N O T E D...
Smoking causes nervous dyspepsia,
sleeplessness, gas belching, gnawing, or
other uncomfortable sensation in the
stomaoh; constipation, headache, weak
eyes, loss of vigour, throat irritat-
ion, asthma, bronchi|is, heart failure,
lung trouble, catarrh, melancholy, neur-
asthenia, impotency, loss of memory and
will-power, impure (posioned) blood,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, neuritis,
heartburn, torpid liver, loss of appetite,
bad teeth, foul breath, enervation, lassit-
ude, lack of ambition, falling out hair,
baldness and many other disorders.
From the blurb to a smoking cure of 1912.
Now we know what's wrong with the
President.
mmk
The President-elect of the Royal College of Science, London, and friends
(Exclusive to Felix)
by Finlay McPherson
It was at the beginning of the vacation
that I first met her. At a discussion meet-
ing it was: she was a Chelsea-type blonde
who asked me the incredible question:
"Did I go to Dublin University?" After
explaining that it was the haggis country
that came from not the hooch country I
left. Of course not knowing what every
good student knows I completely forgot
to find out her name, addreBS or telephone
number. Quel bel fool. However, I found
out by discreet enquiry that her name was
Mary McPhee; with the aid of the tele-
phone directory I was thus able to send
her a letter inviting her to the theatre,
mentioning who I was since I had for-
gotten to tell her my name, and generally
praising her to the skies.
I never got a reply, and had almost
given up the whole business as a bad job
when she suddenly appeared in" the drive
on a red bicycle; I nearly, had a fit and
the next-door neighbour phoned )
f
c
o ask
who the blonde was. I recovered my senses
and arranged to pick her up the next day
in a suitable vehicle.
The day was fine. I collected her and
we drove into town; on the way she sud-
denly thumped her hand on the dashboard
and said:
"There's one thing we'd better get
straight." My respect for her rose, she
was so very shrewd.
"Yes."
"My name's not McPhee, it's Watson.''
Stone the crows, I thought to myself, who
is this woman anyway? "You see, my
father was killed in the Second World
War, my mother's a commercial artist
in South Kensington, and I live with my
aunt called McPhee."
"I see," I replied as if this were a com-
monplace occurance. We drove on in re-
lative silence, I was feeling a trifle
stunned but after all it's not really un-
usual.
'Just after we reached town she turned
to me. Wait for it, I thought.
"By the way," she Baid, "There's an-
other thing. Soon I'm going to stay with
my mother in South Ken, and she always
calls me by my second name." I \did
a double take and. said:
"Well, do you want me to call you by
your first name or your second?"
"You might as well get used to the
idea of calling me by my second name."
Was this woman mad, or what?
"Well, what is your second name?"
"Esmaralda, and I hate abreviations."
This would< take more getting used tc
than I could manage. I had taken out
a girl called Mary McPhee, and was now
taking back a girl called Esmeralda
Watson. The crazy thing about this story
is it's true.
Dear Sir.
We wish to inform you that John White
and John D. White are not related phvs-
ically, mentally, or in any other wav.
The first of us is Carnival Competition
Organiser, 1st Year Aero and Weeks Hall,
the second is President of the Huxley
Society, 2nd Year Physics and Wormwood
Scrubs.
Your seperateiy,
John White
John D. White
Dear Sir,
Loath as I am to have to complain
about the results achieved by the faithful
few who organised the Carnival Ball, the
arrangements for the buffet were a dis-
grace!
How on earth is one supposed to e . 'y
a salad at 10.20 at night standing in a
corner of the middle refectory surrounded
by dirty plates, trays of glasses and
squeezed in between the entrance to the
kitchen and one of the staff cleaning
f
lasses? Surely arrangements could have
een made to increase the number of
"sittings" (I hate to use the word ) so that
one could at least sit down in reasonable
comfort to eat the most attracive food I
have yet seen to appear from the middle
refectory. Considering that even in Joe
Lyons one normally can sit down, although
the food is much inferior, surely for £ 2.2s.
it is not unreasonable to hope to sit down
to enjoy the food.
I do not know who was responsible, or
even if the Entertainments Committee
were concerned with such details about
the buffet, but it seemed to me to be
spoiling the ship for a ha'pporth of tar.
Yours sincerelv,
A.S. Chalmers, RiS.M.
JUtttvia ta the Edltm
YES, UNILATERALISM IS THE ANSWER
Dear Sir,
I enclose a short article which I wrote
immediately after reading Mr. Finch's
contribution to Scrunity entitled "Is Uni-
lateralism the Answer?" It represents an
impulsive reaction, not a carefully planned
answer to Mr. Finch's article. I have
not altered it because in its present state
it conveys some of the urgency whic|> I
feel is very necessary in this matter.
It is due to this sense of urgency which
I feel that I am submitting this article
to you and not to Scrunity.
Yours,
Peter Young
(P.G. Mineral Dressing)
'bince both Russia and the U.S.A. have
enough nuclear weapons to destroy civil-
isation', writes Mr Finch in the latest
issue of Scrunity. 'I do not believe that
unilateral disarmament by this country can
improve the prospects of world peace."' I
disagree entirely. Since America has en-
ough nuclear weapons to destroy Russia
our bombs oan make little difference to
the situation except to increase the danger
of nuclear war, so why waste money on
them? If we must have nuclear protection
we can have America's.
But another argument is more power-
ful ; France, Sweden and probably China
are working towards their own A-bombs
and are thus increasing the danger of nu-
clear war. With the U.S.A. and Russia
only armed with H-bombs we have a re-
latively simple situation but when neu-
trals and allies have them the balance i
s
*
more complex and the chances of dis-
armament are less. The first stage of dis-
armament must be the prevention of the
spreading of H-bombs and this can be done
if France, Sweden and China are stopped
in time. The only arguement which will
stop them is the renouncing of nuclear
weapons by one or more of the three nu-
clear powers; Russia and the U.S. will
not do it so the onus rests with Britain
to take the lead, to tell these countries
as forcibly as possible that they are wast-
ing their time and money and clinch the
arguement by getting rid of a 11 our nu-
clear arms, a 11 our radiological and bact-
eriological weapons and cutting down our
conventional forces to the minimum. Half
the money thus saved could well be spent
on an enormous propaganda drive to turn
world opinion against nuclear arms and
the other half could be used for direct
gifts to poor countries.
Negotiation within the U.N. is all very
well but it is subject to all manner .of
delays and technical hitches and is used
by the various governments as a political
tool like any other. Discussions are not
very far advanced and no party to the
discussions has yet conceded something def-
inite without retracting or denying it- And
all the time the urgency becomes greater. It
is a matter of months now, not decades
as it was when the talks started, before
another country builds an operational bomb
and still the political bargaining and lying
goes on. It is not the fault of the U.N..
it is the fault of all the parties to the
disarmament- conferences for not being
more willing to come to agreement. The
deadlock must be broken and the C.N.D.
oifers a bold, imaginative plan for doing
just that. Peter Young
The innocent
at the hints
We don't even know what the film's
title is yet, but it's the usual sequence;
a man and a woman in a double bed, and
it's obvious to all but the more.immature
under-nines in the audience that they are
not married. (Married people don't be-
have like that, they sleep in matching
twin beds with a contemporary bedside
table in between, on which are the sleep-
ing tablets, the sedatives and the Reader's
Digest Bedside Companion.) Sometimes
these bedside films are really good, as
was "Room at the Top", that carefully
drawn caricature of the industrial West
Riding, but as the craze catches on it
looks as though we are going to see some
really bad ones.
Occasionally one feels, as the man in
the bed Ijies back and freveals a chest
hairy enough to make gorilla green, oc-
casionally it would be pleasant to get back
to Buchanesque thrillers: those breezy
stories full of Ruritanians fixing some
clean-shaven all-British hero in the tele-
scopic sights of a rifle, somewhere in the
Scottish Highlands. I
t
< seems incredible
to think, as the woman slides out og bed
at last, to reveal to the steaming audience
that s he is not quite naked after all,
though one would thought so from all that
sly pulling up of the bedclothes, that there
is only one woman in the Thirty-nine
Steps, and that she was at least middle-
aged. It takes a rare writer these days to
write any sort of novel without including
at least one sexually attractive woman in
the characters. This is not to say that
Buchan's stories have more literary merit
than say Sillitoe's Saturday Night and
Sunday Morning, they have not, but the
innocent would have thought that since it
takes a writer of some calibre to centre a
story round the man-woman relationship
and since film scriptwriters are rarely of
any calibre at all, the film makers would
be providing more satisfactory entertain-
ment if they concentrated on other themes.
Westerns for instance.
Consider the advantages of the West-
ern. The innocent's recollecions of the
American Middle West, drawn exclusively
from Westerns, can be combined into one
scene. In the middle of a vast plain lies
a town consiting of a few matchboarding
houses and a saloon with those peculiar
swing doors. If we are lucky there is a rail-
way station without platforms, and in the
background is an ancient locomotive, his-
sing gently, while in the foreground cow-
boys lounge in the dust, occasionally tilt-
ing back their hats and getting up to shoot
each other. The characters in this bucolic
scene communicate by bullets or mono-
syllabic grunts, thus solving the script-
writer's problems right away. They also
appear to be wearing their oldest jeans,
so one can assume that the costume bill
has been considerably reduced. The scen-
ary is free to any film company prepared
to drive a few hundred miles into the
desert. As for 'the buildings, they look
fairly portable, and in any case the same
sets appear to have been used in several
different films so that there is no danger
of the company being left with a life-size
plywood Coliseum, or anything like that, on
its hands if the stars get dysentery from
eating unhygienically merchandised vege-
tables.
Thus it would appear that a film com-
pany with mediocre resources would stand
a better chance of making passable enter-
tainment out of a Western than out of a
film with any other theme. The combinat-
ion of impressive scenery and the ex-
citing action of a gunfight is a good one.
And when a film company hires not only
a scriptwriter of some ability but also one
or two good actors as well, the result is
often outstanding. Of the purely gun-
fighting Westerns in recent years, The
Law and Jake Wade and Warlock were
excellent entertainment. Another theme
has been the rootless gunman who wants
to settle down, and there have been manv
variations on this. The Gunfighter, High
Noon, and Gunfight at the O.K. Corral
all had this as one of their themes. Others
of note were Shane and 3.10 to Yuma,
both rather different from the usual run
of Westerns in their emphasis, but still
including the same basis ingredients.
But of all these, Gunfight at the O.K.
Corral, which the Film Society had as
one of the pictures on the programme cf
the Carnival Film Festival on Wednesday,
must rank as the finest. Burt Lancaster
and Kirk Douglas, a script that is onlv
rarely corny and that*final vendetta, all
go to make up two hours of really excel-
lent screen entertainment. When it comes
to bedside melodramas and those incred
ibly corny epics, just pass me my lons;-
barrelled Colt.

