FELIX 3
Once again. Felix makes studentpress historyI
Here for the first time is
A BEDFORD SUPPLEMENT
SOUND AN ALA/RUM
There can be little doubt that Bedford
College has the most pleasant and exolusive
situation of any of the London colleges.
The bustle of town is held at the bay
on the one hand by a strategically placed
moat and on the other by the breathless
hush of the Inner Circle. Here, as no-
where else in the Metropolis, peace and
tranquillity reign and while less respect-
able establishments now admit the dub-
ious Jfrifluence of men, Bedford College
fnis is not to say that they falling be-
hind 'the* times hpwever. The sciences
are, we believe, studied there; the depart-
ments of Chymystry and Physiks are
among the most advanced of their kind.
Teaching methods are also highly ad-
vanced, so that one should be surprised,
for example, to observe English students
re-enacting some of the more interesting
incidents from Sir Gawaine and the Green
Knight as an integral part of their studies.
There .has - been considerable building
and improvement round the College late-
ly, such as that to the Union and Reid
Hall. A notable innovation in the latter
has been the installation of a burglar
alarm system. If this has caused the re-
sidents to be more diligent in obtaining
the proper late night passes then we must
suppose that it is a good thing. However,
rumours that the bridge that one crosses
to reach the main entrance is to be con-
verted to a drawbridge and fitted with a
portcullis are unfounded. The road is a
public right of way.
PORTRAIT GALLERY
Angela Cowgill, the new Athletics
Chairman has two interests — SPORT,
and is as one can see from the .photo not
a typical black-stocking product of Bed-
ford. Perhaps this is due to her luck in
having a sister who was President of
I.C.W.S.C. The family's connections with
I.C. do not appear to have been broken
completely as Angela claimed to be a
member of I.C. Photographic Society in
her election manifesto. This was difficult
to corroborate; the treasurer said she had
not paid a subscription, the Vice-president
refered to me to the Secretary who said
that she appeared in the minutes as
"supplier of coffee to the Portrait Group
leader." The Portrait Group leader was
however, in North Wales for the weekend
with the Y.H. Group.
Among Angela's other activities she is
H committee member of the Bedford Y.H.
Group.
WHITE ELEPHANT SALE
Many yards of green, purple and silver
blazer cloth available at bargain prices.
Suitable for curtains, cushion covers,
scarves, dresses, short shorts, tapered
trews or brief bikinis. Not to mention
blazers. All reasonable offers considered.
Enquires and suggestions to Bedford
Union Society.
CARNIVAL (OTHER ONE)
From our Bedford Correspondent
Once again this College is helping with
the U.L. Carnival, unlike ' I.C. Even
though the I.C. Carnival will probably raise
more money than the U.L. one, we feel
that the University should come first, and
anyway some of the boys one meets from
Kings are rather sweet.
NEW PAPER
OF BEDFORD UNION
The old handbook assures Bedford
freshers that "Bedford News" appears
every fortnight throughout the first two
terms. In fact it has only appeared once
or twice a term. For those who never saw
one it looked much like "Felix".
This year it has been decided to make
a completely new start. Miss Harvey
Webb, a first year philosophy student,
and past editor of St. Hilda's (Whitby)
school magazine, is co-operating with
Miss Colquitt-Craven to give Bedford a
more professional looking newspaper on
the lines of Sennet. This new paper must
have a large circulation and a lot of ad-
vertising space must be sold at about ten
shillings per column-inch. Apparentlv it
is intended to produce it about three times
per term, so that it can hardlv perform
the function of a newspaper, but will be,
equivalent to a cross between "Phoenix"
and "Felix" (horrible thought).
UNION ELECTIONS
This year six of the nine posts were con-
tested, this being the highest proportion
for the last four years. However, the in-
creased interest was not reflected through-
out the iJnion as a whole, and the usual
apathy prevailed. The advance publicity
showed little originality, except that of
one candidate who produced very profes-
sional posters with large photos surrounded
by stencilled lettering. The usual lack of
respect was shown by those who stuck
^leas to Vote for — on the nv;;cb ': all
the lavatory doors. I.C. is fortunate in-
deed to be spared this indignity
It became apparent at the hu&ti^gs ohat
the increase in the number of ^adidates
was not accompanied by an increase in
their quality. For example, the post of
Athletics Chairman was contested for the
first time in nine years, but of the three
candidates only one had ever been to the
College Athletic ground.
It is to be hoped that the new officers
can arouse more interest in the Union, and
that we will be able to raise our quorum
of eighty at Union meetings more often.
MARITIAL BLISS
You're trapped, you're engaged, to a
student from Bedford College 1 And
you're loaded, late uncle has made you
considerably richer, or your skill with
permutations and combinations has fin-
ally proved its worth, or perhaps trap three
came up at the White City. Her parents
consider that you should marry her, and
you are only too keen to fix an early date.
There seems no escape but to live happily
ever after.
There remain but the formalities at
College; your fiancee goes to inform
the Bursar of the impending change of
name and address, since Reid Hall does
not yet provide married quarters.
The questions begin, what of her course?
Will she leave .early or see it through?
Can she work, keep a flat and a husband,
all at once? What about money? Doubts
start to arise in the poor girl's mind. After
this talk with the Bursar, almost ident-
ical questioning must be endured from the
Registrar.
Now comes the academic side cross-
examination from her tutor followed by
an interrogation from the head of the dep-
artment, and she still persists in want-
ing to marry you. But now comes the fin-
al inquisition from the Principal, and go-
ing against her refusal may mean a sud-
den ©nd tp the Bedfordian'a academic
career.
Don't let this raise your hopes, you have
had it in the long run, and really it is
your own fault; you should never have
let her father lend you the money for
the ring.
YHA GROUP IN NORTHUMBERLAND
EASTER 1961
Three exiled Northumbrians, tired of ex-
tolling the virtues of their much maligned
country, decided to visit the homeland in
the Easter Vacations. So after much caj-
oling a mixed party of six from Bedford
and IC made the trip, though only on one
day were all six members present together.
One young lady, who joined the party a
week late arrived wearing an engagement
ring, which caused doubts to be expressed
about her excuse of having had measles.
The pariy~ set off from Alnwick in a
blinding snow storm and after a few de-
risive remarks and aided by some complet-
ely unintelligible directions from a local
farmer, made their way to Rock Hostel.
Fortunately the weather improved and the
next two days were fairly dry and were
spent in exploring the coastline north-
wards as far as Holy Island. I think we
will all remember for a long time the im-
pressiveness of Bamburgh Castle, rising
sheer out of the sand dunes, and flanked
to the east by a vast expanse of golden
sands left'clean and smooth by the falling
tide, and the whole mercifully devoid of
people.
After dumping the camping gear used in
the first two days, the narty made its way
westwards over the moors to Wooler from
where, after a night's rest at the hostel,
we set off into the Cheviot Hills. Luckily
the weather was fine and clear, but the
party was quickly made to realise tha*
distances are vast in the Cheviots and
that the lack of conspicious landmarks
makes navigation difficult.
The summit of the Cheviot was reached
at about 1.30 p.m. and the party lunched
by the cairn, completely surrounded by a
peat-bog and huge peat-hags. That even-
ing was spent at Wholehope Hostel, one
of the smallest and most isolated belong-
ing to the Y.H.A., where the party learnt
some of the history and traditions of the
Border Country from the Warden.
After the first few days time seemed
to go very quickly and three more days
of rough walking, in part along the Pen-
nine Way, brought the party to the Roman
Wall, which we then proceeded to patrol
in true Roman style, walking along the
top in a single file. By now we were in
more gentle country and were able to ad-
mire some of the lovely scenery along
the banks of the North and South Tyne
before striking north again across the
moors to Rothbury in Coquetdale. From
here, those who had not fallen by the way-
side departed to their respective homes,
feeling perhaps physically tired but all
the more able to face the mental rigours
of the Summer Term.
CRUD FOR PRESIDENT
The Editor would like to thank Roger
Henson, Ian Gibson, Duncan Gardiner and
our Bedford correspondent, who are large-
ly responsible for this feature.
The obvious choice for nejtt year's pre-
sident is Crud. This is born out by the
photograph of Crud in his "going to com-
mittee" stance. This is familiar to, and
wel practised by, everyone who has ever
sat on a committee but note the elegant
way in which Crud does this; obviously a
past-master at it.
You have met him in Felix already in-
viting a boid to flit into Weeks Bar, this
fact combined with the fact that he is
a permanent resident of the bar shows
that he would make an admirable pre-
sident.
Everyone knows him, or will do when
'his present Crud £or President Campaign
is over, and he knows nobody, again per-
fect for president.
All these virtues and no vices, that is,
in the purely I.C. sense of the word, poin^
him out as the only possible President.

