film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Plenty of action...
Democracy in the cinema: Mićo Tatalović takes a look at interactive films.
I
was at the 10th Motovun Film
Festival (renowned as the
‘Woodstock’ of film) in Croatia
this summer mainly to see their
‘interactivecinemaprogramme’:
screenings that handed over the direc-
tor’s role to the audience. There were
three such films: Czech ‘Kinoautomat’
Man and His Home (1966), Danish
Switching (2003), and Canadian Late
Fragment (2007), movies in which we
decide what happens.
Kinoautomat, the first interactive
cinema and brain child of Czech di-
rector Radúz Činčera was invented in
1966, which included two moderators
sitting at the stage alongside the movie
projection.Thefirstandonlyfilmmade
for Kinoautomat system was Man And
His Home (‘Člověk a jeho dům’), which
contained within the storyline several
moral dilemmas for the main charac-
ter, Mr. Novak. Each time Mr. Novak
was in a predicament (nine times in
the movie) the projection was paused
and the moderators would come up to
the stage and present each side of the
story to the audience. The audience
was then asked to vote on what Mr No-
vak should do next; should he go after
his angry wife, or stay in the flat with
his barely clothed sexy neighbour? In
a special purpose-built cinema hall
seats had red and green buttons people
could press to vote, the movie preced-
ing once the audience voted, with the
majority choice being shown.
The first screening of Kinoautomat
took place in 1967, but the combina-
tion of demanding technical issues (to
enable voting and parallel storylines,
five different projectors had to be run-
ning at the same time and be switched
between during the screening) and the
communist regime that disliked the
idea of people voting, even in cinema,
meant that the concept of Kinoauto-
mat ended up being forgotten for 40
years. Then, in February 2006, Raduz
Cincera’s daughter digitalised the film
and brought it to the National Film
Theatre in London where it thrilled
the 300 audience members, who all
voted using devices resembling remote
controls. Since then screenings are also
organised in Prague, as well as at vari-
ous film festivals, and the interactive
DVD and a book about Kinoautomat
are now also available.
William Castle, popular for his unu-
sual film promotions in the 1950s, also
allowed the audience to vote in his
film Mr Sardonicus (1961). This was
at a time when television drew audi-
ences away from the cinema, so Castle
strived to make the cinema experience
more interesting to get more viewers so
he could make more money. Audienc-
es would get a card with a thumb-up
on, and depending on how they turned
the card this could be a thumb up or
thumb down. At the end of the movie,
they would get their say as to how the
movie finishes. This was known as the
Punishment Toll because the audi-
ences could decide to punish the nasty
Mr Sardonicus. IMDB says “Before the
ending, Castle appeared on the screen
and explained the poll. He then “count-
ed” the votes. If mercy won, then the
happy ending would be shown. If no
mercy won, the original ending would
be shown. It is doubtful, though, that
any audience voted mercy.”
This was a far cry from the sophis-
tication of Cincera’s Kinoautomat and
a more recent Cinelabyrinth. Cine-
labyrinth was promoted as “the world’s
first labyrinth-style Cinematic System,”
and shown at Expo ‘90 in Osaka. This
is how artist Michael Naimark de-
scribes it :”Everyone began in a single
large theatre sitting on the floor. At the
front on each side of the screen was a
door. After the first scene was played
out, the audience was asked to choose
one of two options by walking through
one of the two doors. The story was an
ecology yarn about kids trying to save a
grand old tree from greedy developers.
After seeing several scenes and mak-
ing several choices, enough to totally
lose one’s sense of direction inside the
pavillion, one watches the final scene,
where the children successfully save
the tree. At the moment when the kids
shout “we did it!”, the screen in front
raises up to reveal a full-size replica of
the tree used in the film. Simultane-
ously, three other screens on the other
three sides of the tree rise up, reveal-
Easy laughs with a frustrated virgin on the road
The title says it all. A high-school kid
that just can’t get laid, a long drive
across the United States, a love trian-
gle and a once-in-a-lifetime road trip
that slowly turns into a journey from
hell - if this doesn’t sound familiar then
you are seriously lacking some basic
familiarity with teenage comedies. The
now iconic American Pie which sur-
prised everyone with its world-wide
success exposed a seriously ignored
and still largely un-tapped niche in the
cinema market. Obviously, the ‘oh my
gosh, that’s gross’ reactions brought a
lot of money. The capitalist forces of
supply and demand, which are the un-
conquerable rulers of the film industry
were allowed to act and the situation
was promptly rectified. The result was
a swamping of the screening rooms
with comedies whose sole aim was to
make the young and mostly uninici-
ated audience cringe as much as pos-
sible. The plot never changed but the
quality of entertainment provided fol-
lowed a sharply negative slope.
Thus, the first scene of Sex Drive
in which a pair of underwear suffers
through a young chap’s erotic dream
and ends up on the floor only to be,
inevitably, stumbled over by a blissfuly
ignorant parent, understandably filled
me with dread. Unrightly so, as it turns
out, even though the movie follows a
plot that is the benchmark of the mod-
ern teenage comedy.
This time, the sexually frustrated
kid is Ian (Zuckerman), a fresh high-
school graduate obsessed with the fact
that he can’t lose his virginity. Lance
(Clark Duke) who has found the way
to get girls into bed with him does his
best to help his best pal Ian but with
little success. When Ms. Tasty, a girl
met online, suggests that Ian comes
up to Tennessee so that they can meet
in person for a night of serious ‘love
making’, Lance succeeds in convincing
his friend to steal his brother’s (James
Marsden) 1969 GTO and act on the
dream come true. Joining them, but not
knowing the real reason for the trip is
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
ing four theatres with everyone who
began in the first room, now all facing
each other. The gag was that no matter
which options were chosen, the kids
successfully saved the tree.”
More recent examples of interac-
tive films involve Switching (2003) and
Late Fragment (2007). As interesting
as they are, they are straight to DVD
films aimed at a small audience and so
it is hard to classify them as ‘democ-
racy in cinema’ because viewers don’t
really get to choose what happens; by
pressing the button they just switch
to another scene – not knowing what
this is going to be or why. So it is just
switching between fragments.
I think that this interactivity feature
could provide a powerful, if yet un-
explored opportunity for education
through film, as a film about the en-
vironment could let viewers see how
their lifestyle choices (e.g. smoking,
pollution, recycling) affect their lives
as well as the planet.
*Note from the editor (JD): Return
To House On Haunted Hill (2007) was
a direct-to-DVD horror film that was
solely interactive: you can choose (with
your DVD remote) what the characters
decide to do and so your decisions ef-
fect the ultimate outcome of the film.
There are several alternative endings
as well as many different scenes, and
what you decide can prolong or reduce
certain characters survival time.
Max Payne (Wahlberg), a cold-case
investigator, is dragged into the world
of death and destruction by the mur-
der of his wife and child. Whilst con-
tinuing to search for the murderer so
he can exact revenge, the arrival of a
strange and dangerous new drug on
the streets of New York temporarily
distracts him from his vendetta. After
two murders, both directly involving
him, Max finds himself caught up in
something bigger than he imagined,
and with the help of Mona Sax (Ku-
nis), a gun-toting dominatrix, they try
to take down the people responsible
for these deaths across the city.
The film starts off well, building an
interesting and involving plot, be-
fore quickly descending into chaos.
Many plot points are left unexplained
or unresolved, and the many stock
characters and locations are briefly
introduced through clunky dialogue
and obvious exposition. What begins
as a crime thriller soon becomes su-
pernatural, and without being well
explained, it is hard to know what the
point of having demons flying around
is (except for looking cool).
Wahlberg, who usually delivers a
solid performance, seems bored and
uninvolved, whereas rapper Ludacris
struggles to be believable as a charac-
ter or as an actor. The best perform-
ances in the film are by Kunis and
current Bond girl Olga Kurylenko,
both being evocative and seeping sex
but at the same time being strong and
powerful women. It is a shame that
they were not in the film more.
Although the film plods along much
like any other action-thriller, there is
nothing original or unique about it,
except for the amazing cinematogra-
phy. The film is extremely well shot
and looks amazing, the backgrounds
and set pieces instantly creating a
creepy and dark mood. The atmos-
phere is one of the film’s strongest
points, as are the fun and clever ac-
tion sequences, which involve very
slick and stylish slow motion shots.
If you ignore the standardised poor
plot, the film is actually okay, espe-
cially for a film based on a computer
game. I found it mainly enjoyable,
and was not bored at any point in
the film. It is just a shame that with
a better script the film could have
been so much better, perhaps one of
the best films of the year. But this is
not the case. It is a very same-y, usual
action-thriller that is all style but no
substance. Action film fans and Mark
Wahlberg fans may enjoy it, as well as
those who appreciate cinematogra-
phy, but for anyone else I would strug-
gle to recommend it.
Max Payne HHKKK
Director: John Moore
Writer: Beau Thorne & Sam
Lake
Cast: Mark Wahlberg,
Mila Kunis, Ludacris
Beau Bridges
Following on from last time’s homage
to cinema, this week we take a surreal
and occasionally nonsensical look at
the impact that the DVD format has
had upon the industry.
In the early days before wax-coated
discs were invented, films used to be
shared from generation to generation
by word of mouth. This is of course
completely different to the process
for passing on holy scripture (word of
god), or indeed the art of dissociating
yourself from real life in a fantasy on-
line world (word of warcraft). This had
some advantages. When the original
script was somewhat lacking in flair
or originality (think any teen movie
released after American Pie) then it
could always be spiced up a little. Who
can forget Papa Joe’s ragtime piano
version of Terminator 3?
There were disadvantages too, such
as the volatile human memory, which
was easily corrupted by external influ-
ences: Titanic’s “Iceberg, dead ahead!”
becoming “Iceland, dead ahead!”, a
classic example of frozen food shop
interference. This, coupled with a bla-
tant disregard for the accompanying
soundtrack (Papa Joe could only do
Arse-Trumpet), led to the development
of more effective media for storing and
viewing films. In the late 1990’s, the
DVD was born.
So what were the advantages of
DVDs? Well for starters there was the
enhanced picture quality, which was
frankly quite marvellous compared to
video cassettes. To really appreciate
it all you needed to do was invest in
a new six-figure television, complete
with those oxygen gold-plated hermit-
ically-sealed cables. If, like most of the
population, you weren’t able to do that
then you could still enjoy DVDs too.
They would just look and sound like
VHS. Other benefits included dual-
layer discs. One side was the film plus
bonus extras, whilst the other doubled
as a handy coaster.
But the biggest difference with DVDs
had to be the introduction of the un-
skippable copyright notice. With a
good old-fashioned tape, the start of
the video was always a wildly flickering
collection of ancient adverts, random
clips from your parents wedding, and
white noise. Yes, you never really saw
the first five minutes of any film as the
fast-forward button always got stuck
but at least you could fast forward.
Now we are subjected to a TV licence-
esque lecture reminding us how we’re
all criminals for watching DVDs.
Still all is not lost. It’s been a few years
since the first DVD, prices of equip-
ment and films have been falling con-
sistently in recent months, and many
people have managed to accrue a rath-
er nice back-catalogue of cinema. Just
in time for Blue-ray. Blue-ray: What a
format! Even more quality (once you’ve
bought another new TV) and with an
even more Draconian copy-protection
system. At this rate the next format will
be nothing but an onscreen message,
telling us not to dare to think about
watching a movie. In the industry, I
suspect they call this progress.
Your weekly film horoscope:
With Jupiter, Mars and Venus all cur-
rently orbiting the sun, the astrological
system is in a tumultuous phase. Your
best bet is to keep things light to avoid
any further confusion. Try short 30
minute comedies that take a satirical
look at the week gone past, in a mock-
ing fashion. In fact just stay in and
watch TV.
Film Cynic Clinic
Stuart Higgins
Imagine if you could give Jack and Rose a happy ending...
but a ‘Payne-ful’ lack of plot in Mark Wahlberg’s newest film
proves yet again that PC games don’t make for great movies
Zuzanna Blasczak
Film Editor
Sex Drive HHHKK
Director: Sean Anders
Writer: Seab Abders & John
Morris
Cast: Josh Zuckerman,
Amanda Crew,
Clark Duke
This year’s version of ‘American Pie’ might not be one of the most original films but Sex Drive can proudly
boast good acting, loveable characters and spot-on observations about the modern lascivious teenager.
The confidence that comes from using the Internet is amazing.
take on an Amish car mechanician
with a fondness for sarcasm is abso-
lutely brilliant. His comedic timing is
simply impeccable. Although the in-
terplay between the three main char-
acters is pretty flawless as well, which
is partly due to the very well scripted
dialogues.
Sex Drive has all the vital features of a
typical road trip movie, which at heart
it is - we have the unexpectedly long
journey, the crazy drivers, the stalling
car, the brief stop in jail, love lost, love
found and a lot of references to male
genitals. Where it’s different than other
films of its kind is in the details. Sean
Ander’s movie feels complete, there
are no gaping plot holes and even the
most wacky scene makes sense. Also
it’s pleasant when you watch a film and
can clearly see in every scene that mak-
ing the movie was a lot of fun for all
involved.
I would definitely recommend join-
ing Ian, Lance and Felicia on their ca-
thartic journey when Sex Drive comes
out on wide release in January 2009.
There’s only one ‘but’; if you feel like
you left your immaturity somewhere
back in the 2005, watching this come-
dy would be ill-advised. But I hope that
we’re all still young enough to laugh at
the behaviour of our peers, remember-
ing that at one point we were all as Ray
Bradbury wrote ‘seventeen and crazy’.
Felicia, Ian’s best friend and his secret
crush who, as it turns out, has the hots
for Lance. And so they set off, for what
is to be a one day journey, never imag-
ining the obstacles they eventually face
nor the character-testing situations
they constantly encounter on the way.
The various adventures that they
experience and the numerous mis-
haps that happen to them make for an
exceedingly entertaining watch and
ensure that you will not get bored at
any time. I should mention here that
although the humour is, most of the
time, rather crude and definitely on the
immature side, it’s not overtly stupid.
Lance, for example, is not your typical
playboy; he’s slightly chubby and his
method of pulling chicks is to act like a
dick. Maybe I’m reading too much into
this, but to me he seemed like a real life
parody of the “The Rules of the Game”
by Neil Strauss [Editor: a help-guide on
how to pick up girls] and of all those
self-confident, outspoken kids that are
so irritating. Clark Duke does a very
good job of being charming and infu-
riating at the same time.
Zuckerman brings a lot of warmth
and authenticity into his acting, thus
breathing in a lot of life into his charac-
ter who proves to be less stereotypical
than it seems at first sight.
Particularly memorable, is the cam-
eo appearance by Seth Green whose
Every Christmas happily unmarried
couple Brad (Vince Vaughan) and Kate
(Reese Witherspoon) go to romantic
and exotic locations for their holiday
in order to escape their disjointed and
bickering families. But this year fog
has closed the airpor, and the cou-
ple are caught on television, so when
their respective parents find out what
they have been doing every year, they
demand that this time they will spend
Christmas with them. Cue schmaltzy
feel good fun and crude hilarity as Brad
and Kate visit each of their divorced
Coming Out Soon
parents in turn: making that total up to
four Christmases. With an all-star cast
including Jon Voight and Sissy Spacek,
this is the feel good film of the year,
where I am sure everyone will learn
that the most important thing is family.
Or love. Or something equally cheesy
and vomit inducing. So if you want to
get into the Christmas spirit, and learn
that love is always close at hand, this is
the film to watch. (But if you’d rather
not, perhaps you should consider join-
ing me in watching horror films and
depressing dramas, in order to avoid
glossy sugarcoated American family
values at all costs. I feel queasy just
thinking about it.)
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Get into the Christmas mood with
Vince Vaughn and Four Christmases
Ahh, typical american Christmas. No wonder Reese has a funny face.

