music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Susan Yu & James Houghton
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 21 Novmber 2008 felix
Music
Another Day, Another Compilation
The latest Smiths compilation is with-
out doubt the definitive one: a must-
play for every iPod in the nation and
beyond. Though they existed for only
five years and made only four studio
albums, this quartet of Mancunians
shaped the sound of the 1980s and still
inspire bands today. Morrissey and
Johnny Marr, the undisputed Lennon
and McCartney of their decade, had
a love-hate relationship that would
ultimately lead to the demise of The
Smiths in 1987.
Steven Patrick Morrissey was the
lyricist of the songwriting duo. His
genius as a wordsmith (or perhaps
wordSmith) was born out of his some-
what peculiar puberty. In his teen years
at the tail-end of the 1970s he spent
much of his time alone in his bedroom,
reading Oscar Wilde, dreaming about
James Dean and listening to music.
He worshipped many idols during this
time – mostly writers, actors and sing-
ers from the 50s and 60s – all of whom
would shape the sound and style of The
Smiths between 1983 and 1987.
Johnny Marr wrote the music. Four
years younger than Morrissey, Marr
was a wizard on guitar. His forever
memorable riffs, which echoed the
jingly-jangly guitar music of sixties
bands such as the Byrds and the Kinks,
have inspired everyone from Oasis to
Radiohead. Legend has it that some of
the Smiths’ riffs are so complex, even
Marr can no longer play them. It was
purely by chance that Moz and Marr
met in the dreary setting of grey, rainy
Manchester during the early years of
the Thatcher government, bonded by
their love of music and their desire to
be Big.
The Smiths have an almost time-
less quality. They made music in the
mid-eighties but some of their songs
sound like ditties from the sixties (‘Ask’,
‘Panic’, ‘Girlfriend in a Coma’), while
others have a seventies-style punkish
edge to them (‘Sweet and Tender Hoo-
ligan’, ‘London’, ‘Shakespeare’s Sister’).
They were at their best when they ef-
fortlessly combined sweet sixties-style
guitar melodies with harsh and fre-
quently comical lyrics about life in the
eighties. “I’m not sure what happiness
means / But I look into your eyes / And
I know that it isn’t there”, sings Morris-
sey on the tragic but beautiful ‘Jeane’,
a song that sounds like it could have
been No.1 in 1963, if it’s lyrics weren’t
about bedsit life in Thatcher’s run-
down Britain of 1983. It is fitting that
Sandie Shaw, the barefoot girl singer of
the 1960s, did a cover version of this
Smiths classic.
It is this mix of a sixties sensibility
with eighties observations that makes
the sound of the Smiths so attractive.
In many ways, the Smiths represented a
retreat from the eighties into nostalgia
for 1960s Britain. So they eschewed the
synthesised robotic nonsense of 1980s
pop music (Morrissey said he waved
flowers around as a sign of humanity
amidst New Romantic dross) by creat-
ing a strictly guitar-based sound. And
each of their single and album covers
featured a black-and-white shot from
a classic sixties film: snapshots of a
bygone era when men were men, and
women didn’t wear tonnes of glitter
and leg-warmers.
While they existed, the Smiths repre-
sented a form of escapism from eight-
ies Britain. Morrissey captured per-
fectly the sense of doom in that period
when he sang on ‘Shoplifters of the
World Unite’: “Last night the plans for
a future war / Were all I saw on Chan-
nel Four.” By the mid-1980s, Thatcher
had taken Britain well and truly from
the ‘Politics of Consensus’ of the post-
war 1960s era into a time of open class-
conflict and mass unemployment. She
launched open warfare on the trade
unions (smashing the miners in 1984),
lowered wages, pursued an increas-
ingly ruthless war in Northern Ireland,
and made millions unemployed.
In many ways, Thatcher represented
an anti-sixties mentality: she frequent-
ly attacked the liberal, druggy culture
that was supposedly unleashed by the
sixties counterculture and sought to
replace the relative prosperity of life in
1960s Britain with new forms of aus-
terity and control more suited to the
1980s. It is not surprising then that
Morrissey (the anti-Thatcher who in
1988 would record a song called ‘Mar-
garet on the Guillotine’) embraced the
sound, feel and smell of the sixties as
a refreshing alternative to eighties
Shane O’Neill
Album Review
The Smiths
Sound of The Smiths
Rhino
HHHHI
Britain. In many ways, Morrissey vs.
Thatcher, the beauty of the Smiths’
sound vs. the ugliness of Thatcher’s
grey Britain, represented a major cul-
tural clash between old-fashioned
British values of solidarity and fair play
and the new destructive British values
of conflict and defeat.
The Smiths summed up well the
pointlessness of life in eighties Britain
on ‘Heaven Knows I’m Miserable Now’.
Morrissey sang: “I was looking for a job
and then I found a job / And heaven
knows I’m miserable now.” It is striking
that the cover of this single featured a
picture of the blonde bouffant-sporting
Viv Nicholson, who became a house-
hold name in Britain in 1961 after she
won the lottery and spent a fortune
on fast cars and fur coats. Again, the
Smiths seemed to contrast miserable
Britain in 1983 with the sense of pos-
sibility and vision that existed in 1961.
Some people call it nostalgia, but I
call it escapism. And what is pop mu-
“The Smiths
summed up well
the pointlessness
of life in the 80s.”
sic about if not escapism? The Smiths
managed better than any band before
or since to sweep the listener off their
feet and into more pleasant surround-
ings with their searing three-minute
songs. The music made you smile and
the lyrics made you laugh. Today, by
contrast, we are surrounded by worth-
less, boring bands who insist we must
wallow in the sorrow of the world
rather than escape it. If the likes of U2
or Coldplay could stop making dull
“protest songs” or patronising “world
music” for just one minute, and instead
allow us to rise above the daily grind,
well, as Morrissey would say, “I’d get
such a shock I’d probably jump in the
ocean!”
So in this time of global financial
crisis and political unease, my advice
is to “Boot the grime of this world in
the crotch, dear / And don’t go home
tonight, come out and find” the Smiths
– and perhaps escape reality for a song
or two.
“Keates and Yates are on your side, while weird-lover Wilde is on mine” music.felix <3 Morrissey
Steven Burgess
Album Review
Murcof
The Versailles Sessions
The Leaf Label
HHIII
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I
pondered weak and weary/ suddenly
there came a tapping, as if someone
gently rapping, rapping at my chamber
door. The arrival of Murcof’s (a.k.a.
Fernando Corona’s) debut album
Martes in 2002 was credited with es-
tablishing the genre of classically in-
fluenced electronic music, layering
recordings, clipped beats and acoustic
instruments to create vast minimal-
ist soundscapes. Since then Corona’s
work has become steadily more experi-
mental and in 2007 he took time out
from recording to work on a commis-
sion for Les Grandes Eaux Nocturnes
festival at the Chateau de Versailles in
France. Held annually it is a celebra-
tion of sound, light and water in the
historic palatial gardens of French ar-
istocracy and the Versailles Sessions
are the product of six pieces prepared
especially for the event.
Open here I flung the shutter, when,
with many a flirt and flutter/ In there
stepped a stately raven of saintly days of
yore. This is best considered as a piece
of sound art as it dispenses almost
entirely with melody and traditional
structure and is unusual even by elec-
tronic standards. All sounds were built
up with recordings of 17th century Ba-
roque instruments later moulded, per-
verted, subverted and distorted into a
ghostly display. With phantom fingers
giving a combination of conventional
and experimental instrumental per-
formances, low growls rumble from
tortured souls in the bowels of purga-
tory, generating the nightmarish qual-
ity of a Gothic novel.
Ghastly grim and ancient raven
wandering from the nightly shore –
tell me what thy lordly name is on the
night’s Plutonian shore! With piercing
flutes and plucked strings the fasci-
nating opener ‘Welcome to Versailles’
smolders like a Chinese burn, but
rarely are such heights reached again.
Louis XIV’s Demons is a stop
and start burst of shrill
violins reverberated and
reversed, anticipat-
ing the future chase of
a doomed monarch
into the shadows of
Madame Guillotine.
Although at times grip-
ping in its textural rich-
ness the overriding im-
pression of the album
is one of monotony, the
theme not not develop far
beyond a tense, menacing
milieu.
Then, methought the
air grew denser,
perfumed from
an unseen censer. Like most sound art
the tracks (particularly the 12 minute
long Spring In the Artificial Gardens)
the sessions are drawn out, a conscious
decision acknowledged by Corona who
after viewing the venue decided the
compositions needed “more time for
the sounds to develop and...resonate in
that big space”, subsequently rework-
ing the piece before the
performance. However
when commissions are
displaced from their
setting into audio
format this extend-
ed progression can
seem lethargic,
and the singular
pace of develop-
ment of each track
becomes tired.
“Prophet!” said
I, “Thing of evil!—
prophet still, if bird
or devil!” In the end
one can only guess at
the whole effect of the
in situ performance - it
is likely the throbbing base tones that
underpin this release would have cor-
related well with the rise and fall of
fountains and the fraught development
matching the nocturnal light display.
However the Versailles Sessions are a
perfect example of how live perform-
ances do not always take to recording
- an effect compounded by the site spe-
cific nature of compositions. The result
is like watching a film without the pic-
ture, football without the crowd, Poe
without the poetry.
“Tell me – tell me I implore!” All
said and done the Versailles Sessions
do suggest an enticing prospect when
Murcof starts his first major UK tour
in November. He will be premier-
ing his new work Oceano, composed
in collaboration with Spanish classi-
cal ensemble BCN216 and the visual
sculptor Flicker. If well crafted audio
visual performances are your thing you
should definitely go check out his per-
formance in London later this month,
but as an album - the Versailles Ses-
sions should perhaps be considered
-- nevermore.
Susan Yu
Duncan Casey
L
eonard Cohen played across
the road at the Albert Hall
last Monday and Tuesday,
but I could not afford to
go. Leonard Cohen spent 5
years in a Zen Buddhist monastery on
top of a mountain in L.A. from 1994 to
1999. I have spent the last week or so
disillusioned by the last two sentences
- Leonard Cohen not only spent half of
the 90s being mental in that disgraceful
wealthy American celebrity way, but he
also charges extortionate, arena-rock
amounts of money too see him play.
So I thought I’d slate him a bit. “Here
you go you overrated, wrinkled, de-
pressed, depressing old schmuck, try
this on for size. Your music brings no
happiness to no-one. Nothing but mis-
ery, failed relationships, bad sex, bad
breath and bad grammar ever came
out of listening to any of your songs.”
I could say something like that. Then
I could go on Wikipedia and get some
references and take the piss out of
them whilst framing myself as intellec-
tually superior because I didn’t spend 5
years being mental in a Zen Buddhist
monastery in L.A. (racism waiver: not
a comment on Buddhists, just people
who become Buddhist after making
loads of money and going mental). A
previous musical and lyrical hero of
mine would lie slain on the ground,
ego reduced to dust, and I would stand
triumphant, feeling slightly empty and
dirty but on the whole pretty good
about myself.
Andthat’swhatItriedtodothisweek,
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
but as you can see it didn’t really work
out. After reading some interviews and
some Wikipedias, I made the discov-
ery that despite having jumped on the
‘celebrities who find religion after dec-
ades of drug use’ bandwagon, Leonard
Cohen is still an ace songwriter and, for
a 67-year-old, a pretty cool guy. He still
wrote ‘So Long, Marianne’ and ‘Sisters
of Mercy’, and he still chain smokes. He
may have lost his characteristic sense
of cultural cynicism and powerless-
ness which permeated the majority of
his work (he’s Zen now, remember?),
but the black gallows humour has re-
mained, and I think has even been en-
hanced in recent years. “I think there’s
a laugh a minute” he said in a recent
interview, in reference to his lyrics.
And faster than you can say ‘After
School Special’, a moral lesson was
learnt. It’s all too easy to judge celeb-
rities by the standards we live by, but
you’ve got to remember the cultural
divide which is being straddled every
time a judgement is made. I could
probably say something about most
people in the music industry for being
mental in one way or another, but the
judgement would be through the pre-
conceptions of a 20-year-old middle-
class English male so it would be pretty
much meaningless, and all but impos-
sible to conceive the mentality which
motivates so many of the entertain-
ment industry’s finest towards such
spiritually eccentric ends. My message
is one of tolerance, my friends, so c’est
la vie - let the Kabbalah scrolls roll.
An apology to
Leonard Cohen
The waiting is Snover
Susan Yu likes what she hears with Snow Patrol’s latest album.
Will this band’s snow plough of success ever snow down?
On the look out for some snow: “I seen some, boss” “Well don’t just stand there, MELT IT”
Album Review
Snow Patrol
A Hundred Million Suns
Polydor
HHHHI
Snow Patrol are one of the hottest sell-
ing UK bands in the last few years, and
they have now released their eagerly
awaited 5th studio album A Hundred
Million Suns, which is a great follow-
up to the 2006 number one explosive
extraordinaire that was Eyes Open
which sold a staggering 4.5 million
copies across the globe. Without any
doubts whatsoever, Snow Patrol are
among the elite group of artists that
have achieved the peak, reaching the
many times platinum status with their
previous albums Eyes Open and Final
Straw. Notably, the outstanding single
‘Chasing Cars’ has just received its 2
millionth download in the U.S. and its
100,000th UK radio play. With their in-
credible success, this band has a lot to
live up to. So now, is it any wonder that
there is a lot of hype and tremendous
anticipation surrounding the release of
this new album? Nope. Even the front-
man Gary Lightbody has something to
say on this: “I’m so proud of this record.
Everybody played out of their skin.
Musically, lyrically and sonically the
best record we’ve made.’ Let our ears
and hearts be the judge of this one.”
The album breaks away with a rock-
et indeed. “A fire a fire, you can only
take what you can carry/ A pulse, your
pulse, it’s the only thing I can remem-
ber”. The first track, ‘IF There’s a Rocket
Tie Me To It’, has a cracking tune with
equally powerful lyrics, alluding to self
destruction, loss, and holding onto the
faint traces of someone dear.
Similarly, ‘Crack the Shutters’ follows
the magic formula of the somewhat
calm verse which gets catapulted onto
the surging, skyscraping chorus with
the drums kicking in and laying down
the pulsating beats.
‘Take Back the City’ is their most
recent single that was released last
month, which has a grand video to go
with it as well. Shot in East London,
these guys have Alex Courtes to thank
for it, the magician behind The White
Stripes’ sizzling ‘Seven Nation Army.’
One of the standout tracks from this
album is ‘Lifeboat,’ which seems to say
“Hold on, hold on”. Snow Patrol knows
how to get a swanky groove going. This
laidback treasure has a slinky rhythm
with the coquettish violin hook in the
chorus. Dangerously catchy.
‘The Golden Floor’ is defined by its
use of minimalism and lilting rhythm,
held together by a repeated guitar
motif and skittering beats. The pace
accelerates in ‘Please Just Take These
Photos,’ with the constant under layer
of guitar strumming whilst ‘Set Down
Your Glass’ shifts again in the struc-
ture and makeup of the soundscape,
diverging to a smooth, soothingly light
number which almost has a Sigur Ros
feel. The acoustic guitar in this track is
the vocal’s best friend. Seemingly timid
and sweet in texture and sound, the
delicate atmosphere is complemented
by the tender, flawless vocalization of
Lightbody’s husky serenade, producing
a winning ballad as a result.
Throughout the course of the 11
tracks, Lightbody (vocals/guitar) sings
with unabashed sincerity and emo-
tion. This album is definitely one to be
experienced.
Snow Patrol vocalist Alex Hogan playing guitar hero
Too much love these days
I have to say, I’d hoped for more when
I picked up Hate Gallery’s debut offer-
ing. I was never expecting anything
big or clever - with titles like ‘Good
Things Come to Those Who Hate’, it
wasn’t seeming likely from the start.
Still, considering the pedigree of some
of the band-members the whole album
feels a bit paint-by-numbers – three
chord metal repetes and lyrics from
the Oasis school of song writing (i.e.
make it rhyme) with angsty lyrics about
fighting things.
That said, if you don’t listen to the
lyrics and turn the volume up, it’s not
bad. The whole album clocks in at a
shade over half an hour, with the ef-
fect of the punky three-minute rock
songs amplified by the nice trick of
leaving about half a second’s pause be-
tween songs to give a staccato feel to
the whole recording. It’s apparent in
places that the band own more than a
couple of Motörhead albums between
them: ‘You Don’t Know’ borrows heav-
ily from ‘Ace of Spades’, although there’s
nothing much wrong with that. It’s
also not as heavy as you’d expect from
the unnecessarily Emo leanings of the
title: if anything, it’s a bit radio-friendly
in places, although they’ve thrown in
just enough swear-words to keep the
fifteen-year-old rockers happy.
Album Review
Hate Gallery
Compassion Fatigue
UNIT
HHIII
Overall it’s quite good fun, although
I wouldn’t necessarily rush out and buy
it when it’s released on November 3rd.
Instead, keep an eye on the gig listings
and see if they come to town – if they
can translate some of the manic energy
of the recording into their live shows,
they could well be worth banging your
head to.
“They’ve thrown
in just enough
swearing to keep
the 15 year old
rockers happy.”

