food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Food
Afonso Campos
Food Editor
T
oday, I am writing this col-
umn and article not from
the excitement of the felix
office, but from the com-
fort of my bed. This is not
out of sheer laziness or some sort of
megalomaniac desire to appear like a
big-shot writer to anyone who might
walk into my room while I fervidly
type away. The real reason is that I am
rather drunk, and I apologise quite un-
reservedly should this column read like
a bunch of gobblydeedoo. I am drunk
because I just came back from a very
good dinner with, incidentally, a very
good friend.
Tonight’s events made me come back
to some thoughts I had a few years
ago at a dinner in Oxford with some
friends. The act of eating tends to be
seen (especially by students) as single-
purposed. Not passing out of hunger
seems to be the main motivator for
a majority of the population to eat.
Survival is without doubt a relatively
understandable and not totally igno-
ble reason, but I wish the paradigm
for food was wildly different, at least
amongst a young crowd. While it may
seem strange, I enjoy thinking of eat-
ing and dining as an extension to the
concept of preservation.
If we think about it candidly, we may
come to the somewhat abstract but
paramount idea that one of life’s aims
is to preserve. Preservation in a way
describes the evolved state of the Hu-
man Being. In every one of our lives,
in what Aristotle describes as an anag-
norisis (a moment of recognition if you
will), we eventually realise this and set
Take the parents out
Places that’ll kill your overdraft, but mum and dad can afford
Virginia Woolf
knows best
upon maintaining and preserving the
small things that define every single
one of us. These can be anything from
the preservation of memories past, ex-
periences or values we choose to live
our lives by. To me, getting together for
a meal with good friends is without a
doubt all of this and more; it is an expe-
rience that whilst it may not be noted
as such at the time, actually has a lot of
power in your life.
Anytime you sit with interesting
people you foster this preservation I
talk about, a preservation of curiosity,
intellectual pursuit and betterment of
oneself through the sharing of ideas,
and most importantly a preservation
of friendships.
I don’t know what happened to din-
ner parties or enjoying food together
in our generation, but one thing is cer-
tain, the act of doing so with friends
should henceforth become a symbolic
invocation, a cry and a loudly voiced
statement that reconnects us with the
urgency of maintaining the good things
in our lives. It is good for us. It invites
us to discover not only those around us
but ourselves.
Virginia Woolf puts it much better
than myself: “The human frame be-
ing what it is, heart, body and brain all
mixed together, and not contained in
separate compartments as they will no
doubt in another million years, a good
dinner is of great importance to good
talk. One cannot think well, love well,
sleep well, if one has not dined well”.
Launceston Place
Gloucester Road
Ridiculously close to Imperial should you
not want to make the parents trek anywhere
outside the comfortable South Kensington
bubble. It has recently re-opened with new
management and most importantly, a great
new chef. The food can be termed ‘modern
European with a twist’. I absolutely recommend
the tasting menu. The staff is incredibly nice in
a restaurant that looks somewhat pretentious.
Although quite expensive it is definitely worth
a visit. Dress up.
The Good: Proximity to College; staff.
The Bad: Price!
Gaucho
Grill
Hampstead
Already a bit of a London
institution if you have a
penchant for steaks and meat.
Everything on the menu hails
from Argentina, from the meat to the
wines. While there are a few branches
closer to College, the Hampstead one
seems to be the best one, if not only for
the atmosphere of this beautiful and cosy
bit of North London. Fillet, rump, sirloin,
rib-eye, blade or brisket; any cut of meat
there is delicious and will be presented for
your approval before cooking. Don’t order
anything cooked above medium-rare.
The Good: Variety of beef cuts; quality of
meat
The Bad: Hardcore meat
eaters tend to be
rather loud.
Hakasan
Tottenham Court Road
It has been described by some as “chinese
food for white people”. If you don’t mind the
guilt trip, this place is fabulous and offers
decent very value for money amongst London’s
so called ‘elite restaurants’. It’s true that
cod in champagne sauce does not sound
incredibly oriental, but it is scrumptuous. I also
recommend the soft-shell crab and the dim
sum sampler to start with. The service is top-
notch and the waiters extraordinarily familiar
with what is a rather large menu.
The Good: Hands down, the starters – fill up
on them
The Bad: Feels slightly claustrophobic
Asia de Cuba
Charing Cross
Housed in ultra-hip St Martin’s Lane hotel, and
touting itself as ‘asian fusion’, Asia de Cuba is not only
a treat to the palate, but also a feast for the eyes in many
ways. The decor looks awesome and apart from the surroundings, the
people there tend to be stunning.
The food deserves major kudos for originality and preparation. I
suggest you let the waiter help you decide what to order as it is a
sharing menu. Mad props go to the cocktail list which is out of this
world.
The Good: Originality of food; cocktails
The Bad: Long wait for a table on arrival, despite reservation
Les Trois
Garçons
Shoreditch
In a totally inconspicuous building in the far land
of East London lies this gem of French haute cuisine.
The place is filled with a paradoxically harmonious blend
of highly ornate antiques pieces and trinkets that could
have been bought at a boot sale.
The food is prepared flawlessly and last time I checked
they had a menu for lactose intolerant folk. The wines
are handpicked by the brothers who own and acutely
mirror the personality of the restaurant – chaotic, but
beautiful. Check out the Lounge Lovers bar next door
after dinner.
The Good: Beautiful interiors; free entry to
Lounge Lovers
The Bad: Somewhat service
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
26 felix Friday 21 November 2008

