clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
311
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Clubs and Societies
30 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
O
kay, so there’s a Lord, a
president and a physi-
cist in a car (plus an
engineer or two) – this
is a story of nail biting
speed, mountainous hill climbs, per-
ilous oil slicks, CGCU top hats and
stripy jackets – it can only the London
to Brighton Veteran Vehicle Run star-
ring Bo’. A little background before we
go any further. Boanerges (affection-
ately known as Bo’) – meaning sons of
thunder – was manufactured in 1902
by James and Browne of Hammer-
smith and has been the CGCU mascot
since 1934. He has spent the last 64
years throwing up no end of unusual
and worrying bangs, clunks and more
fumes (unadulterated by a catalytic
converter) than you could breathe in a
lifetime.
Having recently had the engine cyl-
inders extensively repaired some teeth-
ing problems meant that an engine
re-build was required the afternoon
before the perilous drive to Brighton
could even be started. On the Sunday
morning at 6:30 AM Dave Hankin gen-
tly spun the starting handle and Bo’,
along with his new phosphor bronze
bearings, playfully roared into action
– I say roar, maybe more a pup bang
pop bang! With our guests of honour
Professor Lord Robert Winston and
CGCU President Mark Mearing-Smith
sitting comfortably and wrapped up
warm, Henry Weaver, co-driver, and
I [Rik Smith] began to drive the short
distance to the start at Hyde Park
Corner.
Having noticed a bit of oil outside the
garage as we pulled out, we thought
this was nothing more than Bo’ play-
fully marking his territory of South
Kensington and continued along our
way. Pulling into Serpentine Road the
place was a throng with cars and en-
thusiasts, all pre 1905 – and some of
the enthusiasts were even older.
At 7:26 AM Bo’ and his band of
merry passengers crossed the start
line and headed towards Hyde Park
Corner roundabout. As we cruised
through red lights and past waiting
traffic – Police controlled of course -
we quickly slipped into 4th gear and
motored swiftly towards Buckingham
palace, the game was afoot! At Streath-
am Hill the co-driver was changed to
Robert Carter and we continued our
way onto Croydon, where we doffed
our hats to the Mayor and continued
swiftly on. During the descent from
the hill and concrete jungle of Croy-
don, no sooner had we reach cruising
speed when |CLUNK| and one of our
front gas lamps had jumped ship from
its metal bracket and plunged towards
the road. Slamming on the hand brake
and foot operated transmission brake
we ground to a halt – some 50 yards
later – to find that the brass lamp had
broken its bracket and was supported
nanometres above the tarmac by the
acetylene hose, I detached the tube
and thrust the lamp into the waiting
hands of Lord Winston who interject-
ed, “looks like metal fatigue to me”. Bo’
continued on from Croydon with one
eye removed.
As the miles clocked up we sadly
had to wave goodbye to Lord Winston
just outside London but I am told that
Clem – one of our support vehicles in
the form of the RSM Motor Club’s 1926
Morris T-type one-ton truck - quickly
whisked him away to a slap up break-
fast. As our halfway point approached
I could feel something wasn’t quite
right, Bo’ was telling me something. At
the next lights we pulled up onto the
pavement and gave him a quick once
over, a squirt of oil in the bores and
a well deserved drink of water. Bob
Goodwill, co-driver, pushed the pedes-
trian crossing button and waited for the
green man, and at the next opportunity
we were back on the road. The town of
Crawley offered us tea and a bacon roll
which we grabbed and then made a
surge towards the hill stage. We passed
the half way point – by this time issu-
ing less of an oil slick behind us. Our
stop in Peas Pottage for a change of co-
drivers and a more thorough once over
revealed that the oil slick we had been
issuing for the past 30 miles was not
Bo’ marking his territory (now extend-
ing into Sussex) but Bo’ gently empty-
ing the oil from his gear box through
a significant orifice onto the highway.
At once the support team jumped to
action stations and within an hour and
a half a wooden patch had been manu-
factured, gear box oil refilled and we
were back on the road.
With the improved compression pro-
vided by our rejuvenated cylinders it
was suggested that Bo’ might just make
it up the hill in second; however as the
incline approached, we changed down
the gears, 3rd ... 2nd ... cries of “Come
on Bo’ you can do it” were uttered by
both driver and co-driver, Daniel Iz-
zat, under their breath, sadly the revs
slowed further and we were forced into
first. That’s first gear up a hill which a
large proportion of Veteran cars are
persuaded up by an RAC van and a less
than subtle tow rope. As steam began
to effervesce from beneath the floor
boards we knew Bo’ was ready to be at
the top; asking attendants how much
further, they encouragingly said only
another 100 yards. As we rounded the
crest we slipped into 2nd, 3rd, 4th and
we knew that our side mounted radia-
tors would be cooling Bo’s heart with
the refreshing breeze.
Mark – now our only guest of hon-
our and passenger was always keen to
help, passing us the water, the start-
ing handle, tool box or whatever other
items he was lumbered with in the
back. However, one piece of informa-
tion I didn’t think he would come up
with as we were descending a gentle
hill in 4th gear was our speed! Driving
Bo’ is not an easy task but is none the
less a delight; going down a hill is not
for the faint hearted. With the wind
battering my hands and face – wonder-
ing if the top hat will stay in place Mark
coolly interjects while reading from
his Blackberry, “23... 24... 25, that’s 25
mile per hour!” - 25 was more or less
our top speed for the day. But that’s
25 mph provided by 1902 technology
supported on wooden wheels, 4 leaf
springs and enough split pins and steel
gears to shake a stick at, 25 mph is fast
enough for me.
As the final stage approached we
cruised downhill into Brighton in 4th
gear knowing we needed to keep the
pace up to cross the line by 4PM; hap-
pily we were parked up on Madeira
Drive by 3:45. Having been quizzed by
a gentleman on the finish line with a
microphone attached to the Tannoy
he asked, “have you had any problems
getting here today?” to which I could
only reply, “no, not at all, just a minor
oil leak which delayed us by about an
hour and a half!”
Tales of worrying bangs and clunks
Rick Smith reports on the Bo’s adventures on the Brighton Run, with photographs from Jonathan Silver
Keeping the candle burning
Amnesty International is a non-governmental organisation dedicated to ending human rights abuses across the world,
and supporting those affected by human rights violations. Founded in the UK in 1961, it is a secular, politically neutral
body whose reputation has earned it a UN human rights prize and a Nobel peace prize. While Amnesty are best known
for taking action on behalf of individual prisoners of conscience, you may also have heard of such campaigns as “Pro-
tect the Human” and “Stop Violence Against Women”. Amnesty is also heavily involved in the Control Arms campaign
alongside other organisations.
On a lighter note, you will likely have heard of the Secret Policeman’s Ball, a fundraising event famously held by and
in support of Amnesty International. Started up in the 70s and directed by John Cleese, its 2006 and 2008 revivals were
both held next door in the Royal Albert Hall. The latter featured appearances by celebrities ranging from Alan Carr,
Graham Norton, and Mitchell and Webb to Keane and Razorlight. It is still available to watch online if you missed it.
Amnesty is constantly introducing new campaigns and targeting new aspects of its human rights cause. In the com-
ing months you can expect to see celebrations of the 60th birthday of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Amnesty’s annual Greetings Cards campaign (which invites participants to send seasonal greetings at Christmas time
to prisoners of conscience around the world), and events focused on the 7th birthday on Guantanamo Bay. In the new
year Amnesty International will be launching an exciting (and potentially controversial) new major campaign to target
the human rights violations caused by governments and multinational corporations that perpetuate world poverty.
Now is a better time than ever to act in support of a charity that reinforces the fundamental human rights that are all
too frequently violated across the world. You can get involved on own your own through the actions suggested on Am-
nesty’s UK website (also a good place to find more information about what Amnesty International do – www.amnesty.
org.uk) or through Imperial’s Amnesty International Society.
I
mperial College’s Amnesty In-
ternational Society recently
joined over fifty other Amnesty
student groups from across the
country at the annual student
conference, held at Reading University.
Running across a whole weekend, the
event was packed with talks, work-
shops, actions and a couple of well de-
served social events.
Following a night on the floor of a
sports hall, Saturday morning kicked
off with two plenary talks by some key
figures in Amnesty and the world of
human rights in general. The discus-
sion was led by Kate Allen, UK director
of AI, who was joined by deputy secre-
tary general Kate Gilmore and the BBC
journalist Alan Johnston, who talked
about how his own human rights were
famously violated. Each told the audi-
ence of students about how they be-
came interested in human rights, how
they got involved with Amnesty Inter-
national and what human rights means
to them now. The second plenary that
morning featured Gita Sahgal, head of
the AI gender unit, and Maajid Nawaz,
founder of an extreme Islamist organi-
sation turned prisoner of conscience
and human rights defender.
These talks were followed by oppor-
tunities for the attending students to
learn more about specific campaigns
and how to take action to defend hu-
man rights in a series of workshops.
I attended a workshop on Amnesty’s
new campaign targeting world poverty,
which quickly descended into a heated
debate about the political ramifications
of the campaign and the controversy it
might generate. Such debates between
the like-minded and passionate stu-
dents I found myself at the conference
with were the highlight of the weekend
for me. The second workshop I went
to was about how to motivate and acti-
vate your own student group. Some of
my group members attended a work-
shop on taking action through disturb-
ing public tranquility – so watch out
for us on campus!
The afternoon plenary focused on
the Control Arms campaign Amnesty
is involved in alongside other charities.
Imperial has had an Amnesty student group for around six years now, but
we remain a relatively small group and all too often hear "but I didn't know
Imperial had an Amnesty group!" - we're hoping to change that. Amnesty is a
wonderful opportunity to get involved in human rights, increase your aware-
ness of current affairs and meet new, like-minded people.
We have various events coming up and in the pipeline. During the im-
minent S.H.A.G. week we will be showing a film and holding a discussion/
debate.
This December we'll be running our annual Greetings Cards campaign
helped out by Leonardo Soc, and we will be attending the London protests
on the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Next year
we're planning events relating to Guanatanmo Bay (yes – there will be cages
and orange boiler suits for all!) and the Control Arms campaign. Anybody
can attend these events, including non-members.
We always welcome new members and are always flexible about how in-
volved you can or can't afford to get. Please come along to one of our weekly
meetings (held on a Tuesday lunchtime – there are always biscuits!) or one of
our major events to find out more. We look forwarding to hearing from you
via amnesty@imperial.ac.uk.
Campaigner David Grimason touched
us all with his story of how his own
son was killed a result of uncontrolled
arms trading. Oliver Sprague, the pro-
gramme’s director, told us about what
can be done about controlling the arms
trade and how to get involved. Famed
comedian and political activist Mark
Thomas talked about breaking into a
weapons convention, his own dealings
with arms dealer traders and more re-
cently taking on Coca Cola. It came as
no surprise to us that Mark is in the
Guiness Book of Records for “most
number of political demonstrations in
24 hours”.
The weekend wasn’t just about sitting
through talks – in Amnesty Interna-
tional we like to have fun too! Saturday
night was a more social occasion. We
got to know members of other groups
while eating free cake and being enter-
tained by a stand-up performance by
Mark Thomas and awesome ska band
Brothers Bab.
Sunday saw the 260 students at the
conference taking action to fight for
women’s rights in Iran. In Iran, women
make up more than 60% of the student
population but are second class citi-
zens subject to many discriminatory
laws.
An Iranian woman is under control
of her husband or father, receiving half
the inheritance of a brother and being
targeted by honour killings for disobe-
dience. An Iranian woman’s evidence
in court is by law worth half of that of
a man. As part of Amnesty’s ongoing
campaign against these inequalities,
we took part in a demonstration on the
Reading University campus. Expect
to see our faces on a TV screen in the
near future...
I think I can speak for all who attend-
ed from Imperial when I say this week-
end was not only fun but changed our
perspectives on human rights and the
work of Amnesty International. The
conference has motivated us to take
more action to promote and defend
human rights, and we have walked
away with so many ideas about how to
make our student group bigger, better
and louder.
Emily Wilson joins the Amnesty International society at their annual students’ conference in Reading
About Amnesty International
Amnesty at Imperial
Look at them. They care. And think they can make a difference. Eurgh. How disgustingly left-wing
Sir Robert Winston and members of the City and Guilds motor club put a brave face on a frightfully early start
Members of the RCS motor club stop off for the infamous BJ breakfast- deep fried black pudding all round!

