felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Snowsports Snowboard
in Scotland
ICU Snowsports Club do us proud in the dual slalom. See page 36
The well oiled machine that is Imperial
Mens 5s paraded onto the hallowed
turf of Fortress H looking for a posi-
tive result against LSE 5s after a raw
deal midweek, getting an undeserved
shanking at the hands of LSE 4s. Ron,
as God had done on the 6th day, has
created a team in his own image and
Imperial started playing the cham-
pagne football they have been unleash-
ing on the ULU Division 1 throughout
this season.
Almost straight from kick off a
Mamzi cross was lashed home, via Big
Deen’s big shin, by the LSE left back.
Obviously panicked by the presence of
the predator, the defender took it upon
himself to give IC an early advantage.
Only a minute later a ball down the
left found Mamzi with barely enough
space to hide a Dewsbury schoolgirl,
but he still managed to squeeze off a
shot with the outside of his boot that
went in off the far post. Unfortunately
it didn’t take much longer for the op-
position to neutralise IC’s most potent
tactic, forcing a substitution of lines-
man Mo after giving offside every time
they got possession.At 2-0 IC sat back
with captain Ron Atkinson patrol-
ling midfield like a commando and
Tom Adams protecting the back four.
Winehands, Dave, Simon and Jose
were on call to clean up any unwanted
discharge from the midfield and the at-
tacking foursome of Big Deen, Mamzi,
Mike and Tristan (just on time after
a gamblers annonymous meeting ran
late) repeatedly infiltrated the LSE
backline but were unable to inflict any
collateral damage.
A few minutes into the second half
and a Mo-rale boosting moment for
IC as the disgraced linesman entered
the fray for the first time since a life
threatening ankle injury sustained dur-
ing the 4-0 merkalisation of Holloway
last month. It was not long after that
IC had the game sewn up. A throw in
found Ron who shot speculatively from
25 yards. The LSE ‘keeper had clearly
been paying attention when watch-
ing his VHS of “Goalkeeping Skills by
Heurelho Gomes and Ryan Apicella”
and proceeded to fanny the ball into
his own net.
From then on IC continued to shag
the proverbial granddaughter and
chances were laid on for Tristan and
Dan Abebe, only for the first to fire
straight at the ‘keeper and the second
to be twice denied by LSE’s own cor-
rupt linesman. The game careered to
a sudden and unexpected end on 90
minutes and IC 5s powered their way
to the top of the table. Late Paul in goal
did everything asked of him on his way
to a 3rd clean sheet of the season and
for that reason, and for not being the
last member of the team to arrive, was
awarded man of the match.
Fives thrive, LSE deprived, Arnold
revived, football well and truly alive
Football
Imperial Men’s 5th 3
LSE Men’s 5th 0
Ed Lobb

