4 felix Friday 21 November 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
Homophobic chants
in The Union
Trouble at the ULU
Cup Final
Rembrant damaged
during annual
dinner last year
Various bans from
The Union Bars
Old City Gate
The Rutland Arms
The Blue Anchor was scheduled to be on the route of the pub crawl, but re-
fused entry to the group, having witnessed the chaos at The Rutland Arms.
They confirmed reports of glasses and bottles being thrown in the direc-
tion of the house boats.
The Blue Anchor
Local Residents
Imperial College Football Club were
in the spotlight last week, after com-
plaints against them were lodged by
several pubs in Hammersmith. The
original complaint was lodged against
Imperial College Hockey Club but it
was later found that the club involved
were indeed the Football Club. The
hockey club were proven to have been
in Fulham at the time of the incidents.
The Hockey Club have since received
an apology from the Football Club
Captain James Skeen.
A number of complaints have been
received from residents in Hammer-
smith about vandalism and drunken
behaviour caused by Imperial College
students taking part in a pub crawl last
Wednesday. The main bulk of incidents
apparently occurred in the area close
to Hammersmith Bridge, near the Blue
Anchor and the Rutland Arms.
Imperial College Football Club were
taking part on their annual ‘Hammy 10’,
a 10 pub pub-crawl in Hammersmith
that the football club have been doing
for several years. The crawl starts in
Stamford Brook and finishes in the Old
City Gates pub next to Hammersmith
Bridge, with the Rutland Arms and the
Blue Anchor being two of the stops
along the way. Nearly 90 members of
the club took part on the crawl, with
the group splitting into several smaller
groups in order to, according to the
football club captain James Skeen,
‘not cause a disturbance’. Several past
members of the club were also present
in some of the pubs along the route,
and moved on with the ‘lead’ group as
and when they arrived.
The main allegations made against
the club were by local residents and
landlords, as the club reached the vari-
ous pubs next to Hammersmith Bridge.
According to residents, the club alleg-
edly caused £600 worth of damage to
the Rutland Arms by throwing glasses
and bottles about, as well as damag-
ing various artefacts in the pub such
as vases. After this, members of the
club proceeded to go outside and then
throw glass at houseboats moored on
the river, before moving on to the next
pub. Having seen the behaviour of the
members involved, The Blue Anchor
decided not to admit any more mem-
bers into the pub, which resulted in
some intimidation from the group. fe-
lix was also informed by the staff at the
pubs that the police were called down,
and a couple of students were appar-
ently stopped and asked questions be-
fore being released.
From here, the group then moved
onto the Old City Gates, the final stop
on the route, where landlord Dennis
McCarthy told felix that the group had
trashed the male toilets, removed the
handrail off the wall, trashed the cubi-
cle as well as smashing a large amount
of glasses and windows in the door.
Staff at the Rutland Arms also
claimed that the problems they had
at their pub was not an isolated inci-
dent, with them claiming that the same
group of people had caused damage
and disorder in at least four other pubs
up and down the river.
Imperial College Football Club Cap-
tain and another member of the com-
mittee have, since the event, been to all
the pubs on the route to firstly apolo-
gise and secondly find out what hap-
pened. Club Captain, James Skeen, told
felix that “there were so many groups
and only so many committee members
that could be with them to control eve-
rything.” He then went on to say that:
“The problems seemed to have been
caused by a small group towards the
back of the pub crawl where their ac-
tions couldn’t be noticed.”
With so many groups passing
through the pubs, it was apparently
difficult to identify the individual cul-
prits; however felix understands that
those responsible have come forward
to Imperial College Union.
Since the full extent of the evening
was slowly being unravelled, it became
apparent to the club which one of the
groups on the pub crawl were the main
IC Football Club cause
problems in Hammersmith
A statement from
the Club Captain
James Skeen
ICUAFC Club Captain
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Back in November 2007, felix re-
ported on the events surrounding
an incident in Da Vinci’s after an of-
ficial complaint was made against
the football club over homophobic
chants. The club denied that they
were directed at any individual but
at the rugby club. The entire club
was banned for a week.
What the
residents say
Positives
Negatives
Damaged caused in the hotel with
the £1,000 deposit not being re-
turned. No apology was given to
the hotel and as a result all Impe-
rial students were banned from
having events at the hotel again.
Several members of the club have
been banned for various time
scales for reasons. There have
been several recorded incidents
of players arguing and taunting
door staff, to spitting and fighting
with other students in The Union.
Clashes with Royal Holloway sup-
porters at the University of London
Challenge Cup Final in Motspur
Park football ground. Damaged
caused to the facilities reached
the sum of £60 after the Imperial
football club accused the Hollo-
way supporters of taunting and
looking for a fight after Holloway
won the match.
source of trouble. Many have argued
that the lack of control of the mem-
bers in the club is the fault of the club
and by default the club Captain, whilst
some members of the Football Club
claimed that it is ‘very difficult’ to con-
trol a small minority of the members
despite ‘a lot of effort being made’.
Despite their every attempt, it is clear
that there are members in the club that
are the main source of the problem.
Certain members of the club, who,
wish to remain anonymous, have also
told felix that they found it ‘unfair that
the whole club gets such a bad name
because of the actions of a few idiots.’
Whatever the reasoning for the be-
haviour, and the distinct lack of dis-
cipline in the club over the past few
years, many from Imperial College Un-
ion and Imperial College have called
for a radical change in the behaviour
of the club. Sport Imperial have also
threatened of removing the club from
British University and College Sports
(BUCS) leagues which would effective-
ly dissolve the club for the year.
One thing that can be said is that
there are clear signs and willingness
for change. In comparison to last year,
the club is actively trying to rectify
their image and are trying to hold their
members to account. felix managed to
get in touch with most of the pubs on
the route, and found a mixed bag of re-
sponses from the landlords.
Landlords from the earlier pubs
along the route told felix that they re-
ceived no problems from the students
and had no complaints. The landlord
of the Rutland Arms, where most of
the trouble started, told felix that he
“had seen a lot worse before”, whilst the
Dennis McCarthy, landlord of the Old
City Gates, said that the whole thing
was “quite frightening for the staff , but
no-one was hurt. However it was very
good of them to come and apologise.”
There are signs of improvement in
the Football Club, but many from Im-
perial College Union and Imperial Col-
lege wonder whether it is a new leaf or
just empty promises.
This is not the first time that Imperial College Football Club have had
problems with the University and Imperial College Union. Below are
some of the incidents as well as the consequences.
On the pitch, the club as a whole has had varied success. They field a total of 9 teams, seven
play in the University of London Union (ULU) leagues, four of which are in the British Universi-
ties and College Sports leagues (BUCS), Aside from the sporting abilities of the club, they have
arranged community work in Eastern European countries.
ULU Challenge Cup
Imperial College Football Club 1st
XI have reached the final of the
Cup for the past two years, win-
ning it in 2007 and losing to Royal
Holloway in last yeasr final at Mot-
spur Park.
The 1st XI are expected to reach
the final of the cup again this year,
hopefully with better results.
Photograph by Dave Murray
The Rutland Arms, the scene of the incidents last week
Whilst having a drink by the riverside in Hammersmith on Friday evening,
a group of Imperial students were approached by a resident of the nearby
houseboats and were told they “should be aware that Imperial College stu-
dents are not very welcome around here following an incident on Wednes-
day night,” and that if they were planning on staying for a while they might
be “advised to remove your ‘Imperial College’ banners in order to avoid un-
wanted attention.”
Expanding on his initial comments, he told the students, “We had your
hockey club down here, about 100 of them came through, they trashed a few
of the pubs along the river and threw glasses at the boats. It was particularly
upsetting because I have kids and they were quite scared.” He added that the
group “had claimed to be from a different college before admitting to being
Imperial students.”
The landlord of the Rutland Arms spoke to felix, confirming reports from lo-
cal residents that a large group of Imperial College students had been in the
area on Wednesday night and had caused a considerable amount of damage
to the outside of the property. The landlord has been in contact with college,
in order to lodge a complaint and to recoup around £600 worth of damage
to his property.
As things got out of hand, The Rutland Arms began to refuse service to the
group, at this point they began to throw glasses into the river, in the direction
of the houseboats.
Dennis McCarthy from the Old City Gate told felix a “considerable amount
of damage” was caused to the property including a toilet cubicle and a win-
dow in the front door. Glasses were “indiscriminately” thrown into the street,
disturbing passers by.
He described the incident as quite “disturbing for the staff”, and other cus-
tomers. He added, “It was very good of them to apologise , but what probably
should have been high spirited fun, went completely over the top. The main
thing is that no-one was hurt. I’m sure it’s not indicative of the whole of Im-
perial, it just takes a few people to ruin things.”
A social event last week involving Imperial College Football Club is
currently under investigation both by Imperial College Union and the club
itself. Unfortunately the event which was attended by a large number of
past and present members was spoiled by the actions of a small minority
which has now brought both the club and Imperial College into disrepute.
The club and the Union are working together to ensure the guilty
individuals are identified and suitably dealt with.
Following being given details of the alleged incidents, myself and another
club official immediately personally visited the effected parties to offer our
sincerest apologies on behalf of the club.
Further to this I would like to extend my apologies to the wider Imperial College
community. I am deeply embarrassed by the behaviour of these
members as well as the damage it will do to the reputation of the club and
college. I appreciate that apologising doesn’t change what has happened
but the new club executive committee has recently been working hard to
remove a previously negative culture which had been installed in the club.
Following the lessons learnt from this incident I am confident the club will
move forward and proudly represent Imperial College as a majority of our
members currently do.
Community Work
BUCS ‘Focus’
University
International
standard players
Varsity Champions
Whilst on tour in Germany and
Czech Republic this summer, the
club arranged to do some commu-
nity work.
The club are looking to arrange
more community work on their tour
next summer.
BUCS have chosen Imperial College
as the only London based university
to develop football in 6 key areas.
The main objective of this is to en-
gage universities such as Imperial
in the new FA national football strat-
egy, which aims to improve football
at a grass route level.
Imperial College Football Club
have several semi-professional
and professional football players,
with one reaching full international
level.
Along with the help of Queens
Park Rangers, the club has the
facilities and expertise to improve
on the pitch.
Ever since football was included in
the Varsity set-up, the Imperial foot-
ball club have never lost a game,
something which they are very
proud of.
The club is looking to continue
this winning streak this year when
they will face Imperial Medicals yet
again.

