6 felix Friday 21 November 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Edited by Hassan Joudi
47 year-old John Key, a multi-millionaire former in-
vestment banker, has been sworn in as New Zealand’s
new Prime Minister. His centre-right group won 45%
of the vote in elections on 8th November, knocking
the ruling Labour Party from the seat of government
which they had held since 1999. With recession hitting
New Zealand during 2008, Key’s election campaign
promised to boost the flailing economy and tone down
the previous government’s ambitious environmental
policies. Asians make up 9% of New Zealand’s popu-
lation and Key’s cabinet includes New Zealand’s first
Asian minister. Pansy Wong who was born in China
was appointed Minister for ethnic affairs and women’s
affairs
New Zealand
South Korea’s Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology has recently demanded that
history books be re-written to remove what it
calls left-leaning contents. Though the min-
istry wants to encourage diversity in histori-
cal views, conservative critics are dismayed at
how chapters of the textbooks “undermine the
legitimacy of the South Korean government,”
through their explanation of the Japanese co-
lonialism era and the Cold War conflict. The
controversy has sharpened the larger debate in
South Korea over how to appraise past leaders.
Japan saw similar controversies over how their
teenagers are taught history in 2005. South
Korean schools will be able to use the revised
textbooks from March 2009.
South Korea
The Somali pirates who hijacked the Saudi
oil super-tanker Sirius Star have demanded
a ransom through the Al-Jazeera satellite
television station. The full laden super-
tanker is carrying two million barrels of oil
- ¼ of Saudi Arabia’s daily oil output - and
is among several Greek, Iranian and Hong
Kong cargo ships hijacked in the Gulf of
Aden off the coast of Somalia. Piracy from
criminals in the east-African state has grown
in recent years with the Sirius Star being the
biggest vessel to be seized yet. The Indian
Navy recently attacked and destroyed a pi-
rate ship in the Gulf of Aden, and the UN
and other national Navies are taking steps to
further protect the vital shipping route.
Somalia
Chief executives of the “Big Three” car manu-
factures, Ford, General Motors and Chrysler
have asked the US Congress for an urgent $25bn
bail-out. At a Senate hearing, the chief execu-
tives claimed that without financial help, the
US car industry will face catastrophe, causing
ripples through the rest of the economy as mil-
lions of people employed in car dealerships and
auto garages across the USA will lose their jobs.
General Motors has suffered the most, with sales
down 45% from last month and losses of $4.2bn
in the third quarter. Republicans and Demo-
crats are split over whether part of the govern-
ment’s $700bn bail-out fund should be used to
help the vulnerable carmakers, or whether they
should file for bankruptcy. European states are
also grappling with similar pleas from their auto
sector, and Canada has already agreed to support
carmakers there.
USA
A constitutional amendment which would extend the
length of the presidential term from four years to six in
Russia is a step closer to passing as it was approved by
the lower house of the Russian parliament. The amend-
ment was proposed by President Dmitry Medvedev
himself in early November, arguing the reforms will im-
prove the political system, but Kremlin critics believe
the initiative is tailor-made for Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin to return to his former post as President again.
The next step is the parliament’s upper house, where if
a two-thirds majority is achieved, the amendment will
take effect and become the first ever change to Russia’s
post-Soviet constitution since its adoption in 1993.
Russia
Following months of negotiations, the Iraqi
government - lead by Prime Minister Nouri
al-Maliki - has approved a security pact with
US military forces. The pact was approved by
the cabinet, but crucially it must be passed by
the parliament before it can take effect. The
pact outlines the terms by which US troops
stationed in military bases across Iraqi would
be governed, something which was previ-
ously covered by the UN Mandate which is
due to expire on 31st December 2008. Most
significantly the pact requires US troops to
withdraw from all Iraqi cities and towns by
June 2009 and from the country completely
by the end of 2011. Parliamentary readings
and debate have already begun, and the vot-
ing day for the pact is expected to be Monday
24th November.
Iraq
Self-rule is back on track in Northern Ireland af-
ter a deal was reached concerning policing and
justice of the country. In May 2008 a devolved
government was formed by a historic agreement
between the Protestant Democratic Unionist
Party (DUP) and Catholic Sinn Féin. But for the
next five months the power-sharing government
was dysfunctional because of deadlock over the
several issues, principally the transfer of law en-
forcement from ministers in Westminster to Bel-
fast. A breakthrough was finally achieved when
it was agreed that a politician from a third party
would be selected to run the new Justice Depart-
ment. British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has
called it “the last building block in the process
for bringing peace and democracy to Northern
Ireland.”
Northern
Ireland

