8 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Comment
A. Geek has had enough of Imperial Girl
D
ear guys at felix, and eve-
ryone else. I hope this
is both the first and last
article I write here, and
I’m pretty aware of my
family’s history when it comes to let-
ters of complaint, but I was left com-
pletely and utterly appalled at the con-
tent of felix last week. Not only was
it filled with language a sailor would
have trouble keeping up with, but a lot
of the content was just pointless rants.
You see, I was on the bus home from
Imperial on Friday night, and as it did
its random “This bus is being held here
in order to regulate the service” thing,
and with passengers beginning to com-
plain, I thought that a one-to-one with
my felix newspaper would give me a
rest from the impatient, unapprecia-
tive company I had the misfortune of
being with. But when I opened the
newspaper, I was faced with just the
same; students ranting about hospital
waiting times, amount of work they
have, petitions, and even about ranting
itself (but am I just ranting about rant-
ing about ranting, or as an imperial
student would put it: Ranting cubed?)
The thing that I was most appalled
with was the amount of spelling and
grammatical mistakes made by the
high-standard students that we sup-
posedly are. There is no such phrase
in the English language such as “I could
of”; it’s “I could HAVE”! And we aren’t
in America, so “defense” is spelt with
Imperial Girl loves Winter romance, hint, hint
S
eriously,I can see you reading
this right now and it makes
me feel good. Actually it was
the other day that I saw an-
other girl reading my column
in the Library Cafe, and I just got this
warm fuzzy feeling. A little bit like the
one you get when you’ve drunk too
much alcohol.
I am loving this time of year. The
winter is fast approaching and the
thought of getting cosy with a loved
one while it’s cold and snowing outside
is incredible. One problem, I have the
M&S chocolate conflakes mini bites
(x2-they are on offer), I have the can-
dles, the romcom DVD and the red
wine - I’m just missing the guy. Okay
girlies.. I will get one before long. Now
is the optimum time to be getting a
boyfriend to snuggle up to. Why, you
ask? Okay Christmas, NYE, Valentine’s
day... you need to get the guy now for
optimum efficiency.  I just love the feel-
ing of being held close. You know, like
when you are waiting for the bus and
it’s cold and he’s got his arms around
you keeping you warm. And when you
are walking and you take your hand
out of your pocket and he just grabs
them and holds them close in his... My
gosh! I am so soppy today! Let me go
on: When he offers you his scarf when
you say you’re feeling the chill, when
you drink hot choco in front of the TV
at night, when he.... boys i hope you
are taking notes - I’m not dropping
hints for nothing! Boys and Girls, we
all know the 2 commandments. Thou
shalt have fun in the time of High Sun
(aka Summer). Thou shalt giveth your
commitment(eth) in the time of the
HIgh Moon (aka winter).
Summer is for fun. Winter is for those
relationships.  Otherthingsiloveabout
winter is how everything around you
seems so much more clearer. It’s like
the crisp cold sharpens your eyesight.
When you’re walking down the same
road you do every morning to get to
college, you suddenly realise the beau-
tiful archeitecture. The other thing i
notice is that girls make more effort to
style their clothes. The other day i saw
a girl whose hair look like she walked
striaght out of a Loreal hair-colour ad-
vert, and she was wearing this turqoise
winter cap. Oh so gorgeous. And i love
these new tights girls around campus
are wearing with boots.   I like the way
the sky turns that pinky blue colour
around 5.30pm. The smokey clouds
that veil the bright full moon. The way
the leaves fall in spiralling motion off
the trees. The christmas songs and gift
adverts that come on TV. Hmm. Win-
ter is here soon my friends.
.....but but but before I leave you, I
would like to take this opportunity to
address some of the responses to the
articles I have received over the past
couple of weeks. Apologies if I haven’t
responded to your emails, please know
that I read everything that is sent. One
emailer who will remain anonomous
quite elegantly commented, “Women
like yourself are having a hard time
working out the right balance between
being a successful woman and an de-
sirable woman. Unfortuantely, while
women go for successful men, men are
put off by successful women” - and it
couldn’t be truer. When I was around
the age of 16/17 I forcibly pretended
to be a bimbo around people espe-
cially guys. Showing a guy that you are
headstrong doesn’t always bode well.
So here’s my modified tactic at univer-
sity. Step 1: Don’t make obvious to the
guy you like that you are headstrong or
any other strong personality traits that
you may possess. Step 2: figure out if
you like him and if he can fit well with
your personality. Step 3: if the answer
is positive from Step 2, slowly lure him
into understanding who you are. This
way you’ll only be revealing yourself
to promising candidate, hence being
more efficient. Gosh i love efficiency
today... I must have turned German.
And to the article written by Anon
to my first column that wrote “Impe-
rial Girl is a Geek like the rest of us” I
found it really hard to follow your ar-
gument or views. I am not entirely sure
what I was reading, not in an offensive
way of course... Let me know, IG (Im-
perialGirl@ic.ac.uk)
a C! No decent person would take an
argument seriously if it contained such
basic flaws. And another thing, to the
girl who had the decency of bl*nking
out part of the F-word in her article, at
least put in the correct number of as-
terisks! (But maybe I’m just nitpicking
with that one.)
So, I know that felix readers every-
where will be scrutinizing every word
of this article to say “Aha! I got you Mr.
spelling man with OCD!” Firstly, go
ahead (you won’t find any!), and sec-
ond, I’m just trying to remind every-
one that spell-checks do exist! But I do
know that there are also terrible exam-
ples out there on the streets of London;
take “St. James’s Park” for instance. I
think that’s one of the few cases where
graffiti on a sign should be legal. So re-
ally, the way we can improve society as
a whole is not to just focus only on our-
selves, but on the small things in life,
like spelling for God’s sake!
But on the other hand, maybe stu-
dent life is so hectic that we haven’t got
time to check our spellings, just get the
message out there! So yeah, keep up
the good work felix guys! Anyway I’m
off to complain to the council about the
presence of lollipop ladies (or “school
crossing patrollers” to be more PC) at
pelican crossings. Have a nice week-
end everyone!
P.S. Imperial Girl, some advice, try
being a little less promiscuous and
guys may actually start liking you!
Is this ranting cubed?
Wise words A. Geek... wise words
“Imperial Girl,
some advice, try
being a little less
promiscuous”
- Yasin Fatine
T
he curtains are drawn in
the consultation room and
all you see are the cracks
on the wall as you lay pa-
tiently on your side with
your knees brought up to your chest.
Your rare-end in the meantime is fully
exposed to the coldness and you hear
the snap of the rubber examination
gloves as Dr. X playfully manipulates
it onto his appropriate hand. You lie
in wait, worryingly anticipating the
inevitable as he rubs cold gel. Where
he will enter you no man has gone
before… This is just one of many de-
scriptions I have encountered from pa-
tients and friends alike. Is it really the
truth? Do docs really just stick their
fingers where the sun-don’t-shine as
soon as you enter the room? Hell no.
Medicine as a profession would cease
to exist if that was common practice,
for you would sue it for every penny.
Just last week, I got chatting to a girl
on the train and she thought a visit to
the doctors involved having every ori-
fice violated for a lollipop. The hospital
is NOT a porno set and guess what?
Doctors sometimes even talk to you,
put you at ease, find out what’s wrong
from the conversation before sticking
anything in, up or down you.
Before the 70s, before the internet,
before all the facilities that provided
you with “health information”. You used
to believe the doctors, remember that?
They have trained for over 10years and
do you really think you know more
from surfing the net for 20minutes? Do
you really think that every cough you
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
I
will not lie, everyone, last week
there were a lot of mistakes. In
fact, there were more mistakes
than I’d normally like there to
be. Over the past week I have
received several complaints about the
spelling and grammar, incorrect maps
and general shoddiness. For all the
above, I apologise, yet at the same time
I am thankful.
The number of complaints we re-
ceived is clearly a sign that you lot are
reading what we print each week, and
that you all have a certain standard you
expect the paper to reach. It is for those
reasons that I thank you all for emails.
At the same time, I feel that I need to
explain what exactly happened to result
in such an epic fail, which I made jokes
about on the front page! The network
on which the paper runs decided to
throw its toys out of the pram and not
co-operate with us, and it decided to
do this on Wednesday, which the regu-
lar contributors out there will know, is
very, very close to our print deadline.
What resulted was a frantic rush to
the finish line, with pages being passed
around on USB sticks and many pho-
tographs and files subsequently going
missing. As a result, several pages were
not printed: for which I apologise to
my section editors and their contribu-
tors. Because of the lack of a network,
our copy editors were not able to look
at each page efficiently and so errors
were bound to slip past them.
So there you go. Yes it was a poor
issue, but at least it was an issue and
like I said, it showed us that you guys
clearly do read it and you really want a
good quality newspaper.
With that in mind, you may have no-
ticed that there have been a few chang-
es to the appearance of the paper. Most
of all in this, the comment section. We
think it looks more modern and more
stylish. We think that it works but if
you think it doesn’t, then please let us
know by email or in person.
Next week’s issue should be a good
one too (fingers crossed) as it is the
Guardian Students Media Awards. fe-
lix, I, science, Live! and Angry Geek are
all nominated in various categories and
we will report on the outcome, hope-
fully with some lovely trophies.
Oh and phoenix is out! Get your free
copy with felix. Copies can be found
next to the library cafe.
So it all went a
little bit wrong
get is bronchial carcinoma? How times
have changed. Now the media is filled
with stories written by lay people who
have never been to the doctors. Just the
other week, I read that smoking reduc-
es your chance of getting some obscure
syndrome Z. Yeah it might do accord-
ing to an equally obscure study, where
all subjects died from every other dis-
ease under the sun because they never
got old enough to get syndrome Z.
It’s this type of junk in the media that
drives me crazy. It’s this type of junk
that always appears in newspapers
that require the literacy of a five year
old. Then what really hacks me off is
A
llow me to nip this one
in the bud right now:
Imperial Girl, before the
weeks drag on and fe-
lix becomes an in-print
edition of Loose Women. You have is-
sues. I appreciate this – I think we all
do, deep down. But you need to see
someone, before you really damage
people other than yourself. I mean, we
all read felix. The more you write, the
higher the possibility that some of us
may read what you’re putting out. One
stray glance, one look at a sentence
written on the other side of the world
map section, and kapow! Central nerv-
ous system shuts down, and they’re out
like a light. Three of my friends are still
in a coma from last week. They were
all male, of course. The female ones
have formed a militia with the intent of
murdering you in your sleep.
I think the reason I’m taking such an
issue with you is that you’re obsessed
with this notion that you speak for
all women. I find this problematic for
two reasons. First of all, you use it as
an excuse to speak to Allmen. Allmen
is a fictional race of people created
by that weird teacher you had at your
old school with seven ex-husbands,
that you kind of respected but only
when she wasn’t creeping you out with
asymmetric makeup and the face of a
woman hit with the hangover mallet.
“Allmen are bastards.” She’d slur. And
mentally, subconsciously maybe, you
were taking notes.
The second reason, of course, is that
you don’t speak for all women any more
than Harold Shipman speaks for all
doctors. The fact that you can smash
a keyboard slightly better than an in-
finite number of monkeys at a type-
writer doesn’t mean that you have the
force of every Imperial woman behind
you. And even if you did, it’d hardly be
something to be proud of.
Anyway. To the present day. You’re
finding things tough at Imperial, and
that’s fair enough. The other day I had
to have a conversation with someone
wearing a leather jacket. We all have to
make sacrifices to study at an institu-
tion like this, I guess. The reason I hate
you is because you’re one of those peo-
ple who just can’t stand to be a geek.
You just physically can’t bring yourself
to do it. It scares you so much that
you’d much rather truss yourself up
in your whorehouse best and stagger
around London on heels higher than
your sense of self-importance.
And I’m not someone who thinks
everyone should strap themselves into
a lab coat and enjoy the ride here, I just
think that if you’re the kind of girl who
goes out to clubs wearing outfits that
a nudist would consider revealing, and
complains when boys you like don’t
like you back – a sob story worthy of
Hannah Montana, indeed – then you
should just be up front about it. You
shouldn’t claim one week that, gosh
darn it, people are so superficial, and
then the next describe your “fuck-me
pumps”, a phrase so stupendously aw-
ful that I can’t bear to even add it to my
word processor’s dictionary.
People at Imperial, on the whole, are
unhappy with who they are. It’s a real-
ly, genuinely terrible affliction and it’s
something they should aim to change
at once. You can’t blame a university for
causing it. You can’t bemoan a work-
ethic and a scientific regime for turn-
ing you into a mentally-imbalanced
prostitute in the evenings. That’s just
who you are. Imperial is your day job,
it doesn’t define you as a human be-
ing. And if you decide that that person
you’ve become isn’t what you’d like,
then you’ve got an impetus to change
it. An excuse is not a way out. Espe-
cially if it’s as feeble as IG’s.
If anyone else is reading this, follow-
ing Imperial Girl’s passages of wisdom
like they’re a new season of Sex and
the City, then I implore you – just look
at yourself and try to be someone you
respect. Because at the end of the day,
this godforsaken university and all of
the fashionista arseholes will one day
be behind you. But it’s rather harder to
get away from yourself.
Want to know how to repel men at
sixty paces using fishnet tights and
sexually-alluring footwear? Email
someone else at ImperialGirl@ic.ac.
uk. Alternatively, choose the blue pill
at anangrygeek@googlemail.com. A
new topic next week. Honest.
“this
godforsaken
university and all
of the fashionista
arseholes will
one day be
behind you. But
it’s harder to
get away from
yourself.”
“getting cosy
with a loved
one while it’s
cold outside is
incredible”
Alex da Flex discovers the truth about doctors
that these people then bring this type
of junk to their doctors. “Errrr, I heard
that smoking is good in the ‘latest’ re-
search so I picked it up again. Errrr, see
the funny thing is Doctor, I’m cough-
ing up blood, what do you think that’s
about?” Well, I don’t think it’s because
of the excessive dietary spinach intake.
A common misconception is that
doctors sometimes get things wrong;
therefore we should not believe what
they say. They are only human after all.
So I’m not going to take the blood pres-
sure tablets because they might kill me.
OK, let’s investigate it then. Don’t take
your meds and let’s see if you are still
“I got chatting
to a girl who
thought a visit
to the doctors
involved having
every orifice
violated for a
lollipop”
Big Ben (not a guy Imperial Girl knows) is beautiful in the snow
around next year. The funny thing is, in
the face of such stupidity, doctors must
still be civil, calm and professional.
Now my beloved engineers, if your cli-
ents ask you stupid questions and say
absurd intellectually challenged things
to you too many times to count, can
you act in a civil manner? Or would
you lose it? Well doctors can’t do that
you see. They need to hold onto their
sanity and be empathetic, which in
medical terms requires doctors to un-
derstand how intellectually deficient
some patients can be and respect their
wishes. One other thought, maybe
that’s why they are called patients; you
need a lot of patience.
As this article draws to a close, one
must say that although the preceding
views were strong, they are close to the
truth. Sometimes the truth is the most
astonishing piece of information. But
the bottom line is, the majority of pa-
tients are people undergoing suffering
and deserve care and attention. It is a
fine art to distinguish those who are ill
from those who think they are ill, a skill
unique to the medical profession and
perhaps justifies the high costs of pro-
ducing a doctor. Remember, the next
time you go to see your doc, have a
little trust and believe that maybe, just
maybe, he or she will heal you without
a finger up the…
Don’t worry, this Doctor is 100% above board... hot too

