10 felix Friday 21 November 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Comment
Gilead Amit heads back to the Wild West
All right, y’varmints. Time to clean out this one-cat town.
I
feel like Gary Cooper halfway
into an old Western, bursting
through the double doors of the
saloon as the raucous, devil-may
care atmosphere abruptly quiets
down. The doors swing back on their
hinges as suspicious faces turn in my
direction. A jolly ragtime beat on the
piano ends discordantly as the pianist
edges away to a less conspicuous seat.
The game of poker stops mid-hand, as
the dealer looks over his shoulder, edg-
ily chewing his hand-rolled cigarette
from one side of his mouth to the oth-
er. The bartender quietly gathers the
most valuable pieces of glassware and
places them in assumed safety, some-
where out of sight.
‘Didn’t think ye’d dare shew yer heed
‘round these parts again, sheriff’, rings
out a voice from a darkened corner -
a voice with the texture of sandpaper
and the smell of a marinated shank
of lamb left to hang in a pair of socks
overnight. A solitary pair of spurs can
be heard jangling from somewhere be-
hind the clouds of smoke.
A gun is whipped out of its holster:
a mirror shatters, men dive for cover
beneath the nearest tables, bullets fly,
a chorus girl screams from an upstairs
bedroom, a chandelier collapses, one
patron of the bar generously knocks
a fellow-drinker into the piano and a
limp body falls from the second floor
landing. Though not necessarily in that
order.
The gunsmoke clears to reveal the
cigarette smoke. I blow nonchalantly
on the barrel of my Colt .45, twirl it
with consummate elegance around my
index finger, pick it up off the floor and
stick it back in its holster. I walk over
to the dead body and solemnly down
a glass of firewater. You could cut the
tension in the room with a knife. Come
to think of it, you could probably have
cut the tension with a brick. Unfortu-
nately no-one was there to try it, so
you’ll have to take my word for it.
A sentence is formed in an attempt
to restore the mood of hushed rever-
ence so inappropriately broken. The
crowded hall hangs on my lips as I look
them over with cold indifference be-
fore turning and walking away. I stop
at the double doors and say: ‘The bad
times are over.’
And they are. I’m back in town; and
the most effervescent of apologies to
you all for the period of lawlessness I
so disgracefully abandoned you with.
For letting the riffraff take over the
streets, control the concourses and hi-
jack the highways, with their disregard
for good syntax, good grammar, logi-
cal rigour, self-consistency, good taste,
relevance, humour, generosity of spirit,
imaginative thought, and minimum
standards of coherence. For dragging
this li’l town through sheer linguistic
hell, I can never forgive myself.
And I’m sorry to all of you who let
the independence get to your heads,
and thought the parents were out for
the night. You ain’t seen the last of me
yet, boys.
There we go. A little apology, a touch
of humour and we’re all right again.
Aren’t apologies great? I’d say that they
have to be one of my favourite inven-
tions. Right behind bagels, the BBC
iPlayer and those small buttons you
press at zebra crossings to keep you
occupied until the light decides it feels
like changing.
Apologies are a wonderful con-
cept: people would never have made
the transition from tribal habitation
to living alongside each other in cit-
ies without some tool to indicate an
admission of wrongdoing. Now using
an apology to express regret is all very
well in theory. But that’s not how it
comes out in practice. Like with eve-
rything else in this era of global reces-
sion and financial armageddon, the
net worth of apologies has depreciated
considerably.
An apology is more of a way to
soothe one’s own conscience than any-
thing else. A receipt that if presented
often enough and loudly enough, in a
sufficiently large variety of ways, will
refund all grudges and exchange all
potential unpleasantness for some-
thing more appealing. This cheapening
of apologetic sentiments is largely the
fault of the English, and their deliber-
ate, large-scale undercutting of the ex-
cuses market. If, in a flight of Douglas
Adams-ian imagery, work could be
obtained from an Apology Drive, the
Industrial Revolution need never have
happened for Britain to lead the world
in terms of energy production.
Because you really like your apolo-
gies in this country. Right behind
meteorological inquisitiveness and
sports-related self-deprecation, con-
trition is your favourite mindset. It’s
not that you necessarily have a lot to be
apologetic about. It’s not as though you
ever have anything to be particularly
thankful about either, yet supermarkets
and banks, pharmacies and train sta-
tions, greengrocers’ and museums up
and down the land reverberate to the
sound of the English apologizing for x
or thanking each other for y. My Medi-
terranean impatience for meaningless,
automated responses passed off as po-
liteness makes me slightly nauseous
every time one of your compatriots
transforms an awkward silence into a
diarrhoetic splurge of mindless small
talk, liberally laced with the ‘s’ word.
Don’t be fooled into thinking it pass-
es you off as a considerate people. You
just acquire a reputation for being the
worst and most awkward light conver-
sationalists in the world.
If that seems a little harsh, I ap-hmm-
hmm.
“I’m back in
town, and
the most
effervescent of
apologies to you
all for the period
of lawlessness I
so disgracefully
abandoned you
with”
T
he notions of socialism
are not so popular, unlike
the resistant scepticism of
America; the scepticism
against student socialism
is perhaps more justified. If anything,
the persistence of socialism amongst
students if not at times seemingly un-
educated, is simply of often rather sim-
plistic notions of social change.
One of the mottos: ‘long manifes-
tos don’t win struggles-practical unity
does’ I think sort of sums up what I’m
trying to say. It gives the impression of
people in a room coming to the con-
clusion-Of course we all agree that’s
really wrong!-Its placard making time!
They’re with everyone and against
everything-the first sentence of their
pamphlet reads like an insurance sales
(-and perhaps all politics is like this)
‘whether in opposition to war, racism
or privatisation’-we’re the ones you
want- this generality-of the more the
merrier here seems far too socialising-
student-inspired. Immediately all that
is translated is Sheila Rowbotham’s
recollection of the all inclusive Oxford
socialist students of the 80s who spent
their meetings in pubs criticising the
detrimental and fundamentally slow-
ing effects of alcohol and women to
society.
The soul of man under socialism
may flourish. Those countries pro-
gressing from poverty through com-
munism suffer their criticisms despite
obvious developments; take Cuba
for example, surviving the American
Blockade and the fall of the Soviet Un-
ion is desperate and struggling devel-
opment personified.
But it is the repetitive and apparently
pointless reappearance of student so-
cialism that is annoying. We all know
what they look like and can probably
guess what they’re going to say more
or less, while I may seem hypocritical
criticising their confidence and op-
timistic relentlessness in the face of
ignorance, I honestly don’t know that
much of the effective history of student
socialism beyond that of the conta-
gious spread of the ‘change the world’
bacilli of the 60s, all that I realise is a
noisy pointlessness.
Communism is difficult, and a strug-
gle, even more than Capitalism. The
recessions and current credit crunch
will inevitably be overcome, be it
through socialist bail-out means or
otherwise; and besides, Communism?
- Here? Simply looking out of an Im-
perial building window onto the ex-
cessiveness, and extravagance that is
Kensington and all who inhabit it, the
question is how?
The only faith to have in western hu-
manity, without wasting a lot of energy
is only in its capitalist development
and ultimately insatiable drive. Forget
the little man.
Amna Shaddad: “student
socialism is annoying”
V
oltaire once said: “I may
not agree with what you
believe, but I will defend
to the death your right to
believe it.”
This pretty much sums up my at-
titude towards religion. As a scientist
(and atheist), I just don’t ‘get’ it. Reli-
gious people make me a little uneasy,
but so do the militant clan of faith-
bashers – Dawkins, Dennett, Hitch-
ens et al – with their fervent desire to
see all forms of religion wiped off the
planet. I know the majority of religious
people are normal, and so I tolerate
them, albeit sometimes through grit-
ted teeth.
That tolerance ends, however, with
philanthropic organisations such as
the Templeton Foundation. This bloat-
ed American enterprise, founded by
the late Sir John Templeton (a Presby-
terian businessman who died earlier
this year at the grand old age of 95), is
dedicated, in the words of its website,
to answering the “Big Questions” in
life, by acting as “a catalyst for research
on concepts and realities such as love,
gratitude, forgiveness and creativity ...
[and] questions on the laws of nature
and the nature of the universe”.
In plain English, this means blurring
the boundaries between science and
religion by throwing as much money in
as many directions as possible. Think
of it as a benevolent hippo, waving its
tail around and flinging shit far and
wide. Or an amoral arms dealer, sell-
ing weapons to both sides in a conflict.
Except that the conflict in this case
is inside minds and institutions, and
Templeton has gone a step further to
actively promote it.
Among its many ventures, the Tem-
pleton Foundation has a publishing
arm – which reads like a catalogue
of discredited creationist pseudo-
science – and an array of lucrative
prizes, including the Templeton Prize
(full name: The Templeton Prize for
Progress Toward Research or Discov-
eries about Spiritual Realities ... they
don’t do snappy).
The Prize, at $2 million cleverly
calculated to be worth more than the
Felix Whitton: The ‘Big Question’ that
needs to be addressed
Nobel, is given to someone who has
“made an exceptional contribution to
affirming life’s spiritual dimension” or,
in the words of Richard Dawkins, “any
scientist ... willing to say something
nice about religion”. The Foundation
also gives out the “Epiphany Prize for
Most Inspirational Movie”, awarded in
2005 to the Passion of the Christ, a film
that was more notorious for inspiring
people to leave before the end.
More insidious, and less well-pub-
licised, is the gigantic funding arm of
the Foundation which gives out around
$70 million annually to scientists, re-
search groups and institutions. Name a
university – British or American – and
odds are that it has received money in
some form from Templeton.
Oxford got £1 million for its Centre
for Science of the Mind, and the free-
market espousing Templeton College
– now Green College – changed its
name in 1984 upon receipt of a “signifi-
cant” sum of money from the Founda-
tion. Cambridge’s Theology Depart-
ment gives out journalism fellowships
to writers willing to “examine the ...
creative interface between science and
religion”, and recently received $3 mil-
lion to research what the Foundation
quaintly terms “the great debate” over
the evolution of biological complexity.
In fact, the more prestigious the
university, the more likely it is to have
gained in some way from this leviathan.
Harvard, Yale, Princeton, MIT ... the
list goes on. Even Imperial is not be-
yond accepting money to study “Deep
Beauty...the Search for an Underlying
Intelligibility of the Quantum World”;
or “Science and Transcendence”, which
aims to find out the “nature, character
and meaning of ultimate reality”.
Even the Royal Society – with its
motto “Respect the Facts” – seems
to see no inconsistency in giving out
$100,000 of Templeton’s money in the
form of essay prizes, or allowing the
winner to speak at its functions. The
Michael Reiss controversy back in Sep-
tember is another example of the re-
cent clash between faith and fact.
Perhaps it is sanctimonious to expect
all these institutions not to take such a
good source of funding; after all, Tem-
pleton’s rise has coincided with a drop
in government funding, both here and
in the US. But studies have shown that
researchers often, consciously or not,
find the results their donors would like.
This is why scientists have to declare
conflicts of interest if, for example,
they are working for a drugs company
whilst testing a new medicine.
This should all be enough to set
alarm bells ringing, but the British me-
dia has been eerily quiet on the issue
of Templeton money. More strange
still is, despite most of the UK press’s
distaste towards the US Republicans,
almost no journalists have made the
connection between Templeton’s son,
Jack, who now runs the Foundation,
and his large donations to George W.
Bush’s campaigns in 2000 and 2004,
and to John McCain’s this year.
So what, you may be thinking; the
money has to come from somewhere,
and Obama’s campaign haul far out-
stripped McCain’s. But for a Founda-
tion that preaches the benefits of scien-
tific endeavour on the one hand, while
giving oodles of cash to one of the
most backwards post-enlightenment
regimes with the other, the contradic-
tions are telling.
This, together with a stated oppo-
sition to abortion and stem-cell re-
search, and recent donations in excess
of $1 million to push through Propo-
sition 8 – an amendment to ban gay
marriage in California – plus countless
links to shady US organisations like the
Discovery Institute, is why British uni-
versities should say no to Templeton’s
money, at least until they have made
their agenda absolutely clear.
Otherwise, as writer and Imperial
scientist Sunny Bains has pointed out
elsewhere, this “subtle intrusion” of
religion into science could be the thin
end of the wedge for a more sinister
presence in the future.
One of the winners at the Templeton Prize
Students socialists at work

