science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Science
Podview Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
An interesting interview with Dr.
Phil Hammond in a short podcast
entitled ‘We’re British, we don’t talk
about sex’ (‘sex’ being a euphemism, in
this case, for genital warts; so by doing
that we’ve already gone and confirmed
our Britishness, haven’t we?).
Dr Phil’s recent article, published
in the BMJ, about the hypocrisy of
the NHS regarding the HPV vacci-
nation – purporting to offer ‘choice’
while at the same time denying it by
offering only one vaccine, produced
by our favourite evil pharmaceutical
giant GlaxoSmithKline – caused a bit
of a fuss in the medical community, so
he defends his thinking to BMJ edi-
tor Rebecca Coombes. Is this another
case of government pandering to big-
pharma?
We can’t be sure, but their woeful-
ness in dealing with the situation lent
a hand to the Daily Mail’s ongoing
campaign of vitriol against all things
NHS-y and good.
http://podcasts.bmj.com/bmj
Felix Whitton reviews medical podcasts Now, you might wonder just what Rus-
sell Brand has in common with meer-
kats and unless he slept with some-
body’s granddaughter again you might
be excused for thinking there is no
link, really.
But the link is the BBC. What with
this silly controversy over the BBC ra-
dio joke that’s been all over the news
in the last couple of weeks, many have
criticised the BBC for wasting public
money on offensive programmes. But
how’s this for a criticism: your money
paid for a movie that’s already showing
in France, is scheduled in Germany,
Belgium and Russia but its release date
still TBC in the UK!
The Meerkats is a new BBC feature
film about – you guessed it – meer-
kats, the highly social mammal from
the deserts of south Africa. After suc-
cess of the BBC’s ‘Meerkats Divided’
and ‘Meerkats United’ from the early
1990s and the more recent global suc-
cess of the Discovery Channel’s ‘Meer-
kat Manor’ series it comes as a no-
brainer that another meerkat movie
would be a good thing to do: after all,
people are getting tired of penguins.
But there was controversy over this
movie from the beginning.
It was scheduled for filming at the
same time as Discovery’s ‘Meerkat
Manor: Queen of the Kalahari’, yet an-
other cheesy take on meerkats and a
prequel to the Meerkat Manor series.
Both Discovery and BBC wanted to
film at Cambridge’s Kalahari Meer-
kat Project in South Africa, but only
Discovery got permission and the
BBC ended up filming on a site some
50 miles away, at Tswalu, the largest
private wildlife park in South Africa.
Tswalu had the advantage of having
a variety of wildlife including rhinos,
giraffes and honey badgers that are not
present at the Kalahri Meerkat Project
(which is set on ranchland). However,
there were no tame meerkats there so
BBC had to recruit some of the former
volunteers from the Project, trained
by Cambridge scientists for research
purposes, to habituate the meerkats
so that the BBC could film them from
up close. With lots of money invested
and a film crew from Oxford Scien-
tific Films at the Project site, Discov-
ery sent out privacy agreements to all
the volunteers and scientists at the
Project to sign. These basically forbid
anyone from talking about Discovery’s
production that was filmed with their
Russell Brand and The Meerkats
Credit:
http://www.lafamillesuricate-lefilm.com/
Credit: http://www.lafamillesuricate-lefilm.com/
British Medical
Journal
The Lan-
cet does a
nice series of
10-minute
weekly pod-
casts sum-
ming up
health news
and research
from around the world. Each week a
different guest discusses a particular
issue, ranging widely across themes
such as malaria funding, global health
policy and cutting-edge research on
MS treatments. Web editor Richard
Lane presents and his guests range
from the engaging to the fantastically
dull. A good way of keeping up to date
with medical news, if you can with-
stand the tinder-dry content.
http://www.thelancet.com/audio
The Lancet
The New England Journal of Medi-
cine is an American journal focusing
on the research side of medicine and is
therefore somewhat lacking in breadth.
I would love to say that what it lacks in
this department it makes up for in pres-
entation, charm or even an interview or
two...but sadly, it doesn’t. Instead what
you get is an annoying voice (Ameri-
can, female, but that’s by-the-bye) read-
ing, verbatim, article summaries from
each month’s edition of the journal. In a
monotone voice. For 20 minutes. Yes, it
is as boring as it sounds. And yes, they
caused me so much anger for stealing
those 20 minutes – valuable time, you
understand, that I’ll never see again –
that I won’t be surprised if a couple of
years was wiped off my life. And I hope
they’re happy.
http://content.nejm.org/misc/podcast.dt
New England Journal
of Medicine
Medical Matters:
Podcast of the Week
We couldn’t have a Podview without
a Radio 4 entry, and as usual Auntie
is head and shoulders above the rest.
Well-chosen stories introduced with a
sense of humour – David Brent talk-
ing, wince-inducingly, about race:
“You are half-and-half, aren’t you?”
“Mixed-race, yes” “That is my favour-
ite. That’s the melting pot, please” –
lead on to discussions on issues like
the phenomenon of ‘colour blindness’
in US children, who refuse to mention
someone’s race when it is different to
their own.
We also get a round-up of current
news, for example the new Mental
Health Act coming into force this
week – what will it mean for psychia-
trists and patients? – plus a disturbing
trend of suicides among ageing South
Asian women in the UK.
If you’re not keen on the special-
ist nature of the other podcasts, but
still like to keep abreast of health
news in society, this comes highly
recommended.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/podcasts/
medmatters
Mexican scientists have discovered a
way to turn tequila into diamonds. It
turns out that the chemical makeup of
the drink has a ratio of hydrogen, oxy-
gen and carbon atoms which places it
within the ‘diamond growth region.’
The scientists turned to tequila not
for its intoxicating quality, but because
previous efforts to create diamonds
from organic solutions such as acetone,
ethanol and methanol had proved un-
successful. They then realised that
their ideal compound of 40% ethanol
and 60% water was remarkably close to
tequila. Luis Miguel Apátiga was one of
the researches from the National Au-
tonomous University of Mexico: “To
dissipate any doubts, one morning on
the way to the lab I bought a pocket-size
bottle of cheap white tequila and we
Modern Alchemy: Turning
tequilla into Gold
Jacob Aron
New research means that hu-
mans and other vertebrates no
longer have a monopoly when
it comes to ‘handed’ behaviour.
Hayley Frend, a third year Notting-
ham undergraduate, spent her sum-
mer studying the sex life and genetics
of the pond snail. The young research-
er found that the handedness of the
snail’s mating behaviour is matched by
an asymmetry in the brain which is de-
termined by its mother’s genes. Dem-
onstrating that, like humans, pond
snails are genetically programmed to
use left or right hand sides of the brain.
Pond snails usually have a right
handed (dextral) twist to their shells,
but occasionally it is left handed (sin-
istral). As dextral snails circle clock-
wise and sinistral circle anticlock-
wise, the ‘mirror image’ snails end up
circling each other and the unlucky
pair are frequently unable to mate.
“The fact that this specialisation has
evolved multiple times emphasises its
importance for animals,” says Dr An-
drew Davidson, Hayley’s supervisor.
Left handed
snails
Katie Wookey
Having a large waist circumference can
almost double your risk of premature
death, warned scientists from here at
Imperial last week. A study of over
350,000 people from across Europe
showed that even if you have a nor-
mal body mass index (BMI) and are
therefore not considered overweight
or obese, excess fat around the waist
brings serious health risks.
Obesity is currently diagnosed by
measuring BMI, which is known to be
linked to mortality risk. However, this
study suggests that the distribution of
body fat may be more important than
BMI. The scientists involved believe
that doctors should also record pa-
tients’ waist circumference and that
this should form a part of regular
health check-ups.
Imperial scientists, with colleagues
across Europe, compared people with
the same BMI and found a direct cor-
relation between subjects’ waist cir-
cumference and their risk of premature
death. In fact, the risk almost doubled
for people with a waistline considered
to be large, compared to those with a
small measurement. Waist-hip ratio is
also an important indicator of health,
with a lower ratio being associated
with a smaller risk of mortality.
Obesity is on the rise and its nu-
merous health implications, includ-
Large waist almost doubles
the risk of death
Catherine Luckin
help at the Project. Apart from a few
media sycophants, everyone refused
to sign this document as research sci-
entists doing their research did not
want to get involved with the politics
of the media production world.
In any case, the competition, or
rather cold war, between the two film
teams ensued because whoever man-
aged to finish and release their film
first would get the scoop: audiences
probably wouldn’t want to go and see
two meerkat movies in a short time
period. Ultimately, both films were fin-
ished at about the same time, although
the Discovery crew had to communi-
cate via a single 52kb cable Internet
connection with their team back home
(which they shared with 30 other peo-
ple) whilst the BBC had a high-tech
satellite internet connection, or so the
rumour went. Both films were bought
by the Weinstein Company and they
apparently decided to do a cinema re-
lease of only one of the films, although
both were originally conceived as
feature films for cinema audiences. I
guess the BBC movie was deemed bet-
ter. That doesn’t explain why it’s not
narrated by David Attenborough, but
instead by the late Paul Newman... Or
why audiences across Europe will get
to see the film before we, license pay-
ers, in the UK.
Stand-up comedy How to Become
an Astronaut
As I sit down in the Soho Theatre,
someone tries to hand me a pro-
gramme. It’s not an usher however, but
Josie Long herself. “I’m sorry, do you
mind sharing?” she beams, offering
a collection of folded paper covered
in her endearing and often hilarious
scribblings. “Only I didn’t photocopy
enough.”
This pretty much sums up Josie’s
approach to comedy. Her props are
random objects from her personal life,
she illustrates her points with hand-
drawn graphs, and invites a friend to
embroider handkerchiefs live on stage
for the entire evening. Throughout
the act she will pause, correct herself,
comment on how the jokes are being
received and generally chat with the
audience. It actually feels a bit like
you are watching the director’s com-
mentary of a movie – whilst trying to
watch the movie proper on a separate
screen entirely.
Josie’s latest show is about her new
found fascination for science. As a
child she felt you had to pick a side
between the arts and sciences. As she
says, she went with the ‘poetry and
self harm crowd’, because scientists
are all ‘nerdy virgins’ - of course. Now
that she’s older however, she’s realised
there is no such need to close yourself
off from science. She’s been reading
about all manner of subjects, from
the Enlightenment to astronomy and
whilst the show is far from a lecture it
did send me scurrying to Wikipedia to
read up on some of her references.
Many stand-up comedians appear
constantly miserable, as if the world
is all too much for them to take and
only dry wit will sustain them. Josie on
the other hand seems to find delight in
every corner of her life, be it watching
regional news reports, buying a bottle
of water or gazing into the heavens.
Her enthusiasm is infectious, and you
can’t help but smile when you realise
just how pleased she was with that last
joke. This can mean that at times she is
so eager to get to the next gag that she
forgets to finish the previous one, but
this slightly scatterbrained approach
simply adds to the appeal.
The show is summed up with Josie’s
views on science. It’s not about coming
up with an idea and saying “this is the
Jacob Aron truth for all time.” Rather, you should
take the view that “hey, it may not be
perfect, but it’s the best we know right
now, and maybe someone will coming
along and make it better in the future.”
A pretty good description of the way
science works.
You’re unlikely to come away from
‘All of the Planet’s Wonders brack-
ets Shown in Detail close brackets’
(as Josie calls the show) feeling that
you’ve learnt something, but you will
certainly have been entertained, and
if you’re lucky some of Josie’s bubbly
enthusiasm might have rubbed off on
you. Do go along - if you don’t get to
leave with one of the live embroidered
handkerchiefs, you’ll at least walk out
with a smile on your face.
The secret of becoming an astronaut
is that you have to really, really, really
want to be one. Oh yes - and to be con-
sidered for the European Space Agen-
cy’s 2008 recruitment round currently
in progress (they recruit only every 15
years or so) you should also be at least
the right age and nationality.
We were told this tonight by French
astronaut Jean-Francois Clervoys dur-
ing an event at the London Science
Museum’s Dana Centre. Three time
shuttle astronaut Clervoys, who has
spent 675 hours in space, was joined
by a panel of experts in space history,
medicine and psychology - to educate
and entertain the forty or so of us who
had volunteered for ‘Space Station
Dana’.
It wasn’t all one way though. Armed
with our Astronaut Training and Se-
lection Manuals, we split into teams
to engage in a range of psychologi-
cal, physical, and knowledge tests that
were both fun and sufficiently taxing
to give us a flavour of what the Right
Stuff is all about.
Consider a potential manned flight
to Mars for example. As it takes 20
minutes for communications to trav-
el from Earth to Mars, a problem on
the spacecraft cannot be fixed via an
iterative chat with the engineers back
home, so our psychological test was
built around getting things right first
time through good planning and au-
thority, balanced with team working
and individual respect.
As it turns out, you don’t need to be
super-human to be an astronaut. You
will typically be 27-37 years of age; not
because you automatically die in space
after age 37, but rather your sponsors
are looking for a sensible number of
working years for their investment.
After that it helps to have a PhD in a
relevant discipline, to be able to speak
Russian, to pass a raft of psychological
tests, and to be reasonably fit. Again,
the fitness issues are more about you
not falling out of the programme and
your career with ill health, rather
than the ability to withstand physical
extremes.
Those selected move onto an 18
month basic training in Europe, the
USA, and Russia. Then you’re on your
way to the dream.
And that’s how the memory of the
adventure seemed to Jean-Francois as
he described the effect of dimming the
shuttle’s cabin lights with the sun and
earth behind the spacecraft, and look-
ing at the “milky way like a highway” in
the total blackness of space.
Dr Tim Jones
ing heart disease and type two dia-
betes, are well publicised, as well as
the estimated 30,000 deaths it causes
each year. The scientists believe the
increased mortality risk caused by
excess abdominal fat may be due to
the tissue releasing chemicals and
messenger substances, such as hor-
mones, which contribute to the devel-
opment of chronic diseases including
cardiovascular diseases and cancers.
Although they did not investigate the
reasons why some people have a larger
waistline than others, they believe that
a sedentary lifestyle, poor diet and
genetic predisposition are significant
factors.
Professor Elio Riboli from Imperial
said they were surprised that waist size
had such an impact on people’s health;
“Although smaller studies have sug-
gested a link between mortality and
waist size, we were surprised to see the
waist size having such a powerful ef-
fect on people’s health and premature
death. Our study shows that accumu-
lating excess fat around your middle
can put your health at risk even if your
weight is normal based on body mass
index scores.”
did some tests. We were in doubt over
whether the great amount of chemicals
present in tequila, other than water and
ethanol, would contaminate or obstruct
the process. It turned out to be not so.
The results were amazing, same as with
the ethanol and water compound, we
obtained almost spherical shaped dia-
monds of nanometric size. There is no
doubt; tequila has the exact proportion
of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen atoms
necessary to form diamonds.”
The diamonds were made by heating
tequila to transform it into a gas and
then heating this gas further to break
down the molecular structure. The
result: solid diamond crystals, about
100-400 nanometres in size. They
could be used to coat cutting tools or
as high-power semiconductors, radia-
tion detectors and optical-electronic
devices.
mmmm Tequilla.... Golden Tequilla
This guy no longer can find belts that fit... he requires a tape measure.
Awww aren’t they sweet?
British Baffoon
A family of Suricate... whatever that is.
They’re behind you...

