science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
14 felix Friday 21 November 2008
Those who scan the Technology pages
of the BBC for fun probably saw the
delightfully ingenious study into the
mechanics of spam. Yes, that’s spam of
the aetherial electronic variety, rather
than the indiscriminate meat sort.
If you’ve ever wondered how the
hairy-palmed vandals laying siege to
your inbox make money out of their
endless barrage of exhortations for this
pill, that degree, or those ladies, look no
further than the aforementioned spam
report. You can find it at www.icsi.ber-
keley.edu/pubs/networking/2008-ccs-
spamalytics.pdf. I won’t spend much
time reviewing the study here, point-
ing you instead to the BBC coverage
or, better, the original article: I’d highly
recommend having a read of it – it’s
well-written, accessible, and entertain-
ing, representing a study much in the
vein of Freakonomics.
Briefly, the authors managed to in-
sinuate themselves into the Storm bot-
net, a sophisticated network of infected
computers, operated remotely by a few
master computers. Following ethical
principles to the letter, they hijacked
a portion of the botnet, covering their
tracks to avoid discovery by the bot-
net administrators, and replaced the
original outgoing spam messages with
ones of their own, directing the hapless
recipients to a site the authors had set
up. A number of campaigns were run,
including one where the end site nomi-
nally sold pharmaceutical products of
the blue variety. By monitoring how
many visits they got to the site from
the original spam recipients and seeing
how many visitors attempted to pur-
chase pills, the researchers were able
to quantify the profitability of spam
campaigns, and to infer the likely size
of these operations. Turns out that
the profit margins are probably rather
meagre, so don’t start making lists of
all your Facebook not-really-friends
quite yet – though it might be satisfy-
ing to get payback for all those sodding
vampire invitations, making money
from this ploy has all the prospects of a
stone-transfusion blood-bank.
However, there are plenty more in-
teresting little nuggets in this study
than the authors had the space, or pos-
sibly gall, to analyse. However, I know
no such bounds, and so am leaping at
the chance to read far more into the
data than I suspect the authors would
be comfortable in, and to grace the au-
gust pages of Felix with some original
research on plagiarised results. There’ll
even be a table.
My first attempt centred on the fact
that the results were global, offering
some apparently entertaining com-
parisons of different countries’ suscep-
tibility to spam. However, I was unable
to obtain a world gullibility index: the
spoil-sport authors caution against us-
ing response rates as a method for in-
ferring “degrees of cultural or national
interest in the particular promises or
products conveyed by the spam”, in-
stead suggesting it is due to regional
differences in the quality of spam fil-
tering, and anti-spam education. A
shame, as it would have been funny to
issue scurrilous remarks about Bulgar-
ia, Pakistan and India, and to note the
heightened interest in France for phar-
macy related spam (and conversely the
curious lack of it in the States) – does
the libidinous reputation require prop-
ping up?
However, even if hopes to analyse
regional differences are dashed, there’s
hope yet on the global scale – I put it
to you this study offers an unrivalled
opportunity to study world idiocy. I’ll
be propping up this contentious claim
with some very shaky assumptions,
and dubious maths, and will unapolo-
getically try to point this out where I
do, hoping a brazen approach will get
you unwittingly to the end this “study”
before it all becomes too much, and
you throw this paper away in disgust.
Commencing with what we know
from the original study – the authors
send out many spam emails, of which
a number A (82,700,000) got to a valid
address. These are then sent either to
spam folders or inboxes, in unknown
numbers, which we denote by B and C
respectively (Ooh, doesn’t that sound
scientific!). Due to all that, the re-
searchers’ website received a number
of visits E (10522, which doesn’t in-
clude crawlers), of which a number G
(28) were “converted” – an attempt was
made to pay for pills.
I’ve taken the liberty of putting this
information in a chart, Figure 1 (award-
ing self star for geekiness), and take this
point to explain the assumptions I’m
making elsewhere in this chart. I’m go-
ing to try to determine the fraction of
the population those 28 represent. And
I’m going to callously equate those 28,
as insensitively as only the youthfully
virile can, with imbeciles. Uncharita-
ble - perhaps they can’t use the normal
ways to surmount the problems the
pills address – but I’m flint-hearted: it’s
poltroons like them who make spam
profitable, and open my college inbox
to almost 400 daily missives of bilge.
Having justified the numerator, let’s
look at the denominator. I’ll restore
karmic balance by munificently be-
stowing a status of “weirdly curious,
but not idiotic” on those who clicked
on the spam’s link, but didn’t attempt
to order pills (F). Yes, this is generous,
and does not allow us to quantify for
the virile morons, who probably be-
long in the numerator. Tough – they
probably contribute to the gene pool,
and it gives me one of the terms in
my denominator. To this number, we
also need to add the idiots (for correct
normalisation, muggins), and D, the
number of those who saw the spam in
their inboxes, but who ignored it. To
express this mathematically, the Idiot
Index I.I. = G/(F+G+D). You’ve reached
Equation 1: 1up, or eat a mushroom.
Unfortunately, to know D, we need
to know C, the number of messages
from the original 82-odd million which
made it to the spamees’ inboxes (what
a silly plural). Which we don’t. Note
I’m making another assumption here,
namely that no-one is dumb enough
to have gone to a folder labelled spam
and clicked on messages inside. Rash,
as that sort certainly belong in our
numerator, but this is utterly unquan-
tifiable, whereas torturing the original
research Madsen-like will yield C.
Table 1 (I’m going all out here) sum-
marises the top 10 ranking email do-
main names spam was sent to, together
with the fraction of spam sent to that
domain. I’ve also included a column on
whether the domain is free, for reasons
which will soon become apparent. To
monitor what happened to the spam
after it was sent by the botnet, the re-
searchers cunningly set up some fake
email addresses at the top 3 webmail
providers (no surprises: Hotmail, Ya-
hoo and Gmail), and others at their de-
partment, filtered through a commer-
cial spam-filter, Barracuda, apparently
with slightly more permissive spam-
tagging than default settings. The third
column indicates, where applicable,
the percentages of messages sent to
those accounts which ended up in the
inbox: inbox infiltration. Note that the
commercial spam-filter (right at the
bottom of the table) performs much
worse than the webmail accounts.
Anyway, I’m going to take a simple
binary approach, based on the differ-
ence between the webmail and com-
mercial spam filter, and assume that
this difference is due to resources alone
– the more email addresses a provider
represents, the more resources it is
able to dedicate to sifting out spam. So
free webmail providers, who represent
many users, are very good at keeping
users’ inboxes clean. If that sounds too
simplistic, this next bit is really going
to grate: We’re going to estimate the
number of emails reaching inboxes, C,
by adding the product of number of in-
boxes with inbox infiltration for both
the free and the commercial providers.
Very messy in practice, this. Of the top
10 providers, those which are definitely
free represent 22.6% of email addresses
targeted. This might well be a rather
fat-tailed distribution, so saying that
including all providers, not just the top
10, will take this number only up to
25% is very foolish. But invoking the re-
source argument above again, if we go
down the rankings, these free domains
will have fewer users, and thus fewer
resources to devote to spam filtering,
so their infiltration values will be more
akin to the commercial, thus belonging
in that term: our division into free and
commercial is really based on filtering
efficiencies, after all.
Doing the maths, if 25% of A went to
freedomains,whichhaveanaveragein-
What spam really means
People who buy spam pills are morons, but how much of society do they represent? felix does the maths
Kurt Osyzs filtration (worked out from the average
of the top 3) of 0.00285%, 589 emails
will have got through to the free inbox-
es. Now for those with commercial-
like infiltration values. They represent
75% of A – but what should we use as
their infiltration? We only have 1 data
point, which represents a filter with
permissive settings! Ha, we scoff at this
and whack a factor of 0.5 in front of the
commercial infiltration of 0.131%, to
simulate improved filtering due to less
permissive settings, and find 40626
emails reach commercial inboxes; by
far the dominating contribution, and
grossly sensitive to our fudge-factor.
But a reality check reveals that the total
number of emails reaching inboxes, C,
is 41215 – a number larger than E, so
we’ve not managed to trash the model
in Figure 1. Subtracting E from C to
get D, and plugging it into Equation 1,
with the previously known quantities,
we find the Idiot Index is 0.068%.
We could leave this there, but that’s
not headline material, and I’m on a
roll, or at least a bun. The present
world population W, which we round
to 6,710, 000,000 and the globally aver-
age birth rate X (20.18 babies / 1000 of
population / year), which we can mul-
tiply to find the number of people born
every year. Ooh, let’s include a factor Y,
to work out how many of those make it
out of infancy: we only care about peo-
ple old enough to use a computer and a
credit card. We get this factor from the
infant mortality rate Z = 42.09 deaths
/ 1000 live births. So the infancy sur-
vival factor Y will be (1000-42)/1000,
or 0.958.
Multiplying W with X and Y, we find
the present rate of birth of people who
make it through infancy is 129 million
per year, or 245 per minute. Let’s call
this number M. (Nice and in the mid-
dle – we’ve covered both ends of the
alphabet now, and screw Greek or He-
brew letters)
Let’s just step back, and mention
a couple of other assumptions we’re
just about to make. The first is that M
comes from global averages, and will
encompass mostly people without ac-
cess to credit cards and the internet.
So combining that with the results of
our earlier investigation may seem
grossly unfair. But let’s note the origi-
nal research showed fairly good global
coverage, with less of a North-South /
rich-poor country skew than might be
expected.
So let’s gloss over this access issue
in a Panglossian fashion, assuming the
best of all possible worlds, where intel-
ligence (and hence the lack thereof) is
all nature, no nurture, where the gene-
pool is uniformly distributed across all
nations and all socioeconomic back-
grounds so that a sample of intelligence
in one segment of society extends to all
others.
We’re also assuming no correlation
between intelligence and language
spoken. An interesting, if controversial
topic, left aside, but if present, this may
have implications for our findings – I
don’t see any indication the authors
wrote the spam in any languages other
than English. But here we cite the pres-
ence of many countries where English
is not the native tongue – eg France.
Phew, enough prevarication, let’s cut
to the chase, and multiply our birth
rate M with our idiot index I.I., as
you’ve all been waiting for. The result,
dear Reader? An update of the old saw,
oft attributed to P.T. Barnum: turns out
there’s one sixth of a sucker born every
minute.
Figure 1: Quantities, where known, from the original research are
shown. Unknown quantities are determined in the text. Except for B,
which is left as an exercise to the reader. Fat chance.
Table 1: Free and commercial domains, and their spam-filtering
effectiveness
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Plastinated corpses as an art form?
Emily Wilson gets up close and personal with some dead bodies and the free radicals coming to kill us all
stand like normal people who just hap-
pen to have no skin. I also noted that
the vast majority of the figures possess
a penis and a set of testicles dangling
from stringy anatomy you can hardly
believe supports them. Yes, there were
a few female bodies, whose skinned
breasts almost made them more unset-
tling to see but the men dominated. I
would be interested to know if this is
due to an imbalance in the people who
donate themselves to Dr. von Hagens.
The general idea of the exhibition
is to demonstrate the passage of time
and the process of aging. It kicks off at
conception. Here you can see a whole
range of foetuses starting at a fleck of
a cell ball you can barely make out,
all the way up to birth. A highlight is
the dead body of a pregnant woman,
lying down casually and sectioned so
you can see how the baby sits inside
her. The foetuses affected me more
than I would have expected. I’m a firm
believer in pro-choice and I believe
strongly in a woman’s right to abort
an unwanted child. But coming face to
face with these foetuses did make me
see the pro-life argument – at 24 weeks
(the legal cut-off for abortion here in
the UK), and even before, a foetus
looks like an actual person, complete
with fingers and toes. For me this be-
ginning was the most unsettling part of
the whole exhibition.
The rest of the exhibition carries on
through life, from childhood through
adolescence and into old age. There
is a great deal of focus on the damage
aging does to the human body. There
are joints from arthritis sufferers and
tumour-ridden internal organs dem-
onstrating perfectly how we gradually
fall apart after we hit 30. Even in our
early 20s our brains are beginning their
gradual decline. A highlight for me was
a feature on how eyesight fails and how
some of our famous artists probably
developed their characteristic styles
through their inability to see clearly;
Monet’s blurry oil paintings being a
case in point. A plastinated body holds
a paintbrush and easel and stands at
a canvas to accompany this section.
There is a cheap print of Monet’s ‘Wa-
ter Lilies’ strapped to an artist’s easel,
which I was amused to see attracting
the attention of two women. “Is that
L
ast time I promised you a
book review. The sad thing
is that between my last stab
at editing and now, I have
not finished a book. I’m still
reading the 900-page door-stopping
epic that is The Mitfords, which is a
collection of letters between the Mit-
ford sisters of upper-class, eccentric,
Nazi-loving fame. It’s a brilliant book
which has been making me laugh, cry
and think all at once but I’ve been read-
ing it for months and I’m only 500 or
so pages in. I’m not sure I’ll ever finish
it, particularly given that I keep pick-
ing up more accessible material to read
alongside it. Currently, I’m on a rather
good sociobiological/anthropologi-
cal number about human evolution.
The chapter on the evolution of hu-
man sexual behaviour is particularly
delectable.
The question that I just know is on
your lips, as always, is: what have I
been up to if not reviewing books?
Well, this past weekend I went and saw
the Rothko exhibition at Tate Modern
for a second time. I hope you all paid
attention to my previous review of the
exhibition and have already gone to see
it. No? You ignored me? Harsh. It’s a
great exhibition! Go see it!
Now normally I would only go to an
exhibition once, but this one was even
better the second time round. I picked
up on so many different things I hadn’t
noticed the first time and so many of
my opinions changed. It was a com-
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
pletely different experience. Before,
my favourites were the black-on-black
bunch at the back of the exhibition.
This time I was less keen in compari-
son to my renewed passion for the
‘Seagram Murals’. They were beautiful
and I have no idea why I didn’t adore
them as much the first time. So I guess
the moral of this story is not only that
Rothko rocks, but also that art just gets
better and better the more you experi-
ence it.
While I was at the glorious artistic
Mecca that is the Tate Modern, I wan-
dered round the new Turbine Hall in-
stallation by Dominique Gonzalez-Fo-
erster. This can be summed up as sci-fi
geek art. Ms Dominique has produced
a futuristic dystopia made up of giant
spiders, glowing green lights and evac-
uation shelter beds. The beds are lit-
tered with sci-fi books and the screen
at the back shows snippets of scenes
from sci-fi movies.
It’s surreal and funky, like the dorky
library-dwelling kid you went to school
with all grown up and taking over the
world. Pretty awesome, though it
couldn’t hold a candle to that big crack
in the floor from last time, which I ba-
sically wanted to have the babies of.
Many thanks to all those who keep
sending in articles without us having to
beg for it. We love you, yes we do, and
we apologise if we can’t print them all.
As always, if anybody else would like to
contribute, we will welcome you with
open arms at arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Book review
pending
N
ow is your chance to
witness the work of the
hat-wearing, semi-sinis-
ter physician and anato-
mist Dr. Gunther von
Hagens. You may have been fortunate
enough to see his live (in the televi-
sion sense, obviously) human dissec-
tions on Channel Four not so long ago.
Well, now you can head over to the O2
(read: Millennium Dome re-branded)
and wander round a whole exhibi-
tion of dead, plasticized bodies
that demonstrate the human
life cycle and how time
alters us.
Let me tell
you right now: don’t go to this ex-
hibition if you’re squeamish or have
fainting inclinations. It really is an en-
tire exhibition of bits of dead bodies.
Though at the same time I did find the
bodies oddly unrealistic. The plastina-
tion process used to preserve the sub-
jects (which is well explained inside
the exhibit) leaves them looking like
somebody did actually craft them out
of lumps of flesh-coloured plastic. The
process also leaves the bodies without
skin or facial characteristics, so they
lack any distinguishing features that
make them individual. In some cases it
could be the same body over and over
again in different poses. I had to re-
mind myself constantly that these used
to be living, breathing people who vol-
unteered themselves for plastination
and display after they died.
There are several things I noticed
about the bodies. Firstly, despite lack
of facial skin, they all retain their eye-
brows, eyelashes and lips and have all
been given glass eyes. I found this over-
whelmingly creepy. Like something out
of a horror movie, they are dead but
can stare at you with expression. They
Why stop at
humans? And
we know where
you’re looking
Here is somebody, or
maybe some bodies, riding
a horsie

