arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 21 November 2008
A midsummer
night’s frolics
Kieron Stopforth journeys to the O2 to discover Jamie
Hewlett and Damon Albarn’s remake of a Chinese classic
A
ncient Athens. Hermia’s
father wants her to mar-
ry Demetrius, who is in
love with her. But Her-
mia loves Lysander and
he feels the same. Meanwhile, Helena
is in love with Demetrius. That night,
faced with an ultimatum from the king,
Hermia and Lysander elope to the for-
est. Demetrius follows Hermia, Helena
follows Demetrius. Into the woods
they all go, where in the silvery moon-
light the magical Oberon holds sway
with his wife Titania and their slave
Puck. And it just so happens, on this
night of nights, that an acting troupe
are rehearsing their romantic trag-
edy amongst those same trees; Bottom
tries to persuade Peter that he should
play every part. Faeries dance. Who
will fall in love, and with whom? Or is
it all just a fantastic dream?
A park in East London. Trees and a
tent. We are ushered into a space where
quietly excited theatregoers mill and
hum under draperies of leaves. The ex-
pectation is palpable. All around; lean-
ing, gesturing, with assured humanity,
we are the arbiters of our collective
experience. Through again into a lofty
amphitheatre; a broad stage (a bold
statement) brought to life by the faces
raised towards it, by the steady ebb and
flow of the assembled revellers. Who
said Shakespeare was a dweeb?
Welcome to Footsbarn’s production
of A Midsummer Night’s Dream. These
are no ordinary theatregoers: the aver-
age age is well below thirty, the com-
pany are warm and welcoming and
there is a definite sense that this is a
cool place to be.
This is no ordinary theatre experi-
ence: wave goodbye to your nights
spent in gilded West End prosceni-
ums, to self-important actors spewing
grandiose Pinter and Chekhov before
an apathetic crowd. This uniformly
wonderful cast deliver absolutely gen-
uine, selfless performances and really
connect with the audience. In doing
so, they shed light on the true spirit
of Shakespeare, so often obscured by
rushed delivery or static body lan-
guage. The bard must have been, first,
an entertainer, but it is hard to see him
gaining such popularity as he now en-
joys based on many modern stagings.
Footsbarn cut down the script consid-
erably and give free rein to the quality
and quantity of physical emotion dis-
played on stage (I lost my heart early
on to a dancing mushroom). Body
language both touching and hilari-
ous oozes from the characters. Helena
sighs and we fall in love with one so
tender; one resigned look from Peter at
the exasperating Bottom and we have
seen it a thousand times. These actors
have our hearts without saying a word,
such that the exquisite poetry, once it
comes, is more meaningful and beauti-
ful. Also, crucially, because we are not
straining to keep up with the dialogue
we are able to relax and actually be
entertained.
The set (more-or-less one broad,
gnarled tree), though in concept sim-
ple, works to great effect in the at-
mospheric and intimate tent theatre.
Visible to the side of the stage, and
completely in keeping with it, is a small
group of musicians: saxophone, oboe,
drums, and, I’m sure, a sitar. They
looked like they’ve been stranded there
since 1969, grooving to an eclectic mix
of styles. On costumes, these people
do not skimp. Demetrius and Lysander
are grotesque, comically vying for su-
periority when their interests collide.
Tragedians’ masks portray the aus-
terity of Athens; once in the magical
woods the masks are comic, mischie-
vous works of art. Puck, with maracas
and a lovable bumbling glint in his
eyes, expresses himself almost solely
with a single noise.
These touches of aesthetic joy grow
on you throughout the evening, and
despite the two hours with no interval,
I can honestly say I was never bored.
One toddler did get a bit restless and,
ambling curiously across the front of
the stage, was almost the star of the
show. The actors took her into the
fold.
A few niggles remain: Titania’s dic-
tion is rushed, and much of her speech
is very difficult to hear. This causes a
dip in momentum, but such is the vivid
characterisation and physicality of the
actors that the effect is minimised.
However, such weaknesses are hard to
find in a show which, with its bound-
less humanity, restores our faith in
life on a cold winter evening. Oh and
there’s free food afterwards. Will not
disappoint.
A Midsummer Night’s Dream is
on until the 30th of November at
Footsbarn Theatre. Tickets cost
£15 for students.
“This wonderful cast deliver
genuine, selfless performances”
Monkey: Journey to the West
M
onkey: Journey to the
West is an ancient
Chinese tale of a
monkey born in a
stone egg who, after
causing havoc in Heaven, annoys Bud-
dha and then has to assist a Holy Man
in retrieving some Buddhist scrolls
from the West (India, not evil capital-
ist West). The journey is hundreds of
miles long with plenty of trials thrown
in for good measure. So the cheeky and
strangely camp monkey meets up with
a Holy Man, a horse (who can’t talk),
a pig (who can) and, as far as I could
make out, a green man and off they go
roaming westwards, being tested by
Chinese dragons, fiery mountains and
a slightly dominatrix-esque lady with a
sword.
The story has been rewritten as a
modern opera by Damon Albarn (of
Blur and Gorillaz fame), the music fus-
es classic Chinese sounds with modern
electronic to interesting effect and the
style of the characters and sets has a
Gorillaz ‘take’ too, which is very cool.
If that isn’t enough, the players are
from a Chinese circus who apparently
spent most of their early lives stood on
their heads (and other people’s heads
at that) as there are some seriously
phenomenal acrobats in this show. So
you have a brand new opera, written
by an established pop-hero, acted and
sung by Chinese superhumans, cool
Gorillaz styling with a rich story and
it’s all in Chinese (with subtitles).  
Now whilst all of this stuff is excel-
lent and done pretty well in isolation,
it was hard to feel as if the elements re-
ally ever combined to their full poten-
tial. Firstly, although the source book is
rich and long, the opera just skims over
it and at some points it’s hard to know
what is going on (hence not being able
to tell who the green man is). Also,
there are some serious plot holes – like
the massive build-up to an encounter
with an evil, face-eating army, which
never really kicks off properly and then
the token bad guy just sort of walks off.
There are some moments that leave
you asking: what just happened? I want
some proper vanquishing, dammit!
Secondly, although the stage combat
is exciting at several times and makes
good use of the players, it never re-
ally explodes and is unfortunately less
Ong-Bak and more interpretive dance.
Finally, whilst the music is new and
interesting, it’s never really classic nor
memorable, which is a real shame.
There are a lot of good points and
good reasons to see this – conceptu-
ally it’s great and it’s new and exciting.
The Gorillaz take on everything adds a
modern slant to a classic Chinese story.
It’s not rubbish. It is a cool modern op-
era, it really is, and there is good stuff
in here. The trouble is, it’s not amazing
and it should be.
Monkey: Journey to the West is
on until the 5th of December at
the O2 Arena.
Benedict Fraser hot-foots it to Footsbarn
for our favourite Shakespeare play
Fei Yang as Monkey (dressed in yellow in the centre) and the cast taking a bow at the O2 Arena
Dr von Hagens gives new meaning to shirts vs skins
real thing?” asked one. “Yeah, I think
itis!”saidtheother.Theygotnose-close
with this valuable iconic piece, which
was freestanding and unprotected in
the centre of the room. “Ooooh” they
cooed. I judged it best to leave them to
enjoy themselves.
The exhibition did at times take on a
preachy slant. It had a tendency to rat-
tle on about how it’s all our own fault
that our bodies decline and showcased
an excess of lungs ravaged by smok-
ing. I got fed up of constantly being
told to eat healthily, get lots of exer-
cise and give up my excesses. But on
the bright side, it did also emphasise,
in the centennial village section, how
we can beat time and live active and
happy lives well into our eighties and
nineties. I’m sorry to say there was a
display entitled ‘sexy at sixty’, suggest-
ing that even people in their sixties
and seventies are able to enjoy fulfill-
ing sex lives, defying the minor issues
of erectile dysfunction and feminine
lubrication. And there were pictures. I
basically had to wash my eyes out with
bleach after reading that bit.
Additional highlights were the pres-
ence of a plastinated horse and a giraffe
in the exhibition. The horse was being
ridden by some plastinated humans,
and was demonstrating how similar
all mammals are inside. The difference
is merely scale. I can’t quite recall the
purpose of the giraffe, but it was cer-
tainly impressive. Like most of the hu-
man bodies, this giraffe was male and
offered the chance to observe that its
reproductive regions were indeed in
proportion. I will also note that its ar-
sehole was particularly huge.
To criticise the exhibition, it did tend
to stray from the purely scientific. The
bodies were often contorted into more
artistic positions, arms out-stretched.
In line with the exhibition title ‘The
Mirror of Time’, there was a display
of two bodies floating through the air,
twisting around each other and hold-
ing a mirror up. Why, Dr. von Hagens?
Why? What purpose does that serve?
There was also quite a lot of arty,
farty photography and poetry dilut-
ing the lessons in anatomy and medi-
cine, which didn’t sit well with me.
The worst crime of all was the section
on free radicals, operating too much
along the ‘Dr.’ Gillian McKeith line of
thought. A helpful video demonstrated
how the free radicals are coming to get
us. This video portrayed a free radi-
cal as a floating cloud glowing differ-
ent colours which wafted towards a
big round cell (the free radical and the
cell were approximately the same size).
When the free radical bumped against
the cell, the cell turned grey and shriv-
elled up and died. But don’t worry! You
can stop this happening by eating fruit
and vegetables!
Aside from this bewildering display
of pseudo-science, I would recom-
mend the exhibition – and not just for
the medics among you. It’s a valuable
and entertaining opportunity to find
out what’s inside us all and what time
is doing to us. For your money you get
Walking on a cloud at Tate Modern
Leonardo Ramirez, while finding out more about Cildo Meireles , takes his socks off and wears a mask
T
here is something very
democratic about Cildo
Meireles. He is neither a
snobbish art elitist nor the
commercial type who will
paint-to-order so to please clients/art
dealers. His art is provocative, practi-
cal and a pleasurable experience.
As you enter the first room, conven-
tional ideas of space are challenged.
This was really the low point of the
exhibition as I am not a fan of opt art.
But it gradually became more interest-
ing. A bundle of 100 cruzeiros, sold for
20 times that amount, is displayed. A
topical issue which begs the question;
“Are banknotes worth the paper they
are written on?” Living under the in-
creasingly authoritarian Brazilian dic-
tatorship of the seventies, he used the
same medium to protest against the re-
pression, writing political messages on
banknotes. In the next room, there is
an installation about prohibition.
Walking on broken glass, surrounded
by rope barriers, doors and barb wire,
you really feel as though you are break-
ing the rules as you wander around the
maze. ‘Missions’ is both aesthetically-
pleasing and a political statement. A
thin column of communion wafers
connects a floor covered with one
penny coins and two thousand bones
hanging from the ceiling. The former
represents the commercial interest of
the Jesuit missionaries and the latter
the consequences of the Christianisa-
tion they carried out in parts of Argen-
tina, Paraguay and southern Brazil. A
circular tower of radios, all tuned to
different frequencies and aptly called
‘Babel’, seems to be alive.
But perhaps the best piece is ‘Fon-
tes’. The whole room is densely packed
with only three objects: the floor is
completely covered with small vinyl
numbers, the walls are densely packed
with clocks and the space is crammed
with long, wooden rulers hanging from
the ceiling. Upon closer inspection,
you can see that the order of the num-
bers in the clocks and rulers seem to be
random and the spacing between the
‘units of measurement’ arbitrary. As if
a long and substantial exhibition in a
very nice venue that will change the
way you see yourself. Just watch
out for those pesky free
radicals.
Body Worlds and
the Mirror of Time is
on until the 23rd of Au-
gust at the O2 Arena.
Tickets cost £9 for
students.
this was not enough to overwhelm you,
the whole experience is enhanced with
ticks for music. After a while there,
you begin feel that time and space are
elastic.
My favourite installation of the whole
exhibition was, however, ‘Volatile’.
While queuing (yes, it is worth it) you
can read a disclaimer and some recom-
mendations – you have to wear a mask
and take your socks off, some people
with respiratory conditions are advised
not to enter. The floor of the U-shaped
room is covered with about 25 centi-
metres of powder and the room is pitch
dark except for a small candle at the far
end. The sensation of walking along is
much better than the fine sands of the
Caribbean or the Indian oceans or the
sand dunes of certain deserts (maybe
because only our sense of touch is be-
ing stimulated). Did you ever feel like
walking on a cloud? This is as close
as you can get. By the way, if you have
ever skydived you would know clouds
are not as pleasant as they look.
One word of advice: do not tackle
your friends, otherwise you will be es-
corted out of the building by the secu-
rity guards.
Cildo Meireles is on until the 11th
of January at the Tate Modern.
Tickets cost £8 or free with gal-
lery admission concessions
This is entitled “Red Shift: 1 Impregnation 1967-84”. I can see where the red shift bit comes from, but “impregnation”?

