N o . 7 5 I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E March I8t
-h
"955
I . C . R E P R E S E N T A T I V E I N G E R M A N Y
MINES ELECTIONS
Hugh Huokin and Robin Appleby were returned
unopposed to the posts of President and Secretary
respectively at the Mines Union. Hugh Huokin i s
well known for h i s rugby playing and boxing prowess.
Robin Appleby, l a anothesr sportsman who has rowed
for I.C. »and is the Chaps Club Sec
PREMATURE UNION DEMOLITIONS
The Annual dinner of the Imperial College Mountaineering
Club was held in the Staff Common Room last Friday.
The guests and members attended a talk by Dr. R. Scott"
Russell preoeeding the dinner.
Dr. Scott Russell, the son-in-law of Professor Finoh,
guide philosopher, and instructor of the olub in past years,
gave a brief account of his olimbing experiences In the
New Zealand Alps, and then passed on to his favourite
"well-known" climb in the £nutt Ridge of the Matterhorn.
Dr. Soott Russell then'went on to describe the Imperial
College expedition to Jan Meyan, telling of the scientific
as well as the climbing achievements of the party. Soott
Russell who studied Botany at I.C. was the second In
command of the expedition.
The toast to the guests was given by M.R. Piggott and
was replied to by Wing Commander Beaumon of the Alpine Club
who suggested that a possible source of the Xehti or
Abominable Snowman was guests who having had too much to
drink at olub dinners went out into the dark night never
to be seen again.
Dr. Soott Russell had hoped to convey a message from
Professor Finch who is now in India, but the message had
not yet arrived. He was sure however that the message
would congratulate the club on attaining its 25th
Anniversary.
Dr. G. Wilson ,who was the first president,proposed that
Club and said he hoped that he would be present for the
Golden Jubilee.
J. Alexander gave his Presidential address after
delaying i t as long as the members (now slightly affected
by oertain alcoholic liquids) would allow. After saying
he did not know any clean jokes he proceeded to tell one
whioh nearly broke the duration record for this type of
story. He followed this by a more serious discourse on
the clubs forthcoming trip to the Alps.
Finally the evening finished in the bar with the
traditional traverse of the Union Entrance Hall made more
difficult by the loss of two doors and the first contender
pulling down all the holds.
THE QUEEN MOTHER,
NEW U. L. CHANCELLOR.
Quean Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, attended a special
meeting of the Convocation at Senate House on Thursday, 3rd
March, where Her Majesty was elected as Chancellor by the
enthusiastic acclamation of all present.
After accepting the Declaration of Election, Hair Majesty
replied to the Chairman of Convocation. In the reply, the
new Chancellor said:
"It is my hope that I may be able to forge a peractial
link between myself and this great University (of London) -
with its busy life, and its ever growing service to scholar-
ship and to Citizenship.
*Xou may rest assured that I shall do all that lies in
•y power to promote the successful development and future
prosperity of our University".
The installation oeremonies of the new Chancellor will
take place in November of this year.
PETER LEMIN VISITS BERLIN WITH
STUDENTS FROM THIRTEEN NATIONS AS
GUEST OF CHARLOTTENBURG UNIVERSITY
THE TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY OF CHARLOTTENBURG IS THE IMPERIAL
COLLECT OF BERLIN, W
H
E
R
E FOUR THOUSAND STUDENTS STUDY SdENCE
AND ENEDIKSRTNC. TEE COLLEGE BUILDINGS, WHICH WERE (F THE
FAISER WILHKUI PERIOD, WERE BURNED OUT DURING THE WAR, BUT
HEW LABORATORIES AND LECTURE R
O
O
M
S ARE BEING CONSTRUCTED IN
THE CHARRED SHELL.
As Berlin i s an island in the Russian zone, contact
! betweem its students and those from abroad is very limited
During this visit, i t was hoped to show the guests the life
of Berlin In both West and East Sectors. Peter Leads was
chosen by the I.C. Executive to represent our college among
the group of foreign students Invited by the Stalents'
Union. He recorded these impressions of of the e
,
£
g
h
t days
he spent in the German capital.
"Since the blockade of 1948, life in West Berlin has
shown a steady improvement for ita citizens. Although many
gaps are s t i l l to be seen in the streets, new blocks of flats
offloes, and roads have been built and the soars of war are
disappearing steadily. The shops are well filled and people
apparently have the money to buy.
The German students took us to the Berlin Kind! Brewery
and to the Ernst Renter power station which was partly re-
equipped during the blockade. They did not neglect the social
side, however, and took us to the Opera, the Theatre and
introduced us to some of the Night-Clubs. These night iclubs
are very cheap by London standards and the price of a beer
enables one to see the floor show and danoe with the young
girls provided.
"On pre-war weekends the Berllne**would visit the many
lakes and woods surrounding the city for his pleasures. Now
he cannot travel more than seven miles from the centre of
the West Sector and so he makes his amusements in hie own
neighbourhood. The West Sector fortunately includes one large
lake and a forest, and in Sumner these are very popular.
"We visited the Russian Sector and here one sees a very
different picture. In the centre, at least, rebuilding is
virtually confined to a new Russian Embassy and a long street
called the Stalin Allee, which is filled with large white
buildings in the Moscow style. Thereis very little traffio
and advertisements are confined to Political exhortations. As
the tube train passee into the East Sector, Western newspapers
disappear— possession of one may bring a term of imprisonment.
On leaving the last East Sector tube station, sn announcer
says, "You are now leaving the daaocratio sector." Just to
prove this, papers from the undemocratic West reappear.
"Despite many difficulties, the West Berlin students have
a full college life, and they proved to be charming and
groerodi boats."
REFECTORY COMMITTEE MEETING
At the Refectory Sub Committee meeting on Monday, the
main item under discussion was the provision of new accom-
odation for the lunch hour. Mr Mooney will be taking over
from Miss Bowling ( Queenie to you ), so that the whole of
the catering for the College will come under his jurisdiction.
During the Saster Vacation, the Snack Bar will be used for
the serving of breakfasts, but on the 28th* March, and from
then on, both luncheons and suppers will be served in the
Ayrton Hall* The tines are as at present, though i t may be
found practicable to shorten them if the demand is small
during the evening meal.
It is hoped that the Union will reopen on the 25th.
April, from whioh date dinners and suppers will be served here
also. All other functions, including Society Dinners, will
take place under the direction of Mr Mooney in the Ayrton Hall.
Felix wishes him the best of luck on his new, and difficult
venture*

