Jt*'"" HE! HLdi
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL C O L L E T
.ITCM; j?. A.E.SOUThGAIfi Circulation : 1200
On Thursday last, City and Guilds College adopted a proposal
which may have far-reaching effects on future Guildsmen - the
idea of a Fresher's Dinner with undergraduate hosts. The idea,
is not a new one, for many years ago Guilds held such a dinner,
and Mines s t i l l do. However new or not the proposal shows great
foresight.
We all know that the three colleges of I.C. are due to ex-
pand in numbers in the next few years,butnot many of us have
interested ourselves in what will happen to the future Corpo-
rate lifeof our respective Unions. We pride ourselves in our
social life; but there is grave danger looming ahead which
forebodes evil on this life- threatening to turn I.C. into yet
another polytechnic institute.
Unless we,the present students, make the effort to interest
the Freshman in this society or that club, and to meet his fellows
out of worktime, tills danger cannot be averted. The Fresher's
Dinner is the answer that Mines have found successful, and
that Guilds have adopted. Let us hope the scientists
follow suit.because unless something i s done, there are
going to bo more Brown Baggers in I.C.than exist im the
whole of H.L.
D
R
A
M.
S
o
c.
p
R
o
D
U
C
T
I
O
N.
The Dramatic Society* s offerings thi3 term were
Chekhov's comedy, "The Proposal", and Jean Anouilh's
Modern version of "Antigone".
"The Proposal", although hardly .typical Chekhov,
served as a light hors d' oeuvre to the more serious fare.
Due to some very good acting, none of the humour was lost
- indeed, i t wa3 added to by Martin Jacobs' gymnastics.
It was felt, however, that he and Rosemary Melville would
still be at loggerheads had not Dick Saunders managed to
get the proposal carried without a division.
Ian Duff s production (in three weeks!) of''Antigone w
was far above the general run of College dramatios, and he
is to be congratulated on this polished performance. He
also had no mean role as chorU3, and oame through with
flying colours.
Lea Allen excelled in a long and difficult portrayal
of Creon- a very different part from others he has pre-
viously taken. The play was really made by magnificent
cut and thrust dialogue between him and Judith Korhbluth,
whose Antigone was superb, to say the least.
Of the supporting characters, Rosemary Melville was
very good a3 Antigone's nurse, and although Haemon (Michael
Spence) seemed a trifle uncertain when facing the girl-
friend, he was very impressive when wrangling with his
father, Creon^
Light relief was afforded by Derek Hill's cockney
"First Guard". The other two Guards had smaller parts -
John Hendy's northern brogue was quite pleasing, but Dan
Boyle's acoent seemed rather out of plaoe.
Kathy Dent as Surydice had very little to do except
knit, and i t was quite a relief when Tony Eycott eventually
opened his mouth.
The set and backoloth were very effective, and the
lighting was excellent. It is a pity that the audienoe
was no reflection on the merits of the play, which deserved
better.
We hear that the denizens of the Senior
Common Room are investing in a painting.
Finding that they had some £75 to spend,
their committee selected a work, on show
in a gallery in town, and staff members
have been going along to examine i t .
Such an investment is a good one,and
perhaps the example might be followed by
our Union. Apparently one provincial
university some years ago began investing in one
good painting a year and now have a valuable
collection. Its worth is inoreasing as the years.
•J. We are sorry to hear that "Charlie" Chester, the man
• we profiled in our last issue, is onoe again in bed,
after breaking his ankle in the Mines v. R.C.S. Cup
game. last time you will remember i t was 'flu.
• Mr. Hewby, well known for his work as Vacation Work
Offioer, has moved to 178, Queens Gate. Most of the
I.C. Administration staff are now at 178 or 179 in
SJueens Gate, in accordance with the expansion 3chema.
a*. Two King's College students had the nerve to come up
to I.C, last week, in reply to the reply to an advert-
isement in the U.L.Rag. They thought that they would
meet two Icwarians. As they described themselves as
mysogynists, the men of I.C. decided that they should
leave as such, so thsy were driven away to South Kan.
tube station in a Builders handcart, dressed in slips
instead of trousers.
•yw Insertion: Stop Press News: - Does anybody want a Chess
9
report? The FELIX Sports Editor is at the moment com-
plaining bitterly that he's not having i t on his page
- ssye "That's not a sportJ" - Nelson is not having
i t either.
HELP FELIX1
• • I f you are a writer, a r t i s t , c r i t i c , typist,
photographer, interested i n cheso, or just
willing to do what you can to help, drop a note
to the Bailor i n the Union letter rack. The hours
do not exceed a morning or an afternoon every other
Sunday. The time Is well spent, in good company,
(including the FELIX athlete in his usual b r i l l i a n t
waistcoat). Just drop a note in the rack, that's all-.
Martin Jacob and a sub-committee of four are at
present working on the Guilds' contribution to the
Lord Mayor's Show. They have to work out a suitable
theme and the cost of the contribution.
jtm On Tuesday the 8th, a packed House defeated a
••motion that everybody had thought would carry:
"That i n the Opinion of this House, University
Education should be to provide a Technique of
Living, not a Technique of Barnlng." Two guest
speakers from Bedford supported the debate,
which produced several good speeches from the
floor. The notion was lost 7 2 - 3 9 , with 25
abstentions. So now we know why I.C. 11 fe is so
dull.
J. The laet week of term w i l l also be the last
week of the present
gentlemen please !
Advertisers' Announcement:
'Coming to Claridge's John? I t seems tne
perfect way to end the term.1
'Yes, as a matter of fact I nad tnougi.t
about i t , let's make up a party. I ' l l go along to
tue Unian Office right away and ge'. a ticrtet.I n ipe
they've s t i l l some l e f t . '
PEBBQflAL AOTK81S.
s a x Teas may be obtained from third year Aero,
table nearest door at Queenies. W per cup. Ho qoeueing.
B.B.

