4
FELIX
FOOD SURVEY (PART z)
This we
with what la
the o r i t l c i s
existing oat
and the Ayrt
that as the
Intents and
there is l i t
f a c i l i t i e s
ek we conclude the Pood Survey,
perhaps the most important part;
m and suggested improvement ef the
ering arrangements in both the Onion
on Hall. It may seem at f i r s t sight
Union is due to be demolished to a l l
purposes for at least eighteen months
tie point, i f any, in c r i t i c i s i n g the
hioh w i l l be taken away a l l too soon.
Thl3 is simply not true. For the f i r s t time in
the colleges' history, the average student has
been able to speak his mind en masse on the sub-
ject of HIS dinner, - and on dinners i n general.
The resulting flood of curses and compliments was
something of a revelation.
We w i l l present them to you in three sec-
tions: general grumbles, particular grumbles,
and suggestions. Incidentally, there i s a sug-
gestions book kept in the Union, which receives
regular attention at the hands of the Refeotory
Sub-Committee, for the use of the student and
the staff. There were no more than half a dozen
people who praised the existing arrangements.
Seotlon 1) General Grumbles.
As one gentleman put i t on his question-
naire, there are too many Q
Q
Q
Q
.
Q
Q
Q
. A natural
result of this, is that an average student has to
wait ouarter of an hour t i l l he oan eat. When
he arrives at the head of the queue, he finds that
there are too few popular dishes, the food supply
is irregular, and there i s not enough of i t .
What is more, the presentation seems to upset his
aesthetic nature, and the food is lukewarm or cold
on receipt. One person suggests that the oost
should be compared to that at other colleges, such
as Northampton Polytechnic Many believe the con
ditions of serving can be cleaner, especially in
the Snack Bar.
(Editor's Note: Even though most of these com-
plaints are valid to some degree or other, most
people f a i l to realize the tremendous diffioulties
that the Refectory staffs have to faoe.)
Section 2) Particular Grumbles
L.D.H. U-D.H. and Snack Bar.
No ooffee after lunoh; Soggy chips; Dirty
tables (the remedy for this lies with the student),
Inadequate seating; staff smoking; etc. etc.
Ayrton Hall
No soup; Small portions; No variety; Burnt
sausages; Stacks of dirty dishes; Stale r o l l s ;
etc. etc.
Section 3) Suggestions.
After reading through the previous section
i t i s a welcome relief to read the more serious
suggestions. Some are praoticable; some are not.
We hope the Refeotory Committee w i l l consider them
with not too incensed feelings.
Many people suggest that the methods adopted
by J. Lyons and Co. could be studied with advantage
The use of two cash desks is considered to be a
good idea during the rush hour, together with a
"Lay-by" for those people who would prefer to wait
until their ohoice has been presented. The old
idea of staggering the Lunoh Hour appeared i n
various guises.
Another muoh voiced opinion was the voluntary
choioe of extras, such as potatoes, for whioh a
small additional charge oould be made. But.
above a l l was the cry, "Cut down the Queues!"
To nonolude our l i t t l e survey, a few of the
more amusing replies are printed below.
Anon.
- The Cashier is very nioe; pity the other dishes are not
like her.
(Please note this dish i s now off the menu; the lady in
question has now left! Id.)
,. P.G.
I oannot afford to buy a lunoh with beer the prioe i t i s !
One other interesting point came to light
during the survey. It seems that many post-
grads, especially In R.C.S., as one put i t ,
consider themselves above the "aoramon proles".
These gentlemen also appear to have lost the
a b i l i t y to spell oorreotly any word with more
than four syllables.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
R.C.S
The Bditor, 21-2-55.
Felix.
Dear Sir,
I think the Tinker, who last week suggested that Cassandra
is suffering from a metallurgical misfit, was entirely misguided.
In fact, R.C.S. likes to help any of its ladies who are
ao obviously afflioted. I therefore eaolose a platform (whioh
I hope you will be able to forward to her) on whioh she oan
further purify her soul to the amusement of the Tinsmiths.
Tours sincerely,
G.A.3.
(Ed. : enclosed with the letter was a tiny wooden soap box,
inside which a block of 'Puritan' soap rested. Cassandra
thanks G.A.S.)
The Bditor,
Felix.
Dear Sir,
Aocording to the last issue of Felix, hope of further
hostel accomodation for I.C. ia now gone, as the U.G.C. does
not see its way to providing the neoesaary £1,000 per person
for a new hostel.
Surely this is a very defeatist attitude. Provision for
living-in is ritual for any university worthy of the name and
i t is obvious on the most superficial examination that I.C.
suffers from the relative lack of i t . This situation we all
know will be made worse in the near future i f something is not
done now.
A new hostel would be rather beyond us, but surely two
thousand students oan raise enough money to purchase on lease
one or two of the otherwise unused houses of the type in
Exhibition Rd. for use as further hostel accomodation.
I do not suggest that direot contributions will be
sufficient, but a little ingenuity and hard work will often
make a lot of money.
Let us do something now before i t is too late.
R. L.
Imperial College Hostel,
S.W.7.
Bear Sir,
I hope this week you will find further opportunities
to Fillmore spaces with his usual brilliant name.
Yours etc.,
F, 3.1m,I Fan
Old Hostel,
13,3,55
The Editor of Felix.
Dear Sir,
Spurred on by the remarks in Nelson's Column I should
like to aomment on your sports editions of the penultimate
issue.
"Let us examine a few details of our inglorious reoord"
- call a spade a spade i f you like but to describe our
reoord as inglorious is utter rubbish. One might think
from the editorial that the main purpose of fielding team
was to amass cups. If your Sport's Editor really thinks
this, then he is wrong. It is well known that knook out
oup oompetitiona although exoiting and nice to win are not
a really fair criterion on whioh to judge a team.
Of the nineteen olubs on A.C.O. brief exerpts from the
reoords of six were reviewed and the prospeots of two sur-
mised and so the achievements and potentialities of more
than half the olubs were not even oon3idered. Practically
all of .the athletio olubs have had very good seasons,
several have been outstandingly successful and no doubt the
'summer clubs' will aquit themselves well. A number of
olubs oan field the strongest team in the University and at
least two are stronger than U.L.
fhen the accounts are audited at the end of the year,
1954-55 will hardly appear ao one of the leaner sporting
years.
Alastair Fairbairn.
^ „ ^ A n
? t
* e r l e t t e r o n
same aubjeot has been
reoeived from w.J.L.
JUDO CLUB HOP IN QU12INIES ON SATURDAY AT 8.0 - L1.30.
TICKETS AT TWO SHILLINGS SINGLE AND THREE AND SIX DOUBLE
BAR. BRTAN SPOONER'S BAND,

