6 F E L I X
U L C H A M P I O N S H I P S
HEAD OF THE RIVER-PREVIEW.
When instituting the Head of the River Race fro. Mortlake
to Putney (the reverse Boat Race course) in 1926, Steve Pair-
bairn wrote that this race would "do mare for rowing than any-
thing has done yet." By 1930, eighty crews were racing and
the number has steadily increased until today there are 230
crews entered in both "best" and clinker built boats.
The winners of the first race in 1926 were London R.O.
and apart from sharing the Head with Thames R.C. the following
year, they remained champions until 1935- Imperial College
Boat Club had the honour of being the first oollege crew to
"go Head" in 1946, beating Jesus College, (Cambridge) who
reversed the position in 1947 end won again in t951 and 1952.
This year the race will be rowed tomorrow Saturday, 19th
March and the I.C.B.C. has entered its first nine crews to
row the 4< miles. Last year's finishing positions were 8th,
28th, 79th, 119th, 158th, 195th, 212th, 221st, the ninth crew
being one of the new entries whioh start in alphabetical order
at the back.
The competition for the Headship t his year is keen.
The. R.A.F. crew (the present holders) are very fit and will
bo making every effort to stay "out in front." The Thames
and London crews are fast, the Thames crew being credited with
some very fast timesin bad conditions. The other college -
Jesus, have gone Head in the Lent Bumps on the Cam and will
be stiff opposition.
The 1.0. first VIII, with plenty of power and ability at
its disposal, although slightly lacking in "togetherness",
have great spirit and determination in spite of (or because
of) the many setbacks this term. Having some 450 miles of
hard work to their credit and the shook of seeing the films
of the Staines trip still fresh in their memory, their faults
are rapidly disappearing and with their present rate of improve-
ment they look like justifying the pains of the coach.
Any success of the first VIII will be shared by that plucky
team of lightweights, the second VIII who have not spared them-
selves in their efforts to be the fastest I.C. crew and who
h' re given the big chaps some uneasy times earlier this year.
A very neat orew with all the guts in the world, they will be
expeoted in the first division. The third VIII, who have
already showed their ability against their opposite number at
Reading University, will go up. Likewise the fourth VIII
and the fresher crews who are promising material display that
elusive quantity - club spirit. In general, the lower boats
have their own private battles fighting to go from Nth to
(N - 10th) or better and as the tendency is to follow the
upper boats - 'nuff said.
We wish all the coxes good luck; theirs is the headache
but they can do so much to bring the boys home those few
seconds earlier by their spirit, keeness and ability, to say
nothing of the course they steer.
To Kim Ash, (the Captain) and to the Club let us say
"Have a 0oc row, with all of your share of good luck*.
CRICKET.
I.C. Crioket Club w i l l be holding practice matches
nets and t r i a l s at Harlington at 2.30 pm oni-
Saturday, 23rd April.
Monday, 25th April.
Wednesday, 27th April.
On the club notice -board in the Union there are
notices which should be Rigned by freshers and 'old'
members who wish to play this season.
ALL aHK UtiSLCOMJi I
The clubs f i r s t matches are on April 30th against
formidable opponents in Heading University.
It is hoped that people who played in last years
f i r s t team w i l l be available for practice during
the mornings of April 23rd and 25th.
— — — — — . — - — . —
JUDO
I.C. 9pts. Hatfield T.C. 5pts.
0a paper the Hatfield team was much stronger than leC'S
but on the mats I»C. proved to be the more 3killful and
experienced team. Burford gave a good example of this by
using a KAEShTWAZA to a KUZURE-KAtfI3HIH0GA.TAl*E that he
learnt when the team visited the Metropolitan Polios. This
surprised both his opponent and the referee, J.G»Barnes,
Chairman of the British Judo Association.
The other three members of the team all ^Jpwgat wall.
Williams surprising all by convincingly beating Til a.ib) ffim
graded opponent.
/. C. WIN U. L. 7-ASIDES.
BBLL GETS THE BALL BACK TO LE M
A
R
Q
U
A
N
D IN THE QUARTER FINAL.
On Saturday last I.C. I romped home victors of the Uni-
versity Seven-a-Sides tournament at Hotspur Park. After the
early dismissal of I.C. II at the hands of Q
.
M
.
C
. I the
first seven,ably led by Fontin were able to show their true
worth and reached the final by defeating Vets 16-0, Gold-
smiths i9 - 0 and Westminster by a goal to a penalty goal.
In the Final which was played before the crowded Hotspur Park
grandstand I.C. met Kings. After taking a couple of minutes
to settle down I.C. attacked time and again until Fontin went
over for an unconverted try. After the interval Beambroke
through for the second try but a defensive lapse allowed King's
to score under the posts thus gaining their only 3 pts. I.C.
now attacked relentlessly and further tries from Pontin and
Corlett. the former being converted by Hearn gavo I.C. the
decisive victory of 1lf pts. to 3 pts. This fine performance
was essentially a combined effort but mention must be made of
the fine breaks of Le Marquand at sorum-half and of the strong
running of Palmer when given the ball.
At the Rugger Danoe in the evening the cup was presented
to Pontin after whioh harassed barmen lost count of the number
of times i t was drained of its contents by a team whioh had
now made drastic changes in its training diet programme.
SAILING CLUB SUCCESS
For the fifth year in succession the Sailing Club ha*
won the University Championship. This year, however, i t
obtained second place as well. The Chajepionahip was decided
upon the beat five of seven races held during the winter
tens*
The new boat Pajsnlua arrived after the first race bad
been baud and so eould only afford one Mistake. After a seoond
In the next race i t was forced to retire in the third.
Prospects did not look too good, and the other three I.C.
boats had fared no better* However, J.Conway-Jones, crowed
in the main by H.Jackson, found his old form at last and won
the last four races. Seoond position was s t i l l very open
with several of the 20 boats placed favorably. T.Rodgars,
erawed by C.Gent, brought the I.C. boat home.
FENCING
The Fencing Club are in the prooess of recording their
best season for a long period. They have so far won 5 out
of 7 * tohes fought, and also won the team prize in the U.L.
Indivicjal Championships by a comfortable sargin.
The most enoouraging features of this season's results
are the great iiojrovesBnt of the epee fencing, and the
solidarity of the sabre tesn.whioh is as yet unbeaten.
In the U.L. Tournament, I.C. was the only te<un to be
represented in all three finals. Saddy won the aabre title
with an unbeaten record, and Knill, the oaptain, was second,
having lost only to Heddy.
RUGGER- SPARKES CUP
R.C.S. 6 Mines ?
R.C.S., superior in the backs, scored a surprise win over
the Mines. Mines, playing with the wind, led 5 - 0 at half-
time, but tries by Barnes and Shepherd, one of whioh was con-
verted by Coates, won the day for R.C.S.
The game was marred by a number of injuries, the worst
being a broken ankle for J. Chester. We wish him a speedy
recovery.
Next Wednesday R.C.S. meet Guilds - supporters would
be waloome.
Published by the FELIX i ^ T T m p e n a , College Un.on, London. S W 7
Printed by S' it Vous Plait Ltd., 2, Exhibition RJ. S. \\ 7

