THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 2
FELIX
Television Editors Guilia Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ICTV: The Television Station of Imperial College London
Pete Brook tells us how you can get involved and get yourself on screen
INTERESTED IN STRATEGY CONSULTING?
Learn more about Parthenon
ABOUT PARTHENON AND EY
Parthenon combined with Ernst & Young LLP on August 29, 2014. Parthenon is a leading advisory organization focused on strategy consulting. We are committed to combining our unconventional
thinking with our clients’ smarts to deliver actionable strategies. In today’s complex business landscape, creativity has become a necessary ingredient for sustained success. Together with EY,
we have an ideal balance of strengths – specialized expertise with broad executional capabilities, intimate client relationships with larger networks of support, and proven processes along with a
progressive spirit – to unlock opportunity for our clients, amplify the impact of our strategies, and make Parthenon the global partner of choice for business leaders.
INTERESTED IN STRATEGY CONSULTING? Learn more about Parthenon
Unconventional Thinking.
Real Impact. Smart. Nice. Driven.SM
These are the words we use to define
who we are, what we value and
what we seek in individuals.
TO LEARN MORE ABOUT PARTHENON, PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT WWW.CAREERS.PARTHENON.COM
Find Us & Join the Conversation
IMPORTANT DATES
» Parthenon Information Session: Thursday, October 16, 2014, Time: 18.00, Imperial College London Campus
» Application Deadline (Seniors, Full-Time Associate Position): Thursday, November 6, 2014
» Application Deadline (Juniors, Summer Intern Associate Position): Friday, January 9, 2015
Ioriginally joined ICTV (formerly
STOIC) two years ago with the
intention of arriving, borrowing
lights and cameras for a film, then
never returning.
This plan backfired and since I
have since entered and run film
competitions, vision mixed the
Varsity Rugby (which got watched
live in 10+ countries), run around
insanely during the live Union
Election Hustings Show and have
filmed countless events including
TEDx talks and awesome society
shows!
Last year we took some first time
filmmakers who barely knew which
end of a camera to point at the action
(that might be an exaggeration, they
were really quite good) and turned
them into award winning filmmakers
(2 Commendations in National
Student TV Awards isn’t bad!)
This summer has been all systems
go in ICTV (found in the West
Basement in Beit with all the other
media folk). We have had a complete
redevelopment, with all new studio
space, lights, editing computers, 4k
screens, jazzy new cameras and every
other things you could possibly need
to start a high end production.
We have a plethora of shows we
need feet on the ground for. Whether
you want to write, present, direct,
produce, hold a camera, set up live
broadcasts or just about anything that
involves a moving image on a screen.
We’ve got news, sports, film shows,
music shows, science shows and we
want you to come up with ideas for
your own shows, as this really is the
point of having the tech here.
We are particularly looking for
reporters for both our news coverage
and sports coverage. There are so
many competitions and matches
going on, from ping-pong to
rugby and we need people who are
passionate about any sport you can
think of to go to film them and get
interviews afterwards.
Basically if you think you can make
some awesome shows or films you
should come and join us! We are in
the Media Hub in the West Basement
of the Union every Wednesday from
18:00 for you to come and say “Hello”,
or instead you could email us at
ICTV@imperial.ac.uk.
Last year's ICTV after winning the ARCS Sports Media of the Year for their
coverage of varsity. Photo: Max Hunter
"we want
you to
come
up with
ideas for
your own
shows."
"This
summer
has been all
systems go
in ICTV."

