4 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
Arts Editor Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
To A Dear Friend
Eamonn Postlethwaite
Make your mark. With us
BCG IS RECRUITING
THIS SUMMER
The Boston Consulting Group is a global management
consulting firm, which works with the world’s leading businesses
on their toughest strategic and operational questions.
We are seeking exceptional candidates from varied academic
backgrounds to join our London office.
For more details please visit our website or Facebook page:
imperial.bcg.com
www.facebook.com/BCGinLondon
Key dates
Application submission
Interviews in the London office*
Joining dates are flexible from August 2014 through 2015
*Arrangements can be made to hold interviews in other countries for candidates leaving the UK
5 May–21 June
3 July–18 July
POETRY CORNER What’s On: This Week’s Top 5
This week is art fair week in London and
none of them is more of a must-see than
Frieze Art Fair.Yes it’s over commercialised
and can be pretty hit and miss but you do
get a good idea of where contemporary art
is now and,maybe,where it is going.
FriezeLondon,15-18October,Regent’sPark
Piggybacking on Frieze Week is a
quirky but no less worthwhile art fair.1:54
Contemporary African Art Fair returns for
a second year and promises to display the
best of what young artists on the continent
have to offer.
1:54,16-19October,SomersetHouse
If you want to escape some of the fair
mania,head to the Late Turner exhibition
at Tate Britain.It is a truly unforgettable
experience.In his later works,Turner
abstracted his technique much more,
resulting in mesmerising fields of colour
that were decades ahead of their time.
LateTurner,Until25January,TateBritain
If abstract is your thing,Malevich at the
Tate Modern explores the life of an artist
who took avant-garde to its limits.The
showcase helps explain the philosophy
behind his Suprematist movement,making
it seem less incomprehensible and more
incredible.Long Live the Black Square!
Malevich,Until26October,TateModern
Finally,if you’re sick of traipsing around
galleries and want to explore what
London’s stage has to offer,head down
to the Old Vic to see an adaptation of the
classic story of Electra.The play,starring
Kristin Scott Thomas in the leading role,
has received rave reviews and so it may be
a bit tricky to secure tickets but it’s worth a
try!
Electra,Until20December,TheOldVic.
An inch! An inch!
My soul for an inch.
All new Shakespeare now skimmed and (!) reduced
for an age gagging on empty stomachs.
Politely, and with token cheeky smile,
(all teeth still present)
my offer of a meagre supper limps dejectedly into memory
to gnaw away at my stomach.
I would scream
“The measure of you comes not from the tape that binds you!
The weight of your actions is not so simple as mass!”
But it would pass straight through her hollow form.
It would not fill her,
save with a grimmer determination
to fight (flee)
the edible enemy.
It would not warm her,
or restore to her any vigour,
or heal her cracking skin,
or return her lost dimensions.
It would not rekindle her many joys,
each consumed a little more,
as she a little less.
Indeed even as she refuses the act,
she is being salivated over and swallowed whole,
a mere tasty morsel, and by necessity
only one of thousands.
I wish I could eat for her,
so she could get on with digesting the committee of vultures and scum
called high society.
I wish she would sniff up the beauty of wild flowers,
rather than endless contours of cocaine
(it leaves her feeling thin)
Nature cannot be denied,
and yet she soldiers vainly on,
for each new note on her xylophone makes her grin.
(some teeth missing, thin hair)
And so empty girl,
next time you find yourself free,
wander trance like through the British Museum,
to fill yourself with culture if nothing else.
But notice Aphrodite.
Even motionless and hewn from old cold stone,
she is more alive.
Not merely big boned now, but gruesome, sickening, fat!
Now I want to vomit.

