The essential winter trends – on a student budget
Editor Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
"The gold
trend is a
great way
to brighten
up a chilly
autumn
day."
Cecile Borkhataria has the latest catwalk trends that won’t break the bank
Want to look on trend this season without breaking the bank? Look no further.
These looks are inspired by designer catwalks, and luckily, they won’t leave you
with an empty pocket.
Sixties Silhouettes
Sixties style shift dresses with knee high boots were spotted on the fall/winter
runways of Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent and Louis Vuitton. To tone down the
look for a less “I just came out of the sixties with a time machine” appeal, pair
this white Missguided shift dress with a pair of ballet flats or ankle boots and
a long cardigan for a polished daytime look. To work the trend for dinner or
on a night out, wear this black halterneck number also by Missguided. Pair it
with red lipstick, simple black heels and a single statement bracelet or bangle
to complete the evening look.
Oversize Coats
Actually, oversize everything.
This season, oversize coats are a big trend everywhere. Spotted on the Prada,
Chanel and Schumacher runways, this style is easy to pull off and effortlessly
chic. This kind of coat can be worn everyday with casual wear and even on a
cold night out. Pair it with skinny jeans on a cold day or wear it with a mini
skirt on the milder autumn days. By night, wear it with your favourite heels
and a dress for a polished evening look. Try this ecru version by mango, its
muted colour will make it easy to co-ordinate with any outfit.
White dress and Black dress, both from Missguided.com, £24.99
Gold Rush
Gold featured heavily on the Autumn/Winter designer runways, and the
trend is a great way to brighten up a chilly autumn day. It’s easy to incorporate
in your wardrobe, and if gold garbs aren’t your thing, then you can rock the
trend with gold accessories, like this gold bangle by Tory Burch. If you want
to incorporate the look in your wardrobe in a not-so-flashy way, try out
this golden sweater by Zara. Its subtle golden finish will brighten up your
wardrobe.
Anoraks
Thankfully, this season’s trends have
reflected an appetite for practical
fashion. A stylish wool coat is all
well and good, but with the Autumn
showers in full swing, an anorak is the
perfect transitional piece. Light and
breathable for mild days whilst still
protecting you from pesky autumn
showers.
The anorak has been seen on
the runways for MiuMiu, Stella
McCartney and Christopher Kane,
just to name just a few. The trend
shows that high end fashion is
changing, becoming less formalised
than it has been in the past. Fashion is
no longer embarrassed by function!
For a sporty chic vibe, pair an
anorak with a dress on milder days.
On those gray, wet days, wear it with
your favourite jeans and wellies
and you’ll be kitted out to brave
the elements! Uniqlo offers a great
range of anoraks for just £24.90 in
a rainbow of different colours. At
that price, you can’t go wrong, and
you may as well pick up one or two in
different shades.
Extreme Turtlenecks
How do you make a boring knit
sweater just a little more interesting?
You add a turtleneck of course! This
trend, popular in the 1960’s, has been
making a strong comeback recently.
Thankfully, much like the anorak
trend, this speaks to a paradigm shift
in the fashion industry. Elements of
practical fashion have been embraced
like never before this season. Armed
with knitted turtlenecks and oversize
coats this winter, you’ll be nice and
toasty and ready to brace the cold.
To tone down the dramatic look, pair
a turtleneck with a thick scarf and
minimal accessorising.
Left: Schumacher coat fall/winter 2014. Right: Mohair blend coat, Mango,
£44.99 River Island turtleneck, £30.00
Uniqlo parka, £24.90
Above: Tory Burch bangle, £85.00.
Right, Zara sweater, £25.99
"oversize
coats are...
easy to pull
off and
effortlessly
chic."
27 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014

