1 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mount Kinabalu: the trip to the peak
The majestic mountain peeking out from behind the clouds on a bright
summer's day Photo: Aditya Narayanan
Aditya Narayanan tells us all about her summer adventure
For seasoned mountain
climbers, Mount Kinabalu is
considered an entrée; a quick
practice hike to prepare for tougher
tests. Despite the fact that no serious
mountaineering equipment is
necessary, it remains an intimidating
venture to the first-timer, and one
that is not to be underestimated.
The route to the summit is 8.7
kilometres and a constant, reliable
supply of energy is the order of the
day. Athletes may swear by jelly
sweets, Skittles or glucose tablets for
a sugar hit. I’m putting my faith in
blueberry Cream-Os, an ersatz local
variant of Jammie Dodgers (although
Malaysians may justifiably claim that
Jammie Dodgers are an ersatz local
variant of Cream-Os).
Fifteen of us have booked through
the same lodge, an eclectic bunch
ranging from a group of Filipino
mountain climbing enthusiasts, to
some Kings College Medics away on
an elective, plus a few lone wolves
like myself. Most of us had met for
the first time at dinner the previous
night, but a good day of climbing
is more than enough time to forge
friendships.
The minivan enters the park, which
is humming and swirling with tour-
ists from all parts of the world. Some
are here to visit the nature reserve at
the foot of the mountain and some
are fellow climbers, either ready to
embark upwards or triumphantly
returning from the top.
The van speeds on past them to the
first checkpoint at the start of the
ascent, where IDs and climb permits
are checked to prevent interlopers
sneaking in without having paid the
requisite fees. This climb is a must for
visitors to Borneo and although it is
comparatively benign, the mountain
has proved dangerous to the lackadai-
sical traveller. Indeed, it is mandatory
to apply for a licence/permit to climb,
and to have a local guide lead the way
to prevent these kinds of calamities
from happening.
The first 500 metres are, somewhat
bizarrely, downhill – as if to lull you
into a false sense of security. As the
gradient changes to an upward trajec-
tory, I feel a stab in my groin and re-
member having pulled a muscle two
days ago playing five-a-side football
in the jungle. I instantly regret that
decision.
A UNESCO World Heritage site
since 2000, the Kinabalu National
Park has an astonishing level of
biodiversity for any location in the
world, let alone one encompassing
an area of its size. This includes a
scarcely believable 800 species of or-
chids and more species of ferns than
the whole of Africa, not to mention
the infamous Rafflesia flower, known
for its alluring scent of rotting flesh.
Within the first kilometre or so
we spy a few tiny pitcher plants;
there are larger, more magnificent
ones further up. Meanwhile, mon-
keys, squirrels and birds collaborate
unseen to serenade our advance up
the slope, and we are surrounded by a
kaleidoscope of floral colour.
And yet, much of this remains un-
noticed. Bursts of intense, heavy rain
punctuate the slow trudge upwards
like artillery fire, nearly tearing
through the cheap, plastic poncho I
am wearing. The further we go, the
less I notice the environment; I focus
solely on the uneven, orange path
ahead.
The regular rest stops offer some
refuge from this tunnel vision, where
we watch the mountain squirrels,
shrews and an assortment of small
birds playing about in the under-
growth, occasionally venturing out to
forage for crumbs dropped by some
careless climbers.
On and on we go, step by step up
the man-made stairs cut into the
path. Greetings are murmured to
the intermittent streams of people
descending, their weary grins of
satisfaction the only thing keeping us
from quitting. But into the afternoon
this counter-flow reduces to a trickle.
Ascending groups have dispersed
into individuals or duos, constantly
overtaking each other in a race that
no one has the energy to win.
My injury has cut me adrift from
my comrades, and I’m starting to feel
every step reverberate through my
body. The terrain has become more
The obligatory photo next to the peak sign, marking the triumphant trek
through rain and sweat . Photo: Aditya Narayanan
rugged and rocky, with coniferous
trees increasingly bordering the path,
which seems to wind ever steeper
around the mountain.
The vegetation is sparser, and
frequent gaps in the tree line uncover
a window looking out onto the land-
scape further down and a carpet of
green (this is the jungle, after all).
It is now more than 3000 metres
above sea-level, parity with the cloud
level. A fine mist hugs the skin and
the altitude faintly suffocates. I curse
having over-packed for this trip; “You
must be a very strong guy” my guide
Eddie smirks with bemusement.
The bright white blocks of the base
camp appear, thrust out of the side of
the mountain, and I somehow drag
myself to the dorm and throw myself
into bed. The time is now 16:30, and
we will make our summit attempt in
eight hours.
We are up by 01:50 for an early
breakfast. The sleep has done its job
and I feel refreshed and full of energy.
At 02:45 we head off from the base
camp along with a hundred or more
others, forming a single file caravan
distinguishable from afar only by
the pinpricks of light from our head
torches.
There is one more checkpoint to
reach by 05:00 or we will be turned
away from the summit. Helpfully,
the park management committee
have constructed a series of wooden
staircases up the lower reaches of this
stretch. Progress is slow, this time
because of the sheer volume of traffic
moving uphill, and we can see noth-
ing except the heels of the person in
front.
A solid rock face looms out of the
black night; we must now use a rope
to pull ourselves up.
I find it surprisingly easy to haul
myself up the slope, a feeling shared
by those around me, although I
suspect this may just be adrenaline
pushing us forward. After what feels
like only ten minutes, we come up
to a small porta-cabin, and for the
second time I must get out my climb-
ing permit. Only 2 kilometres left to
the summit.
The slope is much less steep at this
point, and progress is smooth despite
the rarefied air. After a while the first
lights of dawn appear on the horizon,
and I quicken my pace slightly. I see
a cluster of lights circling in close
proximity to each other like a swarm
of fireflies; it can only be the summit.
The dawn seems to sense my ap-
proach, for it delays, breaking just as
my foot reaches the uppermost ridge.
There are maybe 30 people along this
narrow strip of rock, bordered by a
rope fence which cordons off a dizzy-
ing drop.
The sun’s rays unfurl onto a blanket
of white cloud. For a moment it feels
like an anticlimax, as if the famous
view at sunrise will be kept. Then the
morning cloud clears, opening up the
jaw-dropping expanse below.
For a fleeting second, I know what it
feels like to be on top of the world.
To those who want to climb, Jungle
Jack’s Backpackers provides the best
rate, which is approximately MYR
600 and includes two night’s accom-
modation at his lodge near the park
and all meals. Unlike other agencies/
lodges (which are grossly overpriced
anyway), you can book climbs at short
notice i.e. a few days in advance.
A spectacular view above the clouds atop the rugged mountain that has
now been conquered . Photo: Aditya Narayanan

