1 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Felix Foodie InSight: #1
We all scream for ice cream, obviously! Photo: Felix
Food
Michelle Tan talks curry & being a Third Culture Kid
Quick curry-basics cheatsheet
New ideas aplenty...
starring YOU!
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
Eh-up,Imperialites–welcome back to another
instalment of Felix Food! The weather’s turned turtle
and it seems all of us in my flat have fallen victim to
some form of Freshers’Flu (despite not being fresh-
ers,pah.) That said,however,it’s perfect weather for
all the comfort foods we associate with winter: stews,
mash,soups...and dare I say it,hot puddings (obvi-
ously with more than a side of custard!)
This week we’re trying out something new where
we feature a profile of one of the die-hard foodies
here at Imperial every fortnight/month.It’s called
Foodie InSight just because you can read it both
as“insight”or“in sight”–yes,I do love my lame
dual-meanings and puns,if you haven’t realized by
now.I know there are loads of you foodies out there
waiting to have your say,and it’s nice to have a look
how everyone’s tastes differ throughout the student
population.Our featured foodie this week (Mich)
is great with curry and making almost all her own
meals; however,maybe there’s another foodie out
there who’s better at European food and eating out
cheaply? We’d love to hear from you,and what tips
you have for us!
In other foodie-related happenings,I went to a
coffee cupping event (cupping’s just a fancy word
for tasting) for the first time ever at Pact Coffee HQ
–most who know me will know that they’re my fa-
vorite coffee wing(wo)men.Some of you may already
be of the opinion that specialty coffee tastings are“as
pretentious”as wine tastings; I have very little knowl-
edge of that,so I can’t comment.I can say however
that the atmosphere of this cupping was anything
but snobby,and most of us were just lay coffee drink-
ers (not experts with super-refined palates).
It was Brazillian coffee on offer so we learned a lot
about its characteristics,and what was happening
there...apparently there’s a serious drought that’s
wrecked a fair bit of the harvest and caused produc-
tion for the year to drop about 25% or so.Coffee’s one
of those finicky things that’s very easily affected by
weather and disease,which has quite a far-reaching
humanitarian effect on the farmers and their fami-
lies.Really sad,so next time you have that cuppa do
spare a thought for the farmers that work so hard!
On that note,I’m going to sign off this editorial.
Hope you enjoy some of Mich’s tips and recommen-
dations for curry and a GLP (great little place) to visit
here in London! Look out for something a bit more up
the cocktail-themed alley next week...
MICHELLE TAN
FOOD WRITER
Hey, my name is...Michelle
I'm from...Malaysia, but I’ve never
lived there! Right now home is
Bangkok, Thailand.
And I study...Chemistry
My university meal habits...I
usually cook all 3 meals a day.
Cooking for me is less of a chore;
it’s more an opportunity for me to
try out all the recipes I have stacked
up in my bookmarks folder. On the
weekends I take a break, and I like to
pick out a café/restaurant I have on
my never-ending list of places to try
in London.
I get most of my food inspiration
from...my mum and grandmother,
for Malaysian food and Asian food
in general. They have taught me
how to make the standard curry,
rendang, kaya (coconut jam) and kueh
(traditional sweets) but with their
own personal twists. I’ll admit it is
a bit difficult to find some of the
ingredients here and sometimes
I’ll need to make substitutions, but
if I ever crave food from “home”,
I’d be able to whip it up quickly.
Thankfully, I’ve stocked up well on
curry pastes and packet sauces from
the local supermarkets in Malaysia
for any emergencies.
Foods/foodie gadgets I can't live
without...I can’t live without my
blender! I’m a huge fan of making my
own green juices as they can be pretty
expensive from juice bars in London.
But that’s not the only thing you can
make in there, though! From soups to
salad dressings, even quick pestos and
hummus...the world is your oyster.
A fond childhood food-related
memory...Whilst I was still living
in Hong Kong (you can tell I’m a
true Third Culture Kid by now) we
used to frequent the rainforest café
at Festival Walk. The theme of the
restaurant is just so kid friendly and
when I walked past the Piccadilly
Circus branch the other day; it
brought back all my happy memories
as a kid growing up in Hong Kong.
My biggest food vice...I cannot say
no to bread! The smell of it wafting
through any bakery in London just
draws me in. I can never find the
same quality back home. If I have
time and temperatures permit my
bread to rise, I like to bake my own.
An added bonus is my house smells
amazing afterwards!
Someone famous I'd like to have a
lunch date with...Jose Andres, who is
a Spanish avant-garde chef and one of
the first few chefs to bring molecular
gastronomy to America. He earned
his fame caramelizing olive oil
and even turning potato chips into
foam. I’d love to ask where he got his
inspiration from to change people’s
mindset on food, and to discuss
how food consumption isn’t just for
the sake of providing nutrition but
providing customers with a unique
experience.
My funniest food gaffe...I was
being ambitious and wanted to make
myself some Thai green curry with
some curry paste I brought from
home. Little did I know that this
one little sachet had the potency of
like…15 small green chilies. Without
tasting the paste I decided I needed
about half the pack to make a portion
for myself. When I took the first bite
I had a flashback to when I had bitten
into a small green chili thinking it
was a vegetable, the pain and the heat
is indescribable. No matter how much
water I downed I could not get rid of
the burning sensation. I just laughed
at myself, all the while downing
multiple cups of milk, water or just
any cold liquid I could find. Lesson
learnt – taste while cooking and never
underestimate the Thais’ ability to
tolerate spice!
What I love about (good) food...
How it has the ability to bring back
old memories from when I used to eat
certain foods as a kid, i.e. McDonald’s
apple pie (my absolute favourite) or
baking a lemon meringue pie that I
used to bake often for my best friends
back home.
I don’t just love cooking for myself,
I like cooking for others. It makes
me happy to be able to share the joy
of food with others and I love how it
always brings people together. I’m a
huge fan of Christmas and Christmas
dinner is my favorite meal to make.
Whenever it nears that time of
the year I’m just eager to get in the
kitchen and start cooking. Thankfully
I have my housemates to help share
the joy, especially when it comes to
making and eating the desserts! I’m
always open to trying new things and
(sneakily) getting tips from other
people when I try their food.
All good curry starts with a
base that includes fragrant
bulb veg., chillies and some
aromatics. To make mine I blend to-
gether onions, lemongrass and dried
chillies, then fry it all together with
curry leaves – a mainstay of Southeast
Asian curries – until fragrant. Then
add to this mixture chili and curry
powders, to taste/tolerance levels.
It’s easy to scale this up in batches
and then separate into your desired
portion sizes before freezing. A cheap
compact blender will do the job – no
need for a fancy Vitamix – and you
can use it for so many other things as
well. I own a lovely turquoise one by
Breville which costs about £40.
I prefer not to salt this mixture
unless I’m going to use this straighta-
way, as I usually pre-season my meat
before I add it to the curry base. This
gives more control over the level of
saltiness, and I can then use the same
base for many different types of meat.
After you add your meat to the base
and mix thoroughly, top it up with
liquid (usually water) and simmer un-
til the meat is tender. Add a bit more
water if you like your sauce thinner,
less if you prefer it thicker; just make
sure you check the seasoning. Most
curries get their creaminess from the
addition of some coconut milk – use a
little less than you think you’ll need,
as it’ll reduce and then thicken up.
Remember you can always add, but ye
cannae take away!
Malaysians tend to eat curries with
flavored rice, such as nasi biryani (with
cardamom, cumin and turmeric) or
nasi lemak (creamy rice with coconut
milk/oil.) They’re super-easy to make;
just add the spices to the cooking
water before you boil your rice on
the stove (or flick your rice cooker
switch.) For nasi lemak, just swap out
some of the water for coconut milk.
"I love...
how [food]
always
brings
people
together"
Mich’s Great Little Place
"You can
always
add, but
ye cannae
take away!"
Fresh Healthy Eating Café,51 Lexington Street
Underground:PiccadillyCircus,LeicesterSquare
I was pleasantly surprised by the large array of salad
boxes,wraps,sandwiches and juices.There’s also a
huge blackboard with over 40 juice combinations to
choose from.I always find myself needing to stare at
their menu for at least 5 minutes before ordering,as
I’m so spoilt for choice! They are reasonably priced,so
if you are ever looking for a cheap,healthy meal out
this is definitely the place I would recommend.

