Get involved in making your student experience the best it can be.
This year we are electing Year and Course Representatives, the 16 Ordinary Members of Council, our Campaigns
Officer, our Disabilities Officer and the Graduate Students’ Union Reps simultaneously.
This is a brilliant way to get involved and be part of ensuring student views are expressed to the right bodies to make
changes for the benefit of students.
Nominations close at 23:59, Thursday 16 October 2014. To find out more about the positions up for election, visit
our website at the address below.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Your Rep and Council Elections - nominations close 16 October
Join us at our Volunteering Fair,
Tuesday 14 October
The Community Connections Volunteering Fair returns on Tuesday 14 October
2014. Taking place in the Great Hall, Sherfield Building this is the place to be
if you are interested in finding out more about volunteering alongside your
studies! Come and visit between 11:30 - 14:30 to meet with Union Projects,
College departments, charities, and organisations who are offering exciting
volunteering opportunities here at Imperial, across London and even overseas!
You can see a full list of all the organisations attending at the address below.
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
Volunteering Fair
C mmunityConnections
Volunteering Fair
Tuesday 14 October, 11:30 - 14:30
The Great Hall, Sherfield Building
Vol Fair A6 flyers.indd 1 03/10/2014 17:46
Check out our new food menu at
FiveSixEight!
We’ve got a new food menu in FiveSixEight! You can enjoy new dishes such as
meat and vegetarian sharing platters, sausage and mash, and jacket potatoes
with a range of fillings and desserts, alongside our homemade burgers, burritos
and pizzas. You can also vote for guest pizzas every month, as well as enjoying
new food and drink combos – grab a burger and a drink on Tuesday lunchtimes
or all weekend, enjoy our Curry Night every Monday, or grab a meal on the go
if you’re in a hurry. Visit the Food & Drink section on our website, and visit the
FiveSixEight page to see the new menu online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/food-drink
DRI
ourfirstalcoholfreeclubnight
monday13October
19:00-01:00
fivesixeightandmetric
free
On Monday 13 October, FiveSixEight will be
open as normal from 12:00. At 17:00, we will
stop serving alcoholic drinks from the bar.
If you have an alcoholic drink to finish at that
time, you are welcome to stay and finish it
until 19:00 when DRI starts. We hope that
you will stay for the evening’s entertainment
and activities.

