Ask Annie, your approachable Agony Aunt
Help! I've just left my girlfriend
(who's in the year below at school)
behind at home, and I'm scared
that I won't be able to get the
'full university experience' if I'm
constantly worrying about keeping
her happy and answering her
phonecalls ten times a day. What
should I do?
Pressured in Pembridge
First of all, don’t be a dick. Don’t cheat
on her, and don’t try and get her to
break up with you. It’s completely
normal to feel this way; and if I’m
honest, the Christmas break up is way
more common than you’d think. You
don’t need to sleep your way around
campus to have a complete University
experience, you can easily have fun
without doing anything that would
worry your girlfriend. That said,
everyone inevitably changes a lot
when they start University, and it is
understandable if you feel that you
don’t have the same connection by
the end of your first term. Honesty
is always the best policy, and always
works out better for both of you in the
long term.
Help! I'm new to the UK and I want
to make friends with people from
all over the world, not just from my
own country, but I'm worried that
it'll just be so much easier to stick
with people who speak my own
language. How should I go about it?
Foreign in Falmouth
You have an incredible opportunity
at Imperial. You have thousands of
people from all over the world, and
everyone speaks English at least
well enough to make friends. When
making friends from completely
different cultures, the hard part is
finding common ground, but here,
you’re all in the same situation.
Everyone’s studied STEM subjects,
everyone (in halls and on your course)
is a fresher, and the vast majority of
people are new to London. Use that as
a starting point to bond, and go from
there. Making friends is the best part
of University, and you’ll be surprised
to find how open people are to doing
this.
Help! I'm coming from an all-boys
school, and I've never really had
any opportunity to spend any time
with, or be friends with girls. I
don't know how to talk to them,
how can I make friends?
Terrified in Tizard
Do you like music? Guess what? There
are probably girls that like the same
type of music. How about films? Yup,
there are girls that like them too.
Or are you a gamer? Gaming isn’t a
gender specific activity. What I’m
trying to say is that you are thinking
too hard about the differences, and
you need to think more about what
the similarities you have with each
person. A girl-you-don’t-know is no
more scary than a guy-you-don’t-
know. Why not ask what their hobbies
are? You’re bound to have something
in common, you just have to find it.
Help! I don't have a room in halls,
so I'm living by myself in a flat
further out, but I'm really worried
about not having anyone to go to
events with. Am I missing out?
Alone in Acton Town
Agony Aunt Annie Whiteley is the woman who fought for women’s cloakroom facilities at Imperial,
and thus is qualified to solve all your problems.
Editors Ellen Mathieson & Tessa Davey
Coffeebreak
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 3
22.09.2014
FELIX
Hello to all you new freshers! This time of year is hard for everyone. The sudden reality of Summer is over, bringing the
reality of studying, and the end of the whirlwind of sun soaked hormones. No matter what you’re worrying about, Aunt
Annie is here to help. Send any worries to catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk. Returning students too, you know the drill. Don’t be
afraid to keep sending in your problems!
HOW TO SURVIVE FRESHERS
Help! At home over the summer,
I ended up getting back together
with my ex-boyfriend, who I broke
up with when I started Imperial
last year. Now term's started, I'm
looking forward to getting back
to my single life in London, but
he thinks that we're going to stay
together and keeps making plans
for when we're going to see each
other. How do I break it to him
gently that it was just a summer
fling?
Sassy in Sheffield
Truthfully, if you knew you just
wanted a summer fling, you should
have been honest with him from
the start, instead of leading him on.
We're all grown ups here, it's okay
to just want a bit of fun over the
summer. But it's too late for that
now. When it comes to telling him,
the sooner the better, especially
before any plans become finalised.
You don't want him to break the
bank whilst you're breaking his
heart.
Help! I'm just starting my fourth
year, but all of my close friends
have left, having finished their
three year degrees. How do I put
myself back in the frame of mind
to make new friends?
Friendless in Fulham
You're not going to be the only
person who suddenly finds
themselves with far fewer friends
going into your final year. With
a lot of people gone, courses are
smaller, and so there's a lot less
pressure on going up to them and
saying hi. If you see someone sitting
by themselves in lectures, they're
probably in the same situation as
you, and would welcome a bit of
company. Even if you never become
as close as your old group, you'll still
have people to discuss lectures, lab
reports and life with.
Help! I'm about to move into my
new house with some of my best
friends from halls, which I'm really
excited about, but I'm nervous
about moving in with one of my
friends, who confessed to having a
crush on me over the summer. I'm
really not interested, how do I stop
it being awkward?
Worried in Warwick
So long as you've already made it
clear that you aren't interested in
them then there is no reason to
worry. Maybe this crush will have
faded over the summer or maybe it
won't, but either way it's no reason to
make everything awkward between
you. They are one of your closest
friends for a reason, so don't be an
idiot and deprive yourself of their
company because you're worried
they are going try and get in your
pants. Act natural, don't worry about
them creeping at you in a towel and
everything will be fine. A situation is
only as awkward as you make it.
HOW TO COPE WITH COMING BACK TO IMPERIAL
Imperial have events for new students
who aren’t living in halls, so make
sure you get yourself along to them
to meet other people with the same
concerns as you. You also might want
to make friends with people who do
live in halls, and the easiest way to do
this is to make the extra effort to talk
to people on your course, and join
plenty of societies. Hint: grinding on
someone in a club doesn’t count as
getting to know them. It might be a
bit harder for you to meet people, but
if you push yourself to talk to people
wherever you go, you should have
loads of friends with no trouble at all.
Help! I've been given a double
room. I've never shared a room
before and I've hit it off badily
with my roommate! What should
I do?
Socially awkward in Southwell
Roommates can be really hit and
miss, and a lot of it depends on your
attitude. While a lot of people get on
fantastically with their roommate,
it’s quite common to treat it as a
business arrangement, being civil
while not being BFFs, which can
sometimes make it easier to say things
like: “please stop leaving your bras
everywhere”. Sharing a room needn’t
be scary, and the main trick is to be
really open about problems between
you. You both have to live there, so
you need to make the best of it. A lot
of roommates end up having beautiful
friendships, and very few end up
hating each other, so don’t worry too
much, be friendly, and most of all, be
honest and don’t be a dick.
Lonely Hearts
Are you lonely in love? Why not let Aunt Annie help you get lucky? If you’re looking for a
special someone, missed a connection, or want to let someone know how you feel, send a
message to catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk and maybe you’ll find your match here.
Annie’s advice for
this week is: Don’t
Be A Dick. Listen
to Annie, and you
won’t go far wrong.

