THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 3
FELIX
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
2 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
This week, Hangman has one up’ed
our Supreme Overload Editor-in-
Chief Shilippa Pkett and have got
our hands on an even better library
related news scoop. (See page 3 of last
weeks issue for her coverage of the
Grand Library Air CON).
After tweeting to @imperiallibrary
every day for over a week, they
eventually sent Hangman their plans
for Phase 2 of the Grand Library
Entrance Scheme. Using the money
saved from the cancelling of the air
conditioning installation, a new door
will be added in front of the current
entrance.
When asked if building an extra
door was an appropriate use of funds,
Melvil Dewey, Head Librarian, said
“As we all know, the Library is the
Social Hub of Imperial College, and
as such we need to be able to get our
In the heat of the moment, Imperial Lib
confirms plan to add a whole new door
President
Gast’s
confusion
with Grindr
updates in
email inbox
This week, our New President Alice
Gast was infuriated and confused
when opening her newly transferred
email inbox. For years
president@imperial.ac.uk belonged
to the Union President, but now
belongs to our new College dictator.
President Gast was reportedly
heard yelling and cursing for hours
whilst clearing up her inbox. Security
had to be called when Gast was heard
throwing stationary accross the room
while sobbing uncontrollably.
When Hangman contacted her for
comment, her autoreply read:
“I cannot reply at this moment, I
am currently busy removing Grindr
notifications, Narcotics Anonymous
updates, and requests for child
support for a 4 year old from an
anonymous Imperial Student.”
Hangman then tried to contact
her on her IC extension. When
we suggested that these emails
were intended for our past Union
Presidents, she questioned the
activities of the Union’s past CEOs.
She is now reportedly questioning
the College’s relationship with the
Union. There was talk of repossessing
the newly refurbished West Basement
and removing the Union President’s
BNOC status.
A fresher reportedly this week
attended his first social of IQ, whilst
under the illusion that it was a society
associated with Mensa. Brandishing
his calculator in excitement, the
fresher in question headed to Heaven
on a Friday night for a fresher’s week
social.
Despite initially feeling indignant
in having to check in his rucksack
containing his geometry set into the
cloakroom, the fresher was pleasantly
surprised when one member of the
supposed club threw glitter into
his eyes whilst Lady Gaga played
in the background. We spoke to the
fresher the next morning, who was
still cleaning neon body paint off
of his chest and nursing a rather
spectacular sore head.
“I don’t remember much, but at
one point I was definitely elevated in
some manner on a type of platform,
waving my shirt around my head. I
remember cannons exploding at one
point and foil flakes showering from
the ceiling, but little else after that.”
When asked if he would attend in
the future, the fresher responded
“Yeah definitely, although I am still
upset over the fact that I lost all my
maths notes.”
A Fresher’s
application to
the Imperial
branch of
Mensa leads
to confusion
News without the news - Career’s Fair
Think you are funnier than Hangman?
Well, you’re not, so don’t bothering emailing Hangman, we’ll ignore you if you’re lucky, and tell you to piss off if you’re
not!!
Queue spotted on Queen’s Lawn for investment and consulatancy careers fair. Credit: AP / Denis Farrell
The ratio - Somethings never change at Imperial College
Hangman from the past - 1985
students into the library quickly.
Some of you may have experienced
the 10am Saturday Morning rush,
and know how deadly it can be, and
this extra door will help improve
customer flow. And besides, our
current door is always broken. “
As of sending to print, the Library
would neither confirm nor deny
whether said door would actually
open, or be another fire exit.
CANCER
VIRGO
This week, you are the Felix
Editor. After claiming you won’t
pullforthedurationofFresher’s
Fortnight, you get with the
Medics President during Mingle
on the first night of freshers. It
turns out it only takes one or
two of gin, soda and limes to
overpoweryourselfcontrol.
#SABBLOVE
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week you wake up feeling
a bit under the weather, and
because you were in Heathrow
recently, decide that you have
ebola. After starting a state of
national emergency where the
World Health Organisation is
called in, it turns out it was just
FreshersFlu.Oops?
This week, you decide that it’s
best to go the the STI clinic
after a few mistakes at the first
sports night of the year. You end
up being told that you have 4
different STI’s. Maybe it wasn’t
a good idea to try sleep with
someone from every sports
team.Nicegoingyoumanwhore.
Thisweek,youpassoutonaboat
during the Medics Boat Party.
The life guard has to be called.
Once again you ruin everyones
fun by putting Imperial in the
National Press again. Fuck you,
Medics,learnhowtodrink.
Thisweek,inanattempttoavoid
arepeatoflastweek,youtakeMr
Flopsy to the Union with you.
Unfortunately the girl you’ve
beenhittingonallweekcatchesa
glimpse of him, so you decide to
hurriedly throw him in the bin.
Bythetimeyougethimout,he’s
coveredincurlyfriesandseveral
pints of Fresher vomit. Poor Mr
Flopsy.
This week, being the cheap
scrounger you are, you bring
your hip flask full of Glen’s
Vodka to Picadilly Insitute.
The bouncers see you and kick
you out. Your friends refuse to
help you home and continue
clubbing. You end up in Brixton
after falling asleep on the wrong
nightbus.Taxi?
Thisweek,youarestilltheDPW.
Upon hearing that UKIP has got
it’s first Member of Parliament,
you hire out Metric to celebrate.
The only people that show up
are Jebediah Rat, a Labour
gatecrasher and some randomer
called Nigel Farage. You drown
your sorrows in Eastside, a real
bar.
This week, you spend several
hours removing yourself from
all the socieities you signed up
for at the Freshers Fair. Just
when you thought you were
done, the societies add you back
again. Looks like your inbox will
be filled with SPAM for the rest
ofyourUniversitylife.
This week, you are the RCSU
Executive committee. While
cryingoverthelossofyourgiant
pole dancing pole/thermometer,
you realise that you’ve lost it for
the second year in a row. You
therefore decide that it is time
to throw it into the Kensington
RoundPondanddeclarethatthe
other5Unionsarebetter.
This week, after reading an
article about saving water by
peeing in the shower, you decide
to follow the advice attempt to
save on bills. Regretfully, you
hadn’t warned your girlfriend
aboutyourplanbeforehand,and
sheislessthanimpressedatyour
impromptugoldenshower.
This week, your roomate
finds out about drinking your
ejaculate. He returns the favour
by shitting in your Nutella. You
only find out why your toast
tasted funny 3 breakfasts later.
It’s pretty safe to say that you
haveashitweek.Thismeanswar.
#SHITELLA
This week, you are horny in
the library. You head over to
the Spotted - Imperial College
Central Library to see if there
has been any activity since last
term, while also searching for
compliments about yourself. All
you find are comments about
your body odour. You decide to
wankinthetoiletsinstead.
Diary Of a Fresher, aged 18 3/4
Monday 8th October, 2014
Wokeuplateformyfirstlecturetoday.Hadtorunacrosscampus.Totallyworthitthough,stillmanagedtogetaseatonthefrontrow.It’sgreatbeingonthefrontrow.Igettoask
sooo many questions. Tonight is a halls trip to Ministry of Sound. Going south of the river for the first time. I hope I don’t get stabbed.
Tuesday 9th October, 2014
ShouldhavelistenedtotheDPWsadivce.Ministryisscaryandalittlebitshit.Hewasn’tjokingbaoutbeingtreatedlikeaterrorist.WhenIfinallythroughthemetaldetectors,someguy
cameuptomeandpulledmyredlanyardoffmyneckandcalledmeatwat.WhatamIgoingtokeepmyCollegeIDcardinnow?GoingtoCSP80’stomorrownight.Don’tknowwhat
CSPmeansbutI’vebeentoldtocallitsportsnight.I’mnotinasportsteamthough?Ihavemyafroandlegwarmersready.TheStudentRoomtoldmetobringcostumesfromevery
decade for freshers. Thank God for TSR.
Wednesday 10th October, 2014
Whydidweonlyhavehalfadaysworthoflecturestoday?WhatamIgoingtodowithallmyfreetimethisafternoon..DecidedIwouldtrySkypingmygirlfirendJenniferinNewcastle
again.Sheansweredwithanotherguyinherbed,Shesaidtostopcallingher,andthencalledmeageek.I’MNOTAGEEK!MyspidermansheetsAREcool!!I’mgonnagetreadyfor
sports night and find myself a date in Metric (note to self, not Metrics).
Thursday 11th October, 2014
Gotreallydrunkagainlastnight.Thistimemanaged3JungfraubombsandapticherofPurpleRain.OnthewaybacktoSouthsideHalls,Itookatraffiicconeandputitonmyhead.
HA!Jennifer,lookhowcoolIam!!Madeittobedbutwokeupcoveredinsickandpiss,justasmyroomatefinallyshowedup.Itwasatadawkwardtosaytheleast.Missedallmylectures
today, will have to post in the MechEng Fresher’s FB page to see if I can photocopy anyone’s notes.
Friday 12th October, 2014
RoomateandIhavebeenarguingalready.HekeepseatingreallysmellyfoodintheroomandleavingthelightsonwhenI’mtryingtosleep.ThreatenedtotelltheWardenbuthesaid
he’d tell him about the traffic cone. I managed to sneak the traffic cone out of halls, I hope without anyone seeing. I really don’t want to be fined!! Fresher’s Ball tonight!
Saturday 13th October, 2014
WenttotheFresher’sballlastnight.ManagedtogetFinnJonesfromGameofThronestosignmybook.Hewassoocool.Imighthaveaccidentallyburpedinhisfacethough....

