Annual Reports
President
1. Introduction
The year promised to be quite an event with each of the executive sabbatical officers working to
a new job description. The nett reuslt of the previous year's shuffle was that although two areas
of representation there was an increase in the administration I was required to do. All in all the
new job descriptions are working quite well although I question whether the Deputy President
has time to look after two areas of representation in addition to the Union's finances and the Union
Building itself. I fear that this may become an even more accute problem in a few years time when
we take a greater responsibility for the building. One point that should be made is that we are
one of the few student unions in the country that occupy a listed building and so this should not
be neglected.
This Union is set apart from the majority of others in that it does not have a full-time welfare
sabbatical. This is something that I believe should be addressed next year. Having been responsible
for the welfare of the students this year I have found that when the associated areas of
Accommodation and Overseas Students are included the result is a full-time job which I have not
been able to give the attention that it warrents this year.
2. Accommodation
•
1 see the main purpose of a students union as assisting students to obtain their degree. This is
the reason they come to college and so the activities of the students' own Representational and
Organisational body should reflect this. To this end the areas of welfare, which I consider to include
Accommodation and Academic Affairs are the most important. Since 1 have been responsible for
Welfare and Accommodation this year it is in these areas that I have concentrated my work.
2.1. This Year's Rents
At the beginning of the year there was some unrest from the students at the level of the rents they
were expected to pay. This started in Fisher Hall where, under the direction of thier re-applicants,
the students paid what they considered to be the correct amount. Not surprisingly, this was less
than the amount that had been set by the Student Residence Committee. The level of rent had
been agreed during Christine Taig's year as President and so there was very little, if any, room
for manoeuvre.
2.1.1. Rent Strike
At the Union General Meeting of 25 October 1988 a motion was passed which instructed the Union
Officers to take the threat of a rent strike to the College with a view to forcing College to put some
of its 'surcharge' on Overseas Students fees into the residence account. This round about way of
getting College to put money into the residence system was necessary because of the University
Grants Committee, the then grant awarding body for the university system, rules stated that no
public funds could be used for accommodation of students. This was then taken to the Wardens'
Sub-Committee of the Students Residence Committee (SRC) and the full SRC itself. Both bodies
were sympathetic to the views expressed but expressed doubts as to the practicalities of such a
scheme. Due to the lack of positive response I tabled a paper outlining the position to the College's
Finance and Executive Committees which met in November.
2.1.2. College Finance and Executive Committees
In what I see as a direct response to my paper the College Secretary, John Smith, tabled a paper
at the same meeting which proposed we tackle the problem of student accommodation head on
rather than in any round about way. These committees, the most important in the College, agreed
that the residence account was under-funded to the tune of about £100k each year. It was decided
that £50k should be transferred to the account to cover insurance and notional wardens rents as
this did not contravene UGC rules. The Union's response was seen as far too complex to work
in practice but an alternative was proposed which was adopted by the committees. The College
wrote to see if the Overseas Students' 'excess' fee could be used at the discretion of the College.
An initial reaction was received from the UGC but this did not answer the question and so a reply
is still awaited from the University Funding Council (UFC) which has superceeded the UGC. At
the Finance and Executive committees meeting this term the committees were reminded by the
College Finance Officer that a sum of £50k to £100k is still to be provided for residences and a decision
on this is to be made at the committees meeting in November. The threatened rent strike was called
off at this point and it ought to be pointed out that the only objections raised by the Governors
were to the threat we issued. College were not prepared to be dictated to by the students and so
1 would urge all members of the Union to think hard about the possible consequences before any
such action is proposed in the future.
2.2. Next Year's Rents and Beyond
Next year is the final year of Christine Taig's agreement with College over the level of rents to
be charged to cover the costs of buying and refurbishing Fisher Hall. Next year's rents have been
set at £44 per week for Southside singles ranging down to £28 per week for the Evelyn Gardens
doubles. The extra £50k earmarked for the residence account and the probable extra money now
mean that the account should break even in the 1990/91 session. With interest rates at 14% I cannot
see them rising any further and so any future drop should be used to subsidise the students' rents.
A1% fall in the interest rates would save the residences £70k a year. College seem to have resigned
themselves to the fact that rents will not rise between the 1989/90 and 1990/91 sessions. It is up
to the students to ensure that Niel McCluskey, next year's President, makes sure that this is the
case and rents fall in real terms from what can only be described as their current ceiling.
Another issue that came up this year was the problem of College charging students for an extra
week to cover the Christmas vacation which entitled students to use their room throughout that
period. This caused a mixed reaction with those wanting to stay in residence of the vacation
supporting it, and the other students complaining, but it would have been interesting to see what
the reaction would be to all the students not wishing to stay having to clear their room. It looks
as if next year students will only be charged for the time they are in the residence but this will
mean that all others will have to clear their room.
2.3. Payment of Rents by Installments
Many students, not the least of which are overseas postgraduates, receive their maintenance grant
or scholarship monthly and so have great problems when it comes to paying bills termly. This is
currently being addressed but the College's answer is that the system would cost £25k per year
in lost interest. This is true but this interest does not go into the residence account, it goes into
the capital investment account. It was amazed to hear that the Warden's Sub-Committee have
decided not to back my proposals and so it looks as though in future students are going to have
to pay for the 'privilege' of paying their hall bill by installments, at least in the short term. 1 wish
next year's SRC representatives luck in the longer term.
2.4. Fresher Applications
As from this year the system of freshers applying to the intercollegiate hall of residence has been
changed. Whereas, in the past, they could apply to the University accommodation with the
knowledge that they would still get a year in an IC hall or house. In future this will not be the
case, a year in an intercollegiate hall will count as the year in a hall of-residence and students will
not be able to come back to an IC hall. Given the choice between having their year in hall five
miles away and being on campus or half a mile away 1 didn't think that the College would fill
its quota of places in the intercollegiate halls. This have proved to be the case. Brian Levitt, SRC
Chairman, said that if there were insufficient applications then students would just be shared in
. those halls that seems to be what has happened.
12.5. Married Flats
j At present the residence stock includes some married flats in which only one of the residents is
an IC student. It has been decided that, although being a family of a student is no fun in central
London, these should be converted into student flats and be made ready for renting out at the
beginning of next session. In this way the number of students in these flats, which must be the
! first priority, can be increased from ten at present to almost forty.
i 2.6. Size of Rooms
In the present halls and houses owned and leased by the College there are a number of double
i and triple rooms. With a number of alterations planned for the summer the question was raised
| as to whether the double and triple rooms should be kept or should the College policy be that
i we head toward single rooms in all residences. This question was put to a UGM with no response
| and so the Union Accommodation Committee decided that in future single rooms should be aimed
' for if possible. This has the advantage that the income from an area of hall will be increased and
so this will help in keeping rents down.
2.7. Deposit Repayments
. Last year's warden of Mining House, Catie Brown, seemed to go a little crazy when she went through
the process of considering the damage done to the house by last year's residents. The majority
of them found that they had been charged practically the whole of their damage deposit, which
seemed a little excessive! After correspondence with the chairman of SRC, the Finance Department
and the College Tutor the matter was solved with full refunds for all. This led onto the question
of how Ic.ng it took to refund the deposits to those students who hadn't wrecked their room. After
heated debate in committee meetings again the College's intransigence won the day. I find it
incredible that College expects students to pay their hall bill within ten days but cannot refund
•room deposits until three or even four months after the students have vacated their accommodation.
2.8. Head Tenancy Delapidations
A similar 'deposit' problem was encountered with Hamlet Gardens at the beginning of the year.
When last year's residents from Lexham Gardens received their deposit reports they found that
:
most of them actually owed College money! College, very magnaminously, agreed not to pass this
extra charge onto the students. It was then pointed out that most of the damage had in fact been
caused by previous residents and this was confirmed by the student managers of the residence.
The students all received a full refund but the College residence account was out of pocket from
the handback to the owners of the property. From next vear an additional 5% will be added to
head tenancy rents to cover this handback cost and this will make the head tenancies totally
self-financing.
1
2.9. Vacation Arrangements
The control of the halls over the vacation period has now been transferred to the accommodation
; office after the death of the conference office. This should result in a greater level of income to
the residences which will help to keep rents down. Part of the transfer has resulted in differential
rents for students over the long vacation. Those who are undertaking academic study will only
pay the normal termtime rent but those students remaining in London to work or to have a holiday
will have to pay a rate2
h of the way between the termtime rents and the outside summer rate.
2.10. Subwardens Working Party
One of my major accommodation commitments this year has been to a working party set up to
investigate the subwardenships of the residence system. This working party met on a number of
occasions and came up with the recommendations that subwardens accommodation should be a
double room with washing and cooking facilities but not a toilet, a nominal job description was
also decided upon and it was generally felt that for the work that they did for the life of the hall
and the students they were very good value. The full report of the working party is available for
consultation in the President's Office.
3. Athletics
As the sabbatical responsible for athletics I'm primarily responsible for the atheletic facilities and
not the individual teams.
3.1. Harlington Gravel Trust Fund
At the beginning of the year the College Investments Committee was responsible for the money
accruing from Harlington Gravel but there was no formal mechanism for releasing this money when
it was desired by the students for sporting facilities. At the College Finance and Executive Committees
meeting of 12 May 1989 a resolution was passed which, after five years of pressing, finally established
the proceedures for the release of the gravel funds. The resolution stated that the Governing Body
confirms its commitment to administer all existing and future sporting and athletic facilities for
the benefit of the students and that arty income arising from the use or disposal of such facilities
will be applied for the benefit of students. The income from such facilities is to be placed in a Trust
of whom the Trustees will be the chairman of the College Athletics Committee, a past President
of Imperial College Union and the President of Imperial College Union. It was also decided that
the President of the Union will be an observer at meetings of the Investments Committee which
is to retain responsibility for the investment of monies derived from the sale of gravel from
Harlington. In reality, the President will only be present at those meetings which will consider
the Harlington Gravel funds. The gravel proceeds now stand at £l,265k and are estimated to rise
to £2,500k.
3.2. Harlington Astroturf Pitch
Upon taking office at the beginning of August it became apparent that various members of the
Athletics Clubs Committee had been pushing for an Astroturf hockey pitch to be put in at Harlington.
Some of these plans were quite gradiose and contained ideas for employing staff to run the facility
for outside bookings and it was in these peripheral problems that the delays were occuring. On
October 3 Mark Rayfield, ACC Chairman, Paul Skipworth, ACC Vice-Chairman and myself met
Peter Mee and Dr David Hardwick. At the meeting we decided that, initially at least, we should
just concentrate on producing a facility for student usage. If later we decided that we should allow
outside usage then that would need to be considered at that time. Further investigation of the

