Annual Reports
practicalities of installing such a pitch showed that it would not be a good idea to lay the pitch
on land where the gravel had been extracted. This was because if there was any subsidence or
problems with the pitch it would be very difficult to assertain exactly whose fault it was and we
could find ourselves with an astroturf pitch that couldn't be used and a legal battle to show where
responsibility lay. At the Finance and Executive Committees meeting in November a paper was
presented by the Chairman of the College Athletics Committee asking for the release of up to £350k
from the monies already received but also asking for the committees to sanction the forgoing of
income of between £90k and £100k from gravel that would have'been extracted have the pitch not
been built. This was passed and the committees also reaffirmed its commitment to the building
of a sports hall in South Kensington. This money was released so that the pitch could be installed
over the summer of 1989 so that it would be ready for use from October 1989. However, these
pitches require a very good clerk of works to supervise their installation and the person we require
will not be available until the summer of 1990 and so the pitch will be put in for use at the start
of the 1990/91 session. Towards the end of the first term of the present session the Athletics Clubs
Committee had second thoughts as to whether the money should be spent on an Astroturf pitch
at all. The problem was finally resolved in favour of installing a pitch. The upshot of this is that
the Union now has policy on how matters regarding the use of the gravel fund shall be taken before
the Trustees. In future the Union Council will be the only body that has powers to refer matters
to the Trustees and the Council itself will expect proposals to come via the Union Athletic Clubs
Committee. Although this sounds very bureaucratic it is necessary to avoid the mess that we got
into over the Astroturf pitch.
3.3. Athletics Committee Constitution
The College Athletics Committee is in the process of having its terms of reference updated. The
main change is that the membership is to be increased by two. The Past President Trustee of the
Harlington Gravel money is to be included along with a representative from St Mary's. The Union
has been pushing for clarification as to the control and ownership of the sporting facilities of Imperial
College.
3.4. Harlington and Teddington Rationalisation
There have been discussions at the College Athletics Committee which are aiming at rationalising
the sports grounds of Imperial College and St Mary's. An analysis of the usage ofthe the facilities
shows that if student sport is to be maintained at its current level both grounds will be required.
If a ground was to be sold it would have to be Teddington because it is far and away the smaller
of the two. Teddington has certain trust provisions which means that it is highly desirable, though
not essential, that it remains as it is until at least 1994. This means that at present the grounds
are safe but it is imperitive that future Presidents and Athletics Club Committee Chairmen keep
a watching eye.
3.5. Health Club
At present the Union is investigating the feasibility of utilising the space under the Southside Hall
of Residence as a Health Club. The proposal is that there will be weights machines, free weights,
sauna or steam rooms, sun lamps and a shop. The plans are currently in the very earliest stages
and nothing is expected to happen for a while yet.
.4. External Affairs
The Government have caused me more than a little work this year.
4.1. Top-Up Loans for Students
This year the Government announced their proposals for the introduction of top-up loans for
students in conjunction with the freezing of the grant and the removal of students' entitlement
to DSS payments. An EGM was held to discuss the proposals and the result was that the Union
had policy to oppose the introduction of loans per se but that we should also face up to the reality
that the proposals may go through and to fight for a better deal for London students who stand
to lose most from the Government's proposals. On January 19 Peter Brooke, the local MP and
Chairman of the Conservative Party, came to the College to speak on the loans issue. 1 was
disappointed that only 300 students turned up but a good question and answer session resulted
in a lot of people realising the ignorance of a lot of MPs with respect to the problems faced by
students as a whole and by those in London in particular. This talk was followed by a green card
lobby of the Houses of Parliament and thanks are owed to all the academic who rescheduled classes,
tutorials and labs to enable students to attend. One of the original mandates from the EGM was
that we should liaise with the NUS over the loans issue. The NUS were only prepared to link with
us if we were to have a reaffiliation ballot before Easter 1990. This was accepted by a UGM but
the NUS have been absolutely no use since they have constantly failed to povide us with information
as agreed. The,NUS want the ballot in the second term next session because there are a couple
of colleges having disaffiliation votes in the first term. The NUS obviously see:u$,as an important
college and so would wish to concentrate a large affiliation campaign in the College, would therefore
recommend that the ballot is held in the first term.
A national demonstration planned for Feburary 1, the deadline for submissions on the white paper,
was droped by the NUS and ULU when the plans were hijacked by the extreme left. Imperial College
Union joined the national demonstration on February 25 and, although on a Saturday, was
successful. We have continued our dialogue with a number of MPs and at the end of last term
a paper outlining the effect of loans on London students was sent to all MPs. It looks as though
the Government is going to have to rethink its loans plans but it is still committed to putting them
through the next session of Parliament.
4.2. AUT Strike Action
On January 9 the Association of University Teachers (AUT) started limited industrial action over
their pay claim. This action, in the form of refusal to set examinations, hung over the heads of
the students until the action was modified to the non-marking of exams at the beginning of this
term. At the onset of the action Imperial College Union condemned the actions of the AUT for
jeopardising the futures of the people who rely so heavily upon them. As the dispute continued
it became apparent that the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principles (CVCP) were becoming
increasingly more responsible for the lack of a settlement and so pressure was then applied to the
CVCP in an effort to get the dispute settled. It now looks as though the final result will be that
the students will get their exams and degress after all. The Union took legal advice from a barrister
as to what the contractual position with the College was and we were informed that if the students
incurred any extra costs in completing their degree then the College would have to meet these
costs. •Thankfully it never came to this.
4.3. Royal Holloway and Bedford New College Merger
During last session a working party was set up to see if there were any gounds for formal talks
between IC and RH&BNC on the subject of merging the two colleges. The working party finally
reported in February of this year. A recommendation was made that a 'Joint Planning Committee
with wider representation and with the resources to explore the implications of the proposed merger
in greater detail'. I have spoken to the Rector and he has agreed that if this Joint Planning Committee
were to be set up then it would be essential to have Union representation. The merger is not going
to happen in the short term but it may well happen in the future.
4.4. University of London Union
The links this year between the University of London Union and ourselves have been the strongest
for a number of years. This has been due to informal discussions but also through the two main
ULU bodies as far as ICU is concerned.
4.4.1. ULU General Union Council
ULU GUC has been as left-wing as ever this year but it was interesting to note that next year's
President, although pro-NUS, is a student activist and not a party politician. This bodes well for
next year with a moderate ULU executive. As far as policy is concerned motions proposed by ICU
concerning loans and the AUT dispute were both defeated and policy very different to our own
was passed. One problem there has always been is with getting GUC delegates once elected to
attend. ICU gets nine delegates to each meeting and so the only hope we have of bringing some
common sense to the proceedings is to ensure all our delegates turn up. In future if a represenative
fails to attend two consecutive GUC meetings, for any reason whatsoever, they will be deemed
to have resigned and a new delegate will be elected to replace them. This should ensure the voice
of ICU continues to be heard at ULU.
ULU President's Council
The President's Council is a new ULU body which was set up this year. It meets once a month
and each constituent college is inivted to send a representative. The Council has no formal powers
but is a very useful forum for exchanging ideas and keeping informed as to what is happening
within the federal union and also at the other colleges of the university. Attendance of the Council
has now been added to the President's job description as a measure of the importance of the
meetings.
5. Postgraduate Affairs
At the beginning of the year I thought that this would be the area in which I would have most
problems since I have never been a postgraduate student. In retrospect I don't think that this has
been too much of a problem.
5.1. Postgraduate Departmental Representatives
When I took office I had hoped to introduce a postgraduate network of departmental representatives
throughout the College with these backed up by a departmental committee with representatives
from each section. In order to achieve this an open meeting was called so that a contact in each
department could be found. The meeting fell foul of postagraduate apathy—only four people turned
up, and that included myself and the Postgraduate Affairs Officer. An attempt was then made
to pursue this aim through the individual departments but again this proved fruitless. It really gets
to me when people slag off the Union, saying it does nothing for them, when they cannot even
be bothered to do sdemthing for themselves. This particularly applies to the Postgraduate population
of this College.
5.2. Silwood Park
Over the summer I visited Silwood Park on a number of occasions to see if I could help with some
of the problems they were encountering. Everything seemed to centre around the College's plans
to turn the main house at Silwood into an up-market conference facility. This, linked with some
problems due to the Technology Transfer Centre, meant that a lot of student facilities were in danger
of being lost or having their control taken over by College. The major problem faced by students
at Silwood is the isolation and for this reason it is essential that sufficient accommodation is provided
on-campus because they cannot simply jump on a tube and get to College. Coupled with this the
rents and facilities must be affordable since students cannot 'vote with their feet' and go off-campus.
Last summer there were proposals to increase the rents quite considerably, up to 20% in some
cases. The Postgraduate students just could not afford such increases, especially the overseas students
with families. After a lot of discussion with College a compromise was eventually reached but it
was thought that the alarm bells had been rung loud enough for the College to hear. Unfortunately,
this does not seem to have been the case. At the Finance and Executive Committees meeting of
May 12 the final proposals for the Conference Centre were tabled. On the whole they did not look
too bad except that the students were expected to foot the total bill for a new hall of residence
to replace the rooms lost in the main house, even though these rooms were lost solely to
accommodate the conference centre. Although the general feeling of the committees was that this
would be an asset to the College a decision on the future of the conference centre has been delayed
pending an investigation of the internal requirements and possible usage of such a facility. The
majority of the committee were also in agreement that the conference centre should pay for the
building of new rooms to replace those it is to displace. A new proposal is to go to the full Governing
Body on June 23 where a final decision will be made. I feel that a word of congratulations is due
to Ian Lowles, the Silwood Park Chairman, for the work he has done this year. His efforts have
not gone unnoticed in South Kensington and the students at Silwood owe him a great debt of
gratitude.
6. Welfare
This is the second of the ares which I prioritised at the beginning of the year. It is something which
I have been known to get on my 'high horse' about a few times but I feel very strongly that this
College and Union do not do enough for the welfare of our students. It is worth remembering
that one of the objects of the Union, as stated in the by-laws, is 'to represent and to safeguard
and advance the interests and welfare of the students of the Imperial College'.
6.1. Welfare '89
When I took office on August 11 soon realised that the Welfare advice and information we gave
our students was not very comprehensive and the information we did give was of a very general
nature. In order to address this problem 1 cam up with a six stage welfare project for the year which
went under the title of 'Welfare '89'. The stages are edpended upon further in the next few sections.
6.1.1. Initial Survey
It was decided well in advance which areas of welfare should be covered but where to place the
emphasis in each campaign was still unknown and it was for this reason that a survey was
undertaken. The areas covered were; accommodation, finance, eating habits, drinking habits, drags
and sexual behaviour and attitudes. The results of the survey was to be used to tailor the campaigns
to meet the needs of our students as closely as possible. We had the help of a professional market
research company, Audience Selection, and they helped me formulate the exact working for each
question. This was made all the more difficult by the fact that we wished to examine attitudes as
well as obtain purely factual information. For this they received no payment and thanks are definitely
owed to Sue MacEwan for all her efforts. The result of this work was a 16-page survey which went
to every registered student in the College. This even included those students at St Mary's. We
received 1108 returns, which is the norm for this style of exercise, and from these 144 pages of

