Annual Reports
arrangements that operate at the present.
5. The Overseas' Reception was held on the Sunday just before the term started in the Union Building
and was well attended and went reasonably well, even if the Rector didn't think so. 1 had little
support from the Union Officers who were around. The event is going to be organised in the College
this Autumn but I doubt if they will get many students to help.
3. Major Sub-Committees.
1. ACC: They have been fortunate in having a competent executive, but occasionally the finer points
of their constitution get overlooked! Good luck to Benji and his team next year.
2. RCC: I have attended most RCC meetings this year. The finances of RCC have been particularly
well kept; the pilot system for the club accounts has run with them this year. Tim King has done
a good job as Vice Chairman this year and 1 am sure that RCC will continue to flourish under his
Chairmanship next year.
3. Pub Board: The Board lost its Chairman, Syd Harbour-Bridge, early in the year and Jon Denham
has been Chairman since. Equipment failure and breakdown has eaten into the contingency fund
this year. The FELIX re-equipment fund should increase in size with the carryovers, but it is
increasing at a lesser rate than I would have expected.
4. SCAB: Another good year for the SCAB societies. However Jazz Club suffered a major unheaval
at the start of the year. This problem has largely been resolved. 1 am still concerned about the running
of the Choir and Orchestra, who receive some monies from the College. Their accounts have been
frequently overdrawn and financial penalties imposed by SCAB and UFC have little effect. There
is no effective method of ensuring the accountability of the SCAB Music Committee reps, nor of
the Music Committee itself. These issues must be addressed because I believe that they are a serious
infringement on the autonomy of the Board to control the activities and funding of its constituent
societies.
5. SCC: Tom "Master" Yates has been an effective SCC Chairman this year. The societies fulfil
a useful role within ICU. However, SCC have raised the ugly spectre of external bank accounts
and pushed this through an inquorate UGM. However, the College will not allow them and I regret
SCC cannot see the error of its ways. I hope the new financial procedures to be introduced next
year will eliminate the need for them.
4. Minor Sub-Committees.
1. Ents: Paul has done an excellent job in organising events and thanks are due to the hard work
put in by the Ents Committee. Nevertheless I still feel that more detailed financial information should
be available on the state of the Ents account than at present. I would say that this is essential for
planning events so that they are good value for money and provide a service for the students.
2. ICCAG: As far as I am aware, no formal meetings of this Minor Sub-Committee have been held.
This is against their constitution, yet the Chairman is a Union Officer and has a seat on Council.
I fail to see why this should not be an SCC Club with a zero subscription level.
3. Welfare: The major initiatives have been the survey and campaigns which are described elsewhere.
4. Accomodation: The Committee has met regularly this session but 1 have not been able to attend
many meetings.
5. Industrial Relations Committee: This Committee has got off to a good start. A student was
employed over Easter to set up an advertising database. My only regret and surprise is that hardly
anyone has gone for the posts available since they would look very impressive on one's CV!
5. The Union Building.
1. Security: When I took over the job of DP the security in the building was virtually useless. The
key system, designed by none other than Barney McCabe in 1981, was antiquated and the number
of R37 master keys which could open nearly everything in the building is a standing joke. The
decision to buy a new key system was therefore a good one. I designed the new system with help
of various people and at the time of writing it is 90% installed. There are still some areas on the
old system but I hope to have them converted by the end of term.
I consider it essential that the DP has a good working relationship with the security guards in
Beit and Sherfield and I have built this up throughout the year. Occasionally there have been
problems but we have managed to iron these out. Thanks to Terry, Ron, Vic, Mustafa, Pete, Brian,
Lawrence and the other guards. The Union now has its own messenger service from 7am to 6pm
and very soon we will have a security guard from 6pm to midnight. My own view is that everyone
who enters the quad must have to report to security to show some sort of indentification.
2. Room Bookings: Income from these has started to pick up. As the Government cracks down
on student Unions we must address the question of our ex-subvention income and room bookings
forms a major part of this. Nevertheless I believe that we will be hard pressed to reach our budget
target. I took on most of the administration of the system in January as we had no receptionist
then. There is a definite trade off between accepting lots of outside bookings which bring in money
to offset the expenditure incurred by our clubs and societies and then not having any rooms to
give to clubs who want them! For example we have just turned down a booking worth £18K for
precisely this reason.
3. Safety: I recently re-consituted the safety sub-committee (which we are requir?d to have) and
have had extensive discussions with the College Fire Officer about fire safety and other related
safety matters. The introduction of electronic bolts on various strategic doors will certainly help.
The fire alarm system is to be modernised and encompass the whole quad at a cost of £100K.
4. Maintenance: A constant source of aggravation and grief. I seem to spend hours chasing up
broken windows, faulty sockets, blown light bulbs, etc. I feel sony for the clubs and societies who
have to put up with a building that has been allowed to become shabby and delapidated.
Consequently the number of things that are going wrong on an almost daily basis is depressing.
A lot of maintenance work is required for the building to be brought up to scratch. The fact that
the Estates section cannot be relied on to carry out works on time doesn't help, but things have
improved recently, albeit slightly.
5. Refurbishment: I have embarked on an ambitious refurbishment programme for the Union
building, mainly because very little was done last year. The areas which have been refurbished
this year are: the lounge, the bar, snack bar, senior common room, Union offices, central staircase
toilets, Committee rooms (painting only) constructon of messengers' lodge, Union dining Hall,
refectory flat, all staircases (painting). Proposed refurbishment works for the summer (at time of
writing) to be confirmed are: Removal of dumb waiter on west staircase, construction of third floor
toilets (west), varnishing of gym floor, possible construction of second mezzanine level above the
crush bar. I hope that I have been able to make amends this year for the lack of works last year.
The responsibility for the refurbishment and maintenance budgets for the Union currently rests
with the College and we are having the building brought up to scratch before taking these budgets
on. This will not happen before 1992, at the current rate of progress. A refurbishment and
maintenance plan is being devised and it is hoped that we will be able to realistically plan our
refurbishments around this.
6. House Committee: This has been a turbulent year for the Committee whose brief is the
management of the Union building and other Union areas. The first Chairman left College before
taking up the post. A new chairman was elected and he, too, resigned after pressure from the society
of which he was the president. I have been acting Chairman since December and although I have
been gratified by the gradual change in the appearance of the building itself I have found House
Committee the worst Committee to chair. Very often the entire minutes would read "Action: Chas"
after each paragraph, which leaves me wondering if House Committee expects me to do anything
else. After threatening to no- confidence me after I had unfulfilled certain mandates I am wary
of failing them again, perhaps' to the detriment of my other work. It is not surprising that no-one
else has wanted to do the job this year. I only wish Murray has better.luck next year than I've
had this year. >
6. Trading.
After the acrimony and bitterness of last year, I knew that this year would see a slow revival of
our outlets, but this turnaround will take several years. Part of the process of revival was the
refurbishment of the ground floor areas. In particular the snack bar and bar were refurbished to
the tune of some £40,000. Whether this refurb has been 'successful' remains to be seen but my
opinion is that we have seen a greater number of people using the building and the outlets.
1. Union Bar: The main bar had the oak pannelling refurbished and I am pleased that so many
people have complimented the new look. The main bar remains as traditional as ever and is very
popular but the most important benefit has been the increased use of the Lounge bar, especially
in the early evenings. Sales are healthy and the bar should return a good profit at the end of the
year, thanks to Jelly and his staff. This is good news, but there are an awful lot of students who
never drink in the Union bar but in Southside and I am aware of the need to persuade them to
come back to their bar - the only bar in the College which puts its profits back into the students
Union and not into College's coffers.
2. Catering: After the previous manager was sacked, we appointed a new manager and assistant
manager in September. However despite initally good figures the Caterpillar Cafe (as it is now
known) has slackened off a bit and we are working hard to improve those areas which need most
attention, chiefly stock control and analysis of sales and I am confident that the Caterpillar Cafe
should break even at the end of the year. Ian and Annette have worked hard this year to increase
sales, especially the dinners which are a good source of income. But those of you who expect a
large surplus from the catering account will be disappointed. Very few University catering outlets
make a profit, if any.
3. Bookshop/Sportshop: The Bookshop came under the Union's control at the end of July 1988
with a radical change in constitution. However the Bookshop has had many ups and downs and
the Sportshop had to be closed because it was losing too much money, through having lots of defunct
stock (e.g. ties!) The Sportshop stock was sold off in two big sales in November and December
and I have done the occasional sale of a tie from my office. It is hoped to re-open the Sportshop
in October.
The next big bombshell was the revelation of the large loss sustained by the Bookshop in the previous
year (to 31st July 1988). A financial investigation was carried out into the shop bythe auditors and
their recommendations are being put into practice. The manager has since taken early retirement
and the Union Manager has been appointed acting manager. A shop-fit isplanned for the summer
and Electronic Point of Sale is to be introduced to help stock control. The year-end figures will
be bad again this year because there is a lot of stock which has been overvalued.
All three of the above outlets are controlled by management Committees of which I am the Chairman.
Monthly management accounts have been a regular feature of the meetings and this has helped
us keep a much tighter control over our outlets'than last year. At the same time I try to make contact
with the outlet managers on at least a daily basis, to see how they are getting on. I believe that
this is part of my responsibility in overviewing these outlets.
4. STA Travel: Our only franchised outlet on campus, it continues to provide a good service to
students, not tq mention the generous sponsorship and advertising revenue to the Union. A new
deal with STA was signed in October allowing them to expand their outlet to the old sportshop
site. The revenue forms an inportant proportion of our non-subvention income. STA also sponsored
the "Summer Savers" discount leaflet. .
7. Major Union Committees.
1. UGM: As sectarian as ever, the problem of inquorate UGMs has raised its head again and again
this session. Having UGMs in the JCR is a mixed blessing as a lot of the people present don't
participate in the meeting. The St. Mary's issue produced the most quorate UGM that I have ever
seen at IC in my five years here (more than 600 present).
2. Council: A much more representative body, able to make informed decisions. Council has been
fairly effective but I believe that it is still too big to discuss fully the implications of its decisions
(it has 55 members). It is also.prone to change its' mind after three hours of discussion and several
beers, which has lead to it being ridiculed by many students.
3. Executive: The regular meetings at 8.30am every Tuesday are the onlytimeI ever have breakfast!
Exec has dealt with various domestic matters which are very boring, but occasionally it has had
to make emergency decisions. It is at these times that I have really felt in a position of responsibility.
4. Union Finance Committee: The ultimate ego-maniacs committee, it makes all the important
financial decisions, on policy and on expenditure. For example it recently decided to spend a
substantial sum on the refurbishment of the Bookshop. It deals with setting the budget for the
Union. I have tried to make UFC meetings as interesting as possible and have submitted a written
report to each one. The financial administration of the Union is split between myself and the Union
Finance Officer and consultation with him and working on financial matters takes up a large
proportion of my time. For example, I have recently completed a review of the financial procedures
for club treasurers and I am currently working on a policy document which will be the definitive
guide to the Union's finances. I have had much dealings with the College's Finance Section and
have had to represent the Union to the College's Audit Committee which looks critically at the
Union's accounts. Despite the image of "accountants", I have found the work interesting and
enjoyable.
Dr. K.E. Weale: I should make special mention at this point of the Union's Honorary Senior
Treasurer, Dr. K.E. Weale. Ken has been HST for as long as anyone can remember and probably
before that, too! I regret to have to say that he is retiring this year after innumerable years' service
to the Union. I have worked closely with Dr. Weale this year and I greatly respect his advice and
guidance on financial matters which has been invaluable. He has my best wishes for his retirement.
At the time of writing we are still investigating a successor to Dr. Weale.
8. Major College Committees.
1. Governing Body and F & E: The Governing Body is the highest body in the College and the
Finance & Executive Committees the most powerful sub-committees. Although I am one of the
three Union observers, I have been content to allow the President to speak on behalf of the Union,
providing backup with my knowledge of specialist areas such as finance and academic affairs, when
necessary. Cynics will regard the luncheon provided after the meeting for members merely as a
sabbatical freebie, but it is an invaluable period to converse with the most senior members of the
College and often an informal 5-minute chat can achieve more than letters and committees ever could!
2. House Committee: Another sub-Committee of the Governing Body, |
t deals with major space
and resource allocations and has met twice this year. Among the items dealt with include transfers
from the conference to residence accounts, bar licences for halls, and the Silwood park bars and
refectories. A fairly important committee, most issues raised will have been brought up at sub-
committees at which there are student reps so these will already have been discussed at length.
3. CCSMC (Catering and Conference Services Management Committee): As the title suggests,
CCSMC controls the refectory and conference services. It co-ordinates policy from its three sub-
1

