Annual Reports
committees and reports to House Committee through its Chairman. It has been interesting to see
how the College dealt with the large trading deficit on the catering side last year.
4. Refectory Users Committee: A pretty uneventful sub-committee of CCSMC, it deals with
suggestions and complaints about the refectories and routine administrative matters.
5. Bar Committee: Another Sub-Committee of CCSMC. This is the only College Committee of which
there is a student Chairman (except Bookshop Committee, at the moment) and as the sabbatical
responsible for the Union bar, I am the Chairman of the Committee. We have had one meeting
this session but another is planned for June 8th to review bar prices for the next session. As there
is a polarisation between the Union and Southside on the one hand and the Holland Club on the
other, the Committee is not very effective. The Committee also endorses licensing applications and
the Falmouth Keogh bar is due to be reviewed as part of this process.
9. The American Perspective.
I feel 1 should report on my activities in this area even though they have been largely taken over
by the President.
I was first introduced to the numbers of American students living and studying in the South Ken
area by Syd, last year's President. The possibility for social interaction was good as they are generally
doing arts courses and have a more balanced male/female ratio. Reciprocal membership arrangements
were set up with some of the Colleges with whom I had contact and I went to their introductory
sessions to extol the virtues of IC Union and its facilities. I am pleased to say that many of the
students have come over to IC and some have got involved with our clubs and societies. In particular
Continued on supplementary sheet
SCAB
1. Societies
Chamber Music have been very active enjoying their largest ever membership. The new Imperial
College Chamber Orchestra, formed in January, performed for the first time. Apart from its numerous
concerts the society continues to arrange useful coaching sessions for its members.
Choir have had another successful year. To large and receptive audiences they preformed Haydn's
Creation, Bach's St Matthew Passion and Poulenc's Glorie. Their social calendar is as busy as ever.
In performance they have been a credit to both the Union and the College as a whole.
Debsoc have now joined RCC I was sad to seem them leave SCAB but hopefully, under new
management, debating will grow to take the place it rightfully deserves at Imperial College.
Dramsoc continue to be hyperactive. Their main shows were 'The Nerd' by Larry Shue and "The
Possibilities' by Howard Barker. Once again the touring company is running a venue at the
Edinburgh Fringe Festival under the guise of Theatre West End. Technical services to the Union
have improved with the provision of improved lighting facilities.
Filmsoc go from strength to strength. After initial problems with their projectors they obtained
permission from UFC to plan the purchase of improved equipment which will enable them to extend
what is a very popular service in College. In the meantime they continue to screen films regularly.
Folk Club have had a disappointing year after last year's renaissance. There is certainly room
for a vital Folk Club but the committee have not managed to generate any enthusiasm for the sodety.
This is an area on which my successor will have to expend some effort if Folk Club is not to die.
Jazz and Rock lost their rehearsal room to the new welfare officer before the start of the year.
A new room was found for them but the delay in equipping it caused the club much inconvenience.
I am pleased to say that this has been settled largely through the hard work of the committee and
Chas Brereton. Chas deserves special praise for persuading College to pay for the fitting out of
the new room! On a happier front it has been a successful year for Jazz and Rock. Their 'Hops'
have been well attended and lots of fun.
Orchestra, under the guidance of Richard Dickins, acquitted themselves admirably against some
very difficult pieces. Their main concerts included Elgar's First Symphony, Sibelius' Violin Concerto
ana the gargantuan Mahler Three. Their ambition was matchecf both by their ability and their large
audiences. I found it particularly pleasing to see members of the Orchestra undertaking solo parts.
With an execellent hard working committee under Sue Foister Opsoc have had a most successful
year. Lots of new faces, acquired at Freshers' Fair, have invigorated the sodety and I hope the
new committee have learnt the lesson—members are everything! Their main show was "The Pirates
of Penzance' by you know who. The traditional summer visit to Budleigh Salterton carries on with
Tolanthe'.
2. Music Committee
There is not a lot to say about this committee this year. After losing the Music ,Room last year,
arrangements have stabilised somewhat. The Reid Theatre has been equipped for/tyusic Making'
and seems to be acceptable to its users as a temporary home. Prof Isham's committee are currently
trying to get the Rector's agreement to, and help in, seeking funding for an extension to the Sherfield
Building to serve as a dedicated music complex. The Union should actively support this venture.
It would be a worthwhile addition to the College Campus.
3. SCAB Nite
This year SCAB raised just over one hundred pounds for Rag. Members of all the SCAB societies
took part. My thanks go to all who helped make the evening a success. The standard of the
performances was extremely high and the small crowd was, thus, a great disappointment. My
impression is that few SCAB societies even try to encourage their own members to come along!
I would suggest to my successor that tickets are produced beforehand and are distributed to club
chairpersons to sell (through their committees) at least a week before the event.
4. Finance
SCAB was sad to lose Prof Bill Wakeham as HST. He has served us well over many years but felt
that he could not combine the job with that of Head of Department of Chemical Engineering. I
would like to record our thanks to Bill and wish him all the best in his new post. We are, however,
fortunate to welcome the services of Dr Chris Champion in his stead.
Next year promises to see major changes in all MSC finances with the introduction of 'carryovers'.
SCAB which generates most of its own income stands to benefit from this change in UFC policy.
Some careful thought on policy regarding 'club carryovers' will be required early next session.
Reggie has begun the long process of harmonising all the various accounting procedures which
has seen SCAB decomputerised.
Room Booking
Room bookings have been a continual source of anguish all year. Both Dramsoc and Opsoc have
experienced problems with both rehearsal space and, more seriously, Concert Hall bookings for
performances. After much grief House Committee have come to an eminently sensible arrangement
whereby Opsoc, Dramsoc, Ents and Rag will in future meet to organise dates before room booking
R n a l W ^ ° U
' d e
' , m
" : a t e
*? p r 0 b l e m w h i c h h a v e
* * •a U
«°° <«8"Ur the past year
Finally, ,t has been a successful year for SCAB. My thanks to all who have helped to make t
M n ^ P
F , P H T J t 0
, * c a n k M W a k e h a m
' C h r i s C h a m
P i o n
- Chas BrereTon, 'Wendy1
Moms, El PresKiente, Jen Hardy-Smith and to send a big hug to Nigel Stokes, my ever helpful
wXyou.' ' a
" * e C
' U b c h a i r
P e r s
° " s
- «h a
* been my pleasure toS
Roger Davis.
ACC Chairman
Athletics Clubs Committee Annual Report
This report will be brief, and no doubt inadequate, but I've not had much notice so I'm making
no apologies.
Rather than referring to specific clubs achievements or non-achievements of whom there are a
lot (32), I'll try and outline the events and trends which have affected the ACC this year. The Sports
Ground at Harlington has all but disappeared on the north side of the road with earth moving
equipment where the cricket square used to be. The money from the gravel extraction continues
to accumulate, as yet none of it has been spent. The majority of it has been allocated for a Sports
Centre in the Kensington site. The plans for this were drawn up last year, but there is a problem
obtaining planning permission.
At present the recreational facilities which this College can offer its nearly 5,500 full-time students,
are amongst the worst at any educational institution of comparable size in England.
If the Old Chemistry building is demolished then we will lose our only indoor training facility
large enough for badminton and other comparable sports. The Union already spends nearly £2,000
pa on subsidies to hire indoor facilities for clubs which have reached a standard where they cannot
compete in a College facility. This figure will rise in future years as other clubs either increase in
size or standard and require a larger indoor sports area than we can provide in College.
At Harlington itself the number of teams wanting to use our sports facilities is increasing, whilst
the number of pitches available is decreasing because of the extraction plans. This is despite the
excellent efforts of Mick and the other groundstaff who are making the best of a difficult situation.
The first area of reinstated land was due to have been handed back by the contractors last September,
it was not ready and it must be expected that further reinstatements will take longer than originally
planned. Part of the remainder of the gravel extraction monies have been allocated to build an artificial
surface which will ease some of the demand for space as it can be used more than once on any
given day, and may allow training at night if floodlights can be installed as part of the development.
The news is not all gloomy and the number of people actively involved in ACC clubs in College
is approximately the same as last year at 1,700, the number of active clubs has reduced slightly
but the remainder have almost all increased their membership and their general standards.
The ACC hasn't finished yet this year, the athletic colours are yet to be awarded and at present
we may have a problem with the elections. Please keep an eye on the pigeonholes if this concerns
you.
Mark Rayfield.
Internal Services Officer
The year started off with the Internal Services Committee trying to act as a users forum for comments,
complaints and suggestions on all of the Union services. After ads in FELIX there was very little
response with the odd person preferring to publicise their one complaint in FELIX rather than
approaching the committee. This led to the committee doing little in its first term other than
overseeing the Haldane Library Record and Book Buyers, part of the committees constitutional duties.
In the spring term the feeling within the Union was that all of the services could do with a little
publicity and promotion. In order to do this as one campaign meant co-ordination of information
and ideas from all of the services. Apart from Council there was only one body set up to do this.
The Internal Services Committee thus took on the role of advertising the services. The committee
worked hard and the end result was the distribution of around 2000 leaflets advertising the services
and giving discounts to you the students. Our thanks go to STA for covering the finances of that
project.
It has been suggested that more of these kind of projects could be co-ordinated by the Internal
Services Committee in the future. This would mean a slight reorganisation of the Union committee
structure but I think this would benefit both the services and the students. I would not like to see
the provision of a complaints forum to be scrapped, even if the students in general don't care to
use it that often. I see the role of Internal Services in future as a co-ordination committee, directing
the views of the students to the individual services committees and organising the publicity and
promotions of the services so that the students are aware of what's going on.
Neil McClusky.
Transport Officer
Things have gone quite well with transport this year, mainly due to having the largest ever fleet.
This has enabled most requests for vans to be satisfied, although there have been very few vns
free at weekends, the peak time. The oldest two vans are still running, despite having suffered
four years each at the hands of large numbers of sometimes less than considerate drivers, whilst
the newer five are all in pretty good condition, even WLE.
Ideally, OLE would be replaced soon, but having already bought PFB out of this year's money,
we can't afford another new one at the moment.
The harmonisation of UK driving licence rules with those of other EC countries in a few years
time could make the running of the fleet much harder, possibly every Union driver may have to
take an official test of some sort, which might be prohibitively expensive.
Due to the uncertainty about the new rules, even the purchase of a pre-owned van is unlikely,
at least until we see which way the wind is blowing.
A couple of small accidents led to the culprits being charged most of the insurance excess for
the repairs, whilst some hassle has been caused by people returning vans late, or hanging on to
keys for a long time. Transport Committee is taking a more severe line in dealing with infringers
of the rules than they have in the past, and penalties could well increase in the future.
Dave Wilson.

