Annual Reports
SCC Chairman
This has been a pretty good year. S O ' ' '"e seen an unprecedented amount of activity on
the New societies front, eight new societu - ave set up this year. To compensate for this, nine
societies which had been flagging or had diec completely have been shut down to make way—and
funds—for the newcomers.
Individual SCC societies have enjoyed many successes throughout the year, too numerous to
mention, and SCC itself has had a good relationship with the Union, moving generally closer
throughout the year. Our total membership has been slightly in excess of 2000 students.
For the first time, SCC has awarded its own social colours. The recipients were listed in FELIX
836, and I congratulate them all. The ties have been ordered, being an IC crest with narrow, diagnonal
stripes of gold, purple, white, maroon and gold below. They should start to be visible around College
later this year. Some form of colours for ladies is also under investigation.
Also for the first time this year societies have been allowed carryover between years. The level
of carryover (the percentage of a society's closing balance transferred to the following year) depends
on how overspent generally SCC is, and will not become known until after the audit. My personal
guess is about 85% but don't quote me! In future years this figure will be more instantly accessible,
due to improved auditing procedures.
Following the UGM of May 30, the Union is required to liaise with College to find mutually
agreeable ground to set external band accounts upon. My successor, Stephen Parkus (best of luck
Steve), is going to have to watch the Union pretty closely to ensure they get on with this and don't
allow it to die quietly before a College committee somewhere. No thanks are due to the Union—
esp. Council—for blocking this one for months when it was obvious from the beginning that the
students wanted it. I can see no greater justification for Council ever to legislate than that it is the
wish of the electorate but some members found that their own personal feeling superseded any
desire to represent students. I probably wouldn't have got so annoyed about this except it wasn't
the only time this year I saw it happening.
Hopefully more explanations about these weird accounts will follow in due course. Watch this
publication!
What else can I say? Heartfelt thanks to all the SCC delegates for sitting through a year of reports
like this, to Spenser, Roger, Nicky and Stephen for sitting through Exec, meetings as well, but
above all to Simon for doing the tough bit all year through, and ever quitting.
"Council? Don't talk to me about Council!"
Marvin, the paranoid SCC Chairman.
Rag Chairman
Rag began the year as it usually does, with Tiddlywinks down Oxford Street. It was a little different
this yea: as it was partly televised on 'That's Life' star Gavin Campbell fiddled the first wink. The
term rapidly shot towards Rag Week and this contained its usual mix of events with a couple of
new ones thrown in for good measure: the Rag Week Bar Quiz could only have been described
as storming and some members of the ICU hockey team did very well for prizes! Other notable
events during the Week inlcuded a slight contratemps with the local constabulary who couldn't
understand how the Raft Race raised money for charity. But as usual in that type of situation, I
flitted my eyelids and assured them that 'it won't happen again, officer'. Little do they know...On
the subject of the Raft Race, I have never seen such awful cheats as Guilds and RCS were the winners.
They also had enough common sense to make a rapid retreat from the Serpentine when a flashing
blue light arrived at the scene.
RCS nave excelled at street collecting under Dave Williams and the Great Ormond Street charity
especially is several thousand pounds better off due to their combined efforts. Guilds have not
raised as much money but have carried out a wide variety of events ranging from one individual
(who shall remain nameless—Cathy) who shut up for a day, to a very successful (and very loud)
carnival. As to Mines, who could forget the Dirty Disco, which was wonderful.
Rag Fete, although it was held on the gloomiest day in May, was enjoyed by all who attended
including Gordon Honeycombe, ex-newsreader extraordinaire, who was our celebrity for the day.
But I think the real star of the day was Poppy, the obliging goat, who did her business for Links,
Mud-wrestling was certainly fun hut was a little marred when most of the competitors had to visit
the Health Centre the following Monday for tetanus jabs.
Being Rag Chairman has certainly been an experience and I wouldn't have missed i* for the world.
(Yes, I know that's a naff cliche but it's true).
I would especially like to thank the following people who have given up vast amounts of their
valuable time for Rag even though they're not on Rag Committee: Dramsoc, (how could we have
done without you?), Jelly and Beef and the Snack Bar people, (yes, those people from Leicester
were born out of wedlock), Dr Hardwick from Civ Eng for all his hard work as treasurer, Roger
from Southside for lots of free drinks for prizes and Chns Browne's Dad for advice on the legalities
of dubious publications.)
Deputy President
Continued
the Union Manager and I have set up a very good working relationship with the State University
of New York, based in Kensington Church St., and quite apart from the social benefits (there were
39 girls and 7 guys on the course) it has brought in much needed room hire, bar and catering income.
We have started to sell "temporary membership" of IC Union to these students and they are quite
prepared to pay. Nigel Baker, Union President, has also been working on the scheme and is
extending it to many other Colleges.
10. Staffing.
It is worth mentioning a few words about staffing. As the Union is small, changes to the staff can
have a profound effect on the amount of work that the sabbaticals have to do (and vice versa).
For example, when the Union receptionist left in December it was nearly a term before she was
replaced. This created a lot of extra work for the sabbaticals and other members of permanent staff
in the Office in covering the relevant duties. I have had to sit in on interviews for the new catering
staff and receptionist. There have also been one or two disciplinary matters to deal with. Generally
1 am impressed with the perseverance and dedication with the Union staff approach their jobs,
especially as they are working for students who are much less experienced and knowlegeable than
they are. In particular 1 have been impressed with the professionalism of the two staff directly under
me and 1 must say it has been a pleasure to work with the Union Finance Officer and Union Manager.
I've learned more about staff management this year than I ever dreamed! would!
11. Mascotry.
A quiet year for the Wooden Horse Organisation for ICU, but the CCUs were active as usual. I
was particularly pleased to hear of the large donation to charity on the occasion of the return of
Spanner and Bolt to C + GU; after all, that's what it's all about. On the ICU side, Mike has appeared
at most UGMs this year and I would like to express my appreciation to those members of RCS/Guilds,
who have consistently turned up to carry Mike and afford him safe passage to and from the UGM.
1 am grateful to you all.
12. Conclusions.
It's been a hell of a year - but unlike my year as Academic Affairs Officer last year I would not
do the job again and I was left in the unenviable position of having no handover from the previous
incumbent which put me at a disadvantage of having to learn everything by myself. But I've survived.
There have been ups and downs and I will be the first to admit that I have not always seen eye
to eye with my fellow sabbaticals. However, 1 have mellowed with time and learned to settle into
the job. The best part of the job? Attending the leaving dinner for Sir Henry Fisher, former Chairman
of the Governing Body and imbibing suitable liquids with present/past sabbaticals and senior
members of the College until the early hours. The worst part? Cleaning up where someone had
vomited outside the Union Office during the Guilds Carnival...
1 have enjoyed my 5 years at IC, but the time has come for me to move on. To Dave Williams I
wish the best of luck for next year; for my part I will reflect on what has been the most momentous
year of my life for many years to come.
Charles Brerelon.
FELIX
Champagne Buffet
Free to members of FELIX Staff
Wednesday 21 June, 7.30pm
in the Union Lounge
FELIX STAFF PHOTO
Meet 12.30pm in the
FELIX Office
on Friday 16th June
Everyone who has contributed to this year's
FELIX should attend

