Annual Reports
data were returned from Audience Selection. A summary report has now been written and can
be viewed in the President's Office.
6.1.2. Campaigns
Four campaigns were planned and each was to last a week. The first was held at the end of the
first term and the last three were in the second term. Each of the campaigns was run in a very
similar way, with display boards and leaflets in departmental foyers, and other activities specific
to the campaign. It is without a doubt that the first campaign was the most successful. The Alcohol
Awareness week received a lot of internal publicity and attention and I don't think there was anyone
in the College who was not aware of it. It also received a write-up in the Times Higher Education
Supplement. The ADS and sexuality awareness week received, perhaps, not surprisingly, a mixed
reception. Views seemed to range from those who actively supported the campaign and tried to
stress the facts about AIDS to those who condemned the Union and myself for wasting their money
on something they saw as irrelevant to the majority of IC students. For a few months there was
quite a good debate about the pros and cons of the campaign on the letters page of FELIX. This
in itself brought more attention to the subject. In retrospect it is clear that the DSS awareness week
was badly timed. By the time it was run most students already had any benefits they were entitled
to sorted out and it was too far ahead of the summer holiday to look at vacation payments. Next
year this campaign will be run at the beginning of the year when it can be of real benefit to the
students. When the fourth campaign was decided upon it was going to be aimed at healthy eating
but after discussions with the Riverside Health Authority it was decided to expand this to a 'Look
After Your Heart' week. The leaflets were quite slow to go but the display in the JCR on the Thursday
was a great success, mainly due to the 'hands on' nature of the stands.
6.1.3. Follow-Up Survey
The follow-up survey was aimed at assessing the success, or lack of it, of the Welfare '89 campaign.
Small questionnaires were sent to the students in the departments of Chemistry, Electrical
Engineering and Mineral Resources Engineering because they mirrored the College as a whole and
were a representative sample. The results of this survey will be available at the end of the term.
6.2. Welfare Adviser
The Union is now fortunate to have its own Welfare Adviser. Yve Posner has taken over the position
after Linday Symonds left in March 1988. She is now situated in the old jazz room and the proximity
to the Union Office is proving to be a definite advantage. Yve's background is in housing and welfare
rights and this is where most of the advice is give to the students.
6.3. Childcare
The Imperial College Day Nursery currently has forty-four full-time care place for children of students
and staff at Imperial College. Of the forty-four places, twelve or thirteen are, on average, occupied
by the children of students.
The current fees are set at £52 per week or £220 per month if paid by standing order. For the
students who are at the upper end of the income band these fees are not too bad, but for those
in the middle these can only be afforded if the parent released from the role of child care can find
work. This finding of work becomes a prerequisite for acceptance of a place in the nursery and
so a vicious circle is set up, with the second parent unable to look for work until the child is in
the nursery. The only subsidy scheme currently available for the less well off parents is that offered
by Don Adlington, the Student Counsellor. This year this subsidy pot had the sum of £10,000 in
it but this was a one-off abnormally high payment to offset some of the immediate effects of some
sharp pricerises.The previous year the subsidy from the College was £6,500. Students who apply
to Don Adlington for a subsidy receive up to £50 depending on their own disposable income, a
sliding scale is used to determine the exact level of each student's subsidy.
Approximately five years ago the local council became concerned about the care for some of the
children of students from Imperial College. This resulted in discussions between the College, the
local health authority and care workers. No progress looked like being made until a fund was Tound'
by the local council. This fund was used to give subsidies to the poorest of the parents and these
enabled some of them to afford the nursery places, especially when the level of subsidy was up
to £100 per month. When coupled with the College subsidy this left some parents only £70 per
month to find. At the end of 1988 the 'found' fund ran out and the local council had no option
but to stop the subsidy to the parents. This resulted in a number of parents having to withdraw
their children from the nursery. These places were then offered to some student parents on the
waiting list. Unfortunately many of them had heard about the Kensington and Chelsea Council
subsidy and so were relying on this to be able to pay the fees once a place had been offered to
their child. It has since taken four months to fill the places in the nursery as time and time again
this problem has occurred.
Various sources of funding have been sought to replace the withdrawn council subsidy but nothing
has been forthcoming and it seems more and more likely with each day that nothing will be found.
It therefore comes down to the grim reality of the situation that unless more money can be found
to subsidise place in an expanded nursery there will be many children of students at I .lperial College
who cannot benefit from the nursery's facilities and teaching. The students themselves will also
be unable to study without worry about their children and, in some cases, the children may be
in danger of being neglected.
A working party was set up in Novemebr to look into the possibility of using the Union Building
to set up a playgroup. The legal and financial side of the playgroup were investigated however
such a group would rely on quite a large parental input which was not forthcoming and it was
for this reason that the working party had to report that such a group is not feasible at present.
7. Other Responsibilities
7.1. Staff
In addition to the new Welfare Adviser we have a new Assistant Administrator and Snack Bar,
now the Caterpillar Cafe, Management. All are fitting in wel and working really hard for the Union.
We were sad to see Kathy go after many years of loyal service and she will be missed. Within the
Bookstore, Roy Hicks, the Manager, also decided to leave taking early retirement.
7.2. St Mary's
The merger of the St Mary's Hospital Medical School with Imperial College took place on August
1 1988. This was celebrated by a gala ceremony in the Great Hall. Unfortunately the same cannot
be said of the two Unions. Despite the formation of a working party and what has been described
as an 'imaginative' solution to the split site problem the two unions are as far apart as ever and,
were the truth to be told I believe that it will be a very long time before they merge. It will probably
result in the College Governors 'giving' the Union a new set of by-laws which will incorporate
the St Mary's Student Union as a CCU.
7.3. Transport
This year myself and Ian Morris had to take over the running of the Union's seven van fleet from
the Deputy President because he was unable to cope. I have been responsible for the administration
of the fleet with Ian covering the servicing and repairs. This has worked well. The vast majority
of weekends have seen all seven vans used and on only one occasion has someone asked for a
van before the deadline and not received one. One apology 1 must make is tht as far as psychic
powers are concerned it's been a poor year. 1 have not been able to 'see.' which van a particular
club would like, I have not been able to foretwll which roads a society is (o use and for this 1 humbly
apologise.
7.4. Insurance
This has been a real eye opener this year. A few cliams have had to be made and the waterski
boat has given me hours of fun. I am in the process of giving the Union's Insurance manifest a
complete overhaul so that we cah be insured to the right value. Accurate insurance lists of equipment
have been obtained and in future club captains will have to sign to take financial responsibility
for their club's equipment. MSC chairmen are to be the only people with the power to 'write-off
equipment and this should reduce the number of incidences where equipment gets 'lost'.
7.5. Executive Committee
This is the only committee I am chairman of (thankfully). It has met weekly without fail throughout
the year and has been a useful information swapping forum. The ability to call meetings al such
short notice has been very useful in dealing with emergency matters. It wa nothing new for the
Exec to meet twice in one day and on March 7 it actually met three times.
8. Conclusion
This year has been enjoyable on the whole although I wouldn't do such a job again. I wish Neil
luck next year and his thirteen month term should be a definite advantage. The last word must
be reserved for the two people to whom I will be forever grateful. Jen has been invaluable to me
this year and I feel sorry for the first President who will not have here to bounce ideas off and
to use as a mine of information. It's not without reason that I call her 'Boss'. Secondly, I must
thank Fiona for putting up with the job, and me!
Nigel x.
Hon Sec (Events)
Entertainments/Events
In previous years there has been no sabbatical directly connected with the Entertainments Committee.
This year, one of my main areas of responsibility has been the coordination of entertainments and
assisting the Ents Committee. Due to my past involvements in Ents and the fact that the Ents Hon
Sec and Treasurer had work commitments during the summer, I found myself working very closely
with the Ents Officer in the preparations for Freshers' Week. This link was strengthened due t»
the resignation of the Ents Hon Sec at the time who had not worked as he should have.
With a turnover of over £20,000 it is essential that the committee have office space to work in
and I hope that future Hon Sees will allow them to share their office.
The biggest problem in staging Union events has been the small contingent of idiots who seem
to take great pleasure in trying to avoid paying the entrance fee. Considering that the regular gigs
have cost about £1.50 to £2.00 a time, it is pathetic that these people refuse to realise the value
for money the events offer.
Apart form assisting Ents, it was my job to organise certain other events.
The first of these was the Freshers' Fair which consisted of over a hundred stalls spread throughout
the campus on the second day of term.
The running costs of the fair were covered by charging external organisations an attendance fee.
The level of this fee has not really been kept in line with inflation and, considering the growing
competition between banks for student accounts, could be significantly increased in the future.
The next major event was the Commemoration Ball on October 27. Until this year, the Ball had
been held within College and it was felt that interest in the event was low. It was therefore arranged
in the Dinosaur Room of the Natural History Museum where a three course dinner was served
accompanied by a guitar/flute duo.
After the dinner a jazz band then played before everyone returned to the Union Building to dance,
drink and gamble until 4am.
The only problem with the night was that there was too much drink available in the Museum
and everybody was inebriated too early.
The turnover for the event was approximately £17,000 and was run on a break-even basis.
On January 26 I ran a risk by staging a wrestling tournament in the Great Hall. Despite very
. extensive publicity the event was not overwhelmingly attended perhaps due to people being unsure
of what to expect.
I believe that everyone who went enjoyed themselves and I would recommend a repeat tournament
which should be successful based on the reputation of this year's.
As well as these specific events I have also organised, in conjunction with Ents, fifteen Wednesday
night discos, five bar quizes, the Rag/Hyde Park Relay Party. The purchase of the 50" TV screen
also allowed me to show the Superbowl, the Bruno fight, the Five Nations Rugby Matches, the
FA Cup Final and the Arsenal/Liverpool league game. All of these were successful and were linked
in with bar promotions for which I am indebted to the Bar Manager.
The Stuff the Poll Tax Carnival was attended by about five hundred people, less than usual because
term finished on a Wednesday. A Carnival should be held this time of year in future (just prior
to the Easter vacation) but with a proportionally smaller expenditure compared to the other carnivals.
Rag
Not having any experience of Rag I have tried to help the committee wherever possible and attended
the Rag Conference at Leicester in January.
I have been able to do most things like the Guilds Carnival and I see the Hon See's role in the
future as helping Rag with areas in which they require experience of running events.
I have worked with Rag on some Union events during which they sold cocktails or red noses
and ran a cloakroom.
I was put in charge of sorting out the Rag Fete and I believe that as long as comprehensive
information is passed down, this would be a good arrangement for the future.
Transport
Originally, the van fleet was, the responsibility of the Deputy President but it was decided that
this would be more easily handled by splitting the job between the President and the Honorary
Secretary.
I was therefore faced with the job of maintaining the fleet. The difficulty has been, on-the whole,
when minor repairs have been necessary. I haven't had the time or education to 'nip' down and
fiddle with a van, and to put it into a garage would not have been economic. Instead, I waited
until there were a number of small defects and then got the van serviced or checked over.
The 'Repairs to be done' book in the Union Office has got a number of entries which is far smaller

