Letters
No benefit
whatsoever
Dear Mr Goodwin,
Your article on the Wright-Fleming Library of
St Mary's Hospital Medical School has been
drawn to my attention and I am afraid that you
have been economical with the truth in quoting
me. I said nothing of the kind—I could not
possibly have said that the conversion was of 'no
benefit whatsoever' because it clearly will benefit
BSc students here and I explained to you over
the phone. What is true is that I have campaigned
against the closure of what has been a very useful
microbiology-immunology library with a long
tradition, for it was used by Almroth Wright and
Fleming and their colleagues earlier this century.
I would be glad if you could publish my letter
in the next issue: I would hate your journal to
suffer the same fate as Private Eye!
Yours sincerely,
L Brent.
Your exact words were T objected strongly
because it was of no benefit whatsoever; it was
a most valuable library'. You can't sue a paper
for printing the truth—Ed.
Green Dyl
Dear Mr Goodwin,
I have heard Dylan James is building himself
a position at Imperial College as a Conservative.
In June 1987 our school held a mock election
to coincide with the general election. D y l stood
as a Green candidate as the enclosed leaflets
show. This would seem to represent a swing
across the whole political spectrum.
I'm sure this will be of interest to you.
Yours,
An old school acquaintance of Dyl's.
Inflamed
Dear Bill,
Thank you for publishing 'my' letter in FELIX.
I regret to say that, following the events which
occurred over the weekend Of 27/28 May 1989,.
I may indeed have to take to patrolling Southside
armed with a fire extinguisher..On Saturday 27
May at approximately 0140 a smoke detector was
removed from its base on Level 3 of Staircase 3
in Falmouth Hall. Not content with having
removed the detector the person (persons)
concerned then completely removed one fire
alarm bell and attempted to remove another, also
on Level 3. The bell which had been removed had
been twisted round and round until the pyro
cable had broken. This action ultimately led to
the zone card on the fire alarm panel failing
(thereby removing any remaining alarm warning
from the rest of the staircase) and affecting five
other zones. A n engineer from F A C E was on site
for five hours sorting out the mess and further
work needs to be carried out to reinstate the alarrr
bells.
The actions of the person (or persons)
concerned is criminal, and, if caught, they could
face legal proceedings. In the meantime I will be
billing the hall for the cost of the damages which
will in turn be passed on to all the residents.
Yours sincerely,
Ian Gillett, Assistant Safety Director,
14 Princes Gardens.
Men!
Dear Bill,
Have you noticed the sad lack of real masculine
type men i n the recent intake of IC. It is
distressing that as soon as the greasy, unwashed,
pimply, heavy rock generation petered out, a
mass of unmasculine underweight effeminate
. beat boys with earrings and Jason Donovan
haircuts took their place.
Where is the satisfaction for three of us who
enjoy real shoulders, muscular thighs, BIG
biceps (yum yum) and PERT buttocks. W e
demand decent chest muscles well displayed by
suitable tee-shirts. We demand well filled jeans
(if you know what we mean). We demand slinky
hips and we demand them now.
Yours,
Steph Snell and
Andy Bannister.
PS. Mike from Neighbours will do for
me—Andy.
Serious
; Dear Bill,
Why do IC make no provision for cohabiting
couples? The enlightened approach of certain
Cambridge colleges have s h o w n that a n
unmistakable need f o r this type of
accommodation.
Mature students in a stable relationship should
surely be allowed to do what people who share
rooms together normally do. Isn't it about time
College started treating its students like adults?
The Accommodation Office should not be a
moral arbiter for those it seeks to serve.
Your sincerely,
Nigel un^ Fiona.
Space filler
Dear Bill,
I must point out some errors in last week's
'Jesus Votes Monster Raving Loony' article. The
title must have been a printing error. I am The
Second Christ and I vote Tory.
While your article correctly concluded I am the
Christ, I very much doubt it's author is truly my
Father since he incorrectly identified Saton. True,
Jason Donovan is a devil but Satan himself is
much closer than Australia: he is in College. Yes,
he is even in our Union Office, for he is Nigel
our President!
Nigel, I hath revealed thee! Thou hast 'till noon
of June 21st to banish thyself. This College ain't
big enough for the both of us.
Yours,
Dylan 'The Christ' fames.
Talking
turkey
Dear Bill,
Will the reference to Phenominus D Turkey's
article last week, I feel compelled to correct an
obvious factual error i n the above mentioned
article. M r Donovan, an actor in the Australian
soap opera, was alleged to be a socialist. I
denounce this as utter fabrication. I have proof
in my possession which shows that M r Donovan
is none other than the leader of the National Front
in Great Britain.
Yours,
A Nutter.
Grovel
Dear Bill,
I can't understand why anyone would want to
write nasty articles and letters criticising Imperial
College. I think that Imperial is absolutely
wonderful, I have only ever had one boring
lecture, and that wasn't all that boring, I love
doing tutorial sheets and reports, and find I have
plenty of time left over to spend socialising with
the many women at IC.
Personally, I think that people who insult this
beloved institution are being very naughty, they
are obviously lying about it and, in my opinion,
are not fit to be given the privilege of attending
a university college with such an exalted
reputation as Imperial College of Science,
Technology and Medicine. Therefore I think that
they shoud be thrown out and sent to some
inferior excuse for a university such as
Cambridge.
Yours,
A Creep.
PS. Is this good enough to get me a 2:1 Eric?
Distraught
Dear Bill,
It makes me so angry when I'm sitting in the
FELIX Office enjoying a relaxing cup of coffee
after a hard exam and a megalomaniac sadist
thrusts a pen and paper into my hands and asks
me to write a spoof letter.
This sort of behaviour should be made
punishable by death. This man must be stopped.
Yours,
A pissed-off FELIX hack.
Biromania
Dear Bill,
Why do you steal every biro I bring into the
FELIX Office.
Yours penlessly,
Liz Warren.
Page 2 FELIX June 9 1989

