Annual Reports
than the number of moaning people who expected me to physically realise that one of the vans
made a noise when you drove at 43mph up a Welsh mountain.
The Transport Officer next year will be responsible for repairs and so things should be a little
easier all round. The requirements of the fleet nave beer, analysed to find out whether the purchase
of a car, a van with a towbar (ie exit door on the side) and a minibus (with comfy seats as opposed
to the crewbuses we have at present).
We do not have the money in the transport account to purchase a new van as two were purchased
last year. It may be possible, however, to buy a second-hand or reconditioned van to replace our
oldest seventeen seater.
Publicity
The recent appearance of the Moonies on campus highlights the importance of enforcing the Union's
publicity rules which cover the Union Building, Southside Lounge and the Sherfield Walkway.
The publicity rules were changed this year to facilitate easier enforcement and Rag have done
poster raids collecting those which contravened the rules. The first one gave rise to fines totalling
£85 (which, at between 5p and 20p average a fine, is significant).
A new rule was introduced later on in the year as a result of the Socialist Worker Student Society
trying to make an external poster valid by writing ICUSWSS in biro at the top.
All in all the Union's clubs and societies have begun to follow the rules and the greatest problem
lies with external bodies and College publicity.
Returning Officer
Apart from the sabbatical elections, the job of Returning Officer has been reasonably uneventful
with many posts still remaining unfilled.
During the sabbatical elections, hustings were held at St Mary's, Fisher Hall and Montpellier
Halls as well as in the Great Hall.
I would recommend that no hustings take place at St Mary's until the merger is settled and the
students there realise the importance of the sabbatical elections. As it was, it was a disgrace. During
the vote it became apparent that the St Mary's exec were 'encouraging' people to vote in a certain
way and Elections Committee decided that the votes cast at St Mary's should not be considered.
An appeal was then made to the Executive Committee by one of the candidates but the decision
was upheld. The situation then went to appear at UGM (by now, the count had been delayed by
two days) which voted to uphold the decision by 131 votes to 97.
The said votes were destroyed and the count took place returning Neil McClusky as President,
Dave Williams as Deputy President, Fiona Nicholas as Honorary Secretary, and Dave Smedley
as FELIX Editor.
Around nine hundred people voted and the single transfenable vote system was used.
Photocopying
This year I have issued enough photocopy cards for over fifty thousand A4 copies to be done on
the Union Office photocopier.
The mahcine has been frequently out of order but this is probably due to the excessive use rather
than a faulty machine. In any case, my predecessor organised the contract which only allows us
to change the model in two years time.
At present, clubs and societies are given a plastic copy card for which they are invoiced during
the summer term. A better system would be for cards similar to those used in the departments
to be sold through the bookstore and the money to be claimed back by the buyer from the club.
This would prevent people getting unnecessarily large numbers of units and would help the
treasurers to have a better idea of the club's creditors.
The Executive were criticised for their slow uptake on the issue before the White Paper had been
published. The argument was that we should have known what was happening from the
newspapers. Ask the same people about the march on November 25 and they say that the
newspapers were biased in their reporting.
Uponreadingthe White Paper, it was obvious that no consideration had been given to London
as an exception to national averages.
1 obtained a copy of the survey of undergraduates' income and expenditure which was the basis
for the White Paper and analysed the figures for London. The result was that students in London
will be £1,500 overdrawn at the end of the course over and above the student loan they will still owe.
The paper from which that figure was derived was sent to every MP and replies are being received
daily.
Conclusions
I have enjoyed the year on the whole and unlike the old cliche;, I would happily undertake to do
the job again because it is a pity that all the knowledge and contacts gained by a sabbatical walk
out of the Union at the end of then1
term. There is of course the point that if you j£y peanuts you
get monkeys.
This Union is run on goodwill and I thank everyone who has shown some this year.
By the way, I've just set up this company
Ian Morris.
Deputy President
It has been a year of much change within ICU. Not least with the radical change in the job which
the Deputy President has had to do. However, I have found myself spending much more time
on areas which I previously thought would not take up much time at all.
Chief among these areas is that of the general administration of the Union. I was surprised when
I took up the job just how much work is required just to keep the Union "ticking over". For this
reason I will have disappointed many people who voted for me in the hope that I could achieve
a great deal in some areas. Nevertheless, progress has been made in various fields which I will
deal with in more detail below.
1. Academic Affairs
This is the single most important area that the Union deals with as I believe that the Union's
interaction with the College's academic machinery can have the most wide-ranging implications
for the students. As Academic Affairs Officer last year, it made sense for me to continue representing
students in this field.
1. Committees: A horrible word, but it's the stuff that Academic Affairs thrives on. Whether at
the level of a 1st year Ac Rep or the DP himself, we all have a vital part tq play in making sure
that our courses run smoothly. This is not always easy, but by applying pressure in the appropriate
Committees it is possible to get the College to do something about academic problems.
2. Undergraduate Studies Committee: This has been my second year on the Committee. The
workload which it has undertaken has been tremendous, and my thanks must go to Professor David
Blow who has been Chairman for three years and has come to the end of his term of office. Through
the Committee he has done a hell of a fot for the students of this College. Professor David Ewins,
who has been responsible for the Lecturer Evaluation Questionnaire which was run throughout
the College, takes over as Chairman and I wish him well. Vernon McClure, the Deputy Registrar,
has put in a lot of work on the questionnaire and behind-the-scenes, and 1 hope he will continue
his work as Secretary of the Committee.
3. Among the subjects which the Committee deals with are the evaluation of new and existing
courses, the lecturer questionnaire and has also had a working group on student needs. This has
meant lots of meeting for everybody (not least the student members) and a lot of hard work has
been done this year in these areas. If there is a single Committee which has shown dedication to
student's academic needs, then this is it.
4. Lecturer Questionnaire: I was responsible for assisting the College with the pilot run last year
and so I was particualrly pleased see it fully in operation this year. However, it has not been without
problems. Low returns and general apathy from Joe Student has provoked an angry backlash from
many staff, who are concerned that statistically dubious results will affect their promotion prospects.
I can only counter this by saying that the questionnaire is but one of the areas which the USC
has identified as being suitable for assessing staff. It is up to YOU students to fill in the questionnaire
and provide the College with YOUR assessment of your lecturers. If you do not do this, the more
conservative elements among the staff may well try to have the questionnaire scrapped. Four years
of hard work could go down the drain and the students will be back to square one.
I urge all of you not to let this happen.
5. Board of Studies: The top academic body in the College, chaired by the Rector, it is basically
a rubber-stamping Committee, nearly always inquorate (because everything has already been
decided). The disadvantage of this is that it is very difficult to get them to change their ways. The
advantage is that a report from a Sub-Committee (nearly all of which have student reps on them)
will be accepted with virtually no dissent. This often means that the students' views, incorporated
into a policy document, will be accepted by the College and recommendations put into practice.
6. Careers Advisers Committee: The Committee is virtually ineffective, the Departmental Careers
Advisors giving little input. The staff in the Careers Service are dedicated to their jobs and having
worked with them at both College and University level 1 am very impressed with the work that
they do. But funding pressures mean that externally generated income is becoming a larger than
ever proportion of the CAS budget (20% for next year in the University CAS). The IC CAS has
had its budget cut because of the College's expectation that they should raise funds from employers.
7. At the University Level I have been a member of the University Careers Advisory Board which
meets twice a year. I think that I have been able to enhance the reputation of IC students with
the Board, being the only student rep out of all the others who has attended every meeting of the
Board and its Student Liason sub-committee. (Total: 4 meetings.) The Board is useful for gaining
a London-wide perspective on the work of the Careers Service and I would strongly recommend
it to any of the GUC delegates next year to sta'nd for.
8. Admissions Policy Committee: I have attended 2 meetings of the Committee this session. The
main problems identified with recruitment of students are the image which the College has with
students, i.e. the perceived poor standard of teaching, the emphasis on research rather than teaching
and perhaps most importantly, the high cost of living and studying in London. With the
accomodation crisis as it is, and loans and the poll tax just round the corner, the College is going
to find it harder than ever to recruit students.
9. ICU Academic Affairs Committee: Richard Spencer, ICU AAO, has done a superb job this year
and I'm proud to have had such a good successor to my post of last year. He has my best wishes
for his final year. He has effectively co-ordinated Ac Aff representation throughout the four CCUs
and through the CCU Ac Aff sub-committees he has increased the involvement of the Dep Reps.
The Committee itself has not had to meet so often as the workload has largely been shifted to the
sub-committees. I have been generally happy with the reps we've had this year with one or two
exceptions.
10. AUT action: This is still a major problem. You will recall that the AUT had a policy of non-
setting of examinations in pursuit of their pay-claim. This caused some examinations to be postponed.
The AUT subsequently changed their policy to one of non-marking which has meant that the majority
of students are able to take their exams normally. But in some departments this has meant that
exams are squeezed together in a short space of time. Biochemists have had the worst time, with
the third years' having to sit their finals after doing their projects and second years' having 6 three-
hour exams in five days at the end of term. Having studied Biochemistry myself I can sympathise
with the students' plight. However the Department has refused to budge.
11. Central Libraries Committee: This Committee was streamlined about a year ago, and although
we lost one student representative's place (from three to two) the Committee works much better
and has made some progress. Chief among these is the introduction of the new Libertas computerised
library system. There is also the possibility of introducting a combined Union/Library card in the
1990/91 session, which will be more secure than the present arrangements.
12. Alternative Prospectus: This has finally been published, and thanks are due to Ramin Nakisa
for doing what is an unenviable task. I wanted to have an editorial board which would vet the
publication and deflect criticism from the College away from the author, but I now think that this
body should have merely an advisory role. No-one, College nor Union, should have the power
to tell the democratically elected editor what to put in his/her publication, if the editor has been
responsible with his freedom to edit and criticise where necessary.
2. Overseas Students
1. Many of you will rightly say that I have not achieved very much for Overseas students. However
a lot of the problems cannot be solved at the College level. The fees for Overseas Students are
very high compared to those for Home students. Many of them are unaccustomed to British way
of life and consequently find it hard to adjust. The College's Committee on Overseas Students
has recently produced a policy statement wich details the Committee's aims on Recruitment and
Treatment of Overseas Students. Hopefully this will pass through the College Board of Studies
and become College policy.
2. The problems some overseas students face in finding suitable accomodation is depressing. Many
students who are sponsored by their Governments don't receive enough money to survive on.
Some cannot even afford the rents charged in College accomodation. These problems will continue
to get worse as the cost of living increases, in London in particular.
3. The Union's Overseas Student's Committee has not been as effective in these sorts of matters
as I would have liked. While the overseas societies continue to organise social events for their
members, there is no effective co-ordination of their activities and I feel that there is no identification
with the rest of the Union. It is almost as if there is a complete division between the "home" and
"overseas" students in the activities that they pursue, I hope that I'm wrong. International Nite
was well attended but the number of problems encountered could have resulted in a serious financial
loss. I have prepared a paper on the subject and I hope that my recommendations will be put into
practice by next year's committee. Tieniu Tan has done a reasonable job in the circumstances, having
taken over as OSC Chairman in November 1988.
4. On the subject of OSC finances, there has been a change of Senior Treasurer, and I would hope
that a proper system of regular treasurer's meetings will be set up rather than the ad hoc

