Annual Reports
Overseas Students Committee
The OSC has been traditionally one of the less popular MSCs (Major Sub-Committees), and
somewhat remote from the rest of the ICU. This year I have attempted to bring the OSC closer
to the mainstream of ICU activities, and I hope this policy will be appreciated and continued in
the future.
1. Representation
The OSC represents not only the various national societies at the College but every individual
overseas student at Imperial. It is this which leads me to voice my concern at the way the College
administration treats overseas students as a direct commodity. The College has realised that the
overseas students paying overseas fees provide a valuable source of income especially at the moment
of the slash of educational expenditure by the government, and has initiated a series of intensive
recruitment programmes worldwide. This has seen the number of overseas students at IC increase
from some 1,150 last year to 1,500 this year, giving an increase rate of 30.4%. My concern is based
on the fact that the College does not deem it necessary to provide the additional support services
in terms of welfare and accommodation that the increase in the number of students will require.
It may prove possible to increase the number of overseas students on the short term by keeping
the current policies. Nevertheless, if the students returning to their home countries are not satisfied
with the facilities at IC, they will surely not recommend it to others, and the College may
subsequently lose the international reputation it has enjoyed as a high standard educational
establishment, and the recruitment will become much harder in the long term.
2. Constituent Societies
The organisation of OSC is very much UN-like. At present, the OSC is composed of 23 constituent
societies. They are, in alphabetical order, Afro-Caribben, Brazilian, Chinese, Chinese Students and
Scholars Association, Cypriot, Egyptian, Friends of Palestine, Hellenic, Indian, Iranian, Italian,
Korean, Latin American, Lebanese, Malaysian, Mauritainia, Middle East, Nigerian, Pakistan,
Scandinavian, Singapore, Sri Lankan and Turkish. The societies new to this year are Brazilian,
Italian, Mauritainia and Scandinavian. In addition, the formation of another two societies, namely
Asian and Indonesian, is currently under consideration.
The running of these societies has been in general about satisfactory, and some societies have
shown a substantial increase in their activities and events.
3. OSC Executive
The OSC Executive is the body which keeps the diary running of the OSC. Most of its members
have been responsible and efficient.
4. Major Events
Sports: The appointment of an OSC sports officer in the second half of the year has been very
effective. He has been able to coordinate the weekly activities of the various societies in the very
limited time allocated for the use of College sports facilities, as well as organise the OSC volleyball
tournament which took place in April 1989.
Seminar by Prof A Salaam: A new attempt made this year to publicise the OSC is to organise
seminars of general interest. This year the OSC has invited Prof A Salaam to give a seminar in
the College. The professor, who won the Nobel prize in physics in 1979, spoke to an unexpectedly
large crowd of students about his university life in this country.
International Week/Night: The highlight of the OSC calendar was the International Week/Night
in February. This has grown into a major event in recent years, attracting more than 1000 people
this year, and has gained a reputation as being one of the best international events amongst the
London colleges. The programme of this year's International Night was very comprehensive,
including a national culture display and exhibition, a national culture and fashion show, a traditional
Brazilian carnival, an Afro-Caribbean disco party, a national food tasting party, and a Chinese variety
show. The national food tasting party has been highly appreciated by the participants.
Imperial College Summer Fair 1989: The annual Summer Fair is the traditional major social event
in the Colege organised by the HUB. This year's Summer Fair will be held on June 18,1989. Again
to publicise itself, the OSC has actively coordinated with the HUB in the planning of the event.
In particular, an International Pavement Cafe will be presented at the Fair by some OSC constituent
societies.
5. Conclusion
May I say this year has been successful for the OSC and its constituent societies. I trust there is
a greater awareness of the international community at IC, giving one the opportunity to find out
the various cultures present at IC, as well as giving the overseas students the chance to bring to
the attention of all IC students matter of international significance. I am svre the spirit of
internationalism which exists at IC and overrides all else within the OSC will continue.
It is my great pleasure to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the members of my committee
and all those who have contributed in some way towards the OSC this year. May I also wish our
successor every success in the coming session.
Accommodation Officer
After kicking off to a somewhat shaky start, the committee got underway discussing a number
of issues affecting the lives of IC students in their respective halls and houses, the main bones
of contention being rent levels (what else?), security, subwardens (not again!) and the overall running
of the halls and houses.
1. Rents
A hotly debated subject in all student spheres, and obviously the bain of the President's life. It
is no secret that rent levels at IC have escalated to a level which is now at the threshold of the
student market. A survey conducted by the committee of other colleges in London and their rents,
painted a very black picture of IC indeed. It was felt that not enough information regarding the
'hidden extras' included in the termly bills, such as key deposit, amenities etc was given to
prospective students, and that figures quoted in the prospectus didn't give a good enough indication
of the costs of living in London. Apart from using the AP as a means of getting this message across
to new students, it was also suggested that at the time of interview and departmental tours the
issue should be brought up and clearly emphasised.
2. Houses and Halts
Generally, the reports provided by the various reps on the committee gave a clear insight into the
everyday life of an IC hall/house, thus enabling prospective inmates to make up their own minds
about the 'goodies and the baddies'.
On the subject of halls/houses the merger this year of Southwell/Mining prompted much discussion
(and the subject is still being raised), the pros and cons of merging various halls being hotly debated.
A few major points were brought up to be raised at SRC, the advantage being that the Chairman
(sorry Chairwoman) of the Committee has had the pleasure of living in both Mining and Southwell
for the past two years and is therefore in a strong position to give an opinion as to the advantages
and disadvantages of a merger and what improvements can be made.
3. Subwardens
The survey conducted by the committee members as to the value of subwardens unfortunately
was misinterpreted by some as bing a kind of 'witch hunt', which it was never meant to be. However,
the overall feeling is that they are definitely worth it for the amount of time that they have put
in, and that any reduction in numbers would be detrimental to the day-to-day running of IC
residences.
4. Security
Time and time again this issue has raised its ugly head, both by Prince's Gardens and Evelyn Gardens
reps. Obviously security is down to the students in some respects, but it still doesn't save the overall
problems encountered late at night and during the day time, when residences are most vulnerable.
Security is a long term problem, the matter of which needs to be discussed by next year's committee.
Vicky Phillips.
Women's Officer
Apologies for what's going to be a very short report but I'm busy trying to finish my project. Anyway,
there's nothing much to report.
In many ways it's been a disheartening year. I took the post because no one else was going to
and I believed that someone should. That meant that I didn't have any burning theories on what
should be done, I intended to react rather than pro-act. However, no one seemed to want anything
done or have any ideas.
In other respects the year has gone well. I have sat on Council and on a welfare committee that
has helped Nigel run welfare campaigns. I was also part of the Playgroup Working Party which
investigated the feasibility of a playgroup in the Union. Unfortunately the idea was abandoned
due to lack of interest. One of the most successful activities was the free transport home for women.
This was laid on after every major event, and thanks to Paul and Ian etc there were quite a few!
The service was well used. Many thanks to all the drivers.
To finish, I'd like to thank everyone who has helped and wish Nicky Fox, next year's Women's
Officer, luck. ,
GUI Knowles.
Industrial Relations Officer
A new post
The post of Industrial Relations Officer, Chairman of the Industrial Relations Committee (a minor
sub-committee on Council), was created in May 1988.1 was elected as the first IRO in October 1988.
The aim of the IRC is to promote favourable links between all parts of ICU and industry. 'Favourable'
may be in financial terms or otherwise.
This year
A great deal of time this year has been spent establishing the scope and organisation of the IRC.
We've come up with lots of ideas, and put a number otthem into practice. Brief details of this
year's major projects are as follows:
Careers Fair: This is a major service to students and, with a potential five figure profit, also very
lucrative. The loose ends from last year's fair have only just been tied up, and preparations for
next year's fair are already underway. My thanks must go to IndSoc, who did the bulk of the work
for last year's fair.
Advertising: A student was employed over the Easter vacation in a major initiative to increase
advertising revenue for the Union's many publications. We can expect to see results from his work
very soon.
Careers Service: We have worked with the College Careers Service to try to improve their facilities.
A major refurbishment of the Careers Office is due to take place over the summer.
Sponsorship: With new Union sponsorship rules in place, we are just beginning to start work on
increasing industrial sponsorship income for ICU and its clubs.
Mailing List: A number of departments pass lists of final year students on to recruiting companies,
who use them for mass mailshots through the internal mail. With lists of clubs committees, we
can go one better by providing a mailing service to students involved in organising extra-curricular
activities. Mailing lists sell for a great deal of money, and this project could prove very financially
worthwhile. It should come into action over the summer, as soon as a directory of next year's club
committees has been compiled.
The future
There is a lot more that can be done to gain sponsorship, both for clubs and for ICU. With numbers
of graduates expected to fall over the next few years, and demand for graduates steadily increasing,
recruiting companies will become more and more willing to spend money in order to get involved
with universities.
Next term's Careers Fair promises to be the biggest and the best yet. Our aim is to provide a
better service to students, >and at the same time to make a greater profit for ICU.
The potential for Industrial Relations is vast. With universities funding constantly being cut, we
must eventually expect to see these cuts being passed on to ICU. Industrial Relations is one way
in which we can generate our income to supplement our diminishing finances,
t
Finally
As yet, nobody has come forward to take up the post of Industrial Relations Officer next year.
The job carries a fair amount of responsibility, as you will be representing ICU to the outside world
of business and commerce, but in return it can be very rewarding. You certainly don't have to
be a 'Union hack' to do it, so if you are interested in the job, please contact me {via the Union
Office) or sign up on the election papers.
Gavin Spittkhouse,

