Annual Reports
RCC Chairman
This year has been a typical one for the RCC. Essentially the clubs have been doing their own thing
as usual, whilst the Committee has been giving out the money. Here are a few highlights.
The year started with the formation of the Remote-Controlled Model Club. Aided by a generous
start-up grant from the RCC this club appears to be doing very well, and I have a lot of respect
for Guy Myer for setting up a club having been at College less than a term. The RCC is in the
process of accepting the start up of Splot Soc, to cater for the growing band of people who want
to shoot each other in the woods. Funny, but it seems to be those in the TA who have most to
say against other people playing soldiers. On the debit side we appear to have lost the Chess, Chinese
Chess and Waterski Clubs, but I hope that this is only temporary.
It seems unfair to mention the successes of individual clubs, as there will always be those which
I don't know about. This being the case I won't criticise either. Suffice to say that the only complaint
I have about clubs are that they can be a little too self-contained. It is obvious that in many cases
clubs are running themselves quite happily, and don't want to be bothered with any Union business,
such as insurance, reports, grants...
The subject of the Union brings me on to the hack bit. I bacame involved with the Union only
in my capacity as RCC Chairman, having had very little contact with the administrative side of
things previously. At first I was appalled by the lack of standardisation in the way that things are
done. I can see why each year the sabbaticals spend so much time trying to sort things out. However,
over the course of the year I have come to be a lot less worried about this. I sincerely believe that
the Union's job is to look after theVelfare of students by, as the Union Finance Committee put
it, 'laundering Government money'. The issue of club bank accounts is a good illustration of this
principle. The only people in the Union vyho want bank accounts are the Major Sub-Committee
Chairs, because they know that the acounts would make life a lot easier for their clubs. Everyone
else sees it as an administrative nightmare, with reduced control over what clubs can spend their
money on. But this is not what the Union is here for. If we can get away with handing clubs a
cheque at the beginning of the year and sajiing, 'be good with it,' then we should. I know we
can't, but we should be aiming for as much autonomy as we can manage. The CCUs get away
with it. I am very pleased that Tom Yates has persuaded a UGM to make Council see sense, as
their bahaviour on this topic I regard as dishonourable.
Ah well, rant over. It's been a good year for me, as doing this job has brought me into contact
with many interesting people. I'd like to thank those people in the RCC and the Union who made
it all possible, my parents, girlfriend...Good luck to my successor, Tim King, and to everyone for
next year.
Duncan McGregor,
RCC Chairman 1988/89.
PGAO
Introduction
The PGAO's job is to represent to the Union and College the views of almost half the membership
of this college, the PhD, MSc and other postgraduate students. Since this group is notoriously silent,
the job is rendered more difficult, and trying to elicit views from the PG community is next to
impossible. Just trying to get the PG Group to meet has proved very difficult as well! Over the
summer of '88, several PG Group meetings were called, and the attendance at these was 4 (including
myself and the Union President). As a result of this, I decided that the PGAO's job for this year
should be two-fold: firstly to represent the views and interests of PGs, as I saw them, and secondly
to advertise the Union and College facilities to postgraduates. These will be the two underlying
themes in the rest of this report.
College Committees
The two College committees that the PGAO sits on are the Board of Studies (BoS) and the Graduate
Studies Committee (GSC). BoS is essentially a rubber stamping body for other committees, though
in theory is the supreme academic body. As such little of interest to PGs goes on here which doesn't
happen first in GSC. GSC oversees all the PG teaching offered by the College. Regular work includes
vetting new MSc course and changes in existing ones; there has been no trouble in this area, though
I would draw your attention to the number of Europe-related MSc's starting up as/we draw closer
to 1992. However, the issue of qualifications for European students who study rare for a year at
MSc level has caused a lot of discussion. The argument of whether they should be awarded MSc's,
DIC's, or nothing has been resolved by the introductin of a new qualification, the International
Diploma of Imperial College (IDIC). Divising this award took many meetings of a working party
of which I was a member.
Another continuing issue this year was that of quality of supervision of foreign PhD students,
they pay considerably greater fees than home students, and seem not to benefit a great deal from
them. Indeed IC's reputation in two countries, Brazil and Turkey, has been severely damaged by
comments sent back to their home governments about poor supervision. They have the impression
that IC only wants them for their money, and is not prepared to do much for it! Indeed, the Rector
gives this very impression at the Overseas Students Reception each year. From the problems reported
and this impression it is small wonder that we will be getting far fewer students from these two
countries in future. However, it is my belief that the supervision problems faced by these overseas
students are not isolated, or indeed confined to foreign students. My own experience in my research
group would tend to confirm this, but the College-wide picture is very unclear, partly due to the
total lack of communication between PGs and either College or the Union about supervisory
problems. Tutors, advisers and PG reps exist in every department, but these facilities are not widely
known or advertised beyond the initial introductions and leaflets that are probably lost by the time
problems arise. The end result of this is reduced submission rates, and a poorer repuation for the
whole College. Some statistics MUST be gathered about this, and I would suggest that my successor
looks into possible schemes.
PG Committees
One of the initiatives I took this year was to liaise with the Physics PG rep to try to set up a PG
staff-student committee. However, it was never clear what the terms of reference of this group
would be, or how it would function. In principle it would be a good way of getting information
on the overall level of PG lecturing and supervision, but would be unable to do anything about
it. As such, it did not seem reasonable to create a toothless monster, and the plans have died away.
I now believe that schemes like this are not the best way of proceeding with PG representation,
but am at a loss as to what is.
Demonstrators Pay Rates
A major success of the year has been spotting that College did not increase the PG demonstrators
pay rates in line with UGC recommendations at the start of the academic session, and getting them
to implement the increase in the suwmer term. Since the pay rates are examined before October,
College has effectively missed paying two terms worth of the increase. They MUST NOT be allowed
to get away with this again! My successor should watch College like a hawk on this at the start
of the session, and compare demonstrators pay rates at IC with those elsewhere. My heartfelt thanks
to Isobel Fairclough for running this one to earth.
PGs and the Union
Postgraduates have been the silent voice in Union affairs for many years. In some ways this is not
surprising, as they need to work long hours, have no formal timetables, and do not communicate
much with UGs. Indeed individual research groups seldom communicate much! The Union is seen
by most as a purely UG preserve, with little or nothing, aside from the clubs, to offer a PG. To
actually make the PGs aware of what the Union does, 1CU must get them into the building and
advertise its facilities. To this end, and on limited funds, a PG reception was arranged for all
postgraduates in the Christmas term. An invitation was also sent to all PGs which also outlined
what the Union does for its postgraduate students. The response from the PGs was overwhelming,
with a vast turnout. Theresponsefrom IC Union was pitiful. Only one non-PG Union Officer decided
he should help (and many thanks for that assistance Chas). With this degree of enthusiasm for
advertising ICU to the Postgraduates, is it surprising that hardly any of them are interested? It
is time that the Union realised that if it wants postgraduates to be interested in it, THEN ICU MUST
BE INTERESTED IN POSTGRADUATES! This is the single most important lesson I would impart
to my successor—that the Union must not be just as apathetic about PGs as they are about the Union.
Conclusion
In many ways this year has been a starting point. One of the tasks 1 set myself when I took the
job was to get more PGs interested in the Union. Over the year I have made some faltering steps
in this direction, but have also seen the true magnitude of this problem, and that it exists both
sides of the fence. What little has been done this year to make a start MUST be continued next
year, and I wish Martin Cans, next year's PGAO, the best of luck. I'd also like to thank Tom, Yishu
and Isobel for their help over the year, and Gareth Fish for getting me interested in the job.
'It was a tough job, but somebody had to do it'
SuperChicken
Ents Chairman
Dear FELIX,
Weather is great and the water's lovely,
Due to Ent's success this year with Freshers' Week, smaller events (such as Jesus /ones, Brilliant
Corners) and two sell out Carnivals, I have been able to buy this luxury yacht in the Mediterranean,
and enough beer to drown the entire Ents crew. Thanks to everybody whose worked hard this
year to put everything on, and good luck to BJ for next year.
Wotty.
Pub Board Chairman
Overview
As I have only been Chairman of the board since late January, I am only able to comment on its
activities since then. When I started the job, I was faced with a large amount of administrative
work that needed sorting, however, I managed to sort everything out, and I think that on the whole,
nothing has gone wrong. 1 am extremely grateful for the help given by Robert Gimeno (Junior
Treasurer) and the Union Finance Officer, in keeping our accounts up to date.
Imperial College Radio
Imperial College Radio has, this year, succeeded well in its campaign to broadcast on FM, thanks
to the hard work of Nigel Whitfield, the Station Manager. A trial transmitting system has been
in use until May this year, when the test and development licence expired. I hope that their
subsequent application for an operating licence is successful, and that the Union will be prepared
to fund this new venture. The other major improvement that has been made, is to their studio
under Garden Hall.'This has been re-plastered by College—the old walls were very damp—and
IC Radio were able to purchase a new sound mixer from money donated by the Queen's Gate
Trust. A lot of extra money has also been spent on this room, and it now serves the purpose as
IC Radio's main office.
STOIC
STOIC, despite its problems with break-ins and insurance, they have provided an excellent service
during the spring term, with five programmes a week—the largest number ever! The time and money
spent on the studio over the last few years would at last appear to have paid off, and I hope that
the quantity and quality of programmes can be maintained for next year.
FELIX
This year's FELIX has occassionally disappointed me, with its lack of size, although, what has been
produced has been of excellent quality. FELIX, unlike most other clubs and societies, does not have
a Five Year Plan, but has an equipment replacement fund. This year its terms have been altered
to allow purchase of equipment other than just the Litho and Typesetter. A new folding machine
is being purchased from the fund, to replace the worn out one currently in use. This should mean
that future copies of FELIX will always be correctly folded. FELIX have managed to cope with
equipment breaking down regularly, especially the Litho, which has been repaired at least twice
this year.
Other Publications
This year's Alternative Prospectus had just arrived from the printers when I wrote this, and my
first impression of it was excellent. Ramin Nakisa has done a great job editting it, and the cover
is one of the best I have seen. The Handbook for new students, is currently being edited by Steve
Meyfroidt, and will be ready during the summer, for distribution.
I would like to wish all of the publications well in their activities next year, and hope that my
successor has an enjoyable time.
Jonathan Denham,
Publications Board Chairman 1988-89

