WANT TO START YOUR
OWN BUSINESS?
£20,000
to start it up and your
dream could be realised
NEW BUSINESS IDEA OF THE YEAR
COMPETITION
£20,000 is the prize for the winner of the New
Business Idea of the Year Competition. A fabulous prize
for the best budding new entrepreneur of 1989. Not
only will the winner be given £20,000 of start-up
capital, they will also receive free legal and financial
advice for one year including their new company's first
audit.
It's the dream of millions to run their own
company. Many have taken the plunge and succeeded.
But for thousands of others, it's often frustrating to fall
at the first hurdle - lack of sufficient start up capital is
usually the problem.
It's not often that people between the ages of 18
and 25 are given the opportunity to have sufficient
funds to help them get going in
business.
We're offering £20,000
for the best new business idea
of 1989. It is considerably more
than many new entrepreneurs
start with. GREAT IDEAS FOR YOUNG CAREERS
OCTOBER 12-15
WEMBLEYNEWEXHIBITIONHALL ,
Not only will the New Business Idea of the Year
Competition be a superb launch pad for the winner, it is
also going to be instructive for every other competitor.
Each entrant will be shown how to put together and
present a business plan which will be in an acceptable
form for any of the major institutions which provide
finance for new business. It could prove to be priceless
for every single entrant.
The winner will be announced on 15 October at
Careers '89 in Wembley's New Exhibition Hall.
H
O
W TO ENTER
Using the registration form below, complete and return
your personal details to us. We
will send your competition
entry documents, which will
provide you with all the
necessary details and
instructions to help you
compete.
NEW BUSINESS IDEA OF THE YEAR
COMPETITION REGISTRATION FORM
Name (block letters) i
Address
Town L_ Postcode
Telephone No L
Signature
Date of Birth
Undergraduate • School-leaver • Other • (please specify) _
University, Poly, College or School currently/most recently attended _
Return this registration form to: MSM Exhibitions Ltd
Thames House, 18 Park St, London SE1 9ER
RULES AND REGULATIONS
1. The New Business Idea of the Year Competition
is open to those who will be 18 years old from the
closing date for entries (8 September 1989) up to
and including 25 years of age.
2. N
o entries can be accepted from employees of
MSM Exhibitions and its associate companies,
from representatives of the sponsors of the
competition and the judges or relatives and family
of the aforementioned.
3. The closing date for entries is 8 September,
1989. N
o entries will be accepted after this date.
4. All entries must be submitted on the official
entry form, copies of which can be obtained from
MSM Exhibitions Ltd, Thames House, 18 Park
Street, London SE1 9ER.
5. The winning entry will be announced on 1
5
October, at Careers '89 which will take place at
Wembley New Exhibition Hall.
6. The decision of the judges will be final and no
correspondence will be entered into.
7. The prize must be used for the business
outlined, in the winning entry, as start-up capital
for that business.

