ELECTIONS 31 October 1997
Elections!
Elections!
READ ALL ABOUT ITI
Oh joy, oh rapture, it's time for the another re-run of the 1997
sabbatical elections, which means you have to get off your
W
f
i
r
m
rum
r
u
m
ruin
backside and get to the polling booths. Two posts are to be
filled; President of ICU - which is still vacant after three
attempts to fill it last year all returned New Election - and
Deputy President (Clubs and Societies) - which last year's can-
didate could not fill for academic reasons.
Three students have stood for these positions, and their
manifestos are below - take the time to read them and decide
who you like best.
If you've got any sense, you'll want to meet the candidates
in the flesh, hear them speak, and ask questions. This is what
the Hustings is all about. Each candidate makes a speech and
is then grilled by the spectators. Hustings are 6pm Monday 3
Mark Baker
STANDING FOR PRESIDENT
For three years I've enjoyed being part of ICU - going to the
Carnivals, being involved in the clubs and surviving almost
entirely on cheap curries. This year I am Publications Board
Chair, but with the tragic failure to elect a President last term,
I now have to opportunity to do even more for ICU and its
members.
I have the experience necessary to do this job. The
Andrew
Heeps
STANDING FOR PRESIDENT
On August I st, Imperial College permanently changed. We
stand on the brink of a new century, a century where the
world's leading scientists, engineers and doctors will all come
from Imperial College.
President will start work immediately, and miss out on a sum-
mer of training, so it is vital to elect a candidate who fully
understands the Union.
I possess excellent communication skills - the President
needs to be able to converse effectively with both College and
students. I aim to make the governance of ICU more visible to
the ordinary students, by publicising important meetings and
using the Web to provide minutes and introductions to the
many committees.
I am professional - I have recently completed 6 months in
industry, and took a year out before coming to IC, when I
worked in a leading research laboratory.
ICU needs to recognise that it is a multi-campus organ-
Charlie Joynt
STANDING FOR DEPUTY PRESI-
DENT (CLUBS A N D SOCIETIES)
It is no surprise that much of our socialising is based around
the societies that we join. We have over 180 clubs that we can
sign up for, and most of us choose to be members of a few of
them at the very least. With the mergers of the medical
schools, and next year's integration of ICSM into the South
Kensington campus, we must strive to broaden the width of the
New Election
STANDING FOR ALL POSTS
New Election is standing for all posts in this election, but who
is this elusive and daring candidate and why vote for this
option? New Election - RON for short - is the one to vote for if
you don't think the other candidates are up to the job. If New
Election gets in there will automatically be another election for
that post. This in theory should enable you to take your pick
from a new crop of candidates that are hopefully better than
the last lot. Therefore, if you feel that the candidates standing
for any post are not up to the job, VOTE NEW ELECTION.
Of course, there is a disadvantage; if New Election does
win we have to go through all of this again. So please, for all
our sakes, think before voting.
There are many ways you can assess the quality of the can-
didates. If you want to ask the candidates questions attend the
election hustings or alternatively you could just read the mani-
festos, interviews in Felix and posters round College. Whatever
you choose to do make an informed choice and use your vote
effectively. If somebody you like doesn't get elected or some-

