31 October 1997 ELECTIONS
November in dBs, 8pm Tuesday 4 November at the St Mary's
Campus and 6pm Thursday 6 November at the Charing Cross
(L Westminster Campus, so there's no excuse for missing
them.
Decision time is 10 and 1 1 November when voting booths
will be available in all campuses, main departments, the Union
and the JCR all day. To vote, you need your Union Card. If you
haven't got one yet, go to the Union Office with your regis-
tration document an a couple of photos (of yourself).
Whoever wins these elections will be representing you
and your union all year, so no lame excuses, get involved and
USE YOUR VOTE.
This change is good. Good for ICU and good for the
Constituent College Unions, as it provides the perfect opportu-
nity for us to get what we, as a collective whole student body,
need. However, this can only be done if we put dogma and pre-
vious disagreements behind us. Fresh momentum, fresh ideas
and fresh initiatives can unite the student body against the use-
less bureaucracy that exists within Sherfield, and get results.
These fresh ideas will not come from any old 'Union hack'.
The strength of ICU that currently exists needs a fresh face to
provide strong leadership and prepare the Union for the many
tough decisions that lie ahead. A new broom is required to
sweep the cobwebs away, and to concentrate the work of ICU
in the areas where you want it to be directed, not where a
clique of CV-tillers think it would be best placed. ICU should be
inclusive, not exclusive, and provide a service, not prove to be
a hindrance.
As President, 1 will make it my priority to ensure that ICU
provides you with the services you want. I don't want to see a
Union divided, which puts Club against Society, and
Constituent College against Constituent College. 1 want a Union
where my voice makes a difference, my opinions count, and my
needs as a student of the country's leading college of Science,
Technology and Medicine are met. I want this for you.
This isn't some flash-in-the-pan bid for glory. I'm going to
be at Imperial for a good time to come, and I want to see ICU
work whilst I'm here.
isation, and provide top quality services for all its members.
Whilst information technology can help us to keep in touch,
more needs to be done to foster the community spirit on
which ICU depends.
My aim is to improve the welfare of all students. 1
oppose the introduction of tuition fees - 1 believe that educa-
tion should be accessible to all, and the introduction of fees
would bring a return to education afforded only the rich. This
would be detrimental to the whole country.
I believe that Imperial College should aim to have the
same level of excellence in its administration and teaching
that it has in its research. This is not currently the case.
clubs on offer, and to increase the depth of participation in
them. Particularly as Imperial is a science-based college, we
must encourage social and artistic societies to maintain a
healthy balance of interests.
Many of our sports teams are excellent, with international
caps for many of our rowers, a BUSA win for fencing and indi-
vidual championship wins for members of the Karate club, to
mention but three teams. With proper coaching, sponsorship
deals, better equipment and improved sporting facilities, there
is no reason why our sports clubs cannot improve tremen-
dously.
At Imperial, there is much emphasis on academic work, but
we must balance this properly. All too infrequently do we have
successful dinners and balls. Anyone who has witnessed
Wednesday nights in the bar cannot deny that an ACC or RCC
dinner would not be as successful as the already popular OSC
'International Night'.
Vote for me as ICU Deputy President, and all this will hap-
pen. I am enthusiastic and experienced in the organisation of
clubs - as 3 d
X V captain I am responsible for over 40 rugby play-
ers and have managed to field a 4t h
XV for the first time in
recent history. I stand for your best interests.
one you dislike does, you cannot complain about it or get the
result changed. In short use your vote wisely and if you really
don't believe a candidate is any good VOTE NEW ELECTION.
OK! That's enough of the boring, positive side of the cam-
paign. What you really want to hear from us is what we think
of the candidates. So here, exclusive to Felix is the negative
part of our campaign, where we spread unsubstantiated lies
and malicious gossip about each of the other candidates.
The first person we would like to discuss is X

