14 FESTIVALS 31 October 1997 FESTIVALS 15
We've been carefully
observing THE FENCE as
we nose our way slowly
into the site, Ellie deftly piloting
the pathetic Nissan around
bogged-down unfortunates, their
expectations sinking with their
tyres into the mud. She has
become some sort of sanity depth
marker in the vehicle on this
unusual evening, but that's anoth-
er story. Keep moving, keep
rolling.
And we don't like what we see.
THE FENCE is in fact at least two
fences. It may be more, we can't
tell, which makes things worse.
There's lights everywhere and
these orange metal-mesh boxes
with guards in perched every hun-
dred yards. Dark, scary men left
over from the Third Reich, semi-
automatics dangling ominously
over their fascist hearts and their
evil eyes staring over glowing cig-
arettes NO STOP IT there are no
guns, calm, that's what we need,
calm and patience. Calm,
patience. Yes.
Sure, they want to see our tickets,
but they are no match for Ellie.
Even the zealots, the professional
car park attendants, the expert
petty officials, their motivation
has long since osmosed through
their boots into the all consuming
mud and as such they were not
kitted out deal with Ellie's "lost lit-
tle girl - friends are waiting for us
with tickets - helpless but sexy"
routine. In short, we were in.
The car park, we are into the car
park. Because you can't drive over
FENCES.
And so we wander around the
perimeter. The others have made
a rope ladder with a huge hook
on the end and are very proud. It
soon becomes clear that the outer
FENCE, a wire mesh job with
spikes on top, is not going to
pose a problem. After this is a
concrete FENCE about twelve feet
high, and beyond this we don't
know. Near the entrance are arse-
holes with ladders charging the
punters hard earned tenners to
get themselves manhandled by
drunken Westcountry thugs
employed as security
guards and discharged
£ 10 poorer with
blacker eyes for
another go. We keep
on walking.
The hook is employed,
but the noise in horren-
dous, the rusted metal
scraping on the rough
concrete. Shouts from inside:
Fuck Off, but in fewer words,
if that is possible. We keep on
walking. ,
This is neat, this is cunning. / ,
This takes this piss. Sorry, /
I'll go back. We have walked
around to the hippy stone
circle area of the FENCE.
It's quieter, and there are
none of the blaring arc-
lights or security pill-boxes.
Somebody's disconnected a
section of the wire fence and -
in a flash of brilliance - has
lent it against the main con- /y
crete FENCE to form a lad
der.
We peek over. There's no
body official around, just
lots of tents. So we sling
the rope-ladder into the
hedge, psyche each other
up, and go for it.
Adrenaline, adrenaline, heart
thumping as we go over the top
as if we were going to war. All of
us together over and then a drop
of twelve foot but no going back.
Ellie drops down onto the mud
and slips onto her arse, 1 swing
down a supporting strut like an
orang-u-tang, so high that I've got
tunnel vision. We dive off, hurry-
ing between tents and as we flee I
realise that the sound in my ears
is people cheering and it's done
and we're in and the FENCE will
never be anything more than a
fence again.
I made a number of important decisions
over that Glastonbury weekend. According
to the law of conservation of misery, some
were inevitably more inspired than
others. One of the more beneficial
was to check the weather forecast
in the legendary village of
Shepton Mallet, and don my
three-quarter army boots rather
than my beautiful Airwalk train-
ers. One of the slightly
more rash decisions was to
get on the coach in the first
instance. In retrospect, I should
have sold the ticket and spent the money on
large quantities of beer. I could have seated
myself in my nice warm front room and
watched the bands pretend to enjoy them-
selves.
Things began to go vrong before we
even left Liverpool. Being something of a
simpleton, I managed to give both my out-
ward and return tickets to the unhelpful
bloke on the coach, and then staged a heat-
ed argument with him in an attempt to get
my return ticket back. Quinny, my Glasto
mucker, put his head in his hands and
whimpered like a dog as he saw his chances
of getting home dip sharply. The coach party
decided that my stupidity was the height of
hilarity. My weekend began to take shape.
Which of you dear readers was in the
Scouts? Fancy yourself as a bit of a tent-
erecting afficianado? I can tell you, putting
up a tent in gale force winds and driving rain
is substantially more tricky than performing
the same stunt in the temperate zones of the
13th Allerton Cub Scout Hall. It was cold. It
was wet. it was expensive. The food was
lousy. Bands were cancelled when the sec-
ond stage sank into the mud. The sun did
not come out once. It rained consistently. It
took five minutes just to get one's shoes on
and off. The mud was three feet deep in
places and never more shallow than twelve
inches. People died. People contracted bac-
terial infections. People wished it was 1995.
On Saturday morning I was awoken by an
alarm clock devised by Tori Amos, as the
"Herbal Highs" shop across the quagmire
repeated her bass loop for the thousandth
time. I got up, I struggled out of my tent. It
was still cold. It was still wet. I packed up
and went home.
What a complete waste of time.
Thank God I've still
got some hashish left/'
True stories from those ba
rain and mud in the middle
stions of joy, drugs, love, fields in the
of fucking nowhere. Compiled by Jon.
"1 was on the dodgems at Tribal Gathering with the
biggest joint you ever saw. 1 was shunted from behind
and it flew out of my mouth to the ground where my
mate saw some guy pick it up and disappear into the
crowd. And it put me on a real downer you know?
Anyway I came off the dodgems* and about thirty sec-
onds later someone is tapping on my shoulder. 1 turn
round and it's this guy handing me back this great carrot
with a big grin on his face. He was clearly not sharing the
consensus reality. We hugged, shared the rest of it and
spent about forty minutes talking bollocks about ambient
music. Random acts of kindness like that happen all the
time at festivals. Well, ones with drugs, anyway"
'Bollocks!"'Bollqp
fOLLOCKS!'
" B o l l o c k s !
" B o l l o c k PFmU
^
How the bloody hell am I sup-
posed to get . B o , | o c k s r
...to get to sleep with all this
... all this shouting going on? Ob
hold on, it's quietening
"Bollocks!"
...down. Quiet. Sleep. Ahhh.
Sleep.
"Paul Weller!"
Paul Wellerl"
"Paul Weller I "
"Paul Weller!'
k M M i
i
f
a
1ffirT „ i
"Dale Winton"
Jimmy Nail"
"Mrs Mangel"
"Wooo Hoooo!
It is two a.m.. I am lying diagonally across my tiny and
pathetically non-waterproofed "microwave meals for one"
style tent in the middle of an athletics track, listening to
two groups of lagered up fellow campers bellow celebrities'
names at one another. ,' am, shall we say, a little pharma-
ceutically enhanced. Yet another Blur fan screams "Wooo-
Hooo!" They have been going for over an hour so far, and
seem to have lost no ir.terest. At first I think that it might
be a complicated offspring of a "Drink-While-You-Think"
word association game, but the longer it goes on, the more
I become convinced that it is entirely at random. Which
was, admittedly very funny, but noting in comparison to
what happened next. From the tent of my festival compan-
ion, Rob, I hear a hustle, a sharp hiss of air, a giggle from
his girlfriend and then the unmistakable of the fanfare
opening of "2001: A Space Oddessey". On a kazoo. The
thin, reedy noise brings silence to the beery masses.
"Dah daaahhh Dah Ta-Dah". The longer it
went on , the higher the pitch, the more out of tune he
screeched, for the funnier it all got. Eventually, the song
reached its triumphant climax to a truly astonishing round
of applause, whistling and cheers.
"And now, for my next piece, Montegues and Capulets"
"Wooo-Hoooo!
"Roger de Courcey!"
Oh dear.
YES! SPLAT! YOU'VE BEEN SLIMED! The Casual
stares around at us angrily looking for a target
for his embarrassed wrath. The slurry dribbles
down his Calvin Kleins into his Timberlands as
his bimbo girlfriend pulls him away, our laughter
echoing in his ears. Here comes a friendly-look-
ing crusty bloke who looks like he can take a
laugh. 1 think about warning him, but it's out of
the question. The tension rises as he steps
nearer the trap, but miracles of miracles his foot
lands a micron to the side and, unknowingly, he
avoids a boot full of shite.
I'm standing in the mud at the Other Stage,
watching it sink and waiting for Ash to start, in
front of me there's an unusual gap in the crowd.
This is because there is a large, two-foot deep
hole in the ground. Its clay-lined sides are
fiendishly slippery, and best of all, it's invisible
because it's full to the brim with a foul, piss
filled slurry, indistinguishable frorrj the surround-
ing muck. We're standing in a crowd around it
(many of us have fallen into it
ourselves) surreptitiously watching
for the next sucker who wants to
push to the front and has just
seen an empty space. KERSPLAT!!
A punk goes right in, both feet,
and lands on his backside. But he
can't get any purchase on the
pestilent slime, and continues to
slide until he is submerged up to
his chest. There's nervous laugh-
ter, but everyone's worried that
he's going to jump up and deck
us. Incredibly, he laughs! The
release of tension is truly fantas-
tic. In reflection that was probably
the highlight of the festival.
My resounding memory of Tribal 96 was six of us, two from the group we
were with and the rest just random strangers kneeling in the mud looking
for X's pills using our UV glowing tubes to illuminate them. Incredibly,
despite the thousands of people dancing like mad bastards all around us
we found them and everyone was just so happy. A real sense of triumph.
You could tell he was a chemistry student though, because he spent the
next two hours explaining why M D M A glows in UV. ^ ^

