ARTS 31 October 1997
WILDLIFE SHOW
EG WILDLIFE PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR
Natural History Museum
H
ow do you describe in words a photography exhi-
bition when the entire purpose of the photographs
is to convey that which words cannot describe? 1
still haven't managed to resolve this paradox but I shall try
the impossible.
Animals and Nature in general have a timeless appeal
that even the most heartless of people cannot resist. I
found it almost impossible to look at these photographs
with an impartial eye. Heaven knows how the judges man-
aged to keep their impartiality and judge the entries not
only on aesthetic appeal and originality, but also on tech-
nical difficulty and brilliance! The exhibition has certainly
achieved its aim of promoting the beauty and wonder of
the natural world.
The most poignant categories were Urban and Garden
Wildlife and Animal Behaviour. It was amazing to see how
well animals can adapt to an artificial urban environment.
Crows nested on a pile of coathangers; an arctic fox made
its den in a rubbish tip where it could take full advantage
of all the scraps thrown out by humans.
The Animal Behaviour category brought me back into
the real world. Although we tend to forget it and view
Nature through rose-tinted glasses, the natural environ-
ment is actually a very harsh place to survive in. The image
of an antelope being strangled by a python really brought
this fact home to me.
"Tiger Chasing Bird", by Anup Shah.
Runner-Up in the 'Gerald Durrell Award
for Endangered Wildlife' category.
"King Penguins Underwater",
by Tui De Roy.
Runner-Up in 'The Underwater
World' category.
"Grevy's Zebra", by Daniel Gritz.
Runner-Up in the '10 years and
under' category.
The winning photograph, Common Tern
Fishing, was taken by Tapani Raesaenen from
Finland. This is a spectacular action photograph, full
of movement and vitality. The bird is captured as it
pulls its supper out of the water. Light is reflected
off the spray thrown up by the tern. Somehow 1
didn't feel as sorry for the fish as I did for the ante-
lope caught by the snake, probably because, like
most people I suspect, I tend to feel more sympa-
thy for living beings with furs and feathers. This
exhibition made me aware of this attitude and I
shall certainly do my utmost to change it. El
Emma
BG Wildlife Photographer of the Year
Natural History Museum.
£6, £3.20 students.
Open 10am - 5.50pm Mon - Sat,
1 lam - 5.50pm Sunday.
Tube: South Kensington

