31 October 1997
EXHIBITION
CLOSER
Royal National Theatre
ARTS 21
Liza Walker as
Alice smoking a
fag.
W
hat do you expect to
experience at the
National Theatre? A per-
fonnance of high standard? Yes.
Smooth swift and clever produc-
tion? Certainly. Confident profes-
sional acting? Definitely. 'Closer',
Patrick Marber's new play certainly
has all of these. However, clainung
that it might be a production to
provoke, challenge, shock or expe-
rience would be like trying to com-
pare 'Neighbours' to 'Cracker' -
somehow 1 don't think so. Don't
get me wrong, 'Closer' is entertain-
ing, sometimes extremely flinny,
others quaintly moving, but what it
achieves in entertainment in lacks
in reality and emotion.
The simplicity of the staging is
wonderfill. The fist scene, set in a
hospital requires only three chairs
and a bin, while the cold towering
walls on the side and back (which
remain throughout the perfon-
nance) are kept on the edges of the
dark volume of the wings by the
simply lit, raised staged.
We meet 'Alice', Liza Walker, a
stripper just returned from New
York who apparently, "knows what
men want ... they want women to
come like — but elegantly." 1 She
has just been knocked over by a
cab occupied by 'Dan' played by
Mark Strong. Their relationship
begins, but by only the next scene,
set some months later, we are
given a glimpse of Dan's 'male'
nature - a sad indication of the fick-
le twists that develop later.
By far the fimniest scene fol-
lows, wherein no more than ten
words are spoken. Dan now an
upeoming author of a book based
on Alice's life, leads a doctor,
'Larry' played by Neil Dudgeon,
into a cyber-sex chat on the
Internet —an pretending to be a
girl!). The remarkable witty script,
superb timing and the effects used
lead the audience to one of the
smoothest and most enjoyable
parts of the evening. It shows quite
clearly how the characters them-
selves fail to connect with the audi-
ence when we are forced to listen
to their 'human' emotions.
Larry eventually pairs up with
'Anna' a photographer played by
Sally Dexter, before the fmal scene
of the first act where we witness
the breaking up of both couples-
Dan is apparently in love with Anna.
The clever staging allows us to see
it happeinng both at the same
time, a grateflil respite to the long
and unconvincing sexual details we
are pulled through - or maybe just
a hint of the seeraingly endless
similar situations we see later.
Indeed the second act begins in
a strip joint. If, however, every strip
joint were as unarousing or unerot-
ic as this then they'd have to find a
new property development plan for
Soho. The atmosphere isn't helped
by the fact that it now seems Larry
and Alice, who is dancing at the
club, are going to get together. The
rest of the second act just seems to
be littered with events of partner
swapping, vengeance, and witty
remarks about men (some of which
- it has to be admitted - are
extremely flinny).
The intriguing idea of leaving
the props and set of previous
scenes at the back and sides of the
stage seems to reflect the cluttered
lives the characters weave for
themselves. (Though I'm tempted
to believe it reflects the cluttered
rnind of Marber when he thought of
a plot.)
The sad, somewhat downbeat
ending is lost, as we've never really
been allowed to connect with the
character's emotions. Despite
Marbers claim that, "Closer is an
intimate play, but that doesn't
mean, necessarily, that it is best
experienced close up", I'd love to
see it with some of the restrictions
of smaller or fringe productions.
In the play the book written by
Dan has appeal, because it was
honest and true -something which
was missing from this entertaining
and professional attempt at a
"comedy of our time". H
Matt Williams
CARL AND KARIN LARSSON : CREATORS OF THE SWEDISH STYLE
V & A
T
his exhibition, the first of that importance,
ever to be held outside Sweden, cele-
brates the work of Carl and Karin Larsson
and its fantastic influence on Swedish and inter-
national design for more than 100 years.
Carl Larsson is Sweden's most popular and
acclaimed artist. Together with his wife, he cre-
ated an innovative style in interior design, which
was soon to become the essence of what we
now call "the Swedish style" : simple, luminous
and colourful, practical, comfortable and robust
; radically differentiating itself from the dark,
heavy and pompous trends of the 19th century.
The Larssons were part of a Swedish artistic
movement of the 1890s which showed a
renewed interest for the homelands, native dis-
tricts, local folklore and remote areas. To this
strong inspirational source was added a blend of
varied influences comprising Art Nouveau,
Italian Renaissance, English Arts and Crafts and
the Japanese style.( Larsson even confessed
that "as an artist, Japan was his homeland".)
Not only did the Larssons introduce a style
in design, but also promoted a lifestyle, unpre-
tentious, rural and family centred, which they
developed and pursued in their famous
Sundborn Cottage. The home became the cen-
trepoint of Carl's and Karin's global approach to
design, extending their ideas and creations to ail
of its minute details, from woven fabrics, flower
arrangement to wall decorations and furniture.
The exhibition presents a large collection of
water-colours, amongst which Carl's most
famous scenes can be found, reproduced
throughout the world, as well as oils, drawings
and photographs. There is an important focus
on Sundborn house, through several re-installa-
tions of rooms, including original furniture.
Carl's pictures, in their "elaborate simplici-
ty", are a celebration of the family and show the
remarkable intensity of the links which united
him to each of its members. As he expressed it
himself: "They are a very genuine expression of
my personality, of my deepest feelings, of all my
limitless love for my wife and children." Even
when they do not appear 'in person', they still
belong to the picture by some sign from the
artist. One very often finds representations of
toys and Carl himself regularly appears as his
"alter-ego clown".
The artist's attachment to tradition is also
shown through various representations of typi-
cal celebrations.
The exhibition also treats the unique legacy
of the artists, in its last part, " A 100 years of the
Larssons' ideal" which focuses on that astound-
ing, seemingly unwavering influence. Carl's
water-colours have been used extensively in
advertisement as an appreciated symbol of fam-
ily, happiness and security. Their design concept
has inspired many of the country's leading
designers and architects and has spread across
the world, through successful Swedish firms
such as IKEA, main sponsor of the exhibition,
paying a tribute to those who "inspirited them".
Such has become the inseparability of the
Swedish society from the Larssons, that the new
Swedish passport will, from January 98, show
one of the artist's paintings in its inner cover.
The Karin and Carl Larsson exhibition is real-
ly one not to be missed. Putting aside all artisti-
cal, historical and conceptual reflection, it is, in
the spirits of the artists themselves, "simply"
pleasant, fj
Danuta

