W e i n v e s t
i n t h e b e s t .
// areer decisions should be made prudently because they determine
your long-term future. When you join us, the Government ofSingapore
Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (GIC), you are making a prudent decision
which gives you good long-term returns. We are the largest global fund
management company in Singapore. A career with us means prestige,
challenging and interesting work,financialrewards and excellent career
Prospects. We also provide the global exposure and training which few others
can match.
Reflecting our worldwide orientation, we have our headquarters in Singapore
and overseas offices in London, New York, San Francisco, Frankfurt, Tokyo,
Hong Kong and Bangkok.
INVESTMENT OFFICERS
We invest in a wide range of asset classes: equities, bonds, money market
instruments, real estate and direct investments in both private and public
companies. To meet our growing needs, we are looking for outstanding and
committed people to join us as Investment Officers in any of the asset
departments.
You must have a good University Degree from any discipline with excellent
analytical ability and strong interpersonal skills.
Both fresh graduates and those with relevant working experience are welcome
to apply. Successful candidates can look forward to an attractive remuneration
package. You will be based in Singapore and depending on the corporation's
needs, you should be prepared to travel or be posted to one of our overseas
office.
If you would like to invest your career with one of the best fund
management companies in the world, send a comprehensive resume
with your result slips, transcripts/GPA scores and all supporting
documents to:
The Director, Admin & Personnel
Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd
250 North Bridge Road, #38-00 Raffles City Tower
Singapore 179101
Or fax in confidence to (65)3308537.
E-mail: apdcym@gic.com.sg
Closing Date: 7 November 1997
We regret that only shortlisted applicants will be notified.
WE I N V E S T IN THE B E S T A R O U N D THE WORLD

