Page 2 FELIX Thursday, 9th December, 1971
After dozens
of frantic
phone calls
t Arch - Clown *
I R O B A R M I T A G E ':
* *
* Reports $
The story so far:
The intrepid collectors of Imperial College have
amassed £550 by the end of November. The equally
intrepid rag mag producers of Queen Elizabeth College
have amassed £28 and a bill for £1300. The new over-
all SUK Rag Chairman has inherited a print order of
30,000 rag magazines from his predecessor, J. R. McCul-
lough, Esq. (hence the £1,300 plus bill) and is having
fingers bitten to the bone. The girls of Institut Francais
have not yet flyposted the Kings Road. What will they
do next? Why am I writing this drivel? Read on, it gets
worse . . . . What have you done? You have had the
chance of a lifetime to wink all the way down Oxford
Street (including Taylor's Passage, the Oxford Circus
tube subway) and most of you missed it. Full marks,
however, to the gentleman who inserted himself into
Selfridges' rotating doors and trapped young ladies
(why?, Ed) therein until the requisite amount of used
fivers was placed into his tin. And who was ejected
from Mothercare? Due to the ineptitude, sorry, respect
for one-way system, of his driver Bo strafed Oxford
Street only three times in as many hours.
I am now to reveal that the "Show" whose ownership
was a matter of dispute between City and Guilds College
and the Lord Mayor was in fact a highly profitable rag
collecting scheme.
The non-appearance of the gorilla suit is in part due
to the problem with elderly ladies jumping the traffic
lights. These reached a peak under the tenancy of one
Col. Fletcher, especially when the face mask was re-
moved.
Comedy Entertainment for Everyone.
Don't miss your chance to:
Make friends and influence people with the new dual-
purpose raffle ticket kit.
Charm Great Aunt Bertha into giving you (well, the
rag charities) real MONEY over Christmas. Sell them
in pubs, on planes, boats and punts, and be popular with
your friends. You might win the £10 Cash Prize for the
person who sells the most tickets.
Available now from your friendly social rep. Don't
you often get up and say, "My, I'd love to walk around
the London Parks on this February afternoon." You
can make friends and influence people with the new dual-
purpose Walk sponsorship kit. A simplified version for
the non-intellectual or illiterate. You needn't write any-
thing down! Just remember Sunday, 13th February . . . .
ask Santa for some hiking boots.
Remember the College staff love giving money away
. . . . just you ask your tutor.
G O O D G O D ! !
... he's actually written s
F U T U R E E V E N T S
R A G G O E S P O L I T I C A L
Much behind-the-scenes, Special Branch manoeuvring
convinced the N.U.S. to hold the Mass Day of Action for
all British universities, etc., in London on January 23rd.
The power-packed rag magazine 'SUK' will be available
on January 20th. They are coming to us to buy mags,
instead of vice-versa. We have ways . . .
A further instance of how far we are asked is in seve-
ral universities' decisions (e.g. Nottingham) to have a
Karnival. They appear to be ten years behind.
RAG FORTNIGHT FEBRUARY 7th-19th.
We don't do anything by halves,
lights are down below:
FEBRUARY
Wed. 9th
Recorded high-
liiili
I
P kn
Mk. 2 automatic Morphy Day, (D) Rag
Queen Disco.
Thurs. 10th Drink-a-pub-very-dry-indeed.
Sat. 12th Rag procession — legal traffic snarl-up?
Sun. 13th Profitable Parks Perambulator—Sponsored
Walk to you.
Mon. 14th Valentines Day — Computer Dating (again,
but this one will work).
Tues. 15th RCM Orchestral Concert.
Fri. 18th Rag Ball (formerly Guilds Carnival) in
College Block all night with Humble Pie,
Wild Angels, Al Stewart, Lee Michael.
Sat, 19th Fete at College of St. Mark and St. John,
opposite Stamford Bridge Stadium (Chel-
sea are at home).
Sun. 20th 3, 5, 7, 9-legged pub crawl, and out-with-
a-bang disco.
Plus lots of collections featuring superstar still con-
struction, namely a 6ft. collecting can and a 6ft. Teddy
Bear.
And now . . . .
A COMPETITION
Liquid prizes offered to the best names for a 6 ft. col-
lecting can (e.g. 'Tiny Tin') and matching Teddy Bear
(e.g. 'Ragamuffin'). Urghh and ahhh respectively. Entries
on a postcard to Rag Letter Rack, IC Union Office.
THE SERIOUS BIT
Remember all the stunts and schemes inadequately
described above are a means of raising money for those
less fortunate than ourselves AND having a ball, well, a
good time at least. A measure of the Union's support is
a loan of £1,350 from Council (as reported in a very
biased fashion in the last Felicity). The rest is up to
you. Visit a different pub to sell raffle tickets (ask
the landlord first), get up for 10 a.m. on a Saturday to
collect, it all helps, it's all appreciated. You can't spare
much money, but you can give time and effort.
Try it over Christmas, it's a really worthwhile gift.
ROB ARMITAGE (Telephone Answering) LTD.
With no credit to the three uniformed gentlemen in
a Rover 3500 who stopped me during this article.
Taylor Memorial \
F O O T B A L L M A T C H
HYDE PARK \
(pitch nearest exhibition Road) \
R
A
G (3 L
E
G SPECIALS)
V
T H I G H S
9 December (Thurs) 1 p.m.
souvenir programmes on sale J
PSEUID'S
C O R N E R
Last night (Wednesday 24th), the IC Symphony Or-
chestra were at their very best.
They began the evening with an enthusiastic rendering
of the Rosamunde Overture. The climax of this work,
so well controlled by James Stohart the conductor, set
a very high standard.
The soloist, Judy Swan, handled some very difficult
double bowing in Walton's Violin Concerto masterfully.
Her interpretation was invigorating and the orchestra
tackled the rhythmic sections of this work not only with
thought but with panache. This was especially notice-
able in the Vivo con molto preciso which was the most
difficult movement of the evening.
At the interval, I found it difficult that the standard
of playing could be raised for the Tchaikovsky 4th Sym-
phony. This was, in fact, even a higher standard, and
undoubtedly the best produced by the orchestra for some
time. All the entries were split second accurate and the
pizzicato section of Scherzo was a delight to listen to.
The Finale left the audience wanting more and special
mention of any one section of the orchestra would be
unjust as each played equally well.
Congratulations, IC Symphony Orchestra, for provid-
ing the audience with a splendid evening.
Nick Feldman
In 1900 Edward Elgar wrote what is now recognised
as one of the greatest choral works of all; it stands with
the Requiems of Verdi and of Brahms, and has perhaps
only been equalled since by Benjamin Britten's "War
Requiem".
In the period 1800-1900 the output of continental
musical masterpieces was enormous: composers such as
Beethoven, Schubert, Verdi, Wagner and Brahms domi-
nated the musical scene. Yet during this period there
was no major English musical composition in the top
rank whatever. Elgar's "Dream of Gerontius" was the
first great English choral work since "Messiah" (if
Handel's may be counted as English music), and it had
everything: inspiration, drama, melody, stupendous solo
roles, and magnificent writing for a large choir and a
vast orchestra.
I.C. Choir's performance of "The Dream" on March
17th next must rank as one of I.C.'s most important
musical events ever, and the opportunity to take part
is something which no student who counts himself musi-
cal should miss. The purpose of this note is to let al!
such students know that the rehearsals start this term,
on December 16th. It's not an easy work—the Demon's
Chorus is infamous as well as fabulous — and Choir
members will need to start at the beginning.
Rehearsals are on Thursdays at 5.30 p.m. in Room
342, Mech. Eng. Men from I.C. only — girls from col-
leges all over London.
D. J. WATERHOUSE

