Page 4 FELIX Thursday, 9th December, 1971
Presenting • •
A W O M A N
It's probably true to say that
Christmas in the city is con-
sumer society's answer to the
Christian miracle. But salesman-
ship or not, it gives London,
narticularly the West End. an at-
mosphere that would be ignored
at any other time of the year.
This year, for example, Regent
Street shows the traditional 12
days of Christmas in traditional
60-watt coloured bulbs. And the
season is still a merry one even
if Santa Claus is fibre-glass and
the trees, crepe paper.
The West End
If you are in Oxford Street,
then visit Selfridges. For as their
own Uncle Holly will tell you,
they have everything. From the
red fountains in the Fourth floor
restaurant to the basement, the
shop is packed with what is
euphemistically called 'gift sug-
gestions', both cliched and new.
I thought the stainless steel
mugs and plates were some of
the most elegant I'd seen,
though then again this range of
goods was not cheap. Avoid the
men's c l o t h e s department
though, you will probably find a
better bargain at C and A's.
Hamley's, in Regent Street, is
London's biggest Toy Shop.
Like those at Selfridges' toy de-
partment, no assistant ever
stands idle but sits continually
demonstrating the new lines.
And take a hundred lines if you
thought toys were solely for chil-
dren. A new drawing gadget
(perhaps they should have
called it 'Son of Spirograph')
produces complex coloured pat-
terns that would put some art
to shame. And if you want a
room to look really different, try
one of Waddington's 'Safari
Heads', a kit that looks really
effective when assembled.
Hammersmith and the Bush
Shepherd's Bush Market (by
the Metropolitan Line Station) is
one of the most amazing places
to visit in the gloom of a late
Saturday afternoon. Stall-holders
stand with hands in overcoat
pockets under signs that offer
'London's biggest bargains'.
While the real crowd pullers
throw 24-piece bone china tea
sets in the air or squirt inexpen-
sive Cologne on the wrists of the
unsuspecting public.
This is the place for Christmas
gifts, which aren't too pricey.
Motor accessories are always a
safe bet, and a few stalls pro-
vide genuine bargains, but look
around first. Here is a good
place to go if you've been
conned into buying a tree or
holly, but be prepared to face
embarrassment on the bus
home.
Hammersmith itself has a
fairly average shopping centre
(big stores and a large number
of shoe shops in King Street).
But for something unusual have
a look in the enormous 'Junk
City' in the Broadway. Not
everything is junk, and not
everything is antique either,
though there were a couple of
nicely ageing prints in, the last
time I looked.
Around South Kensington
Beauchamp Place, just off
Brompton Road, has now be-
come one of the most fashion-
able shopping centres for an-
tiques and art nouveau.
Boadicea, which claims to be
the 'British Shop', I found to be
the most interesting place for
gifts. They sell pottery, prints,
jewellery, glass, cloths, cera-
mics, and in general all manner
of really original modern gifts —
many both decorative and func-
tional. One of the most refresh-
ing things about this shop is
that everything is priced legibly
and unashamedly — and their
prices are extremely reasonable.
Well worth a visit.
Harness, in Harrington Road
(down near South Ken tube)
19, Beauchamp Place,
SW3
* * *
British-Made
Presents
Modern Jewellery,
Crafts
Original Prints
* * *
Open 10—5.30 daily
including Sundays
must be almost unique in Lon-
don, as it sells almost exclu-
sively hand-crafted leather bags
and belts—priced from £4 to £6
for the former, from £1.35 for
the latter. They also make a
special line in canvas bags,
ideal for carrying books and
things around in, which you
might like to buy yourself. And
for Christmas you might like
some of their brightly-coloured
special candles. Harness is
even better value since they will
give you a 10 per cent discount
against your S.U. card.
If you don't find anything
that pleases in these places,
then you won't find what you're
looking for in Woolworth's
either.
Barnes*
23 Harrington Rd., S.W.7 .
Hand-made leather
Bags and Belts
Hides and Dyes
Candles
Special Commissions
undertaken
.. .all at reasonable
prices
10% NUS
DISCOUNT
The Landsnapper Sneeze ^
Ambrose. amatvU ajxxxaft. Are. Txsing thTedtapaa Ire QtoTjeUa)
or how to
buy her a
Christmas
present
McLOOQE
Last week I received a letter from IC Consoc, affirming their sup-
port for our anti-Green Paper Campaign, but suggesting that a
Registrar is the answer to everybody's problems.
To get a more exact idea of their Registrar I had to refer to a
Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) broadsheet, which was
circulated at NUS Margate Conference and stated — 'The Regis-
trar's basic duties would be to register Union constitutions and to
provide and guarantee the income of registered Unions'.
According to the FCS, the following advantages (?) would
ensue—
1. He would require reasonable (?) quora for UGM's and
referenda, ensure election of Union officers by secret ballot and
strengthen Union constitutions, thus ensuring student participation
within the Unions.
2. By ensuring a reasonable level of participation in Union
Government, the responsibility of those taking decisions for the stu-
dent body as a whole for their decisions would be ensured. A regis-
trar would allow provision for mass meetings and where there was
a conflict between the Council and the mass meeting, referenda
would decide which was the more representative.
3. A Registrar would guarantee income from the LEA's or UGC
and thus ensure Union independence from College Authorities. The
development in Union business would be aided by the reduction of
the interference from UGM! I
4. A Registrar would act as a students'. Ombudsman complaints
of internal Union unconstitutional action. A Registrar would be
empowered to penalise financially any Union acting unconstitution-
ally. Decisions of the Registrar in such matters would be liable to
appeal to a reviewing committee in which students would sit.
Considering these 4 points made we can immediately pick out
fallacies and illusions showing that a Registrar is to be feared as
much as, if not more than, the split level of financing specifically
suggested in the Green Paper:—
1. What might be a reasonable quorum —25 per cent? i.e. 1,000
for IC. The 'provisions for mass meetings is allowed' in (2) sug-
gests these should be few and far between — does this really in-
volve greater participation in Union Government — especially when
the Union decision must be the same as the Council decision —
surely there is no conflict — either the UGM is quorate — in which
case it must be the supreme body or else it is inquorate and the
council decision stands. Even with a Registrar people still will not
come to Union meetings, either because of lack of time or interest,
considering the topics for discussion.
2. Less UGM participation would put a greater burden on to
the shoulders of a few Union officers and could lead to one man
control of Student Unions (presuming any control is left after the
Registrar has taken his).
3. Unions may lose College interference — but only because
the Government is totally manipulating the Union. How do in-
quorate UGM's interfere — they can only be used for advice at the
moment — what harm is there in that?
4. Who decides the unconstitutionality?—the Registrar. Who
decides the fine (guaranteed income?)?—the Registrar. The
Registrar will totally control Union finance under these proposals
(and the Government's Registrar could be worse than that of the
FCS) — it will no longer be a case of Student Unions but Govern-
ment institutions (despite the noble appeal committee with actual
student representation — cor!)
KEEP FIGHTING THE GREEN PAPER — there is always lots of
new information from the Union Office — DISCUSS AT HOME
OVER CHRISTMAS — GET YOUR M.P.'s SUPPORT — GET YOUR
PARENTS' SUPPORT — BE READY FOR THE REGISTRAR —
Student Unions should be run by Students — with a Registrar could
we ever fight our Accommodation Campaign or any other pressure
on the Government Campaign — could Felix ever discuss politics
or criticise any Government policy? —
NO TO THE GREEN PAPER
NO TO THE REGISTRAR
NO TO VOLUNTARY MEMBERSHIP
Support these three principles.

