rage 6 FELIX Thursday, 9th December, 1971
and oft we jolly well go
into F F H F F
[the Fantastic Felix Hi-Fi Feature]
Modern technology has now reached the stage when
high-Fidelity or true sound is a possibility.
This fact has been impressed on the minds of the
public by the vast number of supposed Hi-Fi systems
at present available on the market. The purpose of this
article is to outline some of the basic concepts of Hi-Fi
and to present the reader with a guide to currently
available sound systems for domestic use.
One of the commonest fallacies lies in the synomon-
ous use of the Hi-Fi and stereo. Stereo refers to sound
which does not originate from a point source and is
most commonly implemented with two loudspeaker
enclosures or headphones. Hi-Fidelity in its strict
definition refers to exact reproduction of the original
sound. No system at present available can truly claim
to meet this specification but many do come very close
to it and it is these which represent the 'Hi-Fi' cate-
gory of today.
At present three different subdivisions exist in the
Hi-Fi category mono (single source) Stereo (source
distributed in one vertical place usually using two
loudspeakers), Quadrophonic (source distributed in
two vertical planes usually using four loudspeakers).
The idea of quadrophony is a relatively new one and
at present no universal standard has been agreed on its
implementation so I feel it is unwise to buy a quadro-
phonic system at present. Stereo on the other hand is
standardized and probably gives the best results from
records, tapes and radio presently available. For this
reason the rest of this article will be concerned with
Hi-Fidelity domestic stereo systems, and suggestions
for possible systems.
Three different sources of programme material exist,
discs, tapes and radios and of these the commonest
is discs or records. When deciding on what to buy in
the way of Hi-Fi equipment two decisions are neces-
sary, the first is how much money you are going to
spend and the second is which out of these sources
of sound will be purchased initially and which com-
bination will be eventually reached.
Once this step has been taken you can start thinking
about which pieces of equipment are best suited to
your needs. For most people unit audio (i.e. separate
speakers, record deck, amplifier, etc.) is the obvious
| A CHRISTMAS GIFT %
§ FOR ALL THE YEAR ROUND «
Y. Treat your self and your friends a
S3 to the "Food of Love" AND M
Y. save money. Buy records in 5
•3 the comfort of your own home J*l
Y. through our MAIL ORDER SER- £
g VICE. 10% o ffup to £15; over W
Y. £15, discount by arrangement. S
•3 Post free in U.K. jjj
«J Send cash with order or call
« STEREO ELECTRONICS
Jrt 326 KENTISH TOW NROAD, A
K LONDON N.W.5 K
» 01-485 1341 g
|3 A Mail Order Service second to Ji
Y. none. &
"8
S O U T H K E N
RADIO
RADIOS, TAPE
RECORDERS and
HI-FI SYSTEMS
30 THURLOE STREET, LONDON SW7
REDUCTIONS FOR STUDENTS !
choice because of the ease in improving the set-up
by changing one unit, the case of housing the system
and the possibility of shifting to the loudspeakers to
give the best results.
The one factor common to all systems is the ampli-
fier. When buying this you need to take into account
what inputs you will require, e.g. tape deck, record
deck, tuner, what size room you are likely to use it
in, what outputs you require speakers and/or head-
phones, and the flexibility of the controls in the ampli-
fier. Assuming you want all common inputs enough
power to fill an average size room and a reasonable
sound from the amplifier you will have to invest a
minimum of about £20 in an amplifier. Suggestions for
possible systems will be given at the end of this article.
One essential point that must be emphasized is the
old Hi-Fi cliche 'that a system is only as good as its
weakest link'. At present this is usually the loudspeakers
or the programme source.
Most people require a method of reproducing records
in their systems as this is the most commonly available
user selectable programme source. This need is met by
a record deck or transcription turntable. Such an item
must have the following properties, constant speed of
rotation of the disc, the ability to track (or follow the
record groove) accurately, and must do as little damage
to the record as possible. You can either buy a complete
unit consisting of turntable and pickup or you can pur-
chase the two separately; in my opinion there is little
to choose between either method except for very ex-
pensive systems when one is forced to do the latter.
In order to fulfil the above needs a minimum of £15 is
needed for a mounted record deck, some money can be
saved by making your own cabinet. A cartridge is
next link in the chain and this must have the ability to
reproduce the whole audio spectrum approximately
linearly and track properly at as low a mass as possible
to reduce record wear. Here a minimum of £5 expendi-
ture is necessary.
Loudspeakers are probably the biggest source of
controversy at present in the Hi-Fi field. They range from
small sealed bookshelf enclosures which rely on linear-
ity in the drive unit, to complicated reflex enclosures
which counter act this deficiency. The smaller units
tend to have a poor low frequency or bass response,
and the bigger units are difficult to house in a flat or
digs. So you pay your money and you take your choice,
probably a minimum of £20 for a reasonable sound and
preferably a bit more.
Tape recorders are becoming increasingly popular
and have the advantages that once recorded the sound
is less likely to deteriorate with age and longer spells of
music are possible without having to change the record-
ing. Their main disadvantage is that a recording is not
so easy to select from a tape as it is from records. They
also have the disadvantage of costing over £50 for a
good quality stereo model.
Now that the BBC have decided to provide us with
stereo broadcasts these are probably the cheapest if
not most convenient due to lack of choice, form of pro-
gramme material. A good stereo tuner costs about £25
and no further expenditure apart from a good aerial is
needed.
Up till now I have deliberately avoided technical terms
but now I will give a brief summary of some of the more
common terms, their causes and reasonable figures
expected for them in Hi-Fi equipment.
Noise is a random hiss sound caused by a bad con-
nection and poor quality components in the amplifier,
this is most common in transistorized equipment and
amplifiers should have a figure of — 50db or less. Hum
is caused by pickup of stray mains signals usually on
the record or tape deck or amplifier and it would be
about—50db or less. Excessive hum can be caused by
multiple earth paths between different pieces of equip-
ment and this can be eliminated by providing a single
earth connection between each piece of equipment and
the amplifier.
Wow and flutter describe slow and fast speed changes
in the record deck or tape deck respectively, this proves
very annoying whilst listening and should be less than
0.5%,.
Cross talk is the degree of mixing of the left and right
hand channels by the system usually present in cart-
ridges and amplifiers, it decreases the effective separ-
ation of a stereo signal and should do better than 30db.
Frequency response is self explanatory and should
be equivalent to that of the listener about 3HZ-17KHZ.
A better frequency response that this is the amplifier
decreases some types of distortion.
Distortion is the degree of imperfection in reproduc-
tion introduced between the input and output of say an
amplifier, it should be less than 0.05%. One point of
warning here, different manufacturers quote different
standards and some types of distortion are more un-
pleasant than others, the best form of judgement is the
human ear.
The best approach to buying a system is as follows :
i) Decide how much money you can afford. Hi-Fi
obeys the law of decreasing returns, really good
quality equipment costs a fortune.
ii) Listen to as many people's equipment as possible.
iii) Read a few issues of Hi-Fi News, Hi-Fi Sound or
Popular Hi-Fi.
iv) Draw up several possible combinations of equip-
ment. There now follows some suggestions for
possible components for a system which from ex-
perience I can recommend categorized as Low,
Medium and High priced. I must emphasise that
different people have different ideas and it is up to
you to make the final choice, but I hope a few sug-
gestions will be useful. The prices quoted are
approximate.
R E C O R D D E C K S
Low Medium High
BSR MP60 ( £ 1 2 ) Goldring Lenco (turntable only)
Garrard SP25 ( £ 1 2 ) G169 ( £ 2 4 ) Thorens TD150
Connoisseur BD1 Goldring Lenco ( £ 4 0 )
Kit ( £ 1 1 ) G175 ( £ 3 0 ) Thorens TD125
Garrard A P 7 6
G175 ( £ 3 0 )
( £ 6 5 )
( £ 2 0 ) Garrard 401
( £ 2 0 )
( £ 3 0 )
Goldring G99
( £ 2 3 )
Possible pick up arms for the high priced turntables are:
Goldring Lenco L75 ( £ 1 1 )
Neat G30 ( £ 1 2 )
Audio Technika AT1005 ( £ 1 7 )
S M E Series II ( £ 2 6 - £ 3 0 )
Cartridges (all Stereo
Low
)
Medium High
D e c c a Deram
( £ 4 )
Goldring CS90
( £ 4 )
Audio Technika
AT66 ( £ 5 )
Goldring G800
( £ 7 - £ 1 2 )
Audio Technika
AT21 ( £ 7 - £ 1 3 )
Shure M44E ( £ 9 )
Shure V15 ( £ 3 0 )
Audio Technika
AT35 ( £ 2 0 )
Amplifiers (all Stereo
Low
)
Medium High
Teleton GA101
( £ 2 5 )
Teleton SAQ206
( £ 2 0 )
Heathkit ( £ 2 0 )
Cambridge P50
( £ 8 0 )
Leak 70 ( £ 6 0 )
Rogers Ravens-
brook ( £ 4 0 )
Sugden Class A
( £ 5 0 )
Armstrong 521
( £ 4 5 )
Cambridge P100
( £ 1 2 0 )
Quad ( £ 1 0 0 )
Loudspeakers (prices
Low
are for a pair)
Medium High
Kef Crestar ( £ 3 8 )
Godman Maxims
( £ 3 3 )
Wharfedale
Dentons ( £ 3 2 )
Kef Concorde
( £ 7 0 )
Goodman
Magnums ( £ 6 5 )
Wharfedale
Dovedale ( £ 6 5 )
Kef Concerto
( £ 8 5 )
Leak Sandwich
600 ( £ 8 0 )
Cambridge Audio
R50 ( £ 1 7 0 )
Tape recorders (make given only, as model numbers differ for
number of tracks).
Low Medium High
Akai ( £ 6 0 ) Tandberg ( £ 9 0 ) Revox ( £ 2 5 0 )
Fernograph ( £ 3 0 0 )
The last two categories of tunes and headphones I
know little about. Koss and AKG are probably the best
headphones and the tuner made by the same makes as
your amplifier is probably best.
In choosing a system items from the same price range
only should be matched, to get the best value for money
remember the chain is only as good as its weakest link.
Before you part with your money go to a reputable
dealer and listen to orchestral music, violins and organs
show up the limitations of a system. It is often wise to
buy a record and take it with you to be played as most
dealers only have demonstration records like Herb
Alpert which sound good on all systems.
Listen to the system at low volume, noise distortion
and hum are easier to detect at low volume.
When you have your system, experiment with speaker
positions in the room to get the best effect, if they are
too close together the stereo effect is less and if too
far apart they give a loss of central sound referred to
as hole in the middle effect.
If you buy a record deck spend some money on a
decent storage system, records should be stored ver-
tically. With the price of recorded music care of the
records is essential and the Waths range of cleaners
the dust bag, preener and parastat, are the best way to
remove dust and static from records; beware of some
cleaning cloths which leave more muck in the grooves
than they remove.
Finally, I would like to add the warning that you will
never be satisfied with your equipment. As time passes,
better equipment will be available and there will also be
the nagging suspicion that other peoples Hi-Fi sounds
better than yours. When this happens you will become
a Hi-Fi fanatic and keep improving your system until
your bank manager clamps down on the overdraft. You
have been warned.

