Thursday, 9th December, 1971 F E L I X page 7
NUS GONFERENG
It was a temperate day in London when your intrepid reporter
departed with all seven of the IC delegation for the resort of
Margate, on England's famed Costa del Slique d'Huile. This fine
place, surpassed in beauty only by Southend, houses n,000 un-
doubted fools, n miles of golden sands (someone's colour-blind),
and the Winter Gardens (with a liberal dash of winter included),
which in turn houses the annual NUS conference, as it has done
now for 13 or so years.
It was anything but temperate in Margate; in fact, bloody freezing
is the only way to describe it. This did not increase the enthusiasm
of your reporter, who only discovered that he was going hours be-
forehand, and had consequently come completely unbriefed on the
conference . . . . only to be surrounded by people wanting to know
what one thought of so and such a motion, etc., etc.
Having sought out the Press Officer, I was presented with "docu-
mentation"—about 500 sheets of it!!!! It was reassuring to discover
that it would be possible to understand what was going on without
reading it all first. (This supreme example of the ultimate in Bumph
has been pickled and placed in the FELIX museum).
You will now, no doubt, be overjoyed to hear that, despite the
fact that it is quite against my nature, I propose to now proceed
to attempt to report the conference seriously. Any undue lightness
that you may object to you may put down to the mental structure
of your reporter, which leaves much to be desired.
OPENING SPEECHES
The conference opened with the opening speeches (funny?),
starring the Mayor of Margate and Jack Straw, now-retired NUS
president, in order of appearance and quality. Both were a mass
of cliches—the Mayor opened the conference as if it were the
village fete, the Straw sounded exactly like your actual middle-of-
the-road Tory MP (he obviously has modelled himself on Ted
Heath, as his speeches are delivered in the same manner, even
though his political temperament is different).
Straw spoke, as you might expect, mainly on Autonomy. He con-
siders that Mrs. Thatcher had made the Union proposals because
of her "plain, stubborn ignorance" of what Student Unions are and
do. He outlined five traps into which the Union must not fall:
firstly, that of the alternatives to the proposals; secondly, that of
public accountability; thirdly, that of refusing to talk; fourthly, that
of diversion into other matters, and fifthly and lastly, that of dis-
unity. He also showed a copy of a letter received that day from
the DES, in the popular personage of the Van Straubenzee, in
answer to twenty questions sent to him by the Executive—this
answer, arriving 10 days after the questions were sent, contained
no answers, as the Van Straub did not want to "anticipate" matters.
Obviously, he was peeved at the NUS not sending an SAE. How-
ever, the letter was, as claimed, "cursory and insulting."
UNION AUTONOMY
The Union Autonomy debate was the longest, but without doubt
the best, of the many of the conference. It and it's 19 amend-
ments were admirably compacted into just four hours. Much of the
thanks for this are due to the chairman, Tony Klug, but perhaps
what made is seem so orderly was the orderliness of the audience,
who lost their aura of a pack of schdol-kids sitting in a ten-hour
long assembly and were all actively intent on the subject. The
completed motion, more than 2,000 words long, sets forth NUS
policy and plans for action, both in the interim and for a national
co-ordinated campaign, the main features of which are a "national
day of action" (which was yesterday: report on London events in
FELICITY) and a mass demo on Sunday, January 23rd. Copies of
the completed motion, too long to reproduce even sections of
here, should be available from the Union. The debate consisted
of many slanders against our virgin government, or rather gover-
ness. A veritable thesaurus of words and phrases, in fact, such
as "neo-nazi creeps" "reactionary bullshit", "infantile piss-artist",
"knicker-twisting", were levied in various directions, but all with
the same purpose. The only IC speech was from Piers, who
(naturally) thought the proposals just a road to attack the left,
and suggested more militancy. The amendment he was speaking on
regretting that Executive had sought clarification from the DES on
the proposals, was defeated. Another amendment tabled by IC with
UCL, recognising that the fight to reject the govt, proposals is a
fight against the Government and not the College Authorities was
accepted into the main motion.
Piers took matters into his own hands at the end; as on-one
officially opposed the motion, Piers, on behalf of the movers of
the motion did, condemning it for insufficient militancy, and dec-
orating his speech with other Spartican ideals. On the card vote
though, the motion was passed by 371,558 to 8,550, with 20,724
abstentions. (For the unitiniated: no, there were not 400,832 dele-
gates at the conference; that is the total number of students
represented).
GUEST SPEAKER, CLIVE JENKINS
He told the conference that the Labour movement must "unite to
attack Mrs. Thatcher" (now that's a good militant ideal). He said
that he was prepared to lend his organisation (A.S.T.M.S., as if you
didn't know—Assoc of Sci, Tech and Mang Staffs, if you still
didn't know), but he told me that Unions were not prepared to be
anything more than sympathetic with undergraduates. P.G.s, how-
ever, were a different story; they, he said, are now looked on as
cheap labour, and the degree today had become devalued (well I
never!). The Trade Unions will take a tough stance to prevent
P.G.s being exploited. In accordance with this aim, he thinks that
students should join unions now, to prevent a "Graduate Prole-
tariat" coming in. He does not propose that T.U.s should compete
with the NUS, but be complementary, and he is not interested in
any membership sub other than a "purely nominal" one. You may
be surprised, after reading the headlines of some of the popular
dailies, that he believes that the general members of Trade Unions
are on the side of the students. Moving to current trade union
activities, he said that pay, formerly a forbidden word, had now
joined sex and politics as the exciting topics of the day. "The most
exciting four-letter word in the English language today is MORE".
Henceforth that word became the conference's vogue word, and
was to be heard shouted out at odd intervals in even odder places,
such as during one of Jack Straw's speeches.
SCHOOL STUDENT MEMBERSHIP
Back to the debates. Another long and lively one proved to be
that on School Student membership, where, by a very large
majority, the motion proposing that a separate School Student's
Union should be set up to protect the interests of scholars was
passed. By a very close vote, a part of the motion proposing that
the NUS should collect subscriptions and undertake admin and
accounting was defeated.
The proposals for Schools' Student Unions also includes pro-
vision for an annual conference and the election of a school
students' committee, and generally beginning the bureaucracy at
an even younger age!! This programme should be completed
before the end of the academic year.
IC took part in the Housing debate, something of great interest
to everybody here, amending the motion, outlining the Unions'
opposition to the system as it stands, to include anti-accom
agency publicity and legal harassing of them. This was Gordon
Franklin's turn to speak: the unfortunate fact that half the con-
ference decided to get up and go and have coffee at that time
bears no relevance to his speech, which was well-received by
those remaining. Other amendments condemned the Govern-
ment's "Fair rents" White Paper, which, it is feared, will be any-
thing but fair to students.
ENTERTAINMENTS
This motion, passed overwhelmingly, condemned the exploita-
tion of Student Unions by the Ents industry, and instructed the
Executive to set up a limited liability ents brokerage; also a report
on the feasibility of all social societies becoming limited com-
panies will be presented to Birmingham conference in April. An
amendment calling for nationalisation of the ents industry was
defeated.
STUDENT GRANTS
A motion censuring the Executive for their handling of the grants
issue last year, and pressing for improvements in various sectors,
such as for medical and dental students, London differentials for
those who do not have them, Improvements for PGs. The motion
confirms opposition to making students already in residence pay
levies for the provision of future accommodation and to other
matters such as the means test, and also notes the exploiting
of students by some college authorities by increasing hall fees and
meal prices, for instance, as soon as the grant increase came
through.
UNEMPLOYMENT
The unemployment motion was originally passed on a show of
hands, but, on a card vote, it was narrowly defeated. The motion
provided for support of demonstrations against unemployment, pro-
paganda for schools, the government, and trade unions, and
called for alternative economic policies. An amendment tabled by
IC proposing Claimant's Unions be supported by SUs, was, along
with the other amendments, defeated.
NUS ON ULSTER
And so we come to Northern Ireland, where I.O's greatest con-
tribution lay; in fact, the motion ended up being in our name
only. However, I cannot give you a full report, as the Press was
excluded from the first part of the debate after some very incon-
sistent ruling from the chairman. We were also excluded from a
very important part of the Union Autonomy debate, which took
place during a scheduled closed session. FELIX joins with all
other Student Newspapers represented at the conference in
condemning the actions of Conference and the Executive in ex-
cluding the Student Press from debates, since it prevents us from
giving you, the readers and members of the Student Union, a full
and factual report on matters of great importance to the student,
community at large.
The original motion supported the anti-internment league and the
Civil Rights campaign of civil disobedience in Ulster. The only
amendment to be passed was Imperial College's, iterating "ab-
horrence of any form of violence" and saying that only actively
armed groups in Ulster can bring about violence. Rosemary Parker,
one of our Irish students, said "I want you to show my countrymen
that you hate violence and injury as much as we do." We indeed
gained fame by this speech, which was one of the few to be men-
tioned by nearly every national paper. There were a number, how-
ever, who voted against the amendment, but, in any case, the
whole motion eventually fell. I think that the "Guardian"
summed up the situation best in their headline: "Students find
Ulster too hot to handle", and in their statement " . . . eventually
threw out a hopelessly composite motion . . . calling for the with-
drawal of the army to barracks and secularisation of the province,
but expressing abhorrence of violence".
FORMALITIES
The conference ended with the ritual handing-over ceremonies
and back-siapping of the Executive. Kate Hoey, condemning such
"ego-trips", resigned 40 minutes before the end of her term of
office, en route to giving herself the biggest ego trip of them all,
almost by getting a standing ovation. The new president, Digby
Jacks, then took over. Earlier, at a press conference, he told me
that the Union Autonomy issue would now overshadow everything
else, and, even if the Unions lost the battle to Mrs. T., he thought
that, although considerably weakened, the NUS and constituent
unions would survive. His explanation for the govt, bringing out its
proposals just before the Conference was in order that the latter
should pass self-discrediting proposals which could be used
against the Unions—this, he thinks, has not been done. Digby, as
everyone knows, is a Commie: does this mean that the NUS will
now take a more left line? We must obviously wait and see, but
Jack Straw, for one, thinks it will not, as does Digby himself. Jack
has now gone to do his Bar Degree, and is proposing to stand
for Parliament as a Labour candidate—that's if any constituency
will accept him! On his retirement as president, he was presented
with a "bomb" (not real), which he took great delight in throwing
back at the audience (yes, folks, ANOTHER ego trip). And with a
beautifully vociferous rendering of "The Twelve Days of Confer-
ence" presented by the Whiteland and Sussex "Gay Liberation
Choirs", the conference ended.
Altogether a very successful conference, I think (although it's
my first, and first impressions don't usually count). I can person-
ally vouch for the hard work and integrity of the l.C. delegation,
who gave conference their almost undivided attention (except
when they slept, which was only about 3 hours a night, and even
then they probably dreamt about it) day and night. It was, indeed,
a very exhausting ordeal, with 12 hours of debates every day, from
9 a.m. to midnight with few breaks only for snatched meals (no,
NOT stolen). Perhaps the only real criticism I can make of the or-
ganisation of the conference is its over-organisation; it is steered
with an iron hand by Executive and Steering Committee who not
only decide when motions are to be discussed, but which ones
are to be discussed: for example, no provision was made for any
debate on Ulster, and much time was wasted fitting it into the sche-
dule when it was discovered that nearly everyone wanted to dis-
cuss it . . . . and originally only 90 minutes were allowed for
Autonomy!! Perhaps a new system should be found.
BANK CHARGES
How does it affect you
All of the "big four" banks (or "big five", as they used to be
known) dangle what one of their number so inanely calls "no
ordinary" carrot for the attention of students.
The idea, as we all know, is that banks normally demand pay-
ment from account holders for the privilege of letting them look
after your money. Provided certain conditions are fulfilled these
charges are waived for students. So to compete with each other
the banks offer prospective customers such attractions as flower-
patterned cheque books, useless clip boards and racialist-condon-
ing policies overseas.
When you cease to be a student you would in the logical
course of events, choose your banker because of his low bank
charges. But by now your bank hopes that you are too apathetic
to bother to take your account elsewhere.
A recent graduate an ex FELIX man has informed us of his
experiences. He first enquired of his existing bank, the Midland,
and discovered that he was already being charged 8p per item, (i.e.
every transaction) minus 2% of his mean balance over the previous
six months.
He then presented himself at the other three banks as a pros-
pective customer. Barclays said they would charge 10p per item
minus 2 J % of the mean balance over the six month period, whereas
National Westminster quoted 9p per item minus 2% of the mean
balance over the three months previous.
Lloyds was rather better, charging only for debit items, calculated
at £1.50 for the first 30 (5p each) and then 7Jp each thereafter
minus 3% of the mean six monthly balance.
Simple arithmetic will show you which bank is best for you,
but over a very wide range of usage and mean balances Lloyds is
the cheapest, and then National Westminster and Midland, with
Barclays worst.
If you draw 30 debit items every six months and are paid
monthly by cheque (or other credit items), you must keep your
account in credit by £50, £81, £144 and £144 to avoid bank
charges by Lloyds, Nat. West., Midland and Barclays respectively.
But if your mean balance was only £20 (such as may be the
case during your first few months out of college) you would be
charged 90p, £2.44, £2.48 and £3.10 for six months by Lloyds,
Nat. West., Midland and Barclays respectively.
Of course, if you're happy and able to keep a large balance in
your non-interest-earning current account you will probably avoid
charges, whoever your banker may be. And by the time you come
to pay these iniquitous charges, the rates will doubtless have gone
up and may have changed in rank. In the end you're advised to
spend an hour shopping around—this could typically save you £5
per year.
Don't forget the Post Office Giro. They seemed unable to tell
our scout exactly what it would cost due to pre-decimalisation
leaflets (deliberate policy?). The advantages are Saturday opening
and free postage. Transfers between account holders are free.
Other transfers and cash withdrawals seem to cost about 5p each,
there are additional charges for stationery, but if your employer
has an account things work out rather cheaper. Unless Giro has
closed, which is extremely unlikely since most other European
countries have equivalents, it will probably improve considerably.

