10 October 1997
ALBUMS
MUSIC 17
THE SPACEMONKEYS
The Daddy Of Them All • • • •
The
Spacemonkeys
coming to a
planet near
you soon.
This is an album that
contans a lot of differ-
ences. From the first
track, Acid House Killed
Rock And Roll, to the last, March
OF The Scarecrows, there is a grad-
ual change in style and approach.
This is nothing to do with any split
personality that songwriter Richard
McNevin-Duff might have but
something to with the fact that the
band sees themselves as the next
big 'Madchester' thing.
A bit of history first, though.
They formed in 1994 and played
their first gig at the Hacienda in
Manchester in 1995. A week after
that, Tony Wilson approached
them and asked them to sign on
the dotted line for a six-album deal
with his label, Factory Records,
whom you might have heard of as
the label that launched Joy Division
and Happy Mondays amongst oth-
ers. They give out an attitude of
nonchalance towards the music
press whom they say has com-
pletely ignored them so far and
look to the public to recognise their
talent.
So what about the music? Well,
they sound Mancunian. However
much they want to tell people that
they don't want to start another
Northern uprising or anything, they
will probably sound like they do.
The album is a result of the late-
eighties acid house culture app-
plied in the late nineties. Big guitar
loops and chemicals-esque sam-
ples drive through tracks like
Blowing Down The Stylus whilst still
remaining organic at all times.
McNevin-Duff's vocals are an
integral part of the differences in
the songs. On Sugar Cane, he
sounds like he's doing an impres-
sion of Arrested Development's
Speech crossed with the singer of
E.M.F. (can't remember his name,
sorry). In a marked contrast, Inside
My Soul sounds like something of
the last Primal Scream album. A
great melody coupled with strings
and staccato guitar add up to a
nice little up-tempo ballad.
Some of the songs are not
entirely inspired, though. Dear
Dhina, a melancholic number,
which sounds like any band, any-
where is a good example.
Things look better towards the
end of the album when Sweetest
Dream rears its head. This is short,
sweet and brilliant. It's that simple.
Marc Of The Supercool brings
things to a fine ending which brings
together everything that was good
about the whole acid-house era
and encapsulates it into a seven-
minute outro to the album. Wah-
wah guitar, repetitive lyrics and bril-
liant sampling make this the best
track on the album.
This may be the first time
you've ever heard of the
Spacemonkeys, but make sure you
keep and ear out for them in the
near future - something tells me
that they are going to go places. H
Alok
SINGLES
Kylie Minogue - Some Kind of Bliss
Another re-invention, another rock dollar Hey,
great horn section. Hey, great strings. Hey, slick
production. Hey, choke on your own vomit.
The Hybrids - Stranded
Norman Stanley Hybrid, I sentence you to five
years for the theft of Neil Young's Down by the
River, two years for the misappropriation of
Noel Gallagher's voice, and 6 months for joyrid-
ing a second-hand chorus 'owned' by Paul
Weller. This is larceny on a grand scale, and
must be punished.
Cable - Cod Give me Gravity
Rather than genuinely unusual, Cable sound like
Stereophonies after a 'weirdness assertion1
weekend, a little too forced. However, the title
track eventually beefs up the guitar sound suffi-
ciently to sweep to a roaring conclusion just
behind AC Acoustics. So, the Damoclean vat of
vitriol remains untipped - at least until next
time hurgh, hurgh, hurgh.
The Kings of Infinite Space - Speedboarder
Rock and roll the way mom used to make it.
Speedboarder (sung in an incongruous East-End
accent) is The Ramones covering Ministry's
Stigmata, while Little Deuce Coupe is exhumed
on Little Black Flower. Can I recommend a slight
change in direction? Like, away from my stereo?
Bedlam A Go-Go - Flat 29
It may be "...an arty farty disco party, rich kids
on smarties...", but fundamentally Bedlam A Go-
Go are not going to be the 'next big thing1
, as the
word on the street would have us believe. Man.
They are in fact Jesus Jones with a few ripped-
off Chemical beats thrown in, and I freely give
up ail my 'cred' forthwith.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Strangelove - Freak
Finally, the Strangelove kids get some balls to
play with. I'd always found their sound too
weak, too whining, and sticky with self-pity. But
now all that's been traded in for Jon Spencer
attitude and a good dollop of self-hatred, deliv-
ering a single that pouts like jagger and slaps it's
arse like Brett Anderson.
Libido - Supersonic Daydream
Kinda retro, without being a blatant grave-
robber. Kinda T-Rex, but with the catchiest bit all
used up in the first thirty seconds. Fits snugly
between Suede and Subcircus. Thought they
were going to be one of my 'kinda1
bands that
never really cut it, until I listened to Inner Beauty
is a Lame Comfort when you're Fuck Bored, and
had the skin flayed from my bones by their Jesus
Lizard-style assault. Note: this is a good thing.
The Wiidhearts - Urge
Breathless panting. Echoing vocals from the bot-
tom of a very dark, very scary well. Droning, dis-
torted guitars threatening to overwhelm every-
thing else. An MBV melody curling round the
base of your spine. An explosion in a rather
large, noisy factory. ROCK! ROCK!! ROCK!!!
Hmmm, that covers the first seventy seconds.
Repeat for an awesome five minutes of music
heavier than Gods' balls and more fucked-up
than Keith Richard's kidneys.
The Gania Kru - Gone are the Days
Skip the soul-vocal radio mix and explore the
seriously good drum and bass remixes courtesy
of DJ Hype. Roll a fat one, open your shirt to the
waist and shuffle round your flat with your arse
going nineteen to the dozen. Oooh, go on.
Dubstar - Cathedral Park
Stellar vocals and guitar, as always, but the exu-
berant horn section seems to take the edge off
the miserabilism that Sarah's flat Northern vow-
els always promise. Still fantastic sparkly pop of
course, just a bit too cheerful.
Groop Dogdrill - Lovely Skin (Mantra)
The start is promising, a cool sample followed
by an intro in the style of the Dead Kennedys,
then it all goes down hill. This song deserves a
manic, deranged psychotic singer, not your Dad
doing an impression of Rik from Shed 7.LT1
Norm

