10 October 1997 NEWS
Accommodation crush
from front page
states that '...As an undergraduate
student, you are guaranteed
accommodation in either an
Imperial College or an Inter-
collegiate hall of residence for your
first year of study...' Although sev-
eral second and third year students
do have a place in halls, Ms Brown
has said 'All first year students have
been given an Imperial College
bed. Those who are not in the
South Kensington halls have given
temporary places in Clayponds,
Wilson House, Montpelier hall and
student flats.' Montpelier Hall was
due to be closed and sold this year
as the building was in a sad state of
disrepair. The late refurbishment of
Southwell Hall has led to
Montpelier being used again as a
hall but it is not known how long it
will remain open. New bad spaces
have also been created by promot-
ing single rooms to double and
double to triple in some halls.
An official date has not been
given to move these freshers into
permanent surroundings, as rooms
are being handed out as they
become free. Some people who
have been moved to remote halls
as a temporary measure now do
not wish to move. It is more likely
that it is the hassle of packing and
moving that is deterring students
rather than the quality of the
accommodation. However, the
warden of Clayponds has informed
us that '...the dozen or so freshers
who are here feel they have been
dealt an unkind hand as Clayponds
is mostly filled with postgraduates
and not other first years. It is
important that first years meet and
socialise with others of their age
and year when they arrive at
University.'
The reasons for this year's his
intake is due mainly to the new
fees prompted by the Dearing
Report, a study of the state of high-
er education commissioned by the
Government. The Labour Education
Secretary, David Blunkett, has said
that an annual tuition fee of £ 1,000
will be introduced and applies to all
those starting higher education in
1998, causing the rush of student
applying for admission in 1997. For
a full explanation of the Dearing
Report and the Government's
steps to abolish the maintenance
grant, see our feature on page 10
of this issue.
Plans are in place to expand
existing halls and build a new one,
but it does not seem likely that the
accommodation problem will be
solved for some years to come. For
the present, the Student Accom-
modation Office is still coping with
the overcrowding, but it has the
potential worsen rapidly if the gov-
ernment's vision of 50,000 more
students in higher education is
realised.
Phyz
NEWS FEATURE
'Good times' here again
Simon Wistow on viruses, exponential growth and other computer nasties
Welcome to Imperial, and welcome for many
of you, to free Internet connection. You can
spend as much time online as you want, set
Netscape to check for email every 5 seconds
and send messages like "Coming to lunch?" to
your friend sitting 2 computers down from you.
Finally, welcome to mass, spammed, humour.
As sure as Imperial has ugly buildings a you
will get sent a 'humorous' email by either your
new friends or an old friend at a different
University. It will either be a joke, a list of
Borgisms (Borgisms are Trekkie Jokes on the
lines of "Yoda of Borg am I, assimilated you will
be"), a spoof Gloria Gaynor's "1 will Revise"
around exam time and an email snowball at
Christmas. The problem is that it so easy to for-
ward them on to everyone in your address book
and they will forward it on to their friends and so
on. Even assuming each person only has five
people in their address book, it spreads incread-
ibly fast (see box).
Clearly very, very quickly an awful lot of peo-
ple become involved. This principal was recently
used by students who, on finding out that the
BBC sports personality of the year awards were
accepting votes by email, organised a scam urg-
ing everyone to vote for the outsider Justin
Fashanu (who the bookies were offering high
odds on). Secure in the knowledge that the black,
gay, brother of John Fashanu was in so many
oppressed minority groups that no-one would
dare dispute it. The plan would work. In fact it
worked too well; the BBC only found out when
their email server crashed because it couldn't
cope with the sudden influx of messages.
A while back someone decided to demon-
strate this by writing 'The Good Times' virus.
Computer viruses are spread when people
transfer an infected file or disk from a 'diseased'
machine to a clean one on some sort of portable
Round
New
people
involved
Total
1 5 5
2 25 30
3 125 155
4 625 780
5 3125 3905
6 15625 19530
7 78125 97655
8 390625 488280
9 1953125 2441405
10 9765625 12207030
Table indicating the massive poten-
tial growth rate of internet viruses
media. With the rapid growth of the Internet
viruses have been able to copy with out the
need for disks, travelling when files are trans-
mitted from client to client extremely quickly
and with the added bonus that the two different
systems can be geographically miles apart.
The Good Times virus is not actually a virus.
No one knows it's exact origin but it is general-
ly agreed that it originated from someone at
Swathmore University with an AOL account
sometime late in 1994. It is unclear as to
whether it was a joke, an experiment or, as
some people claim the result of someone
becoming pissed off with a chain email entitled
'Good Times' that someone tried to stop by
spreading a rumour that it had a virus attached
to it. The basic (there are many variations) email
goes something like this;
"Beware, a new virus is being spread around the
Internet contained within an email with the sub-
ject line 'Good Times'. Simply by reading this
email you will infect your machine". The subject
is often 'Good Times'.
The sudden growth spurt of the Internet and
the guaranteed influx of University freshers
every year ensures that the 'virus' has spread
and spread. This is an empassioned plea; if you
ever get this email read it once out of curiosity
then delete it or, if you can't bear to throw any-
thing away, never, ever send it on (although
even the American Government, NASA and sev-
eral well known Virus Detector manufacturers
were fooled). I'd ask you to send this article on
to your friends but 1 can imagine it getting out of
hand and my children starting college some time
in the future and phoning home to say "Daddy,
Daddy, I just got an email today with your name
on it". On second thoughts it might be my only
stab at immortality and at least it would give
some young hack an idea for an article.

