LETTERS AND NOTICES 10 October 1997
The
This year we welcome not
only the students of the South
Kensington, St Mary's and Royal
Brompton campuses, but also
those of the recently merged
medical schools to the Haldane
Collection.
The Haldane Collection is the
fun part of Central Library! It was
originally set up by the Student
Union and is a recreational library
offering a wide range of
Humanities and other extra-curric-
ular reading and listening matter to
all College members. Situated on
level I of Central Library, in an
informal setting overlooking the
lawn, it is open to all holders of
Imperial College and Science
Museum Libraries readers tickets,
and most of the stock is for loan.
If it had not occurred to you
that Imperial would have such a
library, you will be pleased to know
that it is by far the most wide-rang-
ing of similar libraries provided in
other specialised universities in the
UK, so you made the right choice!
There is something for everyone
among the Haldane's stock of over
40,000 items - books, periodicals
and magazines, music scores,
sound recordings, language cours-
es and maps. You can relax with
lain Banks or Jane Austen, learn
Finnish or improve your English,
plan your trip to Ecuador, find a
recipe for beetroot puree, dig out
quotations to illustrate a speech,
or read the latest of Lord Gnome's
editorials.
Critical stimulation is of course
also part of the Haldane's remit.
Subjects in which it is particularly
strong are to a large extent those in
which Humanities Programme
course material is provided - such
as art, history, literature, music,
philosophy and politics.
A good selection of periodicals
and magazines are on offer, rang-
ing from Amateur Photographer to
The New York Review of Books,
some of them financed by the
Union. Daily newspapers are held
for one week. Most of these are
now accessible on the internet too,
and there is a variety of means of
consulting back issues, from CD-
ROM to other libraries, on which
the staff can advise.
One of the strengths of the
Haldane Collection is the music
library. Performers will find a good
selection of printed music, includ-
ing chamber music parts. Listeners
are well provided for by the classi-
cal CD and cassette collection, and
the popular music recordings col-
lection, mostly rock CDs and cas-
settes, of which more below.
The Union still has some input
into the collection and your inter-
action is welcome! Most of the fic-
tion purchased is financed by the
Union and, when possible, select-
ed by a student buyer. The popular
recordings are selected entirely by
a student buyer, and the strength
of this collection really relies on
student input. Your suggestions
can be made on the regular library
recommendation form, and the
library staff will gladly forward
them to the student buyer.
In case you were wondering
why "Haldane" Collection, the
library's honoree is R.B.Haldane
(Viscount Haldane of Cloan, 1856-
1928). Haldane played a large role
in the merger of Imperial's con-
stituent colleges in 1907, but more
important from the library view-
point is the fact that he was a
widely educated philsopher, edu-
cationalist and statesman, who
exemplified the value of all-round
education. Another influence from
the past is H.G.Wells, a former stu-
dent of the Royal College of
Science, who is said in a later visit
to have prodded students into set-
ting up the literary collection on
which the Haldane is based to
show that they were "not barbar-
ians". The library holds a collection
of early editions of his works, some
of which are exhibited from time to
time.
Finally the Haldane is a centre
of live culture. Watch for
announcements of future talks and
readings! In the meantime we look
forward to seeing you and wel-
come your suggestions for addi-
tion to the collection.
Janet Smith, Library
I m p e r i a l F r i n g e
Theatre Company
- Three workshops planned this term on voice & movement (20 October),
character (17 November) and creativity (15 December)
- Alternative theatre productions incorporating innovative use of space, sound,
movement ('In throught the Out Door' a trilogy of Satre, Pinter & Keefe: pro-
posed for January, auditions 14 October, contact Caroline Baillie)
- Directing using psychological exploration of character
- Workshopping and producing the works of new playwrights
- Theatre in education - recipient of Millenium Award to tour local schools
with a new play about science
To find out more, contact Caroline Bailie at c.baillie@ic.ac.uk or tei 46804.
Imperial Fringe is an IC staff organisation.
Union Council
All Welcome
Come along and have your say about how your
Union is run.
14 October, 6pm, Union Dining Hall (Beit Building)
HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS HAIR NEWS
HAIR CUT
£8.00
UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX UNISEX
I N C L U D E S :
C O N S U L T A T I O N with stylist to discuss your style, try
a new look and learn how to manage and control your hair.
S H A M P O O followed by Herbal Conditioner and scalp
massage.
Jr> P R E C I S I O N H A I R C U T by fully qualified hair stylist,
experienced in modern hairdressing.
«V U S E O F H A I R D R I E R with complementary gel or
mousse to finish your style.
OPEN 9-00AM - 6.00PM
Last Appointment for Hair Cut 6.00pm
Phone for information on other special otters, e.g. Perms. Highlights, Tints.
TREVOR ROY SALON
52 Kensington Church Street, W8
TEL: 0171 937 6413
3 minutes from High St. Kensington & Notting Hill Gate

