10 October 1997 COLUMNS 9 ^
R
eports of my death have been greatly
exaggerated. You (the denizens of
Sherfield) thought I'd gone. Fat chance.
They still haven't found a decent columnist,
which means you're stuck with me. So, in the
words of a famous philosopher, nice to see
you, to see you nice. This promises to be a fair-
ly eventful year, not just for the freshers, but
for all the inmates as our numbers become
swelled by our medical friends. May we live in
interesting times.
At this time, it is traditional to offer the
benefit of one's experience to the boys and
girls that have just joined the Imperial family. I
must be getting very, very old - most of this
bunch look like they should be doing GCSEs.
The usual advice applies: always refer to gen-
tlemen in red police cars as 'Sir', regardless of
your political sympathies. Secondly, an impor-
tant detail was omitted from this year's
Freshers' Handbook. Long ago, Imperial
College managed to secure an opt-out from
the international treaty governing the provision
of wild sexual abandon during freshers' weeks.
The opt-out, unlike so many, has not been
negotiated away, so it's Ovaltine and a good
book, chaps. The final tip that I have offered in
the past has been to drink the exquisite beer in
Southside Bar, avoiding Union bitter at all costs
(though not the Union per se, before some
I/O
O
Z3
00
7s
ID
On
r t
Z J
hack gets out of his/her pram). Judging from
the huge numbers in Southside and the ludi-
crously restrictive licence that the Union now
has, this may well be a case of preaching to the
converted. Union staff may think this is a 'huge
improvement', but the general feeling in
College already is that we now have a licence
that is impractical, inadequate and so full of
traps that even the best stewarding the world
has ever known will not prevent endless
breaches, with obvious consequences.
It has been suggested by the gaffer that I,
for the benefit of our freshers and middle man-
agers, explain the purpose of this column and
this college. My role is to keep you, informed
about the burning issues in IC and beyond.
Singing the praises of this august institution
and taking to task those who slip up. As you
will see, the latter is not a terribly rare event. In
a nutshell, Imperial consists of academic
departments, which, for the most part, per-
form world-class research. The Sherfield build-
ing is the centre of administration that enables
all the departments to function properly,
assisting in their day to day running. If you
believe that, you'll believe anything. It is to
administration what Benny Hill was to femi-
nism. But for all that, we gentlemen of the
Press love it. They make our job so easy.
Ever felt something could be done better?
What did you do about it?
Nothing? Moan? Complain? Or did you do something to get it done better?
If you actually did something, you could be the kind of person we're looking
for. The kind of person who doesn't just study, but also gets involved in things
- organises events, leads a team or society, shakes up the students' union, or
does completely off the wall stuff - and really makes a difference.
We're Procter & Gamble. W e make, market and sell over 300 world-famous
brands including Hugo Boss, Pringles, Pantene, Ariel and Oil of Ulay. If they
were businesses in their own right, each would be worth millions of pounds.
And their success depends on one thing: the quality of our people. P&G
people have certain characteristics. Thinking skills. Creativity. A way of setting
priorities so everything happens. The ability to work with others. And, most
importantly, they recognise ways to improve things, then make those
improvements real.
We look for exactly these characteristics in our graduate recruits. W e don't
expect you to know all about business - we offer some of the best training
in the world - but you need to have done things that prove your potential.
That's because we give immediate responsibility. You won't be making coffee
or just churning charts. You'll get an active role, and the chance to influence
things - even revolutionise them, if your plans are convincing enough.
In return, we offer an attractive salary, an exciting work environment and
training that will make you sought after by businesses everywhere. It's not for
nothing that we're consistently voted one of the most admired companies in
the world, and one of best places to start a career.
We need people in Marketing, Sales, Finance, Research and Development,
Information Technology, Market Research, Product Supply and Human
Resources. The best way to join is through our Christmas courses or, for
penultimate year students, summer internships. We only recruit at graduate
level, so it's now or never. And deadlines are looming. If you think you fit the
bill, we need to hear from you now.
Your first step? Come to our recruitment night to learn more
If you can't make it, see your careers service urgently.
Tuesday, October 14, 7pm
at The Chartwell Suite, Churchill International Hotel, Portman
Square, London W1 (2 minutes from Marble Arch tube station)
Procter&Gamble
http://www.pg.com/careers

