FELIX
10
BUSINESS business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 17 june 2011
Business News
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
Osborne endorses firewalls
The US central bank, the Federal Reserve, is con-
sidering setting explicit inflation targets, as used
by most other central banks, such as the Bank of
England.
The Federal Reserve currently uses the so-called
‘dual mandate’ system, where it aims in general
terms to keep a ‘prudent balance’ between employ-
ment and inflation. Their view is that these two are
inverseley correlated and thereofre need to be bal-
anced out through central monetary planning. Since
this mandate was introduced in the 1960s, the Fed
has been able to vary this balance according to per-
cieved economic conditions.
The Fed Chairman, Ben Bernanke, has long argued
for this move to explicit targets. The move may be
being hastened by the growing criticism of the bank
in recent years.
Fed considers formal targets
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne,
used his annual Mansion House address to the City
of London’s financial elite to endorse proposals for
banks’ retail operations to be ring-fenced from their
investment divisions.
Strict separation of investment and retail banking
activities have been the subject of proposals for dec-
ades, and have gone in and out of being law. The lat-
est calls have been growing since the financial crisis
of 2008. Advocates hope it will limit the impact of
future bank failures of consumers. Opponents see
it as unnecessarily hampering the ability of banks
to return to profitability and repay the taxpayer for
their bailouts.
Greek and Irish debt
The prospect of Greece and Ireland defaulting on
their debt is once again on the minds of sover-
eign bond investors. “It’s 100 percent certain that
Greece will default,” according to financial historian
Niall Ferguson, “The only question is what euphe-
mism will be dreamt up to cloak the fact that it’s a
default.”
Investors are particularly concerned that Iceland’s
rapid recovery and return to the international capital
markets could encourage the “bankrupting yourself
to recovery” approach. “People should be careful
when it comes to drawing comparisons between Ice-
land on the one hand, and Greece, Portugal, Spain
and Ireland on the other,” Iceland’s Finance Minis-
ter Steingrimur J. Sigfusson warned in an interview
in Reykjavik. “Iceland didn’t have the ability to save
the banks. Trying to rewrite the events that led to
that eventuality as some sort of an export product
is irresponsible.”
Mr. Stigfusson went on to say, “Iceland should
be humble and avoid advising other countries, es-
pecially when it comes to banking. What happened
was an emergency situation which couldn’t be
avoided.”
Y
ou might have still been running
around your primary school
grounds in the late 1990s, but
the Internet was about to wit-
ness its largest market revolu-
tion. While Silicon Valley has seen its fair
share of bubbles over the last decade, the dot-
com bubble that marked the turn of the century
was probably the most significant. Now econo-
mists warn us that a new bubble may threaten
the stability of Internet-based companies: the
initial public offering (IPO) bubble. And the
first company to define it is LinkedIn.
LinkedIn has been known amongst business-
men as a professional Facebook, a tool to make
new connections and expand their professional
network. Launched in 2003, LinkedIn has be-
come the global tool for professional network-
ing, now claiming over 100 million members.
That is several times less than what facebook
can boast about, but there are no 12 year-olds
thinking the whole world needs to know they
just had a snack on LinkedIn. It keeps you in
touch with people you have worked with or
met at a networking event, lets you track a
company, look for and advertise a job or sim-
ply find others interested in a business idea you
have in mind.
The company went public on the 19th of
May and sent investors into a frenzy. The stock
price skyrocketed from $45 per share to over
$94 within a day, thus evaluating the company
at approximately $8.9billion. While that sure
led to a lot of champagne being drunk at the
LinkedIn offices in Mountain View, California,
it prompted market analysts to consider wheth-
er the new wave of IT companies to go public
are considerably overvalued.
LinkedIn is the first major social networking
website to go public and therefore became the
first indicator of just how much social media is
worth in the modern world. What sets it apart
from other social networking websites is the
fact that it has a clearly defined revenue source
that is not limited to online advertisement.
Users can choose from a selection of account
types, ranging from the free one to the Execu-
tive one. While Executive does sound cool, it
will leave you $74.95 poorer per month.
Groupon now seems determined to follow.
The company was founded less than three
years ago and is often referred to as the fastest
growing company ever. Despite that claim, it
still managed to lose about $400 million last
year by pursuing long-term goals regardless
of short-term consequences. Its latest ambition
seems to be achieving global coverage, as it
expands in other markets such as Japan, Rus-
sia and most recently China. What everyone is
anxiously waiting for is the day Facebook will
finally file for an IPO, despite the fact that ev-
eryone at Facebook avoids announcing a date
at all cost.
Investors are clearly willing to provide the
funds, putting significantly more emphasis on
the brand value of the companies than on the
revenue and profit generated. What has been
sold in the market so far has been the potential
rather than the actual profit that these websites
present.
Whether the surge in share prices of hot
new internet companies is another bubble
like the one that shook the tech world in the
late 1990s remains to be seen, but economists
maintain their usual scepticism. California
has once fallen for the dot-com bubble and
this new one seems remarkably similar. If you
happen to have a revolutionary and popular
social network to sell though, now would be
a good time to head up to Silicon Valley and
do it.
LinkedIn’s owners celebrate their IPO by pointing and laughing at the poor people standing beneath them
A new tech bubble
Alexandru Podgurschi sees history repeating itself

