FELIX
12
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 17 june 2011
I
t is a strange quirk of the British
media that it is generally harshly
critical of the internal affairs of
our government, yet often almost
blindly supportive of our affairs
outside the EU. Consider, for instance,
NATO’s recent intervention in the Lib-
yan civil war. Major newspapers rarely
seriously questioned whether the heavy
bombardment of Tripoli was a breach of
UN Resolution 1973. More importantly,
few major newspapers asked in any
depth about why our government was
apparently so keen to use our resources
to “protect civilians” in Libya, but not in
Syria, Yemen or Bahrain.
The government’s reason – “humani-
tarian concerns,” – was accepted and
lauded by many, and treated with cyni-
cism by others. In an interesting (but
extremely short and under researched)
article in The Guardian, Neil Clark
suggested that the real reason for the
intervention was to further Western
economic interests in the Middle East.
Regrettably, he went no further in his
claim. At no point did he mention the
very important factors in the matter that
would have greatly strengthened his ar-
gument: that Libya is an oil-rich coun-
try; that Gaddafi is an unstable leader;
that the rebels seemed to have the up-
per hand in March, and that a military
intervention would make the future
(rebel) Libyan government indebted to
the West.
That few major British media outlets
went any further than to insinuate eco-
nomic reasons demonstrates the jour-
nalistic disease that has been around
for decades; very rarely do private me-
dia sources stray far from the allegedly
neutral BBC version of events when it
comes to foreign affairs.
Take, as another example, British in-
volvement in the NATO bombing of Yu-
goslavia in 1999. At the time, the British
media praised NATO for its intervention
in the region. After the event, facts came
to light which demonstrated that NATO
had fabricated claims about genocide of
100,000 Albanians to justify their inter-
vention. These claims had been quickly
swallowed and published by the British
media, and NATO then used this media
frenzy to justify their intervention. The
revelations about NATO’s exaggerated
claims have rarely been published in
British newspapers, presumably because
the others fear the embarrassment of ad-
mitting that they were wrong.
It may seem, then, that The Guardian
is the pinnacle of quality journalism, but
I do not believe this to be the case. The
fact that The Guardian has been slightly
more commendable than other newspa-
pers on a number of occasions, does not
mean that it is much better than the rest
of the British media. In the article I men-
tioned earlier by Neil Clark, he gives
no evidence supporting his claims, nor
any deep analysis beyond a wink and a
nudge in the direction of Western impe-
rialism. Compare this with the excellent
range of articles by Al Jazeera journal-
ists on the same matter with comprehen-
sive source-citation and deep analysis.
What’s more, many of these articles are
written by UK- and US-based writers
(Joseph Massad, Noam Chomsky, Larbi
Sadiki).
Many will argue that the Qatar-based
Al Jazeera will naturally have a more in-
depth view of Middle Eastern politics.
But surely, the fact the UK is participat-
ing in military action demands serious
analysis by the British media. If the Iraq
war has taught us anything, it should be
that government reasons for military in-
tervention should be very carefully and
thoroughly analysed.
Media morons
Why is it, then, that the media seems
so reluctant to question our foreign af-
fairs? I get the impression that it may be
a feeling of over-inflated national impor-
tance left over from the days of the Brit-
ish Empire.
We subconsciously hold on to the ri-
diculous belief that those outside Europe
and North America are poor, under-de-
veloped barbarians, who need our help
to be “brought into the modern world”.
As a result, our media institutions take
the government’s “humanitarian” in-
volvement in countries like Libya at
face value – only our military help can
boost “the economy and the prosperity
and security of [Libya’s] people,” said
the Telegraph.
Alas, it is beyond the scope of this ar-
ticle to directly criticise British (or US)
foreign policy, but I do think that our
nation’s attitude towards itself is in dire
need of reconsideration. The fact that
the most well-researched, and unbiased
journalism on British foreign affairs is
from a Middle Eastern news corporation
should shock our own newspapers into
rethinking the quality of their articles.
Perhaps more importantly, it should en-
courage us to treat what we read, hear
and see with an even more critical eye.
British media coverage of Libya is flimsy and subservient
Stephen Smith
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
“
h
h
a
a
e
”
Rarely do media sources stray
far from the allegedly neutral
BBC version of foreign affairs
This year’s Summer Ball, which is tomorrow
if you are reading this on Friday, is poten-
tially a fork in the road. If it proves to be
a great success then the Union will have
been vindicated and there will be a powerful
argument for its continued expansion. If it
is not a great success, there will be cause
to step back and reflect. Either way there
are lessons to be learnt but they must not
be the wrong lessons.
Let us take the first outcome. That the
number of tickets sold reaches or even de-
fies expectations. That the experience of
the majority of students who attend the
Ball is overwhelmingly positive and that the
increased focus on live music and the fes-
tival atmosphere is vindicated as the right
move. The plans that the Union laid out last
week, that they have this week clarified as
a “vision” rather than a concrete strategy,
will have received a boost. There is no bet-
ter way to gauge student opinion than to
count the number of people who voted in fa-
vour with their feet. But the Union must be
careful not to mistake this boost for carte
blanche. They have made the right noises
about doing a better job of bringing student
input on board, but they must deliver on
these promises. The need to plan the Ball
in advance carries with it the danger that
students are only able to tweak the details
instead of building the foundations. In this
respect the Sabbs, as student representa-
tives, have an important role to play.
The alternative outcomes are that the Ball
is a damp squib or, god-forbid, a unmitigated
disaster. There is no denying that this would
be a vote of no confidence in the Ball, but it
would be wrong to assign blame to this or
that aspect of the Ball without evidence.
It’s not often that one gets to compare
ongoings in the Union with ongoings in Par-
liament and Government, but this happy,
or unhappy opportunity (depending on your
view) has arisen in the case of the Summer
Ball. The Government was forced to pause
the NHS reforms and embark on a listen-
ing exercise after the fierce opposition to
Andrew Lansley’s reforms. The reforms are
now substantially changed. If the Ball fails
to impress, and we hope that this does not
prove to be the case, we would urge the
Union to embark on a similar listening initia-
tive this year, before students leave for the
summer holidays and before the ground-
work for next year’s Ball begins to be laid
down. It would demonstrate the Union’s
responsiveness to its students but further-
more it would ensure without any doubt that
the plans for next year’s Ball would be finely
tuned to the wishes of the students that the
Union is duty-bound to serve.
FELIX
The right lessons must be
learnt from the Ball
With its romanticised coverage of the Libyan rebels, is the British media ‘rolling over’ on Libya?

