FELIX
16
ARTS
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 17 june 2011
A
n artist and a scientist
walk into a bar. They find
each other incomprehen-
sible and mysterious and
fail to have a meaningful
conversation. They leave vowing never
to move out of their comfort zone again.
Not really funny is it? Before I continue,
I must declare an interest in writing this
article. I am involved in organising col-
laboration between Imperial College
and the Royal College of Art (probably
the UK’s premier post-graduate school
of art). This daring plan is codenamed
Artifact. But more on that later...
It is almost a truism that the worlds of
art and science are totally isolated from
each other; isolated by their collective
rolls, methodologies and goals. In my
belief this is symptomatic of a danger-
ous lack of understanding between
these two vital components of a func-
tional and vibrant culture. Studying, as
we do, in a university exclusively dedi-
cated to science and engineering it is
easy to forget that there are other modes
of thought, just as necessary and valid.
There is even a degree of hostility di-
rected towards other areas. During the
debate over higher education funding
I heard a number of colleagues angrily
question why degree subjects, other
than the sciences (and grudgingly law)
received funding at all when they “gave
no benefit to society”. A particular ha-
tred was reserved for degrees like fine
art. The lack of understanding swings
both ways. I once fell out badly with a
friend who claimed that “my relentless
logic left me dead to the dead to beauty
and spirituality”. For the health of our
friendship we now avoid discussion of
all philosophical matters.
As an engineer with a strong interest
in the arts I feel compelled to challenge
these attitudes. Yet it is hard to deny
that a real gulf exists. I would love to
argue that the distinction we make be-
tween “geeky types” and “arty types”
is a false one, but I do not believe that
in all honesty I can. In my experience
there is a genuine difference in patterns
of thought. As scientists, we are trained
to be ruthlessly rational and filter every-
thing we observe and conclude through
a strictly logical framework. In contrast
art graduates have been taught to devel-
op their intuition and exhibit heightened
sensitivity to the subtleties of emotion
and aesthetic. Being used to thinking in
a particular way makes it very difficult
for one group to understand the work of
the other unless pains are taken to make
it particularly accessible. This is a gen-
eralisation, there are plenty of individu-
als and even institutions who bridge the
gap but they are the exception rather
than the rule.
So given these problems, what does
Artifact hope to achieve? I have al-
ready suggested that the culture clash
can cause hostility but I think there is
a greater danger; that of missed oppor-
tunities. When science and art come
together some pretty spectacular things
can happen.
The mysterious world of research and
the insights it offers frequently serves
as inspiration for artists. You may have
spotted the work of Helen Pynor, cre-
ator of ‘Headache’ (Felix No#1479).
Here an artist, so affected by contact
with Imperial’s very own Dr Dexter,
went on to produce a piece dedicated
to exploring brain diseases. In my view
the controversy surrounding her use of a
human brain unfairly distracted the pub-
lic from a good news story. A respected
contemporary artist and a top researcher
were working together to raise public
awareness of multiple sclerosis and Par-
kinson’s disease in a thoroughly laud-
able and effective manner.
Examples of art inspiring science are
undoubtedly harder to come by. How-
ever the arts in general can certainly
provide a driving force for research. An
example of this is the reactive dyes now
available to fashion designers. A lot of
the finance and motivation for advances
in this area has come from the fashion
industry. I recently spoke to a textiles
designer working with our chemistry
department to develop CO2 reactive
inks. Clothes made from these fabrics
blacken in atmospheres with high emis-
sions; clearly a spectacular way to high-
light environmental concerns.
Artifact has taken its cue from an-
other example of people from different
worlds exhibiting a total inability to un-
derstand each other, men and women. A
speed dating event took place last term
with Imperial and Royal College of Arts
students and staff invited. The mark of
a successful match, was not romance,
but an eagerness to work together on a
collaborative project. The fruits of these
partnerships, drawing on the strengths
of both parties will grace the walls of
The Blyth Gallery this September.
Through the collaboration we hope not
only to give people a glimpse into life
on the other side but to develop real
dialogue between members of these two
institutions.
Students from Imperial and the Royal College of Art team up
in daring collaboration. Meredith Thomas reports
Artifact Collaboration
Emma Emerson (left, top) Lizzy Griffiths (left, bottom)
My name's Lizzy Griffiths and
I've been studying Biochem-
istry at Imperial for nearly two
years. I've always loved draw-
ing and painting, and although
my parents made sure I didn't
pursue art as a career, it has
remained a hobby that I always
have time for. I am part of the
Leonardo Fine Arts society here
at Imperial and do the occasional
illustration for Felix, so a joint col-
laboration with a member of the
RCA seemed like a great idea.
Our project involves growing fab-
ric from a bacterial culture, which
is exciting because it is making
art out of living organisms; it also
ties in well with my biochemical
background. We hope to make
a structure out of this fabric that
will be displayed in the Blyth Gal-
lery over the summer, which will
be a fantastic opportunity to
show how art and science can
complement each other
Emma Emerson is currently
studying a RIBA Part 2 Archi-
tecture Masters at the Royal Col-
lege of Art. After completing her
undergraduate studies in Architec-
ture at Brighton University, Emma
went onto work with the Royal
Institute of British Architect’s
in-house think-tank, Building Fu-
tures. She has been involved
in organising the 2009 London
Festival of Architecture with RIBA
London and spent a month with
the British Council in Venice at
the 12th Architecture Biennale.
The upcoming Artifact exhibition
will present an investigation into
the architectural potentials of a
specific organic textile grown from
a culture of bacteria and yeast.
This collaboration has provided
a platform to initiate discussion
surrounding sustainable futures
through an exploration into Biolog-
ical Architecture and cutting-edge
symbiotic materials.
Chloé Brillatz Elliott P. Montgomery
Elliott P. Montgomery uses de-
signed artifacts to raise questions
about impact responsibility. He is
in the Design Interactions depart-
ment at the Royal College of Art,
and previously earned a bachelors
in industrial design at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
In the past, he has worked with
start-ups, non-profits, and govern-
ment agencies.
The work for the Artifact ex-
hibion, in collaboration with Chloé
Brillatz, is a historical recounting
of the efforts of geologist August
Haquet, who in 1968 was the first
to propose the notion that por-
tions of the planet are not native
to Earth. The project will take
the form of reenactments of mo-
ments from Haquet's work. A se-
ries of photographs from this re-
enactment will be the final output,
along with a recorded reading of
this fictional history.
Chloé Brillatz is a UCL plan-
etary science masters student.
She studied maths and phys-
ics in classes préparatoires in
Paris and engineering geology
at L'Ecole Nationale Supérieure
de Géologie de Nancy in France.
Last year she worked for two geo-
technic engineering companies in
Paris and in San Francisco. She
enjoyed being a geotechnic engi-
neer but she wanted to discover
research in another field she
likes – planetary science. She
got in touch with Artifact because
she sees in sharing scientific
knowledge a way to improve hu-
man minds and human societies.
According to her, universe explo-
ration gives humility and respon-
sability to people. In that sense
she works with Elliott Montgom-
ery to share scientific knowledge
and to raise ethical questions
through art.

