FELIX Friday 17 June 2011 17
BOOKS
FELIX
Ian McEwan’s latest book, Solar, is
probably the lightest piece he’s written
to date. It is a departure from the seri-
ous, dark tones characteristic in most
of the work that McEwan is renowned
for (such as Atonement, Amsterdam
and First Love, Last Rites). Solar is a
satirical fiction that follows the life of
Nobel laureate physicist Michael Beard
and satires the current effort in tackling
climate change.
The novel opens in 2000 with Mi-
chael Beard in his fifties. Though one of
the most respected physicist in Britain,
Michael Beard is disillusioned with his
job as the ‘mascot’ of the National Cen-
tre for Renewable Energy. A hallmark
of mid-life crisis, Beard finds that his
well of inspiration has dried up since
coming up with the Beard-Einstein
conflation which propelled him to fame
and won him the Nobel. His personal
life is tumultuous; after cheating on
his fifth wife Patricia, he is at the butt
end of her recrimination as she starts
on an affair with Tarpin the builder, a
violent simpleton who is the complete
opposite of the intellectual and weak
Michael Beard. His wife’s affair makes
him more drawn to her, as he begins to
realize that Patricia is his perfect lover.
Depressed and jaded, he decides to take
up an offer to go on an Arctic expedi-
tion with a motley bunch of artists to
discuss environmental concerns. Upon
his return, an accident triggers a chain
of events in which the truth is ironic and
misunderstood in a very McEwanesque
way.
It is nice to see Ian McEwan foray
into comic satire. He is an author whose
writing style would fit snugly into the
genre: his cynical tone is perfect for sat-
ire and his dark, no-punch-held humour
makes for a lot of literally laugh out
loud moments. Some of the best laughs
are in the first half of the book, espe-
cially during the Arctic expedition. As
usual, Ian McEwan brilliantly sets the
stage for the pivotal accident in a man-
ner which will sweep you off your feet
when you reach it and ensure that you
will not see coming.
Unlike Ian McEwan’s Booker-win-
ning Amsterdam, Solar felt less well
researched. Whereas in Amsterdam,
McEwan gets into the head of a com-
poser and the nitty-gritty of compos-
I have always been an avid reader, ever
since a young age. I’m not picky either
– as long as I have something papery in
my hands, I’m glad to read it. I’ll read –
and enjoy – mostly anything.
I say mostly because try as I might,
I just couldn’t enjoy Looking for Mrs
Dextrose by Nick Griffiths. The book
focuses on the adventures of Alexan-
der/Pilsbury Dextrose as he attempts to
track down his mother, drunkenly left
behind by his father, Harrison Dextrose
on one of his own adventures across the
globe. On paper, it sounds like the basis
for an exciting story. Why then can it
not even raise a yawn from me?
Firstly, I found it quite dull. In the
first hundred pages, nothing of any note
happened. The prime chance to grab my
interest – wasted. I am aware that even
great books take time to build story
and pace but I don’t think this is one of
them. Writers like Tolkien take a great
deal of time and pages describing the
background, both of the world and the
characters, and this helps to engage the
reader. Instead, in this book, Alexander
travels to a nearby forest village on an
errand that is ultimately revealed to be
completely pointless. The rest of the
early part of the book is spent drinking
in a bar.
That too is another problem. I get the
feeling that this is supposed to be a fun-
ny book but I was left feeling rather un-
derwhelmed. Either I’m missing the vast
majority of the jokes or it simply isn’t
that funny. A great deal of the “humour”
revolves around the drunken character
of Harrison Dextrose but being constant-
ly drunk, asleep or unhygienic is hardly
amusing, in this book at least.
His son, Alexander, is not much bet-
ter. As protagonists go, he is more than
a bit wet. He comes across as very reac-
tive, very rarely acting on his own ini-
tiative. The first person narrative from
him is a mix of social embarrassment,
neurosis and cowardice, which is mildly
entertaining and is the only thing that
makes the book readable.
Plot and character are both pedestrian
but there are moments when the style of
writing shines through. Griffiths has a
colourfully inventive way of describing
things, if not always tasteful. I feel there
is the potential for something better,
which is unfortunately missed out on.
However, that creative style is a dou-
ble-edged sword. The book is populated
by a cast of colourful characters, each
one with their own distinctive accents.
While funny if heard aloud, transferred
to great swathes of print makes them
near unintelligible, obstructing the story
at hand. Several times I had to stop and
work out what a character was saying –
never a good sign.
Looking for Mrs Dextrose is the sec-
ond book in a trilogy. Based on what
I’ve read, I don’t think I’ll bother with
the first or last books. It is not a bad
book. It does have its occasional re-
deeming features if you can summon
the will to carry on with it. But I found
it quite boring, far less than it promised.
You can read it for yourself and see if
you disagree with my harsh appraisal.
But I wouldn’t get your hopes up.
ing music in a way that engages even
the music-illiterate readers, McEwan
delved less into the physics behind Mi-
chael Beard’s field (perhaps not to bore
readers), save for the Beard-Einstein
conflation. The maths behind the Beard-
Einstein conflation is not described in
detail, for obvious reasons. McEwan
did however explored climate change
with some depth and his description of
Michael Beard’s experience in the Arc-
tic felt exceedingly real. Ian McEwan
himself spent some time with a group of
scientists and artists abroad a ship near
the north pole in 2005, which was the
basis for inspiration for Solar.
The other thing that lets down the
book might be the plot. It may be a bit
slow for some people, but once it gets
off it’s a page-turner. There are though,
some parts of the book that felt redun-
dant, perhaps it’s a symptom of ‘lack of
editor’ where a novelist became so fa-
mous that the publishing house dare not
assign an editor to edit the work, thus
resulting in a draggy plot (e.g. the last
few Harry Potters).
Solar is an enjoyable read with unfor-
gettable comic moments and sharp sat-
ire, but it is not Ian McEwan at his best.
The misadventures of a Nobel physicist
Ian McEwan’s foray into comic satire
Looking for a better book to read
A lacklustre second novel in the trilogy
Guo Heng Chin
Rhys Davies
Next week:
An epic
Fantasy finale
Want to
write about
literature?
Email
books.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin

