FELIX
18
MUSIC
Friday 17 JUNE 2011
Stephen Smith
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Competition
Another competition! We have two Lovebox tickets
to give away for FREE! Artists such as Skream, The
Wombats, Roll Deep, Metronomy, Example, Ed
Sheeran and Architecture in Helsinki are dying for
you to win the pair of tickets and come to see them
live at Lovebox on Friday 15th July.
To get your hands on these (that’s over £60 worth
of tickets) all you need to do is send the word “Love-
box” to music.felix@gmail.com, or, post the ques-
tion “Can I please go to Lovebox Mr Editor sir?”
(or any other witticism of your choosing) on Felix’s
Facebook wall by Tuesday 21st June to enter the
draw.
Any submissions recieved after 21st June may
not be considered. Please be aware that the tick-
ets will grant you entry to Friday at Lovebox only,
you will not have access to Saturday or Sunday.
The winning author will be informed by email by
Friday 24th June. The Editor’s decision is final.
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Guillemots
Southbank Centre, Waterloo
Saturday, 18th June 2011
If you’re not planning on getting to the Summer Ball
until 6, make sure you head over to the Southbank
Centre for Bandstand Busking featuring the epic
and brilliant Guillemots as well as She Keeps Bees,
Peggy Sue, Woodpigeon and Sam de la Haye.
Bandstand Busking forms part of the Southbank
Centre’s annual Meltdown festival (this year curat-
ed by The Kinks’ singer and songwriter Ray Davies)
which has already featured a large number of great
and eccentric artists this year, including a fantasti-
cally bizarre performance by US indie royalty Yo La
Tengo last Sunday.
Bandstand Busking, which has in past years fea-
tured Emmy The Great and Wild Beasts, is abso-
lutely free of charge for all, so it’s a great way to see
one of the UK’s most exciting bands on a student
budget.
While you’re on the Southbank, you should also
pop into the nearby Hayward Gallery to see their
exhibition of Traccey Emin’s life and work. Tickets
are only £9 for Students, and there is free entry to
the rest of the gallery. Stephen Smith
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. Daft Punk
3. Kanye West
4. Coldplay
5. Bon Iver
6. Arcade Fire
7. Muse
8. Two Door Cinema Club
9. Bloc Party
10. Fleet Foxes
www.southbankcentre.co.uk
T
his will be the eighteenth T in the
Park taking place on the second
weekend of July in the region of
Kinross-shire, Scotland. Contrary
to what the name may imply this
is not your average tea party, or perhaps bet-
ter said it’s nothing of the sort! Named after
its main sponsor, the brewing company Ten-
nents, T in the Park is a festival known to offer
a huge variety of first class music and this year
is no exception. 2011’s line-up includes big
names such as Coldplay, the Arctic Monkeys
and Foo Fighters whose performance records
promise not to disappoint. While The Killers
have made several appearances at T over the
years, Brandon Flowers returns on his own
this time around having released a solo album
last year. Beyoncé and MCR are sure to get
the crowd pumped and the list goes on with nu-
folk favourites such as Noah and the Whale
and the successful Jimmy Eats World.
Originally a two-day festival, T in the Park
has evolved into a major music experience
spanning a total of seven main stages over a
three day weekend. Previous years have seen
performances by the Kings of Leon, Moby,
Muse and The Chemical Brothers among
others. A large camping area is completed with
an array of various stalls and shops to cater for
all tastes and fancies. Three days of top notch
bands and artists not enough? Seek some
thrills in an expansive funfair complete with
a big wheel or take a gander into this year’s
Ceilidh tent for some Gaelic fun. In addition,
T often shows host to a comedy tent and silent
T in the Park
This week’s Felix Music competition gives
you the chance to get free tickets to Friday at
Lovebox, East London’s award-winning medi-
um-sized festival. If you are the lucky winner,
you’ll get to see dubstep king Skream, indie-
pop deities The Wombats alongside famous
electro-pop outfit Metronomy and many,
many more (see above).
But Friday is not the only day. The festival
extends over an entire weekend, and the music
just gets better and better.
Saturday sees a combination of great new
artists and old favourites, with US post-punk
band The Drums and the BBC’s Sound of
2011 winner Jessie J taking the stage along-
side very popular pop-singer Lykke Li and the
celebrated Snoop Dogg.
If that’s just not enough to encourage you to
get down to Victoria Park in July, Sunday sees
70s pop-punk gods Blondie perform alongside
the hugely popular Scissor Sisters, RnB queen
Kelis and Swedish pop royalty Robyn, as well
as a huge number of other top artists such as
2ManyDJs and Beth Ditto.
But there’s much more to Lovebox that just
Katherine Portilla takes a look at Scotland’s finest weekend
Dates: 8 – 10 July 2011
Location: Balado, Kinross
Price: £185
Website: www.tinthepark.com
disco as well.
Festivities will carry on into the wee hours of
the morning with house legends such as Dead-
mau5, Swedish House Mafia and Scotland’s
own Calvin Harris on deck. Prefer some drum
and bass? Pendulum alongside Chase and Sta-
tus will be there to provide the heaviest of bass.
Special treats such as City and Colour, the ital-
ian electronic and dance music project Bloody
Beetroots Death Crew 77 and many more will
make this year’s festival one to remember.
Tickets for the festival start at £185 for full
weekend camping, where for an additional
tenner you can arrive earlier and start the party
on the Thursday! A variety of single or two day
passes are also available, in addition to lockers
and campervan tickets. Note that parking tickets
must be bought in advance.
Lovebox: like the Summer Ball but with
more black ties
London’s Lovebox is an indie-fan’s heaven
Burly, Strongbow-drinking Scotsmen say ‘Come to Kinross or I’ll deep-fry your legs!’
the music. For art lovers, there’s the multi-dis-
ciplinary arts stage Circus Kinetica as well as
a mystery art installation, Fringe Street.
Small-scale dance stages are in copious sup-
ply with In the Trees, NYC Downlow and a
DJ van, Art Against Knives, dotted around
the festival.
To enter our competition to win tickets to
Friday at Lovebox, simply e-mail the word
“Lovebox” to music.felix@gmail.com or write
on the Felix Facebook wall.
Alternatively, if you want to get tickets for
the whole weekend, you can buy them for
£108.50 on ticketmaster.co.uk or £99 on HMV
Tickets. Tickets are running low as the festival
date approaches so make sure to buy now to
avoid disappointment.
Dates: 15 – 17 July 2011
Location: Victoria Park, London E3
Price: £99
Website: www.lovebox.net

