FELIX Friday 17 JUNE 2011 19
MUSIC
For those of you paying any attention
to the underground dance music scene
here in London, there has been one true
star to emerge over the past year, and
that is the Boiler Room; yet describing
it isn’t easy. It’s not a club night because
to get in you need an invite and it’s usu-
ally all over by 11pm. Rather, the whole
event is more like a radio show, broad-
casting over Ustream to thousands of
people sat at their laptops (like I have
done numerous times, wishing my life
wasn’t so dull). Every week, the biggest
names in the underground scene make
it down to Corsica Studios in Elephant
and Castle to play out to the lucky two
hundred who got guest list, and to a few
thousand internet fans across the world.
This week marked the first birthday
of the Boiler Room, and to celebrate,
they opened their doors to the public.
But this is Techno Nonsense, and I’m
supposed to be writing about labels,
so I’ll get back on track. The reason I
mentioned the Boiler Room is that it
is a spotlight for what is happening in
the UK’s Bass music scene, and what
I wanted this article to be about. But
I couldn’t choose a single label to fo-
cus on. Hessle Audio, 502 Recordings
and Numbers have all put out records
of such consistently high quality over
the past year that you realise your mas-
sive hatred for Will.I.Am is irrelevant.
The three aforementioned labels have
released music from the likes of James
Blake, Jamie XX, and many other qual-
ity producers who aren’t also current
buzzwords at the NME.
Yet there are two sides to the story.
Ben UFO (co-founder of Hessle Audio),
Oneman (founder of 502 Recordings)
and Jackmaster (Numbers co-owner)
are all DJs. “So what?”, you say, “ev-
eryone’s a DJ these days”. True, but
very few people actually make any
moves in the dance music scene for be-
ing DJs alone. Most are producers first,
London Underground: the final installment of Techno Nonsense
Simon Hunter
Jamie may be an NME favourite but you can’t deny his taste in wool
achieve popularity and the public as-
sumes they are a DJ, so they all rush to
see a Deadmau5 DJ set and have no idea
that all they saw was a guy playing his
own music from his laptop.
Ben UFO, Oneman and Jackmaster on
the other hand know what they’re good
at and stick to it. In any one set from the
label-heads you are likely to hear 1970’s
disco, 80’s house music, hip-hop, 90’s
garage and tracks that won’t be released
’til 2012.
That’s what makes the scene so excit-
ing, you have really talented producers
putting their own spin on genres such
as grime, garage and dubstep, and bril-
liant DJs exhibiting the best in not just
current music, but music that stretches
back decades. Can you tell I’m pretty
excited about going to the Boiler Room
on Thursday?
Did you get BONED?
If the answer is yes, Gregory Power personally wants to shake your hand
T
hanks to the 150 or so ba-
dasses who came out to
BONED at Metric last Sat-
urday! Hope you had a good
time. The night was a suc-
cess. Check out Christopher Walmsley’s
awesome pics of the night on the Felix
Facebook page.Ahuge thank you to Will
and Chrissie for the sound and lights.
Thanks for all the great performers too:
The Inescapable Fate Jam Band, Ramy
Kozman, SMB, Phrij, the rest of the
losers from Operation Midnight Cli-
max, our special guest Becoming Real,
Monsk and utter nutter Niiiiiiiiiice-
berrrrrrrrrg. Support independent tal-
ent and Imperial art. PEACE.
Photos by Christopher Walmsley
Becoming Real working the Mac power
Monsk getting ethereal like a bad man... Or in other words, Simon Hunter djiing like a guy with rolled-up sleeves Operation Midnight Climax, living up to their name by the looks of it...

