FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 17 june 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles Betts
Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova
Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors
Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher
Walmsley Luke Turner Stephen Smith Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor
Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Lifestyle Editor Richard Keller Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta
Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Samuel Furse Charlotte Ivison Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Lolcat of teh week
I,SCIENCE
THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE
NEW ISSUE
OUT
FRIDAY
24TH JUNE
LISTEN TO THE LATEST I, SCIENCE
PODCAST ON WWW.ISCIENCEONLINE.CO.UK
Freezing time with lasers
Professor of Laser
Physics John Tisch
explores a world of high-
speed measurement
technology, in which
laser-based cameras
capable of freeze-
framing motion are being
developed. Open to all
with registration required
in advance. Contact
k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk
to register.
Greying Matters
This free event brings together Imperial researchers
and the British Society for Immunology in order to
investigate what exactly happens to our brains
as we grow older. The talks will be followed by a
series of games designed to test your memory and
presentations into the work of young scientists.
Open to all with tickets to be booked in advance.
Contact tickets@danacentre.org.uk for tickets.
Dana Centre, Science Museum
23 June 19:00–21:00
LT 1, Blackett Laboratory
22 June 17:30–18:30
Nestlé Marketing Director
on business experience
Vernon Bradley, current Marketing Director at Nestlé,
discusses his 30 year career which has spanned
markets across the world. He also holds 12 years of
exposure to the high profile Chinese market. Open
to all with tickets requiring booking in advance. Visit
http://bit.ly/lx2xDz to register.
Lecture Theatre 2, Business School
20 June 18:30–19:30
There probably isn’t a more appropriate
time to use the words, “well, this is
embarrassing.” Due to a, shall we say,
‘timetabling oversight’ we mistakenly said
last week, and the week before, that this
would be the last issue of the academic
year. In fact, that’s not the case, the last
issue is next Friday 24th June. Feel free to
point and laugh, and then maybe give a
small cheer for one more week of Hangman,
Puzzles, and all that ‘news stuff’ that I
know you all love to read. Next we’ll have a
bumper issue for you with a review of the
year and more Centrefolds than is probably
legal to print...
Last issue next week!
*cough (not this week)
Editor

