FELIX
20
TRAVEL
Travel Editor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 17 june 2011
I
have yet to take helicopter gun-
ships seriously. Whenever I hear
about them—which has been
regularly since the business in
Libya kicked off—I immediately
think they are referring to something
out of science fiction, or at least Bucky
O’Hare.
As you might imagine, this is a far cry
from commuting on the 0702 from Pad-
dington to Didcot. The absence of guns,
bombs and Kate Adie alerted me to this
quite early on, and Paddington station
was the poorer for it I imagine. What
I was equally unaware of was any alter-
native transport to work. If there were
no fast trains, as happened occasionally,
I would get a slow one. It would be an-
noying and take nearly twice as long.
I moved to London ten years ago and
had never really used the tube before
then. I had used trains a bit, I went to
school in the arse-edge of Kent and so
in order to go anywhere interesting or
see anyone who did not live there, I
needed a train. If I did not want to be
accompanied by my parents that is. I
was quite tempted to start driving at age
17. I got a provisional licence, and was
keen to start driving. Perhaps wisely,
my parents would not let me drive their
cars (no idea why) and a year or so lat-
er I came to London to go to Univer-
sity anyway, and never needed to drive.
Relations who live in the country have
since told me with a punishing regular-
ity how important it will be to me if ever
I leave London. And they are probably
right. And now that I have a PhD and
am over 25 my insurance premiums will
be less than they once were (apparently
Drs get a discount. Clearly they have not
seen my friends from ICSM on a night
out). And I live somewhere where there
is off-street parking, so not only would
the insurance for that be cheaper but the
inconvenience of it being broken in to
or nicked would be somewhat reduced.
So, there was no longer anything to
stop me. The expectation was that as
soon as my PhD was over and I got a
decently-paying job I would get a car. I
might have to save a bit, I cannot fit into
a Smart car even if I really wanted to and
a g-wiz looks to me like a self-opening
sardine tin that will not survive an alter-
cation with a cyclist, let alone anything
else. A nice little Volvo or something
would work though, I thought. So, only
a matter of time.
In the mean time I was offered lifts for
things. Clearly the expected standard of
my conversation outweighed the palpa-
ble decrease in fuel economy that result-
ed from carting me around and outside
the capital. I was never sure whether
this balance for my host ever came off,
but I never noticed a problem. What I
did notice was how long journeys took.
A few times I was driven from North
London (near Enfield) to West London
(near Maida Vale). The route took the
M25 and took no longer than any other
as far as I could see. But it consistently
took comfortably more than an hour and
a half. Sometimes two hours. The Pic-
cadilly line from Oakwood, changing
at Piccadilly Circus and the Bakerloo
line to Maida Vale would take an hour
at most, in fact it can be done in 47 min-
utes according to the TFL website. If
you are a Londoner, you may scoff at
TFL’s estimates of journey times; rather
like getting speeding points if you are
driving an old mini in a 50 miles an
hour speed limit zone, they are more
something to aspire to than to expect.
However, more than occasionally they
do turn out to be true (TFL estimates
that is, not furious Clarksons in dated
small cars breaking the speed limit). I
thought little of it after that – just a quirk
of those roads or whatever.
But more recently (last year) I was of-
fered a regular lift to my weekly riding
lesson in Surrey. The plan was for a
pick-up just near Vauxhall and a drive
down through a combination of mo-
torways, A roads and country lanes. It
seemed a sensible route. I never really
went to check this route but reason-
ing that the driver herself did not want
to spend more time in traffic than she
had to, and basing it on the pace of car
journeys driven by my parents and so
on, it all seemed normal. There was
a week when my regular lift was not
there though. I had taken myself to
Vauxhall, which was always slightly in-
convenient but doable, but she did not
turn up. Ten minutes or so later we ex-
changed texts to the effect that she was
ill and not coming. Oh well, I will get
the train, I thought. So, I got the tube to
Victoria and got the train down, got a
cab at the other end and made it to the
yard in rather less time than it would
have taken for the car journey over all.
I also got the cab-and-train combina-
tion on the way back. I did not analyse
this at the time, but later realised that
if getting the train took half the time
and half the fuss, and half the cost (no
tube journey to Vauxhall) meant there
was little competition between the two.
Also, the giver of said lifts and I ran out
of things to say to one another rather
rapidly and so a change was welcome
on those grounds too.
Most recently, I was offered an inter-
view for a job in Exeter. At the time of
writing I have yet to make the journey,
but looking up the trains, it seems that
the railway journey will take 2h24’from
Paddington. Add half an hour for me to
get to Paddington and what I am assured
is a ten minutes walk from St David’s
station at the other end and we have a
round three hours for the journey. The
AA route planner judges the best road
route to be along the M4, loop around
Bristol and then take the M5 down to
Exeter. Another sensible-sounding
route. Doubtless the M3 to Southamp-
ton and then a sojourn along the south
coast would be a pleasing path, but I
did ask for the quickest one and clear-
ly that is not it. The quickest route by
road appears to be 3h32’, a full half an
hour longer than the railway one. Not
accounting for lavatory stops and the
tractor in front of you of course. This
journey does also rely upon an average
speed of 54 mph. Yeah right.
With these examples, one may wonder
how the car has ever been useful. And
clearly it has been and still is. Although
train journeys are increasing in num-
ber—the tube now carries 1,000 million
journeys every year, which it did not ten
years ago—so are the number of cars on
the road. However, cars are also coming
under increasing fire for their environ-
mental impact. I am not sure what im-
pact this aspect has for many 17 years
olds who are talking their driving test
but something one would expect them
to say would be that driving will give
them a freedom to travel. This freedom
is not free though, as we know from a
back-of-an-envelope calculation of the
cost of running a car for a teenage male
who has just passed his test. More flex-
ibility than freedom, perhaps.
You may have noticed earlier I
sneaked in that I had used a cab on
some journeys and that said journey
was much quicker than a car alone
would have been. Clearly I would be
disqualified had this been a Top Gear
challenge, but it was not. What the
cab did do though, was save me from
needing to walk. That part of the jour-
ney would have taken me 40 minutes
rather than the 10 it took in a cab. And
perhaps that is the point: cars are quick
if they prevent one from needing to
walk, but they are slow when compared
to railway travel. And slow up against
railway travel in Britain?! That is a
poor showing.
Just imagine when the slow but sure
improvement in railway infrastructure
means fast trains over all of the main
lines in Britain. It will leave the car
standing.
Why drive?
Samuel Furse turns his back on four-
wheeled transport (except for taxis)
Prizes for anyone who can guess what this is a photo of? A train? Hah! How short-sighted.
This is a photo of Mankind’s phallic domination of Mother Nature. Isn’t it obvious?
“The slow but sure
improvement in
railway infrastructure
in Britain will leave
the car standing”

