the volcano. Becky managed another in-
human feat in the burning temperatures
and thinning oxygen by racing the in-
structor up the tiered sandy hills. I took
that opportunity to take a personal break
in the car just being glad it wasn’t me.
The next day involved ‘voluntary’
work at a local Peruvian school for chil-
dren living in extreme poverty. Taking a
bus to the outskirts of Arequipa we were
overwhelmed with the basic nature of
the area; unfinished one brick wall thick
houses, dirt strewn streets, rocks, rub-
ble, children with dusty faces picking
through the rubbish, and then one small
three roomed school in which they could
learn English and Spanish. After sweep-
ing and mopping we lay in wait for the
scrum that formed at the gates. Sudden-
ly there came a deluge of tiny children
calling us “teacher” and pulling at our
sleeves asking us to show them how to
do a jigsaw puzzle, listen to them dis-
playing their counting talents or even
give them a piggy back ride. After being
used as the local lift service around the
playground from a series of three year
old boys who gave me no rest, not even
when I lay flat on the playground floor,
where they all grabbed a leg and an arm
and tried to spin me round, we made our
way exhausted but filled with a sense
contentedness from the day.
On a whim, as the night crept in, we
accepted an invitation from one of the
volunteers at the school to a local rock
concert of a famous Argentinean band.
Joining the 9000 strong crowd we lis-
tened to a mixture of salsa, heavy rock,
metal and Bob Marley covers as the
light faded over the city, and it disap-
peared to become thousands of flicker-
ing electric lights in the distance as fig-
ures danced in the shadows.
On our final day in Arequipa as we
bustled through the streets back to our
hostel the ethereal sound of classical
Beethoven violin music floated in the
air. Stopping, captivated, Becky stared
in to the Plaza D’Armas. “Where do
you think that is coming from Becky?” I
asked, wondering what orchestra could
be playing at this time of the day in Peru.
“Whatever it is, it is beautiful” Becky
replied. In answer to our question the
local garbage truck trundled round the
corner, blasting the choral symphony
from its speakers with a toot of its horn.
Farewell Arequipa and your odd singing
garbage trucks, your white colonial build-
ings, your chequered travellers trousers,
extreme sports, still-active volcano and
absorbing Inca history. As the Peruvians
shout and drum their feet whilst on their
public bus service, shouting in their driv-
er’s ear “Vamos! Lima! Let’s go!” the time
has come for the end of this trip, final stop,
Lima and then we shall see you very soon.
FELIX 21
TRAVEL
FRIDAY 17 JUNE 2011
Return of the Mummy
A
requipa, informally
termed “la ciudad blan-
ca” due to its luxurious
white buildings, almost
Arabic in stone and
construction, lies in the Andes moun-
tains overlooked by the looming snow-
peaked volcano of El Misti, which
rises majestically some 5822 feet above
the city. Bordering El Misti lay the sum-
mits of Chachani and Picchu Picchu,
the superstitious “Apus” or Inca homes
of the Gods and spirits controlling the
nature of the universe, nestling this an-
cient town and UNESCO world heritage
site below their watchful eyes.
Our first stop in this beautiful, dusty,
sun-baked landscape was the museum
to see a fourteen year old Inca maiden,
Juanita, who was sacrificed at the top of
Mount Ampato through a mixture of a
sedative drink and a blow to the head.
Her body was an appeasement to the
restless earthly spirits who had, in the
Inca philosophy, caused the latest natu-
ral disaster in anger against sins of the
Arequipian people. Left in a shallow
grave with metallic llamas, embroidered
cloths, bowls and scallops, her body fro-
zen in ice was preserved for hundreds
of years and discovered by chance in a
crater to now find itself inside a glass
refrigerator. Here tourists can peer
through their fingers and mist to gaze
at her sinewy shrivelled muscles, still
growing long black hair, crooked teeth
or hunched-over posture. Undignified
as her current state may be, she allows
a unique vision of a primitive, glorious
and difficult period in one of the most
fascinating bygone human civilisations.
Following this, and abandoning our
plans to fly over Nascar to visualise the
mysterious Inca crop circles due to sev-
eral plane crashes and escalating prices,
we decided to take our lack of water
ability and raft down grade 4 rapids up
Priya Garg visits Arequipa, sees a Incan mummy and cycles down an active volcano
Chilli Creek (with several paddles).
Suitably dressed like two M&Ms in yel-
low puffy buoyant jackets, we added
helmets and wetsuits then clambered
in to our raft with one guide, one safety
man and one extra canoe whose sole
purpose seemed to be to spray us in the
face. Splashing over rocks through the
Andean wilderness was a mixture be-
tween cold fingers, exceptionally beau-
tiful scenery and a shot of adrenaline.
One particular highlight was when the
guide told us, “now hold on and when I
say get in the boat, you get in the boat,”
only for a huge wave to overthrow the
raft causing speedy propulsion of its
passengers downwards with the current,
Becky losing grip and disappearing into
the rapids. Luckily she was fine, and I
got my come-uppance the next morning
on our cycle ride down an active vol-
cano.
Cycling El Misti, I had neither fac-
tored in the gravel and sand path, nor
the lack of suitably sized bikes. Hence
once at the peak, the massive distance
between the male bike’s seat and han-
dlebars, meant that when perched upon
the bike it felt like riding a Victorian
penny farthing over six foot boulders
with each crunch, bump and skid jud-
dering all the way through our arms
and shoulders. The constant squeeze of
brakes formed bruises on the surface of
each palm. Far from being Lance Arm-
strong, it was more like a toddler with
training wheels, slowly taking each
skid and sand dune as it came. Becom-
ing slightly more confident I looked up
to see our descent down the path of the
volcano and promptly my front wheel
locked and flew out of a pothole, throw-
ing me off my seat and both my bike and
I down on to the sand path.
Needless to say, I was more relieved
than Becky being on a ten hour toilet-
less bus bursting for a pee, when we fi-
nally encountered an asphalt road where
I could freewheel down to the base of
Rafting on Chilli Creek
Photos by Priya Garg
“It felt like riding
a Victorian Penny
Farthing over six-
foot boulders [...]
each bump juddering
through our arms and
shoulders”
Volunteering at the local school
Ermm guys? I think we’re cycling towards the active volcano? Guys?

