FELIX
22
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 17 june 2011
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Water contaminated with plutonium,
alcoholics claim “we were right all along”
T
he recent surge in birth defects and ra-
diation sickness on campus have been
traced back to the water from the foun-
tains containing over 100,000 times the recom-
mended limit of plutonium. The contamination
first came to light when a student pulling an
all-nighter went to refill his water bottle, only
to notice it glow a faint green. “When I took a
sip it tasted like someone had dumped a reac-
tor core in my mouth.” Others have described
it as “Ukrainian”, “OH GOD IT BURNS” and
“slightly astringent”.
Tap water typically contains trace amounts
of chloride, fluoride, sodium and magnesium,
as well as a significant amount of hydrogen and
oxygen, so this inclusion comes as a surprise to
many. However, readers must be advised that
hydrogen peroxide also contains hydrogen and
oxygen but tastes a lot more like death. It has
also appeared to wipe the smugness from tap
water enthusiasts who bang on about how it’s
superior to bottled water.
Alcoholics in the Union Bar and Young’s
have responded to the news with a smug, slight-
ly boozy sense of victory. “See! I knew water
was bad for you!” claimed David O’Pierce be-
fore collapsing into a puddle of his own sick in
the Quad. When told that bottled water was still
safe he responded angrily, “I’ll bottle your ma!
And your donkey...” before passing out.
There have been unconfirmed reports of su-
perpowers as a consequence of drinking the
water, including super-nerdiness, epic under-
arm ‘fuzz’, and a heightened sense of superior-
ity. However, it is believed that radioactivity
only has the desired effect if administered via a
spider bite. Hypochondriacs all around campus
are said to be “very worried”.
C
ongressman Weiner has recently been
in a lot of trouble after sending various
pictures of himself in his underwear,
and naked, to women he has met on the Inter-
net. First of all, just to clear this one up, that’s
his real name. He’s the only politician who
wouldn’t need to change his name on becoming
a porn star. Starring in politically charged porn
where he hammers some sense into Sarah Palin
by hammering her senseless. It’s also likely he
uses “Congressman Weiner” as a pet name for
it. Congressman Weiner meets Senator Hand
and they hammer out some legislation together
eventually spitting out a white paper.
This all started when Congressman Weiner
accidentally tweeted a picture of his boxer-
covered erection. He had meant to send it pri-
vately to a woman as what he describes as a
“joke”. The joke was presumably: “look at this
erect Weiner”. He claimed that his account had
been hacked. As apparently that’s what hack-
ers do; they send women pictures of erections.
The most troubling thing is that he didn’t even
try to make it look bigger by stuffing his box-
ers. What kind of fucking politician shows
such poor judgment as to not make you look
like the porn star you sound like? Also he was
just wearing some plain grey boxers. He’s try-
ing to impress someone and he hasn’t even put
on designer boxers for the job. Honestly what
the fuck was he thinking. He deserves to lose
his job for such rookie errors.
His reaction to all this was to claim that he
couldn’t say “with certitude” that it was not
him in the photo. In other words: “Oh shit I re-
ally regret taking that. Oh wait, hang on, I took
a picture of my dick, but my face isn’t in the
picture. So for all people know it wasn’t me”.
Although it didn’t help his case out five days
later when more pictures, including naked
ones, came to light. Some were semi-naked
pictures he took of himself, with his Blackber-
ry, in the mirror at a gym, as apparently he’s an
attention-seeking girl on Facebook.
Finally he held a press conference admitting
that he had sent the original photo, and that he
had done the same thing several times. He said
he was “deeply ashamed” and that it was “very
dumb” showing “terrible judgment”. This can
only be talking about the decision taken in the
original photo not to stuff his boxers, or at least
use Photoshop to digitally enhance himself. He
admitted to swapping naked pictures of him-
self by sexting as well as emails, Facebook and
Twitter. How come he has so much time on his
hands? He said he used his Blackberry and
home computer. He must have a good Internet
connection or his wife would definitely have
caught him feverishly trying to upload a cock
shot as an attachment to an email.
He referred to all of this as a “mistake”.
That’s partially true, but mistake usually im-
plies that you accidentally do something once.
Not that you repeatedly take pictures of your
cock and send them to women by various dif-
ferent means. The balls up, or actually more
aptly cock up (inside his boxers) was acciden-
tally tweeting the picture.
It’s not just sending photos. He also appar-
ently had phone sex with a woman he met
on the Internet. When asked, he said he was
“reluctant” to say exactly what they did. So in
other words: yes he had phone sex.
He called up former President Bill Clinton to
apologise, and swap tips on bitches and hoes.
Clinton probably just took the piss out of him
for not even getting a blow job.
Weiner sends picture of wiener via Twitter
Also available in bottled form, for
those too snobby for tap but still enjoy
being irradiated
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Try not to tweet them by accident...
HANGMAN
Surprise entrant for the Felix centrefold
Those affected will get
no special treatment,
due to it being Imperial
Twatter
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
yeah but I’m not telling you her
name coz you guys will just be
dicks. She’s really nice. She’s a
Ukranian primary school teacher
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
lol no. Have you actually met her
in real life?
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
FFs. How did you guys find her?
SexyOlechka69
heya guys. Welcome to following
sexy olechka’s twitters. I teaches
children. I am a really so horny
for my darling cleggyweggy <3
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
guys, you haven’t told Miriam
about this girl I’ve been sexting?
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
no. She made me send some
pics of my dick though. That’s
not weird right? That’s a lad
thing to do yeah? I’m a lad
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
gahahahah. This is me keeping a
straight face :Z
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
does she have a twitter? Who is
this mystery bird?
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
I’m following her on twitter lol
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
me too lol. This is so funny. Better
than the petis filous

