4
In Brief
Management Board rook
decision to leave CaSE
It has emerged that the decision to cut Imperial’s
£3,000 per year membership of the Campaign for
Science and Engineering (CaSE) was made by the
College’s Management Board.
A trusted source, who wished to remain anonymous,
told Felix that the Board felt that Imperial could lobby
effectively by itself and through the Russell Group,
and therefore had a reduced need for CaSE.
A College spokesperson did not confirm or deny
the claim but did appear to suggest that Imperial’s
own lobbying efforts were sufficient, saying that
“every week many members of the College are in-
teracting at the most senior levels in government
and Parliament” to ensure that Imperial’s interests
are properly represented.
The spokesperson also said that Imperial had
made savings in excess of £70,000 over the past
two years due to ceased subscriptions. He further
explained the principles behind the decision, say-
ing that the College looks for “clear benefits from
the membership or subscription fees it pays,” which
in general involves influence on the organisation’s
strategy or the receipt of direct services that benefit
Imperial’s activities.
CaSE Director Imran Khan said “senior govern-
ment ministers have publicly credited” his organisa-
tion with “helping to make the argument for sus-
tained investment in science, and for making sure
that the UK’s immigration rules reward science and
engineering skills.” He said that most CaSE mem-
bers saw this as a benefit of support CaSE but said
he respected Imperial’s right to take a different
view. Kadhim Shubber
FELIX
NEWS
Friday 17 june 2011
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Treasury finally appoints Chief
Scientific Advisor
A chief scientific advisor (CSA) has finally been ap-
pointed to the Treasury, previously the only remain-
ing government department without a CSA. The po-
sition is being filled by James Richardson, who will
retain his role as the Treasury’s director of public
spending. CaSE director, Imran Khan, applauded
the move saying, “We desperately need someone
within the department who can talk about how criti-
cal a long-term investment strategy for science and
engineering is for the UK’s future.” Alex Nowbar
Dyson provides money for Imperial
engineering scholarships
The James Dyson Foundation has set up a £1 mil-
lion scholarship scheme for postgraduate design
and engineering students. The Dyson vacuum
cleaner creator said that engineering needed to
be promoted to help the UK’s economic recovery.
The donation will be used to fund four postgraduate
bursaries of £25,000 per year for students at Im-
perial, Bath, Bristol and Corpus Christi Cambridge,
awarded on the basis of “passion” for engineering,
academic ability and financial need. Alex Nowbar
The Union Court has ruled that Union President
Alex Kendall did not act inappropriately when,
during the central Union elections when he was
Returning Officer, he told a student to withdraw
his nomination for the position of Community
Action Group (CAG) Chair. The Court also
ruled that Kendall had not acted in a biased way
in approving candidate material.
The complaint was made on the 30th of May
by He-in Cheong after Kendall emailed Student
Trustee-electAbdul Patel at the opening of nom-
inations on the 9th of May, saying that he could
not be CAG Chair because trustees cannot hold
other positions on another Union Committee and
then telling him to “withdraw from the election”.
Abdul Patel claimed that he had felt intimidated
by the President’s email and was bullied into
withdrawing. Furthermore, the complaint made
to Union Court argued that the Union President
was incorrect to suggest that Abdul Patel could
not run for the position, saying that he was al-
lowed to contest the election but would have to
resign one of his positions if he had won.
The Court decided that because Returning Of-
ficers had the power to force candidates to with-
draw from elections, it followed that they also
had the power to force candidates to withdraw
their nomination if they were illegible. On the
issue of illegibility, the Court decided that candi-
dates should be forced to resign their position if
they run for a constitutionally incompatible role.
On the question of whether Abdul had been
intimidated into withdrawing from the election,
Union Court clears President
Former Rector sacked from board
Sir Richard Sykes, a former rector of Imperial
College, is one of two people to have be oust-
ed in a boardroom coup within the Eurasian
Natural Resources Company (ENRC) two
weeks ago. The former chairman of Glaxo-
SmithKline and now ex-deputy chairman of
the Kazakh mining company was removed
from the 14-man board along with his fellow
independent director Ken Olisa, after a vote
by the company’s shareholders who claimed
they were tired of the two interfering, The In-
dependent reports.
The company was surrounded in controver-
sies regarding their public listing on the Lon-
don Stock Exchange and Sir Richard is calling
for the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to
tighten its listings rules following the lat-
est disputes which arose regarding corporate
governance. He said that “there are serious
questions to be raised about the corporate gov-
ernance of companies like ENRC. It should
never have been allowed to list on the London
exchange with such a small free float and such
dominant shareholders.”
The founding shareholders supported on the
board by Kazakh government representatives
are Alijan Ibragimov, Alexander Machkevich
and Patokh Chodiev. Sir Richard claimed the
trio were mad and described his experience
as having been “more Soviet than City”, call-
ing for “a much tougher [regulatory] regime,
otherwise London’s reputation will be dam-
aged”.
The company entered flotation on the Lon-
don Stock Exchange in 2007 with less than
20% of stock available to the public, below
the requirement for entering the FTSE 100.
The FSA made an exception to the company,
deeming it to be large enough for its shares to
be liquid. An independent review, however,
recommended that the founding shareholder
trio, which held 35% of the company between
them, should not serve on the board. Flotation
was ultimately delayed by six months.
Sir Richard Sykes held the position of rec-
tor from 2001 and was succeeded by Sir Roy
Anderson in 2008. The biochemist was the Se-
nior Independent Director and non-executive
Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remu-
neration Committee of the ENRC from Octo-
ber 2008. He is currently the Chairman of The
UK Stem Cell Foundation.
Commenting to the Daily Telegraph on his
time on the board, Sir Richard explained “the
reason [he] joined this company was because
[he] thought it had great potential” and that it
was “difficult to understand why there would
be so much conflict.” He reasoned that “it goes
back to the fact that less than 20% of stock was
free float with the rest government stock”.
The ENRC have been in a variety of contro-
versies besides the flotation concerns, includ-
ing their purchase of a mine in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and the resignation of the
chief executive Felix Vulis for “personal rea-
sons” in 2010.
Sir Richard Sykes ousted in mining company coup
Alex Karapetian
Burgess, Sabbatical Officer for Finances and
Services at UCL Union, told Felix “a collabo-
ration would only happen if it were on UCL
campus” and emphasised the importance of “a
UCL event on UCL campus.” UCL has previ-
ously staged its Summer Ball off campus but
moved it back due to overwhelming negative
feedback from its students. In response to Im-
perial’s offer of collaborating in a future Sum-
mer Ball, Burgess said, “We feel it’s a nice idea
but wouldn’t move the event off our campus.”
A senior Union official told Felix that the ex-
pression of interest came from a “senior staff
member” at UCLU and that not having UCLU,
one of the largest Student Unions in London,
on board would have a “significant impact” on
future plans for the Summer Ball.
The spokesperson said that the Union will
“consult heavily with Imperial students next
year to determine the steer for next year’s
event” and emphasised that the Union would
“first and foremost” plan a Ball that fulfilled
the wishes of Imperial students above “a wider
audience.” However, the spokesperson also
said that plans for a London-wide student Ball
would be would need to be in place before the
start of the new term. It is believed therefore
that feedback from this year’s event will play
a crucial role in determining the future of the
Summer Ball.
The Summer Ball will be held on Saturday
18th June. Tickets are £45 until midnight
on Friday 17th June and then £50 on the
door. Tickets can be bought from thesum-
merball2011.com.
Union clarifies Ball plans
...Continued from Front Page
the Court argued that if there was any damage
caused by the initial email, it was remedied by
the emails that followed. Through several emails
on the 9th of May, and a Facebook Chat con-
versation, Kendall explained in more detail to
Abdul Patel his options. The chain ends with an
email from Abdul Patel in which he says that he
doesn’t have the time or resources to mount a
strong enough campaign against his possible op-
ponent for CAG Chair and then goes on to thank
the President for his “invaluable advice.” The
Court Chair Hamish Common said that although
Abdul Patel later claimed that the real reason
that he withdrew was because he had been in-
timidated, there was no direct evidence that he
had not meant his words when he said them.
Alex Kendall apologised to He-in Cheong,
who brought the complaint on Abdul’s behalf,
for the language he used in emails to her while
discussing the complaint. In an email sent on the
31st of May, Kendall called her “bloody pathet-
ic” and accuses her of being corrupt. Although
his conduct towards He-in Cheong was not the
subject of the complaint, Kendall admitted that
his behaviour was inappropriate.
Complaint that Kendall intimidated student not upheld
Court Chair Hamish Common (left) ruled
in Kendall’s favour acted appropriately
Kadhim Shubber

