FELIX
6
NEWS
News Editors: Alex Karapetian
Matthew Colvin
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 17 june 2011
In Brief
Department of Mathematics top in
Europe for research
Imperial College has been ranked as having the
most influential mathematics research of any insti-
tution in Europe by a recent chart created by Thom-
son-Reuters. Ranked 13th for top institutions in
mathematics, above any non-US institution overall,
Imperial is listed as having 777 papers with 5,369
citations as of February 2011.
Dr Emma McCoy, Head of the Department of
Mathematics, said that she is “very proud of this
success, which reflects the breadth and depth of
our world-leading research” and that the ranking is
“testament to the years of intense work that has
been put in by many over recent decades”.
The rankings involved counting the number of cita-
tions per researcher to determine the level of influ-
ence the research papers have had and included
research published from 2001 to 2011.
She added that the rankings demonstrate the “im-
pact this research is having, not only in the math-
ematics community, but in the positive influence
mathematics has on the world around us”.
Two mathematicians were also singled out by the
rankings as particularly “highly-cited” individuals,
notably algebraist Professor Martin Liebeck and
geometrician Professor Simon Donaldson, who is
one of the most well known mathematicians at Im-
perial. Professor Donaldson, widely regarded as one
of the top mathematicians in the world, received the
Fields Medal at age 29 and is also a fellow of the
Royal Society.
Professor Maggie Dallman, Principal of the Fac-
ulty of Natural Sciences, said that “research in
mathematics underpins our understanding of many
key areas of life” and that she is “pleased to see
Imperial is celebrating such international success
in this field.”
“We are also proud to be working collaboratively
with researchers, at home and abroad, to fulfil our
goals and bring about significant global economic
and societal benefits”. Alex Karapetian
Union election results
I
t almost sounds like something straight
from a children’s fairytale: using the
milk teeth of children to build a palace.
But this is no tooth-fairy-gone-rogue
story, rather it’s the inventive collabora-
tion of Imperial’s Professor Sara Rankin and
artist Gina Czarnecki. The pair aim to move
the debate about stem cells away from the con-
troversies of embryonic stem cell research and
to challenge perceptions about discarded body
matter with a new project called ‘Palaces’.
The project’s centrepiece is a 2-metre high
sculpture made from crystal resin, a “spectacu-
lar fantasy palace” that will slowly be covered
with children’s milk teeth. “Just as barnacles
cluster in groups or in the same manner that
crystals form and grow, so too will the milk
teeth spread and proliferate across the surface
of the palace,” says Czarnecki, explaining how
the piece will grow organically over time.
Children are encouraged to send in their
teeth when they fall out and are ‘compensat-
ed’ with a special ‘milk token’ that they can
leave beneath their pillow as an I.O.U. for the
tooth fairy. Professor Rankin jokes that her son
wanted to know if she had tested the tokens to
make sure that they actually worked.
One of the objectives of the project is to re-
mind the public that the term stem cells doesn’t
only refer to embryonic stem cells, but also to
adult stem cells that are found in bone marrow,
teeth, and even fat. “This is about moving the
debate on and increasing people’s understand-
ing. The term ‘stem cells’ get bandied around
a lot because people don’t know that there are
different stem cells,” says Professor Rankin.
Currently, we discard certain ‘waste’ body
parts, like teeth, fat from liposuction operations
The election results were delayed pending the Union
Court’s decision regarding the complaints made
against Returning Officer Alex Kendall – See Page 4
CAG Chair – Heather Jones
Council Chair – David Smith
Court Advocate – Abdul Patel
Disabilities Officer – Charlotte Ivison
Entertainments Committee – Jiajun Tan, Alan
Soltani, Jack Hewitt
Environmental Officer – Yaroslav Voropayev
Equal Opportunities Officer – Dolan Miu
Gender Equality Officer – Mikhail Nikitin
Healthy Living Officer – Joachim Dias
Interfaith Officer – Sayinthen Vivekanantham
International Officer – Hao Gan
LGBT Officer – Christopher Schlumberger-Socha
RAG Chair – Jack Hewitt
A more detailed breakdown
of the results can be found at
www.imperialcollegeunion.org
and umbilical cords, when they’re actually a
rich source of adult stem cells. The research
that Professor Rankin is currently focused on,
which involves trying to activate adult stem
cells within the body instead for regenerative
purposes, could see these ‘waste’ body parts
becoming extremely valuable.
But this is not only about making a scientific
point. ‘Palaces’ has a much broader and loftier
goal of encouraging interest in science. “This
is using art, not to illustrate science, but also
to catch people’s interest and to get them to
ask the questions,” says Rankin. Outreach is a
large part of her academic life. She remembers
how visiting an outreach laboratory in Bristol
as a teenager transformed her life and made her
realise she wanted a career in science. “I had
no idea that research was an option until that
visit. That’s why I think it’s really important
to give that opportunity to as many people as
possible.”
As a PhD student she used to grab up some
equipment from her lab and head over to
schools where her friends were teaching and
do demonstrations for the kids. As well as the
general benefits of getting kids interested in
science, she says, it was good for them to see a
female scientist. “When you ask kids to draw
a scientist, it’s always an Einstein-esque man.”
She’s keen for Imperial students to get in-
volved as well. Both by donating their teeth
– you’d be surprised how many parents keep
their kids’ baby teeth, she tells me – and by
going to schools and spreading the word. It’s
clear that Professor Rankin feels passionate
about the importance of outreach. She points
out that it’s not just the children who benefit,
“it actually brings a lot to your career in terms
of communication skills, presentation skills,
and it’s also a nice diversion from the daily
grind of academia.”
‘Palaces’ has received coverage in the ma-
jor news outlets and has garnered attention
world-wide. It will be first exhibited in Liv-
erpool this December, before coming to the
Science Museum from April–June 2012. The
plan is to travel the sculpture as much as pos-
sible so that children who have donated a tooth
can come and see where it has ended up. “I
love the idea that children are going to be able
to give a single tooth, and then later perhaps
visit the Science Museum and they can see
what donating something has created,” says
Professor Rankin. The hope is that the expe-
rience will encourage children to think more
positively about donating in general and carry
that through life.
The project currently has around 500 teeth
but they’re aiming for around 12,000. The
teeth so far come from all around the world,
including Brazil and the USA – they’re ask-
ing people to submit their location when they
submit so that they can track geographically
and chronologically the growth of the project.
So does Professor Rankin think it’s at all weird
that they’re building a sculpture with children’s
teeth? “Some people don’t like the idea and find
teeth a little disgusting, but I’ve been to so many
schools and all the kids love it,” she says.
The Tooth
Fairy’s Palace
By Kadhim Shubber
A sketch of what the sculpture will look like. It will be exhibited in the Science Museum from April to June next year
If you would like to get involved by going
into your old primary school and speaking
to children about the project, email Profes-
sor Rankin at s.rankin@imperial.ac.uk

