FELIX
8
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 17 june 2011
Catching a wave
Physicists have come one step closer to unveiling
the elusive quantum world with a new experimental
method developed by Canadian scientists. The ar-
ticle, published in Nature, shows how a team from
the National Research Council of Canada Institute
for National Measurement Standards were able to
perform a direct measurement of the wavefunction
of a photon, which is the elementary unit, or ‘quan-
ta’, of light.
The wavefunction is central to quantum theory
and is a complex distribution which completely de-
scribes a quantum system. In contrast to everyday
experience where the state of an object, such as
its position or momentum, can be precisely deter-
mined, things become fuzzier in the quantum world.
Particles can be here or there, and Schrodinger’s
cat can be dead or alive. The Catch-22 (until now, at
least) was that by attempting to measure a quantum
object, its wavefunction would ‘collapse’ to a new
value and then evolve as a different wavefunction.
Jeff S. Lundeen, one of the authors of the paper,
comments, “A feature of the wavefunction is that,
unlike a water wave, the very act of observing it
changes it, making it a slippery object to measure.”
The team were able to circumvent this problem by
performing two complementary measurements of
a photon in succession; one ‘weak measurement’
which is gentle so as not to disturb the wavefunc-
tion, followed by a second normal (or ‘strong’) mea-
surement. Although the weak measurement lacks
precision, accuracy can be regained by averaging
over many measurements.
In the experiment, individual photons were gener-
ated by attentuating laser beams. The position of
the photons were weakly measured through measur-
ing their polarisation. A lens was then used to select
for photons of a given momentum.
Another intriguing aspect of the experiment is how
the imaginary components of quantum numbers can
be made manifest. Observables from strong mea-
surements are real numbers while the mathematics
requires that weak measurements can have real and
imaginary components. Both the real and imaginary
numbers can be realised in the dial of an apparatus:
the real component determines the position of a
pointer, while the imaginary component determines
the momentum kick. This new method for observing
the quantum world will be vital to fields as diverse as
quantum information and drug discovery.
Melissa Lever
It was on a cool, clear autumn day in north-
ern Minnesota when two scientists, driving
towards a fieldwork station, stopped for gas. It
was at this petrol station that Martin Saar and
Jimmy Randolph had a flash of inspiration that
could one day help in the fight against climate
change.
Road journeys in America are notoriously
long, allowing many long discussions to be
had. On this particular trip, the men had only
two things on their mind. Firstly, the work they
had been commissioned to do by Minnesota
Geological Survey on the potential for storing
carbon dioxide in the local area. And secondly,
they talked about Jimmy’s current research
into geothermal energy.
Geothermal electricity production works on
the principle that the Earth has, deep down,
vast stores of heat energy locked up. Water can
be pumped into fissures in these rocks, where
it can heat up. Once back at the surface the wa-
ter can be used to drive a turbine. Geothermal
energy requires no fuel, so it is one of the least
carbon-intensive power sources. As global tar-
gets for carbon emissions become stricter, geo-
thermal energy is becoming more widespread.
To meet the targets, an alternative to using
lower-carbon electricity is to remove the ex-
isting CO2
from the atmosphere. Known as
carbon capture and storage, the CO2
is stored
underground as a liquid where it cannot act as
a greenhouse gas.
The big ‘eureka’ moment came when Mar-
tin and Jimmy realised these two disparate ac-
tivities could be combined. Instead of simply
storing the liquid carbon dioxide underground,
why not use it to extract energy from the earth
to create electricity as well?
“It really was a brainwave”, says Martin. Al-
though only half-joking at the time, three years
later the pair are well on the way to making the
technology a reality.
The idea, known as CO2
Plume Geothermal
(CPG) involves circulating the liquid CO2
that would normally be stored underground
through geothermally heated rocks. CPG has
many advantages over its rivals. CO2
is much
better at extracting heat from the rocks than
water. In addition, the landscapes used for
carbon capture are vast. So large, in fact, that
if all available sites in the US were used, the
entire electrical generating infrastructure could
be rendered carbon neutral. The traditional
method relies on fracturing the rock to allow
the water to flow. This, however, can lead to
seismic activity. In Basel, Switzerland, for ex-
ample, a geothermal plant had to be shut down
after it caused an earthquake.
Such dramatic incidents never fare favour-
ably with the general public. Although CPG
has a greatly reduced seismic risk, it is asso-
ciated with carbon dioxide – a term that has
been vilified in the media for years. “Climate
change advocates go on the news and say CO2
is dangerous and it’s bad, and then go on to say
‘oh, by the way, we’re going to inject it under
the ground where you live’”, says Dr LaForce,
who researches carbon storage at Imperial
College London. She has seen numerous CO2
storage projects delayed or killed because of
public disapproval. “Unfortunately with this,
and with any CO2
storage project, the barriers
are not so much technical as they are social.”
As well as lack of public support, carbon
capture schemes have come under fire produc-
ing CO2
themselves. CPG could change all
this. “This approach could make carbon cap-
ture economically feasible as the power gen-
erated from the geothermal heat at these sites
could run all the pumps and other electric sys-
tems required”, says Martin. As well as remov-
ing CO2
from the atmosphere, it also creates
electricity with very low emissions.
As fossil fuel stocks run out, and oil prices
rise ever higher, projects like CPG are likely to
be come increasingly more attractive, and even
indispensable if we are really serious about re-
ducing our impact on the atmosphere. Maybe
one day, geothermal energy and carbon cap-
ture will make petrol stations, like the one that
inspired Martin and Jimmy three years ago, a
thing of the past.
Charlie Harvey
Using carbon dioxide to fight warming
Storing CO2
underground can help reduce quantities in the atmosphere, and help generate clean electricty as well
Burning fossil fuels releases billions of tonnes of CO2
into the atmosphere each year

