FELIX 9
SCIENCE
Friday 17 june 2011
Earlier this year, the Collider Detector
at Fermilab (CDF) collaboration tenta-
tively put forward new results suggest-
ing that they had observed a new, un-
predicted particle. A month later they
published more results that seemed to
reinforce the earlier data. But last week
the DZero collaboration, also at Fermi-
lab, announced that they had tried to
find the same particle – and failed.
DZero and CDF each have their own
detector at Tevatron, a proton-antipro-
ton collider at Fermilab in Batavia,
Illinois. The detectors are physically
different, so data collection and analy-
sis for each happens separately, giving
independent results.
The events of interest in this case oc-
cur when a proton and antiproton col-
lide and produce a W boson – a type
of force particle that mediates weak
interactions between fundamental
particles and two jets of other parti-
cles. The rate at which this interaction
should occur can be calculated using
the standard model of particle physics.
When the CDF looked at the data from
a bunch of events they found that the
rate at which a W boson was produced
with two jets was higher than predicted
by the standard model. This created a
bump in the energy distribution of the
two jets.
One way to explain this bump is
that a particle, with a mass that corre-
sponds to the energy of the bump, was
created during the collisions. But no
known particle has the correct mass,
so the bump seemed to indicate that
a new, unpredicted particle had been
found. The statistical significance of
the result was just below that needed
to claim a genuine discovery.
However, when the DZero collabo-
ration tried to replicate the CDF’s re-
sults they saw no bump, meaning no
extra events and no new particles.
DZero has submitted a paper to the
journal Physical Review Letters de-
tailing its findings, and the group held
a seminar last Friday to announce the
result before publishing a preprint of
the paper online.
Since the DZero and CDF experi-
ments were set up they have published
around 500 papers between them
and have only disagreed a handful of
times. This time, the odds seemed to
Collaborations clash at Tevatron
Kelly Oakes
Protons and anti-protons are collided in the Tevatron collider at Fermilab
L
ike recovering alcoholics
everywhere, Britain has
woken up to the declara-
tion of droughts in sev-
eral parts of the Kingdom.
Queendom. Whatever it is – it is dry.
It is also the first half of June after a
stinking cold winter. It is tempting to
strike up something British and indig-
nant about why the weather is what it
is and how exacerbating, inexplicable or
inconvenient it is. Although British, I
am also a scientist and am going to take
that perspective.
Suspiciously, or perhaps not, cli-
mate change scientists have yet to be
questioned publically about this. This
might seem reasonable in some con-
texts: questioning them as though they
are any more responsible for climate
change than the rest of us is unreason-
able. So far water companies and the
Department for the Environment have
been bullied about it on the BBC’s To-
day programme, but that is only really
about short-term measures for human
water consumption. What about the
more serious long-term aspects?
The IPCC and others have published
data suggesting that the changes to our
atmosphere will result in an increase in
the average temperature of the Earth.
Why does it always rain on me?
This makes sense given what we know
about the physical behaviour of meth-
ane and carbon dioxide. Although the
mean temperature is predicted too im-
perceptibly to the average person (0.5
°C), there will be a decrease in cold
weather and an increase in the number
of hot periods. This is mathematically
rational too. However, we were told that
Britain’s climate would become warmer
and wetter. Of course, warmer makes
sense but that hardly reconciles with the
fact that we’ve just had the coldest win-
ter in years.
The wetter climate is also ponder-
able. How is this so? We have flood-
ing in parts of the country that have not
seen such weather conditions before,
but how often these places have wit-
nessed flooding throughout their entire
history is not clear. It is slightly hard to
work out what this means. First, me-
teorologists seem to tout the idea that
how wet something is is entirely de-
termined by how often water is poured
onto it by natural means. This means
that places like Antarctica (made of
ice – for the time being anyway) and
the Atacama desert next to the Pacific
Ocean are amongst the driest on the
planet. So, does wetter mean wetter or
watered?
We are in drought before spring is
even (legally) over – that rather rails
against wetness, either by being poured
on or by being wet.
I do not doubt that the climate is
changing – it is a certainty even based
on the chemistry alone. But are we los-
ing sight of it all just a bit? Apart from
a 0.5 °C increase in temperature which
is common knowledge, the glaciologi-
cal definition of ‘ice age’ means we are
in the middle of one at the moment. We
are also in the middle of a mass-extinc-
tion event. In Earth’s history the oceans
have been filled with water-soluble iron
oxides and there have been tropical for-
ests at the poles.
So how seriously do we take this? It
is a crying shame that the blue whale,
the largest animal ever to have lived
on the Earth, will be extinct in the next
couple of thousand years because whal-
ing has reduced numbers and thus the
genetic diversity to 1% of what it was
even 500 years ago. The opposite point
is that evolution cannot stand still. Like
language, politics and even reality tel-
evision, it has to change and move. The
loss of amazing and boring species alike
makes room for new ones. It is sad that
the dinosaurs disappeared, but without
that happening, there would have been
no room for the blue whale or us, come
to that.
be stacked against the CDF – the Large
Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN also
checked its data to see if any particle
shows up with the mass expected, but
found nothing.
Tevatron is due to shut down in Sep-
tember, as the LHC begins to overtake
it, but data analysis will continue be-
yond the shutdown. A task force con-
sisting of members of both the DZero
and CDF collaborations, as well as
theoretical physicists from Fermi-
lab, has already been set up to coor-
dinate a study of the two analyses. A
spokesperson for the DZero collabora-
tion told the journal Nature that they
should already have more than enough
data to resolve the conflict.
Several theory papers that try to
explain the CDF results had already
been submitted to the online preprint
server arXiv before DZero announced
their take on the findings. Even if the
bump does prove to be a fluke, there
are many reasons to look for physics
beyond that provided by the standard
model of particle physics. Any new
result would be added to a long list of
motivations for theorists to crack on
with developing new models.
xxx
Rain drops keen falling on my head, but we’re still having a drought. Very confusing...
It’s not because you
lied when you were
seventeen. Sam
Furse discusses
Britain’s recent
drought, floods and
the plight of the blue
whale

