Here Now
... is the chance to build on your degree, use the
latest technology equipment, gain wide business
experience and work towards chartered status or
another professional qualification.
BP, one of the world's largest petroleum
and petrochemical groups, offers exciting
technology careers for a wide range of technical
specialists - from chemists to mechanical
engineers; electrical, instrumentation and control
engineers to geoscientists; chemical and process
engineers to drilling engineers.
What is more, you can choose the business
environment in which you train, either Upstream
(where BP finds and produces crude oil and gas)
or Downstream (where we refine, develop and
manufacture oil and chemical products). It's
guaranteed to be challenging - and rewarding.
. . . think about what you have to offer BP. Are
you expecting a minimum 2:1 degree in an
appropriate discipline? Have you got national
mobility and the kind of personal qualities
needed to cope in a demanding, dynamic
industry?
Competition for training places is tough. But for
the right people, the opportunities are limitless.
Find out more by coming to meet us:
on Thursday 23 October at 6.30pm
in Lecture Theatre 208
Civil Engineering Building
A D I S T I N C T I V E O P P O R T U N I T Y
The B P guide to international careers for graduates
. . . you're interested in building a career in
business, think about the exciting possibilities
at BP.
As a major player in the world's most
competitive industry, we can offer you the
chance to work in a range of commercial areas -
from trading operations to sales and marketing,
finance to logistics, business analysis to
human resources.
What is more, you can train in a range of
different business environments, from Upstream
(where BP finds and produces crude oil and
gas) to Downstream (where we refine, trade
and market oil and chemical products). It's
guaranteed to be challenging - and rewarding.
When
. . . you look at the possibilities, think about
what you have to offer BP. Do you have good
A-level results? Are you expecting a minimum
2:1 degree? Have you got national mobility,
business acumen and the kind of personal
qualities needed to cope in a demanding,
dynamic industry?
Competition for training places is tough. But for
the right people, the opportunities are limitless.
Find out more by coming to meet us:
on Thursday 23 October at 6.30pm
at Conference Centre, Britannic House,
1 Finsbury Circus, London, EC2M 7BA
A D I S T I N C T I V E O P P O R T U N I T Y
The BP guide to international careers for graduates

