continued from front page.
Sprint to
the C l i n k
a great sprinter and relied on his
agility and speed to evade
attempts to catch him.
Last M o n d a y D r Inman
entered his secretary's office to
find the suspect standing behind
a desk. The thief made the
excuse that he was picking up
some papers and left. Suspicious,
Dr Inman called College Secur-
ity. Geoffrey Reeves^ Chief
Officer and his deputy John
Boroughs recognized the des-
cription and immediately set out
from opposite ends of what they
believed to be the thief s 'work-
route'. They spotted him coming
out of Mechanical Engineering
and chased him down the road
behind Civil Engineering and
into an alleyway. Luckily the
door leading out of the alley was
locked and the two officers were
able to corner him.
In Magistrate Court the man
admitted the theft of Adrian
Clarke's wallet and five other
offences on the police record. He
was sentenced to three months,
which he is now sitting out.
The Security Officers have
encouraged students to chal-
lenge anybody they do not
recognize and to alert them
immediately of any suspicious
behaviour. They expect the thief
back when his time is up in
January and stress the need of
student and faculty help in
stopping these crimes. A special
caution goes out for freshers
week as thieves may easily hide
themselves among the many new
faces.
Mooney's
Wine Bar
The new Union catering outlet
and lounge bar opens today at
11:30, replacing the old Union
Refectory which will be used as
Entertainments' Committee's
party room.
The Refectories Committee is
aiming to get away from the
refectory image; instead there
are low tables and easy chairs
giving the effect of a well-lit
wine bar. It should be possible to
eat a fair lunch for about £1.20,
and to comply with the law a
price-list will be prominently
displayed. F o o d served will
include pate, soup and rolls,
some hot dishes and cold
desserts.
Union President Steve Goulder
is hoping for a high standard of
catering. Naturally, there will be
teething troubles, and anyone
who has any constructive sug-
gestions should write to him at
the Union Office.
Goodbye
Tony
Doctor Tony Haines, director of
the College Health Service,
retired on September 1 to work
in the Civil Service.
He resigned because he found
that he was spending too much
time on paperwork and not
enough with students. Dr Ra
Gillon has been appointed his
s u c c e s s o r , and D r H a i n e s
patients have been transferred to
Dr Addenbrooke's list. This is a
purely nominal process, and
students can still ask to see any
doctor at the Health Centre.
WALKABOUT-
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics Inc.
Walkabout-Looksee was born in a pair of
comfortable shoes on an afternoon of
excruciatingly boring labwork and has
flourished and prospered since; armed with an
'A to Z', I set out to visit part of a museum's
exhibit and come back to tell you about it.
At the William Weston Gallery near the
Piccadilly end of Albemarle Street, is an
exhibition of Kandinsky woodcuts of his
Klange album, published in Munich in 1913
(the title means notes in music.) During the
period that Kandinsky worked on them he was
undergoing his transformation from figurative
to abstract artist. He started from the principle
that figures and objects were merely means to
an end: the essential ingredient of a picture
was the spirit and emotion behind it. From this
to the suppression of the object, and so to
totally abstract art, was a comparatively small
step. Of the prints on show, some definitely
have figures in them, some may have, and in
some the arrangement of black and white lines
and patches of colour makes a purely
emotional statement, like a phrase in music.
And now for something completely
different
On the south side of Piccadilly, Fortnum and
Mason are celebrating their 275th anniversary.
In 1707 William Fortman, a footman in the
Royal Household of Queen Anne who was
selling used candles from the palace, and Hugh
Mason, who had a small shop in St James'
Market, began their celebrated partnership. In
the store's windows huge books tell the history
of London and of Fortnum and Mason, from
their humble beginnings as a local grocer's
shop to their current position as highly valued
purveyors of hampers for Ascot and evening
dress for Glyndebourne! The displays of wine
bottles, crusty game pies, china and glass,
blazers and tweeds, ball gowns and scent
bottles are splendid: they are gorgeous to look
at but most definitely belong to a fairy-tale
lifestyle. If you venture inside, there's a model
of a huge, multi-layer birthday cake in the
centre of the food hall, dotted with candles and
surrounded by the famous Fortnum and
Mason hampers.
The Kandinsky Woodcuts are at William
Weston, 7 Royal Arcade, Albermarle St. W l ,
until October 8, Mon-Fri, 9:30am-5:00pm, Sat
10:30am-l:00pm, no charge, Piccadilly or
Green Park tube.
P I N O C C I - I I C
Welcome to the new Pinocchio column. No
doubt the old hands are wondering what this
amazing new column is, and where has
Scaramouche gone, and the newcomers are
wondering what the hell they are doing coming
to a college which has people called Pinocchio
running about loose. Well, in answer to all the
above, I'm the new Puzzle Editor, taking over
after two years of Scaramouche.
There'll be a puzzle in every issue, ranging
from the banal to the difficult and, as far as
possible, no special knowledge is required.
The puzzles will be along the same lines as last
year, and if you have any ideas for puzzles,
complete or just half-conceived, please send
them in—I need all the help I can get!
There is of course, an incentive to answer
these puzzles: namely, a £5 prize for the
winner, randomly chosen from the correct
answers, donated by Mend-a-Bike of Fulham
Road (quick plug: There's 10% discount on
repairs, 5% discount on purchases, on
production of an IC Unioncard there). So,
what do you do? Having obtained an answer,
you scribble it, along with your name, subject
and year, on the first piece of paper to hand
(depending on where you do your thinking),
take it to the FELIX Office (we all know where
that is, don't we? Well, you soon will), and put
it in the orange box on the wall with Pinocchio
written on it. Simple, ain't it?
I hope you all have a go at the puzzles; a nice
straightforward one to start with, so everyone
can enter, and I hope you all have fun. Good
luck everyone!
The party season is well under way at Primelia
College, and there are four parties this term.
Our three mathematicians Richard, Steve and
Tim are planning to take Mary, Mungo and
Midge to these parties, and, as befits
mathematicians, they've decided to plan out
who's taking who to each one in advance.
Strange how tastes vary: Mungo -has decided
she's only going out with two of the lads during
the term, while Richard has decided that he's
going to sample all three girls at some stage.
Midge isn't going to go out with any one for a
second time until she's first been out with them
all, but Tim has decided that if he's going to go
out with a girl once, he's going to go twice at
least. Mary has only said that if she must go
out with someone more than once, it will be at
consecutive parties. They've come out with a
plan for all four parties, and I noticted that
Richard took Mungo, Steve took Midge and
Tim took Mary to the first party. Richard has
told me that he's taking Mungo to the final
party as well.
So can you tell me who took who to the
second and third parties, and who did Steve
and Tim take to the final party?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me at
the FELIX Office by Wednesday week, please.
Last Week's Solution
Alright, so I admit to slightly ambiguous
wording, but I don't think that the square root
can really be allowed, this really being a power
of '/2 . Also, I disqualified the factorial function
on the grounds that if this is to come in under
the guise of multiplicaton, then it really
involves numbers not consisting simply of
threes. I'm trying to arrange a public hanging
of all those who sent in infinity as being the
highest number they could find.
If we denote three squared as 3(2) and two
cubed as 2(3), then the highest number
possible is 3(3(33)), being of the order of
10(10(15)), and of the four correct solutions,
Song Fu of Mech Eng is the winner of the £5,
and can collect it from the FELIX Office.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Tel. 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers; Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1982.

