FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
VOLUNTEERING WEEK ‘13
Jez
My name is Jez. I’m studying Electrical and Electronic Engineering. I am currently taking part in Pim-
lico Connection, an award-winning peer-tutoring scheme, as a classroom assistant. My job is to
answer questions from year 7 students during maths lessons. I chose to do it because it seemed to be
an interesting job and it is really rewarding when you can answer their questions and help them with
their studies. You feel like you actually make a difference in the classroom as the students get more
help and learn more. I would definitely recommend this.
”
“”
”
You feel like you
actually make a
difference
Dil
I’m Dill, and I volunteer for the Schools Plus program. It’s been a great way to provide the extra help
that so many school pupils need to succeed in their exams and beyond. I’ve been helping out in a
GCSE Maths class at Bishop Challoner School in East London. They really value the tuition that they
wouldn’t otherwise receive. They are set to get at least C grades in GCSE Maths, but with our help we
hope to unleash their true potential and achieve A grades! It is extremely rewarding work that only
takes an hour or two each week. When the students have a ‘penny drop moment’ it is really worth it!
”
“”
”
When students
have a ‘penny
drop moment’ it is
really worth it!
Michael
I’m Michael and I volunteer at e.quinox, which is an Imperial based student led organisation aiming to
find the blueprint solution to rural electrification in development countries. I am in the technical and
marketingteamandit’ssomuchfun!NotonlyIgettoknowotherpeopleoutsidemycourse,learnsome
new skills and also help others who are less fortunate than us! I love it so much that I’m even helping to
organise Student Volunteering Week, hoping more people will spend their time volunteering!!
Jacqueryn
I am Jacqueryn, a 1st year Chem Eng. I’m in charge of free instrument taster sessions in collaboration with
ImperialChamberMusicSocietyandalsosomeactivitiesforStudentVolunteeringWeekonValentine’sDay.
I’vealsojoinedseveralvolunteeringprojectslocallyandoverseas.Ivolunteerbecausethereisnoreasonforme
notdoingso!Ilearnsomethingnewfromeveryvolunteeringopportunityandalsocometoappreciatewhat
Ihaveinlife.Iwouldrecommendvolunteeringfortheexperiencesandsenseofachievementthatyougain.
I love it so much
that I’m even
helping to organ-
ise Student Vol-
unteering Week
I learn something
new from every
volunteering op-
portunity

