CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
12
European society launches
People always discuss the European Un-
ion as though it were some mysterious
and distant institution that has either too
much, or too little power depending on
the point of view. The current ﬁnancial
crisis has stepped up the discussions
about the EU and here in the UK, the
EU has become a hot topic in the last
few months. However it seems that it is
more and more diﬃcult to follow all the
changes currently aﬀecting European
policies.
The Imperial College European Soci-
ety was created to provide a platform for
Imperial students interested in joining
the debate about the EU and to provide
information to those that are curious
about how this very large institution
works.
We will organise debates to which
every single student will be welcome to
participate. We are very excited about
hearing the opinions of as many people
as possible and for this reason all our
events and membership will be free
Our members will have the amazing
opportunity to attend our workshops
and talks where we will have EU oﬃ-
cials, MEPs and high proﬁle EU experts
as speakers. We are open to all the stu-
dents of Imperial College, regardless of
their level of knowledge on EU issues
as we are here to inform and increase
awareness starting from the very basics
of the European Union.
IC European Society Our society is connected to a broad
network of London based organizations
that debate about the EU. This connec-
tion will help us to get connected to
high proﬁle speakers.
To stay updated, keep an eye on the
Politics section where we will be writ-
ing articles commenting on the biggest
EU news. One of our ﬁrst articles will be
about the burning issue of the UK-EU
relationship. As it was made clear by the
Prime Minister in his recent speech, the
government will hold a referendum if
the conservatives are re-elected. The re-
sult of this referendum will have crucial
consequences on the future career and
lives of all current Imperial Students.
We want to provide you with the infor-
mation necessary to cast an educated
vote if this referendum is to happen.
There is of course more to come and
we welcome all of you to share your
thoughts with us. In our Facebook page
we post news, hold discussions and
communicate with our members, so
join us! We are looking forwards to hear
your opinions and arguments.
If you have any questions feel free to
contact any of our committee members:
Chair: Leonardo Paoli
EU liaison oﬃcer: Clara Hedegaard
Events Coordinators: Amanda Diez Fer-
nandez, Jorge Mariscal Harana Events
Oﬃcer: Ana Gonzalez
Funding Oﬃcer: Matteo Malacarne
Press Oﬃcer: Yiango Mavrocostanti
Public Relations: Michael Dinalexis
ow hard is it to steal a
mascot? Apparently
not hard if it’s the
ICSM one! At least, so
suggest reports of the
theft of the Phoenix from inside the
depths of Charing Cross Hospital ear-
lier this week.
Our correspondent can conﬁrm
rumours that a crack team of six ﬁrst
year physicists (the Physsix) success-
fully struck the heart of the Med-
ics’ Union with a stealthy theft of the
Phoenix from inside the ICSM oﬃce
itself last Monday. Initial reports sug-
gest that they met with minimal re-
sistance, easily smuggling the entire
costume (minus the feet, already pos-
sessed by RCSU) back to campus.
A mysterious YouTube video lat-
er surfaced, where a masked ﬁgure
named Ragbinhead outlined the
RCSU/RAG collaboration’s demands.
This distressing video showed ‘Mr
Phoenix’ bound and gagged in a dark
room, and required donations to ICU
RAG as well as the prostration of the
ICSM Committee at the feet of the
RAG Committee and the pieing of the
ICSM RAG chair. Our correspondent
can also reveal that the Medics’ faculty
will be required to send out an email
explaining the superiority of ICU
RAG Week over ICSM RAG week.
Should the demands be met, it is
thought that the four components of
Mr Phoenix will be retrieved from
their locations around campus and
returned. Should they not be; the four
components may well become six…
Flight of the Phoenix!
Ben Fernando reports on an easy theft of ICSM’s mascot
H

