Happy catecholamine day
Looking forward to your hot date? Philippa Skett explains why
L
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
14
Love Science?
(We know you engineers do too)
Why not write for us? Get in touch!
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Follow us on Facebook, where we’ll post up any
interesting stuff we stumble upon (science-related, obvi-
ously).
ove is a many-splendored
thing, according to ex-
perts. As someone who
considers themselves a
scientist and, depending
on how many glasses of wine I have
had, someone who has been in love,
this week of all weeks I couldn’t help
but wonder, what exactly is love? Does
it beneﬁt us as a species? Is it an evo-
lutionary hangover regarding altru-
ism and mating preference, skewered
by social etiquette? Or is it selﬁshness,
projected on someone as a need to be
with them, but in reality an obsession
to obtain their gametes for you, and
only you, and not share these amaz-
ing genes with anyone else? These cer-
tainly cross my mind whenever I am
eyeing up someone in Metric, but for
others it may not be as crystal clear.
And when I mean love, what exactly
do I mean? The love I am referring to
is the sort that caused Ryan Gosling
to grow a beard and build that house.
The sort that made Joseph Gordon-
Levitt stroll into the park and sing and
dance with what didn’t seem like a co-
incidental arrangement of people for
a Saturday morning. The sort of love
that when Dumbledore asked, “After
all this time?” made Snape reply, “Al-
ways.” I don’t mean the love between a
mother and her daughter, a man and
his dog, or a biologist and their agar
plates. These are still legitimate forces
of adoration and come under the large
umbrella of the term love too, but
in this case, it is romantic love that
seems to need the constant dissection
to understand it or justify behaviour
done in the name of love.
This love is explained not so deli-
cately by Helen Fisher, an anthro-
pologist, but a scientist nonetheless.
She sorts the progression of love into
three discrete but not necessarily in-
dependent stages; lust, attraction, and
attachment. These three are not listed
in chronological order in terms of a
romantic relationship’s development
as they are very much interchange-
able. Each of these three stages comes
with diﬀerent boosts of hormones
throughout the brain, to accommo-
date the diﬀerent life strategies that
are optimal for diﬀerent stages in
mammalian reproduction. Love is lit-
erally all in your head, although it can
cause the usual racing of the heart,
sweating of the palms or high quanti-
ties of alcohol ingestion too (or pos-
sibly chlamydia).
For example, lust accommodates
the sex drive and the wish to mate
and reproduce recklessly and repeat-
edly, regardless of where said mate lies
on the Imperial scale. It is associated
with oestrogens and androgens – hor-
mones that work for the reproductive
side of things in the body, and are reg-
ulated within the hypothalamus. It is
purely a chemical surge to want to get
hot and heavy very suddenly, and can
subside as quickly as it came (one or-
gasm joke in the bag). This neurologi-
cal wiring is completely independent
of attraction, which can explain just
how easy it can be at times to kick
that rugby guy out of your bed after a
drunken night out.
Attraction, however, is associated
with catecholamines (organic com-
pounds) like dopamine, which can
act as neuromodulators – that is,
they induce prolonged, neurologi-
cally derived emotive incentives to
want someone, and that person only.
It was pointed out by the big man
himself, Darwin, that attraction facili-
tates mating preference as opposed
to just mating alone (a masturbation
joke? You decide). Heightened levels
of these hormones are linked to the
“reward centres” of the brain, making
you think that the obsession you are
nurturing is a great thing, as monoga-
mous mating seems apt for bringing
up the oﬀspring of Homo sapiens,
among others.
Attraction is the part where you
consider the partner to be able to suit
both yourself and your possible oﬀ-
spring in emotive traits and physical
traits needed for resource acquisi-
tion and prolonged companionship.
Intense attraction is considered to
be this “love thing” people get up-
set about, and Fisher ruthlessly lists
what psychological properties are
associated with this stage of hormo-
nal peaks – intrusive thinking about
this person, a longing for emotional
reciprocity, a feeling of uncontrollable
passion, the eagerness to reorder daily
priorities to be available to this loved
person and the willingness to sacriﬁce
for them...the list goes on and on.
Although such a list reads like Shel-
don Cooper’s diary entries as opposed
to that Valentine’s card you prob-
ably won’t be getting, no doubt it will
resonate with some of the more love-
struck students out there. Ever found
yourself ﬁnishing revision half an
hour early to buy that special some-
one a jacket potato in the Library
Café? You might be in love mate. This
is the selﬁsh element of love – and
if it is requited can solidify a mating
pair for optimal oﬀspring survival and
make sure no-one else steals those
golden gametes.
Finally, attachment is associated
with long term companionship.
Linked to oxytocin and vasopressin
release in the hypothalamus of the
brain, these act to maintain monoga-
mous attachments between organ-
isms and encourages mutual parental
behaviour. This stage does bode well
if it follows the lust of actually mak-
ing a baby, then the attraction needed
to keep the parents together through
the pregnancy, but it doesn’t neces-
sarily have to be so. It has been sug-
gested that this is the case for suc-
cessful arranged marriages, or even in
long lasting friendship. Even without
the hormonal surges associated with
lust and attraction, such couples can
sustain a happy family environment
regardless of not being hopeless fools
or copulating like horny teenagers at
some point.
So with this little guide to the sci-
ence behind love now in your hands,
please refrain from using it as some
sort of aid to pick up girls after a few
too many pints. No girl wants to hear
how you can trigger oestrogen release
in her in the shortest time ever. The
same goes to lovestruck girls; please
don’t attempt to tell that guy whose
back of head you have been staring at
in lectures for most of last term that
he gets your catecholamine level soar-
ing.
Declaring love seems to work well
by doing so through poetry, literature,
interpretive dance, or even via tequila
shots. So depending on your audience,
consider using these methods instead
this Valentine’s Day to snag yourself
a date, but feel free to keep in mind
what might be going on under the skin
too. However, if I do ﬁnd a card in my
locker declaring how you want to
grow old with me and stimulate vaso-
pressin release within me, don’t think
I will be put oﬀ too much either.
Facebook facebook.com/Felixscience
“
Ever found
yourself
finishing
revision
half an hour
early to buy
that special
someone a
jacket potato
in the library
café?
http://lauraconsistentlyinconsistent.blogspot.co.uk
http://amaliehoward.com
If only chemicals looked like this,
would make lab a lot more fun
If your heart looks like this, Felix
Science advises seeing a doctor

