Stem cells aid recovery from stroke
SCIENCE
Protein-building nanomachines
Sarah Byrne Science Writer
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
Inside every cell, tiny biological ma-
chines are hard at work, constructing
the proteins that will perform vital
roles as enzymes, hormones, and a
wide variety of other structural and
biochemical functions. These mo-
lecular machines, called ribosomes,
translate our genetic code into a
protein sequence, and assemble the
amino-acid building blocks into the
peptide chain that folds into a func-
tional protein.
Researchers led by Dave Leigh at
Manchester University have recently
developed an artiﬁcial nanoscale ma-
chine that can perform a similar func-
tion. This consists of a ring-shaped
molecule called a rotaxane, which
moves along an axle on which amino
acids have been loaded. A ‘reactive
arm’ then sequentially picks oﬀ each
amino acid and adds it to a chain at-
tached to the rotaxane itself, forming
a new peptide molecule. Rotaxane na-
nomachines have been developed be-
fore, but never one that can perform
sequential actions like this. In results
published in Science (http://www.sci-
encemag.org/content/339/6116/189)
this month, a peptide was successfully
synthesised in milligram quantities –
a signiﬁcant amount and useful for
analysis – with an incredible 1018 of
the nanobots working in parallel.
However, the synthetic ‘ribosome’
cannot yet do everything a real one
can. It cannot, for example, read the
genetic code and determine which
order the amino acids should be as-
sembled in – these need to be pre-
loaded onto the molecular axle. It is
also extremely slow compared to the
real ribosome, taking hours rather
than milliseconds to attach each new
amino acid.
There also may be some questions
to be asked about the usefulness of the
approach in general: whether trying
to mimic the way nature does things
is necessarily the best way. Nature is
by deﬁnition messy and at times over-
ly complex: biological systems tend
to come with a lot of baggage from
their evolutionary history, and the
randomness inherent in their devel-
opment. If, for example, you want to
synthesise peptide chains, we already
have much simpler and more eﬃcient
ways of doing that in the lab, using
standard biochemical techniques.
Curiously though, Prof. Leigh seems
to hope that beyond being a fascinat-
ing proof-of-concept, the synthetic
ribosome will someday prove a more
eﬀective means of synthesising pep-
tides than the current ‘laborious’
process of chemical synthesis. This is
perhaps not as unlikely as it sounds:
researchers have developed synthetic
enzymes that are simpler and more
eﬃcient than the natural versions. It
is often entirely possible to improve
on nature, and with the new results
emerging from the Leigh lab and the
synthetic biology ﬁeld in general,
there are sure to be interesting devel-
opments to come.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1229753
he eﬀects of a stroke can
be devastating, with the
initial loss of blood supply
to part of the brain set-
ting in motion a series of
biochemical events called the ‘ischae-
mic cascade’. This causes cumulative
damage to brain cells and blood ves-
sels during the ﬁrst few hours after the
stroke, often resulting in severe and
irreversible brain injury.
However research has shown that
prompt treatment with stem cells may
be able to interrupt this cascade, lim-
iting the damage caused to the brain
and improving the prospects of the
patient making a good recovery.
Most of us think of stem cells as
originating from the bone marrow,
and this has traditionally been used as
the main source of adult stem cells for
research and therapeutic purposes.
But there is another source of these
so-called mesenchymal stem cells:
adipose tissue, better known as body
fat. In fact this is a very rich source
of stem cells, yielding up to 500-1000
times more than can be derived from
bone marrow. It is also easier and less
invasive to collect cells from adipose
tissue compared to extracting bone
marrow from a donor.
Researchers at Neuroscience La Paz
University Hospital in Madrid recent-
ly studied and compared the eﬀects
of both bone marrow and adipose-
derived stem cells for the ﬁrst time,
with results published last week in the
journal Stem Cell Research & Therapy.
The study looked at the eﬀects of the
stem cells when injected into rats, in
which the eﬀects of a stroke had been
induced by creating a blockage in
their cerebral artery. The therapy was
given 30 minutes after the ‘stroke’; and
physical abilities, brain function and
cell death were measured over 14 days
subsequently.
In both cases, the rats receiving
the stem cell infusions showed sig-
niﬁcantly improved function after 24
hours, with an improved recovery also
observed after the full 14 days, com-
pared to the control group. Changes
in levels of ‘brain repair markers’ were
also observed, indicating that the stem
cells were releasing growth factors
and other substances in response to
the stroke-induced damage, helping
the damaged brain cells to repair and
replace themselves.
The eﬀectiveness of stem cells in aid-
ing recovery had been shown before,
and this study added to the weight
of evidence for them. However, most
importantly, it showed that there was
no signiﬁcant diﬀerence in the eﬀec-
tiveness of adipose-derived stem cells
compared to those taken from bone
marrow. This points to adipose tissue
as a potential source of plentiful, easy-
to-obtain stem cells that could eventu-
ally be used for treatment of stroke in
human patients. The success of the in-
travenous injection route of adminis-
tration was also a positive note, as this
is easier and less invasive than inject-
ing directly into the artery or brain.
Further studies will be needed, the
researchers note, to establish safe and
eﬀective dosages in humans and to
test for potential side eﬀects. However
this is a positive result for the pros-
pects of new treatments for stroke,
and advances our understanding of
just how stem cells have their remark-
able healing eﬀects on our bodies.
DOI: 10.1186/scrt159
Deoxyribonucleic acid: THE BEST ACID
dcjsr
Sarah Byrne investigates a new, fat-derived stem cell therapy
Ribosomes: nature’s own
protein-building machine
Tiny protons?
Philip Kent Science Editor Picture: Arpad Horvath
The radius of a proton has generally
been considered to be 0.87 femtom-
eters (fm), an incredibly tiny amount.
However, a paper published in Science
earlier this year suggests this minis-
cule distance may be smaller than pre-
viously thought.
A team from ETH Zürich took a
muonic hydrogen, a hydrogen atom
where the electron has been replaced
with a muon. Muons are similar to
electrons, but heavier, meaning it
spends a longer period of time within
the proton’s charge distribution. This
makes it easier to probe the size of the
proton.
Investigation into the size yielded
an inter-muon radius far less than
anything reported previously, except a
similar paper published in 2000.
Both papers used muonic hydrogen
spectroscopy, a process where the mu-
onic hydrogen atom is probed with a
laser to obtain data necessary to ob-
tain a very accurate measurement as
to the size of the nucleus. The newer
paper, however, investigates using two
energy levels instead of just the one
used previously, reducing a potential
source of error.
Scientists are confused by the two
ﬁndings, both of which provide the
same value to a very small error. Mu-
onic measurements do not correlate
with that of non-muonic hydrogen,
leading to suspicion that a systematic
error in the experiment provides erro-
neously small results.
Investigation using muonic deute-
rium and muonic helium would allow
researchers to decide whether there is
an experimental method to blame or
not.
There is also the potentital for er-
ror in the mathematical calculations
needed to convert the spectroscopic
data to a numerical value, the calcu-
lations and errors in which are in the
process of being checked.
However, if all sources of error are
ruled out, it must be the case that an
entire new branch of physics is found,
with some arguing it could lead to a
rethink of quantum electrodynamics.
A conclusion as to whether the small-
er protons are real or the product of a
mathematical error will only be a mat-
ter of time.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1233202
T

