I
Padraic Calpin Politics Editor
POLITICS
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
16
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The legacy of the Arab Spring
As France pursues its intervention in Mali, Alexander Soloviev
looks into Middle Eastern affairs.
Egypt: Two years on, new protests
January 25th 2013 was the second an-
niversary of the Egyptian protests that
led to the fall of the autocratic regime
of Hosni Mubarak. Tahrir Square was
once again ﬁlled with protesters, their
anger now directed at the current
elected President Mohamed Morsi,
and the police who are accused of ex-
cessive violence in a series of clashes
in recent months. Two years on, Egypt
still seems to be on a precipice.
As police released tear gas across
central Cairo, and concentrations in
Tahrir Square approached “dangerous
levels”, thousands of protesters
remained on the streets in open
deﬁance of a curfew imposed by Morsi
across three provinces following a
series of fatal clashes with protesters
and police. The words of the people on
the streets echoed the cries of 2011,
accusing Morsi’s government of being
“exactly the same as the Mubarak
gang”, and of trying to establish a
‘theocratic dictatorship’.
In fact, Tahrir Square has hardly
stoodemptythese24months.Protests
continued through the ﬁrst half of last
year against the interim “Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces’
established in the wake of Mubarak’s
fall, who were seen as dominated by
ﬁgures of the old regime and accused
of delaying over democratic elections.
When the polls ﬁnally opened, it was
hoped that the democratic election
of Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim
Brotherhood would see the country
continue along the path to reform.
But the Egyptian people remain
in the streets, concerned that Morsi
is balking at the prospect of reform,
or even trying to secure power for
the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood.
Tensions ﬂared when, while drafting
the country’s new constitution, many
parties walked out of the negotiation
process, claiming that the current
document too heavily favoured the
Muslim Brotherhood. Morsi followed
by giving himself the power to push
the draft constitution to a vote and,
in the face of public protest, awarded
arrest power to the military to provide
security for a referendum. The
constitution passed, but continues to
be criticised for the level of judicial
power it passes to Egypt’s upper
parliamentary house, the Shura,
which is predominantly controlled by
the Muslim Brotherhood.
Many who voted yes in that
referendum did so hoping that it
would bring much needed stability.
However, the fallout of another
tragedy, just over a year ago, brought
the people and the police back into
confrontation. The death of some 70
Al-Ahly club supporters at a match
t has been just over two
years since a street vendor
in Tunisia set himself on ﬁre.
His act of protest against
the country’s oppressive and
corrupt regime was not extinguished:
the protest resonated with citizens
across the Arab world, engulﬁng the
region in political demonstrations,
revolutions and even civil war.
A lot can change in two years.
Syria is embroiled in a civil war,
which is already being viewed
by some as a proxy war between
regional and global powers. Al-Assad,
Syria’s embattled ruler, is supported
diplomatically by Russia, as well as
by Iranian arms. The rebels enjoy
recognition from many global powers,
such as the US, Britain and France, as
well as alleged military aid from the
Gulf States.
In the meantime the death toll runs
at about 60,000.
But Syria’s importance does not lie
in the compounding humanitarian
catastrophe. Rather, the war-torn
nation can be viewed as part of a
greater regional struggle, between the
rising star of Iran and the Gulf States.
Iraq similarly proved to be a staging
ground between the two power blocs.
This comes at an unsettling time:
the Iranian military is one of the
largest and strongest in the region
and the unresolved issue of its nuclear
ambition hangs in the air. The Gulf
States, on the other hand, have been
spending billions on modernising
their military force. Open conﬂict
between these regional players would
be devastating. But the equal military
strength of both powers’ blocs could
go a long way to stabilizing the region.
Syria will certainly be the bellwether
for this struggle.
In the other corner of the Arab
world, another conﬂict is blazing.
Mali’s breakaway region of Azawad
could potentially become a safe haven
for terrorists. Needless to say, this
would further destabilise a precarious
region, where random acts of violence
are already too common. Last week, a
gas plant was attacked by Al Qaeda-
aﬃliated Islamists in northern Algeria,
leading to the deaths of 37 foreigners.
The international community has
been quick to respond to the crisis,
sending troops, military hardware
and intelligence to Mali from all over
the world. The operation so far has
been a success, with a joint French
and African force pushing deep into
Azawad, taking over the last rebel
stronghold in Kidal.
But recapturing lost territory will
not solve Mali’s problem. Libya is
the key factor in the equation. When
Muammar Gaddaﬁ was toppled in
the early days of the Arab Spring, the
country stabilised enough to hold
democratic elections. While these
proved largely peaceful and legitimate,
the nation still has yet to deal with the
armed militias that control swathes of
land. Also of concern are the largely
uncontrolled borders of Libya. When
Islamists declared sharia law in
Azawad, militants and arms ﬂowed
almost unimpeded from Libya. As
such, secured borders will prove to be
an asset to stabilising the region.
The Arab Spring hasn’t all been
about war. Dictators weren’t the
only ones that suddenly went up in
smoke. Stagnant governments and
bureaucracies soon felt the heat. The
people demanded more rights, more
transparency and more democratic
institutions. And while political
changes have been taking place from
Morocco to Oman, Egypt has proven
to be of particular interest.
The most populous nation of
the Arab world, Egypt has been
plagued with problems following the
overthrow of Hosni Mubarak. Morsi,
the current President, managed to
wrestle control from the armed forces,
in Port Said was such an order of
magnitude above any previous
football violence that it led many
to accuse the SCAF of attacking the
club for its role in the 2011 uprising,
and when residents of Port Said were
sentenced for their role in the disaster
it sparked mass civil unrest.
This string of events, culminating in
the deaths of 40 Port Said citizens at
police hands, are why Egypt is once
again gripped by protest. Reports of
police violence are multitudinous,
and the parallels with Mubarak’s
own police crackdown in the face
of public revolt are not lost on the
people of Egypt. The government has
pledged reform, and apologised for
the strikingly public police assault
of Hammad Saber, which sets it
distinctly apart from the ways of the
old regime. But Egypt remains in
limbo, struggling on with its troubled
transition from years of autocracy.
preventing the formation of a military
dictatorship that seemed inevitable.
Egypt is not through the woods yet,
however: alongside economic woes,
a bill that eﬀectively gives Morsi
unchecked power has been the subject
of current unrest. It seems that Egypt
still has a diﬃcult path to political
freedom and stability.
The Arab Spring has been a mixed
blessing. War and freedom blossomed
in the wake of dictators. Political leaps
forward have been just as common
as a rising death toll. But no matter
the consequences one thing remains
clear: the Arab world has woken up.
AP/Khalil Hamra
AP
“It’s tough being short.
Poor Sarko.” Hollande,
Mali, 3rd February 2013
Happy Birthday from Cairo

