COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
Anonymous
C
*Friends* With Benefits?
Choose your own adventure: sexy edition!
asual sex, no fuss no
muss: the holy grail for
most guys. In this mod-
ern society, the taboo
has largely been lifted on
satisfying one’s own sexual needs. You
only need to browse truelad.com for
ﬁve mins to realise that most guys are
probably whacking one out in the ﬁve
minute break between lectures. As for
the ladies, we’ve gone one step further;
certain battery operated devices named
after innocent woodland creatures that
are endowed with not one, but three
speed settings have been provided to
satisfy our needs. And although these
devices are life-savers, there is only so
much love you can give yourself before
the asymmetry between the muscula-
ture of your right and left arm becomes
a bit of a giveaway. Solution: the fuck
buddy. A number you can dial when
you need to, someone who won’t spend
the night and a relationship in which it
is considered perfectly acceptable not
to swallow. What could possibly go
wrong?
Everything. The mistake most people
make is to interpret the term ‘buddy’
too literally. Do not, I repeat, do not
select an actual friend. At best they
should be a casual acquaintance. Why?
Because a) you already like this person
enough for them to be your friend, b)
Josh Price
Then I saw her face, now I’m a non-believer!
A shameless plug by IC Atheists, Secularists and Humanists
eligion is one of those
awkward words. To
some, it represents all
that is good in life, and
the celebration of the
divine. For others, it’s a term which is
almost taboo, one of those awkward
boxes that Facebook asks you to ﬁll
in. Yet, there’s no doubt that many re-
ligions have shaped past and present
events, and will no doubt continue to
do so for the foreseeable future. Or so
you might think; but just how many
people are still religious?
The 2011 census results show that
the total number of people with ‘No
Religion’ was 25.1% of the total UK
population, or 14.1 million people.
In 2001 this ﬁgure stood at a total of
14.8%. While we’ve no doubt that the
ﬁgures for Imperial College itself are
probably rather diﬀerent, this is more
than just a large increase. So, then, as
this is clearly a piece which serves no
purpose other than that of shameless
self-promotion (read: encouraging dis-
cussion), where is the Atheist society?
Well, right here. 2 weeks ago, Impe-
rial Atheist, Secularist and Human-
ist Society (or IASH as we like to be
known) came into existence. After a
highly successful inaugural talk (held
jointly with the Feminist Society),
we’ve got a lot more things planned,
but ﬁrst let us clarify a few points.
To whom do we cater and why do we
exist? After all, surely an atheist soci-
ety exists only to poke fun at speciﬁc
religions and circle jerk over how its
members agree with one another?
Well, not really, that’s actually quite
wrong.
So ﬁrst oﬀ, what do we believe? No
doubt you know of atheists who ﬂat
out don’t believe in the idea God(s),
or any other supernatural omnipo-
tent entities. But what if that’s not
your style? Some of us aren’t so sure.
Perhaps there’s a God, or two, or even
more? You can’t know for certain. We
welcome anyone who would be happy
to label themselves as either of these,
or anywhere in between. If you ﬁnd
yourself questioning God, scripture,
or anything else to do with religion,
we’d love to talk to you. We also con-
sider ourselves secularists, we believe
in the separation of Church and state,
and that no religion should have any
place in the activities of government.
We also support the ideals of human-
ism; living on the basis of reason and
science, and treating all others equally
regardless of religion or belief.
That, in a nutshell, is what the ma-
jority of our members believe. But
what do we aim to do? One thing we
cannot stress enough is that discus-
sion and debate are essential. It’s obvi-
ous that curiosity about the world we
live in, interest in how things work, or
the desire to help people have provid-
ed the drive to obtain a place at Impe-
rial. We seek to continue debate, and
encourage others do so regardless of
their beliefs. It may come as a surprise
to some that this ﬁts perfectly with
humanism. So, to conclude; we exist
as a social group for anyone who feels
that they ﬁt the above labels. However,
just like the many religious societies
already established, we will be host-
ing guest lecturers and taking part in
debates and discussions throughout
this and coming years. If this sounds
overwhelmingly appealing or even
just mildly interesting, we would very
much like to see you: we are a friendly
bunch (or at least we like to think so).
Our next big event is at 6pm on 25th
February, where Robin Ince of Radio
4 fame will be giving a lecture “The
Things I am Thinking Right Now: a ﬁ-
nite life in a big universe”. This will take
place in the Pippard Lecture Theatre,
on Level 5 of the Sherﬁeld building;
and is open to all, free of charge. We
encourage you to stop worrying about
your studies for a short while, and
come. You might just enjoy yourself.
R
you think they are attractive enough to
sleep with, and c) you will be sleeping
with them on a regular basis: one of you
will develop feelings. The trick in select-
ing the perfect fuck buddy is choosing
someone you ﬁnd almost repulsive on
an emotional or intellectual level, but
whom you think is really quite ﬁt (or
failing that, at least ﬁt enough to stick
your cock in/have their cock stuck into
you). An added bonus is to select some-
one who you can’t be with seriously due
to externalities, e.g. a friend’s ex, an ex-
change student, a convicted criminal…
The key is to remember this is an ex-
change of goods (probably ﬂuids, hope-
fully orgasms); it is not an exchange of
personal burdens, it is not about your
feelings, your friends, your coursework.
Talking should be kept at a minimum at
all times, but particular post coitus – a
little dirty talk beforehand (i.e. verbal
foreplay), however, is completely ac-
ceptable. Sleepovers are never OK; if
you’re telling yourself it’s because it’s
‘practical’
, you’re in denial: the reality
is you want them to stay because you
want to spoon and you want to spoon
because you like them. In which case
you are veering oﬀ the ‘fuck buddy path’
,
and onto the slippery slope to relation-
shipdom.
I have had two fuck buddy type ar-
rangements. The ﬁrst was a complete
disaster, although in the long run it ac-
tually turned out pretty well: we ended
up dating for around two years (for the
majority of which I was deeply in love
with him). My second and current fuck
buddy meets all the criteria above:
there is no danger that I will develop
feelings for him, mainly because he is
a complete and utter twat. So far, the
sex is adequate, he has a nice body and
a nice cock but he is a bit of a selﬁsh
lover (aren’t they all?). I’ve been seeing
him since November. So far what have I
learnt? As much as I like to pitch myself
as a shit-hot, sexually liberated, inde-
pendent woman and as much as I’d like
tobelieveyoucouldhavegreatsexwith-
out succumbing to humdrum commit-
ment, the truth is that prolonged sexual
relationships are always inﬁnitely more
satisfying with feelings involved. A vi-
brator will never and can never replace
a man, not because you miss the weight
of his body on top of you but because
you miss the intimacy of being with an-
other person. Likewise, guys may joke
about women only being superior to a
wank because they come with a pair of
tits and are self-lubricating, but actually
they too also crave emotional closeness
.For this reason, although the idea of
fuck buddies is conceptually attrac-
tive, in reality they tend to only have a
shelf life of a couple of months. Mine
is already beginning to curdle and turn
sour. As a result, I’ve deleted his num-
ber and invested in some AAA batteries
instead – no muss, no fuss.
divine. For o
almost tabo
boxes that
in. Yet, ther
ligions have
s
o
ﬁ
p
m
t
He’s great in bed

