LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Love your surveys
ust in case you wondering
if your eyes are being weird
or not: they aren’t. This
week is the closest we get
to a Valentine’s issue, so I
changed the colour of the top bit and
the drop cap to red. How romantic.
Education and Student
Experience
This was on last week’s front page
and is still going on. It’s basically a
chance for you to fill out text boxes
on different aspects of Education and
the Student Experience. It’s a great
idea, and is open to all students and
staff. Hopefully you all use it as an op-
portunity to give your thoughts/have
a massive moan/write an entire es-
say in text speak (delete as appropri-
ate). The best thing about this is that
the Pro-Rector (Education) will be
personally reading the recommenda-
tions. This means that you get to go
straight to the source with what you
think should be happening. Do you
think podcasts are great or a waste of
time? Do you think they are taking too
long to implement and you just need
to get a camera set up and whack
them on YouTube, or do you want a
slow phasing in? You’re being given
the chance to have your say. I urge
you with all my heart (oh, Valentine’s
Day reference) to give your honest,
frank opinions about everything. Also,
don’t sugar coat anything. What’s the
point on holding back? Better to be
completely upfront as opposed to tip
toeing around. Don’t be afraid to say
what you think, as it’s all anonymous.
If you think you have a great idea, put
your name down in the comment box
to bask in the glory.
Maybe you are apathetic and think
that nothing will ever change. Well,
this is your chance to test that theory.
If you, and a lot of people you know, all
put down similar suggestions and it’s
ignored, you can then be satisfied that
there was a preordained outcome and
it was just a consultation for consul-
tations sake with an already decided
strategy. At least you’ll have learnt
your lesson, and can know to never
bother engaging again, keep your
head down, get your degree and get
out of here. Or, the other answer could
be that your ideas are just terrible. Al-
ternatively it could just be that loads
of people thought something else and
so that was acted upon. Either one.
But you seem like a clever person so
it wouldn’t be number two.
To summarise: fill out the survey!
And give me a tenner. No? Okay, just
fill out the survey then. Worth a shot.
FEATURES COMMENT SPORT
Volunteering Week Being a banker Football in Mordor
A feature on the week of volun-
teering opportunities to come.
It details how to get involved
and, more importantly, why
you should.
So you want to be a banker
huh? This is the reality of the
daily life. It’s from someone
who worked in the sector, so
budding Gekkos, take note.
Football with another one of
their reports. This time they go
on a journey that even Frodo
would say “pfffff, fuck that, I’ll
stay at home” to.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>10 >>18 >>45
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Thomas Lim, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen Corrections and clarifications: In the article “Imperial launches Education and Student Strategy Survey” there was a typo.
To make it clear: the survey is anonymous. In an article entitled “Heatwave at the corona”, the author was miscredited. The actual author is Pavitar Devgon. Both have been fixed online. Felix apologises for the errors.
Flyer Distributers wanted
Jump&Bounce is hiring a flyer distribution team and we
would love to get the community involved.
Teams will be lead by team managers. Distributions will
be taking place at evening times at Shoreditch, Hoxton,
Southwark, Camden Town, Notting hill, Sheperds bush,
Hammersmith & Fulham and Kensington.
Flyer distribution will start on the 21st FEB and finish
March 7th.
Campaign days THURS - FRI - SAT
PAY £40 per 1000 flyers
For more information: Get in touch with Brendon Kasozi
via events@jumpandbounceclub.com
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
Boy/girl seeking boy/girl also welcome. Pictures of you smothered in peanut
butter with “come hither” eyes not welcome.
J
Syrian students
The phrase no brainer comes to mind
with this one. The government should
just guarantee to help them out. Fail-
ing that, Imperial should waive the
fees and allow them to continue. It’s
max ten students and so wouldn’t
cost that much. Plus, how much is
one person’s safety worth? Just like
that Mastercard advert, it’s priceless.
What if that one person was you?
Exactly, you’d be pretty sure you’re
worth waiving the fees for. If someone
complains that it’s unfair treatment to
waive one person’s fees and not an-
other’s, then ask them if they’d like to
be kicked out of university and force-
fully removed from the country due to
something they have absolutely no
control over.
Hopefully the government will step
in and this situation will be resolved.
Get ready to be bombarded
with free sweets
Or perhaps be the bombarder? Nomi-
nations are still open. If you’re consid-
ering running: talk to the current per-
son, decide what you want to change
and how, and then just click that
“Stand” button.

