ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Judas Kiss @ The Duke of York’s Theatre – Charting the life of Oscar Wilde
from the trial for ‘gross indecency’ to his post-incarceration meeting with his lover,
Lord Alfred Douglas, this play has been garnering success in this new production
featuring what is said to be a great performance by Rupert Everett. Tickets from
£20. Now - 6 April.
Schwitters in Britain @ Tate Britain – A tribute to an early 20th century artist who
fled from Nazi Germany and came to Britain in 1940. He died seven years later,
leaving behind collages, installations, sculptures and even poetry. This exhibi-
tion introduces us to a relatively unknown (I admit to never even having heard
of Schwitters until 2013) but very influential pre-pop master of different media.
Tickets from £10. Now - 12 May.
The Love Nest @ The Old Vick Tunnels – For an art themed Valentine’s, try Love
Nest, hosted by Artful Badger at the tunnels under Waterloo station. Wander the
subterranean labyrinth and discover a bohemian art gallery of dance the nigh
away to live bands, DJs and interactive theatre. 14 February .
Eat your heart out @ Secret Location – Miss Cakehead and Emily Evens host three
nights of romantic pop ups around (we’re guessing) East London. Feed your stom-
achs on solid chocolate hearts and feast you eyes on unique arts and crafts pieces
inspired by the same amorous organ. 8 - 10 February
Light entertainment
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was done by Arts Editor, Meredith
Thomasbecauseweareshortofsubmissionsfromactualreaders.
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
28
In the centre of a large room in the
Hayward Gallery, a cylinder made
up of hundreds of glass tubes hangs
from the ceiling. Contained within
each tube are thousands of tiny LED
lights, which ﬂicker on and oﬀ, creat-
ing an endless series of hypnotising
patterns. Explosions of light burst out,
only to fade and be replaced by an im-
age of ﬂickering stars, which grow in
intensity before returning to darkness.
This cycle repeats again, and again,
and again, but is never quite alike; we
never see the same image twice. This
mesmerising piece by American artist
Leo Villareal opens the Hayward’s lat-
est exhibition, aptly titled Light Show,
which explores how artists use the
medium of light to create incredible,
powerful and mind-boggling artworks.
Fred Fyles Writer
Light, as the exhibition title sug-
gests, is the true star of the show:
it radiates out from neon tubes
dangling from the ceiling, casts its
beams upon the gallery walls, and
bathes entire rooms in subtle hues.
It is presented as a living entity, es-
pecially in Cerith Wyn Evans’ piece
S=U=P=E=R=S=T=R=U=C=T=U=R=E
where three vertical columns of light
slowly radiate and dim. Evans’ in-
spiration came from James Merrill’s
poem The Changing Light at Sandover,
which was composed from messages
transmitted during séances, and this
otherworldliness is reﬂected in the
piece; the oscillation of light hints at
a kind of breathing, the heat radiated
by the strip lights reminds one of body
warmth.
One of the most spectacular works
in the exhibition, You and I, Horizontal
by Anthony McCall, manages to do the
impossible: it turns light into a tangible
entity. A projector screens slowly mov-
ing lines onto a wall, and artiﬁcial mist
transforms this into a complex series of
walls of light. Viewers pass through the
piece, becoming enveloped by planes
of solid light, which gradually shift and
change around them. It is something
that needs to be experienced.
This interaction with the pieces is
continued with Doug Wheeler’s work,
in which the audience stands in the
centre of a room illuminated with a
square of soft neon light which hangs,
seemingly unsupported, from the far
wall. The room has no corners – all
hard lines have been removed – creat-
ing an extremely surreal environment.
I ﬁnd it diﬃcult to focus on anything;
the room seems to have become envel-
oped in white mist and I feel like I am
viewing the world through a soft-focus
lens. Disoriented, I try to seek relief
Second coming in Slough multi-
story said to be anticlimactic

