ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY 29
in Wedgework V, another installation
piece, this time by James Turrell, but
I have no such luck. The work con-
sists only of a wedge-shaped beam of
coloured light, mostly red, but with a
thin line of blue at one end. As I sit in
the darkness something incredible oc-
curs: the red begins to fade away, and
a bluey-purplish apparition begins to
spread like mould across the wedge.
This then fades away as my eyes adjust
to the light, and the scene is replaced
by a solid wall of grey colour; I rub
my eyes, and the red light reappears.
It never actually changed colour, but
Turrell has managed to create a piece
which alters the viewer’s sense of per-
ception. It is truly astonishing.
Other pieces are simpler, taking
their inspiration from the beautiful –
and perhaps overlooked – sources of
light in the world around us. There
is a bulb that emulates the glow of
moonlight, and a collection of glow-
ing neon tubes which recreate the
splendour of twilight in Las Vegas.
Chromosaturation, by the Venezue-
lan artist Carlos Cruz-Diez consists of
three rooms, each bathed in blue, red,
or green light; upon entering the ﬁrst
room everything is bathed in a cool
blue light. Moving into the next room
is literally painful – the red light is a
brilliant scarlet, and burns my retinas.
However, this soon fades, and when I
move back to the blue room the cool
tones have morphed into a brilliantly
blinding cyan. Moving from blue to
green turns the green light a vibrant
yellow; moving from green to red, and
a vivid fuchsia appears. Of course the
light has never changed, it is only my
eyes becoming adjusted to certain fre-
quencies of light – a simple eﬀect, but
incredibly powerful.
The works are not solely illusion-
ary; some are political in scope. Jenny
Holzer, an artist who has been us-
ing illuminated words for the last 30
years, displays a column of scrolling
LED signs featuring extracts from de-
classiﬁed US documents on the War
on Terror. The words scroll past the
viewer, ﬂashing in harsh pink and pur-
ple lights, almost forcing us to read the
grisly details they confer. Iván Navaro
has created a glass box made of one-
way mirrors. The viewer steps inside,
and seems to inhabit an eternal abyss;
the ﬂoor is not solid, all one can see is
a series of lights stretching down for
what seems like eternity. The work is
made all the more powerful when one
is reminded that Navaro grew up un-
der Pinochet’s regime, where people
would regularly ‘disappear’ if they dis-
pleased the government.
The exhibition closes with a kinetic
piece by the Danish artist Olafur Eli-
asson, in which a garden of 27 foun-
tains is illuminated by strobe lighting.
The eﬀect of this is that it allows the
viewer to observe the shapes made
by the water in minute detail; images
of the frozen fountains are imprinted
on the eyes, creating a scene of frozen
droplets, which hang like crystals in
mid-air. The work is ever changing,
constantly shifting and morphing into
a new piece. It is completely hypnotis-
ing; I manage to spend a good ﬁfteen
minutes alone in this room before
tearing myself away.
The Hayward Gallery has always
been a fantastic place to experience
experimental art, and in the last couple
of years its interactive exhibitions have
gone from strength to strength. This
exhibition however, blows anything
else I have seen there completely out
of the water. The way the artists have
used light as a medium is completely
mind-blowing, and utterly inspiring.
I leave the gallery, still in a daze, and
emerge outside. It is a beautiful win-
ter’s day, and the afternoon sun hangs
brightly in the clear sky, but compared
to what I have just seen – bulbs con-
taining moonlight, gardens of shim-
mering crystal, dazzling explosions of
light – it seems positively dim.
Light Show at the Hayward Gallery.
Tickets from £9. Now - 28 April.
Excessively minimal fashion
boutique confuses shoppers
Drawing by Hamish Muir
Sex Survey 2013
It wants you to do it.
Fill it out online at:
felixonline.co.uk/sexsurvey
Note: the Sex Survey is completely anonymous, as is the Drugs Survey. At no point can
anyone track the answers back to you. Please be honest.

