A Quantum Murder
Alex Savell gives part two of the Peter F. Hamilton
SF detective series the pre-Picocon treatment
on’t get me wrong, I
have not done a U-Turn
on the Greg Mandel
series in the last week;
I am neither an Italian,
nor a member of a Coalition Govern-
ment. I am still an advocate of the se-
ries and of the man, and will be in avid
attendance when he speaks at the Sci-
Fi Society’s Picocon Convention in a
little over a week’s time.
I am, however, a little unsure of the
overuse of the word Quantum. Pub-
lished in 1994, a year after the ﬁrst of
the series, A Quantum Murder was
conceived when the Q word was still
the buzz word of the time. We can at
least be thankful that Hamilton did
not go along with ‘black-hole’, a simi-
larly popular 90s buzzword, which
wouldn’t have even had the snappy
ring of Greg Mandel continuing on in
true detective novel style.
Getting over my minimal gripe
about titling we start to see why Ham-
ilton doesn’t consider this series a tril-
ogy. Though it is more true of the ﬁnal
book of the series the title does work
as a stand-alone despite several re-
turning characters including the Event
Horizon heiress Julia Evens and even
the return of the massive conglomer-
ate itself. A classic ‘who-dunnit’ mur-
der mystery set in a country estate
that manages to evoke the nostalgia
of a man clinging to tradition while
merging this with the home of a para-
noid scientist in the high-tech future.
A much tighter, more atmospheric
plot with more interplay between
characters than Mindstar Rising this
is the sort of thing where you see why
Mandel is good at his job. If you look
closely you’ll see that the Will Smith
ﬁlm I, Robot where it diverges from
the revolutionary Asimov classic has
some striking similarities to the plot of
A Quantum Murder. A secretive pro-
fessor murdered in a seemingly im-
possible fashion leaves high tech clues
to the way to solve his murder. In fact
it’s a tale that’s been told many times,
The Da Vinci Code, for instance, is also
not so very diﬀerent. But remember
that Hamilton is a trailblazer in this.
And, in fact, there is plenty to help
Hamilton stand out from the crowd
of mystery writers; the backdrop of
an England clawing its way back from
the brink, or possibly past it, has pro-
gressed a little in the two years that
have passed in setting.
Seeing the country move forwards
a little in this is an interesting experi-
ence. At the same time technology is
starting to become more integrated;
perhaps that’s a mark of the crowds
Greg is starting to circulate within,
certainly the estate is a level of pres-
tige and technology that isn’t available
elsewhere.
In fact, it’s the sort of think tank style
setup that is a Physicist’s wet dream.
Still the levels of technology remain
believably attainable in the near fu-
ture, but they are gently progressing
along with everything else and with
the ﬁnal instalment The Nano Flower
set some time further on, A Quantum
Murder provides an interesting hint of
what might be coming from the last
book.
In fact I am certain it is no accident
that researchers are a feature of this
book, providing solid evidence of the
way the world is moving on and how
hard fought that struggle is. And next
week we will have a look at just how
far things progress in a decade and a
half and I will leave you to discover if
and how Mandel manages to unravel
the sinister motives of Double Nobel
Laureate Edward Kitchener’s demise
and a plot he’s more integral too than
he could possibly have thought.
Peter F. Hamilton will be at Imperial
College for Picocon 30 on Saturday.
February 16. As one of the Guests of
Honour he will give an individual talk
and participate in the main panel with
Steph Swainston, Richard Morgan,
Kate Griﬃn and Jaine Fenn. For more
information, and to register your at-
tendance, visit icsf.org.uk/picocon
D
StraySoulsisKateGriﬃn’slatestbook,
the ﬁrst in the Magicals Anonymous
series, and is set in the same magical
version of London as her Matthew
Swift series (the ﬁrst of which will
be reviewed in next week’s edition of
Felix). The urban fantasy sub-genre is
becoming increasingly popular but
Griﬃn shows here, as in her previ-
ous work, that she is still someone to
watch, even in such a crowded ﬁeld.
You don’t have to have read that series
to still enjoy Stray Souls, but there is
some crossover and reading the ear-
lier books ﬁrst wouldn’t hurt.
One major diﬀerence between the
series is that, while the Matthew
Swift books do have an undercurrent
of humour, the laughs in Stray Souls
are a lot more prominent, which is a
large part of the reason why I found it
so entertaining.
The book centres on Sharon Li, a
barista who’s just discovered she’s a
shaman, able to become one with the
city. Problem is, the city’s soul ap-
pears to be missing, someone needs
to save it and that someone seems to
be her. And what would any of us do
if we found ourselves in such a situa-
tion? Use Facebook and Twitter to set
up a self-help group for fellow magical
beings, of course!
Sharon is an interesting counter-
point to the more wacky secondary
characters like Kevin the hypochon-
driac vampire or Sally the art-loving
banshee, both of whom are part of the
self-help group. She could have easily
been lost amidst all of them, and she
does spend a lot of the book dithering,
but in a way this just makes her easier
to relate to.
Some people might struggle to get
on with the book’s short chapters, but
I found the structure kept the story
going at a decent pace, plus the chap-
ters from the point of view of all the
diﬀerent characters really suited the
self-help motif in addition to provid-
ing more opportunities for comedy.
I also particularly enjoyed the natu-
ralistic dialogue and how it added to
the mundane side of things, as con-
trasted with the magical, which was
itself a great source of humour. This
book also achieves the not inconsid-
erable feat of working social media
into a narrative in a way that’s actu-
ally meaningful and enjoyable.
My principal feeling about the book
is that it’s just really fun. Obviously
your mileage may vary, but if you like
your fantasy to not take itself too se-
riously (without sacriﬁcing plot or
action), with description that’s vivid
without being ﬂorid and plenty of
memorable characters – or even if
you just get a kick out of reading sto-
ries set in places with which you’re fa-
miliar – then Stray Souls is deﬁnitely
one to seek out.
Kate Griﬃn is a pen name used by the
twice Carnegie-nominated fantasy
author Catherine Webb for her adult
ﬁction. She will be at Imperial Col-
lege for Picocon 30 on the weekend of
February 16-17. As one of the Guests of
Honour he will give an individual talk
and participate in the main panel with
Steph Swainston, Richard Morgan, Pe-
ter F. Hamilton and Jaine Fenn. For
more information, and to register your
attendance, visit icsf.org.uk/picocon
This is a picture caption right here
in this very box that is in the pic
A lighter-hearted magical sequel
Courtney Williams Writer
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
30

