MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
31
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
t the end of last year I
tried to put together a
mixtape containing my
favourite tunes of 2012.
But I couldn’t do it. My
iTunes library just didn’t do 2012 jus-
tice, and this got me wondering why
that was. It’s not that I’ve gone ‘cold’
on new music; I’m probably listening
to more than ever, just in a diﬀerent
way. Two or three years ago I was
ﬁnding music on blogs then heading
to megaupload for a bit of socially
acceptable thievery. Perhaps a com-
bination of the internet federales’
crackdown on the Kim Dotcoms of
this world and my paid subscription
to Spotify, but I pretty much stopped
downloading music.
Now, however, I realise that it’s the
humble wireless (or the 21st Century
equivalent: BBC iPlayer) that’s been
holding my musical attention. In a
world where technologies and ways
of consuming media are born, blow
AMS album of the week
Unknown Mortal Orchestra’s self-ti-
tled 2011 debut album did a great job of
soundtracking my Freshers’ Week with its
warm fuzzy tones. I’m now midway through
my second year, and UMO have returned
with an album that is fresh yet nostalgic.
Quite a few of its songs offer more than just
a nod to the psychedelic rock of the 1960s,
whilst dealing with themes of withdrawal
and isolation.
Album opener and absolute cracker ‘From the Sun’ begins as a mellow gui-
tar ditty with lovely harmonies you’d expect from the likes of Grizzly Bear,
and ends as a punchy foot-stomper, with vocalist and songwriter Ruban Niel-
son crooning throughout with the wisdom of someone that’s spent a bit too
much time indoors.
I’d be tempted to say this album is written with more of a band set-up in
mind than the first, but I’ve seen them perform the latter and it was pretty
fuggin’ great.
Another treat for the ears is the soul laden ‘So Good at Being in Trouble’,
with one of the best vocal melodies I’ve heard in a long (sad, lonely) time.
‘Swim and Sleep (Like a Shark)’ is as cute and playful as the name suggests.
Despite the lack of complicated instrumentation, there’s no “stripped back”
feeling, rather a charm that is super effective at showcasing the excellent
songwriting.
My main gripe with this album, if I had to have one, is that some of it
sounds suspiciously similar to the debut. I’m not saying artists have to be in
a constant state of reinvention, but two and a half years is not long enough
to have plausibly forgotten and rediscovered one of your own basslines. One
thing I feel obliged to point out is that the track ‘Faded in the Morning’ runs
4:20 minutes long. Yeahhh…
I thoroughly recommend this album for pretty much everyone, even if you
rolled your eyes at the very name of this segment. It is an unpretentious, una-
bashed, psyche-funk-indie-rock corker.
LongLivetheRadioStar
Simon Hunter on why radio is still as relevant as ever
up and become obsolete within years,
the fact that radio is as relevant today
as it was almost a century ago is quite
staggering. 90% of the population
listen to the radio every week and,
on average, those listeners absorb a
whopping 22 hours of music, news
and Nick Grimshaw’s drivel. Digital
radio and the internet have made it
all the easier to avoid Scott Mills and
ﬁnd something you actually want to
listen to, and now almost 20% of us
are using our mobile phones to tune
in as well.
The BBC’s continual evolution with
the times is laudable. For such a large,
stuﬀy corporation it would have been
easy for them to plough all their re-
sources into daytime Radio 1 for the
kids and Radio 2 for the grown-ups.
But the Beeb 1’s musical ﬁnger is
dead on the pulse of the dance mu-
sic scene here in the UK with Benji B
and new-recruit Jackmaster getting
serious airtime. In fact Gilles Pe-
terson’s departure from the station
was a blessing in disguise as he now
resides over on 6 Music where he is
given 3 hours, every Saturday, to spin
the ﬁnest cuts from all worldly gen-
res. And let’s not forget Pete Tong
and The Esssssential Mix – undoubt-
edly the most respected DJ mix series
in the world. As for 6 Music, the qual-
ity they chuck out never fails to blow
my mind, but I’ll not go on about that
here - for one I’ll sound like one of
those pretentious types who believe
they saved the station from closure
by ticking an online petition. I mean,
I did that, but no one wants to sound
like that...
But more than the BBC’s continual
relevance, it’s the Rinse FMs and Boil-
er Rooms of the radio world that are
pushing the boundaries of what radio
is, as well as bringing music out from
the underground. Rinse FM has been
around for almost two decades now,
broadcasting for 16 of those years as
a pirate station. The sheer tenacity of
keeping a pirate station broadcasting
for that period of time is hugely im-
pressive. And were it not for the ef-
forts of the dedicated DJs and geezers
who let them use their bedrooms to
broadcast from, the likes of Grime
and Dubstep probably wouldn’t be
the forces that they are today. In 2010
Rinse ﬁnally got the appreciation it
deserved and was given a license to
broadcast on 106.8 FM.
My ﬁnal tribute to radio is aimed
at the Boiler Room. The online sta-
tion’s climb, starting with a few lads
DJing to each other in a grimy Lon-
don room three years ago, to a world-
wide radio/podcast/party behemoth
is almost incomprehensible. A couple
of years ago you’d look forward to
Tuesday night to see which London
DJ would be spinning to roughly one
hundred privileged guests and a few
thousand online listeners. Now, a
diﬀerent party is held almost every
night in Berlin, Los Angeles, Syd-
ney, New York or London, and all are
streamed right to your living room,
blurring the boundaries of radio, TV
and the club.
I’ve obviously only talked about my
thoughts on the state of radio in the
areas of music that I love. No doubt
many of you have diﬀering opinions
and experiences (hell, write a piece
and send it in), but to me radio is the
most important source of music –
both new and old – around. And all
this ninety years after the ﬁrst enter-
tainment radio station started broad-
casting in Britain.
Grouper’sGhostlyMaritimeExplorations
Berlin-based record label PAN have a
tough act to follow this year given the
strength of the line up curated by label
owner Bill Kouligas in 2012. Releases
such as those from Lee Gamble, Heat-
sick,andHelm,amongstothers,received
widespread critical acclaim for their cut-
ting edge visions of contemporary ex-
perimental electronic music, making fre-
quent appearances on the “Best of 2012”
lists of critics and artists alike. Given the
hitherto unfaltering creative vision of the
label it should not come as too much of
a surprise that PAN’s ﬁrst release of 2013
charts yet another high-water mark on
their continued upward trajectory.
Commercial Mouth, is the debut LP of
Greek sound-collagist Jar Moﬀ, whose
unique strain of plunderphonics and
tape manipulation is a natural ﬁt for
PAN alongside labelmates Joseph Ham-
mer, Jason Lescalleet, and Ghédalia
Tazartès. While Moﬀ’s process may be
similar to that of some of his colleagues,
the results are uniquely refreshing. Rare-
ly letting his source material give away
its identity, he instead tears samples into
tinyfragmentsandpiecesthembackinto
something wholly unrecognisable, never
relying on the cliché of using samples as
ironic cultural references. The source
material that astute listeners have man-
aged to identify include excerpts from
composer Michel Chion’s Requiem and
experimental duo Musique Concret’s
‘Bringing Up Baby’
, works of musique
concrète that themselves have already
been pieced together from a myriad of
acousmatic sounds. Moﬀ mercilessly
disassembles them again, looping, dis-
torting, and heavily layering his sam-
ples with artful precision. The result is
two exceptionally strong twelve minute
sides, unrelenting, seething maelstroms
of samples. New noises constantly spring
to the foreground and themes assemble
themselves organically, just barely ﬂour-
ishing before being submerged under
fresh waves of sound.
On the A-side, ‘Tziaitzomanasou’
, a
rhythmic basis is provided in places by
a series of clattering mechanical loops
over which all manner of samples tum-
ble endlessly, including what can only
be described as sci-ﬁ ﬁlm sound eﬀects.
Moﬀ’ssparinguseofrhythmicloopsgive
the listener some orientation in what
would otherwise be fairly unnavigable
territory and unlike some of his earlier
demo work he never resorts to a bland
drum machine palette to provide this,
rather favouring the organic nature of
concrètesounds.ThetitletrackontheB-
side is a slightly darker aﬀair. Beginning
with what sounds like a spectacularly
malfunctioning machine, layered snip-
pets of Ayler-esque saxophone improvi-
sation brieﬂy burst forth before being
Matt Earnshaw Writer
engulfed by exhilarating, nightmarish
splinters of acousmatic found-sound,
which no extended metaphor can do
adequate justice, but that will assuredly
leave your head spinning even when the
record has stopped.
To coincide with the release of Com-
mercial Mouth, Moﬀ’s 2011 single ‘Vidv’
was re-issued on CD (albeit as a highly
limited edition of thirty ﬁve, so read-
ers will be best oﬀ pursuing it as a free
download on leavingrecords.com where
it is listed under the title Vid-R). ‘Vidv’
runs in much the same vein as the Com-
mercial Mouth material with a near
danceablepsychedelicopeningsequence
giving way to the trademark disorienting
sound collage technique that he went on
to perfect on the new material. Although
it doesn’t quite reach the same levels of
intensity as the Commercial Mouth cuts,
it is still a worthy morsel that should go
some way towards satiating the inevita-
blepostprandialappetiteforMoﬀ’swork
that you’ll work up whilst digesting the
brilliant Commercial Mouth. All eyes
are on PAN’s next move in anticipation
of what underground gem Kouligas will
unearth next.
Unknown Mortal Orchestra: II
A
Yasmin Malik

