FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32 FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
“The great and glorious g
John Park Film Editor
Once upon a time there was a man
named Alfred Hitchcock (Hopkins)
and he was as huge hit in Hollywood.
Many of his pictures were critically
acclaimed and considerable ﬁnan-
cial success stories, with audiences
worldwide entertained with his sus-
penseful movies. The year is 1959,
and the English director is enjoying
the immense hit of his latest, North
by Northwest. Aged 60, is it time for
him to retire whilst he’s ahead? A
reporter asks. Never; as he is never
ﬁnished exploring his artistic daring.
With the bar set this high now, an-
ticipation builds on what will become
his next project. After a long period
of searching for something he feels is
exactly right, he settles on the story
based on serial killer Ed Gein (Mi-
chael Wincott), who used to skin his
victims. And of course, a ﬁlm titled
Psycho has boardroom executives
and censors troubled with its poten-
tially bold, oﬀensive content.
“Hitch” (his preferred nickname:
“Just Hitch, hold the cock”) has a lot
of persuading and convincing to do
since everyone is appalled by the idea
of having a vicious mother-loving se-
rial killer roam about on the screen
murdering someone taking a shower.
Will there be nudity? Hitch insists
there won’t be. Since the actress will
be wearing a shower cap. The Mo-
tion Picture Production Code is nei-
ther impressed nor amused. His wife
Alma Reville (Mirren) isn’t keen on
the idea at ﬁrst, but eventually warms
to the concept, fulﬁlling the role of
an ever-dutiful wife who supports her
husband no matter what. It’s even her
idea to have the leading lady killed oﬀ
in the ﬁrst thirty minutes.
The next hurdle comes in trying
to secure funding for the ﬁlm. Para-
mount, his usual collaborating com-
pany, respectfully declines to oﬀer up
the budget. Hitch, owning quite the
fortune himself thanks to his previ-
ous successes, decides to self-ﬁnance
the production: that’s how much he
believes in the screenplay. Alma is
obviously weary of Hitch’s big spend,
but again, supports him by having
to cut back on their usual expenses.
She must also tread carefully when a
close friend of hers, Whitﬁeld Cook
(Huston), insists on Alma having a
read of his new script.
Now the casting: Grace Kelly, now
Her Serene Highness the Princess
of Monaco, is completely oﬀ limits,
much to Hitch’s dismay. So he goes
on to Janet Leigh (Johansson), Vera
Miles (Biel), and as for the titular Psy-
cho role, the nervous, shy and timid
Anthony Perkins (D’Arcy) seems to
ﬁt the part, an excellent ﬁnd Alma
manages to pick from a rather large
pile of resumes.
So the events leading up to the
actual production seem interesting
enough. We wonder just how much
of a tough time Hitch will face, whilst
directing his passion project. But
when it comes to actually showing
the audiences the process of ﬁlming
Psycho, we are treated to very little
insight, if at all. Hitchcock is more
interested in what eﬀects the ﬁlm-
ing had on the relationship between
the director and his wife. Aside from
a brief scene that shows how the in-
famous “shower scene” came into
existence, we very rarely visit the
set, let alone spend any time with
the actors in front of Hitch’s cam-
eras. Johansson, Biel and D’Arcy all
resemble their real-life counterparts
and have a good crack at acting the
actors’ parts, but their performances
are so brief that very little ends up of
any use.
The ﬁlm also wants to explore the
psychology behind Hitch’s attach-
ment to the original material of the
production. We are intermittently
shown Ed Gein at various stages of
his life. We see Hitch visualising the
serial killer’s behaviour. Developing
this to strangers territories, we also
see Hitch conversing with his “in-
spiration.” These scenes hardly ever
work, since it is never really depicted
just what lesson the director took
away from studying his character in
so much depth. So he makes a ﬁlm
that causes impact and its fair share
of scandals. But how he goes about
bringing everything together is never
clearly addressed and therefore it all
ends up looking a bit tame for its sub-
ject matter.
But yes, we do see the eccentric and
quite possibly disturbingly perverted
side of Hitch. He likes to stare at peo-
ple through his window. He likes to
stare at Vera Miles changing through
a peep-hole. He cannot take his eyes
of Janet Leigh. And he’s hardly ever
apologetic for his actions, even when
directly in front of his wife. This
does naturally cause some tension
in his marriage. It’s not the ﬁrst time
something like this has happened.
The famous Hitchcock blondes are
the subject of his obsessive desire it
seems, and Alma’s put up with them
for years. With the added pressure of
some tough hoops to jump through,
it’s only a matter of time until the two
of them face oﬀ head-to-head.
And in these iconic roles, the two
veterans are simply outstanding.
Hopkins is full of odd qualities and
is utterly brilliant in delivering his
slow, deadpan, shock humour. With
his awkward posture and gait, he
truly transforms into the master of
suspense and there is no denying
that Hopkins’ portrayal is a fun, end-
lessly watchable one. Equally brilliant
is Mirren, who is full of command-
ing energy, love and wisdom as the
behind-the-scenes guide of her hus-
band. (“I celebrate with you when the
reviews are good, I cry for you when
they are bad”) Her frustrations are
entirely understandable, and she very
rarely masks her feelings. She too has
the tendency to speak her mind and
Mirren, who has never had a problem
with the dramatics, puts everything
she has into the more wordy scenes.
“I put up with those people who look
through me as if I were invisible be-
cause all they can see is the great and
glorious genius, Alfred Hitchcock”
says Alma, with bitter disdain when
Hitch dares to accuse her of not sup-
porting his work enough.
Once the ﬁlm is eventually ﬁnished
with the collaborative eﬀort between
the spouses, the result is an unex-
pected one, and despite the hurdles,
Hitchcock has once again directed
a classic that shocks us even to this
day. His legacy lives on, and for good
reason. And here is a ﬁlm that tells us
he had undying encouragement and
help from perhaps the most impor-
tant woman in his life. “I will never
ﬁnd a Hitchcock blonde as beautiful
as you,” says he, “Oh, Hitch. I’ve wait-
ed thirty years to hear you say that.”
“That, my dear, is why they call me
the Master of Suspense.” How sweet.
Hitchcock
Director: Sacha Gervasi
Screenwriters: John J. McLaughlin,
Stephen Rebello (book)
Starring: Anthony Hopkins, Helen
Mirren, Danny Huston, Scarlett
Johansson, Jessica Biel, James D’Arcy
When a hall senior tries to have sex with you...
What on Earth is that around her neck?

