FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
genius, Alfred Hitchcock”
John Park Film Editor
The Girl
Director: Julian Jarrold
Screenwriters: Gwyneth Hughes,
Donald Spoto
Starring: Toby Jones, Sienna Miller,
Penelope Wilton, Imelda Staunton
Tippi Hedren is not in the least bit
inhibited when it comes to talking
about the relationship she had with
director Alfred Hitchcock. Starring
in two of his ﬁlms The Birds and
Marnie, Hedren got the ﬁrst-hand
experience of the eccentric direc-
tor, and claims she was subjected to
continuous harsh, unfair treatment
and cruelty under a genius, brilliant
director who had a rather unhealthy
obsession for the rising starlet. These
claims, of course, come years after
his death, after Hedren spoke warmly
of the director whilst he was receiv-
ing his American Film Institute’s
Lifetime Achievement Award, claims
that have also been refuted by other
actresses (Kim Novak, Eva Marie
Saint) who had also worked closely
with him. So the degree of authen-
ticity of her accusations is diﬃcult
to judge no doubt, but there is also a
believable amount of substance here
to make for a potentially intriguing
movie. That there were no sexual
harassment laws back in the day to
protect working actresses supposedly
prevented Hedren from taking much
action. And here is what should be
described as a partially ﬁctionalised
account of how Hedren became but
ultimately declined the role of be-
coming Hitchcock’s next “Girl.”
Hedren (Miller) is barely starting
out in the industry when she catch-
es the eyes of Hitchcock (Jones) and
he is immediately captivated by her
looks and her potential to become the
next big star in his ﬁlms. Her screen-
test is successful, and her overnight
stardom appears to be well underway.
And despite her very limited experi-
ence in the acting industry (she had
a successful modelling career prior
to this move), Hitchcock personally
takes her under his wing, with the
young beauty experiencing all sorts
of glittering beneﬁts of being tied to
one of the most inﬂuential ﬁgures in
Hollywood. But it becomes all too
clear soon enough that his interest
in her is not entirely an innocent one.
As Hitchcock’s infatuation moves
past the long stares, he swiftly de-
cides to quite literally throw him-
self onto the vulnerable actress. She
manages to fend him oﬀ when he
puts his predatory moves on her in a
car, an action that deeply upsets and
troubles her. But with a daughter to
support, her chance to become a big
star, and also at the kindly advice of
Hitchcock’s secretary Peggy Robert-
son (Wilton), she decides to forget
about the incident and soldier on. A
small sacriﬁce to pay it seems, for a
guaranteed future. But his approach
becomes more and more direct as
time goes by, and becomes challeng-
ing to cope with. He even tells her
directly that in exchange for being
under exclusive contract with the
director, she needs to obey his com-
mands. It all seems ludicrously one-
sided but hey, Tippi Hedren insists
things like this were commonplace in
the ﬁlm industry back in the day.
With repeated rejections Hitch-
cock resorts to even sneakier, slier
and more despicable methods to get
back at his young blonde obsession.
The ﬁlm in production, The Birds, re-
quires its lead actress, Hedren, to be
attacked repeatedly by vicious birds.
And Hedren is given assurance that
these birds will be mechanical and
that the set will be a safe environ-
ment. So imagine her surprise when
she discovers that real birds in cages
are being prepped to be set free to
ﬂy all over the actress. Even worse,
Hitchcock requests for several days
of the same take, leaving Hedren ex-
hausted and traumatised. Not getting
what he wants, he resorts to bullying
her, physically and emotionally.
Played by the steely determined
Miller, Hedren was right to be pleased
with the casting of the actress to play
her. She starts oﬀ as the innocent
and naïve woman whose dream has
come true thanks to a timely Diet
Coke advert, but her quiet, persistent
strength shows in her necessary cold-
ness towards her legendary director,
fearing the possibility of an end to
her short-lived career, but also hold-
ing onto her dignity. She possesses
the beauty and icy glamour of the
actress in the 1960s, and comfortably
settles into the lavish background at-
mosphere that has been impeccably
set up for her by the technical team.
For someone portrayed in such a
negative light, Jones tries to bring out
as much sympathy in his character
as possible. Essentially his character
boils down to being a sex-crazed ma-
niac who pines for his leading ladies;
inappropriately and relentlessly pur-
suing relationships with them. And
yet there is almost a child-like fas-
cination and curiosity in his eyes as
he never gives up chasing the things
he cannot have. His interactions with
his wife Alma (Staunton) are brieﬂy
glossed over, and a sub-plot involves
how the long-suﬀering wife decides
to take oﬀ for a few days after a par-
ticularly bad episode in their mar-
riage; this is when he realises that in
fact, without his wife, his life is quite
meaningless. It is in these brief mo-
ments of weaknesses that the audi-
ence can feel sympathy towards the
otherwise very much unlikable direc-
tor. The feeling never lasts long, but
those scenes to come.
It all sets up to become a nice lit-
tle piece of television soap drama set
in the 60s, where we would also get
the recreation of some of the famous
scenes of Hitchcock’s fascinating The
Birds. The main problem here, how-
ever, is quite simply how lifeless and
dull everything feels. The ﬁlm has al-
ready done a tremendous job in ﬁnd-
ing the right cast members to play
the big names, but when it comes to
telling the story, it feels muddled and
confused, never quite establishing a
convincing enough link between its
characters. It feels oddly detached,
and moves at such a dreary pace that
it becomes diﬃcult to maintain any
sense of serious drama or any tension
in the narrative. It’s a relatively short
ﬁlm too, and yet it still struggles to
engage with the viewers on any level.
Forget about the one-sided view
argument. Yes, we’ll probably never
know the real truth behind what
actually happened on the sets and
what Hitchcock’s true motivations
and desires were, but this still could
have made for a fun, trashy television
movie. The Girl doesn’t even come
close to being that. Instead what we
have here is a ﬁlm more interested
in relishing in its artistic side, trying
to make everything look pretty and
authentic. And on that front the ﬁlm
succeeds – but it’s a real shame that
style takes over substance a few too
many times to tell a coherent story.
The Girl is available on DVD.
My vibrator has a light on it
L, is for the way you look at me...!

