It’s time to partner up
Ross Webster asks“Willyoubemyplayer2?”
ove is in the air. At least, I
think that’s what the smell
is. Whether you’re in the
mood for romance, bro-
mance, an XX-only party,
or a takeaway for one, this duo of Fe-
lix’s current go-to co-op games will
get your pulse racing this Valentine’s
Day. And if you don’t have a special
someone/something close to your
heart, we’ll always have each other the
internet.
Unsurprisingly, the sequel to the 2005
tactical shooter Sniper Elite, Sniper
Elite V2 sees you ripping your way
through Berlin, and anyone who looks
at you slightly odd. The campaign co-
op plays as you would expect – both
players are identical in gameplay
terms. You’ll look diﬀerent, and you
can choose diﬀerent weapon loadouts
at the start of each mission, but that’s
about as far as your individuality gets.
That being said, the co-op playth-
rough of the game with the people
in the Felix oﬃce couldn’t exactly be
called ‘stealthy’, so it seems like quite
a diﬀerent game, when compared to
the solo campaign. We found it much
easier just to run around and snipe
everyone, with no care being put into
hiding bodies. There’s no reward for
being unnoticed, so we never really
bothered.
As a team, your goal is to halt the
work on the V2 rocket project, by
placing bullets in the heads of those
who helped create the weapons. The
levels feel open at times, with large
areas to make your way through, yet
at other points, it just feels like you’re
being bottlenecked, ready for the next
trap. We tried to have one player act
as a runner, and another one provid-
ing covering ﬁre, but it’s not long till
you reach a point where you need
both players together, so that plan falls
apart quickly. Use Overwatch for that.
With hidden Nazi gold and well...
wine bottles, there’s a bit of replay-
ability, but the sole attraction of this
game is not just the co-op campaign.
There is a variety of non-storyline
modes that are great for you and your
plus-one. There are three extra modes
– Overwatch, Bombing Run and Kill
Tally. Overwatch sees two diﬀerent
roles for the players – one player is
a sniper, and the other is a riﬂe-less
runner, who has to make their way
through the piles of bodies to get
plans/set bombs/mark targets – you
get the idea. This is the one-and-only
game mode where you can’t revive the
other player, which actually makes you
depend on your partner a lot more.
Secondly, Bombing Run has the two
of you running through ruins trying to
repair an escape vehicle, before your
timer runs out and you are blown to
pieces in a bombing run. The third and
ﬁnal mode – Kill Tally, is your run of
the mill horde mode.
I would say the main gimmick of
the game is the slew of slow-motion
videos you get when you head-shot
an enemy, (even slower motion when
you hit the fuel cap of a tank, or a wine
bottle), but that kinda implies that it
gets boring after a while, and I don’t
think it does. Thankfully, both players
only share slow-motion kills when it’s
something big, so your partner can
continue covering the walls of Berlin
with knee-originating blood-spatter,
whilst you enjoy getting those sweet,
sweet headshots.
You don’t have to aim for body parts
either, to get the most bang-per-bul-
let. Aiming at the grenades on your
target’s belts always leads to a satisfy-
ing explosion, and can save ammo if
it’s scarce.
The graphics are great (and don’t
seem taxing on average computer
hardware) as is the audio and music,
so I’ve no quibbles there. One thing I
will question, however, is the choice of
the overused over-the-shoulder cam-
era view. I think we would prefer to
play this as an FPS, as the controls can
feel a little ‘clunky’ as they current are.
The game is currently out on Steam
(£29.99), PS3 and 360, so if you fancy
a night in, taking people out, then I’d
highly recommend this game.
L
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
Valentine’s Day: The Heist
Ross Webster
Keeps his money
under his mattress
Nothing says “I love you” more than
robbing a bank together. Even if it’s
four guys with a fetish for masks and
gold.
In Payday: The Heist your ﬁne self,
and up to three other humans/A.I.s
aim to steal as much money as you
can, whilst under the imminent threat
of being tazed in the groin. You’re not
really the bad guys in all this though,
as you’re not just going for banks, but
you’re more often tasked with stealing
money gained through illegal means.
Think of yourselves as a modern Robin
Hood and his band of merry miscre-
ants, as you don’t give the money to the
poor afterwards (unless you include
yourselves).
Teamwork is key in this game, along
with communication. The levels will
see the team separated as the drills/
circular saws/computers have jammed
or crashed at the most inopportune
times, and on opposite sides of the
map, so you need to be able to trust
each other.
What I love about Payday, is that the
games are pseudo-random, and that
the diﬃculty curve is punishing. For
example, in one mission, you’ll have
a limo dropped onto a roof. However,
there’s a good chance that it’ll break
through the ceiling and fall down a
stairwell, stopping at any ﬂoor. En-
emies can spawn from random loca-
tions around this randomly-located
car, so it’s tough to get a strategy that
works everytime. Overkill (the highest
diﬃculty that most people will encoun-
ter) alters parts of the level sometimes
– possibly ﬁlling a once-safe room with
timed explosives that’ll turn you into
pink mist if you’re not fast enough.
There’s a simple levelling system,
where you don’t use experience for
improving your equipment, but cold,
hard cash. Headshots etc. won’t give
you more points, but it’ll mean you
actually get to live long enough to pos-
sibly ﬁnish the level. There are three
(four if you get the Wolf Pack DLC) dif-
ferent unlock routes – assault, sharp-
shooter, support (and technician, with
the DLC). Any time during a mission,
you can change which path you’re on,
and when you pick up enough money
to increase your reputation level, you
get the unlock from that class. The
path you travel has no impact on your
gameplay, and due to some upgrades
being locked until you reach a certain
level, it’s impossible to simply expand
along one tree – you need to diversify.
With this system, until you’re at the
highest levels, there’s a good chance
your team will all have slightly diﬀer-
ent unlocks.
Your enemy in this game is the po-
lice, in all it’s shapes and forms. The
enemies will dribble in, until there’s
Aim for the heart... and try not to miss
an assault, when you’ll be swamped
by unlimited enemies until the timer
runs out. Just like L4D2 (there’s a lot
of inter-weaving of the two universes,
I won’t spoil much) there are special
cops – some with tazers, riot shields,
snipers and the dreaded bulldozer,
more aﬀectionately known as ‘that
goddamn astronaut guy’, so it’s not al-
ways a one-sided slaughter of cops.
Stealth isn’t needed in this game, but
it helps. There’s one mission where you
can ﬁnish without anyone even notic-
ing you there, whilst on others, the po-
lice are going to turn up at a set time,
and you can’t stop it from happening.
If there is one modern game that I
would have to tout as having the larg-
est replayability value, this game would
be one of the top contenders. Just a few
months ago, a team managed to ﬁnd a
massive hidden vault in the ﬁrst level
– it took months of research and work
to complete the puzzles needed to
reach the ﬁnal vault. Payday 2 is in the
works, and it should be a great game
if they follow the same recipe – I have
only one request – give a versus mode,
where humans can play as the special
cops, trying to stop the heisters.
He’s gonna have to see
an... um... *flips pages*
“osteopath” after that.
Man, this dictionary
thing sure is fun!
Games Editor’s note – the Felix Games
team takes no responsibilty for broken
hearts, poisoned meals, cakes which
turned out to be lies, or wine bottles
which suddenly make the world go in
slow motion.
I could make a joke
about the only real
thieves being the
bankers, but that’d
be unfair. Oh, wait...
Enough gold to
reach rep level 2?
Time to grind
36

