GAMES
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY 37
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
As a physicist there is something about
making particles swirl round and mak-
ing pretty pictures from the results
which I totally get deep down inside my
soul. Auditorium HD is a game about
directing a stream of coloured particles
into audio containers. These audio con-
tainers light up when suﬃcient parti-
cles of the correct colour touch them,
adding a new instrument or phrase
into the mix progressively unlocking
what are often beautifully atmospheric
tracks. To achieve this each level gives
you a wide variety of tools, including
splitters, black holes, coloured bubbles
that change the colour of particles and
accelerators amongst others.
The ﬁrst thing you notice is the in-
credible start up loading time. It takes
at least 5 minutes to get into game
from PS3 on to swirling them beams.
This is far too long for a puzzle game,
a genre best suited to 5-10 minute
bursts when you have nothing else to
do. Everything else from there on out
is instantaneous, which evens out over
a long play session where the initial
loading time isn’t 50% of the time you
have to play it.
Auditorium ﬁrst saw the light as a
ﬂash-based game on the PC before
moving on to great success as an iOS
game. Soon after it was ported to PS3
as Auditorium HD and this is the ver-
sion I am reviewing. Whilst I think the
fundamentals of a puzzler of this type
are more suited to iOS the PS3 version
does have some deﬁnite positives.
Dual analog control allows precise
location movements and concurrent
resizing of the tools, this would be dif-
ﬁcult to do both at once in a precise
manner by touch or mouse. I can also
imagine getting the various pieces in
the perfect position to be much more
diﬃcult when your thumb is obscur-
ing a signiﬁcant portion of the screen,
especially as some of the harder levels
require pixel-level precision.
Most of the time, Auditorium is suc-
cessful at invoking that ‘I am such a ge-
nius!’ level of elation that the best puz-
zle games are capable of summoning.
Sadly, some of the harder levels can
dissolve into a tedious trial and error
process: changing the location and size
of each component by a pixel at a time
to ensure the beam goes in exactly
the right direction. I found the swirly-
attractor tools were the worst for this.
My tactics with these quickly become
‘make it bigger to catch more and hope
the resulting mad swirl touches the
right things’. And if that failed I moved
it a pixel to the right. They look good in
action though.
The music is a core part of the game
(wouldn’t have guessed by the name)
and it is generally fantastic in an at-
mospheric kind of way. The ‘Clas-
sic’ tracks are often a twinkly piano
and accompanying violin producing
an almost melancholic feeling. The
Louis Gall Risk Jockey
I feared this would happen. It was
foretold by an ancient Mayan calen-
dar, and Nostradamus mentioned it
somewhere. It’s a simulator game that
I like, and won’t take the mickey out
of. Much.
From the studio that brought us
Euro Truck Simulator (numbers 1 and
2), Trucks & Trailers has you in the
shoes of a trucker. Your job: to navi-
gate your way through loading depots,
various car parks and rest stops. It’s
nowhere near as easy as I thought it
would be. Why? You have no control
over the trailer you’re hauling around
the place. This suddenly makes the
game interesting, when reversing your
truck doesn’t do what you want it to.
Don’t let me get started on parallel
parking either.
There’s a smorgasbord of missions,
and you can get 4 rankings – gold, sil-
ver, bronze, and completed for each
one. You can only get a medal if you
ﬁnish the mission without your cab or
trailer hitting anything, however. As
per usual, the shininess of your medal
is dictated by the swiftness of your
parking.
Everything seems simple, but then
you’ve got to navigate the other vehi-
cles/obstacles in the area, as well as
take the actual size of the compound
‘Modern’ songs display greater vari-
ety, though sometimes it can feel like
they just replaced the piano with a
keyboard and the violins with a synth.
Each piece is broken up into 4-7 levels;
each level forms a movement of the
overall track until you have unlocked
the entire song.
However there is quite a jarring
problem lurking beneath this level
structure. Namely, when you get stuck
on a level and are unable to light up
that last phrase to complete a piece.
The resulting ten minute looping of a
half-complete song can become very
annoying. These diﬃculty spikes come
out of nowhere too, as the game is not
a progression but isolated individual
tracks, though generally these go from
easy to hard through their own levels.
Loud and clear: Auditorium HD
Keep rollin’ rollin’ rollin’
Ross Webster Bad mother-trucker into account. The controls are great,
and unlike other driving simulators I
can mention (I’m looking at you, Bus
and Cable Car Simulator: San Francis-
co) not every button on your keyboard
does something. For example, I’m not
going to be driving along and then ac-
cidentally open the doors on the side
of the bus, and spill my ﬂeshy contents
onto the sidewalk (American game,
American lingo). The worst I can end
up doing is unlocking the trailer and
having it slide along the ground, ready
for me to pick it up again.
There are a couple of things that I
think are a bit of a shame – you start
the game with all the trucks/cabins
unlocked. I feel that there should be
something to work towards – I’m still
going to be wasting my time trying to
get the gold medals on everything, but
why not be rewarded by more trucks
(or maybe decals and extras. I wanna
pimp up my cabin with a Hello Kitty
sprayed on the side, and a little wob-
bling hula-girl on my dashboard)?
Graphics-wise, the game looks ﬁne
for a year-and-a-bit old game, and the
audio’s rather simple but realistic (not
that I’d expect much else from a driv-
ing sim). I managed to crank video set-
tings up to their max, keeping a steady
frame rate, so no worries there.
A solid buy, if you’re into... haulage..
Urge to shoot large
tanker... increasing...
I’d like to see the Large
Hadron Collider do this!
Promising screen-
shot of the week
The DayZ Stand(s)alone
That’s right! We’ve now seen footage of the DayZ standalone, and some of the
great work that’s gone into it – proper scavenging for loot, swampy areas of
Chernarus, clothes that aren’t just onesies, and real clouds... Unsurprisingly,
this video stoked the fandom for the game, and prodded at that sore bit, left
over from the chafing departure of WarZ.
Got a screenshot of your CoD scoreboard after a killing spree? Cosplay fails?
Rage quitters? Xbox on fire? Too many question marks???¿
Send ‘em in! - games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

