TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ack in the early days
of mobile electronics,
a BlackBerry phone
was the thing to have.
The ﬁrst true smart-
phone, BlackBerry (formerly known
as RIM), was the ﬁrst company to
really attempt to make a really port-
able computer. With the miniature
keyboard, BBM, Mail services etc, it
really was a success in the corporate
market, as well as with the general
consumer. However with the advent
of the touchscreen based smart-
phone, BlackBerry failed to keep up
with the market. In fact over the last
5 years their stock has shed more
than 90% of its value, wiping roughly
70 billion dollars of the value of the
company. They have released several
failures, most notably the Playbook
and in general have been making
losses the last few quarters. Even
their core business, the corporations
and governments have started to
drop them in favour of Apple, An-
droid and Microsoft.
Now after a long delay, the lauded
saviour of the company, BlackBerry
10 has been released (30th of Jan). A
complete overhaul from the previ-
ous OS based on the software of the
company QNX software systems, it
has the job of save the failing Cana-
dian tech company. Available for all
future BlackBerry devices, as well
as the Playbook Tablets, hopefully
allowing them to achieve their full
potential. This OS released with the
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
38
B
Z10 phone, which has no physical
“home button”, means this OS is very
gestured reliant. If BlackBerry decide
to license (a ﬁrst for the company)
BB10 to other companies, this may
or not aﬀect if those devices have
physical buttons. The vast major-
ity of actions are taken care of with
swipes and ﬂicks, with the tech gi-
ant having called this “feature” Flow.
While certainly innovative, it is a bit
of a steep learning curve for those of
us who like the occasional button on
their phones. The standout features
of BB10 include “Active Frames”,
similar to Windows 8 tiles, where a
“preview” of the app with live info is
displayed, as well as “peek”, a window
with all your notiﬁcations which is
in fact seems very similar to the no-
tiﬁcations centre in iOS. There are
several other features, including a
brand new Camera app, browser and
new BBM. However all these things
don’t really feel new, as most have
been seen either on Android, iOS or
Windows 8. The only thing that re-
ally stands out for me is ﬂow, and I
can’t wait to get a hands-on with that
Crackberry or Crapberry?
Maximilian Eggl looks at the fortunes of a different fruity company
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date
with the newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Dell buys...Dell...?
Micheal Dell, founder of the third largest computer manufacturer, is
buying back his own company in a bid to make it competitive again.
Maybe it will actually work!
3 Clicks of Freedom
Recently a report was published, describing how an innocent video
of sesame street on youtube can lead to a rather graphic video of a
woman giving birth. Thus a child can relatively easily access explicit
nudity as well as violence. What we all have to take from this? Sesame
street is bad, M’kay!
New Apple Interface?
Apparently Apple is looking for someone in a job ad to help them completely
redesign Mac OS as well as iOS. With the firing of Scott Forstall, and with
Johnathan Ive in charge we probably will see lots of changes!
Leave-Facebook Syndrome
Facebook data now reveals that two thirds of their users log off for
weeks at a time. Apparently due to them not being able to deal with
the drama of their friends and boredom of general Facebook. While
this may not impact Facebook directly, it might show that this social
network has lost its appeal.
Instagram on the PC
Instagram is not mobile exclusive anymore! For all you who are Instagram ad-
dicts, this is just another way to feed your addiction. For anyone else it doesn’t
really make that much of a difference.
”
saviour of the company, BlackBerry potential. This OS released with the can t wait to get a hands on with that
“
The vast
majority of
actions are
taken care
swipes and
flicks
to see how it works. Lastly concern-
ing the OS, BlackBerry have now
rebranded the app store, calling it
BlackBerry World. This store now
has roughly 70,000 apps with more
coming every day due to the tech
company’s increased encourage-
ment in making apps for BB10 (e.g.
Portathons for developers)
As well as releasing a new operat-
ing system, they released two new
devices, the Z10 a full touchscreen
phone as well as the Q10, which
remains in line design-wise like its
predecessors. The Z10 looks like a
beautiful phone, with a powerful
processor and generally good specs.
However, I do agree with some crit-
ics, that although well designed, it
does look similar to most smart-
phones out there. This will make it
harder for the average Joe to pick
it out of the multitude of other de-
vices. However recent sales ﬁgures
in the UK have beaten expectations,
with the white Z10 being sold out
quite rapidly.
The Q10, release date purported
to be mid-2013 on the other hand is
vintage BlackBerry, with its instantly
recognisable keyboard. It also has a
touchscreen, similar to the Storm.
Two new beautiful phones, one ‘new’ and one ‘old’, with some serious specs behind them. Honestly, I wish I had one...
With quite respectable specs, I can
see this phone being quite a hit. All
in all the Z10’s task to attract atten-
tion back to BlackBerry, and get with
the times, while the second is more
of an oﬀer to the corporate world as
well as the hardcore fans.
The big question is if the Canadian
Tech company can slow the descent,
and return to the world stage of the
big phone makers. The delay with the
release BB10 did not help, as expec-
tation of the new products has just
risen as well as pressure on Black-
Berry. The OS does seem promising,
and the two new phones look good
on paper, yet it may be a case of too
little, too late. While some critics
have been praising the bold steps
that BlackBerry are taking, others
are not that optimistic citing a strong
opposition in the smartphone mar-
ket. Investor conﬁdence is very low,
with the stock price sinking immedi-
ately after the new product release.
However things do seem to be on the
up. After the Super Bowl ad (the ﬁrst
in the companies history), the stock
has risen, and the new products have
been quite a success. Could this be
the start of a long and arduous jour-
ney for BlackBerry’s back to the top?

