SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
46
The men’s water polo team are mid-
way through what has already been
our most successful season to date.
This year we found ourselves in the
top division after being promoted last
year, along with Warwick, Oxford and
Cambridge in what some would call
the most intellectual sporting league
in the UK.
After our ﬁrst match however, we
certainly thought much less of War-
wick. Arriving one and a half hours
late for the match, some would be
happy to call it a walkover, but the
Imperial boys were keen to play and
we would not let some incompetent
navigator put us oﬀ. Indeed it was to-
tal annihilation. Due to lateness War-
wick were neglected a warm up and
were forced to jump straight into the
match. They were sluggish in attack
and defence, and Imperial could work
the ball easily around the arc and into
the pit. We were also superior on the
counters, with Andreas and Daniele
taking advantage of their less than
able defence and goalie. Final result
15-3 Imperial, the season ahead was
looking promising.
Up next was an away game at Ox-
ford. We once again had to be sub-
ject to Jackson’s stereotypical, awful
Greek driving – “oh I forgot I had to
stop at red lights, it’s not like being
on my bike”. We made it to Oxford, in
one piece, just. This we knew would
be our hardest game of the league,
and it was a physical, scrappy game.
Daniele played so well in fact he was
wrapped after the 2nd quarter; he
claims he just needed a rest. We were
subject to some very suspicious ref-
ereeing on Oxford’s part, who man-
aged to miss a very clear Imperial
goal, and award an Oxford goal that
very clearly hit the post. Going into
the ﬁnal quarter with a minute left
and 9-10 down, timeout was called
by coach Adam to discuss a play that
could see us get equal. It worked to
perfection and brought the score to
10-10 with less than 40 seconds left.
A strong Oxford attack followed and
they were awarded a penalty for rea-
sons unknown. Of course the Oxford
number 4 smashed it into the back of
the net, bringing the ﬁnal score to a
disappointing 11-10 loss for Imperial.
Special mention has to go out to Brad
Sanders for scoring 6 of our 10 goals,
an almost impossible feat some would
say, but not for Brad. Not forgetting
Andreas too who drove the bus back:
far better than Jackson, but still with
three stalls.
Finally, our deciding match against
Cambridge was played just this last
Sunday. This served as the decider for
who went through to the semis, and it
was either Cambridge or us. This was
to say the least, the most important
match this season. We played a tight
game, with a drop defence to deal
with their tricky centre forward who
whenever got passed the ball found
himself drowned by 3 people. This
worked wonders, save that of one or
two sending outs, and subsequently
only allowed Cambridge to score 2
goals from outﬁeld play. Their third
goal came from a penalty, foolishly
given away by Vincent. Thankfully at
this stage it didn’t matter, as Imperial
were already 6-2 up with 1 minute
to go, after strong oﬀence from Nick
Men’s Water Polo handle their balls right
Alex Simpson Mens Captain Von G, Andrea and Daniele. Daryl
kept things under control in defence
and we dread to think what these
score lines would be if it weren’t for
our ninja goalie Jen Wei.
Imperial have exceeded all expec-
tations this year in the top division
where we are normally relegated
back to division 2. Never have we got
through to the semi-ﬁnals from the
top division before: a historic achieve-
ment for both coach Adam and cap-
tain Alex. We will now probably face
Bristol and Bath, along with Oxford
again in the semis at the University of
Bristol Pools on the weekend of the
9th/10th March. If we’re successful
here it’ll be up to Leeds for the ﬁnals
on the 23rd/24th March. Onwards
and upwards!
On the morning of January 26th,
three Waterpolo girls teams arrived
at Imperial from Nottingham, Nor-
wich and Birmingham for a com-
petitive weekend of games against
three London-based teams. Our own
captain Lil had organized for all the
matches of our BUCS league to take
place on January 26th and 27th at
Ethos, and so we all had to get ready
for playing ﬁve matches in two days.
The Imperial ladies felt reasonably
ﬁt and reasonably conﬁdent of their
ability – although we had quite a few
less substitutes than most of our op-
ponents (especially King’s, whose
team consisted of about 15 players
and 3 poolside supporters).
Imperial played their ﬁrst match
against University of East Anglia,
which was fairly tight and ended in
a 4-4 draw. After a 2-game rest Not-
tingham was easily defeated by 7-2.
This great score made us all highly
enthusiastic. So enthusiastic in fact
that we all jumped into the pool while
the match preceding our next game
was still going on. Of course this was
all our coach Adam’s fault, who had
convinced us that the two teams were
playing the fourth quarter of their
match instead of the third. Fortunate-
... and so do the women!
Adina de Wit Sports Writer
ly this tiny mistake didn’t set us back
too much, as we won from Aston 4-3
in a fairly tight match.
After a successful Saturday every-
one was excited (and yes, a little bit
scared) about the Sunday matches
against King’s and UCL. With the
muscles still tired from the three
battles of the day before we didn’t
manage to get enough goals past the
King’s College goalie and the match
resulted in a 4-3 loss. Four other
games separated us from our ﬁnal
match that was to determine whether
or not we would go through to the
semiﬁnals. The spirits were lifted and
we started oﬀ energetically, but un-
fortunately UCL were too strong for
us and they beat us 5-3.
This means that for us this year’s
BUCS ended after the weekend of the
26th and 27th. We played as well as
we could and the results were better
than some of us had expected before-
hand, so that still makes this result a
success!
The King’s College ladies came in
ﬁrst in our league, and therefore they
will be promoted to the ﬁrst division
for next year. With UCL coming sec-
ond, these two teams will be compet-
ing in the semiﬁnals.
Cap tip to the ladies
No horses were harmed in the making of this photo

