SPORT
47
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Last weekend saw the eagerly antici-
pated UK universities Handball tour-
nament of the year – the Association
of British University Handball Clubs
(ABUHC) University Championships
2013. After winning 3rd place in the
2012 tournament and a dedicated
start to year for the Imperial Eagles
handball club, with weeks of intense
recruiting and months of training,
this tournament was due to show us
just how we compare to the rest of
the UK’s university enthusiasts in this
popular European sport.
The tournament promised to be
the biggest UK tournament so far
with over 600 players from universi-
ties across the UK entering 60 teams
to compete for the much coveted 1st
place trophy. Imperial entered three
teams ,including a womens’ side, and
with this year’s tournament being
held in the Mayesbrook Park training
courts in East London where handball
athletes from across the world trained
for last year’s Olympics, even the lo-
cation held the promise of inspiring
victories for the Eagles.
The ﬁrst day’s play showed a more
than promising start to the tourna-
ment for Imperial Men’s I, with a vic-
tory against every team played, put-
ting them at the top of their group
and easily helping them to qualify for
a place in the quarter-ﬁnals. Sadly, the
Imperial Men’s II and Women’s did
not fair quite so well in the competi-
tion. Due to a lack of players the Men’s
II had to forfeit the entire second day
of play and despite a surprising vic-
tory against Bedford whilst one player
down, Imperial Women did not quali-
fy for a place in the Women’s quarter-
ﬁnals.
The height of excitement for the Im-
perial Eagles Handball Club was seen
in the second day of play during the
Imperial Men’s quarter-ﬁnal match
against sports university side Lough-
borough. With a relentless assault of
goals by star shooter Lucas Carstens,
a solid defence most notably held up
by club president Yannick Seis and an
exceptional level of precision, speed
and execution of team strategy, Im-
perial illustrated exactly what kind
of side they can be and breezed into
their semi-ﬁnal match against Oxford.
Towards the end of the second day
of play however, with energy and con-
centration levels running low the side
ﬁnally began to come undone and lost
their semi-ﬁnal match, a painful turn
of events made even more frustrat-
ing by a win against this very same
ICURFC 3rd XV going uphill against
St. George’s
After a chequered ﬁrst term for Im-
perial College 3rd XV and a great per-
formance resulting in a disappointing
draw against King’s Medics three
weeks ago the social side of ICURFC
wanted to show what they are capable
of and bring home the ﬁrst win this
term. A promising squad featuring
ﬁve new 3rd team players made their
way to Wimbledon RFC this Wednes-
day to face the challenge against St.
George’s 2nd XV were a pitch that
could have been used as a skiing piste
over the last weeks rather than for a
game of rugby welcomed them.
Knowing the importance of the
game new coach James Hayward
led the team through a professional
warm-up integrating the new play-
ers and preparing them for a physical
game. The team seemed to be in good
shape and was switched on from the
start raising hopes for the game.
Alex Leonard kicked oﬀ and Im-
perial chased downhill making
the ﬁrst big tackles that would be
needed throughout the game. From
the start the 3rd XV were dominat-
ing the game hardly playing in their
own half, pushing for the opposing
try line. However, St. George’s de-
fence was tight and the conditions
made it almost impossible to get the
ball wide. At least Jean Casademont,
inside-centre and Frenchman, claims
that this was the reason rather than
the fading trust in his nation’s skills.
25 min in the good work by the
forwards pushing hard against the
opposition led to what IC thought
was their ﬁrst try. Unfortunately the
referee, being a bit too slow to fol-
low Will Griﬃths quick touch down,
didn’t award it and left the team
disappointed. This unrighteousness
only made IC work harder and ﬁve
minutes later ﬂyhalf Alex Leonard
twisted himself through St. George’s
defence like a ballet dancer complet-
ing a full pirouette before putting the
ball on the ground. He did not show
the same elegance but his skills on
the conversion, managing to put IC
0-7 ahead after slipping on the kick.
With the conﬁdence gained the ball
even made it out to the wing, some-
thing rarely seen at 3rd XV perfor-
mances, where Will Cathery showed
good runs and chips in his rugby un-
ion debut for Imperial College. Alas,
the ﬁrst half ended with prop, Alex-
ander Karvelas, coming oﬀ injured
and Edoardo Cavallazi, interim cap-
tain and learned ﬂanker stepping up
to ﬁll the gap.
Imperial came back onto the pitch
highly motivated, knowing that they
would have to keep up the hard work
to control their opposition especially
as they were playing uphill now. The
ﬁrst 20 minutes of the second half
were even with Imperial gaining ter-
ritory but losing the ball in scrums
and lineouts. Especially after Hugh
MacKinnon had to come oﬀ and
Imperial was left with a ﬂanker and
number 8 instead of two props St.
George’s could have been dangerous.
Luckily the team managed to keep up
the intensity and their centre did not
seem too keen to actually pass the
ball. His bright ginger hair made him
easy to spot and the backs stopped
him before he could get anywhere
close to the touch line.
With 15 minutes to go Imperial
were the team in much better shape.
Rob Searle and Tim Harrington mak-
ing good runs on their debut, forcing
the opposition to give away penalty
after penalty bringing the 3s close to
the try line once again. Continuous
oﬀenses by St. George’s forwards re-
sulted in a well-deserved yellow card
for their ﬂanker leaving them with
one man down fur a crucial phase of
the game. A phase in which Imperial
probably wanted to push for a try in-
stead of taking the penalty kick to try
and go 10-0 up... Especially as they
missed the kick. Although there were
only ten minutes left on the clock St.
George’s spirit was not broken and
they managed to turn the ball over
inside their ﬁve meter zone and bring
it close to Imperial’s try-line within
a few minutes. A few unlucky plays
including scrumhalf Luke Armitage
showing his skills, kicking the ball
backwards (instead of taking it into
contact himself as usual) eventually
resulted in a scrum for St. George’s
three meters away from the try-zone.
With only one actual front row player
left Imperial was pushed over the line
and the try in the 76 minute was inev-
itable. Fortunately, those ﬁve points
from the try were all they scored that
Wednesday as the kick did not even
get close to the posts. Imperial man-
aged to keep the ball for the last few
minutes of the game and celebrated a
hard-fought 5-7 win.
Considering the 0-24 loss in Har-
lington in the ﬁrst leg this is an ex-
cellent result for Imperial College
3rd XV and with two games against
similar opponents left this could be
the start of a winning streak. Espe-
cially the win of St. George’s against
the Imperial Medics 3rd XV last week
leaves ICURFC conﬁdent for varsity.
ICURFC 3rd XV win uphill against St Georges
High hopes for Handball at Champs
Red Elmadi Sports Writer
3rd TeamCaptain
Lukas Michalitsch
side in the group stages. At the peak
of frustrations during this disappoint-
ing match, when the 4th of 4 penalties
had been missed by one of our shoot-
ers, the Men’s I goal keeper was over-
heard to say that if he’d started shoot-
ing they may have more of a chance at
scoring, a comment followed up with
a ﬂurry of colourful language from all
players. Despite tempers running high
at this stage a level of calm was rein-
stated with a serious team pep-talk
which provided the side with the fo-
cus required to defeat the “Norwegian
Army” AECC and take third place
in the overall running. Watch this
space for results of Imperial Eagles’
performance in up-coming Engineer-
ing Schools and European University
Tournaments in March and April!
If you ain’t dirty, you ain’t here to party
MOAR medals MOAR

