Issue 1539
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
08/02/13
@SportFelix
1000 runners, miles of mud and one
epic after party can only mean one
thing, BUCS Cross Country 2013!
This year saw the biggest team ever
(44!) from Imperial travel to Leeds
for what is the highlight of the Cross
Country calendar. Imperial College
achieved their strongest team ﬁnish
in the British University Cross Coun-
try Championships in recent memory
with the Men’s A Team producing an
incredible 6th place ﬁnish in the long
10km race at Bodington Hall Playing
Fields, Leeds University.
Eoghan J Totten (34:41) led the team
home with a 20th place ﬁnish over
the 10km course, just over a minute
short of a medal (Stephen Scullion, St.
Mary’s London, 33:32). He was strong-
ly supported by a headstrong team
who battled ferociously through the
mud-laden course to produce ﬁnishes
all within the top ﬁfty. The American,
Clinton ‘Abs’ Cahall produced a mas-
sive 36th place ﬁnish (35:23). Clinton
had to realign his concept of cross
country to one more attuned to the
English weather, coping exceptionally
with the treacherous underfoot condi-
tions and ﬁnishing strongly. Christo-
pher Bannon successfully transferred
his prowess on the track to the mud
bath, producing a 47th place ﬁn-
ish (35:41) with Faron Hesse giving
chase in 49th (35:43), moving strongly
through the ﬁeld in the closing lap.
Sam O’Neill competing in his 6th and
ﬁnal BUCS competition, was the 5th
Imperial College man home (with
four to score), produced a solid run in
168th place. First year Chris Thomas
had an interesting race after being ill
the previous week it appears he took 3
hours to complete the course but who
really knows what happened here?
We look forward to seeing him pro-
gress in future years. The team result
was a tremendous achievement (top-
ping Oxford) given four of the top ﬁve
team positions were occupied by Uni-
versities receiving signiﬁcant funding
for sport. The top three (St. Mary’s
London, Birmingham & Loughbor-
ough) receive funding from London
Marathon and UK Athletics and are
established endurance running insti-
tutions. For Imperial College to be in
tow shows that it is possible to balance
sporting and academic prowess.
Next up was the Women’s race on
what was now a tumultuous, freshly-
churned course. Melissa Newton-
Mora led the Imperial College team
home in 169th position with Sophie
Kirk in 190th position and Kimberley
‘very possible’ Mason in 214th place.
All credit must go to Sophie for or-
ganising transport, accommodation
(in the swish Jurys Inn!) and general
co-ordination. However, the greatest
achievement was the size of the Wom-
en’s team from Imperial College; with
all 12 completing the gruelling course
making this double previous years!
There were a signiﬁcant number of
competitors from the Cross Country
club in the Men’s B race. The aﬀec-
tionately named ’Banter’ B race saw
over 400 runners take on the now shin
high mud slog, and with experienced
club members Reuben Bogg (98th),
James ‘Captain’ Ellis (102nd), Ben
Toomer (127th) and Milan Misak tak-
ing the lead for the club, all 24 of the
team ﬁnished.
Liam ‘Car park attendant’ Smith and
Jean Claude Besse were the ﬁrst fresh-
men to ﬁnish, special congratulations
to Jean Claude who had never seen so
much mud during his triathlon career
so far! Completing the second team
was Matt Douthwaite who made an
incredible recovery from a squash
‘injury’ ﬁnishing just behind Chris
‘Zoolander’ Charles. Many of the B
team were ﬁrst timers so to see them
all complete the course in respect-
able times was a great feat. Despite
the mud and cold smiles were evident
all round particularly from Adrian
‘Too Keen’ Grutter who wore a grin
throughout so it can’t have been that
bad.
Following the race, there was much
celebration not only for the 6th posi-
tion but also celebrating the clubs suc-
cesses thus far. This has been one of
the best years in the clubs history with
100 members and participation go-
ing through the roof. Anticipation for
the infamous after party was high at
Captains’ drinks, and with the fresh-
ers’ challenges completed it was time
for curry! At Leeds University Union
we joined hundreds of other runners
for a celebration complete with foam.
Armed with our bandannas we took
to the ﬂoor pulling moves that haven’t
been seen since last year. We certainly
left our mark at Leeds Union, I would
say more but what happens in Leeds
stays in Leeds (or at least on Face-
book). After 6 hours of partying it was
time to head back and get what sleep
we could for the long journey back
down south.
First year Isabel Holding summed
up her experiences of the weekend:
“As a fresher it was a daunting thought
to sign up for the XC weekend trip to
Leeds. I was prepared to endure the
physical challenge of running 6.5km,
as well as the freshman humiliation,
which was probably my greater worry.
Looking back this presentiment
seems baseless and I am grateful that
the worst of it involved picking an
item of fruit or veg, giving it a face and
carrying it around with us for the en-
tirety of the weekend; ensuring a dap-
per look at all times.
Other than this, my experiences at
BUCS involved: meeting people, mud,
curry, more mud, foam, and even
Mud, mud, glorious mud!
Sophie Kirk Sports Writers
more mud, (plus some running as
well). Overall, brilliant weekend!!
Thank you to the whole team for
making the weekend so enjoyable, and
with Hyde Park Relays this weekend
no doubt the fun shall continue. Hyde
Park Relays is the place to be this Sat-
urday, whether you are running, or-
ganising or supporting, so come on
down!
Eoghan J Totten
Photobombing seminars
are given at lunchtime
in the Sherfield building
Mmm...muscle, mud and man. The
perfect combination
Today’s Cross Country stars were yesterday’s kiss chase Kings and Queens

