NEWS
5
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business School to mentor Indian school
Nida Mahmud News Editor
Improving management education is
the focus of a new alliance between
Imperial College Business School and
the Hero Group in India. The Busi-
ness school at Imperial will assist BML
Munjal University (BMU) in India, to
develop its School of Management.
The Business School will act as a men-
tor institution; helping BMU to form,
develop and grow its School of Man-
agement. The collaboration will focus
on both research and education activi-
ties. BMU will open to students in July
2014.
Professor Dorothy Griffiths, Princi-
pal of the Business School, said: “India
is one of the fastest growing economies
and this is a great opportunity for the
Business School to be at the heart of
this exciting story. Our partnership with
BMU will benefit our students, who
can take advantage of the opportunity
to study and learn in a fast paced and
evolving environment, further increas-
ing their expertise and experience. We
look forward to exchanging ideas, stu-
dents and knowledge with BMU.”
The agreement was signed on 9 Janu-
ary 2013 in New Delhi. It was attended
by representatives of Imperial College
London, this includes the President &
Rector, Sir Keith O’Nions; Professor
Gerard George, the Deputy Principal
for Faculty and Programmes at the
Business School, and Director of the
Rajiv Gandhi centre. Notable guests
also joined them, including the Indian
Education Minister Mr Pallam Raju,
Minister of Law Mr Ashwani Kumar,
Deputy Chairman of the Planning
Commission of the Republic of India
Mr Montek Singh Ahluwalia, and the
Chief Minister of Haryana Mr Bhupin-
der Singh Hooda.
BMU aims to create a talented com-
munity of students that excel in teach-
ing, learning and research; the major
focus will be on technological advance-
ment and socio-economic develop-
ment. The Business School was chosen
by BMU to participate in this alliance
due to its expertise in innovation and
entrepreneurship. Likewise, the Hero
Group has over 50 years of successful
business operations, with revenues of
over $8 bn. They are one of the most
respected business houses in India and
have a world leadership position in
many of their businesses.
The relationship includes the design-
ing of teaching programmes and the
development of the curriculum; as well
as student exchange and summer pro-
grammes, joint research projects, fac-
ulty exchange and executive education.
Professor Gerry George commented:
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
“We are starting from scratch to create
the Business School as part of a global
university with a focus on research and
teaching excellence. Not only does it
allow the Business School to play a vi-
tal role in shaping the next generation
of leaders in India, it creates a platform
for collaboration and immersion for our
students and our faculty. It is a window
of opportunity for us to learn from In-
dia just as much as they learn from our
experience and expertise.”
So, are you going
to clean up that
spillage on this nice
white table cloth?

