Palin's Panache
The Missionary, Cert 15, Directed by
Richard Loncraine playing at the Classic,
Haymarket from March 4.
Well, I've really been enjoying myself this
•week; a couple of really rattling good
comedies, and a quite passable biography/
melodrama. 1982 may have been a thin year
for comedy, but 1983 is already shaping up to
be a good year for the chucklers.
The Missionary is the brainchild of that
stalwart of lunacy Michael Palin who wrote it
and takes the title role, but leaves the directing
in the capable hands of Richard Loncraine. In
case I need to remind anyone, Michael Palin is
part of the infamous and insanely talented
Python team, who since the early seventies,
when they stopped working on the television
series, having indulged themselves in projects
of varying commercial success. The last major
Pythonesque effort was Life of Brian in 1978,
but this year is evidently a renaissance at the
box office for the various members of the team
with this solo effort and with The Meaning of
Life and Yellowbeard warming up on the
touchline.
Palin plays Charles Fortesque, a missionary
recently returned from Africa to find that the
frontier of religion is not Somalia or the
Limpopo, but deepest, darkest Whitechapel.
He is assigned to go among the fallen women
of the East End, find out what they do, why
they do it and stop them doing it.
Unfortunately Charles unaware that religion
must be applied with rather more orthodoxy
than he has been used to on his travels. His
free adaption of the message of hell and
damnation to concern and friendship meets
with disapproval. The gusto and enthusiasm of
this unstoppable farce collides head on with
history's greatest immovable object: the
church, with its attendant morality hierarchy
and hypocrisy. To add to the complexity of
Charles' life, his mission is funded by Lady
Ames who has designs on his body and he has
a fiancee who seems to have channelled all
carnal desire into her rubber stamps and
cross-indexing system and has her virginity
carefully filed under honeymoon.
The male supporting case are all equally rich
characters, each with an element of the
absurd. It is this barely controlled element of
lunacy that has Palin stamped all over it. Were
this a Python, then these characters would be
unleashed fully; as it is, their absurdities are
often merely hinted at and it is this very British
understatement that gives the film its charm.
Sir Michael Horden is a real gem as an
eccentric butler who has trouble finding his
way round the Ames's mansion after 25 years
in the job; dinner is a disjointed affair as he
wanders around with the fish course; Horden
is a great actor of the old school who can say
more by simply lifting one eyebrow than could
be said in a five minute monologue, after many
years of service on the British stage and
screen, his recent honour was long overdue.
Really, it's wrong to pick out single
performances in this film, in which every actor
seems to fit the part like a hand in a glove
Phoebe Nicholls (Cordellia in Brideshead)
plays the fiancee, Maggie Smith plays Lady
Ames the bored aristocrat, and Denholm
Elliott the Bishop of London, a man with
politics rather than preaching on his mind and
a penchant for healthy pursuits involving
young men in short trousers bashing the
daylights out of each other.
Palin's missionary is the focal point of the
film, a sympathetic figure of boundless energy
with a no-nonsense approach to religion. Palin
is saying that to the church establishment and
the upper classes that ran it in Edwardian
times, the working classes were as foreign as
the natives Fortesque had just left. So he
adapts two messages and gets it across to his
new congregation, just not quite in the way the
Bish had in mind.
The film in many respects is a satire of
Edwardian class and morals, but it is not a
satire of heavyweight proportions, so
impressed with its own daring at attacking the
system that entertainment is the casualty. But
Palin has probably more experiance of modern
satire than any other writer. He and his co-
conspirator Terry Jones date back to the early
sixties to one of the twin cradles of modern
satire: Oxford, and worked with David Frost in
the first forrays in the field: The Frost Reports.
The experience produces a fine blend of
humour and satire which gets across the
message without bludgeoning the audience
over the head with it and without an obsessive
desire to be shocking and daring, and the
satire only becomes apparant when the
audience has a chance to reflect afterwards.
Of course it is easy to say that it is weak satire
against an easy target; few would defend
Edwardian morals and the role of the church
from a modern perspective, but this does little
to detract from the skill of the writing.
This transition from wacky abrasiveness to
gentle ribtickling and pathos displays yet
another facet of this multi-talented writer, it is
a warm and intensely enjoyable experience
that you will savour for a long time after, and
perhaps your mother will at last understand
what you saw in that sordid upstart who used
to taunt and jibe from the small screen.
Michael Palin-and friends
REVIEWS KlSgjjp
F a v o u r i t e Year
My Favourite Year, Cert PG, directed
Richard Benjamin, playing at the Plaza,
Lower Regent Street.
Peter OToole is a man who has graced the
stage in its various forms for more years than
probably he cares to remember. A man who
can turn to comedy as easily as tragedy. For
his performance in this film he finds himself
once more nominated for the Best Actor gong
at the annual Hollywood backslapping/back-
biting shindig; I just hope he gets it this time, he
plays Alan Swann, a swashbuckling matinee
idol of yesteryear who bears a 'passing'
resemblance to Errol Flynn ?nd who is to star
in a top-rated T V show, 'The Comedy
Cavalcade', an apparently simple little
musketeer sketch involving him and the
regular team. Unfortunately, the one major
demand is that he should be sober. As
Swann's love affair with the silver screen
cooled, so his affair with the bottle has
blossomed and now he is a burnt out alcoholic
is not appreciated by his hearts desire. Swann
advises him that romance is the answer as
even the most emancipated and career minded
young lady likes the physical pill sugared with
candle-lit tete-a-tete and large numbers of
roses.
Peter O'Toole drips charm. His relaxed
languid manner, emphasised by his languid
blue eyes, permeates the whole film. This
manner is helped to a degree by the booze;
indeed he is often so relaxed he is unable to
stand upright, and falls over in a languid,
relaxed, and amazingly diginified manner. I can
see that when it comes to looking your best
when drunk it is merely a matter of practice.
Amateurs like you or I will simply have to keep
practising to achieve this level of distinction.
Mr O'Toole says memorable lines like, when
faced with the prospect of live television in
front of an audience he exclaims 'I'm no actor,
I'm a movie star'. A fine distinction, which
could never be levelled at OToole with his
record on the stage.
Hey, that's my girl! Swann weaves his
living on memories of past triumphs and
increasingly unable to distinguish between
films and real life. After he turns up a a
production meeting, performs a forward roll
on the table and then passes out, some of the
production team get cold feet and the feeling is
he'll have to go. Bui _
idol and stakes his job on getting Swann to the
right place at the right time with a clear head-
So he becomes Swann's minder and attempts
to keep an eye on the tempestuous Swann as
he bowls through the Manhattan high life.
Thus begins Benjy's favourite year as a
relationship froms between idol and idoliser.
But not being one to skimp on plot, we are not
only treated to the amazingly lopsided
relationship between these two, but also
attempts by the neighbourhod muscle men to
'remove' (vertically upward) the show's host in
the name of good taste. The show has lately
run a series of sketches which unflatteringly
portrayed certain feature1
c kari KojecK, a
man of impeccable reputation, who doesn't
believe in letting a little thing like the law cloud
his horizons. These sketches are felt to be in
bad taste by Rojeck who employs a rather
physical form of censorship. We also have
Benjy's rather modern form of courtship which
spell on K.C.
Benjy Stance is played by the unknown
Mark Linn-Baker, an actor whom I'm sure
much more will be heard. He copes with
Swann's foibles in a sympathetic way. To him
Swann is still the swashbuckling hero of
yesteryear; he believes in him and refuses to
see the burnt out wreck. Beneath it all, he
knows, is his boyhood hero. In a touching
climax, Swann is also able to believe in himself
again; he is prepared to live with himself and
discard that alter ego frcm the bottom of the
bottle.
This is Richard Benjamin's directing debut
and draws on his own experiences of that
period when he worked for NBC televsion and
also those of his patron Mel Brookes who
worked with Errol Flynn (who was also known
ot have a drink or ten). It is certainly a
confident debut; success in the tricky world of
pathos and slapstick comedy has eluded far
more experienced men in their time. But this is
a definite winner. It had my sympathy and
captivated me from the moment O'Toole
swept onto the screen until the credits rolled; a
great triumph for all concerned.
Crushed Spirit
Frances, Cert 15, directed by Graeme
Clifford, now showing ABC Fulham Rd.
The third of this week's trilogy is perhaps
the least satisfying. It treats a similar theme to
My Favourite Year in a rather different way. It
is the 'true' story of Frances Farmer, played by
Jessica Lange, a star of the pre-war silver
screen. Instead of being content like Swann to
become a movie star, ignore acting and reap
the rich rewards that stardom offers, she
refuses to come a cog in the show business
machine and wishes to be remembered as an
actress, not a pretty face in a thousand
publicity stills. Never one to court popularity,
even when young, she outraged her deeply
conservative neighbourhood by winning a local
essay competition with an entry arguing
against the existence of God, remember this is
in the 30s and that sort of thing really wasn't
done. In it's two and a half hours, the film
traces here steady downwards spiral from her
pinnacle as a Paramount star through various
tantrums and institutions to her finale,
lethargic and lobotomised on 'This is Your
Life'.
Kim Stanley plays Frances's mother who
has sought to bring Frances up to be free-
willed, creative and independent and believes
she will realise her fondest ambitions when
Frances signs up with Paramount for a seven
ySar contract. It is the Hollywood of the
depression years and the opulance and
glamour lives side by side with the Hovervilles.
and soup kitchens. This is more than Frances
can take and she despises the gloss and glitter
and quits. Thus the plan backfires and Mrs
Farmer embarks on the treacherous and'
ultimately unsuccessful scheme of crushing
Frances's spirit until she will not refuse her
mother's wishes. Briefly it works and Frances
returns to her old studio. But the moguls have
long memories and she is punished for her
disobedience by being given demeaning roles
which consist largely of falling into mud
patches, fifteen times 'just to get it rioht'.
The subject matter is fascinating; in her
one woman campaign after truth and reason
her forthrightness alienates those around her
who feel uncomfortable under her searching
gaze. Unfortunately there is very little in the
film to lift it above a pedestrian pace, it is all a
j bit deadly earnest; tragic melodrama without
any real sense of suspense, it all seems so
inevitable as she pursues her self-destructive
course.
To say that Clifford hasn't tried would be to
do the man an injustice. He has dreamed up
i the entirely fictitious character, Harry York her
first love, who despite all the turmoil, the
lovers and the tantrums, stays true through
thick and thin. This gives rise to periodic
attempts to rescue Frances from whichever
institution her mother has committed her to;
this at least gives the film moments of tension
as they flee the asylum. Mrs Farmer, who has
always been the driving force behind Frances,
wants her cured of that instability in her
character known as independance and sent
back to Hollywood to realise all the ambitions
which her mother has always desired for her.
To this end she tries to protect Frances from
herself and get her to conform to the
Hollywood model. There is irony in the way
the story unfolds to reveal how she is casually
committed to the living hell of a mental
institution because anyone who doesn't want a
...and after
showbiz career must be insane. Once
committed she slides rapidly downhill until
lobotomy is prescribed for her. 'Lobotomy
gets 'em home' the doctor cheerfully explains
Jessica Lange has been nominated for Best
Actress for her role, and it is indeed a polished,
competent performance, which was obviously
highly demanding. Frances Farmer was a highly
erratic, emotional person and Kim Stanley
has been nominated as best supporting actress
as the ruthless driving mother. The film is
touching at times and Jessica Lange is always
worth" watching, having the apparently
fashionable combination of blonde hair and
brown eyes (a la Streep). It raises, nagging
questions about how we treat people who are
different; is society so inflexible that we must
mentally club people into line? Possibly society
is more caring today, but the fact that it could
happen then is disturbing.
Since she died nearly ten years ago we will
never know what Frances Farmer thought
about her dramatised biography; I think she'd
have liked it, it is a warning to the film world
that it should not try to crush and humiliate
talent which has a great deal to give even if it's
ot what the moguls think they want. And it's a
warning to us of how we misunderstand those
who think along different lines. But really it's all
a bit slow and dull. I was never bored by it, it
just seemed to need a little extra lite,
something to lift it out of the narrative rut and
live a little. If you want a film about sanity and
mental treatment I'd try One Flew Over the
Cuckoo's Nest, which treats the subject with
more humour and yet manages to be a far
more moving experience.
Lee Paddon
Frances before..
| Page11

