IREVIEWSI
The National Portrait Gallery was founded
with the aim of collecting the likenesses of
famous British men and women. The present
home of the collection, in St Martin's Place,
opened in 1896. The building was designed in
the style of an Italian palazzo, with an extra
wing added in 1933, the gift of Lord Duveen.
The primary collection is arranged in chrono-
logical order, beginning with the Middle Ages
and Tudors on the top floor. New exhibition
rooms have recently been constructed in the
Gallery's main building: these are reached via
the parquet floors and 'drawing room' setting
of the Victorian portraits, and are* being
inaugurated by the exhibiton 'Van Dyck in
England'.
In the spring of 1632, Van Dyck arrived in
London. The court of Charles I was then the
most sophisticated and glamourous of Europe.
Van Dyck was 33, the son of a wealthy
Antwerp silk merchant and the most brilliant
of Rubens' pupils. He had spent a number of
years in Italy and was by all accounts a very
charming man—romantically handsome, with
cosmopolitan manners and wide experience.
In addition, Charles I found in Van Dyck an
artist of international reputation who shared
his love of the great Venetian painter, Titian
Jacobean to Carolean
In an age when even the best endeavours of
BR and British Telecom cannot halt the
communication and exchange of ideas within
an almost worldwide artistic community, it is
mind-bending to try and appreciate the rate at
which ideas spread in the 17th Century. The
rediscovery of classical (Greek and Roman)
art and its reinterpretation in the Renaissance
movement, began in Italy in the 15th Century,
in the 16th Century it crept northwards over
the Alps, but did not reach England 'till the
early 17th Century: the court of Charles I was
the last great Renaissance court to rediscover
'antique' civilisation, and Van Dyck brought to
it ideas' from European countries where the
initial impact of the Renaissance had been
delivered over a century before.
WALKABOUT-
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics toe.
Think of the long gallery of a Jacobean
house — people it with portraits... staring
fixedly, standing rigidly, ruffs and skirts stiffly
starched, cushions solid as bricks. Now have a
look at Van Dyck's portrait of the two Stuart
brothers—they are elegantly posed, and
gorgeously contrasted in gold and blue; curves
and diagonals link the figures; there is gesture
and movement and a glance at the spectator.
Henrietta Maria by Van Dyck
Plato and St George
Whilst Van Dyck's sitters are without doubt
alive, theirs is a very elegant life, in a civilised
almost artificial, society.
In the tradition of chivalrous courtly love,
knights are not only warriors, they are also the
suitors and slaves of fair ladies. Queen
Henrietta Maria fused this tradition with
Renaissance Neo-Platonism, and played the
role of romantic heroine, taming the (sensual)
excesses of the Stuart court by introducing a
cult of courtly love. This mood comes across
in Van Dyck's portraits of the queen and is
echoed in portraits of other 'beauteous' ladies:
they wear their revealing decolletes most
demurely and have little sense of humour.
Some of the male sitters are also Romantically
dressed, tho' many wear contemporary
costume or armour. They too appear
distinguished and refined—Van Dyck had a
gift for ennobling a face and hands—and some
have a look of dignified (Renaissance)
melancholy.
An aristocratic portrait painter
The pictures in the National Portrait Gallery
exhibition have been selected by Sir Oliver
Millar, Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures and
the number one authority on Van Dyck's
English period. This is an exhibition of
beautiful paintings of gracefully languorous
people. At the most culturally enlightened
court in Europe, they had the opportunity to
patronise a painter who transformed them
from Jacobean dolls into aristocratic embodi-
ments of a Romantic-Renaissance ideal. And
yet, a year after Van Dyck's death, Civil War
broke out between King and Parliament and
within ten years regicide had been committed
and the King's great art collections dispersed
and sold: the society Van Dyck immortalised
was destroyed.
Where, When, £?
'Van Dyck In England' is at the National
Portrait Gallery, St Martin's Place, WC2 till 20
March. It's open Mon-Fri 10-5, Sat 10-6, Sun 2-
6. Admission is 50p for students, otherwise £1.
The Cromwellian
' Cocktail & Wine Bar
, 3 Cromwell Rd, SW7
&
Bistro Vino
5 Clareville St, SW7
373 3903
We started off at the Cromwellian downing
mellifluous potions in the sleazy half light. The
air of Jeevishness was broken for a moment as
the early evening imbibers gathered by the
television set to watch the latest cavortihgs of
Ken and Deirdrie and then resumed, leaving
one witti a sense that it was Coronation Street
rather than the cocktail bar which was the
anachronism.
The Cromwellian's Happy Hour lasts from
6:00 to 9:00pm every night and until closing
time on Mondays when a fine selection of
garnished, coloured concoctions are slickly
stirred or shaken and poured at £1.20 a time.
Out Into the chill night air for a short trudge
to the Bistro Vino in Clareville Street (close to
where Queen's Gate meets the Old Brompton
Road). The Bistro's charm is magnified by the
cobbled mews in which it stands, as if set down
by chance.
Inside, in the unadorned candelit snug, we
were overcome by gluttonous lunacy.
Whitebait (80p) followed by a main course dish
of spaghetti generously soused in rich meaty
bolognaise (£2.50) followed by Chicken Kiev
(£3.20) seeping with garlic and ending with
Sorbet. For another deranged combination—
Whitebait then Veal a la Creme (£3.00)
finished off with Mushroom Omlette and chips.
Others of us, more restrained, had Prawn
Cocktail (80p), Fillet au Poivre Vert (£3.75)
followed by Profiteroles with chocolate sauce.
Corn on the Cob (80p) was rather tasteless
but the Chicken Kiev made up for it as did the
Treacle Tart and cream for pudding. Two
bottles of Vin Vivant (£3.60 each) were the
chosen accompaniment.
The eccentric addiction to main courses was
less a comment on the size of the portions,
more a tribute to the quality of the food.
Service was fast and good humoured. The bill
came to £31.65 for four including two bottles of
wine and excellent garlic bread (35p) leaving us
with sufficient resources for the taxi ride
home.
Page 121 February 25, 1983 FELIX

