IREVIEWSI
Good God
Messiah by Martin Sherman, directed by
Ronald Eyre, Aldwych Theatre.
Ronald Eyre's production of Messiah which
has transferred to the Aldwych Theatre after a
highly acclaimed run at the Hampstead
Theatre, is a tragic but heart-warming homage
to the human condition. In just two hours,
themes of life and death, religion and humanity
and spirituality and hedonism are tackled—
themes rarely approached on the contempor-
ary stage. It is indeed a notable achievement
for the commericial theatre.
Messiah is based on fact. It is set in the
seventeenth century, in Poland. A Jewish
family travels from Poland to Turkey swept
along by the belief that the Messiah has come.
Poland harboured an enormous population at
the time, but ten years of brutal fighting with
the Ukranian Cossacks decimated the
population. The ravished Jewish community
became obsessed with visions of salvation.
The Kabbalah, the mystical interpretation of
the scriptures became a driving force,
creating a sense of near-certainty that the
Messiah would finally come.
Maureen Lipman plays Rachel, the central
character. Poor in wealth but not in heart she
marries an old man, Reb Ellis, played by Clive
Swift. A young fanatic, Asher, played by Jack
Klaff, brings in word of the arrival of the
Messiah. People go mad. The new Messiah,
Sabbatai Sevi, renounces worldly goods and
Reb thus goes about selling everything to the
horror of his wife. He believes in the basis of
scriptural evidence, that he can fiy to
Jerusalem. He climbs to the top of his
house...and plunges to his death (there is a lot
of this dry humour in the play). Rachel
befriends Asher and with other members of
the household they go to Poland to seek out
the Messiah. Sabbatai Sevi, in the end, turns
out to be a false god. But the climax of the play
follows after this.
Martin Sherman has drawn the character
Rachel with great confidence. We are
presented throughout the play with a feminine
view of life and a feminine view of religion.
Among the issues covered, a particularly strong
one to come out of the evening is the problem
of trials and hardships in life. How can there be
a so-called benign God when there is so much
famine, destruction, murder and natural
disaster in the world? This is often asked and is
a good question. But what if these troubles and
sufferings are a necessary part of the world?
What if they are a necessary part of the human
Jot? The 'path of life' comes up against big
obstacles like any other path and a path
wouldn't be a true path, and a path worth
forging if it didn't negotiate obstacles at some
time or other thereby affording a passage for
the traveller. Byron, in his Don Juan, says
'Adversity is the first path to Truth'. Luigi
Pirandello, in Six Characters in Search of an
Author, expands a little: 'Man never reasons
so much and becomes so introspective as
when he suffers: since he is anxious to get to
the cause of his sufferings, to learn who has
produced them and whether it is just or unjust
that he should have to bear them.' Suffering
causes us to think and to think deeply.
t ne piay 10 niucn recommended. Maureen
Lipman and Clive Swift give superb per-
formances. The production is complemented
by excellent stage designs and music; there is
instantaneous evocations of a ship at sea, an
interior of a house and "furkish bazaar.
Maureen Lipman and Matyeiok Gibbs in 'Messiah'
Nirk l
Cordon
Bleugh
This week I intend to demonstrate the
versatility and appeal of pizzas.
All pizzas need a b.ase and I prefer to use
wholemeal bread, for which you will, need
yeast, wholemeal flour and some sugar, salt
and a little oil or butter. Follow the instructions
for the yeast you buy to make up the solution
and leave it in a warm place for fifteen minutes.
Stir it into the flour to make a dough and
knead well. Leave it to rise for half an hour and
then press if firmly into a well-oiled tin. While
the dough is rising, you can be making the
toppings.
The mainstay of pizzas is Italian tinned
tomatoes. For a pleasant change, make
scrambled eggs from two eggs and stir in a cup
of tinned tomatoes. Spread this mixture thicky
over the pizza base. Garnish with gooseberries
and bake for fifteen minutes at 550°F. Remove
from the oven, cover completely with
meringue and mozarella cheese mixture and
return to the oven until just brown and
bubbling. Serve immediately.
Alternatively, take two bananas and a cup of
tomatoes and combine thoroughly in a
blender. Add a small amount of cooking sherry
and some vinaigrette. Spread the base with
Bovril and then cover with mixture. Garnish
with slices of beetroot, anchovies and one
pineapple ring in the middle. Bake as before.
Finally, a very special and very different
pizza. Cook y4 lb of mince thoroughly. Mix
with aspic and mint sauce and leave to set.
Blend a cup of stewed rhubarb with a cup of
tomato and some sour cream. Spread over the
pizza, cover with grated Danish Blue and bake
as before. Cut the aspic into cubes and garnish
the pizza quickly with these. Serve before it
melts.
All pizzas can be served with side salads or
jacket potatoes with garlic butter icing. For a
light dessert to follow, serve spinach
cheesecake garnished with chocolate flake and
viiatea carrot.
FELIXI February 2 5 , 19831
But I Always
Lie
What is The Name Of This Book? by
Raymond Smullyan, published by Pelican
Books.
Are you interested enough in logic to realise
that the headline above this review is not a
paradox? When you see logic puzzles, do you
give them anything more than a brief scan? If
so then this book is for you. It is, in fact, a fine
coffee table book—you can scan through odd
pages or read whole sections, and still be
amused or fascinated by the author's
ingenious twisting of what at first seems a fairly
simple subject.
The book is divided into several chapters
and, broadly speaking, into two sections. The
first section deals with problems for you to
solve and after about twenty questions the
answers are printed, in a completely different
typeface (a good idea—one of the great
problems that I have found with most puzzle
books is that the answers are not differentiated
clearly enough from the problems). The book
opens with a nice set of paradoxes, simple
puzzles, 'lateral thinking' puzzles, and
straightforward tricks. It then goes on to
develop the problems of people who either
always tell the truth or always lie. Much of this
section is involved with gradually complicating
this idea, firstly onto normal people who say
what they please, then to people who lie on
some days of the week and not on others. One
of the rr.ure challenging aspects of the book is
its 'find a statament such that....' questions
such as, given that someone knows you either
always tell me truth of always lie, convince
them that you are rich (the answer is either to
say that you are a poor liar or not a rich truth
teller—I leave the reasoninig to you). Thus
many ideas are developed.
The book then moves onto stories, and the
difficulty is twisted up a notch—we visit the
continued on page 14
• H H B H H H H H M H M H P a g e 13

