CCI-II
Algebraic Numbers
This week's puzzle, due to my unbelievable
apathy, is from Scaramouche. It's one of many
variants on a simple idea for a puzzle: all you
have to do is construct an expression which is
identically equal to four, using only three n's
(where n represents a digit greater than 0 and
less than 10). For instance,
n
n + n
n
E E
for the most expressions.
Last Week's Solution
Cocktails for Six
Only seven entries for this, which surprised me
as it was an easy puzzle. The winner was
Leann Jones of Maths 2, who can collect her
£5 cheque from the FELIX Office after 1:30pm
on Monday (and I promise it will be ready this
time!). The lie was that Mandy said 'Cuddles
Barnett is more expensive than Chairman's
Decision'. My apologies to the young lady on
whom the puzzle was based.
(here <n represents the number -nnn... = n/9)
So you can construct an expression which is
identically 4?
Also, there's a Jingles haircut voucher for
the person who can supply the most number
of digits in the same way.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm Wednesday. £5 from
Mend-aBike for a randomly selected correct
entry, and a free hcWcut voucher from Jingles
Angling Corner
This is one of my father's puzzles, and is
remarkable in that, while it is a difficult puzzle,
I don't think it requires anything more than O
Level maths to do it.
I shall, totally arbitrarily, refer to an angle
which is part of a right angled triangle with
integer sides (ie either angle of a 3, 4, 5 or a 5,
12, 13 triangle) as a right acute angle. Now, if
you create a new angle from any integer
multiple of any number of right acute angles
(added or subtracted), you create a new one.
For instance, if you take 53.130° (one of the
angles from a 3, 4, 5 triangle) and add it to
22.620° (one of the angles from a 5, 12, 13
triangle) you get 75.750°, one of the angles
from a 16, 63, 65 triangle. Can you prove that
this is always the case?
The Undergraduate and the Porters
Well, I did tell you it was difficult, though only
one person seemed to believe me. Perola was
the only person to come close; after this point I
think you need to be a mathematician to go
any further. The scene so far; to escape means
to leave the lawn, and pretend (assume!) that
there is a path running around the lawn upon
which the porters may move.
The porters must obviously be considered
as points, and if there is any finite number of
porters, the undergraduate can run up to the
edge and dodge the porters easily, since he
can run on a smaller radius than them, and
hence overtake them. We therefore need an
infinity of porters, and while a porter placed at
every real point of the circle can obviously stop
the undergraduate escaping, can a porter at
every rational point?
I think people are interested in this kind of puz-
zle; I got more answers handed in to this than to
'Cocktails for Six', so I shall continue the
series. Unfortunately there was only one even
nearly correct answer (most people favouring
three porters).
CiMDT F L O W E R S
1 1 1
Br\NC£KS
U
N
I
O
N BUILDING
IMPERIAL COLLEGE SW7
£1-00 (15p **ANCE) march
4tb Thurs March 3 5:30-7:00
Free! Names to Jen, Union
Office by 1pm Tues March 1,
1
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London S W7 2BB.
Tel. 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers; Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

