I C U G M T h u r s d a y M a r c h 3 r d
1 . 0 0 p m G r e a t H a l l
AGENDA
1. Minutes *of the meeting of 7th Feb.
2. Matters arising
3. President's report
4. Deputy President's report:
5. Honorary Secretary's report
6. Returning Officer's report
7. Constituent College Union Reports
8. Other Officers' reports
9. Bye Law Changes
10. Change to Voting Schedule
11. Motions
12. Any Other Business
President's Report
Election
Imperial College Union has three sabbatical officer posts. For this year
and last we have ;been unable to find three people capable of lasting for
the entire year. This has meant that through the Union has coped
remarkably well under such strain it has not been able to run as well as it
should. '
It is therefore essential that the candidates returned at this election
have the ability' to survive successfully their year in office.
Residence
I had hoped to be able to h/ing to this meeting details of the Lawreys
Report on Student Residence and residence services. However, at the
time of writing I have not seen a copy. If I am in receipt of a copy before
the meeting I will attempt to prepare a summary for distribution at this
meeting. We would only be able to bring a proposal to the meeting on the
10th of March at the earliest.
UFC
Despite the front page news story in FELIX last week the Union
is making a strong effort to produce a balanced budget for next year. I
am confident that both the major subcommittees and the CCUs will
cooperate over this matter.
Gravel
I think the Unio»-has achieved a significant gain by having its nominee,
Dr John £t,pcks ijjcluded in the list of names for the proposed Governors
Working Pajty. »A"s, such w
<
> should support the proposed extraction.
University'Athletics. Union-
Imperial Cpj^a-Union is currently investigating affiliation to this body
to ensure that ICXs sports clubs are ensured independance from U L U
sports clubs in all future competitions.
Deputy President's Report
The major redecoration of the building is now well under way with the
Senior Common Room and Uppe? Lounge repainted and the Central
Staircase in its final stages. The new furniture for the Senior Common
Room has now arrived, and I hope to buy some new lampshades in the
near future to further improve this area.
The mens^ehan'ging rooms have also been redecorated and together
with the 'repaired lockers make this area of the building much more
acceptable. Unfortunately we still have some security problems in this
area due to trie carelessness of the users. I am also looking into removing
some of the old lockers and putting in an extra bench to increase the
changing capacity.
There has been demand tor the increased noticeboard space,
particularly in prime sites such as tin- .ICR and I have now got four new
noticeboards which I hope to persuade Estates to put up on the wall by
the STOIC monitor. I am also considering the possibility o! ustna the
Crush Bar in the JCR more effectively, particula'h with je'sa'rv to it's use
as a storage area. At the time of wripng ihis report it seems likely li will
be used to store a cupboard to keep lights and cables in as well as a store
of rubbish bags and other cleaning materials. This is all subject to
refectories allowing us to use this area, which remains to be seen.
Another area which is now being extensively investigated is the
Volleyball Court which has totally inadequate changing facilities and
there is also the problem that certain groups appear to have acquired
keys to this area over the last few years and are thus using the court
without us or the chemistry security desk knowing about it. To replace
the locks will prove extremely costly, so it has b:e: -
deciucd to do spot
checks on this area, particularly at weekends, n f< to eiimtti-.te this
problem.
On the financial side, Venning and room booking incon.. uie up to
expected levels, with the service and quality we are receiving on the
machines being particularly pleasing.
Honorary Secretary's kt-torr
Well, since the last packed U G M nothing niujo: nas nappciie^. I've done
the normal round of taking minutes, writing them up, getting them
typed, then printed and distributed. The writing up takes the most time;
it's like copying up missed lectiire notes.
Publicity
The effects of the WIST publicity motion are still being felt with the rules
on posters having to be widened to cover ail material foi IUDUC display
and distribution ie leaflets, this is a direct .esa'.t ; th irresponsible
action of Con Soc which some of you hi: '• v.\. sec:, on Monday.
Gestetnering
I've sold off some of the excess ink to Guilds but still haven't got rid of all
the files. If any one wants some, they are :i 80p.
Insurance
If anyone in Halls, Houses or Head Tenanc* Joes hi \ any thing stolen
please come and see me because you may be insured. Make sure that if
you have more than £1,000 wo: h of stuf: you ge: ••• ,;a insurance cover.
Returning Officer's Report
Three Dep Rep elections occured on Thursday February 24. The results
of which should be ready for this U G M . Three Dep Reps have been
returned unopposed. These are: David J D Sharpe (for Elec Eng); G
Simpson (Min Res Eng); Lee Evans (Pnysics) and 1 ask the U G M to
ratify them.
The present Dep Reps of the following departments: aeronautics,
chemistry, civ eng, computing, geology, mech eng, who act as Deputy
Returning Officers for these elections have not yet (Tuesday February 22)
contacted me, and asked to keep me informed on the proceedings in their
departments.
Bye Law Change Second Reading
Proposed by: PWP
4a Add: Two representatives who shall be in their first year and elected
by and from the Imperial College Union General Meeting.
Two representatives who shall be elected from the Imperial
College Union General Meeting.

