Bye Law Changes First Reading
no 1
Proposed by: J.P.Stanley
5e Delete from 'In the election of...' to '...College Days.'
no2
Proposed by: J.P.Stanley
5h Delete from 'This result...' to '...College weeks have elapsed.'
Third World First Motion
Proposer: John Sattaur
Seconder: Shireen Mathrani and Left Alliance
ICU Notes:
1. That poverty, unemployment and starvation are not caused solely by
natural disaster, but also by oppressive international social and economic
systems.
2. The Brandt Report does not go far enough in tackling the root causes of
poverty. Brandt sees economic growth generated through trade and aid.
3. The alternative to Brandt sees the development of 'human capital' as a
prerequisite for a fully developed society.
4. Home and foreign policies in theU K could be made to assist in creating
a more favourable climate for development on an international basis.
ICU Believes: •
1. That for real development to occur, the power of the multinational
corporations, which are a formidable economic and political force, must be
curbed. All multinationals must be made subject to an international planning
agreement, opening up their books and inner workings to democratic control.
2. And is not, and cannot be political. And should be used to support
projects, movements and governments committed to ensuring economic and
political power for the poorest.
3. That the government should denounce aggressive and anti-
developmental foreign policy, whilst building positive relations with
governments which eradicate poverty at grass roots level.
4. Our educational system does not equip us to examine issues of power in
the context of North-South relations, nor does it encourage us to examine our
role in relation to the structures that cause and perpetuate underdevelopment.
5. Charity can only alleviate suffering; alone it can never tackle the causes.
Hence the need for a progressive aid programme.
ICU Instructs:
1. That the WUS project be reinstated, and help be given to organise and
support progressive fundraising events, such as Third World First's Anti-
Poverty Action campaign.
2. To write to all local MPs and the Foreign Office, demanding the
immediate end to trade, arms SQ s and political recognition of repressive
regimes.
3. For a letter to be sent to the Overseas Development Administration, all
local MPs and the Foreign Office, saying:
a) British aid should concentrate on the poorest countries. If it goes
elsewhere, it must be in ways which directly raise the incomes and economic
power of the poorest groups.
b) The government should appoint an independent group of academics
and voluntary staff with overseas experience to develop practical criteria for
directing aid to the poorest countries. Commercial and diplomatic sector
concerns should not distort the distribution of funds.
c) To create a larger fieldwork network to indentify and monitor
projects staffed by people well acquainted with local needs and interests.
d) The government should channel more aid without strings attached
through the more progressive voluntary agencies. However, agencies should
not be made dependent on government funding.
e) The Overseas Development Agency should be given more autonomy
from political pressure by taking it out of the foreign office and reinstating its
independent status.
f) The Aid Trade Provision should be abolished as it only benefits private
industry.
g) The Development Education fund should be reinstated.
Voting Schedule Ammendment
Delete 14
Proposed by: J.P.Stanley
Motion on Student Residence
Proposed by: P Simion
Seconded by: K C Poon
ICU Notes:
1. The demand for reasonably priced accommodation near College.
2. The acquisition of the Fremantle and Sovereign Hotels.
3. Goulder's election pledge to "increase the standard of Head Tenancy
accommodation."
4. The recent list of priorities in selecting students for places in Halls and
Houses.
5. The composition of SRC.
ICU Believes:
1. That extra places in residence for any category of students must not be
found at the expense of any other category.
2. That the search for and acquisition of Head Tenancies and other
residences in the vicinity of College must be a priority for College and ICU.
3. That ICU and students in general are not fully represented on SRC.
ICU Instructs:
1. The Exec to inform College of this motion.
2. The Exec to maintain constant pressure on College in order that the
total number of residences in the vicinity of College is increased.
3. The Exec and ICU Council to study the composition and •ffectiveness of
SRC and other committees that concern residences.
4. The president to campaign for increased student representation on SRC.
Motion on Student Loans
Proposer: P Nathan (IC Liberals)
Seconder: P Riley (supported by the IC Left Alliance)
ICU Notes:
1. The strong possibility that the present government will include in its
manifesto for the next general election, a promise to introduce a system of
loans for both undergraduates and postgraduates in higher education
2. That a loans scheme will:
a) saddle undergraduates with debts of more than £3.000 on graduation
in the case of mixed loans/grant scheme and more than £6,000 if solely a
loans scheme.
b) saddle postgraduates with debts which in many cases could be more
than £10,000.
3. Graduate unemployment is at its highest level since the war.
ICU Believes:
1. That a loans scheme will:
a) prove a disincentive for students wishing to enter higher education,
especially those from poorer homes, and will be another step towards a
divided society in which higher education is a preserve of the wealthy.
b) produce distortions in the range of subjects studied.
c) lead to increased inefficiencies in the educational institutions, and a
further contraction of the higher education sector
d) serve to limit the contributions that further and higher education can
make to society
e) mean that higher education will become localised.
ICU Instructs:
1. The officers of ICU to inform all members of ICU as to the facts about
loans for student as outlined in the above.
2. The officers of ICU to organise a general letter to MPs outlining the
above policy, which all IC students will be able to send to their own MPs.
3. The students of ICU to publicise the above policy to fellow students,
parents and anyone else they can think of.
IC U G M T h u r s d a y
M a r c h 3rd
LOOditi Great Hall

