I G L U B S & S O C I E T I E S I
C&G
Thank you to all those of you that turned out
to collect for Rag during the week. Special
thanks are due to the little group of four who
braved the early hours of Saturday morning in
order to keep up the tradition of Guilds 24hr
Rag Collection. Mike Stuart was the only one
to survive the full 24hrs with a magnificent
collection total of over £200.
The Bed Race on Saturday morning was
very successful. The 'bed' and 'wheelbarrow'
teams collected just under £97. The 'Waitrose
Trolley' team got lost somewhere between
Harrods and Sloane Square and we haven't
seen a sign of them yet.
Altogether the 24hr colleciton raised £460.
The raft race last Sunday resulted in the
usual confusion and cries of 'we won, we won'.
We are therefore appealing for a stewards
enquiry. The blue arm of the law stretched a
little further than normal this year, and our
intrepid Guilds raft team was delayed. But
despite this, they finished well up with the
other teams.
Well now that Rag Week is nearly over, it is
time to turn towards more serious things. The
elections for the new Guilds exec take place at
our U G M on Tuesday March 15. If you have
been considering standing for one of the eight
exec posts then look out for the papers which
go up today. This is your big chance to redirect
the union in the direction thabyou see fit. Do
you have ideas on what freshers should want
from the union in 1983/4? Then why not direct
it yourself.
Before that on Sunday March 6 we have
soccer sixes out at Harlington. If you can get a
team of six together then get their names and
hand them in to the Guilds Union Office as
soon as possible, the sooner the better.
Have a good week.
Rolf
Soc Soc
The Socialist Society of Imperial College is
organising a demonstration against the
University of London's involvement's with
South Africa. We are asking many other
colleges, universities and polytechnics to join
us in this picket. Therefore we call on all IC
students to get out last week's FELIX and read
Mike Mallick's article again—'South Africa—
Who Cares?' and then take some action. We
hope to show our distaste at our university's
links (including academic, economic and in the
way of careers) to the repressive regime in
South Africa.
Show how much you care! Will you miss a
morning's lectures to demonstrate against our
indirect support of a government that takes
much more than a morning out of many
black's lives? ,;
Join all those with a moral conscience! Join
the demonstration in Prince Consort Road on
Wednesday March 2. Meet Beit Arch 9:20am
Demonstrate 10:00am-l:00pm.
IC CND
Ninety-six Cruise missiles (up to 30 metres
accurate) are due to be deployed at Greenham
Common in Berkshire by the end of this year,
if not sooner. The British government is
planning to spend about £10,000,000 on the
Trident missile system (at Jeast 500 warheads
of at least 150 kilotonnes explosive capacity
each, ie, at least 5,000 Hiroshimas, compared
to the Polaris systejgj^oj'.200 warheads totally
2,600 Hiroshimas). B%fh systems (Cruise and
Trident) represent a unilateral escalation of
the arms race. Public opinion polls show over
50% of British people opposed to Cruise and
Trident missiles. C N D will stop them coming
here.
But not without your support! IC C N D
Group has over 300 people on its mailing list
and a growing membership of more than 30.
More of either are always welcome.
We are about to become more active, since
speaker meetings by themselves have only
limited effectiveness. One of the actions we
shall soon be involved with is the Anti-Trident
Postcard Campaign. A huge scale has been
constructed in the City Chambers, Glasgow,
in the form of a twelve foot high Trident missile
and an enormous basket. The basket will hold
up to one million postcards objectir^ to the
Trident missile system, and will in time show
visibly that the weight of public opinion is
against Trident. The best of the postcards,
which are obtainable from me or the C N D
Bookstall in the JCR on Monday lunchtimes,
price one penny, is 'Dear Secretary of State for
Defence, Trident is a weapon that Britain does
not need and cannot afford, and it undermines
moves towards nuclear disarmament, to which
our government claims it is committed. I object
to the decision to proceed with the Trident
project and call on you to abandon it forthwith.
I await your early reply.'
Robert Keteey
Civ Eng 3
FoP
We are pleased to announced that we have
finally been accepted by the Union as an
official society and as members of the
Overseas Student Committee. Our general
meeting of this term will take place at 12:45 on
M a r c h 1 in R o o m 201 of the C i v Eng
department. As we promised elections will
take place at this meeting to decide who will
make up the society's committee. Any
member who would like to get involved with
the running of the committee should get him or
herself nominated for a positon on the
committee. Nominations with proposers and
senders should be sent either to B Al-Tabbara
or B Dials of Civ Eng via letter-racks prior to
the meeting. Now this society can legitimately
get off the ground we need your support.
D J Puller
Secretary of FoP
IC Radio
As I sit here, on my sagbag, .listening to Peter
Gabriel's new allium, which is really .mega
(don't worry charisma aren't paying me
anything really!). 1 am convinced, that apart
from being a major contribution to road safety,
IC Radio provides a great service! No
seriously, folks morning, mid-day and
evenings through lo the early mornings,
Imperial College wireless station is broad-
casting a really great set (excuse old grey
whistle test grammar!) of music, news and
information—really folks there's nothing to
beat it!
Right enough of this self admiration now the
useful bit of this article (can there ever be such
a part of an 1C Radio article?).
1. An apology to all members of Mining
House, for the inability to hear the dulcet tones
of ICR—but it will now require British Telecom
(yet more advertising) to dig up the road in
Evelyn Gardens for successful reconnection.
2. The cardboard cut-out and the de-
pressed maniac require the following: a
trawler, two large fishing nets, a large wooden
spoo.i; a good batch of solicitors; a strong
Chubb lock; 2 NSA and H protection suits; an
alternative broadcasting service other than IC
Radio (all needed for a dodgey programme).
3. 'Walk Between the Raindrops' is not a
taped programme. (By the way, in case you're
wonderinq where I am now writing this
article—I'm now on a balcony on Mining
House).
Happy listening.
The Partial Exile
J Soc
So the sabbaticals beat us at Call My Bluff.
Remember they have all day to spend thinking
up obscure, pompous words, and did not have
to use 'Robin Graham jokes'.
Vvt have a great variety of events lined up
for your entertainment, notably: a 'Jewish
Week' with talks by a Russian dissident on
March 3, and an expert on the Ashkelon
Project on March 8. More exciting still: our
Purim Party this evening (in conjunction with
WUPJS) gives everyone an opportunity to
meet Robin Graham. Watch out Wellsoc, this
is our big term! Shalom!
Bookshop News
A display of books published by Collins Ltd will
be on show in our window for the week March
7-11, both in hard and paperback. At any time
if you wish to see any item from our window,
you only have to ask any of the staff.
. Our annual book sale will be on March 14-
18. There will be books, stationery, diaries etc,
all at silly prices.
We are now stockists for Sheaffer pens, all
at competitive prices.
Some old, some new titles now in stock:
Naughty diary of an Edwardian lady - Ethel
Hordle, MacDonald £4.95
The Macmillan Encyclopedia - Macmillan
£14.95
The Cosmic Code - Heinz R Paels, Michael
Joseph £10.95
Complete Herbal & English Physician -
Nicholas Culpeper, Gleave & Son £5.00
Secrets of the Gnomes - Holygen & Poortvliet,
Pan Books £7.95
Amazing Times - Stephen Winkworth, Allen &
Unwin £6.95
The Obstacle Race - Germaine Greer, Picador
£5.95
Hooray for Yiddish - Leo Rosi.
Books £5.95
The Kingdom - Robert Lacy, Fontana £2.95
Byzantion Endores - Michael Moorcock,
Fontana £2.95
A Message from the Falklands - Hugh Tinker,
Junction Books £3.50
Return «
-
>
# the Soldier - RtL>ecca West, Fontana
£1.25
Seven Days to Disaster - Hickey & Smith,
Fontna £2.50
Sombrero Fallout - Richard Brautigan, Picador
£1.25
Doctor at Sea - Richard Gordon, Penguin
£0.85
Doctu, . 'he Brain - Richard Gordon,
Penguin £0.85
The Exchange - Theodore Wilden, Fontana
£1.75
Roses in Winter - Joan Dial, Fontana £1.95
Those of you waiting for Foolscap File Di-
viders, they are now in -stock at 35p.
P a g e 81 February 2 5 , 1983 FELIX

