Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 4 May
Nominate someone by 21 May
Exam help #icuHereforYou
Sign up for ICXP by 21 May Apply to be a student trainer
Has your Club, Society, or Project signed up for ICXP yet? Gain special
rewards such as priority placement at Freshers’ Fair, promotion on Union
social media channels, exclusive workshops and much more.
ICXP - Imperial Club Experience Project - is a way for Clubs, Societies &
Projects to be recognised and rewarded for their successes. CSPs will
receive points for the completion of a series of goals, unlocking rewards
along the way. It’s a great way for clubs to develop for the benefit of their
members.
Deadline is 21 May. Sign up at imperialcollegeunion.org/icxp.
As you prepare for exams this term, we know you may be experiencing
stress. If it becomes unmanageable, please reach out to the Advice
team at the Union. Full time caseworkers are waiting to provide advice
and support in areas such as mitigating circumstances, appeals, money
issues, legal woes, or anything which may affect your exam performance
or ability to prepare.
We’ve also got tips and tools to help you cope. Throughout the month
of May, we’ll be at different points on campus giving away useful tokens
such as tea, energy bars, ear plugs, and water bottles. We’ll also share
wellbeing and study tips online.
Contact us at advice@imperial.ac.uk, drop by the Union (Level 2), or visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/exams.
Gain experience delivering workshops and develop new skills by joining
our team of Student Trainers for Imperial Plus, Student Activities or
Imperial Award. We are looking for enthusiastic students to deliver
training workshops to other students throughout 2018/19.
If you’re an excellent communicator, confident public speaker, organised
and reliable, then we want to hear from you! Being a student trainer is
a great way to gain new skills, and earn extra cash during your time at
Imperial.
Deadline is 29 May. Apply at imperialcollegeunion.org/student-trainer.
Is there a Club, Society or Project that has delivered a significant
improvement to the student experience this year? How about a volunteer
who’s gone above and beyond, or a Representation Network rep who’s
done stellar work? Consider nominating them forThe Union Awards.
The Union Awards are an annual event which rewards students or groups
who’ve made a difference to student life throughout the year. There are
14 categories spanning various aspects of life at Imperial.
Nominations close 21 May, after which a panel of students will decide
the shortlistees to be recognised at a ceremony in June.
Nominate someone amazing at imperialcollegeunion.org/awards.
Good luck with

