u
UNION
Some of m y other duties include the
running of elections, as Returning Officer
(this F E L I X Editor palava being a case in
point), publicity and the office equipment.
Likes: M a n y and varied: Socialising (OK necking
a few beers, or ten, in the Union Bar,
cooking (when I have time), motor sports
and driving, music and horticulture
(watering my house plants).
In the past m y hobbies have included
photography, aeromodelling, home
brewing, beer tasting and cricket.
Likes: B E E R
Dislikes: Fried bread, getting up, hangovers, bank
managers, bills.
FELIX, Chris Stapleton
Date and place of birth:
Degree:
Pseudonyms:
Home:
Main responsibilities:
Likes:
Dislikes:
Frog
26.04.66, Watford
None
'Leathers', Production Manager,
The F E L I X Office/Print Unit
Producing F E L I X , finding ,out ail the gory
details about College big wigs.
Tabs, all-day (vegetarian) breakfast
banquets.
Meat.
Murray on Shan: Shan sounds like he hails from the East E n d , however it is really a ploy to
hide his real origins as being a local boy. After being born in West Kensington, he grew up in
Wimbledon, however he bares little resemblance to Uncle Bulgaria, or Tobbermore although his
office is sometimes scattered with papers. It is quite a time since Paul came to College (1985 to
be honest). This is mainly due to his merryment while at College and his annual argument with
the Maths Department following examinations. While at College he has been a re-app in
Holbein House and U G M Chairman. During one of his 'off years he worked in the College
A l u m n i Office. Shan's responsibilities include insurance, overseas students, transport and »*"•»••.-••»
parking, and welfare. He is also your representative on various College committees. As the
figurehead of the Union he actually does bugger all relying on us to do the
donkey work. Therefore if you have any problems he won't mind
(honest) if you go into his office and have a chat. That's if he's there
and is not attending another freebee as the Presidents;. Shan's
'interest' is golf.
Shan on Ben: Benjamin is useless. Half the time you can't find
him—the other half he's trying to get his leg over some A m e r i c a n
or Italian bit. Talking of Italians, his girlfriend is far too good for
him. He never uses deodorant. He has the dress sense of a rabid
parrot. Benjamin or 'Wanker' to those who know him (who aren't
his friends because they all hate him), looks like Charlie Chan. He
claims to be from Northern Ireland whereas his accent is
reminiscent of a polar bear who has learnt English via
Linguaphone. He doesn't fart, smoke tabs or drink beer.
Occasionally he drinks twat Southern Comfort which gets him
very drunk because he can't hold his drink. A l l in all, he's a nasty
bit of work. Vote sensibly, vote New Election.
Ben on Murray: If you need to find Murray Bruce McGregor
Williamson, the one place you should look is in the Union Bar.
He's spent four years at Imperial College studying B E E R . In his
spare time he did some Mechanical Engineering. Murray has been
an eternal member of College Wine Committee; strange, 'cos he
likes BEER. A s C & G Ents Officer, Murray has been heavily
involved in-Field Cup. While other team members stole signs and
caused m a y h e m , Murray concentrated on the BEER. Murray has
organised a C & G Cocktail Party.
Cocktail Party. Everyone drank cocktails, but Murray brought his
o w n barrel of BEER. He's been heavily involved in C & G Motor
Club—shame, no BEER. At least, not until after he's finished
driving. Murray has numerous pots in the Union Bar. He drinks
B E E R from them.
Shan on Chris: Chris has had his ups and downs whilst at College. The ups have been passing
exams—the downs have been failing them. Chris has had more downs than ups. Besides failing
his exams, Chris has also had a miserable sex life. His fetish for leather has repulsed many a
fair maiden and a few of the boys as well. The height of Chris's College career was his
unsuccessful attempt to scale the Science Museum in his second year. This endeavour was
halted midway by Inspector Plod who invited Chris back to his place. Apart from
making our life hell by asking for articles and having to run a new election, Chris is
a very amiable chap. E v e n after working all Thursday night he often manages to smile

