U n i o n F a c i l i t i e s u
UNION
The Snack Bar, Union Bar & Travel
The Union Snack Bar is situated on the
ground floor of the Union Building to the
right of the main entrance. It sells hot
food, sandwiches and rolls made to order,
pizzas, cakes and pasties and hot and
cold drinks. Normal opening hours are
9.30am-3.00pm and 6.00pm to 8.00pm.
After 8.00pm food will be available from
the Union Bar.
Two evening barbecues will be run by
the Snack Bar staff on Tuesday 2nd and
Thursday 4th October in Freshers' Week.
From 8th January the Union Lounge
will also be opened at lunchtimes to
provide extra seating. During term time,
social events will be arranged in the
lounge and MTV will be available on the
large screen TV. The pool table will also
be moved into the Lounge to provide
more room in the Snack Bar.
To avoid problems with queues
encountered last year, there will be three
counter points serving freshly made
sandwiches, as well as the hot food and
drink counter.
The Snack Bar is currently recruiting
casual staff. Hours are 9.30am-3.00pm
and 6.00pm-l 0.00pm (including some bar
work). The pay is £2.84 per hour, with a
free meal per shift. -Interested staff who
are employed will be entitled to a free
hot meal prior to their start date.
The Union drinking facilities consist of
two adjoining bars, the Lounge Bar and
the Union Bar, situated in the North East
corner of Beit Quad. The Union Bar is
the oldest in College and is housed in a
wood panelled room. It also contains a
huge collection of pots (pewter tankards)
which are used by various Union Officers,
societies and organisations in the Union.
The Bar serves a range of real ales, a
wide selection of bottled lagers as well as
beers, wines and spirits. A range of
snacks such as pies, pasties and filled rolls
is also available.
The Bar is used on Wednesdays and
Saturdays by sports teams celebrating
victories or commiserating over defeats
and can be quite rowdy on these
occasions.
The Bar will be open to support the
Freshers' Week events, including a
number of bar extensions (see page 7 for
details).
ULU Travel is your local, on-campus
travel agency and a division of the
world's largest student and youth travel
organisation, STA Travel. STA has a
contract with the Union by which the
Union benefits from all business done
there.
ULU Travel offers a full range of travel
services and particularly specialises in
special air fares for students on major
international airlines.
The staff are all young, ex-students and
travellers themselves and aim to offer an
expertise of service unlikely to be found
in a typical high street travel agency.
Whether you need a bus ticket home or
an Around the World airfare pop along
and see ULU Travel on the walkway of
the Sherfield Building. We are open from
10am until 5pm weekdays.
Union
Snack
Bar
Hot meals
Sandwiches
rolls,
pizzas
pasties
drinks
OPENING HOURS
Monday to Friday
9.30am-3.00pm & 6.30pm-10.00pm
(Food will be served from the
Union Bar in the evenings)
Bags of Books...
Stationery Too!!
Imperial College Union Bookstore is just one of the many shops
and services offered by Imperial College Union. Recently
refurbished, the Bookstore provides a light and friendly
environment to purchase books, cards, stationery, toiletries and
many other goods. Most books in stock are recommended texts
essential to your courses. Most books are arranged in
departmental groups making it easy for you to find them. If you
get stuck ask our helpful staff at the enquiries desk. If you find
you can't find your book it's probably because it was never
recommended to us, hassle your lecturer please NOT us! In
addition to recommended texts we stock a range of bestsellers, A-
Z's, science fiction and various graphics annuals are to come soon
(including Viz, 2000AD and Batman).
On the other side of the store we provide virtually everything
you need when you first arrive, including all those little things
you forgot to pack like toothbrushes, adaptors, locks, shampoo,
etc.
On the stationery front we provide some of the cheapest refill
pads, binders and folders on the market (even rivalling W.H.
Smiths prices). We have aimed our products at the student market
bearing in mind that your money will have to go a long way.
Being part of the Student Union the store is non-profit making,
any surplus at the end of the year goes back to the
students through the Union and CCUs.
So Support Yourself by Supporting Your Union.

