It is traditional at this time of year to
welcome the freshers, so I'm sure I speak
for all of us here when I say, in the time-
honoured way, hullo and what A-levels
did you get? What more can I say?
You've made it, you've filled in the U C C A
form, attended the interviews, toured the
universities, passed your exams and made
your decision. Unfortunately, it was the
wrong decision: you're at Imperial
College.
I hate to be the one w h o has to give
you the bad news, but for the next three
or four years you will be an inmate at an
overgrown boys' public school clustered
around a suspiciously phallic-looking
tower in the middle of one of the
expensive and self-important areas of
London. Y o u have been had.
But you must not be downhearted; you
must, as the Rector invariably says, use
this unique opportunity to learn. Men:
you will experience whole n e w vistas of
sexual frustration and alcohol-induced
nausea. W o m e n , you will begin to
understand what it is like to be leered at
by a dozen lager-swilling sex-fiends each
of w h o m thinks that 'do y o u come here
often' is an original chat-up line. Gays,
lesbians, blacks and anyone else not on
the Sun's list of normal people: you will
beloved as he gently and carefully tucks
it away every night, for he knows that
one day, one blessed day, he will find a
use for it.
Yet Macho M a n and his Brut-laden ilk
are but a small, if distinctive, minority.
They are outnumbered by a species more
devastating and terrible. These are the
people you will be sick of the sight of by
the middle of the first week: the dreaded,
all-pervasive enthusiasts.
The enthusiast is that man w h o is still
wearing his departmental sweatshirt two
years after everyone else has burnt
theirs. He is the secretary to half a dozen
clubs and publicity officer for another ten.
It is he who, in an effort to maintain a
balanced outlook on life, joins both the
Conservative Society and the Socialist
Workers group and who stands for every
place on the Hall committee. He believes
that the post of Student Union Transport
Officer is on a par with Deputy-Assistant
God.
But these are just minor flaws: what
really makes y o u long to reduce him to a
mess on the carpet is the true enthusiast's
inability to understand that that look of
pain and horror which crawls across your
face whenever you and he meet is
because he bores y o u senseless.
running for the door before
you can say 'satanism'.
Indeed, saying 'satanism'
quite frequently helps
speed them on their way.
Apart from the slight but
ever-present danger of
being burnt at the stake,
these simple techniques could keep y o u
religion free for years.
Imperial College is less of a place than
a deranged state of mind: there are times
when the students and staff merge into a
homogeneous grey mass where it is
impossible to tell one from the other. Y o u
are guaranteed to meet the enthusiast-
turned-lecturer, the man who did his BSc,
MSc, P h D and driving-test at IC and w h o
feels that his chosen specialised subject,
the Mating Habits of the Cassowary, can
be used to illustrate every single point
from every single course. This is doubly
irritating if he is meant to be teaching
Mechanical Engineering.
His opposite number, the member of
staff w h o is 'still a stoo-dent at heart', is
as bad: there are many good reasons for
failing to understand a course, but having
a lecture interrupted by the lecturer for a
chat about the music of Stock-Aitken and
Waterboard should not be one of them.
i t ' s a b e a u t i f u l p l a c e
have perfect chance to grasp the
practicalities of prejudice. It's that kind of
place.
Imperial College is chronically
predictable. I a m convinced that
somewhere in a dark dank dingy lab in
the dimmest recesses of an obscure
department, a mad scientist is producing
students to order. W h e r e v e r you go and
whatever you do, you will meet the same
people doing the same things in the same
way, usually badly.
Y o u will certainly meet 'Macho Man',
tall, dark and firmly convinced that he is
handsome: his hair is distorted with hair-
spray and c o m b e d into a quiff that would
embarrass a unicorn. He wears a toupee
on his chest and smells like a bomb blast
at a chemist. Macho Man's one topic of
conversation is himself and consists
entirely of implausible and highly-
fictionalised accounts of the 'girls wot I
have screwed'.
What is special about Macho M a n is his
religion. Unlike the Muslims, the Jews or
the Christians, Macho Man follows no
omnipresent supreme being: his object of
veneration hangs, limply, between his
legs. He is a true believer: there is no
doubting the love he relishes upon his
Y o u will see an enthusiast on every
stall at Freshers' Fair, looking after the
membership lists with all the intense
seriousness of a soldier guarding the
C r o w n Jewels. One m a y come up to you
while you are wandering between
buildings, and thrust a pamphlet into your
hands. Be warned, you must always
remember that, although enthusiasts seem
harmless and can be quite entertaining in
small doses, y o u should never, ever be
fooled into saying 'oh! that's interesting'.
Y o u will live to regret it.
Closely related to the enthusiast are the
god-squadders: so clean living, clean
looking and clean thinking that they must
have soap powder for brains. A god-
squadder will target his victim with care:
he will make a bee-line for the poor sod
standing on his o w n by the door and,
stretching his smile as wide as it will go,
say T believe in Jesus' in that sweet,
angelic, sincere vioice that makes y o u
long to conduct a black mass on the spot.
Unlike IC's other mass-produced
irritants, god-squadders are avoidable.
Old, reliable methods, such as painting
the number 666 on your forehead and
wandering around m u m b l i n g the Lord's
Prayer backwards, will have them
People have been k n o w n to survive a
course at IC with only superficial injuries
and many recover completely within only
a decade or so. Some, however, are
infected beyond redemption. These poor
grey-eyed, grey-faced bland non-entities
have no choice but to take up a career in
accountancy.
Advice? What can I say? Stay here and
sample the delights you missed by not
going to St Bugger's School for the
Children of the Rich and Gullible. Don't
let the bastards get you d o w n . In fact,
don't let the bastards get y o u anywhere,
join the queue for the Sociology Degree
at the Nether-Wallop Polytechnic.
A B O U T T H E A U T H O R
Jason Lander became so disgruntled and
disillusioned with IC that he is trying to
become a Weather Forecaster. Y o u have
been warned!

