E Manager's Bit
A cheery hello to all you newcomers and
hi again to everyone who made it back.
As many of you should know by now I
wasn't as successful in my finals as the
other three sabbaticals. This means that
the post of FELIX Editor is up for grabs
and 1 loose my livelihood from the end of
November. If anyone is interested in the
job they should first come and see me in
the FELIX office. Then after you
understand what is involved you can go
and sign up.
Nightmare
The week leading up to Freshers has
been a nightmare, with ridiculous
requests to carry out work and a smaller
staff quota than usual. Over the summer
another problem emerged. The career's
fair guide was put together by someone
who knew nothing about handbook
production, right down to not knowing
what advertising material to request from
companies. It would have been a much
simpler task if someone had given them a
run down of what to do and what to
expect. As it was, it took twice as long to
put together and I hope that it looks ok
in finished form. It meant an 85 hour
week for myself and an afternoon edition
of FELIX. This will not happen again! We
are here to produce FELIX first and to
help out the Union and its' clubs and
societies second.
Asbestos
On page 20 you will see a story
concerning an issue that came out over
the summer. In it I made a classic
journalistic error by stating something as
fact rather than a vehement statement
made to me by the person concerned.
Talking to him in hospital was a
depressing experience and I was sorry to
hear that he died recently. The rest of
the story seemed well founded from the
conversations I had with other members
of college.
Snack Bar
Over the summer much thought was
yet again put into the operation of the
Union Snack Bar. It was decided to
extend the serving area to allow a
greater through-put of customers. The
problems encountered so far being that
not enough people were being served
quickly enough. After chasing the quotes
it was decided to drop the scheme until a
later date which is a great shame. The
work could have been completed in the
time available and provided a far better
facility for the students and staff.
Promotion, of the Snack Bar in the same
vein as the college refectories has also
been ruled out. It was considered to be
an unviable method to bring more
customers over to the Union building and
can only result in a loss of income. Rob
Northey must be laughing all the way to
the bank again. I only hope that you
support this facility as much as possible.
Press Releases
On a lighter note I have been deluged
by press releases over the summer.
Amongst them, some wonderful
addresses; The Managing Director,
Imperial College; The FELIX Office, Bert
Triangle; and The FELIX Office, Imperial
Cottage. Some of the exciting ones told
me detailed and sensitive information on
Rover car price rises and others about
new exhibitions like photographs of
fishing in the 1920's. The best prize for a
press release must go to the Royal Mail.
A new line of sealed plastic envelope
packs was promoted by one such article
sent containing a teddy bear. Not only
was this the most original idea but the
new arrival has gone down very well in
the office.
It has been used as both a comforter to
hangover victims and stress reliever to
the highly strung. Or, in the case of Mr
Shanley - the psychotic. The former being
admirably illustrated by our printer, Andy
Thompson - just one of the victims of the
Union staff bash that also knocked out
one College department for the whole of
the next day.
Credits
Firstly I must give a HUGE T H A N K
Y O U to Liz Warren for her book review
in the last issue for which she was not
credited. She has also contributed many
invaluable hours to the production of this
edition. Rose has been very busy
typesetting for both FELIX and other
work and as usual managed to keep
smiling throughout the week. Andy has
also worked very hard, despite the
morning after the night before syndrome.
He even came in on Sunday to print the
rest of this issue. Thanks to Toby Jones
for the news, Richard Eyers for the
photography, Adam T and Sarah for the
reviews pages, Jason Lander for his rant,
Simon Haslam for half of the icons, and
Ian, Sydney Harbour-Bridge, Murray (who
seems to think that he was born
yesterday, pi5), Benjamin and Shan for
lots of things. So far it's just the Ents
crew who have come along to collate -
cheers to Peter, Dominic and Graham.
Anybody I've missed or turns up later
will get credited next week.
UNION CARDS
Monday 1st 9am-5pm
Tuesday 2nd 9am-2pm
Wednesday 3rd 10am-4pm
Thursday 4th 10am-4pm
Friday 5th 10am-4pm
BIOSTAR L T D
Range of high quality houseplants
at competitive prices on sale at the
start of term in the Junior Com-
mon Room, Sherfield Building
Wednesday 3rd, Friday 5th and
Friday 12th, 10am-4pm
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• A STANDARD first aid course under the
Health & Safety at Work Act will be held
on Monday 8th October 1990. If you are
interested, come along to the Holland
Club at 6pm. Hope to see you then.
Roger Serpell, Group Leader.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• £45 PER PERSON per week (excl bills)
in flat for 6 people: 3 double bedrooms,
sitting room, kitchen, bathroom; all fully
furnished. All availbale from September
22 for the following academic year.
Apply, as a group, to Matthew
Bridgewater on 081 746 3205 to arrange
viewing.
• SINGLE ROOM in shared house for
male non-smoker. Willesden Green (zone
2). Bus 52 to College. £40 pw plus bills.
Contact S Joscelyne, Mining Geology 2 or
C Bradley, Chem Eng 2.
• ROOM AVAILABLE in large flat one
minute from College, all mod cons. Would
suit one male or female postgraduate
student. £48.50pw until October,
£51.50pw thereafter. Phone 584 9741.
P E R S O N A L
• HAVE YOUR wet dreams come true
with the underwater club. Stall in Beit
Quad.
RE: UNION BAR AS FROM TODAY
John Riding, the new union bar manager, would like it to be known that if anyone calls him Jelly he
is likely to punch them on the nose.
THANKY0U FOR YOUR COOPERATION

