High Powered
Over the weekend of 8/9th September a
high-tension power cable was routed
through the ICSF (Imperial College
Science Fiction) Library causing damage
in the process. The cable was planned to
go around the library to feed the new
laboratories being built within the west
wing of Beit Hall.
Instead of referring to Beit security for
a key, the contractors sawed around the
lock in the door frame to gain entry to
the library. Once inside, they cut another
hole through the side panel of the door
to provide a route for the cable. They
then proceeded to knock out a corner in
the ceiling to enable the cable to turn the
corner above the door, screwed the cable
to the ceiling and drilled an excessively
large hole through the side wall as an
exit point.
When finished, the contractors screwed
the lock back into the door from the
outside, leaving the library in a totally
insecure state, as well as an
unsatisfactory one. The library contains
over SI0,000 worth of books.
Steven Newhouse, the chairman of ICSF
and Ben Turner, Deputy President,
complained to Roy Adams, the Senior
Departmental Superintendent for Biology
during the following week but it was not
until the 24th September that all repairs
had been completed, the cable had been
re-routed to its intended position and the
library door re-painted.
The cost of these repairs will be
charged to the contractors but FELIX
could not ascertain the amount or the
firm involved.
Robbed!
Over the weekend the FELIX office was
broken into. The glass window of the
FELIX door was smashed and £10
removed from the petty cash box.
Nothing else was taken and the outside
door into the Quad was left locked. On
Monday fingerprints were taken from the
FELIX office and the window was
repaired that afternoon.
Lock Out
Yet again, Southside security has foiled
attempts by residents to reach their
rooms: last Thursday the outside locks to
Southside were changed without warning.
The locks are changed each year to avoid
prior residents re-entering the building
but students returning late on Thursday
night were let in by security without
having to prove they had a room and
without having to show identification.
When questioned, the housekeeper
stated that this was the required action
for residents to take but there are no
notices to this effect at Southside.
For several days last week Beit Arch was
cluttered with a large pile of rubbish.
Only after an anonymous source had
tipped off the council about the health
hazard and Ben Turner, the Deputy
Welcome
The National Untion of Students (NUS)
have donated to the Union 3500
unwanted Student Welcome packs. These
packs, containing various items useful to
freshers, have been refused by several
other colleges as they contain a bar of
Nestle chocolate. The bags thus break
NUS policy on Nestle products.
Welcome packs are available from the
Union office when collecting Union
membership cards - bring two passport
sized photographs and registration
certificate.
Fares Please
Daphne Smith, the Union's Cleaning
Supervisor, will star as a bus conductress
in a new film. During filming in Beit Hall,
Channel 4 spotted Daphne and asked her
to appear in 'South by Southwest', a
spoof of 'North by Northwest' to be shown
on childrens' TV.
President, had complained to Roy Adams,
the Senior Departmental Superintendent
for Biology, was the obstruction finally
removed on Thursday.
SIG
The University of London have set up a
Strategic Issues Group (SIG) to discuss the
reorganisation of Senate House. It is
proposed that the Court and Senate be
abolished and replaced by a Governing
Body. This would consist of three major
sub-committees dealing with finance and
general puroses, medical affairs and
academic affairs. The total number of
repesentatives could be 55, students being
represented by the president of ULU
(University of London Union) and four or
five other students elected at GUC
(General Union Council - the decision
making body in ULU).
In Brief
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, has been
appointed Chevalier of the Order of Merit
by the Government of France. Now
nobody knows what his correct title is.
A new Union General Manager has been
selected. The appointee will take up the
post on the 12th November when
references and medicals have been
approved.
The NUS have called for a boycott of
Marlboro cigarettes after the
manufacturers sponsored a homophobic
US senator.
Michelle Began, the Union Assistant
Administrator, has passed a four (
I ; > V
B I M
first aid course run by the tiWl
Red Cross. i t a f l

